SCRAMBLING 19
reordering to apply only to pronominal DPs, which makes the Icelandic shift of
nominal DPs an exception. It is true that there does not exist any account in the
literature that derives the categorial differences between scrambled and shifted
constituents in a satisfactory way. But it is not less true that the factor
responsible for the asymmetry between Mainland Scandinavian and Icelandic
has not been properly identified yet, mainly due to the facts in Faroese, a
language with morphological case of the kind manifested in Icelandic, where,
nevertheless, ‘Object Shift’ is restricted to pronominal DPs, as in Mainland
Scandinavian.
Similar complexities arise with respect to (c) above, that is, the claim that
scrambling permits two alternative clause-internal positions for reordered
constituents, while ‘Object Shift’ is tied to only one. Such a statement is
partially right, insofar as shifted objects never precede subjects in any of the
North Germanic languages. But this is also the behaviour of scrambled
constituents in Dutch (see (20) above), which has forced linguists to attribute
the possibility of pre-subject scrambling in German to properties independent
of the reordering process itself (see Chapter 3). The argument may be extended
to the issue of the ordering restrictions with ditransitive predicates, usually
considered as a hallmark of ‘Object Shift’ (31). Again, although it is true that
neither German (32) nor Yiddish (Diesing, 1997:402) observe such restrictions,
they are strictly obeyed in Dutch, as shown in (33) (from Thráinsson, 2001):8
(33) a. *dat de vrouw de film waarschijnlijk
that the woman-NOM the picture-ACC probably
de mannen toont
the men-DAT shows
“that the woman probably shows the picture to the men”
b. *dat de vrouw de film de mannen
that the woman-NOM the picture-ACC the men-DAT
waarschijnlijk toont
probably shows
“that the woman probably shows the picture to the men”
c. dat de vrouw de mannen de film
that the woman-NOM the men-DAT the picture-ACC
waarschijnlijk toont
probably shows
“that the woman probably shows the picture to the men”
If the objections to (b), (c), and (d) above are tenable, we are left with only
two reliable criteria for deciding about the issue of how many reordering
20 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
processes are manifested in Germanic languages: the semantic constraints that,
according to Diesing (1997), reordered constituents seem to exhibit, and
‘Holmberg's Generalisation’ in (a). Diesing's semantic constraints support the
view that, despite remarkable differences, both scrambling and ‘Object Shift’
may constitute basically the same phenomenon. ‘Holmberg's Generalisation’
argues for the common opinion that they must be strictly kept apart.
The present work aligns itself with the few studies that have emphasized the
similarities between scrambling and ‘Object Shift’, considering them as
apparently different manifestations of a single syntactic phenomenon, i.e.
Germanic reordering. My analysis will focus on German scrambling, which, as
shown in the previous discussion, seems to be more problematic for the unified
account, because it allows for alternative clause-internal positions for
scrambled constituents (c), and it does not impose ordering restrictions on
ditransitive predicates (d). I shall argue that:
(i) German(ic) scrambling is restricted with respect to the semantic/pragmatic
nature of the scrambled constituent, as has been frequently noted in the
literature (de Hoop, 1992, Neeleman and Reinhart, 1998, for Dutch; Diesing,
1992, Meinunger, 1995, for German; Diesing, 1997, for Yiddish; among
others). Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ is restricted in the same way (Diesing,
1997; Holmberg, 1999; Chomsky, 2001; among others).
(ii) The link between Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ and verb movement in
‘Holmberg's Generalisation’ must be replaced by a link between the shiftable
object and any phonologically realised constituent c-commanding it within the
VP-projection (Holmberg, 1986; Holmberg, 1999; Chomsky, 2001). This
would explain (a) why verb movement is irrelevant for reordering in West
Germanic languages, where head-finalness would systematically prevent the
clause-final verb from c-commanding the ‘scrambable’ constituent; and (b)
why scrambled co-arguments of ditransitive structures must appear in a fixed
order in Dutch. It will be argued in these pages that ‘Holmberg's Generalisa-
tion’ also holds true for German, as may be seen by the availability of
discourse-linked readings for unscrambled accusatives following VP-internal
datives, by some anomalies in the reordering of arguments bearing inherent
case in ditransitive constructions, and by the asymmetry between head-initial
and head-final projections as far as scrambling of their internal constituents is
concerned. The claim that ‘Holmberg's Generalisation’ applies in German,
however, leaves us with the problem of accounting for those cases in which a
VP-internal element may be reordered across phonologically realised material.
This study will suggest a solution along the lines proposed for VP-internal
scrambling in such languages as Japanese (Miyagawa and Tsujioka, 2004) and
Persian (Karimi, 2003). It will defend a relatively flexible view of base
SCRAMBLING 21
generation in German on the basis of VP-topicalisation constructions, while
admitting the need for more research on this point.
(iii) German(ic) scrambling entails the same kind of special ‘Spell-Out’
procedure Chomsky (2001) proposes for Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’. This is
empirically corroborated by some systematic contrasts between fronting and
scrambling of constituents base-generated in reordered non-finite clauses
(Grewendorf and Sabel, 1994; Müller, 1998). If the account of such
asymmetries proposed in this study is tenable, it would constitute an additional
proof for the unified approach to reordering in Germanic languages, and lend
support to Chomsky's insight, which, as it stands, is exclusively based on
requirements derived from the theoretical model it adopts (the ‘Minimalist
Program’).
To summarise, the present work will contend that German(ic) scrambling
strings are the product of a single syntactic process and, moreover, that
Germanic reordering (i.e. scrambling and ‘Object Shift’) are essentially the
same.
The overall development of the argument proceeds as follows. Chapter 2
presents some general properties of the syntax of German, focusing on those
structures that are relevant to the subsequent discussion of the scrambling data.
Chapter 3 surveys the properties that characterise German scrambling,
according to the vast and frequently contentious literature on the topic. Chapter
4 critically reviews the different analyses that have tried to account for such
properties within a generative framework, showing their main advantages and
deficiencies. Chapter 5 devotes itself to discussing in detail the claims in (i)-
(iii) above, which, if tenable, would demonstrate the adequacy of a unified
treatment of both North Germanic ‘Object Shift’ and West Germanic scram-
bling. Finally, Chapter 6 summarises the main conclusions of the study as a
whole.
CHAPTER 2
A SURVEY OF SOME BASIC PROPERTIES OF GERMAN
This chapter presents an overview of some phenomena in German that will
be relevant to our discussion of scrambling: clausal structure, coherent
infinitival constructions, remnant movement, weak pronominals, and focus
scrambling. Although the specific reasons for their importance to the larger
argument about reordering processes presented here will soon become apparent
in the chapters that follow, it will be useful to give a brief preliminary outline.
With respect to clausal structure, I shall argue that scrambling is invariably
restricted to the German Mittelfeld, a fairly uncontroversial assumption. A
descriptive characterisation of the Mittelfeld, as well as the Vorfeld and
Nachfeld, will be given in Section 2.1, where we will also treat one of the most
pervasive Germanic properties, the ‘verb second constraint’.
Coherent infinitival constructions have been traditionally distinguished from
incoherent ones with regard to several properties (Haider, 1986a, 1987, 1990,
1991, 1993). One of those properties relates to scrambling facts: reordering of
elements thematically linked to the embedded infinitive may appear in the
matrix clause only in the case that the infinitive at stake is coherent. Such
structures will be the topic of Section 2.2. Regarding remnant movement, its
inclusion obeys to two observations on which the present work capitalises: (i)
languages such as German allow for a kind of remnant movement which is the
direct result of scrambling (Thiersch, 1985; Den Besten and Webelhuth, 1987;
1990); and (ii) remnant constituents cannot be reordered (Müller, 1998).
Section 2.3 will focus on such incomplete categories.
In their seminal work on crosslinguistic deficiency, Cardinaletti and Starke
(1996, 1999) argue that the German pronominal system cannot be reduced to
the bipartite division that is traditionally assumed for Romance languages (full
vs clitic forms), and that the existence of a third type of pronoun must be
posited, namely weak pronouns. For Cardinaletti and Starke, these elements are
endowed with special phonological, semantic, and syntactic properties, as will
be shown in Section 2.4. Their connection to scrambling is due to the claim
that (i) the syntactic position they occupy (the so-called ‘Wackernagel posi-
tion’) is, in fact, a scrambling site (Gärtner and Steinbach, 2003) and (ii) their
phonological behaviour is the source for the well-formedness of some instances
of reordering with remnant constituents (Chapter 5). Finally, Section 2.5 will
24 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
be devoted to ‘focus scrambling’ (Neeleman, 1994), in order to clarify the
ways in which the conclusions of the present study do not apply to it. Although
both processes are, in fact, very similar as far as their locus is concerned (the
Mittelfeld), they differ greatly with respect to syntactic behaviour, as Neeleman
(1994) convincingly demonstrates.
The approach in the following sections is mainly descriptive, and the only
theoretical assumptions are those derived from a very general generative
framework: clauses are the product of the combination of lexical and functional
heads, which project into lexical and functional phrases. With respect to
functional phrases, I shall follow a simplified design, in which the only
functional projections are TP (tense phrase) and CP (complementiser phrase).
Both heads and phrases may be displaced to higher (head and phrasal)
positions by movement operations, whose trigger and requirements will be
completely disregarded here.1
1. The structure of the German clause
One of the most relevant syntactic characteristic of German is the so-called
‘verb second constraint’, which also holds in the rest Germanic languages
(except English).2
The term refers to the position occupied by the finite verb,
main or auxiliary, in root declarative clauses, which is, almost without
exception,3
the second position. In other words, whatever category appears as
the initial constituent of a main clause, the finite verb will immediately follow
it. This is illustrated in (1), where a DP subject (1a), an adverbial phrase (1b),
and a secondary adjectival predicate are the first elements in the string:
(1) a. Peter sah einen Vogel
Peter-NOM saw a bird-ACC
“Peter saw a bird”
b. Gestern hat Peter einen Vogel gesehen
yesterday has Peter-NOM a bird-ACC seen
“Yesterday Peter saw a bird”
c. Grün hat er gestern den Zaun gestrichen
green has er yesterday the fence-ACC painted
“He painted the fence green yesterday”
Describing ‘verb-second’ as the obligatory second position of a finite verbal
form in declarative main clauses entails that, in the relevant languages, there
must exist an asymmetry with respect to verb placement between root and non-
root structures. This asymmetry is straightforward in the case of those
Germanic languages characterised as OV languages (among them, German),
SOME BASIC PROPERTIES OF GERMAN 25
where the position of the finite embedded verb is undoubtedly demonstrated to
be clause-final (Koster, 1975):
(2) a. weil Peter einen Vogel sah
because Peter-NOM a bird-ACC saw
“because Peter saw a bird”
a'. [Einen Vogel zu sehen] wäre angenehm
a bird-ACC to see would-be fun
“It would be fun to see a bird”
b. Mein Bruder steht immer sehr früh auf
my brother-NOM gets always very early up
“My brother always gets up very early”
b'. weil mein Bruder immer sehr früh aufsteht
because my brother-NOM always very early up-gets
“Because my brother always gets up very early”
In (2a), the finite verb sah is the last element of the embedded clause,
paralleling the non-finite zu sehen in the topicalised VP of (2a'). On the other
hand, the final particle of root (2b) forms a unit with the finite verb in (2b'),
which argues not only for the OV nature of German, but also for an account of
the ‘verb second constraint’ in terms of a derived structure. And, in fact, this is
the common treatment it has received in the literature.
Thiersch (1978) proposed that ‘verb-second’ is the result of two different
operations, one displacing the finite verb, and the other fronting the preceding
XP. It was Den Besten's (1983) hypothesis that the verb position should be
related to the C(omplementiser) position, on the basis of the absence of verb
second in embedded clauses,4
and the apparent complementary distribution of
finite verbs and complementisers. According to him, what both types of ele-
ments have in common is that they are phonological realisations of tense (T),
hosted by C in Germanic, as such phenomena as complementiser agreement
and cliticisation onto C demonstrate.5
Thus, verb movement is rendered as V-
to-T. The trigger for XP-fronting is more controversial. Nevertheless, it is
generally assumed that its syntactic behaviour argues for a characterisation of
the position it occupies as a derived position too. Grohmann's (2000b) study on
the Germanic left periphery summarises the main arguments:
(i) The displaced element is theta-selected by the verb.
26 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(3) An seinen Freund hat Martin den ganzen Tag gedacht
of his friend has Martin-NOM the whole day thought
“Martin thought of his friend the whole day through”
(ii) The moved element is case-marked by the verb:
(4) Den Martin hat der Peter gesehen
Martin-ACC has Peter-NOM seen
“Peter saw Martin”
(iii) The movement dependency may be long-distance, even unbounded:
(5) Den Martin hat der Peter gesagt hat Maria gesehen
Martin-ACC has Peter-NOM said has Maria-NOM seen
“Peter said that Maria saw Martin”
(iv) The movement of the constituent shows island-sensitivity, that is, it cannot
take place from a phrase which is opaque for extraction, a complex DP in the
example below (Ross, 1967; see Chapter 3, Section, 3.1.6):
(6) *Den Martin glaubt Maria die Tatsache hat Peter
Martin-ACC believes Maria-NOM the fact-ACC has Peter-NOM
gesehen
seen
“Maria believes the fact that Peter saw Martin”
(v) The structure derived by movement of the constituent exhibits reconstruc-
tion effects, that is, it behaves as if it were in its original position for
coreference relations (coreference indicated by coindexing):
(7) Seineni besten Freund sollte jederi gut behandeln
his best friend-ACC should everyone well treat
“Everyone should treat his best friend well”
Recall that, as stated above, the ‘verb second constraint’ does not impose
any restriction on the moved XP with regard to category. However, the process
seems to obey other kinds of constraints (examples (8a,a') and (8b,b') from
Grohmann, 2000b; (8c,c') and (8d,d') from Schwartz and Vikner, 1996):
SOME BASIC PROPERTIES OF GERMAN 27
(8) a. Viele Bücher hat Peter gestern gelesen
many books-ACC has Peter-NOM yesterday read
“Peter read many books yesterday”
a'. *Wenige Bücher hat Peter gestern gelesen
few books-ACC has Peter-NOM yesterday read
“Peter read few books yesterday”
b. Warscheinlich/Gestern hat das Buch Peter gelesen
probably / yesterday has the book-ACC Peter-NOM read
“Peter (probably) read the book (yesterday)”
b'. *Kaum/Komplett hat Peter das Buch gelesen
barely / completely has Peter-NOM the book-ACC read
“Peter barely/completely read the book”
c. Das Kind hat das Brot gegessen
the kind-NOM has the bread-ACC eaten
“The child ate the bread”
c'. Das Brot hat das Kind gegessen
the bread-ACC has the child-NOM eaten
“The child ate the bread”
d. Es hat das Brot gegessen
it-NOM has the bread-ACC eaten
“He (the child) ate the bread”
d'. *Es hat das Kind gegessen
it-ACC has the kind-NOM eaten
“The child ate it”
The (a) pair shows that increasing quantifiers are grammatical as initial
elements, but decreasing ones are not. In the (b) pair, the grammaticality of
fronted sentential and event-related adverbs contrasts with the ungrammatical-
ity of displaced manner adverbials. The examples in (c) demonstrate that
movement of a nominal DP to Spec, C is well-formed irrespective of syntactic
function. However, there is an asymmetry between (d) and (d'), which clearly
indicates that pronominal objects such as es are not permitted in the initial po-
sition. While the oppositions in (a)-(a') and (b)-(b') may be amenable to an
analysis in semantic terms, (d)-(d') is clearly not, which some researchers have
taken to indicate that, in fact, the ‘verb second constraint’ is the surface mani-
festation of two different structures, the one in (8d), and that in (8d'). Such a
group of proposals was labelled as the ‘asymmetric approach to V-2’. The tra-
ditional idea that verb second reflects a single structure was, in turn, re-labelled
as the ‘symmetric approach’.
28 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
The most important ‘asymmetric’ contributions are those developed in
Travis (1984) and Zwart (1993, 1997, and subsequent work). The main claim is
that the displacement of the verb and of the initial constituent pictured in verb
second constructions targets the COMP projection only in the case that the XP
at stake is not a subject. However, subject-initial root clauses simply result
from movement to TP. This straightforwardly accounts for the contrast in (8d)
and (8d') above: for reasons related to their inherent nature (see Section 4 be-
low), pronominals like es cannot be fronted to Spec, C, independently of syn-
tactic function (8d'). But nothing prevents them from appearing in Spec, T, the
subject position, which explains the grammaticality of (8d).
Such an analysis is, nevertheless, refutable, as demonstrated in the work of
the defenders of the ‘symmetric’ view, most notably in Schwartz and Vikner
(1989, 1996). Their conclusions are based on three different pieces of
evidence:
(i) Adverbial adjunction to TP is possible in embedded clauses and root (yes/
no) questions, while it is completely deviant in subject-initial declarative
clauses (examples from Schwartz and Vikner, 1996):
(9) a. Ich weiss, dass TP[letzte Woche TP[Peter [ein Buch
I know that last week Peter-NOM a book-ACC
gelesen hat]]]
read has
“I know that Peter read a book last week”
b. Hat TP[letzte Woche TP[Peter [ein Buch gelesen?]]]
Has last week Peter-NOM a book-ACC read
“Did Peter read a book last week?”
c. *TP[Letzte Woche TP[Peter hat [ein Buch gelesen]]]
last week Peter-NOM has a book-ACC read
“Peter read a book last week”
(ii) Extraction of a constituent out of a verb second embedded clause6
is
forbidden irrespective of the function of the initial constituent; that is,
movement out of subject-initial clauses is as illicit as that from non-subject
initial ones.7
This seems to indicate that both fronted elements and subjects
occupy the same position, namely Spec, C:
SOME BASIC PROPERTIES OF GERMAN 29
(10) a. *Welchen Filmi hat sie gesagt in der Schule haben
which film-ACC has she said in the school have
die Kinder ti gesehen?
the children-NOM seen
“Which film did she say that the children saw at school?”
b. *Welchen Filmi hat sie gesagt die Kinder haben
which film-ACC has she said the children-NOM have
ti gesehen?
seen
“Which film did she say that the children saw?”
(iii) Weak expletive pronouns are possible sentence-initially, but are barred in
the subject position of non subject-initial and embedded clauses. If subject-
initial root clauses require an expletive in Spec, C (11a), the question is why
this is not so in the other two types, where the presence of the expletive rules
out the structure (11b,c).
(11) a. Es ist ein Junge gekommen
EXPL has a boy-NOM come
“There came a boy”
a'. *pro ist ein Junge gekommen
EXPL has a boy-NOM come
“There came a boy”
b. *Gestern ist es ein Junge gekommen
yesterday has EXPL a boy-NOM come
“There came a boy yesterday”
b'. Gestern pro ist ein Junge gekommen
yesterday EXPL has a boy-NOM come
“There came a boy yesterday”
c. *dass es ein Junge gekommen ist
that EXPL a boy-NOM come has
“that there came a boy yesterday”
c'. dass pro ein Junge gekommen ist
that EXPL a boy-NOM come has
“that there came a boy yesterday”
Irrespective of the question whether a single process is responsible for
displacing subjects and non-subjects constituents in declarative verb second,
the alternative positions the verb occupies in root and non-root declarative
clauses have been traditionally used to describe the structure of the German
30 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
clause in terms of three different fields: the Vorfeld, the Mittelfeld, and the
Nachfeld. The Vorfeld (“pre-field”) is composed by those syntactic elements
that precede C, but its presence is tied to that of the finite verb: in other words,
no constituent may precede C if C hosts the complementiser. The Mittelfeld
(“middle field”) extends from the finite verb (or the complementiser) in C to
the position typically occupied by verbal forms in embedded clauses. This
latter position is, in turn, the left boundary of the Nachfeld (“post-field”). The
distribution of the three fields is shown in (12):
(12) Vorfeld C Mittelfeld V Nachfeld
The kind of syntactic positions contained in each of the fields is controver-
sial. With respect to the Vorfeld, the debate is tied to the adoption of the ‘sym-
metric’ or the ‘asymmetric’ view: in light of the ‘symmetric’ view, topicalised
material and also subjects (including expletives) are Vorfeld elements; in light
of the ‘asymmetric’ view, the Vorfeld is restricted to topicalisation. The source
of the disagreement with respect to the Mittelfeld and Nachfeld is different, and
derives from two distinct approaches to the phenomenon of head-finalness. The
first one starts with the generative grammatical model in Chomsky (1965),
where the VO/OV distinction is attributed to the existence of different phrasal
rules for forming VPs in SVO and SOV languages, as shown in (13):
(13) SVO language: VP→ V NP
SOV language: VP→ NP V
This analysis is essentially maintained in the subsequent ‘Principles and
Parameters’ framework, where it is reformulated in terms of a directionality
parameter (Chomsky, 1981; Stowell, 1981):
(14) SVO language: the head (V in VP) precedes its complements
SOV language: the head (V in VP) follows its complements
In this approach, the German Mittelfeld hosts elements which have been
either generated there, or moved from those base generation positions to others
crucially located below C. In the same vein, the Nachfeld is the locus for
extraposed material, that is, constituents that have left their base position in the
Mittelfeld and have undergone rightward movement:
SOME BASIC PROPERTIES OF GERMAN 31
(15) The structure of the German clause I
Vorfeld C Mittelfeld V Nachfeld
finite V direct licensing finite V extraposition
complementiser (base-generation)
indirect licensing
(movement)
Kayne's (1994) ‘Antisymmetry’ framework proposes an alternative way to
handle the crosslinguistic variation involved in VO and OV orders. Omitting
technical details, the basic idea is that all languages are underlyingly SVO (that
is, the verb precedes its complements), and that SOV is the product of a
movement operation that displaces the object to the left of the verbal head.
Therefore, the only difference between VO and OV languages would be
whether they require such an operation to be implemented. If, as argued by
Kayne, German complements must move, the Mittelfeld would comprise only
non base-generated elements, while the Nachfeld would contain only stranded
material, that is, material left there after all other constituents have targeted a
position within the Mittelfeld:
(16) The structure of the German clause II
Vorfeld C Mittelfeld V Nachfeld
finite V indirect licensing finite V stranding
complementiser (movement)
In the remainder of this work, I will adopt (15) instead of (16), due to the
theoretical framework that my account of German scrambling depends upon,
namely Chomsky's (1993, 1995, 2000, 2001, 2004) ‘Minimalist Program’.
Although a full discussion of the fundamental tenets of such a framework will
be deferred until Chapters 4 and 5, it may be noted here that one of the most
important tenets is that requiring all movement operations to be strictly
triggered. Attempts to prove that all the elements that appear in the German
Mittelfeld must move there, however, have not proven completely successful
(for instance, Hinterhölzl, 1999; 2000). For this reason, my analysis will follow
(15), and assume that both base generated and scrambled elements in German
occupy a Mittelfeld-internal position. In other words, German scrambling,
however it is rendered,8
will be regarded here as a process strictly pertaining to
the Mittelfeld.
32 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
2. Coherent infinitival constructions
Bech (1955) offers one of the first detailed studies of infinitival comple-
ments in German. It argues that infinitives in that language are divided into two
main classes: infinitives that form their own independent clausal domain, and
infinitives that do not exhibit clausal behaviour. Bech terms the first class in-
kohärente Infinitive (incoherent infinitives), and the second class kohärente
Infinitive (coherent infinitives). Evers (1975) re-expresses Bech's findings
within a generative framework, and contends that the distinction between the
two classes lies in the availability of verb raising: the infinitive raises to the
matrix verb selecting for the embedded clause in coherent constructions, while
they remain completely separate in incoherent ones. Aissen and Perlmutter
(1976) and Rizzi (1976), among others, notice that Bech's original division is
also attested in Italian and Spanish, which leads them to invoke processes
reminiscent of Evers’ verb raising: clause union (Aissen and Perlmutter), and
restructuring (Rizzi).
However, the class of coherent predicates is not crosslinguistically uniform.
For example, modal, motion, aspectual, and causative verbs allow for
restructuring in Italian, Spanish and German, as well as in other languages such
as Dutch or Japanese. The same is true for predicates like try, forget, or
manage. But dare, seem undergo clause union only in German and Dutch, and
the possibility with allow, permit is solely confined to German. The defenders
of restructuring as the product of semantic/thematic properties of the selecting
predicate capitalise on the classes that all languages share; those that contend
that the process is due to an arbitrary lexical property parametrically restricted
to certain grammars support their claim by resorting to the irregularities men-
tioned above.
Drawing on previous studies, Hinterhölzl (1999) contends that coherent
constructions differ from non-coherent ones in the following:
(i) Coherent constructions, as opposed to non-coherent ones, cannot be extra-
posed:
(17) a. *dass Hans ti schien [sich zu rasieren]i
that Hans-NOM seemed himself to shave
“that Hans seemed to shave”
b. dass Hans ti versprach [sich zu rasieren]i
that Hans-NOM promised himself to shave
“that Hans promised to shave”
SOME BASIC PROPERTIES OF GERMAN 33
(ii) Coherent infinitives, unlike non-coherent infinitives, cannot appear in a
scrambling position (i.e., a high position within the Mittelfeld). In the examples
below, such a scrambling position precedes the subject:
(18) a. *weil [sich zu rasieren] Hans schien
because himself to shave Hans-NOM seemed
“because Hans seemed to shave”
b. weil [sie morgen zu besuchen] Hans gestern
because her-ACC tomorrow to visit Hans-NOM yesterday
noch nicht versprechen wollte
yet not promise wanted-to
“because Hans didn’t want to promise yesterday to visit her
tomorrow”
(iii) Coherent infinitives, as opposed to non-coherent ones, are transparent for
the purposes of certain extraction processes, among them scrambling.
(19) a. dass der Mariai das Buchj Hans gestern
that Maria-DAT the book-ACC Hans-NOM yesterday
[ti tj zu geben] versucht
to give tried
“that Hans tried to give the book to Maria yesterday”
b. *dass uns das Buchi Hans gestern [der Maria
that us-DAT the book-ACC Hans-NOM yesterday Maria-DAT
ti zu geben] bat
to give asked
“that Hans asked us yesterday to give the book to Maria”
(iv) Coherent infinitives, as opposed to non-coherent ones, allow for long ex-
traposition.
(20) a. dass der Lehrer [die Kinder ti zu bestärken]
that the teacher-NOM the children-ACC to encourage
versucht [die Aufgaben zu lösen]i
tries the tasks-ACC to solve
“that the teacher tries to encourage the kids to solve the tasks”
34 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
b. *dass der Lehrer die Kinder [ti zu versuchen]
that the teacher-NOM the children-ACC to try
bestärkt [die Aufgaben zu lösen]i
encourages the tasks-ACC to solve
“that the teacher encourages the kids to try to solve the tasks”
(v) Coherent infinitives, unlike non-coherent ones, may display the IPP (infini-
tivus pro participio) effect, which appears when a verb selecting a coherent
infinitive is put into a perfect tense (present perfect or past perfect). In this
case, the verb does not show up in its expected past participial form, but is
realised as a bare infinitive (the IPP-infinitive). The IPP-effect is restricted to
bare infinitives.
(21) a. dass sie Hans nicht treffen wollen hat
that her-ACC Hans-NOM not meet want-INF has
“that Hans didn’t want to meet her”
b. *dass sie Hans nicht treffen gewollt hat
that her-ACC Hans-NOM not meet wanted has
“that Hans didn’t want to meet her”
However, while properties (iii)-(v) are regarded as quite uncontroversial,
properties (i)-(ii) have been contested in the literature. With respect to (i), it
seems that extraposition of a coherent infinitive is possible in the so-called
‘Third Construction’ (Den Besten et al, 1988; Den Besten and Rutten, 1989;
Bayer and Kornfilt, 1990, etc), which is attested in both German and Dutch.
The ‘Third Construction’ combines scrambling out of the embedded infinitive
into the matrix clause and extraposition of the infinitive itself. If only coherent
structures are transparent for scrambling, the existence of the ‘Third
Construction’ seems to suggest that restructuring is not incompatible with
extraposition, which leaves the ungrammaticality of Hinterhölzl's example
unaccounted for (example from Wurmbrand, 2001a):
(22) weil der Hans den Zauni versucht hat [ti zu streichen]
because Hans-NOM the fence-ACC tried has to paint
“because Hans tried to paint the fence”
As for (ii), Müller (1998) adduces examples like (23), where the pronominal
complement of the embedded predicate appears preceding the matrix subject,
and so does the infinitive:
SOME BASIC PROPERTIES OF GERMAN 35
(23) dass [ti zu lesen] esi keiner versucht hat
that to read it-ACC no one-NOM tried has
“that no one tried to read it”
Wurmbrand (2001a) argues that the apparent contradiction between (17a)
and (22) can be accounted for on the basis of two different assumptions: (i)
restructuring infinitives uniformly lack a complete clausal structure; (ii) verbs
selecting for restructuring infinitives are either auxiliaries/functional heads or
full lexical verbs. (i) rejects the so-called ‘bi-clausal approach’ to the phe-
nomenon, according to which restructuring infinitives are CPs that undergo
either a special structure changing process that transforms them into VPs
(Evers, 1975; Rizzi, 1976; Aissen and Perlmutter, 1976, etc), or raising of their
heads to the matrix verb (Roberts, 1993, Grewendorf and Sabel, 1994, etc).
Instead, it sides with the ‘mono-clausal approach’, which defends that restruc-
turing infinitives are categories smaller than CPs (typically VPs) (Haider 1986,
1991, 1993; Cinque 1997a, 1997b, 2000; Wurmbrand, 1998, among others).
(ii) distinguishes between two distinct restructuring constructions, those
Wurmbrand considers as the product of ‘functional restructuring’, and those
generated by ‘lexical restructuring’. ‘Functional restructuring’ takes place
when a structurally incomplete infinitive combines with an auxiliary/functional
head, making the former become the main predicate of the clause. But if the
selecting predicate is instead a full lexical verb, the resulting complex is,
according to Wurmbrand, a ‘lexical restructuring’ configuration. The two
constructions are illustrated in (24):
(24) a. ‘Functional restructuring’
FP
F'
VP
V'
V XP
funcional head
main verb
infinitive
36 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
b. ‘Lexical restructuring’
For Wurmbrand, the structures above share several properties that separate
them from non-restructuring ones, among which is their transparency for ex-
traction (Hinterhölzl's (iii)). However, they also differ in several respects:
‘functional restructuring’, but not ‘lexical restructuring’, is subject to the IPP-
effect; conversely, ‘lexical restructuring’, but not ‘functional restructuring’,
allows for extraposition of the infinitive. In other words, Wurmbrand reduces
the contrast between (17a) and (22) to the type of restructuring configuration
involved: in (17a), the infinitival VP ‘restructures’ with scheinen, a functional
head, which obviously results in ‘functional restructuring’; in (22), versuchen
is a full lexical verb, which makes its combination with the selected infinitive
an instance of ‘lexical restructuring’.
Wurmbrand does not explicitly deal with the problem raised by the
opposition between (18a) and Müller's (1998) example in (23). Nevertheless,
she argues that, as far as ‘lexical restructuring’ is concerned, the division
between restructuring and non-restructuring must include the notions of
optionality and grading. With respect to optionality, she adopts the standard
view that (lexical) restructuring predicates may appear in non restructuring
contexts, which would straightforwardly account for (25), where the presence
of the infinitival clause preceding the matrix subject (i.e. in a scrambling
position) correlates with the absence of extraction. In other words, (25) pictures
a non-restructuring configuration:
(25) dass [den Wagen zu reparieren]i der Hans ti versucht hat
that the car-ACC to repair Hans-NOM tried has
“that Hans tried to repair the car”
TP
T'
T VP
V'
V VP
lexical verb infinitive
SOME BASIC PROPERTIES OF GERMAN 37
With respect to grading, Wurmbrand's main contribution, it entails the intro-
duction of a third type of restructuring construction, which is half-way between
full ‘lexical restructuring’ and non-restructuring: ‘graded’ non-restructuring.
According to Wurmbrand, this kind of pattern is characterised by properties
linked to the other two types. One of them, shared with full lexical
restructuring, is a sort of reduced transparency, which allows for the presence
of pronouns selected for by the infinitive in the matrix clause, barring that of
nominal DPs. On the assumption, which Wurmbrand does not make, that
graded non-restructuring behaves like its full counterpart as far as reordering of
the infinitive is concerned, Müller's example would not contradict the tradi-
tional claim in Hinterhölzl (1999) that restructured infinitives cannot scramble,
since it would reduce to a simple, ‘graded’ non-restructuring configuration,
hence exhibiting at the same time restructuring and non-restructuring proper-
ties, with restructuring properties responsible for the pre-subject pronominal,
and non-restructuring properties responsible for scrambling of the infinitive
itself (our example in (23), repeated here as (26)):
(26) dass [ti zu lesen] esi keiner versucht hat
that to read it-ACC no-one-NOM tried has
“that no one tried to read it”
As discussing Wurmbrand's proposal in detail lies beyond the scope of the
present work, I will confine myself to giving some of the reasons why any
account of (26) in terms of her tripartite classification will be unsatisfactory.
First of all, the theoretical framework adopted here, namely Chomsky's (1993,
1995, 2000, 2001, 2004) ‘Minimalist Program’, requires movement operation
to be strictly triggered. Yet the trigger for pronoun movement is mysterious in
German, given that, as Abraham and Molnárfi (2001) and Gärtner and
Steinbach (2003) contend, pronouns display a clear NP-like behaviour (see
Section 2.4 below). Secondly, there is no reason why graded non-restructuring
should be prevented from occurring in cases such as (27), where the subject
intervenes between the displaced pronoun and the scrambled infinitive:9
(27) *dass [ti zu lesen] keiner/der Peter esi versucht hat
that to read no-one/Peter-NOM it-ACC tried has
“that no one/Peter tried to read it”
Therefore, in the following pages I will adhere to the traditional view that
the presence of a pronominal DP in the matrix clause qualifies the relevant
structure as a restructuring configuration, in the same way as that of a nominal
38 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
DP does. However, I will depart from the conventional viewpoint with respect
to the incompatibility between restructuring and reordering of the infinitive in a
higher position in the Mittelfeld, for both theoretical and empirical reasons.
Theoretically, the ban on scrambling of the infinitive is a welcome conse-
quence in analyses which envisage restructuring as obtained in the course of
the derivation, since the mechanisms they propose often require strict adja-
cency between the matrix and embedded predicates (for example, head move-
ment). But I will adopt a mono-clausal approach of the kind developed in
Wurmbrand (1998, 2001a), where adjacency is completely irrelevant: infini-
tives are VPs at the moment they combine with the lexical restructuring verb;
hence, once they have been base generated in that position, they should be able
to move as other constituents do. Empirically, data such as (28) show that,
among the different types of displacement operations, only those targeting the
Mittelfeld must be prohibited, insofar as those targeting the Vorfeld result in
well-formed strings (example from Müller, 1998):
(28) [ti Zu lesen]j hat das Buchi keiner versucht
to read has the book-ACC no-one-NOM tried
“No one tried to read the book”
Notice that (28) constitutes a restructuring configuration, even according to
Wurmbrand's restricted version: a nominal (not pronominal) DP appears
preceding the matrix subject. But fronting of the remnant infinitival VP is still
possible. Furthermore, that the ban on scrambling cannot be due to semantic/
pragmatic reasons is shown by the fact that both movement to Spec, C and
scrambling in the Mittelfeld are frequently associated to the status of the
fronted or scrambled constituent as topic, discourse-given (see Chapter 3,
Section 3.2). Therefore, the null hypothesis is that the ungrammaticality of
Hinterhölzl's (18a) must be derived in some other way, a task to which part of
Chapter 5 will be devoted.
Before turning to the next section, I would like to address two questions that
Wurmbrand's account of lexical restructuring poses. The first one relates to the
full characterisation of the infinitival VPs at stake in her discussion. I will
follow her in assuming that their basic property is that they do not contain a
position for structural Case assignment; thus, their internal arguments receive
Case from the matrix predicate. The main support for this assumption comes
from the existence of the so-called ‘long passive’, or ‘Case Conversion’ in
Haider's (1991) terms, where the object of the embedded verb appears as the
subject of the passivised matrix verb:
SOME BASIC PROPERTIES OF GERMAN 39
(29) dass der Wagen zu reparieren versucht wurde
that the car-NOM to repair tried was
“that someone tried to repair the car”
That der Wagen, the internal argument of zu reparieren, is sensitive to the
voice of versuchen seems to indicate that it receives its Case from it. This,
obviously, demonstrates that the infinitive zu reparieren is completely inert.
Thus, in the active counterpart, the accusative den Wagen must have also been
Case-marked by versuchen:
(30) dass den Wagen der Hans zu reparieren versuchte
that the car-ACC Hans-NOM to repair tried
“that Hans tried to repair the car”
The second question is whether infinitival VPs of lexical restructuring
configurations may project a subject. Wurmbrand rejects this possibility in the
light of the contrast between (31a) and (31b):
(31) a. Sie hat dem Hans erlaubt [PROi sichi den Fisch
she has Hans-DAT allowed SELF the fish-ACC
mit Streifen vorzustellen]
with stripes to-imagine
“She allowed Hans to imagine the fish with stripes”
b. *weil der Fisch dem Hansi sichi mit Streifen
because the fish-NOM Hans-DAT SELF with stripes
vorzustellen erlaubt wurde
to-imagine allowed was
“because Hans was allowed to imagine the fish with stripes”
She contends that (31a) is an instance of a non-restructuring configuration,
in which the anaphor is bound by (i.e. coreferent with) a c-commanding non-
phonologically realised subject (PRO). On the other hand, (31b) is a
restructuring construction, as shown by the nominative on der Fisch (see (29)
above). According to Wurmbrand, its ungrammaticality is due to the fact that
sich is not bound within the embedded clause, and coreference with dem Hans
in the matrix predicate is impossible on the basis that datives are not binders in
German.
To summarise: the kind of coherent infinitives the proposal in this study
partially capitalise on is the type Wurmbrand calls ‘lexical restructuring’
infinitives. In light of the foregoing survey, ‘lexical restructuring’ consists of
40 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
the combination of a full lexical verb with a structurally incomplete clausal
category, namely the infinitival VP. This incomplete clausal category lacks a
subject, has its internal arguments Case-licensed in the matrix predicate, is
transparent for extraction, and may appear either in the Vorfeld or in the
Mittelfeld.
3. Remnant movement
The general label ‘Incomplete Category Fronting’ refers to structures like
(32) below, where the Vorfeld is occupied by a phrasal constituent which does
not contain all the elements thematically selected for by it:
(32) Zu lesen hat das Buch keiner versucht
to read has the book-ACC no-one-NOM tried
“No one tried to read the book”
In (32), the incomplete constituent in Spec, C is the coherent infinitive zu
lesen, whose internal argument das Buch appears preceding the matrix subject
keiner. Thiersch (1985) and Den Besten and Webelhuth (1987, 1990) proposed
an analysis of such constructions in terms of remnant movement, which was
based on the combination of a theoretical requirement and an empirical
observation. The theoretical requirement relates to the way earliest generative
models envisaged theta-role assignment: a theta-assigned argument must be
sister to a theta-assigning head within the head's maximal projection.10
The
empirical observation derives from data such as (33), where it is shown that
only maximal projections are licit in Spec, C:
(33) a. [Das Buch] fängt er zu lesen an
the book-ACC begins he to read PART
“He begins to read the book”
b. *[An] fängt er das Buch zu lesen
PART begins he the book-ACC to read
“He begins to read the book”
c. *[Lesen] fängt er das Buch zu an
read begins he the book-ACC to PART
“He begins to read the book”
In this view, the remnant movement approach to incomplete category
fronting involves two distinct movement operations, one responsible for the
presence of the non-fronted argument in the Mittelfeld, and the other displacing
the already incomplete phrase to the Vorfeld, as (34) illustrates for (32):
SOME BASIC PROPERTIES OF GERMAN 41
(34) [ti Zu lesen]j ....... das Buchi ....... tj versucht
Notice that the remnant movement account necessarily entails that the two
movement operations involved must be independently available, which, in fact,
is the case in German (35), but not in other languages like English (36):
(35) a. [Das Buch gelesen]i hat keiner ti
the book-ACC read has no-one-NOM
“No one tried to read the book”
b. dass das Buchi keiner [ti gelesen] hat
that the book-ACC no-one-NOM read has
“No one tried to read the book”
c. [ti Gelesen]j hat das Buchi keiner tj
read has the book-ACC no-one-NOM
“No one tried to read the book”
(36) a. [Paint the house]i he surely will ti
b. *He will surely the housei [paint ti]
c. *[Paint ti]j he will surely the housei tj
Since movement to Spec, C is grammatical in both (35a) and (36a), one may
conclude that the asymmetry between German and English with respect to
remnant movement lies in the grammaticality of (35b) in German, and the
ungrammaticality of (36b) English. In other words, remnant movement of the
type distinguishing between the two languages is tied to the availability of
scrambling (35b, 36b).
For the cases of incomplete constituents that serve as essential evidence for
central claims in this work, I will adopt the remnant movement analysis pro-
posed in Thiersch (1985) and Den Besten and Webelhuth (1987, 1990). In this
connection, I would like to add two further comments. With regard to the li-
censing of the trace left by the scrambled argument in the moved constituent,
(which, according to standard generative tenets, must be locally bound by the
scrambled element itself, with binding necessarily entailing c-command), it is
obvious that c-command, and hence binding, is barred in a configuration like
that in (35c). But Müller (1998) has convincingly shown that this is problem-
atic only in a representational account of remnant movement: derivationally,
the constraint that traces must be c-commanded by their antecedents simply
reduces to obligatory upward movement. It is notable from this perspective that
(35c) is a perfectly well-formed structure: scrambling of the object to its sur-
42 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
face position is prior to the fronting of the VP, and crucially targets a position
above it.
Secondly, Müller (1998) observes that remnant movement is sensitive to the
kind of displacement the incomplete category undergoes, citing as his chief
evidence the ungrammaticality of structures in which movement of both the
argument and the remnant constituent targets the Mittelfeld. The reader may
consult Chapter 3 (Section 1.6) for a survey of the phenomenon, and Chapter 5
(Section 2.1.2) for an analysis within the model of the phasal derivation
proposed in Chomsky (2000, 2001).
4. The German pronominal system
The system of personal pronouns attested in Standard German is constituted
by the forms appearing in (37) below:
(37) a. Nominative: ich, du, er, sie, es, wir, ihr, sie
I, you, he, she, it, we, you, they
b. Accusative: mich, dich, ihn, sie, es, uns, euch, sie
me, you, him, her, it, us, you, them
c. Dative: mir, dir, ihm, ihr, ihm, uns, euch, ihnen
(to) me, you, him, her, it, us, you, them
Such a system is quite banal according to Zwicky's (1977) classification,
which divides pronominal elements into three basic types: ‘special clitics’,
‘simple clitics’, and non-clitics. The second and third type constitute a single
syntactic group, with a full DP-like behaviour, and differ only phonologically:
‘simple clitics’ require some kind of phonological integration into adjacent
material, while non-clitics do not. However, ‘special clitics’ are syntactically
ambiguous: they resemble DPs in that they are theta-marked and Case-
assigned, but, unlike them, need to adjoin to an appropriate host, which makes
them displace to a head position. Thus, in Zwicky's terms, the German system
above can be uniformly characterised as a non-clitic series.
Nevertheless, it has been frequently noticed that the behaviour of the third
person neuter es does not fully correlate that of nominal DPs, as shown below:
(38) a. Hans hat gestern das Buch gekauft
Hans-NOM has yesterday the book-ACC bought
“Hans bought the book yesterday”
a'. *Hans hat gestern es gekauft
Hans-NOM has yesterday it-ACC bought
“Hans bought it yesterday”
SOME BASIC PROPERTIES OF GERMAN 43
b. dass das Buch und diese Zeitungen sehr schön sind
that the book-NOM and these newspapers-ACC very nice are
“that the book and these newspapers are very nice”
b'. *dass es und diese Zeitungen sehr schön sind
that it-NOM and these newspapers-ACC very nice are
*“that it and these newspapers are very nice”
c. Sogar das Buch ist auf den Boden gefallen
even the book-NOM has on the floor fallen
“Even the book fell on the floor”
c'. *Sogar es ist auf den Boden gefallen
even it-NOM has on the floor fallen
*“Even it fell on the floor”
d. Das Buchi glaube ich ti ist sehr teuer
the book-NOM think I is very expensive
“I think that the book is very expensive”
d'. *Esi glaube ich ti ist sehr teuer
it-NOM think I is very expensive
“I think that it is very expensive”
(38) summarises the most relevant aspects of such syntactic asymmetry.
First, nominal DPs may occupy a structural position lower than the adverbial
adjunction site (38a), but es must appear above it (38a'). Second, it is possible
to coordinate two (or more) nominal DPs (38b), but es must appear in isolation
(38b'). Third, certain adverbials like sogar can modify a nominal DP (38c), but
they cannot modify es (38c'). Finally, while das Buch may be moved from its
base generation position within the embedded clause to matrix Spec, C (38d),
fronting of es results in an ungrammatical sentence (38d).
The contrasts in (38) are taken by Cardinaletti and Starke (1996, 1999) as
indicating that Zwicky's classification and the criteria on which it is based
cannot account for all the pronominal classes crosslinguistically attested. They
contend that, apart from clitics and non-clitics, there exists a third type of
pronoun they call ‘weak’, which shares properties with Zwicky's two classes.
In this connection, they propose to replace Zwicky's distinction articulated
around the [ + clitic] property with another related to a [ +deficient] feature:
special clitics and the new weak pronominals are characterised as [+deficient];
non-clitics (or strong pronouns, in Cardinaletti and Starke's terms) are rendered
as [–deficient].
Cardinaletti and Starke contend that deficiency is not restricted to es in
German, but rather is visible in all the forms of the paradigm in (37). In this
respect, they notice that one of the basic differences between deficient and non-
44 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
deficient pronouns is that the first are allowed to refer to both human and non-
human entities, while the second are strictly [+human]. But if deficient
pronouns appear in a context where the [+human] interpretation is excluded,
their syntactic behaviour exactly parallels that of es:
(39) a. *Maria hat gestern ihn repariert
Maria-NOM has yesterday him-ACC repaired
“Maria repaired it yesterday” (ihn = the car)
b. *Maria hat ihn und den anderen repariert
Maria-NOM has him-ACC and the other-ACC repaired
*“Maria repaired it and the other one” (ihn= the car)
c. *Er und der daneben sind nicht verständlich
he-NOM and the one next are not comprehensible
*“It and the one next are not comprehensible” (er = the timetable)
d. *Er glaube ich ist sehr teuer
He-NOM think I is very expensive
“I think it is very expensive” (er = the train)
Cardinaletti and Starke conclude from this analysis that the German system
of personal pronouns is more complex than seems at first sight, insofar as it
contains two distinct series of forms: a complete deficient set, and an incom-
plete non-deficient set (to the extent that es is always deficient). This complex-
ity has an uncontroversial syntactic reflex (namely, the facts in (38) and (39)),
but is not evident from a morphological perspective, as far as the same form
can be both deficient and non-deficient (once again with the exception of es).
Despite the lack of a transparent morphological distinction between
deficient and non-deficient pronominals in German, Cardinaletti and Starke
contend that the existence of the two series is undisputed also on semantic and
phonological grounds, lending support to their analysis of the syntactic data.
With regard to semantics, Cardinaletti and Starke adhere to the traditional view
that deficient pronouns must have an antecedent prominent in the discourse,
but reject the idea that this is due to the prosodic nature of pronouns. Their
basic argument derives from French examples such as (40) and (41), where
caps indicate main stress (from Cardinaletti and Starke, 1999):
(40) a. Jean voit ELLE
Jean sees her
“Jean sees her”
SOME BASIC PROPERTIES OF GERMAN 45
b. *Jean LA voit
Jean her sees
“Jean sees her”
(41) a. Je te casserai la gueule!
I you will-break the face
“I will break your face”
b. Ah ouais? Tu veux dire que je TE casserai
oh yeah? you want-to say that I you will-break
la gueule!
the face
“Oh yeah? You mean that I will break your face”
The standard analysis of the contrast in (40) attributes the ungrammaticality
of (40b) to the incompatibility between contrastive focus and the phonological
nature of the clitic la. Simply put, contrastive focus entails a semantic inter-
pretation of the element at stake as non topical, i.e. non discourse-linked,11
which is prosodically correlated with prominent pitch. On the other hand, cli-
tics are inherently destressed elements. The obvious conclusion is that it is the
impossibility of fulfilling these two requirements that rules out (40b). Accord-
ing to Cardinaletti and Starke, however, such an account is refuted by (41b),
where the clitic te receives main stress. Since the only relevant difference
between the two structures is that te is linked to a salient referent in discourse
that la lacks (namely, te in (41a)), the alleged incompatibility between focus
and stress is obviously wrong.
From a phonological perspective, deficient forms differ from non-deficient
ones in that they may constitute a single prosodic domain with preceding or
following material in the string, which gives rise to phenomena such as French
‘liaison’12
(42a), complex prosodic word formation13
(42b), etc. In other words,
deficient forms may undergo phonological restructuring. This is impossible for
non-deficient, strong ones (from Cardinaletti and Starke, 1999):
(42) a. Elle[z]ont dit la verité
they have said the truth
“They have told the truth”
b. {Il mange} beaucoup
he eats a lot
“He eats a lot”
46 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
The overall conclusion that Cardinaletti and Starke draw from all the
properties reviewed above is that deficiency must be generally encoded in
terms of missing structure. Leaving technical details aside, they propose that
weak pronouns lack the superior layer of the structure that characterises strong
elements, while clitics lack the superior layer that characterises weak ones.
That is, “weak elements are ‘peeled’ strong elements, and clitics are ‘peeled’
weak elements” (1999: 195). This would explain why: (i) weak and clitic
elements must be syntactically licensed in fixed positions, the ‘Wackernagel
position’ in German ((38), (39)); (ii) weak and clitic elements need a prominent
antecedent in discourse (i.e. they are in some sense ‘less referential’14
than
strong pronouns and nominal DPs); and (iii) weak and clitic elements may
undergo phonological restructuring.
Although a critical review of Cardinaletti and Starke's hypothesis in its
application to German is beyond the scope of the present work, I shall address
its main implications for the analysis of German scrambling proposed here.
First of all, we may notice that, as is conventionally assumed in the literature,
nominal DPs may undergo scrambling, a process that, generally speaking,
allows them to appear outside the VP-boundaries, preceding VP-adjoined
adverbials and even subjects:
(43) a. dass keiner gestern das Buch gelesen hat
that no-one-NOM yesterday the book-ACC read has
“that no one read the book yesterday”
b. dass keiner das Buch gestern gelesen hat
that no-one-NOM the book-ACC yesterday read has
“that no one read the book yesterday”
c. dass das Buch keiner gestern gelesen hat
that the book-ACC no-one-NOM yesterday read has
“that no one read the book yesterday”
On the other hand, weak pronominals must show up in the so-called
‘Wackernagel position’, a position following that of the complementiser in
German. There, pronouns must precede non-pronominal arguments and ad-
verbs of all types (examples from Müller, 2002):
(44) a. dass ihr der Fritz gestern ein Buch geschenkt hat
that her-DAT Fritz-NOM yesterday a book-ACC given has
“that Fritz gave her a book yesterday”
SOME BASIC PROPERTIES OF GERMAN 47
b. *dass der Fritz gestern ihr ein Buch geschenkt hat
that Fritz-NOM yesterday her-DAT a book-ACC given has
“that Fritz gave her a book yesterday”
If Cardinaletti and Starke are right, structural deficiency would require weak
pronominals to be licensed in a position that must be distinctly different from
that occupied by scrambled nominal DPs. In other words, both processes would
be radically different. However, that this is not the case is shown by (45) be-
low, where the pronominal es may appear either on the right or on the left of
the subject der Fritz (examples from Müller, 2002):
(45) a. dass es der Fritz gestern der Maria gegeben hat
that it-ACC Fritz-NOM yesterday Maria-DAT given has
“that Fritz gave it to Maria yesterday”
b. dass der Fritz es gestern der Maria gegeben hat
that Fritz-NOM it-ACC yesterday Maria-DAT given has
“that Fritz gave it to Maria yesterday”
Furthermore, Lenerz (1993) and Gärtner and Steinbach (2003) demonstrate
that both pronominal and nominal objects may precede the subject of the
embedded infinitive in Exceptional Case Marking (ECM) constructions:
(46) a. wenn du ihnen die Mutter abends
if you-NOM they-DAT the mother-ACC in the evening
etwas vorsingen hörst
something sing hear
“if you hear their mother sing something for them in the evening”
b. wenn du ihren Kindern die Mutter abends
if you-NOM her children-DAT the mother-ACC in the evening
etwas vorsingen hörst
something sing hear
“if you hear their mother sing something for them in the evening”
Gärtner and Steinbach show that the facts are correlated by similar data for
the weak pronouns of south-western dialects of German, and even of Dutch.
Their conclusion, adopted for the remainder of the argument here, is that there
is no distinction between deficient and non-deficient elements as far as their
syntactic position in the Mittelfeld is concerned.15
Therefore, the null hypothe-
sis is that scrambling may equally apply to nominal and pronominal constitu-
48 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
ents, and that the ‘Wackernagel position’ is not different from that occupied by
scrambled elements.
A second issue relates to the link between the weak/strong distinction and
stress. We may recall that such a link was rejected by Cardinaletti and Starke
on the basis of the French examples in (41), which contained a clitic stressed
element. Nevertheless, Gärtner and Steinbach (2003) state that such an argu-
ment cannot be applied to German es, due to the diverging status of schwa in
each of the languages: in French, it is a part of the lexical representation of
deficient elements, while in German it looks more like the output of phono-
logical reduction. This probable asymmetry is associated to other, more general
phonological properties. Thus, in the following pages I will assume with
Gärtner and Steinbach (2003), and also Müller (2002), that the basic difference
between strong and weak pronouns in German derives from the phonological
feature [ + stress], which is, in turn, responsible for the semantic distinction in
terms of discourse-linking.
Finally, it may be assumed as uncontroversial that certain personal pronouns
in German allow for phonological restructuring. A case in point is, again, third
person neuter es. Cardinaletti and Starke contend that the process is simply
optional, as (47) shows:
(47) a. ʔEs ist schön
It-NOM is nice
“It is nice”
b. ʔEs ʔ ist schön
It-NOM is nice
“It is nice”
If restructuring with the following word were obligatory, the presence of the
glottal stop intervening between es and ist in (47b) would be a mystery, since
glottal stops in German are found only before the initial vowel of a prosodic
word. We may note that this feature supports Cardinaletti and Starke's tripartite
classification: strong elements always bear their own word-stress, while clitics
always restructure. Weak pronominals, in turn, present a mixed behaviour,
sometimes being reduced, and sometimes not.
However, for Müller (2002) and Gärtner and Steinbach (2003) es is always
reduced. Müller argues that Cardinaletti and Starke's division falls short,
insofar as it cannot account for the contrasts found in ‘R-pronoun’ formation.
Generally speaking, ‘R-pronoun’ formation is a process that replaces personal
pronouns within German PPs with ‘R-pronouns’ of adverbial origin,16
da and
wo, which appear to the left of the preposition. This process of ‘R-pronoun’
SOME BASIC PROPERTIES OF GERMAN 49
formation is impossible with Cardinaletti and Starke's strong pronouns, and
optional with those they call weak, except es, for which ‘R-pronoun’ formation
is obligatory (examples from Müller, 2002):
(48) a. Ich habe gestern [mit ihr] telefoniert
I have yesterday with her talked on the phone
“I talked on the phone with her yesterday”
a'. *Ich habe gestern damit telefoniert
I have yesterday R-PRON talked on the phone
“I talked on the phone with her yesterday”
b. Maria hat noch oft [an sie] gedacht
Maria-NOM has PART often of her thought
“Maria has often thought of it” (sie=die Ausstellung, “the exhibi-
tion”)
b'. Maria hat noch oft daran gedacht
Maria-NOM has PART often R-PRON thought
“Maria has often thought of it”
c. *Maria hat noch oft [an es] gedacht
Maria-NOM has PART often of it thought
“Maria has often thought of it”
c'. Maria hat noch oft daran gedacht
Maria-NOM has PART often R-PRON thought
“Maria has often thought of it”
Thus, reduced es must be set apart from the rest of the weak class.
Whatever the correct characterisation of German es may be, it is generally
accepted that it must (or may) undergo operations typical of phonologically
weak forms. And that is the only property on which our account of certain
asymmetries between nominal and pronominal scrambling will capitalise. In
summary, we will assume that strong pronouns are distinguished from weak
ones on the basis of the feature [ +stress] (Gärtner and Steinbach, 2003), and
that unstressed pronominals can undergo prosodic incorporation into an
adjacent word (Diesing and Jelinek, 1993), disregarding if the process is
optional for the entire class (Cardinaletti and Starke, 1996, 1999), or if it is
obligatory for one of its members, namely es (Gärtner and Steinbach, 2003;
Müller, 2002). In addition, we will adopt the idea that weak pronominals are
not licensed in fixed syntactic positions (Abraham and Molnárfi, 2002; Gärtner
and Steinbach, 2003), which makes them compatible with Mittelfeld processes
also applying to nominal DPs, among them regular scrambling.
50 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
5. Focus scrambling
Neeleman (1994) defends the innovative idea that reordered sequences in
Dutch (and German) are not uniformly derived, and that one must recognise at
least two different syntactic processes: regular scrambling, and ‘focus scram-
bling’. The descriptive properties he assigns to the former are basically those
discussed in Chapter 3. Here it will be sufficient to say that (i) it does not
apply to all kinds of phrasal constituents; (ii) it is restricted to the limits of a
single clause; (iii) it is iterative (i.e. it may target more than one element); and
(iv) it allows further displacement out of the scrambled phrase. Precisely the
reverse holds for ‘focus scrambling’, which Neeleman characterises as an
operation moving focalised, contrastive elements to the Mittelfeld. Such an
operation is clearly favoured in the case that the movable phrase contains a
focus marker like so (“so”), solch (“such”), etc., which would explain the
following contrasts (examples from Haider and Rosengren (1998), except
(49a,a'), based on Neeleman (1994), my informants' judgement):
(49) a. *dass grün der Peter den Zaun nicht gestrichen hat
that green Peter-NOM the fence-ACC not painted has
“that Peter didn’t paint the fence green”
a'. dass so grün der Peter den Zaun nicht gestrichen hat
that so green Peter-NOM the fence-ACC not painted has
“that Peter didn’t paint the fence so green”
b. *dass niemand die Lösung geglaubt hat,
that no-one-NOM the solution-ACC believed has
dass er gefunden hätte
that he found had
“that no one believed that he had found the solution”
b'. dass so eine Lösung niemand geglaubt hat,
that such a solution-ACC no-one-NOM believed has
dass einer gefunden hätte
that one-NOM found had
“that no one believed that anyone had found such a solution”
c. Heute hat den Weg dem Polizisten der Zeuge
today has the way-ACC the policeman-DAT the witness-NOM
gezeigt
showed
“Today the witness showed the policeman the way”
SOME BASIC PROPERTIES OF GERMAN 51
c'. *dass soviel Geld glauben niemand kann, dass
that so much money-ACC believe no-one-NOM can that
man verlieren kann
one-NOM loose can
“that nobody can believe that one can loose so much money”
d. Was hat sich ihr anzuvertrauen keiner
what-ACC has SELF her-DAT to-entrust no-one-NOM
vorgenommen?
assumed
“What has no one assumed to entrust her?”
d'. *Was hat ihr anzuvertrauen sie angenommen,
what-ACC has her-DAT to-entrust she assumed
dass er geplannt habe?
that he planned has
“What has she assumed that he had planned to entrust her?”
d''.Was hat sie angenommen, dass er geplannt habe
what-ACC has she assumed that he planned has
ihr anzuvertrauen?
she-DAT to entrust
“What has she assumed that he had planned to entrust her?”
Property (i) is illustrated in the pair in (49a,a'): a secondary adjectival
predicate may appear preceding the subject if it is contrastive (49a'), but results
in an ungrammatical structure if focus is absent (49a). The examples in (49b,b')
relate to clause-boundedness: die Lösung must remain within the clause where
the predicate selecting for it (gefunden) appears, but focalised so eine Lösung
may leave it. Property (iii) is reflected in the opposition in (49c,c'): both den
Weg and dem Polizisten appear before the subject der Zeuge in (49c),
constituting a case of multiple scrambling. However, reordering of soviel Geld
and the infinitive glauben is ill-formed (49c'). Finally, the structures in (49d,d')
show the differences in opacity for regular and focus scrambling in German:
regular scrambling of an infinitival clause (was ihr anzuvertrauen) is fully
compatible with extraction of one of its arguments (namely the fronted was in
(49d)). But, on the basis of (49d',d''), focus scrambling is not: if the clause
headed by anzuvertrauen appears displaced to a position within the matrix
projection, was cannot undergo further displacement (49d'); if the infinitival
clause remains in situ, was is allowed to occupy Spec, C (49d'').
The conclusions Neeleman (1994) draws from the facts above is that focus
scrambling reduces to an instance of ‘A-bar-movement’, one of the two basic
types of movement operations the ‘Government and Binding’ framework
52 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(Chomsky, 1981, 1986) distinguishes (see Chapter 4). A similar claim is made
in Haider and Rosengren (1998), where it is taken to target a position within
the C(omplementiser) projection, assuming that this must be analysed in terms
of the split structure envisaged by Rizzi (1997). In brief, Rizzi proposes that
the complementiser node is scattered in a series of functional phrases, which
belong to two different subfields: the Force-Finiteness system, and the Topic-
Focus system, according to (50):
(50) FORCEP[ FORCEº[ TOPICP[ TOPICº[ FOCUSP[ FOCUSº[ TOPICP[ TOPICº
[FINITENESSP[ FINº
The Force-Finiteness encompasses the highest and lowest layers in (50), that
is, ForceP and FinP. The former is in charge of interacting with the selecting
predicate, while the latter imposes selectional requirements on the complement
of CP. On the other hand, the Topic-Focus system is linked to the realisation of
discourse specifications (discourse-linked, non discourse-linked elements etc).
For Haider and Rosengren (1998), this explains why the process is possible at
all in German.
Haider and Rosengren's hypothesis raises some questions with respect to the
Dutch strings in (51). Dutch, whose word order is more rigid than that in
German as far as scrambling is concerned, allows for focus scrambling before
and after subjects (from Neeleman, 1994):
(51) a. Dat zulke boeken Jan zelfs onder vier ogen
that such books-ACC Jan-NOM even in private
niet zegt dat hij gekocht heeft
not says that he bought has
“that , even in private, Jan does not say that he bought such books”
b. Dat Jan zulke boeken zelfs onder vier ogen
that Jan-NOM such books-ACC even in private
nit zegt dat hij gekocht heeft
not says that he bought has
“that, even in private, Jan does not say that he bought such books”
We may observe that none of the examples above can be treated in terms of
regular scrambling, since in both instances zulke boeken has left the clause
introduced by dat. On the null assumption that the subject is located on the
T(ense) projection,17
hierarchically lower than FinP, Rizzi's split CP does not
fully account for (51).
SOME BASIC PROPERTIES OF GERMAN 53
Despite the problems involved in accurately characterising focus
scrambling, this study will adopt Neeleman's and Haider and Rosengren's
fundamental idea, and treat it as a phenomenon completely unrelated to regular
scrambling. Such an approach may be regarded as uncontroversial, because
focus scrambling and regular scrambling differ in one essential characteristic,
namely their (non) clause-bound nature.
CHAPTER 3
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN
The present chapter treats German scrambling exclusively, an approach that
has been dictated by two different kinds of considerations:
(i) The difficulty of treating scrambling as a crosslinguistically unitary process
(see Chapter 1). To be sure, scrambling may in the end turn out to be a cross-
linguistically unitary process, but, at present, given the currently incomplete
state of our knowledge, scrambling is best analysed within the scope of a single
language. Let us suppose that the result conventionally ascribed to scrambling
processes (namely, apparent free word order) is manifested only in languages
presenting OV1
(Haider and Rosengren, 1998; 2003). Grouping together such
sets of data as those given for Japanese in Chapter 1 with those that we are go-
ing to analyse for German, however, requires us either to relax fundamental
tenets of current models of grammatical explanation, or to devise tools that are
still lacking at present. In this connection, it will be useful to consider the
challenge any restrictive theory must face if it were required to give an account
of the divergence between, for example, Japanese and German scrambling with
regard to the syntactic limits to which scrambling is confined. For in German,
no clausal boundaries may be crossed; in Japanese, by contrast, a scrambled
constituent may occupy a position either within its own clause (clause-internal
scrambling), or within a hierarchically higher one (long scrambling). Thus,
any restrictive theory would be compelled to accept an analysis in which one of
the following two premises were adopted: (i) scrambling is not the same phe-
nomenon in German as in Japanese; (ii) Japanese clause-internal scrambling is
the same as German scrambling, with Japanese long scrambling constituting
another sort of process. Yet, if Miyagawa (2001, 2003) is correct, some cases
of clause-internal scrambling in Japanese exhibit syntactic properties typical of
long scrambling in that language. A similar situation would arise if Müller
(1995) is right (see Chapter 1, and footnote 1 in the present section) in
assuming that Russian is in fact a scrambling language and, therefore, scram-
bling is not restricted to OV. For due to the large number of available scram-
bling positions exhibited in Russian, far greater than those found in German, a
coherent approach would have either to discard the assumption that Russian
and German scrambling are instances of the same process, or to determine the
exact properties permitting such a discrepancy. It would be difficult to adduce
56 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
any hypothesis that, in the course of respecting the constraints imposed by its
chosen theoretical model, succeeds in this kind of task, including Müller's own
proposal.
(ii) A second salient consideration here is that sets of data traditionally adduced
in the generative literature in support of one or another theory of German
scrambling can be occasionally extremely complex and even contradictory.
Although some of the sets of data are better understood now than they were
twenty years ago, there are still many issues to be settled, most importantly that
of an adequate description of what kind of linear sequences are undoubtedly
real instances of scrambling. A case in point is the one posed by sequences of
supposedly scrambled adjuncts: as we will see in more detail below, it is hard
to assess whether, in those instances, one is dealing with a special process
permuting the order between the two elements at stake, or whether it is simply
a matter of different possibilities German grammar allows for in their base-
generation. Furthermore, it is clear that resolving this kind of puzzle makes the
necessary development of a more precise, fine-grained theory for scrambling
completely dependent on a correct account of adjunct placement. Unfortu-
nately, despite efforts in that direction in recent years, we are still in need of it,
and there remain important disagreements about certain key aspects of the
syntax of adjunction. Regarding the nature of adverbial modification, for
example, neither of the two currently competing approaches (the syntactic and
the semantic) presents absolutely conclusive findings. In those more complex
cases, therefore, I will simply present the sets of relevant data.
The organisation of the present chapter is as follows: Section 1 deals with
the basic sets of data conventionally used to characterise German scrambling
from a roughly syntactic perspective, with ‘roughly syntactic perspective’
understood as focusing on those properties relevant to the ‘dumb’ or not
interactive part of the computational system with regard to other external
systems (Chomsky, 1995; Chomsky, 2000; Chomsky 2001, Chomsky 2004).
On the basis of the complement/adjunct distinction, we will thus review not
only the different constituents that may undergo reordering processes in the
most generalised case of scrambling within the VP (1.2), but also in more
specific cases in which scrambling may take place in other kinds of projections
(1.3). After some preliminary conclusions (Section 1.4), we will refine the
notion of clause in the assumption that German scrambling is clause-bound
(see above), and determine what are the exact clause-internal positions the
scrambled element may appear in (Section 1.5). Finally, in 1.6 we will present
traditional evidence for one of the most pervasive and, at the same time,
contentious problems with respect to scrambled constituents in German: their
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 57
island status, an issue of crucial importance for the larger argument proposed in
the present work (Chapter 5).
The last section of this chapter deals with evidence that appears to connect
scrambling with those parts of the syntactic computation that do interact di-
rectly with other external systems, that is, Chomsky's (1995, 2000, 2001, 2004)
‘Interface Levels’ LF and PF. Thus, we will revise the semantic and phono-
logical properties that have been traditionally assigned to scrambled constitu-
ents in the literature.
1. German scrambling in rough syntax
As indicated in Chapter 1, Ross's (1967) pioneering work was the first to
introduce the term ‘scrambling’ to refer to the phenomenon characterising free
word order languages, by which different constituents of the clause may appear
to occupy different positions with respect to each other. Since that time,
‘scrambling’ has been used more or less restrictively than in Ross's original
formulation. In the case of German scrambling, opinions range from those
researchers who consider it a process underlying most instances of reordering
in that language, to those who contend that it is responsible for only the
different order possibilities certain and well-defined classes of elements may
exhibit. Both views find empirical support in different sets of data. The focus
of the present chapter will be the syntactic properties of German scrambling
deriving from all the extant sets of data, irrespective of the kind of theoretical
analysis they posit. In this connection, two observations are in order:
(i) The inclusion of all the available sets of data may render contradictory re-
sults for some properties, but not for others. Take, for example, the unani-
mously accepted clause-boundedness of German scrambling: since no example
of long distance scrambling has ever been given in the literature, clause-bound-
edness is taken to be an uncontroversial property. By contrast, this is not the
case with the islandhood of scrambled constituents, for which there exists
abundant empirical evidence arguing for or against. Since the aim of this
chapter is merely descriptive, no example or counterexample will be excluded.
Instead, properties will be classified as ‘controversial’ or ‘uncontroversial’,
depending on the contradictory/non-contradictory evidence they are based on.
(ii) The present chapter does not undertake to discuss the exact way in which
previous proposals capitalise on the sets of data presented in it, a question that
will be deferred to Chapter 4.
With regard to rough syntax, the following (un)controversial properties of
German scrambling will be dealt with:
58 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(a) Iterability. An uncontroversial property, it will be the subject of Section
1.1.
(b) The syntactic position of the ‘scrambable’ constituent. That is, do both
arguments and adjuncts scramble, or just arguments? This is a controversial
property, especially with respect to the question of the scrambling of adjuncts,
which will be addressed in Section 1.2, with some preliminary conclusions of-
fered in 1.4.
(c) The locus of scrambling, that is, whether scrambling is restricted to ele-
ments within the VP, or may affect constituents in other lexical projections (i.e.
DPs, APs, PPs). The relevant (and controversial) data will appear in Section
1.3, and some preliminary conclusions in 1.4.
(d) The clause-boundedness of scrambling. An uncontroversial property,
which will be dealt with in Section 1.5, along with the exact position within the
clause in which German scrambled constituents appear.
(e) The ‘islandhood’ of scrambled elements, that is to say, the question of
whether scrambled constituents are (non-)transparent for extraction. This con-
troversial property will be the focus of Section 1.6.
1.1 The iterability of German scrambling
German scrambling presents no restrictions on the number of elements that
may appear reordered in a given structure. In other words, German scrambling
can be iterated (example from Müller, 1995):
(1) dass Ellen die Gerüchte über Ina keiner geglaubt hat
that Ellen-DAT the rumours-ACC about Ina no-one-NOM believed has
“that no one believed Ellen’s rumours about Ina”
In (1) both the dative Ellen and the accusative die Gerüchte (über Ina) are
reordered with respect to the subject keiner, which would normally precede
them in the non-scrambling variant (2):
(2) dass keiner Ellen die Gerüchte über Ina geglaubt hat
that no-one-NOM Ellen-DAT the rumours-ACC about Ina believed has
“that no one believed Ellen’s rumours about Ina”
1.2 Scrambling within VP
1.2.1 Arguments. (i) DPs. That DP arguments of verbal predicates may, in
principle, be scrambled in German is accepted by all researchers without ex-
ception. Since the most frequent instances of DPs within VP are argumental
ones, it is deduced that there is a total agreement that DP arguments of a verbal
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 59
predicate may, in principle, undergo scrambling. However, there seem to be
certain constraints, as illustrated in the following:
(a) Weak, existential DPs may not scramble (examples in (3) from Lenerz,
2001; (4) from Meinunger, 1995; their judgements):
(3) a. Ich habe dem Studenten ein Buch gegeben
I have the student-DAT a book-ACC given
“I have given a book to the student”
b. *Ich habe ein Buch dem Studenten gegeben
I have a book-ACC the student-DAT given
“I have given a book to the student”
(4) a. weil er niemals Butter nimmt
because he never butter-ACC takes
“because he never takes butter”
b. ??/*weil er Butter niemals nimmt
because he butter-ACC never takes
“because he never takes butter”
(b) ‘Special’ genitives and datives may not undergo scrambling. ‘Special’ or
verbnahe (i.e. ‘close to the verb’, Frey, 2000) genitives and datives are ele-
ments that typically occupy a VP internal position, next to the lexical predicate.
Their morphological case marking is idiosyncratically determined by the verb.
Their displacement to higher projections seems to carry a high degree of un-
grammaticality (Rosengren, 1993; Haider and Rosengren, 1998; Frey, 2000;
Fanselow, 2003) (examples from Frey, 2000):
(5) a. weil Hans bedauerlicherweise einen Unschuldigen
because Hans-NOM unfortunately an innocent-ACC
dieses Anschlagen bezichtigte
this conspiracy-GEN accused
“because Hans unfortunately accused an innocent of this
conspiracy”
b. *weil Hans bedauerlicherweise dieses Anschlagen
because Hans-NOM unfortunately this conspiracy-GEN
einen Unschuldigen bezichtigte
an innocent-ACC accused
“because Hans unfortunately accused an innocent of this
conspiracy”
60 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(6) a. weil Otto leider die Kandidaten
because Otto-NOM unfortunately the candidates-ACC
dieser Prüfung ausgesetzt hat
this test-DAT subjected has
“because Otto unfortunately subjected the candidates to this test”
b. *weil Otto leider dieser Prüfung
because Otto-NOM unfortunately this test-DAT
die Kandidaten ausgestzt hat
the candidates-ACC subjected has
“because Otto unfortunately subjected the candidates to this test”
(c) Definite and generic DPs undergo scrambling optionally. Contrary to the
case with existential indefinites, which must remain VP-internal, a generic,
specific DP may scramble or not, with no apparent change in the way the
structure is interpreted ((8) based on Haider and Rosengren, 1998):
(7) a. weil der Peter gestern das Buch gelesen hat
because Peter-NOM yesterday the book-ACC read has
“because Peter read the book yesterday”
b. weil der Peter das Buch gestern gelesen hat
because Peter-NOM the book-ACC yesterday read has
“because Peter read the book yesterday”
(8) a. dass Max immer Primaballerinas bewundert
that Max-NOM always primaballerinas-ACC admires
“that Max always admires primaballerinas”
b. dass Max Primaballerinas immer bewundert
that Max-NOM primaballerinas-ACC always admires
“that Max always admires primaballerinas”
(ii) Finite clauses. With regard to argumental finite clauses, there is some dis-
agreement among the scholars with respect to their grammatical status when
scrambled. Although some researchers (for example, Müller, 1995) regard the
resulting structures as completely well-formed, others find them at least
slightly deviant (among them, Haider and Rosengren, 1998) (example (9) from
Müller, 1995; example (10) from Haider and Rosengren, 1998; their judge-
ment):
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 61
(9) weil dass sie Recht hat der Fritz nie behaupten würde
since that she right is Fritz-NOM never claim would
“because Fritz would never claim that she is right”
(10) ? weil ja heutzutage dass die Erde rund ist niemand
since PART today that the earth-NOM round is no-one-NOM
ernsthaft bezweifellt
seriously doubts
“because today nobody seriously doubt that the earth is round”
(iii) Infinitival clauses. Contrary to what happens with argumental finite
clauses, scrambling of an infinitival clause results in a perfectly grammatical
structure, in the view of all researchers (example (11a) from Müller, 1995;
(11b) from Haider and Rosengren, 1998; their judgements):
(11) a. dass dieses Problem zu lösen keiner versuchen wird
that this problem-ACC to solve no-one-NOM try will
“that nobody will try to solve this problem”
b. dass doch diese Tür aufzubrechen keiner je
that PART this door-ACC open no-one-NOM PART
versucht hat
tried has
“that nobody ever tried to open this door”
(iv) Selected adverbials. Given the current obscurity of the available data, it is
perhaps not surprising that little attention has been paid to scrambled selected
adverbials in the published literature. The following discussion is mainly based
on Fanselow (2001, 2003) and Haider and Rosengren (1998; 2003), which
constitute rare exceptions to the claim above.
Haider and Rosengren (1998; 2003) provide evidence that suggests that
apparent scrambling of selected adverbials is dependent on their semantic type:
there is just one position for manner (12), directional (13), and time (14)
adverbials, but more than one for locative (15) adverbials:
(12) a. dass man ja (die) Männern nicht freundlich behandelt
that one-NOM PART the men-ACC not friendly treated
hatte
had
“that the men had not been treated friendly”
62 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
b. *dass man ja freundlich die Männern nicht behandelt
that one-NOM PART friendly the men-ACC not treated
hatte
had
“that the men had not been treated friendly”
(13) a. dass er ja alles unter den Papierkorb legte
that he PART all-ACC under the wastebasket put
“that he put all under the wastebasket”
b. *dass er ja unter den Papierkob alles legte
that he PART under the wastebasket all-ACC put
“that he put all under the wastebasket”
(14) a. Die Vorlesung wird vermutlich heute zwei Stunden dauern
the lecture-NOM will probably today two hours last
“The lecture will probably last two hours today”
b. *Die Vorlesung wird zwei Stunden vermutlich heute dauern
the lecture-NOM will two hours probably today last
“The lecture will probably last two hours today”
(15) a. dass seine Eltern in London wohnen
that his parents-NOM in London live
“that his parents live in London”
b. dass in London seine Eltern wohnen
that in London his parents-NOM live
“that his parents live in London”
Haider and Rosengren attribute the facts in (12)-(15) to the different
semantic domains each of the types of selected adverbials require, the verbal
head in the case of manner, directional, and time adverbials (complements of
the lexical verb), and the whole verbal projection (that is, the VP) in the case of
local adverbials, insofar as they are event-related. Thus, they conclude that
(15b) cannot be considered a true instance of scrambling, which entails that no
selected adverbial may undergo the process.
The ungrammaticality of the (b) structures in (12)-(14) suffices to exclude
scrambling of those adverbials that must be semantically linked to V. But we
may note that this is not so in (15): even if locative adverbials may be directly
inserted in a VP-adjoined position, this does not exactly mean that they cannot
be further displaced. And, in fact, Fanselow (2001, but especially 2003), re-
flecting an observation by Eva Engels (p.c.), provides some evidence for it.
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 63
The relevant set of examples is constituted by coherent infinitival construc-
tions, where a restructuring effect between the matrix and embedded predicates
(Wurmbrand, 2001a and references therein)2
allows elements selected for by
the latter to appear scrambled within the clausal limits of the former, as (16)
shows (from Fanselow, 2001):
(16) a. dass niemand den Peter zu fragen verprach
that nobody-NOM Peter-ACC to ask promised
“that nobody promised to ask Peter”
b. dass den Peter niemand zu fragen versprach
that Peter-ACC nobody-NOM to ask promised
“that nobody promised to ask Peter”
In (16b) the object of the embedded infinitive appears in front of the matrix
subject, in a supposedly derived, scrambling position. The structure is also
possible with locative adverbials (17a), although yielding slightly deviant
results. But its deviant status has apparently nothing to do with the argument/
selected adverbial distinction, as (17b) illustrates:
(17) a. ?? dass man im Hotel niemandem zu wohnen
that one-NOM in-the hotel nobody-DAT to live
versprechen sollte
promise should
“that it should be not promised to anybody that he would live
in the hotel”
b. dass man in diesem Hotel niemandem zu übernachten
that one-NOM in this hotel nobody-DAT to stay
empfehlen kann
recommend can
“that staying in this hotel cannot be recommended to anyone”
Fanselow (2003) attributes the partial opposition in grammaticality between
(a) and (b) to the higher degree of referentiality in in diesem Hotel than im
Hotel. This would mean that, although in principle German grammar allows for
free scrambling of locative adverbials, the well-formedness of its output
crucially depends on semantic factors.
1.2.2 Predicates. Predicates are sometimes considered ‘scrambable’ elements.
However, the acceptability of those structures in which they appear displaced is
more disputed than the acceptability of those generated by DP scrambling. This
64 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
is shown in (18) for main predicates and in (19) for secondary ones ((18) from
Müller, 1995, (19) from Hinterhölzl, 1999; their judgements):
(18) a. ?? dass krank der Hans am Montag nicht gewesen ist
that sick Hans-NOM on Monday not been has
“that Hans was not sick on Monday”
b. ?? dass die Suppe essen hier keiner so richtig
that the soup-ACC eat here no-one-NOM really
wollte
wanted to
“that no one really wanted to eat the soup hier”
(19) a. ?? Er hat grün gestern den Zaun gestrichen
He has green-ACC yesterday the fence-ACC painted
“He painted the fence green yesterday”
b. ?? Er hat einen Idioten gestern seinen Freund gennant
He has an idiot-ACC yesterday his friend-ACC called
“He called his friend idiot yesterday”
1.2.3 Adjuncts. Unlike argumental elements, it would appear that there are no
systematic differences between non-argumental constituents with regard to the
category they belong to. Thus, apparent scrambling of both adverbial DPs and
PPs as well as AdvPs results in full acceptability of the structures (example
(20) from Müller, 1995; (21) from Fanselow, 2001; (22) based on Fanselow,
2001):
(20) a. dass der Fritz den ganzen Tag im Büro gewesen ist
that Fritz-NOM the whole day-ACC in-the office been has
“that Fritz has been in the office the whole day”
b. dass den ganzen Tag der Fritz im Büro gewesen ist
that the whole day Fritz-NOM in-the office been has
“that Fritz has been in the office the whole day”
(21) a. er hat heute im Park gearbeitet
he has today in-the park worked
“He has worked in the park today”
b. er hat im Park heute gearbeitet
he has in-the park today worked
“He has worked in the park today”
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 65
(22) a. dass niemand abends das Buch liest
that nobody-NOM in the evening the book-ACC reads
“that nobody reads the book in the evening”
b. dass abends niemand das Buch liest
that in the evenings nobody-NOM the book-ACC reads
“that nobody reads the book in the evening”
However, it is often noticed in the literature (Laezlinger, 1998, and refer-
ences therein) that adjuncts in German exhibit different order possibilities even
in cases in which scrambling is discarded not only for the adjunct itself, but
also for other elements within VP.3
Thus, the different well-formed possibili-
ties in (20), (21) and (22) neither support nor deny adjunct scrambling.
Fanselow (2001, 2003) appeals again to the proof already mentioned above
with respect to scrambling of selected adverbials: coherent infinitives.
Recall that, since coherent infinitives are characterised by undergoing
restructuring with the matrix predicate, elements belonging to their projection
may appear displaced in the matrix clause. On this basis, Fanselow contraposes
examples such as (23) and (24), where scrambling of an argument (23) and an
adverbial (24) from the embedded infinitival structure to the matrix one differ
in well-formedness (examples from Fanselow, 2001, 2003):
(23) a. dass niemand den Peter zu fragen versprach
that nobody-NOM Peter-ACC to ask promised
“that nobody promised to ask Peter”
b. dass den Peter niemand zu fragen versprach
that Peter-NOM nobody-NOM to ask promised
“that nobody promised to ask Peter”
(24) a. dass niemand morgen ein Buch zu lesen versprach
that nobody-NOM tomorrow a book-ACC to read promised
“that nobody promised to read a book tomorrow”
b. #dass morgen niemand ein Buch zu lesen versprach4
that tomorrow nobody-NOM a book-ACC to read promised
“that nobody promised to read a book tomorrow”
That in (24b) the only reading obtained is one in which morgen is construed
with versprach (#‘Tomorrow he promised to read the book’, hence its oddity)
is taken by Fanselow as conclusive evidence denying the existence of adjunct
scrambling.
66 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
However, along the same lines she followed for the case of the scrambling
of selected locative adverbials, Eva Engels (p.c. in Fanselow, 2003), proposes
the pair below, which seems to support the idea that, in fact, scrambling of at
least certain types of adjuncts is possible, if other semantic requirements (such
as a high degree of referentiality) obtain:
(25) a. ??dass man im Hotel niemandem zu arbeiten
that one-NOM in-the hotel nobody-DAT to work
versprechen sollte
promise should
“that working in the hotel should not be promised to anyone”
b. dass man in diesem Hotel niemandem zu essen
that one-NOM in this hotel nobody-DAT to eat
empfehlen kann
recommend can
“that it should not be recommended to anyone to eat in this hotel”
As Fanselow recognises, the data in (25) are contradictory with those in (23)
and (24), and reduce their relevance.
Müller (1995) is the only study on German scrambling where, apart from
DPs, PPs and adverbs, two more instances of adjuncts are considered: finite
and non-finite clauses. He rules in the examples below:
(26) dass damit er verliert der Frank alles tun würde
that so-that he loses Frank-NOM everything-ACC do would
“that Frank would do everything so that he loses”
(27) dass um zu verlieren der Frank alles tun würde
that to lose Frank-NOM everything-ACC do would
“that Frank would do everything to lose”
Finally, it must be also noticed that there appear in the literature references
to other kinds of elements that, independently from their argumental/non-
argumental status, systematically resist scrambling, such as verb particles,5
and
components of idiomatic expressions (examples below from Hinterhölzl, 1999;
his judgements):
(28) ?? Er ist weg noch nie gelaufen
he has away yet never run
“So far he has never run away”
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 67
(29) *Sie ist ihm ins Wort noch nie gefallen
she is he-DAT in-the word yet never fallen
“So far she has never interrupted him”
1.3 Scrambling within other projections
1.3.1 Scrambling within DPs. German DPs may not present reordering of
argumental/non-argumental elements within them, except in the case that the
reordered constituent precedes the determiner (example (30) from Haider and
Rosengren, 1998; (31) from Müller, 1995):
(30) a. die Versendung von Briefen an Verwandte
the forwarding of letters to relatives
“the forwarding of letters to relatives”
b. *die Versendung an Verwandte von Briefen
the forwarding to relatives of letters
c. *die an Verwandte Versendung von Briefen
the to relatives forwarding of letters
(31) a. der Blick in den Abgrund
the view into the abyss
“the view into the abyss”
b. in den Abgrund der Blick
into the abyss the view
However, as we will see in the discussion of the relevance of the data
reviewed so far, (31b) cannot be judged as a true instance of scrambling.
1.3.2 Scrambling within APs. It is often assumed that constituents belonging to
an adjectival projection may be reordered only within it (examples (32a-c),
based on Haider and Rosengren, 1998). But that this common claim does not
entirely reflect the facts is revealed by structures such as (33a-b), where one of
the arguments of the adjective appears in an external position (my informants'
judgement):
(32) a. ein jedem an Kraft überlegener Sportler
a everyone-DAT in power superior athlete
“an athlete superior to everyone in power”
b. ein an Kraft jedem überlegener Sportler
an in power everyone-DAT superior athlete
68 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
c. *an Kraft ein jedem überlegener Sportler
in power an everyone-DAT superior athlete
(33) a. Er war wahrscheinlich an diesem Sport immer allen
he was probably in this sport always all-DAT
überlegener
superior
“Probably he was always superior to everyone in this sport”
b. Er war wahrscheinlich diesen Männern immer an Sport
he was probably these men-DAT always in sport
überlegener
superior
“Probably he was always superior to these men in sport”
1.3.3 Scrambling within PPs. Elements cannot be reordered either within or
outside of the prepositional phrase they belong to (example (35) from Müller,
1995):
(34) a. In diesem Abschnitt über Metaphern
in this chapter about metaphors
“In this chapter about metaphors”
b. *In über Metaphern diesem Abschnitt
in about metaphors this chapter
c. *In diesem über Metaphern Abschnitt
in this about metaphors chapter
(35) a. Ich bin unter Druck
I am under pressure
“I am under pressure”
b. *Ich bin Druck unter
I am pressure unter
However, postpositional phrases allow for reordering, only should this take
place outside the PP-boundary (example (36) from Law, 2000; (37a) based on
Wagner, 2002, my informants' judgements):
(36) a. [dem Bild mit goldenem Rahmen]DP gegenüber
the picture-DAT with golden frame opposite
“opposite the picture with a golden frame”
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 69
b. *mit goldenem Rahmen dem Bild gegenüber
with golden frame the picture-DAT opposite
(37) a. Peter ist gestern nicht den Fluss entlang gefahren
Peter has yesterday not the river-ACC along driven
“Peter did not drive along the river yesterday”
a'. Peter ist den Fluss gestern nicht entlang gefahren
Peter has the river-ACC yesterday not along driven
b. Die Sekretärin, die gestern dem Chef gegenüber sass
the secretary that yesterday the boss-DAT opposite sat
“The secretary that sat opposite the boss yesterday”
b'. Die Sekretärin, die dem Chef gestern gegenüber sass
the secretary that the boss-DAT yesterday opposite sat
1.4 Some preliminary conclusions about scrambable constituents
Having briefly reviewed the data, we may now essay to answer the question
posed at the beginning of this section, namely, is scrambling constrained either
by the category of the reordered constituent, or by the nature of the projection
in which it takes place? We will present the most problematic cases in order to
draw some preliminary conclusions.
It will be useful to recall that with respect to scrambling of arguments within
VP, degrees of well-formedness range from full grammaticality (specific DPs)
to unacceptability (existential DPs and, for some scholars, secondary
predicates). What seems to underlie the differences caused by the category of
the scrambled constituent is not its category as such (as demonstrated by the
different results with specific vs existential DPs), but rather its semantic inter-
pretation: as traditionally noticed in the literature, the more existential, predi-
cative the reading a constituent receives is, the more ungrammatical scram-
bling is. This is also apparently true of at least one type of selected adverbials:
locative adverbials are more prone to being reordered if they are highly refer-
ential (example (19) above). Consequently, two conclusions can be drawn: (i)
scrambling of argumental constituents is restricted only on semantic grounds;
(ii) scrambling of selected adverbials applies only to locative adverbials, and is
also semantically restricted.
At the same time, there would appear to exist some arguments whose
resistance to scrambling cannot be explained in semantic terms, insofar as
increasing their referential content does not improve the ungrammaticality of
the reordered sequence. They are those labelled as ‘special genitives and
datives’, which, as demonstrated by Frey's (2000) examples (5) and (6), may
never move past the direct object they are constructed with in ditransitive
70 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
structures. But that the facts are not so clear-cut, at least for the case of special
datives, is pointed out by Fanselow (2003), who shows that, preserving the
right ordering between ACC and DAT according to an animacy scale (Müller,
1999),6
both elements may scramble to post-subject (38a) or pre-subject (38b)
positions.7
In other words, they may scramble only in the case that the
accusative undergoes scrambling too (examples from Fanselow, 2003):
(38) a. dass er glücklicherweise die Kandidaten der schwersten
that he fortunately the candidates-ACC the most difficult
Prüfung immer nur am Vormittag unterzog
test-DAT always only before noon subjected
“that fortunately he always subjected the candidates to the most
difficult test only before noon”
b. dass glücklicherweise die Kandidaten einer schweren
that fortunately the candidates-ACC a difficult
Prüfung am Vormittag nur der Fritz unterziehen wollte
test-DAT before noon only Fritz-NOM subject wanted-to
“that fortunately only Fritz wanted to subject the candidates to a
difficult test before noon”
Although the final part of the present work (Chapter 5) will argue that the
reason why ‘double scrambling’ is needed in those special cases differs from
that proposed by Fanselow, his examples nonetheless constitute empirical
support for our conclusion in the preceding paragraph that scrambling of verbal
arguments is, without exception, semantically constrained exclusively.
On the other hand, with respect to adjuncts, it will be remembered that
Fanselow's (2001, 2003) examples with coherent infinitives and time
adverbials, which indicated that adjuncts cannot be reordered (24), apparently
conflict with Engels's sentences with locative adjuncts, which showed just the
reverse (25). It is proposed here, however, that no contradiction can be seen to
exist, once structures such as the ones given below are fully taken into account
(example (39) based on Hinterhölzl, 1999):
(39) a. weil sie der Hans gestern morgen zu besuchen
because her-ACC Hans-NOM yesterday tomorrow to visit
versprach
promised
“because yesterday Hans promised to visit her tomorrow”
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 71
b. *weil sie der Hans morgen gestern zu besuchen
because her-ACC Hans-NOM tomorrow yesterday to visit
versprach
promised
“because yesterday Hans promised to visit her tomorrow”
(40) a. weil der Hans gestern sie morgen zu besuchen
because Hans-NOM yesterday her-ACC tomorrow to visit
versprach
promised
“because Hans promised yesterday to visit her tomorrow”
b. *weil der Hans morgen sie gestern zu besuchen
because Hans-NOM tomorrow her-ACC yesterday to visit
versprach
promised
“because Hans promised yesterday to visit her tomorrow”
(41) a. dass der Hans am Strand in diesem Restaurant zu essen
that Hans-NOM on-the beach in this restaurant to eat
versprach
promised
“that Hans promised on the beach to eat in this restaurant”
b. #dass der Hans in diesem Restaurant am Strand zu essen
that Hans-NOM in this restaurant on-the beach to eat
versprach
promised
#“that Hans promised in this restaurant to eat on the beach”
(39) and (40) are sentences in which both the matrix and the embedded
predicate are overtly modified by two different time adverbials, gestern and
morgen, respectively. On the other hand, (41) is an example of locative modifi-
cation, with am Strand construed with the matrix verb, and in diesem
Restaurant with the embedded one. It will be noticed that unlike the (a) sen-
tences, all of which are grammatical,8
their (b) counterparts result in
ungrammaticality for time adjuncts and pragmatic oddity for locative ones
(“Hans promised in this restaurant to eat on the beach”). In short, what the
contrasts in these examples demonstrate is that adverbial adjuncts of matrix
clauses must always precede those modifying embedded ones. This is highly
reminiscent of William's (1994) ‘Nested Scope Constraint’ (NSC), according
to which, when the scope of XP is contained in the scope of another element,
72 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
then XP must be contained in that scope as well. For the case at hand, since the
embedded adverbials have their scope in the infinitival VP,9
and this, in turn, is
nested in the scope of the matrix one, they cannot be displaced out of it. But
why is it that there exists an asymmetry in cases in which only the embedded
predicate is modified? I would suggest that the answer has to do with the way
in which adverbials interact with tense: whereas there exists agreement
between the verb and an overt or covert past- or present-oriented adverb, which
the temporal morphology reflects, such a relation does not hold for place ad-
verbials (Iatridou, Anagnostopoulou and Izvorski, 2001). This means that, in
Fanselow's example above (24), in which morgen, whose scope is within the
embedded VP, is adjoined to the matrix one, William's NSC is violated, on the
basis that it also crosses over a covert past-oriented adverbial, as the past mor-
phology of the matrix predicate versprach reveals. On the other hand, in
Engels's structures with locative adverbials, there is no (overt or covert) loca-
tive whatsoever and, consequently, there is no violation of the NSC either. No-
tice that such an account does not prevent (42) below from being grammatical
in its two possible readings (example from Hinterhölzl, 1999):
(42) weil sie der Hans oft zu besuchen versprach
because her-ACC Hans-NOM often to visit promised
“since Hans often promised to visit her”
“since Hans promised to often visit her”
The reason is that the two readings are obtained fulfilling the NSC: for the
first one, the trivial assumption is there is no movement of the (covert)
adverbial in the embedded clause, and oft is directly construed with versprach,
with which it is completely compatible; for the second one, oft is construed
with the embedded verb,10
in whose scope, crucially, it remains, without
crossing over the covert, past-oriented adverbial implicit in the past
morphology of versprach.
In the light of both the pieces of evidence put forward by Engels and the
discussion above, there are some reasons to believe that adjuncts may undergo
scrambling in German, with some restrictions in terms of referentiality.
Finally, some observations may be offered with respect to the projections in
which scrambling may take place. It will be recalled that, according to the data
reviewed in this section, scrambling is certainly possible within the VP, seems
to take place also within APs, and it may apparently occur in DPs if it targets a
position adjoined to the determiner. Nevertheless, as Müller (1995)
demonstrates, this process of left-adjunction to DPs does not constitute a real
instance of scrambling, given that, contrary to what is one of the most
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 73
pervasive characteristics of genuine scrambling within VP crosslinguistically,
DP scrambling does not iterate, as the comparison of (43) and (44) shows
(example (43) from Müller, 1995):
(43) a. dass der Peter gestern dem Kind das Buch
that Peter-NOM yesterday the child-DAT the book-ACC
gegeben hat
given has
“that Peter gave the child the book yesterday”
b. dass der Peter dem Kind das Buch gestern
that Peter-NOM the child-DAT the book-ACC yesterday
gegeben hat
given has
“that Peter gave the child the book yesterday”
(44) a. ein Buch von Martin über die Metapher
a book by Martin about the metaphors
“a book about metaphors by Martin”
b. *von Martin über die Metapher ein Buch
by Martin about the metaphors a book
Müller concludes that (44b) is probably the result of PP movement to Spec
D, thus explaining why preposing must affect only one constituent. Whatever
its proper characterisation may be, the process is clearly distinct from scram-
bling.
When we turn to the cases of ungrammatical scrambling within pre- and
post-positional phrases, we will notice that they are accounted for on the basis
of the unavailability of scrambling within DPs: in (34b,c) and (36b) the scram-
bled element is selected for by the nominal head, and not by the pre-/ post-
positional one. Thus, (34b,c) and (36b) basically reduce to (32b,c): scrambling
is not available within a DP.
There is only one case remaining, namely that of scrambling of the DP
complement of pre-/post-positions to a higher projection (examples 35b,37
a',b'). Here an obvious asymmetry arises: complements of prepositional heads
cannot be displaced beyond the limits of the PP, whereas complements of post-
positions may appear preceding not only negation, but also VP-adjoined
adverbs such as gestern. Therefore, the conclusion is that scrambling is
impossible with the former, but possible with the latter.
To summarise: scrambling is not restricted categorially (although it is se-
mantically); it affects arguments and selected locative adverbials (and perhaps
74 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
adjuncts) that appear within the VP, and also complements of both adjectives
and postpositions, displacing them all typically to the VP periphery.11
1.5 The clause-boundedness of scrambling and the syntactic position of
scrambled constituents
1.5.1 Scrambling is clause-bound. German scrambling is strictly clause-bound,
which means that the reordered constituent cannot appear beyond the
boundaries of the clausal projection that contains the predicate selecting it. This
is true of both finite (45) and infinitival clauses (46) (example (45) from
Müller, 1995; (46) based on Frey, 2000):
(45) a. *dass keiner Hygrometeri sagt [dass Antje ti mag]12
that no-one-NOM hygrometers-ACC says that Antje likes
“that nobody says that Antje likes hygrometers”
b. *dass du Hygrometeri meinst [würde Antje ti mögen]
that you-NOM hygrometers-ACC think would Antje like
“that you think that Antje would like hygrometers”
c. *Gestern meinte Hygrometer keiner [würde
yesterday thought hygrometers-ACC no-one-NOM would
Antje ti mögen]
Antje like
“Nobody thought yesterday that Antje would like hygrometers”
(46) *dass Eva dem Hansi glaubt, [ti helfen zu müssen]
that Eva-NOM Hans-DAT thought help to have-to
“that Eva thinks that she should help Hans”
Notice that the locality of German scrambling holds irrespective of both the
kind of clause it moves from and the kind of clause it targets: embedded with
overt complementiser, embedded with overt complementiser in (45a), embed-
ded V-2, embedded with overt complementiser in (45b), or embedded V-2,
matrix V-2 in (45c).
There is, however, a case in which scrambling may, in fact, occur in a
hierarchically higher sentence, namely that constituted by coherent infinitival
clauses. Recall that, as briefly summarised in Chapter 2 (Section 2), coherent
infinitives are characterised by allowing for an (optional) process of restruc-
turing with the matrix predicate subcategorising for them. When restructuring
takes place, scrambling is possible, as illustrated by (47) (taken from
Hinterhölzl, 1999), where bat (bitten, “ask”) exemplifies the non-restructuring
paradigm, and versprach (versprechen, “promise”) the restructuring one:
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 75
(47) a. *dass uns das Buchi Hans gestern bat
that us-DAT the book-ACC Hans-NOM yesterday asked
[der Maria tj zu geben]
Maria-DAT to give
“that Hans asked us yesterday to give the book to Maria”
b. dass der Mariai das Buchj Hans gestern
that Maria-DAT the book-ACC Hans-NOM yesterday
[ti tj zu geben] versprach
to give promised
“that Hans promised yesterday to give the book to Maria”
On the other hand, ever since the publication of Haider's (1987, 1990, 1991,
etc.) pioneering work on coherent infinitives, it is frequently argued that
restructuring is forbidden when the verbal complex is split up by the
intervention of another constituent. In other words, the (un)grammaticality of a
structure of the type infinitive+XP+matrix verb serves to diagnose the
coherent/non-coherent distinction. This is demonstrated by (48), where an
infinitive from which either a nominal or pronominal DP has scrambled to the
matrix clause must appear strictly preceding the matrix verb (examples based
on Hinterhölzl, 1999):
(48) a. *weil siei der Hans [ti zu besuchen] oft versuchte
because her-ACC Hans-NOM to visit often tried
“because Hans often tried to visit her”
a'. *weil die Claudiai der Hans [ti zu besuchen] oft versuchte
because Claudia-ACC Hans-NOM to visit often tried
“because Hans often tried to visit Claudia”
b. weil siei der Hans oft [ti zu besuchen] versuchte
because her-ACC Hans-NOM often to visit tried
“because Hans often tried to visit her”
b'. weil die Claudiai der Hans oft [ti zu besuchen] versuchte
because Claudia-ACC Hans-NOM often to visit tried
“because Hans often tried to visit Claudia”
From this it is concluded that coherent infinitives may be the source of
‘scrambable’ elements, but cannot be scrambled themselves. On the assump-
tion that these two properties distinguish them from non-coherent infinitives,
the ungrammaticality of (48a, a') is taken as support for the clause-bounded-
ness of German scrambling: both (48a) and (48a') are instances of scrambling
of a non-coherent infinitive, which cannot restructure with the matrix verb.
76 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
Thus, scrambling of sie and die Claudia is, in turn, a case of long (i.e. non-
clause-bound) scrambling, which German grammar disallows. However, as
shown in Chapter 2, a fact almost unnoticed in the literature (an exception is
Müller, 1998) seems to indicate that that cannot be the right analysis of (48a,
a'), insofar as it excludes sentences such as (49) below, which, according not
only to Müller but also to my informants, is grammatical in German:
(49) weil [ti zu lesen] esi keiner versuchte
because to read it-ACC no-one-NOM tried
“because nobody tried to read it”
It will be recalled that only coherent infinitives allow for the scrambling of
their internal constituents. From that perspective, zu lesen conforms to the
expected pattern, since its object es appears preceding the matrix subject,13
paralleling sie in (48b). On the other hand, the verbal complex is split up due
not only to the presence of the object itself, but also to that of the matrix
subject keiner, which entails that, contradictorily with the conclusions about
the scrambling of es, we are dealing with a non-coherent infinitival. Thus, an
alternative explanation is needed, and will be proposed in Chapter 5.
Does the existence of reordered elements beyond the limits of their coherent
infinitival clauses weaken the assumption that German scrambling is clause-
bound? According to the different hypotheses developed to account for
restructuring constructions, the answer is invariably no, since, despite impor-
tant divergences between them, the conclusion is always that both matrix and
embedded predicate constitute a single clause. Thus, for those scholars who
defend what has been labelled as the ‘mono-clausal approach’ (among them,
Haider, 1986, 1991, 1993; Cinque, 1997a, 1997b, 2000; Wurmbrand, 1998,
2001a, and references therein), a coherent infinitival structure is a single
clause throughout the entire derivation; on the other hand, for those who sup-
port the so-called ‘bi-clausal approach’ (Evers, 1975; Rizzi, 1976; Aissen and
Perlmutter, 1976; Hoekstra, 1984; Stechow and Sternefeld, 1988; Roberts,
1993; Grewendorf and Sabel, 1994, among others), it is in the course of the
syntactic computation that clause union between the embedded infinitive and
the matrix predicate is obtained. Therefore, whether we adopt one view or the
other,14
the fact remains that scrambling in German is, without exception,
clause-bound.
1.5.2 Two scrambling positions within the clause. The second observation
about the clause-boundedness of German scrambling relates to the actual
syntactic positions within the clause it may target. As has already been shown
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 77
in Chapter 1, German scrambled constituents may appear in a pre-subject (50b)
or a post-subject (50c) position, preceding, in turn, VP-adverbials, VP-
particles, and negation. However, in languages such as Dutch, in which
reordering of constituents is also possible, pre-subject scrambling is barred15
(51b) (Dutch examples from Neeleman, 1994):
(50) a dass der Peter gestern das Buch gelesen hat
that Peter-NOM yesterday the book-ACC read has
“that Peter read the book yesterday”
b. dass das Buch der Peter gestern gelesen hat
that the book-ACC Peter-NOM yesterday read has
“that Peter read the book yesterday”
c. dass der Peter das Buch gestern gelesen hat
that Peter-NOM the book-ACC yesterday read has
“that Peter read the book yesterday”
(51) a. dat Jan op zondag het boek leest
that Jan-NOM on Sunday the book-ACC reads
“that Jan reads the book on Sunday”
b. *dat het boek Jan op zondag leest
that the book-ACC Jan-NOM on Sunday reads
“that Jan reads the book on Sunday”
c. dat Jan het boek op zondag leest
that Jan-NOM the book-ACC on Sunday reads
“that Jan reads the book on Sunday”
It will be remembered that, apart from the availability of pre-subject
scrambling in German and its absence in Dutch, there is another property that
makes the two processes differ: ordering restrictions. Although scrambling may
be iterated in the two languages (i.e. it may reorder more than one element),
Dutch, but not German, exhibits an ordering constraint on scrambling by which
only serialisations corresponding to base-generated orders are allowed for,16
as
shown in (52) and (53) for ditransitive structures (examples in (52) from
Müller, 1995; Dutch examples in (53) from Thráinsson, 2001):
(52) a. dass der Fritz dem Wolfgang das Buch geklaut hat
that Fritz-NOM Wolfgang-DAT the book-ACC stolen has
“that Fritz has stolen the book from Wolfgang”
78 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
b. dass der Fritz das Buch dem Wolfgang geklaut hat
that Fritz-NOM the book-ACC Wolfgang-DAT stolen has
“that Fritz has stolen the book from Wolfgang”
c. dass dem Wolfgang der Fritz das Buch geklaut hat
that Wolfgang-DAT Fritz-NOM the book-ACC stolen has
“that Fritz has stolen the book from Wolfgang”
d. dass das Buch der Fritz dem Wolfgang geklaut hat
that the book-ACC Fritz-NOM Wolfgang-DAT stolen has
“that Fritz has stolen the book from Wolfgang”
e. dass das Buch dem Wolfgang der Fritz geklaut hat
that the book-ACC Wolfgang-DAT Fritz-NOM stolen has
“that Fritz has stolen the book from Wolfgang”
f. dass dem Wolfgang das Buch der Fritz geklaut hat
that Wolfgang-DAT the book-ACC Fritz-NOM stolen has
“that Fritz has stolen the book from Wolfgang”
(53) a. dat de vrouw waarschijnlijk de mannen de film
that the woman-NOM probably the men-DAT the picture-ACC
toont
shows
“that the woman probably shows the picture to the men”
b. dat de vrouw de mannen waarschijnlijk de film
that the woman-NOM the men-DAT probably the picture-ACC
toont
shows
“that the woman probably shows the picture to the men”
c. *dat de vrouw de film waarschijnlijk de mannen
that the woman-NOM the picture-ACC probably the men-DAT
toont
shows
“that the woman probably shows the picture to the men”
Notice that the combination of both the availability of pre-subject scram-
bling and the absence of ordering restrictions yields five possible scrambling
structures in German. Likewise, the non-existence of a pre-subject scrambling
position and the requirement that scrambled datives precede scrambled accusa-
tives in Dutch result in only two alternative strings (apart from the non-scram-
bled order).
We may thus conclude that scrambling is more constrained in Dutch than in
German. Furthermore, as shown in Chapter 1, the constraints present in Dutch
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 79
scrambling seem to hold in similar processes in other related languages, such
as Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’.17
Given this relatedness between Dutch,
German and Scandinavian languages, it may be reasonable to assume a certain
connection between Dutch and German scrambled structures and Scandinavian
‘Object Shift’ as surface manifestations of basically a single phenomenon. The
way in which actual differences between them may be explained depends upon
the kind of analysis adopted. In this respect, there are in the literature many
attempts to bring together Dutch and German scrambling, but Scandinavian
‘Object Shift’ is mostly regarded as a distinct construction. We will deal with
the way in which the different hypotheses make German scrambling look more
‘Dutch-like’ in the chapter devoted to previous accounts (Chapter 4). On the
other hand, that German scrambling and Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ share
more basic properties than traditionally assumed will be the central claim de-
veloped in Chapter 5.
1.6 ‘Island effects’
Within the generative framework, constituents are understood to occupy
their position in the final uttered string as a result of two different processes:
either they are directly inserted (base-generated) there, or they have been
moved from the place where they were first inserted. Setting aside the exact
ways in which base-generation and movement are envisaged and labelled in the
different models of the generative approach,18
it is assumed that base-generated
and moved constituents diverge in several respects: (i) constituents may be
base-generated in any structural position as long as categorial requirements are
satisfied, but constituents cannot be displaced from all structural positions
(Ross's (1967) ‘Island Constraints’); and (ii) movement from an already moved
constituent is forbidden, whereas movement out of a base-generated one is
generally possible (Wexler and Culicover's (1980) ‘Freezing Principle’). The
status of scrambled constituents with respect to these two characteristics is as
controversial as the matter of their categorial status. A substantial body of
contradictory data exists that may be used to conclude that reordered elements
are sensitive to ‘island effects’, or just the opposite. Much as I did when
approaching the problem of the categorial restrictiveness of German
scrambling, in this section I will present all the available evidence, reserving
fuller comment upon it until the end. The issue at stake here is an extremely
important one, constituting as it does one of the most significant pieces of
evidence that distinguishes between the two conventional kinds of analyses of
German scrambling: movement approaches and base-generation approaches
(Chapter 4). In the section that follows, we will examine two different kinds of
arguments that have been used to argue for or against the characterisation of
80 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
German scrambled constituents as moved constituents: those based on Ross's
(1967) original formulation of ‘Island Constraints’, and those based on Wexler
and Culicover's (1980) ‘Freezing Principle’.
1.6.1 Ross's ‘Island Constraints’. One of the first proofs to appear in the
literature demonstrating that scrambling does indeed derive from constituent
displacement was given by Webelhuth (1989), who showed that the
phenomenon is sensitive to Ross's (1967) ‘Island Constraints’ on movement
transformations. The ill-formed examples below illustrate the sensitivity of
both German wh-movement and scrambling to island effects such as the ‘Left
Branch Condition’ (54a, a'), the ‘Coordinate Structure Constraint’ (54b, b'), or
the ‘PP-island Condition’ (54c, c') (examples based on Webelhuth, 1989):19
(54) a. *Wesseni wurde [ti Auto] gestern gestohlen?
whose was car yesterday stolen
*“Whose was car stolen yesterday?”
a'. *weil meines Brudesi gestern [ti Auto] gestohlen wurde
because my brother-GEN yesterday car stolen was
“because my brother’s car was stolen yesterday”
b. *Weni hat jemand [ti und Maria] angemeldet?
who-ACC has someone-NOM and Maria registered
*“Who has someone registered and Maria?”
b'. *weil Hansi jemand [ti und Maria] angemeldet hat
because Hans someone-NOM and Maria registered has
“because someone has registered Hans and Maria”
c. *Wasi haben die Leute lange [für ti] gekämpft?
what-ACC have the people-NOM long for fought
“What did people fight for a long time?”
c'. *weil ihre Freiheiti die Leute lange [für ti] gekämpft
because their freedom the people-NOM long for fought
haben
have
“because people fought for their freedom for a long time”
Webelhuth argues that if scrambling is impossible in precisely the same
structures in which a well-known instance of movement operation (wh-move-
ment) is, scrambling must therefore be a movement operation. Nevertheless, as
Haider (2000) points out, this contention does not prove anything, since
Webelhuth's reasoning is misguided: it tacitly relies on the impossibility of
there existing a single property shared by structures generated in different
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 81
ways. In Haider's words, the implicit assumption is that “if X is derived by
movement, it has property Y. X has property Y. Therefore, X is derived by
movement” (fn. 5, 39). Thus, the sensitivity of German scrambling to island-
effects could be equally accounted for even on the basis that scrambled
constituents are base-generated in the position they occupy in the final string.
1.6.2 ‘Freezing’. The second sort of evidence most frequently adduced by
scholars who support an explanation of scrambling in terms of movement is the
one based on the ‘Freezing Principle’ (Wexler and Culicover, 1980): a moved
constituent becomes an island after movement with respect to further
movement of another constituent within it. As Müller (1998:22) puts it:
(55) At S-structure, a trace t may not be included in a moved XP (i.e. an
XP that binds a trace) if the antecedent of t is excluded by XP.
This is illustrated by the contrast between (56a) and (56b) for English, and
(57a) and (57b) for German (German examples based on Müller, 1998):
(56) a. Whoi did John take [a picture of ti]?
b. *Whoi was [a picture of ti]j taken tj by John?
(57) a. Worüberi hat der Peter [ein Buch ti] gelesen?
about-what has Peter-NOM a book-ACC read
“About what did Peter read a book?”
b. *Worüberi ist [ein Buch ti]j tj von keinem gelesen worden?
about-what has a book-ACC by no-one read been
*“About what was a book read by no one?”
For both the English and the German pairs, the ungrammaticality of the (b)
sentences derives from the same source: the subject DP has moved from the
complement position of the passive verb to Spec IP/TP. As a consequence, the
wh-constituent contained in it is frozen there, being unable to undergo further
displacement. As shown by the defenders of the islandhood of scrambling, the
same picture seems to emerge with reordered structures in German. This is
demonstrated by the following sets of German structures:
(i) NP-PP splits. These are structures characterised by a DP containing a PP,
which, in turn, hosts a wh-element. If the DP occupies a non-derived position,
wh-movement of the PP is allowed (58a); if it appears scrambled, wh-move-
ment is barred (58b) (examples from Müller, 1998):
82 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(58) a. [Über wen]i hat der Fritz letzes Jahr [ein Buch ti]
about-whom has Fritz-NOM last year a book-ACC
geschrieben?
written
“About whom did Fritz write a book last year?”
b. *[Über wen]i hat der Fritz [ein Buch ti] letzes Jahr
about-whom has Fritz-NOM a book-ACC last year
geschrieben?
written
“About whom did Fritz write a book last year?”
That the moved DP appears in pre-subject position does not change its un-
grammatical status, from which it may be concluded that, regarding island-
hood, pre- and post-subject scrambling are basically the same phenomenon
(examples from Müller, 1998):
(59) a. [Worüber]i hat keiner [ein Buch ti] gelesen?
about-what has no-one-NOM a book-ACC read
“About what did no one read a book?”
b. *[Worüber]i hat [ein Buch ti] keiner gelesen?
about-what has a book-ACC no-one-NOM read
“About what did no one read a book?”
(ii) Split topicalisation. Elements of a DP that may or may not form a constitu-
ent can be displaced to the first position of the clause, where they are pragmati-
cally interpreted as a topic. Split topicalisation is possible only whenever the
rest of the DP occupies its base generation position (60a); if it is scrambled,
split topicalisation is ruled out (60b), as noted by Müller & Sternefeld (1995)
and Lenerz (2001) (my informants’ judgement):
(60) a. [Volvos]i habe ich gestern [viele ti] gesehen
Volvos-ACC have I yesterday many seen
“As for Volvos, I saw many yesterday”
b. *[Volvos]i habe ich [viele ti] gestern gesehen
Volvos-ACC have I many yesterday seen
“As for Volvos, I saw many yesterday”
(iii) Was-für construction. Was-für constructions are DPs headed by a wh-ele-
ment and hosting the phrasal projection of the preposition für. As expected,
the wh-element must undergo movement to the clausal initial position. If the
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 83
rest of the DP, that is, the part of the DP still containing the PP, appears in its
base-generation position, wh-movement is grammatical (61a). However, wh-
movement from a scrambled position is disallowed (61b) (examples from
Bayer and Kornfilt, 1994):
(61) a. [Was]i hat Heinrich dem Mann [ti für ein Buch]
what has Heinrich-NOM the man-DAT for a book
empfohlen?
recommended
“What kind of book did Heinrich recommend the man?”
b. *[Was]i hat Heinrich [ti für ein Buch] dem Mann
what has Heinrich-NOM for a book the man-DAT
empfohlen?
recommended
“What kind of book did Heinrich recommend the man?”
Thus far the review of the German data which seem to support that
movement from a scrambled constituent is, in fact, movement from an already
moved constituent, as the ungrammaticality of the cases reviewed above
confirm. Notice, however, that Müller's (1998) definition of ‘Freezing’ in (55)
(repeated here as (62)) entails a second consequence, namely the impossibility
of displacing a constituent from which another element has already moved:
(62) At S-structure, a trace t may not be included in a moved XP (i.e. an
XP that binds a trace) if the antecedent of t is excluded by XP.
In this connection, (62) could roughly correspond to (63), where β moves
from α, and α, now containing the trace of β but crucially not β, is in turn
displaced to a higher position, violating (62):
(63) *[α ti ] βi [α ti ]
Since α is not a complete constituent anymore, once the extraction of β has
taken place, (62) is just an instance of what has been traditionally called ‘rem-
nant movement’ (Thiersch, 1985; den Besten and Webelhuth, 1987; see
Chapter 2, Section 3). But remnant movement, as frequently noticed in the
literature (Müller, 1998) and references therein), is sometimes possible, against
what is predicted in (62):
84 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(64) [ti zu lesen]j hat das Buchi keiner tj versucht
to read has the book-ACC no-one-NOM tried
“No one tried to read the book”
It will be noticed that (64) parallels (63) in that [ti zu lesen], an infinitival
clause containing the trace of the scrambled das Buch has been subsequently
moved to the clause initial position, constituting a standard case of remnant
topicalisation. Müller observes that the grammaticality of (64) is also found in
those instances in which scrambling combines with wh-movement of the
remnant constituent ((65b) below). However, if scrambling of the element first
extracted combines with subsequent scrambling (65c) or contrastive left
dislocation20
(65d) of the remnant constituent, the result is completely
ungrammatical (examples from Müller, 1998, his judgements):
(65) a. [ti zu lesen] hat das Buchi keiner versucht
to read has the book-ACC no-one-NOM tried
“No one tried to read the book”
a'. [Das Buch zu lesen] hat keiner versucht
the book-ACC to read has no-one-NOM tried
“Nobody tried to read the book”
b. [Was für ein Buch ti] hast du über die Liebei gelesen?
what for a book have you-NOM about the love read
“What kind of book about love did you read?”
b'. [Was für ein Buch über die Liebe] hast du gelesen?
what for a book about the love have you-NOM read
“What kind of book about love did you read?”
c. *dass [ti zu lesen] das Buchi keiner versucht hat
that to read the book-ACC no-one-NOM tried has
“that no one tried to read the book”
c'. dass [das Buch zu lesen] keiner versucht hat
that the book-ACC to read no-one-NOM tried has
“that no one tried to read the book”
d. *[ti zu lesen], das hat das Buchi keiner versucht
to read that has the book-ACC no-one-NOM tried
“No one tried to read the book”
d'. [Das Buch zu lesen], das hat keiner versucht
the book-ACC to read that has no-one-NOM tried
“Nobody tried to read the book”
Thus, the correct descriptive generalisation is:
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 85
(i) Topicalisation and wh-movement are insensitive to the remnant nature of
the topicalised/wh-moved constituent, if its remnant nature is a consequence of
scrambling, as the lack of opposition between the pairs in (a) and (b)
demonstrates.
(ii) On the other hand, scrambling and contrastive left dislocation are possible
with complete but not incomplete constituents, which explains the contrast
between (65c,d) and (65c', d').
Müller elaborates a detailed derivational account for the differences in (65).
His main conclusion is that they are due to the ‘Principle of Unambiguous
Domination’ (PUD), which he formulates as follows (1998:241):
(66) Unambiguous Domination: an α-trace must not be α-dominated
where ‘α-trace’ means ‘trace with a (not necessarily c-commanding) antecedent
in a position of type α’, and ‘α-dominated’ means ‘dominated by a category in
a position of type-α’. In this context, the PUD would allow only for cases in
which the displacement undergone by the previously moved constituent and the
one undergone by the larger category itself do not belong to the same class.
Setting aside the problems that the PUD presents with respect to both
topicalisation and wh-movement, I would argue here that it also fails to make
satisfactory predictions for scrambling, especially when structures such as the
one appearing in (49) above (repeated here as (67)) are considered (example
from Müller, 1998):
(67) dass [ti zu lesen]j esi keiner tj versucht hat
that to read it-ACC no-one-NOM tried has
“that nobody tried to read the book”
Recall that this example was cited in our earlier discussion about scrambling of
coherent infinitives as a proof against the traditional opinion that restructuring
infinitives cannot be scrambled. We argued there that both the pronoun and the
remnant constituent appear in a pre-subject position, which is highly problem-
atic for the common approach to coherent constructions. But it is clear that
such a structure also refutes Müller's PUD, since the position originally occu-
pied by es (now a trace) would be ambiguously dominated in the scrambled
constituent by es, also in an scrambling position. In order to rule in the struc-
ture, Müller resorts to a characterisation of pronoun movement as an instance
distinct from scrambling. His solution seems reasonable, especially if it is
taken into account that pronoun movement apparently departs from scrambling
in several respects. One of these is that displaced pronouns present a fixed or-
86 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
der between them, according to which accusatives must obligatorily precede
datives (68). This contrasts with the lack of ordering restrictions in the case of
German scrambling (69), as shown in 1.1.5 in this chapter:
(68) a. dass er es ihm gestern gegeben hat
that he it-ACC him-DAT yesterday given has
“that he gave it to him yesterday”
b. *dass er ihm es gegeben hat
that he him-DAT it-ACC given has
“that he gave it to him yesterday”
(69) a. dass er das Buch dem Peter gestern gegeben hat
that he the book-ACC Peter-DAT yesterday given has
“that he gave the book to Peter yesterday”
b. dass er dem Peter das Buch gestern gegeben hat
that he Peter-DAT the-book-ACC yesterday given has
“that he gave the book to Peter yesterday”
Nevertheless, apart from the theoretical problems involved in the notion of
pronoun movement,21
Müller's solution confronts an empirical difficulty, as
demonstrated by examples like (70), which, to my knowledge, have never been
reported in the literature (my informants' judgement):
(70) a. dass [ti zu lesen]j er esi tj versucht hat
that to read he it-ACC tried has
“that he tried to read it”
b. *dass [ti zu lesen]j der Peter esi tj versucht hat
that to read Peter-NOM it-ACC tried has
“that Peter tried to read it”
Why should instances of remnant scrambling and pronoun movement22
be
sensitive to the nominal or pronominal nature of the subject? An answer to this
question will be proposed in Chapter 5, when we offer an analysis of German
scrambling that may explain this kind of data.
1.6.3 ‘Anti-Freezing’. As noted at the beginning of this section when discuss-
ing the island status of scrambled constituents, one of the problems for drawing
clear conclusions is that, in addition to the evidence presented so far, which
seems to indicate that reordered constituents are islands for movement, there
also exists an extensive body of data that apparently confirms precisely the
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 87
reverse conclusion. Remember that the main findings in the previous para-
graphs were, on the one hand, that scrambled constituents disallow extraction
of their internal constituents irrespective of category, and, on the other, that
previous reordering of those internal constituents does not block subsequent
movement of the larger, i.e. remnant, one, except in the case movement is
scrambling. It will be recalled as well that, following Müller (1998), we
pointed out an exception to the second generalisation, namely those structures
in which scrambling of a pronominal element (or pronoun movement, in
Müller's terms) did not forbid remnant reordering of the coherent infinitive.
Since this instance of ‘double scrambling’ results in a grammatical structure in
German, it is obvious that any correct analysis of the phenomenon must
account for it. Furthermore, it should also account for the sets of data we will
present in the following pages, often adduced as empirical argument to deny
just what the proofs for ‘Freezing’ are given for, that is, that German
scrambling is an instance of syntactic movement.
‘Anti-Freezing’ counterexamples are generally modelled on the ‘Freezing’
ones, so it is not surprising to find almost an exact ‘Anti-Freezing’ counterpart
to each of the ‘Freezing’ groups analysed above, namely NP-PP splits
(examples (58) and (59) in the preceding section), partial DP topicalisation
(split topicalisation, (60)), and wh- movement in was für constructions (61)).
Besides, it is expected that, if scrambling is not an instance of displacement,
scrambled infinitives may allow for extraction of internal material if this is to
reach Spec C (that is, if it must be topic- or wh-moved). All these predictions
are apparently borne out:
(i) ‘Anti-Freezing’ with NP-PP split (counterexample to (58) and (59) above).
The literature offers a couple of instances, one given by Fanselow (1991), and
the other one by Frey (2000),23
(71) and (72) respectively:
(71) Worüberi kann [einen Südkurier-Artikel ti ] selbst Peter
about-what can a Südkurier article-ACC even Peter-NOM
nicht am Strand verfassen?
not on-the beach write
“About what cannot Peter write a Südkurier article on the beach?”
(72) Über Linguistiki hätte Otto [einen solch schönen
about Linguistics would-have Otto-NOM a such nice
Artikel ti ] leider niemals verfasst
article-ACC unfortunately never written
“Unfortunately, Otto would never have written such a nice article
about Linguistics”
88 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(ii) ‘Anti-Freezing’ with split topicalisation (counterexample to the structure in
(60b)). Fanselow and Ćavar (2002) show that there are subjects of individual
level predicates that allow for split topicalisation, although, according to
Diesing (1992) and Kratzer (1989), these must undergo a previous movement
to a VP-external position24
(example from Fanselow and Ćavar, 2002):
(73) Skorpionei sind ziemlich [viele ti] giftig
Scorpions-NOM are rather many poisonous
“Many scorpions are rather poisonous”
(iii) ‘Anti-Freezing’ with the was-für construction (counterexample to (61)).
Haider (1993) gives (74) as an instance:
(74) Wasi hätte denn [ti für Aufsätze] selbst Hubert nicht
what would-have PART for articles even Hubert-NOM not
rezensieren wollen?
review wanted
“What kind of articles would not even Hubert have wanted to
review?”
(iv) ‘Anti-Freezing’ with wh-movement (75), relativisation (76), and topicali-
sation (77) from a scrambled infinitival. Unlike the previous cases of ‘Anti-
Freezing’, which are not conclusive enough due to the existence of ‘Freezing’
counterparts, movement of an internal constituent of a reordered infinitival to
clause-initial position is always considered to result in grammatical structures
(examples from Grewendorf and Sabel, 1994):
(75) Weni hat [ti zu füttern]j keiner tj versucht?
who-ACC has to feed no-one-NOM tried
“Whom did no one try to feed?”
(76) der Mann deni [ti zu küssen]j Maria tj versucht hat
the man-NOM whom-ACC to kiss Maria-NOM tried has
“The man that Maria tried to kiss”
(77) Den Hund hat [ti zu füttern]j keiner tj versucht
the dog-ACC has to feed no-one-NOM tried
“Nobody tried to feed the dog”
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 89
1.6.4 The ‘Freezing/Anti-Freezing’ paradox. As the data in the previous sec-
tions will have made clear, there are examples of almost any reordered se-
quence in German to support either the proposition that scrambling involves
islandhood or the proposition that it precisely does not. At the same time,
several studies in the literature suggest that the picture is even more complex,
because they demonstrate that, with respect to other core properties, not all
those reordered sequences behave in the same way.
For example, regarding NP-PP split structures, De Kuthy and Meurers
(2001) and De Kuthy (2002), on the basis of empirical data from earlier works
on the matter, demonstrate that Müller's (1998) examples for ‘Freezing’ do not
constitute convincing evidence for the assumption that PPs cannot be extracted
out of moved DPs, not only because counterexamples exist, but also because
there is counterevidence suggesting that extractability does not depend on syn-
tactic position at all. De Kuthy and Meurers and De Kuthy illustrate this with
examples in which NP-PP splitting is compatible with movement, despite the
violation of classical restrictions, such as the ‘Specificity Effect’ (Chomsky,
1973; Fiengo and Higginbotham, 1981; Chomsky, 1981, etc.) or the ‘Specified
Subject Condition’ (Chomsky, 1973). With respect to the ‘Specificity Effect’,
according to which specific DPs are less transparent for extraction than non-
specific ones, De Kuthy (2002) follows Pafel (1993) in assuming that the
constraint does not hold for German, as (78) shows (from Pafel, 1993):
(78) [Von Handke]i hat sie nur [diese ti], aber nicht [jene Bücher ti]
by Handke has she only these but not those books
gelesen
read
“She has only read these books by Handke, but not those”
On the other hand, the ‘Specified Subject Condition’, which prohibits
movement across a specified subject, is not observed in German structures such
as (79), where the presence of a prenominal genitive in a DP does not generally
prohibit fronting of the PP (from De Kuthy, 2002):
(79) [Über Bismarck]i habe ich [Galls Buch ti] gelesen
about Bismarck have I Gall's book read
“I have read Gall’s book about Bismarck”
Therefore, given the ‘unsystematic’ behaviour of NP-PP splits in compari-
son with other well-known instances of displacement, De Kuthy and Meurers
and De Kuthy propose a reformulation of traditional ‘reanalysis-like’ ap-
90 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
proaches (Horn, 1975; Fanselow, 1987) within the framework of ‘Head-Driven
Phrase Structure Grammar’ (HPSG) (Pollard and Sag, 1994), according to
which NP-PP splitting is dependent on the availability of a process they call
argument raising, which, in brief, allows the NP-internal PP to become an in-
dependent verbal argument. Although, in a general way, such an availability
has always been understood as lexically restricted (i.e. some verbs may trigger
the process, whereas other verbs may not), De Kuthy (2002) elaborates an al-
ternative approach on the basis of examples like (80) and (81) below, where the
verbs ausliehen and klauen represent argument-raising and non-argument-
raising predicates, respectively:
(80) a. Über Syntaxi hat er [ein Buch ti] ausgeliehen
about syntax has he a book borrowed
“He borrowed a book about Syntax”
b. Gestern war Klaus seit langem mal wieder in der Bibliothek
“Yesterday, Klaus went into the library again after a long time”
#Über Syntaxi hat er [ein Buch ti] ausgeliehen
about syntax has he a book borrowed
“He borrowed a book about Syntax”
(81) a. *Über Syntaxi hat er [ein Buch ti] geklaut
about syntax has he a book stolen
“He stole a book about Syntax”
b. Gestern wurde in der Bibliothek eine Anzahl von Linguistik-
büchern geklaut. Vor allem Semantikbücher verschwanden dabei.
“Yesterday, a number of linguistics books were stolen from the
library. Mostly books on Semantics disappeared”.
Über Syntaxi wurde jedoch [nur ein einziges Buch ti] geklaut
about syntax was however only one single book stolen
“Only one single book about Syntax was however stolen”
Observe that, whereas the (a) sentences are out-of the-blue utterances, their
(b) counterparts are inserted in two different contexts, namely one in which no
books are mentioned (80b), and other in which certain books constitute
background information (81b). On this basis, De Kuthy claims that it is not the
nature of the predicate as argument or non-argument raising which is crucial
for the well-formedness of NP-PP splits, but rather the pragmatic role played
by each of the strings: when this is unique, no splitting is allowed; when it is
twofold, splitting is the preferred option. If De Kuthy is correct, notice the
implications her analysis may have for the common assumption that NP-PP
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 91
splits are less frequent with scrambled than with non-scrambled constituents: in
an approach as the one to be developed in the present work, in which
scrambling is triggered by the need to mark a constituent as ‘discourse given’
in the sense of Schwarzschild (1999) (this chapter, Section 2), it is clear that
the process would yield ill-formed results if both elements (i.e. PP and NP) are
background information. In this respect, it may be interesting to note that, in
the alleged instance of ‘Anti-Freezing’ given by Frey (2000) ((72) above), the
displaced constituent appears modified by the focus marker solch, which, as
Neeleman (1994) observes, may indicate that the displacement at stake does
not convey ordinary scrambling, but rather what he calls ‘focus scrambling’
(see Chapter 2, Section 5). In any case, the matter will not be pursued here,
because the difference in judgements between De Kuthy's examples (80a) and
(81a) above still seems to support the need for an equivalent to ‘argument
raising’, and the discovery of an appropriate minimalist mechanism for it is
beyond the scope of the present work.25
A similar case arises with split topicalisation. Fanselow and Ćavar (2002)
show that split DPs present certain characteristics that are difficult to explain if
one assumes that they are generated via movement out of a single constituent,
among which, the possibility of displacing submaximal projections (82), the
possibility of having in the split strings more phonetic material than fits into a
single constituent (83), and the possibility of having them appearing with
dative indirect objects (84a) or genitival DPs (85a), which are strict islands in
German (84b), (85b) (Müller, 1995; Sabel, 2002, among others) (examples
from Fanselow and Ćavar, 2002):
(82) [Neue Bücher]i hat sie [keine interessanten ti] gekannt
new books has she no interesting known
“She has known no interesting new books”
(83) a. [In Schlössern]i habe ich noch [in keinen ti] gewohnt
in castles have I yet in no lived
“So far I have not lived in any castle”
b. *[In keinen in Schlössern]i habe ich gewohnt
in no in castles have I lived
92 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(84) a. [Interessanten Bücher über Polen]i ist hier noch keinen ti
interesting books about Poland has here yet no
ein Preis verliehen worden
a prize awarded been
“So far no prize has been awarded to interesting books about
Poland”
b. *[Über Polen]i ist hier noch [keinen Büchern ti]
about Poland has here yet no books
ein Preis verliehen worden
a prize awarded been
“So far no prize has been awarded to interesting books about
Poland”
(85) a. [Schrecklicher Morde an Studenten]i ist er vieler ti
horrible murders at students has he many
beschuldigt worden
accused-of been
“He has been accused of many horrible murders of students”
b. *[An Studenten]i habe ich ihn [schrecklicher Morde ti]
at students have I him horrible murders
angeklagt
accused-of
“I have him accused of horrible murders of students”
Furthermore, much like the split structures noticed in the previous para-
graph, they seem to behave inconsistently with respect to constraints such as
the subject island condition (which they violate), or the complex noun phrase
constraint (which they obey). From this, Fanselow and Ćavar deduce that their
nature has to do more with pragmatic and phonological rules than with purely
syntactic ones, and propose that they entail the displacement of a single, com-
plete constituent, followed by partial deletion of phonetic material in each of
the copies that, according to the ‘Copy Theory of Movement’ (Chomsky, 1995;
Nunes, 1995, 1999, 2001, 2003, 2004), the moved element creates (that is, the
copy in its base position and the copy in the targeted projection). Thus, the only
difference between split topicalisation structures and regular instances of
movement would lie in the way phonetic material is deleted at the phonological
interface: regular instances of movement delete all the phonological material of
the lowest copy; in split topicalisation structures, deletion is partial and applies
to both copies, as shown in (86):26
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 93
(86) a. Movement of the entire constituent to the clause initial position:
[Keine interessanten neue Bücher]i hat sie [keine interessanten
no interesting new books has she no interesting
neue Bücher] gekannt
new books known
b. Partial deletion in both copies:
Keine interessanten neue Bücher]i hat sie [keine interessanten
no interesting new books has she no interesting
neue Bücher] gekannt
new books known
On the other hand, as in De Kuthy's account of NP-PP splits, it is implied
that split topicalisation constructions are allowed only in the case that the po-
tential splitting fulfils a double pragmatic requirement, that accomplished in
the position occupied by the lower copy, plus the one related to the position of
the higher one: new information (focus) for the right-hand part, background
information (topic) for the left-hand part. This may explain again why split
topicalisation is so rarely manifested with scrambled constituents, if
scrambling, as suggested above, is understood as displacement for signalling
‘discourse givenness’.
There is only one case remaining, namely extraction out of a scrambled
infinitive. It shares with NP-PP split and split topicalisation the property that it
also exhibits both ‘Freezing’ and ‘Anti-Freezing’ effects, but in a fundamen-
tally different way. First, it is not the case that topicalisation of a part of the
infinitival clause is incompatible with the presence of the other part in struc-
tural positions traditionally related to background information (Mittelfeld)
(example (87) from Askedal, 1983; (88) from Müller, 1998):
(87) [Den alten Wagen]j hat er [tj zu fahren]i noch nicht ti gelernt
the old car-ACC has he to drive still not learned
“He has not learned to drive the old car yet”
(88) [tj Zu lesen]i hat das Buchj keiner ti versucht
to read has the book-ACC no-one-NOM tried
“No one tried to read the book”
Second, both constituents may appear as background information in the case
that the remnant precedes the object, and the object is pronominal (as seen in
the previous section) (example (89) from Grewendorf and Sabel, 1994; (90)
from Müller, 1998):
94 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(89) *dass den Hundj zweifellos [tj zu füttern]i keiner ti
that the dog-ACC undoubtedly to feed no-one-NOM
versuchte
tried
“that no one undoubtedly tried to feed the dog”
(90) a. *dass [tj zu lesen]i das Buchj keiner ti versuchte
that to read the book-ACC no-one-NOM tried
“that no one tried to read the book”
b. dass [tj zu lesen]i esj keiner ti versuchte
that to read it no-one-NOM tried
“that nobody tried to read it”
Third, wh- movement is always allowed, irrespective of the base/scrambled
position of the infinitive (examples from Grewendorf and Sabel, 1994):
(91) a. Wenj hat [tj zu küssen]i Maria ti versucht?
who-ACC has to kiss Maria-NOM tried
“Who did Maria try to kiss?”
b. Wenj hat Maria [tj zu küssen]i ti versucht?
who-ACC has Maria-NOM to kiss tried
“Who did Maria try to kiss?”
Fourth, unexpectedly, wh- movement and scrambling of a pronominal object
in the Mittelfeld of the matrix clause yields an ungrammatical structure (it will
be observed that both processes are possible with a scrambled infinitive if they
take place independently (90b), (91b), a fact that, as far as I know, has never
been noticed before (my informants' judgement):27
(92) *Wemj hat [tj tk zu geben]i esk keiner ti versucht?
who-DAT has to give it-ACC no-one-NOM tried
“To whom did no one try to give it?”
Consequently, I conclude that the ‘Freezing’/‘Anti-Freezing’ paradox in the
case of remnant infinitives requires an account that can combine the pragmatic
and the phonological constraints pointed out in De Kuthy's and Fanselow's
studies (which are expected to hold in some way or another) with additional
ones. We will advance such an account in Chapter 5.
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 95
2. German scrambling at the interfaces
The present section is devoted to looking at the properties of scrambled
constituents from the perspective of those components of the syntactic compu-
tation that, unlike rough syntax, do interact with other external (i.e. non spe-
cifically linguistic) systems: Phonological Form (PF) and Logical Form (LF).
Chomsky (1995, 2000, and subsequent work) assigns them this ‘interface’
character due to their role in connecting the linguistic expression generated by
the computational system to interpretation elsewhere in cognition: articulatory-
perceptual modules (PF), or semantic-conceptual ones (LF). In this view, the
section constitutes simply a review of the kind of legibility conditions the ex-
ternal systems impose on the re-ordered element, which, as will be shown be-
low, are quite different from the ones to which a non re-ordered constituent is
subject. Section 2.1 deals with the main phonological properties of scrambled
constituents; Section 2.2 will focus on the semantic/pragmatic ones. Finally,
Section 3.3 shows how both phonological and semantic/phonological proper-
ties can be brought together along the lines of Neeleman and Reinhart's (1998)
proposal for Dutch scrambling.
2.1 Phonological properties of scrambled elements
With respect to phonology, scrambling structures are typically characterised
by two main properties, the second one a consequence of the first: (i)
scrambled constituents are always destressed; (ii) scrambling structures always
involve ‘marked’ intonation patterns. In the following, we will examine each in
turn.
2.1.1 Scrambled constituents are always destressed. It should be noticed that
the formulation given above is the commonest one in the literature on scram-
bling, as can be seen in works such as Neeleman and Reinhart (1998). How-
ever, I would like to refine it with respect to the exact meaning of ‘destressed’,
given that, as Uhmann (1991) and Büring (2001a, 2001b) note, all German
phonological phrases28
bear a pitch accent. Hence, scrambled constituents,
insofar as they constitute a phonological phrase, are stressed. However, unlike
non-scrambled elements, they can never carry the most prominent pitch accent
in the string, i.e. the nuclear stress (Chomsky and Halle, 1968; Cinque, 1993;
Selkirk, 1995), as illustrated by (92), where curled brackets indicate phono-
logical phrases,29
caps indicate syllables with φ- (phonological phrase) pitch
accent, and boldface caps mark nuclear stress:
96 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(93) a. {HANS}{hat GEStern} {das BUCH gelesen}
Hans has yesterday the book read
“Hans read the book yesterday”
b. {HANS}{hat das BUCH}{GEStern} {geLEsen}
Hans hat the book yesterday read
“Hans read the book yesterday”
c. #{HANS}{hat das BUCH}{GEStern}{geLEsen}
Hans has the book yesterday read
“Hans read the book yesterday”
As the contrast between (93a) and (93b,c) shows, the syntactic displacement
of the object brings about not only the disappearance of the nuclear stress on it,
but also its presence on the lexical verb (93b).30
And it is precisely this stress
shift that is responsible for the second assumption above, namely that
scrambling structures always convey a ‘marked’ intonation pattern, an issue to
which we turn now.
2.1.2 Scrambling structures always convey a ‘marked’ intonation pattern. In
early syntactic approaches to sentence stress assignment such as the one
developed in Chomsky and Halle (1968), Bresnan (1971), Lakoff (1972) and
Stockwell (1972), etc., the exact occurrence of the nuclear accent in a sentence
is predicted by a set of rules that operate autonomously on the output of the
syntactic computation, among which Chomsky and Halle's ‘Nuclear Stress
Rule’ (NSR) plays a decisive role. This autonomy with which the phonological
component is endowed entails that there is necessarily a kind of intonation
pattern that is derived by the operation of the rules themselves, independently
of discourse factors, such as context, speaker's intentions, etc. Chomsky and
Halle call that specific pattern ‘normal’ or ‘unmarked’, and oppose it to
‘marked’ intonation patterns (contrastive, emphatic, etc.), which are not
derived by the NSR, but rather by other, not purely syntactic, principles. Later,
Chomsky (1972) notices that that opposition has to do mainly with the
information structure of the clause, according to Halliday's (1967) original
distinction between ‘focal’ (new) information, and ‘given’ (recoverable from
discourse) information: the NSR assigns an unmarked intonation pattern to
sentences with more than one focus constituent, whereas “grammatical
processes of a poorly understood sort” (p.100) assign a marked intonation
pattern to sentences in which only a single phrase is in focus. According to
Chomsky, this is demonstrated by the contrast in examples such as (94) and
(95):
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 97
(94) a. What happened?
TP [John VP [read DP [a BOOK]]]
b. What did John do?
TP [John VP [read DP [a BOOK]]]
c. Did John read a novel?
No, TP [John VP [read DP [a BOOK]]]
(95) a. What happened?
#TP [John VP [READ DP [a book]]]
b. What did John do?
#TP [John VP [READ DP [a book]]]
c. Did John write a book?
No, TP [John VP [READ DP [a book]]]
The intonation pattern in the declarative clause in (94) is the result of the
application of Chomsky and Halle's NSR in English, which assigns the most
prominent pitch accent to the rightmost constituent of the clause. The string is,
thus, intonationally unmarked. That is the reason why it may serve as an
answer to a variety of questions that require focus on different phrasal constitu-
ents: the whole clause in (a), the VP in (b), and the direct object a book in (c).
However, in (95), the pitch accent on the verb is assigned according to princi-
ples different from the NSR, which produces a marked pattern. In consequence,
(95) is a licit answer only to a question that requires a single focus (the verb
read): (c), but not (a) or (b).
The contrast in the English structures above is paralleled by the one found
between scrambling and non-scrambling structures in German: the non-scram-
bling case (96) would correlate with the unmarked order in (94), with the only
difference that nuclear stress falls on the second rightmost constituent, and the
scrambling one (97) would be as marked as (95) is:
(96) a. Was ist passiert?
“What happened?”
TP [Hans hat VP [ DP[das BUCH] gelesen]]31
“Hans read the book”
b. Was hat Hans gemacht?
“What did Hans do?”
TP [Hans hat VP [ DP[das BUCH] gelesen]]
“Hans read the book”
98 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
c. Was hat Hans gelesen?
“What did Hans read?
TP [Hans hat VP [ DP[das BUCH] gelesen]]
“Hans read the book”
(97) a. Was ist passiert?
“What happened?”
#TP [Hans hat VP [ DP[das Buch] gestern geLEsen]
“Hans read the book yesterday”
b. Was hat Hans gemacht?
“What did Hans do?”
#TP [Hans hat VP [ DP[das Buch] gestern geLEsen]
“Hans read the book yesterday”
c. Hat Hans gestern das Buch geschrieben?
“Did Hans write the book yesterday?”
Nein, TP [Hans hat VP [ DP[das Buch] gestern geLEsen]
“No, Hans read the book yesterday”
Thus, as in English, the difference between (96) and (97) lies in the number
of possible foci each sequence contains: whereas the absence of scrambling
provides at least three focus phrasal constituents (TP, VP, and the DP object),
scrambling of das Buch past the VP adverb reduces them to just a single one,
the lexical verb. On this basis, it is concluded that scrambling structures always
involve a marked intonation pattern.
Notice that this sketchy summary of Chomsky and Halle's NST and the
distinction it draws between unmarked and marked patterns poses, among
others, an important question: why is unmarked nuclear stress assigned to the
head of the rightmost constituent in English, but to the penultimate one in
German? Chomsky and Halle's answer is the parametrisation of the NSR,
which would account for the different positions of the element that carries
nuclear stress in different languages.
Cinque (1993) demonstrates, however, the merely stipulative character of
the parametrisation of the NSR by drawing attention to the fact that it invaria-
bly correlates with the setting of the head parameter: VO languages make nu-
clear stress fall on the last constituent, whereas in OV languages it is assigned
to the penultimate one. He further observes that such a correlation entails a
kind of redundancy grammatical systems should disallow, which makes the
notion of a parametrised NSR doubtful. Thus, in order to eliminate it, and still
account for the different patterns in (94) and (96), he elaborates his ‘Null The-
ory of Phrase Stress’ (NTPS), according to which nuclear stress falls on the
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 99
most deeply embedded constituent. Since syntactic embedding depends on the
direction of recursion, and direction of recursion is, in turn, determined by the
head parameter, the differences on the realisation of unmarked stress patterns
between an OV language like German and a VO language like English just
reduce to their head-final or head-initial status: in both, the object is the most
deeply embedded constituent that sits on the recursive side, as correctly derived
from the exact principles of the NTPS (97) and their application to our exam-
ples above (94), (96) :32
(98) ‘Null Theory of Phrase Stress’ (Cinque, 1993: 244)
(i) Interpret boundaries of syntactic constituents as metrical
boundaries.
(ii) Locate the heads of line N constituents on line N+1.
(iii) Each rule applies to a maximal string containing no internal
boundaries.
(iv) An asterisk on line N must correspond to an asterisk on line N-1.
(99) that John read a BOOK
. . * 4
( . . * ) 3
( * ( . * )) 2
(( * ) ( * ( * ))) 1
[[John] [ read [ a book ]]]
CP
C'
C TP* 4
DP* VP* 3
NP* V* DP* 2
D NP* 1
that John read a book
100 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(100) dass Hans ein BUCH las
“that Hans read a book”
. * . 4
( . * . ) 3
( * ( * . )) 2
(( * ) (( * ) * )) 1
[[Hans] [ ein Buch [ las ]]
Line 1 is the result of the interaction of (97(i)) and main stress assignment
on individual words on the basis of Halle and Vergnaud's (1987) metrical grid
construction and different parameter setting rules. Line 2 is obtained by the
application of (98(ii)) and (98(iii)) to the cycle on the left (the subject) and the
cycle on the right (the VP). On line 3 the two separate cycles are joined, and
(98(ii)) and (98(iv)) make the innermost constituent (the object) attract all
further asterisks in the computational process (line 4).
Cinque's NTPS gives an elegant account of the differences found between
the unmarked structures of English (94) and those of German (96). With
respect to German scrambling cases, Cinque argues that they constitute a proof
for his theory, insofar as scrambling of the most deeply embedded constituent
invariably makes nuclear stress fall on the second most embedded one, as
demonstrated by the monotransitive (101b) and ditransitive (102b) structures
below:
CP
C'
C 4
DP* VP* 3
NP* DP* V* 2
D NP* 1
dass Hans ein Buch las
TP*
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 101
(101) a. Hans hat gestern das BUCH gelesen
Hans-NOM has yesterday the book-ACC read
“Hans read the book yesterday”
b. Hans hat das Buch gestern geLEsen
Hans-NOM has the book-ACC yesterday read
“Hans read the book yesterday”
(102) a. Hans hat dem Kind das BUCH gegeben
Hans-NOM has the child-DAT the book-ACC given
“Hans gave the child a book”
b. Hans hat das Buch dem KIND gegeben
Hans-NOM has the book-ACC the child-DAT given
“Hans gave the child a book”
Winkler (1997), however, objects that the facts in (101) and (102) do not
support Cinque's theory at all, but rather undermine it: for if both scrambling
and non scrambling orders are the result of a stress assignment entirely
determined on the basis of syntactic structure, why is it that (101a) and (102a)
contain multiple focus constituents, whereas their (b) counterparts contain only
one? In other words, why is it that (101a) and (102a) behave like an ‘unmarked
order’ string, whereas (101b) and (102b) behave like a ‘marked’ one?
(103) Was ist passiert?
“What happened?”
a. Hans hat gestern das BUCH gelesen
Hans-NOM has yesterday the book-ACC read
“Hans read the book yesterday”
b. #Hans hat das Buch gestern geLEsen
Hans-NOM has the book-ACC yesterday read
“Hans read the book yesterday”
c. Hans hat dem Kind das BUCH gegeben
Hans-NOM has the child-DAT the book-ACC given
“Hans gave the child a book”
d. #Hans hat das Buch dem KIND gegeben33
Hans-NOM has the book-ACC the child-DAT given
“Hans gave the child a book”
102 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(104) Was hat Hans gemacht?
“What did Hans do?”
a. Hans hat gestern das BUCH gelesen
Hans-NOM has yesterday the book-ACC read
“Hans read the book yesterday”
b. #Hans hat das Buch gestern geLEsen
Hans-NOM has the book-ACC yesterday read
“Hans read the book yesterday”
c. Hans hat dem Kind das BUCH gegeben
Hans-NOM has the child-DAT the book-ACC given
“Hans gave the child the book”
d. #Hans hat das Buch dem KIND gegeben
Hans-NOM has the book-ACC the child-DAT given
“Hans gave the child the book”
(105) Hat Hans gestern das Buch geschrieben?
“Did Hans write the book yesterday?”
Nein, Hans hat das Buch gestern geLEsen
No, Hans-NOM has the book-ACC yesterday read
“No, Hans read the book yesterday”
(106) Hat Hans der Claudia das Buch gegeben?
“Did Hans give Claudia the book?”
Nein, Hans hat das Buch dem KIND gegeben
No, Hans-NOM has the book-ACC the child-DAT given
“No, Hans gave the child the book”
(103) and (104) show that non-reordered sequences may be interpreted as
containing either a focal TP (103) or a focal VP (104), contrary to their
reordered counterparts. Thus, it may be deduced that scrambling structures are
not intonationally unmarked. On the other hand, the fact that the scrambling
strings in (105) and (106) are perfect answers to questions that require a sole
focus (the lexical verb in (105), the dative object in (106)), seems to indicate
that scrambling results in a marked stress pattern.
In the last section of the present chapter we will see how Winkler's argu-
ment does not constitute a serious obstacle for Cinque's claim, once the con-
cepts of potential multiple foci and single focus are refined. But now, we will
turn to the issue of semantic/pragmatic properties of scrambled constituents.
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 103
2.2 Semantic/pragmatic properties of scrambled elements
In Section 1.2, where the issue of potential categorial restrictions on
scrambling was dealt with, we pointed out that certain re-ordering options seem
to be forbidden on a semantic rather than categorial basis. In this context, the
following generalisations have been observed:
(i) Indefinites cannot scramble if they must receive an existential interpretation.
Indefinites may scramble if they must be interpreted as specific (Lenerz, 1977,
2000, 2001; Diesing, 1992). This observation finds its empirical support in
examples like (107) and (108), where two different semantic interpretations
obtain for the same nominal, depending on the position it occupies (examples
from Diesing, 1992)
(107) a. weil ich nicht eine einzige Katze gestreichelt habe
because I not a single cat-ACC petted have
“because I have not petted a single cat”
b. weil ich eine einzige Katze nicht gestreichelt habe
because I a single cat-ACC not petted have
“because one cat I have not petted”
(108) a. weil ich selten jedes Cello spiele
because I seldom each cello-ACC play
“since I seldom play every cello”
b. weil ich jedes Cello selten spiele
because I each cello-ACC seldom play
“since I play every cello only seldom”
Notice that semantic interpretation varies if the VP internal object (eine
einzige Katze, jedes Cello) appears preceding negation (107b) or the adverb
selten (108b), which are elements that, according to traditional assumptions
about German clausal structure, mark the VP boundary. In other words, the
object must appear VP internally if it must receive a weak, existential reading
(107a, 108a); otherwise, it would get a strong, quantificational, specific one
(107b, 108b). This is confirmed by the facts about secondary predicates we
earlier noted in Section 1.2.2, which cannot undergo re-ordering due to their
inherent non-referential, non-specific interpretation, as illustrated by (19b)
above, repeated here as (109b) (from Hinterhölzl, 1999):
(109) a. Er hat gestern seinen Freund einen Idioten gennant
he has yesterday his friend-ACC an idiot-ACC called
“He called his friend idiot yesterday”
104 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
b. ??Er hat einen Idioten gestern seinen Freund gennant
he has an idiot-ACC yesterday his friend-ACC called
“He called his friend idiot yesterday"
(ii) Scrambled and non-scrambled definites are uniformly interpreted as spe-
cific. In other words, unlike indefinites, scrambling/non-scrambling of definites
does not correlate with alternative semantic interpretations, as shown in (110):
(110) a. weil der Peter gestern das Buch gelesen hat
because Peter-NOM yesterday the book-ACC read has
“because Peter read the book yesterday”
b. weil der Peter das Buch gestern gelesen hat
because Peter-NOM the book-ACC yesterday read has
“because Peter read the book yesterday”
(iii) Focus, whether definite or indefinite, cannot be scrambled (Lenerz,
1977), where focus corresponds to a constituent presenting certain well-defined
characteristics both from a phonological and a semantic/pragmatic point of
view.34
Phonologically, it may carry the most prominent pitch accent of the
clause (first in Chomsky and Halle, 1968). Semantically/pragmatically, it is
equivalent to new information35
(first in Halliday, 1967). Thus, as far as
meaning is concerned, ‘focus cannot be scrambled’ may be rendered as the ban
on scrambling new, non-discourse-given elements, as illustrated in (111),
where das Buch, corresponding to the wh-pronoun in the question, is new
information and, hence, focus:
(111) Was hast du gestern gelesen?
“What did you read yesterday?”
a. Ich habe gestern das BUCH gelesen
I have yesterday the book-ACC read
“I read the book yesterday”
b. #Ich habe das BUCH gestern gelesen
I have the book-ACC yesterday read
“I read the book yesterday”
(iv) Unfocused elements do not obligatorily scramble. In other words, the un-
marked order in German is unrestricted as far as the distinction focus/non-fo-
cus is concerned. The assumption is controversial since it crucially depends on
discourse factors, which are usually more difficult to test than purely structural
ones. Nevertheless, there seems to be a contrast between non-scrambled unfo-
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 105
cused arguments of monotransitive predicates and non-scrambled unfocused
arguments of ditransitive ones, as reflected in (112) and (113) ((113) from
Haider and Rosengren, 1998):
(112) Was ist mit dem Buch geschehen?
“What happened to the book?”
a. Ich habe das Buch gestern verKAUFT
I have the book-ACC yesterday sold
“I sold the book yesterday”
b. #Ich habe gestern das BUCH verkauft
I have yesterday the book-ACC sold
“I sold the book yesterday”
c. #Ich habe gestern das Buch verKAUFT
I have yesterday the book-ACC sold
“I sold the book yesterday”
(113) Wem hat heute der Zeuge den Weg gezeigt?
“Who has the witness showed the way today?”
a. Heute hat der Zeuge dem PoliZISten den Weg
today has the witness-NOM the policeman-DAT the way-ACC
gezeigt
showed
“The witness has showed the policeman the way today”
b. Heute hat der Zeuge den Weg dem PoliZISten
today has the witness-NOM the way-ACC the policeman-DAT
gezeigt
showed
“The witness has showed the policeman the way today”
Neeleman and Reinhart (1998), and Abraham and Molnárfi (2001), among
others, argue that (112a) is the only possible answer for a question in which the
accusative object has been previously introduced in discourse. Thus, both
(112b) and (112c), in which (un)stressed das Buch occupies the lower position,
are pragmatically ill-formed. The conclusion is that the unmarked word order
is, in fact, constrained with respect to focused/unfocused material in German:
an accusative object following VP-adjoined material is obligatorily interpreted
as possible focus.
However, (113a) and (113b) are both acceptable sequences for a question
which requires an answer with a focused dative and discourse-given
accusative. In other words, the unfocused accusative object scrambles only
106 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
optionally (113b). It may be concluded from this sort of example that the
unmarked order in German is unrestricted with regard to the focus/non-focus
distinction only in the case of ditransitive predicates.
(v)Generic elements do not obligatorily scramble. That is, the unmarked word
order in German is unrestricted as far as the generic/non-generic (existential)
distinction is concerned. This is shown by examples such as (114), (8) in 1.2
(based on Haider and Rosengren, 1998):
(114) a. dass Max immer Primaballerinas bewundert
that Max-NOM always primaballerinas-ACC admires
“that Max always admires primaballerinas”
b. dass Max Primaballerinas immer bewundert
that Max-NOM primaballerinas-ACC always admires
“that Max always admires primaballerinas”
So far, the relevant conditions are given. Notice that they merely describe
the different strings that may arise in German, but lack any explanatory power
in themselves. However, they have been used as a basis in the different studies
that try to account for word order variation in German in a principled way,
which entails that there is no proposal in the literature that rejects the connec-
tion between semantic/pragmatic meaning and scrambling. But scholars dis-
agree about the way this connection is to be accounted for, in general according
to two different views:
(i) Semantic/pragmatic meaning is the trigger for scrambling. In other words,
scrambling is semantically/pragmatically-driven. For the analyses adopting this
view, scrambling is envisaged as a syntactic operation that is implemented only
if required in order to obtain a new semantic/pragmatic meaning that cannot be
obtained otherwise. This is the fundamental approach in Diesing (1992) and
Meinunger (1995), among others.
(ii) Semantic/pragmatic meaning is merely a by-product of scrambling. That is,
scrambling is not triggered to satisfy semantic/pragmatic needs, but other inde-
pendent principles of German grammar. That scrambled constituents are inter-
preted differently from unscrambled ones is, according to this analysis, princi-
pally due to the way alternative orderings are exploited at the phonological and
semantic/pragmatic interfaces (Haider and Rosengren, 1998; Neeleman and
Reinhart, 1998), or simply related to rules that govern surface word order
(Fanselow, 2001, 2003).
The choice of one view or the other is largely determined by theoretical
considerations. For this reason, we will address the specific proposals of these
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 107
two approaches in our review of previous theoretical accounts of German
scrambling (Chapter 4).
2.3 Tying the phonological and semantic/pragmatic constraints on scrambling
It will be recalled that, according to syntactic approaches to sentence stress
assignment such as the one developed in Chomsky and Halle (1968) or Cinque
(1993), syntactic structure determines the intonational pattern of a sentence
irrespective of discourse factors. As briefly pointed out in Section 2.1 above,
one of the problems for such approaches is to explain why that blindly assigned
neutral pattern is illicit in cases in which a specific context imposes certain
conditions, such as focusing on a single constituent due to its discourse-new or
contrastive character (examples from Büring, 2001b):
(115) Wem hast du das Geld gegeben?
“Who did you give the money?”
a. #Ich habe dem Kassierer das GELD gegeben
I have the teller-DAT the money-ACC give
“I gave the money to the teller”
b. Ich habe dem KasSIErer das Geld gegeben
I have the teller-DAT the money-ACC given
“I gave the money to the teller”
(116) Ich habe nicht gesagt, du sollst dem Kassierer das Geld beschreiben,
sondern
“I have not said that you should describe the money to the teller, but”
a. #du sollst dem Kassierer das GELD geben
you-NOM should the teller-DAT the money-ACC give
“you should give the money to the teller”
b. du sollst dem Kassierer das Geld GEben
you-NOM should the teller-DAT the money-ACC give
“you should give the money to the teller”
In (115) the wh- question marks dem Kassierer as the only non-presupposed
element in the answer (hence new information, focus); on the other hand, the
contrastive character of (116) requires main prominence on the verb. As we
have seen, Chomsky and Halle (1968) and Chomsky (1972) settle the issue by
resorting to the distinction between the unmarked and marked word order: only
the unmarked word order is derived by the NSR, whereas “grammatical
processes of a poorly understood sort” (Chomsky, 1972, p.100) are responsible
for patterns such as the ones in (115) and (116). However, since Ladd (1980)
108 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
several studies have questioned the validity of that distinction on the basis of
counterevidence of the sort in (116):
(117) a. Did John scold Peter?
No, he HIT him
b. What happened?
(i) John HIT him
(ii) #John hit HIM
c. What did John do to Peter?
(i) He HIT him
(ii) #He hit HIM
The structure John/he HIT him is a well-formed answer to the question in
(a), where just a single constituent is focal, and Chomsky's (1972) system pre-
dicts a marked pattern. However, it is also a possible answer in (b), and (c),
which demonstrates that it contains more than one possible focus. Since
Chomsky makes multiple foci correlate with unmarked intonation, the NSR
should determine main prominence on the rightmost constituent (bii), (cii),
contrary to fact.
On the other hand, there is a second, more theoretical problem syntactic
approaches to nuclear stress assignment have faced since the emergence of the
most recent generative models for linguistic explanation: ‘Government and
Binding’ (Chomsky, 1981, 1986) and the ‘Minimalist Program’ (Chomsky,
1995; 2000). Put succinctly,36
both GB and MP are based on the principle of
the autonomy of syntax, or principle of modularity (Hale et al., 1977; Fodor,
1983), according to which all grammatical components, including the semantic
and phonological components, are strictly kept apart. This entails that (i) stress
assignment, a phonological process, must take place in the phonological
component and not in the strict syntactic part of the computation; and (ii) the
semantic/pragmatic interpretation a constituent receives must be independent
from its being stressed or unstressed, unless something mediates between the
semantic and the phonological components. Thus, in order to adhere to the
principle of modularity while keeping the correlation between prosodic
prominence and the information structure of the sentence, syntactic approaches
to stress assignment are frequently replaced by the so-called focus models.
Focus models are constructed on the basis that strict syntax is what fills that
gap between phonology and semantics. Their main tenet is the existence of
focus features assigned at the strict syntactic level of the computation
(Gussenhoven, 1983; Selkirk, 1984; Rochemont, 1986; Winkler, 1997). The
strict syntactic level serves as input for both the phonological and the semantic
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 109
components, which explains the link between most prominent stress and
discourse-new information: the focus feature [+Foc] is interpreted as most
prominent accent in the phonological component, and as new, non-given
information in the semantic/pragmatic one. It will be noticed that one of the
obvious consequences that result from the adoption of focus models is that
‘normal, unmarked’ stress assignment disappears as an element independent
from focus structure, and, instead, is equated with maximal focus, that is, a
case in which a sentence is related to multiple foci, i.e. multiple non-given
constituents. It is the task of differently implemented devices (basically focus
projection rules) to determine on which sentence internal constituent the most
prominent stress must fall.
Generally speaking, focus-models are adequate for accounting for the
problems we have noticed here with respect to syntactic approaches to nuclear
stress assignment, that is, structures such as the one in (117), and the principle
of autonomy of syntax. Nevertheless, recent studies question their necessity:
from a theoretical perspective, Zubizarreta (1998) and Zubizarreta and
Vergnaud (2000) argue that, in current models of grammatical explanation, a
certain relaxation of the principle of modularity is preferable to the existence of
features such as [+Foc]; empirically, Neeleman and Reinhart (1998) contend
that (117) is not incompatible with the NSR and the distinction between the
marked and unmarked order. The following two sections deal with Neeleman
and Reinhart's claim: 2.3.1 focuses on the exact way they combine Cinque's
NTPS with the facts in (117); 2.3.2 summarises their account of Dutch (and
German) scrambling on the basis of this combination.
2.3.1 The ‘unmarked’ word order and destressing. As already indicated above,
Neeleman and Reinhart (1998) try to demonstrate that examples such as (117)
(repeated here for convenience) are not incompatible with syntactic approaches
to nuclear stress assignment. Recall that that alleged incompatibility resulted
from the presence of multiple foci (hence, an unmarked intonation pattern) and
most prominent pitch in an element that, crucially, is not the rightmost, against
what Chomsky and Halle's (1968) NSR or Cinque's (1993) NTPS would
predict:
(117) a. Did John scold Peter?
No, he HIT him
b. What happened?
(i) John HIT him
(ii) #John hit HIM
110 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
c. What did John do to Peter?
(i) He HIT him
(ii) #He hit HIM
Neeleman and Reinhart's attempt to account for (117) is not new; in fact,
Cinque himself tries to accommodate this type of examples within his theory.
On the basis of the parallelism between (117) and (118) below, Cinque
contends that failure of nuclear stress assignment to the rightmost constituent is
due to its given character: both him and the book are presupposed material,
already present in previous discourse. The difference between them is that the
anaphoricity of the nominal DP is dependent on previous context, whereas the
pronoun is inherently anaphoric:37
(118) Has John read Shakespeare's Othello?
a. Yes, John has READ the book
b. #Yes, John has read the BOOK
On this basis, Cinque argues that presupposed material is obligatorily sub-
ject to a special mechanism called ‘marginalisation’, which removes it from its
base position and adjoins it to some higher node. Since ‘marginalisation’ pre-
cedes nuclear stress assignment, the patterns in (117) and (118) are expected.
However, that ‘marginalisation’ is simply an ad hoc procedure is evidenced by
the fact that its effects are syntactically invisible, except for nuclear stress as-
signment.
Neeleman and Reinhart (1998) argue that it is possible to account for (117)
and (118), and, at the same time, dispense with marginalisation, while keeping
the distinction between unmarked and marked patterns. With that purpose in
mind, they propose a combination of a syntactic approach to stress assignment
such as Cinque's with a modified theory of focus. They assume with Cinque
that (i) there exists an unmarked pattern of stress that can be entirely deter-
mined on the basis of syntactic structure; and (ii) nuclear stress falls on the
most deeply embedded constituent on the recursive side. On the other hand,
they contend that each derivation may be potentially associated not with a sin-
gle focus, but rather with a limited set of possible foci, which they call the fo-
cus set. They argue that this focus set is determined by the interaction of nu-
clear stress assignment (along the lines of Cinque's ‘Null Theory’) and syntac-
tic structure, in such a way that all the constituents that contain the mostly
stressed element may, in principle, be foci. Thus, for a regular monotransitive
English structure, in which syntactically assigned stress falls on the object, the
focus set would comprise the constituents appearing in (119b):
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 111
(119) a. TP[ Subject VP[V OBJECT]]
b. Focus set: (TP, VP, Object)
Among the different members of the focus set, one must be chosen at the
interface as the actual focus of the sentence, according to discourse conditions,
speaker's intentions, etc. If there is no member of the focus set that may fulfil
the requirements imposed by semantic/pragmatic needs, the ‘marked’ operation
‘Relocate Main Stress’ (Neeleman and Reinhart, 1998:21) must apply, assign-
ing an extra stress to the required focus that is not initially present in the focus
set (for example, the subject, the verb, a VP adverbial, etc). In this regard, no-
tice that ‘Relocate Main Stress’ obligatorily entails not only restressing on the
new focus, but most significantly the partial destressing (detectable by secon-
dary stress in actually pronounced sequences) on the constituent on which
Cinque's ‘Null Theory’ has made the nuclear stress fall. However, ‘Relocate
Main Stress’ may also serve an additional function, namely to make nuclear
stress shift to the second most deeply embedded constituent in cases in which
the first one cannot bear it because it must appear completely unstressed.
Neeleman and Reinhart contend that these are instances which are in no way
related to obtaining a new focus, mainly because, unlike the case in which par-
tially destressed ‘old’ foci co-occur with fully stressed, ‘new’ ones, totally
destressed constituents may not alter the focus set of the structure. This is
exactly what happens with the problematic English example in (117), where
the presence of the totally destressed him does not prevent it from being a fe-
licitous answer to a question focusing either on the whole TP or on the whole
VP ((117b) and (117c) respectively, repeated here for convenience):
(117) b. What happened?
(i) John HIT him
(ii) #John hit HIM
c. What did John do to Peter?
(i) He HIT him
(ii) #He hit HIM
Now the question is what makes a totally destressed constituent to be pho-
nologically characterised as such. In this respect, Neeleman and Reinhart's
answer concurs not only with the suggestion implied in Cinque's ‘marginalisa-
tion’, but also with Schwarzschild's (1999) ‘Givenness’ theory,38
as (120)
shows:
112 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(120) a. ‘Anaphoric destressing’: a DP is destressed if and only if it is
D-linked39
to an accessible discourse entity (Neeleman and
Reinhart, 1998: 348)
b. ‘Givenness constraint’: if a constituent is not F-marked it must be
GIVEN (Schwarzschild, 1999: 155), where GIVEN is (informally)
defined as having a salient discourse antecedent A and A entails U,
modulo -type shifting (Schwarzschild, 1999: 148).
According to Neeleman and Reinhart, (120) explains why total (D-linked)
destressing may not alter the focus set: it is an operation that applies irrespec-
tive of focus structure. Note, however, that its application necessarily conveys
the implementation of the ‘marked’ procedure ‘Relocate Main Stress’.40
Neeleman and Reinhart contend that, despite being uneconomical by defini-
tion, ‘marked’ options such as ‘Relocate Main Stress’ are allowed if they are
required in order to yield a correct output that cannot be derived otherwise.
Consequently, since destressing of the pronoun is obligatory due to its D-linked
nature, stress shift to the verb is licit, since English does not have alternative
means to fulfil (120) while keeping neutral stress assignment to the most em-
bedded constituent.
The present section has presented Neeleman and Reinhart's solution to the
alleged incompatibility of syntactic approaches to neutral stress assignment and
evidence such as that in (117). The following section will be devoted to its
application to scrambling structures.
2.3.2 The role of economy: deriving the restrictions on German(ic) scram-
bling. As shown above, Neeleman and Reinhart's system departs from previous
syntactic approaches to nuclear stress assignment in that they elaborate on the
properties of two special stress-shifting operations, destressing and ‘Relocate
main stress’.41
These operations may apply only if needed for discourse rea-
sons: destressing marks the destressed constituent as discourse-linked without
altering the focus set; ‘Relocate main stress’ marks the restressed constituent as
a new member of the focus set, hence altering it.
Recall that, in languages like English, both destressing and ‘Relocate main
stress’ are unavoidable in cases in which the direct object is discourse-linked: if
destressing fails to apply, the object is interpreted as new information, focus;
on the other hand, if ‘Relocate main stress’ does not take place, the ban on
stressed, D-linked constituents is violated. However, German (and Dutch)
grammars do have an alternative means to avoid the implementation of at least
one of these operations: scrambling.
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 113
Neeleman and Reinhart contend that both scrambled and non-scrambled
orders are base-generated,42
and that the only difference between them is the
order in which the argument is introduced in the computation: in non-scram-
bling cases, the argument is inserted right after the lexical verb; in scrambling
cases, adjuncts are inserted first. Both scrambled and non-scrambled orders are
considered to hold within the VP, which means that, from a strictly syntactic
perspective, they basically constitute the same structure. Besides, they mini-
mally differ with respect to the focus sets they present, as illustrated by the
German example in (121):
(121) a. Hans hat V'[gestern V' [das BUCH gelesen]]
Hans-NOM has yesterday the book-ACC read
“Hans read the book yesterday”
Focus Set: {TP, VP, Object}
b. Hans hat V'[das Buch V' [gestern geLEsen]]
Hans-NOM has the book-ACC yesterday read
“Hans read the book yesterday”
Focus Set: {TP, VP, V}
(121a) can serve as an answer to a question that requires either the TP or the
VP as non-given, focal information. (121b) contains the same large foci: TP
and VP. The only difference between them relates to the status of the object
das Buch: in (121a) nuclear stress assignment makes it a member of the focus
set, which entails that it must be interpreted as non-discourse-given (new, focal
information); in (121b), where nuclear stress falls on the verb according to
Cinque's NTPS, the object remains destressed, which results in its D-linked
interpretation.
Neeleman and Reinhart contend that the interaction between the free avail-
ability of scrambling/non-scrambling structures and the minimal differences in
their focus sets is the factor responsible for the constraints that West Germanic
reordered sequences apparently exhibit. In Neeleman and Reinharts's view,
those constraints mainly reflect a grammatical choice on the basis of economy:
for a given context, the structure that involves the minimum number of opera-
tions is chosen. Notice that this economy criterion is irrelevant to the construc-
tion of the strictly syntactic string: since both scrambled and non-scrambled
constituents are base-generated, scrambling and non-scrambling structures are
equally cost-free. However, scrambling is highly preferred whenever the con-
text imposes an interpretation of the object as discourse-given:
114 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(122) Was ist mit dem Buch geschehen?
“What happened to the book?”
a. Ich habe das Buch gestern verKAUFT
I have the book-ACC yesterday sold
“I sold the book yesterday”
b. #Ich habe gestern das Buch verKAUFT
I have yesterday the book-ACC sold
“I sold the book yesterday”
c. #Ich habe gestern das BUCH verkauft
I have yesterday the book-ACC sold
“I sold the book yesterday”
Note that the question in (122) requires a focus set that contains the TP but
crucially excludes the object, already present in mit dem Buch. The scrambling
structure (122a) responds to these two demands optimally: nuclear stress is
assigned to the most deeply embedded element, namely the lexical verb. Thus,
there is no need for resorting to marked, costly operations such as destressing
or ‘Relocate Main Stress’. However, these operations are required in the
derivation of (122b): nuclear stress is assigned to das Buch, but destressing
must apply in order to avoid a violation of the ban on stressing D-linked
elements. This, in turn, activates ‘Relocate main stress’, which makes the most
prominent pitch fall on the final verb. As a consequence, (122b) involves the
application of two marked procedures, which makes it much more costly than
(122a). Finally, just a single operation derives (122c): nuclear stress
assignment, which makes it as economical as (122a). Nevertheless, it does not
fulfil the interpretive requirement imposed by the context, namely D-linking,
insofar as das Buch is stressed. That is the reason why it would be the preferred
option in cases in which the focused TP does not exclude any element within it:
(123) Was ist passiert?
“What happened?”
a. Hans hat gestern das BUCH gelesen
Hans-NOM has yesterday the book-ACC read
“Hans read the book yesterday”
b. #Hans hat das Buch gestern geLEsen
Hans-NOM has the book-ACC yesterday read
“Hans read the book yesterday”
Note that (123) (our (103) above) represents the kind of example that has been
frequently used in the literature in order to illustrate one of the supposed pho-
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 115
nological constraints on scrambling (Section 2.1): the incompatibility between
scrambling and an unmarked intonation pattern (that is, multiple potential foci).
The account of the structures in (122) and (123) in Neeleman and Reinhart's
system demonstrates that this is a mistaken conclusion. Another mistaken con-
clusion is to consider the second phonological constraint in 2.1 (a scrambled
constituent cannot bear nuclear stress) as a property deriving from scrambling,
since according to Neeleman and Reinhart's analysis, such a constraint is sim-
ply the result of the interaction between Cinque's NTPS and economy consid-
erations: a scrambled constituent does not occupy the most embedded position
in the tree, so it can never receive default nuclear stress (123b). On the other
hand, destressing of the most deeply embedded constituent (the lexical verb)
and restressing of the reordered object would entail two marked operations
(124a), banned on the basis of the existence of a more economical one (the
non-scrambling string) (124b):
(124) Was ist passiert?
“What happened?
a. *Hans hat das BUCH gestern gelesen
Hans-NOM has the book-ACC yesterday read
“Hans read the book yesterday”
b. Hans hat gestern das BUCH gelesen
Hans-NOM has yesterday the book-ACC read
“Hans read the book yesterday”
The conclusion seems clear: German(ic) scrambling is only apparently
phonologically constrained. In fact, it is the interaction between the syntactic
position occupied by scrambled constituents and the rules governing nuclear
stress assignment that is responsible for the ban on stressed scrambled elements
and its consequences for focus interpretation.
But is German(ic) scrambling semantically/pragmatically restricted? Let us
answer this question by reviewing the way in which Neeleman and Reinhart's
proposal can derive the observational generalisations (i)-(v) in 2.2.
(i) Indefinites cannot scramble if they must receive an existential interpretation.
Indefinites may scramble if they must be interpreted as specific. According to
Neeleman and Reinhart, this is straightforwardly accounted for by their system,
once it is assumed that the only difference between existential and specific
indefinites lies in D-linking: existential interpretation correlates with non-D-
linked indefinites, whereas specific readings are obtained in the case the
indefinite is D-linked.
116 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(ii) Scrambled and unscrambled definites are uniformly interpreted as specific.
In other words, scrambling of definite DPs is optional. As shown extensively
above, the alleged optionality is only apparent: scrambling is obligatory when
the object is context-dependent; non-scrambling is required in the case that the
object is focal, new information. The choice of one or the other is constrained
by considerations of economy.
(iii) Indefinite/definite focus cannot scramble. If semantic/pragmatic focus cor-
relates with stress, this is expected: as illustrated in (123), stressing of a scram-
bled constituent would entail two marked operations, destressing of the most
deeply embedded element, plus restressing of the reordered one. Since the non-
scrambling counterpart can do the job without resorting to any marked proce-
dure, economy forbids scrambling of a stressed constituent.
(iv) Unfocused elements do not obligatorily scramble. In the case of monotran-
sitive predicates, this observation is not true: an object occupying the most
deeply embedded position in the syntactic tree always receives nuclear stress.
If it is stressed, it cannot be D-linked. This is predicted by Neeleman and
Reinhart's system, and corroborated by a large number of native speakers
((112), and the discussion of (122) above, here repeated for convenience as
(125)):
(125) Was ist mit dem Buch geschehen?
“What happened to the book?”
a. Ich habe das Buch gestern verKAUFT
I have the book-ACC yesterday sold
“I sold the book yesterday”
b. #Ich habe gestern das BUCH verkauft
I have yesterday the book-ACC sold
c. #Ich habe gestern das Buch verKAUFT
I have yesterday the book-ACC sold
However, the observation seems to be adequate in the case of ditransitive
predicates, according to the judgements of the vast majority of scholars who
treat the relevant structures (Haider and Rosengren, 1998; Büring, 2001b,
among others) ((113) above, repeated here as (126)):
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 117
(126) Wem hat heute der Zeuge den Weg gezeigt?
“Who has the witness showed the way today?”
a. Heute hat der Zeuge dem PoliZISten den Weg
today has the witness-NOM the policeman-DAT the way-ACC
gezeigt
showed
“The witness has showed the policeman the way today”
b. Heute hat der Zeuge den Weg dem PoliZISten
today has the witness-NOM the way-ACC the policeman-DAT
gezeigt
showed
Notice that this kind of example poses a serious obstacle for Neeleman and
Reinhart's proposal, insofar as the example (126a) should not be attested. As-
sume that Cinque's NTPS assigns nuclear stress to den Weg as the most deeply
embedded constituent. Since it is discourse-given, it must undergo destressing,
a marked operation. Destressing, in turn, forces the implementation of another
costly operation, ‘Relocate main stress’, responsible for main prominence on
dem Polizisten. The question is why economy does not bar (126a) on the basis
of the costless (126b), where the base-generated scrambling order makes it
possible to apply only a single procedure, that is, nuclear stress assignment on
dem Polizisten.43
(v) Generic elements do not obligatorily scramble. Neeleman and Reinhart
contend that generic interpretation is not the relevant factor in structures with
universal temporal quantification. Their argument is based on the grammati-
cality of the four options in (127) and (128) in Dutch (from Neeleman and
Reinhart, 1998):
(127) a. dat Max altijd boeken over FREUD leest
that Max-NOM always books-ACC about Freud reads
“that Max always reads books about Freud”
b. dat Max boeken over Freud altijd LEEST
that Max-NOM books-ACC about Freud always reads
“that Max always reads books about Freud”
(128) a. dat Max soms boeken over FREUD leest
that Max-NOM sometimes books-ACC about Freud reads
“that Max sometimes reads books about Freud”
118 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
b. dat Max boeken over Freud soms LEEST
that Max-NOM books-ACC about Freud sometimes reads
“that Max sometimes reads books about Freud”
(127) and (128) differ in their temporal quantification, existential in (127)
and universal in (128). According to the common analysis, temporal
quantification determines the interpretation of the indefinite, boeken over
Freud, as generic in (127), but as existential in (128). The conclusion
Neeleman and Reinhart draw from these facts is that genericity has no bearing
on scrambling, as demonstrated by (128b), where reordering of an indefinite is
possible in a sentence with existential quantification, and argue that the factor
at stake is, again, D-linking, as the contrast between the Dutch examples in
(129a) and (129b) seems to suggest (from Neeleman and Reinhart, 1998):
(129) a. Het is onmogelijk met Max een afspraak te maken
it is impossible with Max an appointment to make
“It is impossible to make an appointment with Max”
#Hij heeft nooit tijd, omdat hij boeken over Freud
he has never time, since he books-ACC about Freud
altijd LEEST
always reads
“He has never time, since he always reads books about Freud”
En zoals je weet zijn er talloze boeken over Freud
“And, as you know, there are numerous books about Freud”
b. Het is onmogelijk met Max een afspraak te maken
It is impossible with Max an appointment to make
“It is impossible to make an appointment with Max”
Hij heeft nooit tijd, omdat hij altijd boeken over FREUD
He has never time, since he always books-ACC about Freud
leest
reads
“He has never time, since he always reads books about Freud”
En zoals je weet zijn er talloze boeken over Freud
“And, as you know, there are numerous books about Freud”
The reason why (129a) is a pragmatically ill-formed answer, whereas (129b)
is well-formed, relates to the discourse context, where there is no previous
mentioning of the boeken over Freud. The consequence is that the version in
which the generic object does not scramble is preferred to its scrambling
counterpart.
SCRAMBLING IN GERMAN 119
In general, then, Neeleman and Reinhart's account of German(ic) scram-
bling deserves some credit for establishing reliable criteria that allow us to dis-
pense with the notion of optionality. It relates in an elegant way to such general
theories as Cinque's NTPS, and even improves on them. But, as Abraham and
Molnárfi (2001) show, it is based on an inadequate premise about how lack of
stress is achieved. It will be remembered that Neeleman and Reinhart argue
that both scrambling and non-scrambling structures are base-generated, and
that the only difference between them is the order of insertion of the object
respective to the elements traditionally considered VP-adjoined. In non-scram-
bling sequences, insertion of those elements is preceded by that of the object,
as in (130a); scrambling of the object simply entails that its insertion follows
that of commonly assumed VP-adjuncts, as in (130b):
(130) a. Hans hat V'[gestern V' [das BUCH gelesen]]
Hans-NOM has yesterday the book-ACC read
“Hans read the book yesterday”
b. Hans hat V'[das Buch V' [gestern geLEsen]]
Hans-NOM has the book-ACC yesterday read
“Hans read the book yesterday”
However, Abraham and Molnárfi appeal to German examples like (131)
below in order to show that, in fact, destressing is independent from order of
insertion:
(131) a. dass sie <ADV> der MANN gesehen hat
that her-ACC the man-NOM seen has
“that the man saw her yesterday”
b. dass siei <ADV> der MANN VP[ ti gesehen] hat
that her-ACC the man-NOM seen has
“that the man saw her yesterday”
According to Abraham and Molnárfi, (131a) is problematic for Neeleman
and Reinhart's system due to the high position occupied by the D-linked,
destressed pronoun sie. Recall that their system conceives of scrambling as
base-generation, and rigorously limits it to the VP.44
But sie must be external to
the verb phrase in (131a), since it precedes the subject. On the other hand, to
assume that it is, in fact, base-generated within VP and undergoes subsequent
displacement to clause-initial position (131b), completely disrupts the connec-
tion between destressing and order of insertion of arguments and adjuncts, in-
sofar as the D-linked pronoun and the adverb are never adjacent in the lower
120 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
part of the structure (the VP). Notice that, since in German scrambled elements
may appear in both pre-subject and post-subject positions (Section 1.5.2, this
chapter), Abraham and Molnárfi's observation in fact means that Neeleman and
Reinhart's analysis cannot apply to pre-subject scrambling in that language. But
pre-subject scrambling cases are not the only set of data that raise difficulties
for Neeleman and Reinhart's approach. In this respect, it will be useful to re-
member the ditransitive structures we reviewed above (examples in (126)),
where a non-scrambled D-linked accusative was not assigned nuclear stress
(126a). In Chapter 5, I will argue that it is possible to account for both pre-sub-
ject scrambling and such ditransitive constructions without losing Neeleman
and Reinharts's insight about the close connection between scrambling, D-
linking and destressing. Their idea of scrambling as base-generation must,
however, be completely abandoned.
CHAPTER 4
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS OF GERMAN SCRAMBLING
The aim of the present chapter is to review the most influential accounts of
German scrambling within a generative framework. This is a relatively com-
plex task, for several reasons. First, as shown in the preceding chapter and
summarised in (1) below, some of the descriptive properties of scrambling are
far from being fixed (controversial issues in grey boxes):
(1) Syntactic properties of German scrambling
Iterability
Syntactic position: arguments/arguments and adjuncts
Category: DPs/DPs and other categories
Syntactic projection: VPs/VPs and other categories
Clause-boundedness
ROUGH SYNTAX
‘Freezing’/‘Anti-Freezing’
LF Semantic/pragmatic effects as trigger vs
Semantic/pragmatic effects as a by-product
PF Destressing
According to (1), it is required of any empirically adequate analysis of
scrambling that it explain its iterability, its clause-boundedness, and the pho-
nological effects associated with it (destressing of scrambled constituents). At
the same time, any valid analysis must confront the controversial properties
associated with scrambling and effectively refute any data that may contradict
it. As the reader will discover in the following pages, however, such refutation
is in general lacking.
122 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
A second factor contributing to the difficulty of reviewing the literature on
scrambling is the heightened attention the phenomenon has received ever since
the very earliest models of generative grammar. We will focus here mainly on
those proposals that are elaborated either within Chomsky's (1981, 1986)
‘Government and Binding’ model, or Chomsky's (1995, 2000) ‘Minimalist
Program’. We will in addition preserve the traditional distinction between
movement approaches and base-generation approaches, as is customary in the
literature on scrambling.
As shown in Chapter 1, Ross's (1967) pioneering work, which first used the
term scrambling to refer to the alternative orderings which co-arguments may
exhibit in certain languages, considers scrambling as the result of a stylistic
rule that operates on the PF-representation. But, with exception of Ross's own
analysis,1
most other accounts treat scrambling as an operation pertaining only
to the strictly syntactic component. In these other accounts, there is, however,
no agreement on the kind of syntactic operation scrambling involves. Thus,
purely syntactic analyses may be, in turn, divided into two main groups:
(i) Movement approaches. The basic tenet of movement approaches is that
German scrambling is the result of the complex syntactic operation ‘Move’ (in
minimalist terms; ‘Move α’ in GB terms). Most of them take the evidence for
‘Freezing’ as uncontroversial, and accept that the locus of scrambling is
restricted to the vP/VP and those functional projections related to it.2
But they
differ with respect to the syntactic position and the categorial status of the
‘scrambable’ constituent, as well as in the factor responsible for the semantic/
pragmatic effects. Movement approaches will be dealt with in Section 1.
(ii) Base-generation approaches. Their claim is that German scrambling is the
result of the simple syntactic operation ‘Merge’; that is, the only difference
between scrambled and non-scrambled constituents is the position in which
they are first merged, higher in the scrambling cases. Base-generation ap-
proaches admit the existence of ‘Freezing’, but argue that it does not constitute
either a general phenomenon or an indicator of movement. On the other hand,
they all share the assumption that scrambling is not categorially restricted, al-
though it applies only to argumental elements. Finally, they contend that the
semantic/pragmatic effects associated with scrambling are a by-product of the
operation that produces it, i.e. direct merge. Base-generation theories will be
the topic of Section 2.
1. Movement approaches
Within the very extensive body of literature dealing with German
scrambling as an instance of the syntactic operation ‘Move (α)’, the studies that
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 123
adopt this approach are usually empirically grounded in two kinds of evidence
generally regarded as irrefutable:
(i) ‘Freezing’.3
Scrambled constituents are islands for movement. Recall that
the assumption is based on contrast such as the ones in (2) and (3) (German
example from Bayer and Kornfilt, 1994):
(2) a. Whoi did John take [a picture of ti ]?
b. * Whoi was [a picture of ti ]j taken tj by John?
(3) a. Wasi hat Heinrich dem Mann [ti für ein Buch]
what-ACC has Heinrich-NOM the man-DAT for a book
empfohlen?
recommended
“What kind of book did Heinrich recommend the man?”
b. *Wasi hat Heinrich [ti für ein Buch]j dem Mann tj
what-ACC has Heinrich-NOM for a book the man-DAT
empfohlen?
recommended
“What kind of book did Heinrich recommend the man?”
The defenders of the movement approach to German scrambling establish a
parallelism between the English example and the German one: if both move-
ment of the English object to Spec, T (the subject position), and scrambling of
the German accusative make extraction of the wh-constituent ungrammatical,
scrambling must entail movement.
(ii) The impossibility of an unmarked stress pattern in scrambling structures,
or, according to Neeleman and Reinhart's (1998) analysis in 2.3.3, Chapter 3,
the impossibility of an unmarked stress pattern if the reordered object does not
appear as D-linked. As shown in the preceding chapter, scrambling structures
can never answer a ‘what-happened-question’ that does not mark the accusa-
tive as given. This is generally accepted to indicate that the sentence they ap-
pear in does not contain either TP or VP as focal constituents:
(4) Was ist passiert?
“What happened?”
a. dass Hans gestern das BUCH gelesen hat
that Hans-NOM yesterday the book-ACC read has
“that Hans read the book yesterday”
124 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
b. #dass Hans das Buch gestern geLEsen hat
that Hans-NOM the book-ACC yesterday read has
“that Hans read the book yesterday”
For the proponents of German scrambling as an instance of ‘Move (α)’, (4)
is straightforward on two grounds (Haider and Rosengren, 1998; Haider, 2000,
etc.): (a) according to syntactic approaches to nuclear stress assignment
(Chomsky and Halle, 1968; Cinque, 1993), strings that serve as answers to a
‘what-happened-question’ present the entire clause as focus (maximal focus),
with the most prominent pitch on the most deeply embedded constituent
(Cinque, 1993); (b) traces lack phonological features and, as a consequence,
cannot be stressed. Hence, focus potential provides evidence for chain
formation and the existence of a gap.
Although most analyses of German scrambling as result of movement
capitalise on the sets of data constituted by ‘Freezing’ and prosodic facts, they
present important differences especially with respect to the characterization of
the movement operation itself. For those studies written in a GB framework
(Chomsky, 1981, 1986), such characterization basically consists in equating
scrambling chains with one of the two types of chains independently
manifested in natural languages, A-chains or A-bar chains. On the other hand,
the proposals developed according to the ‘Minimalist Program’ (Chomsky,
1995; 2000) will fundamentally focus on the search for a trigger that renders
the movement process as unavoidable. In the following, we will discuss them
in more detail.
1.1 Scrambling as ‘Move α’ (‘Government and Binding’)
The GB model assumes that there are four different levels of syntactic
representation: ‘Deep Structure’ (DS), ‘Surface Structure’ (SS), ‘Logical Form’
(LF), and ‘Phonological Form’ (PF), according to the diagram in (5):
DS encodes the lexical properties of the constituents of the sentence, and
also represents the basic argument relations in it. SS reflects the actual ordering
of the elements in the sentence, as well as their Case forms. At LF, the logico-
D-structure
S-structure
LF PF
(5)
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 125
semantic properties of the sentence are expressed, whereas its overt phonetic
realisation (i.e. its actual spell-out) takes place at PF. The levels of DS and SS
are related to each other by movement transformations, labelled as ‘Move α’.
‘Move α’ applies freely, which means that it does not need to apply for a
reason. In other words, structures are not ruled out as ungrammatical because
‘Move α’ is implemented or not; rather, they are ruled out because they do not
satisfy any of the principles, constraints, or filters that they must obey. Thus,
the ungrammaticality of the English example in (6) below, in which the object
NP does not move to the subject position, does not derive from a hypothetical
violation of ‘Move α’, but rather from a violation of the ‘Case Filter’, which
requires every overt NP to be assigned abstract Case:
(6) *It will be seen John
The GB model distinguishes between two different applications of ‘Move
α’, according to the type of position it targets: A-movement, if its landing site
is an argument position (A-position), and A-bar-movement, if the constituent is
displaced to a non-argument position (A-bar-position). Chomsky's original
definition of an argument position is the one in (7) (Chomsky, 1981: 47):
(7) An A-position is a potential theta role position
Complementarily, an A-bar position is one that cannot be assigned a the-
matic role. Typical A-positions are those hosting subjects and objects; typical
A-bar-positions are operator positions, where elements that have already been
theta-marked may be moved. Thus, in the first versions of clause structure
proposed by the GB framework, the distribution of A- and A-bar-positions was
as shown in (8):
126 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
Subsequent modifications of this standard clause structure, however, forced
researches to reformulate the A/A-bar dichotomy. Pollock's (1989) influential
paper on the structure of the IP argued for splitting the IP into two different
functional projections: a T(ense) phrase and an Agr(eement) phrase, the locus
for nominative Case assignment.4
Similarly, Chomsky (1993) proposed the
existence of an agreement object phrase (AgrOP) for object licensing. The
parallelism became complete under the widely accepted ‘VP-internal subject
hypothesis’ (Koopman and Sportiche, 1991), whose basic tenet was that sub-
jects are generated in the specifier position of VP and then moved to the
specifier of AgrSP. Thus, the assumption that both subjects and objects receive
thematic role within the VP makes the A- status of both Spec,AgrS (Spec, IP in
pre-pollockian terms) and Spec, AgrO at least questionable. Chomsky (1991,
1993) suggests that the A/A-bar distinction may be replaced by the notion of L-
relatedness (relation to morphological features of lexical items, such as tense,
agreement, etc.), which distinguishes the specifier positions of TP, AgrSP and
AgrOP (L-related) from the specifier position of CP (non-L-related). Obvi-
ously, movement to L-related projections presents the characteristics tradition-
ally associated with A-movement, whereas movement to non-L-related projec-
tions is equated with the classical A-bar movement. Notice that, according to
Chomsky's (1991, 1993) proposal, the status of a syntactic position as an L-
related position depends upon two different premises: first, the projection to
which it belongs must be L-related (that is, it must be either TP or AgrP);
second, it must be a specifier position. Specifier positions are defined as those
created by ‘Move α’ when the result of the movement operation is a new
category (substitution). Specifier positions are distinguished from adjoined
positions, which are the product of ‘Move α’ when a two-segment category,
rather than a new one, is created (adjunction). Chomsky (1991, 1993) considers
CP
C'
C IP
I'
I VP
V A-position
A-position
A-bar position
(8)
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 127
adjoined positions to be non-L-related. Nevertheless, he suggests that those
positions created by adjunction to an L-related head (T, Agr) are ‘broadly L-
related’, which means that they are half-way between ‘narrowly L-related’
positions (specifiers of L-related heads) and non-L-related positions (specifiers
or adjuncts of non-L-related heads). But he does not give details about their
exact properties.
These are the general aspects of the GB model that constitute the basis for
any analysis of German scrambling as an instance of ‘Move α’. It will be seen
that their interaction results in four possible characterizations of the process
(9):
(9) German scrambling as ‘Move α’
(i) Scrambling targets a specifier of an L-related head.
(ii) Scrambling targets an adjoined position of an L-related head.
(iii) Scrambling targets a specifier of a non-L-related head.
(iv) Scrambling targets an adjoined position of a non-L-related head.
Options (iii) and (iv) are not reflected in any study on German scrambling
written in the GB framework. On the other hand, options (i) and (ii) appear
developed in different ways: in some accounts (i) results in a classical A-chain
(Déprez, 1989; Mahajan, 1990; Moltmann, 1990; Wyngaerd, 1989; among
others); in others, it is an instance of an A-bar chain (Déprez, 1994). With
respect to option (ii), we may recall that Chomsky (1991, 1993) leaves open
the question about the exact nature of ‘broadly L-related’ positions. Thus it is
possible to find hypotheses defending the position that scrambling as adjunc-
tion to such projections creates an A-chain (Haider and Rosengren, 1998), as
well as accounts in which the process is envisaged as an instance of A-bar
movement (Müller and Sternefeld, 1993). The way in which options (i) and
(ii) are implemented in the different analyses will be the topic of the following
sections.
1.1.1 Scrambling as substitution: A-movement. The proposals in the GB litera-
ture that treat scrambling as an instance of A-movement are concerned with the
process of reordering in different languages, such as Hindi (Mahajan, 1990),
Dutch (Déprez, 1989; Wyngaerd, 1989), German (Déprez, 1989; Moltmann,
1990; Santorini, 1990), or even Icelandic (Déprez, 1989). Nevertheless, they all
share the same basic insight: scrambling moves an object from its VP-internal
position to the specifier of the functional head AgrOP, where accusative Case
is assigned. Since in the languages in question scrambling seems to be optional,
the proponents of this kind of analysis must resort to a disjunctive condition on
128 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
structural Case assignment, according to which structural Case may be
assigned either in the VP-internal complement position or in Spec, AgrOP, as
shown in (10):
An analysis along these lines finds empirical support in a restrictive treat-
ment of the sets of data in (1). With respect to the category and syntactic posi-
tion of the ‘scrambable’ constituent, it assumes that only argumental DPs may
undergo scrambling. On the other hand, its clause-boundedness (a widely ac-
cepted property) is straightforwardly derived: in this respect, German scram-
bling behaves according to other well-known instances of A-movement rules,
such as passive or raising. Furthermore, it is argued that this parallel behaviour
is confirmed by binding facts.
One of the tenets of standard ‘Binding Theory’ is that anaphors must be
coindexed with a c-commanding5
antecedent. The antecedent may c-command
the anaphor from a derived position, that is, a position reached by the applica-
CP
Spec C'
C AgrSP
Spec AgrS'
TP AgrS
Spec T'
AgrOP T
Object AgrO'
VP AgrO
Spec V'
Object V
(10)
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 129
tion of ‘Move α’. It has been observed, however, that the binding relation is
sensitive to the kind of movement involved (11), (12):
(11) a. [e] seems to himselfi Johni to be a genius
b. Johni seems to himselfi to be a genius
(12) a. Johni knows himselfi well
b. Himselfi Johni knows well
c. *Johni, himselfi knows well
(11a) corresponds to the DS of the sentence, before structural Case is as-
signed. Notice that a possible spell-out of the string results in ungrammatical-
ity, due to a violation of the ‘Case Filter’ (John remains caseless), as well as to
the absence of an appropriate c-commanding antecedent for the anaphor him-
self. Thus, movement of John to the subject position rescues the structure: it is
assigned nominative Case and, at the same time, c-commands the coindexed
anaphor. As usually stated in the literature, A-movement ‘feeds’ binding.
By contrast, the movement operation responsible for (12b) does not alter the
binding relation established in (12a) at all. In other words, the displacement of
the object himself to a topicalised position (generally Spec, CP) does not
destroy the pre-existing binding relation between John and himself. Since topi-
calisation is conventionally believed to be an instance of A-bar-movement, the
conclusion is that A-bar-movement does not ‘bleed’ binding. But that A-bar-
movement does not feed it either is demonstrated by (12c), where topicalisa-
tion of John to a position preceding and c-commanding himself is not enough
to fulfil the binding principle at stake.
For those scholars who defend the position that scrambling is A-movement,
the behaviour of scrambling with respect to binding relations constitutes an
irrefutable proof, as shown in (13):
(13) a. *Gestern habe ich einanderi die Gästei vorgestellt
yesterday have I each-other-DAT the guests-ACC introduced
“I introduced the guests to each other yesterday”
b. Gestern habe ich die Gästei einanderi vorgestellt
yesterday have I the guests-ACC each-other-DAT introduced
“I introduced the guests to each other yesterday”
If we assume that German has a base-generated order DAT-ACC (Lenerz,
1977),6
scrambling of the accusative die Gäste to a position c-commanding
einander ‘feeds’ binding in the same way that raising of John in the English
130 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
example above (11b). The status of scrambling as A-movement is thus empiri-
cally demonstrated.
The literature presents two other sets of data, however, that cast doubt on
the validity of the conclusions drawn from (13). The first appears in Neeleman
(1994) for Dutch, following an original observation by Belleti and Rizzi (1988)
for Italian (examples based on Neeleman, 1994):
(14) a. dass das Bild von einanderi den Männerni ti gefällt
that the picture-NOM of each-other the men-DAT pleases
“that the picture of each other pleases the men”
b. *Ich habe das Bild von einanderi den Männerni gezeigt
I have the picture-NOM of each-other the men-DAT showed
“I have shown the men the picture of each other”
(14a) is a typical instance of A-movement, raising to subject in an ergative
construction. Neeleman argues that its grammaticality in Dutch (and German)
proves that Belletti and Rizzi's conclusions for Italian also hold in West
Germanic: A-movement does not bleed binding, insofar as das Bild von
einander in subject position is still bound by the dative den Männern.
However, scrambling of the accusative object past the dative in (14b) bleeds
the binding relation established before the accusative leaves its base-position.
Consequently, according to Neeleman, scrambling cannot be fully assimilated
to A-movement.
The second set of data is discussed in Müller and Sternefeld (1994), and
Müller (1995). They argue that the ungrammaticality of sentences such as (15)
runs against the argument that scrambling feeds binding:
(15) *Gestern habe ich den Gästeni einanderi vorgestellt
yesterday have I the guests-DAT each-other-ACC introduced
“Yesterday I introduced each other to the guests”
As (15) demonstrates, the DAT in situ cannot bind the following DO
einander in a supposedly base-generated string (DAT-ACC). Moltmann (1990)
offers a possible explanation for this: accusative anaphors must always move to
a position between the subject and any other full NP. But, as Müller (1995)
points out, this rule is not empirically supported, since subjects may in fact
bind accusative anaphors across intervening datives (16):
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 131
(16) dass der Arzti dem Patientenj sichi/*j im Spiegel
that the doctor-NOM the patient-DAT himself-ACC in-the mirror
zeigte
showed
“that the doctor showed himself to the patient in the mirror”
Santorini (1990) suggests another way out: IO cannot be binders in German.
But, besides its stipulative character, Santorini's claim is undermined by
examples such as (17) (Grewendorf, 1988; Müller, 1995), where the dative
object can bind an anaphor contained in a PP:
(17) dass Mariai ihrj die Augen über sichi/j öffnette
that Maria-NOM her-DAT the eyes-ACC about herself opened
“that Maria opened her eyes about herself”
A third possibility is to assume that the base-generated order is not DAT-
ACC, but rather ACC-DAT. This would entail that the binding facts in (13)
derive from base-generation, and not from scrambling as an instance of ‘Move
α’. But, as noted in the preceding paragraphs, the evidence from the unmarked
word order (i.e. maximal focus) strongly indicates that DAT-ACC is the right
base-generated string. Thus, it would appear that binding facts do not constitute
an irrefutable proof for an analysis of German scrambling as A-movement.
In general, then, we may conclude that the A-movement approach is not
fully supported by empirical grounds. The A-movement approach can explain
the clause-boundedness of scrambling straightforwardly, but only at the cost of
disregarding the different order possibilities of elements other than argumental
DPs, as well as the complexity of the binding examples. Furthermore, it also
faces theoretical problems with respect to the GB model it adopts. The most
important of these derives from structures such as (18):
(18) a. dass niemand den Linguisten die Bilder zeigte
that nobody-NOM the linguists-DAT the pictures-ACC showed
“that nobody showed the pictures to the linguists”
b. dass die Bilder den Linguisten niemand zeigte
that the pictures-ACC the linguists-DAT nobody-NOM showed
“that nobody showed the pictures to the linguists”
c. dass den Linguisten die Bilder niemand zeigte
that to the linguists-DAT the pictures-ACC nobody-NOM showed
“that nobody showed the pictures to the linguists”
132 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
Let us assume with the proponents of the A-movement analysis that
scrambling displaces both the accusative and dative objects to two different
functional projections (namely, AgrOP and AgrIOP), where their respective
Cases will be licensed. Such an assumption fits the GB model with respect to
the pre-subject position they appear in, on the basis of the ‘VP-internal subject
hypothesis’ (Koopman and Sportiche, 1991): the subject remains within the
VP, where it is assigned Case under government. However, this analysis
contradicts the constant relation between functional projections the GB model
defends: in (18b) AgrOP must precede AgrIOP, whereas in (18c) AgrOP must
follow AgrIOP.
Finally, it will be seen that the A-movement approach does not address the
semantic/pragmatic effects of scrambling,7
insofar as Case assignment is inde-
pendent from the interpretation the nominal obtains at LF.
1.1.2 Scrambling as substitution: A-bar movement. Déprez (1994) is the only
proposal in the literature that considers scrambling as a substitution operation
that forms an A-bar chain, albeit partially. Her account attempts to solve
‘Webelhuth's Paradox’ (Webelhuth, 1989), formulated on the basis of exam-
ples such as the following:
(19) Peter hat die Gästei ohne ei anzuschauen
Peter-NOM has the guests-ACC without looking-at
einanderi ti vorgestellt
each-other-DAT introduced
“Peter introduced the guests to each other without looking at (them)”
Webelhuth notices that scrambling of die Gäste results in a structure that
resembles both A- and A-bar chains. On the one hand, it feeds binding, which
is a hallmark of A-movement; on the other, it licenses a parasitic gap8
in the
adjunct infinitival clause, which is typically associated with A-bar-movement.
Webelhuth (1989, 1992) suggests that the A/A-bar dichotomy must be replaced
by a tripartite classification: A/A-bar/A-A-bar. The new third position (A-A-
bar), due to its dual character, displays both A and A-bar properties.
Déprez contends that Webelhuth's third position is unnecessary. Instead, she
proposes to redefine the notions of A- and A-bar positions in terms of two main
properties: [ + HR], and [ + Case]. [ +HR] stands for ‘Head Related’, and is a
property roughly equivalent to Chomsky's (1991, 1993) ‘L-relatedness’. The
property [ +Case] distinguishes between specifier positions that receive func-
tional Case from their heads and those that do not. In this context, Déprez asso-
ciates the mixed behaviour exhibited by scrambling chains in cases such as
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 133
(19) with a [+HR, –Case] position: die Gäste receives accusative Case under
government (i.e. within VP), and is subsequently moved to the specifier of
AgrO, where it may bind the anaphor. On the other hand, the absence of Case
assignment in that derived position would explain the existence of the parasitic
gap. Finally, and for the cases in which the scrambled object displays only A-
properties, Déprez claims that the targeted position must be characterised as
[+HR, +Case].
Clearly Déprez's system is merely a reformulation of the facts, inasmuch as
there is no independent way to distinguish Case-assigning heads from non-
Case-assigning heads. In addition, it may be based on a mistaken assumption
also shared by ‘Webelhuth's Paradox’ itself: the existence of parasitic gaps in
structures such as (19). This is the claim in Fanselow (1993, 2001), where it is
demonstrated that such constructions have properties that real parasitic gap
structures lack: the possibility of being formed by the movement of a non-
referential DP (20), and even a wh-element (21); the possibility of presenting
the gap of a PP in the adjunct clause (22); or the possibility of presenting more
than one gap (23) (examples (20) and (23) from Fanselow, 2001; (21) and (22)
from Haider and Rosengren, 1998):
(20) dass er sich anstatt e um Maria zu kümmern mit Bücher
that he himself instead-of of Maria to care with books
beschäftigte
occupied
“that he occupied himself with books instead of caring of Mary”
(21) Wer hat seinem Nachbarn wen ohne e
who-NOM has his neighbour-DAT who-ACC without
anzuschauen vorsgestellt?
looking-at introduced
“Who introduced whom to his neighbour without looking at?”
(22) Das ist ein Thema, über das er, anstatt e zu
that is a topic about which he instead-of to
schwätzen, nachdenken sollte
chat think should
“This is a topic about which he should think instead of chatting”
134 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(23) dass er dem Kind das Buch anstatt e e zu
that he the child-DAT the book-ACC instead-of to
leihen verkaufte
lend sold
“that he sold the book to the child, instead of lending it to him”
These are properties conventionally related to conjunction reduction, that is,
the deletion of one of two identical constituents in coordinated structures.
Thus, Fanselow concludes that such examples as the ones given above are
merely instances of this process in a (quasi-) coordinated structure (24), in
which the coordinating conjunction is ohne (or anstatt), as illustrated by the
fact that it can co-occur with the complementiser (25) (examples from
Fanselow, 2001):
(24) a. Conjunction reduction in coordinate structures
dass er Maria kennt und Maria liebt
that he Maria-ACC knows and Maria-ACC loves
“that he knows and loves Maria”
b. Conjunction reduction in (quasi-) coordinate structures
Peter hat die Gäste ohne die Gäste
Peter-NOM has the guests-ACC without the guests-ACC
anzuschauen einander vorgestellt
looking-at each-other-DAT introduced
“Peter introduced the guests to each other without looking at
(them)”
(25) a. Coordinating conjunction + complementizer
Er sagt, dass es regnet und dass es schneit
he says that it rains and that it snows
“He says that it rains and that it snows”
b. Subordinating conjuction + complementizer
Es regnet bevor (*dass) es schneit
It rains before that it snows
“It rains before it snows”
c. Ohne, anstatt + complementizer
Es regnet ohne dass es schneit
It rains without that it snows
“It rains without snow”
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 135
If Fanselow is correct, ‘Webelhuth's Paradox’ is irrelevant to any true char-
acterization of German scrambling. This, in turn, entails a serious challenge to
those proposals analysing the phenomenon as an instance of A-bar-movement,
to which we turn now.
1.1.3 Scrambling as adjunction: A-bar movement. The most complete account
of German scrambling as a process of adjunction resulting in an A-bar chain is
Müller and Sternefeld (1993), basically retained in Müller and Sternefeld
(1994), and Müller (1995). This account is based on two fundamental tenets:
(a) German scrambling is unrestricted with respect to the syntactic position and
category of the ‘scrambable constituent’, just as typical A-bar processes are.
(b) The apparent restrictions on German scrambling with respect to ‘non-
scrambable’ constituents (predicates, focused material, etc.) as well as its
clause-bound nature are not related to the A/A-bar dichotomy, but may be ex-
plained otherwise.
Regarding (a), A-movement proposals necessarily entail the existence of
non-scrambling operations responsible for the different ordering options with
constituents different from argumental DPs. But the study of the exact nature
of such operations is generally neglected. In this connection, the advantage of
A-bar movement analyses like Müller and Sternefeld (1993) is that they can
explain the reordering of all types of elements by invoking just a single
process, scrambling.
With respect to (b), Müller and Sternefeld (1993) do not question the
contrasts in the German structures in (26) and (27), but disagree in the way
such contrasts have been treated in A-movement proposals (example (27) from
Müller, 1995):
(26) A-bar movement is not clause-bound. Scrambling is clause-bound
a. Das Buchi glaubt Maria hat er gestern ti gelesen
the book-ACC thinks Maria-NOM has he yesterday read
“Maria thinks that he read the book yesterday”
b. *Gesternj glaubt das Buchi Maria hat er ti tj
yesterday thinks the book-ACC Maria-NOM has he
gelesen
read
“Maria thinks that he read the book yesterday”
136 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
c. *Gesternj glaubt Maria das Buchi hat er ti tj
yesterday thinks Maria-NOM the book-ACC has he
gelesen
read
“Maria thinks that he read the book yesterday”
d. Maria glaubt er hat das Buchi gestern ti gelesen
Maria-NOM thinks he has the book-ACC yesterday read
“Maria thinks that he read the book yesterday”
(27) Predicates, focused material can be A-bar-moved. Predicates, focused
material cannot scramble
a. Die Suppe esseni hat keiner ti wollen
the soup-ACC eat has no-one-NOM wanted to
“No one wanted to eat the soup”
a'. Das BUCHi hat Maria ti gekauft, nicht die Zeitungen
the book-ACC has Maria-NOM bought not the newspapers-ACC
“Maria bought the book, not the newspapers”
b. ??dass die Suppe esseni hier keiner ti so richtig
that the soup-ACC eat here no-one-NOM really
wollte
wanted-to
“that no one really wanted to eat the soup”
b'. ??/*dass das BUCHi Maria ti gekauft hat
that the book-ACC Maria-NOM bought has
(und nicht die Zeitungen)
and not the newspapers-ACC
“that Maria bought the book, and not the newspapers”
Examples in (26) illustrate the clause-boundedness of scrambling ((26d) vs
(26b) and (26c)) as opposed to the non-clause-boundedness of topicalisation
(26a). The A-movement approach explains the opposition in terms of the local
binding of the trace left by das Buch within the VP (Chomsky, 1981). The
presence of an intermediate trace in Spec, CP of the embedded clause guaran-
tees this local binding:
(28) a. CP[Das Buchi glaubt Maria CP[ ti' hat er VP[ gestern ti gelesen]]]
b. *CP[Gesternj glaubt das Buchi Maria CP[ti' hat er VP[ti tj
gelesen]]]
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 137
c. *CP[Gesternj glaubt Maria das Buchi CP[hat er VP[ti tj
gelesen]]]
d. CP[Maria glaubt CP[er hat das Buchi VP[gestern ti gelesen]]]
However, this presence also makes the trace in the embedded VP qualify as
a variable.9
Since variables must be uniformly A-bar-bound, it follows that the
contrast between (28a) and (28b), (28c) reduces to a case of ‘proper’/
‘improper movement’ (Chomsky, 1981): all the links in the chain in (28a) A-
bar-bind the trace in the VP (proper movement), but the first link in both (28b)
and (28c) A-binds it (improper movement). As expected, (28d) is grammatical:
das Buch may locally bind ti, and no movement through intermediate positions
is required.
The A-movement approach also predicts the contrast in (27), albeit only
partially. It makes the correct predictions with respect to (27a) vs (27b):
scrambling is movement to Spec, AgrO, and movement to Spec, AgrO is
restricted to DP arguments. But it leaves the opposition between (27a') and
(27b') unexplained: if accusative Case may be optionally assigned either
within VP or in Spec, AgrOP, why are focused argumental DPs systematically
barred in Spec, AgrOP?10
As indicated above, Müller and Sternefeld (1993, 1994), and Müller (1995)
treat the data in (26) and (27) in a different way that makes them compatible
with an A-bar movement approach to German scrambling. Their basic
assumption is that scrambling is crosslinguistically adjunction, and that the
differences between scrambling languages may be explained as due to the
interaction between the parametrisation of adjunction sites and the ‘Principle of
Unambiguous Binding’. With respect to parametrisation, German grammar
allows for only two adjunction sites, IP and VP, which are respectively
reflected in pre-subject and post subject scrambling:
(29) a. CP[dass IP[das Buchi IP[Maria VP[gestern ti gelesen] hat]]
that the book Maria yesterday read has
“that Maria read the book yesterday”
b. CP[dass IP[Maria VP[das Buchi VP[gestern ti gelesen] hat]]
that Maria the book yesterday read has
“that Maria read the book yesterday”
The fact that the CP is not a possible adjunction site for German scrambling
entails that the only escape hatch a scrambled constituent may have in order to
leave its own clause is Spec, CP. The question now is what prevents movement
through this position. Müller and Sternefeld's answer is the ‘Principle of
138 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
Unambiguous Binding’ (PUB), which disallows binding from positions
belonging to different types:
(30) Principle of Unambiguous Binding (Müller and Sternefeld, 1993: 461)
A variable that is α-bound must be β-free in the domain of the head of
its chain (where α and β refer to different types of positions).
On this basis, the ungrammatical examples of (26)/(28) receive a
straightforward treatment: the trace in the VP is ambiguously bound by ti' in the
Spec, CP of the embedded clause (an α-type position), and das Buch adjoined
either to IP (26b, 28b) or to VP (26c, 28c) (β-type positions).
Müller and Sternefeld contend that the PUB may also explain why
scrambling as A-bar movement is restricted with respect to certain constituents,
as shown in (27) above. They argue that elements such as predicates or focused
constituents are characterized as operators, which entails that they must
undergo movement at LF so as to occupy an adequate operator position there.
If, as Müller and Sternefeld hypothesise, the PUB applies at both SS and LF in
German, the LF representation of a structure containing a scrambled operator
would violate it, as shown in (31a’) and (31b’), the LF representations that
correspond, respectively, to the surface structures in (31a) and (31b):
(31) a. ??CP[dass IP[die Suppe esseni IP[keiner VP[so richtig ti wollte]]]
that the soup to-eat no-one really wanted
“that no one really wanted to eat the soup”
a'. ??CP[αi dass IP[ti' IP[keiner VP[so richtig ti wollte]]]
b. ??/*CP[dass IP[das BUCHi IP[Maria VP[ti gekauft] hat]]
that the book Maria bought has
“that Maria bought the book”
b'. ??/*CP[αi dass IP[ti IP[Maria VP[ti gekauft] hat]]
In (31a’, b'), ti in the VP is bound by both ti' adjoined to IP (an β-type posi-
tion) and αi in Spec, C (an α-type position). Consequently, it is ambiguously
bound.11
Müller and Sternefeld's (1993) basic claim that German scrambling is just
an instance of A-bar-movement affected by the PUB finds additional support in
Müller and Sternefeld (1994) and Müller (1995), where two sets of data al-
ready used by the proponents of the A-movement approach are reviewed: para-
sitic gaps, and binding facts. They take the former to be decisive evidence for
an A-bar approach. However, as shown in the preceding section, Fanselow's
(1993, 2001) analysis of scrambling as a process completely independent of the
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 139
A/A-bar distinction is superior in one fundamental respect: it accounts for the
peculiar properties of parasitic gap constructions licensed by scrambling
chains, which make them parallel to conjunction reduction structures. There-
fore, I shall follow Fanselow in assuming that the presence of parasitic gaps
does not tell us much with respect to the A-bar nature of German scrambling.
Regarding binding facts, Müller and Sternefeld (1994) and Müller (1995)
capitalise on the problematic (15) above (repeated here as (32)), and add (33):
(32) *Gestern habe ich den Gästeni einanderi vorgestellt
yesterday have I the guests-DAT each-other-ACC introduced
“Yesterday I introduced each other to the guests”
(33) dass sichi der Fritzi ti hasst
that himself Fritz-NOM hates
“that Fritz hates himself”
As we saw in the section dealing with A-movement approaches, (32)
questioned the A-nature of scrambling in cases in which the displacement of
the accusative made binding of the dative anaphor possible (*Gestern habe
ich einanderi die Gästei vorgestellt vs Gestern habe ich die Gäste
einander ti vorgestellt for “Yesterday I introduced the guests to each other”).
The problem was why in (32), given a base-generated DAT-ACC order, the
dative cannot bind the accusative anaphor. Müller and Sternefeld argue that
this is due the obligatory movement the dative undergoes to the specifier of an
empty verbal head µ, which they characterise as A-bar: although it is a position
for Case-assignment (dative), no argument can ever be located there, as shown
in the articulated structure they propose for the German VP:
140 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
Notice that adopting Müller and Sternefeld’s account of (32) without further
stipulations does not rule out the cases in which scrambling of the accusative
seemed to feed binding of the dative: scrambling of the accusative to an A-bar
position should be as ungrammatical as movement of the dative to Spec, µ,
another A-bar position. But, as argued by the proponents of the A-movement
approach, this is not so:
(35) a. *Gestern habe ich einanderi die Gästei vorgestellt
yesterday have I each-other-DAT the guests-ACC introduced
“Yesterday I introduced the guests to each other”
b. Gestern habe ich die Gästei einanderi vorgestellt
yesterday have I the guests-ACC each-other-DAT introduced
“Yesterday I introduced the guests to each other”
However, Müller and Sternefeld state that these cases of a scrambling do not
go against an A-bar analysis if both base-generated and surface strings are
taken into account. With respect to the former, Müller and Sternefeld maintain
their general proposal of a base-generated order ACC-DAT, in which the accu-
sative object in β, a theta position, can bind the dative in δ. With respect to
IP
Subject I'
Iº
V'
VP V (µ)
V'
δ V'
V
α
DATIVE
ACCUSATIVE
(+Case, +Theta)
(+Case, -Theta)
VP
β
Argumental PPs,
adverbs, etc.
DATIVE
(-Case, +Theta) Y
(-Case, -Theta)
(34)
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 141
surface structure, they assume that dative movement does not take place be-
cause German anaphors do not require structural Case,12
which would explain
why the accusative may still bind the dative at SS. Nevertheless, notice this
account does not explain why (35b) does not present maximal focus, i.e. cannot
serve as an answer to a ‘what-happened-question’. A possible solution for this
difficulty would be to argue that ACC-DAT is always marked in German,
however it is generated. But it would require a theory of unmarked stress dif-
ferent from Cinque's NTPS, which is lacking in Müller (1995).
Furthermore, examples such as (36) question both the existence of dative
movement and the A-bar nature of scrambling (from Bayer and Kornfilt,
1994):
(36) a. Wir wollten dem Professori seine Sekretärini vorstellen
we wanted the professor-DAT his secretary-ACC to-introduce
“We wanted to introduce his secretary to the professor”
b. *Wir wollten [seine Sekretärini]j dem Professori tj vorstellen
we wanted his secretary-ACC the professor-DAT to-introduce
“We wanted to introduce his secretary to the professor”
c. [Seine Sekretärini]j haben wir dem Professori tj noch nie
his secretary-ACC have we the professor-DAT yet not
vorgestellt
introduced
“His secretary, we haven’t introduced to the professor yet”
According to Müller and Sternefeld's hypothesis, (36a) must be the result of
movement of the dative from its base position below the accusative to Spec, µ.
If Spec,µ is an A-bar position, the grammaticality of the structure is unex-
pected. On the other hand, even assuming that the well-formedness of (36a)
may be explained otherwise, scrambling of the accusative in (36b) should not
disrupt the licit binding relation of (36a), if, as Müller and Sternefeld argue,
scrambling targets an A-bar-position. That true instances of A-bar-movement
in German do not bleed binding is demonstrated by (36c), in which the accusa-
tive in Spec, CP is still bound by the dative. The GB model accounts for this by
resorting to reconstruction, an LF operation that forces A-bar-moved constitu-
ents to be interpreted, as far as binding is concerned, in their base position.
With respect to (33) above (repeated for convenience as (37), Müller (1995)
argues that it also supports the A-bar nature of scrambling drawn from binding
facts. He regards it as parallel to cases such as (38) below, where topicalisation
of an anaphor does not prevent the DP subject from binding it:
142 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(37) dass sichi der Fritzi ti hasst
that himself Fritz-NOM hates
“that Fritz hates himself”
(38) Sichi (selbst) hat Fritzi schon immer ti gemocht
himself has Fritz-NOM always liked
“Fritz has always liked himself”
Reconstruction is again responsible for the grammaticality of (37), (38): in
(38) A-bar-movement of the anaphor to Spec, CP allows for reconstruction of
the binding relation between Fritzi and ti at LF. If structures such as (37), where
the anaphor undergoes scrambling to an IP-adjoined position, also allow for
reconstruction, the conclusion is that pre-subject scrambling targets an A-bar
position. But this is not the only conclusion that can be drawn from such
German structures. For example, Santorini (1990) makes them compatible with
the A-movement approach by claiming that Inflexion can act as a binder for the
adjoined anaphor; Bayer and Kornfilt (1994) treat them as instances of clitici-
sation of the anaphor to C, which entails proper binding between the subject
and the VP-internal trace. Furthermore, the adoption of the ‘VP-internal subject
hypothesis’ makes it possible to reduce both IP and VP adjunction cases to
only one type, VP-adjunction. From this perspective, there is no reconstruction
at all: it is LF movement of the subject to Spec, IP the operation that permits
the binding of the VP-adjoined anaphor (Fanselow, 2001, on ideas by Kim and
Sternefeld, 1997).
Before concluding the present section, I would like to point out the general
merits of the A-bar approach to German scrambling as developed in Müller and
Sternefeld (1993, 1994) and Müller (1995), as well as its flaws. From an em-
pirical point of view, its most remarkable advantage is exhaustivity: all sets of
data traditionally associated to scrambling are dealt with, even those previously
considered irrefutable evidence for the A-approach. In addition, mechanisms
such as the ‘Adjunction Site Parameter’ and the PUB possess a great deal more
explanatory power (and elegance) than the ad hoc characterisations of the A/A-
bar positions the A-approach has resorted to in its different versions. At the
same time, it is clear that Müller and Sternefeld's system does not deal with the
binding facts any better than A-movement analyses do, and that most of their
evidence for an A-bar approach may be considered dubious (parasitic gaps;
reconstruction). Besides, it must be noticed that they do not treat the semantic
restrictions on scrambling appearing in the generalisations of the final section
of Chapter 3, a serious obstacle for any theory contending that scrambling is a
completely optional process.13
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 143
From a theoretical perspective, Müller and Sternefeld's proposal is very well
integrated in the framework it adopts, the GB model. But just this makes it
clearly incompatible with current models of grammatical explanation, where
operations such as the free IP/VP-adjunction process Müller and Sternefeld
argue for are no longer possible. We will revisit this issue in Section 1.2 below.
1.1.4 Scrambling as adjunction: A-movement. As noted above, the A/A-bar
distinction is based on the interaction between the nature of the projection tar-
geted (L-related vs non-L-related) and the kind of operation ‘Move α’ entails
(substitution vs adjunction). The standard assumption has been that A-move-
ment corresponds to substitution into an L-related projection, although
Chomsky's (1991, 1993) suggestion about the existence of both ‘narrowly-L-
related’ and ‘broadly-L-related’ positions makes adjunction compatible with
properties traditionally ascribed to conventional A-chains. This is the position
taken by Haider and Rosengren (1998, 2003), where German scrambling is
analysed as A-movement to a VP-adjoined position.
Haider and Rosengren argue that scrambling results from the requirements
Universal Grammar imposes on the well-formedness of projections and the
licensing of arguments, according to standard GB tenets and Haider's (1992)
‘Basic Branch Condition’, which are summarised below:
(39) Well-formedness conditions on projection structure (Haider and
Rosengren, 1998: 48)
a. The head of the projection occurs in the foot position.
b. The projection must obey the ‘Basic Branch Condition’: the
branching node of the projection line is to the right of its sister
node.
c. The head licenses the nodes attached to the projection line
directionally, and parametrically either to the right, or to the left.
OV-languages meet these structural requirements straightforwardly: in (40),
the final V of a German ditransitive predicate occurs in the foot position (39a),
on the right of its sister node (39b), and licenses its arguments parametrically to
the left (39c):
144 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
However, in VO languages there is a conflict between (39a), (39b) and the
head parameter: the head must occupy the foot position and license its
arguments to the right, which, given the BBC, allows for the licensing of just
one of them. The solution to the conflict is head movement, which results in
the Larsonian VP-shell structure for English ditransitive predicates (Larson,
1988):
Haider and Rosengren note that the type of projection structure in OV
languages allows for alternative positions for argument identification, which
are completely barred in the case of VO. These alternative positions are the
ones created by adjunction, which, in the case of a head-final lexical head, is
equivalent to X'-recursion: the left-adjoined constituent can be identified as
argument by a head that licenses to the left. In other words, left-adjunction in
OV languages extends the identification domain:
VP
XP V'
XP V'
XP Vº
(40)
VP
Vº VP
XP V'
Vº VP
XP V'
Vº XP
(41)
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 145
(42) illustrates the alternative identification domain corresponding to (40)
above. The only difference between them is that, whereas in (40) the lowest
argument is identified in the lowest position, in (42) identification takes place
in the adjoined position created by ‘Move α’. Haider and Rosengren call struc-
tures such as (40) ‘Minimal Argument Projection Complex’ (MAC), since they
contain all argument positions of the head within the minimum number of pro-
jected nodes. On the other hand, structures such as (42) are ‘extended projec-
tion complexes’, insofar as at least one more node needs to be projected: in
(42) the V' immediately dominated by the phrasal node. From this perspective,
scrambling is simply the instantiation of the option of extending the projection
domain that OV languages have and VO languages lack.
If adjoined positions are identification positions, the question becomes why
is it necessary at all to propose a projection structure encompassing both base-
generation and adjunction (XPi and ei in (42))? In other words, why must
scrambling involve a chain? Haider and Rosengren's answer is the ‘Principle of
Monotonic Mapping’:
(43) Principle of Monotonic Mapping (Haider and Rosengren, 1998: 52)
The A-structure ranking in the lexical A-structure of a lexical head is
mapped onto a syntactic c-command hierarchy.
Thus, (42) is completely justified: the lower position responds to the de-
mands imposed by the ‘Principle of Monotonic Mapping’; the higher position
is the result of the choice of an extended domain over a simple MAC.
As it stands, Haider and Rosengren's account can explain with no further
stipulations the most uncontroversial property of scrambling, namely its clause-
boundedness: if scrambling is argument identification, it must take place within
the limits of the phrasal projection of the lexical head. Furthermore, since the
VP
XPi V'
XP V'
XP V'
ei Vº
(42)
146 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
identification mechanism itself requires the lexical head to be final, it predicts
why argument reordering is also possible within APs (44) but not within NPs
(45):
(44) a. ein AP[jedem an Kraft überlegener] Sportler
an everyone-DAT in power superior athlete
“an athlete superior to everyone in power”
b. ein AP[ [an Kraft]i jedem ti überlegener] Sportler
an in power everyone-DAT superior athlete
“an athlete superior to everyone in power”
(45) a. die NP[Versendung von Briefen an Verwandte]
the forwarding of letters to relatives
“the forwarding of letters to relatives”
b.*die NP[Versendung [an Verwandte]i von Briefen ti]
the forwarding to relatives of letters
“the forwarding of letters to relatives”
However, Haider and Rosengren's proposal does not explain data of the kind
presented in our examples (32d,e) and (36a,a') in the preceding chapter
(repeated here for convenience as (46) and (47)), which clearly indicate that
reordering of an element of a head final projection may target a position be-
yond the limits of the MAC:14
(46) a. Er war wahrscheinlich an diesem Sporti immer allen ti
he was probably in this sport always all-DAT
überlegener
superior
“Probably, he was always superior to everyone in this sport”
b. Er war wahrscheinlich diesen Männerni immer an Sport ti
he was probably these men-DAT always in sport
überlegener
superior
“Probably, he was always superior to these men in sport”
(47) Peter ist den Flussi gestern nicht ti entlang gefahren
Peter has the river-ACC yesterday not along driven
“Peter didn’t drive along the river yesterday”
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 147
With respect to binding facts, Haider and Rosengren contend that they
constitute a proof for the A-chain involved in their proposal. Unlike Müller
(1995), they assume that ditransitive verbs are divided into two main groups as
far as base-generation of arguments is concerned, those presenting DAT-ACC,
and those presenting ACC-DAT. The distinction, they argue, is not stipulative,
but depends on the mapping of the verbal conceptual structure onto thematic
structure: for example, a ditransitive verb whose conceptual structure involves
a possessor (DAT) and a theme (ACC) would make DAT precede ACC, since
possessors are ranked higher than themes. But ACC will precede DAT if the
conceptual structure requires a source/goal (DAT) and a theme (ACC). In the
case of the problematic examples with vorstellen discussed by Müller (1995),
in which anaphor binding is possible only if ACC is the binder and DAT the
bindee (48), Haider and Rosengren (1998, 2003) contend that, if one assumes
DAT-ACC as base-generated, such examples do not undermine their main
claim, that is, that the extended verbal domain contain only A-positions
(including the scrambling ones):
(48) a. dass man die Gästei einander ti vorstellte
that one-NOM the guests-ACC one-another-DAT introduced
“that someone introduced the guests to each other”
b. *dass man den Gästeni einanderi vorstellte
that one-NOM the guests-DAT one-another-ACC introduced
*“that someone introduced each other to the guests”
(48a) is derived by base-generation of DAT-ACC in the MAC, plus further
displacement of the accusative to a position within the extended projection (i.e.
scrambling). On the other hand, (48b) is clearly ungrammatical, but this does
not demonstrate either that DAT-ACC is not base-generated or that the dative
position is not an A-position, as shown by the well-formedness of (49) below
(Haider and Rosengren, 2003):
(49) a. Ich habe den Gästeni von einanderi erzählt
I have the guests-DAT of each-other told
“I told the guests about each other”
b. Ich habe den Gästeni Gerüchte über einanderi erzählt
I have the guests-DAT rumours-ACC about each-other told
“I told the guests rumours about each other”
The only difference between (48b) and (49) is the syntactic status of the
bindee, i.e. the anaphor, a coargument in the former case, and a complement
148 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
within the prepositional coargument (that is, not a coargument itself) in the
latter. On this basis, Haider and Rosengren conclude (contra Müller, 1995) that
it is not the status of the position occupied by the dative which accounts for the
impossibility of (48b), but rather a ban on lexically Case-specified arguments
binding coarguments with structural Case.15
The second set of examples that Haider and Rosengren (1998) consider as
potential counterevidence for their approach are those constituted by pre-sub-
ject scrambling, in which a scrambled anaphor is still bound by a structurally
lower subject ((34), (38a) above, repeated here as (50)):
(50) dass sichi der Fritzi ti hasst
that himself Fritz-NOM hates
“that Fritz hates himself”
Such examples as (50) were unproblematic for A-bar analyses of German
scrambling, and, as discussed in the preceding section, several devices may
make them compatible with those proposals that argue for standard A-move-
ment. But things are more complicate in Haider and Rosengren's system: if any
other argument than the subject may occupy the higher position in the extended
projection, nominative Case cannot be the product of the relation between
INFL (or AgrS) and the highest argument within VP, as the VP-internal subject
hypothesis (Koopman and Sportiche, 1991) predicts. Therefore, they defend
the view that nominative Case is just the reflex of a feature matrix present on
both the subject and the finite verb. Since, by being the head of the projection,
the finite verb c-commands all the phrases within it, sich in (48) does not need
to be bound by the subject below, because it is effectively bound by the phrasal
head, which, in turn, agrees with the subject.
Despite arguing for a movement approach to scrambling, Haider and
Rosengren contend that scrambling structures are not subject to ‘Freezing’.
They argue that all the examples given in the literature as supporting the
impossibility of displacement out of a scrambled constituent may be explained
otherwise, although, in fact, they deal with only one type (‘Freezing’ in was für
constructions), and disregard the rest. They justify the lack of ‘Freezing’ on the
basis of an allegedly clear-cut distinction between substitution and adjunction
operations: whereas the former create opaque domains for extraction, the latter
do not. But examples such as (51) below, in which movement out of Spec, CP
is possible, casts doubt upon the sharpness of the opposition (Chomsky, 1986):
(51) ?Whoj do you wonder CP[[which pictures of tj]i ti are on sale]?
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 149
Besides, the preponderance of Haider and Rosengren's examples for ‘Anti-
Freezing’ comes from scrambling of coherent infinitival clauses, which, in
their account, parallels extraposition in that “neither has an effect on extracta-
bility” (p. 33). Nevertheless (as shown in the preceding chapter), extractability
seems to be sensitive to the type of movement involved only in the scrambling
case (52), and not in extraposition structures (53) (examples in (52) from
Grewendorf and Sabel, 1994):
(52) a. Wenj hat [tj zu füttern]i keiner tj versucht?
who-ACC has to feed no-one-NOM tried
“Who did no one try to feed?”
b. *dass den Hundj zweifellos [tj zu füttern]i keiner
that the dog-ACC undoubtedly to feed no-one-NOM
ti versuchte
tried
“that, undoubtedly, no one tried to feed the dog”
(53) a. Wenj hat keiner ti versucht [tj zu füttern]?
who-ACC has no-one-NOM tried to feed
“Who did no one try to feed?”
b. dass den Hundj zweifellos keiner ti versuchte
that the dog-ACC undoubtedly no-one-NOM tried
[tj zu füttern]i
to feed
“that, undoubtedly, no one tried to feed the dog”
Haider and Rosengren's proposal predicts the grammaticality of (52a): the
adjoined position occupied by the infinitival clause belongs to the extended V-
projection, and is transparent for extraction. But their analysis cannot rule out
(52b), in which movement of den Hund past the matrix sentence adverb makes
the structure ungrammatical. Although they do not address this kind of exam-
ple, let us assume that (52b) is ill-formed not because [tj zu füttern] cannot be
identified as an argument of versuchen in its derived position,16
but rather be-
cause den Hund has moved to a position which is outside the extended projec-
tion of the VP headed by zu füttern. That this is not the case, however, can be
demonstrated by resorting to Haider and Rosengren's own theory. Haider and
Rosengren distinguish between regular scrambling and T-scrambling: regular
scrambling is restricted to arguments targeting an adjoined position within the
extended VP-projection; T-scrambling displaces both arguments and non-ar-
guments to the specifier of a split CP-projection. Now let us assume that [tj zu
150 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
füttern] has undergone regular scrambling, whereas den Hund has T-scram-
bled, which bars an analysis in which failure of proper identification between
den Hund and its predicate is responsible for the ungrammaticality of (52b).
Haider and Rosengren claim that, contrary to regular scrambling, T-scrambling
is not clause-bound, which, apart from leaving the opposition between (52a)
and (52b) completely unexplained, runs against the grammaticality of (54):
(54) dass den Hundi zweifellos keiner [ti zu füttern] versuchte
that the dog-ACC undoubtedly no-one-NOM to feed tried
“that, undoubtedly, no one tried to feed the dog”
In (54) the infinitival clause appears within the MAC, that is, it has not been
displaced to the optional adjoined position that regular scrambling targets. If,
according to Haider and Rosengren, both the MAC and extended positions are
transparent for extraction, it is surprising that the alleged T-scrambling of den
Hund is possible from the former but not from the latter. The conclusion seems
that the strong prediction Haider and Rosengren's system makes with respect to
‘(Anti-)Freezing’ is not empirically supported.
With respect to the properties that characterise scrambled elements at LF
and PF (i.e. presuppositionality and destressing), Haider and Rosengren agree
with most researchers that they are uncontroversial. Destressing of the scram-
bled constituent (and hence the absence of maximal focus in scrambled struc-
tures) derives straightforwardly from their account: if scrambling involves
chain formation, a scrambling trace in a lower position would prevent stress on
a higher constituent from being associated to maximal focus, on the assumption
that maximal focus requires stress on the lowest argument position in the VP:
(55) Was passiert?
“What happens?”
a. dass Linguisten BalLADen interpretieren
that linguists-NOM ballads-ACC interpret
“that linguist interpret ballads”
b. #dass Balladeni LinguISTen ti interpretieren
that ballads-ACC linguist-NOM interpret
“that linguists interpret ballads”
Regarding the presuppositional meaning of scrambled constituents, Haider
and Rosengren try to make it compatible with one of the core properties their
proposal assigns to scrambling: its optionality. They depart from theories that
adopt derivational economy as a constraint,17
and instead argue for economy of
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 151
representation: for a given array of terminals the minimal convergent structure
is projected. In this light, a structure for scrambling and a structure with base
order are different structures, but each of them may be the minimally
convergent one for different array of terminals. Thus, scrambling and non
scrambling strings are equally economical.
Recall that both base-generated and scrambling orders come for free in OV
languages, basically due to the way the head parameter interacts with the other
constraints on the well-formedness of projections. This gives OV languages the
possibility of exploiting the distinction between the two at the interfaces. At the
semantic interface, Haider and Rosengren adopt Diesing's (1992) ‘Mapping
Hypothesis’,18
according to which syntactic c-command domains are mapped
onto hierarchically structured semantic type-domains. In the case of any
discrepancy between c-command domains at SS and semantic type-domains
(for example, an accusative object within VP, the domain of existential closure,
and its specific or generic reading), VO languages must resort to operations
such as LF movement. But this is not necessary in OV languages, where
scrambling structures may be exploited as to overtly adjust syntax and
semantics. With respect to what they call the ‘information structure interface’,
Haider and Rosengren contend that scrambling structures are exploited in two
different ways: they allow foci to appear closer to the end of the clause (a
requirement imposed by the focus theory they develop); they help to restrict the
focus domain. In this view, presuppositional elements do not necessarily
scramble:
(56) Wem hast du das Geld gegeben?
“Who did you give the money?”
a. Ich habe dem KasSIErer das Geld gegeben
I have the teller-DAT the money-ACC given
“I gave the money to the teller”
b. Ich habe das Geldi dem KasSIErer ti gegeben
I have the money-ACC the teller-DAT given
“I gave the money to the teller”
In (56b) scrambling of the accusative object allows the dative to appear in
the lowest phonetically realised argumental position. But (56a) is also a well-
formed answer. If scrambling had to obligatorily apply to presupposed ele-
ments, (56a) would be ruled out.
This will conclude our summary of Haider and Rosengren's account of
German scrambling. As noted at the beginning of the section, theirs is the only
analysis of German scrambling that contends that adjunction may create an A-
152 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
chain. But what are its advantages with respect to more traditional substitution
A-chain/adjunction A-bar-chain approaches? In my view, the main advantage
is the correlation it establishes between scrambling and the head-final
parameter, and the parallelism derived from it between reordering processes in
the VP and reordering processes in other head-final projections such as APs. It
also explains some data frequently disregarded in the literature, such as the one
illustrated in (57) (from Haider and Rosengren, 1998):
(57) [Sein Argumentj allen tj erläutert]i hat er doch gestern ti
his argument-ACC all-DAT explained has he PART yesterday
“He explained his argument to everyone yesterday”
(57) is an instance of VP-topicalisation, with the VP headed by erläutert in
Spec, CP. If, as traditionally assumed, no category larger than VP can be topi-
calised in German,19
scrambling of the accusative object past the dative must
obligatorily take place within VP. Thus, the grammaticality of (57) is a proof
supporting the view of scrambling as a VP-internal process.
However, Haider and Rosengren's hypothesis does not fare any better than
previous analyses have done with respect to conflicting sets of evidence. Thus,
the ‘Freezing/Anti-Freezing Paradox’ is solved less persuasively than in Müller
and Sternefeld's system by eliminating potential counterexamples, as has been
suggested above. In the same vein, although they deal with the complexity of
binding facts, their analysis resorts to assumptions that, merely by not being
discussed in the light of more traditional theories, are completely stipulative.
For instance, there are no clear reasons why the dative of ditransitive predicates
must be lexical in German, or why the account of nominative Case as shared
feature matrix is superior to the standard one, except that, in both cases, they
favour Haider and Rosengren's conception of scrambling. Finally, their claim
that reordering is truly optional is the same claim that appears in all the studies
of the phenomenon within a GB framework, without exceptions. In that
respect, while their hypothesis may avoid obvious handicaps, it does not offer
any positive advantages.
1.1 Scrambling as ‘Move’ (the ‘Minimalist Program’)
In the preceding section, it was shown that GB analyses of German
scrambling are mainly concerned with its characterisation as an instance of A-
or A-bar-movement. As argued there, this is merely a consequence of the
model adopted, in which movement operations are considered to apply
optionally. With the advent of the ‘Minimalist Program’ (MP) (Chomsky 1993;
1995; 2000; 2001; 2004), the fundamental issue became not what kind of
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 153
movement process displaces scrambled constituents, but rather why they are
displaced at all. And, as in the GB case, this is required by the model itself, in
all its different versions. Nonetheless, at this juncture, the discussion will focus
exclusively on the way ‘Move’ is envisaged in the earliest minimalist literature
(Chomsky 1992; 1995), since it constitutes the background for the analyses of
German scrambling to be reviewed in this section. The modifications appearing
in subsequent works will be treated in Chapter 5 (Section 1.3), where they
become more relevant.
Chomsky (1995, 2000) suggests that in fact the ‘Minimalist Program’ is a
logic extension of the GB framework for two reasons: first, because both are
versions of the more general ‘Principle and Parameters’ (PP) approach, in
which grammars of natural languages are simply the combination of invariable,
biologically determined, principles (Universal Grammar) with others that are
variously fixed on the basis of primary linguistic data (parameters); second,
because the MP benefits from the way any other previous version of the PP
approach, especially GB, has contributed to solving the tension between
descriptive and explanatory adequacy: once the tension has proved not to be an
insurmountable obstacle, other, some new questions about the faculty of lan-
guage may be addressed.
One of those questions is whether language is optimally designed, where
‘optimally designed’ must be understood with regard to the interaction of lan-
guage with other, non-linguistic systems. Those non-linguistic systems are of
two types: sensorimotor systems, since sentences, phrases, etc. are pronounced;
and systems of thoughts, insofar as sentences, phrases, etc. are interpreted.
Thus, if language is optimally designed, the null (minimalist) hypothesis is that
it must be necessarily endowed with two separate levels, one interfacing with
sensorimotor systems (‘Phonological Form’, PF), the other interfacing with
systems of thought (‘Logical Form’, LF). Since no more levels are conceptu-
ally required, Chomsky (1995) eliminates the two additional levels the GB
model proposed (‘Deep Structure’ and ‘Surface Structure’), showing that the
empirical evidence that led to adopting them may be explained in other terms.
But that language must optimally consist of more than the two interface
levels is clearly seen in the fact that words are put together in larger units
(phrases), and, in turn, phrases are combined into other, still larger, units. The
minimalist assumption is that language is endowed with a transformational
component, ‘Narrow Syntax’ (NS), where lexical items are assembled. NS
interacts with the two interface levels according to the standard Y-diagram in
(58), which replaces the GB-diagram in (5):
154 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
It will be noticed that the only specifications (58) would require would be
those referred to the exact set of words that enter the computation, and the kind
of operation responsible for their combination. With respect to the former,
Chomsky (1995) argues that for each language there exists an inventory of
lexical items, phonologically and semantically characterised in terms of fea-
tures, the lexicon (Lex). A subset of Lex (the numeration), selected at the be-
ginning of the derivation, serves as an input for subsequent syntactic operations
in ‘Narrow Syntax’ and the interface levels. With respect to the kind of proce-
dure that combines the different lexical items of the numeration, Chomsky
states that the basic one is Merge, which, in the simplest case, adds an element
α to other β:
The new category thus formed receives a label, either α or β, and may be
further combined:
Once all the lexical items of the numeration have been merged in ‘Narrow
Syntax’, they are handed over to the interface levels, where they must result in
strings fulfilling the legibility conditions imposed by the external systems. This
means that only those features phonologically legible are allowed at PF, and
only those semantically legible are allowed at LF. If this is the case, the
derivation converges (both at PF and LF); otherwise, it crashes.
But it is obvious that a design of the kind proposed so far cannot accommo-
date two of the most pervasive properties of natural languages, two apparent
imperfections, in Chomsky's (2000) words: the phonological/ morphological
encoding of grammatical information (inflectional affixes), and the possibility
of dislocating constituents.
Phonological Form
Narrow Syntax
Logical Form
α β
(59)
(58)
γ α
α β
(60)
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 155
With respect to the presence of inflectional affixes in lexical items, the GB
framework considered it as a manifestation of the existence of two different
types of phrasal projections: lexical projections, headed by the contentful part
of the lexical item (the stem), and functional projections, headed by the inflec-
tional affix itself. In the Minimalist Program, this analysis is maintained in a
simplified form: lexical heads are occupied by both the stem and the inflec-
tional affix; the inflectional affix is associated with a certain kind of feature,
and functional projections are headed by the same kind of feature. These fea-
tures are what Chomsky (1995) calls formal features, which, in the earliest ver-
sion of the program, are basically divided into two main types: V(erbal)-fea-
tures (tense), and N(ominal)-features (phi-features and Case features). As
might be expected, verbs are endowed with V-features, and nouns with N-fea-
tures. However, all the functional projections involved in the Case-agreement
system are headed by both V- and N-features (AgrOP, TP, AgrSP). Generally
speaking, formal features are not legitimate objects at the interfaces, insofar as
they cannot be interpreted there.20
This entails that they must be prevented
from accessing PF and LF by means of their elimination in ‘Narrow Syntax’.
The procedure envisaged in Chomsky (1995) for eliminating uninterpretable
features is ‘Feature Checking’. In order for ‘Feature Checking’ to take place,
the presence of the uninterpretable feature must be correlated with the presence
of another one matching it on an element located in the ‘Checking Domain’ of
the constituent carrying [–Int]. The ‘Checking Domain’ of a head H includes
the specifier of H, a head position adjoined to H, a position adjoined to the
maximal projection of H, and a position adjoined to the specifier of H. In the
simplest case, direct merge of an element of the numeration in any of those
positions would result in elimination of the uninterpretable feature, if the
merged element bears an appropriate, matching feature. However, it will be
noticed that no checking can take place between a head and its complement.
Assume that verbs (α) are first merged with their complements (β), and that
accusative Case is the surface manifestation of a formal uninterpretable feature
[Case] both on the nominal and the verb. Given Chomsky's definition of
‘Checking Domain’, it is obvious that a design of the kind in (61) would not
prevent the illegible Case feature from being handed over to the interfaces:
α
α β
(61)
156 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
Nevertheless, after merging of the subject, the derivation proceeds by in-
serting the inflectional head AgrO, hosting two uninterpretable features, a V-
feature that must be checked by a verbal counterpart, and an N-feature, whose
elimination requires a nominal constituent in its ‘Checking Domain’. Thus, the
presence of AgrO would force both the verb α and the object β to undergo re-
merging, in an instance of the second pervasive property of natural languages:
dislocation, or ‘Move’. In this light, the fact that language allows for disloca-
tion appears inextricably related to the existence of morphological, formal fea-
tures. Chomsky (2000) hypothesises that, probably, formal features and dislo-
cation may reduce to a single property, dislocation, which, given minimalist
assumptions, must be required by interface conditions: dislocation seems to
involve semantic distinctions of the kind of topic-comment, presupposition,
focus, specificity, new/old information, etc. If this were so, the existence of
formal uninterpretable features and an operation such as Move (dislocation)
would constitute an optimal solution to the conditions imposed by the external
systems.
The application of Move is variously constrained. First, since it involves re-
merging of an already merged constituent, it applies only to elements c-com-
manded by the attracting head, that is, the head carrying the [–Int] feature.
Second, it obeys economy conditions. One of them is ‘Greed’ (Chomsky,
1995), later reformulated as ‘Suicidal Greed’ (Chomsky, 2000), which restricts
the sets of possible ‘goals’ (that is, elements movable to the checking domain)
with regard to their feature characterisation: apart from carrying compatible,
matching features, they must also carry uninterpretable ones, so that the
checking procedure established with the head (the ‘probe’) results in the elimi-
nation of uninterpretable features both on the probe and goal. The second im-
portant economy constraint is the ‘Minimal Link Condition’, which states that
only closest goals may undergo dislocation for ‘Feature Checking’:
(62) ‘Minimal Link Condition’ (Chomsky, 1995: 311)
(i) K attracts α only if there is no β, β closer to K than α, such that
K attracts β
(ii) α is closer to target K than β if α c-commands β
The general conclusion is that ‘Feature Checking’ is possible only if a c-
commanding [–Int] head attracts to its checking domain the closest c-com-
manded constituent carrying both a feature matching [–Int] on H, and a feature
that needs to be eliminated.
The null minimalist assumption is that natural languages do not differ with
respect to their inventory of formal features, and that formal (uninterpretable)
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 157
features are crosslinguistically illegible at the interfaces. Thus, uninterpretable
features must be invariably eliminated in ‘Narrow Syntax’ by means of
dislocation, i.e. the operation ‘Move’. However, evidence points to the con-
trary, as shown by the contrast between the English structures in (63) and the
German structures in (64) below (German examples based on Fanselow, 2004):
(63) a. Girls have not kissed him yet
b. *have not girls kissed him yet
(64) a. dass getantz wird
that danced is
“that one dances”
b. [Mädchen geküsst] haben ihn noch nie
girls-NOM kissed have him-ACC yet never
“So far girls haven’t kissed him”
Assuming the VP-internal hypothesis (Koopman and Sportiche, 1991), sub-
jects are base-generated within VP and subsequently moved to Spec, AgrS.
From a minimalist perspective, nominative Case is the result of the checking
relation established between a probe, Agrs, and the subject in Spec, VP: the
uninterpretable N-feature on the probe (AgrS) attracts the interpretable N-fea-
ture of the goal, the c-commanded subject. Besides, the uninterpretable feature
[–Case] on the nominal also allows it to undergo displacement (according to
‘Greed’). In consequence, the subject moves to the checking domain of AgrS,
specifically to Spec, AgrS. This straightforwardly accounts for the opposition
between (63a) and (63b): (63a) is grammatical because no uninterpretable, i.e.
illegible, feature is transferred to the interface levels; in (63b) the uninter-
pretable features of AgrS and the uninterpretable [–Case] feature on girls are
still visible for at least one of the interfaces. But the displacement of the VP-
internal subject to the checking domain of AgrS does not seem to be required
in the German examples in (64): although it could be argued that ‘Merge’ of a
non-phonologically realised expletive makes the grammaticality of (64a) par-
allel to that of there-sentences in English, (64b) proves that, in fact, uninter-
pretable features on AgrS and the VP-internal subject do not necessarily entail
‘Move’: the whole VP, containing the subject Mädchen is topicalised, barring
feature checking between AgrS and the nominal subject. However, the sen-
tence is not ruled out.
In order to account for such contrasts, the system developed in Chomsky
(1993; 1995) draws a distinction between strong features and weak features.
Strong features must be eliminated before the derivation reaches the
158 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
phonological interface, that is before ‘Spell-Out’ (SO) takes place, which is
demonstrated by its phonological reflex, namely word order. Thus, strong
features require checking by means of ‘overt movement’. On the other hand,
weak features are eliminated after the derivation has been handed over to PF,
that is, following SO, and that is why ‘Move’ is not phonologically rendered as
a change in order: weak features are checked by means of ‘covert movement’.
In this light, the only difference between the English and German examples
above relates to the strength of the features in question.
Notice that making ‘Spell-Out’ the dividing line between overt and covert
movement entails the modification of the possible optimal design for language
in (55): if weak features may be checked after SO, and SO is transfer to PF,
the computational system (and the operations taking place in it, such as ‘Move’
itself) must run on line to LF, with the derivation from SO to PF subject to the
rules and operations of a separate, phonological component, according to (65):
This concludes our summary of the way in which the operation ‘Move’ is
characterised in the version of the MP developed in Chomsky (1993; 1995).
Such a characterisation entails for any movement approach to German
scrambling that adopts it that if scrambling is ‘Move’, it must be implemented
only for the checking of formal uninterpretable strong features. This, in turn,
requires the proper identification of the strong features at stake (for both the
probe and the goal), as well as an exact checking domain. In the next section,
we will review how the different proposals make these theoretical requirements
compatible with the sets of data we have presented in other parts of this work
(Chapter 3, and the previous sections of this chapter).
1.2.1 An excursion into Dutch: scrambling as checking of a [+Case] feature.
The first study that deals with scrambling within a minimalist framework is
Zwart (1993), whose main tenets are retained in Zwart (1997). Its proposal is
restricted to Dutch scrambling, and constitutes a kind of minimalist revival of
Narrow Syntax
LF
PF
Spell-Out
(65)
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 159
the GB approaches that argued for an analysis of the process in terms of
substitution in an A-position (Mahajan, 1990; Déprez, 1989; Moltmann, 1990;
etc.).21
Zwart (1993, 1997) shares with those earlier proposals that scrambling
displaces a nominal object to the specifier of AgrO, but departs from them in
two fundamental respects. The first is related to Zwart's adoption of Kayne's
(1994) ‘Linear Correspondence Axiom’ (LCA) (see Chapter 2, Section 1),
according to which phrases are universally built up as in (66), with specifiers to
the left, and complements to the right of the projection line:
The second derives from the way Case movement is rendered within the
minimalist framework. According to minimalist tenets, all instances of overt
(that is, visible) displacement are the result of the checking of a formal uninter-
pretable strong feature. In the case at hand, Zwart proposes that the N-feature
in AgrO provokes movement of the object to Spec, AgrO, an operation that, as
in Chomsky (1993), causes the elimination of both that N-feature and the
[Case] feature on the object. Therefore, scrambling responds to the needs of
both probe and goal, as shown in the Dutch example in (67):
(66) XP
Specifier X'
X Complement
(66)
160 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(67) dat Jan Marie gisteren gekust heeft
that Jan-NOM Marie-ACC yesterday kissed has
“that Jan kissed Marie yesterday”
Zwart's analysis raises several questions, which he answers by resorting to
further theoretical refinements. The first one is already addressed by Chomsky
(1993), and refers to the compatibility of the VP-internal subject hypothesis
(Koopman and Sportiche, 1991) with the minimalist approach to scrambling as
Case checking. As illustrated by (67) above, where the subject has not moved
yet to its canonical position in Dutch (Spec, AgrS), movement of the object to
Spec, AgrO apparently goes against economy considerations of the type of the
‘Minimal Link Condition’ in (62): how can Jan, in Spec, VP target Spec, AgrS
for nominative Case checking, if the intervening Marie is the closest goal?
Chomsky's system makes the issue dependent on the obligatory raising of the
V-head for the elimination of the verbal feature on AgrO, T and AgrS, and the
notion of ‘Equidistance’ derived from it:
(68) Equidistance
If α, β are in the same minimal domain, they are equidistant from γ.
AgrOP
Marie AgrO'
[N-feature]
[case]
AgrO VP
[N-feature]
[case]
Jan V'
[N-feature]
[case]
V NP
Marie
[N-feature]
[-case]
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 161
The minimal domain of a head includes its complement, its specifier, and
whatever is adjoined to the head, to its specifier, or to its maximal projection.
Notice that, in (69), a full-fledged version of (67) above, ‘Equidistance’ allows
not only for subject movement to Spec, AgrS across the intervening object in
Spec, AgrO, but also for object movement itself: the displacement of the object
to Spec, AgrO across the subject in Spec, VP is a problem of ‘Relativised
Minimality’ (Rizzi, 1990), on the basis that the two positions involved are of
the same type, A-positions. ‘Relativised Minimality’ has clearly an economy
aspect of the kind defended in the ‘Minimalist Program’, insofar as it predicts
that movement operations must be highly local. ‘Equidistance’ makes it com-
patible with the model in Chomsky (1993): V-raising to AgrO creates the chain
{Vk+AgrO, tk}, which enlarges the minimal domain of the verbal element. This
makes Spec, AgrO and Spec, VP be equidistant from the object position within
the VP. On the other hand, failure of the MLC in ruling out the movement of
the subject to Spec, AgrS across the object in Spec, AgrO is explained by suc-
cessive raising of V to AgrS, which would also make Spec, TP and Spec,
AgrO equidistant to VP and everything it contains, including the subject. Thus,
movement of the object to the lower agreement projection does not preclude
displacement of the subject to the higher one:
AgrS
Janj AgrS'
TP
T+AgrO+Vk AgrOP
Mariei AgrO'
AgrO+Vk VP
tj V'
tk ti
AgrS+T+AgrO+Vk
(69)
162 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
Although Chomsky's model explicitly requires overt object movement of the
kind Zwart proposes for Dutch to be possible only with overt V-raising, the
fact is that structures such as (70) are completely ungrammatical (from
Neeleman and Reinhart, 1998):22
(70) Dutch
*dat Jan AgrOP[het boeki AgrO[lasj VP[langzaam tj ti]]
that Jan-NOM the book-ACC read slowly
“that Jan read the book slowly”
The ungrammaticality of (70) was not a problem for the GB approaches that
treated scrambling as Case checking: since economy considerations were com-
pletely lacking, equidistance and obligatory V-to-AgrO raising were irrelevant.
Even in the cases in which verb raising were to be maintained, claiming the
head-final character of agreement projections in Dutch would discard (70) as a
case of illegal movement to the right. But recall that Zwart adopts Kayne's anti-
symmetry hypothesis, while being forced to assume V-to-AgrO movement in
order to preserve the advantages of Chomsky's notion of ‘Equidistance’. To
reconcile both tenets with the ill-formedness of (70), Zwart contends that, al-
though verb raising is overt in Dutch as Chomsky's system predicts, its effects
are invisible due to the fact that it is restricted to formal features only. Zwart's
solution fits the earliest version of the ‘Minimalist Program’, where feature
movement was a possibility,23
but is obviously rather difficult to test empiri-
cally.
The second question raised by Zwart's analysis relates to the reason why GB
analyses of scrambling as Case checking were abandoned with the advent of
the ‘Minimalist Program’, namely the apparent optionality of the process. It
will be recalled that, as extensively shown in the preceding chapter, existential
DPs invariably resist scrambling in German, and definite DPs do not always
scramble. This seems to be true also for Dutch, as illustrated by the examples
below (from Zwart, 1997):
(71) a. dat Jan gisteren een meisje gekust heeft
that Jan-NOM yesterday a girl-ACC kissed has
“that Jan kissed a girl yesterday”
*“that Jan kissed a particular girl yesterday”
b. dat Jan een meisje gisteren gekust heeft
that Jan-NOM a girl-ACC yesterday kissed has
“that Jan kissed a particular girl yesterday”
*“that Jan kissed a girl yesterday’
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 163
(72) a. dat Jan gisteren Marie gekust heeft
that Jan-NOM yesterday Marie-ACC kissed has
“that Jan kissed Marie yesterday”
b. dat Jan Marie gisteren gekust heeft
that Jan-NOM Marie-ACC yesterday kissed has
“that Jan kissed Marie yesterday”
If the N-feature of AgrO is strong in Dutch, and accusative Case is checked
by means of overt movement of the object to Spec, AgrO, (71a) and (72a)
should be ruled out as the products of derivations in which uninterpretable
features reach the interface levels. Since both of them are grammatical, Zwart
argues that feature checking has in fact taken place, and there is no difference
between the structures in (a) and (b) with respect to the position occupied by
the object: in the four structures, the accusative has moved to Spec, AgrO. He
contends that it is rather the complex interaction between prosodic phrasing
and the placement of the different types of adverbs the element responsible for
the facts in (71) and (72), on the basis of the correlation between stress and
new information. Briefly, Zwart assumes that a stressed object in Spec, AgrO
always constitutes a prosodic phrase with the final verb, and prosodic phrases
cannot be nested, that is, they cannot contain other prosodic phrases
(Truckenbrodt, 1995). Thus, if existential interpretation correlates with new
information, and new information, in turn, correlates with stress, the existential
reading in (71b) is ruled out by assuming that gisteren, a sentence adverb for
Zwart, receives a secondary pitch accent, which would allow it to form its own
prosodic phrase. With respect to (72), since definites are optionally D-linked,
they may appear unstressed in Spec, AgrO, which would prevent them from
forming a prosodic unit with the verb, thus enabling the adverb to form its own
licit prosodic phrase (72b). On the other hand, if a definite is to be interpreted
as non-D-linked, it will follow the adverb, in the traditional non-scrambling
string (71a). Zwart's analysis makes both D-linking and stress assignment
completely independent of syntactic position, against syntactic approaches to
nuclear stress of the kind in Chomsky and Halle (1968), or Cinque (1993).
Therefore, it is expected that a non-D-linked object may precede an adverbial,
if the adverbial, in turn, is unstressed. Zwart contends that (73a) below illus-
trates such a case:
(73) a. dat Jan MaRIE gisteren gekust heeft
that Jan-NOM Marie-ACC yesterday kissed has
“that Jan kissed Marie yesterday”
164 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
b. dat Jan gisteren MaRIE gekust heeft
that Jan-NOM yesterday Marie-ACC kissed has
“that Jan kissed Marie yesterday”
According to Zwart, the reason that both structures in (73) are well-formed
is that gisteren does not receive the secondary pitch accent that permits it to
form its own prosodic phrase. But this contradicts his account of the existential
reading in (71) above: why is it that gisteren is more generally stressed if the
object is indefinite, and less generally if the object is definite? In fact, Zwart
suggests that it is possible to construct examples in which an existential
indefinite precedes an unstressed sentence adverb, but he does not give them,
since “they are rarely encountered in everyday speech” (1997: 100). Obviously,
this does not extend to the corresponding structure with the definite object
(73a), which, Zwart claims, is normally found in Dutch.
But this is not the only objection to Zwart's minimalist proposal for the ap-
parent optionality of scrambling in Dutch on the basis of (71)-(73). As
Neeleman and Reinhart (1998) demonstrate, Zwart's conclusion that both
scrambled and unscrambled objects occupy Spec, AgrO is based on an incor-
rect judgement for (73a), which is, in fact, ill-formed if no secondary stress
falls on the verb, as in (74):
(74) dat Jan MaRIE gisteren geKUST heeft
that Jan-NOM Marie-ACC yesterday kissed has
“that Jan kissed Marie yesterday”
Neeleman and Reinhart argue that the opposition between (73a) and (74)
clearly shows that main stress on the scrambled object is not nuclear stress, but
rather contrastive stress (in their account contrastive stress was the result of the
special operation of stress strengthening, which kept a secondary pitch on the
element receiving nuclear stress according to Cinque's (1993) NTPS). They
associate the movement of the accusative past the adverb to a special syntactic
operation, ‘Focus scrambling’ (Neeleman, 1994),24
which is probably triggered
by the presence of a [focus] feature on a focus phrase. If they are correct,
scrambling and non-scrambling positions remain distinct, and Zwart's proposal
faces the same empirical problem that led researchers to the abandonment of
the GB case approach to scrambling: how can Dutch check accusative Case in
two different configurations? To put it in minimalist terms, how can Dutch
allow for both strong and weak N-features on AgrO?
The third general question raised by Zwart's analysis relates to the categorial
restrictions on scrambling. In the preceding chapter, we concluded that German
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 165
scrambling does not seem to be categorially restricted, apparently applying to
all kinds of arguments.25
Neeleman (1994) claims that the same is true of
Dutch scrambling, where PP complements may precede VP-adjoined material
without triggering focus (which would discard ‘Focus Scrambling’) (examples
from Neeleman, 1994):
(75) a. dat Jan nauwelijks op mijn opmerking reargeerde
that Jan-NOM hardly on my remark reacted
“that Jan hardly reacted to my remark”
b. dat Jan op mijn opmerking nauwelijks reargeerde
that Jan-NOM on my remark hardly reacted
“that Jan hardly reacted to my remark”
This concludes the review of some of the issues that Zwart's minimalist
account of Dutch scrambling leaves unsolved. Although neither Zwart (1993)
nor Zwart (1997) extend such a proposal to German scrambling, I will
conclude this section by noting that such hypothetical extension is untenable,
for several reasons. First, all the flaws considered with respect to Dutch apply
invariably in German: ‘Equidistance’ is needed in order to prevent movement
of the object in Spec, AgrO to Spec, AgrS, which entails that V-to-AgrO
movement must be exclusively featural; scrambling is optional with definite
DPs and impossible with indefinite, existential ones, and the interaction of
prosodic phrasing and adverb placement does not seem to explain all the
relevant sets of data; elements categorially distinct from DPs may scramble.
Second, as shown in the preceding chapter, German scrambled DPs exhibit a
greater freedom than their Dutch counterparts: they may appear preceding the
subject position (76a), and may not obey ordering constraints in double object
constructions (76b), two options not possible in Dutch (77a, 77b):
(76) a. dass die Maria der Hans gestern geküsst hat
that Maria-ACC Hans-NOM yesterday kissed has
“that Hans kissed Maria yesterday”
b. dass er das Buch gestern dem Kind gegeben hat
that he the book-ACC yesterday the child-DAT given has
“that he gave the book to the child yesterday”
(77) a. *dat Marie Jan gisteren gekust heeft
that Marie-ACC Jan-NOM yesterday kissed has
“that Jan kissed Marie yesterday”
166 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
b. *dat de vrouw de film waarschijnlijk de mannen
that the woman-NOM the film-ACC probably the men-DAT
toont
shows
“that the woman probably shows the picture to the men”
(76a) is not a serious obstacle if one assumes that die Maria occupies, in
fact, the specifier of AgrO, and precedes der Hans in Spec, VP.26
However,
(76b) entails a violation of the MLC, as the grammaticality of the German and
Dutch structures in (78) demonstrates:27
(78) a. dass er dem Kind das Buch gestern gegeben hat
that he the child-DAT the book-ACC yesterday given has
“that he gave the child the book yesterday”
b. dat de vrouw de mannen de film waarschijnlijk
that the woman-NOM the men-DAT the film-ACC probably
toont
shows
“that the woman probably shows the picture to the men”
In Zwart's analysis, both structures in (78) receive a straightforward
explanation: the accusative targets the agreement projection immediately above
the VP, where the adverb is adjoined, and the dative moves to a second, higher
one, in the typical ‘crossing paths’ configuration for Case checking (Chomsky,
1993):
(79) Object movement in double object constructions (before subject
movement)
AgrIOP[dem Kindj AgrOP[das Buchi VP[gestern VP[er tj ti gegeben]]]
AgrIOP[den mannenj AgrOP[de filmi VP[waarschijnlijk VP[de vrouw tj ti
toont]]]
In the light of (79), the well-formedness of (76b) is surprising: if object
movement to the specifier of an agreement projection were obligatory in Ger-
man as Zwart contends it is in Dutch, dem Kind in (76b) must appear in that
position (with the adverb attached to AgrIOP). Therefore, what is the position
for das Buch? And, most importantly, why does the feature characterising that
position fail in attracting the closest dem Kind, thus violating the MLC?28
Finally, I would like to add that a potential extension of Zwart's analysis to
German would be empirically flawed also with respect to two other properties
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 167
of German scrambling appearing in (1): phonological destressing, and ‘Freez-
ing Effects’. With regard to destressing, Neeleman and Reinhart's objections to
the validity of the Dutch example in (73a) above also hold for German: in
other words, objects displaced by regular scrambling cannot bear nuclear
stress, in opposition to their non-scrambled counterparts. Thus, as noted above,
if nuclear stress assignment is dependent on syntactic position, scrambled and
non-scrambled objects cannot uniformly occupy Spec, AgrO. The same can be
argued with respect to ‘Freezing’: in the absence of an independent factor that
accounts for the (at least relative) islandhood of scrambled constituents, theo-
ries that make it dependent on a structural position different from that of non-
scrambled elements cannot be completely dispensed with.
1.2.2 Scrambling as checking of a [+Topic] feature. Before turning to the
second group of minimalist proposals for German(ic) scrambling, we may note
an element common to all the analyses reviewed so far, namely the indirect
correlation they establish between scrambling and the interpretive effects that
derive from it. It is generally assumed that the generalisations that appear in
Section 2.2 of the preceding chapter are descriptively adequate: scrambling is
impossible with either existential indefinite or focalised objects, and is optional
with definite DPs. Neither GB approaches nor Zwart's minimalist account deny
this, but make it dependent on different factors completely alien to the move-
ment operation scrambling entails. Those factors may be related to a pragmatic
component outside the realm of syntax (Müller and Sternefeld, 1993; Haider
and Rosengren, 1998, 2003), or to prosodic, phonological factors (Zwart, 1993;
1997). Thus, it may be concluded that, with respect to the last property of
scrambling in table (1), all the preceding analyses contend that scrambling is
not semantically/pragmatically triggered.29
However, the second group of hypotheses for German(ic) scrambling
maintain an opposing view. They capitalise on previous theories that argue for
a direct connection between syntactic position and semantic meaning (espe-
cially Diesing, 1992), and extend them to cover cases in which semantic
meaning is replaced by discourse information. This is the approach in
Meinunger (1995), Delfitto and Cover (1997), among others, to which we will
turn after having surveyed the main tenets of their immediate precursor,
namely Diesing (1992).
1.2.2.1 The syntax-semantics connection: Diesing's (1992) ‘Mapping
Hypothesis’. Diesing's (1992) ‘Mapping Hypothesis’ is based on the conclu-
sions of previous studies on the different interpretations indefinites may receive
crosslinguistically (Kamp, 1981; Heim, 1982; Partee, 1987). Those studies
168 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
reject the traditional idea that all indefinites are semantically existential quanti-
fiers, and propose instead that they correspond to different semantic types.
Such semantic types, in turn, are distinguished by the number of variables the
indefinite DP introduces in the logical representation of the sentence for each
of the relevant readings, as shown in (80) (Partee, 1987; Diesing, 1992;
Diesing, 1996):
(80) Indefinite nominals and semantic types
Semantic Interpretation Semantic Structure
(i) Weak: existential, predicational, cardinal, non-
presuppositional.
<e, t>
(ii) Strong: quantificational, pressuppositional. <<e,t>, t>
The type in (i) roughly corresponds to those DPs that are compatible with
there-insertion contexts (Milsark, 1974), where the existence of whatever
entity appearing in them is merely asserted:
(81) There is/are a/some/a few/many/three/ø llama(s) in the garden
Their predicational, cardinal, non-presuppositional reading results from
binding of their single variable by an implicit existential quantifier, inserted by
prefixing Ǝ if there is no other quantifier available. The existential quantifier
‘existentially’ closes off the nuclear scope (the domain of existential closure),
preventing the occurrence of unbound variables, as shown in (82) below:
(82) There are some llamas in the garden
x llamas (x) and in the garden (x)
The type in (ii) represents the tripartite structure of those DPs that denote an
entity whose existence is presupposed, and are incompatible with there-
insertion:
(83) *There is/are every/all/most llama(s) in the garden
In this case, the presuppositional, quantificational reading is the result of the
presence of quantifiers like every, all, most, etc. Their main characteristic is
that they quantify over a restricted set, which is formally represented by a
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 169
restrictive clause containing a variable bound by an operator (the quantifier
itself). Although overt in the cases of quantified NPs, Diesing claims that the
operator can also be covert, which derives the generic reading of indefinites:
the restrictive clause their <<e,t>, t> type contains is bound by (Gen).
Existential closure, in turn, binds all the remaining variables introduced in the
nuclear scope:
(84) a. Every llama is Peruvian
EVERYx [llama (x)] Peruvian (x)
b. Llamas are Peruvian
(GEN)x [llama (x)] Peruvian (x)
Diesing observes that, in languages like German, the different semantic
types of indefinites are confined to different types of positions. For example,
whereas <e,t> (existential) indefinites must obligatorily appear after elements
traditionally assumed to mark the VP-boundary (the particles ja, doch, time
adverbs, etc.),<<e,t>,t> types have to precede them, as shown by (85a) and
(85b) respectively:
(85) a. dass Stefan immer Bücher über Insekten liest
that Stefan-NOM always books-ACC about insects reads
“that Stefan always reads books about insects”
alwayst [t is a time] x [x=a book about insects and Stefan reads x
at t]
b. dass Stefan Bücher über Insekten immer liest
that Stefan-NOM books-ACC about insects always reads
“that Stefan always reads books about insects”
alwayst,x[t is a time and book about insects (x)] [Stefan reads x at t]
This is corroborated by the behaviour of individual level predicates, which,
as noted by Carlson (1977), only combine with the generic reading. According
to Diesing, that is the reason why they are ruled in before the VP-particles
(86a), and ruled out after them (86b) (from Diesing, 1992):
(86) a. weil Skorpione ja doch giftig sind
because scorpions-NOM PART PART poisonous are
“since scorpions are poisonous”
b. *weil ja doch Skorpione giftig sind
because PART PART scorpions-NOM poisonous are
“since scorpions are poisonous”
170 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
Therefore, Diesing concludes, there is an exact correlation between the
semantic type instantiated in each of the interpretations an indefinite may
receive and syntactic representation. This exact correspondence is obtained by
means of a procedure that (i) splits the syntactic tree in two parts, and (ii) maps
the two parts of the sentence into the two major parts of logical representation
(nuclear scope and restrictive clause), according to the ‘Mapping Hypothesis’
(Diesing, 1992):
(87) Mapping Hypothesis
Material from VP is mapped into the nuclear scope
Material from IP is mapped into a restrictive clause
Since it mediates between syntax and logical representations, the mapping
procedure is envisaged by Diesing as an LF-process. In languages like English,
in which indefinite objects occupy a fixed position independently from
semantic interpretation, quantificational, presuppositional objects must raise by
Quantifier Raising at LF, thus allowing both operator and restrictive clause to
escape from the domain of existential closure. On the other hand, in languages
like German, in which scrambling is available, raising takes place in ‘Narrow
Syntax’, which straightforwardly derives (85b) and (86a) above. Nevertheless,
it is clear that, besides the exact formulation of the syntactic feature allowing
overt movement of the object in German but disallowing it in English,30
‘Split
Tree’ accounts face an important problem, namely the apparent optionality of
the process for DPs that are interpreted as presuppositional in both positions, as
already shown in the examples of (109) and (113) in the preceding chapter,
repeated here as (88) and (89) respectively:
IP
Spec I'
I VP
Spec V'
V XP
nuclear scope
restrictive clause
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 171
(88) a. weil der Peter gestern das Buch gelesen hat
because Peter-NOM yesterday the book-ACC read has
“because Peter read the book yesterday”
b. weil der Peter das Buch gestern gelesen hat
because Peter-NOM the book-ACC yesterday read has
“because Peter read the book yesterday”
(89) a. dass Max immer Primaballerinas bewundert
that Max-NOM always primaballerinas-ACC admires
“that Max always admires primaballerinas”
b. dass Max Primaballerinas immer bewundert
that Max-NOM primaballerinas-ACC always admires
How can the presuppositional DPs in (88a) and (89a) receive the correct
semantic interpretation, if they are mapped into the Nuclear Scope? The most
frequent solution is to resort a LF-movement, and state that the nominals at
hand may be overtly or covertly raised to the restrictive part of the clause.
Obviously, this is just a re-statement of the problem, insofar as no reasons are
given for the delay to LF of a process that German grammar may activate in
the strictly syntactic part of the derivation.
Although Diesing's ‘Mapping Hypothesis’ leaves many questions unsettled,
it opens new ways to make German scrambling compatible with the earliest
versions of the ‘Minimalist Program’. The following section will be devoted to
revising the most developed example of those theories that explore such new
ways, namely Meinunger (1995).
1.2.2.2 [+Topic] on Agreement projections: Meinunger (1995). Meinunger
(1995) is an investigation of the possibility that natural languages may count
with a device mapping discourse representation onto syntactic structure of the
same sort proposed by Diesing (1992) for the connection between syntax and
semantics. His starting point is Krifka's (1991/1992) formal account of topic -
comment structures, according to which sentences are informationally divided
into two distinct parts, the topic and the comment. The topic comprises those
elements that (i) are familiar to the speaker, and (ii) are commented on, which
basically entails their characterisation as anchors in the conversation for the
new information to be linked to the old one. On the other hand, the comment is
just that new information, constituting the range where focus may project (i.e.
where more than one constituent can be understood as new, see Section 2.1.2 in
the preceding chapter). This is simply exemplified by (90), where Frank,
already present in the context, as its mentioning in the question demonstrates,
172 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
is the topic, of which the comment formed by three different new informative
elements (read, a book, about Italian cuisine) is asserted.
(90) What did Frank do?
[Frank] T [F read [F a book [F about Italian cuisine]]]]C
Meinunger notices that all the cases studied by Diesing in which scrambling
was obligatory involve an interpretation of the object that fits the topic
requirements above. On this basis, he argues that discourse structure is mapped
onto syntactic structure according to the representation in (91), by which topic
material outside the VP boundary precedes the comment within the VP (1995:
135):
(91) [CP...[.... ║ [VP ([discourse new adjuncts]) [VP...]]
topic(s) comment
Meinunger argues that the exact way in which the mapping takes place in
German is in the form of feature checking: the constituent endowed with an
appropriate [+topic] feature is forced to target a functional projection, which, in
Meinunger's account, is AgrSP (for topical subjects), or AgrOP/AgrIOP (for
topical accusative or dative objects). Since, under standard minimalist assump-
tions, the probe, that is, the targeted functional head, must be in the need of
eliminating an uninterpretable feature of its own in order to license movement
of the DP to its specifier, Meinunger must resort to obligatory linking of Case
assignment and [+top]: in other words, it is not [+top] which makes the nomi-
nal constituent scramble, but rather its clustering with the proper [+Case] fea-
ture. In this respect, notice that, if both features do not concur, the argumental
DP remains within VP, where its Case is otherwise licensed. Meinunger admits
that the final picture is not compatible with the Case checking mechanism of
the Minimalist Program (Chomsky 1992, 1995):31
if DPs enter the computation
fully inflected, i.e. bearing a [+Case] feature that must be checked, one expects
arguments of the same kind to have their Case uniformly licensed. Thus,
Meinunger adopts a system by which Case is strictly tied to the position in
which it is assigned or checked: strong Case for elements in Spec, Agr, weak
Case for VP internal arguments.32
In this respect, such an adoption allows
Meinunger to account for the properties that distinguish scrambling from topi-
calisation in Spec, CP, a classical example of [+topic] feature checking, namely
its A-properties (binding, absence of reconstruction, absence of parasitic gaps,
etc... see previous sections). Therefore, (91) is, in fact, (92):
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 173
(92) [CP... [AgrPs... ║ [VP ([discourse new adjuncts]) [VP...]]
topic(s) comment
How does Meinunger's hypothesis cope with the sets of examples problem-
atic for Diesing's ‘Mapping Hypothesis’, i.e. optionality of scrambling with
definite and indefinite generic DPs? Regarding the former, Meinunger con-
tends that the statement that topics must be familiar does not hold in the reverse
formulation, i.e. familiar DPs must be topics and therefore scramble. In other
words, unscrambled definite DPs are licit. Obviously, this requires the speaker
to choose or not a definite DP marked as [+topic], depending on the way he
conceives it in informational terms. This is, perhaps, the most glaring flaw in
Meinunger's approach: it makes his system totally incompatible with minimal-
ism, and leaves things as before, that is, unexplained. With respect to the case
of optionally scrambled generics, Meinunger simply denies the existence of
such examples: generics always undergo scrambling,33
and illustrates it with an
example parallel to that in (87) in the preceding chapter, ruling out the un-
scrambled version:34
(93) a. weil ich eine Wagneroper immer mag
because I a Wagner-opera-ACC always like
“since I always like a Wagner opera”
b. *weil ich immer eine Wagneroper mag
because I always a Wagner-opera-ACC like
“since I always like a Wagner opera”
The last point I would like to consider in this short summary of Meinunger's
proposal for German scrambling is the question of multiple scrambling. Recall
that one of the uncontroversial assumptions in the literature is that scrambling
may iterate. For Meinunger's analysis, in which scrambling is movement of a
[+topic] DP to an Agr projection, this means that iterability is restricted to three
argumental DPs as maximum, which represents a standard three-place
predicate:
(94) a. dass die Frau der Nachbarin den Hund gestern
that the woman-NOM the neighbour-DAT the dog-ACC yesterday
gegeben hat
given has
“that the woman gave the dog to the neighbour”
174 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
b. dass die Frau den Hund der Nachbarin gestern
that the woman-NOM the dog-ACC the neighbour-DAT yesterday
gegeben hat
given has
“that the woman gave the dog to the neighbour”
(94a) is unproblematic: Meinunger states that, except for a certain class of
ditransitive verbs whose unmarked serialisation is ACC-DAT (ausetzen “to
expose”, ausliefern “to extradite”, unterziehen “to submit”, unterwerfen “to
subject”, etc.), the base structure of German is DAT-ACC. Thus, since the
relative order between agreement projections is fixed, (94a) is justifiedly ruled
in. However, in (94b) the order between DAT and ACC is reversed. Obviously,
this cannot be due to AgrO preceding AgrIO. Meinunger accounts for it by
resorting to the notion of prominence, according to which arguments are seri-
alised according to the ranked hierarchy NOM>DAT>ACC. If a speaker con-
ceives DAT as more prominent than NOM, or ACC as more prominent than
DAT or NOM, DAT, this would be reflected in the final string. Meinunger
envisages shift of prominence as a syntactic operation targeting an A-bar posi-
tion. Unfortunately, he is not very specific regarding it.
The conclusion we may draw from the discussion of shift of prominence is
very similar to the one reached in the case of the optionality of scrambling of
definite DPs: despite his attempt to establish a direct link between discourse
and syntactic structures, Meinunger cannot overcome the main obstacle move-
ment approaches to scrambling have traditionally encountered, that is, its ap-
parently untriggered nature.
2. Base-generation approaches
As noted at the beginning of this chapter, generative analyses of German
scrambling are traditionally divided into two main types: those that consider
scrambling strings as the result of the strictly syntactic operation ‘Move (α)’,
and those that equate them to non-scrambling structures, insofar as both are the
product of base-generation (i.e. direct ‘Merge’). In the preceding sections, we
have reviewed the most influential studies adopting the first approach, and
pointed out some of their shortcomings. In the following, the focus will be on
those that argue for base-generation.
The first proposals that treat German scrambling as base-generation are
elaborated within the GB framework. Most of them are characterised by
presenting interesting counterevidence against the view of scrambling as a
movement operation, but fail in offering a well-grounded alternative account.
This point is illustrated by the papers by Bayer and Kornfilt (1994), and
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 175
Neeleman (1994), where both the A- and A-bar analyses are criticised on the
basis of the dubious parasitic gaps structures and the lack of ordering
restrictions for multiple scrambled constituents respectively. On the other hand,
since the two studies agree that the phenomenon is strictly clause-bound and
affects binding relations, their common claim is that reordered constituents are
directly inserted in the position they appear in, an A-position. This direct
insertion is possible only in OV languages like German, but not in VO
languages like English, due to its interaction with other syntactic rules: for
Bayer and Kornfilt, it is dependent on the availability of a procedure called
‘Complex Category Formation’, by which INFL and V constitute a single
node; for Neeleman, it is linked to the existence of a single domain for
argument and adjunct licensing, and the assumption that the hierarchy of theta-
roles is not expressed via c-command relations (see Chapter 1, Section 1).
In spite of the remarkable findings in both Bayer and Kornfilt and
Neeleman, such as the relevant connection between coherent constructions and
German scrambling (Bayer and Kornfilt), and the irrefutable distinction
between focus scrambling and ordinary scrambling (Neeleman, see Chapter 1,
Section 5), their account of free constituent order in terms of base-generation is
somewhat sketchy and conflicts with several standard tenets not only of the GB
framework, but also of the ‘Minimalist Program’. However, subsequent more
refined, full-fledged theories capitalise on the fundamental role they attribute to
theta-role assignment (Neeleman), and conflating heads (Bayer and Kornfilt),
and relate it to the minimalist procedure for Case-checking. These theories will
be the subject of the following sections, where two of the most representative
hypotheses will be reviewed in more detail.
2.1 Base-generation, theta-role assignment, and Case-checking at PF:
Neeleman and Reinhart (1998)
As the reader will recall, some parts of Neeleman and Reinharts's study
were already examined in the previous chapter, where we discussed the empiri-
cal adequacy of several traditional claims about German(ic) scrambling, among
which: (i) scrambling is incompatible with the unmarked word order, i.e. mul-
tiple foci; (ii) scrambled constituents are obligatorily destressed. It was shown
there that, according to Neeleman and Reinhart, (i) is false in the light of a
right proper theory of focus, and (ii) is merely the result of nuclear stress as-
signment of the kind in Cinque (1993). On this basis, their main conclusion is
that scrambling is not phonologically or semantically triggered: it does not dis-
place constituents so that they may be destressed, or interpreted as unfocused.
Rather, it is because constituents may appear scrambled that they are prevented
from receiving nuclear stress and, consequently, must be interpreted as dis-
176 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
course-given (i.e. unfocused). If, in the absence of a phonological or semantic
trigger, there is no displacement at all, the pending problem is how West Ger-
manic languages may allow some constituents appear in two different posi-
tions, an unattested option, for example, in English. Neeleman and Reinhart's
solution is related to theta-role assignment and Case-checking in their interac-
tion with the head parameter.
Neeleman and Reinhart assume standard tenets of the ‘Government and
Binding’ framework (Chomsky, 1981; 1986) with respect to the way
arguments of a predicate are licensed: they must be theta-marked (i.e. assigned
a thematic role) and, if DPs, also Case-marked by the verb. But they propose to
reformulate the conditions in which theta-marking and Case-marking take
place according to Chomsky's (1995) ‘Minimalist Program’, where syntactic
operations are rendered as feature checking between two elements endowed
with the relevant feature in a specific configuration. In this light, Neeleman and
Reinhart reduce theta-marking to a checking relation between the verbal head,
endowed with as many theta (θ-)features as arguments it takes, and a phrase
carrying one of those appropriate θ-features, in a configuration where both are
sisters, as shown in (95):
In (95), the θ-features of the XP and the verbal head are in a sisterhood
configuration. As a consequence, θ-features are eliminated according to the
minimalist checking procedure. This, in turn, makes V1, the projection of V,
lack θ-features completely (θ#), which entails that no additional arguments
may be licensed. Notice that although (95) represents theta-marking in an OV-
language, nothing prevents a VO grammar from licensing an argument in the
same fashion, given that the required sisterhood relation between the verbal
head and the XP equally obtains.
Neeleman and Reinhart contend that (95) does not necessarily imply that
arguments must be inserted at the bottom of the tree. In fact, they may be
inserted after adjuncts. Since the latter are characterised as constituents lacking
a θ-feature, it is possible for an argument to be merged after V has projected
into V1, due to the fact that it still preserves its θ-feature:
V1 (θ#)
XP (θ) V (θ)
(95)
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 177
As was the case with (95), nothing precludes (96) from occurring in a VO
language. Nevertheless, whereas (95) and (96) are both found in OV (scram-
bling) languages (97), VO (non-scrambling) languages only present the former
(98) (Dutch examples from Neeleman and Reinhart, 1998):
(97) a. dat Jan langzaam het boek las
that Jan-NOM slowly the book-ACC read
“that Jan read the book slowly”
b. dat Jan het boek langzaam las
that Jan-NOM the book-ACC slowly read
“that Jan read the book slowly”
(98) a. that John read the book slowly
b. *that John read slowly the book
Neeleman and Reinhart state that the contrast between (97b) and (98b) has
nothing to do with the checking procedure for theta-marking, as apparently
corroborated by the grammaticality of (99), where a PP argument is licensed
after an adjunct:
(99) that John reads slowly to his children
Rather, they derive the ill-formedness of (98b) from the second checking rela-
tion that verbal heads and crucially only argumental DPs must establish: Case-
checking. As happened with theta-marking, Case-checking requires both the
verbal head and the argumental DP to bear a [Case] feature. But [Case] fea-
tures on the verb and on the argument are checked in slightly different ways:
whereas [Case] features on the verb can be checked by any category in the ap-
propriate configuration, [Case] features on the argument can only be checked
against matching (i.e. identically specified) features of the verb. With respect to
the exact configuration in which Case-checking takes place, Neeleman and
Reinhart propose (100):
V2 (θ#)
XP (θ) V1 (θ)
XP V (θ)
(96)
178 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(100) a. The verbal head (V) and the constituent (C) must be contained
in the same local domain, where local domain can be defined
either phonologically or syntactically.
b. The phonological local domain is the phonological phrase.
c. In the phonological domain, V must precede or follow C.
d. The syntactic local domain is the m-command domain35
e. In the syntactic domain, V must follow C.
What is new in (100) in comparison with the standard minimalist view of
Case-checking is that it is not restricted to ‘Narrow Syntax’, but may also take
place in the phonological component. Neeleman and Reinhart defend this as-
sumption as a theoretical necessity: if, as suggested by Chomsky (1995), order
is just a requirement exclusively imposed by the phonological component, a
configuration such as that in (100), where precedence plays a role (100c,e),
makes sense only if it holds in that component. Notice that (100b) and (100d)
entail that that the phonological component must have access to syntactic in-
formation, a controversial assumption on standard minimalist grounds.36
But,
according to Neeleman and Reinhart, syntactic information is accessed only in
a restrictive way, that is, only in those cases in which phonological checking
fails.
The system proposed by Neeleman and Reinhart produces different results
in VO and OV languages. In VO languages, phonological checking will always
be possible if no material intervenes between the verbal head and its argument:
(101) a. {that John} {reads the book} {slowly}
b. *{that John} {reads slowly} {the book}
In (101a) the verb and the DP the book constitute a single phonological
phrase, according to the mapping procedure Selkirk (1986) proposes for pho-
nological phrase (φ) formation:37
(102) φ-Formation
Close φ when encountering ]XP
Consequently, Case-checking may proceed. However, (101b) is ruled out:
since now the adverb and the verbal head are included within the same phono-
logical phrase, the [Case] feature of V will be deleted, and hence not available
for checking [Case] on the object, either in the phonological or the syntactic
domain.
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 179
In OV languages phonological Case-checking is always impossible: the
verbal head and its argument never share the same phonological phrase, insofar
as the right XP bracket of the argument itself or any other phrasal constituent
provokes φ-closure. Thus, Case-checking in OV languages is confined to the
syntactic domain. Since adjacency between V and C is not necessary (100d,e),
both scrambling and non-scrambling orders are well-formed:
(103) a. *{dat Jan} {langzaam}{het boek} {las}
that Jan-NOM slowly the book-ACC read
“that Jan read the book slowly”
b. *{dat Jan} {het boek} {langzaam}{las}
that Jan-NOM the book-ACC slowly read
“that Jan read the book slowly”
c. dat Jan VP[[langzaam] [het boek] las]
that Jan-NOM slowly the book-ACC read
“that Jan read the book slowly”
d. dat Jan VP[[het boek] [langzaam] las]
that Jan-NOM the book-ACC slowly read
“that Jan read the book slowly”
(103c) and (103d) fulfil the conditions syntactic Case-checking requires
(100d,e): the verbal head follows het boek in the m-command domain.
The claim that there exist two different procedures for Case checking, and
that the head parameter is responsible for the choice of one or the other ex-
plains why scrambling is apparently restricted to OV languages. On the other
hand, it also accounts for at least two of the uncontroversial properties of the
phenomenon listed in (1): its iterability, as far as syntactic Case checking may
license as many arguments as the verb has; and its clause-boundedness, since
Neeleman and Reinhart's system requires strict locality conditions that prevent
the appearance of arguments beyond the boundaries of the maximal projection
of the licensing head.38
Besides, it rightly predicts the interaction between
scrambling and binding observed in West Germanic: base-generated arguments
always occupy an A-position, hence the lack of reconstruction effects.
In conclusion, there are few objections against Neeleman and Reinhart's
proposal as far as empirical coverage is concerned, despite their silence about
controversial issues such as ‘Freezing’ or adjunct scrambling, directly ruled out
by their analysis. One of those few objections relates to the consequence their
system of theta-marking entails for their own account of the semantic effects of
scrambling. Recall that, according to Neeleman and Reinhart, scrambled ele-
ments may be interpreted as D-linked merely because they are merged after
180 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
adverbial insertion, which is, in turn, possible because adverbials do not satisfy
any of the verb's theta roles (see (98) above, and (104) below). However, that
adverbials do not satisfy theta-roles does not mean that, when merged first,
they do not occupy the most deeply embedded position on the recursive side.
If, on the other hand, Cinque's (1993) NTPS assigns nuclear stress to that posi-
tion on an exclusively structural basis, there is no explanation of why the syn-
tactic representation in (104) corresponds to the phonological shape of (105a)
and not to that of (105b):
(105) a. dass Hans das Buch gestern LAS
that Hans-NOM the book-ACC yesterday read
“that Hans read the book yesterday”
b. dass Hans das Buch GEStern las
that Hans-NOM the book-ACC yesterday read
“that Hans read the book yesterday”
The facts in (104) are unproblematic for Cinque's theory, since he tradition-
ally assumes that the adverb, an adjunct, appears in a high, VP-adjoined posi-
tion. But they are incompatible with Neeleman and Reinhart's proposal for
theta-role assignment, in which adverbs and arguments only differ in their se-
lectional properties. Therefore, Neeleman and Reinhart are forced to modify
Cinque's main tenet slightly: nuclear stress is assigned to the most deeply em-
bedded constituent on the recursive side of the tree, “only if selected”. The ob-
vious question is how a phonological rule may be sensitive to notions such as
selection. This would appear to be a significant shortcoming in Neeleman and
Reinhart's approach.
Finally, I would like to point out some of the theoretical complications
Neeleman and Reinhart's analysis entails for a minimalist design of the lan-
guage faculty of the kind defended in Chomsky (1993, 1995). On one hand,
their claim that features such as [+Case] may be checked at PF necessarily en-
tails the revision of the basic feature classification proposed in the ‘Minimalist
Program’: does the existence of checking at PF imply that there is another type
V2 (θ#)
XP (θ) V1 (θ)
das Buch
XP V (θ)
gestern las
(104)
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 181
of feature apart from phonological, semantic and formal features, or does it
merely indicate that formal uninterpretable features may be of two different
sorts? An answer to any of the two questions would require an exact charac-
terisation of the feature at stake. On the other hand, the free interaction they
propose between PF and ‘Narrow Syntax’ relaxes the rigid cyclicity defended
by standard minimalist approaches, which amounts to a higher degree of com-
plexity that must be avoided, if possible.
2.2 Base-generation, theta-role assignment, and Case-checking at LF:
Fanselow (2001, 2003)
Fanselow's (2001) study of German scrambling as a base-generation
phenomenon combines the exhaustive empirical refutation of movement ap-
proaches that usually characterises GB studies on the matter with the attempt to
adhere to the standard minimalist view as much as possible. With respect to the
former, Fanselow demonstrates that evidence such as the one based on parasitic
gaps, ‘Freezing’, or the existence of reconstruction with pre-subject scram-
bling, etc., is not conclusive enough, as far as it is amenable to alternative ex-
planations. On the other hand, he assumes with Chomsky (1993, 1995) that
strict syntactic relations must be rendered in the form of the checking of formal
features, and that that checking may take place either overtly or covertly (i.e.
before or after ‘Spell-Out’) depending on feature strength: checking of a strong
feature requires the implementation of ‘Move’ before ‘Spell-Out’, with conse-
quences for the linear order of constituents in the final string; checking of a
weak feature may be delayed to LF, where movement of the attracted constitu-
ent is not reflected in the final surface linearisation.
Similarly to Neeleman and Reinhart (1998), Fanselow rejects the configura-
tional view of theta-marking adopted in both the GB framework and the
‘Minimalist Program’, which basically consists in linking theta-role assignment
to structural position. Instead, he proposes that theta-roles are linked to a
formal feature that a verb specifies for its arguments, and are ‘assigned’ in the
process of f(ormal)-feature checking. When selection for ‘Merge’ takes place,
the formal features a verb is endowed with are selectional features ([C] or
[D],39
for clausal or DP complements, respectively), to which Case and phi-
features may be added (at least for internal arguments). Each of these features
requires being checked by a DP fully specified for Case and phi-features.
Fanselow follows the conclusions in Chomsky's ‘Categories and
Transformations’ (in Chomsky, 1995), according to which agreement projec-
tions of the sort proposed in Chomsky (1993) must be dispensed with, due to
their lack of a truly semantic content. He also agrees with Chomsky in the new
locus for the [D] (or [N]) feature responsible for the checking of nominative
182 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
Case, namely T. But they differ in the head hosting the [D] feature responsible
for accusative Case: Chomsky proposes that it is a light verb v, whose specifier
is occupied by the base-generated subject of certain predicates; Fanselow con-
tends that it is the lexical verb V, restricting the role of v to that of subject li-
censing. Finally, and according to empirical evidence, Fanselow assumes that
both [D] and [V] (the verbal feature attracting the lexical verb to T) are weak in
German and, therefore, may be checked after Spell-Out.
On the basis of the considerations above, Fanselow gives the following
representation for the German structure with a three-place predicate after
‘Spell-Out’, that is, at LF:
The argumental DPs α, β, and γ appear VP-internal, as the weakness of the
D features on V, v and T demands. On the other hand, V raises to v and to T
covertly, since the V feature on T is also weak in German. Once that covert
raising has taken place, the uninterpretable features on the V-v-T complex must
attract the corresponding features on the DPs to its checking domain. Fanselow
argues that it is unnecessary to have three different process of attraction im-
plemented, one for each attracting feature: once a feature raises to T, the other
two are pied-piped with it. If V's D-feature attracts, the ‘Minimal Link Condi-
tion’ implies that the DP closest to V (α) moves. But this may result in an ille-
gitimate structure, depending on whether α also bears accusative Case. That is
why he concludes that the attracting feature is V's Case feature: only the accu-
sative feature of the relevant DP will be able to move, pied-piping its D and
phi-features. Notice that the analysis accounts for the different order possibili-
ties among NOM-DAT-ACC attested for German, and also for theta-role as-
signment independent of syntactic position within the VP, if theta-marking is
linked to Case checking as Fanselow contends. But it also entails a relativisa-
v P T
VP v v
α V
β V
γ V
T
V [D,acc,phi-]
T [D,nom]
[D,dat,phi-]
v [D,phi]
(106)
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 183
tion of economy principles such as the ‘Minimal Link Condition’: V must at-
tract the closest DP with a matching Case, irrespective of whether DPs bearing
different cases intervene.
Fanselow's analysis seems to accord well with respect to two of his funda-
mental tenets: (i) [D] features are weak in German, which would explain why
no argumental DP appears in a fixed position; and (ii) complex heads are at-
tracting heads for all the features they include (even for those belonging to in-
corporated elements).
(i) is fairly uncontroversial since Haider (1990), who showed that derived
and underlying subjects can be a part of a fronted constituent in German. The
examples in (107) illustrate this for passives (107a), unaccusatives (107b),
unergatives (107c), and transitives (107d):
(107) a. [Ein Orden verliehen] wurde ihr erst gestern
a medal-NOM awarded AUX her-DAT just yesterday
“It just happened yesterday that she was awarded a medal”
b. [Ein Fehler unterlaufen] ist ihrem Mann noch nie
a mistake-NOM happened is her husband-DAT yet never
“It never happened that her husband made a mistake”
c. [Aussenseiter gewonnen] haben hier noch nie
outsiders-NOM won have here yet never
“It never happened before that outsiders won here”
d. ?[Ein Millionär einem Studenten einen Wagen geschenkt]
a millionaire-NOM a student-DAT a car-ACC given
hat hier noch nie
has here yet never
“It has never happened here that a millionaire gave a student a
car”
On the other hand, for the case of the strength of the [D] feature for objects, I
refer the reader to the discussion about Zwart's (1997) proposal (1.2.1, this
chapter), where object movement was proven to be untenable for Dutch and
also for German.
Fanselow takes (ii) to be irrefutable on the basis of so-called ‘long
scrambling’ (Grewendorf and Sabel, 1994), that is, the extended reordering
possibility with coherent infinitives (see Chapter 1, Section 2, and 1.5.1 and 1.6
in Chapter 3): if different heads H and K check the formal features of α and β,
respectively, it follows that α can be merged with a projection of K and ordered
freely with respect to β if H incorporates into K at some level. For a coherent
construction, this simply means that, after complex head formation and raising
184 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
to T, the formal features of the infinitive may be checked by those of an
argumental DP merged in the matrix clause, as in (108) (from Fanselow, 2001):
(108) dass den Peter niemand zur Party einzuladen wagte
that Peter-ACC nobody-NOM to-the party to-invite dared
“that nobody dared to invite Peter to the party”
TP[ vP[den Peter niemand....] T[[FF] (einzuladen) FF (wagen)] T]]
But German is a V-2 language, which means that the finite verb moves to C
(or any other position of the CP system) in matrix clauses. If, on the other
hand, head raising makes scrambling available, why is it that there are not
scrambled arguments in Spec, C? Fanselow rules out this possibility by
resorting to two standard minimalist claims (Chomsky, 1995): (i) only
expletives check features by ‘Merge’, which would prevent arguments from
appearing base-generated in Spec, C; and (ii) the strong features of X must be
checked before the maximal projection of X is merged with some K, which
would bar DP movement to check a strong feature of V on C, on the
assumption that, before raising of V-to-C, Merge of the VP with another
element (for instance, T) involves the absence of any kind of strong feature
(including Case-features) on V.
The use that Fanselow's system makes of notions such as feature movement
and a relativised MLC allows it to account for the great freedom of German
scrambling: if subjects, due to their [+nominative] specification, do not need to
be the highest merged arguments within the vP/VP, any other element may
precede them, and the same goes for accusative or dative objects. But that such
a system is too unconstrained is revealed by its interaction with other gram-
matical processes, like, for example, nuclear stress assignment. If, as argued by
Chomsky and Halle (1968) and Cinque (1993), nuclear stress falls on the most
deeply embedded constituent, one would expect to find in German unmarked
structures in which a nominative subject, sister to the lexical verb, may carry
the most prominent pitch. This kind of structures is obviously not attested. Be-
sides, recent versions of the ‘Minimalist Program’ (Chomsky 2000, 2001) have
questioned the theoretical necessity of processes such as feature movement,
which, in turn, casts some doubts on the validity of Fanselow's analysis. Per-
haps these are the reasons for the partial revision in Fanselow (2003), which,
although less explicit with respect to technical details, dispenses with problem-
atic devices.
Unlike Fanselow (2001), Fanselow (2003) does not link theta-role
assignment to formal feature checking. Instead, it proposes (109):
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 185
(109) An argument A can be merged with a projection P only if the head of
P (or a sublabel of the head) selects A as an argument.
(109) is illustrated for a ditransitive predicate in (110), where, following
Fanselow and standard minimalist tenets, the agentive predicate cannot be
merged below the projection of the head that selects it (v). On the other hand,
and due to (109), the accusative and dative objects may appear merged with vP,
since their selecting heads constitute a sublabel of v. Besides, they may precede
or follow each other within the VP, on the assumption that their selecting heads
also form a complex, V+V, head:
(110) vP[ACC/DAT vP[SUBJ VP[DAT/ACC ACC/DAT V]]
This is an improvement as far as the positions traditionally assigned to
adverbials are concerned: notice that in (111) all adverbials (including sentence
adverbs and time frames) must be VP internal, insofar as they can intervene
between different arguments:
(111) dass das Buch wahrscheinlich keiner gelesen hat
that the book-ACC probably no-one-NOM read has
“that no one probably read the book”
It also solves the problem raised by nuclear stress assignment, albeit partially:
for a scrambling monotransitive structure, neither the object (merged with vP)
or the verb (raised to v, a necessary precondition for (109), according to
Fanselow) remain within the VP, so the nuclear stress rule fails to apply. How-
ever, the explanation does not work with scrambling of a co-argumental object
across the other (110), or with the impossibility of having a stressed scrambling
constituent signalling narrow focus.40
This leads Fanselow to agree with Müller
(1999) that the distinction between marked and unmarked stress is a matter of
violating or respecting certain surface based serialisation principles: ‘Subject
First!’, ‘Animate XP First!’, ‘Topic First!’, etc. The more a structure fits such
principles, the more unmarked it is; the more a structure departs from such
principles, the more marked it is. Now, as Haider and Rosengren (2003) put it,
the question is to clarify the exact way in which notions such as animacy and
the like interface with grammar. This will not be a trivial issue for proposals
such as Fanselow's that argue that those notions are syntactically active, insofar
as they determine order of ‘Merge’, a core syntactic operation.
As stated above, Fanselow (2003) is not very explicit about the technical
details involved in (109). We have already seen that, with respect to lower
186 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
bounds, (109) implies that no argument must be merged below the head that
selects it. With respect to upper bounds, the only limit is that imposed by the
position reached by the incorporating head. It is not very clear how this system
may prevent an argument from being licensed on TP or CP, if checking of
strong features is not involved any more.
In conclusion, the base-generation proposal in Fanselow (2001) and
Fanselow (2003) restricts scrambling to arguments, thus explaining why the
process is clause-bound and gives rise to new binding possibilities. It relates
the unmarked word order to factors different from nuclear stress assignment,
which interact with grammar in a very unclear way. Nor is it clear how the
semantic effects associated to scrambled constituents are derived, except for
the examples Fanselow gives for the ordering constraints on adverb placement
with respect to argumental DPs, and the claim that the serialisation principles
invoked for deriving the unmarked word order normally force topical elements
to precede focused ones. On the other hand, the proposal is not very elaborated
either with respect to ‘Freezing’: if scrambled elements are base-generated, one
would expect movement out of them to be always possible. Fanselow (2001)
contends that, in fact, this is the case, and that the general pattern is constituted
by the bulk of ‘Anti-Freezing’ examples. Fanselow accounts for their ‘Freez-
ing’ counterparts by resorting to a combination of the serialisation principle
‘Topic First!’ and a proposal by Guéron (1981): the more referential a phrase is
the less transparent is for movement. If constituents base-generated in scram-
bling positions are topics, topics are usually referential, and referential phrases
are opaque, the ‘Freezing’ effects of scrambling become unproblematic. How-
ever, an exact definition of referentiality fitting the ‘Freezing’ and ‘Anti-
freezing’ data is lacking, as well as the reasons why it must be relevant for
‘Narrow Syntax’.
The base-generation approach to scrambling Fanselow defends has as its
main advantage that it avoids two of the most pervasive problems of the phe-
nomenon as appears in German: its multiple ordering possibilities, and the lack
of a trigger. In fact, however, these complications are not solved: they are
merely shifted to other components of grammar. It may be doubted that
Fanselow's intuition is correct and such complications are indeed completely
alien to ‘Narrow Syntax’. Clearly, more research on the nature of those compo-
nents is needed.
3. Conclusions
In light of the preceding sections of this chapter, a basic conclusion may be
drawn from them: German scrambling does not seem amenable to a treatment
within the limits of ‘Narrow Syntax’, and perhaps Ross (1967) and Chomsky
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 187
(1995) are right in assigning it to a different component, whatever this may be.
This is an obvious consequence of the important problems any of the revised
theories must face in trying to account for the complexity of the empirical evi-
dence while respecting the fundamental tenets of the generative model it
adopts.
Among the different obstacles those theories encounter, two are crucial: the
trigger for scrambling, and the locus where it takes place. The trigger is, in
turn, linked to the matter of apparent optionality and the issue of the phono-
logical and semantic/pragmatic effects. With respect to the trigger itself,
movement approaches fare worse than base-generation ones: neither Case li-
censing (Mahajan, 1990; Moltmann, 1990, etc.; Zwart, 1993, 1997) nor the
checking of a feature such as [+topic] (Meinunger, 1995) is compatible with
the lack of ordering restrictions or the optionality observed in German scram-
bling, unless stipulative solutions are adopted. But the trigger is not an obstacle
for base-generation analyses (Neeleman and Reinhart, 1998; Fanselow, 2001,
2003), and those proposals that defend the existence of untriggered movement
(Müller and Sternefeld, 1993; Haider and Rosengren, 1998, 2003). Base-gen-
eration is, by definition, a costless process, only limited by the conditions
theta-marking requires, still an open question. The adoption of untriggered
movement is controversial from a theoretical point of view, and requires the
support of empirical evidence different from that based on scrambling itself.41
To claim that scrambling is triggered or untriggered has a bearing on the
connection between scrambling and the phonological and semantic/pragmatic
effects associated with it. For those theories that defend a syntactic trigger, that
connection is straightforward: on the phonological side, obligatory syntactic
displacement of the scrambled constituent to a higher position makes nuclear
stress fall on a trace, which cannot bear it for obvious reasons (Meinunger,
1995). This, in turn, gives rise to a marked intonation pattern. On the semantic/
pragmatic side, elements placed above VP, the domain of existential closure,
must receive a strong, topic interpretation, if some process such as the mapping
procedure defended by Diesing (1992) and Meinunger (1995) actually holds.
However, for those theories that contend that scrambling is untriggered the
connection is simply indirect, and justified on the basis of the rejection of the
‘Nuclear Stress Rule’ and the adoption of independent principles, rules,
constraints, etc. (Fanselow's (2003) surface serialisations principles, Haider and
Rosengren's (1993) information structure interface utility, etc.).
The second important obstacle scrambling theories encounter is the exact
location of scrambled elements. This exact location not only refers to the
problematic pre- and post-subject scrambling found in German, but also to the
no less problematic scrambling within lexical projections (VPs, APs, and post-
188 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
positional phrases). As was the case with the trigger, movement approaches
fare worse than base-generation ones: the different orders constituents may
exhibit are dependent on ‘Merge’ (base-generation), and ‘Merge’ is an opera-
tion involved in the construction of all kinds of lexical projections. Thus, one
only needs a reason why scrambling (that is, different ordering options in
‘Merge’) is permitted in some phrases but barred in others (for example,
Haider and Rosengren's (1998, 2003) head-final requirement). On the other
hand, movement approaches are forced either to identify multiple projections
as potential scrambling sites, or to reject some of the empirical evidence as an
instance of processes different from scrambling. Thus, if scrambling is taken as
displacement to a functional projection, reordering within lexical projections
must picture an unrelated phenomenon. But the conclusion may be premature,
since, again, the German data are more complex than they appear at first sight:
recall that arguments of adjectival and postpositional heads may be reordered
outside the maximal projection of the element selecting them (examples (46)
and (47) above). This is not expected if scrambling is restricted to the extended
MAC (Haider and Rosengren, 1998; 2003), to the standard maximal projection
of the selecting head (Neeleman and Reinhart, 1998), or to the maximal phrase
projected by a complex head in its final landing site (Fanselow 2001, 2003).42
Besides the two main obstacles constituted by the trigger and the locus of
scrambling, there are other residual problems. One of them is the relation
between scrambling and binding, although here the conclusion seems that it is
quite uncontroversial that scrambling both feeds and bleeds binding relations,43
at least in the case of co-arguments of ditransitive predicates, and that the
murkiness of the facts just reduces to the impossibility for a German dative to
bind an accusative anaphor, probably an unconnected issue. Another one is the
‘Freezing/Anti-Freezing Paradox’, which does not support either base-genera-
tion or movement approaches: judgements of the contraposed sets of data are
not refuted, and, with the exceptions of Müller and Sternefeld (1993) and
Müller (1998), no scholar gives well-grounded reasons why German grammar
allows for both ‘Freezing’ and ‘Anti-Freezing’ effects in scrambled
constituents.
The general conclusion has been that movement and base-generation ap-
proaches to German scrambling are incompatible, and that the acceptance of
one view necessarily excludes the other. But, in my opinion, this conclusion is
incorrect. The following chapter presents an alternative proposal for German
scrambling, modelled on a recent analysis of Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ de-
veloped by Chomsky (2001). The reader will find that the basic assumption
there is that, in the light of most recent versions of the ‘Minimalist Program’,
movement approaches are superior to base-generation ones, despite the fact
PREVIOUS ACCOUNTS 189
that they face a wider array of empirical problems. Nevertheless, I will contend
that they must be enriched with some of the fundamental insights in base-
generation theories. If the suggestions in Chapter 5 are correct, movement and
base-generation approaches are simply complementary, insofar as they focus
on two different aspects of the same complex phenomenon.
CHAPTER 5
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES
A cursory look at the conclusions drawn in Chapter 3 and Chapter 4 of the
present study reveals that the main problem any proposal for German scram-
bling faces is the incompatibility of the wide array of scrambling structures
attested in that language with the restrictions any theoretical model imposes on
syntactic operations. The point is illustrated by confronting our table in (1)
(Chapter 4) with the predictions of movement and base-generation approaches:
(1) Syntactic properties of German scrambling
Iterability
Syntactic position: arguments/arguments and adjuncts
Category: DPs/DPs and other categories
Syntactic projection: VPs/VPs and other categories
Clause-boundedness
ROUGH SYNTAX
‘Freezing’/‘Anti-Freezing’
LF Semantic/pragmatic effects as trigger vs
Semantic/pragmatic effects as a by-product
PF Destressing
As discussed in the preceding chapter, the properties in white boxes are un-
problematic for both approaches, assuming that the evidence for adjunct
scrambling is not conclusive, and A-bar theories such as Müller and Sternefeld
(1993) or Müller (1995) are not on the right track. Movement theories are in-
adequate to accounts for the less restrictive version of the property in the
striped box: if scrambling displaces categories other than DPs, scrambling can-
not be Case-checking (Moltmann, 1990; Zwart, 1993, 1997, etc.), or checking
192 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
of another feature tied to Case (Meinunger, 1995).1
But base-generation analy-
ses have to resort to special devices to explain the characteristics that scram-
bled elements exhibit at PF and LF (in grey boxes). Finally, empirical evidence
partially goes against the two types of proposals with respect to a couple of
aspects (in black boxes): the projection in which scrambling takes place, and
‘Freezing’ (or ‘Anti-Freezing’). It is true that, as argued by the defenders of
base-generation (Fanselow, 2001) and untriggered movement (Haider and
Rosengren, 1998, 2003), there is reordering within VP, and also within projec-
tions different from VP (cf. the cases of scrambling within APs or postposi-
tional phrases). But it is also true that that kind of reordering may occur beyond
the verbal, adjectival or postpositional maximal projection itself, which seems
to support the unique position advocated for by regular movement theories.
The same picture arises with the ‘Freezing/Anti-Freezing Paradox’: if Müller
(1998) is right, extraction out of a scrambled constituent is sensitive to the type
of the displacement involved. Except for Müller's own attempt, no account can
handle the relevant differences systematically.
Those two properties that are problematic for both base-generation and
movement approaches constitute the focus of the present chapter. The main
claim will be that they are linked to two of the most important theoretical
findings about the connection between phonological features and ‘Narrow
Syntax’ in Chomsky (2001): (i) the existence of special operations that spell
out phonological features at points different from the completion of strong
phases (Dislocation); and (ii) the sensitivity of strictly syntactic operations to
the presence (or absence) of phonological features. Chomsky argues that these
generalisations are reflected in the basic characteristics of Scandinavian ‘Ob-
ject Shift’, and the way preceding analyses (especially Holmberg, 1999) have
capitalised on them. These two issues will be dealt with in Sections 1.1 and 1.2
respectively, whereas Chomsky's own proposal will be presented in 1.3. In the
last section of the chapter (Section 2) it will be claimed that German scram-
bling behaves similarly to Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ with respect to (i) and
(ii) above, and that the complexity of the data derives from the existence of an-
other, ‘scrambling-like’, process along with the one resembling ‘Object Shift’.
The unified treatment these two phenomena have received in the literature on
German scrambling is the reason why both movement and base-generation
approaches seem to be (at least partially) right.
1. The phonological side of Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’
The label ‘Object Shift’ was first used by Holmberg (1986) to refer to the
kind of structure found in all Scandinavian languages in which a DP object
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 193
may appear preceding clause-medial adverbs, as exemplified in (2b) vs (2a) for
Icelandic:
(2) a. Nemandinn las ekki bókina
student-the-NOM read not book-the-ACC
“The student didn’t read the book”
b. Nemandinn las bókina ekki
student-the-NOM read book-the-ACC not
“The student didn’t read the book”
As Holmberg already notices, the structure is subject to different restric-
tions, some shared by the whole group of languages, some holding just in
Mainland Scandinavian (Danish, Norwegian, and Swedish) and Faroese, but
not in Icelandic. In the following, I will briefly review the most important ones.
1.1 Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ from a descriptive perspective
1.1.1 The ‘shifted’ object. All Scandinavian languages disallow ‘Object Shift’
with constituents different from DP objects of verbs. Thus, ‘Object Shift’ is
impossible with DP objects of prepositions (3b), PPs (3c) or APs (4b) (Ice-
landic examples from Thráinsson, 2001):
(3) a. Jón talađi ekki viđ Maríu
John-NOM spoke not with Mary
“John didn’t speak with Mary”
b. *Jón talađi Maríu ekki viđ
John-NOM spoke Mary not with
“John didn’t speak with Mary”
c. *Jón talađi viđ Maríu ekki
John-NOM spoke with Mary not
“John didn’t speak with Mary”
(4) a. Fyrirlestrar hans eru alltaf skemmtilegastir
Talks-NOM his are always most-interesting
“His talks are always very interesting”
b. *Fyrirlestrar hans eru skemmtilegastir alltaf
talks-NOM his are most-interesting always
“His talks are always very interesting”
However, regarding the class of ‘shiftable’ objects, i.e. DP objects of verbs,
there is a division between Icelandic, on the one hand, and Mainland Scandina-
194 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
vian and Faroese, on the other: whereas in Icelandic definite and indefinite DPs
may appear as shifted objects, regardless of whether they are nominal or pro-
nominal (5), (6), (7), in Mainland Scandinavian and Faroese only simple, un-
stressed definite pronouns occur in ‘Object Shift’ structures (8), (9) (Icelandic
examples in (5), (6) and (7) from Thráinsson, 2001; Danish examples in (8)
and (9) from Vikner, 1994):
(5) a. Nemandinn las ekki bókina
student-the-NOM read not book-the-ACC
“Nobody read the book”
b. Nemandinn las bókina ekki
student-the-NOM read book-the-ACC not
“Nobody read the book”
(6) a. Nemandinn las ekki þrjár bækur
student-the-NOM read not three books-ACC
“The student didn’t read three books”
b. Nemandinn las þrjár bækur ekki
student-the-NOM read three books-ACC not
“The student didn’t read three books”
(7) a. *Nemandinn las ekki hana
student-the-NOM read not it-ACC
“The student didn’t read it”
b. Nemandinn las hana ekki
student-the-NOM read it-ACC not
“The student didn’t read it”
(8) a. Hvorfor lœste studenterne ikke artiklen?
why read student-the-NOM not article-the-ACC
“Why didn’t the student read the article?”
b. *Hvorfor lœste studenterne artiklen ikke?
why read student-the-NOM article-the-ACC not
“Why didn’t the student read the article?”
(9) a. *Hvorfor lœste studenterne ikke den?
why read student-the-NOM not it-ACC
“Why didn’t the student read it?”
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 195
b. Hvorfor lœste studenterne den ikke?
why read student-the-NOM it-ACC not
“Why didn’t the student read it?”
Notice that in both (7) and (9) the presence of the pronoun in a position fol-
lowing negation renders the (a) sentences ungrammatical, in Icelandic as well
as in Danish.2
From this it is generally concluded in the literature that ‘Object
Shift’ is obligatory for simple, unstressed, definite pronouns, whereas it is op-
tional —if possible— in the rest of the cases. This amounts to saying that
‘Object Shift’ is obligatory in the only case in which it is possible in Mainland
Scandinavian and Faroese (exemplified in (9) above), whereas it is optional in
the rest of the cases in Icelandic (exemplified in (5) and (6)). However, as will
be shown in the next section, this optionality is just apparent.
1.1.2 Semantic interpretation. As frequently observed in the literature, notably
in the work by Diesing (1992, 1996, 1997), and Diesing and Jelinek (1993,
1995) among others, in all Scandinavian languages the shifted object of ‘Object
Shift’ structures receives a certain semantic interpretation that, depending on
the different cases,3
may not be available otherwise (i.e. if the object is not
shifted). This is visible in Mainland Scandinavian and Faroese, and is still
clearer in the case of Icelandic, as shown below (Norwegian examples in (10)
and Icelandic examples in (11) based on Thráinsson, 2001):
(10) a. *Hun så ikke meg
she saw not me
“She didn’t see me”
a'. Hun så meg ikke
she saw me not
“She didn’t see me”
b. Hun så ikke MEG4
she saw not ME
“She didn’t see ME”
b'. *Hun så MEG ikke
she saw ME not
“She didn’t see ME”
c. Hun så ikke meg og deg
she saw not me and you
“She didn’t see me and you”
196 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
c'. *Hun så meg og deg ikke
she saw me and you not
“She didn’t see me and you”
d. Hun så ikke ham på sykkelen
she saw not him on bike-the
“She didn’t see him on the bike”
d'. *Hun så ham på sykkelen ikke
she saw him on bike-the not
“She didn’t see him on the bike”
(11) a. Nemandinn las ekki þrjár bækur
student-the-NOM read not three books-ACC
“It is not the case that the student read three books”
b. Nemandinn las þrjár bækur ekki
student-the-NOM read three books-ACC not
“There are three books that the student didn't read”
In (10), whereas ‘Object Shift’ is obligatory with an unstressed, definite pro-
noun ((10a) vs (10a')), it is not possible if the pronoun is stressed ((b) vs (b')),
conjoined ((c) vs (c')) or modified ((d) vs (d')). On the other hand, (11) illus-
trates how the ‘Object Shift’ structure in (b) yields a specific/quantificational
interpretation that (a) lacks. For Diesing (1992, 1996, 1997) and Diesing and
Jelinek (1993, 1995) the two contrasts may be unified by assuming that (i) the
shifted object has moved from a position within the VP (the one following the
clause-medial adverb) to a VP-external one (preceding the adverb), which is, of
course, hierarchically higher (in fact, this is the most common account of OS
within the generative framework since Holmberg (1986)); and (ii) syntactic
structures are related to semantic structures according to the ‘Mapping Hy-
pothesis’ (Diesing, 1992), which, as shown in the preceding chapter, basically
states that elements within VP receive an ‘existential closure’ interpretation,
generally associated to new information in relation to discourse, whereas ele-
ments outside VP are in the presupposition domain, the domain of old (presup-
posed) information. In this light, the examples in (10) are straightforwardly ac-
counted for: the unstressed pronoun is incompatible with the focus information
of the VP-internal position, but focus information is the only one available for
the stressed counterpart.5
On the other hand, in the Icelandic sentences, the
object within VP receives a predicational reading with no presupposition of
existence, but the shifted object is understood as specific/quantificational; in
other words, since its existence is presupposed, it is old information regarding
discourse.
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 197
1.1.3 ‘Holmberg’s Generalisation’. According to the sketchy summary of the
interplay between semantic meaning and syntactic structure above, one would
expect sentences as the following ones to be ungrammatical in both Icelandic
(12) and Mainland Scandinavian (here exemplified by Danish) (13), since the
simple, unstressed pronoun within VP, that is, within the focus domain, cannot
be interpreted as presupposed (Icelandic example adapted from Thráinsson,
2001; Danish example from Vikner, 1994):
(12) Af hverju hafa nemendurnir ekki lesiđ hana?
for what have students-the-NOM not read it-ACC
“Why haven’t the students read it?”
(13) Hvorfor har Peter ikke købt den?
why has Peter-NOM not bought it-ACC
“Why hasn’t Peter bought it?”
Nevertheless, both are fully grammatical in the intended interpretation. Simi-
larly, non-shifted nominal objects in Icelandic can be interpreted as specific or
quantificational, although they remain within VP (examples from Thráinsson,
2001):
(14) Nemandinn hefur ekki lesiđ þrjár bækur
student-the-NOM has not read three books-ACC
“There are three books that the student hasn't read, namely...”
Holmberg (1986) observed that, in cases such as the ones in (12), (13), and
(14), in which the correlation between meaning and syntactic structure of the
kind stated in the ‘Mapping Hypothesis’ does not obtain, ‘Object Shift’ seems
to be prevented from occurring by the presence of the verb within VP (notice
that, in the three examples, the verb appears after negation and preceding the
non-shifted object). This apparent dependence of ‘Object Shift’ on verb
movement is known as ‘Holmberg's Generalisation’, and holds for the whole
Scandinavian family. Thus, given general assumptions of verb movement in
each of the relevant languages, ‘Holmberg's Generalisation’ entails that:
(i) In Mainland Scandinavian, in which there is no verb movement to T, but
only to C in root clauses, ‘Object Shift’ is applicable if the main verb is finite
and the clause is root ((15a), (15b)), but it is not applicable if either the main
verb is non-finite (independently of clause-type, (15c)), or if the clause is
embedded (independently of verb finiteness, (15d))6
(Danish examples, from
Vikner, 1994):
198 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(15) a. Peter købte den ikke
Peter-NOM bought it-ACC not
“Peter didn’t buy it”
b. Hvorfor købte Peter den ikke?
why bought Peter-NOM it-ACC not
“Why didn’t Peter buy it?”
c. *Hvorfor skal Peter den ikke købe?
why shall Peter-NOM it-ACC not buy
“Why shall not Peter buy it?”
d. *Det var godt at Peter den ikke købte
it was good that Peter-NOM it-ACC not bought
“It was good that Peter didn’t buy it”
(ii) In Icelandic, in which there is generalized verb movement to T, and also to
C in root clauses, ‘Object Shift’ is applicable if the main verb is finite (inde-
pendently of clause type, (16a), (16b), (16c)), but it is not applicable if the
main verb is non-finite (independently of clause type, (16d)) (examples based
on Thráinsson, 2001):
(16) a. Nemendurnir lásu bækurnar ekki
students-the-NOM read books-the-ACC not
“The students didn’t read the books”
b. Af hverfu lásu nemendurnir bækurnar ekki?
for what read students-the-NOM books-the-ACC not
“Why didn’t the students read the books?”
c. Hún spurđi af hverfu stúdentarnir læsu bækurnar ekki
she asked for what students-the-NOM read books-the-ACC not
“She asked why the students didn’t read the books”
d. *Nemendurnir hafa bækurnar ekki lesiđ
students-the-NOM have books-the-ACC not read
“The students haven’t read the books”
The descriptive generalisations above seem to indicate that ‘Object Shift’ is
one of the options Scandinavian languages have in order to license an obliga-
tory relation between the verb and the object that, nevertheless, may be li-
censed otherwise, as long as the verb remains within VP. Given that, as noticed
in the first section of this chapter, only DP complements of verbs are
‘shiftable’, the most frequent conclusion in the literature is that the relation at
stake is Case (Holmberg, 1986; Chomsky, 1993; Holmberg and Platzack, 1995,
among others). This would also help explain why there is a wider range of
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 199
‘shiftable’ objects in Icelandic than in Mainland Scandinavian, since the former
shows morphological case in both pronouns and nouns, whereas the latter does
so only in the case of pronouns.
The picture is, however, complicated by another set of Scandinavian data
already pointed out by Holmberg (1986), where it is argued that it is not only
the presence of the verb within VP that blocks ‘Object Shift’, but also that of
some other elements, namely prepositions, indirect objects, and verb particles7
(Swedish examples, from Holmberg, 1999):
(17) a. *Jag talade henne inte med
I spoke her not with
“I didn’t speak with her”
b. *Jag gav den inte Elsa
I gave it not Elsa
“I didn’t give it to Elsa”
c. *Dom kastade mej inte ut
they threw me not out
“They didn’t throw me out”
The ungrammaticality of structures such as the ones in (17) casts some
doubts on the account of ‘Object Shift’ in terms of Case, which, if it is to be
maintained at all, makes it necessary to posit a different hypothesis for the ex-
amples in which, despite the absence of the verb in VP, another constituent
prevents ‘Object Shift’ from occurring. Furthermore, even if resorting to two
different explanations could cover a larger set of constructions, it would not
solve the problems the ‘Case hypothesis’ has on its own: thus, for example, the
grouping of Faroese, a language with morphological case on nouns, with
Mainland Scandinavian with respect to ‘shiftable’ objects, as observed by
Vikner (1994); and, most importantly, the semantic effects on the nominal that
seems to accompany ‘Object Shift’ even irrespective of ‘Holmberg's Gener-
alisation’, since there are nominals, such as non-specific objects, that never
shift although the verb has left VP.
The failure of Case-related accounts in explaining all the complexity of the
factors involved in ‘Object Shift’ satisfactorily is the main reason that led
Holmberg (1999) and Chomsky (2001) to adopt an alternative view, character-
ised by the adoption of three basic tenets:
(i) Case is not the only relevant factor in ‘Object Shift’, if it is relevant at all.
(ii) The two sets of data involved in ‘Holmberg's Generalisation’ must be
treated in a unified way.
200 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(iii) The semantic meaning present in ‘Object Shift’ structures is inextricably
linked to the syntactic operation that shifts the object.
Their specific proposals will be respectively dealt with in Sections 1.2 and
1.3.
1.2 Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ in ‘Stylistic Syntax’: Holmberg (1999)
On the basis of Swedish verb topicalisation constructions, in which non-
finite verb movement to the CP projection leaves a shifted object behind,
Holmberg calls for a unified treatment of the two sets of data involved in
‘Holmberg's Generalisation’. Since, as observed above, the conclusion seems
to be that the only characteristic shared by all the blocking elements is that they
are phonologically realized constituents, he proposes a reformulation of
‘Holmberg's Generalisation’ as in (18):
(18) ‘Holmberg's Generalisation’
‘Object Shift’ cannot apply across a phonologically visible category
asymmetrically c-commanding the object position except when that
category is an adjunct.
Given this, the next step is to try to establish a link between the different
semantic interpretations the nominal may receive and the presence/absence of
those phonologically visible categories (recall that, for instance, presupposed ,
‘topic-like’ elements may remain within VP with the right interpretation if the
main verb, a verb particle, a preposition, or an indirect object also appears
there). For this purpose, Holmberg assumes that, just because they are phonol-
ogically visible as VP constituents, all those elements also bear a [+Focus]
feature, differently from adverbs, which, as shown by the fact that they do not
prevent ‘Object Shift’ from occurring, are marked [–Focus]. Likewise, any
nominal object appearing within VP would also carry a [+Focus] feature,
which would explain why some objects may receive an ‘existential closure’
reading disregarding ‘Holmberg's Generalisation’, that is, disregarding the
presence or absence of phonologically overt constituents c-commanding them.
But, as said above, the central part of Holmberg's analysis is concerned with
the question why elements with a non-focused, ‘topic-like’, presupposed, spe-
cific, quantificational, etc., meaning may get that interpretation within VP only
when c-commanded by phonologically visible material. Holmberg's answer to
this question is that the only way Scandinavian languages have to license a [–
Focus] feature (the feature at stake in this kind of reading) is government by an
element characterized as [+Focus]. Thus, if the object bearing [–Focus] stays
within VP, it will be licensed only in case a c-commanding constituent which
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 201
is phonologically realised, and hence [+Focus], appears also there; otherwise,
the object will be forced to move to a position where it may be governed by
another, VP-external, [+Focus] category (the verb), which accounts for the
movement operation, i.e. the ‘shift’ itself.
Holmberg adopts the minimalist approach to syntax in Chomsky (1993,
1995) (see Section 1.2 in Chapter 4). Within that framework, both the nature of
the feature he contends is responsible for ‘Object Shift’, and the dependence of
its licensing on phonological features seem to be alien to what is usually con-
sidered purely syntactic: in a system in which all syntactic operations must take
place before the derivation has access to the PF component, there is no place
for operations dependent on phonological features, which are, by assumption,
elements pertaining to PF. In other words, if Holmberg's proposal were to be
stated in strictly syntactic terms, the system would have to allow for both
countercyclicity (as far as, after realisation of phonological features, an extra
strictly syntactic operation may be required to shift the object to the position
preceding clause-medial adverbs), and violations of the ‘Extension Condition’8
(since, for example, in the case of Swedish verb topicalisation, movement of
the nominal to a higher position would have to take place only once the com-
plete sentence is constructed). These are the main reasons that make Holmberg
place ‘Object Shift’ within a component called ‘Stylistic Syntax’, which takes
as input the output of syntax proper, with the addition of phonological features.
However, as Chomsky (2001) argues, there seems to be no need for resorting
to components different from the strictly syntactic one, if a different view of
the transfer of the derivation to PF is adopted, as I will discuss in the following
section.
1.3 Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ in ‘Narrow Syntax’: Chomsky (2001)
Chomsky's “Derivation by Phase” (Chomsky, 2001) follows the conclusions
the author drew in the preceding “Minimalist Inquiries” (Chomsky, 2000) with
respect to the relation between the strict syntactic derivation and the interfaces,
which, in turn, entail a clear departure from previous models. Until the
appearance of both ‘Minimalist Inquiries’ and ‘Derivation by Phase’, the
common minimalist assumption had been that the product of the core syntactic
derivation (what Holmberg (1999) calls ‘Strict Syntax’, and Chomsky (2000,
2001) calls ‘Narrow Syntax’) was transferred to the PF component by means of
the procedure called ‘Spell-Out’ once all the required strict/narrow syntactic
operations had been performed, in what is known as the standard ‘Y-model’ in
(19) (see Section 1.2 in Chapter 4):
202 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
Recall that, within this general framework, lexical items are bundles of
features, some of which are legible at PF (in general terms, phonological fea-
tures), some of which are legible at LF (in general terms, semantic features).
There exists, however, a third kind of features, those which Chomsky (1995)
calls formal features, divided into interpretable and uninterpretable. They differ
greatly as far as LF is concerned: formal interpretable features are legible there,
but formal uninterpretable ones are not. However, they are similar with respect
to PF: if both interpretable and uninterpretable features may have a phonetic
reflex (i.e. inflectional affixes may be phonetically realised), they must be in
some sense available at PF irrespective of interpretability. What seems to be
required, then, is a syntactic mechanism that makes formal uninterpretable
features disappear before accessing LF, but, at the same time, preserves them
for PF. That mechanism is the operation ‘Spell-Out’, which removes LF-unin-
terpretable material from the syntactic object and transfers it to the phonologi-
cal component. On the other hand, recall also that uninterpretable features are
considered responsible as well for the implementation of other syntactic opera-
tions whose main objective is to delete them, which constitutes the core of
‘feature checking’ (Chomsky, 1993, 1995).
However, the Y-architecture is problematic with respect to two different is-
sues. First, as Chomsky (2000, 2001) already notices, it entails great computa-
tional complexity, insofar as the whole syntactic object in its integrity must be
present in active memory until it reaches the final (‘Spell-Out’) point. Second,
as Epstein and Seely (2002) argue, the model also suffers from important
drawbacks having to do both with the way uninterpretable features are checked
(or licensed) and the way they may or may not access inteface levels, namely:
(i) if formal uninterpretable features are uninterpretable at LF, how can ‘Spell-
Out’, which has no direct access to the LF interface, distinguish them?; and (ii)
if feature checking results in uninterpretable feature deletion, how can uninter-
pretable features be available at PF in the instances in which they present pho-
netic reflexes?9
Narrow Syntax
LF
PF
Spell-Out
(19)
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 203
Chomsky tries to solve these contradictions in “Minimalist Inquiries” and
“Derivation by Phase” by reformulating both the feature checking procedure
and the ‘Y-model’ itself. With respect to feature checking, he refines it in terms
of feature valuation, according to which the difference between interpretable
and uninterpretable features lies in when they receive a value: whereas inter-
pretable features are already valued before they enter the derivation, uninter-
pretable ones get their value in the course of it. As Epstein and Seely (2002)
notice, this is a good solution for the problem posed by ‘Spell-Out’ having ac-
cess to LF information, i.e. one of the contradictions pointed out by Epstein
and Seely themselves: ‘Spell-Out’ does not distinguish between interpret-
able/uninterpretable features, but crucially between valued and unvalued ones.
On the other hand, it also seems to improve the picture with respect to another
of the problems mentioned above, as far as valuation does not imply deletion,
which would account for the presence of phonetic reflexes of uninterpretable
features at PF.
Nevertheless, as Chomsky observes in “Derivation by Phase”, replacing
feature deletion with feature valuation, while completely useless as a remedy to
the issue of computational burden, creates a new complication for the Y-model:
once an uninterpretable feature is valued, how can ‘Spell-Out’ tell interpretable
from uninterpretable material? There are two possible solutions: (i) Back-
tracking: ‘Spell-Out’ reconstructs the derivation searching for all the occur-
rences of a valued feature in order to check if its valuation took place in the
course of the derivation or not. But this solution would entail the same kind of
computational burden the system is expected to get rid of, making the ‘Y-
model’ even worse; (ii) ‘Spell-Out’ applies shortly after an uninterpretable
feature has been assigned value. This means, of course, that, differently from
what was assumed in the ‘Y-model’, ‘Spell-Out’ does not take place at a single
(final) point at the end of the narrow syntactic computation, but rather at
several ones, which, in turn, amounts to characterizing ‘Spell-Out’ as multiple
and cyclic. The task is now to determine the precise points of the cycle at
which ‘Spell-Out’ is available, and this is just what the notion of phase tries to
delimit.
Chomsky (2000, 2001) makes cyclic ‘Spell-Out’ contingent on the com-
pletion of what he calls ‘strong phases’. In other words, once the iterative com-
bination (‘Merge’) of a group of lexical items results in a syntactic object char-
acterized as a strong phase, the object may be spelled out (i.e. deprived of all
its phonological and formal uninterpretable features). The crucial question here
is what kind of syntactic object may be characterized as a strong phase. For
Chomsky, the answer is given by the only elements (apart from lexical items)
that are ineliminable on minimalist grounds: the PF and LF interface levels.
204 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
Thus, he argues, any syntactic object that is relatively independent at the inter-
face is a strong phase. For the LF component, this means that it must behave as
a proposition; for the PF one, it refers to properties that allow it to appear more
freely distributed than the rest of the linguistic expression (for example, in
fronting, extraposition, pseudo-cleft constructions, etc.). The syntactic objects
that seem to display this independent behaviour in natural languages are vPs
(the projections of v, the light verb head of constructions with full argument
structure, i.e. experiencer and transitive predicates), and CPs. Hence, both vPs
and CPs, once constructed, may be spelled out.
As it stands, the new model reaches one of Chomsky's main objectives with
respect to computational complexity, since entire strings of the derivation (i.e.
lower phases) may completely disappear from active memory, but it also brings
in new problems, since it seems to forbid the presence of a phonologically re-
alized lexical item (or a group of them, i.e. a phonologically realised constitu-
ent) beyond the limits of the strong phase where it has been first merged, which
would wrongly rule out standard cases of cyclic A/A-bar movement. In order
to avoid this unwelcome result, Chomsky resorts to the interaction of a
condition on phases (i), and a property intrinsic to strong phases (ii), as they
appear in (20):
(20) (i) Phase Impenetrability Condition: in a strong phase HP, in the
configuration [ZP Z… [HP α [H YP]]], ZP the next strong phase:
a. The domain of H (here, YP) is not accessible to operations at
ZP, but only H and its edge.
b. Interpretation/evaluation for PH1 (HP, here) is at PH2 (ZP)
(ii) A strong phase may be optionally assigned an [+EPP] feature.
From (i) it follows that all those elements that by ‘Spell-Out’ occupy the
edge of the phase (specifiers and/or adjuncts) need not be obligatorily spelled
out at the completion of the phasal cycle: the interaction of (a) and (b) makes it
possible for a constituent to participate in operations at higher phases, while
rendering the lower one free of uninterpretable features. On the other hand, (ii)
is absolutely necessary in a system where movement operations are not free,
but strictly feature-driven: in other words, if not directly merged at the edge of
the phase, the element that is available for subsequent phases must have been
moved there, and the only reason for this movement must be feature checking/
valuation. Notice also that, since resorting to the [+EPP] feature seems to be
motivated exclusively on empirical grounds (i.e. on the existence of cyclic
movement itself), EPP feature elimination will always entail pied-piping,
which, in turn, always requires phonological content. In this respect, the EPP
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 205
feature constitutes the correlate of the notion of strong feature of the earliest
versions of the MP (Chomsky 1993, 1995): features that provoke overt move-
ment (i.e. movement with a reflex in linear order) are not strong features on the
target, but rather features that appear associated to another, EPP feature. To
put it differently, the distinction between strong and weak features collapses,
which makes Chomsky redefine covert movement in terms of ‘Agree’ (i.e. the
‘feature checking’ of Chomsky 1993, 1995) between the probe and the closest
c-commanded goal in its base position.10
Chomsky makes extensive use of the conception of cyclic ‘Spell-Out’ in
terms of phases in his analysis of Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’. The first conse-
quence of his adoption of it is that ‘Object Shift’ must be characterized as a
process pertaining to the lower phasal cycle, i.e. the vP cycle, since the shifted
object always appears in a position that follows the subject in Spec TP but pre-
cedes the clause-medial adverb signalling the left-hand VP boundary. The
second consequence is that, just because vP is a strong phase with the ability of
being optionally assigned an EPP feature, movement of the nominal to the po-
sition in which it is phonetically realised may be understood as movement for
EPP feature elimination. There are three things, however, that the phasal ac-
count itself —if compared to Holmberg's (1999) proposal— does not explain
without further assumptions: (i) why the presence of phonological material
within VP may block ‘Object Shift’; (ii) why there are different semantic inter-
pretations available for the nominal depending on the presence/ absence of
phonological features; and (iii) how optionality in EPP feature assignment (that
is, optionality in the shift of the nominal) may be possible in a system in which
no optionality is allowed.
Chomsky answers the first question by claiming that phonological features,
although not directly involved in pure ‘Narrow Syntax’ processes such as fea-
ture valuation, may nevertheless trigger them by simply appearing or not in the
strict syntactic component. This basic intuition is refined in the notion of ‘pho-
nological border’:
(21) The phonological border of HP is a position not c-commanded by
phonological material within HP.11
The interplay of the notion of ‘phonological border’ and the second state-
ment of the ‘Phase Impenetrability Condition’ above, according to which a
phase is interpreted/evaluated at the next strong phase, entails that the DP2 in
(22) will appear at the phonological border of α if both V and DP1 undergo
further raising to another higher phase:
206 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(22) [α DP1 [V DP2]]
Hence, the lack of phonological features on V and DP1 are directly respon-
sible for the status of DP2 as an element ‘at the border’. Notice that, from this
perspective, any Scandinavian unstressed definite object pronoun in a transitive
configuration in which there is V to T (or C) raising as well as movement of
the subject to Spec TP would be ‘at the phonological border’.
With respect to the question (ii) above, i.e. how shifted/non-shifted nomi-
nals may present different semantic meanings in connection with the pres-
ence/absence of phonological features, Chomsky proposes that, for languages
in which the ‘Object Shift’ parameter holds, elements at the phonological bor-
der receive an interpretation different from that assigned to those not at the
phonological border. He labels the first one as INT' (encompassing basically
the meanings Diesing (1992) and also Holmberg (1999) associate with ‘exis-
tential closure’, i.e. non-specific, focused, new information, etc.), and the
second one INT (specific, quantificational, non-focused, presupposed, old in-
formation, etc.). Thus, for example, it is derived that in ‘Object Shift’ lan-
guages simple, unstressed definite pronouns would receive the interpretation
that corresponds to them (that is, INT) only if they are not at the phonological
border, that is, only in the case that the verb or any other constituent remains
within VP. At the phonological border, on the other hand, they would be as-
signed an INT', hence deviant, interpretation.
But can ‘Object Shift’ languages avoid these deviant interpretations of
nominals when the computational operations that leave them at the phonologi-
cal border are implemented? Chomsky links the answer to this question to our
third question above, i.e. how to constrain optionality in EPP feature assign-
ment in a system in which optionality is not possible at all. He argues that an
EPP feature may be assigned only if it has an effect on outcome, that is, only if
it has a bearing on semantic interpretation. In this light, the only cases at stake
are those in which a nominal intended to be interpreted as specific, presup-
posed, quantificational, etc., remains within VP once all the rest of the VP ele-
ments have moved anywhere else, that is, when it becomes an element at the
phonological border. Only in these cases is an EPP feature assigned, whose
elimination, of course, may require the displacement, i.e. the shift, of the ob-
ject. This is what, according to Chomsky, underlies ‘Holmberg's Generalisa-
tion’.
So far, Chomsky's phasal account of Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ seems to
give the right results, to the extent that it brings together ‘Holmberg's Generali-
sation’, the different semantic interpretations the nominal may have, and the
fact that movement of the object is always movement within the lower cycle,
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 207
and it does so without departing from fundamental minimalist tenets. Never-
theless, it also faces both theoretical and empirical problems whose solution
may require extra mechanisms, among which:
(i) As stated in the ‘Phase Impenetrability Condition’, in the configuration
[ZP Z.... [HP α [H YP]]]
both ZP and HP strong phases, α and H are accessible to operations outside
HP, which, for the case of Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ understood as move-
ment to the vP edge, entails that the shifted object should induce intervention
effects12
with respect to the relation established between T and the subject at
the edge of vP. This is not confirmed by empirical evidence, as illustrated by
(23), where the subject in the innermost specifier of v agrees with T despite the
shifted object:
(23) NemandinnSUBJ/ NOM,SING las V, SING [bækurnar]OBJ / ACC PL ekki
student-the read books-the not
vP[tobj[tsubj [v...]]]
“The student didn’t read the book”
The shifted object does not prevent raising of Subj to Spec TP.
(ii) Chomsky, citing Holmberg (1999), notices that in Mainland Scandinavian
‘Object Shift’ the pronoun seems to occupy a position higher than the vP edge,
since it precedes negation (24a), and negation, in turn, precedes the auxiliary
verb's base position, as demonstrated by embedded clauses containing auxiliary
verbs —(24b)— (there is no verb movement in Mainland Scandinavian em-
bedded clauses) (Swedish examples, from Holmberg, 1999):
(24) a. Jag kysste henne inte
I kissed her-ACC not
“ I didn’t kiss her”
b. Det är möjligt [att jag inte har kysste henne]
it is possible that I not have kissed her-ACC
“It is possible that I haven’t kissed her’
Chomsky overcomes these difficulties by invoking a language-specific op-
eration called DISL (a dislocation rule). DISL is reminiscent of normal syntac-
tic displacement in that it moves a constituent to a higher position (in (23) the
position immediately preceding negation). But, unlike strictly syntactic move-
ment, it does not correlate with a change in semantic interpretation.13
This
208 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
leads Chomsky to characterise DISL as an operation of the phonological com-
ponent: at the relevant stage of the cycle, the object in Spec, vP is transferred to
the phonological component, where it undergoes displacement to its ultimate
position in the string (preceding negation in (24)). This entails that the narrow
syntactic computation must proceed with a Spec, vP phonologically empty
even prior to the strong-phase level, at which point the position would have
become phonologically empty even if not subject to DISL. Although a phono-
logical operation, the effects of DISL in ‘Narrow Syntax’ are important, espe-
cially due to Chomsky's (2001) principle (46), which states that only “the pho-
nological edge of HP is accessible to probe P” (recall that ‘phonological edge’
refers to an edge element with no phonological material c-commanding it
within the category). Chomsky links this principle on two properties charac-
terising inactive traces: (i) they disallow pied-piping, insofar as they lack pho-
nological features; (ii) they cannot induce intervention effects, insofar as they
are inactive, that is, all their uninterpretable features have already received a
value. In this light, if Scandinavian shifted objects also undergo DISL, the
subject in situ becomes the closest goal not only with respect to the [+EPP]
feature elimination on T, but also with respect to valuing the uninterpretable
phi-features of this functional head.
From the discussion above, it is concluded that Chomsky motivates the ex-
istence of an operation such as DISL in Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ exclu-
sively on a theoretical basis, since it makes his account compatible with econ-
omy considerations that are central to the ‘Minimalist Program’. This is proba-
bly the reason why DISL has been considered highly controversial, and criti-
cised on several grounds. For instance, Svenonius (2001) contends that it is
completely dispensable, and that the high position occupied by the shifted
constituent as well as the absence of intervention effects must rather be ex-
plained in terms of the direct movement of the shifted object to TP (or even
CP), which is possible by assuming a modified version of Chomsky's multiple,
cyclic ‘Spell-Out’. According to this modified version, ‘Spell-Out’ is not con-
tingent on the completion of a strong phase, but rather on the total elimination
of uninterpretable (unvalued) features within a phrase (not phase), which im-
plies that ‘Spell-Out’ happens as quickly as possible, in the spirit of Pesetsky’s
(1989) ‘Earliness Principle’, or the ‘Spell-Out within the Rule’ in Epstein and
Seely (1999, 2002). Since, at the same time, ‘Holmberg's Generalisation’ must
be accounted for, Svenonius proposes a formulation of early ‘Spell-Out’ as in
(25):
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 209
(25) A phrase goes to ‘Spell-Out’ if
(i) it no longer contains any unvalued features, and
(ii) its head has reached its final landing site
(25) amounts to saying that, if the verb must undergo raising to T or C, the
object will be not transferred to PF, but be available for operations outside vP.
Thus, ‘Holmberg's Generalisation’, in its earlier formulation (Holmberg, 1986),
is derived.
The only pending problem Svenonius's analysis must face is how to account
for the different interpretations shifted vs unshifted nominals may present.
Since he rejects movement of the object to the vP edge, the relevant semantic
meaning must be dependent only on feature elimination at TP or CP.
Svenonius argues that this dependence is articulated around two main ele-
ments: clause structure at LF, and ‘Indirect Feature-Driven Movement’ (IFM),
i.e. the insertion of strong features (Chomsky, 2000). Given that the clause at
LF is split into a topic-comment structure, any DP occupying a position in the
lower comment part would be interpreted as comment (i.e. focused, non-
specific, etc.), unless it undergoes movement to the topic substructure. This
movement may be LF movement or movement in ‘Narrow Syntax’, which, in
the spirit of Pesetsky's ‘Earliness Principle’ again, is to be preferred. The
question now is how something evaluated at LF may be rescued in ‘Narrow
Syntax’. Svenonius's answer combines IFM with his conception of early
‘Spell-Out’: once the clash between semantic interpretation of the shiftable
object and its position within the comment substructure has been detected at
LF, the string may be sent back to ‘Narrow Syntax’ if no relevant part of it (i.e.
the part containing the object) has been previously spelled out, that is, if either
unvalued features remain within it, or its head has not reached its final landing
site. Once the phrase is in ‘Narrow Syntax’ again, a strong feature may be in-
serted allowing the nominal to move there. According to Svenonius, the feature
in question is probably a strong Case feature, which would explain why Scan-
dinavian ‘Object Shift’ affects only DPs. This analysis predicts that only in
those languages and in those structures in which the verb moves beyond v14
is
‘Object Shift’ implemented.
As is evident from the sketchy summary above, Svenonius's analysis cru-
cially depends on considering verb movement as the element regulating the
size of the string that may be subject to ‘Spell-Out’. Notice, however, that this
role of the verb as ‘regulating’ element is established on the basis of both a
stipulation (the second tenet in (25), by which a phrase whose head has not
reached its final landing site cannot go to ‘Spell-Out’), and the assumption that
phonological features, the only uninterpretable ones Svenonius considers the
210 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
verb has before reaching its ultimate position, are unvalued with respect to
‘Spell-Out’ itself, that is, their lack of value prevents ‘Spell-Out’ from remov-
ing them from the strict syntactic derivation (recall that ‘Spell-Out’, as formu-
lated in Chomsky (2000, 2001), may act only on (recently) valued features).
Nevertheless, the picture arising from these two premises has, in my opinion,
far-reaching consequences that seem to call for a re-shaping of the minimalist
model going even beyond the way phases are conceived.
One of these aspects is related to the way uninterpretable features must be
understood. According to the model in Chomsky (1995, 2000, 2001), the exis-
tence of uninterpretable features, an apparent imperfection of natural lan-
guages, is probably a part of an optimal solution to minimal design specifica-
tions (along the lines of what Chomsky (2000, 2001) calls ‘the strongest mini-
malist thesis’), since it allows lexical items or their combination to appear in
different (structural) positions (i.e. the ‘displacement’ property), each convey-
ing a distinct semantic interpretation. However, in Svenonius's account, the
presence of uninterpretable phonological features on verbs, while being on a
par with the rest of uninterpretable features with regard to barring ‘Spell-Out’
from acting, fails to make it possible to endow the ‘displaced’ element (i.e. the
verb itself) with a new meaning.15
Thus, in general terms, since valuing of pho-
nological features seems not to entail differences in semantic interpretation, it
is preferable to consider it as an operation taking place exclusively at PF
(Chomsky, 2001).
The second aspect in which Svenonius's account departs from common
minimalist tenets is his conception of IFM, i.e. the insertion of strong features.
This mechanism was first envisaged by Chomsky (2000) as a way to allow for
successive cyclic movement while keeping a phasal derivation. But, whereas in
Chomsky the insertion of the required strong feature takes place only at the end
of a phase (thus targeting its edge), in Svenonius the feature may be inserted in
phase-internal positions. This clearly contradicts the ‘Extension Condition’
(see footnote 8, this chapter).
Svenonius's hypothesis, based as it is on the crucial relevance of uninter-
pretable phonological features on the verb, also faces some empirical problems.
In particular, it takes the analysis of Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ back to the
stage at which it was impossible to posit a unified treatment of those instances
in which the verb blocks the movement of the nominal and those in which
some other constituent does, which means, of course, losing Holmberg's (1999)
fundamental insight.
In conclusion, I think that Svenonius's proposal fails in its main objective,
i.e. to get rid of Chomsky's (2001) DISL. And it fails for two fundamental rea-
sons: (i) as we have discussed in the preceding paragraphs, DISL is dispensed
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 211
with only at the cost of increasing theoretical complexity and disregarding one
fundamental set of data (those in which non-verbal elements prevent ‘Object
Shift’); and (ii) as we will see presently, there is empirical evidence supporting
the idea that DISL —or some comparable phonological process— is also a part
of a phenomenon partially resembling Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’, namely
German scrambling.
2. The phonological side of German scrambling
The present section extends Chomsky's analysis of Scandinavian ‘Object
Shift’ to German scrambling structures. As discussed above, such an analysis is
based on three fundamental tenets: (i) surface semantic effects are restricted to
‘Narrow Syntax’; (ii) phonological features may condition strictly syntactic
operations; (iii) there are special procedures that strip the narrow syntactic
derivation of phonological features at points different from those coinciding
with the completion of strong phases (that is, procedures with the basic proper-
ties of DISL). According to Chomsky, the case of Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’
clearly corroborates (i), (ii) and (iii). With respect to (i), the strong, specific,
presuppositional, etc. interpretation a shifted object receives is the result of the
strictly syntactic operation ‘Move’. ‘Move’, in turn, takes place in order to get
rid of an EPP-feature, optionally assigned to yield a semantic output which is
not available otherwise. (ii) is responsible for ‘Holmberg's Generalisation’:
elements that are not at the ‘phonological border’ may get the interpretation
associated to shifted constituents in situ, which prevents EPP-feature assign-
ment and, consequently, object displacement to the vP edge. As for (iii),
Chomsky's proposal incorporates the notion of DISL, which is absolutely
necessary on several grounds: it explains why the shifted object appears in a
position higher than that corresponding to the vP edge, and why the subject
may cross it on its way to Spec, T without violating the MLC.
There seem to be reasons to assume that German scrambling behaves like
Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ with respect to these three fundamental properties.
This claim is not new as far as (i) is concerned: a topical, discourse-linked
interpretation is commonly attributed to both shifted and scrambled constituent,
and is captured by proposals such as Diesing's (1992) ‘Mapping Hypothesis’
(Diesing, 1997). My aim is to show that a similar parallelism may be defended
also with regard to (ii) and (iii). In other words, I will contend that, like
Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’, German scrambling entails DISL of the scrambled
constituent (Section 2.1), and is sensitive to the position the ‘scrambable’
element occupies, if that position is defined in terms of Chomsky's (2001)
‘phonological border’ (Section 2.2).
212 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
2.1 Evidence for DISL
As was detailed above, Svenonius's (2001) main objection against the pres-
ence of DISL(ocation) in Chomsky's (2001) account of Scandinavian ‘Object
Shift’ is that it is stipulative. Since the shifted object does not prevent the
checking relation between T and the subject in Spec, v, it must be stipulated
that it lacks phonological features, which makes it an unsuitable goal. On the
other hand, since shifted objects linearly precede other elements that are tradi-
tionally assigned a structural position above the vP edge (for example, nega-
tion), it must be stipulated that object displacement from the vP periphery to
higher sites is merely phonological, a consequence of DISL itself. Svenonius
concludes that “Chomsky's account captures the peculiar characteristics of OS,
but at some cost; in order to extend the account to Scrambling generally, it is
necessary to be more explicit about what forces the object to move across the
adverbs”16
(2001:5).
The next sections constitute an extension of Chomsky's proposal for OS to
German scrambling. It provides further independent evidence for the claim that
the kind of reordering attested in Germanic has a phonological side. This pho-
nological side accounts for some of the syntactic and phonological properties
that reordered sequences exhibit, which go beyond those attributed by
Chomsky to Icelandic ‘Object Shift’. This is the fundamental claim in the next
two sections, where the behaviour of German topicalised VPs and scrambled
coherent infinitivals (which, as far as I know, has never been fully explained in
the literature) is shown to be a consequence of the phonological aspect of reor-
dering.
2.1.1 vP/VP-topicalisation, scrambling sites, and DISL. When dealing with
German VP-topicalisation, both base-generation and movement approaches to
scrambling have traditionally capitalised on the data that seem to support one
view or the other, basically disregarding those that could constitute potential
counterevidence. This section explores the possibility of making both sets of
data compatible by resorting to a process DISL, which would serve as a diag-
nosis for distinguishing true (i.e. ‘Icelandic-like’) instances of scrambling from
other German grammatical phenomena. Before dealing with the exact way in
which such compatibility may be possible, it may be useful to review some of
the properties of German XP-fronting that are relevant to the subsequent dis-
cussion.
2.1.1.1 Some properties of VP-topicalisation in German. Like all its Ger-
manic relatives except English, German is a V-2 language (Chapter 2, Section
1), which means, basically,17
that the derivation of root declarative clauses
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 213
obligatorily involves two movement operations: the first displaces the finite
verb to C (or a C-related head); the second raises an XP to Spec, C (or to the
specifier of a Comp-related projection). As far as the raised XP is concerned,
there are no categorial restrictions, although the process seems to be subject to
other type of constraints ((8) in Chapter 2, repeated here as (26)) (examples a-b
from Grohmann, 2000b; c-d from Schwartz and Vikner, 1996):
(26) a. Viele Bücher hat Peter gestern gelesen
many books-ACC has Peter-NOM yesterday read
“Peter read many books yesterday”
a'. *Wenige Bücher hat Peter gestern gelesen
few books-ACC has Peter-NOM yesterday read
“Peter read few books yesterday”
b. Wahrscheinlich/gestern hat das Buch Peter gelesen
probably yesterday has the book-ACC Peter-NOM read
“Probably/yesterday Peter read the book”
b'. *Kaum/Komplett hat Peter das Buch gelesen
barely completely has Peter-NOM the book-ACC read
“Peter (barely) read the book (completely)”
c. Das Kind hat das Brot gegessen
the child-NOM has the bread-ACC eaten
“The child ate the bread”
c'. Das Brot hat das Kind gegessen
the bread-ACC has the child-NOM eaten
“The child ate the bread”
d. Es hat das Brot gegessen
it-NOM has the bread-ACC eaten
“S/he (the child) ate the bread)’
d'. *Es hat das Kind gegessen
it-ACC has the child-NOM eaten
“The child ate it”
The pair in (a) illustrates the grammaticality of XP-topicalisation containing
increasing quantifiers (a), and its ungrammaticality with decreasing ones (a').
The contrast in (b) shows that sentence and time adverbials may appear
fronted, but the process is barred in the case of modal adverbs of the kind of
kaum, or komplett. The two sentences in (c) are well-formed, showing that
nominal subjects and objects may both occupy Spec, C. Finally, that this is not
so if the DP is pronominal is illustrated by the opposition in (d), where fronting
of nominative es, but not accusative es, results in an acceptable structure. I will
214 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
not discuss the exact nature of the constraints holding in (a)-(d). Notice, how-
ever, that they are independent of grammatical category, and seem to follow
semantic properties (at least for (a) and (b), and perhaps also for the opposition
in (c)-(d)).
Given (26) and its consequences, there is nothing preventing XP-fronting of
projections headed by a lexical verb. And, in fact, this kind of structure is
widely attested in German, with topicalisation of the single V head (27a), the
head plus one or more of its internal arguments ((27b), (27c) for transitives,
(27d) for passives, (27e) for unaccusatives), and even of the external one ((27f)
for unergatives, (27g) for transitives) (examples (d)-(g) from Haider, 1990 and
Wurmbrand, 2001b):
(27) a. [Gelesen] hat der Peter das Buch noch nie
read has Peter-NOM the book-ACC yet never
“It has never happened that Peter read the book”
b. [Ein Buch gelesen] hat der Peter noch nie
a book-ACC read has Peter-NOM yet never
“It has never happened that Peter read a book”
c. [Einem Studenten einen Wagen geschenkt] hat
a student-DAT a car-ACC given has
ein Millionär hier noch nie
a millionaire-NOM here yet never
“It has never happened here that a millionaire gave a student a car”
d. [Ein Orden verliehen] wurde ihr erst gestern
a medal-NOM awarded AUX her-DAT just yesterday
“It just happened yesterday that she was awarded a medal”
e. [Ein Fehler unterlaufen] ist ihrem Mann noch nie
a mistake-NOM happened is her husband-DAT yet never
“It never happened that her husband made a mistake”
f. [Aussenseiter gewonnen] haben hier noch nie
outsiders-NOM won have here yet never
“It never happened before that outsiders won here”
g. ?[Ein Millionär einem Studenten einen Wagen geschenkt]
a millionaire-NOM a student-DAT a car-ACC given
hat hier noch nie
has here yet never
“It has never happened here that a millionaire gave a student a
car”
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 215
However, it has been frequently noticed in the literature that the structures
in (27) are sensitive to a definiteness restriction, according to which while in-
definite nominative arguments can be part of a fronted constituent (27), definite
nominative DPs and proper names are prohibited (28) (Kratzer 1984; Haider,
1990; Wurmbrand, 2001b):
(28) a. *[Der Orden verliehen] wurde ihr erst gestern
the medal-NOM awarded AUX her-DAT just yesterday
“It just happened yesterday that she was awarded the medal”
b. *[Dieser Fehler unterlaufen] ist ihrem Mann noch nie
this mistake-NOM happened is her husband-DAT yet never
“It never happened that her husband made this mistake”
c. *[Die Aussenseiter gewonnen] haben hier noch nie
the outsiders-NOM won have here yet never
“It never happened before that the outsiders won here”
d. *[Der Millionär einem Studenten einen Wagen geschenkt]
the millionaire-NOM a student-DAT a car-ACC given
hier noch nie
here yet never
“It has never happened here that the millionaire gave a student a
car”
Interestingly, the definiteness restriction does not apply to non-nominative
arguments. (29) shows the grammaticality of definite accusatives or datives in
fronted constituents:
(29) a. [Das Buch gelesen] hat der Peter noch nie
the book-ACC read has Peter-NOM yet never
“It has never happened that Peter read the book”
b. [Dem Studenten das Wagen geschenkt] hat der Millionär
the student-DAT the car-ACC given has the millionaire-NOM
hier noch nie
here yet never
“It has never happened here that the millionaire gave the student a
car”
Wurmbrand (2001b) argues that the facts in (27)-(29) and the way the defi-
niteness restriction operates are the result of the interaction of Diesing's (1992)
‘Mapping Hypothesis’ at LF with the minimalist procedure for Case checking.
Wurmbrand standardly assumes that nominative is the reflex of ‘Agree’
216 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
between T and an argument within vP/VP (in Spec,v for subjects of transitive
and unergative predicates, in the sister node to V for passives and unaccusa-
tives). In order for ‘Agree’ to hold, the argument in question may remain in its
base position, or be displaced to Spec, T, whenever T is endowed with an EPP
feature, as shown in (30):18
If the argument stays in its base position and the vP/VP complex is fronted
to Spec,C, the mapping procedure between semantic interpretation and syntac-
tic structure will give the right results only in the case that the nominative ar-
gument is associated with the meaning available within the domain of existen-
tial closure, namely vP: once vP/VP moves to Spec, C, it becomes an island for
further movement out of it, preventing the definite subject from LF lowering to
the T projection. On the other hand, pied-piping of the nominative argument to
Spec, T would solve the problem of the mapping. However, since the resulting
structure is completely ungrammatical (28), Wurmbrand concludes that TP-
fronting is impossible in German:
TP
T'
T
SUBJ v '
v
V
v P
(IN)DEF
SUBJ
(IN)DEF
(transitives,
unergatives) VP
(passives,
unaccusatives)
OBJ
(IN)DEF
(30)
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 217
(31) *TP fronting
Finally, that the definiteness restriction does not hold for objects of transi-
tive predicates is straightforwardly derived: their Case is the result of the
‘Agree’ relation they establish with v (or any other head within the vP/VP
complex), so no movement out of a frozen constituent is required.
In conclusion, Wurmbrand's discussion of the data in (27)-(29) clearly indi-
cates that, although not subject to categorial restrictions and only partially con-
strained by semantic ones, XP-fronting in German cannot apply to constituents
structurally higher than vP.
2.1.1.2 Scrambling within topicalised VPs. Defenders of the base-generation
approach (Fanselow, 2001), and advocates of untriggered movement within the
VP (Haider and Rosengren, 1998, 2003) take structures such as the ones in (32)
to be empirical evidence against scrambling as a semantically-driven process
(from Frey, 2000):
(32) a. VP[Kindern den Sternenhimmel erläutert] hat er schon oft
children-DAT the starry sky-ACC explained has he already often
“He has already explained the starry sky to children”
TPj C'
SUBJi T' C tj
DEF
v P T
ti v '
VP v
ti V
(passives,
unaccusatives)
(transitives,
unergatives)
*CP
218 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
b. VP[Den Sternenhimmel Kindern erläutert] hat er schon oft
the starry sky-ACC children-DAT explained has he already often
“He has already explained the starry sky to children”
The assumption is that the topicalised constituent in (32a, b) is a VP, and
that the possibility of reordering between the accusative and the dative in (31b)
supports the existence of VP-internal scrambling. The claim is unproblematic
within a pre-minimalist framework, in which all the verbal arguments (includ-
ing the external one of transitive predicates) are base-generated within VP, and
movement always targets a functional projection beyond the VP-periphery. If
indeed (32) is a case of VP-internal scrambling, the process cannot be charac-
terised as semantically-driven any more: both the scrambled and unscrambled
accusative in (32) are in the domain where non-presuppositional meaning ob-
tains. This view is shared by Fanselow (2001) and Haider and Rosengren
(1998, 2003), who find further support for it in three different sets of data:
(i) Existential subjects may precede scrambled objects (Fanselow, 2001). If
Diesing (1992) is right, and German existential subjects are syntactically
mapped onto the specifier of vP/VP, examples such as (33) support the
existence of a VP-internal scrambling position, namely the one occupied by the
accusative object in (33a) (from Fanselow, 2001):
(33) a. dass VP[Studenten das Buch dem Kind zeigen]
that students-NOM the book-ACC the child-DAT show
“that (some) students show the child the book”
b. dass VP[Studenten dem Kind das Buch zeigen]
that students-NOM the child-DAT the book-ACC show
“that (some) students show the child the book”
(ii) Transparent subjects are compatible with scrambled objects (Fanselow,
2001). According to the standard account of ‘Freezing’ (Section 1.6, Chapter
3), moved constituents become islands for extraction. Conversely, base-gener-
ated constituents allow for the displacement of their internal elements. Thus,
Fanselow takes the transparency of the subject in (34) to indicate that it occu-
pies Spec, VP, and not Spec, T. The conclusion is that scrambling of the accu-
sative object in (34b) must have targeted again a VP-internal site:
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 219
(34) a. Wasi haben denn damals vP/VP[[ti für Studenten] dem Kind
what have PART then for students the child-DAT
das Buch gezeigt]?
the book-ACC showed
“What kind of students showed the book to the child then?”
b. Wasi haben denn damals vP/VP[[ti für Studenten] das Buch
what have PART then for students the book-ACC
dem Kind gezeigt]?
the child-DAT showed
“What kind of students showed the book to the child then?”
The evidence may, however, be less conclusive than it seems. Recall that
De Kuthy and Meurers (2001) and De Kuthy (2002) question the strict correla-
tion between syntactic position and islandhood in German, showing that ex-
traction out of specific subjects is possible (Section 1.6.2, Chapter 3).
Similarly, Haider and Rosengren (1998) contend that not all base-generated
subjects are transparent, as the ungrammaticality of (35) shows: wh-movement
out of the subject of an unaccusative subject is barred.
(35) *Wasi ist [ti für ein Flugzeug] abgestürtz?
what is for an airplane crashed
“What kind of airplane crashed?”
(iii) Argument scrambling within other, non-verbal, projections (Haider and
Rosengren, 1998, 2003). As our review of the main descriptive properties of
scrambling showed in Chapter 3, the reordering between the different argu-
ments of a non-verbal lexical head is always possible, provided that it takes
place within that head's final projection (example from Haider and Rosengren,
1998):
(36) a. ein jedem an Kraft überlegener Sportler
a everyone-DAT in power superior athlete
“an athlete superior to everyone in power”
b. ein an Kraft jedem überlegener Sportler
a in power everyone-DAT superior athlete
“an athlete superior to everyone in power”
One must conclude that the proofs are overwhelming, and this is probably
what leads Fanselow and Haider and Rosengren to make the strongest possible
claim about the nature of German scrambling (see the corresponding sections
220 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
in Chapter 4): all instances of reordering with verbal arguments have the same
source, base-generation (Fanselow), or untriggered displacement within the
extended VP. Besides, there is an underlying aspect that is common to both
analyses: base-generation and untriggered movement are restricted to the pro-
jection of the lexical head selecting for the scrambled argument. For Haider
and Rosengren, who do not agree with Chomsky's assumption that subjects of
predicates with full argument structure occupy the specifier of the light verb v,
the head at stake is V. For Fanselow (2003), who accepts Chomsky's proposal,
it is v (after V-to-v raising). At this point, I would like to draw the reader's at-
tention to the following set of examples ((37) based on Wurmbrand, 2001b;
(38) based on Haider and Rosengren, 1998; my informants' judgement):
(37) a. ?[Ein Millionär dem Studenten einen Wagen geschenkt]
a millionaire-NOM the student-DAT a car-ACC given
hat hier noch nie
has here yet never
“It has never happened here that a millionaire gave the student a
car”
b. *[Dem Studenten ein Millionär einen Wagen geschenkt]
the student-DAT a millionaire-NOM a car-ACC given
hat hier noch nie
has here yet never
“It has never happened here that a millionaire gave the student a
car”
c. dass dem Studenten ein Millionär einen Wagen hier
that the student-DAT a millionaire-NOM a car-ACC here
noch nie geschenkt hat
yet never given has
“that it has never happened here that a millionaire gave the student
a car”
(38) a. [Immer Zigarren geraucht] hat damals keiner
always cigars-ACC smoked has then no-one-NOM
“No one always smoked cigars then”
b. *[Diese Zigarren immer geraucht] hat damals keiner
these cigars-ACC always smoked has then no-one-NOM
“No one always smoked these cigars then”
c. dass diese Zigarren immer keiner geraucht hat
that these cigars-ACC always no-one-NOM smoked has
“that no one always smoked cigars then”
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 221
In both Fanselow's and Haider and Rosengren's accounts, pre-subject
scrambling (i.e. scrambling of an argument past the subject position) is
straightforward, which explains the grammaticality of (37c): for Fanselow, dem
Studenten is licensed by v, which hosts the incorporated V. V has previously
licensed the accusative den Wagen in VP:
(39) v[dem Studenten v[ein Millionär v[ v[VP[einen Wagen ti] v + V
geschenkti ]]
For Haider and Rosengren, who do not assign the subject any privileged
status apart from its pre-derivationally assigned nominative case, the dative has
left its base-generation position below the nominative and undergone re-merg-
ing above it, within the boundaries of the extended ‘Minimal Argument Pro-
jection Complex’ (MAC) (that is, the extended VP):
(40) VP [dem Studenteni [ein Millionär [ti [einen Wagen geschenkt]]]]
The question now is why (37b) is ruled out, if, as suggested by the gram-
maticality of (37a), vP-fronting is an option in German (see the summary of the
discussion in Wurmbrand, 2001b above).
A similar case is illustrated by the sentences in (38), although perhaps less
clearly due to the difficulty of establishing the exact position where adverbs are
base-generated in German. In any case, the question they raise is obvious, even
if we agree with Haider and Rosengren (1998) that immer is relatively low in
the tree.19
If in (38c) diese Zigarren has been directly merged as sister to the
v+V complex (Fanselow), or displaced there by means of untriggered, VP-in-
ternal scrambling (Haider and Rosengren), why is it that the whole constituent
cannot be fronted? Notice that the reason has to be unrelated to the ill-formed-
ness derived from topicalising temporally modified vP/VPs:20
(38a) is fully
grammatical, according to Haider and Rosengren's own judgement. The con-
clusion is that, as also shown by (37), scrambling within topicalised verbal
lexical projections seems to be restricted to VPs, and is barred for vPs. This is
entirely unexpected within Fanselow's and Haider and Rosengren's analyses,
and undermines the traditional generalisation on which Wurmbrand (2001b)
capitalises, according to which any verbal projection below TP may be subject
to XP-fronting.
As for the additional evidence appearing in (34)-(35), it does appear to
support the idea of VP-internal scrambling, but does not tell us anything about
the distinction between such a process and the more restrictive type of reor-
dering that takes place past the vP-edge (where ‘more restrictive’ refers to the
222 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
impossibility of its appearance in Spec, C). With respect to (36), it argues for
VP-internal scrambling on the basis of its correlation with a parallel phenome-
non within other lexical (probably head-final, as Haider and Rosengren pro-
pose) projections. However, that the facts are again problematic for Fanselow's
and Haider and Rosengren's proposals is evidenced by (41) (examples
(41a)=(36a) and (41b)=(36b) from Haider and Rosengren (1998), their judge-
ment; (41b), (41c), (41d), (41e) my informants' judgement):
(41) a. ein [jedem an Kraft überlegener] Sportler
a everyone-DAT in power superior athlete
“an athlete superior to everyone in power”
b. ein [an Kraft jedem überlegener] Sportler
a in power everyone-DAT superior athlete
“an athlete superior to everyone in power”
c. dass er allen gestern überlegener war
that he all-DAT yesterday superior was
“that he was superior to everyone yesterday”
d. dass er allen gestern überlegener zu sein versucht hat
that he all-DAT yesterday superior to be tried has
“that he tried to be superior to everyone yesterday”
e. *dass er einer allen gestern überlegener Sportler war
that he a all-DAT yesterday superior athlete was
“that yesterday he was an athlete superior to everyone”
f. *dass er einer allen gestern überlegener Sportler zu sein
that he a all-DAT yesterday superior athlete to be
versucht hat
tried has
“that yesterday he tried to be an athlete superior to everyone”
Haider and Rosengren contend that (41a) and (41b) support their view (and
also Fanselow's): arguments of the adjectival head überlegener may show both
a canonical, unscrambled order (41a), and also a scrambled one (41b) within
the maximal projection of the head selected for them (the AP embedded within
the DP headed by the indefinite article ein). Their proposal accounts for the
grammaticality of (41c) and (41d) in the same terms, on the assumption that
adverbials such as gestern may be base-generated AP-internal, and the argu-
ments of head-final projections may be freely adjoined within the extended
MAC. But that those adverbials must occupy a higher position is shown in
(41e), (41f), where embedding of the AP within the DP headed by einer results
in two ill-formed structures. On the absence of an explanation why the scope of
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 223
gestern may be restricted to the adjectival head in (41c) and (41d), but not in
(41e) and (41f), the null hypothesis is that the scrambled (pre-adverbial) argu-
ment in (41c,d) must uniformly occupy a position structurally higher than the
one defended by Haider and Rosengren, certainly outside the adjectival phrase,
as in (42) below. Notice that, given the contrast between (41a,b) and (41e,f),
this basically entails that scrambling across a co-argument (41a,b) and scram-
bling across an adverbial (41e,f) must constitute different phenomena also in
the case of arguments of adjectival heads.
(42) a. dass er alleni gestern AP[ti überlegener] war
that he all-DAT yesterday superior was
“that he was superior to everyone yesterday”
b. dass er alleni gestern AP[ti überlegener] zu sein versucht
that he all-DAT yesterday superior to be tried
hat
has
“that yesterday he tried to be superior to everyone”
We are thus left with two interesting puzzles: (i) scrambled constituents in
German may occur both within the limits of the maximal projection of their
selecting head, and beyond them; (ii) the maximal projection that contains
them may undergo fronting (if a vP) or embedding (if an AP) only in the for-
mer case, but not in the latter. Both Fanselow's and Haider and Rosengren's
approach to scrambling may account for (i) (by resorting to head incorporation,
or to untriggered movement extending the VP); but they clearly fail with
respect to (ii). In my opinion, this can be traced back to a questionable as-
sumption underlying nearly every proposal for German scrambling, namely
that a single, unique process derives all the order possibilities attested in that
language.
2.1.1.3 Proposal I: Two positions for scrambling in German. The claim I
would like to make in this section is weaker than those found in Fanselow
(2001, 2003), or Haider and Rosengren (1998, 2003) in that it does not try to
reconcile the puzzling sets of data presented in the preceding section. I propose
that German allows for two distinct scrambling sites, and that this dichotomy is
responsible for the conflicting evidence we have just reviewed. That there are
two scrambling sites in German is not a new assumption, since the traditional
division between pre-subject and post-subject scrambling implies precisely
that. However, such a division is not the one I maintain here, under the
standard view (Haider, 1990) that German subjects may remain in their base-
224 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
generated position (see Section 1.5.2 in Chapter 3, and the evidence drawn
from VP-topicalisation above).
The first ‘scrambling’ position I argue for is the one suggested by the exam-
ples crucially used to support the base-generation approach: basically, exam-
ples of scrambling within topicalised VPs (32), scrambling after existential
subjects (33), and scrambling within lexical projections such as APs (36). For
these cases, I adopt the main tenet of base-generation studies, according to
which the apparently scrambled constituent is directly merged in that position.
However, I reject both head incorporation and untriggered movement as the
factors responsible for allowing ‘Merge’ in higher positions. In other words,
‘base-generated scrambling’ may take place only within the strict limits of the
maximal projection of the selecting head in its initial position, i.e. in (43b) but
not (43c):
(43) a. dass der Millionär dem Studenten das Wagen hier
that the millionaire-NOM the student-DAT the car-ACC here
noch nie geschenkt hat
yet never given has
“that it has never happened here that the millionaire gave the
student the car”
b. dass der Millionär das Wagen dem Studenten hier
that the millionaire-NOM the car-ACC the student-DAT here
noch nie geschenkt hat
yet never given has
c. dass das Wagen der Millionär dem Studenten hier
that the car-ACC the millionaire-NOM the student-DAT here
noch nie geschenkt hat
yet never given has
Excluding (43c) as an instance of base-generation is justified on both theo-
retical and empirical grounds. Theoretically, this alternative fares better with
standard minimalism than Fanselow's or Haider and Rosengren's mechanisms
for its base-generation: if Chomsky (2001) is right, the kind of head incorpora-
tion Fanselow resorts to is conceivably a PF process, thus probably uncon-
nected to argument licensing;21, 22
on the other hand, as extensively discussed
in Chapter 4, Haider and Rosengren's untriggered movement within ‘Narrow
Syntax’ goes against basic economy conditions that may not be violated. Em-
pirically, the crucial fact is the unexpected contrast between (32) and (37), (38)
above, that is, the grammaticality of vP/VP-topicalisation if scrambling takes
place within the boundaries of VP, and its ungrammaticality if the scrambled
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 225
element precedes an element merged higher than VP (the subject of a transitive
predicate, or a frequency adverb such as immer). As will be shown in the fol-
lowing section, this contrast may be seen as a reflex of the differences between
‘base-generation scrambling’ and the process responsible for placing a con-
stituent in pre-subject or pre-adverbial position.
There is a further piece of evidence that may support the exclusion of ‘base-
generated scrambling’ in (43c). Fanselow (2003) contends that the base-
generation approach he proposes is superior to the standard view that
arguments are merged according to a fixed hierarchy, on the basis of the
structures below (his judgements):
(44) a. sollte gestern wen was geärgert haben,
should yesterday anyone-ACC anything-NOM annoyed have,
dann....
then
“If anything had annoyed anyone yesterday, then…”
b. (?)sollte gestern was wen geärgert haben,
should yesterday anything-NOM anyone-ACC annoyed have
dann...
then
“If anything had annoyed anyone yesterday, then…”
Ärgern is a psychological predicate, selecting for two arguments. The normal,
unmarked word order is that in (44a), with the accusative experiencer preced-
ing the nominative theme. Nevertheless, although slightly deviant, (44b) is also
possible. Notice that both arguments are indefinite, which entails that notions
such as topichood, presuppositional meaning, definiteness... are irrelevant for
the acceptability of (44b). Fanselow's reasoning is that, if the argument hierar-
chy view were right, only (44a) would be attested in German. But, obviously,
that is not the case, and the slight ill-formedness of (44b) can be made follow
from a surface serialisation principle that penalises structures in which inani-
mate DPs precede animate ones (Hoberg, 1981; Müller, 1999).
The slightly deviant order with psychological predicates becomes, however,
completely ungrammatical when the animate argument is agentive. In other
words, an indefinite accusative cannot precede an indefinite nominative in the
case of transitive predicates:
226 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(45) a. sollte gestern wer was gesagt haben,
should yesterday anyone-NOM anything-ACC said have
dann…
then
“If anyone had said anything yesterday, then…”
b. *sollte gestern was wer gesagt haben,
should yesterday anything-ACC anyone-NOM said have
dann…
then
“If anyone had said anything yesterday, then…”
Surprisingly, the examples in (45) are due to Fanselow himself. But he does
not explain how his theory could account for (45b). As shown in Chapter 4
(Section 2.2), Fanselow's system allows arguments of V to be merged with v,
since V becomes a sublabel of v after V-to-v raising. The resulting structure is
subjected to the surface serialisation principle that accounts for the slight ill-
formedness of (44b), namely ‘Animate XP First!’. But, unlike (44b), (45b) is
completely ungrammatical. To put it simply, ‘Animate XP First!’ is too weak
to rule out (45b). It must be observed that pragmatic ordering principles such as
‘Topic First!’ and ‘Place the focus in the rightmost position!’ cannot be in-
voked either, for both wer and was are non-given indefinites. In this context, a
possible solution could be to enrich Fanselow's set of surface serialisation
constraints with an additional one, ‘Agents First!’, but this alternative is clearly
problematic: ‘Agents First!’ privileges agentive subjects, which amounts to
keeping the standard minimalist distinction between v and V as two differenti-
ated theta-role assigning heads, despite v-to-V movement. Thus, I conclude
that the empirical evidence provided by Fanselow does not undermine the
common claim that base-generation must take place within the limits of the
maximal projection of the selecting head in its initial position, which, in
general, entails the impossibility of treating pre-subject scrambling as ‘base-
generated scrambling’. In other words, ‘base-generated scrambling’ must obli-
gatorily be ‘post-subject scrambling’.
Let us now return to the main point in this section, the proposal that scram-
bling in the relevant cases is in fact an instance of direct ‘Merge’ in the VP. I
would like to suggest that the availability of this merge position is related to
more general properties than those usually invoked in connection with Ger-
man(ic) scrambling. To this effect, we now consider some evidence from
Dutch (Rosengren, 2002; Haider and Rosengren, 2003) but also from a more
distant language, namely Persian (Karimi, 2003).
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 227
Rosengren (2002) and Haider and Rosengren (2003), drawing on a paper by
Broekhuis (2000), report that, while Dutch disallows scrambling of an accusa-
tive object past a dative in transitive constructions, it permits a nominative pre-
ceding a dative in the case of ergative verbs (examples (46a,a’) based on
Thráinsson, 2002; (46b,b’) from Rosengren, 2002):
(46) a. dat de vrouw de mannen de film toont
that the woman-NOM the men-DAT the film-ACC shows
“that the woman shows the picture to the men”
a’. *dat de vrouw de film de mannen toont
that the woman-NOM the film-ACC the men-DAT shows
“that the woman shows the picture to the men”
b. dat (er) een meisje erge rampen overkamen
that EXPL a girl-DAT terrible disasters-NOM happened
“that terrible disasters happened to a girl”
b’.dat (er) erge rampen een meisje overkamen
that EXPL terrible disasters-NOM a girl-DAT happened
“that terrible disasters happened to a girl”
(46a,a’) are straightforwardly accounted for on the basis of the argument
hierarchy view, but (46b,b’) are not: along with the normal, unmarked word
order in (46b), (46b’) is also a grammatical option. Rosengren and Haider and
Rosengren observe that reordering necessarily takes place within the (ex-
tended) VP, as shown by the existential reading the scrambled nominative re-
ceives, and the possibility of there being an expletive on Spec, T.23
A first
conclusion is that, although in a more restrictive way, Dutch is like German in
exhibiting different base-generated orders.
Similarly, Karimi (2003) contends that there are two alternative sites for the
merging of objects in Persian, one for specific objects, and another for non-
specific ones. This is manifested in the syntactic and morphological properties
that respectively characterise them, among others:
(i) Specific objects can bind the indirect object; non-specific objects cannot.
(47) a. man se-tâ bachche-hâ-roi be hamdigei mo'arrefi
I three-PART child-PL-DEF to each-other introduction
kard-am24
did-1SG
“I introduced the three children to each other”
b. *man se-tâ bachchei be hamdigei mo'arrefi kardam
228 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(ii) Non-specific objects have to precede the verb and be adjacent to it; specific
objects are not subject to this restriction.
(48) a. Sepide emruz tamiz kard hayât-o
Sepide today clean did courtyard-DEF
“Sepide DID clean the courtyard today”
b. *Sepide emruz tamiz kard hayât
(iii) Specific and non-specific objects cannot appear together in a coordination
construction.
(49) *man diruz in aks-ro va ketâb xarid-am
I yesterday this picture-DEF and book bought-1SG
“Yesterday I bought this picture and books”
(iv) Non-specific objects allow for a process of lexicalisation (compounding)
with the verb; specific objects do not.
(50) a. *da'vat-râ kardan-e Kimea kâr-e dorost-i
invitation-DEF doing-PART Kimea work-PART right-INDEF
na-bud
NEG-was
“Inviting Kimea was not the right thing to do”
b. da'vat kardan-e Kimea kâr-e dorost-i
invitation doing-PART Kimea work-PART right-INDEF
na-bud
NEG-was
“Inviting Kimea was not the right thing to do”
The conclusion Karimi draws from these facts is that Persian specific ob-
jects are base-generated in Spec, VP (51a), while non-specific ones are merged
as sisters to V (51b), according to her ‘Two Object Position Hypothesis’
(TOPH) (2003:105):
(51) Two Object Position Hypothesis (TOPH)
a. VP[DP [+Specific] V'[PP V]
b. VP[ V'[PP V'[ DP[-Specific] V]
If Karimi is right, Persian would parallel German –in my analysis– but,
again, in a more restricted fashion, since the higher site for base-generated ob-
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 229
jects is exclusively associated with definiteness. That the restriction does not
entirely hold in German is clear from the partial grammaticality of (43b) above,
in which an indefinite nominative precedes an indefinite accusative. However,
there seems to be a sharp contrast between (52a) and (52b) (my informants'
judgement):
(52) a. dass Studenten das Buch dem Kind zeigen
that students-NOM the book-ACC the child-DAT show
“that (some) students show the child the book”
b. *dass Studenten etwas/ ein Buch dem Kind zeigen
that students-NOM something/a book-ACC the child-DAT show
“that (some) students show something/a book to the child”
(52) is parallel to (33) above in that the scrambled accusative object occu-
pies a position following an existential subject probably in Spec, vP. In this
light, it would constitute an instance of ‘base-generated scrambling’. If the ill-
formedness of (52b) is the result of a constraint preventing non-specific objects
in the higher position of the kind defended by Karimi for Persian, or just a con-
sequence of the application of one of Fanselow's (2003) surface serialisations
principles is a matter which I must leave for further research.25
Let us now turn to the second type of reordering German grammar allows
for, if my analysis is correct. Recall that the primary evidence was based on its
distribution: it appears unproblematically in the Mittelfeld ((53a),(53b))
(optionally before or after subjects, but obligatorily before frequency and time
adverbials), but is forbidden in fronted VPs (53c,d):
(53) a. dass dem Studenten ein Millionär einen Wagen hier
that the student-DAT a millionaire-NOM a car-ACC here
noch nie geschenkt hat
yet never given has
“that it has never happened here that a millionaire gave the student
a car”
b. dass der Millionär dem Studenten immer einen Wagen
that the millionaire-NOM the student-DAT always a car-ACC
geschenkt hat
given has
“that the millionaire has always given a car to the student”
230 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
c. *[Dem Studenten ein Millionär einen Wagen geschenkt]
the student-DAT a millionaire-NOM a car-ACC given
hat hier noch nie
has here yet never
“It has never happened here that a millionaire gave the student a
car”
d. *[Diese Zigarren immer geraucht] hat damals keiner
these cigars-ACC always smoked has then no-one-NOM
“No one always smoked these cigars then”
This is the kind of scrambling to which most of the present work has been
devoted: a clause-bound process affecting any kind of arguments, associated to
a vP/VP-external position, and characterised by the phonological and semantic
effects traditionally described in the literature (Lenerz, 1977). With respect to
such effects, I refer the reader to Neeleman and Reinhart's (1998) proposal for
Dutch (Chapter 3), which I took to be tenable in German also, aside from op-
tional movement in ditransitive predicates. However, as far as ‘Narrow Syntax’
is concerned, I differ from these authors in that I do not consider all scrambling
strings as base-generated. With the exception of those cases I just analysed as
‘base-generated scrambling’, I agree with the accounts that capitalise on
Diesing's (1992) ‘Mapping Hypothesis’ (among others, Meinunger, 1995) in
contending that German scrambling is semantically/pragmatically-driven
movement in ‘Narrow Syntax’. But I depart from them with regard to the po-
sition targeted by the movement operation: it is not an Agr projection, or a
topic projection; it is the vP-edge, paralleling ‘Object Shift’ in Scandinavian
(Chomsky, 2001), as shown for the ungrammatical (53c) and (53d) in (54a) and
(54b) respectively:
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 231
(54) a. (corresponding to *(53c))
b. (corresponding to *(53d))
v Pk C'
v P C TP
hat
ein Millionär v ' TP
VP v
geschenktj tk T
ti einen Wagen tj
T'
CP
dem Studenteni
hier noch nie
v Pl C'
v P C TP
hat
immer v P damals TP
keinerk
tk v '
tl T
VP v
gerauchtj
ti tj
diese Zigarreni
CP
T'
232 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
The reasons why the structure in (54a,b), with the scrambled object in Spec,
vP, is preferable to the structure with the scrambled object in the specifier of a
functional projection, as proposed by movement approaches, will be discussed
in the next sections. Note, however, that the ill-formedness of both (54a) and
(54b) is problematic for any theory defending that German scrambling is al-
ways base-generation. Base-generation hypotheses, however, cannot be com-
pletely rejected, especially in light of some of the data dealt with in this sec-
tion: the topicalisation of VPs containing scrambled arguments, the presence of
reordered objects after existential subjects, and the scrambling of elements se-
lected for by non-verbal heads. I thus conclude that the kind of ‘mixed ap-
proach’ defended here is empirically more adequate than pure base-generation
and movement approaches, insofar as it accounts for the relevant German data
without exception.
2.1.1.4 Proposal II: The interaction of DISL and vP-fronting. As we know,
the model for syntactic derivation developed in Chomsky (2000, 2001, 2004)
departs from previous versions in allowing for multiple cyclic ‘Spell-Out’,
which entails that ‘Narrow Syntax’ may access the phonological interface at
several points of the computation. Chomsky makes those points coincide with
the completion of what he calls ‘strong phases’, which, in phonological and
interpretive terms, correspond to CPs and vPs. But cyclic ‘Spell-Out’ does not
completely prevent features at a lower phase from establishing ‘Agree’ opera-
tions at a higher one, respecting the ‘Phase Impenetrability Condition’ ((20)
above, repeated here as (55)):
(55) Phase Impenetrability Condition (PIC) (Chomsky 2000:108)
Given HP=[α [H β]], where β is the domain of H and α (a hierarchy of
one or more Specs) its edge, in phase α with head H, the domain of H
is not accessible to operations outside α, only H and its edge are
accessible to such operations.
The PIC is empirically justified by the existence of well-known instances of
successive cyclic movement (wh-movement, topicalisation...), and the Case-
agreement system, if, as standardly assumed since Koopman and Sportiche's
(1991) ‘VP-internal Subject Hypothesis’, subjects are merged in the specifier
of the lower phase (vP) and value the features of a head in a higher one (T).
However, given that the PIC states that not only subjects but any other element
at the edge is accessible to operations outside its own phase, the presence of
any constituent past the base-generated subject position is expected to violate
the ‘Minimal Link Condition’ ((62) in Chapter 4, repeated here as (56)):
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 233
(56) Minimal Link Condition (Chomsky, 1995: 311)
(i) K attracts α only if there is no β, β closer to K than α, such that
K attracts β
(ii) α is closer to target K than β if α c-commands β
Recall that Chomsky (2000, 20001a) rules out such a violation by resorting
to a condition on strong phases, according to which operations that take place
at a lower phase are evaluated at the next higher one. This means that the rela-
tion established between the subject and T is legitimate with respect to the
MLC only in the case that the element intervening has become an (inactive)
trace26
at the completion of CP. This is straightforward in the case of succes-
sive cyclic movement, with the wh-moved or topicalised constituent in Spec, C.
However, it is more problematic in the case of Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’, for
which Chomsky proposes the special procedure DISL(ocation), which may be
interpreted as early, phase-independent, spell-out.
Assume now that, for our ungrammatical examples in (53c) and (53d) above
(repeated here as (57a) and (57b), the derivation has reached the end of the
strong vP phase, with merge of T and subsequent phasal spell-out of the vP
domain, as represented in (57c) and (57d),27
where t conventionally represents
the structural position left by a phrase which has undergone movement in
‘Narrow Syntax’, and crossing marks constituents sent to PF, i.e. spelled out:
(57) a. *[Dem Studenten ein Millionär einen Wagen geschenkt]
the student-DAT a millionaire-NOM a car-ACC given
hat hier noch nie
has here yet never
“It has never happened here that a millionaire gave a car to
the student”
b. *[Diese Zigarren immer geraucht] hat damals keiner
these cigars-ACC always smoked has then no-one
“No one always smoked these cigars then”
c. vP[dem Studenten vP[ein Millionär v'[ VP[einen Wagen ti]
geschenkti] T
d. vP[diese Zigarrenj vP[immer vP[keiner v'[ VP[tj ti] gerauchti] T
At that point, all the elements in the domain plus the subject and the verbal
head28
have been stripped of their phonological features: ein Millionär einen
Wagen geschenkt in (57c), and keiner geraucht in (57d). On the other hand, as
demonstrated by morphological agreement, T must have targeted the features
of the subject across the scrambled object. This operation respects the MLC
234 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
only if, at the CP level, both dem Studenten and diese Zigarren are just traces,
i.e. have been deprived of their phonological features. According to Chomsky's
(2001), there are only two ways to achieve this: (i) pied-piping of the scram-
bled object to the C-projection in ‘Narrow Syntax’; or (ii) spell-out of its pho-
nological features before the end of the CP-cycle. The former case constitutes
standard topicalisation (58a,a'); the latter is a regular case of scrambling in the
Mittelfeld (58b, b'):
(58) a. Dem Studenten hat ein Millionär hier noch nie
the student-DAT has a millionaire-NOM here yet never
einen Wagen geschenkt
a car-ACC given
“It has never happened here that a millionaire gave the student a
car”
a'. Diese Zigarren hat immer keiner geraucht
these cigars-DAT has always no-one-NOM smoked
“No one always smoked these cigars”
b. dass dem Studenten ein Millionär einen Wagen geschenkt hat
that the student-DAT a millionaire-NOM a car-ACC given has
“that a millionaire gave the student a car”
b'. dass diese Zigarren immer keiner geraucht hat
that these cigars-ACC always no-one-NOM smoked has
“that no one always smoked these cigars”
But the ungrammatical (57a) and (57b) present a topicalised vP in which the
scrambled object has undergone neither pied-piping to Spec, C (insofar as it is
the vP as a whole that occupies this position), nor DISL, since, on Chomsky's
assumptions, DISL always targets a higher phase.29
The co-occurrence of a
fronted object and a fronted vP is not an option in German, due to the ban on
more than one constituent in the initial position of a V-2 structure.30
But scram-
bling of the object in the Mittelfeld along with vP preposing is possible in
instances of so-called ‘remnant topicalisation’ (Thiersch, 1985; Den Besten and
Webelhuth, 1987) (Chapter 2) (example based on Fanselow, 2004):
(59) [Mädchen geküsst] haben den Peter noch nie
girls-NOM kissed have Peter-ACC yet never
“So far girls have never kissed Peter”
That the preposed phrasal projection in (59) is a vP is demonstrated by the
presence of the subject of the transitive predicate, a bare plural receiving an
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 235
existential reading according to the definiteness restriction that holds for this
kind of structures. On the other hand, den Peter has scrambled from its VP-
internal position, as is clear from the fact that it is exempted from movement to
Spec, C. Since agreement between the subject in situ and haben in T (subse-
quently moved to C) obtains, the conclusion is that the reordered argument
must be inactive for feature valuation. If Chomsky is right, this amounts to
saying that its phonological features have undergone DISL to the CP/TP phase,
where it appears in the final string:
(60) 1. ‘Narrow Syntax’
(i) vP-cycle: scrambling of den Peter to Spec, v.
(ii) CP-cycle: merging of T and C (Aux projection and Aux-to-T
movement omitted):
[C[haben TP[noch nie TP[ T'[ tAux vP[Mädchen v'[ VP[ tobj tv]
geküsst]]]]]]]
2. PF
(i) Spell-out at the level of the vP-phase:
vP[den Peter vP[Mädchen v'[ VP[ tobj tv] geküsst]]]
(ii) DISL
vP[den Peter vP[Mädchen v'[ VP[ tobj tv] geküsst]]]
DP
den Peteri DP v'
Mädchen VP v
geküsstj
ti tj
v P
v P
236 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
3. ‘Narrow Syntax’
CP-cycle: merging of the spelled-out vP in Spec, C.
CP [vP[Mädchen v'[ VP[ tobj tv] geküsst] C[haben TP[noch nie TP[T'[tAux
vP[Mädchen v'[ VP[ tobj tv] geküsst]]]]]]].
4. PF
Spell-out at the level of the CP-phase.
Mädchen geküsst haben den Peter noch nie
(60) above is just a sketchy summary of the different strictly syntactic and
phonological operations that derive (59). The crucial point for the grammati-
cality of the structure is step (2), i.e. DISL. The following sections present a
more detailed analysis of the way it may work. I will contend there that DISL
is a two-step process. Apart from accounting for the sudden appearance of den
Peter in (60-4), it may shed some light on the ‘Freezing/Anti-Freezing Para-
dox’ with scrambled coherent infinitives, an issue to which we turn now.
2.1.2 DISL and the ‘Freezing/Anti-Freezing Paradox’: the case of coherent
infinitives. The label ‘Freezing/Anti-Freezing Paradox’ is used here to refer to
the puzzling behaviour of German coherent infinitives with respect to island-
hood. A brief survey of the main properties of coherent constructions has been
v Pl C'
DPj v P C TP
habenk
DP v ' T'
VP v AuxP tk
tj ti AdvP AuxP
noch nie Aux'
tl tk
CP
Mädchen
geküssti
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 237
given in Chapter 2, Section 2. The examples that illustrate ‘Freezing’ and
‘Anti-Freezing’ appear in Chapter 3 (Section 1.6.3). For the sake of exposition,
they will be briefly reviewed here.
Extraction out of a coherent infinitive in its base position is permitted inde-
pendently of the kind of movement involved. Thus, scrambling of a nominal
(61a) or pronominal (61b) argument, topicalisation (61c), and wh-movement
(61d, 61e) result in grammatical structures, provided that the coherent infinitive
appears adjacent to the selecting matrix verb:
(61) a. dass das Buchi keiner [ti zu lesen] versucht hat
that the book-ACC no-one-NOM to read tried has
“that no one tried to read the book”
b. dass esi keiner [ti zu lesen] versucht hat
that it-ACC no-one-NOM to read tried has
“that no one tried to read it”
c. Das Buchi hat keiner [ti zu lesen] versucht
the book-ACC has no-one-NOM to read tried
“No one tried to read the book”
d. Wasi hat keiner [ti zu lesen] versucht
what-ACC has no-one-NOM to read tried
“What did no one try to read?”
e. das Buch, dasi keiner [ti zu lesen] versucht hat
the book-ACC which-ACC no-one-NOM to read tried has
“the book that no one tried to read”
A different picture arises with scrambled coherent infinitives: their nominal
arguments may be displaced to Spec, C ((62c), (62d), (62e)), but they cannot
scramble (62a). This latter option is, however, still possible with pronominal
DPs (62b) (examples (62a) and (62b) from Müller,1998; (63c), (63d) and (63e)
from Grewendorf and Sabel, 1994; their judgements):
(62) a. *dass [ti zu lesen]j das Buchi keiner tj versucht hat
that to read the book-ACC no-one-NOM tried has
“that no one tried to read the book”
b. dass [ti zu lesen]j esi keiner tj versucht hat
that to read it-ACC no-one-NOM tried has
“that no one tried to read it”
c. Den Hundi hat [ti zu füttern]j keiner tj versucht
the dog-ACC has to feed no-one-NOM tried
“No one tried to feed the dog”
238 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
d. Weni hat [ti zu füttern]j keiner tj versucht?
who-ACC has to feed no-one-NOM tried
“Who did no one try to feed?”
e. der Mann deni [ti zu küssen]j Maria tj versucht hat
the man-NOM whom-ACC to kiss Maria-NOM tried has
“the man that Maria tried to kiss”
Finally, there are two additional facts that, to my knowledge, are unreported
in the literature: (i) pronominal scrambling out of a scrambled coherent
infinitive (62b) is ruled out if another constituent intervenes between the pro-
noun and the verb, unless that constituent is a pronoun itself ((63a) vs (63b));
and (ii) while wh-movement and pronominal scrambling are independently
permitted ((62b), (62d), (62e)), they cannot co-occur in the same structure
(63c). The same is true of topicalisation (63d) (my informants' judgements):
(63) a. *dass [ti zu lesen]j der Peter esi tj versucht hat
that to read Peter-NOM it-ACC tried has
“that Peter tried to read it”
b. dass [ti zu lesen]j er esi tj versucht hat
that to read he-NOM it-ACC tried has
“that he tried to read it”
c. *Wemi hat [ti tj zu geben]k esj keiner tk versucht?
who-DAT has to give it-ACC no-one-NOM tried
“To whom did no one try to give it?”
d. *Dem Kindi hat [ti tj zu geben]k esj keiner tk
the child-DAT has to give it-ACC no-one-NOM
versucht
tried
“No one tried to give it to the child”
As far as I know, there is no account of ‘Freezing/Anti-Freezing’ with
German coherent infinitives that may satisfactorily cover all the examples
above. The following section (2.1.2.1) is devoted to a summary of two of the
most prominent accounts, in order to substantiate my criticism. Then I show
how an analysis including Chomsky's (2001) special operation DISL as a fun-
damental component accounts for (61)-(63), leaving no exceptions.
2.1.2.1 Two previous analyses: Grewendorf and Sabel (1994), Müller (1998).
As stated in the preceding section, the data that illustrate what I have called the
‘Freezing/Anti-Freezing Paradox’ with German coherent infinitives are only
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 239
partially covered in the literature. Thus, it is not surprising that studies tend to
capitalise on some examples and disregard others. This is the case with
Grewendorf and Sabel's (1994) and Müller's (1998) studies: both disregard the
facts in (63), but, while Grewendorf and Sabel focus on the contrast between
movement to Spec, C vs scrambling out of a derived position ((62a) vs
(62c,d,e)), Müller deals basically with the opposition between (62a) and (62b),
attempting to insert it within a more general theory.
Grewendorf and Sabel (1994) first discuss the structures in (61a) and (62a),
where scrambling is allowed from an infinitival clause in its base-generated
position, but is disallowed if the infinitive is displaced. They attribute this to
the interplay of abstract incorporation, a modified theory of barriers, and the
‘Empty Category Principle’. With respect to incorporation, Grewendorf and
Sabel adopt Baker's (1988) notion of reanalysis as LF-incorporation, through
which both embedded and matrix heads would appear as a single verbal com-
plex in ‘Logical Form’, and be coindexed at ‘Surface Structure’. This process
of LF-incorporation is subject to the ‘Empty Category Principle’,31
and sensi-
tive to barrierhood, also in the sense of Baker (1988). Without going into tech-
nical details, Grewendorf and Sabel argue that the infinitive in (61a) is a CP
whose verbal head may abstractly incorporate with the matrix verb, since
movement of the embedded TP to the C-projection of the infinitival clause
triggers the process of coindexing between the embedded and the matrix predi-
cates. On the other hand, if, as they claim, scrambling is adjunction to the ma-
trix predicate, the scrambled element may antecedent-govern its trace due to
the non-distinctiveness of the incorporated heads,32
as shown in (64):33
240 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(64) (=61a) dass das Buchi keiner [ti zu lesen] versucht hat
that the book-ACC no-one-NOM to read tried has
“that no one tried to read the book”
In turn, the ungrammaticality of (62a) derives from the fact that incorpora-
tion cannot take place, since the coherent infinitival clause occupies an ad-
joined position (Baker, 1988). If incorporation is barred, TP becomes a barrier
intervening between the nominal and its trace, thereby preventing antecedent
government.
Grewendorf and Sabel also deal with the well-formedness of examples such
as (62c,d,e), in which the nominal object may be topicalised or wh-moved,
despite being adjoined. They claim that their grammaticality is due to the fact
they do not involve incorporation, hence there is no movement of the embed-
ded TP to the C-projection. Therefore, the topicalised or wh-moved constituent
can leave the adjoined infinitive via its specifier position. Notice that this
amounts to saying that the infinitives at stake are incoherent.
C
dass AgrP
das Buchi AgrP
keiner Agr'
TP Agr
VP T
tv
k
CP V
tv
k
C Agr PRO tj
versucht hat v
k
TPj
ti zu lesenk
C'
AgrP
C
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 241
As it stands, Grewendorf and Sabel's proposal presents two kinds of draw-
backs, some related to the theoretical model it adopts (GB), and those related to
its empirical coverage itself. Regarding the former, recall that notions such as
government, coindexing at SS, etc. are problematic within a minimalist
framework of the kind advocated for in Chomsky (1995, 2000, 2001, 2004).
Regarding the latter, there is no explanation why (62b), i.e. pronominal scram-
bling out of an adjoined position, is possible at all. Hypothetically speaking,
one could assume that (62b) parallels the well-formed (62c,d,e) in allowing for
pronoun movement via Spec, C. But this would necessarily require an account
of why this is not an option with scrambling of nominal DPs, that is, an expla-
nation for the ungrammaticality of (62a).34
Müller's (1998) approach to the conflicting cases at stake is simpler than
Grewendorf and Sabel's (1994), insofar as it makes use of a single overall con-
dition, the ‘Principle of Unambiguous Domination’. The principle and the main
effects derived from it were already discussed in Chapter 3 (Section 1.6.2), so
here we can stick to some basic general issues. In brief, Müller takes the con-
trast between (61a) and (62a) (i.e. scrambling from a base position vs scram-
bling from a derived one) to be the reflex of a general constraint on the licens-
ing of traces, his ‘Principle of Unambiguous Domination’:
(65) Principle of Unambiguous Domination (1998:241)
An α-trace must not be α-dominated
where α-trace is interpreted as a trace with a (not necessarily c-commanding)
antecedent in a position of type α, α-dominated means dominated by a category
in a position of type α, and type α is, in turn, determined by the different
landing sites (Spec, C, XP-Left-Adjoined positions, etc.). As shown in (66)
below, both (61a) (=66a) and (62a) (=66b) contain the trace of the scrambled
das Buch, bound by the DP in its scrambled position. But only in (66b) is this
trace ambiguously dominated, according to Müller's principle in (65), since the
infinitival projection, also a scrambled element, dominates it:
(66) a. dass das Buchi keiner [ti zu lesen] versucht hat
that the book-ACC no-one-NOM to read tried has
“that no one tried to read the book”
b. *dass [ti zu lesen]j das Buchi keiner tj versucht hat
that to read the book-ACC no-one-NOM tried has
“that no one tried to read the book”
242 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
According to Müller, that the ill-formedness of (66b) is solely due to ‘Unambi-
guous Domination’ is demonstrated by (67), where the infinitive occupies a
position of a type different from the one in which the reordered object appears
(according to Müller, Spec, C and a position adjoined to IP respectively):
(67) [ti zu lesen] hat das Buchi keiner tj versucht
to read has the book-ACC no-one-NOM tried
“No one tried to read the book”
But ‘Unambiguous Domination’ should rule out (62b) (repeated as (68) below)
on a par with (66b), contrary to fact:
(68) dass [ti zu lesen]j esi keiner tj versucht hat
that to read it-ACC no-one-NOM tried has
“that no one tried to read it”
Müller solves the problem posed by (68) by claiming that, differently from das
Buch in (62a/66b), es has not undergone scrambling, but another sort of dis-
placement targeting a type of position distinct from the IP-adjoined one. This
conflicts with two of the examples of (63) above, which seem to suggest that
pronoun movement is displacement to two alternative positions, depending on
the nature of the subject (69) ((69a)=(63 a), (69b)=(63b)):
(69) a. *dass [ti zu lesen]j der Peter esi tj versucht hat
that to read Peter-NOM it-ACC tried has
“that Peter tried to read it”
b. dass [ti zu lesen]j er esi tj versucht hat
that to read he-NOM it-ACC tried has
“that he tried to read it”
Notice that in both instances es must have left the vP/VP, since it is inherently
weak (see Chapter 2, Section 4). Furthermore, the nominal character of the
subject does not prevent es from preceding it:
(70) dass es der Peter gelesen hat
that it-ACC Peter-NOM read has
“that Peter read it”
I conclude that the contrast between (62a) and (62b) is left unsolved in
Müller's account.
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 243
Müller does not study the structures that combine scrambling of an infiniti-
val clause with the fronting of one of its internal arguments, which are at the
core of Grewendorf and Sabel's (1994) proposal. In the light of his general the-
ory, they presumably would need to be discarded as instances of movement out
of a frozen constituent.35
In the following sections I adopt a ‘broader’ syntactic perspective, according
to which operations in ‘Narrow Syntax’ (and the conditions they must fulfil)
are not sufficient for dealing with the complexity of the ‘Freezing/Anti-Freez-
ing’ effects exhibited by scrambled coherent infinitives. The main claim will be
that purely PF-processes, in their interaction with ‘Narrow Syntax’, are respon-
sible for the properties of these structures. One such process is, of course,
Chomsky's (2001) DISL.
2.1.2.2 ‘Copy theory’, ‘Chain Reduction’, and DISL. As we know, Chomsky
(2001) envisages DISL(ocation) as a phonological operation that strips the
(dislocated) constituent of its phonological features, transferring them to PF. It
differs from regular spell-out procedures in that it is not linked to phase com-
pletion, and causes the (dislocated) string to be phonologically realised in a
position preceding the hypothetical syntactic one (the vP edge). However, one
does not expect any difference between DISL and regular, phase-bound, spell-
out as far as the mechanism of transfer is concerned: on principled grounds,
they must fit the minimalist approach to syntax in Chomsky (1995, 2000, 2001,
2004), where the syntax-phonology mapping is rendered by means of the
‘Copy Theory’ of movement and ‘Chain Reduction’ (Chomsky 1993, 2004;
Nunes, 1995, 1999, 2001, 2003, 2004). The general mechanism of ‘Copy The-
ory’ and ‘Chain Reduction’ will be the subject of the following section
(2.1.2.2.1). The additional properties which DISL may be endowed with will
be the focus of 2.1.2.2.2.
2.1.2.2.1‘Copy Theory’ and ‘Chain Reduction’. From a minimalist perspective,
a ‘perfect language’ should meet the ‘Inclusiveness Condition’ (Chomsky,
1995, 228):
(71) Inclusiveness Condition
No new objects are added in the computation apart from rear-
rangement of lexical properties.
As it stands, the ‘Inclusiveness Condition’ entails a ban on the existence of
traces, a type of objects that, within the GB framework, are characterized by
being the phonetically null product of movement operations. Since they are
244 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
subject to different constraints from those applying to regular lexical items, it
follows that they constitute in fact a different entity, whose relation to the
moved phrase is established by means of coindexing, a procedure that links the
trace to the displaced constituent. Note that coindexing must also be barred by
the ‘Inclusiveness Condition’.
If traces must be excluded on a theoretical basis, the model faces the
problem of explaining how phrases that have been moved may be interpreted,
as far as some of their features are concerned, in positions different from the
one they occupy in the final string. To put it simply, in an English sentence
such as (72) whom is supposed to satisfy one of the theta-roles of the thematic
grid of see, and have the accusative Case assigned by see, all of which calls for
an explanation.
(72) whomTHEME, ACCUSATIVE did you see yesterday?
Chomsky (1993) gives a possible solution for this, and maintains it in
Chomsky (2004) as the simplest assumption: the ‘Copy Theory’ of movement.
The basic insight is that lexical items, which, recall, are the only elements tak-
ing part in the narrow syntactic computation as bundles of features, are merged
as many times as feature checking requires it.36
Each such instance of ‘Merge’
constitutes, with respect to the lexical item (or group of lexical items) that un-
dergoes it, a copy. Thus, in (72) above, since whom is merged three times, its
derivational history comprises three copies of it, as shown below:37, 38
(73) CP[whom1 C[did TP[you T[ vP[whom2 v[see VP[whom3 yesterday]]]]
The set of copies of a phrase (a combination of lexical items) is its chain: in
(73), the chain of whom would be the one formed by <whom1, whom2,
whom3>, with whom1 , the highest copy, as its head, and whom3 , the lowest
copy, as its tail.
Chomsky's proposal entails that all copies must be identical, i.e. they must
share the same bundle of features, since, in fact, it is the same lexical item be-
ing iteratively merged.39
And if they must be identical, all of them must also be
endowed with phonological features, unless they are empty categories. But it is
clear that sequences such as the one in (73) are ungrammatical in English, and
that the source of their ungrammaticality has to do with the phonetic realisation
of the three copies of whom. The question now is when (i.e. at what point of
the syntactic derivation) phonological features are erased in the copies 2 and 3
of whom.
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 245
In the model of multiple ‘Spell-Out’ (SO) that Chomsky (2000, 2001, 2004)
proposes, phonological features enter the narrow syntactic component associ-
ated to lexical items, since, as said above, they constitute a group among their
other bundles of features. Later on, they disappear from ‘Narrow Syntax’ (NS),
and are handed over to the phonological component (PF), either by means of
SO, an operation cyclically applying at the end of each phase (vP and CP), or
by other phonological operations such as DISL. Leaving aside, for the moment,
those other phonological operations, cyclic SO is subject to the ‘Phrase Im-
penetrability Condition’, which may prevent elements at the edge of the phase
from being spelled out if they must undergo further movement in NS. Thus,
after the first SO applying to our English sentence in (72) and (73), the string
that PF receives is the one constituted by the underlined elements below:
(74) vP[whom vP[ you v[see VP[see whom yesterday]]
Chomsky (2004) argues that, while the narrow syntactic cycle continues un-
changed (except for the absence of the phonological features of the underlined
sequence, handed over to PF by the first SO), the PF component may already
perform whatever phonological operations affect the spelled-out string, thus
reducing some burden for subsequent PF cycles. I will assume that one of those
operations is ‘Chain Reduction’, i.e. determining which copy of a chain must
be pronounced, eliminating the other ones for the next higher phrase. I will
return to the exact mechanism below; let it suffice now to state simply that the
head of a chain (that is, the highest copy)40
is the one that must be pronounced
(that is, the one keeping its phonological features until the end of the PF cycle
is reached) (Chomsky, 2001, 2004). According to this, the ‘surviving’ phono-
logical string in (74) is now (75):
(75) [see] [whom] [yesterday]
the phonological features of the lower copy of see having been eliminated.
After SO has applied for a second time, PF will comprise the elements that
appear in (76):
(76) CP[whom C[did TP[you T[ vP[whom vP[you ]]]
plus the elements that have ‘survived’ at the lower cycle, that is, the
combination of (75) and (76):
(77) CP[whom C[did TP[you T[ vP[whom vP[you v[see VP[whom yesterday ]]]]
246 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
The operation of ‘Chain Reduction’ will delete the lower copies, and only
the highest ones will be pronounced, yielding an English grammatical sentence.
(78) Whom did you see yesterday?
2.1.2.2.2 Additional properties of DISL. As extensively discussed in different
parts of this chapter, Chomsky (2001) envisages DISL as a device for justify-
ing the grammaticality of the Icelandic counterpart to (79):
(79) Johnsubj T [the bookobj [ tsubj read tobj]]
This is necessary because of two facts. In the first place, the object in Spec, v
does not induce a violation of the ‘Minimal Link Condition’. Secondly, as
observed by Holmberg (1999), shifted objects seem to precede the vP-edge in
the final phonological string. Chomsky's characterisation of DISL is minimal,
limited to accounting for these two properties in a satisfactory way: DISL is an
instance of ‘Spell-Out’, which explains why the MLC is respected in (79);
DISL raises the phonological features of the scrambled object at the edge of the
lower strong phase to a higher one (CP), which explains why the shifted object
appears phonologically realised past the vP edge.
This minimal characterisation apparently suffices for dealing with the Ice-
landic data Chomsky presents, but in itself would not account for scrambled
coherent infinitives in German. I will therefore adopt a more explicit version of
it, as in (80):
(80) (i) DISL is a two step-process:
(a) elimination of phonological features from ‘Narrow Syntax’
and their transfer to PF (an operation of the syntax-
phonology mapping)
(b) raising of phonological features to a higher position in the
PF string (an operation of PF proper)
(ii) To be subject to DISL a constituent must have a full set of
phonological features.
(i) derives from general considerations about Chomsky's model, and its in-
teraction with the high surface position of shifted objects in Icelandic. If cyclic
‘Spell-Out’ is essentially motivated by the need to transfer material from
‘Narrow Syntax’ to PF as early as possible, thus freeing the strict syntactic
computation from unnecessary burden,41
the obvious conclusion is that DISL
will not be deferred until the CP cycle is finished. But notice that , on the other
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 247
hand, the CP cycle must be completed for DISL to be able to target a position
within it at PF. Assuming that DISL applies in two different steps solves the
contradiction: (a) satisfies earliness; (b) accounts for the empirical facts.
(ii) is basically a consequence of the analysis we propose for the German
data, but I do not think that it is controversial: both (a) and (b) in (i) are pho-
nological operations, and only phonological features are subject to phonologi-
cal operations. This does not necessarily entail that elements without phono-
logical content cannot prevent some phonological operations from applying; it
simply means that phonological operations never apply to them.
2.1.2.3 The ‘Freezing/Anti-Freezing Paradox’ revisited. This section presents
a specific analysis of extraction out of scrambled coherent infinitives in the
light of the assumptions made so far. Before presenting it in detail, let me recall
the exact clausal architecture generally adopted for German.
As stated in Chapter 2, German is basically head-final (VP, vP, TP), al-
though it has a head-initial CP, as illustrated by (81) below. Objects are base-
generated within VP, where they eliminate their case feature by ‘Agree’ with v.
Subjects of predicates with full argument structure are merged in Spec, v, and
need not move to Spec, T. Non-finite Vs raise to v; finite Vs raise to v in em-
bedded clauses, and to v-T-C in root ones. Modals and auxiliaries are inserted
in a left-headed Aux-projection, and move to T and C in root clauses. Root
clauses are generally subject to the V-2 constraint, which forces movement of
some XP to Spec, C. Finally, and with respect to coherent infinitives, I will
follow Wurmbrand (2001a) and take them to be VPs, which entails that (i) their
objects eliminate their case feature by means of the relation they establish with
the matrix v; and (ii) may be pied-piped to the matrix vP edge.
248 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(81) CP[ C TP[ vP[ NP v'[ [ VP .... V] v]T ]]]
Now we turn to the way the contrasts in (61)-(63) above may be accounted
for. First we will deal with (61a) vs (62a), that is, the incompatibility between
scrambling of the infinitive and scrambling of the object (2.1.2.3.1). Second,
we will address the question why topicalisation and wh-movement are insensi-
tive to the scrambled or non-scrambled status of the coherent construction
(62c,d,e) (2.1.2.3.2). Third, we will focus on the exception constituted by the
examples with scrambling of both an infinitive and a pronoun (62b), and we
will show how the facts in (63) may lend empirical support to our treatment of
(61)-(62) (2.1.2.3.3).
CP
XP C'
C TP
T'
AuxP T
Aux'
v P Aux
auxiliaries
modals
subjects v '
VP v
non-finite verbs
finite verbs
objects V
t non-finite verbs
t finite verbs
subjects
complementisers
finite verbs
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 249
2.1.2.3.1 Illicit ‘double scrambling’. Scrambling of the nominal object of a
coherent infinitive to the matrix clause is constrained by the position occupied
by the infinitive itself, as shown by the contrast between (61a) and (61b) (re-
peated here as (82a) and (82b) respectively):
(82) a. dass das Buchi keiner [ti zu lesen] versucht hat
that the book-ACC no-one-NOM to read tried has
“that no one tried to read the book”
b. *dass [ti zu lesen]j das Buchi keiner tj versucht hat
that to read the book-ACC no-one-NOM tried has
“that no one tried to read the book”
My claim is that such a contrast is due to one of the properties of DISL in
(80), namely the requirement that elements undergoing any of the operations
involved in DISL have phonological features. The constraint is respected in
(82a), but violated in (82b), as their respective derivations in (83a) and (83b)
show:
(83) a. dass das Buchi keiner [ti zu lesen] versucht hat
that the book-ACC no-one-NOM to read tried has
“that no one tried to read the book”
■ ‘Narrow Syntax’
▪ vP cycle: V raises to v; das Buch is pied-piped to the vP edge for [+EPP]
feature elimination (Chomsky, 2001 for ‘Object Shift’)
vP[ das Buch vP[ keiner v'[ VP[ [das Buch zu lesen] versucht] versucht]]]
▪ CP cycle: merging of T and C (Aux projection and Aux-to-T movement
omitted)
CP[ C[ dass TP[ T'[vP[ das Buch vP[ keiner v'[ VP[ [das Buch zu lesen]
versucht] versucht]]] hat]]]]
■ PF
▪ ‘Spell-Out’: phase-bound transfer to PF (vP)
vP[ keiner v'[ VP[ [das Buch zu lesen] versucht] versucht]]
▪ ‘Dislocation 1’ (according to (80ia): elimination of phonological features
from NS
vP[ das Buch vP[ keiner v'[ VP[ [das Buch zu lesen] versucht]]]
▪ ‘Chain Reduction’ and PF output for PF at CP:
das Buch keiner das Buch zu lesen versucht versucht42
▪ ‘Spell-Out’: phase-bound transfer to PF (CP)
CP[ C[ dass TP[ T'[hat]]]]
250 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
▪ PF input (Spell-Out of CP plus PF of vP)
dass das Buch keiner das Buch zu lesen versucht versucht hat
▪ ‘Dislocation 2’ (raising of phonological features):43
dass das Buch 0 keiner zu lesen versucht hat
▪ ‘Chain Reduction’ (vacuous):
dass das Buch keiner zu lesen versucht hat
(83) b. *dass [ti zu lesen]j das Buchi keiner tj versucht hat
that to read the book-ACC no-one-NOM tried has
“that no one tried to read the book”
■ ‘Narrow Syntax’
▪ vP cycle: V raises to v; das Buch and das Buch zu lesen are pied-piped to
the vP edge.
vP[ das Buch zu lesen vP[das Buch vP[ keiner v'[ VP[ [das Buch zu lesen]
versucht] versucht]]]]
▪ CP cycle: merging of T and C (Aux projection and Aux-to-T movement
omitted)
CP[ C[ dass TP[ T'[ vP[das Buch zu lesen vP[das Buch vP[ keiner v'[ VP[[das
Buch zu lesen] versucht] versucht]]]] hat]]]]
■ PF
▪ ‘Spell-Out’: phase-bound transfer to PF (vP)
vP[ keiner v'[ VP[ [das Buch zu lesen] versucht] versucht]]
▪ ‘Dislocation 1’: elimination of phonological features from NS
vP[das Buch zu lesen vP[das Buch vP[ keiner v'[ VP[ [das Buch zu lesen]
versucht] versucht]]]]
▪ ‘Chain Reduction’ and PF output for PF at CP:
das Buch zu lesen das Buch keiner das Buch zu lesen versucht versucht
▪ ‘Spell-Out’: phase-bound transfer to PF (CP)
CP[ C[ dass TP[ T' [hat]]]]
▪ PF input (Spell-Out of CP plus PF of vP)
dass das Buch zu lesen das Buch keiner das Buch zu lesen versucht
versucht hat
▪ ‘Dislocation 2’ (raising of phonological features):
dass das Buch zu lesen das Buch 0 0 keiner versucht hat
▪ ‘Chain Reduction’ (vacuous):
dass zu lesen das Buch keiner versucht hat
Notice what the crucial differences between (83a) and (83b) are. One relates
to ‘Chain Reduction’ at the vP cycle: scrambling of das Buch makes it a head
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 251
of a chain, which entails that the phonological features of the rest of the copies
must be eliminated. This does not have any consequence for the structure in
(83a): the phonologically unrealised copy of das Buch remains VP-internal,
and does no take part in further syntactic or phonological operations. But the
situation is different if the entire infinitival clause is pied-piped as well: the
phonological features of the copy of das Buch contained in it will be elimi-
nated. On the other hand, the constituent is at the vP edge, which must be emp-
tied before the end of the CP cycle. This forces the phonological incomplete
infinitive to undergo either syntactic displacement to a higher position or DISL.
The former results in a well-formed structure, since the presence of phonologi-
cal features on the infinitival head is enough to license pied-piping (84):
(84) [ti Zu lesen]j hat das Buchi keiner tj versucht
to read has the book-ACC no-one-NOM tried
“No one tried to read the book”
However, DISL requires full phonological integrity, which explains the
ungrammaticality of (83a). Thus, we conclude that the ban on ‘double scram-
bling’ with nominal scrambling reduces to the impossibility of dislocating
constituents that have been previously deprived of some of their phonological
features by ‘Chain Reduction’.
2.1.2.3.2 Fronting from base-generation/scrambling positions. Contrary to
scrambling, wh-movement and topicalisation may front the object of an infini-
tival clause irrespective of the kind of position (base-generated/scrambled) it
occupies:
(85) a. Wasi hat keiner [ ti zu lesen] versucht?
what-ACC has no-one-NOM to read tried
“What did no one try to read?”
b. Wasi hat [ ti zu lesen]j keiner tj versucht?
what-ACC has to read no-one-NOM tried
“What did no one try to read?”
This seems to contradict our findings in the previous section, insofar as a pho-
nologically incomplete infinitival clause may scramble, that is, undergo the two
operations that DISL encompasses. I will now show that the partial lack of
phonological features in the conflicting (85b) is just apparent, and that, at the
points at which DISL applies, the infinitival clause is still phonologically com-
plete.
252 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(86) Wasi hat [ ti zu lesen]j keiner tj versucht?
what-ACC has to read no-one-NOM tried
“What did no one try to read?”
■ ‘Narrow Syntax’
▪ vP cycle: V raises to v; was and was zu lesen are pied-piped to the vP
edge44
vP[was zu lesen vP[was vP[keiner v'[ VP[ [was zu lesen] versucht]
versucht]]]]
▪ CP cycle: merging of T and C; T-to-C movement; wh-movement (Aux
projection and Aux-to-T movement omitted):
CP[was C[hat TP[ T' [ vP[was zu lesen vP[was vP[ keiner v'[ VP[ [was zu
lesen] versucht] versucht]]]] hat]]]]
■ PF
▪ ‘Spell-Out’: phase-bound transfer to PF (vP)
vP[ keiner v'[ VP[ [was zu lesen] versucht] versucht ]]
▪ ‘Dislocation 1’: elimination of phonological features from NS
vP[was zu lesen vP[ keiner v'[ VP[ [was zu lesen] versucht] versucht ]]]
▪ ‘Chain Reduction’ and PF output for PF at CP:
was zu lesen keiner was zu lesen versucht versucht
▪ ‘Spell-Out’: phase-bound transfer to PF (CP)
CP[was C[hat TP[ T'[ vP[was]]]]]
▪ PF input (Spell-Out of CP plus PF of vP)
was hat was was zu lesen keiner was zu lesen versucht versucht
▪ ‘Dislocation 2’ (raising of phonological features):
was hat was zu lesen was 0 keiner was zu lesen versucht versucht
▪ ‘Chain Reduction’
was hat was zu lesen was keiner was zu lesen versucht versucht
The difference between the ungrammatical ‘double scrambling’ case in
(83b) and (86) lies in the elimination of the phonological features of the object
in the reordered infinitival clause. In (83b), the previously dislocated das Buch
is present at PF when das Buch zu lesen is sent there. Since it constitutes the
highest copy of the chain (the head), it forces the elimination of the phonologi-
cal features of das Buch in the dislocated clause, crucially prior to the applica-
tion of the second step of DISL (raising of phonological features to a position
within the CP-phase). However, in (86) was is sent to PF at the completion of
the CP phase, like any non-dislocated element at the vP edge. This allows was
zu lesen to keep its phonological integrity, thus rendering the second operation
of DISL legitimate. Finally, was in Spec, C makes ‘Chain Reduction’ erase the
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 253
phonological features of the copy in was zu lesen. Notice that this account
necessarily requires DISL to precede the last application of ‘Chain Reduction’.
I would claim that this must be so on independent grounds: if ‘Chain Reduc-
tion’ at the CP-phase preceded DISL, this would probably force an additional,
second ‘Chain Reduction’, given that the dislocated constituent might have
become the highest copy. To put it simply, it is preferable to have ‘Chain Re-
duction’ implemented once the position of all the constituents in the string is
completely fixed.
I would like to conclude this section by examining the possibility of re-
ducing the contrast between (83b) and (86) to the coherent/non-coherent dis-
tinction, an assumption that underlies Haider's (1987, 1990, 1991) pioneering
work as well as Grewendorf and Sabel's (1994) analysis, at least in a certain
sense. Recall that the claim is, basically, that wh-movement and topicalisation
are allowed because they proceed via Spec, C, which entails that the infinitival
clause is a CP, that is, an incoherent, non-restructuring infinitive (or, in
Grewendorf and Sabel's terms, that the embedded CP projection is not used for
abstract incorporation between the matrix and embedded predicates). My rea-
sons for rejecting this solution are the following. First, according to standard
minimalist assumptions, fronting of a constituent to Spec, C requires an escape
hatch (the vP edge, an intermediate Spec, C) only in the case the constituent
that must undergo it is in the domain of a lower strong phase. If, as I argue, was
zu lesen in (86) above is just a VP (that is, not a strong phase), was may move
to Spec, C unproblematically, provided that it passes through the matrix vP
edge, as in our derivation. Second, it is uncontroversial that incoherent, non-
restructuring infinitives never allow their internal arguments to appear in the
matrix clause, irrespective of their nominal or pronominal nature (Wurmbrand,
2001a, among others). This means that, in those structures in which scrambling
of a pronominal object may co-occur with scrambling of the infinitive itself,
restructuring must be invoked. The obvious conclusion is that adjacency
between matrix and embedded predicates is not a consistent proof to distin-
guish coherent infinitives from non-coherent ones (see also Chapter 2).
2.1.2.3.3 Licit ‘double scrambling’. Recall that Müller (1998) observes that
‘double scrambling’, i.e. scrambling of the infinitival clause along with scram-
bling of one of its internal arguments, is possible if, and only if, it affects pro-
nominal objects. Thus, a derivation that should parallel that of the ungrammati-
cal (83b) results in a well-formed sentence:
254 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(87) dass [ ti zu lesen]j esi keiner ti versucht hat
that to read it-ACC no-one-NOM tried has
“that no one tried to read it”
■ ‘Narrow Syntax’
▪ vP cycle: V raises to v; es and es zu lesen move to the vP edge
vP[es zu lesen vP[es vP[ keiner v'[ VP[ [es zu lesen] versucht ] versucht]]]]
▪ CP cycle: merging of T and C (Aux projection and Aux-to-T omitted)
C'[ dass TP[ T'[vP[es zu lesen vP[es vP[ keiner v'[ VP[ [es zu lesen] versucht]
versucht]]]] hat]]]
■ PF
▪ ‘Spell-Out’: phase-bound transfer to PF (vP)
vP[ keiner v'[ VP[ [es zu lesen] versucht] versucht]]
▪ ‘Dislocation 1’: elimination of phonological features from NS
vP[es zu lesen vP[es vP[ keiner v'[ VP[ [es zu lesen] versucht] versucht]]]]
▪ ‘Chain Reduction’ and PF output for PF at CP:
es zu lesen es keiner es zu lesen versucht versucht
▪ ‘Spell-Out’: phase-bound transfer to PF (CP)
CP[ C'[ dass TP[ T'[hat]]]
▪ PF input (Spell-Out of CP plus PF of vP)
dass es zu lesen es keiner es zu lesen versucht versucht hat
▪ ‘Dislocation 2’ (raising of phonological features):
dass es zu lesen es 0 0 keiner es zu lesen versucht versucht hat
▪ ‘Chain Reduction’ (vacuous):
dass zu lesen es keiner versucht hat
Notice that the application of the second step of DISL (‘Dislocation 2’ in the
derivation above) makes (87) as bad as (83b), contrary to fact. My claim is
that, in fact, ‘Dislocation 2’ is an illegal operation at the moment it takes place
in (83b), but not in (87). In other words, the crucial distinction between the
ungrammaticality of (83b) and the grammaticality of (87) is that, in the latter
and not in the former, an extra phonological process ‘repairs’ the damage
caused by the application of ‘Chain Reduction’ to the infinitival clause, turning
it into a phonologically complete constituent again. This repairing procedure
must be intrinsically phonological, since both ‘Chain Reduction’ and DISL
take place at PF, and counter-cyclicity is forbidden on theoretical grounds:
once a constituent has been handed over to the interface level, it cannot go
back to ‘Narrow Syntax’. I contend that the repairing procedure at stake is two-
fold, since it comprises both phonological restructuring and licensing.45
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 255
Phonological restructuring. The background of the discussion here is the the-
ory of prosodic phonology as developed in Selkirk (1980a,b). In this theory,
phonological strings encompass a hierarchical, layered structure in which
smaller units are grouped into larger ones: segments into syllables, syllables
into feet, and feet into prosodic words; the layers above the prosodic word are
the phonological phrase, the intonational phrase, and the utterance. Although
stress is often used as the basis for postulating prosodic structure within the
prosodic word, prosodic constituents above the word are typically inferred
through the blocking or triggering of postlexical phonological processes.
Research on different languages has evidenced that some of these prosodic
constituents are sensitive to the syntax-phonology mapping, insofar as they
show systematic relations to syntactic constituent structure. This is the case of
the phonological phrase, whose boundaries seem to be crosslinguistically de-
termined by those of the syntactic constituent, irrespective of category. Selkirk
(1986) captures this in her universal theory of phrasing, according to which the
right/left edge of a phonological phrase φ is always aligned with the right/left
edge of a syntactic XP, depending on the head parameter ((88), from Selkirk,
1995):
(88) a. ALIGN-XP, R: ALIGN (XP, R; φ, R)
“For each XP there is a φ such that the right edge of XP coincides
with the right edge of φ”
b. ALIGN-XP, L: ALIGN (XP, L; φ, L)
“For each XP there is a φ such that the left edge of XP coincides
with the left edge of φ”
(89) illustrates the mapping principle in (88) for English, a head-initial lan-
guage:
(89) that John read the book
a. Syntactic structure
CP[that C'[ TP[ NP [John]i T'[ vP[ ti v'[readj VP [ tj NP[the book]]]]]
b. Prosodic structure: phonological phrasing
{that John} {read the book}
where the right edge of the first prosodic phrase is aligned with the first
available right phrasal bracket (that of the NP John),46
and the right edge of the
second one with that of the book.
Not all syntactic constituents are visible to (88), however. Thus, Nespor and
Vogel (1986), Chen (1987), and Truckenbrodt (1999), among others, contend
256 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
that (88) ignores phonetically null elements. To put it differently, empty cate-
gories (traces, PRO, etc.) never provoke φ-closure.
A theory of prosodic phrasing along the lines sketched above would assign
essentially the same phonological representations to both the licit and illicit
‘double scrambling’ cases. On the assumption that German, although head-
final within VP, is head-initial in most projections (DP, NP, PP, and CP), the
scrambled object and the remnant infinitive in (83b) and (87) would invariably
show up in different phonological phrases, since the right VP bracket of the
infinitival clause intervenes between them. This is illustrated in (90a) for (83b),
and (90b) for (87):
(90) a. *dass [ti zu lesen]j das Buchi keiner tj versucht hat
that to read the book-ACC no one-NOM tried has
“that no one tried to read the book”
{dass ti zu lesen}{das Buch}{keiner}{ tj versucht}{hat}47
b. dass [ti zu lesen]j esi keiner tj versucht hat
that to read it-ACC no one-NOM tried has
“that no one tried to read it”
{dass ti zu lesen}{es}{keiner}{ tj versucht}{hat}
However, the nominal object das Buch and the pronominal es differ with
respect to their intrinsic phonological properties. As shown in Chapter 2 (Sec-
tion 4), es is a phonologically deficient, unstressed pronoun. Recall that, as
opposed to nouns and non-deficient pronouns, deficient pronouns are charac-
terised by a property that allows them to be included in a preceding or fol-
lowing phonological phrase (Nespor and Vogel's (1986) restructuring of pho-
nological phrases). Once within the same prosodic domain, deficient forms
may undergo further restructuring with strictly adjacent elements, which results
in the formation of complex prosodic words. Recall also that this claim is sup-
ported by examples like (46b) in Chapter 2, from Cardinaletti and Starke,
(1999), where the absence of the glottal stop between the subject pronoun and
the verb indicates phonological restructuring:
(46) a. ʔEs ʔist schön
it is nice
“It is nice”
b. ʔEs ist schön
it is nice
“It is nice”
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 257
In this light, I propose that the opposition between ‘double scrambling’ with
nominal and pronominal objects simply reduces to the (un)ability to undergo
phonological restructuring.
That phonological restructuring of the pronoun with the infinitive is the
factor responsible for the well-formedness of (90b) (=87) is supported by the
following pieces of evidence:
(i) The weak pronoun may be replaced by a clitic with no change in grammati-
cality, as noticed by Müller (1998) ((91a), his example, and also his judge-
ment). It may be also replaced by weak demonstrative das. Gärtner and
Steinbach (2003) claim, by the way, that this goes against Müller's (1998) idea
that personal pronouns undergo a special kind of movement different from
scrambling ((91b) from Gärtner and Steinbach, their judgement):
(91) a. dass zu lesen's keiner versucht hat
that to read-it-ACC-CL no-one-NOM tried has
“that no one tried to read it”
b. dass zu lesen das keiner versucht hat
that to read that-ACC no-one-NOM tried has
“that no one tried to read that”
(ii) There must be strict adjacency between the infinitive and the pronoun, ex-
cept in the case that the intervening element is a pronoun too (as far as I know,
a fact unreported in the literature) (our examples in (63); my informants'
judgement):
(92) a. *dass zu lesen der Peter es versucht hat
that to read Peter-NOM it-ACC tried has
“that Peter tried to read it”
b. dass zu lesen er es versucht hat
that to read he-NOM it-ACC tried has
“that he tried to read it”
The assumption is that, in (92a), the phonological phrase der Peter prevents
restructuring of es with the infinitival zu lesen: if es restructures at all, it must
restructure with der Peter. But this is not so in (92b): es may restructure with
er (also a pronoun) and er, in turn, may restructure with zu lesen. The result is,
again, that the object and the infinitive form a single prosodic word, within a
single phonological phrase (93a), exactly as in the string in which no subject
intervenes (93b):
258 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(93) a. {dass zu lesen er es}{versucht}{hat}
b. {dass zu lesen es} {keiner}{versucht}{hat}
There is one question we must address now. It is related to the reasons why
a purely phonological process such as restructuring may interact with scram-
bling, if scrambling is the result of a strictly syntactic operation. The reasons
are not obvious, if scrambling is conceived of as base-generation, or as the
product of just ‘Move’. However, in the analysis we are proposing, in which
‘Move’ is followed by Chomsky's (2001) DISL, the connection is straightfor-
ward: DISL applies only to phonologically complete constituents, and restruc-
turing adds phonological features to previously less complex phonological
words and phrases. In a sense, restructuring makes phonologically empty ele-
ments ‘invisible’ for DISL. We turn to this ‘invisibility’ and the exact way in
which it is implemented in the following paragraphs.
Phonological licensing of non-phonologically realised features. Ackema and
Neeleman (2003) contend that a certain class of morphological alternations that
seem to involve syntactic adjacency do not derive from syntactic rules them-
selves, but rather from spell-out principles holding for heads and phrases con-
tained within the same phonological phrase. They illustrate their claim with six
case studies, concerning agreement weakening in Dutch and Arabic, clitici-
sation in Middle Dutch and Celtic, and pro-drop in Old French and Arabic.
Ackema and Neeleman assume, as it stands, that the syntactic and phono-
logical components are autonomous, but related to each other by the PF inter-
face. According to them, the PF interface is responsible for the following
operations, in the given order:
(94) PF operations (Ackema and Neeleman, 2003: 683)
a. Linearisation of syntactic terminals
b. Initial prosodic phrasing, on the basis of syntactic information
c. Application of context-sensitive allomorphy rules
d. Spell-out of terminals
With respect to (94a) and (94b), they adopt the general view that both
processes are sensitive to syntactic constituency, in the form of Selkirk's (1986)
‘Alignment Theory’ for the case of (94b). However, (94c) constitutes a partial
innovation. It shares with ‘Distributed Morphology’48
(Halle and Marantz,
1993 and subsequent work) the notion of spell-out as vocabulary insertion, and
the idea that there are post-syntactic allomorphy rules that adjust the feature
content of terminals in particular environments. But it departs from it in the
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 259
claim that such allomorphy rules are sensitive to prosodic phrasing, since the
former always precedes the latter in Halle and Marantz's framework.
Ackema and Neeleman distinguish two general types of prosodically-con-
ditioned allomorphy rules. The first one states that the morpho-syntactic fea-
tures of a terminal contained in the same phonological phrase as a certain other
terminal are deleted. Such deletion necessarily requires agreement between the
features of the terminals to which the rule applies on the basis of recoverability.
Suppression of features obviously changes the phonological realisation of the
terminal whose feature content has changed, since the phonological material
that the operation in (94d) above assigns to terminals is determined by the bun-
dles of features in them. The whole process is represented in (95):
(95) { [A F1 F2] .... [B F1 F3] ....}
Feature deletion:
{ [A F2] .... [B F1 F3] ....}
Spell-out
[A F1 F2] → /a/
[A F2] → /a'/
The second type of allomorphy rule states that if a particular terminal ap-
pears in the same prosodic domain as some other terminal, its phonological
realisation is altered. According to Ackema and Neeleman, this type of rule is
responsible for cliticisation: the presence of a syntactic head endowed with the
required features forces a pronoun to be realised as a simple clitic, that is,
something smaller than a phonological word (such as σ, a syllable). This is
schematised in (96):
(96) { ... A ... [B F1 F3] ...} → ... <A ... [B F1 F3]> ...}
Spell-out
[B F1 F3] → /bσ/
Ackema and Neeleman contend that (96) differs from (95) in that it does not
delete morpho-syntactic features in its target. This is required by their analysis
of cliticisation in Middle Dutch and Celtic, where the process is conditioned
exclusively by the availability of a proper verbal head within the same prosodic
phrase. However, my claim is that, given the proper conditions, (95) and (96)
may, in fact, co-occur. Those proper conditions obtain in some cases of the licit
‘double scrambling’ in German.
Recall that we concluded in the previous section that the (un)grammaticality
of pronominal/nominal scrambling from an already scrambled infinitival clause
260 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
can be attributed to the phonological properties of the object: weak pronouns
may restructure with the preceding phonological phrase, while nominal DPs
may not. This resulted in the phonological representations of (97), where es but
not das Buch shares a phonological phrase with both its copy, devoid of pho-
nological features because of ‘Chain Reduction’, and the infinitive:
(97) a. {dass ti zu lesen esi}{keiner}{ tj versucht}{hat}
b. *{dass ti zu lesen}{das Buchi}{keiner}{ tj versucht}{hat}
The question now is how phonological restructuring can affect grammatical
well-formedness. I suggest that the answer is related to the interaction of
‘Chain Reduction’ and its effects on DISL with PF procedures of the kind pro-
posed by Ackema and Neeleman. But a preliminary observation is in order.
Recall that, on standard minimalist assumptions, lexical items are characterised
in terms of bundles of semantic, formal, and phonological features. Any spell-
out procedure (phase-bound ‘Spell-Out’, or special operations such as DISL)
must send to PF not only phonological features, but also valued formal ones,
since they may have a phonetic reflex. In other words, after the first step of
DISL (‘Dislocation 1’) has applied, es/das Buch and es/das Buch zu lesen leave
the vP-edge (which they have targeted in ‘Narrow Syntax’), and are handed
over to PF as bundles of phonological and (already valued) morphosyntactic
features, as in (98):
(98) a. vP[[ es[3 neuter sing acc] zu lesen] vP[es[3 neuter sing acc]]]
b. vP[[ das Buch[ neuter sing acc] zu lesen] vP[das Buch[neuter sing acc]]]
After ‘Chain Reduction’, the phonological features of the copy of the object
in the scrambled infinitival clause are deleted. To put it differently, es and das
Buch are reduced to valued formal features:
(99) a. vP[[es[3 neuter sing acc] zu lesen] vP[es[3 neuter sing acc]]]
b. vP[[das Buch[ neuter sing acc] zu lesen] vP[das Buch[neuter sing acc]]]
In the minimalist spirit that operations take place as early as possible, as-
sume that the PF interface maps syntactic structure onto prosodic structure as
soon as the strong phase is complete. In other words, at the point at which the
CP cycle is transferred to PF, the vP cycle (plus the constituents that have un-
dergone ‘Dislocation 1’) is already structured in different prosodic layers,
which include, of course, phonological phrases:
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 261
(100) a. {es[3 neuter sing acc] zu lesen es[3 neuter sing acc]}
b. {das Buch[neuter sing acc] zu lesen}{das Buch[neuter sing acc]}
As shown in (100), prosodic phrasing behaves uniformly in the two exam-
ples at stake with respect to the phonologically unrealised copy and the infini-
tive: both are included in a single phonological phrase, due to the invisibility of
empty elements for φ-closure (Nespor and Vogel, 1986; Chen, 1987;
Truckenbrodt, 1999; see above). But it has different effects with respect to the
second, phonologically realised, copy of the object: it forms its own phrase in
(100b), but not in (100a). Thus, das Buch is prevented from entering with its
copy and/or the infinitive into the kind of operations Ackema and Neeleman
argue for, since these operations are confined to the phrasal limits. However,
this is possible for es, which I take to participate in both deletion of morpho-
syntactic features (an operation of the first type in Ackema and Neeleman's
proposal), and cliticisation (their second type). Regarding the former, suppose
that, as Ackema and Neeleman state, the features of the phonologically unreal-
ised terminal are deleted by the presence of the identical features of the realised
one. This would entail the complete invisibility of the first occurrence of es, on
the basis that it only contains phonological and morphosyntactic information.
Simply put, es, lacking any sort of features, virtually disappears:
(101) {es[3 sing acc] zu lesen es[3 sing acc]}
On the other hand, zu lesen is an appropriate host for es, contained within
the same phonological phrase, which explains the grammaticality of the ‘dou-
ble scrambling’ cases when the pronoun is a clitic:
(102) {es[3 sing acc] zu lesen's[3 sing acc]}
If such an analysis is tenable, notice the consequences it has for the appli-
cation of the second step of DISL, which, as the first one, necessarily requires
the phonological integrity of the constituent undergoing the process. When the
narrow syntactic CP cycle is complete and the resulting string is handed over to
PF, DISL (‘Dislocation 2’) must raise the phonological phrases corresponding
to the scrambled object and the scrambled infinitive: in the case of nominal
scrambling, the phonetically empty copy of the object is still visible, since sup-
pression of its morphosyntactic features has failed, due to the absence of a ter-
minal with identical feature characterisation in the relevant prosodic domain
(103b). Nevertheless, in the case of pronominal scrambling, the unrealised
262 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
copy has virtually disappeared, which makes the remnant infinitive phonologi-
cally complete again, as DISL demands (103a):
(103) a. {es[3 neuter sing acc] zu lesen es[3 neuter sing acc]}
b. {das Buch[neuter sing acc] zu lesen}{das Buch[neuter sing acc]}
There are still a few remaining issues, to which we turn now. The first is
related to the question of how lexical items such as the pronoun es, or its clitic
counterpart 's, enter the derivation. If, as the strong lexicalist hypothesis con-
tends, they do it as fully inflected forms (see footnote 48), the two operations
DISL encompasses would target phonologically complete constituents, and
deletion and cliticisation processes of the kind defended by Ackema and
Neeleman would have to be re-stated in different terms. Take, for instance,
their first type of rule in (95), repeated here for convenience as (104):
(104) { [A F1 F2] .... [B F1 F3] ....}
Feature deletion:
{ [A F2] .... [B F1 F3] ....}
Spell-out
[A F1 F2] → /a/
[A F2] → /a'/
The first part of the rule, the one related to feature deletion, would be
unaffected by the adoption of the strong lexicalist hypothesis; however, the
insertion of the phonological form associated to the reduced feature bundle
would be impossible, since phonological features are determined prior to PF.
To check whether the strong lexicalist hypothesis is incompatible with the data
analysed by Ackema and Neeleman is beyond the scope of the present work;
however, as my own account of the German facts shows, I think that that is not
necessarily the case, once processes such as phonological restructuring of
phrases and prosodic words are made to precede feature deletion and
cliticisation. In fact, this is the only way to explain the contrast between the
nominal and pronominal scrambling cases, since, as stated elsewhere, the right
bracket of the infinitival VP would intervene as a phonological boundary in
both structures.
Nevertheless, the choice of the strong lexicalist hypothesis over weaker
versions such as ‘Distributed Morphology’ (see footnote 48) is important as far
as the first step of DISL (‘Dislocation 1’) is concerned. Recall that we envis-
aged this operation as one imposing phonological integrity in the constituent
transferred to PF, due to its character of special spell-out procedure. Such an
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 263
assumption is very difficult to test empirically, insofar as ‘Dislocation 1’ is
always followed by ‘Dislocation 2’, which, along the lines of our discussion
above, clearly requires phonologically complete phrases. On the other hand,
neither can be dispensed with: ‘Dislocation 1’ crucially affects ‘Chain Reduc-
tion’, which explains the asymmetry between fronting (wh-movement, topicali-
sation) and scrambling out of displaced infinitival clauses (Sections 2.1.2.3.1
and 2.1.2.3.2); ‘Dislocation 2’ accounts for the phonological presence of the
object in a position higher than the vP edge (Chomsky, 2001 for Scandinavian
‘Object Shift’), as well as for the contrast between nominal and pronominal
scrambling discussed in the present section.
A second problem relates to the grammatical sequences in which a subject
pronoun intervenes between the scrambled object and infinitive, our example
(93a), repeated here as (105):
(105) {dass zu lesen er es} {versucht}{hat}
that to read he-NOM it-ACC tried has
“that he tried to read it”
Recall that I have argued that prosodic phrasing of the vP material takes place
before the strictly syntactic CP cycle reaches PF. Since in (105) the subject, in
Spec, T, in inserted in the middle of an already formed phonological phrase,
and must obligatorily precede the object,49
two obvious consequences arise: (i)
re-phrasing must be permitted (which would also explain the presence of the
complementizer in the first φ); (ii) linearisation constraints concerning (at
least) pronoun length, quantity and quality of the onset, nucleus, and coda of
the syllables that are involved force the fixed order subject > object (Wegener,
1985; Hoberg, 1997; Zifonun, 2001; Müller, 2002).50
The last issue I would like to address is the reason why scrambling of the
infinitive prevents pronominal scrambling and fronting from co-occurring,
while it allows for each of the processes in isolation. Illicit co-occurrence is
illustrated by (106):
(106) a. *Wemi hat [ti tj zu geben]k esj keiner tk versucht?
who-DAT has to give it-ACC no-one-NOM tried
“To whom did no one try to give it”
b. *Dem Kindi hat [ti tj zu geben]k esj keiner tk
the child-DAT has to give it-ACC no-one-NOM
versucht
tried
“No one tried to give it to the child”
264 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
The analysis we proposed in 2.1.2.3.2 for the grammaticality of wh-move-
ment and topicalisation out of scrambled infinitives was based on the claim that
fronted elements are subject to ‘Chain Reduction’ after ‘Dislocation 2’ has
applied to them, which makes them phonologically complete constituents at the
relevant point. Thus, our hypothesis is that the ill-formedness of the examples
in (106) does not lie in the movement the dative undergoes from the displaced
infinitive to Spec, C, but rather in the suppression of features in the phonologi-
cally unrealised copy of es. According to our assumptions so far, (106a) and
(106b) must be the product of the following operations: narrow syntactic
movement of the accusative and dative objects to the vP edge; narrow syntactic
movement of the infinitival clause to Spec, v (in accordance to Chomsky's
(2001) PIC in (19)); phase-bound spell-out for the vP domain (plus the subject
and the verb, which do not undergo further movement); ‘Dislocation 1’ for the
accusative object and the infinitival clause; ‘Chain Reduction’ and prosodic
phrasing at PF. The final result before the CP cycle accesses the interface is
given in (107):51
(107) {wem}{es zu geben es}{keiner}{versucht}
In the light of (107), deletion of the morphosyntactic features of the
phonologically unrealised copy should be possible, since they share a prosodic
domain with the restructured es. Therefore, (106) should be well-formed,
contrary to fact.
The problem may be solved by resorting to the base generation approach we
adopted for explaining what we labelled ‘base-generated scrambling’ cases in
our discussion of VP-topicalisation. Recall that we concluded there that objects
of ditransitive predicates may be merged in alternative orders, DAT >ACC, or
ACC> DAT, and that ACC > DAT seems to be constrained by the
(in)definiteness of the accusative: only definite accusatives may precede
(in)definite datives (see (52) above). The claim could be strengthened for cases
such as the one in (107), where the accusative is pronominal, i.e. inherently
definite, and the dative a wh-element, hence inherently indefinite, which would
make ACC > DAT obligatory. In fact, as noticed above, and also in Chapter 2,
pronominal accusatives always appear before nominal and even pronominal
datives in German. If the fixed order ACC > DAT in the ‘Wackernagel do-
main’ is a matter of order preservation, it will argue for a derivation in which
es occupies the outer spec, with wem tucked in between es and the subject,
much in the spirit of Richards (1997, 1999).52
Thus, (106) would be rather like
(108):
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 265
(108) {es wem}{zu geben es}{keiner}{versucht}
As in (107), the configuration in (108) allows es to restructure with the pre-
ceding phrase, apparently making the suppression of the morphosyntactic fea-
tures of the phonetically empty copy possible. But notice that this operation is
barred by the copy of wem: since it is not subject to ‘Chain Reduction’ until the
end of the CP-cycle, where both the intermediate wem in Spec, v and the one in
Spec, C are handed over to PF, it still preserves its phonological features. In
consequence, its syntactic right bracket triggers φ-closure, which, in turn,
keeps the two occurrences of es in separate prosodic domains. The result is that
deletion of the offending morphosyntactic features cannot take place.
The second obstacle is the timing for evaluation of operations such as DISL.
Recall that one of the tenets of the ‘Minimalist Program’ in its latest versions is
that the output of a strong phase is evaluated for convergence at the completion
of the next higher one (see (19) above). If the claim is tenable not only for
‘Narrow Syntax’, but also for processes at the interfaces, (108) would not be
excluded by failure in the deletion of morphosyntactic features: the intervening
wem has lost its phonological features at the completion of the CP cycle,
allowing for restructuring between es and the phrase containing its copy.
Rather, its ill-formedness must be attributed to ‘Chain Reduction’ affecting the
copy of wem itself. But such an account would entail delaying prosodic phras-
ing until the CP cycle has reached PF, which albeit preferable, insofar as less
restructuring operations are required, would come at some cost: the grammati-
cality of object fronting with remnant scrambled infinitives would turn out to
be a mystery, since ‘Chain Reduction’ with the wh-moved or topicalised ele-
ment in Spec, C implies that DISL has invariably applied to an ultimately in-
complete constituent. In any case, the issue is a matter for further research,
with implications for the general design of natural languages.
2.2 Is German scrambling sensitive to phonological borders?
In Chomsky's (2001) analysis of Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’, the role
played by phonological features in ‘Narrow Syntax’ is not restricted to the im-
plementation of processes such as DISL, which, according to our conclusions
in the preceding sections, also seems to be attested in German scrambling.
Chomsky, as we know, also resorts to them when accounting for ‘Holmberg's
Generalisation’, which roughly states that objects in situ may receive the se-
mantic interpretation normally associated to shifted ones, if they are linearly
preceded by the verb, another object, a preposition, or a particle (Section
1.1.3). Chomsky reformulates ‘Holmberg's Generalisation’ in terms of the
266 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
interaction between a kind of ‘Object Shift Parameter’(109a) and optional
assignment of an [EPP] feature on v (109b):
(109) a. ‘Object Shift Parameter’ (Chomsky, 2001: 34)
At the phonological border of vP, XP is assigned Int', where
(i) ‘at the phonological border’ means not asymetrically c-
commanded (from the left)53
by a phonologically visible
category (except adjuncts), and
(ii) Int' is the semantic interpretation related to new information,
focus, indefiniteness, etc.
b. Optional [EPP] feature assignment (Chomsky, 2001: 35)
(i) v is assigned an [EPP] feature only if it has an effect on the
outcome
(ii) The EPP position of v is assigned Int, where Int is the
semantic interpretation associated to old information, topic,
definiteness, etc.
It is commonly claimed in the literature that ‘Holmberg's Generalisation’
strongly indicates that Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ and West Germanic scram-
bling are two unrelated phenomena. As stated in Chapter 1, the basic piece of
evidence is based on the connection between verb movement and reordering:
shifted objects only occur in structures where the verb has left its base position,
whereas scrambling is possible in all kinds of sentences, irrespective of the
location of the verb. But this argument is untenable if ‘Holmberg's Generali-
sation’ is considered in full, since elements other than the verb also prevent
Scandinavian objects from shifting (Holmberg, 1986; 1999), and the only
property shared by those elements and the verb is that they are endowed with
phonological features (Holmberg, 1999; Chomsky, 2001). Notice the conse-
quences of this for the connection between verb position and reordering in the
case of West Germanic scrambling: if, pace Kayne's (1994) ‘Linear Corre-
spondence Axiom’, German (and Dutch) are head-final in the VP and vP, the
phonological features of the verb will never bar scrambling of an internal ar-
gument.
The aim of this section is to present some evidence for the existence of a
constraint on German scrambling that resembles the requirement that shifted
objects move from the ‘phonological border’. In Section 2.1.1, I will try to
show that phonological borders are responsible for the pragmatically well-
formedness of given, unscrambled accusatives of ditransitive predicates, a
problem for the otherwise valuable proposal in Neeleman and Reinhart (1998)
(Section 2.3.2, Chapter 3). I will also contend that resorting to phonological
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 267
borders provides an alternative account for the data about scrambling in non-
verbal projections in Haider and Rosengren's (1998; 2003) analysis (Section
2.1.2). Finally, a third controversial piece of evidence will be presented in
2.1.3, where the case of scrambling with ditransitives predicates in which accu-
satives usually precede datives or genitives (Section 1.1, Chapter 3) will be
revisited.
2.2.1 The ‘unmarkedness’ of the ‘unmarked’ word order. As extensively dis-
cussed in Chapter 3 (Section 2), the ‘unmarked word order’ is taken to
correspond to sequences exhibiting wide focus, insofar as they could serve as
answers to a ‘what-happened-question’:
(110) Was ist passiert?
“What happened?”
a. dass Peter gestern das BUCH gelesen hat
that Peter-NOM yesterday the book-ACC read has
“that Peter read the book yesterday”
a'. #dass Peter das Buch gestern geLEsen hat
that Peter-NOM the book-ACC yesterday read has
“that Peter read the book yesterday”
b. dass Peter gestern dem Kind das BUCH gegeben hat
that Peter-NOM yesterday the child-DAT the book-ACC given has
“that Peter gave the book to the child yesterday”
b'. #dass Peter das Buch gestern dem KIND gegeben
that Peter-NOM the book-ACC yesterday the child-DAT given
hat
has
“that Peter gave the book to the child yesterday”
(110a)-(110b) illustrate the ‘unmarked word order’ for a monotransitive and
a ditransitive predicate respectively, with the accusative object das Buch in its
VP-internal position, following the vP/VP-adjoined adverbial (110a), or both
the adverbial and the dative (110b), and being assigned nuclear stress. On the
other hand, (110a') and (110b') are marked: the accusative is interpreted as non-
focused, and nuclear stress falls on another constituent.
It has been frequently claimed in the literature that the ‘marked/ ‘unmarked’
distinction is not as clear-cut as presented in (110) as far as the interpretation of
the (un)scrambled object is concerned. Thus, while reordered constituents are
obligatorily presuppositional, D-linked, those that stay VP-internal are not
necessarily new information. In other words, scrambling entails defocusing, but
268 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
defocusing does not always entail scrambling. In Chapter 3 (Section 2.3.2), we
adopted Neeleman and Reinhart's (1998) proposal for Dutch and extended it to
German, showing that the claim about the double reading of unscrambled ele-
ments is not tenable for monotransitive predicates, and that structures such as
(111) below are ruled out:
(111) Was ist mit dem Buch geschehen?
“What happened with the book?”
#dass Peter gestern das Buch geLEsen hat
that Peter-NOM yesterday the book-ACC read has
“that Peter read the book yesterday”
In other words, we concluded that destressed, discourse-given constituents
of monotransitive predicates cannot appear within the VP. However, as noticed
there, the double reading is not discarded in the case of ditransitive predicates,
since examples such as (112) below are both grammatically and pragmatically
well-formed in German:
(112) Was ist mit dem Buch geschehen?
“What happened with the book?”
dass Peter gestern dem KIND das Buch gegeben hat
that Peter-NOM yesterday the child-DAT the book-ACC given has
“that Peter gave the book to the child yesterday”
(112) clearly constitutes a serious obstacle for any theory that establishes a
correlation between scrambling and semantic/pragmatic meaning, either in the
form of a triggering feature (Meinunger, 1995), or by means of economy con-
siderations (Neeleman and Reinhart, 1998). Nevertheless, (112) is unproblem-
atic for an account where the presence of phonological features in ‘Narrow
Syntax’ has a bearing on interpretation, and interpretation is derived, in turn,
from strictly syntactic operations: das Buch is crucially c-commanded by a
phonologically visible category (dem Kind), thus not at Chomsky's (2001)
‘phonological border’. If German obeys a rule analogous to Scandinavian
‘Object Shift’ (see (109) above), das Buch may be interpreted as discourse-
given in its VP-internal position, which prevents its displacement to the vP
edge. But this is an option barred in (111), where the only c-commanding pho-
nologically visible element is the adjunct gestern. In consequence, the object
must be interpreted as new information, focus.
Our account of (112) raises the question why sentences such as (113) below
are possible at all in German:
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 269
(113) Was ist mit dem Buch geschehen?
“What happened with the book?”
dass Peter das Buch gestern dem KIND gegeben hat
that Peter-NOM the book-ACC yesterday the child-DAT given has
“that Peter gave the book to the child”
My tentative suggestion here is that they are the product of the ‘base-
generated scrambling’ the defenders of the base generation approach argue for
(Section 2.1.1.3). In other words, they are the result of merging the accusative
after the dative, which leaves the former at the phonological border, exactly as
in (111).54
2.2.2 Scrambling in non-verbal projections. As shown in Chapter 3 (Section
1.3), German scrambling is attested with lexical projections other than vP/VPs.
The defenders of the base generation approach (Fanselow, 2001, 2003), and
those arguing for an analysis in terms of untriggered movement (Haider and
Rosengren, 1998, 2003) have capitalised on the existence of such structures as
a proof for two basic tenets: (i) the nature of reordering processes in German is
different from that of Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’, insofar as the former apply
to all kind of arguments, and the latter is restricted to verbal arguments; and (ii)
the scrambled constituent occupies a position within the lexical projection of
the head selecting for it, and not the specifier of a functional phrase.
But recall that a closer inspection of all instances of scrambling within non-
verbal projections revealed that the full set of data is not entirely consistent
with (i) and (ii). With respect to (i), it has been frequently observed (Müller,
1995; Haider and Rosengren, 1998, 2003) that it is not true that all kinds of
arguments may scramble in German: scrambling is barred for complements of
prepositions (114), and also for those of nouns (115), while complements of
postpositions (116) and adjectives (117) may undergo it freely:55
(114) a. In diesem Abschnitt über Metaphern
in this chapter about metaphors
“in this chapter about metaphors”
b. *Diesem Abschnitt über Metaphern in
this chapter about metaphors in
c. *In diesem über Metaphern Abschnitt
in this about metaphors chapter
270 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(115) a. die Versendung von Briefen an Verwandte
the forwarding of letters to relatives
“the forwarding of letters to relatives”
b. *die Versendung anVerwandte von Briefen
the forwarding to relatives of letters
c. *die an Verwandte Versendung von Briefen
the to relatives forwarding of letters
(116) a. Peter ist gestern den Fluss entlang gefahren
Peter-NOM has yesterday the river-ACC along driven
“Peter drove along the river yesterday”
b. Peter ist den Fluss gestern entlang gefahren
Peter-NOM has the river-ACC yesterday along driven
“Peter drove along the river yesterday”
(117) a. ein jedem an Kraft überlegener Sportler
a everyone-DAT in power superior athlete
“an athlete superior to everyone in power”
b. ein an Kraft jedem überlegener Sportler
a in power everyone-DAT superior athlete
“an athlete superior to everyone in power”
The data in (114)-(117) constitute a serious drawback for the analyses
adopting the base-generation approach, which do not address the question why
theoretically unconstrained merging of arguments is, in fact, constrained by the
category of the selecting head. Nevertheless, the contrast is explicitly dealt
with in theories such as Haider and Rosengren's (1998, 2003), which share
with the base generation view the idea that scrambled positions are positions
within a lexical projection. Recall that, as extensively discussed in Chapter 4,
Haider and Rosengren link scrambling to head-finalness, which nicely explains
why reordering is attested within APs and postpositional phrases (YP-X in
German), and not within DPs or PPs (X-YP).
But, as noticed elsewhere (Section 1.3, Chapter 3, and especially in 2.1.1.2
of the present chapter), Haider and Rosengren's proposal does not fare well
with examples like (40) above, repeated here as (118):
(118) a. ein [jedem an Kraft überlegener] Sportler
a everyone-DAT in power superior athlete
“an athlete superior to everyone in power”
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 271
b. ein [an Kraft jedem überlegener] Sportler
a in power everyone-DAT superior athlete
“an athlete superior to everyone in power”
c. dass er allen gestern überlegener war
that he all-DAT yesterday superior was
“that he was superior to everyone yesterday”
d. dass er allen gestern überlegener zu sein versucht hat
that he all-DAT yesterday superior to be tried has
“that he tried to be superior to everyone yesterday”
e. *dass er einer allen gestern überlegener Sportler war
that he a all-DAT yesterday superior athlete was
“that yesterday he was an athlete superior to all”
f. *dass er einer allen gestern überlegener Sportler zu sein
that he a all-DAT yesterday superior athlete to be
versucht hat
tried has
“that he tried to be an athlete superior to everyone yesterday”
Although they are not very explicit about it, recall that Haider and
Rosengren (2003) argue for free attachment of adverbs in the German
Mittelfeld. Suppose that the grammaticality of (118c,d) is derived in this way:
the adverb in inserted within the AP, before re-merging of the second internal
argument of the adjectival phrase within the extended ‘Minimal Argument
Projection Complex’ (MAC). Nevertheless, this position does not seem to be
available in the ill-formed (11e,f). In the light of facts like this, and the evi-
dence drawn from vP/VP topicalisation, in 2.1.1.3 we concluded that the con-
trasts in (118) indicate that there is a single position for adverbs such as gestern
in German (a position higher than AP in (118c,d) and DP in (118e,f)), as well
as two different types of scrambling: the first type, pictured in (118b), simply
reduces to alternative base-generated orderings, and is strictly confined to the
limits of the projection headed by the selecting head in its base position; the
second type, that in (118c,d), resembles Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ in that it
involves movement to a position beyond the phrasal boundaries of the lexical
projection where arguments are first merged, a position invariably higher than
that of gestern. Notice that this allows us to dispense with the unconstrained
model of adverb placement Haider and Rosengren defend.
My claim here is that this second type of reordering is sensitive to
Chomsky's notion of phonological border in the same way as Scandinavian
‘Object Shift’ is. In other words, since there is no phonologically visible cate-
gory c-commanding from the left either in German postpositional or adjectival
272 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
phrases, arguments of those heads may move across the boundaries of the pro-
jection where they are base generated. This is exemplified for APs by (118e,f)
above, and for postpositional phrases by (116a,b), repeated here as (119a,b)
and (119c,d):
(119) a. Er war wahrscheinlich diesen Männern gestern an Sport
he was probably these men-DAT yesterday in sport
überlegener
superior
“He was probably superior to these men in sport yesterday”
b. Er war wahrscheinlich an diesem Sport gestern allen
he was probably in this sport yesterday all-DAT
überlegener
superior
“He was probably superior to all in this sport yesterday”
c. Peter ist gestern den Fluss entlang gefahren
Peter-NOM has yesterday the river-ACC along driven
“Peter drove along the river yesterday”
d. Peter ist den Fluss gestern entlang gefahren
Peter-NOM has the river-ACC yesterday along driven
“Peter drove along the river yesterday”
That the structures in (119) are the product of the inability of the scrambled
object to receive the semantic interpretation Chomsky calls Int (that is, spe-
cific, presuppositional, etc) at the phonological border is demonstrated by their
deviance with unspecific, existential displaced objects (my informants' judge-
ment):
(120) a. *Er war wahrscheinlich jemandem/wem gestern an Sport
he was probably someone-DAT yesterday in sport
überlegener
superior
“He was probably superior to someone in sport yesterday”
b. *Peter ist einen Fluss gestern entlang gefahren
Peter-NOM has a river-ACC yesterday along driven
“Peter drove along an (unspecific) river yesterday”
It is true that the facts in (120) could be also explained by resorting to free
attachment of the adverbs, and to the scope relations between them and the
scrambled constituent, in the spirit of Haider and Rosengren (1998, 2003) or
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 273
Fanselow (2001, 2003). The problems such an account must face in the case of
APs have been extensively discussed in 2.1.1.2. The main obstacle it finds in
the case of scrambling of arguments of postpositions is the grammaticality of
(119d), where the event-related adverbial gestern would appear embedded
within the postpositional phrase, which would theoretically prevent it from
having gefahren in its domain. One could think of solutions such as overt in-
corporation of the postposition into V, which, nevertheless, seem to be ex-
cluded by structures such as (121):
(121) Wahrscheinlich fuhr Peter den Fluss gestern entlang
probably drove Peter-NOM the river-ACC yesterday along
“Probably Peter drove along the river yesterday”
If the analysis above is tenable, the reason why reordering out of head-initial
projections is not possible in German is straightforward: complements of nouns
or prepositions are never at the phonological border. However, at least for the
case of DPs, this still does not rule out ‘base-generated scrambling’, that is, it
does not explain why they cannot appear in alternative positions within the
projection of their selecting head, as shown in (115a,b) above, repeated here as
(122):
(122) a. die Versendung von Briefen an Verwandte
the forwarding of letters to relatives
“the forwarding of letters to relatives”
b. *die Versendung an Verwandte von Briefen
the forwarding to relatives of letters
In the absence of an independent motivation for it, the ungrammaticality of
(122b) still supports a correlation between head-finalness and reordering of the
kind defended by Haider and Rosengren, which is independent of the interplay
between notions such as phonological border and semantic interpretation.
2.2.3 Scrambling of special, verbnahe arguments. In Chapter 3 (Section 1.1)
we made reference to an apparently syntactic restriction on reordering in
German, namely the impossibility for a certain class of arguments to undergo
scrambling. The class is composed by what are traditionally called verbnahe
elements: objects inflected for genitive case, or datives subcategorised for by
verbs like aussetzen (“expose”), unterziehen (“submit”), zuführen (“to bring
to”), etc. Their presence in the Mittelfeld seems to determine a high degree of
274 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
ill-formedness, as demonstrated by the examples in Chapter 3, repeated here
for convenience as (123):
(123) a. weil Hans bedauerlicherweise einen Unschuldigen
because Hans-NOM unfortunately an innocent-ACC
dieses Anschlagen bezichtigte
this conspiracy-GEN accused
“because, unfortunately, Hans accused an innocent of this
conspiracy”
a'. *weil Hans bedauerlicherweise dieses Anschlagen
because Hans-NOM unfortunately an innocent-ACC
einen Unschuldigen bezichtigte
an innocent-ACC accused
“because, unfortunately, Hans accused an innocent of this
conspiracy”
b. weil Otto leider die Kandidaten
because Otto-NOM unfortunately the candidates-ACC
dieser Prüfung ausgesetzt hat
this test-DAT subjected has
“because, unfortunately, Otto subjected the candidates to this test”
b'. *weil Otto leider dieser Prüfung
because Otto-NOM unfortunately this test-DAT
die Kandidaten ausgesetzt hat
the candidates-ACC subjected has
“because, unfortunately, Otto subjected the candidates to this
test”
However, as also noted in Chapter 3, Fanselow (2003) observes that the
structures at stake become fully grammatical when both arguments (the
verbnahe genitive or dative, and the accusative that precedes it) undergo
scrambling and keep the relative ordering between them. This is illustrated in
(124) for verbnahe datives:
(124) a. dass er glücklicherweise die Kandidaten der schwersten
that he fortunately the candidates-ACC the most-difficult
Prüfung immer nur am Vormittag unterzog
test-DAT always only before noon subjected
“that, fortunately, he always subjected the candidates to the most
difficult test only before noon”
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 275
b. dass glücklicherweise die Kandidaten einer schweren
that fortunately the candidates-ACC a difficult
Prüfung am Vormittag nur der Fritz unterziehen wollte
test-DAT before noon only Fritz-NOM to-subject wanted
“that, fortunately, only Fritz wanted to subject the candidates to a
difficult test before noon”
In (124a) the accusative die Kandidaten precedes the dative der schwersten
Prüfung, and both appear past the adverbial immer. In (124b), they have
scrambled across the intervening focused subject. These two examples contrast
with the one in (123b), where reordering of the dative past the accusative is
forbidden. Fanselow attributes the difference between (124a,b) and (123b) to a
serialisation constraint forcing inanimate objects to follow animate ones. The
conclusion is that verbnahe elements behave differently from other, non spe-
cial, arguments with regard to that animacy requirement, but not with regard to
the alternative base generation positions they may occupy.
I would like to suggest that the data in (123) and (124) are amenable to an
analysis in terms of Chomsky's (2001) ‘phonological border’. The assumption
is that, as opposed to the accusatives found with regular ditransitive verbs,
verbnahe genitives and datives have a single base generation position in
German, namely as sisters of the lexical V. This is straightforward in the case
of verbnahe genitives, since they constitute instances of lexical case, and lexi-
cal case is traditionally taken to be realised in the lowest available position
(Chomsky, 2000; Fanselow, 2000, among others). It needs some refinement for
verbnahe datives, an issue to which we turn now.
Meinunger (1995) claims that verbnahe datives are, in fact, the remnant of a
PP whose head has been incorporated into the lexical verb. His hypothesis is
supported by semantic and morphological considerations: semantically, the
dative of ACC-DAT verbs does not imply the relation of possession found in
the dative of regular DAT-ACC structures, but rather location; morphologi-
cally, all the verbs exhibiting this complementation pattern can be decomposed
into a verbal stem and a local preposition: aussetzen (“expose sb to sth”), aus-
liefern (“extradite”), unterziehen (“submit”), unterwerfen (“subject to”),
zuführen (“bring to”), etc. The process of incorporation is made possible by the
strict adjacency between the two elements involved, i.e. the PP and the verb.
From this perspective, ‘local’ datives behave as lexical genitives do: they are
merged in a fixed position, sister to the lexical verb .
What is crucial for our account of the ungrammaticality of (123 a',b') above
in terms of ‘phonological borders’ is that the fixed merge position is the lowest
one, since this entails that verbnahe elements will be c-commanded by the
276 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
phonologically visible accusative, in other words, that they will not be at the
phonological border, as (125) illustrates:
(125) VP[die Kandidaten v'[dieser Prüfung ausgesetzt]]
If German, as we contend, is subject to —the equivalent of— Chomsky's
‘Object Shift Parameter’, the dative in (125) may be interpreted either as
discourse-linked or as new information, since both meanings are available for
an element c-commanded by a phonologically visible VP-internal constituent.
Notice, however, that the position occupied by the dative may become a
phonological border if the accusative is forced to move beyond the limits of the
VP. Such scenario is the one reflected in (124 a,b) above, where the D-linked
accusative, which is not c-commanded by any phonologically visible category,
is displaced past the adverbial in order to be interpreted as D-linked:
(126) vP[die Kandidateni vP[immer/am Vormittag vP[tsubj v'[ti VP[der
schwersten Prüfung/einer schweren Prüfung tvb] unterzog]]]
The displacement of the accusative leaves the verbnahe elements at the
phonological border, where only a non discourse-linked interpretation is avail-
able. As a consequence, the definite der schwersten Prüfung and the indefinite
einer schweren Prüfung may remain there only in the case that they constitute
new information-focus. Otherwise, they must leave the domain of existential
closure. This is exactly the situation in Fanselow's examples: the definite is
interpreted as discourse given, while the indefinite is clearly specific. Note that
both examples obey the ordering restrictions exhibited by Scandinavian ‘Ob-
ject Shift’ and Dutch scrambling, insofar as the argument merged in the higher
position (accusative) precedes that in the lower one (the dative, or genitive), in
accordance to Richards’ (1997, 1999) ‘crossing paths’ for multiple attraction
by a single attractor (see footnote 54) (Icelandic examples in (127) from
Collins and Thráinsson, 1993; Dutch examples in (128) from Thráinssson,
2001):
(127) a. Ég lána ekki Maríu bækurnar
I lend not Mary-DAT the books-ACC
“I do not lend the books to Mary”
b. Ég lána Maríu bækurnar ekki
I lend Mary-DAT the books-ACC not
“I do not lend the books to Mary”
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 277
c. *Ég lána bækurnar Maríu ekki
I lend the books-ACC Mary-DAT not
“I do not lend the books to Mary”
(128) a. dat de vrouw waarschijnlijk de mannen de film
that the woman-NOM probably the men-DAT the film-ACC
toont
shows
“that the woman probably shows the picture to the men”
b. dat de vrouw de mannen de film waarschijnlijk
that the woman-NOM the men-DAT the film-ACC probably
toont
shows
“that the woman probably shows the picture to the men”
c. *dat de vrouw de film de mannen waarschijnlijk
that the woman-NOM the film-ACC the men-DAT probably
toont
shows
“that the woman probably shows the picture to the men”
The relevance of the data in (123) and (124) for the claim that German
scrambling in sensitive to phonological borders may be weakened by structures
like (129) below, where the low genitive (129a) and dative (129b) seem to have
moved across the accusative to a position preceding a sentence adverb (exam-
ples from Frey, 2000):
(129) a. weil Hans dieses Anschlages bedauerlicherweise
because Hans-NOM this crime-GEN unfortunately
einen Unschuldigen bezichtigte
an innocent-ACC accused
“because, unfortunately, Hans accused an innocent of this crime”
b. weil Otto dieser Prüfung leider die Kandidaten
because Otto-NOM this test-DAT unfortunately the candidates-ACC
ausgesetzt hat
subjected has
“because, unfortunately, Otto subjected the candidates to this test”
Frey (2000) and Pili (2003) contend that the operation responsible for the
sentences in (129) is different from regular scrambling, in that the former tar-
gets an operator position within TP, and the latter takes place in lower projec-
278 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
tions. Frey supports this claim by comparing the strictly syntactic properties of
the two processes, and concludes that, although both share iterability, transpar-
ency for extraction,56
a non-barrier status, and clause-boundedness, they differ
in three basic aspects: trigger, topicalisation, and the (im)possibility of affect-
ing the verbnahe elements dealt with above.
On the basis of examples such as (130), Frey argues that scrambling is an
untriggered process, insofar as the discourse-linked argument may remain VP-
internal:
(130) Hans hat eine Menge Photos von Italien. Heute abend will er
“Hans has a bunch of photos of Italy .Today afternoon he wants”
nun wieder netten Damen seine Fotos zeigen
now again nice ladies-DAT his photos-ACC to-show
“to show his pictures to nice ladies again and again”
But notice that given seine Fotos is not at the phonological border, since it is
c-commanded by the phonologically visible netten Damen, which receives an
existential reading. If German obeys something similar to the ‘Object Shift
Parameter’, the presuppositional reading of the low argument in (130) follows
straightforwardly.
The second piece of evidence Frey adduces in order to distinguish move-
ment to a topic phrase from scrambling is based on the contrast in (131):
(131) a. *[Den Otto jedenfalls treffen] werde ich an Ostern
Otto-ACC in any case meet will I in the East
“In any case will I meet Otto in the East”
b. [Den Sternenhimmel Kindern erläutert] hat er schon oft
the starry-sky-ACC children-DAT explained has he already often
“He has already explained the starry sky to children”
According to Frey, (131a) is ruled out because the fronted VP contains the
topic projection to which den Otto has moved, as signalled by the presence of
the sentence adverb jedenfalls. However, the projection targeted by scrambled
constituents is not barred in Spec, C: den Sternenhimmel has undergone reor-
dering past the dative Kindern and still appears in the topicalised phrase. The
conclusion is that the processes at stake are linked to different loci.
But, following Frey's argumentation, examples such as the ones in (132),
based on Haider and Rosengren (1998), clearly indicate that a third position is
needed:
THE PHONOLOGICAL SIDE OF REORDERING PROCESSES 279
(132) a. Er hat wahrscheinlich sein Argument immer allen erklärt
he has probably his argument-ACC always all-DAT explained
“Probably he has always explained his argument to everyone”
b. *[Sein Argument immer allen erklärt] hat er wahrscheinlich
his argument-ACC always all-DAT explained has he probably
“Probably he has always explained his argument to everyone”
What (132) shows is that the accusative sein Argument is not in Frey's topic
phrase, since it does not precede the sentence adverb wahrscheinlich. But it is
not in its base generation position either, since it appears before the frequency
adverb immer and the dative allen. On Frey's assumption that (132a) is just an
instance of ordinary scrambling, there is no reason for the ungrammaticality of
(132b), except if one hypothesises that, along with regular scrambling and
topicalisation, there exists a third type of reordering process in German. Such a
process, taking place in a projection below Frey's topic phrase (132a) but above
the site of regular scrambling (132b), should be empirically justified on the
basis of evidence different from that VP fronting itself.
Frey's third proof for his TP-internal topic projection is based on the reor-
dering options with verbnahe elements on which this section has focused. Such
a proof lends support to Frey's claim that topicalisation in TP must be distin-
guished from cases of regular scrambling. But I do not think that it undermines
our hypothesis that German scrambling is sensitive to phonological borders,
given that a language may signal discourse givenness in different ways. Recall,
in this respect, that topics in German can also occur in Spec, CP. The same is
true of other languages: for instance, Pili (2003) proposes for Italian the exis-
tence of three different projections hosting topics.
We have argued that the data in (130)-(132) supports the idea that both TP-
internal topicalisation and regular scrambling are semantically/pragmatically
triggered, and that both are incompatible with VP-fronting. It must be ob-
served, however, that this does not entail that they cannot be different
processes: (i) they share a common semantic/pragmatic trigger because both
correlate with discourse-givenness; (ii) they are incompatible with VP-fronting
either because they target a projection higher than vP (TP-internal topicalisa-
tion, on Frey's assumptions), or because they are followed by DISL (regular
scrambling, in our analysis). I leave it open whether the differences between
them simply reduce to the structures with verbnahe elements or can be ex-
tended to differences in the characterisation of the kind of topic they involve.
CHAPTER 6
CONCLUSIONS, PROBLEMS, AND PENDING ISSUES
Most studies devoted to Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ share with those that
focus on West Germanic scrambling the view that they constitute different
phenomena, and thus must be treated independently. Exceptions to this are the
proposals in Déprez (1989, 1994) and Diesing (1997), which, on the basis of
some similarities between them, group the two constructions under the label of
‘Object Movement’. Such similarities are strictly syntactic and/or semantic:
both ‘Object Shift’ and scrambling displace an element across a clause-medial
adverb or negation, which correlates with a change of that element’s interpre-
tation. The proposal presented in this work shares the view in such analyses,
and maintains that there exists a connection between the two processes. How-
ever, the emphasis is not on the structural position of the shifted/scrambled
constituents or the meaning they receive, but rather on other syntactic proper-
ties that seem to derive from the interaction between ‘Narrow Syntax’ and the
PF interface. Since those syntactic properties are already put forward by
Chomsky (2001) in his account of Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’, my contribu-
tion reduces to showing that they may be extended to German scrambling. The
basic claim is, therefore, that both types of reordering are the result of strictly
syntactic ‘Move’ conditioned by (i) the ‘Object Shift/ Scrambling Parameter’,
and (ii) the early, non phase-bound procedure DISL.
The empirical evidence provided here came from VP-topicalisation, the
‘Freezing/Anti-Freezing Paradox’ with remnant coherent infinitives, and cer-
tain apparent constraints on scrambling in ditransitive VPs and other non-ver-
bal projections. My aim has been to offer a unified treatment for all of them.
This may give rise to some difficulties, as shown by the discussion of the con-
flicting sets of data in Frey (2000) for the case of verbnahe genitives and da-
tives. This section deals with the possible loose ends in the analysis of the rest
of the structures discussed in the preceding paragraphs, as well as with some
other, more general questions.
Regarding VP-topicalisation, recall that the basic contrast was the one
exhibited by examples such as (1) below, where indefinite subjects of transitive
predicates (1a), and co-arguments scrambled across other co-arguments (1b)
may be fronted along with the lexical verb, while arguments scrambled past
time, and frequency adverbials are completely excluded (1c):
282 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(1) a. [Mädchen geküsst] haben ihn noch nie
girls-NOM kissed have him-ACC yet never
“So far girls haven’t kissed him”
b. [Den Sternenhimmel Kindern erläutert] hat er schon oft
the starry-sky-ACC children-DAT explained has he already often
“He has already explained the starry sky to children”
c. *[Diese Zigarren immer geraucht] hat damals keiner
these cigars-ACC always smoked has then no-one-NOM
“No one always smoked these cigars then”
We attributed this contrast to two main factors: (i) the existence of alterna-
tive base generated orders, along with scrambling of the ‘Object Shift’ type in
German; and (ii) the requirement that scrambled constituents undergo DISL to
a higher phase. In this light, (i) is responsible for (1b), and (ii) rules out (1c).
On the other hand, (1c) was used as a proof against the hypothesis in Haider
and Rosengren (1998, 2003) and Fanselow (2001, 2003) that all scrambling
strings may be reduced to base-generation: apparently, there is no reason why a
vP/VP (i.e. an extended MAC, in Haider and Rosengren's terms) containing a
freely attached adverbial cannot appear in Spec, C. However, the facts in (1)
are amenable to a different type of analysis. Suppose that, on the traditional
assumption that no projection higher than vP may be fronted, we contend that
the ill-formedness of (1c) is due to movement to a functional phrase located
between TP and vP, preserving direct insertion for (1b). This would be
descriptively adequate, since it conforms to the three examples at stake. But it
would have important consequences for our overall approach: on the one hand,
dispensing with DISL for the VP-topicalisation cases would force us to elimi-
nate it also in our account of the ‘Freezing/Anti-Freezing Paradox’ with rem-
nant coherent infinitives, whose behaviour seems to be fully consistent with an
explanation in terms of a PF procedure; on the other, such a functional projec-
tion would necessarily correlate with the presence of a matching [+topic] fea-
ture on the displaced constituent, given the semantic/ pragmatic effects of the
operation. The general result is very similar to the proposal in Meinunger
(1995), which, as shown in Chapter 4, did not fare well with those instances in
which topical accusatives following non-topical datives are exempted from
moving to that purported functional phrase.
The empirical coverage of the ‘Freezing/Anti-Freezing Paradox’ also de-
serves some comments. The reader has probably noticed that our conclusions
in the preceding chapter are exclusively drawn from the controversial island-
hood of coherent infinitives, and that we have not dealt with the issue of ex-
CONCLUSIONS 283
traction out of other types of scrambled structures. As shown in Chapter 3,
those types are mainly four, as summarised under (2):
(2) (i) NP-PP splits
a. [Über wen]i hat der Fritz letzes Jahr [ein Buch ti]
about whom has Fritz-NOM last year a book-ACC
geschrieben?
written
“About whom did Fritz write a book last year?”
b. *[Über wen]i hat der Fritz [ein Buch ti]j letzes Jahr tj
about whom has Fritz-NOM a book-ACC last year
geschrieben?
written
“About whom did Fritz write a book last year?”
(ii) Split topicalisations
a. [Volvos]i habe ich ja [viele ti] gesehen
Volvos have I PART many seen
“As for Volvos, I saw many”
b. *[Volvos]i habe ich [viele ti]j ja tj gesehen
Volvos have I many PART seen
“As for Volvos, I saw many”
(iii) Was-für construction
a. [Was]i hat Heinrich dem Mann [ti für ein Buch]
what has Heinrich-NOM the man-DAT for a book
empfohlen?
recommended
“What kind of book did Heinrich recommend the man?”
b. *[Was]i hat Heinrich [ti für ein Buch]j dem Mann tj
what has Heinrich-NOM for a book the man-DAT
empfohlen?
recommended
“What kind of book did Heinrich recommend the man?”
(iv) Coherent infinitives
a. dass das Buchi keiner [ti zu lesen] versucht hat
that the book-ACC no-one-NOM to read tried has
“that no one tried to read the book”
b. *dass [ti zu lesen]j das Buchi keiner tj versucht hat
that to read the book-ACC no-one-NOM tried has
“that no one tried to read the book”
284 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
A hypothetical extension of our findings about the behaviour of coherent
infinitives to the rest of the structures above appears to run against the un-
grammaticality of the examples in (b), insofar as movement of the fronted
constituent entails the deletion of the phonological features of the lower copy
of the scrambled constituent at the end of the CP cycle. In other words, in all
the cases DISL applies to a phonologically complete constituent. But our
analysis is, in fact, compatible with (2), as suggested by the existence of ‘Anti-
Freezing’ for (i) and (ii), and the reasons Meurers and De Kuthy (2001) and De
Kuthy (2002), and Fanselow and Ćavar (2002) give for it. I refer the reader to
Chapter 3 for the detail of these proposals. Let us simply recall at this stage
their basic conclusion. ‘Freezing’ is not due to syntactic constraints, but rather
to purely pragmatic ones: splitting is permitted only if the scrambled and
fronted constituents are characterised differently with respect to the topic/
comment distinction. The crucial point here is that, according to our proposal,
fronting out of a scrambled constituent must be licit, as it is, pragmatic factors
aside. In this respect, an obvious question arises: if splitting is disfavoured in
those instances in which the displaced elements perform the same pragmatic
function, why is it that ‘double scrambling’ with pronouns is possible at all? In
my opinion, the answer is related to the defective nature of coherent infinitives,
and the requirement that discourse-linked constituents leave the domain of
existential closure. If, as Wurmbrand (2001a) argues, coherent infinitives are
VPs, their pronominal, inherently D-linked arguments must obligatorily move
to the matrix vP edge. Notice that subsequent movement of an also D-linked
infinitival clause to that position cannot fulfil that requirement: the pronoun
would be still within the embedded VP. This could naturally be extended to the
illicit ‘double scrambling’ cases, if they did not violate the constraint on pho-
nological integrity imposed by DISL.
There is only one case remaining, namely the was-für split construction.
This case exhibits a good deal of complexity, since judgements of apparently
similar examples differ greatly. Recall that Diesing (1992) used contrasts such
as that in (2 iii) as a proof for the island status of scrambled constituents. But
Fanselow (2001) refutes Diesing's claim on the basis of structures such as (3)
(example from Haider, 1993):
CONCLUSIONS 285
(3) Wasi hätte denn [ti für Aufsätze] selbst Hubert nicht
what would-have PART for articles even Hubert-NOM not
rezensieren wollen?
review wanted-to
“What kind of articles wouldn’t Hubert himself have wanted to
review?”
Observe that, paralleling what happened with NP-PP splits and split topi-
calisation, it is the ungrammaticality of (iii,b) in (2) and not the grammaticality
of (3) that may constitute an obstacle to our account of the ‘Freezing/Anti-
Freezing Paradox’ with scrambled infinitivals: wh-movement should always be
possible. Therefore, we will follow Wiltschko (1997) in assuming that the
source of the ill-formedness of (iii,b) has nothing to do with extraction of was,
and is rather a consequence of the non D-linked interpretation was für (ein) N
preferably receives. If, as she argues, wh-words can be subsumed under the
class of weak quantifiers, they must be subject to Diesing's (1992) ‘Mapping
Hypothesis’, which requires them to remain vP/VP-internal. This is illustrated
by the multiple questions in (4) (from Wiltschko, 1997, her judgements):
(4) a. Wer hat welches Buch denn schon oft empfohlen?
who-NOM has which book-ACC PART already often recommended
“Who has already recommended which book?”
b. *?Wer hat was für Opern immer geschätzt?
who-NOM has what-ACC for operas always appreciated
“Who has always appreciated what kind of operas?”
Wiltschko contends that the only difference between (4a) and (4b) lies in the
(non) D-linked nature of the wh-constituent, which forces it to scramble in (4a),
and to stay in its base generation position in (4b). Although she does not
explicitly address the grammatical extraction in (3), she notes that the was-für
construction seems to involve dialectal (and possibly idiolectal) variation, a
fact that allows some speakers to interpret it as D-linked. Those speakers
tolerate the presence of an overt partitive phrase following was-für, an option
which is barred in the other dialectal/idiolectal variety:
(5) %*?Was für einen dieser Filme hast du schon gesehen?
what-ACC for a these movies-GEN have you already seen
“Which one of these movies have you already seen?”
286 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
Finally, notice that to check whether Wiltschko's suggestion is tenable for
all the possible instances of ‘Freezing/Anti-Freezing’ with was-für splits is
relevant for the trigger for scrambling itself, and not for the compatibility
between scrambling (however it is driven) and movement to Spec, C. Since the
conclusions we drew from the analysis of coherent infinitivals are restricted to
the latter point, the consequence is that the behaviour of the was-für construc-
tion does not detract from its validity.
As stated elsewhere, Chomsky (2001) envisages DISL mainly as a proce-
dure that allows Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ structures to fulfil basic mini-
malist principles such as the ‘Minimal Link Condition’. However, he suggests
that it may also be empirically supported by two observations in Holmberg
(1999). The first, already mentioned in the preceding chapter, is that shifted
constituents precede auxiliaries, which entails that they must leave the vP edge.
The second, originally due to Holmberg and Platzack (1995), is that the pre-
auxiliary position cannot be an A-position, as demonstrated by the absence of
binding between the shifted object and the c-commanded anaphor in the
Icelandic examples in (6) and the Swedish examples in (7) (from Holmberg
and Platzack, 1995):
(6) a. Ég taldi, þeimi /*séri til undrunar, Ólaf og Marteini
I believed them-DAT/self-DAT to surprise Olaf and Martin-ACC
vera jafngóđa
be equally-good
“I believed, to their surprise, Olaf and Martin to be equally good”
b. Ég taldi Ólaf og Marteini, þeimi /*séri til undrunar,
I believed Olaf and Martin-ACC them-DAT/self-DAT to surprise
ti vera jafngóđa
be equally-good
“I believed Olaf and Martin, to their surprise, to be equally good”
(7) a. Jag ansåg till derasi/*sini besvikelse Per och Martini
I believed to their/self's disappointment Per and Martin-ACC
vara lika bra
be equally good
“I believed, to their disappointment, Per and Martin to be equally
good”
b. Jag ansåg demi till derasi /*sini besvikelse ti lika bra
I believed them to their/self's disappointment equally good
“I believed them, to their disappointment, to be equally good”
CONCLUSIONS 287
If, as standardly assumed (Chomsky and Lasnik, 1993), binding relations
are relevant only at LF, it is expected that PF operations such as DISL have no
bearing on them. In other words, the position occupied by the shifted objects in
(6) and (7) is merely a PF position, invisible to LF, which computes ‘Principle
A’ according to the input provided by ‘Narrow Syntax’. Since, in that input, the
potential binder is structurally lower than the reflexive in the adverbial phrase,
the resulting structures are ill-formed.
Similar arguments seem to be valid for German. On the basis of (8) and (9)
below, Grewendorf and Sabel (1999) contend that scrambled categories cannot
bind anaphors in that language either (examples from Grewendorf and Sabel,
1999):
(8) a. *weil die Lehrer von sichi zweifellos den Studenteni
because the teachers-NOM of himself undoubtedly the student-ACC
in guter Erinnerung behalten haben
in good memory kept have
*“The teachers of himself have undoubtedly kept the student in
good memory”
b. *weil den Studenteni die Lehrer von sichi zweifellos
because the student-ACC the teachers-NOM of himself undoubtedly
ti in guter Erinnerung behalten haben
in good memory kept have
*“The teachers of himself have undoubtedly kept the student in
good memory”
c. weil der Studenti die Lehrer von sichi zweifellos
because the student-NOM the teachers-NOM of himself undoubtedly
in guter Erinnerung behalten hat
in good memory kept has
“The student has undoubtedly kept the teachers of himself in good
memory”
(9) a. *weil der Vater von sichi dem Jungeni ein Geschenk
because the father-NOM of himself the boy-DAT a present-ACC
zu machen versucht hat
to make tried has
*“because the father of himself tried to give a present to the boy”
288 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
b. *weil dem Jungeni der Vater von sichi ein Geschenk
because the boy-DAT the father-NOM of himself a present-ACC
zu machen versucht hat
to make tried has
*“because the father of himself tried to give a present to the boy”
c. weil der Jungei dem Vater von sichi ein Geschenk
because the boy-NOM the father-DAT of himself a present-ACC
zu machen versucht hat
to make tried has
“because the boy tried to give a present to the father of himself”
Recall that, unlike shifted objects in Scandinavian, German scrambled
constituents may precede the subject, either in their own clause (8b), or in a
matrix higher one (9b) in the case of coherent constructions. However, this
does not repair the ungrammaticality observed in both (8a) and (8b), where the
reflexive contained in the nominative DP appears unbound, in clear violation of
‘Principle A’. In other words, (8b) and (9b) are as ill-formed as (9a) and (9b),
which seems to suggest that scrambling does not feed binding. Grewendorf and
Sabel (1999) take the facts above to be evidence for the A-bar nature of scram-
bling, given the contrast with (8c) and (9c), where binding is possible from an
A-position. But an account of (8)-(9) as the product of Chomsky's DISL is, in
principle, superior, insofar as it dispenses with the problems that the A-bar
approach faces. Recall that, as shown in Chapters 3 and 4, such problems basi-
cally derive from the asymmetry between scrambling (and ‘Object Shift’) and
well-known instances of A-bar movement (fronting to Spec, C) with respect to
properties like clause-boundedness, or phenomena like parasitic gaps.1
Resorting to DISL appears at first sight more problematic when dealing with
contrasts like those in (10), traditionally adduced as evidence for the claim that
scrambling is A-movement:
(10) a. *Gestern habe ich einanderi die Gästei vorgestellt
yesterday have I each other-DAT the guests-ACC introduced
“Yesterday I introduced the guests to each other”
b. Gestern habe ich die Gästei einanderi vorgestellt
yesterday have I the guests-ACC each other-DAT introduced
“Yesterday I introduced the guests to each other”
If, in parallel to the scrambled constituent in Grewendorf and Sabel's examples,
die Gäste precedes the reciprocal only phonologically in (10b), why is binding
possible at all? This is only a problem, however, if we do not adopt a deriva-
CONCLUSIONS 289
tional approach to ‘Binding Theory’ along the lines Kitahara (1999, 2000,
2002), according to which coreference is not determined on a unique LF repre-
sentation after all transformations have applied, but rather immediately after
the valuation of the uninterpretable features of potentially coreferent elements.
In the case at hand, this means that the binders den Studenten (8b),and dem
Jungen (9b) must have their Case feature valued in a position from which they
cannot c-command their respective bindees (that is, der Lehrer von sich in (8b),
and der Vater von sich in (9b)), while die Gäste gets rid of its uninterpretable
Case feature in a position c-commanding einander. Recall that, according to
standard minimalist assumptions (Chomsky, 2000; 2001), structural accusative
(and dative) is the manifestation of a relation of ‘Agree’ between the nominal
bearing it, the goal, and a probe v. Recall also that ‘Agree’ is possible only if
the probe has the goal in its domain, or the goal is re-merged with the probe. In
other words, Case feature valuation may proceed in the two ACC positions in
(11):
(11) vP[ ACC vP[ Subject v'[ VP[ ACC V] v ]]]
If interpretation followed Case valuation of the accusative in Spec, v, that
position would be relevant for ‘Principle A’ at LF, which would fit the gram-
maticality of (10b) and leave (8b) and (9b) unexplained. We get the reverse
effects if interpretation follows Case valuation of the nominal in the domain of
v, with (8b) and (9b) as clear instances of a ‘Principle A’ violation, and no rea-
son, from these quarters, for the well-formedness of (10b). This option is, how-
ever, preferable according to the main tenets in the present work: (i) German
scrambling is sensitive to phonological borders; (ii) base-generation within the
German vP is, to a certain extent, flexible, as demonstrated by the VP-topicali-
sation facts and merge of indefinite co-arguments discussed in Chapter 5; (iii)
neither West Germanic scrambling nor Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ are cru-
cially linked to structural Case licensing, given that the former displaces non-
nominal arguments (Chapter 3), and the latter displaces DPs bearing inherent
(i.e. non structural) Case (see below). Within this framework, therefore, the
grammaticality of (10b) follows from a base generated ACC > DAT order.
So far my review of the remaining problems for considering DISL as a part
of German scrambling. Next I would like to address those related to the poten-
tial sensitivity of the phenomenon to Chomsky's (2001) phonological border.
We have suggested that the asymmetry found between ditransitive and
monotransitive ‘unmarked’ sequences is the result of the existence of a rule of
the kind of Chomsky's (2001) ‘Object Shift Parameter’ in German reordered
structures: only the discourse-linked objects of monotransitive predicates will
290 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
be forced to leave the VP. However, this may be not necessarily so, if, as
Chomsky tentatively assumes, subjects in Spec, v also belong to the sets of
elements which cause c-commanded, scrambable material not to be at the pho-
nological border. Thus, our proposal would fail to account for examples such
as (12) (from Fanselow, 2003), where das has moved across wer in its base
generated position:
(12) ob das wer gewusst hat
whether that-ACC anyone-NOM known has
“whether anyone knew that”
Cases parallel to (12) are attested in Icelandic too, as Chomsky himself
notices (2001: 36). He attributes their grammaticality to a condition holding for
transitive constructions, according to which something must escape the vP. But
postulating such a condition for German may be questionable, as shown below:
(13) a. ?[Ein Millionär dem Studenten einen Wagen geschenkt]
a millionaire-NOM the student-DAT a car-ACC given
hat hier noch nie
has here yet never
“It has never happened here that a millionaire gave the student
a car”
b. dass [Studenten dem Kind das Buch zeigen]
that students-NOM the child-DAT the book-ACC show
“that (some) students show the child the book”
If Wurmbrand (2001b) is right, the bracketed constituent in (13a) must be a
complete vP, given the ban on TP fronting. On the other hand, according to
Diesing's (1992) ‘Mapping Hypothesis’, German existential subjects remain in
Spec, v, which entails that (13b) constitutes a case in which all the arguments
of the three-place predicate are VP-internal. If the analysis of these facts in
German is correct, it throws doubt on Chomsky's account of the Icelandic
counterpart to (12), and thus on his claim that phonologically realised subjects
in Spec, v are relevant for the ‘Object Shift Parameter’. In the absence of
straightforward evidence, I leave the issue open.
The last question I would like to address does not relate to the phonological
side of reordering processes, but rather to the syntactic device that is responsi-
ble for them, namely the EPP feature. Recall that it has its origins in the ‘Ex-
tended Projection Principle’ (Chomsky, 1982) of the GB framework, which
basically states that a clause must have a subject, even if its predicate lacks an
CONCLUSIONS 291
external theta-role. In the earliest versions of the ‘Minimalist Program’, the
EPP is reinterpreted as the presence of a strong nominal feature on T, which
entails that it must be checked in ‘Narrow Syntax’ either by merging an exple-
tive in Spec, T or by pied-piping the VP-internal subject to that position. How-
ever, the rejection of covert operations in Chomsky (2000, 2001) and their re-
placement by long-distance agreement (‘Agree’) excludes the EPP from the
core of feature checking again, making it appear as in its first formulation, that
is, as the requirement that certain functional heads must have a specifier. Be-
sides, it undergoes several modifications: (i) the principle is rendered in the
form of an uninterpretable feature, whose elimination has effects for interpre-
tation; and (ii) it is not exclusively linked to T, but rather to ‘core functional
categories’ in general, i.e. T, C, and v (the light verb selecting for a V with full
argument structure). Its presence in T correlates with a phonologically realised
subject in Spec, T; if it appears in C, a wh-moved or topicalised constituent
must fill Spec, C; finally, as we have shown in this chapter, an EPP feature on
v is responsible for ‘Object Shift’.
The existence of an EPP feature of the kind in Chomsky (2000, 2001) has
been criticised on several grounds. For example, Epstein and Seely (2002) con-
sider its configurational nature a threat to the entire minimalist theory of
movement, based on feature interpretability at the interfaces. In other words,
since the EPP feature does not seem to derive from the intrinsic properties of
lexical items, it amounts to readmitting the phrase structure rules and principles
of GB. In the same vein, Grohmann, Drury and Castillo (2000) reject its stipu-
lative character: the EPP feature exclusively responds to the need to allow for
successive cyclic A-bar movement, and therefore is not empirically justified.
Pesetsky and Torrego's (2001) account of T-to-C movement offers a possible
way to make the EPP feature less configurational. They propose to render it not
as a feature of a core functional head, as in Chomsky (2000, 2001), but rather
as a property of a feature of that head. Notice what this would entail for
Chomsky's (2001) account of Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’: the displacement of
the object must be triggered by the only features of v that are illegitimate at LF,
i.e. uninterpretable φ-features, which are, in turn, marked as [+EPP]. On the
other hand, recall that ‘Agree’ only takes place between active probes and
goals. In this light, ‘Object Shift’ reduces to structural Case licensing.
Such an approach would obviously be at odds with our claim that German
scrambling is syntactic movement to the vP edge, constrained by conditions
equivalent to the ‘Object Shift Parameter’, insofar as arguments different from
DPs may move there. But it does not fit the Icelandic data either: according to
Collins and Thráinsson (1996), all objects undergo ‘Object Shift’ in Icelandic,
including those with dative, genitive, and nominative morphological case:
292 ‘NARROW SYNTAX’ AND ‘PHONOLOGICAL FORM’
(14) a. Ég henti bókinni ekki
I threw the book-DAT not
“I didn’t throw the book”
b. Ég sakna Haraldar ekki
I miss Harald-GEN not
“I don’t miss Harald”
c. Mér líka bækurnar ekki
me like the books-NOM not
“I don’t like the books”
If neither T nor v assigns inherent case (Chomsky, 2000), the facts in (14)
support Chomsky's view that structural (accusative or dative) Case assignment
is a phenomenon independent from the EPP. In other words, the EPP cannot be
linked to the uninterpretable features of the probe v. Therefore, the question
why the categorial constraints found in Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ are not
found in German scrambling may be of the same order as the question why
Icelandic ‘Object Shift’ is not restricted in the way reordering in Mainland
Scandinavian is.2
Despite all the problems and pending issues reviewed in this final chapter,
the overall conclusion in the present work is that there are reasons to think that
the two reordering processes characterising Germanic languages may basically
constitute a single syntactic phenomenon. Supporters of this view have so far
relied on the semantic similarities between shifted and scrambled constituents,
as in Diesing (1997). The aim of this book has been to go beyond such seman-
tic similarities, contending that the prominent role Chomsky (2001) assigns to
phonological features and PF procedures in Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ can
also be detected in West Germanic scrambling. In spite of the complexity of
the data, and the large number of relevant issues that are still unsettled in the
latest versions of the ‘Minimalist Program’, I believe that the general perspec-
tive offered by this alternative provides a more adequate account of scrambling
than was found in previous generative models, and is therefore well worth
pursuing.
NOTES
Chapter 1
1
German and Russian are differentiated in turn by the (im)possibility of adjunction to CP,
which, according to Müller and Sternefeld, explains their differences with regard to long-dis-
tance scrambling (see next section).
2
I refer the reader to Chapter 4 for an exact characterisation of L(ogical) F(orm). It is sufficient
to say here that it is the linguistic level interfacing with the extra-linguistic cognitive-inten-
tional system, and thus responsible for semantic interpretation.
3
I disregard here a second position for locatives that Miyagawa and Tsujioka propose, since it
is irrelevant to the example in (9).
4
For a full characterisation of ‘A-bar movement’, I refer the reader to Chapter 4.
5
For a full characterisation of ‘A-movement’, the reader is referred again to Chapter 4.
6
As pointed out by an anonymous reviewer, scrambling of a constituent to a position preceding
the subject is not completely barred in Dutch, as shown in the example below (from Haider and
Rosengren, 2003):
(i) a. dat (er) niemand wat voor je vader meegebracht heeft
that EXPL no-one something for your father brought-with has
“that no one brought your father anything”
b. dat (er) voor je vader niemand wat meegebracht heeft
that EXPL for your father no-one something brought-with has
“that no one brought for your father anything”
Haider and Rosengren attribute the grammaticality of (ib) to the fact that PPs, contrary to DPs,
do not necessitate a positional system of identification in Dutch. Such an account is highly
reminiscent of those hypotheses that assume that, as far as DPs are concerned, Dutch scram-
bling is more constrained than German scrambling due to the presence of morphological case
in German and its absence in Dutch. Even if this traditional insight is correct (it is not in the
case of Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’, since the type of ‘Object Shift’ found in Faroese, a lan-
guage with morphological case, is more restricted than that found in Icelandic), it is clearly
incompatible with some basic tenets of the ‘Minimalist Program’, as we will see in Chapter 4.
7
That is, if Vikner (2001) and Haider and Rosengren (1998, 2003) are right and Yiddish is
head-final.
294 NOTES
8
As in the case of pre-subject scrambling, PP arguments are an exception in Dutch, insofar as
they may scramble across other arguments, as shown in (i) (from Haider and Rosengren, 2003):
(i) a. Toen hebben de autoriteiten het kind aan de moeder teruggegeven
then have the authorities the child to the mother back-given
“Then the authorities gave the child back to its mother”
b. Toen hebben de autoriteiten aan de moeder het kind teruggegeven
then have the authorities to its mother the child back-given.
The reader is referred to the brief discussion in footnote 6.
Chapter 2
1
The question of the trigger for movement operations, and the requirements they are subject to
will be discussed in Chapters 4 and 5, where the different generative accounts of German
scrambling will be dealt with.
2
That is, North Germanic (Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, Icelandic, and Faroese), and West
Germanic (German, Yiddish, Luxemburguish, Dutch, Afrikaans, and Frisian), as well as in
non-standardised dialects of the areas in which North and West Germanic are spoken.
3
The exception is constituted by those cases of ‘Pronoun Zap’, a colloquial German construc-
tion in which clause-initial nominative and accusative pronouns may be omitted, leaving the
finite verb in first position (examples from Haider, 1986b):
(i) (Ich) habe es schon gelesen
I have it-ACC already read
“I have already seen it”
(ii) (Es) habe ich schon gelesen
it-ACC have I already read
‘I have already seen it’
4
Except in Icelandic and Yiddish, which allow for verb second in embedded clauses quite
unrestrictedly (examples from Koeneman, 2000):
(i) Ic ađ í heberginu hefur kyrin stađiđ
that in the room has the cow stood
“that the cow stood in the room”
(ii) Yi az morgn vet dos yingl zen a kats
that tomorrow will the boy see a cat
“that the boy will see a cat tomorrow”
5
Generally speaking, complementiser agreement is the label for a morphosyntactic structure in
which the complementiser that introduces a finite embedded clause exhibits morphological
inflectional endings for person and/or number, corresponding to those of the verb in clause-
NOTES 295
final position. Complementiser agreement is illustrated by the Luxemburguish example below,
taken from Zwart (1997):
(i) ob-s du wëll-s
whether-2SG you want-2SG
“whether you want”
On the other hand, (ii) and (iii) below are Dutch examples of clitisation onto an overt com-
plementiser and a finite verb respectively ((ii) from Cardinaletti and Starke, 1996; (iii) from
Zwart, 1997):
(ii) dat-ie niet kan komen
that-he not can come
“that he cannot come”
(iii)Daar gaat-ie
there goes-he
“There he goes”
6
The possibility of embedded ‘verb second’ in German is restricted to the class of so-called
bridge verbs, and necessarily requires the absence of the overt complementiser.
7
Furthermore, extraction is impossible independently of the type of subject we have, as (i),
with an expletive in Spec, T (or Spec, C) shows:
(i) *Wo glaubte sie es wurde getantz?
where believed she EXPL was danced
“Where did she believe that people danced?”
8
That is, irrespective of the issue whether scrambling is base generation in relatively high
positions, or is movement to a derived one (see Chapter 4): if it is base generation, it is base
generation in the Mittelfeld; if it is the product of movement, it is movement from a position
within the Mittelfeld to another position also within the Mittelfeld.
9
Notice that the ill-formedness of (27) cannot be due to an ordering constraint of the type
PRON > SUBJECT, as (i) demonstrates:
(i) dass der Peter es gelesen hat
that Peter-NOM it-ACC read has
“that Peter read it”
10
In fact, this is still the standard view in the latest versions of the ‘Minimalist Program’
(Chomsky 2000, 2001, 2004). For an overview, I refer the reader to the discussion of the base-
generation approach to scrambling in Chapter 4. It is sufficient to say here that such an ap-
proach defies the idea that verbs theta-mark their complements within VP, and instead con-
tends that arguments may be thematically licensed in any phrasal projection containing their
selecting head (Fanselow, 2001, 2003). An alternative position, also rejecting the standard
296 NOTES
view, is the one adopted by Bošković and Takahashi (1998), according to which theta-roles
may be assigned at LF.
11
See Chapter 3, Section 2.
12
In general terms, ‘liaison’ is a phonological process making the final segment of the coda of
σ1 become a member of the onset of σ2, if σ1 precedes σ2, and are contained within the same
phonological phrase. In the example above, the segment at stake is the final s in elles. For the
notion of phonological phrase, see Chapter 3.
13
Roughly speaking, a prosodic word is the combination of a lexical head and phonologically
lighter material accompanying it: mange and the deficient element in (42b).
14
Cardinaletti and Starke treat the vague ‘less referential’ in terms of range restrictions: defi-
cient pronouns are incapable of bearing their own range restriction, and are therefore either
rangeless, or associated with the range-restriction of an element prominent in discourse. The
first possibility explains why they may appear in expletive and quasi-expletive constructions,
as illustrated for German es in (i) and (ii) below:
(i) Es wurde getantzt
EXPL was danced
“Someone danced”
(ii) Es regnet
EXPL rains
“It rains”
15
A similarly controversial matter is that of the potential differences between deficient and
non-deficient elements in the Vorfeld, one of the arguments adduced by the proponents of the
‘asymmetric approach’ to the ‘verb-second contraint’ (see Section 1 above), where judgements
seem to differ greatly. Against the generalisation that weak object pronouns cannot show up in
a pre-verb-second position in German see Gärtner and Steinbach (2000).
16
R-pronouns owe their name to the fact that an epenthetic r in inserted if the onset of the
preposition starts with a vowel: da-r-an vs damit.
17
Except in those cases in which it may co-occur with an expletive (Rosengren, 2002).
Chapter 3
1
Recall that Yiddish could constitute a counterexample if, as Diesing (1997) argues, it is a
scrambling head-initial language. However, although that scrambling exists in Yiddish is fairly
uncontroversial, the status of this language as head-initial is not, as Haider and Rosengren
(1998, 2003) demonstrate. A similar case they point out is that of Finnish, for which it is also
claimed that, despite appearances, its base-generated word order is OV (Holmberg, 1998;
Haider and Rosengren, 1998). Nevertheless, Müller (1995) concludes that the correlation
between scrambling and OV must be incorrect, given that in Russian, a VO language
(Pesetsky, 1982), scrambling is also manifested.
NOTES 297
2
See Chapter 1, Section 2.2.
3
Fanselow (2003) demonstrates that, in structures such as (i) and (ii) below, an analysis in
terms of scrambling either of the object or the adverbial is just impossible. In this connection,
he suggests that base-generation is the right account for at least two types of adverbials, namely
locative and manner.
(i) man konnte BLITZE am Himmel sehen
one-NOM could lightnings-ACC in-the sky see
“One could see lightnings in the sky”
(ii) man konnte am Himmel BLITZE sehen
one-NOM could in-the sky lightnings-ACC see
“One could see lightnings in the sky”
The peculiar property of the construction is that, in its both variants, it serves as an answer to
a question focusing on the whole event (to which we will turn below, in Section 2, this
chapter), of the kind Was ist passiert? (“What happened?”), with the pitch accent (signalled by
capitals) on the object. Notice that, if one assumes that (i) is the normal (i.e. non-scrambled)
order, am Himmel must be reordered in (ii); on the other hand, if (ii) is taken as base-generated,
(i) would show a scrambled linearisation. Since neither of them is pragmatically or prosodi-
cally marked, the conclusion is that am Himmel may be inserted in two different non-derived
positions. According to Fanselow (following Maienborn, 1996), the alternative sequences seem
to derive from a constraint that forces adverbials to be c-commanded by the argument they
modify.
4
# marks semantic / pragmatic ill-formedness.
5
Some German verb particles may be topicalised in Spec C (i), which entails that they may
behave as XPs. Therefore, their resistance to scrambling cannot be expressed in terms of heads
vs phrases (example from Hinterhölzl, 1999):
(i) Weg ist er noch nie gelaufen
Away has he yet never run
“So far he has never run away”
6
That is, animate arguments precede inanimate ones.
7
‘Pre-subject position’ and ‘post-subject position’ are merely descriptive terms that refer to the
two different surface strings that German scrambling produces. For the problems posed by the
availability of these two positions from a comparative perspective, see Section 1.5.2 of the
present chapter. The exact structural identification of pre- and post-subject scrambling position
depends on the particular analysis of scrambling that one adopts, as shown in Chapter 4.
8
Hinterhölzl (1999) says that most German speakers prefers (39a) to (38a) because the two
adverbials are kept apart by intervening material, an effect that is obtained in (38a) only by
means of an intonational break.
298 NOTES
9
According to Wurmbrand (2001a), but it doesn't matter if one considers that we are dealing
with a larger projection (see Chapter 2, Section 2).
10
Notice that, differently from the requirements imposed on its adverbials by versprach (past-
oriented or, at least, underspecified for present/past), the infinitive may be construed with any
kind of time reference, due to the fact that it does not inflect, which implies that it does not
impose any restriction on the adverbial agreeing with it (Iatridou, Anagnostopoulou and
Izvorski, 2001).
11
Notice that this general description excludes the reordering of complements of adjectives
within APs. As will be shown in Chapter 5, I take this kind of process to be necessary for
scrambling, but essentially different from it.
12
I introduce traces to mark the alternative position of the scrambled object for the sake of
exposition, remaining neutral at the moment with respect to the issue of the syntactic operation
responsible for scrambling (see below, Chapter 4).
13
It must be taken into account that German is an OV-language, which means that zu lesen es
cannot form a single constituent in the example at stake.
14
Nonetheless, the choice of a particular proposal will be relevant for my own analysis of
German scrambling, as we will see in Chapter 5.
15
Except in the case of PP-scrambling (see footnote 6, Chapter 1).
16
Again, with the exception of PP-scrambling (see footnote 8, Chapter 1).
17
Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ will be dealt with in detail in Chapter 5. Let it suffice to recall
here the general characterisation appearing in Chapter 1: it is a process displacing VP internal
DP arguments to higher positions. As in Dutch scrambling, shifted DP arguments must appear
following the subject and keeping a constant order between them.
18
They will be reviewed in Chapter 4, when dealing with previous generative approaches to
German scrambling.
19
The ‘Left Branch Condition’ prevents extraction of α in the configuration [DPα X], where X
is any non-null material. The ‘Coordinate Structure Constraint’ states that, in a coordinate
structure, no conjunct may be moved, nor may any element contained in a conjunct be moved
out of that conjunct. Finally, extraction from a PP is impossible in German.
20
The label refers to a structure in which the topicalised constituent (gelesen, das Buch gelesen
in (64d, d')) appears dislocated to the left of the Spec, C position, occupied by a (resumptive)
d-pronoun. This kind of structure will be disregarded in the present work due to its poorly
understood nature, which sometimes resembles ordinary topicalisation, sometimes scrambling
(this case). For an overview of its main properties the reader is referred to Grohmann (2000a,
2000b), Frey (2004), Boeckx & Grohmann (2005) and references therein.
21
These theoretical problems derive from the framework Müller adopts, that of the ‘Minimalist
Program’ (Chomsky, 1995). As will be shown in Chapter 4, such a framework requires move-
NOTES 299
ment operations to be strictly triggered. But pronoun movement lacks a trigger in Müller's
account. Notice that that trigger should derive from properties pronouns have but nominal DPs
lack; otherwise, nothing would prevent nouns from undergoing pronoun movement, or pro-
nouns from undergoing scrambling. Unfortunately, pronouns do not appear distinctively
characterised in Müller's proposal.
22
It will be observed that es in (69) cannot be in its base generated position: first, because es is
an argument of the infinitival predicate, so it must be base-generated within it; second, be-
cause, according to Cardinaletti and Starke (1996, and subsequent work), es is the only pro-
noun in German which is always weak (i.e. unstressed), thus being barred from appearing in
VP internal positions, that is, potential focus positions. Notice also that, as already shown in
Chapter 2 (Section 4), (b) is not ruled out because the nominal subject precedes es; in fact,
(nominal or pronominal) subjects are the only constituents that may appear preceding the
‘Wackernagel position’, as shown in the grammaticality of (i) below:
(i) dass der Peter es gestern gelesen hat
that Peter-NOM it-ACC yesterday read has
“that Peter read it yesterday”
23
In fact, Frey gives it as an instance of transparency of topicalised constituents. As will be
shown in Chapter 5, Frey proposes a system that establishes a distinction between reordering in
positions lower than sentence adverbs, and reordering in positions higher than sentence ad-
verbs. The latter is, according to him, movement to a functional projection hosting topics
(TopP).
24
Diesing's (1992) proposal is dealt with in the following chapter. Let it suffice to say here
that, according to her, the different semantic meanings a bare plural may present in German
correspond to the structural positions it may occupy. In this light, the generic interpretation
Skorpione receives in (72) above requires it to occupy a position external to the VP, namely
Spec, IP/TP. According to the VP-internal subject hypothesis (Koopman and Sportiche, 1991),
subjects are uniformly base-generated within the VP, which entails that, if they appear external
to it, they must have been moved there (see also Chapter 4, Section 1.1). Consequently, (72)
pictures a case in which topicalisation out of an already displaced constituent yields a gram-
matical structure.
25
De Kuthy (2000) observes that her analysis cannot be extended to other kinds of split struc-
tures, such as the was-für construction, mainly for two reasons: first, whereas in NP-PP splits
both the PP and the NP may appear preceding the other (see (i) below), was must obligatorily
precede the PP headed by für (ii); second, as shown in the main text, NP-PP splits are subject
to lexical restrictions, which is not the case with was-für structures, which may appear with any
kind of verbal predicate (iii) (examples from De Kuthy, 2000):
(i) a. Hans hat über Syntax während seines Studiums [nur drei Bücher]
Hans has about syntax during his studies only three books
ausgeliehen
borrowed
“Hans borrowed only three books about Syntax during his studies”
300 NOTES
b. Hans hat [nur drei Bücher] während seines Studiums über Syntax
Hans has only three books during his studies about syntax
ausgeliehen
borrowed
“Hans borrowed only three books about Syntax during his studies”
(ii) *Für Bücher hast du was gekauft?
for books have you what bought
“What kind of books did you buy?”
(iii) a. Was haben die Nazis für Bücher gelesen?
what have the Nazis for books read
“What kind of books did the Nazis read?”
b. Was haben die Nazis für Bücher zerstört?
what have the Nazis for books destroyed
“What kind of books did the Nazis destroy?”
Adopting De Kuthy's perspective, it is not very problematic to account for the first
property, given that wh- elements, differently from non-wh-PPs, must move to interrogative
Cs. It is more difficult to justify why the phrase headed by für may appear either in its base
position or scrambled. We defer the issue to Chapter 6, although we warn the reader that no
clear conclusions will be reached, due to the extreme complexity of the data and the great di-
vergence in judgements.
26
For a detailed account of the ‘Copy Theory of Movement’ the reader is referred to Chapter 5,
Section 2.1.2.2.1.
27
Although not explicitly stated, this is derived in Grewendorf and Sabel's (1994) analysis for
German coherent constructions, since they argue that the factor distinguishing structures such
as (i) from (ii) is abstract incorporation of the embedded verb, which, while being necessary for
licensing the object in the matrix clause, cannot take place if the embedded infinitive occupies
an adjunct position. On the other hand, verb incorporation is not required in the case of a wh-
moved object, since displacement may proceed via the embedded Spec C.
(i) *dass [zu füttern] den Hund keiner versuchte
that to feed the dog-ACC no-one-NOM tried
“that no one tried to feed the dog”
(ii) Wen hat [zu füttern] keiner versucht?
who-ACC has to feed no-one-NOM tried
“Who did no one try to feed?”
Notice, however, that Grewendorf and Sabel's account presents a serious empirical flaw,
namely the existence of the ‘Third Construction’, in which wh- elements in Spec, C, objects
scrambled in the matrix clause, and remnant infinitives in a supposedly adjoined position are
perfectly acceptable in sentences like (iii) below:
NOTES 301
(iii) Wem hat Hans das Buch versucht zu geben?
who-DAT has Hans-NOM the book-ACC tried to give
“Who did Hans try to give the book?”
28
In fact, Büring uses ‘accent domains’, an equivalent term, insofar as it denotes the same
prosodic category: an intermediate layer grouping prosodic words. The existence of phonologi-
cal phrases (Büring's (2001a), (2001b) ‘accent domains’, or Gussenhoven's (1984) ‘focus
domains’, or Pierrehumbert and Hirschberg's (1990) ‘intermediate phrases’) has been
postulated on the basis of certain postlexical phonological processes that these intermediate
categories either block or trigger (Selkirk, 1986; Nespor and Vogel, 1986). For details, the
reader is referred to Chapter 5 (Section 2.1.2.3.3), where phonological phrases will be of
central importance in resolving the ‘Freezing/Anti-freezing Paradox’ with coherent infinitives.
29
For a detailed account of how phonological phrases are formed in the examples at stake, I
refer the reader again to Chapter 5, Section 2.1.2.3.3.
30
At least in Germanic. Ishihara (2000) reports that in Japanese, also traditionally considered a
scrambling language, the displacement of the object makes stress fall on the element on the left
of the nuclear stress position instead of on the verb. Ishihara attributes the difference to
obligatory V to T in Japanese, absent in Germanic.
31
For the sake of exposition, I assume the ‘asymmetric hypothesis’ (see Chapter 2, Section 1),
according to which both the subject Hans and the finite verb hat are located within TP.
32
For a better understanding of the exact way in which the NTPS applies, I also include the
corresponding P-markers.
33
The status of (102d) and (103d) is controversial. Höhle (1982) considers them pragmatically
well-formed, but Meinunger (1995) argues that his judgement seems to be based on a misun-
derstanding of the relation between questions and multiple foci in possible answers.
34
From Jackendoff (1972) onwards, it has been frequently assumed that focus also correlates
with a feature in rough syntax, [+focus] (Ladd, 1980; Selkirk, 1984; Rochemont, 1986;
Winkler, 1997, etc.)
35
As Schwarzschild (1999) convincingly argues, the notion of ‘new’ in Halliday's theory in-
volve several unrelated definitions, such as ‘textually and situationally non-derivable informa-
tion’, ‘contrary to some predicted or stated alternative’, or ‘replacing the wh- element in a
presupposed question’. In order to avoid the difficulties involved of such a multiple
characterisation, Schwarzschild proposes to replace Halliday's model (in which this complex
notion of ‘new’ is complementary to ‘given’) by another in which ‘given’ is the only reference.
Therefore, in the following, I will assume with Schwarzschild that ‘new’ simply means ‘not
given’.
36
The reader is referred to Chapter 4 for a brief review of the main tenets of these two models.
37
Except in the cases in which it is contrastive or emphatic.
302 NOTES
38
Despite the fact that there are important theoretical differences between them. For example,
Schwarzschild's rejection of mechanisms like the ‘Nuclear Stress Rule’; his final proposal
about the interaction of Selkirk's (1986) ‘Basic F-Rule’, ‘Givenness’ and the constraint
‘AvoidF’, intended to totally dispense with focus projection rules, which, nevertheless, are
clearly present in Neeleman and Reinhart to determining the focus set; his semantic formalisa-
tion of the notion of ‘given’; and his adoption of a more or less explicit ‘Optimality Theoretic’
framework.
39
In the sense of Pesetsky (1987): roughly, already present in the universe of discourse.
40
Unless, as Neeleman and Reinhart suggest (fn.17), destressing applies before nuclear stress
assignment: the presence of the D-linked object would cause stress fall on the second most
embedded constituent, namely the verb.
41
Although Cinque (1993) also distinguishes between destressing and strengthening, he does
not specify their differentiating properties as Neeleman and Reinhart do.
42
The exact development of their proposal will be given in Section 2.1 of the following chap-
ter, since it is irrelevant for the issue at stake here.
43
It may be observed that Cinque's ‘marginalisation’ could account for (126a) unproblemati-
cally: den Weg is attached to a higher node, making dem Polizisten the most deeply embedded
element. Leaving aside other empirical and theoretical conflicts which a process such as ‘mar-
ginalisation’ entails, it could not rule out non-scrambling strings for monotransitive predicates,
insofar as objects inserted between VP-adjoined material and the lexical verb could be, in prin-
ciple, ‘marginalised’ too.
44
See Section 2.1, Chapter 4, for more details. It is sufficient to say here that this restriction
derives from the mechanism they propose for theta-role assignment, according to which “no
thematic information can be inherited from a verbal category if it is merged with a category X,
and X projects”, with the possible exception of external theta-roles.
Chapter 4
1
And also Chomsky and Lasnik (1977), and the observation in Chomsky (1995).
2
With exception of the movement approach in Haider and Rosengren (1998, 2003), who de-
fend that scrambling is possible in all head-final projections (see Section 1.1.2.2).
3
Haider and Rosengren (1998) reject the existence of ‘Freezing’, although their proposal ar-
gues for a movement approach. We will see the reasons for this when examining their analysis
in more detail (Section 1.1.2.2).
4
In fact, Pollock places the subject in Spec, TP. Belletti (1988) concludes that the AgrP must
precede the TP, which entails that subjects must occupy the specifier of AgrP.
5
α c-commands β if the constituent γ immediately dominating α dominates β and neither α
dominates β nor β dominates α.
NOTES 303
6
As suggested by focus interpretation (McGinnis, 1999: fn 8).
7
At least, systematically, although Mahajan (1990) suggests that there can be a correlation
between specificity (a semantic property) and structural Case (a morphosyntactic property).
8
Parasitic gaps (Engdahl, 1983; Taraldsen, 1981; Chomsky, 1982; among others) are null
elements whose presence must be licensed by another gap in the sentence. In the example of
the main text, the trace left by the scrambled die Gäste licenses the parasitic gap e in the infini-
tival clause.
9
According to the definition of empty categories: a variable is a locally A-bar bound trace.
10
In fact, there are two proposals in the A-movement approach that try to answer this question,
but both of them are just a mere re-statement of the facts. Webelhuth (1989) introduces a ‘Fo-
cusing Constraint’ that bans focused heads of sentence-internal operator chains (recall that for
Webelhuth the position targeted by a scrambled constituent is both A and A-bar). Laezlinger
(1998) states that [+Focus] forces movement to a Focus projection, which exempts the argu-
mental DP from being further displaced to Spec, AgrOP, that is, from being Case-assigned.
11
According to Müller (1995), ‘I-topicalisation’ structures (Jacobs, 1982) confirm the correct-
ness of this analysis: apparently scrambled predicates are perfectly grammatical if pronounced
with a starting rising tone (/), followed by a final falling one (\), the two tones associated with
‘I-topicalisation’ (ia). Notice that focus accent in (ib) (a single falling tone, \) gives the deviant
results already shown in (27b,b') in the main text (examples from Müller, 1995):
(i) a. dass die Suppe/ essen hier keiner\ so richtig wollte
that the soup eat here no-one really wanted-to
“that no one really wanted to eat the soup here”
b. ??dass die Suppe essen\ hier keiner so richtig wollte
that the soup eat here no-one really wanted-to
“that no one really wanted to eat the soup here”
12
As demonstrated by their presence in constructions in which Case is absorbed, such as mid-
dles (i), or passives (ii) (examples from Müller, 1995):
(i) Das Buch verkauft (sich) schlecht
the book-NOM sells REFL badly
“The book sells badly”
(ii) dass sich jetzt gewaschen wird
that REFL now washed is
“that it is washed now”
13
In fact, Müller (1995) states that “the differences between scrambled and ‘base’ orders in the
middle field in most cases appear to be pragmatic in nature, and generally do not affect seman-
tic, i.e., truth conditions” (p.100). Notice that this entails the dismissal of the contrast between
existential and specific indefinites in the generalisation (i) in 2.2, and the assumption that
pragmatic interpretation falls completely outside the realm of syntax.
304 NOTES
14
In fact, it may account for them only on Haider and Rosengren's assumption that adverbials
are base-generated AP- or PP-internal, which, however, will be demonstrated to be untenable
in Chapter 5, Section 2.1.1.2.
15
Notice that this entails that, in ditransitive constructions, dative is a lexical, and not a struc-
tural, Case in German, a controversial assumption for any theory of Case licensing in which the
distinction between structural and lexical Case is linked to the distinction between lexical and
functional heads: lexical heads (Vs) are responsible for lexical Case, and functional heads are
responsible for structural Case. For the view that dative is structural in German, see Meinunger
(1995) and Fanselow (2000), among others.
16
Notice that it occupies exactly the same position as in (52a).
17
Especially Chomsky's (1995, 2000) ‘Minimalist Program’, which will be dealt with in the
following section. It is sufficient to say here that such theories contend that syntactic operations
must be strictly triggered. For the case at hand, this would mean that scrambling applies only in
those configurations in which a movement operation is needed to render a certain semantic/
pragmatic output. If base-generation can result in that same output, scrambling is excluded, on
an economy basis: for the same output, less complex derivations are preferable to more com-
plex ones.
18
For details, see next section.
19
Wurmbrand (2001b) and references therein. Of course, the constraint refers to categories
larger than VP which are contained within the targeted CP.
20
The only exception is that of formal interpretable features (Chomsky, 1995), that is, features
that do have a semantic import: categorial features, and phi-features on nominals.
21
See Section 1.1.1.
22
(70) contrasts with (i) below, which is fully grammatical (from Zwart, 1997):
(i) Jan heeft Marie gekust gisteren
Jan-NOM has Marie-ACC kissed yesterday
“Jan kissed Marie yesterday”
Nevertheless, as Zwart points out, the difference cannot be attributed to verb movement,
but rather to the availability of adverb extraposition: gisteren may be extraposed, but langzaam
may not.
23
In more recent versions of the program (Chomsky 2000, 2001, 2004), feature movement is
completely abandoned for reasons of simplicity.
24
See Chapter 2, Section 5.
25
Recall also that the only limitations seem to be of semantic nature, and that we did not draw
any clear conclusion about the argument/adjunct distinction, mainly due to the difficulty of
distinguishing adjunct scrambling from base generation.
NOTES 305
26
Although one must admit that this solution merely begs the question: N-features in AgrO are
uniformly strong, but N-features in AgrS may be strong (if the subject precedes the scrambled
object) or weak (if the subject follows it).
27
In fact, as Meinunger (1995) notices, even the structures in (78) seem to be problematic for
the strict local movement the ‘Minimalist Program’ defends, at least if Larson's (1988) VP-
shells are adopted for German and Dutch ditransitive predicates.
28
This is the kind of evidence that Haeberli (1993) tries to account for by resorting to
characterising German as a language with unspecified Case projections. This would mean that
any DP can check Case in any specifier position above VP, which would explain all the scram-
bled orders in that language. Obviously, the solution is ad hoc, and excludes all the instances in
which categories different from DPs are reordered. In other words, it faces problems similar to
those of Zwart's original analysis.
29
Notice that this statement is also true even for Neeleman and Reinhart's (1998) explanation
for the interaction between scrambling and destressing summarised in the preceding chapter
(Section 2.3): D-linking does not trigger scrambling, and does not prevent nuclear stress as-
signment to the displaced constituent either; rather, untriggered scrambling allows the object to
occupy a position high enough to avoid nuclear stress, thus being interpreted as D-linked.
30
Diesing is not very explicit about it, although in later work (Diesing, 1996, 1997) she pro-
poses the ‘Scoping Condition’.
31
As the reader will see in Chapter 5, where the latest versions of the Minimalist Program are
introduced, the alleged incompatibility reduces to a non fundamental aspect of the framework.
32
This system is reminiscent of De Hoop's (1992) proposal for Dutch. On the basis of lan-
guages in which strong and weak readings of nominal arguments correlate with morphological
differences in Case marking (Finnish, Turkish, Russian, etc.), De Hoop hypothesises that there
exist two types of structural Case, namely strong Case, assigned at S-structure, and weak Case,
licensed at D-structure. In this view, scrambling is just an instantiation of the former, whereas
unscrambled constituents are assigned the latter. I omit dealing with De Hoop's proposal in
more detail because, as she correctly argues (De Hoop, 2003), it merely constitutes an
empirically adequate generalisation: only noun phrases that receive a strong reading may
scramble. Therefore, no explanatory account of the process is given or even suggested: for De
Hoop, scrambling is rather a matter of word order variation which is not either ‘Case-driven’ or
‘interpretation-driven’; in fact, as she puts it, “scrambling is not ‘driven’ at all” (De Hoop,
2003: 202).
33
Except in the case of being complements of verbs of creation (write, build, draw), where
scrambling is excluded due to the impossibility of presupposing the existence of the object, a
fact already observed by Diesing (1992).
34
It is difficult to understand how Haider and Rosengren's (1998, 2003) and Meinunger's
judgements can differ so completely. Since a comparison of the structures in (87) and (93) does
not reveal any strictly syntactic difference between them, the only option seems to endorse
Neeleman and Reinhart's (1998) insight about the optionality of scrambled generics in Dutch
306 NOTES
(Section 3.3 in the preceding chapter), and conclude that the discourse context may have a
bearing.
35
‘M-command’: α m-commands β iff α does not dominate β and some projection of α domi-
nates β. In other words, and for the case at hand, the verb and its argument must be dominated
by the same maximal projection.
36
See Section 1.2, this chapter.
37
For further details, see Chapter 5, Section 2.1.2.3.3.
38
This simply derives from the requirement that no thematic information can be inherited from
a verbal category if it is merged with a category X, and X projects. Notice that such an as-
sumption may conflict with German pre-subject scrambling, if other projections intervene
between VP and subjects in Spec, AgrS (or Spec, T): AgrO, or the light verb v, responsible for
the licensing of certain subjects and accusative Case checking in the latest versions of the
‘Minimalist Program’.
39
The [D] feature is equivalent to the [N] feature in the summary of the earliest versions of the
‘Minimalist Program’ in Section 1.2, that is, a feature requiring checking against a DP (NP).
40
Recall that the last requirement is straightforwardly derived in the proposals that link scram-
bling to checking of a [+Topic] feature: topic constituents are always old information, thus
unfocused. It is also unproblematic for Neeleman and Reinhart (1998): scrambling and non-
scrambling structures are the result of competing derivations, and one is chosen over the other
on an economy basis.
41
According to Haider and Rosengren (2003), a case in point would be that of German coher-
ent infinitives, which are not semantically/pragmatically different from non-coherent construc-
tions. I do not find the argument conclusive: Wurmbrand (2001a) demonstrates that certain
types of coherent structures are characterised by the absence of the semantic (and also syntac-
tic) properties that characterise propositions.
42
Notice that Fanselow's proposal, according to which scrambled elements are thematically
licensed only in positions headed by their selecting heads after incorporation, would require
covert incorporation of adjectives and postpositions into verbal heads, a possibility rather diffi-
cult to test empirically.
43
Recall that the only proposals refuting this was Müller and Sternefeld (1994) and Müller
(1995). I do not think that A-bar approaches are tenable: the only pieces of evidence arguing
for them (parasitic gaps, reconstruction with pre-subject scrambling) may be satisfactorily
explained in other terms.
Chapter 5
1
Recall that the only movement proposal that fares well with that unrestricted version is Haider
and Rosengren (1998, 2003), which resembles base-generation approaches with respect to the
lack of a trigger.
NOTES 307
2
Nevertheless, (8a) is grammatical in some varieties of Swedish and Norwegian (Holmberg,
1999).
3
The relevant semantic interpretation seems to be possible or not according to so-called
‘Holmberg's Generalisation’, which will be dealt with in the following section.
4
Capital letters mark stressed constituent.
5
The impossibility of shifting conjoined and modified pronouns is also derived if it is assumed
with Cardinaletti and Starke (1999) that the ability to coordinate, to take modifiers, and to carry
focus are three different manifestations of a single property (Chapter 2).
6
The situation in Faroese is more complex: according to Jonas (1995), there seem to exist two
dialects of this language, Faroese I and Faroese II, both characterized as verb-second, but only
the former, and not the latter, showing V to T.
7
Nevertheless, as Holmberg (1999) notices, although verb particles seem to block ‘Object
Shift’ in Swedish, they do not block it in the rest of Scandinavian languages, as the Icelandic
example below illustrates (Thráinsson, 2001):
(i) Jón hefur tekiđ bókina upp
John-NOM has picked book-the-ACC up
“John has picked up the book”
8
The ‘Extension Condition on Movement’, as formulated in Chomsky (1993), states that
substitution (i.e. movement ) operations always extend their target, which in turn ensures strict
cyclicity.
9
Chomsky (1995) attempts to overcome this second objection by resorting to a differentiation
between feature deletion and feature erasure, which, nevertheless, as argued in Chomsky
(2001), still makes the system paradoxical.
10
Unlike what covert movement implied, that is, LF displacement of the goal to the ‘Checking
Domain’ of the probe, usually the specifier position in the probe's maximal projection (Section
1.2, Chapter 4).
11
Chomsky suggests that the notion of c-command in (20) may be restricted to c-command
from the left (2001: fn 51). Our account of German scrambling necessarily requires such re-
striction.
12
Intervention effects are a consequence of the more general ‘Minimal Link Condition’
(Chomsky, 1995), which determines that when two elements compete as goals with respect to
the same probe (i.e. when two elements —the goals— may value an uninterpretable (unvalued)
feature of a third one —the probe), the probe may have access only to the closer one.
13
It may be useful to recall here that, in Chomsky's account, the interpretation shifted objects
receive (INT) is simply a consequence of their displacement to Spec, vP in ‘Narrow Syntax’.
308 NOTES
14
Svenonius adopts Platzack's (1998) ‘Discourse Form’, an (LF) level at which discourse
information is evaluated. According to Platzack, the syntactic string checked at ‘Discourse
Form’ is not TP, but CP, which means that ‘Object Shift’ would be possible only if V moves to
a position further than T. This explains why Romance languages lack OS, and forces an analy-
sis of verb movement in Icelandic embedded clauses in terms of V-raising to any of the heads
appearing within Rizzi's (1997) enriched CP layer (see Chapter 2, Section 5).
15
Notice that, according to Svenonius, the only new meaning that is available is that of the
shifted nominal, but this is a consequence of the movement of the nominal itself to the TP/CP
projection in order to value the feature inserted after checking discourse structure vs syntactic
structure at LF (or ‘Discourse Form’).
16
That is, to move past the vP-edge, if adverbs, negation, etc. are placed above Spec, v, as
demonstrated by the fact that they precede auxiliaries in Mainland Scandinavian embedded
clauses.
17
Disregarding V-1 (see Chapter 2).
18
(29) is a simplified version aimed to cover all possible types of predicates. Whether, as
Chomsky (1995, 2000, 2001) suggests, unaccusative verbs lack a vP projection completely, or
else it is just defective in some sense is not relevant here: the crucial point is that the only head
with which they may establish the proper ‘Agree’ relation is T.
19
In fact, they contend that it is VP-internal, a statement that they do not support except with
the example in (37b) itself. Diesing (1992), for example, assigns it a higher, VP-adjoined posi-
tion.
20
This ill-formedness is apparent in the contrast between (i) and (ii) below, and also in the
impossibility of (iii) and (iv) in English (my informants' judgement):
(i) dass der Peter gestern das Buch gelesen hat
that Peter-NOM yesterday the book-ACC read has
“that Peter read the book yesterday”
(ii) *Gestern das Buch gelesen hat der Peter
yesterday the book-ACC read has Peter-NOM
“Peter read the book yesterday”
(iii) Kick the ball (carefully) he certainly did
(iv) *Kick the ball yesterday he certainly did
A comparison of (i)-(iv) with (37) in the main text may suggest that time frames are base-
generated higher than frequency adverbs, at least in German. There is no doubt that they are
base-generated higher than manner adverbials, both in English ((iii) vs (iv)) and in German
(see Grohmann's (2000b) examples in (25b'), this chapter).
21
Chomsky's suggestion tries to solve the problem posed by the fact that head incorporation, as
a strictly syntactic process, constitutes a violation of the ‘Extension Condition’ (Chomsky,
NOTES 309
1995), according to which movement operations in ‘Narrow Syntax’ must always extend their
target.
22
Of course, the phonological nature of head movement and ‘base-generation scrambling’
beyond the phrase projected by the licensing head in situ could be compatible within an analy-
sis along the lines of Neeleman and Reinhart's (1998), where Case-checking takes place at PF.
But Fanselow (2001, 2003) does not make such an assumption.
23
In fact, Rosengren assigns the expletive the position in the specifier of Rizzi's (1997) Finite-
ness, a functional projection in the COMP-domain, but this is irrelevant here.
24
Persian lacks a definite determiner equivalent to the in English. Bare objects become definite
only when they are followed by the particle -râ, or its colloquial variants -o or -ro (all of them
in boldface in the examples).
25
In this respect, it is tempting to resort to facts such as the ones in (i)-(iv) to endorse Karimi's
hypothesis for German too. But (v)-(vi) (from Haider and Rosengren, 2003) tell us that things
may be more complicated:
(i) dass Peter das Buch nicht gelesen hat
that Peter-NOM the book-ACC not read has
“that Peter didn’t read the book”
(ii) *dass Peter nicht das Buch gelesen hat (*, unless constituent negation)
that Peter-NOM not the book-ACC read has
“that Peter didn’t read the book”
(iii) dass Peter kein Buch gelesen hat
that Peter-NOM no book-ACC read has
“that Peter didn’t read any book”
(iv) *dass Peter ein Buch nicht gelesen hat (*, unless ein Buch is specific)
that Peter-NOM a book-ACC not read has
“that Peter didn’t read any book”
(v) dass hier wer was nicht begreiff
that here somebody-NOM something-ACC not grasp
“that somebody doesn’t grasp anything here”
(vi) *dass hier wer nicht was begreiff
that here somebody-NOM not something-ACC grasp
“that somebody doesn’t grasp anything here”
If one assumes that the negative particle occupies a fixed position in German, (i)-(iv) could
be taken to indicate that specific objects are generated above it, and non-specific ones below it.
But non-specific was obligatorily appears preceding negation ((v) vs (vi)).
310 NOTES
26
Recall that the requirement that it becomes an (inactive) trace derives from the general
properties traces exhibit: they cannot be pied-piped, which prevents them from being attracted
by an [+EPP] feature; and they are completely inert for the purpose of valuing other features.
27
For expository purposes, I will stick here to the notion of phase in Chomsky (2001). As
convincingly demonstrated by Svenonius (2003), such a notion is problematic, insofar as it
does not account for the edge effects detected for both A- and A-bar movement in verb phrases
headed by transitive, passive, and raising verbs (Fox, 2000; Legate, 2003). Those edge effects
are, however, rightly predicted on the assumption that the phases that spell-out are, instead, VP
and TP (Nissenbaum, 2001; Chomsky, 2004), or that there exist additional functional heads
between vP and CP (Svenonius, 2003). Note that none of these versions is incompatible with
our analysis of German scrambling in terms of Chomsky's (2001) DISL.
28
On the basis that they do not undergo further movement (Chomsky, 2000, 2001).
29
Note, incidentally, that hypothetical DISL to a higher phase in the case of embedded V-2
(Chapter 2, Section 1) is barred by the requirement that feature valuation between the subject
and T must take place at the next higher strong phase, namely embedded CP.
30
However, there are some exceptions to that ban, according to Müller (2004) (and references
therein). In any case, they constitute an exceptional pattern, not yet successfully accounted for.
31
‘Empty Category Principle’ (Chomsky, 1981): an empty category must be (i) lexically/head
governed: governed by a lexical X; or (ii) antecedent governed: bound by (co-indexed with and
c-commanded by) a category that governs it.
32
According to Baker's (1988) theory of barriers: let D be the smallest maximal projection
containing A. Then C is a barrier between A and B if and only if C is a maximal projection that
contains B and excludes A, and either (i) C is not selected, or (ii) the head of C is distinct from
the head of D and selects some WP equal or containing B.
33
The index k is the surface reflex of LF-incorporation between versucht and zu lesen.
34
It could be argued that pronoun movement is not an instance of scrambling (Müller, 1998;
see Chapter 3, Section 1.6.2, and also this section), which would straightforwardly account for
the contrast between (62a) and (62b). Nevertheless, in the absence of a full characterisation of
the process, resorting to pronoun movement just begs the question.
35
Another possibility would be to assume that movement of the wh-word in (71) precedes
movement of the infinitive through an intermediate, VP-adjoined position. Since it constitutes
an instance of ‘chain interleaving’, Müller excludes it on the basis that ‘chain interleaving’ is
prohibited on economy grounds (Collins, 1994). Note, however, that the general framework
adopted in this thesis does not allow us to dispense with ‘chain interleaving’, mainly for two
reasons: (i) according to the phase model approach to syntactic derivation (Chomsky, 2000,
2001, 2004) constituents in the domain of a lower strong phase may be accessed by operations
at a higher phase only if they are at the edge (roughly equivalent to Müller's VP-adjoined posi-
tion); (ii) as argued by De Kuthy (2002), and Fanselow and Ćavar (2002), elements within the
same maximal projection may perform semantic/pragmatic functions that correlate with dif-
ferent syntactic positions (see Chapter 3, Section 1.6.3).
NOTES 311
36
Although Chomsky (2001) replaces the notion of multiple merge with the composite opera-
tion agree/pied-piping/mark, I will present the German facts assuming the former for ease of
exposition. I do not think that an account in terms of occurrences and agree/pied-piping/mark
would change the analysis I propose.
37
I adopt here a phase-based approach to displacement, according to which movement of
whom to its final landing site is preceded by movement to the edge of vP.
38
I omit other displacement processes affecting the subject and the verb.
39
This is more complex than it seems if one adopts the cyclic ‘Spell-Out’ in Chomsky (2001,
2004), as Epstein and Seely (2002) convincingly argue. Nevertheless, I will disregard those
technical problems and assume that the ‘Copy Theory’ as feature identity is tenable.
40
Obviously, this is not a stipulation, but a consequence of the derivational (bottom-up) model
adopted for ‘‘Narrow Syntax’’.
41
For this point, I refer the reader to the discussion in Section 1.3, this chapter.
42
For the sake of simplicity, I refrain from representing syntactic structure at PF, since it is not
relevant at this point. Nevertheless, I am conscious that it plays an important role, as I will
show in my treatment of the grammaticality of pronominal scrambling.
43
I will distinguish dislocated phonological features from those eliminated by ‘Chain Reduc-
tion’ by using 0 instead of crossing. The distinction may be relevant: phonological features
eliminated by ‘Chain Reduction’ are considered to affect phonological processes such as pho-
nological phrasing (Nespor and Vogel, 1986; Chen, 1987; Truckenbrodt, 1999), or contraction
(Chomsky, 1981), but, in principle, that needs not be the case with dislocated ones.
44
Recall that intermediate wh-movement to Spec, v is imposed by the ‘Phase Impenetrability
Condition’ (Chomsky, 2001), according to which only elements at the phase-edge are accessi-
ble to higher phases.
45
‘Licensing’ is used here in a general, non-technical, meaning, roughly equivalent to ‘render-
ing (phonologically) appropriate’, as will be clear in the following paragraphs of the main text.
46
I have omitted DPs for the sake of simplicity. Notice that their inclusion does not affect
phonological phrasing: the right bracket of the NP is still the one provoking the closure of the
phonological phrase (i.e. φ-closure), since it appears embedded within DP.
47
(90) pictures the initial prosodic phrases of the examples at stake. The final unstressed verbs
require a further adjustment rule that joins them to the prosodic phrase on their left, such as the
rule PRED in Büring (2001a, 2001b): a predicate shares its ‘Accent Domain’ with at least one
of its arguments, where ‘Accent Domain’ stands for phonological phrase. Such an adjustment
is irrelevant for the contrast in grammaticality we are discussing, insofar as it takes place in the
two sentences. That is the reason why I will disregard it in the following.
312 NOTES
48
Recall that in Chomsky (1992, 1995) all inflected words are formed in the lexicon, a tenet
which constitutes the ‘strong lexicalist view’. In Halle and Marantz 's (1993) ‘Distributed Mor-
phology’ the claim is weaker: functional heads like Tense serve as locus of lexical (‘Vocabu-
lary’) insertion, and all word formation occurs in the syntax, as a result of the syntactic combi-
nation of heads. In addition, the operations taking place in a derivation between ‘Spell-Out’
and PF are of the same sort and obey the same principles as the operations in the rest of the
syntax.
49
That is, (i) is ill-formed in German:
(i) *dass zu lesen es er versucht hat
that to read it-ACC he-NOM tried has
“that he tried to read it”
50
The fixed order that er and es exhibit in (105) is independent of the ‘double scrambling’
structure. All German weak pronouns appear in fixed positions (nominative > accusative >
dative) in the so-called ‘Wackernagel domain’, irrespective of other factors (see (67) in
Chapter 3), as shown in (i) below:
(i) a. *dass ihr es er gestern gegeben hat
that her-DAT it-ACC he-NOM yesterday given has
“that he gave it to her yesterday”
b. *dass es ihr er gestern gegeben hat
that it-ACC her-DAT he-NOM yesterday given has
“that he gave it to her yesterday”
c. dass er es ihr gegeben hat
that he-NOM it-ACC her-DAT given has
“that he gave it to her yesterday”
51
I disregard the complete infinitival clause and the matrix verb within VP: by ‘Chain Reduc-
tion’, they have lost all their phonological features, thus being unable to provoke φ-closure.
52
In a nutshell, Richards states that multiple movement to a single projection always exhibit a
crossing path configuration, with the closest goal targeting the highest probe, and the lower
goal targeting the lower probe, as schematically represented in (i):
(i) [ VP[ S IO DO]]
53
See footnote 11 in this chapter.
54
In this connection, notice that the status of (i) below is controversial: for some researchers
(Höhle, 1982; Haider, 1992), it allows maximal focus, with the accusative interpreted as non-
given. For others (Meinunger, 1995), the accusative is obligatorily D-linked.
NOTES 313
(i) dass Peter das Buch dem Kind gegeben hat
that Peter-NOM the book-ACC the child-DAT given has
“that Peter gave the book to the child”
55
As Corver and van Riemsdijk (1996) show, scrambling within non-verbal projections in
Dutch is subject exactly to the same requirements, as demonstrated by the grammaticality of
(ib) and (iib), where the scrambled element is the argument of a final head (a postposition in (i)
and an adjective in (ii)), as well as by the ungrammaticality of (iiib), (iiic) and (ivb), (ivc),
where scrambling applies to the argument of an initial head (a preposition in (iii) and a noun in
(iv)).
(i) a. Nog een stukje verde de kamer in met die spullen!
even a bit further the room into with those things
“A bit further into the room with those things!”
b. [De kamer]i nog een stukje verder ti in met die spullen!
the room even a bit further into with those things
“A bit further into the room with those things!”
(ii) a. ?Geheel het Frans machtig was ik pas op mijn 15e
completely the French in-command-of was I only in my 15th
year
“I was completely in command of French only in my 15th
year”
b. [Het Frans]i geheel ti machtig was ik pas op mijn 15e
the French completely in-command-of was I only in my 15th
year
“I was completely in command of French only in my 15th
year”
(iii) a. 5 uur na de eerste ontploffing volgde de tweede
5 hours after the first explosion followed the second
“Five hours after the first explosion followed the second”
b. *5 uur [de eerste ontploffing]i na ti volgde de tweede
5 hours the first explosion after followed the second
“Five hours after the first explosion followed the second”
c.*[De eerste ontploffing]i 5 uur na ti volgde de tweede
the first explosion 5 hours after followed the second
“Five hours after the first explosion followed the second”
(iv) a. Die twee oude argumenten tegen haar theorie heft zij onlangs ontkracht
the two old arguments against her theory has she recently refuted
“She has recently refuted the two old arguments against her theory”
b. *Die [tegen haar theorie]i twee oude argumenten ti …
the against her theory two old arguments
“The two old arguments against her theory…”
c.*[Tegen haar theorie]i die twee oude argumenten ti …
against her theory the two old arguments
“The two old arguments against her theory…”
56
Frey confines transparency for extraction to fronting cases, thus avoiding the complex facts
discussed in 2.1.2.3.1.
314 NOTES
Chapter 6
1
That is, ‘Object Shift’ and scrambling are strictly clause-bound, while fronting to Spec, C is
not. With regard to parasitic gaps, I refer the reader to the discussion of A-bar approaches in
Chapter 4 (Section 1.1.1.2), where, on the basis of the evidence put forward by Fanselow
(1993, 2001), it was concluded that they are absent from German scrambling structures. But it
is commonly accepted that they are also impossible in Scandinavian ‘Object Shift’ (Holmberg,
1986; Vikner, 1994; Holmberg and Platzack, 1995, etc), as illustrated by the Icelandic example
in (i) (from Thráinsson, 2001):
(i) Pétur bauđ Maríui aldrei ti án þess ađ sækja hanai / *ei
Peter-NOM invited Mary-ACC never without it to fetch her
“Peter never invited Mary without picking her up”
2
Recall that ‘Object Shift’ in Mainland Scandinavian only affects pronominal DPs, and that
the reasons for it do not seem to be related to morphological case, as the Faroese facts show
(Chapter 5, Section 1.1.3).
REFERENCES
Abraham, W. and L. Molnárfi. 2001. German clause structure under discourse
functional weight: focus and antifocus. In Issues in Formal German(ic) Typology,
[Linguistik Aktuell – Linguistics Today 45], W. Abraham and C.J.W. Zwart
(eds.), 1-43. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Ackema, P. and A. Neeleman. 2003, Context-sensitive spell-out. Natural language
and Linguistic Theory 21: 681-735.
Aissen, J. and D. Perlmutter. 1976. Clause reduction in Spanish. In Proceedings of the
Second Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistic Society (BLS 2), H. Thompson
et al (eds.), 1-30. Berkeley, Ca.: Berkeley Linguistic Society.
Askedal, J.O. 1983. Kohärenz und Inkohärenz in Deutschen Infinitfügungen:
Vorschlag zur bergrifflichei Klärung. Lingua 59: 177-196.
Bailyn, J.F. 1995. A configurational approach to Russian ‘free’ word order. PhD
Dissertation, Cornell University.
Bailyn, J.F. 2001. On scrambling. A reply to Bošković and Takahashi. Linguistic
Inquiry 32 (4): 635-658.
Bailyn, J.F. 2002. Generalized inversion. Ms., State University of New York.
Bailyn, J.F. 2003. Does Russian scrambling exist? In Word Order and Scrambling, S.
Karimi (ed.), 156-176. Malden, Mass./Oxford: Blackwell.
Baker, M.C. 1988. Incorporation. A theory of grammatical function changing,
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Bayer, J. and J. Kornfilt. 1990. Restructuring effects in German. In Parametric
Variation in Germanic and Romance: Proceedings for a DYANA Workshop,
September 1989. [Edinburgh Working Papers in Cognitive Science 6], E. Engdahl,
M. Reape, M. Mellor and R.P. Cooper (eds.), 21-42. Edinburgh: Centre for
Cognitive Science, University of Edinburgh.
Bayer, J. and J. Kornfilt. 1994. Against scrambling as an instance of Move-alpha. In
Studies on Scrambling, N. Corver and H. van Riemsdijk (eds.), 17-60. Berlin/
New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Bech, G. 1955. Studien zum deutschen Verbum infinitum. Tübingen: Max Niemeyer
Verlag.
Belletti, A. 1988. The case of unaccusatives. Linguistic Inquiry 19: 1-34.
Belletti, A. and L. Rizzi. 1988. Psych-verbs and theta-theory. Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory 6: 291-352.
Besten, H. den 1983. On the interaction of root transformations and lexical deletive
rules. In On the Formal Syntax of the Westgermania, W. Abraham (ed.), 47-131.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Besten, H. den, J. Rutten, T. Veenstra and J. Veld. 1988. Verb raising, extrapositie en
de derde constructie. Ms, University of Amsterdam.
316 REFERENCES
Besten, H. den and J. Rutten 1989. On verb raising, extraposition and free word order
in Dutch. In Sentential Complementation and the Lexicon. Studies in honour of
Wim de Geest, D. Jasper, W. Klooster, Y. Putseys and P. Seuren (eds.), 41-56.
Dordrecht: Foris.
Besten, H. den and G. Webelhuth. 1987. Adjunction and remnant topicalization in the
Germanic SOV-languages. Paper presented at the GLOW Conference, Venice.
Besten, H. den and G. Webelhuth. 1990. Stranding. In Scrambling and Barriers, G.
Grewendorf and W. Sternefeld (eds.), 77-92. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Boeckx, C. and K.K. Grohmann. 2005. Left dislocation in Germanic. In Focus on
Germanic Typology, W. Abraham (ed.), 131-144. Berlin: Akademie Verlag.
Bošković, Ž. and D. Takahashi. 1998. Scrambling and Last Resort. Linguistic Inquiry,
29: 347-366.
Bresnan, J. 1971. Sentence stress and syntactic transformations. Language 45: 257-
281.
Broekhuis, H. 2000. Against feature strength. The case of Scandinavian object shift.
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 18: 673-721.
Büring, D. 2001a. What do definites do that indefinites definitely don't? In Audiatur
Vox Sapientiae: A Festschrift for Arnim von Stechow, C. Féry and W. Sternefeld
(eds.), 70-100. Berlin: Akademie Verlag.
Büring, D. 2001b. Let's phrase it. Focus, word order, and prosodic phrasing in German
double object constructions. In Competition in Syntax [Studies in Generative
Grammar 49], G. Müller & W. Sternefeld (eds.), 69-105. Berlin/New York:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Cardinaletti, A. and M. Starke. 1996. Deficient pronouns. A view from Germanic. A
study in the unified description of Germanic and Romance. In Studies in
Comparative Germanic Syntax, vol. II, H. Thráinsson, S.D. Epstein and S. Peter
(eds.), 21-65. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Cardinaletti, A. and M. Starke. 1999. The typology of structural deficiency. A case
study of the three classes of pronouns. In Clitics in the Languages of Europe, H.
van Riemsdijk (ed.), 145-233. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Carlson, G. 1977. Reference to kinds in English. PhD Dissertation, University of
Massachusetts, Amherst. (Published in 1980; New York: Garland Press).
Chen, M.Y. 1987. The syntax of Xiamen tone sandhi. Phonology Yearbook 4: 109-
149.
Chomsky, N. 1965. Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 1972. Deep Structure, Surface Structure, and semantic interpretation. In
Studies on Semantics in Generative Grammar, N. Chomsky (ed.), 69-119. Den
Haag: Mouton de Gruyter.
Chomsky, N. 1973. Conditions on transformations. In A Festschrift for Morris Halle,
S. Anderson and P. Kiparsky (eds.), 232-286. New York, NY: Holt, Reinhart and
Winston INC.
Chomsky, N. 1981. Lectures on Government and Binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
Chomsky, N. 1982. Some Concepts and Consequences of the Theory of Government
and Binding. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
REFERENCES 317
Chomsky, N. 1986. Barriers. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 1991. Some notes on economy of derivation and representation. In
Principles and Parameters in Comparative Grammar, R. Freidin (ed.), 417-454.
Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 1993. A minimalist program for linguistic theory. In The View from
Building 20. Essays in honor of Sylvain Bromberger, K. Hale and S.J. Keyser
(eds.), 1-52.Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 1995. The Minimalist Program. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 2000. Minimalist Inquiries: the framework. In Step by Step: Essaysn
minimalist syntax in honor of Howard Lasnik, R. Martin, D. Michaels and J.
Uriagereka (eds.), 85-155. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 2001 Derivation by phase. In Ken Hale: A life in language, M.
Kenstowicz (ed.), 1-52. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 2004. Beyond explanatory adequacy. In Structures and Beyond. Current
Issues in the Theory of Language, A. Belletti (ed.), 104-131. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Chomsky, N. and M. Halle 1968. The Sound Pattern of English. New York: Harper
and Row.
Chomsky, N. and H. Lasnik. 1977. Filters and control. Linguistic Inquiry 8: 425-504.
Chomsky, N. and H. Lasnik. 1993. The theory of principles and parameters. In Syntax.
An International Handbook of Contemporary Research, J. Jacobs, A. von
Stechow, W. Sternefeld & T. Vennemann (eds.), 506-569. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter. (Reprinted in The Minimalist Program. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press,
1995, 13-127).
Cinque, G. 1993. A null theory of phrase and compound stress. Linguistic Inquiry 24:
239-298.
Cinque, G. 1997a. The interaction of passive, causative, and ‘restructuring’ in
Romance. Ms., University of Venice.
Cinque, G. 1997b. Restructuring and the order of aspectual and root modal heads. Ms.,
University of Venice.
Cinque, G. 1999. Adverbs and Functional Heads. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Cinque, G. 2000. Restructuring and functional structure. Ms., University of Venice.
Collins, C. 1994. Economy of derivation and the generalized proper binding condition.
Linguistic Inquiry 25: 45-61.
Collins, C. and H. Thráinsson. 1993. Object shift in double object constructions and
the theory of case. MIT Working Papers in Linguistics, 19: 131-174.
Collins, C. and H. Thráinsson. 1996. VP-internal structure and object shift in Ice-
landic. Linguistic Inquiry 27: 391-444.
Corver, N. and H. van Riemsdijk. 1996. The position of the head and the domain of
scrambling. In Typology. Prototypes, Item Orderings and Universals. Proceedings
of the LP’96 Conference on Word Order. Prague 1996, B. Palek (ed.), 57-90.
Prague: Charles University Press.
De Hoop, H. 1992. Case configuration and noun phrase interpretation, PhD Dis-
sertation, Rijksuniversiteit Groningen.
318 REFERENCES
De Hoop, H. 2003. Scrambling in Dutch. Optionality and optimality. In Word Order
and Scrambling, S. Karimi (ed.), 201-216. Oxford: Blackwell.
De Kuthy, K. 2002. Discontinuous NPs in German: A Case Study of the Interaction of
Syntax, Semantics, and Pragmatics. Standford: CSLI Publications.
De Kuthy, K. and W.D. Meurers. 2001. On partial constituent fronting in German.
Journal of Comparative Germanic Linguistics 3 (3): 1-62.
Delfitto, M. and N. Corver. 1997. Feature primitives and the syntax of specificity.
Ms., Tilburg University.
Déprez, V. 1989. On the typology of syntactic positions and the nature of chains. PhD
Dissertation, MIT.
Déprez, V. 1994. Parameters of Object Movement. In Studies on Scrambling.
Movement and non-movement approaches to free-word-order phenomena, N.
Corver and H. van Riemsdijk (eds.), 101-152. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Diesing, M. 1992. Indefinites [Linguistic Inquiry Monograph 20]. Cambridge, Mass.:
MIT Press.
Diesing, M. 1996. Semantic variables and object shift. In Studies in Comparative
Germanic Syntax vol. II, [Studies in Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 38],
H. Thráinsson, S.D. Epstein and S. Peter (eds.), 66-84. Dordrecht: Foris.
Diesing, M. 1997. Yiddish VP order and the typology of movement in Germanic.
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 15: 369-429.
Diesing, M. and E. Jelinek.1993. The syntax and semantics of Object Shift. Working
Papers in Scandinavian Syntax 51: 1-54.
Diesing, M. and E. Jelinek. 1995. Distributing arguments. Natural Language Se-
mantics 3: 122-176.
É. Kiss, K. 1994. Scrambling as the base generation of random complement order. In
Studies on Scrambling. Movement and non-movement approaches to free-word-
order phenomena, N. Corver & H. van Riemsdijk (eds.), 221-256. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
É. Kiss, K. 2003. Argument scrambling, operator movement, and topic movement in
Hungarian. In Word Order and Scrambling, S. Karimi (ed.), 22-43. Malden,
Mass./Oxford: Blackwell.
Engdahl, E. 1983. Parasitic gaps. Linguistics and Philosophy 6: 5-34.
Epstein, S.D. and T.D. Seely. 1999. SPEC-ifying the GB ‘subject’. Eliminating A-
chains and the EPP within a derivational model. Ms., University of Michigan and
Eastern Michigan University.
Epstein, S.D. and T.D. Seely. 2002. Rule applications as cycles in a level-free syntax.
In Derivation and Explanation in the Minimalist Program, S.D. Epstein and T.D.
Seely (eds.), 65-89. Malden, Mass./Oxford: Blackwell.
Evers, A. 1975. The transformational cycle in Dutch and German. PhD Dissertation,
Utrecht University.
Fanselow, G. 1987. Konfigurationalität [Studien zur deutschen Grammatik 29].
Tübingen: Narr.
REFERENCES 319
Fanselow, G. 1991. Minimale Syntax: Untersuchungen zur Sprachfähigkeit.
Habilitation thesis, Universität Passau. (Published as Number 32 in Groningen
Arbeiten zur Germanistischen Linguistik. Groningen: Rijksuniversiteit
Groningen).
Fanselow, G. 1993. The return of the base generators. Groninger Arbeiten zur
Germanistischen Linguistik 36: 1-74.
Fanselow, G. 2000. Optimal exceptions. In The Lexicon in Focus, B. Stiebels and D.
Wunderlich (eds.), 173-209. Berlin: Akademie Verlag.
Fanselow, G. 2001. Features, theta-roles, and free constituent order. Linguistic Inquiry
32: 405-437.
Fanselow, G. 2003. Free constituent order: a minimalist interface account. Folia
Linguistica 37: 191-231.
Fanselow, G. 2004. The MLC and interface economy. In The Minimal Link Condition,
A. Stepanov, G. Fanselow and R. Vogel (eds.), 73-124. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Fanselow, G. and D. Ćavar. 2002. Distributed deletion. In Theoretical Approaches to
Universals [Linguistik Aktuell – Linguistics Today 49], A. Alexiadou (ed.), 65-
107. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Fiengo, R. and J. Higginbotham. 1981. Opacity in NP. Linguistic Analysis 7 (4): 395-
421.
Fodor, J.A. 1983. The Modularity of Mind. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Fox, D. 2000. Economy and Semantic Interpretation. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Frey, W. 2000. Über die syntaktische Position der Satztopiks im Deutschen. ZAS
Papers in Linguistics 20: 137-172.
Frey, W. 2004. Notes on the syntax and the pragmatics of German Left Dislocation. In
The Syntax and Semantics of the Left Periphery, H. Lohnstein and S. Trissler
(eds.), 203-233. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Fukui, N. 1993. Parameters and optionality. Linguistic Inquiry, 24: 399-420.
Gärtner, H.M. and M. Steinbach. 2000. What do reduced pronominals reveal about the
syntax of Dutch and German? Linguistik in Postdam 9: 1-56.
Gärtner, H.M. and M. Steinbach. 2003. What do reduced pronominals reveal about the
syntax of Dutch and German? Part 1. Clause-internal positions. Linguistische
Berichte 195: 257-294.
Grewendorf, G. and J. Sabel. 1994. Long scrambling and incorporation. Linguistic
Inquiry 25, 263-308.
Grewendorf, G. and J. Sabel. 1999. Scrambling in German and Japanese. Adjunction
versus multiple specifiers. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 17: 1-65.
Grohmann, K. 2000a. A movement approach to contrastive left dislocation. Rivista di
Grammatica Generativa 25: 3-65.
Grohmann, K. 2000b. Prolific peripheries. A radical view from the left. PhD Dis-
sertation, University of Maryland, College Park.
Grohmann, K., J. Drury and J.C. Castillo. 2000. No more EPP. In WCCFL 19 Pro-
ceedings, R. Billerey and B.D. Lillehaugen (eds.), 153-166. Somerville, Mass:
Cascadilla Press.
320 REFERENCES
Guéron, J. 1981. Logical operators, complete constituents, and extraction trans-
formations. In Levels of syntactic representations, R. May & J. Koster (eds.), 42-
65. Dordrecht: Foris, 42-65.
Gussenhoven, C. 1983. Focus, mode, and nucleus. Journal of Linguistics 19: 377-417.
Gussenhoven, C. 1984. On the Grammar and Semantics of Sentence Accents,
Dordrecht: Foris.
Haeberli, E. 1993. Scrambling and feature checking. Geneva Generative Papers 1(2):
26-47.
Haegeman, L. 1995. The Syntax of Negation. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Haider, H. 1986a. Fehlende Argumente. Vom Passiv zu kohärenten Infinitiven.
Linguistiche Berichte, 101: 3-33.
Haider, H. 1986b. V-second in German. In Verb Second Phenomena in Germanic
Languages, H. Haider and M. Prinzhorn (eds.), 49-65. Dordrecht: Foris.
Haider, H. 1987. Nicht-sententiale Infinitive. Groninger Arbeiten zur Germanistischen
Linguistik 28: 73-114.
Haider, H. 1988. Θ-tracking systems. Evidence for German. In Configurationality, L.
Maracz and P. Muysken (eds.), 185-206. Dordrecht: Foris.
Haider, H. 1990. Topicalization and other puzzles of German syntax. In Scrambling
and Barriers, G. Grewendorf and W. Sternefeld (eds.), 93-112. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Haider, H. 1991. Fakultativ kohärente Infinitivkonstruktionen. Arbeitspapiere des
Sonderforschungsbereichs 340, 17. Heidelberg: IBM Deutschland GmbH.
Haider, H. 1992. Branching and discharge. SFB 340 Working Papers 23: 1-31.
Haider, H. 1993. Deutsche Syntax Generativ. Tübingen: Narr.
Haider, H. 2000. Scrambling- what's the state of the art? In The Acquisition of
Scrambling and Cliticization, S.M. Powers and C. Hamann (eds.), 19-40.
Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Haider, H. and I. Rosengren. 1998. Scrambling. Sprache und Pragmatik 49, 1-104.
Haider, H. and I. Rosengren. 2003. Scrambling. Non-triggered chain formation in OV
languages. Journal of Germanic Linguistics 15(3): 203-267.
Hale, K.L., J. La Verne Masayesva and P. Platero. 1977. Three cases of over-
generation. In Formal Syntax, P. Culicover, T. Wasow and A. Akmajian (eds.),
379-425. New York: Academic Press.
Hale, K.L. 1980. Remarks on Japanese phrase-structure. Comments on the papers on
Japanese syntax. In Theoretical Issues in Japanese Linguistics [MIT Working
Papers in Linguistics 2], Y. Otsu and A. Farmer (eds.), 185-203. Cambridge,
Mass.: MIT Press.
Hale, K.L. 1983. Warlpiri and the grammar of non-configurational languages. Natural
Language and Linguistic Theory, 1: 5-47.
Hale, K.L., E. Jelinek and M.A. Willie. 2003. Topic and focus scope positions in
Navajo. In Word Order and Scrambling, S. Karimi (ed.), 1-21. Malden,
Mass./Oxford: Blackwell.
REFERENCES 321
Halle, M. and A. Marantz. 1993. Distributed Morphology and the pieces of inflection.
In The View from Building 20, K. Hale and S.J. Keyser (eds.), 111-176.
Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Halle, M. and J.R. Vergnaud.1987. An Essay on Stress. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Halliday, M.A.K. 1967. Notes on transitivity and theme in English. Part 2. Journal of
Linguistics 3: 199-244.
Heim, I. 1982. The semantics of definite and indefinite noun phrases. PhD Disser-
tation, University of Massachusetts at Amherst.
Hinterhölzl, R. 1999. Restructuring infinitives and the theory of complementation.
PhD Dissertation, University of Southern California.
Hinterhölzl, R. 2000. Licensing movement and stranding in the West Germanic OV
languages. In The Derivation of VO and OV, P. Svenonius (ed.), 293-326.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hoberg, U. 1981. Die Wortstellung in der geschriebene deutschen Gegenwarts-
sprache, Munich: Hueber.
Hoekstra, T. 1984. Government and the distribution of sentential complementation in
Dutch. In Sentential Complementation. Proceedings of the international
conference held at UFSAL, Brussels (June, 1983), W. de Gesst and Y. Putsey
(eds.), 105-116. Dordrecht: Foris.
Höhle, T. 1982. Explikationen für ‘normale Betonung’ und ‘normale Wort-stellung’.
In Satzglieder im Deutschen, W. Abraham (ed.), 75-153. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Hoji, H. 1985. Logical Form constraints and configurational structures in Japanese.
PhD Dissertation, University of Washington.
Holmberg, A. 1986. Word order and syntactic features in the Scandinavian languages
and English. PhD Dissertation, University of Stockholm.
Holmberg, A. 1998. OV in Finnish. Ms., University of Tromsö.
Holmberg, A. 1999. Remarks on Holmberg's Generalization. Studia Linguistica 53: 1-
39.
Holmberg, A. and C. Platzack. 1995. The Role of Inflection in Scandinavian Syntax,
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Horn, G.M. 1975. The noun phrase constraint. PhD Dissertation, University of
Massachusetts at Amherst.
Iatridou, S., E. Anagnostopoulou and R. Izvorski. 2001. Observations about the form
and meaning of the perfect. In Ken Hale. A life in language, M. Kenstowicz (ed.),
189-238. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Ishihara, S. 2000. Scrambling and its interaction with stress and focus. MIT Working
Papers in Linguistics, 38: 95-110.
Jackendoff, R. 1972. Semantic Interpretation in Generative Grammar, Cambridge,
Mass.: MIT Press.
Jacobs, J. 1982. Syntax und Semantik der Negation im Deutschen [Studien zur
theoretischen Linguistik, 1]. Munich: Wilhelm Fink.
Johnston, J.C. and I. Park. 2001. Some problems with a lowering account of
scrambling. Linguistic Inquiry, 32 (4): 727-732.
322 REFERENCES
Jonas, D. 1995. Clausal structure and verbal syntax of Scandinavian and English. PhD
Dissertation, Harvard University.
Kamp, J. A. W. 1981. A theory of truth and semantic representation. In Formal
Methods in the Study of Language, J. Groenendijk, T. Janssen and M. Stokhof
(eds.), 277-321. Amsterdam: Mathematical Centre.
Karimi, S. 2003. On object positions, specificity, and scrambling in Persian. In Word
Order and Scrambling, S. Karimi (ed.), 91-124. Malden, Mass./Oxford:
Blackwell.
Kayne, R. 1994. The Antisymmetry of Syntax. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Klima, E. 1964. Negation in English. In The Structure of Language. Readings in the
philosophy of language, J.A. Fodor and J. Katz (eds.), 264-323. Englewood Cliffs,
NJ: Prentice-Hall.
Kim, S.S. and W. Sternefeld. 1997. Weak crossover and superiority. Paper presented
at the Minimal Link Condition Workshop, University of Postdam.
Kitahara, H. 1999. Eliminating * as a feature (of traces). In Working Minimalism, S.D.
Epstein and N. Hornstein (eds.), 77-93. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Kitahara, H. 2000. Two (or more) syntactic categories vs multiple occurrences of one.
Syntax 3: 151-158.
Kitahara, H. 2002. Scrambling, case, and interpretability. In Derivation and Ex-
planation in the Minimalist Program, S.D. Epstein and T.D. Seely (eds.), 167-
183. Malden, Mass./Oxford: Blackwell.
Koeneman, O. 2000. The Flexible Nature of Verb Movement. Utrecht: LOT.
Koopman, H. and D. Sportiche. 1991. The position of subjects. Lingua 85: 211-258.
Kornfilt, J. 2003. Scrambling, subscrambling, and case in Turkish. In Word Order and
Scrambling, S. Karimi (ed.), 125-155. Malden, Mass./Oxford: Blackwell.
Koster, J. 1975. Dutch as an SOV language. Linguistic Analysis 1: 111-136.
Kratzer, A. 1984. On deriving differences between German and English. Ms.,
Technische Universität, Berlin.
Kratzer, A. 1989. Stage-level and individual-level predicates. Ms., University of
Amherst.
Krifka, M. 1991/1992. A compositional semantics for multiple focus constructions.
Linguistische Berichte, Sonderheft 4: 17-53.
Ladd, D.R. 1980. The Structure of Intonational Meaning, Bloomington: Indiana
University Press.
Laezlinger, C. 1998. Compararive Studies in Word Order Variation: adverbs, pro-
nouns, and clause structure in Romance and Germanic [Linguistik Aktuell –
Linguistics Today 20]. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Lakoff, G. 1972. The global nature of the nuclear stress rule. Language 48: 285-303.
Larson, R.K. 1988. On the double object construction. Linguistic Inquiry 19: 335-391.
Law, P. 2000. On relative clauses and the DP/PP adjunction asymmetry. In The Syntax
of Relative Clauses [Linguistik Aktuell – Linguistics Today 32], A. Alexiadou, P.
Law, A. Meinunger and C. Wilder (eds.), 161-199. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Legate, J.A. 2003. Some interface properties of the phase. Linguistic Inquiry 34: 506-
516.
REFERENCES 323
Lenerz, J. 1977. Zur Abfolge nominaler Satzglieder im Deutschen, Tübingen: Narr.
Lenerz, J. 1993. Zu Syntax und Semantik Deutscher Personalpronomina. In Wort-
stellung und Informationsstruktur, M. Reis (ed.), 117-154. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Lenerz, J. 2000. Word order variation. Competition or cooperation? In Competition in
Syntax, G. Müller and W. Sternefeld (eds.), 249-282. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Lenerz, J. 2001. Scrambling and reference in German. In Issues in Formal German(ic)
Typology [Linguistik Aktuell – Linguistics Today 45], W. Abraham and C.J.W.
Zwart (eds.), 179-192. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Maeienborn, C. 1996. Situation und Lokation. Die Bedeutung lokaler Adjunkte von
Verbalprojektionen. Tübingen: Stauffenburg.
Mahajan, A. 1990. The A-A' Distinction and Movement Theory [MIT Dissertation].
Cambridge, Mass.: MITWPL
Mc Ginnis, M. 1999. A-scrambling exists! In Proceedings of the 23rd
Annual Penn
Linguistics Colloquium, M.Minnick and N.R. Han (eds.), 283-297. University of
Pennsylvania: PWPL.
Meinunger, A. 1995. Discourse dependent DP (de)placement, PhD Dissertation,
Universität Postdam.
Milsark, G. 1974. Existential sentences in English. PhD Dissertation, MIT.
Miyagawa, S. 2001. The EPP, scrambling, and WH-in-situ. In Ken Hale: A life in
language, M. Kenstowicz (ed.), 293-338. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Miyagawa, S. 2003. A-movement scrambling and options without optionality. In
Word Order and Scrambling, S. Karimi (ed.), 177-200. Malden, Mass./Oxford:
Blackwell.
Miyagawa, S. and T. Tsujioka 2004. Argument structure and ditransitive verbs in
Japanese. Journal of East Asian Linguistics 13: 1-38.
Moltmann, F. 1990. Scrambling in German and the specificity effect. Ms., MIT.
Müller, G. 1995. A-bar Syntax. A Study in Movement Types. Berlin/New York:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Müller, G. 1998. Incomplete Category Fronting. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Müller, G. 1999. Optimality, markedness, and word order in German. Linguistics 37:
777-818.
Müller, G. 2002. Harmonic alignment and the hierarchy of pronouns in German. In
Pronouns: Grammar and Representation, H. Simon and H. Wiese (eds.), 205-232.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Müller, G. 2004. Verb-second as vP-first. Journal of Comparative Germanic Lin-
guistics 7: 179-234.
Müller, G. and W. Sternefeld. 1993. Improper movement and unambiguous binding.
Linguistic Inquiry 24: 461-507.
Müller, G. and W. Sternefeld. 1994. Scrambling as A-bar movement. In Studies on
Scrambling. Movement and non-movement approaches to free-word-order
phenomena, N. Corver and H. van Riemsdijk (eds.), 387-429. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
324 REFERENCES
Müller, G. and W. Sternefeld. 1995. Extraction, lexical variation, and the theory of
barriers. In Lexical Knowledge in the Organization of Language, U. Egli, P.
Pause, C. Schwarze et al. (eds.), 35-80. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Neeleman, A. 1994. Scrambling as a D-structure phenomenon. In Studies on
Scrambling. Movement and non-movement approaches to free-word-order
phenomena, N. Corver and H. van Riemsdijk (eds.), 387-429. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Neeleman, A. and T. Reinhart. 1998. Scrambling and the PF Interface. In The
Projection of Arguments: Lexical and Compositional Factors, M. Butt and W.
Geuder (eds.), 309-352. Standford, Ca.: CSLI Publications.
Nespor, M. and I. Vogel. 1986. Prosodic Phonology. Dordrecht: Foris.
Nissenbaum, J. 2001. Investigations of covert phrase movement, PhD Dissertation,
MIT.
Nunes, J. 1995. The copy theory of movement and linearization of chains in the
Minimalist Program, PhD Dissertation, University of Maryland.
Nunes, J. 1999. Linearization of chains and phonetic realization of chain links. In
Working Minimalism, S.D. Epstein and N. Hornstein (eds.), 217-249. Cambridge,
Mass.: MIT Press.
Nunes, J. 2001. Sideward movement. Linguistic Inquiry 32: 303-344.
Nunes, J. 2003. Head movement, remnant movement, and phonetic realization of
chains. In Head Movement and Syntactic Theory [UCLA/Postdam Working
Papers in Linguistics, Syntax at Sunset 3], A. Mahajan (ed.), 161-177. Los
Angeles: UCLA, Department of Linguistics.
Nunes, J. 2004. Linearization of Chains and Sideward Movement [Linguistic Inquiry
Monograph 43]. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Pafel, J. 1993. Ein Überblick über die Extraktion aus Nominalphrasen im Deutschen.
In Extraktion im Deutschen I [number 34 in Arbeitspapiere des SFB 340,
Sonderforschungsbereich 340], F.J. d'Avis, S. Beck, U. Lutz, J. Pafel and S.
Trissler (eds.), 191-245. Tübingen: University of Tübingen
Partee, B. H. 1987. Noun phrase interpretation and type-shifting principles. In Studies
in Discourse Representation Theory and the Theory of Generalized Quantifiers, J.
Groenendijk, D. de Jongh and M. Stokhof (eds.), 115-143. Dordrecht: Foris..
Pesetsky, D. 1982. Path and categories. PhD Dissertation, MIT.
Pesetsky, D. 1987. Wh- in situ: movement and unselective binding. In The Repre-
sentation of (In)definiteness, A.G.B. ter Meulen and E. Reuland (eds.), 98-129.
Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Pesetsky, D. 1989. Language-particular processes and the Earliness Principle. Ms.,
MIT.
Pesetsky, D. and E. Torrego. 2001. T-to-C movement. Causes and consequences. In
Ken Hale. A life in language, M. Kenstowicz (ed.), 355-426. Cambridge: Mass.:
MIT Press.
Pierrehumbert, J. and J. Hirschberg. 1990. The meaning of intonational contours in the
interpretation of discourse. In Intentions and Communications, P. Cohen, J.
Morgan and M. Pollock (eds.), 271-311. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
REFERENCES 325
Pili, D. 2003. On the A- and A'- dislocation in the Left Periphery: A Comparative
Approach to the Cartography of the CP-system [Linguistics in Postdam 20]
Postdam: Postdam University.
Platzack, C. 1998. Multiple Interfaces. Ms., Lund University.
Pollard, C. and I.A. Sag. 1994. Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar, Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.
Pollock, J.Y. 1989. Verb movement, universal grammar, and the structure of IP.
Linguistic Inquiry 20: 365-424.
Reinhart, T. 1995. Interface strategies. OTS Working Papers TL-95-002, Universiteit
Utrecht/OTS.
Richards, N. 1997. What moves where when in which language? PhD Dissertation,
MIT.
Richards, N. 1999. Featural Cyclicity and the Ordering of Multiple Specifiers. In
Working Minimalism, S.D. Epstein and N. Hornstein (eds.), 127-158. Cambridge,
Mass.: MIT Press.
Rizzi, L. 1976. Ristrutturazione. Rivista di Grammatica Generativa 1: 1-54.
Rizzi, L. 1990. Relativized Minimality. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Rizzi, L. 1997. The fine structure of the left periphery. In Elements of Grammar, L.
Haegeman (ed.), 237-279. Dordrecht: Kluwer, 237-279.
Roberts, I. 1993. Restructuring, pronoun movement and head-movement in Old
French. Ms., University of Wales, Bangor.
Rochemont, M.S. 1986. Focus in Generative Grammar. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Rosengren, I. 1993. Wahlfreiheit mit Konsequenzen- Scrambling, Topikalisierung und
FHG im Dienste der Informationsstrukturierung. In Worstellung und
Informationsstruktur, M. Reis (ed.), 251-312. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Rosengren, I. 2002. EPP: a syntactic device in the service of semantics. Studia
Linguistica 56(2): 145-190.
Ross, J. 1967. Constraints on variables in syntax, PhD Dissertation, MIT.(Appeared in
1986 as Infinite Syntax, Norwood, New Jersey: Ablex Publishing Corporation).
Sabel, J. 2002. Die Doppelobjekt-Konstruktion im Deutschen. Linguistische Berichte
190: 229-244.
Saito, M. 1985. Some Asymmetries in Japanese and their Theoretical Implications
[MIT Dissertation]. Cambridge, Mass.: MITWPL.
Saito, M. 1992. Long distance scrambling in Japanese. Journal of East Asian Lin-
guistics 1 (1): 69-118.
Saito, M. and H. Hoji. 1983. Weak cross over and move α in Japanese. Natural
Language and Linguistic Theory 1: 245-259.
Saito, M. and N. Fukui. 1998. Order in phrase structure and movement. Linguistic
Inquiry 29: 439-474.
Santorini, B. 1990. Scrambling and INFL in German. Ms., University of Pennsylvania.
Schwartz, B. and S. Vikner. 1989. All verb second clauses are CPs. Working Papers in
Scandinavian Syntax 43: 27-49.
326 REFERENCES
Schwartz, B. and S. Vikner.1996. The verb always leaves IP in V2 clauses. In Pa-
rameters and Functional Heads. Essays in Comparative Syntax, A. Belletti and L.
Rizzi (eds.), 11-62. New York/Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Schwarzschild, R. 1999. GIVENness, AvoidF and other constraints on the placement
of accent. Natural Language Semantics 7 (2): 141-177.
Selkirk, E. 1980a. Prosodic domains in phonology: Sanskrit revisited. In Juncture, M.
Aronoff and M.L. Kean (eds.), 107-129. Saratoga, Ca.: Anma Libri.
Selkirk, E. 1980b. The role of prosodic categories in English word stress. Linguistic
Inquiry 11: 563-605.
Selkirk, E. 1984. Phonology and Syntax. The Relation between Sound and Structure.
Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Selkirk, E. 1986. On derived domains in sentence phonology. Phonology Yearbook 3:
371-405.
Selkirk, E. 1995. Sentence prosody: intonation, stress, and phrasing. In Handbook of
Phonological Theory, J. Goldsmith (ed.), 550-559. Cambridge, Mass./ Oxford:
Blackwell.
Stechow, A. and W. Sternefeld. 1988. Bausteine syntaktischen Wissens. Ein Lehrbuch
der modernen generativen Grammatik. Opladen: Westdeutscher Verlag.
Stockwell, R. 1972. The role of intonation: reconsiderations and other considerations.
In Intonation. Selected Readings, D. Bolinger (ed.), 87-109. Harmondsworth:
Penguin Books.
Stowell, T. 1981. Origins of phrase structures. PhD Dissertation, MIT.
Svenonius, P. 2001. On object shift, scrambling, and the PIC. Ms., University of
Tromsø and MIT.
Svenonius, P. 2003. On the edge. Ms., University of Tromsø. (Available at
http://ling.auf.net//lingBuzz/000008)
Tada, H. 1993. A/A' partition in derivation, PhD Dissertation, MIT.
Takano, Y. 1998. Object shift and scrambling. Natural Language and Linguistic
Theory 16: 817-889.
Taraldsen, K.T. 1981. The theoretical interpretation of a class of marked extractions.
In Theory of Markedness in Generative Grammar. Proceedings of the 1979
GLOW Conference , A. Belletti, L. Brandi and L. Rizzi (eds.), 475-516. Pisa:
Scuola Normale Superiore.
Thiersch, C. 1978. Topics in German syntax. PhD Dissertation, MIT.
Thiersch, C. 1985. VP and scrambling in the German Mittelfeld. Ms., Universität
Tilburg.
Thráinsson, H. 2001. Object Shift and scrambling. In The Handbook of Contemporary
Syntactic Theory, M. Baltin and C. Collins (eds.), 148-202. Malden,
Mass./Oxford: Blackwell.
Travis, L. 1984. Parameters and effects of word order variation, PhD Dissertation,
MIT.
Truckenbrodt, H. 1995. Phonological phrases. Their relation to syntax, focus, and
prominence. PhD Dissertation, MIT. (Published in 1999 by MITWPL)
REFERENCES 327
Truckenbrodt, H. 1999. On the relation between syntactic phrases and phonological
phrases. Linguistic Inquiry 30.2: 219-255.
Uhmann, S. 1991. Fokusphonologie. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Vikner, S. 1994. Scandinavian object shift and West Germanic scrambling. In Studies
on Scrambling. Movement and non-movement approaches to free-word-order
phenomena, N. Corver and H. van Riemsdijk (eds.), 487-517. Berlin, Mouton de
Gruyter.
Vikner, S. 2001. Verb movement variation in Germanic and Optimality Theory.
Habilitation thesis, University of Tübingen.
Wagner, M. 2002. Linearization and Holmberg's Generalization in an OV language.
Talk given at the Ling-Lunch (MIT) on October, 31 2002.
Webelhuth, G. 1989. Syntactic saturation phenomena and the modern Germanic
languages. PhD Dissertation, University of Massachusetts.
Webelhuth, G. 1992. Principles and Parameters of Syntactic Saturation. Oxford/ New
York: Oxford University Press.
Weerman, F. 1989. The V2 Conspiracy. A synchronic and diachronic analysis.
Dordrecht: Foris.
Wegener, H. 1985. Der Dativ in heutigen Deutsch. [Studien zur deutschen Grammatik
128]. Tübingen: Narr.
Wexler, K. and P. Culicover. 1980. Formal Principles of Language Acquisition.
Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Williams, E. 1994. Thematic Structure in Syntax [Linguistic Inquiry Monograph 23].
Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Wiltschko, M. 1997. D-linking, scrambling, and superiority in German. Groninger
Arbeiten zur Germanistischen Linguistik 4: 107-142.
Winkler, S. 1997. Focus and Secondary Predication [Studies in Generative Grammar
43]. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Wurmbrand, S. 1998. Infinitives, PhD Dissertation, MIT.
Wurmbrand, S. 2001a. Infinitives: restructuring and clause structure, Berlin/New
York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Wurmbrand, S. 2001. AGREE: The other VP-internal subject hypothesis. In WCCFL
20 Proceedings, K. Megerdoomian and L.A. Bar-el (eds.), 635-648. Somerville,
Mass.: Cascadilla Press.
Wyngaerd, G. van den 1989. Object shift as an A-movement rule. MIT Working
Papers in Linguistics 11: 256-271.
Yatsushiro, K. 1998. Structure within VP in Japanese. In Proceedings of Japanese-
Korean Linguistics 8, D. Silva (ed.), 501-514.Standford, CSLI..
Yatsushiro, K. 2003. VP internal scrambling. Journal of East Asian Linguistics 12,
141-170.
Yoshimura, N. 1992. Scrambling and anaphora in Japanese. PhD Dissertation,
University of Southern California, Los Angeles.
Zifonun, G. 2001. Grammatik des Deutschen im europäischen Vergleich. Das
Pronomen. Teil 1: Überblick und Personalpronomen [Amades 4.1]. Mannheim:
Institut für Deutsche Sprache.
328 REFERENCES
Zubizarreta, M.L. 1998. Prosody, Focus, and Word Order. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT
Press.
Zubizarreta, M.L. and J.R. Vergnaud 2000. Phrasal stress and syntax. Ms., University
of Southern California.
Zwart, J.W. 1993. Dutch syntax. A minimalist approach. PhD Dissertation,
Rijksuniversiteit.
Zwart, J.W. 1997. Morphosyntax of Verb Movement: A minimalist approach to the
syntax of Dutch. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Zwicky, A. 1977. On clitics. Reproduced by the Indiana University Linguistics Club.
SUBJECT INDEX
A.
adverbial
directional 61
locative 9, 61, 62, 63, 66, 69, 70, 71, 72,
73, 293 n.3, 297 n.3
manner 11, 27, 61, 62, 297 n.3, 308 n.20
time 61, 62, 70, 71, 72, 169, 185, 213,
229, 281, 308 n.20
frequency 225, 229, 279, 281, 308 n.20
Adjunction Site Parameter 4, 9, 142
Agree 205, 207, 215, 216, 217, 232, 247,
289, 291, 308 n.18, 311 n.36
anaphor 11, 39, 110, 128, 129, 130, 131,
133, 139, 141, 142, 147, 148, 188, 286,
287
Antisymmetry 31, 162
B.
base-generation 4, 6, 31, 56, 79, 83, 119,
120, 122, 131, 145, 147, 174, 175, 181,
186, 187, 188, 189, 191, 192, 212, 217,
220, 221, 224, 225, 226, 232, 251, 258,
270, 282, 289, 295 n.10, 297 n.3, 304
n.17, 306 n.1, 309 n.22
Basic Branch Condition 143
binding 12, 41, 128, 129, 130, 131, 132,
136, 138, 139, 140, 141, 142, 147, 148,
152, 168, 172, 175, 179, 186, 188, 286,
287, 288, 289
C.
Case
Accusative 127, 133, 137, 155, 163, 164,
182, 244, 289, 292, 306 n.38
Checking 155, 156, 157, 158, 159, 160,
162, 163, 164, 166, 172, 175, 176, 177,
178, 179, 180, 181, 182, 191, 215, 305
n.28, 306 n.38, 309 n.22
Conversion 38
Dative 138
Exceptional Case Marking (ECM) 47
Filter 125, 129
inherent 20, 289, 292
Nominative 126, 130, 148, 152, 157, 160,
181, 184, 215, 221
c-command 10, 11, 20, 39, 41, 85, 128,
129, 145, 148, 151, 156, 157, 175, 200,
205, 233, 241, 266, 268, 271, 275, 276,
278, 286, 289, 290, 287 n.3, 302 n.5, 307
n.11, 310 n.31
chain 124, 127, 132, 135, 137, 138, 139,
143, 145, 147, 150, 152, 161, 163, 244,
303 n.10
interleaving 310 n.35
reduction 243, 245, 246, 249, 250, 251,
252, 253, 254, 260, 263, 264, 265, 311
n.43, 312 n.51
coherent/non-coherent infinitive 23, 32,33,
34, 39, 40, 55, 63, 65, 70, 74, 75, 76, 85,
87, 149, 175, 183, 212, 236, 237, 238,
240, 243, 246, 247, 248, 249, 253, 281,
282, 283, 284, 286, 288, 300 n.27, 301
n.28, 306 n.41
complementiser agreement 25, 294-5 n.5
configurational language 1, 2, 3, 4
Copy Theory of Movement 92, 243, 244,
300 n. 26, 311 n.39
cycle
CP-cycle
see CP-phase
vP-cycle
see vP-phase
D.
definiteness
definites 60, 104, 116, 162, 163, 164,
165, 167, 173, 174, 194, 195, 196, 206,
215, 216, 264, 266, 276, 309 n.24
indefinites 60, 103, 104, 115, 118, 164,
165, 167, 168, 169, 170, 173, 194, 215,
222, 225, 226, 229, 264, 266, 276, 281,
289, 303 n.13
330 SUBJECT INDEX
restriction 215, 216, 235
D(iscourse)-linked 18, 21, 45, 48, 52, 112,
113, 114, 115, 116, 118, 119, 120, 123,
163, 179, 212, 267, 276, 278, 284, 285,
289, 302 n.40, 305 n.29, 312 n.54
Dislocation (DISL) 192, 207, 208, 210,
211, 212, 232, 233, 234, 235, 236, 238,
243, 245, 246, 247, 249, 251, 252, 253,
254, 258, 260, 261, 262, 265, 279, 281,
282, 284, 286, 287, 288, 289, 310 n.27,
310 n.29, 311 n.43.
Dislocation 1 249, 250, 252, 254, 260,
262, 263, 264
Dislocation 2 250, 252, 254, 261, 263,
264
Distributed Morphology 258, 262, 312 n.48
ditransitive predicates 8, 17, 19, 20, 69, 77,
100, 105, 106, 116, 120, 143, 144, 147,
152, 174, 185, 188, 230, 264, 266, 268,
269, 275, 281, 290, 304 n.15, 305 n.27
E.
Empty Category Principle 239, 310 n.31
Equidistance 160, 161, 162, 165
existential 59, 60, 69, 103, 106, 115, 118,
162, 163, 164, 165, 167, 168, 169, 218,
224, 227, 229, 232, 235, 272, 278, 290,
303 n.13
closure 151, 168, 169, 170, 187, 196,
200, 206, 216, 276, 284
expletive 29, 30, 157, 184, 227, 291, 295
n.7, 296 n.14, 296 n.17, 309 n.23
Extended Projection Principle (EPP) 290
feature 204, 205, 206, 208, 211, 216,
249, 266, 290, 291, 292, 310 n.26
Extension Condition 201, 210, 307 n.8,
308 n.21
extraposition 31, 33, 34, 36, 149, 204, 304
n.22
F.
feature
checking 155, 156, 157, 158, 159, 160,
161, 162, 163, 164, 166, 167, 172, 175,
176, 177, 178, 179, 181, 182, 183, 184,
186, 187, 191, 193, 202, 203, 204, 205,
212, 215, 247, 291, 305 n.28, 306 n.38,
306 n.39, 306 n.40, 308 n.14, 308 n.15,
309 n.22
interpretable / uninterpretable 155, 156,
157, 158, 159, 163, 172, 181, 182, 202,
203, 204, 205, 208, 209, 210, 289, 291,
292, 304 n.20, 307 n.12
movement 162, 184, 304 n.23
valuation 203, 204, 205, 208, 210, 232,
235, 260, 289, 307 n.12, 308 n.15, 310
n.26, 310 n.29
focus 91, 93, 96, 97, 98, 101, 102, 104,
105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112,
113, 114, 115, 116, 124, 131, 135, 136,
137, 138, 141, 150, 151, 156, 164, 165,
171, 175, 185, 186, 196, 197, 200, 201,
206, 209, 226, 266, 267, 268, 275, 276,
297 n.3, 299 n.22, 301 n.28, 301 n.34,
302 n.38, 303 n.6, 303 n.10, 303 n.11,
317 n.5, 312 n.54
contrastive 45
models 108, 109
scrambling 23, 24, 50, 51, 52, 53, 91,
164, 165 , 175
set 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 302 n.38
freezing 81, 83, 87, 89, 93, 121, 122, 123,
124, 148, 149, 167, 179, 181, 186, 188,
191, 192, 219, 237, 238, 243, 284, 286,
302 n.3
anti-freezing 86, 87, 88, 91, 93, 121,
149, 186, 188, 191, 192, 237, 238, 243,
284, 286
Paradox 89, 94, 152, 188, 192, 236,
238, 248, 281, 282, 285, 301 n.28
Principle 79, 80
functional head 24, 35, 36, 127, 172, 208,
291, 304 n.15, 310 n.27, 312 n.48
G.
General Inversion 11, 12
generic 60, 106, 117, 118, 151, 171, 169,
173, 299 n.24, 305 n.34
givenness
(discourse)-given 38, 91, 93, 96, 104,
105, 109, 110, 112, 113, 117, 123, 176,
227, 266, 268, 276, 278, 279, 301 n.35,
302 n.38, 312 n.54
Constraint 112
Theory 111
goal 156, 157, 158, 159, 160, 206, 208,
212, 289, 291, 307 n.10, 307 n.12, 312
n.52
SUBJECT INDEX 331
Government and Binding 51, 108, 122,
122, 176
H.
head
Parameter 5, 6, 18, 98, 99, 144, 151,
176, 179, 255
Movement 38, 144, 309 n.22
Heavy NP-shift 1, 6
Holmberg’s Generalisation 15, 18, 20, 197,
199, 200, 206, 208, 209, 211, 265, 266,
307 n.3
I.
Inclusiveness Condition 243, 244
incomplete category fronting
see remnant movement
incorporation 223, 224, 239, 240, 253, 273,
275, 300 n.27, 306 n.42, 308 n.21, 310
n.33
intervention effects 207, 208, 307 n.12
intonation pattern
marked 95, 96, 97, 98, 101, 102, 107,
108, 109, 110, 141, 185, 187, 267, 297
n.3
unmarked 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102,
104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 115,
123, 131, 141, 174, 175, 184, 185, 186,
225, 227, 267, 290
IPP-effect 34, 36
island effects 26, 57, 58, 79, 80, 81, 82, 86,
89, 91, 92, 123, 167, 217, 218, 219, 236,
282, 284
L.
Left-Dislocation 84, 85, 298 n.20
Logical Form (LF) 4, 7, 57, 95, 121, 124,
132, 138, 141, 142, 150, 151, 153, 154,
156, 158, 170, 171, 181, 182, 191, 192,
202, 203, 204, 209, 215, 216, 239, 287,
289, 291, 296 n.10, 307 n.10, 308 n.14,
308 n.15, 310 n.33
Long Passive
See Case Conversion
M.
Mapping Hypothesis 151, 167, 170, 171,
173, 196, 197, 211, 215, 230, 285, 290
marginalisation 110, 112, 302 n.43
Merge 122, 154, 155, 156, 157, 174, 176,
179, 180, 181, 183, 184, 185, 186, 188,
203, 204, 221, 224, 225, 226, 228, 232,
233, 244, 247, 264, 271, 275, 277, 289,
302 n.44, 306 n.38, 311 n.36
Minimal Argument Projection Complex
(MAC) 145, 146, 147, 150, 188
extended 221, 222, 271, 282
Minimalist Program 3, 5, 6, 21, 31, 37,
108, 122, 124, 152, 153, 155, 161, 162,
172, 173, 175, 176, 180, 181, 184, 188,
208, 265, 291, 292, 293 n.6, 295 n.10,
298 n. 21, 304 n.17, 305 n.27, 305 n.31,
306 n.38, 306 n.39
Minimal Link Condition (MLC) 6, 156,
160, 161, 166, 182, 183, 184, 212, 232,
233, 246, 286, 307 n.12
Mittelfeld 23, 24, 30, 31, 32, 33, 38, 40,
42, 47, 49, 50, 93, 94, 229, 234, 271, 273,
295 n.8
Move 152, 153, 156, 157, 158, 174, 181,
211, 258, 281
α 122, 124, 125, 126, 127, 129, 131, 143,
145, 174
movement
A-, 10, 11, 125, 126, 127, 128, 129, 130,
131, 132, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140,
142, 143, 148, 204, 288, 293 n.5, 303
n.10, 310 n.27
A-bar, 10, 11, 12, 52, 124, 125, 126,
127, 132, 135, 137, 138, 139, 140, 141,
142, 143, 148, 204, 288, 291, 293 n.4,
303 n.9, 306 n.43, 310 n.27, 314 n.1
Indirect Feature Driven 209
object 161, 162, 166, 183, 281
pronoun 37, 85, 86, 87, 241, 242, 298-9
n.21, 310 n.34
remnant 23, 40, 41, 42, 83
wh-, 12, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 87, 88,
94, 219, 232, 233, 237, 238, 240, 248,
251, 252, 253, 263, 264, 265, 285, 291,
299-300 n.25, 300 n.27, 310 n. 35, 311
n.44
N.
Nachfeld 23, 30, 31
Narrow Syntax 153, 154, 155, 157, 170,
178, 181, 186, 192, 201, 205, 208, 209,
332 SUBJECT INDEX
211, 224, 230, 232, 233, 234, 235, 236,
243, 245, 246, 249, 250, 252, 254, 260,
265, 268, 281, 287, 291, 307 n.13, 308-9
n.21, 311 n.40
negation 10, 11, 73, 77, 103, 195, 197,
207, 208, 212, 281, 308 n.16, 309 n.25
NP-PP splits 81, 87, 89, 90, 93, 283, 285,
299 n.25
Null Theory of Phrase Stress (NTPS) 98,
99, 100, 109, 113, 115, 117, 119, 141,
164, 180, 301 n.32
O.
Object Shift 1, 13, 14, 15, 18, 19, 20, 21,
79, 188, 192, 193, 194, 195, 196, 197,
198, 199, 200, 201, 205, 206, 207, 208,
209, 210, 211, 212, 230, 233, 249, 263,
265, 266, 268, 269, 271, 276, 281, 282,
286, 288, 289, 291, 292, 293 n.6, 298
n.17, 307 n.7, 308 n.14, 314 n.1, 314 n.2
Parameter 266, 276, 278, 289, 290, 291
ordering restrictions 19, 20, 77, 78, 86,
175, 187, 276
P.
parasitic gap 132, 133, 138, 139, 142, 175,
181, 288, 303 n.8, 306 n.43, 314 n.1
partitive construction 285
phase 192, 203, 204, 205, 207, 208, 210,
211, 232, 233, 243, 265, 310 n.27, 310
n.29, 310 n.35
CP-phase 234, 236, 246, 247, 249, 250,
251, 252, 254, 260, 261, 263, 264, 265,
284
vP-phase 205, 233, 235, 249, 250, 252,
254, 254, 260
edge 204, 207, 208, 209, 210, 211, 212,
221, 230, 232, 243, 245, 246, 247, 249,
250, 251, 252, 253, 254, 260, 263, 264,
268, 284, 286, 291, 308 n.16, 310 n.27,
310 n.35, 311 n.37, 311 n.44
Impenetrability Condition (PIC) 204, 205,
207, 232, 264, 311 n.44
phonological
border 205, 206, 211, 265, 266, 267,
268, 269, 271, 272, 273, 275, 276, 277,
278, 279, 289, 290
features 124, 192, 201, 202, 205, 206,
208, 209, 210, 211, 212, 233, 234, 235,
243, 244, 245, 246, 247, 249, 250, 251,
252, 253, 254, 258, 260, 262, 265, 266,
268, 284, 292, 311 n.43, 312 n.51
Form (PF) 57, 95, 121, 124, 125, 150,
153, 154, 155, 158, 175, 180, 181, 191,
192, 201, 202, 203, 204, 209, 210, 224,
233, 235, 236, 243, 245, 246, 247, 249,
250, 252, 254, 258, 260, 261, 262, 263,
264, 265, 281, 282, 287, 292, 309 n.22,
311 n.42, 312 n.48
licensing 258
phrase 95, 178, 179, 255, 256, 257, 258,
259, 260, 261, 263, 296 n.12, 301 n.28,
301 n.29, 311 n.46, 311 n.47
restructuring 45, 46, 48, 254, 255, 256,
257, 260, 262
word
see prosodic word
Principle of Monotonic Mapping 145
Principle of Unambiguous Binding (PUB)
137, 138, 142
Principle of Unambiguous Domination 85,
241
probe 156, 157, 158, 159, 172, 205, 208,
289, 291, 292, 307 n.10, 307 n.12, 312
n.52
pronoun
deficient
see weak pronoun
non-deficient
see strong pronoun
R-, 48, 49, 296 n.16
strong 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 49, 256, 296
n.15
weak 23, 29, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49,
245, 256, 257, 260, 296 n.15, 299 n.22,
312 n.50
R.
reconstruction 26, 141, 142, 172, 179, 181,
306 n.43
Relativised Minimality 161
restructuring
functional 35, 36
lexical 35, 36, 37, 38, 39
infinitive
see coherent/non-coherent infinitive
non-restructuring 36, 37, 39, 74
graded 37
SUBJECT INDEX 333
S.
scrambling passim
specificity
non-specific 89, 103, 199, 206, 209, 227,
228, 229, 272, 309 n.25
specific 60, 69, 89, 103, 104, 115, 116,
151, 196, 200, 206, 211, 219, 227, 228,
272, 276, 303 n.7, 303 n.13, 309 n.25
Spell-Out 21, 125, 129, 158, 181, 182, 201,
202, 203, 204, 205, 208, 209, 210, 232,
233, 234, 235, 236, 243, 245, 246, 249,
250, 252, 254, 260, 264, 310 n.27, 311
n.39, 312 n.48
stress
destressing 109, 111, 112, 114, 115, 116,
117, 119, 120, 123, 150, 167, 191, 302
n.40, 302 n.41, 305 n.29
main
see nuclear stress
nuclear 44, 45, 95, 96, 97, 98, 100, 101,
107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114,
115, 116, 117, 120, 124, 163, 164, 167,
175, 180, 184, 186, 187, 267, 301 n.30,
302 n.38, 302 n.40, 305 n.29
Rule (NSR) 96, 97, 98, 107, 108, 109,
185, 187, 302 n.38
restressing 111, 115, 116
Relocate Main Stress 111, 112, 114,
117
T.
theta-role assignment 4, 5, 40, 175, 176,
180, 181, 182, 184, 226, 302 n.44
Third Construction 34, 300 n.27
topic 10, 38, 82, 87, 93, 171, 172, 173,
185, 186, 187, 200, 209, 226, 230, 266,
278, 279, 282, 284, 299 n.23, 306 n.40
feature 3, 172, 173, 187, 282, 306 n.40
topicalisation 30, 84, 85, 88, 93, 129, 136,
141, 172, 200, 201, 213, 232, 233, 234,
237, 238, 240, 248, 251, 253, 263, 264,
265, 278, 279, 291, 297 n.5, 298 n.20,
299 n.23, 299 n.24
I-, 303 n.11
split 82, 87, 88, 91, 92, 93, 283, 285
VP-, 21, 25, 152, 157, 212, 214, 217,
218, 221, 224, 232, 234, 264, 271, 278,
279, 281, 282, 289
Two Object Position Hypothesis (TOPH)
228
U.
Universal Grammar 143, 153
V.
verbnahe arguments 59, 273, 274, 275,
276, 278, 279, 281
Verb-second constraint 23, 24, 25, 26, 27,
28, 29, 294 n.4, 295 n.6, 296 n.15, 307
n.6
Vorfeld 23, 30, 31, 38, 40, 296 n.15
W.
Wackernagel position 23, 46, 48, 264, 299
n.22, 312 n.50
was-für construction 82, 87, 88, 148, 283,
284, 285, 286, 299 n.25
Webelhuth’s Paradox 132, 133, 135
word order
marked/unmarked
see marked/unmarked intonation pattern
SOV 2, 30, 31
SVO 30, 31
Y.
Y-model 201, 203
Linguistik Aktuell/Linguistics Today
A complete list of titles in this series can be found on the publishers’ website, www.benjamins.com
109	 Chocano, Gema: Narrow Syntax and Phonological Form. Scrambling in the Germanic languages. 2007.
x, 333 pp.
108	 Reuland, Eric, Tanmoy Bhattacharya and Giorgos Spathas (eds.): Argument Structure.  
Expected September 2007
107	 Corver, Norbert and Jairo Nunes (eds.): The Copy Theory of Movement. vi, 386 pp. + index. Expected
August 2007
106	 Dehé, Nicole and Yordanka Kavalova (eds.): Parentheticals. xii, 310 pp. + index. Expected August 2007
105	 Haumann, Dagmar: Adverb Licensing and Clause Structure in English. 2007. ix, 438 pp.
104	 Jeong,Youngmi: Applicatives. Structure and interpretation from a minimalist perspective. 2007.
vii, 144 pp.
103	 Wurff, Wim van der (ed.): Imperative Clauses in Generative Grammar. Studies in honour of Frits
Beukema. viii, 339 pp. + index. Expected June 2007
102	 Bayer, Josef, Tanmoy Bhattacharya and M.T. Hany Babu (eds.): Linguistic Theory and South
Asian Languages. Essays in honour of K. A. Jayaseelan. ix, 282 pp. Expected May 2007
101	 Karimi, Simin, Vida Samiian and Wendy K. Wilkins (eds.): Phrasal and Clausal Architecture.
Syntactic derivation and interpretation. In honor of Joseph E. Emonds. 2007. vi, 424 pp.
100	 Schwabe, Kerstin and Susanne Winkler (eds.): On Information Structure, Meaning and Form.
Generalizations across languages. 2007. vii, 570 pp.
99	 Martínez-Gil, Fernando and Sonia Colina (eds.): Optimality-Theoretic Studies in Spanish
Phonology. 2007. viii, 564 pp.
98	 Pires, Acrisio: The Minimalist Syntax of Defective Domains. Gerunds and infinitives. 2006. xiv, 188 pp.
97	 Hartmann, Jutta M. and László Molnárfi (eds.): Comparative Studies in Germanic Syntax. From
Afrikaans to Zurich German. 2006. vi, 332 pp.
96	 Lyngfelt, Benjamin and Torgrim Solstad (eds.): Demoting the Agent. Passive, middle and other
voice phenomena. 2006. x, 333 pp.
95	 Vogeleer, Svetlana and Liliane Tasmowski (eds.): Non-definiteness and Plurality. 2006. vi, 358 pp.
94	 Arche, María J.: Individuals in Time. Tense, aspect and the individual/stage distinction. 2006. xiv, 281 pp.
93	 Progovac, Ljiljana, Kate Paesani, Eugenia Casielles and Ellen Barton (eds.): The Syntax of
Nonsententials. Multidisciplinary perspectives. 2006. x, 372 pp.
92	 Boeckx, Cedric (ed.): Agreement Systems. 2006. ix, 346 pp.
91	 Boeckx, Cedric (ed.): Minimalist Essays. 2006. xvi, 399 pp.
90	 Dalmi, Gréte: The Role of Agreement in Non-Finite Predication. 2005. xvi, 222 pp.
89	 Velde, John R. te: Deriving Coordinate Symmetries. A phase-based approach integrating Select, Merge,
Copy and Match. 2006. x, 385 pp.
88	 Mohr, Sabine: Clausal Architecture and Subject Positions. Impersonal constructions in the Germanic
languages. 2005. viii, 207 pp.
87	 Julien, Marit: Nominal Phrases from a Scandinavian Perspective. 2005. xvi, 348 pp.
86	 Costa, João and Maria Cristina Figueiredo Silva (eds.): Studies on Agreement. 2006. vi, 285 pp.
85	 Mikkelsen, Line: Copular Clauses. Specification, predication and equation. 2005. viii, 210 pp.
84	 Pafel, Jürgen: Quantifier Scope in German. 2006. xvi, 312 pp.
83	 Schweikert, Walter: The Order of Prepositional Phrases in the Structure of the Clause. 2005.
xii, 338 pp.
82	 Quinn, Heidi: The Distribution of Pronoun Case Forms in English. 2005. xii, 409 pp.
81	 Fuss, Eric: The Rise of Agreement. A formal approach to the syntax and grammaticalization of verbal
inflection. 2005. xii, 336 pp.
80	 Burkhardt, Petra: The Syntax–Discourse Interface. Representing and interpreting dependency. 2005.
xii, 259 pp.
79	 Schmid, Tanja: Infinitival Syntax. Infinitivus Pro Participio as a repair strategy. 2005. xiv, 251 pp.
78	 Dikken, Marcel den and Christina M. Tortora (eds.): The Function of Function Words and
Functional Categories. 2005. vii, 292 pp.
77	 Öztürk, Balkız: Case, Referentiality and Phrase Structure. 2005. x, 268 pp.
76	 Stavrou, Melita and Arhonto Terzi (eds.): Advances in Greek Generative Syntax. In honor of Dimitra
Theophanopoulou-Kontou. 2005. viii, 366 pp.
75	 Di Sciullo, Anna Maria (ed.): UG and External Systems. Language, brain and computation. 2005.
xviii, 398 pp.
74	 Heggie, Lorie and Francisco Ordóñez (eds.): Clitic and Affix Combinations. Theoretical perspectives.
2005. viii, 390 pp.
73	 Carnie, Andrew, Heidi Harley and Sheila Ann Dooley (eds.): Verb First. On the syntax of verb-
initial languages. 2005. xiv, 434 pp.
72	 Fuss, Eric and Carola Trips (eds.): Diachronic Clues to Synchronic Grammar. 2004. viii, 228 pp.
71	 Gelderen, Elly van: Grammaticalization as Economy. 2004. xvi, 320 pp.
70	 Austin, Jennifer R., Stefan Engelberg and Gisa Rauh (eds.): Adverbials. The interplay between
meaning, context, and syntactic structure. 2004. x, 346 pp.
69	 Kiss, Katalin É. and Henk van Riemsdijk (eds.): Verb Clusters. A study of Hungarian, German and
Dutch. 2004. vi, 514 pp.
68	 Breul, Carsten: Focus Structure in Generative Grammar. An integrated syntactic, semantic and
intonational approach. 2004. x, 432 pp.
67	 Mišeska Tomić, Olga (ed.): Balkan Syntax and Semantics. 2004. xvi, 499 pp.
66	 Grohmann, Kleanthes K.: Prolific Domains. On the Anti-Locality of movement dependencies. 2003.
xvi, 372 pp.
65	 Manninen, Satu Helena: Small Phrase Layers. A study of Finnish Manner Adverbials. 2003. xii, 275 pp.
64	 Boeckx, Cedric and Kleanthes K. Grohmann (eds.): Multiple Wh-Fronting. 2003. x, 292 pp.
63	 Boeckx, Cedric: Islands and Chains. Resumption as stranding. 2003. xii, 224 pp.
62	 Carnie, Andrew, Heidi Harley and MaryAnn Willie (eds.): Formal Approaches to Function in
Grammar. In honor of Eloise Jelinek. 2003. xii, 378 pp.
61	 Schwabe, Kerstin and Susanne Winkler (eds.): The Interfaces. Deriving and interpreting omitted
structures. 2003. vi, 403 pp.
60	 Trips, Carola: From OV to VO in Early Middle English. 2002. xiv, 359 pp.
59	 Dehé, Nicole: Particle Verbs in English. Syntax, information structure and intonation. 2002. xii, 305 pp.
58	 Di Sciullo, Anna Maria (ed.): Asymmetry in Grammar.Volume 2: Morphology, phonology, acquisition.
2003. vi, 309 pp.
57	 Di Sciullo, Anna Maria (ed.): Asymmetry in Grammar.Volume 1: Syntax and semantics. 2003.
vi, 405 pp.
56	 Coene, Martine and Yves D’hulst (eds.): From NP to DP.Volume 2: The expression of possession in
noun phrases. 2003. x, 295 pp.
55	 Coene, Martine and Yves D’hulst (eds.): From NP to DP.Volume 1: The syntax and semantics of noun
phrases. 2003. vi, 362 pp.
54	 Baptista, Marlyse: The Syntax of Cape Verdean Creole. The Sotavento varieties. 2003.
xxii, 294 pp.  (incl. CD-rom).
53	 Zwart, C. Jan-Wouter and Werner Abraham (eds.): Studies in Comparative Germanic Syntax.
Proceedings from the 15th Workshop on Comparative Germanic Syntax (Groningen, May 26–27, 2000).
2002. xiv, 407 pp.
52	 Simon, Horst J. and Heike Wiese (eds.): Pronouns – Grammar and Representation. 2002. xii, 294 pp.
51	 Gerlach, Birgit: Clitics between Syntax and Lexicon. 2002. xii, 282 pp.
50	 Steinbach, Markus: Middle Voice. A comparative study in the syntax-semantics interface of German.
2002. xii, 340 pp.
49	 Alexiadou, Artemis (ed.): Theoretical Approaches to Universals. 2002. viii, 319 pp.
48	 Alexiadou, Artemis, Elena Anagnostopoulou, Sjef Barbiers and Hans-Martin Gärtner
(eds.): Dimensions of Movement. From features to remnants. 2002. vi, 345 pp.
47	 Barbiers, Sjef, Frits Beukema and Wim van der Wurff (eds.): Modality and its Interaction with the
Verbal System. 2002. x, 290 pp.
46	 Panagiotidis, Phoevos: Pronouns, Clitics and Empty Nouns.‘Pronominality’ and licensing in syntax.
2002. x, 214 pp.
45	 Abraham, Werner and C. Jan-Wouter Zwart (eds.): Issues in Formal German(ic) Typology. 2002.
xviii, 336 pp.
44	 Taylan, Eser Erguvanlı (ed.): The Verb in Turkish. 2002. xviii, 267 pp.
43	 Featherston, Sam: Empty Categories in Sentence Processing. 2001. xvi, 279 pp.
42	 Alexiadou, Artemis: Functional Structure in Nominals. Nominalization and ergativity. 2001. x, 233 pp.
41	 Zeller, Jochen: Particle Verbs and Local Domains. 2001. xii, 325 pp.
40	 Hoeksema, Jack, Hotze Rullmann, Víctor Sánchez-Valencia and Ton van der Wouden
(eds.): Perspectives on Negation and Polarity Items. 2001. xii, 368 pp.
39	 Gelderen, Elly van: A History of English Reflexive Pronouns. Person, Self, and Interpretability. 2000.
xiv, 279 pp.
38	 Meinunger, André: Syntactic Aspects of Topic and Comment. 2000. xii, 247 pp.
37	 Lutz, Uli, Gereon Müller and Arnim von Stechow (eds.): Wh-Scope Marking. 2000. vi, 483 pp.
36	 Gerlach, Birgit and Janet Grijzenhout (eds.): Clitics in Phonology, Morphology and Syntax. 2001.
xii, 441 pp.
35	 Hróarsdóttir, Thorbjörg: Word Order Change in Icelandic. From OV to VO. 2001. xiv, 385 pp.
34	 Reuland, Eric (ed.): Arguments and Case. Explaining Burzio’s Generalization. 2000. xii, 255 pp.
33	 Puskás, Genoveva: Word Order in Hungarian. The syntax of Ā-positions. 2000. xvi, 398 pp.
32	 Alexiadou, Artemis, Paul Law, André Meinunger and Chris Wilder (eds.): The Syntax of
Relative Clauses. 2000. vi, 397 pp.
31	 Svenonius, Peter (ed.): The Derivation of VO and OV. 2000. vi, 372 pp.
30	 Beukema, Frits and Marcel den Dikken (eds.): Clitic Phenomena in European Languages. 2000.
x, 324 pp.
29	 Miyamoto, Tadao: The Light Verb Construction in Japanese. The role of the verbal noun. 2000.
xiv, 232 pp.
28	 Hermans, Ben and Marc van Oostendorp (eds.): The Derivational Residue in Phonological
Optimality Theory. 2000. viii, 322 pp.
27	 Růžička, Rudolf: Control in Grammar and Pragmatics. A cross-linguistic study. 1999. x, 206 pp.
26	 Ackema, Peter: Issues in Morphosyntax. 1999. viii, 310 pp.
25	 Felser, Claudia: Verbal Complement Clauses. A minimalist study of direct perception constructions.
1999. xiv, 278 pp.
24	 Rebuschi, Georges and Laurice Tuller (eds.): The Grammar of Focus. 1999. vi, 366 pp.
23	 Giannakidou, Anastasia: Polarity Sensitivity as (Non)Veridical Dependency. 1998. xvi, 282 pp.
22	 Alexiadou, Artemis and Chris Wilder (eds.): Possessors, Predicates and Movement in the
Determiner Phrase. 1998. vi, 388 pp.
21	 Klein, Henny: Adverbs of Degree in Dutch and Related Languages. 1998. x, 232 pp.
20	 Laenzlinger, Christopher: Comparative Studies in Word Order Variation. Adverbs, pronouns, and
clause structure in Romance and Germanic. 1998. x, 371 pp.
19	 Josefsson, Gunlög: Minimal Words in a Minimal Syntax.Word formation in Swedish. 1998. ix, 199 pp.
18	 Alexiadou, Artemis: Adverb Placement. A case study in antisymmetric syntax. 1997. x, 256 pp.
17	 Beermann, Dorothee A., David LeBlanc and Henk van Riemsdijk (eds.): Rightward Movement.
1997. vi, 410 pp.
16	 Liu, Feng-Hsi: Scope and Specificity. 1997. viii, 187 pp.
15	 Rohrbacher, Bernhard Wolfgang: Morphology-Driven Syntax. A theory of V to I raising and pro-
drop. 1999. viii, 296 pp.
14	 Anagnostopoulou, Elena, Henk van Riemsdijk and Frans Zwarts (eds.): Materials on Left
Dislocation. 1997. viii, 349 pp.
13	 Alexiadou, Artemis and T. Alan Hall (eds.): Studies on Universal Grammar and Typological
Variation. 1997. viii, 252 pp.
12	 Abraham, Werner, Samuel David Epstein, Höskuldur Thráinsson and C. Jan-Wouter Zwart
(eds.): Minimal Ideas. Syntactic studies in the minimalist framework. 1996. xii, 364 pp.
11	 Lutz, Uli and Jürgen Pafel (eds.): On Extraction and Extraposition in German. 1996. xii, 315 pp.
10	 Cinque, Guglielmo and Giuliana Giusti (eds.): Advances in Roumanian Linguistics. 1995. xi, 172 pp.
9	 Gelderen, Elly van: The Rise of Functional Categories. 1993. x, 224 pp.
8	 Fanselow, Gisbert (ed.): The Parametrization of Universal Grammar. 1993. xvii, 232 pp.
7	 Åfarlí, Tor A.: The Syntax of Norwegian Passive Constructions. 1992. xii, 177 pp.
6	 Bhatt, Christa, Elisabeth Löbel and Claudia Maria Schmidt (eds.): Syntactic Phrase Structure
Phenomena in Noun Phrases and Sentences. 1989. ix, 187 pp.
5	 Grewendorf, Günther and Wolfgang Sternefeld (eds.): Scrambling and Barriers. 1990. vi, 442 pp.
4	 Abraham, Werner and Sjaak De Meij (eds.): Topic, Focus and Configurationality. Papers from the 6th
Groningen Grammar Talks, Groningen, 1984. 1986. v, 349 pp.
3	 Abraham, Werner (ed.): On the Formal Syntax of the Westgermania. Papers from the 3rd Groningen
Grammar Talks (3e Groninger Grammatikgespräche), Groningen, January 1981. 1983. vi, 242 pp.
2	 Ehlich, Konrad and Jürgen Rehbein: Augenkommunikation. Methodenreflexion und Beispielanalyse.
1982. viii, 150 pp. With many photographic ills.
1	 Klappenbach, Ruth (1911–1977): Studien zur Modernen Deutschen Lexikographie. Auswahl aus
den Lexikographischen Arbeiten von Ruth Klappenbach, erweitert um drei Beiträge von Helene Malige-
Klappenbach. (Written in German). 1980. xxiii, 313 pp.
