· The client will have their own internal map of the presenting `problem'
and will have developed a series of behaviours in response to this map.
· These behaviours have been generalised over time.
· Each of the behaviours that the client presents with will have a purpose
and function.
· The purpose and function of each of the behaviours will have been
positive for the client at some point in time.
· Behaviour is precisely that; it is not the identity of the person and the
person is always more than their behaviour.
· Behaviours are contextually dependent, therefore there will be a time
when they don't `do' the behaviour, i.e., the solution already exists.
· The client will communicate their internal landscape or `map' in ways
that are both conscious and unconscious.
· The purpose of therapy is to increase choice for a client and facilitate
them to a more resourceful state than they currently have access to.
· A small change in the structure of the client's reality can result in a
major change in their subjective experience.
· The therapist can't not project their perception of the client onto the
client.
· The main focus of therapy is towards outcomes.
Each of these assumptions recognises the subjectivity of a client's experi-
ence and assists the therapist to respect and acknowledge the subjective
reality that their clients present in therapy.
The map is not the territory ± the subjectivity of
experience
Korzybski's `the map is not the territory' underpins neurolinguistic
psychotherapy as a therapeutic model that works with the subjectivity of a
client's experience. The structural components of the NLP communication
model (Figure 1.1) presuppose that there are a set of ®lters that directly
in¯uence the internal representation of the external world. Although the
communication model is thought to be unique to NLP, similar concepts are
described in the work of Gerhardt (2004, p. 24), who has researched the
developing brain of an infant:
Unconsciously acquired, non-verbal patterns and expectations have
been described by various writers in different ways. Daniel Stern (1985)
calls them representations of interactions that have been generalised
(RIGs). John Bowlby calls them `internal working models'. Wilma
Bucci calls them `emotional schemas' (1997). Robert Clyman calls them
`procedural memory' (1991).
Founding principles of NLP 19
However these ®lters are developed, they will each affect the behavioural
responses of an individual based on the individual's subjective experience.
Within the NLP communication model, it is recognised that a person
determines their construct of the external world via a series of ®ltering
processes: deleting portions of experience determined by the ability to handle
abstract data and a preference for absorbing information in manageable
chunks; generalising on past learned experiences and behavioural responses;
and distorting the event by interpreting it in a way that ®ts the internal
world.
The basis for the ®ltering of information is found in Korzybski's (1948)
review on general semantics where he proposes that deletion is an affective
disturbance causing people to fail to recognise the intention, goal or mean-
ing of information that they receive from another individual, `Disturbances
of the semantic reactions in connection with faulty education and ignorance
must be considered in 1933 as sub-microscopic colloidal lesions' (p. 20).
The neuroscienti®c component of this is supported in Rothschild's (2000)
work on trauma. Neural synapses connect both cognitive and somatic
memory to the brain, but Rothschild states that `nothing is ®xed about the
Results
Internal
Represent-
ations
Pictures
Sounds
Feelings
Smells
Tastes
Self-talk
FILTERS
Delete
Distort
Generalise
Time/Space
Matter/Energy
Language
Memories
Decisions
Metaprogrammes
Values &
Beliefs
Attitudes
Behaviour
E
X
T
E
R
N
A
L
E
V
E
N
T
State
Figure 1.1 NLP model of communication
20 Founding principles of NLP
sequence of synapses . . . . New learning is achieved through the creation of
new synapse strings, or adaptation of existing ones. Forgetting . . . is the
result of disuse of synapse strings ± as the saying goes, ``use it or lose it'''
(p. 19). She continues by connecting this to the NLP concept of distortion:
`It is also, for better or worse, through the alteration of synapses that
memory can be distorted' (p. 20).
Additionally, there are a number of subjective factors within an indivi-
dual's personal construct that directly in¯uence how information is ®ltered ±
time/space/matter/energy, language, memories, decisions, metaprogrammes,
values, beliefs, attitudes. These will be considered in depth throughout the
relevant chapters in the book. The ®lter of time/space/matter/energy sup-
ports the ability to reason and make logical one's experiences, i.e., con-
sciousness. Einstein's theory of special relativity, whereby life is viewed in
terms of a four-dimensional world, proposes that it is through experiences
that two people will observe the same thing differently ± an optical illusion
of consciousness.
Kovelman (1998, p. 13) elegantly presents this in an interpretation of
consciousness:
In order to get anywhere in our four-dimensional world one needs to
know where he is at a particular moment, and where he wishes to be in
the next. Hence, location and place are determined by the relative
placement of at least two points in space. Without a here, we cannot go
there. Without a there, we will never arrive here. Further, the neuro-
logical system of an observer interacts with externally perceived objects
in order to create an inner experience of places and objects existing in
four-dimensional space-time. It is our neurological apparatus which
allows us to perceive imperceptibly discrete, small movements occur-
ring in time and space, as continuous and smooth. It is our brain, in
here, which interprets sensory information out there, and determines
how we understand and see our physical world.
In the context of psychotherapy, one then has to question the concept of
`now'. How does the therapist come to know the `now' that exists for a
client? How can the therapist determine that the `now' that they think exists
for the client is not, in fact, their own interpretation of their `now' in
relation to how they have interpreted the client's `now'?
Haley (1993) summarises how Erickson utilised the concept of working
with space and time to facilitate change in his clients. He recognises that
Erickson's `strategic therapy' was often about using hypnotic trance: `trans-
forming a severe symptom into a milder one, or one of shorter duration, he
can think of shifting an interpersonal problem into an advantage' (p. 18). An
example of how Erickson used this in a family context is given by Haley
(1993). Erickson begins by explaining how he would have seen a family
Founding principles of NLP 21
together initially to `lay down a foundation' (p. 32) of the family dynamic
and would use the chairs that each member of the family sat in as spatial
indicators of the family roles: `that spatial compartmentalisation usually
prevents the others from barging into the conversation, and it forces the
others unmercifully to take a more objective view' (p. 33). He would ensure
that he was also able to send `members in and out of the of®ce' (p. 33). He
was then able to use the spatial relationships within the family as a way of
enabling a client to see things from the perspective of another family
member. `I carefully move father from his chair and put him into mother's
chair . . . I might put mother in the child's chair, at least temporarily.
Sometimes I comment on this by saying, `As you sit where your son was
sitting, you can think more clearly about him' (p. 33). He summarises the
aim of this family work as follows: `the family grouping is being rearranged,
which is what you are after when changing a family' (p. 33).
Perceptions of reality
We are what we think.
All that we are arises with our thoughts.
With our thoughts we make the world.
(The Buddha, quoted by Byrom, 1976)
One of the de®nitions of NLP is the study of subjective experience; it holds
within it the notion that we all have differing perceptions of reality. We use
these perceptions of reality to project our lived experience onto the outside
world, leading us to the concept of `Perception is Projection'. Neuro-
linguistic psychotherapists often reference Jung as the in¯uence behind this
notion, yet historically Freud, as an in¯uencer of Jung, already assumed
that judgement is the rejection of stimuli. He postulated that perception is
more than just reception, rather it already consists of a judgement that
functions as a barrier against stimuli. In her biography of Klein, Kristeva
(2001, pp. 172±173) builds on this in her summary of Klein's work on
negation and symbolism:
That is what is re¯ected in the mechanism of Freud's Verneinung: the
patient can name sexual stimulation or confess to it only if he denies it.
(On: `You ask who this person in the dream can be. It's not his mother.'
We emend this to; `so it is his mother.') (emphasis in original)
Bateson, who has strongly in¯uenced the systemic and cybernetic aspects of
NLP, picked up on this and utilised the Greek philosophical concepts of
Creatura and Pleroma in Jung's `The Seven Sermons to the Dead'. This
idea accepts that meaning and organisation are projected onto the world,
22 Founding principles of NLP
with Creatura de®ning the perceived world, subject to difference, distinction
and information, and Pleroma referring to the world that is undiffer-
entiated by subjectivity.
The concept that a person creates reality based on the need to project
their subjective experience onto the outside world is common across many
different schools of psychotherapy. It naturally links to Einstein's theory on
special relativity and Heisenberg's (1932) principle that the conception of
objective reality is based in uncertainty. Heisenberg determined that any
reality will be dependent on the position from which it is observed. The
electron can act as a wave or a particle depending on the point of view, and
whenever reality is observed, the observer will always in¯uence it.
Both psychoanalytic and analytic psychotherapy practice hold similar
concepts to the neurolinguistic notions of perception and reality repre-
sented in the work of Freud and Jung, and at the opposite end of the
therapeutic spectrum within person-centred therapy there exists the notion
of Rogers' `Perception is reality'. Tudor and Worrall (2006) comment that
`language is not so much a device for reporting one's experience, but a
de®ning framework for it. If we agree that perception is reality . . . then the
language we use to describe that perception is also reality' (p. 40).
Irrespective of how the notion of `Perception is Projection' has come
about, the neurolinguistic therapist has a responsibility to hold in mind the
subjectivity of their own and their client's experience. They are as likely to
project their reality onto a client as the client is to project their reality onto
their own subjective experience of the world.
Within this concept of `Perception is Projection', I include Aristotle's
(384±322 BCE) principles of cause and effect ± All causes of things are
beginnings; that we have scienti®c knowledge when we know the cause; that to
know a thing's existence is to know the reason why it is. Within a neuro-
linguistic framework, this principle presupposes that a client needs to be at
cause to enable change to happen. One could say that a client is already at
cause because they have made the ®rst step in seeking assistance through
therapy, yet others would hesitate on this point, and postulate that if the
client were truly at cause, they would have resolved the issue that has
brought them to therapy, therefore they must be at the effect of their
subjective experience.
Presuppositions in the context of neurolinguistic
psychotherapy
Erickson, Perls and Satir operated from within a series of belief structures
that later became adopted as the presuppositions of NLP, i.e., useful
assumptions that aid the communication process. Dilts (in Dilts & Delozier,
2000, pp. 1001±1002) divides the presuppositions into two components, that
of `The Map is Not the Territory' and `Biological Interactions are Systemic
Founding principles of NLP 23
(Cybernetic) as Opposed to Linear'. Bodenhamer and Hall (1999, pp. 64±65)
divide the presuppositions into four components, linking with different
aspects of the model for communication. Both of these de®nitions set the
presuppositions within a non-therapeutic frame, and I have considered them
here in the light of psychotherapeutic process.
1. The `map' is not the `territory' ± people respond to their own
perceptions of reality
As already acknowledged, clients will present with a subjective map of their
reality in the `here and now'. The map is a representation of the client's
deep structure after it has gone through the ®ltering processes of deletion,
distortion and generalisation. The map, if carefully considered, will hold
clues to what is going on at a deep structure level.
Erickson was particularly adept at noticing clues within the map that
gave an indication of what might be occurring in the deeper unconscious
structures of a client. An example cited by Rosen (1982) in My Voice Will
Go With You refers to a client that has consulted 26 doctors, none of whom
could ®nd anything wrong with her; she was eventually referred to a
psychiatrist. When Erickson investigated what had happened with each of
the doctors, she responded, `Well, I always sneezed when they started to
examine my right breast' (p. 190). On hearing this, Erickson immediately
called a gynaecologist and arranged for a full examination of the client's
breasts, suggesting that she had a lump in her right breast. When she was
examined, a malignancy of her right breast was found and treated.
The role of the therapist is to relate to the presented map in a way that
engenders useful change for the client. This may be by the client gaining
more `knowing' about their own internal landscapes, or it may be for the
client to choose to change their map in response to what they know about
the maps of others based on their projected reality. Or, as demonstrated
here with Erickson, it may be about noticing what is present in the map
that provides clues to deeper processes.
2. The meaning of a communication to another person is the
response it elicits in that person, regardless of the intent of the
communicator
Each therapist holds 100% responsibility for their communication with
clients, in the same way that clients hold 100% responsibility for their
communication with the therapist. Much of Satir's work in family therapy
was to enable individuals to accept responsibility for their communication.
She was a proponent of the view that all people are interdependent with
each other, and she worked with individuals to increase their self-esteem
and to enable them to gain understanding of the point of view of other
24 Founding principles of NLP
people. She did this by enabling her clients to alter their perspective
through acting out the different roles within the family. This then resulted
in a change in the individual's perception of themselves through the eyes of
the interdependent `other'. The meta-model, as it was elicited by Bandler
and Grinder through modelling Satir, facilitated clients to reconnect with
the deep structure of their experience. In doing this, Satir enabled them to
create more choice in their communications to the outside world, and at the
same time reframed their internal subjective experience by reconnecting
them to the source of their disabling constructs.
3. No response, experience, behaviour is meaningful outside of
the context in which it was established, or the response it elicits
next
A therapist will observe many meanings that the client holds within their
subjective experience. If the therapist were to `try them on' in their model of
the world, with a different set of life experiences, a different set of ®lters and
no gestalt formed from an experience, they could seem almost meaningless.
And even as the client presents them in their current reality, the meaning
that the client applies to the event that they are referring to will be con-
textually tied to their reactions to the event as it ®rst occurred. Gerhardt
(2004, p. 143) comments:
From an adult perspective, `abuse' tends to mean the more gross and
visible examples of maltreatment such as hitting and injuring children,
or violating them sexually. It is much harder, I think, for some adults
to appreciate that being told you are a `stupid waste of space' or being
left unattended or alone are also traumatic for dependent children. The
essential aspect of trauma is that it generates doubts about surviving ±
either as a body, but equally as a psychological self. As one survivor
put it: `I had to believe I was hurt and hated myself because I was so
bad, and so all these years I hurt and hated myself.'
I experienced a client who attended a series of sessions with me,
always referring obliquely to the `thing that she couldn't tell me as it
was so awful'. I paced her model of the world through these sessions,
developing a relationship of trust whereby she could disclose this
most `awful thing'. Her `awful thing' was dyslexia and her experiences
of being isolated, picked on and marginalised at school had created
such a gestalt of abuse and shame that it took her some time before
she could entrust me with that information.
Founding principles of NLP 25
4. Mind-and-body form a cybernetic system
Much of Erickson's work utilised the mind±body system based on his own
auto-hypnotic experiences of mind±body communication. He included this
self-experience in his clinical work with patients and would communicate
with one component of a person's physiological or emotional make-up to
directly in¯uence another aspect. The rationale behind this has been
advanced through the work of Chopra. Chopra (1989) brought the prin-
ciples of Ayurvedic medicine into western thinking and introduced three
concepts of the mind±body system:
1 that intelligence is present everywhere in our bodies
2 that our own inner intelligence is superior to any that we try to
substitute from outside
3 that intelligence is more important than the matter of the body, as
without the intelligence the body would be redundant.
Chopra's (1989, pp. 41±42) de®nition of the intelligence of the mind±body is:
Every cell in the body is programmed by its DNA, for example, to divide
at a certain rate, producing two new cells after the mother cell splits in
half. Like everything else regulated by our inner intelligence, this process
is not purely mechanical. A cell divides in response to its own internal
need, combined signals generated from cells around it, the brain, the
faraway organs that are `talking' to it via chemical messengers.
Pert (1997) has added to Chopra's work with her studies on the emotion-
carrying neuropeptides. Her research has demonstrated that the core limbic
brain structures that are the basis of our emotions ± the amygdala, hippo-
campus, and limbic cortex ± contain up to 95% of neuropeptide receptors.
She provides a tongue-in-cheek interpretation of this ®nding in relation to
psychoanalysis:
If we accept the idea that peptides and other informational substances
are the biochemicals of emotion, their distribution in the body's nerves
has all kinds of signi®cance, which Sigmund Freud, were he alive
today, would gleefully point out as the molecular con®rmation of his
theories. The body is the unconscious mind!
(p. 141)
These concepts will be explored further in Chapter 4, where I discuss the
neurological aspects of neurolinguistic psychotherapy in detail.
26 Founding principles of NLP
5. The processes that take place within a person and between
people and their environment are systemic. Our bodies, our
societies and our universe form an ecology of systems and
subsystems all of which interact with and mutually influence
each other and a pattern of associations (anchors) may be set
up through a single trial experience in contrast to linear
repetitions
This presupposition is embedded in the concept of operant conditioning
(Skinner, 1961). The principle accepts that all behaviour is generated via a
cause/effect system of either positive or negative reinforcement and is the
basis of behaviour modi®cation programmes. Skinner shows that a random
behaviour that results in a reward will be repeated to see if the same reward
can be elicited. This is the basis of generalised behavioural responses in
NLP. Once the behaviour is set, the strategy that generated the behaviour
in the ®rst instance often disappears from consciousness. It is thought that
positive stimuli such as pleasure, emotional contact or physical contact will
increase the likelihood of the behaviour being replicated, and pain or
emotional and physical withdrawal will reduce the chance of the behaviour
being replicated.
By understanding how a client has sequenced their representation sys-
tems, resulting in speci®c behaviours, it is then possible to change the
sequence to facilitate a different result. O'Hanlon (2000) has developed
Erickson's work by formulating a model of Possibility Therapy that is
covered in depth in his book Do One Thing Different. He proposes that if
clients either change one aspect of the `doing' of the situation, or one aspect
of the `viewing' of the situation, then the problem will change.
O'Hanlon and Weiner-Davis (2003, pp. 130±131) list eight ways of
changing the `doing' or `viewing' of the problem or complaint as it is
perceived by the client:
· change the frequency or rate of the performance of the complaint
· change the timing of performance of the complaint
· change the duration of the performance of the complaint
· change the location of the performance of the complaint
· add (at least) one element to the complaint pattern
· change the sequence of elements/events in the complaint pattern
· break the complaint pattern into smaller pieces or elements
· link the complaint performance to the performance of some burden-
some activity.
A mother of a 12-year-old boy consulted me for therapy for her son.
He had been diagnosed with Tourette's syndrome some time ago and
Founding principles of NLP 27
she was ®nding his behaviour increasingly dif®cult. When the young
man arrived for therapy, he was uncommunicative, sullen in appear-
ance and avoided eye contact or meaningful dialogue. He reluctantly
told me a little about his experiences in the family; he felt that he was
given everything that he wanted and apart from being irritated by his
little sister, could not see that there was a problem. He was having
dif®culties at school, was being picked on because of his spontaneous
tics and vocal eruptions and was being increasingly excluded for bad
behaviour. After a time, we found some areas that he did want to
share with me, and he became quite animated as he told me about a
24-hour rowing competition that he was entering for charity. He was
proud that he was preparing for it by getting up an hour earlier each
day and practising on his rowing machine before going to school. I
suggested to him that he should get up an hour earlier than this, and
use the time to `do' his tics and vocal eruptions each time he pulled
the row bar. This was to be the only time that he could do this, and
not at any other time, and he could do it as much as he liked. In fact
the faster he rowed, the ®tter he would become and the more times he
could `do' his tics and vocal eruptions. Two weeks after this session
his mother called to say that he did not want to return for a further
session as he did not consider that I had helped him. He was doing his
tics more than ever now as he understood that I had given him
`permission' to do them as often as he wanted. The tics were now
getting on his nerves and he wanted to stop. One evening he took a
hammer and, every time he did a tic, he hit his leg with the hammer.
His symptoms stopped completely from that evening and he has
remained symptom-free.
I saw him fairly recently, ®ve years after this therapy. He has grown to be a
delightful young man, and fondly recalls how mad he was with me for not
sorting him out and how he managed to `®x' himself. In essence, I changed
one aspect of his `doing' of the problem, and with some hypnotic sugges-
tion, facilitated him to a place where he could no longer `do' the original
complaint.
6. We respect each person's model of the world ± no individual
map is any more `real ' or `true' than any other. All maps have
some validity
Erickson was a master at ®nding new and creative ways of demonstrating
respect for his client's world view and utilising it to therapeutic advantage.
28 Founding principles of NLP
In the example given below by Haley (1993, p. 28), he enables his client to
move to a position of useful activity within the therapeutic community.
Erickson's willingness to accept working within metaphors applies not
only to verbal interchange but even to persons who live a metaphoric
life. Such a style of life is typical of schizophrenics, and Erickson
assumes that with a schizophrenic the important message is the meta-
phor. For example, when Erickson was on the staff of Worcester State
Hospital, there was a young patient who called himself Jesus. He
paraded about as the Messiah, wore a sheet draped round him, and
attempted to impose Christianity on people. Erickson approached him
on the hospital grounds and said, `I understand you have had an
experience as a carpenter?' The patient could only reply that he had.
Erickson involved the young man in a special project of building a book-
case and shifted him to productive labour.
In the discussion on constructivism and the subjective nature of reality in
Chapter 2, it is essential that therapists demonstrate respect for clients'
model of the world, even if the model of the world is creating dif®culty for
the therapist or those around the client. How easily a therapist can do this
will be determined by their own willingness to operate from within con-
structivist principles, accepting that even as the observer a therapist is likely
to in¯uence the system. What do therapists hold within their own unwritten
rules and expectations that might affect how another person's reality is
perceived?
7. Not all interactions in a system are on the same level. What
is positive on one level may be negative on another level. It is
useful to separate behaviour from `self ', to separate the
positive intention, function, belief, etc., that generates the
behaviour from the behaviour itself
Bateson refers to `I' as the ultimate nominalisation or abstraction beyond
any objective form of meaning. As soon as a description is attributed to a
person's identity it becomes a major in¯uence on their subjective experi-
ence. Korzybski (1948, p. xxix) wrestled with the concept of identity and
held the view that identity was non-existent except in the minds of philos-
ophers and the mentally ill:
These `philosophers', etc., seem unaware, to give a single example, that
by teaching and preaching `identity', which is empirically non-existent
in this actual world, they are neurologically training future generations
Founding principles of NLP 29
in the pathological identi®cations found in the `mentally' ill or mal-
adjusted . . . whatever we may say an object `is, it is not,' because the
statement is verbal, and the facts are not. (emphasis in original)
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy would propose accepting the territory of the
individual and assume that people are much more than their behaviour.
Within a programmatic model of therapy, if therapy builds on the work of
Dilts and effects change to facilitate the formation and reconnection of an
identity that is beyond the presenting problem, then the client may well be
setting up future problems with the newly forged identity, particularly if the
client has secondary gain at identity level from the existing problem.
I recall a student of mine on a practitioner course in the late 1990s.
She became quite distressed towards the end of the programme; she
was concerned that `I am doing it again ± I always end up saying
``Look at me, poor K ± attention-seeking, I always end up attention
seeking''.' K was wrestling with a behaviour that she was holding at
identity level. She worked through the rest of her course to deal with
this. She formulated a more ecological identity for herself and in her
mind, and integrated the attention-seeking behaviour. A couple of
years after this event, she returned to see me for therapy. Again, she
was wrestling with her need for attention and had tried a series of
processes with herself to deal with it, all to no avail. She worked
through a number of issues and I did not see her again for another
couple of years.
She has returned recently into therapy and this time has learnt to accept
that her behaviour is just that, her identity is what it is, and that to try and
change either would keep her in the same loop of `insanity' that she has
spent 30 years trying to get out of. The client is no longer working at
identity level and attributing importance to this; she has learnt to live with
who she is, accept her own behaviours and ®nd new choices just by `being',
beyond any need to label her identity.
8. At some level all behaviour is (or was at one time) `positively
intended ' and people make the best choices available to them,
given the possibilities and capabilities that they perceive
available to them from their model of the world
As originally coined by Rogers (1951, p. 491) in his theory of the person-
ality, `Behaviour is basically the goal-directed attempt of the organism to
30 Founding principles of NLP
satisfy its needs as experienced, in the ®eld as perceived'. Tudor and
Worrall (2006, p. 88) have expanded on this within the ®eld of person-
centred therapy, referring to `bizarre, destructive or self-defeating'
behaviour as being `an expression of [the client's] tendency to actualise'.
Haley (1993) had also identi®ed this in Erickson's work, providing an
alternative perspective to that offered through psychodynamic therapies,
noting that `Erickson relabels what people do in a positive way to encour-
age change' (p. 34). Haley acknowledged that Erickson used an aspect of
the dif®culties that a client presented with in therapy as a way of improving
functioning of the individual. `Rather than assuming there is something
hostile in the unconscious that must be brought out, he assumes there are
positive forces there that need to be freed for the person's future develop-
ment' (p. 34). This sponsoring or acknowledging of the positive attributes
of unuseful aspects of a person's behaviour is seen in second-generation
Ericksonian therapists who have brought Gilligan's (1997) theory on self-
relations into the arena of neurolinguistic psychotherapy.
To return to K, mentioned above: she has now learnt to accept her need
for attention and has turned this into how she can give attention to herself.
She has considered how she might give attention to and validate her own
feelings of being isolated and alone when her husband is away. She has
considered how she might like to receive attention when he returns home
and which speci®c behaviours she could adopt that are most likely to
attract positive behaviours from him. The client has now moved to `cause'
in her life choices and is no longer `at the effect' of her environment or her
internal negative responses.
9. The processes that take place within a person, and between
people and their environment, are systemic. Our bodies, our
societies and our universe form an ecology of systems and
subsystems all of which interact with and mutually influence
each other
Bateson (2000) held the view that the mind operates within an ecological
system, and that where ideas are introduced to it, it is like introducing seeds
to an environment. The seeds can only root, grow and ¯ourish if the system
is supportive. Therefore any change work that is undertaken with a client
needs to be considered in the light of the wider system. To offer any change
to a client without considering the ecological perspectives of the client's
existing state and patterns of behaviour may result in the client creating a
bigger problem than the one they originally had. Alternatively the client
may bring to consciousness underlying repressed processes that the existing
behaviour had kept submerged, i.e., the notion of secondary gain whereby
the client may develop more complex problems if they resolve the present-
ing behaviour.
Founding principles of NLP 31
10. It is not possible to completely isolate any part of a system
from the rest of the system. People cannot not influence each
other and people respond to their own perceptions of reality
Most therapists understand the surface-level aspects of this presupposition
and acknowledge that the client will communicate in ways that enable
understanding. I would prefer to consider this presupposition from two
perspectives, the ®rst being its intended meaning, that clients will ®nd ways
to communicate their internal landscape; the second to look at a more
complex process of communication and how Watzlawick interpreted this
presupposition before it was adopted by NLP.
Clients often use creative and unconscious ways to relay their internal
landscape in therapy. O'Hanlon (2002, p. 41) demonstrates this presuppo-
sition in practice where he refers to a young girl that has consulted him for
therapy but is `agitated and . . . terri®ed to talk about it'. A dialogue
continues for some time between O'Hanlon and the girl, until ®nally he says
`Okay, I know this may not make sense, but what I want to say can be
understood somewhere deeply inside. You can tell me and not tell me at the
same time.' This created a double bind for the client in that she was enabled
to keep her secret, while at the same time telling her story to the therapist
unconsciously, which she promptly did through her hands. When she had
®nished and her hands had stopped moving, `she opened her eyes and
smiled, obviously relieved. ``There,'' she said, ``you were right. I told you
and didn't tell you at the same time. My hands told you the whole story of
my abuse. Now I can tell you in words.'''
There are many ways that therapists can enable clients to communicate,
and by respecting their map of the world, and holding true to this presup-
position, with suf®cient rapport and linguistic skill, it is possible to work
with the deeper subjective experience of clients. Watzlawick's (1978) view of
this presupposition utilises Plato's in¯uence on Perls to consider the
possibility that the communication that therapists have with clients could
border on manipulation and abuse of power. He summarises his rather
passionate view on this to say: `One cannot not in¯uence. It is, therefore,
absurd to ask how in¯uence and manipulation can be avoided, and we are
left with the inescapable responsibility of deciding for ourselves how this
basic law of human communication may be obeyed in the most humane,
ethical and effective manner' (pp. 10±11).
This then takes me to the subjective experience of reality as a therapist.
How can a therapist recognise when their own subjective map is creating
complexities within a client that the therapist is remaining blind to? This
raises questions concerning the role of supervision and how it might be used
to understand the subjective experiences that a therapist might bring to
their work. It also raises questions regarding the need or not of personal
therapy for a therapist working in a more brief way with clients. Both
32 Founding principles of NLP
supervision and personal therapy provide an opportunity for a neurolin-
guistic psychotherapist to explore their own subjective reality and become
aware of their potential blind spots.
11. Systems are `self-organising' and naturally seek states of
balance and stability. There are no failures, only feedback
NLP is frequently portrayed as a rapid form of change work, and I know of
some therapists who have been berated by their colleagues for taking longer
than a few hours to complete therapy with a particular client. In some of
the cases that are relayed in Erickson's work with clients, he has worked
with clients over a number of years.
Erickson also viewed failure of a client to respond to therapy as being
feedback on the client's current situation. In Rosen (1982), Erickson relates
the story of an alcoholic who wanted to stop drinking. Rather than focusing
on the drinking, Erickson works strategically with the client and identi®es
resources within the client's life that he could bring into the therapeutic
relationship. The client is married and he and his wife have purchased a
holiday home that they have made suitable for long visits during the
summer. The client refers to the level of freedom that he experiences at his
holiday home. `There's no telephone. We're ten miles from civilisation. It's
beautifully furnished. Every kind of food and booze that can be brought is
up there. And every summer my wife and I spend about two or three weeks
there in the nude, really enjoying life' (p. 128). Erickson utilised this as a
potential resource and suggested to the client a strategy for ensuring that he
could not access alcohol while spending time at the holiday home. The
client's response to this was, `Doctor, I think I'm mistaken about wanting to
quit drinking' (p. 128). Erickson always used feedback with his clients
during therapy to assess their willingness to change and the effect that his
therapeutic approach was having at different points in time.
Identifying any secondary gain that a client may have with regard to
letting go or stopping their existing pattern of behaviour is one key element
of assessing the client's willingness to change. In Chapter 8 I consider
additional processes that enable the assessment of a client's willingness to
change.
12. The law of requisite variety ± the part of the system with
the most flexibility of behaviour will be the controlling or
catalytic element in the system
Grounded in cybernetics and systems theory, this presupposition accepts
the principle that the more ¯exible in communication the therapist is, the
more likely they are to direct in¯uence over the client's system. In therapy,
Founding principles of NLP 33
it is important to consider the notion that the client has already exerted an
inordinate amount of unconscious control over retaining their present state
and circumstances; otherwise they would not be seeking external assistance
to deal with the problem. There are a number of processes within the
methodology of NLP that, if taught to a client, will enable greater choice
within their own system, including any that facilitate dissociation from the
current state and association into a future desired state.
13. People already have (or potentially have) all of the
resources they need to act effectively
This presupposition formed the basis of Erickson's work, with him working
from the principle that not only do people have all the resources that they
need, but also people are not broken and therefore do not need ®xing. By
resources I refer to internal resources rather than those in the external
world. Reframing plays a part here, in that something that a client may
perceive as a problem, if reframed appropriately, can actually be utilised as
a resource that aids recovery and growth of the individual: as in the case of
K, who learnt to use her previous problem of attention-seeking as an
effective calibrator of her internal state, so that when she needed to give
attention to herself, her internal mechanism would communicate this need
to her.
Rothschild (2000, pp. 88±92) suggests that we have ®ve major classes of
resources: functional, physical, psychological, interpersonal and spiritual.
When related to Dilts's neurological levels, functional resources would be
those held at environmental levels, and would include factors such as
contracts for therapy. The client is encouraged to work within a contract
that includes contact outside of therapy or other factors that might act as a
protection mechanism when working through trauma, e.g., sleeping with a
phone next to them at night after being burgled. Physical resources are
those held at a behavioural level and within the physical body such as
utilisation of resource anchors or taking up new physical activities that aid
resolution of the problem. Psychological resources relate to those held at
capability, value and belief levels. These include the innate psychological
strengths that an individual has, but also those resources that have up to
now been used as defence mechanisms. Rothschild (2000) proposes that
®nding the opposite of a defence mechanism creates choice and balance as
well as a potential resource. An example that she gives is that of dissoci-
ation, whereby she considers that dissociation can be a useful strategy for
dental work, yet if left `unchecked dissociation of that calibre can cause
problems in other areas of daily functioning. What is needed . . . is to help
the client learn to control his dissociation, maintaining the ability to do it
when it is useful . . . and being able to stay present when that is safer or
more useful' (p. 90).
34 Founding principles of NLP
Interpersonal resources are those derived at identity level and involve
individuals with whom a person identi®es, in the here and now or from the
past. Spiritual resources are those that involve belief beyond identity, such as
belief in a higher power. Rothschild raises a concern about the therapist's
countertransferential response where the therapist's belief system is contrary
to that of the client. By working in a constructivist way, and recognising
one's own prejudices as a therapist, this risk can be minimised and clients
can be enabled to utilise whatever spiritual resources are appropriate for
them at a given time.
14. The `wisest' and most `compassionate' maps are those that
make available the widest and richest range of choices, as
opposed to being the most `real ' or `accurate'
The idea that all communication and work with clients should increase
choice and, more importantly, that a client will always leave in a better state
and with more choices than when they arrived, is not new to neurolinguistic
psychotherapy. Bateson (1972, p. 487) proposes that, `As therapists, clearly
we have a duty. First, to achieve clarity in ourselves; and then to look for
every sign of clarity in others and to implement them and reinforce them in
whatever is sane in them.'
Rather than focusing on `why' things are the way they are with clients, the
question of `how' things are and `how' they could be different is a process
that inevitably expands the map and frame of reference for a client. Bringing
solution-focused work into the therapeutic relationship with a client creates
an environment where choice is inevitably opened up for the client. The basic
tenets of solution-focused therapy as outlined by O'Hanlon and Weiner-
Davis (2003, pp. 32±50), which were initially developed from Erickson's
solution-focused hypnosis, are:
· clients have resources and strengths to resolve complaints
· change is constant
· the therapist's job is to identify and amplify change
· it is usually not necessary to know a great deal about the complaint in
order to resolve it
· it is not necessary to know the cause or function of a complaint to
resolve it
· a small change is all that is necessary; a change in one part of the
system can effect change in another part of the system
· clients de®ne the goal
· rapid change or resolution of problems is possible
· there is no one `right' way to view things; different views may be just as
valid and may ®t the facts just as well
Founding principles of NLP 35
· focus is on what is possible and changeable, rather than what is
impossible and intractable.
15. Individual skills are a function of the development and
sequencing of representational systems
Dilts (in Dilts & Delozier, 2000) suggests that it is the sequencing and
utilisation of representational systems, i.e., the ability to process information
in visual, auditory and kinaesthetic systems, that enables a person to get the
results that they get, and it is the ability to access and utilise these that is the
basis for generating positive life experiences. He also utilises this presup-
position to suggest that as individuals have the ability to utilise all represen-
tational systems, it is possible to model the sequencing and order of the
representational systems within an inherent model, and install this in
someone else. From a therapeutic perspective, this would encourage the
development of outcomes, identify the sequencing of representational
systems within the outcome and assist the client to install this in themselves.
Bandler (1985, p. 7) rather provocatively said:
Most people don't actively and deliberately use their own brains. Your
brain is a like a machine without an `off' switch. If you don't give it
something to do, it just runs on and on until it gets bored. If you put
someone in a sensory deprivation tank where there's no external
experience, he'll start generating internal experience. If your brain is
sitting around without anything to do, it's going to start doing some-
thing, and it doesn't seem to care what it is. You may care, but it
doesn't.
How often does a person actually think about what their brain is doing? It
has been demonstrated through neurological research that with guidance
and support it is possible to re-programme brains to achieve different
results. Neurolinguistic therapy offers a series of processes to clients
whereby they can start to have more control over how they choose to use
their brains and thereby affect the results that they are getting. Korzybski
(1948, p. 62) had already alluded to this in his work Science and Sanity,
commenting that we are `linguistically prevented from supplying the
potentially ``rational'' being with the means for rationality'. He likens the
human nervous system to that of animal functioning and suggests that most
people live in a state of `arrested development or regression, and, in general,
disturbances of some sort' (p. 62).
In essence, what Korzybski is referring to is that the more people try to
rationalise and control unconscious urges through ordered processes, the
more likely they are to end up with some form of suppressed or repressed
neurosis or behavioural disturbance. Hence Erickson's desire to work only
36 Founding principles of NLP
with the unconscious and to make existing patterns of behaviour acceptable
in some reframed way.
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy as a therapeutic model
The basic principle of NLP is the ability to model speci®c behaviours and
replicate this into other contexts. Neurolinguistic psychotherapists have
taken the fundamental principles of NLP and adapted them to work effec-
tively in a therapeutic context. The subjectivity of an individual's experience
acts as the basis for any change work that is offered within psychotherapy
and in the next chapter I consider the subjective process within construc-
tivism, hypnotherapy and a wider psychotherapeutic frame.
Founding principles of NLP 37
Chapter 2
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in
context
The ®rst [rule] was never to accept anything as true if I did not have
evident knowledge of its truth; that is, carefully to avoid precipitate
conclusions and preconceptions, and to include nothing more in my
judgements than what presented itself to my mind so clearly and
distinctly that I had no occasion to doubt it.
(Descartes, trans. 1991, I, 120)
This chapter explores the principles of constructivism as a philosophical
base and a therapeutic approach. Neurolinguistic psychotherapy could ®nd
a natural home in a range of therapies, but it has historically been associ-
ated with constructivism. More recently, particularly with the increasing
interest in the work of Erickson as it is portrayed by Rossi, Haley,
O'Hanlon and Gilligan, more and more neurolinguistic psychotherapists
are experiencing greater resonance with their work within the hypnopsy-
chotherapy world. By bringing in the original work of Erickson, Satir and
Perls and the various in¯uences on their own particular approaches in
therapy, I continue an exploration of the relationship of neurolinguistic
psychotherapy to other psychotherapy approaches. From this position, I
then present a model of the mind for neurolinguistic psychotherapy that
incorporates an alignment between the conscious and unconscious.
Constructivism as a philosophical base
Constructivist therapies have emerged out of the principles of phenomen-
ology, which require that the therapist put aside what they know of the
world to then discover it through a clean set of ®lters. The therapist's role is
to make no assumptions about what they might ®nd and certainly hold no
judgement about matters as they are discovered in therapy. Rather than
analysing a client and making meaning of the client's world as it is presented,
a therapist operating from a phenomenological base will work with the
description of the client's world as it is verbally and non-verbally portrayed
in the session.
The approach for the majority of neurolinguistic psychotherapists aligns
closely with the work of Kelly and personal construct therapy. Kelly was a
contemporary of Piaget and it was their combined thinking that led to the
development of constructivist therapies. Personal construct therapy assumes
that we have a direct impact on our world and literally create it as we
perceive it; in the words of Kelly (1991, p. 50), `a person's processes are
psychologically channelized by the ways in which he anticipates events'.
Here Kelly has reconnected with a philosophical perspective that has
been debated since Socrates (470±399 BCE) encouraged his students to
utilise his method to form a conclusion, only to point out that since he had
reported no facts, the students must have known the conclusion all along. The
purpose then of working from a constructivist principle is to assist a client
to ®nd their own solution, and assumes that the solution already exists in
the client's psyche.
Constructivist therapies were strongly in¯uenced by Piaget and
Schro
Èdinger during the second half of the twentieth century. Schro
Èdinger's
(1958) view that Every man's world picture is and always remains a construct
of his mind and cannot be proved to have any other existence was developed
by Piaget in his perspective on genetic epistemology during a series of
lectures that he delivered at Columbia University in 1968. Piaget held the
view that everything changes from day to day, that nothing stays ®xed and
that `the current state of knowledge is a moment in history, changing just as
rapidly as the state of knowledge in the past has ever changed, and, in many
instances, more rapidly' (Piaget, 1968, p. 1). Both of these views are present
within neurolinguistic psychotherapy and are seen through the concept that
our `now' as it exists is based on how we are currently viewing the world. A
person will always ®lter their experience of the world according to their
own internal set of personal constructs that have been developed through
time. These constructs will change from moment to moment, providing an
opportunity for change to occur within a short space of time. When a
person is tired, emotional or particularly stressed their experience of their
current reality will be different from the reality that they perceive when they
are elated, relaxed or joyful. Clients may also present their construct of
`now' as a set of beliefs or emotions that were formed at a young age and
have become part of their construct of `now' with their past being lived in
the present reality. Alternatively, some clients may present their `now' as a
future desired state and focus all their attention on how things `might' be.
The purpose of neurolinguistic psychotherapy is to utilise this knowledge of
the current construct for the positive bene®t of the client, assisting the client
to achieve greater neurological, psychological and emotional choice.
Recognition of the complexity of internal constructs was the basis of
Korzybski's research into general semantics, Science and Sanity, which later
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in context 39
went on to inform the work of the pioneers of NLP who were keen to
understand the epistemological perspective of Korzybski. Korzybski coined
the term `neurolinguistics' as a way of coding information and made
reference to the world outside of us as being `what is going on', and the
world before it is experienced. It is the way that we then make sense of the
world that is the basis of constructivist thinking.
The aim of constructivist therapies is to facilitate a client to gain greater
insight into their own subjective experience and from this to rede®ne old
constructs or develop new constructs and ways of being to enable greater
personal choice. Building on the concepts that Piaget has presented, it
would seem sensible to consider all therapeutic interventions as being
determined by the client's immediate construct of now. Neurolinguistic
psychotherapy concerns itself with facilitating a client to develop greater
congruence within their subjective experience. As demonstrated in the
communication model (Figure 1.1), there is no such thing as reality, only a
construct of our perceptions based on our internal ®ltering mechanisms.
Milton Erickson
Bandler and Grinder (1975) identi®ed Erickson as a master at working with
the subjective experience of a client, who utilised all his observational skills
to identify the many varying subjective perceptions that a client might make
at any given moment. Erickson refers to these as `double takes' that are
based on `totally different experiential associations' (p. vii). On occasions
he recognised that a client might have several differing perceptions of their
experience and he began to utilise language patterns that could create a
range of perceptions that were frequently contradictory to enable com-
munication at a number of different levels, notably confusing the conscious
mind to then communicate directly to the unconscious mind. His high levels
of sensory acuity in recognising the different forms of verbal and non-
verbal communication enabled him to work with the multiple facets within
a personality to therapeutic success.
An example of this is given in Rosen's (1982) description of how
Erickson worked with alternative levels of meaning with a young girl who
had freckles. She was becoming increasingly distressed and wanted to
change her appearance as she was being mercilessly teased at school. This
was having a direct effect on her behaviour and she was very angry with
everybody around her. At her ®rst session with Erickson she appeared as a
very angry young lady, obviously `ready for a ®ght' (p. 154). Rather than
trying to pacify or sympathise with her, Erickson responded by giving her
something to ®ght about, accusing her of being a thief. This demonstrates
Erickson entering her constructed reality: she wanted to ®ght, so he gave
her something to ®ght about. An argument ensued between Erickson and
the girl until ®nally Erickson told her that he was aware of precisely what
40 Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in context
she had stolen. Erickson then utilised her negative perception of her
freckles, giving them a different meaning. He told her that she had stolen
`cinnamon cookies, cinnamon buns, cinnamon rolls ± and you spilled some
cinnamon on your face ± you're a Cinnamon Face' (p. 154).
Erickson successfully worked with and validated his client's current and
past knowledge state. She hated everyone and he made sure that she took
her hate and anger and placed it on him ± he didn't try to change her
existing construct by bringing to mind her anger towards those around her
and its relationship to her freckles and the teasing she had experienced at
school. Rather, he opted to reframe her constructed meaning of the freckles
into something that she held in her construct as a positive reference, i.e.,
cinnamon. He later commented on his work with her `You also ought to
learn that it's not what you do, it's not what you say, but what the patient
does, what the patient understands' (p. 154).
An epistemological viewpoint
Constructivism as a philosophical principle is closely connected to epistem-
ology, which is found within the theories presented by Piaget (1968). Purist
epistemology would determine that we will consciously only consider a
piece of knowledge as it exists in the moment. When the knowledge that we
have is not held within the conscious mind but is unconscious, it will have
limited impact on our current reality. This raises questions, then, for the
notion that all our behaviours are unconsciously driven. An alternative
perspective is that we create our current reality out of our past experiences
held within the unconscious. As the different philosophical tenets of NLP
are considered there is a spectrum of perspectives, ranging from those who
would say there is only the construct of the client's now and any historical
in¯uences are immaterial in determining how you work with the client's
subjective reality, through to those who would adhere more closely to
Piaget's genetic epistemology, which recognises that it is our entire history,
social upbringing and associated psychological thought patterns that in¯u-
ence our current reality.
The therapeutic models of Erickson, Satir and Perls align themselves
closely to the epistemological perspective of Piaget. The client, as they
present in the now, has a social, psychological and emotional history that
has in¯uenced their current subjective reality. The role of the therapist
includes the modelling or `mapping' out of the internal subjective reality of
the client, including all the historical `landmarks' that have facilitated their
experience of now as it has presented in the therapeutic space. When I
explain this process to students it reminds me of my high school biology
®eld trip. The purpose of the `mapping' of a particular landscape to study
marine life was to view the microcosmic world of the rock pool without
disturbing any of the intricacies of its ecosystem. We learnt to notice where
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in context 41
each of the various organisms was, and what was required to sustain
equilibrium within the pool. It was only when we had mapped this in its
entirety that we could immerse ourselves in studying the ®ner aspects of an
anemone, or sea urchin. In working with clients, as soon as the therapist
starts to make meaning of a client's presented reality, or offers an inter-
vention for a perceived block or problem, the constructed reality of a client
will change. These interventions then become part of the client's represen-
tation of their reality.
The main focus of Erickson's work was to map the internal world of his
clients. He would understand their world suf®ciently so that he would know
that if he presented a certain symbol or idea, the client's unconscious,
through a process of free association, would make meaning of the associ-
ation and access their own internal resources to resolve the problem.
Returning to the example of the young girl with freckles, he assisted her to
access a positive reference for an alternative meaning for her freckles, and
created an association between cinnamon cookies and freckles, rather than
teasing, anger and freckles.
Roots within constructivist therapies
Personal construct therapy
As I identi®ed at the beginning of this chapter, there is a considerable
correlation between neurolinguistic psychotherapy and Kelly's personal
construct therapy. Kelly was in¯uenced by Piaget's views on constructivism
and developed a model of therapy that recognised that there are a variety of
ways in which any event can be viewed. He also worked from a principle that
people acted `as if' something were possible or true, whereby they would
hold a certain perception in their mind of the world, and then would act out
this hypothesis through a series of personal constructs, whether for the
positive or the negative. This resonates well with neurolinguistic psycho-
therapy, which operates from a belief that the unconscious mind cannot
determine the difference between pretend and reality, therefore if a client
could act `as if' something were possible, then their neurology would ®nd a
way to make it become possible. Both Erickson and Satir assumed that the
client already had the solution to their presenting problem and would often
encourage clients to tell their `story' as if they had already resolved it. Satir
did this in her use of chairs work, where she would get her clients to act as if
they were being the alternative family member with whom the con¯ict had
occurred and encouraged them to speak as if they were that person, and then
respond from their own perspective, thereby altering their constructed
reality.
Personal construct therapy is also similar to neurolinguistic psycho-
therapy in that it operates from a position of enabling people to change
42 Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in context
their individual constructs by recognising and working through their
patterns of `stuckness'. The question `how else might you achieve this?' in
goal-setting within neurolinguistic psychotherapy provides an ideal
environment for the client to move beyond the presenting problem and
consider alternative solutions. Also, the use of alternative perspectives such
as `how will someone else know you have achieved this?' encourages a client
to dissociate from their current reality and consider their situation from an
alternative, yet to be recognised, reality.
Where neurolinguistic psychotherapy and personal construct therapy can
be seen to differ is the notion that within personal construct therapy, the
therapist will work through a series of therapeutic theoretical constructs
that enable understanding and inclusion of the client's constructs, which
includes the trying out of unverbalised hunches ± which could be perceived
as `mind-reads' for neurolinguistic psychotherapists. A fundamental aspect
of neurolinguistic psychotherapy is that the therapist may only offer to the
client something that has already been presented from their existing reality.
By testing out hunches or intuitive interpretations, there is a risk that this
then becomes part of the client's reality, when it was not there previously,
setting up the possibility of false memories.
There is also a range of therapeutic interventions within personal con-
struct therapy that mirror and support the work of the neurolinguistic
therapist. A process known as `laddering' considers the relationship between
personal constructs and the reason why they were constructed in the ®rst
place. This is similar to the notion of `chunking' in neurolinguistic
psychotherapy, whereby if the therapist chunks up on a speci®c behaviour
the client will eventually end up at a place where there is only positive
intention for the behaviour and the client utilises this as a reframe to change
their existing behaviour. This positive intention will have been the reason
why the behaviour was initially created.
`Pyramiding' involves pursuing information in the opposite direction and
moving constructs that are held at identity, value or belief level down to
capability or behavioural level by asking the questions `how?' or `what?'
rather than `why?'. Within neurolinguistic psychotherapy this process
occurs with the use of the meta-model, and is seen within Satir's work
whereby she would ask her clients how they knew they were not loved,
rather than accepting their mind-read that they were not loved. She recog-
nised that if she asked them why they felt this way they would reply in a way
that kept them at effect and this would stop them reconnecting with the
original source of their belief.
The `ABC' model of questioning takes clients through the varying poles
of their constructs, which, from a neurolinguistic psychotherapy perspec-
tive, mirrors the work that is done in identifying the ecology of given
behaviours including the identi®cation of any secondary gain. In identifying
secondary gain within neurolinguistic psychotherapy, the client is asked:
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in context 43
· What will happen if you achieve this/do this?
· What will happen if you don't achieve this/do this?
· What won't happen if you achieve this/do this?
· What won't happen if you don't achieve this/do this?
Similarly to the `ABC' model, the client is connected with any of their
existing constructs that may prevent them achieving resolution of the
presenting problem, and accessing a solution state.
Existential therapy
Existential therapy is a similar therapy to personal construct therapy. The
basic premise of existential therapy is that the self does not exist, and that
people move through life having to create `our-self' on a daily basis. The
basic assumptions of existential therapy are that there are four dimensions
to being:
· physical, which includes the environment and physical presence of an
individual
· social, which concerns how people relate in social interactions
· psychological, which includes cognitive relationship to the world
· spiritual, which incorporates one's relationship with the unknown.
In considering these four dimensions from a neurolinguistic viewpoint,
there is a direct relationship to the notion of the four bodies: the physical,
emotional, mental and spiritual. Within neurolinguistic psychotherapy the
aim of the therapy is to assist integration and alignment with each of the
four bodies, and to ensure that a similar emphasis is given to each. Con¯ict
or even disintegration of the self can occur if too much emphasis is given to
a particular aspect; for example, a client may be too connected to an
emotional construct and therefore spend too much energy focusing on
resolving this particular issue, or they may dwell on it too much to the
exclusion of the remaining bodies.
Other aspects within existential therapy that are parallel to those within
neurolinguistic psychotherapy include working to gain different interpreta-
tions of emotions, beliefs, talents and recollection of memories through
processes that involve reframing.
Influence of hypnotherapy
Although there are many different approaches and utilisations of hypnosis
and hypnotherapy, it is mainly Erickson's work that in¯uences neuro-
linguistic psychotherapy.
44 Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in context
As the notion of the unconscious was debated in the late nineteenth
century, and a split developed between those that pursued behaviourism
through the work of Pavlov and Salter and those that continued with
analysis and the development of Freud's work through Jung and Adler, a
third stream emerged that developed hypnosis further into the twentieth
century. Erickson found an af®nity with the work of therapists such as
Charcot and continued to research hypnosis during his time at Worcester
State Hospital.
The key elements of Ericksonian therapy that have been adopted by
neurolinguistic psychotherapy stem from the personal beliefs that
supported Erickson's work. Erickson believed in the notion of ecology,
and much of his therapy involved working with the system. This may be the
family system, whereby he would encourage behavioural change in the
family and not just the individual with the presenting problem. Sometimes
he would talk directly to the `problem' person, while inducing trance in
another member of the family who would be sitting at the opposite end of
the room. On other occasions he would involve patients in the `cure' of
another; for example, he would arrange for a patient that had social
dif®culties to take a walk near the home of another patient who was seeking
a new relationship. He also viewed his own role as being integral to the
therapy and would often include personal re¯ection or disclosure in his
metaphors.
What neurolinguistic psychotherapy has also taken out of Erickson's
work is his ability to observe the most minute elements of detail in his
clients and utilise these to therapeutic advantage, and out of this came the
presupposition that you can't not communicate. He accepted the principle
of resistance and, as I have alluded to in Chapter 1, he utilised this in three
different ways. He also recognised that people were naturally goal-oriented
and that by using a process of association his clients were enabled to access
their own internal resources to aid problem resolution.
Historical roots of gestalt therapy
Bandler's very early work that in¯uenced the development of NLP was
based on his modelling of Perls. Bandler studied much of Perls's linguistic
patterns through papers that he had written as well as some video record-
ings of his case material. Within the history of the development of gestalt
therapy, there are other parallels with neurolinguistic psychotherapy that
are not as apparent in the historical perspective of NLP as it is presented
today from the original modelling work of Bandler and Grinder.
Gestalt therapy emerged from an increasing level of interest in phe-
nomenology and existentialism, and Perls, with his wife, Laura, built on the
work of Wertheimer, Kohler, Koffka and Lewin and brought gestalt therapy
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in context 45
forward by publishing his ®rst work on Ego, Hunger and Aggression in 1969.
A number of misconceptions built up around gestalt therapy at the time,
particularly the perception that it was confrontational in approach.
Although originally designed for group work, it now has its place as a
respected therapy for both individuals and groups.
Perls recognised that individuals are constantly developing and will devise
behaviours that are continually self-organising and self-actualising. He also
believed that people do not need ®xing, which forms the basis of the pre-
supposition that `People work perfectly, we are all executing our strategies
perfectly, but the strategies may be poorly designed and ineffective.'
The processes that are common to neurolinguistic psychotherapy and
gestalt therapy are found particularly in the notion of working with
polarities, or opposing and con¯icting aspects of the personality. This pro-
cess brings to mind what is missing for the person, and recognises, much in
the way that Jungian analysis does, that one's psyche is made up of polar
opposites, the purpose being to create equilibrium between these opposite
parts. Parts therapy and resolution of core belief structures are discussed
further in Chapter 7. Interruptions and avoidances are also important to
the neurolinguistic therapist; often it is what is not said that gives a clue to
the deeper structure of the client's subjective reality. Clients will miss out
portions of their sentence as they relay their story in therapy, or they may
divert and present a different chain of thought to avoid answering a speci®c
question. Resistance too, has its place in gestalt therapy, as discussed in
Chapter 1, and within neurolinguistic psychotherapy the role of the ther-
apist is to utilise rapport and hypnotic language patterns to bypass con-
scious resistance and access deeper unconscious resources to aid problem
resolution.
Finally, I want to consider Bandler's description of the attitude required
in NLP, that of `wanton curiosity and experimentation'. This notion was
derived from gestalt therapy that advocated experimentation and tech-
niques. Parlett and Hemming (1996, p. 203) refer to this as working with a
client by `undoing or deconstructing . . . a ®xed gestalt [and] experimenting
with a novel solution'. It is from this model that the notion of perceptual
positions or chairs work was derived. This has similarities to the role work
of Satir who encouraged her clients to adopt the different roles within their
family to gain a different perspective on their situation.
The position of cybernetics within systemic and family
therapy
Cybernetics or systems theory would say that no matter how complex a
system, if you start to understand the laws of the system, it is possible to
change any aspect of the presenting problem by changing any part of the
46 Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in context
existing system. Systems theory in itself looks at the structure of the system
and how it might be changed, whereas cybernetics considers more the
functions within different aspects of the system.
Satir was an advocate of systems therapy and her work often involved
changing either the structure of the system or the functions of individuals
within the system. Systemically she might change how people viewed their
experience; for example, her work on self-esteem, where she related to the
`pot' of self-esteem. She encouraged families to refer to how much their
behaviour towards each other added to or took away from the `pot'. At a
functional level, Satir would consider the roles within the families that
she worked with and how, by changing these, the family system would
then change. Evidence of her systemic work is found in the linguistic
structure of the meta-model where she challenged the family rules of
deletions, distortions and generalisations. She would use language pat-
terns to assist a client to reconnect with the original source of their
distorted beliefs and then reframe this so that the client could change
their constructed reality.
Bateson's (2000) view of cybernetics brought a depth to systems theory
that had hitherto been missing within neurolinguistic psychotherapy. His
view that difference is the analogue of cause, i.e., the difference that makes
the difference, ensures that NLP holds within it suf®cient understanding of
systems theory to enable patterning and re-patterning to be considered a
major component of neurolinguistic psychotherapy. This principle con-
siders that if change is introduced anywhere within the system, this will
cause change within the entire system.
Modelling from other therapies
NLP would claim that it is modelled from the linguistic behavioural
strategies of Erickson, Satir and Perls, and it is worth considering the
relationship between neurolinguistic psychotherapy and many of the other
therapies that exist today. Commencing with the three therapists originally
modelled, Erickson was a psychiatrist before he developed his work in
hypnotherapy and had also completed a Masters degree in psychology
while at the same time studying for his medical degree. Satir started her
therapy career with alcoholics and the homeless, and it was from this work
that she developed an interest in family therapy. Perls, a neuropsychiatrist,
studied the work of Freud and Reich; however, along with his wife, he
preferred the philosophies of existentialism and phenomenology which later
became strong in¯uences in his development of gestalt therapy.
Each of these therapists will have been in¯uenced during their early
training and clinical years by a range of therapies, and within the next
section I provide a brief summary of the main modalities of psychotherapy
and some of the parallels between the approaches.
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in context 47
The influence of psychodynamic therapies on
neurolinguistic psychotherapy
Psychoanalysis
Historically, both Erickson and Perls spent time learning from psycho-
analysis. Perls had analysis with a number of Freudian analysts including
Reich; and Erickson, during his medical psychiatry training, would have
encountered the work of Freud, Adler and Jung. Satir was strongly in¯u-
enced by the family therapists of the day, who would also have studied
analytic approaches to therapy. Many neurolinguistic psychotherapists
prefer to see their therapeutic work at the opposite end of the spectrum to
analytic approaches and more closely aligned to briefer models of therapy,
yet the work of Freud, Jung, Adler and Klein shows some considerable
parallels in philosophical approaches as well as methodologies.
Freud was intrigued by the notion of hypnosis and, in the mid-1880s,
studied hypnosis with Charcot. He experimented with this for a while with
Breuer and they published their Studies on Hysteria in 1895. Following this
work he developed his own theories of the unconscious and its role in
repressing memories that were too painful for the conscious rational self to
deal with. The main principle of Freud's (1904) theory at this point was that
the mind consisted of three states: the unconscious, the preconscious and the
conscious. He later coined the terms, Id, Ego and Superego as represen-
tatives of these states. From a neurolinguistic perspective there is a general
acceptance of the unconscious and the in¯uence that this has in driving our
behaviours. Some neurolinguistic psychotherapists have adopted the notion
that the mind also consists of three aspects, or `bodies': the unconscious, the
conscious and the higher conscious.
The unconscious mind would parallel Freud's unconscious in that this
state of mind is outside of conscious awareness, and Freud would say it was
`inaccessible' to consciousness. Through the use of hypnotic processes
inherent in neurolinguistic psychotherapy, it is possible to gain direct com-
munication with the unconscious. The conscious mind parallels Freud's
conscious or Ego state. From a neurolinguistic perspective the conscious
mind is the mind that makes rational our life experiences, and is the
determinant of free will. From a Freudian perspective, the Ego is the part
of the personality that maintains a relationship between the internal and
external reality. Freud's Superego is determined as the part of the mind that
holds the opposites of good and bad. Within neurolinguistic psychotherapy
this would parallel the concept of the higher conscious mind, for some, and
the collective consciousness for others, although there is no notion of
reproach or reward ± rather unconditional acceptance. Freudian analysis
also recognises that clients will present with a series of defence mechanisms,
some of which are recognised within neurolinguistic psychotherapy. Some
48 Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in context
of these are anathemas; others have parallels with processes that are
embedded within neurolinguistic psychotherapy. The mechanisms that
Freud (1926) postulated to have the closest parallels to neurolinguistic
psychotherapy are as follows.
· Repression. Repression is dealing with unwelcome or distressing uncon-
scious thoughts by repressing them. The notion of repression is
recognised as one of the prime directives of the unconscious mind (see
Chapter 7) within neurolinguistic psychotherapy, suggesting that we
will repress memories and emotions as a protection mechanism.
· Projection. Projection is well recognised as being a process whereby we
will attribute negative or disturbing aspects of ourselves onto others,
and contrary to Freud's notion, we will also project the more positive
or pleasing aspects of ourselves onto others.
· Introjection. Introjection within analysis theorises that we will emulate
aspects of others including our parents and early value systems.
When viewed from a neurolinguistic perspective this is seen as a client
holding as their own some of the negative aspects of those around
them, often represented when working with splitting or `parts' of the
personality.
· Isolation. Isolation as determined by Freud is the ability to dissociate
from feelings, most often at times of distress when the cognitive
strategies to deal with it more appropriately, for example in distressing
situations as a child, are not present, which may be seen as a
dissociative state or, in more severe circumstances, the creation of
`parts'.
· Negation. Freud's notion of negation to avoid acknowledging the less
positive aspects within a personality sits well with the presupposition
that we can't not communicate and is analogous with the notion that
something must be present in our neurology in order for us to negate it
and deny its existence.
· Rationalisation. Rationalisation operates from the principle that we
®nd false reason for our negative behaviours, and although neuro-
linguistic psychotherapy would prefer to deny that negative behaviour
exists, it does hold the presupposition that every behaviour has a
positive intention, even the most abhorrent. The role of therapy there-
fore is to enable clients to recognise the positive intent behind unuseful
behaviours and ®nd different ways to gain the same bene®t through a
different behavioural response.
· Conversion. Conversion recognises that individuals will often somatise
psychological distress into physical disorders such that they do not
have to deal with the distress, which may be seen in the neurolinguistic
notion of secondary gain, or have parallels with the mind±body
connection.
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in context 49
Kleinian therapy
Klein (1952) was an advocate of Freud and continued daily analysis for much
of her life. Although some of her work is considered controversial, particu-
larly her analysis of her children, she does bring some notions to analysis that
have parallels with those in neurolinguistic psychotherapy. She recognises
that much of our behaviour is driven by goals; however, she assumes that our
aggressive tendencies will provide the main focus for our actions. There is a
model within neurolinguistic psychotherapy that works with a client's values,
the primary aim being to enable a resolution of the `away from' aspects of
their values, i.e., the values that underpin our motivation and behaviour and
where we are motivated by avoiding negative stimuli.
Klein's (1932) work also focused on the role of the mother and the
infantile anxieties that a person may have as a result of the mother's
neuroses. In neurolinguistic psychotherapy these are picked up in a minimal
way in the history of a client's early `imprint' period, with the mother
playing only a minor role in formulating the way that the personality has
developed. Klein also brings in an additional component to the develop-
ment of the personality at the imprint stage, through her work on projective
identi®cation, where the child creates a relationship with the mother for his
inner world to be experienced by the mother. This projection enables the
child to project into his mother something that he does not like about
himself. Within a therapeutic context this is realised as the expression of
experiences that the patient cannot hold within their linguistic structure; the
patient therefore projects them into the therapist.
Jungian analysis
Jungian analysis, on the other hand, works with the theory of opposites. In
terms of the theory of parts therapy and the notion of understanding the
higher intent of a given behaviour, which is usually dichotomous to the
identi®ed behaviour, there are strong parallels between Jungian analysis and
neurolinguistic psychotherapy. Also familiar to the neurolinguistic psycho-
therapist is the work of Jung (1971) on archetypes that has so strongly
in¯uenced Myers (1962) and the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI)
personality pro®le. This model is based on two speci®c principles, ®rst our
orientation to the world through our tendency to extrovert or introvert our
energy, and second how we function in the world, i.e., how we perceive
information through either our senses or our intuition, how that informa-
tion affects our state, whether this is associated in feeling, or dissociated in
thinking and logic, and then how we adapt our response according to our
perceptions and internal state.
Jung's theory would support the notion that our behaviour is predomin-
antly goal-oriented, although he would say that it would be inappropriate to
work with this until the second half of our life, as it is only then that we are
50 Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in context
ready to `individuate' and develop the ability to truly introvert. Prior to this
point the majority of our behaviours are designed for extroversion, focusing
on career, family, growth and development.
Adlerian therapy
Adler studied with Freud at the same time as Jung did, and for a period of
time was a great advocate of Freud. Adler became president of the Vienna
Psychoanalytic Society and the honeymoon period of his relationship with
Freud ended in 1911, as both became aware that their views were sub-
stantially different. Adler (1992) was considerably more goal-oriented than
Freud and preferred to view people within a wider perspective that recog-
nised the goal-oriented nature of the human psyche. The speci®c element of
Adler's work that I would like to bring to mind here is his work on `life
tasks'. He identi®ed three major life tasks ± work, friendship and love ±
and this was added to by Dreikurs, who included `getting on with oneself'
and `relationship to the cosmos'. In the work on values within neuro-
linguistic psychotherapy, and the `wheel of life', there are parallels between
these ®ve `life tasks' and the values areas of work/career, friends/family,
intimate relationships, personal development and spirituality. As clients are
enabled to work in these areas, they are encouraged to resolve `away from'
motivation within values and develop `towards' motivation to enable
ful®lment of life tasks (Lazarus, 2006; Robbins, 1991).
Humanistic influences on neurolinguistic
psychotherapy
Humanistic psychotherapies consist of a range of different modalities and
for the purposes of this book, I refer the reader to two speci®c approaches
that have some parallels with neurolinguistic psychotherapy.
Transactional analysis
The ®rst modality is that of transactional analysis (TA). TA theory accepts
the notion of three drives: the `mortido drive' or death instinct, the `libido
drive' or sexual instinct, and `physis', the generative force that drives our
behaviour towards growth and ideally towards perfection. Within this, TA
considers the paranoid position of `I'm OK, you're not OK', the depressed
position of `I'm not OK, you're OK', and the schizoid position of `I'm not
OK, you're not OK'. The purpose or goal in TA is to move to a position of
`I'm OK, you're OK' as identi®ed by Berne (1957). This mirrors the goal of
neurolinguistic psychotherapy which is aimed at achieving positive outcomes
and a sense of ful®lment or integration of the client that is directed towards
their goals. Within TA, the therapist works with the ego states of adult,
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in context 51
parent and child, offering interventions at behavioural, social, historical and
phenomenological levels. Each of these corresponds to one of the differing
evolutionary levels within neurolinguistic psychotherapy, those of the
physical, emotional, mental and spiritual bodies. It is in this concept and
also the idea of working through different projected aspects of the persona
that the closest links with neurolinguistic psychotherapy exist. An additional
perspective within TA, which is not harnessed as fully as it could be within
neurolinguistic psychotherapy, is working with projections within the thera-
peutic relationship ± including the concept of projective transference,
recognising the in¯uence that Klein has had on TA. In this regard, Rycroft
(1995, p. 173) states that `splitting of both ego and object tends to be linked
with denial and projection . . . parts of the self are disowned and attributed
to objects in the environment'. Bollas (1987, p. 202) would say `in order to
®nd the patient we must look for him within ourselves'.
Person-centred therapy
Within person-centred therapy, Rogers' (1974) theory of personality mirrors
that of neurolinguistic psychotherapy in terms of the map not being
representative of the territory, and recognises that an individual's perceptual
®eld is their reality. Person-centred therapy operates from an almost identi-
cal position to neurolinguistic psychotherapy: that the person has within
them all of the necessary resources for change and self-understanding if they
are encouraged in an environment that is facilitative to psychological
growth. Over and above this, Rogers also operated from a position of
positive regard for his clients, which, although not taken to this extent,
mirrors at some level the belief in neurolinguistic psychotherapy that it is
important to respect the client's model of the world. Some of the additional
theoretical principles within person-centred therapy provide parallels
between the idea that a client will have a series of values that they move
either towards or away from, and theories within neurolinguistic psycho-
therapy on values and motivation direction. What is different within person-
centred therapy is that the values are predetermined around a series of
assumed beliefs; for example, that it is important to move the client away
from living up to the expectations of others, and to move the client towards
accepting and valuing himself or herself. Within neurolinguistic psycho-
therapy, the drivers for values are determined by the client and their
subjective experience that is based much more in the now.
Behavioural modelling and relationships in cognitive
and behavioural therapies
Modelling within the construct of NLP is found within the presupposition
If one person can do something then it is possible to model it and teach it to
52 Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in context
others. To model something and be able to replicate it has applications in
performance enhancement, and in a therapeutic setting would have bene®ts
in enabling a client to model their existing unuseful strategy; by changing
the mental syntax, beliefs and values, physiology or context in which they
operate the behaviour, the model can then be changed. It is also possible to
model how and when the client does not `do' the problem and to replicate
this behaviour across contexts. McDermott and Jago (2001, p. 54) identify
the key elements that make this possible within therapy:
· rapport and attentiveness
· an attitude of curiosity and learning
· the identifying of patterns and sequences
· breaking down the patterns and sequences into their constituent parts
· modelling effective patterns.
Lawley and Tompkins (2006, p. 35) de®ne therapeutic modelling as follows:
`The therapist uses the client's patterns of behaviour . . . to construct a
model of the client's internal processes. The therapist attempts to ®gure out
how the structure of the client's subjective experience so consistently gets
them the results they get.'
Cognitive therapy
Beck's cognitive therapy (1976) is similar to neurolinguistic psychotherapy,
and operates from three assumptions:
· the person is seen as an active agent who interacts with his or her world
· this interaction takes place through the interpretations, inferences and
evaluations the person makes about his or her environment
· the results of the `cognitive' processes are thought to be accessible to
consciousness in the form of thoughts and images, and so the person
has the potential to change them.
There is also recognition of the ®ltering mechanisms that Korzybski
identi®ed, that we distort our experience of the world through faulty and
adaptive information-processing.
The main focus for cognitive therapy is to enable a client to change their
negative automatic thoughts through the changing of cognitive schemata,
similarly to the approaches in neurolinguistic psychotherapy that bring to
consciousness modal operators of necessity, the got to, have to and must
within a client's linguistic structure, that are identi®ed as part of the process
in reframing limiting or unuseful beliefs. In addition, cognitive therapy uses
processes of dissociation through distancing and distraction, similar to that
of dissociative processes in neurolinguistic psychotherapy, although these
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in context 53
are more at the unconscious level within neurolinguistic psychotherapy.
Strategy work also features in cognitive therapy whereby underlying
assumptions and automatic thoughts are challenged, and interventions are
proposed that interrupt the strategy.
There is one major conceptual difference between neurolinguistic psycho-
therapy and cognitive therapy that is worth keeping in mind. Whereas
neurolinguistic psychotherapy focuses on goals and future-oriented pro-
cesses, cognitive therapy operates more from within the client's existing
reality and works towards relieving symptoms and resolution of the prob-
lem, and development of coping strategies through modi®cation of
underlying cognitive structures, such that relapse is prevented.
Behavioural therapy
If one includes the aspects of behavioural therapy developed by Skinner
and Lazarus, there are similarities with the behavioural modelling com-
ponents of neurolinguistic psychotherapy. The beginnings of behavioural
therapy are embedded in the theory of the stimulus response, which within
neurolinguistic psychotherapy is recognised as the utilisation of anchors.
Lazarus (1971) was dissatis®ed with this concept and encouraged beha-
vioural therapists to consider a more eclectic approach that included the
resolution of some of the internal subjective processes that drive our
unuseful behaviours.
Behavioural therapy has the most correlations with the strategy, anchor-
ing and submodality work of neurolinguistic psychotherapy. There are
similarities between the `exposure principle' and the work on fears and
phobias that can be addressed through changing submodalities or working
with the phobia cure. Aversion therapy and social skills training are also
key components of behavioural therapy and it is at this point that the
similarities with neurolinguistic psychotherapy start to disappear. Beha-
vioural therapy is similar to cognitive therapy in that it provides a problem-
oriented, structured, directive approach that is based in empirical research,
whereas neurolinguistic psychotherapy offers a goal-oriented structure and
approach that moves a client rapidly towards a solution state.
Rational emotive behavioural therapy
In continuing through the ®eld of behavioural therapies, neurolinguistic
psychotherapy perhaps has greater correspondences with Ellis' (1962) work
on rational emotive behaviour therapy (REBT) than with cognitive and
behavioural approaches. REBT accepts the idea that humans are naturally
hedonistic and are programmed to pursue happiness, and they have great
potential to work through any irrationality in pursuit of this happiness,
mirroring the belief in neurolinguistic psychotherapy that we all have all the
54 Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in context
resources that we need. Being philosophical in approach, the neurolinguistic
psychotherapy ®eld will resonate with some of Ellis' thinking:
· that the most effective way for people to have lasting behavioural
change is to change their philosophical perspective on life, the basis of
reframing in neurolinguistic psychotherapy
· the testing-out of inferences and hunches about people and life is
similar to the idea that we project our internal subjective processes onto
our external world
· REBT is similar to neurolinguistic psychotherapy as a constructivist
theory in that it places emphasis on the active role that humans play in
constructing their irrational beliefs and the distorted inferences that
they frequently bring to emotional episodes.
Change is achieved in REBT through a number of processes that again have
parallels to neurolinguistic psychotherapy. Cognitive change is achieved by
chunking down on beliefs to identify the source and evidence for these at a
deep structure level. The emotive aspects are resolved through acceptance of
the client's model of the world, and recognition that the therapist can act as a
positive role model for the client. This is where a difference occurs with
neurolinguistic psychotherapy, in that the model comes from outside the
client, rather than being internally sourced. Across the three different beha-
vioural therapies, neurolinguistic psychotherapists who prefer a behavioural
modelling approach will ®nd great af®nity with the works of Ellis, Beck,
Skinner and Lazarus.
Model of the mind for neurolinguistic psychotherapy
The patient's behaviour is a part of the problem brought into the of®ce; it
constitutes the personal environment within which the therapy must take
effect; it may constitute the dominant force in the local patient±doctor
relationship. Since whatever the patient brings into the of®ce is in some
way both part of him and part of his problem, the patient should be
viewed with a sympathetic eye appraising the totality which confronts the
therapist.
(Erickson, in Bandler & Grinder, 1975, p. 59)
In summarising the relationship between neurolinguistic psychotherapy and
the range of modalities that exist in psychotherapy today, it is apparent that
neurolinguistic psychotherapy is more than the linguistic structures that
were modelled by Bandler and Grinder. As a model of mind, both the
conscious and unconscious aspects are key components. The unconscious
aspects are grounded in epistemological theory and it is recognised that our
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in context 55
cognition of events is determined by the projections that we bring from our
subjective reality, based on our interpretation of our life experiences as they
have happened to us. Even in viewing these events as they are presented
to us by a client, we cannot not be in¯uenced by our own subjective realities
as the therapist. Concurrent to this is what is known about the conscious
and unconscious programmes that we run, determined by our behavioural
responses that are triggered through operant conditioning, which is dis-
cussed further in Chapter 6. As a model of mind, we are neither solely
conscious nor entirely unconscious; we are on a journey that for some is
towards the things that make us happier, healthier or more ful®lled, and for
others is away from what is deemed irrational, painful, hurtful, aggressive
or just insane.
In the next chapter I consider the relationship of the conscious and
unconscious processes that make up the model of the mind in neuro-
linguistic psychotherapy and relate this to a range of theories that support
understanding of the development of the personality.
56 Neurolinguistic psychotherapy in context
Chapter 3
A perspective on personality
Who am I? is the only question worth asking and the only one never
answered. It is your destiny to play an in®nity of roles, but these roles are
not yourself. The spirit is nonlocal, but it leaves behind a ®ngerprint,
which we call the body. A wizard does not believe himself to be a local
event dreaming of a larger world. A wizard is a world dreaming of local
events.
(Chopra, 1995, p. 35)
This chapter focuses on the development of the personality as it was under-
stood by Erickson, Satir and Perls. Each of the therapists had a perspective
on the personality that is rooted in the impact that early childhood experi-
ences can have on the emerging sense of self. The therapeutic process offered
by each focused on the lived reality of now and by linking this with con-
temporary psychotherapy as it is presented by Gawler-Wright, it becomes
clear that Erickson worked with neurocognitive components to facilitate
rebalancing of the internal world of his clients. I consider the development of
values from the work of Massey, Graves and Maslow and link this into the
reinforcement of early developmental experiences through the development
of metaprogrammes. An alternative perspective is given through Jung's view
of the developing psyche. The chapter concludes with a consideration of the
development of the self and how this can be in¯uenced in therapy by affect
regulation, which I present within a case study.
Development through the perspective of Satir,
Erickson and Perls
It will be helpful to remember that every baby who comes into this world
comes only with raw materials. He has no self-concept, no experience of
interacting with others, and no experience in dealing with the world
around him. He learns all these things through his communication with
people who are in charge of him from his birth on.
(Satir, 1972, p. 31)
As one of the co-creators of the ®rst programme in family therapy in the
USA, Satir's perspective on family therapy provides grounding in systems
theory for neurolinguistic psychotherapists. Satir (1972) held the view that
children develop their personality by modelling the people around them as
they grow up. She believed that individuals have within them a capacity for
self-worth, and it is what happens inside people and between people that
adds to or takes away from their `pot' (p. 21) of self-worth. When a child is
born they have no past experiences to formulate their own sense of self-
worth and during the ®rst ®ve or six years of their life, the child relies on
the messages they receive from their outside world to formulate an internal
view of themselves. Once the child commences school, other in¯uences add
to this and will reinforce what has already been laid down within the
personality at home.
Satir's therapy involved developing communication between the various
family members, whether in reality or as constructs of the person's psychol-
ogical process. Where personality attributes of family members had become
part of the repertoire of behaviours that a person demonstrated as an adult,
she would encourage her client to hold a `parts party' (Satir, 1972, pp. 80±
95). The client would be encouraged to act out the roles within their family
unit to enable them to develop new strategies in managing these less useful
aspects of their personality. This work led to what we now know as the Satir
postures of blamer, placator, super-reasonable or computer, irrelevant or
distracter, and leveller. She would then adopt the leveller role to break the
existing patterns of behaviour (pp. 63±78). She would encourage her client
to adopt a meta-perspective or `chair person' role on these different aspects
of themselves.
Haley's (1993) work on the strategic therapy of Erickson offers a differ-
ent perspective to Satir's in that Erickson did not focus on opening up
communication in the family dynamic, rather he would work with family
members separately towards speci®c goals, focusing on the principle that
any individual has the potential for freedom and growth. Much of
Erickson's work at various different life stages cited in Haley (1993) pro-
vides examples of how Erickson utilised the belief that all behaviour is
context-dependent, and that rather than it being ®xed in the psyche, he
could assist clients to change the context of their behaviour which then
resulted in the behaviour no longer creating a problem for them. Whereas
Satir used roles and analogies with individuals in therapy, Erickson used a
combination of indirect suggestion and reframing to provide this different
perspective.
Contemporary psychotherapist Gawler-Wright (2006), coming from both
Ericksonian and systemic NLP perspectives, sees a deeper and more
systematic pattern in Erickson's apparently solely behavioural approach
with families, couples and individuals within family units. Erickson himself
ascribed the shaping of his suggestions to his unconscious mind engaging
58 A perspective on personality
with the unconscious (or somatic) conversation offered by the client, and he
suggested that the wisdom of the unconscious used simple and natural
forces to do its work. Gawler-Wright observes that Erickson reveals in his
case histories a pattern of intervention that paces and stimulates an initial
disorder followed by naturalistic rebalancing. This is initiated in a minimal-
ist way within the counter-weighting of stable and unstable forces already
present within the family and individual system. This model, which she calls
`continuous becoming' (p. 34), can offer up a sense of the innate and simple
logic in many of Erickson's interventions, which at times can seem bizarre
or random. It suggests the ever-evolving nature of the personality through a
relationship of static and dynamic forces: forces within which Erickson, as a
passionate naturalist, played the reverent yet provocative role of Green
Man or Joker.
Perls's gestalt therapy is similar in vein to Ericksonian therapy in that
therapists operate from the `here and now' of a client's lived experience.
This lived experience is based on previous events in a person's life, where an
individual `mentally metabolises' their experiences. Children literally intro-
ject their life experiences and if the experience is nutritious at a physical,
emotional or mental level they will repeat the experience; if it is deemed
`toxic' they will avoid it in the future. Gestalt therapy holds within it a
perception that an individual develops through effective management of
boundaries between self and others: where these boundaries have been
positively reinforced they will continue, and where they have been made
impermeable the sense of self becomes lost, which may lead to splitting of
the self.
Of the three therapists, Satir was the most concrete in her description of
how the personality is formed, with Perls providing a perspective of `towards'
and `away from' behaviours that are reinforced through the development of
boundaries. Erickson was considerably less prescriptive and viewed his
clients as unique individuals with unique stories and ways of presenting
themselves in therapy. Erickson was a master at clearing his mind of any
preconceived ideas or models as he approached each new therapeutic
alliance. Gilligan, in his workshops on self-relations therapy, often recounts a
story of his early learning with Erickson. He would ask Erickson what
psychotherapy is, and Erickson would reply, `I don't know.' Gilligan would
persist in his questioning and ®nally Erickson would respond, `Psychother-
apy . . . is a process . . . whereby two people . . . sit down . . . and try to ®gure
out . . . what the hell . . . one of them wants.'
Massey's sociological influence on the developing sense
of self
Within neurolinguistic psychotherapy, Massey (1979) is referenced as
providing the theoretical underpinning for the formation of the personality.
A perspective on personality 59
In The People Puzzle, sociologist Massey identi®ed that people are shaped
by the events around them and identi®ed three different developmental
phases that an individual experiences in the growth of their personality.
Imprinting
The ®rst of these is what is referred to as the Imprint period. Massey de®nes
the personality as being like a sponge for the ®rst seven years of life,
whereby the infant literally absorbs events in its external environment
which will then shape the child's personality. Dilts (2000) considers the
work of Lorenz (1935, 1970) when he de®nes imprinting as `the result of an
instinctive behaviour pattern by which the young within a species rapidly
learn to recognize and follow a member of their own species, typically the
mother. Thus, it is generally associated with the establishment of a
relationship with a signi®cant role model ± such as a ``mothering ®gure'''
(p. 533).
Lorenz also considers that imprints occur at a time when neurological
development is being set, and that if an infant attaches to a non-biological
signi®cant ®gure during the imprint period, this then becomes a permanent
attachment. Bowlby (1969) continued to develop the work of Lorenz and
formulated attachment theory, which has in¯uenced the work of child
psychotherapists and of psychoanalysts. Additionally we can see evidence
of Lorenz's work appearing in that of object relations theorists, Klein,
Winnicott, Mahler and Kohut, who emphasise the interpersonal relation-
ship of the mother and child. The mother is the `object' that becomes the
target of the infant's feelings or attention. This past relationship with the
maternal object then goes on to in¯uence the present, supporting Lorenz's
view that whatever is set during this period is then ®xed and remains a
permanent aspect of the individual's psyche.
Dilts (2000, p. 534) has continued this psychoanalytic perspective on the
imprint process by referring to Freud's theory on transference:
Sigmund Freud's theory on `transference', for example, seems to point
to imprint-like phenomena. The basic implication of this theory was
that the therapeutic relationship was more important than any of the
suggestions, techniques or behaviours which took place in the context
of that relationship. Freud came to believe that the relationship
between the `doctor and the patient' was like `the water in which they
were swimming'. It surrounded them and determined much about their
behaviour, yet `escaped every effort at control'. For instance, Freud
noticed that at key times in the therapeutic process the relationship
between him and his patients would come strongly into focus. He
observed that `the patient, who ought to be thinking of nothing but the
60 A perspective on personality
solution of his own distressing con¯icts, begins to develop a particular
interest in the person of the physician'.
In developing the work of Lorenz, Dilts also brought in the neurological
perspective of Leary (1988), who proposed that since imprinting has a
neurological component, it is possible to access these biochemical states and
literally re-imprint new states, thereby creating new neurological choice and
behaviour. Dilts has added much to the NLP ®eld with his work on re-
imprinting, making it possible to change early neurological imprints in
individuals.
Both James and Woodsmall (1988) and Bodenhamer and Hall (1999), in
their respective work on `Time Line TherapyÙ', and `time lining', have
taken the work of Massey and used the notion of SEE (signi®cant
emotional event ± James and Woodsmall) or SEEP (signi®cant emotional
experience of pain ± Bodenhamer and Hall) to enable re-imprinting by
working with the gestalt of experience through time. Both approaches
consider the neurological component of emotional experiences and utilise
time reframing to re-imprint signi®cant past events.
Modelling
The second stage of Massey's model is more directly related to how the
imprinted aspects of the personality are then reinforced. Between the ages
of 8 and 13, a child models the behaviours of those around him, both at
home and at school. He will consciously and unconsciously model these
behaviours as he becomes more aware of the differences between themselves
and other people. It is at this age that Massey would say core values are
formed. Massey believed that an individual's world at age 10 shapes their
values for life.
Socialisation
Between the ages of 14 and 21, Massey refers to the socialisation period. It
is at this stage in life that an individual begins to interact at a social level
with other individuals, outside the immediate home and school environ-
ment. Relationship and social values are formed at this age, which tend to
last a lifetime.
Development of values
Massey's work has also in¯uenced that of the development of values
according to each generation. He refers to generational values and suggests
A perspective on personality 61
that if the value system of each generational group is examined it is possible
to gain greater insight into their beliefs and behaviours. Massey divides the
generations into four groupings:
· those born before 1947 are referred to as the traditionalists
· those born between 1947 and 1965 are known by Massey as nuagers
and by others as boomers
· those born between 1966 and 1977 are de®ned by Massey as the
syntech generation and by others as Generation X
· those born between 1978 and 1995 are referred to as Nxters by Massey
or by others as Generation Y.
Each generation will have a direct in¯uence on the generation following it,
and it is very apparent that those born prior to 1947 are directly in¯uenced
by the two world wars and having parents who were mainly born in the
Victorian era. This grouping values privacy, trust, formality and institu-
tional leadership. Its members are less likely to seek therapy as they have
been brought up to avoid `washing their dirty linen' in public and may ®nd
it dif®cult to talk before a relationship of trust is built up.
The `boomers' or `nuagers' are sometimes known as the `me' decade.
They enjoy hard work, competition and success. They prefer working
through the team and are against rules and regulations. They tend to speak
in a direct style and use body language as a form of communication. As a
group, they readily access therapy as a form of self-development. The
`syntech' generation are entrepreneurial in spirit and value creativity and
independence. They work and play hard and will often have short spans of
attention which, in therapy, means they are likely to be brief in communi-
cation and will want a quick ®x to any presenting issues. `Generation Y'
groups value autonomy and have fewer issues concerning insecurity than
other generations. They tend to have a positive outlook on life, will ®nd
long-term therapy tedious, and will be more attuned to self-help books and
online help facilities.
Maslow (1943) also informs this work on values through his studies of
psychologically healthy adults. He identi®ed processes whereby an indi-
vidual's aim in life is self-actualisation. One of his students, Graves (in
Graves et al., 1965), took this work and identi®ed that values develop in
response to the environmental conditions, a dynamic process that led to the
work by Beck and Cowan (1996) on Spiral Dynamics. Graves identi®ed
nine levels of value development. His work assumed that each of these
levels of existence needed to be worked through and resolved before an
individual could evolve to the next level (see Table 3.1, to be read from the
bottom to the top).
Massey, Graves et al. and Maslow all provide a perspective on how
values are developed and become part of the core identity of an individual.
62 A perspective on personality
This work is built on in Chapter 7, where I consider how this might be
utilised in therapy.
Personality typology of Jung and metaprogrammes
If I do not want what you want, please try not to tell me that what I want
is wrong. Or if I believe other than you, at least pause before you correct
my view. Or if my emotion is less than yours, or more, given the same
circumstances, try not to ask me to feel more strongly or weakly. Or yet if
I act, or fail to act, in the manner of your design for action, let me be. I do
not, for the moment at least, ask you to understand me. That will come
only when you are willing to give up changing me into a copy of you.
(Keirsey & Bates, 1984, p. 1)
Jung's (1971) work on psychological types has enabled the Myers Briggs
Type Inventory (MBTI) developed by Myers and Briggs (1942) to be
included within the methodology of NLP, enabling personality pro®ling as
a readily accessible tool. Jung shared his studies of Freud with Adler and,
although they were contemporaries, Jung disagreed with the notion held by
both Freud and Adler that individuals are all driven by the same uncon-
scious motives. He believed that although individuals may have the same
archetypes within, they are all fundamentally different. It was out of this
thinking that the notion of functional preferences was derived.
Jung identi®ed two different functions of consciousness, one rational and
one non-rational. The rational aspect determines how people judge their
world reality, which will be either as a thought process or through feelings.
The more non-rational aspects determine how people perceive reality, which
will either be through senses or through intuition. Jung's theory proposed
that whichever of the traits dominated logical rational processes, the oppo-
site would be repressed and would dominate unconscious functioning.
In addition to the functions of consciousness, Jung also identi®ed that
individuals have an attitude of consciousness, which is concerned with
Table 3.1 Graves' evolution of values
Level of existence Nature of existence Motivational system Ethical/value system
9 Fourth being Appreciating Beauty Awing
8 Third being Comprehending Understanding Compassionate
7 Second being Seeking Information Cognitive
6 First being Personalistic Esteem of self Individualistic
5 Fifth subsistence Socioeccentric Belonging Sociocratic
4 Fourth subsistence Energetic Mastery Power
3 Third subsistence Frightened Safety Constrictive
2 Second subsistence Animistic Survivalistic Totem and taboo
1 First subsistence Animalistic Periodic±physiological Amoral
A perspective on personality 63
meaning. Extroverts ®nd meaning outside themselves and tend to focus on
objects, e.g., people, places and things, whereas introverts ®nd meaning
within and therefore prefer to focus on subjects, e.g., classi®cations, mean-
ings and inferences.
Although providing a useful indicator in understanding personality types,
Jung's theory on psychological types does not provide indications as to how
the personality develops into each of the 16 pro®les identi®ed in the MBTI.
Jung (1971) suggests that although babies do adapt to the maternal in¯u-
ence, he would see the psychological types as being based in individual
disposition rather than environmentally in¯uenced. He argued that children
born into the same family exhibit very different characteristics even from a
very early age, without any apparent change in the mother's behaviour
towards each child.
Charvet (1995) has captured the extensive research of the predictors of
personality types, which later became known as metaprogrammes, that has
been developed from Jung's work by Cameron-Bandler, Dilts and Gordon.
These are a series of behavioural responses in a given context that provide
clues to an individual's personality type. Metaprogrammes are programmes
that individuals run that control decision-making processes. A more com-
prehensive and extensively researched process is evident in Lilly's (1968)
work on Programming and Metaprogramming in the Human Biocomputer,
which considers the computer-like activity of the brain in making meaning
from our experiences. Lilly assumes that `unconscious programming is used
to project one's own beliefs and ``presences'' into and onto other persons'
(p. 66) and that it is very dif®cult to determine precisely when this is
happening, for three main reasons:
· the resemblance of one human to another
· the apparently meaningless `noisy' signals that other persons emit in
every mode
· the interlocking feedback relations between oneself and the important
persons (p. 66).
Lilly goes on to say that clients will use this to create an `evocable proof
(false) of the reality (false) of their beliefs about another person' (p. 66),
demonstrating at a pattern level the way a client continues to create a
subjective reality.
The influence of neuroscience on the development of
the personality
Since the early work of Bandler and Grinder, much has been done in the
®eld of neuroscience that has added to theoretical understanding of the
neurological components that aid the developing personality.
64 A perspective on personality
Damasio (1994) has challenged Descartes' view that cognition equates
with existence, I think, therefore I am, and has brought in many aspects of
neuroscience that provide a wealth of scienti®c research to support the
evolving neuroscience theories on personality development. Descartes
considered that the essence of self is fundamentally neurological, whereas
Damasio assumes that the sense of self is based in neurocognitive processes.
Carroll (2002), a well-respected body psychotherapist, has considered in
depth the work of Damasio and connects neuroscience with object relations
theory, proposing that `the brain represents the interaction of the self and
object [and] is . . . a fundamental proposition of object relations in
psychotherapy' (p. 18).
Schore (2003) would support this view and presents a theory of the effect
that state has on the developing psyche and the possibility through therapy
to repair early trauma. He has included the work of Panksepp, Damasio,
Siegel and LeDoux in his theory that fundamentally connects early emo-
tional development to self-development later on. He proposes that `the
broader the range of emotions that a child experiences the broader will be
the emotional range of the self that develops' (p. 117). Linking this to the
relationship between the neurological system and the effect that intense
arousal can have on the development of the individual, he suggests that `by
coordinating parallel plasticity throughout the brain, emotional states
promote the development and uni®cation of the self' (p. 117).
Schore has made great contributions to the understanding of neuro-
science and its relationship to attachment theory and the development of
the personality. Individuals ®lter the external world through the nervous
system, one aspect of which is visual processing. In the ®rst six weeks of an
infant's life, he/she learns to utilise their gaze to communicate with and
follow their mother. This primary object becomes a constant internal rep-
resentation to the infant, with neurological links being made on a moment-
to-moment basis attached to this primary object. Trevarthen (1993) has
added the perspective that auditory processing also plays a role in attach-
ment theory, with the tone of the mother's voice producing profound
affects in the infant. If these are positive neurological affects, the infant will
develop positive affective brain states, with the growth of the brain being
dependent on these positive internal representations.
Stern (1998) has also researched extensively the brain of the developing
infant, demonstrating that infant neurological functioning reorganises itself
at regular intervals throughout the ®rst two years of life, speci®cally social,
affective, motor and cognitive capacities. He identi®es four key stages of
neurological development at: 2±3 months, 5±6 months, 8±12 months and
18 months. At 2±3 months, the parent has primary responsibility for any
interaction with the infant's world. It is the mother's ability to adapt to the
infant at this stage that will have the greatest bearing on the infant's ability
to manage stress responses later in life. At 5±6 months of age, the infant's
A perspective on personality 65
primary role is to respond to stimuli that are received from another
human's face, touch, voice and movement. The infant is able to interact
with these processes, and will demonstrate social and adaptive abilities at
this age. Between 8 and 12 months of age, the infant is beginning to explore
their world and develops relationships with objects beyond that of its
mother. Both over-regulation and under-regulation of an infant's capacity
to explore can have a negative impact on the developing brain, resulting in
boredom or hyper stimulation. At the same age the infant is also developing
attachments, which are apparent in attachment and separation responses to
his/her primary carer. The infant also develops the ability to be inter-
subjective at this age, whereby he/she can discern the subjectivity of his/her
prime care giver's intentions. By 18 months of age, the infant is starting to
develop linguistic ability which will be reinforced or limited by the parental
response. Additionally the child develops an ability to move around, which
increases his/her capacity to experience stress responses through falling,
bumping into things or being constrained by his/her parents.
Plutchik (1983, p. 243) sources Piaget as being the ®rst to identify that
`with the development of the cognitive ability to represent the self and
external causation, affects such as shame, de®ance, and negativism appear'.
Research by Amsterdam (1972), Amsterdam and Levitt (1980) and Lewis
(1982) has supported this view that shame and self-consciousness appear at
the time of separation and individuation, when an infant develops the
ability to stand up and move around on their own. It is at this age that
Mahler (1980, p. 7) suggests that when a child is becoming `intoxicated with
his own faculties and with the greatness of his world . . . he is exhilarated
by his capacities'. If this is handled in a way that does not develop appro-
priate boundaries for the child, he/she may continue in his/her narcissistic
world, or if it is constrained too much, the child may not develop a strong
sense of self.
Neuroscience and emotional dysfunction
It is the effective management of stress responses as an infant that enables
an adequate stress response as the person becomes a functioning adult. This
is highlighted in Chapter 5. Over-protective parenting sets the child up for
inadequate stress responses as the neurology has not become immunised to
these responses; for example, the child may develop a heightened sense of
insecurity when left alone if they have not learnt to separate from their
parent, yet on the other hand, if a child experiences too much stress it can
create neurological de®cit in the developing brain and they may seek higher
levels of risk and associated excitement to activate stress responses.
The right side of the brain is the neurological basis for attachment
functions. Devinsky (2000) proposes that it is the effective development of
66 A perspective on personality
this side of the brain that leads to the ability to develop a uni®ed sense of
self. Schore (2003) has added to this work and identi®ed that where neuro-
logical impairments have been created through trauma, usually through
poor attachment histories, this has a neurobiological effect on the develop-
ing nervous system, both in terms of being able to regulate internal states
and interpret neurological messages that are received and also with regard
to accurate reading and response to external communication. At an emo-
tional level the individual experiences dif®culty in managing intense feelings
of rage, disgust, etc., or indeed positive feelings of joy, happiness and
excitement. Where the de®cit is marked, more complex problems such as
personality disorders may arise. Evidence of this level of de®cit is apparent
in clients who ®nd it dif®cult to form effective bonds with others and often
have dysfunctional relationships. These clients have experienced a `collapse
of internalised representations of the external world' resulting in `the
patient regressing from whole to part object relationships' (p. 347). Schore
suggests that this is indicative of the potential for the development of
personality disorders later. Additionally, clients may present with border-
line personality and other dissociative disorders that may be represented
through self-harming activities.
Schore (2003, p. 372) considers Basch's (1995) view that would argue that
the role of the therapist is to work with affect-regulating mechanisms as
part of the therapeutic process:
The more I know about how we are designed to function ± what
neurophysiology, infant research, affect theory, cognitive psychology,
semantics, information theory, evolutionary biology, and other pertin-
ent disciplines can tell me about human development ± the better I am
prepared to be empathic with a patient's communication at a particular
time in his or her treatment.
Even in considering one of the most basic premises of NLP, that of rapport,
it is important to recognise that the process of mirroring, particularly facial
expression, will trigger high levels of endorphins, creating an optimum
environment for repair and development of right brain processes (Hoffman,
1987; Panksepp, Siviy & Normansell, 1985).
Cybernetics of the self system
There are many competing aspects of the developing self, from the imprints
that are developed through the nurture of the child by its prime carers to
the innate attributes of the personality de®ned by Jung. If these are com-
bined with the neurological components presented within recent neuro-
scienti®c research, all of this has considerable implications on the self
A perspective on personality 67
system, i.e., the neurological, emotional, somatic and cognitive aspects that
make up the self.
Bateson's cybernetic theory suggests that the system is designed for
adaptation and there will sometimes occur pathological splitting within a
system to enable optimum functioning of the individual. This is supported
by Dilts's (2000) perspective on schismogenesis, which he de®nes as the
splitting of parts of the personality that are dependent on positive feedback
loops. Where certain attributes of a personality do not generate productive
responses in the person's environment, they then become `split off' or
excluded from the rest of the functioning psyche. This splitting process
becomes essential for survival and eventually, if left unchecked, can create
con¯ict or imbalance in the psyche, resulting in severe psychological
disturbance such as schizophrenia. The complexities and implications of
this are discussed in greater depth in Chapter 8.
Satir (1972) provides a simplistic yet very meaningful interpretation of
this, where she identi®es that the family rules only allow the expression
of justi®ed feeling: `You shouldn't feel that way' (p. 101). Her view is that `if
you make a distinction between acting your feelings and telling your
feelings, it might be easier to give up the rule, ``Thou shalt have only
justi®ed feelings''' (p. 101). She recognised this very early in her work and
recommended to the families that she worked with that they could develop a
set of rules that `whatever feeling you have is human and therefore accept-
able, the self can grow' (p. 101). She discussed with families the option of
generating different courses of action for certain feelings as an alternative to
continuing old and unacceptable patterns of behaviour.
Rossi (in Erickson & Rossi, 1989) provides considerable insight into
Erickson's approach to working with the self system through his use of age
regression techniques to heal past traumas in his work February Man. Rossi
asks Erickson to expand on the development of a child, particularly the
very early defence mechanisms that an individual develops: `one of the ®rst
important discriminations for a newborn infant is to say no by turning its
head away from the breast when it has had enough'. Rossi recognises
within this process that an individual will `frequently use these very
primitive defense mechanisms of denial against others as well as against the
new in ourselves' (p. 141).
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy has a fundamental role in developing
effective regulation of the self system. By using the components of neuro-
science identi®ed by Schore (2003) we are able to facilitate, within the
therapeutic relationship, the principal components that enable effective
repair of the self. Neuroscienti®c theory has identi®ed that the right brain
continues to grow throughout a lifetime, therefore there is the potential to
develop this through `effective, affectively focused psychoanalytic treat-
ment'. The role of the therapist is to create a series of `ongoing external and
internal affectively charged relational experiences', which in turn will add to
68 A perspective on personality
the auto-regulatory ¯exibility of an individual, resulting in `the generation
of more complex psychobiological states and higher levels of self-re¯ective
consciousness' (p. 248).
By combining the potential for brain growth throughout the life of a
client and bringing into the therapeutic space the potential for develop-
mental work, including the repair of the neurological de®cits, neurolinguis-
tic psychotherapy presents a model of therapy that can span the in-depth
psychodynamic processes of developing relationships available within
analytic traditions and the cognitive application of classical conditioning to
repair the neurology. In the following case study is a demonstration of how
it is possible to hold both aspects within one therapeutic relationship.
D presented at age 58, with a history of weight problems for his entire
life, a lack of con®dence and a desire to be a `new me'. He recognised
that he was a comfort eater and since the age of 16 had tried `every
diet in the book'. His relationship with food was one where `a shovel
is good enough'. He had experienced one episode of anorexia in his
mid-thirties. He was ®nding that as he got older he was becoming less
tolerant of other people, with increasing levels of aggression. He used
food to control his anger and then when he had eaten everything
available would feel even more angry. If he did not feed his anger he
would fall into an `empty, hollow darkness'.
His history was one of predominantly female carers, having been
brought up by his maternal grandparents and his aunts. He recalls
food as a central focus of his early life: `apple pie and custard, ice-
cream, and rice pudding'. His father had left the family home when he
was a baby, and he only reconnected with him when D was 43. His
mother was deaf ± `she only ever heard half a story and made the rest
up' ± therefore he had needed to be loud to get her attention when he
was a child. The only signi®cant male in his life was his grandfather,
and he recalled being beaten by him with a leather belt.
Psychobiologically, D had a poor self-regulating system and from a very
early age had used food as a way of dealing with his internal distress
resulting from insecure attachment.
His relationship with his wife was one of her bullying him for being
overweight, and mealtimes were a constant battleground of him
eating as much as he could and her articulating her disgust towards
him.
A perspective on personality 69
D had continued his early defence mechanism into his adult relationships
and by the time he came to therapy, although he recognised that he needed
to change his behaviour, he did not have the ¯exibility within his right brain
functioning to respond from a different affective state.
My ®rst impression of this client was one of a very large and loud
man. There was only space in the consulting room for him, and I
found his presence very overbearing.
From a neurological perspective he was operating within a constant state of
arousal and had a need to make himself `known' to his external world,
which had the opposite effect of pushing people away from him.
He found it very dif®cult to get in touch with and express in an
articulate way his inner world. He regularly tried to shape the therapy
and was unable to acknowledge that he was trying to control our
relationship. After a few weeks in therapy I was ®nding it increasingly
dif®cult to stay in the room with him and considered how I might use
a metaphor to enable him to gain some insight into his needs that
resulted in his overbearing personality.
We discussed how we might share a meal together; I asked him
what kind of meal this could be. He described which restaurant he
would take me to, what he would order for me and the kind of wines
that I might drink. He had no awareness of my own needs other than
what he thought they might be. There was no space for my own
decision-making at all in the process. This came as a shock to him
and we spent a few weeks enabling him to acknowledge his `massive
hunger for my mother'. Over a period of two months, he found his
emotions towards me almost unbearable ± `You are the teacher, I
can't fall in love with the teacher'. Acknowledging his emotions with
an Other created even more con¯ict for D, and he started to
experience an escalation in his levels of anger ± `I can't let anyone in
to share it with me, it absorbs everything, it is shite'. He was aware
that underpinning this emotion was a `rampant energy, I think I use
food because no one would want to have sex with me'. We continued
to work on his feelings in therapy and over the subsequent six months
he started to acknowledge his sexual identity as a man which then
created problems in his marriage.
Psychodynamically, he was starting to develop a positive affect in his
relationship to me, and it was important at this stage for me to continue the
70 A perspective on personality
therapeutic process to enable continuing development of his own internal
affect-regulating process and gradually move him from relying on myself as
the therapist to manage this for him.
A breakthrough occurred one year into the therapy, with me having
operated from within the maternal role in the transferential
relationship. He attended for therapy in a very low state, could not
see the point of continuing and became increasingly distressed as the
session went on. He eventually broke down into a primal state of
distress and after some time emerged into consciousness to share the
experience that he had `literally given birth to myself'. We reviewed
what had occurred and shared our respective experiences of what he
had been through. I voiced that I had found it so very hard not to
pick him up and nurse him while he was so distressed, and he said
that my not doing this was probably the most empowering thing I
could have done. He recognised that he needed to become his own
mother and learn how to soothe himself.
He continued to see me for a further nine months, and he ®nally
discharged himself after two years in therapy.
In summary, his time in therapy combined the `externally and internally
charged relational experiences' through his transferential relationship with
me, while at the same time it enabled development of new neurological links
in his psychobiology.
In the following chapter, I continue with an in-depth elucidation of
neuroscience and include recent research that will have considerable in¯u-
ence on the work of the neurolinguistic psychotherapist.
A perspective on personality 71
Chapter 4
Neurological processes
The overall function of the brain is to be well informed about what goes
on in the rest of the body, the body proper; about what goes on in itself;
and about the environment surrounding the organism, so that suitable
survivable accommodations can be achieved between the organism and
the environment.
(Damasio, 1994, p. 90)
In this chapter, I link the known components of neurological processing
that are core to NLP with some of the existing theories in neuroscience.
This could ®ll a volume on its own, and rather than attempt to provide a
full exposition of existing theories, I will provide the reader with indicative
references to encourage greater exploration of the various texts in full. I will
consider how neurological processing in¯uences the development of the
individual which has been considered in Chapter 3 and the pertinence of
linking what is now known about neuroscience with attachment theory and
development of the self.
Neurological components of NLP
Korzybski's (1933) work Science and Sanity set the stage for much of the
developmental studies that later became included in NLP. He expanded on
Aristotelian thinking that assumed duality and developed his own theory of
`general semantics' to include a wider range of possibilities than that
presented by duality theorists.
Many issues are not so sharp, and therefore a system which posits the
general sharpness of `either-or', and so objecti®es `kind', is unduly
limited; it must be revised and made more ¯exible in terms of `degree'.
This requires a physic-mathematical `way of thinking' which a non-
Aristotelian system supplies.
(p. xxi)
His work on general semantics (1933) came out of his view that a theory of
meaning was impossible and a theory of evaluation was more pertinent in
understanding evolutionary processes. Within this theory he recognised that
individuals are not separate from their `neuro-linguistic and neuro-semantic
environments' (p. xxii).
Bandler and Grinder used this principle of the neurolinguistic relation-
ship that an individual has to their environment to underpin much of their
early modelling work. Within the wider ®eld of NLP additional factors are
considered that directly in¯uence a person's responses within their environ-
ment. Neurolinguistic psychotherapy builds on this by attempting to hold
the space between neuroscience and the work of theorists such as Damasio,
Edelman, Panksepp and Pert, and that of constructivists who would prefer
that a person can change their reactions if they change their perceptions.
Huxley (1954) in The Doors of Perception refers to the brain as a reducing
valve, whereby sensing through the cerebral cortex is ®ltered along a
nervous system that is rich in neuropeptides, each of which is programmed
for different emotional responses, which will inevitably result in individuals
being selective in what is given attention at a basic neurological level. Yet if
I bring in the constructivist view presented by Von Foerster (2003), who
considered that the nervous system cannot absolutely distinguish between a
perception and a hallucination, since both are patterns of neural excite-
ment, the distance between the schools of thought is not so great.
Within the basic neurological aspects of NLP, it is recognised that indi-
viduals receive information from an external reality via one or a combina-
tion of the ®ve senses. These are visual, auditory, kinaesthetic, gustatory
and olfactory. What NLP omits from its theory is the relationship between
the more complex aspects of the nervous system and unconscious pro-
cessing. Pert (1997) has identi®ed that where the nervous system connects to
the external world through one of the ®ve senses, there is a high concen-
tration of neuropeptide receptors, and it is the quantity and quality of the
sensory receptors at these points that determine what an individual pays
attention to, i.e., the basis of ®ltering.
NLP continues its journey through the neurological system by bringing
in `operant conditioning' through anchored responses, particularly in rela-
tion to creating new behavioural choices by `collapsing' unuseful triggered
responses, or creating new state-dependent resources by bringing these from
the past into now. Utilising neurological responses is also an inherent part
of strategy work, particularly the triggers for strategy activation and also
biofeedback mechanisms which mean that wherever there is a change in the
physiological state this will always be accompanied by a change in the
emotional state, which may be conscious or unconscious ± and vice versa.
The nervous system in its entirety
The human nervous system is made up of over 30 billion connections, and
structurally consists of the brain, spinal cord, nerve cells, synapses,
Neurological processes 73
dendrites, axons, soma and the various biochemical components that enable
the transmission of impulses along the neural pathways.
The nervous system (Figure 4.1) is subdivided into the central nervous
system (CNS), which consists of the brain and spinal cord, and the
peripheral nervous system (PNS). The CNS controls and coordinates all
physiological activity within the body. The primary function of the PNS is
to send nervous impulses to and from the CNS from external stimuli and
the organs of the body. The PNS is divided into the somatic nervous system
(SNS), which is responsible for sending messages from the body to the CNS
and for coordination of musculoskeletal movement, and the autonomic
nervous system (ANS), which is the one that most concerns the neuro-
linguistic psychotherapist.
The ANS as a self-regulating mechanism does not require conscious
communication to function and has responsibility for maintaining homeo-
stasis of the bodily functions. The ANS has two different neural branches,
the sympathetic and parasympathetic. The sympathetic nervous system
Nervous System
Central Nervous System Peripheral Nervous
System
Brain Spinal Cord Motor
Nerves
Sensory
Nerves
Brain Stem
Reticular
Activating
System
Sympathetic
Nervous
System
Autonomic
Nervous
System
(Involuntary)
Somatic
Nervous
System
(Voluntary)
Parasympathetic
Nervous System
Figure 4.1 The nervous system
74 Neurological processes
governs our arousal responses, such as the ¯ight, fright, ®ght mechanisms,
and the parasympathetic nervous system has the opposite effect in control-
ling relaxation, our digestive system and our ability to return to homeostasis.
Another aspect of the nervous system that is directly utilised in the work
of neurolinguistic psychotherapy is the reticular activating system (RAS).
This is the part of the brain responsible for arousal and motivation, as well
as circadian rhythm and basic functions of respiration and cardiac rhythms,
and is situated in the core of the brain stem.
The developing brain of an infant and implications for
neurolinguistic psychotherapy
Trevarthen and Aitken (2001) have identi®ed that during pregnancy the
foundations of the nervous system are laid down, including the development
of interneuronal activity that enables regulation of the developing foetus
within the support system of the maternal nervous system and bodily
processes. These structures are built upon by intrauterine stimuli and when a
baby is born, it is the most primitive aspects of the brain ± the brainstem and
sensory motor cortex ± that are the most highly developed, enabling the
baby to function in an `acceptable' state of arousal according to the chemical
and electrical messages received from the nervous system. In Schore's (2003)
research he highlights how this functional development continues into early
infancy, where the infant's right hemispheric functions are `psychobiologi-
cally attuned to the output of the mother's right hemisphere' (p. 12).
During the ®rst two years of life the social brain is then developed in
direct response to the factors present in the external environment of the
infant. Damasio (1994, p. 128) says that there is an absolute correlation
between the emotions of the individual and the core regulatory processes:
`Nature appears to have built the apparatus of rationality not just on top of
the apparatus of biological regulations, but also from it and with it'.
Goleman (1996) de®nes the aspects of brain functioning that are relevant
to the emotional development of an individual as follows.
· The emotional or social brain consists of the forebrain and the
cerebellum.
· This is subdivided into the areas of the hippocampus, hypothalamus,
cerebral cortex, anterior cingulate gyrus, the prefrontal cortex and the
orbitofrontal cortex.
· The hippocampus is developed over time and holds the basis of
memories, particularly in enabling the holding of memories until they
become generalised experiences.
· The hypothalamus provides the basis for reticular formation and is
responsible for circadian rhythm, neuroendocrine outputs and homeo-
stasis.
Neurological processes 75
· The thinking parts of the emotional brain are the anterior cingulate
gyrus and the prefrontal cortex.
· The anterior cingulate gyrus renders new memories permanent aspects
of the psyche and also enables the experience of anticipation that has
an element of reward attached to it.
· The prefrontal cortex adds to decision-making processes by creating
emotional linkages to the deeper aspects of the brain within the sym-
pathetic nervous system and the RAS, tying the emotions of pleasure,
joy, pain, anger and panic to the ¯ight, fright, ®ght responses.
· Both these aspects of the brain are used to inform decision-making and
consider alternative choices when faced with emotional or survival-
based responses.
· The orbitofrontal cortex has links to the sensory aspect of the nervous
system via the cerebral cortex and enables the regulation of behaviour
associated with reward and punishment.
· This part of the brain also regulates decision-making processes, includ-
ing social relationships.
· It is these three parts (anterior cingulate gyrus, prefrontal cortex and
orbitofrontal cortex) of the brain that are thought to be the basis of
emotional intelligence.
Chugani, Behen, Muzik, Juhasz, Nagy and Chugani (2001) identi®ed that
as these parts of the brain are activated, a set of neural synapses are
triggered into action, which, if activated on more than one occasion, will
start to form patterns. It is these patterns of neurological activity that then
form the basis of generalised behaviour, ensuring that social intelligence is
developed predominantly between the ages of 6 and 18 months.
A clinical example of the effect that this can have on the developing brain
is apparent in the case of the young man with Tourette's syndrome in
Chapter 1.
In therapy, he discussed his early childhood experiences and can recall
quite clearly being looked after by `Granny' in the village from the
age of six months (a local lady who had no blood relationship to
him). He distinctly remembered being bored when he stayed with her
as she had very few toys and did not encourage him to play much. He
recalled that he used to amuse himself by learning to make different
noises, with his mother noting that the tics ®rst emerged when his
sister was born and he again was cared for by `Granny'.
The neural synapses that had been activated at this time then became part
of his behavioural repertoire and the pattern would emerge if he accessed
76 Neurological processes
the generalised response of being bored or frustrated with himself, resulting
in a diagnosis of Tourette's syndrome.
During the ®rst two years of an infant's life, the environment and
immediate social relationships directly in¯uence how the rest of the brain
and the neural synapse patterns are developed and how norms for arousal
and regulation are managed. Babies who experience an environment that is
responsive, caring and `good enough' will ®nd that the world is responsive
to their feelings and their nervous system is able to return to a state of
equilibrium relatively quickly after sympathetic arousal. Babies whose
environment is less sensitive may experience prolonged activation of the
stress response and an increase in levels of the neuropeptide cortisol.
In the early days of life, an infant learns to regulate her external environ-
ment solely through her nervous system and the emotional responses that
this generates. Her nervous system will react towards positive stimuli and she
will seek this out, giving `towards' based behaviour, or generate `away from'
behaviours in response to painful or unpleasant stimuli that are seen within
NLP values work. She may also develop a process of dissociation or
`freezing' if the sympathetic arousal remains prolonged. This will result in a
forced parasympathetic response where the infant adopts a non-response
reaction to the environment. This is discussed further in Chapter 7.
Gerhardt (2004) considers the development of the right brain in her work
on the developing child and demonstrates research that shows that right
brain dominance continues throughout the ®rst two years of life, and it is
only when the orbitofrontal cortex is developed that there is a shift towards
development of the left brain. This is apparent in the development of speech
production, linguistic ability and sequential processing. Once this appears
there is less plasticity in the right brain, and growth continues in the left
brain with development of the anterior cingulate which enables awareness
of internal states and feelings. The prefrontal cortex also continues to
develop, forming the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex which is where thoughts
about feelings are ®rst developed and where a `working memory' for them
becomes part of a person's internal dialogue.
In terms of the complexities of neurological development and function-
ing, how the client presents in therapy will be representative of their own
neurological development. Carroll (2002) proposes that if an individual has
experienced `good enough' parenting resulting in optimum development of
their social brain, as an adult they will have mechanisms that enable self-
regulation of emotions, an awareness of others' emotional states and an
ability to manage the effects of stress. The client brings to the therapeutic
process an emotionally sound psychoneurology and the therapy offered by
the core aspects of neurolinguistic psychotherapy is likely to be successful.
Where a client has experienced prolonged stress responses and hyper-
arousal in infancy, their neurological processing will have developed a
mechanism whereby they have learnt to communicate their distress directly
Neurological processes 77
into another human being. This can be immediately accessed by the ther-
apist, and may occur unwittingly. There is a resonance between Schore's
view and that of Freud (1957, 1958) and Buck (1994), that the infant
becomes psychobiologically attuned to the mother's right hemispheric
functioning as a natural process. This process becomes neurologically trig-
gered during rapport whereby communication occurs directly from the
unconscious of the client to the unconscious of the therapist and vice versa,
without going through the conscious of either person. This then has impli-
cations for the neurolinguistic psychotherapist, whether it be to in¯uence
and inform her own practice regarding unconscious communication
between client and therapist, or her own therapeutic process in discovering
and working through unconscious material, with a willingness in super-
vision to explore and acknowledge her own unconscious process and how it
might directly affect her work with clients.
If a client has experienced neurological de®cit or delay in early infancy,
the role of the therapist in the therapeutic relationship becomes essential to
successful therapy. Where the de®cit or delay has occurred in very early
infancy, with right hemispheric developmental delay, and where associated
hyperarousal or elevated stress responses have continued over a prolonged
period of time, Schore (2003) suggests that dissociative and personality
disorders are likely to be present and comments that `early traumatic
attachments are therefore a powerful source generator of the most severe
de®cits described in self psychology' (p. 137).
As Chugani et al. (2001) have identi®ed, the social brain is developed
between the ages of 6 and 18 months. Schore (2003) describes the effect that
de®cit or delay can have on the development of this area of the brain, with
the adult client likely to present with dif®culty in social relationships, or
socioemotional stress responses, which may result in autism, mania, phobic
states, alcoholism and drug addiction.
The psychotherapeutic process in each of these cases where developmental
delay has occurred is essential to successful therapeutic outcome. The
therapeutic role becomes one of working with the projections of the client,
utilising projective identi®cations and accessing resources within the thera-
peutic relationship to enable resourcing and learning for the client while at
the same time containing the process in a way that is safe and ecological
for the client and therapist. The therapist is required to work at relational
level with the client to facilitate neurological re-patterning through the
therapeutic relationship. This re-patterning or re-programming of the client
at a neurological level is likely to require prolonged periods in therapy as
the developmental delays are addressed. This then calls into question the
appropriateness of neurolinguistic psychotherapy with its inherent brevity.
Where a neurolinguistic psychotherapist is familiar with attachment dis-
orders and has suf®cient behavioural ¯exibility to work psychodynamically
with a client, the potential that a psychodynamic generative approach
78 Neurological processes
combined with the processes that enable neurological change affords will
facilitate a considerable degree of potential for the client.
Neurological re-patterning in therapy
M ®rst presented at the age of 23, he had a four-year history of
cocaine use and this was now interfering with his work and rela-
tionships because of his increasing levels of paranoia. For the ®rst
year or so of therapy he was unable to relate verbally to me as the
therapist; he would ask to lie on the ¯oor and would drift off to a
world of his own while I `tried' a range of hypnotherapeutic processes
to assist him. He would leave therapy, saying very little, and would
always turn up for his next session.
Neurologically, this client was unable to formulate positive social attach-
ments, mirroring Schore's theory of a socioemotional stress response. M
had used cocaine as a way of accessing a sociable, con®dent state whenever
he needed to communicate with others in a social environment. Thera-
peutically, M was unable to communicate his internal world yet he did
demonstrate a degree of insight and willingness to stay with the relationship
that he had developed with me.
After this ®rst year, we moved to a more dialogical relationship and
he would talk about his `perfect' relationships with his parents, and
would blame his relationship with his partner for his anger, paranoia
and drug taking. I experienced his unspoken frustration and anger
towards his parents as a projection and whenever I challenged this or
offered it back to him in a way that I thought he could process
usefully, he would regress and either not turn up for therapy, or
would want to return to lying on the ¯oor. I adapted what I was
doing in the therapeutic relationship and reverted to working in a
very accepting way of wherever he was during the sessions with me.
This continued for a further year and by now he had been in therapy
on and off for about four years.
The therapy relationship enabled M to transfer his unuseful and unresolved
anger to myself as the therapist through projective identi®cation. The role
of the therapist in this situation is to develop a secure and contained
environment through becoming a secure attachment ®gure. This then
enables the client to access internal resources and develop new neuro-
psychological processes to effect change.
Neurological processes 79
One day something changed and he started to ask my advice about
his relationship with his mother. He cared about her deeply, but felt
she needed too much from him and he was feeling smothered. We
talked about how he could manage this and he said he felt like he was
six years old and all he wanted to do was to be free of her demands of
him. We both accepted that he needed permission to be a free child
and talked about the kind of things he wanted to do when he was six.
He then moved out of therapy for about nine months, as he wanted
to go away and enjoy being six and all that this entailed. (By now he
was free from his drug problem.)
I had worked with M for some time as his secure attachment ®gure, and he
was now beginning to explore his own boundaries and begin a process of
individuation. He communicated this to me by talking to me about his
mother. I used the opportunity afforded within the therapy relationship to
assist him to ®nd ways to move out of the therapy and become a self-
regulating individual.
I didn't see him again for almost two years, and he returned to
therapy quite recently. He had met someone that he loved and had
married her. He had felt some of the old pressures returning to him,
reverting to using cocaine again as a way of escaping his worldly
responsibilities, although infrequently. He had recognised that he was
now being expected to be an adult and wanted to respond to this, his
new wife was quite demanding and he was ®nding this dif®cult to be
with, wanted to go back to being free again and was using cocaine as
a way of enabling this to happen.
Neurologically, M had developed an alternative pattern of behaviour, and
although he recognised that some of the previous neurological patterning
existed, he was now able to access a more resourceful behavioural response
from his adult self.
His return to therapy was much briefer this time, and was mainly
spent looking at resourcing his adult self, modelling adult behaviours
and developing coping strategies to ensure that he could manage in
the relationship while at the same time ®nding ways to enjoy `free-
dom' in a way that was ecological for his sense of identity.
80 Neurological processes
My role as therapist in this relationship over a seven-year period was
initially to soothe and enable him to bring into his neurological processing
an adaptive response that was built on `good enough' care. Whenever I
tried to make demands of him in therapy, by following tried and trusted
processes, he would regress, and I would return to soothing. This took
some considerable time and developmentally matched the period of time
that would have been required for his own neurological development as an
infant. The therapy then moved to a place where he could experience
socioemotional stress and bring this into the relationship. Where I was able
to contain it, he was able to move on in therapy; where I became demand-
ing and offered his projections back to him this would then trigger him to
regress. As his neurology developed he was slowly able to contain and
manage more and more of his own emotional responses until he could get
to a developmental age where he could verbalise the con¯ict within his
internal world. At this point he required me and him to let go of the
relationship, something that he had been unable to do as a child with his
mother. In doing this, he was then able to move our relationship to one that
was much more of societal equals, where he could return willingly and seek
advice and support for an `adult-based' issue.
Theories in neuroscience
There exists a wider body of knowledge within the associated ®eld of
neuroscience that can also enhance the work of the neurolinguistic psycho-
therapist. Beginning with Darwin's theory of evolution, this has been
developed by Edelman (1987) and utilised by therapists in developing a
greater understanding of the relationship between attachment theory and
neuroscience.
Darwin (1998) developed a number of theories in neuroscience as part of
his work on evolution. In Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals
he identi®ed that people have facial expressions that represent speci®c
emotions and some of these are shared with animals. He particularly refers
to the musculature used by a wolf baring its fangs as being identical to the
musculature used by man when he is angry or threatened. Out of this came
his theory of neurology that proposed that where a group of neurons are
activated simultaneously and therefore strengthened, they will then remain
`wired' together, and that where collections of synapses are unused, these
will weaken and be `pruned' to form ef®cient neural pathways.
Edelman (1987) has built on the work of Darwin and has coined the term
`neural Darwinism' to expound on the theory created by Darwin of
`survival of the ®ttest'. At birth the human brain rapidly creates synaptic
connections which reach a peak in number by eight months. It is at this
point that `pruning' begins, and by the age of ten, a child will have only half
Neurological processes 81
the number of neural synapses that it had at age eight months, having kept
only the most useful synapses.
It is from this basis that Edelman offers the view that to consider the
mind as a digital computer is an untenable position, and that all learning
and memory is dependent on synaptic strength. He proposes that all neural
development is unique to each individual and it is impossible to know
where particular connections in a nervous system have come from. Each
person's mind is so unique that there will always be ¯uctuations in brain
patterns, and each person's map will be dependent on the availability of
input. What he does propose is that individuals develop extensive general-
isations in object recognition, which supports the concept of generalisations
found in NLP. He also holds the view that the brain is constructive and will
be sensitive to speci®c contexts, which will enable perceptual categorisation,
i.e., that neurological reactions will only occur in a given context. An
example of this would be when we ®nd we only experience feelings of loss
for a loved one when a particular piece of music is played. It requires the
neurological pathway that begins in our auditory system to be activated,
and to follow a series of other pathways before the emotion-bearing
neuropeptides are released, enabling one to feel loss.
Panksepp (1998) has considered the work of Darwin and recognised that
as mammals, we have common `emotional operating systems'. He identi®es
seven neurobiological systems that have speci®c neural circuitry which
directly impacts on our behavioural responses. He describes these as
instinctual in nature and they are an inherent aspect of the intrinsic
potential of the nervous system. The seven systems are referred to as:
· the seeking system ± responsible for governing curiosity, searching and
meaning making
· the rage system ± triggered when we experience frustration
· the fear system ± which is linked directly to the sympathetic nervous
system responses of ¯ight, fright and ®ght
· the panic system ± which is triggered by separation distress
· the lust system ± found in sexualised behaviour
· the care system ± which enables maternal behaviour
· the play system ± which enables play activities.
Other developmental theorists such as Gerhardt (2004) highlight how
affection shapes the development of a baby's brain, bringing Darwinian
theory into line with attachment theory. As I have alluded to in Chapter 3,
an infant requires positive looks as the stimulus that enables the brain to
grow into one that is socially and emotionally intelligent. As a baby receives
a positive look from a parent, his nervous system responds in a state of
positive arousal; this then causes neuropeptides to be released which go
directly to the orbitofrontal region of the brain, and dopamine to go
82 Neurological processes
directly to the prefrontal cortex, enabling both areas to grow. Gerhardt also
identi®ed that the prenatal period of a child's life will be indicative of the
development of a socially and emotionally intelligent brain. Where an
infant's mother has experienced high levels of cortisol from increased stress
in pregnancy this will be passed on directly to the baby, who will then have
a sensitised stress response.
Developmental studies have shown that babies whose mothers smoked or
drank during pregnancy are more likely to demonstrate antisocial beha-
viour. Trevarthen and Aitken (2001) support this theory and consider that
interneuronal activity ®rst occurs in the womb and later enables adaptive
processes as a human response. If intrauterine stimulus is provided, the
foetus develops the neural pathways to the forebrain and cerebellum that
are later enabled by the intuitive responses of the parents. It is this very
early development that enables purposeful consciousness and an ability to
cooperate with others and learn from these interactions.
The role of the psychotherapist is brought into a new light through
the implications of working with psychoneuroimmunology. Validating the
client's model of the world and negative feelings, the therapist enables
the neurotransmitters associated with the negative state to be released from
the subcortex and the existing neural networks activated. This results in the
release of the stress hormone cortisol which then ¯oods the brain, setting up
an appropriate environment for the development of new neural pathways.
When the client is in this state it is important that the therapist works with
the client to re¯ect on their old feelings, and consider how to respond
differently. In this consideration of new behavioural choices, the cortisol-
¯ooded brain has in place the necessary elements for growth of new neural
pathways in response to the subcortical signals generated in response to the
newly considered choices.
Applying NLP to neurological theory
It is important to consider the links between neuroscienti®c theory and the
role of the neurolinguistic psychotherapist. All the behavioural and emo-
tional issues that a person presents with in a therapy setting will have direct
links to their own neurobiological make-up. In addition, neurolinguistic
psychotherapy as an outcome-oriented therapy provides the optimum con-
ditions to enable lasting neurological change.
It is the RAS that NLP techniques such as anchoring and goal-setting
utilise to facilitate goal achievement and positive state actualisation. When
a client visualises actualisation of a goal this results in neuropeptides being
released and blood and oxygen ¯ow to the part of the body directly
responsible for achievement of the goal. Pert (1997) refers to Erickson's
demonstration of this in his experimental work with women who had ¯at
chests and were keen to have treatment to enlarge their breasts. He
Neurological processes 83
suggested to them `that their breasts would become warm and tingly and
would start to grow' (p. 147). The increased blood supply to their breasts as
a direct result of Erickson's hypnotic communication to them enabled the
breast tissue to be stimulated and grow.
Additional to this are the theories of Pavlovian conditioning or anchored
responses by Pavlov (1927), developed by Adler (1992) to in¯uence the
work of psychoneuroimmunology, and Pert (1997) who recognised that we
have a process inherent in our bodies referred to as `state dependent recall',
inferring that a person is more likely to recall positive emotional experi-
ences when in a good state and negative emotional experiences when in a
bad state. Pavlov took the work of Twitmeyer (1902) and developed
`classical conditioning', which later became known as anchoring in NLP.
He was particularly interested in hypnosis, identifying that hypnosis creates
an inhibitive state in the brain which is related to sleep in that it inhibits
motor impulses by affecting the amount of uptake of sensory stimuli. He
studied laboratory animals and utilised the theory of applying sensory
stimuli to develop a theory on classical conditioning. Classical conditioning
or anchoring requires pairing of a known stimulus with a new conditioned
stimulus to create a conditioned response. Damasio (1994) took anchoring
to a deeper level, and identi®ed that anchoring works by excitation of the
neurons which causes an electrical current to be sent from the nerve cell
down the axon and into the synapse. A response is then triggered within the
synapse that releases neurotransmitters that have a direct effect on nerve
receptors. If the next neuron that is ®red through its own nerve receptors
also has an action potential, in other words a neural memory in response to
the impulse, it too will release neurotransmitters and the neurological chain
will continue. Where no neural memory exists, the anchoring process
cannot work.
A therapist may use anchoring processes with volition through creating
collapsing or chaining anchors. Even greater potential exists if anchoring
and the development of neurological chains are used within the context of
the outcome-oriented aspects of therapeutic work. By facilitating a client to
®nd their own internal resources, positive states and times when they don't
`do' the problem, they are encouraging neural networks to be stimulated
that are more aligned with solution state than problem state. As each of
these states is accessed consistently in therapy, the client ®nds it more
dif®cult to do the old problem state and easier to move to the solution state.
Ader and Cohen (1982) were also inspired by Pavlov's work, and
experimented with mice to demonstrate that when mice that had lupus were
given a saccharine solution to drink at the same time as being injected with
cyclophosphamide, a speci®c response would be observed in the immune
system. When the mice were then given just the saccharine solution, the
immune system reacted as if it had been given cyclophosphamide. This
groundbreaking work of Ader and Cohen, later termed psychoneuro-
84 Neurological processes
immunology, demonstrated that the immune system could be conditioned
and was directly under the in¯uence of the brain.
Pert (1997) developed Ader and Cohen's work and identi®ed molecules of
emotion, whereby the endocrine system is ¯ooded with neuropeptides when
positive emotions are experienced, resulting in neurotransmitter activation.
The opposite of this also applies, in that neuropeptides are released when
pain or negative emotions are experienced, which are regulated by the
limbic areas of the brain. She identi®ed that neuropeptides are present
throughout the body and particularly around the spinal column and gut;
therefore feelings are experienced by both the body and the brain. Chopra
(1989), an advocate of Pert's, commented `If being happy, sad, thoughtful,
excited and so on all require the production of neuropeptides ± and neuro-
transmitters in our brain cells ± then the immune cells must also be happy,
sad, thoughtful, excited, too' (p. 67). Pert (1997) expanded on her original
work on neuropeptides and started to make relationships to the storage of
emotionally based memories at a psychosomatic level. Building on the work
of Kandell, she comments that:
Memories are stored not only in the brain, but in a psychosomatic
network extending into the body, particularly in the ubiquitous recep-
tors between nerves and bundles of cell bodies called ganglia, which are
distributed not just in and near the spinal cord, but all the way out
along pathways to internal organs and the very surface of our skin.
(p. 143)
Neuropsychotherapy in action
K presented with a 40-year history of depressive illness. There was no
reactionary cause to the commencement of his depressive tendencies
and his pro®le represented classical endogenous depression. His initial
history was unremarkable and apart from being depressed about
being depressed, he lacked motivation to change, did not really
believe change was possible and was looking for assistance in dealing
with his current symptoms suf®ciently to enable him to return to
work. As his history was so benign, we agreed to move towards
future-oriented work, rather than consider all that had gone on in the
past and the many things that he had tried and failed at. During the
early sessions I worked with him persistently utilising the linguistic
patterns in brief solution-oriented therapy with the aim of enabling
new neural networks to be developed.
Neurological processes 85
Particular linguistic patterns that solution-oriented therapy offers include
that of the `miracle question': `if you were to go to bed tonight, and a
miracle were to occur overnight (and you didn't know it had happened),
what would be different in the morning, such that you knew a miracle had
happened?'. This pattern enables the client to act as if the problem had been
resolved, and the solution state was already present. It is different from the
`as if' question of neurolinguistic psychotherapy, in that it offers absolute
potential for change to happen by creating a `miracle'. As soon as the client
accesses the future-oriented state, the neurological potential is then created
for change to happen. Solution-oriented therapy also asks the client to
identify as many things as possible that will be different, ensuring that the
client ®res the neurological pathway a number of times in therapy, making
it easier to re-access once the session has ended. Additionally, solution-
focused therapy encourages the client to focus on times when they haven't
done the problem state during the previous week. This process reinforces
the `not problem' state, again reinforcing positive neurological patterning.
Although this was dif®cult and he initially kept reverting to an old
pattern of neurological, psychological and linguistic impotence, we
persisted in the therapy and he agreed to return the following week.
At this next session, we both noted that he could more easily move
towards future-oriented thinking, that the resistance was not as great
and that he could track himself to future scenarios where his depres-
sive stance had changed considerably.
This was evidence that the neurological re-patterning that we had done the
previous week had started to work and he was now accessing this preferred
state spontaneously.
When he returned the following week, he appeared very different at a
physiological level. His skin appeared younger, lighter and more
elastic, he had a light in his eyes that had not been present previously
and he was both walking and talking differently. He explained that he
did not know what had happened, but it was almost as if his brain
was working differently. The depressive fog that had been present for
40 years had gone, as had the butter¯ies in his stomach. He was
reacting differently and rather than struggling to get up in the
morning, he kept ®nding himself waking before the alarm and getting
up immediately and looking forward to the day.
86 Neurological processes
His progress continued and what is apparent in the work with this client is
the power of working with the development of new neural pathways
towards a future-oriented state, rather than working to resolve underlying
old patterns of behaviour.
Potential for neurological re-patterning in therapy
There exists an enormous potential for linking research and theories in
neuroscience to the existing theories in psychotherapy. Panksepp and
Carroll are bringing this into the general arena of psychotherapy and over
the next few years we will inevitably see further evidence of the potential
afforded through psychotherapy to literally rewire a client's neurology such
that past traumas remain in the past and are disconnected from a client's
now and future. Mollon (2004) has already begun this in his comparative
work linking psychoanalysis with Eye Movement Desensitization and
Reprocessing, and I would anticipate that neurolinguistic psychotherapists
will become actively involved in this debate, and will include the linguistic
representation of neurologically held traumas in this work.
Neurological processes 87
Chapter 5
The psychology of language
In any work, you are going to use words to in¯uence the psychological
life of an individual today; you are going to use words to in¯uence his
organic life today, you are going to use words to in¯uence his organic life
twenty years from today.
So you had better know what you are saying.
You had better be willing to re¯ect upon the words you use, to wonder
what the meanings are, and to seek out and understand their many
associations.
(Erickson, 1985, p. 32)
This chapter considers the linguistic components that support neurolinguis-
tic psychotherapy. Chomsky's work on transformational grammar considers
that a person will present a representation of their lived experience at surface
structure, which is often considerably disconnected from how it has been
experienced within the deeper structures of the psyche. Neurolinguistic
psychotherapy uses the processes of the `Milton Model' and the `Meta
Model' from Erickson and Satir to enable a client to access the deeper
structure of their internal constructs. As this work progresses, therapists may
®nd that clients access dissociated, disowned, split or fragmented aspects of
their personality, and by using the processes within quantum linguistics it is
possible to work with a client to facilitate a process of ownership and
integration of these aspects. The chapter concludes with the client's search
for meaning being at the centre of the therapeutic relationship.
Transformational grammar
Chomsky's work (1957) on transformational grammar is often quoted as
providing the theoretical underpinnings of the linguistic components of
neurolinguistic psychotherapy and is supported by two concepts. His ®rst
theorem is that the structure of human language is innate in all human
beings, with a baby only needing to learn the vocabulary and parameters of
language to enable communication; this hypothesises that all languages
have the same basic rule structure. This ®rst aspect is what we linguistically
represent at a conscious level. Watzlawick (1978, pp. 14±15) describes this
as follows: `The one, in which for instance this sentence itself is expressed, is
objective, de®nitional, cerebral, logical, analytic; it is the language of
reason, of science, explanation, and interpretation, and therefore the lan-
guage of most schools of psychotherapy'.
Chomsky's second theorem proposed that sentence structure is made up
of two aspects ± deep structure and surface structure ± and a series of rules
or transformations that connect these two levels. Within the surface struc-
ture of language, the sounds and words used are important to the indi-
vidual, and fundamental differences between individuals will apply at this
level, whereas at deep structure level the meaning of the words as they are
represented is found, alongside a corresponding commonality of experience.
He proposed that we move from deep structure to surface structure through
the rules or transformations, with the transformation occurring via a
process that takes the input and changes it in some way to create a surface
structure representation. It is at this level of surface structure that differ-
ences occur between an original or primary experience (deep structure) and
how it is represented at a linguistic level (surface structure).
Piaget's (1968) epistemological and psychological perspective challenged
Chomsky's view of transformational grammar. He acknowledged the
opposite perspectives of Chomsky, who considered that language is based
in reason, and the contrary view that logic is a linguistic convention,
preferring his own view: `there is a whole selection of possible solutions,
and the choice among these solutions must be made on the basis of fact,
that is, on the basis of psychological research' (p. 5). This was supported by
Watzlawick (1978, p. 15) whose perspective that directed thought follows
`linguistic logic . . . grammar, syntax and semantics' and undirected thought
consists of `dreams, fantasies, and other experiences of our inner world'
(p. 15) later informed the co-developers of NLP.
By the 1990s Chomsky had reinterpreted his work on deep structure and
surface structure and began to re¯ect the more epistemological stance of
Piaget. He developed the concept of minimalism, which assumes that an
economy of derivation occurs to ensure that a transformation will only
happen if we receive input that is non-interpretable, based on our life
experiences. In other words, a client will reduce concepts to understandable
levels of meaning if they are unable to make logical sense of the experience.
He proposed that an individual will distort information to make it interpret-
able, making meaning of events that may bear no relationship to reality, and
create internal constructs that may result in emotional or psychological
disturbance. If this distortion connects with an internal rule or transforma-
tion, a generalisation is set up to respond to the distortion and a pattern of
behavioural response is then created. By listening to the linguistic structure
The psychology of language 89
of these patterns, often held at belief level, it is possible to work with the
client to assist change by interrupting the pattern of behaviour.
Watzlawick (1978, pp. 104±105) provides an example of how Bandler
and Grinder reported on this process in a group therapy session with a
client who presented with an inability to say `No'.
Not surprisingly, this inability was the cause of stereotypical problems,
from material exploitation all the way into the sexual area. But in her
world image the act of denying was associated with far worse conse-
quences than these. She claimed that as a child she had once refused to
stay home with her father and upon her return had found him dead.
Since then she was terri®ed of the magical consequences of any denial
and avoided it. In front of the group the therapist imposed a double bind
by asking her to say `no' about something to every member of the group.
She reacted strongly and refused to carry out the task. `No! It's
impossible for me to say ``no'' to people! You can't expect me to do it just
because you ask me to' (Sluzki & Ranson, 1976). After several minutes of
this agitated refusal and only after the therapist pointed out to her that
she had been saying `no' to him all this time did she realize that she had
indeed been denying something without any dire consequences.
Pinker's (1994) work on the acquisition of language has added to the
®ndings of Chomsky. He describes the notion that the use of language is an
innate human ability and that far from being connected to the human's
ability to reason, it is developed genetically. He has identi®ed through
research that rather than there being learned rules for language it is a
neurological ability centred in the left hemisphere. Where aspects of the left
hemisphere are damaged, certain types of aphasia or loss of speech, includ-
ing interpretation of language, can occur, demonstrating the neurological
aspects that make up an individual's ability to utilise language. Although
Pinker proposes that the development of language is innate, he acknowl-
edges that there are some factors that in¯uence the ongoing development of
linguistic ability that have implications for the therapy context. He identi®es
these as three external in¯uences:
· positive evidence, whereby a parent will reinforce the use of positive
and grammatically correct language
· the context in which the language is learnt, which enables us to make
meaning of the language as it is used
· the prosody, which includes the rhythm and in¯ections that are used to
infer meaning.
The clues to a client's inner world therefore exist in the linguistic pre-
suppositions, i.e., what is presupposed in their language. If the linguistic
structure does not follow a grammatical rule such as a negation or
90 The psychology of language
dissociative language, it is therefore created by an external event at some
point in the client's life and is an accurate representation of the client's
reality in a given moment. A client may refer to themselves as being dead in
relationships, and as they describe the relationship they refer to themselves
as you, e.g., you ®nd it very hard to not love someone when you feel dead
inside. This does not follow a grammatical rule in two instances. The client
is dissociating from themselves, by referring to you rather than I. Addi-
tionally, they negate their love of someone by using the word `not', when
what they are looking for is to love someone, which will enable them to feel
alive. The deeper structure of the client's experience is one of deadness
which would have been created in their past experiences through not being
loved. The role of the therapist in this instance is to unglue the double bind,
and I discuss this process further in this chapter.
The meta-model of Satir
Kostere and Malatesta (1990) identi®ed that we use symbolic representation
to make sense of our world: `It is through the process of modelling that the
in®nite variety of experience is organised into a form that can be inter-
preted, understood, and utilised. Modelling is an integral part of our daily
lives and is the way by which we transform the chaotic into the structured'
(pp. 1±2). Bandler and Grinder (1975) recognised this in their modelling of
Satir and developed a linguistic model for challenging the distortions,
deletions and generalisations that occur in everyday language that is known
as the meta-model. This supports the views of Piaget and Watzlawick, of
utilising the conscious representation of a presenting issue in therapy to
access the deep structure of the unconscious and often illogical root cause.
Through the meta-model, it is possible to facilitate the client towards an
understanding of the transformations they have made within their own
linguistic constructs that have deleted, distorted or generalised an experi-
ence held at deep structure level. Although readily used by the therapist to
assist their understanding of the client's internal constructs, enhanced levels
of change can occur with a client who is enabled to recognise their own
linguistic deletions, distortions and generalisations, thereby assisting the
client to reframe their experience. Watzlawick (1978) had already identi®ed
this process which Satir utilised in her therapy work, where one of her aims
was to reconnect her client's conscious perception of their world with their
unconscious resources and facilitate resolution of the problem state. He
refers to the client already knowing the solution: `what now remains to be
done is to ®nd the way by which I have arrived at it' (p. 33). The thera-
peutic process facilitates integration of the solution held within the right
hemisphere with the left hemisphere, that through its `specialization for
detailed, stepwise investigation' will `supply the proof' to the person that
the change has occurred (p. 31).
The psychology of language 91
A client presented to me with a history of having dif®culties in rela-
tionships. He had been in a series of relationships and referred to
always looking for `that elusive intimacy'. His current relationship
had just ended and he recognised that he was being pulled back into it
and felt split between wanting to stay and wanting to go.
Linguistically he immediately presented a double bind between his con-
scious desired state and unconscious existing state. Grammatically it is not
possible to have `elusive intimacy', they are mutually exclusive value sets or
descriptors of a state of being. He also describes his split between his
conscious and unconscious drives as being split between wanting to stay
and wanting to go.
As a child his perception of his mother was that of a self-centred
woman, his father distanced himself from the home and the parental
relationship had been one of violence interspersed with overt sexu-
ality. His own role was one of, `I became very good at reading her
[mother's] moods and learning to keep my head down. I had to
protect my sister.' His early life was spent abroad and his recall of his
relationship with his father was of going ®shing and shooting
together; he also recalled how his father would go for a drink and
leave him in the care of local prostitutes.
His history of relationships with women began with his sister and
they formed an early sexual bond ± `I felt like she was in control ± it
was fascinating and exciting.' He expressed horror and disgust at
what had occurred between them. He was aware of being `very'
interested in girls from the age of 11, and all subsequent relationships
were with women that he perceived as `manipulative, controlling or
domineering'. He viewed his own success according to how effectively
he could satisfy women sexually ± `I need to please my lady' ± and his
current relationship was one where his partner `used sex to control
our relationship'.
His very early history suggests a considerable level of trauma that he had
then articulated into his adult relationships as being `manipulative, con-
trolling and domineering'. Yet he measured this negative relationship with
women through his own ability to please them sexually. The surface struc-
ture of his relationships was rooted in controlling sexual processes, which
mirrored to some degree his early years where he was sexually controlled by
his sister, yet he felt the need to protect her. He was not able to articulate to
92 The psychology of language
me linguistically the impact of his early years spent with prostitutes, or the
impact of his father's drinking on his own developing personality.
The overarching pattern to his history was one of using seductive
processes to avoid intimacy, creating a double bind for himself. At a
conscious level he recognised that he had formed a distorted view of
his role in relationship to women at a very early age. This led him to
rapidly recognise at a deep structure level that he was split between
the `euphoria and ecstasy' of each sexual encounter and the desire to
`end it, it's over and done and I can at least get the hell out of there'.
This is another example of the double bind that he had created for himself.
He needed the sexual experience to create a positive feeling, yet as soon as
he had this, he wanted to leave the relationship as fast as possible.
The therapeutic process was one of enabling this client to reconnect
with his own early experiences through the challenging of his
deletions, distortions and generalisations, and recognise how they had
in¯uenced his later choices in relationships.
Linguistically, the client articulated distortions about his view of women that
were contradictory, e.g., I want sex when things go wrong, I measure my
success through someone else's pleasure then I feel bad about myself. Through
therapy he was able to reconnect with a split-off part of his personality that
felt as if I am nothing. Once this was integrated, he was able to gain a more
realistic view of himself in future relationships and move on in his life.
The client wrote to me a week after he had ®nished in therapy. Below is a
direct transcript of his communication to me.
Two days of wanting to contact her with all my being, real yearning. I
did not contact her. I left on Wednesday calm and stable. The grief
for my childhood and how it affected me hit me the next day and
eased off on Sunday night. A lot of tears shed. Sometimes I ®nd
myself crying and not sure what about.
Neurologically he still had a connection to his former partner, yet rather
than being dissociated from this loss, which was his previous pattern of
behaviour, he was able to acknowledge his loss and provide his own
comfort rather than look outside of himself.
The psychology of language 93
After Wednesday one childhood habit was not there anymore. There
are a number of other changes and behaviours that are different or I
can choose how I want to react. Being even more in contact with my
feelings is challenging. There is no place to hide or pretend about
feelings. I have to deal with acceptance. It just is.
He acknowledges his reconnected sense of self and is aware that this is a
new place for him to be. Previously he would have operated from a
dissociated position, and now he accepts the feelings that are a natural part
of life and is learning to deal with these.
My feelings for X [former partner] are becoming less clear. I was clear
that I loved her, a week later I don't know. That's not being
inconsistent; it's a shift to a more adult place.
There is evidence of his having integrated his dissociated younger self and
moved to a more adult functioning place.
I do not feel a constant loss for her and because I don't miss her,
because I need my own space, does not diminish the bond that I still
feel is there, it just feels much healthier. Being away from her has
given me the space to heal. The more I have learnt about her the
greater my appreciation of her own internal turmoil and the greater
my sadness has become. In my current and future I'm okay, I am
more able to focus on my own wants that, when I was with X, were
subsumed by her wants and her neediness.
He now has to take responsibility for his part in the relationship and rather
than absorbing his partner's projections, his emerging sense of self has
enabled him to focus on a future based on his own values.
I am increasingly calm and centred. The word that is coming back
from friends, family and colleagues is `positive'. There are a lot of
good things happening in my life and I had the most positive
feedback from an initial job interview I have.
94 The psychology of language
The client has continued to progress and has now formed a strong rela-
tionship with a new partner whom he views as equal to him and who does
not take him back into old patterns of behaviour.
Ericksonian linguistic influences on neurolinguistic
psychotherapy
Within core NLP teaching, there is a strong emphasis on the Milton Model
(Bandler & Grinder, 1975a, 1977) as the predominant linguistic structure
modelled from Erickson. The Milton Model deliberately uses generalised
language structures to move a client from surface structure to deep struc-
ture by creating distortions, deletions and generalisations. The model goes
some way towards elucidating how Erickson used language to facilitate a
client to access unconscious resources held within their inner world. Other
therapists, such as Haley, Rossi, Rosen, Zeig and O'Hanlon have brought a
wider perspective of Erickson's work to neurolinguistic psychotherapy that
go beyond the Milton Model. This work has focused on Erickson's ability
to utilise all that a client presented with towards a positive outcome frame;
his utmost respect for and ability to enter the client's model of the world;
his unwillingness to engage in therapeutic diagnosis or medicalisation of
their problem; and his utilisation of resistance within the client to enable
them to access their own internal resources. He also fundamentally believed
that all clients could enter trance and use the unconscious process to
facilitate change.
Similarly to Satir, Erickson recognised that clients represent a subjective
reality of their experience in therapy, and there is evidence of his ability to
work with the subjective reality through the use of metaphor in Rosen's
work, My Voice Will Go With You (1982), and his own referencing to this
in The February Man (Erickson & Rossi, 1989, p. 105):
The multiple meanings of words lead each person to draw different
levels of con®dence about the inferences, implications, frames of refer-
ence and belief systems he or she creates as a function of his or her
particular life experience with these words. Thus one person's reason-
able inference can be ludicrous to another. This is the basic problem in
all efforts at creating consensual belief systems as well as consensual
psychotherapeutic approaches.
Erickson's preference for future-oriented work is apparent in the outcome-
oriented nature of neurolinguistic psychotherapy and particularly the use of
the well-formed outcome. O'Connor (2001) highlights the bene®ts of this
outcome orientation process within NLP work and identi®es that by setting
an outcome and being speci®c about the future desired state, `you become
The psychology of language 95
proactive, take ownership of the problem and start to move towards a
solution' (p. 11).
If I return to the client mentioned above with relationship dif®culties,
there are strong parallels with Haley's (1993) summary of Erickson's
perception of his work and the use of outcome-based language in working
with clients to develop a future-oriented state. Rather than focus on a past
trauma, Erickson preferred to `see the problem more as one of arranging a
situation where a person can make use of what he has learned and have the
opportunity to learn more of what he must know to enjoy himself sexually'
(p. 109).
Haley (1993) highlights further evidence of the subtlety by which
Erickson used outcome orientation whereby he recognised that if he were to
be too outcome-oriented in his language, this in itself could create resist-
ance. Instead, he developed a process where he facilitated change towards
an outcome by directly accepting the patient as he is. Erickson would focus
initially on the negative attributes of a particular situation or problem to
enable the client to `feel himself in the right, even when he is wrong, and a
therapist needs to join the patient on this'. He would work with the client,
validating their current state and wait for `the patient to correct his mistake'
so that the client and himself could `do this jointly and so the therapy is a
more cooperative endeavour' (p. 129).
Erickson and Rossi (1989) utilised active dissociation within trance states
as a way of assisting resolution of problems. In this work, Erickson's
embedded commands towards a future orientation enable his client to
dissociate from her past trauma and successfully resolve a current phobia.
Erickson was fascinated with `the separation or dissociation of thinking,
feeling and doing, whereby a patient could calmly receive insights into the
repressed traumatic situation (thinking) without the disturbing affects that
accompanied it (feeling and doing)' (p. 55). As his work with this client
continues, it is also apparent how Erickson uses linguistic reframing to
change the client's interpretation of her experience. Bandler and Grinder
(1975a) recognised the importance of Erickson's use of dissociative pro-
cesses and highlighted his work in assisting clients to make changes in one
aspect of their consciousness while other aspects of their consciousness
remained unaware of the processes that had occurred.
O'Hanlon in particular, has developed Erickson's work and brought this
into the therapy ®eld in his solution-oriented hypnosis, which he later
developed into solution-oriented brief therapy or possibility therapy (A
Brief Guide to Brief Therapy; A Guide to Inclusive Therapy; A Guide to
Possibility Land; Even From a Broken Web; In Search of Solutions; Love is a
Verb; Rewriting Love Stories; Solution Oriented Hypnosis; Taproots). I have
summarised the main focuses of Erickson's solution-oriented hypnosis
within O'Hanlon's work. They demonstrate a series of key aspects that are
used conjunctively within his therapeutic approach, as follows:
96 The psychology of language
· The use of presuppositions in hypnosis, which includes the creation of
options to lead in a desired direction, that may presume that something
is about to happen, or has happened, or is happening, and bringing this
into the client's consciousness. There are parallels of these aspects
occurring within the Milton Model language patterns, which may be
the creation of alternatives that suggest an element of choice and result
in a client moving towards their future direction.
· The matching of non-verbal and verbal communication, considered as
a fundamental aspect of rapport, and expanded on by what O'Hanlon
refers to as `descriptive matching', i.e., the use of an analogy to bring to
the client's awareness their current state and behaviour, thereby
creating `truisms', while at the same time narrowing the client's focus of
attention, which in itself will induce trance.
· The use of permissive and empowering words, which, by moving into
the realm of abstract thinking, moves the client away from concrete
representations of their problem state and into vague notions that
create the opportunity for possibilities to be created, leaving the client
at choice as to how they ®ll in the gaps for themselves, and encouraging
activation and utilisation of internal resources. O'Hanlon builds on the
use of permission by creating the concept of `nots' or the opposite
polarity. The effect of this is to create a sense of ambiguity and choice
in the client's unconscious, while at the same time ensuring that all
options are covered, which will reduce the likelihood of client resistance
within the therapy.
· Tag questions that are used at the end of sentences to turn statements
into questions, again creating an element of choice for the client,
enabling displacement of any resistance.
· Splitting provides an opportunity for the therapist to create a percep-
tion of separation between elements that have hitherto been perceived
as intrinsically linked. Erickson initially used splitting to separate the
conscious and unconscious mind, using his voice and body movements
to indicate which aspect of the person's thinking he was referring to.
Through this process he was able to direct his client's attention either
to their internal world, and induce trance states, or to their external
world, bringing them to a more conscious state. This splitting is also
used to create a split between the current problem as it is in the now
and the past, and the future orientation of the solution through the use
of time-based language.
· Linking is the opposite process of splitting whereby Erickson used
linking processes to connect two apparently disconnected concepts to
facilitate a client towards a solution orientation. This process may be
done verbally or non-verbally, by providing linguistic links of cause and
effect, such as `if you listen to me, then you will ®nd yourself feeling
more relaxed', and also by linking through complex equivalences. This
The psychology of language 97
enables a link to be made between an external event and an internal
state, or a presenting problem and a resultant solution.
· The interspersal of linguistic commands during a sentence that struc-
turally holds one level of meaning for the conscious mind and a second
level of meaning for the unconscious mind. It was this multi-level of
communication that is apparent in Erickson's work as it is portrayed in
Rosen (1992).
The binding constraints of language
How does myth think?
Myth thinks by providing `a logical model capable of overcoming a
contradiction.' Since this is an impossible achievement, myth grows spiral-
wise until the intellectual impulse which has produced it is exhausted.
(Strauss, 1963)
Bateson (1972) has provided considerable insight into the world of double
binds, the catch-22, or `damned if you do, damned if you don't' constructs
that exist in the world of those experiencing con¯ict. Dilts (1999, p. 231)
refers to double binds as `con¯icts that are at the root of both creativity and
psychosis (depending on whether one is able to transcend the double bind
or stays caught inside of it)'.
He identi®es the prerequisites for the creation of double binds as:
· the involvement of two or more persons, one of whom will play the role
of `victim'
· repeated experiences of the situation
· a primary injunction that is negative, and often based in a punishment
that involves the withdrawing of love, expression of hate and anger, or
abandonment by the authority ®gure who is helpless
· a secondary injunction that con¯icts with the primary injunction and is
at a higher or more abstract level
· a potential tertiary injunction that prevents the victim from escaping
their dilemma
· ®nally, the complete set of requirements becomes unnecessary when the
victim perceives their world through a set of double binds.
There are a number of models within neurolinguistic psychotherapy that
enable the resolution of the double binds, i.e., reframing through `sleight of
mouth' patterns (Dilts, 1999), quantum linguistics (Chen, 2002; James,
1996) and symbolic modelling (Lawley & Tompkins, 2005).
Within a double bind a client holds a logical paradox that results in a
paradoxical conclusion; for example, the client with relationship dif®culties
98 The psychology of language
mentioned earlier in the chapter is caught between the self-referencing
experience of the euphoria and ecstasy of each sexual encounter and the
paradoxical conclusion of acting this out that resulted in his desire to end it,
it's over and done and I can at least get the hell out of there.
He had a series of double binds within his linguistic structure that I
represent here to demonstrate the complexity of his paradoxical world:
· people are very honest in who they are which creates so many masks,
shields and pretence
· wanting trust while not wanting an intimate relationship
· if I ask for what I need or want it is built on lies
· saying who I am is pretending to be who I am not
· being open means not being who I am
· to meet my partner as an equal means that I get bloody lonely
· having freedom means that I will go away and hide
· I want to know her well which means I get drawn into another
relationship with all the crap and baggage that comes with it.
In unbinding this series of double binds through the use of a variety of
sleight of mouth patterns and quantum linguistics, he ®nally connected with
the ultimate double bind of wanting the intimacy while at the same time
wanting to get out of the relationship. This then enabled him to access a
deeply held core belief that he was able to ®nally resolve.
Schro
Èdinger (1958) states that Every man's world picture is and always
remains a construct of his mind and cannot be proved to have any other
existence. Quantum linguistics provides a methodology that facilitates the
undoing of the constructs of the mind by utilising the theory of quantum
physics and rules regarding motion within a linguistic structure. The
process as it is taught within neurolinguistic psychotherapy enables the
unpacking of double binds through a process of linguistic binding and
double binding to `unglue' the subjective nature of a core belief structure.
Chen's (2002) use of quantum linguistics holds within its theory a number
of postulates, as follows.
· Language is the result of neural activities in the brain and nothing else.
This provides an antidualist position and accepts that both verbal and
non-verbal language is a product of neural activity. Therefore if a client
rewires their neural activity they will have a different neurological,
verbal and non-verbal response to a given situation.
· The brain is a quantum mechanical system with quasi-classical mem-
ories. This assumes that the brain is a measuring device and that
memories are stable objects, therefore if the memory is changed in some
way, through reframing, additional learning or dissociation, the meas-
urement of the memory changes.
The psychology of language 99
· The `reality' in the brain is a quantum mechanical experimental set-up
arranged by the brain and consists of the subject matter of thought.
Memories are held within the nervous system and the `reality' held
within the brain is based on the nervous impulses as they are received.
By changing the nervous input to the brain, it is possible to change the
lived reality.
· Language understanding is a quantum measurement performed by the
language user. Experiences need to be measured before meaning can be
applied to them. The brain has duality at its core, therefore something
cannot `be' and `not be' at the same time; as soon as a person creates a
non-duality the concept that they hold no longer exists.
· Language understanding and language formation do not commute.
Whenever a person tries to understand something that currently they
do not understand they create a different interpretation of the thing
they are trying to understand. They change it to make meaning of it,
and never copy exactly the original input. It is this non-commuteness
that causes the wave form of the client's current reality to collapse and
therefore no longer hold the problem in their neurology. Hence, when a
client gets to a place of I don't know, I can't compute that, I don't
understand, or Can you say that again? ± the therapist is creating an
interruption in the wave formation of the construct of the problem
enabling it to be freed from their neurology.
Lawley and Tompkins' (2005, p. 187) work on symbolic modelling adopts
an alternative approach to the resolution of double binds. `In Symbolic
Modelling it is not your job to resolve the client's binds. Rather your
function is to facilitate the client to model their metaphors so that the
organisation of their binding pattern becomes clearer and clearer to them.
As a result, the conditions for transformation arise.' The approach within
symbolic modelling assumes ®ve steps to assist the client to transform their
construct.
· When the client identi®es two or more symbols whose intention or
function cannot be enacted or satis®ed, facilitate them to model the
pattern preventing resolution and then to identify a metaphor for the
primary bind.
· Use the six approaches to facilitate the client to explore the primary
bind's inherent logic until either:
· a secondary bind appears, or
· it spontaneously changes.
· Facilitate the client to self-model the pattern of the secondary bind and
its relationship to the primary bind, and identify a metaphor for the
double bind.
100 The psychology of language
· Use the six approaches to facilitate the client to explore the inherent
logic of the double bind, until either:
· a tertiary bind appears (in which case continue modelling the whole
organisation), or
· it spontaneously changes.
· Mature all changes as they occur until either:
· the binding pattern translates and repeats in a different form, or
· the binding pattern transforms.
A search for meaning
One of the fundamental principles of NLP as a methodology is that all
meaning is context-dependent, and that if we take the meaning and place it
in a different context, the meaning itself will change ± the basis of refram-
ing within NLP. The aim of making meaning of the world is such that a
person can identify the meaning of events in relation to the sense of self.
Schore (2003), in his work on the development of the self, considers the
relationship between attachment and the developing sense of self. He argues
that regulating mechanisms are used either to add to an increasing sense of
self or to avoid the negative consequences of unuseful attachment relation-
ships. Moore (1998) builds on this notion in his interpretation of the human
experience of the world as being one that is non-linear and of multiple
causes where people tend to simplify experiences to enable effective func-
tioning. We therefore make meaning of our experiences outside our lin-
guistic representation. Kovelman (1998) links this to the work of Jung and
his perspective on synchronicity, presenting an additional perspective that
supports the view that meaning is in¯uenced by processes that are beyond
consciousness. She considers that all individuals share common archetypes
and that these are communicated through `a psychological uni®ed ®eld in
which all things are inter-connected and non-local'. She proposes that
through synchronicity an individual psyche will `seed three or four co-
incidents into an individual's world of space-time, in order to dramatically
gain Ego Self's attention and bring about desired change' (p. 22).
The role then of the neurolinguistic psychotherapist is to enable a client
to develop a more effective relationship between themselves and the exter-
nal world through altering the client's perception of meaning. This is
enabled through the dialogical process of therapy, enabling integration of
unconscious and conscious processes.
In attempting to bring this alive within a therapy setting, I present here a
case with a client whose search for meaning had taken him through a
number of therapy relationships and medication to deal with his lifelong
depressive tendencies.
The psychology of language 101
He had approached me for therapy to `have my brain rewired'. He
had exhausted all other attempts at either self-help or therapy, and
was ®nding that medication was not helping him alter his melancholic
approach to life. He was in an unful®lled marriage, his wife had long-
term disabling health conditions, his children had reached adulthood
and had left home and he faced a future of working in a depressing
job until his retirement a few years away. He could see nothing in life
to live for and viewed this as a ®nal attempt to see if there was any
light at the end of the tunnel.
His initial presentation was a depressed position. His archetypical meaning
in life meant that he created negative projections all around himself. As we
reviewed each of the areas of his life, each one had a melancholic theme to
it, and he was unable to represent it linguistically in any way that did not
look bleary, depressed and hopeless.
My therapy work with him was very much of accepting him for who
he was and working within his constrained way of thinking. He was
resistant to my usual therapeutic repertoire and much of our time was
spent discussing the meaning of life with him challenging my
somewhat esoteric and non-linear thinking. He had an interest in
Jungian archetypes and we discussed how his MBTI (Myers, 1962)
pro®le of ISTJ viewed life differently from my own pro®le of INFJ,
yet we were both naturally introverted in nature.
As he was a scientist by nature, I found that when offered a model that was
grounded in theory he was able to re¯ect on his personal relationship to this.
He found it dif®cult to consider abstract concepts and in reading Jung's
work he was able to develop a reference structure for his own experiences.
We argued about our very different perspectives on life, and I often
questioned my role in bene®ting him as a therapist as I viewed the
relationship as one of two acquaintances arguing about different
philosophical perspectives rather than providing what I perceived to
be a therapeutic alliance centred on his internal world. During his
time in therapy, he appeared to be improving, evidenced by the care
he was taking in his appearance, he shaved his beard off, having had
one since being a teenager, his mood improved and he started to
develop interests outside his work and responsibilities for his wife.
102 The psychology of language
Because we were communicating in a similar language, and he was able to
make meaning of his experience, and also ®nd a rationale for why he felt
the way that he did, this validated his experience and he started to recognise
that he was not completely alone, and that there were other people in life
who were very similar to him.
After therapy ended, he wanted to continue the relationship on to a
more social footing, which I declined. I agreed to continue to dialogue
with him by email as he wanted to know that I was still available to
talk to if he `slipped backwards'. This continued for a short time and
he then moved on with his life. I later received a book from him,
Steppenwolf by Hesse (1965).
During therapy, he had told me that a previous therapist had suggested that
he read this book, and although he had attempted to, he had been unable to
progress beyond the ®rst couple of chapters. In his letter to me, he said that
I had inspired him to pick the book up again. The book tells of the story of
one man's search for meaning and addresses his inner fears through a
fantasy world. He highlighted four passages for me to read.
The ®rst passage refers to Harry's meeting of Hermine for the ®rst time,
where he very clearly elucidates the double bind that he faced between life
and death (Hesse, 1965, p. 123). This strongly resonated with the client's
current state when he ®rst consulted me for therapy. The passage opens as
follows:
The importance of my relationship to this unknown girl had become
alarmingly clear to me. I thought of nothing but her. I expected
everything from her. I was ready to lay everything at her feet. I was not
in the least in love with her. Yet I had only to imagine that she might
fail to keep the appointment, or forget it, to see where I stood. Then the
world would be a desert once more, one day as dreary and worthless as
the last, and the deathly stillness and wretchedness would surround me
once more on all sides with no way out from this hell of silence except
the razor.
This passage highlights the torment that he was experiencing when he ®rst
consulted me for therapy. He frequently discussed death and seemed
ambiguous about suicidal thoughts, yet within this passage he was ®nally
able to articulate to me the terror that he had felt concerning his own
internal thought processes. Next there is a reference to his suicidal thought
process and the role that I as the therapist had played in this very dif®cult
emotional state that he was experiencing (Hesse, 1965, p. 124).
The psychology of language 103
I realised that it was the unendurable tension between inability to live
and inability to die that made the unknown girl, the pretty dancer of the
Black Eagle, so important to me. She was the one window, the one tiny
crack of light in my black hole of dread. She was my release and my way
to freedom. She had to teach me to live or teach me to die. She had to
touch my deadened heart with her ®rm and pretty hand, and at the
touch of life it would either leap again to ¯ame or subside in the ashes.
He then chooses a second passage that refers to Hermine and Harry's initial
conversation at this meeting and he recognises the transferential process
within the therapeutic relationship. In the dialogue between Hermine and
Harry, Harry asks `How did you manage to look like a boy and make me
guess your name?'. She says that `I am a kind of looking-glass for you,
because there's something in me that answers you and understands you'
(p. 127). This is a reference to our sharing of the insights from Jung's work
and our protracted discussions about our introverted nature, including how
each of us could react so differently even though we were inherently the
same. The dialogue continues and Harry highlights the fact that he is
completely opposite to Hermine, at which point `a dark cloud of serious-
ness spread over her face. It was indeed like a magic mirror to me. Of a
sudden her face bespoke seriousness and tragedy and it looked as fathom-
less as the hollow eyes of a mask' (p. 128).
The story then moves to Hermine and Harry dancing and listening to
music and the client appears to have selected this paragraph to mirror the
similarities in our respective psyches, and the transferential process as
learning points for himself. Hermine responds to his acknowledgement of
her positive attributes by reminding him of the transference between them.
`Think of that evening when you came broken from your despair and
loneliness, to cross my path and be my comrade. Why was it, do you think,
I was able to recognise you and understand you?' (p. 147). During the
therapy with the client, I had used disclosure at key points in the therapy as
a way of enabling the client to recognise that all people experience distress,
unhappiness and loss in their lives, and that we all have a choice about how
we react to it. The client chooses the following (Hesse, 1965, p. 148) to
acknowledge that he has recognised this.
I don't despair. As to suffering ± oh, yes. I know all about that! You are
surprised that I should be unhappy when I can dance and am so sure of
myself in the super®cial things of life. And I, my friend, am surprised
that you are so disillusioned with life when you are at home with the
deepest and most beautiful things, with spirit, art, and thought! That is
why we are drawn to one another and why we are brother and sister. I
am going to teach you to dance and play and smile, and still not be
104 The psychology of language
happy. And you are going to teach me to think and to know and yet not
be happy. Do you know that we are both children of the devil?'
Towards the end of the story, Harry enters the theatre that he had been
afraid to enter earlier in the story: the point when the client moves on with
his life. In this ®nal episode the client acknowledges the work that he has
done in recognising and accepting his personality for what it is (Hesse,
1965, pp. 205±206).
This little theatre of mine has as many doors into as many boxes as you
please, ten or a hundred or a thousand, and behind each door exactly
what you seek awaits you. It is a pretty cabinet of pictures, my dear
friend; but it would be quite useless for you to go through it as you are.
You would be checked and blinded at every turn by what you are
pleased to call your personality. You have no doubt guessed long since
that the conquest of time and the escape from reality, or however else it
may be that you choose to describe your longing, means simply the
wish to be relieved of your so-called personality. That is the prison
where you lie. And if you were to enter the theatre as you are, you
would see everything through the eyes of Harry and the old spectacles
of the Steppenwolf. You are therefore requested to lay those spectacles
aside and to be so kind as to leave your highly esteemed personality
here in the cloak-room where you will ®nd it again when you wish. The
pleasant dance from which you have just come, the treatise on the
Steppenwolf, and the little stimulant that we have only this moment
partaken of may have suf®ciently prepared you. You, Harry, after
having left behind your valuable personality, will have the left side of
the theatre at your disposal, Hermine the right. Once inside, you can
meet each other as you please.
Inside the book was a note from the client where he acknowledges the
learning that he has made and also recognises that the therapeutic process
was part of his journey, and that the time has come for him to move on in
his life.
This book means a great deal to me and I hope we can share it.
When I ®rst read it, it turned quickly from a story into something
that touched my soul. Each time I have had therapy, I have tried to
read it again but always stopped when Harry enters the magic theatre
. . . it was too painful. When therapists tried to get me to read it, I just
broke down. Now, I have been able not only to re-read it, but re-read
it avidly, seeing not a soul-destroying sorrow but an opportunity for
the future.
The psychology of language 105
Finally, you will read that Hermine has to disappear from Harry's
life, which gives him sorrow and pain, but also release. When you
read this, remember that Hermine is Lisa the therapist. Lisa the friend
is who I have given the book to and Lisa will never disappear even if
we never meet again.
Meaning within therapy
By working with the linguistic components of a client's inner world it is
possible to gain a comprehensive map of how the client has constructed
their reality. The search for meaning is a process that can be enabled
through sensitive and respectful work as a therapist. It is the responsibility
of the client to make meaning of their experiences: both those that have
brought them to therapy and those that they create within the therapeutic
relationship. Neurolinguistic psychotherapy offers a range of linguistic
techniques that enable understanding of the deeper linguistic structures of a
client's experience, yet this can only be done if the client is willing to
consider this within a supportive and containing environment. This then
creates the opportunity for growth that so far has eluded the client.
106 The psychology of language
Chapter 6
Patterns of programming
The patient's behaviour is a part of the problem brought into the of®ce; it
constitutes the personal environment within which the therapy must take
effect; it may constitute the dominant force in the local patient±doctor
relationship. Since whatever the patient brings into the of®ce is in some
way both part of him and part of his problem, the patient should be
viewed with a sympathetic eye appraising the totality which confronts the
therapist.
(Erickson, in Bandler & Grinder, 1975a, p. 59)
In the previous two chapters I have considered the relationship of neuro-
logical processes from the development of the frontal brain through to how
de®cits in early development can lead to unuseful patterns of behaviour
later in life, and then connected this to the way an individual makes sense of
their experience through language. The combination of the neurological
and linguistic constructed reality of a client is what is presented in therapy.
When these become consistent and persistent patterns of behaviour they
then become part of the programmed reality of a client's world. The ®nal
element of NLP that I want to consider in this chapter is the programming
aspects. As I have already identi®ed, Bandler and Grinder modelled the
programmatic linguistic aspects of Erickson, Satir and Perls; they then
added to the model operant conditioning and the theories of Pavlov and the
work on strategy formation by Galanter and his colleague Miller, who
theorised that a person can only consciously process 7 plus/minus 2 chunks
of information at a time.
In this chapter, I continue beyond these components and include the
work of neuroscientist and Nobel Prize winner Edelman, who determined
that where neurons are ®red together, they will stay wired together. I present
a case study that demonstrates the relative ease by which a therapist can
assist neurological re-patterning through metaphor, enabling a client to
access neurological resources in one context and transfer them to another
context to aid problem resolution. Within behaviourist theories, classical
conditioning provides a wider understanding, beyond that presented by
Pavlov, of the potential of including this work in relational therapy to aid
psychological repair. Systemic patterning is also considered within the work
of Dilts and his theories on logical and neurological levels of change. Dilts
proposes that our system is self-organising, and I use a case example to
demonstrate how a client can make a change in one area of their life, at a
high neurological level, that then assists change in a number of other areas.
The chapter concludes with a consideration of the goal-oriented nature of
neurolinguistic psychotherapy and how this is merged with Ericksonian
approaches in a case example.
The brain as a computer?
The notion of programming in NLP emerges out of the sciences of Arti®cial
Intelligence and Information Theory, having been developed in the early
1970s in California at the same time as the personal computer. Dilts and
Delozier (2000) refer to these two processes as being parallel occurrences to
each other. I have been unable to ®nd evidence to support the more recent
unsubstantiated sources quoting Bandler as a student of maths and com-
puters at the time that NLP was being developed.
The models of `arti®cial intelligence' and `information theory' have
in¯uenced the more programmatic aspects of NLP, with the most obvious
parallels being the major programming elements of modelling and stra-
tegies. The three key mechanisms of arti®cial intelligence ± receiving input
from the environment, then determining the action or response, and ®nally
delivering the output to the environment ± can be seen in the modelling of
Erickson and Satir by Bandler and Grinder. This has been developed with
the addition of Miller, Galanter and Pribram's (1960) work of the `TOTE'
(Test±Operate±Test±Exit) model and strategy formation.
Dilts and Delozier (2000) state that information theory provides the basis
for the development of modelling and is the study of how information is
generated, coded, stored and transmitted. Similar to TOTE in its focus on
data processing, the programming aspects of the `state operator and result'
(SOAR) model focuses more acutely on the feedback loop mechanism of
the system. The SOAR model is grounded in the principle of heuristic
learning, that of an `expert system that is continually learning, updating
and enriching its map of a problem space' (p. 1255).
This use of a programmatic approach to the therapy setting provides an
underpinning knowledge base for therapists who welcome a structured way
of working. However, this approach in itself presents limitations if viewed
in isolation. If the views of scientists Pribram, Edelman, Sheldrake and
Wolf and the psychological perspective of Jung are included then accepting
a simplistic model that assumes a computerised modelling of the human
brain would be reductionistic and would move therapists further away from
108 Patterns of programming
Erickson's aim of viewing the totality of the client as they seek support
through psychotherapy.
Kovelman (1998, p. 23) refers to Sheldrake and Wolf's perspective that
individuals intentionally create new `least action pathways', i.e., that the
more times a pattern of behaviour is used the easier it is to manifest, and it
is out of this process that order is created. `It is meaningful to consider each
person as an event or process occurring over a particular space-time
coordinate, rather than as a discrete, individual being. Indeed, physicists
have posited the existence of invisible ®elds, forms, and patterns that lie
beneath the physical world and organize matter into systems and wholes'
(emphasis in original). This view is supported by Pribram (cited in Fields,
Taylor, Weyler & Ingrasci, 1984) who suggests `we must conclude either
that our science is a huge mirage, a construct of the emergence of our
convoluted brains, or that indeed, as proclaimed by all great religious
convictions, a unity characterizes this emergence and the basic order of the
universe' (p. 210). O'Connor (1985, p. 17) again links this back to Jung's
more psychological stance and says that `there are as many archetypes as
there are typical situations in life'. He goes on to say that this is caused
through a process of repetition and that will then cause the experiences to
be `engraved . . . into our psychic constitution . . . as forms without content
representing merely the possibility of a certain type of perception or action'.
Edelman's (2004) most recent developments in neuroscience align more
closely with Dilts's acknowledgement of the SOAR model; Edelman (p. 29)
proposes that:
The control of neural connectivity and fate becomes epigenetic; that is, it
is not prespeci®ed as `hardwiring,' but rather is guided by patterns of
neural activity. Neurons that ®re together wire together. While at earlier
stages, patterned cell movement and programmed cell death determine
anatomical structure, the movement and death of individual neurons are
nonetheless statistically variable or stochastic. The same holds for which
particular neurons connect to each other at later stages. The result is a
pattern of constancy and variation leading to highly individual networks
in each animal. This is no way to build a computer, which must execute
input algorithms or effective procedures according to a precise
prearranged program and with no error in wiring.
Edelman (2004, p. 39) then goes on to reiterate his view that the brain
cannot be viewed as a computer. His research has included in-depth studies
of the anatomy of the brain, and demonstrates suf®cient evidence that even
when individuals carry out the same task they are not responding `in the
way a computer does ± using formal rules governed by explicit, unam-
biguous instructions or input signals. Once more, with feeling: the brain is
not a computer, and the world is not a piece of tape.'
Patterns of programming 109
A stronger parallel to Dilts and Edelman is being developed within the
systemic ®eld through the work of Bateson. Gerhardt (2004) refers to
Bateson's development of the work of Wiener, who ®rst identi®ed the
importance of feedback in maintaining systems. Bateson continued this
from an anthropological perspective and it was his work on human systems
theory that proposed that systems managed to stay stable only by con-
stantly adapting to ever-changing conditions. This gave rise to the NLP
presupposition of `the law of requisite variety', that `To want control is the
pathology! Not that the person can get control, because of course you never
do . . . Man is only a part of larger systems, and that part can never control
the whole' (Bateson, 2006, p. 2; emphasis in original).
In considering the implications of this for therapy, neurolinguistic
psychotherapy provides a methodology that facilitates new neurological
patterning by changing the different aspects of internal process, internal
state or external behaviour. O'Hanlon (1992) builds on Erickson's recog-
nition of the in®nitely various ways that the brain could utilise neurological
connections to assist behavioural change, as evidenced in his metaphorical
work My Voice Will Go With You (Rosen, 1992). O'Hanlon uses Erick-
sonian therapy to assist clients to make change by working at the level of
class of problem and class of solution. He assumes that the brain, with its
in®nite variety of neurological choice, will already have the solution in place,
and it is just a question of connecting this to the behavioural response
requiring change.
A young girl of 12 consulted me (with her mother) with a history of
bedwetting. She had experienced very few dry nights in her life, and
despite her mother lifting her each night, having medical investiga-
tions for the cause, medication and mattress alarms, she continued to
wet the bed.
At a neurological level the girl had not yet developed voluntary muscle
control of her bladder sphincter. O'Hanlon would propose that if a
therapist chunks this up to ®nd the class of problem, then it is possible to
®nd the opposing class of solution and generate a solution response to be
mapped across by the unconscious mind. The class of problem existed
within the somatic elements of her peripheral nervous system, therefore the
solution would need to be generated from an alternative somatic aspect of
her peripheral nervous system where she did have effective control.
In talking with the girl, I discovered that she was passionate about
horse riding and was due to go on a trekking holiday in a few months.
110 Patterns of programming
Horse riding, and particularly moving from walking to trotting, cantering
and galloping required her to have excellent somatic control within her
nervous system, and most importantly within her pelvic region.
She was worried about camping overnight and whether she would be
able to be dry. We talked about her upcoming riding holiday and
during light-level trance, I used a metaphor to provide a graphic
description of the muscle control that was required for each of the
different riding positions of walking, trotting, cantering and galloping.
This process enabled her unconscious mind to access an existing resource
and map it into her current presenting state.
At no time did I refer to the bedwetting and one week later her
mother contacted me to report that she had experienced only two wet
nights in seven and a feeling that we had resolved the problem. She
continued in therapy for a further two sessions with me using a
similar metaphor to embed unconscious commands, and her problem
resolved.
Behaviourist theory
One of the core components of NLP is the utilisation of Pavlov's (1927)
work on classical conditioning, which enables the resolution of negative
patterning created through classical conditioning. Through the methodol-
ogy of anchoring, it is possible to alter conditioned responses, facilitate a
more useful response and create links between current states and desired
states.
The notion of classical conditioning is much older than this. Aristotle's
law of contiguity states that when two things commonly occur together, the
appearance of one will bring the other to mind. Pavlov assumed that there
are two main conditioned responses ± a positive conditioning that is linked
to anticipation and satisfaction, and a negative response linked to fear ±
within which there are parallels to the notion of `towards' and `away from'
values (Lazarus, 2006, pp. 78±82; Robbins, 1991, pp. 347±357). Schore
(2003, p. 153) states that `the earliest expressions of affect are automatic
responses described as varying along a singular pleasure±unpleasure con-
tinuum, but later this is followed by an ``expansion in the affect array'''.
Within the behavioural psychology ®eld, classical conditioning underpins
a range of therapies that include `aversion therapy' and `systematic desensi-
tisation', both of which are models utilised within cognitive behavioural
Patterns of programming 111
therapy. Two additional approaches within classical conditioning are used
less frequently, and are recognised as being controversial mainly because of
the negative physiological response that can occur, i.e., `¯ooding' and
`implosion therapy'. Lazarus and Abramovitz (1962) further expanded
Pavlov's work through the development of a model that utilised emotion-
arousing situations to induce an anxiety-inhibiting response rather than the
more traditional approach of teaching a client to relax when stressed.
Within this model, they identi®ed that emotions have a direct effect on
the autonomic nervous system; therefore if a positive emotion is used at the
same time as a stressor is introduced, the nervous system will override the
negative conditioning, the theoretical basis of collapsing anchors.
The use of programmed behavioural responses is to be found across a
range of psychotherapies. Bolstad (2002) provides a comprehensive refer-
ence to these in his work. He refers to the transference and countertrans-
ference as being anchored responses in psychoanalysis and suggests that `the
therapeutic relationship re-creates stimuli (anchors) that were present in the
client's early signi®cant relationships, accessing those neural networks and
enabling the therapist to explore and modify what happens there'. He pro-
poses that the psychodynamic process of reparenting collapses `the positive
anchor of the therapist support with a previous problem state' (p. 49).
Systemic patterns
Bateson's (2006) systemic perspective has had a considerable in¯uence on
neurolinguistic psychotherapy. He operated from a theoretical framework
based on a simple model of self-organising pattern-recognition processes:
`There is something called learning at a rather small level of organisation.
At a much higher gestalt level, learning is called evolution' (p. 3; emphasis in
original). Kostere and Malatesta (1990) refer to this differentiation as ®rst-
order change versus second-order change. They de®ne ®rst-order change as
`change that is made within a system or reference structure', whereas they
see second-order change as occurring within the systemic structure which
`allows the client to create a new reference structure, regarding the identi-
®ed problem or symptom' (p. 70). This view is rooted in a number of
philosophical perspectives including that of Descartes (1991), who assumed
the notion that primary qualities are more real than secondary qualities and
that we will always extrapolate on our experience to create a more highly
evolved notion or experience. Piaget (1968) refers to these as levels of
abstraction, and states that a person will move across levels of abstraction
to reorganise their thought processes.
Dilts (1990, p. 209) refers to three systemic models of change: `logical
levels of change', which he attributes to Bateson's perspective that `in the
processes of learning, change and communication there were natural hier-
archies of classi®cation'; logical levels in NLP; and `neurological levels'.
112 Patterns of programming
Logical levels are psychological levels of processing and operate at six
different levels, as shown in Table 6.1.
Dilts (1990, p. 209) identi®ed that working at each of these levels and
incorporating elements of conscious and unconscious patterning would
bring deeper levels of neurological `circuitry' into action. In the example
given above of the young girl with a history of bedwetting, I utilised a
metaphor that involved her capabilities within riding, which enabled acti-
vation at a deeper neurological level of her semi-conscious movements, i.e.,
those of pelvic ¯oor muscle control.
Lawley and Tompkins (2005, pp. 29±31) provide an alternative per-
spective to Dilts whereby they consider each person as a self-organising
system. In introducing the work of Wilbur, they highlight a number of
common features that will exist across these systems.
· Self-organising systems are organised into levels. These determine what
the system can and cannot do, its capacity to conserve and to transform
itself, and its evolutionary direction.
· Each level of organisation is simultaneously a whole/part. Whether a
symbol, a relationship or a pattern is perceived as part of a whole or as
a whole compromising parts is simply a matter of different ways of
punctuating experience.
· A self-organising system simultaneously self-preserves and self-adapts.
At the same time as it seeks to preserve its own recognisable pattern,
wholeness and identity, it adapts to maintain relationships with other
Table 6.1 Logical and neurological levels
Spiritual concept Transmission Holographic Nervous system as
a whole
A Who I am
Identity (who)
Mission Immune system
and endocrine
system
Deep life-
sustaining
functions
B My belief system
Values, criteria
(why)
Permission and
motivation
Autonomic
nervous system
(heart rate, pupil
dilation, etc.)
Unconscious
responses
C My capabilities
States, strategies
(how)
Direction Cortical systems Semiconscious
actions (eye
movements,
posture, etc.)
D What I do
Speci®c
behaviours (what)
Actions Motor system
(pyramidal and
cerebellum)
Conscious actions
E My environment
External context
(where, when)
Reactions Peripheral
nervous system
Sensations and
re¯ex reactions
Patterns of programming 113
systems and the environment, and to express its `partness' of something
larger.
· Each level exhibits its own emergent properties. These are not properties
of any individual component and they do not exist at other levels. For
example, `salty' is not a property of either sodium or chlorine, both of
which are poisonous. Neither is it a property of the compound sodium
chloride. `Salty' only emerges from the relationship between salt, taste
buds and the nervous system ± a higher level of organisation than its
components.
· Each lower level is nested within a hierarchy of higher levels and each
higher level `transcends and includes' all lower levels.
Lawley and Tompkins (2005, pp. 29±31) go on to describe the process by
which symbolic modelling can assist in changing unuseful patterns of
behaviour. Inherent within this work is the identi®cation of elements that
need to be present for a pattern to exist. The model goes to on to describe
how working with the symbolic landscape of a client makes it possible for
the client to achieve transformation beyond their presenting problem.
· Patterns are made up of `parts' or components that constitute the raw
material out of which the pattern is fashioned.
· There is an `arrangement' such that the parts are in relation to one
another.
· The arrangement `repeats or corresponds' so there is some continuity,
some non-randomness, some predictability.
· There has to be someone to notice the pattern's existence.
· This someone must process the sensory input in a certain way, one that
requires identi®cation of similarities and differences through compara-
tive and contrastive analysis.
· Just as a painter requires a canvas on which to paint, the process of
perceiving a pattern requires a medium (such as time, space or form)
over which the regularity can manifest.
There is a strong similarity between Lawley and Tompkins' work and
Erickson and Rossi's (1989) approach to working with patterns. Erickson
refers to this as the `domino theory of psychological problems and growth:
When you deal with one issue successfully, other related problems tend to
fall in line and cure themselves'. He suggests that `we are able to be objective
and matter-of-fact about past emotional issues when we have made a
genuine, growth-maturing jump beyond them'. In his work with his client,
he is assisting her to resolve a fear of water. When he checks out an event
previous to one the client originally sought assistance for, he notices that she
has experienced a `spontaneous resolution of another of her important,
early, traumatic experiences' (p. 240).
114 Patterns of programming
To highlight how working with patterns and the domino theory operates
in neurolinguistic psychotherapy, I have summarised a case.
J presented in her thirties with a history of failed relationships, a poor
relationship with her child, periods of feeling down, and seeing the
world as a dark place. She found it very dif®cult when people let her
down, which resulted in her feeling abandoned. Her current relation-
ship was very dif®cult and she experienced this as one where he would
not take responsibility for the relationship and wanted her to deal
with her emotions. The relationship was constantly on/off and there
were frequent rows.
Her presenting issue was one of dif®culty in her existing relationship, yet
she very quickly referred to how this had been a repeating pattern in all her
adult relationships.
She described her parents as having a happy marriage. Her father was
placid and compassionate and her mother she described as a `tornado';
she was `volatile, outspoken, judgemental and critical'. She had a very
close relationship with her sister. She had been brought up in a typical
Asian family and it was expected that she would have an arranged
marriage. Suitors were brought to the house from when she was very
young. She recalls her childhood as being very conservative and
recounts how her brother was violent towards herself and her mother.
She described her brother holding a knife to her throat. Following a
childhood accident, she had spent a long period of time in hospital.
Her early history suggested poor relationships in the family home and
although she refers to her parents as having a happy marriage, she experi-
enced her mother and her brother as having either verbally or physically
violent tendencies, both of which would have impacted on her during the
imprint period of her development. Her hospitalisation at a young age also
created a trauma for her.
At the age of 18, she ran away from the family home and describes
her father as being very upset as she had disgraced the family. She
was successful in her career, was ®nancially secure, and had continued
her good relationship with her sister.
We began the therapy by looking at the pattern of her previous
relationships. Prior to this relationship she had three signi®cant long-
Patterns of programming 115
term relationships. Her ®rst signi®cant relationship had been with her
husband. Her parents had not approved of him; he had been violent
throughout their marriage and they had split up on a number of
occasions, with her becoming emotionally distant as a way of pro-
tecting herself. She had become pregnant early in the marriage and
she described instances where he would hold the child in one arm and
beat her with the other.
Using Erickson's domino theory, it is apparent here how she recreated her
own early years within her marriage and used a pattern of distancing as a
way of protecting her core self.
Since their separation she had been in therapy for a period of time, to
enable her to deal with the loss of two of her children, one through
cot death and one who had been removed from her and sent away
to school. She viewed her relationship with her remaining child as
very close.
Again this is a repeat of her own pattern of being separated from the family
home as a child.
She described her second relationship as happy and joyful. He wanted
to marry her and for them to have children. She was not ready for
this, and they soon split. Her third relationship, prior to her current
one, was with someone that she described as the antithesis to her
husband. He wanted to marry her, and although she cared about him
she found him to be emotionally cold.
Even when she is presented with an opportunity to enter into a relationship
that would have been the opposite of the one she had modelled as a child,
she is unable to enter it, yet in her third relationship she was able to
recognise an ineffective potential relationship.
We discussed other social and work relationships and she described a
former boss who had been abusive to her.
This provides evidence of her continuing the pattern across contexts,
moving from her intimate relationships into her work life.
116 Patterns of programming
We then spent some time considering her values (Robbins, 1991, pp.
341±368) in the context of her family as this seemed to be where most
of the con¯ict in her life occurred. She identi®ed the following values
as being important to her:
· the family as a deep part of who she is, which was underpinned by
a belief structure that without this she would not `be'
· a sense of equilibrium that kept her centred; although this value
was motivated in a `towards' pattern, it was dissociated
· support from the family that was built on solid foundations
· the family to be the giver that protected her
· the family as symbolising her ancient roots, and that if she were
without this she would not be able to `be'
· to be healed from the past which was concerned with repairing her
damaged inner child, and provided an opportunity for a new
beginning.
Her values were predominantly `away from', moving her away from her
childhood experiences as an ingrained behavioural response.
Once she was aware of these values, we discussed how they were
supporting her sense of identity within the family and she quickly
accessed a victim role that she had played for most of her life.
The start of her recognising her own `domino' effect was as follows.
This then led her to recall her distressed and subsequent dissociated
state while in hospital and she voiced the belief that she was dead. She
found this metaphorical description of her state while she was in
hospital as a very young child both distressing to acknowledge and at
the same time enlightening. She voiced her perception that in reality
she had `played dead' in all her relationships to avoid pain and that
this pattern had ®rst commenced when she had been hospitalised; she
recalls hearing her mother being told that she might not live. She also
connected with a transgenerational belief structure around whether or
not she deserved to live and her healing work involved integration
and resolution of these two areas.
Neurologically, she has now connected with her ®rst experience of dis-
sociation to avoid pain and she quickly connects this pattern to her
Patterns of programming 117
subsequent relationship. Once her conscious mind recognises this, she is
able to rationalise her past and disconnect this neurological chain.
Subsequent to her working through these, her values realigned and
she moved to a place where her most important values in the context
of her family relationships were:
· closeness, which enabled the sharing of love and affection
· unconditional support, which symbolised wholeness
· a richer and deeper relationship with her sister which she viewed as
a happy and joyful experience
· happiness, which she recognised she needed to use as an internal
calibration to measure her relationship with her mother; she
recognised that she was unable to change her mother, and could
decide whether she would let her mother have a negative impact
on her
· healed relationships, which enabled her to make peace with herself
· wholeness
· love of her family including her ability to love herself
· the light giving her liberty, success, energy, growth, love, joy and
peace.
We reconnected a month after her therapy with me ended. She had
learnt to take things more slowly and had spent some time connecting
with her inner child that had dissociated so clearly when she had been
hospitalised. She had gained integration between her ambitious
working self and her self that wanted a relationship. She ®nally split
with her partner, recognising that the relationship was not serving
her, and she was now seeking a future relationship based on equality.
The domino effect enabled her to realign her values within her relationship
and she was able to resolve a series of traumas that she had initially
considered as unconnected. She had also changed her experience in a work
context and was able to align fully with her sense of success in her career.
Goal orientation as a pattern of therapy
What do you want? This is the de®nitive question in NLP. An outcome is
what you want ± a desired state, something you don't have in your present
state. Outcomes `come out' when we achieve them, hence the name, and
the ®rst step towards achieving them is to think them through carefully.
Why you want your outcome and whether you would want it are
118 Patterns of programming
questions that need an answer. NLP outcomes are different from targets,
goals and objectives because they have been carefully considered and meet
certain conditions that make them realistic, motivating and achievable.
(O'Connor, 2001, p. 11)
McDermott and Jago (2001, p. 11) describe NLP as a brief, outcome-
oriented model of therapy, `a therapy of what is possible: it opens for client
and therapist a voyage which is genuinely into the unknown'. Neuro-
linguistic psychotherapy assumes that a client has all the resources that they
need to be effective, that there is no failure, only feedback, and that every
behaviour has a positive intention, each of these presuppositions supporting
the outcome-oriented nature of the therapy. Additionally it assumes that
the brain has an amazing capacity for learning, and neurolinguistic psycho-
therapy uses this assumption to assist change through effective utilisation of
generalised learning. The role of the neurolinguistic psychotherapist is to
facilitate change in the client of the current state or problem and to enable
learning across contexts that can assist the client to achieve their outcome.
If change is made without the conscious mind taking the opportunity to
learn from the experience, then the client is less likely to transfer the change
into other contexts.
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy has some parallels to cognitive beha-
vioural therapy, in that it assists clients to develop greater behavioural
choice, and also to Hargaden and Sills' (2002, p. 32) description of trans-
actional analysis, which stresses that `it is important that the therapist and
client have a shared idea of why they are in the consulting room together.
They can articulate the problem and the goal they are aiming for. They
have agreement about how the therapy will proceed.' McDermott and Jago
(2001, p. 11) highlight an additional aspect of neurolinguistic therapy: a
`fundamental assumption in NLP is that a client should always leave the
therapist's room with more choice than they came in with'.
One of the fundamental differences between neurolinguistic psychother-
apy and other models of therapy is that the former utilises an outcome
frame to assist clients to move from a stuck or problem-oriented state to
one that is goal-oriented. The outcome-oriented nature of NLP emerged
out of Erickson and Rossi's (1989) work February Man in which they
utilised pseudo-orientation in time to assist a client to make a change
towards a future orientation. Erickson quickly moves his client from her
current time frame into one in the future where he asks her to `tell me about
swimming, what you did about it, and how you did it' (p. 209). O'Hanlon
(2003, p. 17) refers to this as de Shayzer's `crystal ball technique'. This has
strong parallels to the use of future pace in therapy, whereby a client is
asked to imagine that they have created the solution and describe in all
sensory modalities the achievement of the goal.
Patterns of programming 119
This approach to developing a future-oriented frame for the client
mirrors the work of de Shayzer (1988) and the creation of the `miracle
question' in solution-focused brief therapy: `Suppose that one night, while
you were asleep, there was a miracle and this problem was solved. How
would you know? What would be different?' Outcome frame questions
identi®ed by McDermott and Jago (2001, p. 45) that are commonly utilised
within neurolinguistic psychotherapy are:
· what do you want?
· how can I help you?
· what would that do for you?
· what is your greatest ambition?
· what would make life better for you?
If an outcome orientation is applied in therapy and linked to the
subjectivity of a client's experience, through the ®lters of time and space the
client will come some way towards recognising Kovelman's (1998, p. 126)
intricate links between subjectivity, future orientation and the use of time-
based language. `Each singular event, when viewed from other dimensions,
is seen as an aspect of a still larger pattern. This pattern is a ®eld of endless
potential; it includes every conceivable variation of form this same event
might assume under different circumstances. Hence, every particle and
event exists ®rst in potential, within the World of Formation, until chosen
for actualization in our world.' Edelman (2004) also recognises the neuro-
logical components of our natural inclination towards a goal orientation,
which he links to the work of William James, considering that conscious-
ness is a continuous process and that the only thing that changes is
`intentionality'. He links this directly to where a person places their con-
scious attention and suggests that attention will `modulate conscious states
and directs them to some extent' (p. 126).
Freud (1959) also used the notion of working with the affective state of
goal orientation in therapy, suggesting that affect can cause neuronal
excitation that will facilitate achievement of a goal. Further experiments on
this have been led by Kosslyn, Ganis and Thompson (2001, p. 641) who
con®rm that `visualising an object has much the same effect as seeing the
object . . . imagery can engage neural structures that are also engaged in
perception, and these neural structures can, in turn, affect events in the
body itself'.
Erickson (in Erickson & Rossi, 1989, p. 242) embeds future-oriented
neurological patterning: `So she learns step by step, with active inner
rehearsals before she actively does it. In a similar manner, hypnosis does
not involve passive fantasy but an active grappling and changing of one's
inner experience to activate one's potentials.' O'Hanlon continues this in
his therapeutic work and refers to the `Viktor Frankl strategy': Frankl
120 Patterns of programming
collapsed while in the death camps of Nazi Germany; he dissociated from
himself and imagined a future time when he would give a lecture about his
experiences in the death camps and receive a standing ovation. O'Hanlon
(2003, pp. 87±88) summarises this story with the following comments:
`He had created the future he had imagined. Such is the power of a future
with meaning. It can pull us forward, out of the terrible present and into a
better life.'
Utilising resistance as a way of facilitating goals
Erickson's approach was very much one of goal orientation: Haley (1993,
p. 31) demonstrated how Erickson was cautious in assuming that a client
might improve too quickly, and often deliberately created resistance in the
client to ensure that when the goal was achieved it could bypass any
conscious resistance.
Erickson often deals with such a situation by using a challenge that is a
directive rather than an interpretation. If a patient is too cooperative
and seems to be recovering too rapidly, he is likely to relapse and
express disappointment with the therapy. To avoid this, Erickson will
accept the improvement but direct the patient to have a relapse. The
only way the patient can resist is by not relapsing, but continuing to
improve. With this approach, Erickson uses different explanations to
make it reasonable to the patient. One of his more graceful procedures
is to say to him, `I want you to go back and feel as badly as you did
when you ®rst came in with the problem, because I want you to see if
there is anything from that time that you wish to recover and salvage.'
When done effectively, the directive to relapse prevents a relapse, just
as the challenge enforces a hypnotic response.
Although the use of resistance in therapy is not one that is common in all
neurolinguistic psychotherapists, when used cautiously and with suf®cient
rapport with a client it can have profound effects. I utilised this approach
along with Erickson's model of making it harder for the client to keep the
problem than to give it up.
A young girl consulted me for therapy for her feelings of very low
self-worth and poor relationships with her family. Her appearance
was somewhat striking in that she wore very shabby clothes, her hair
was coloured a lurid shade of purple and was spiked upwards, and
her jacket had obscene writing on the back referring to her identity.
Patterns of programming 121
Her appearance suggested a resistance to societal norms, therefore it was
important that I continued this within the therapy. I decided to stay in her
model of the world and avoided becoming like her parents and offering
judgements or suggestions as to how she might get on better if she tried to
®t in with others. On this basis I spent much of the time with her discussing
possible futures.
She was a very pleasant person to speak with and we progressed
rapidly through therapy using predominantly a future-oriented time
frame. She was pleased with her progress and after a few sessions felt
that she was ready to end the therapy. I was anxious that her external
appearance had not changed and she still continued to refer to herself
in negative ways, although she described her mood as considerably
improved. We discussed her living arrangements and she said she
hated living there. I suggested to her that she could spend some time
thinking about all the things that she hated about herself, and write
these on the walls of her ¯at in paint as I was aware that her need to
externally validate her negative self-perception remained high, despite
her mood change.
As part of this discussion, I suggested a range of expletives that I had heard
her use during her therapy sessions which validated her current experience
and also ensured that her neurological affect state as it had developed was
included in the tasking process.
She returned to therapy two weeks later, with her hair styled and
dyed black with purple highlights. She was dressed all in black, and
had discarded her jacket. In explaining how she had progressed over
the preceding weeks, she said that she had done as I had suggested
and bought some bright pink paint and started to daub the walls of
her ¯at with a range of descriptive expletives about herself. Part way
through this, she took a phone call and on returning to the room that
she had been painting she had been shocked by what she had written.
She immediately went out and purchased some purple paint and had
decorated her ¯at with the one colour. She had then gone on to
purchase new curtains, candles and a rug, and now wanted to invite
friends round. This had spurred her on to `ritually burn' her jacket
and expand her limited wardrobe. She told me that she did not need
to be in therapy any more and was planning to return to college later
that year.
122 Patterns of programming
I used patterns of neural excitation with this client and moved her current
state into a future-oriented time frame. This had two effects: ®rstly her
neurology was activated from her past state into the present, so that as she
moved into the future the neurological patterning would be interrupted.
The second process was to take her internal constructs and project these
into an external reality. This had the effect of enabling her to dissociate
from her reality and see this from a third-person perspective ± something
that her parents had unsuccessfully tried to do, and which she had rejected.
By her acknowledging the pattern herself, she was able to take control of it
and change it in a way that was meaningful for her.
Re-patterning as an effective therapeutic process
In this chapter I have reviewed the opportunities for change at pattern level
that neurolinguistic psychotherapy offers to clients. As more is discovered
about the neurological components that are required for successful therapy,
it would be naõ
Ève to consider a solely programmatic therapeutic approach.
Neurologically it is essential that a client's affective state is accessed as part
of the therapeutic process, while a future-oriented state is facilitated at the
same time. To provide each in isolation is unlikely to facilitate lasting
change for the client. Similarly, to focus only on the conscious mind will
mean that the potential for unconscious change is lost, whereas if therapy
focuses only on unconscious processes, the conscious self cannot rationalise
past experiences and achieve the `domino effect' of carrying their learning
across contexts.
Patterns of programming 123
Chapter 7
Reframing internal belief structures
There are indeed potions in our own bodies and brains, capable of
forcing on us behaviours that we may or may not be unable to suppress
by strong resolution.
(Damasio, 1994, p. 121)
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy offers a model of brief therapeutic change
that can be respectful, ecological and effective. In this chapter I review the
basis of emotional constructs and their relationship to neuroscience.
Chapter 3 has presented some ideas on the development of the personality
and I continue this dialogue with respect to core personality structures and
their relationship to personality types and neuroscience. As an individual
forms their sense of self, trauma can have a direct impact on the regulating
system and negative effects can be portrayed as disabling belief structures,
dissociative states or the development of splitting within the personality,
resulting in the development of parts. By understanding these internal
structures it is possible to repair the self through temporal reframing, or
alignment of disintegrated or fragmented aspects of the self. Parallel to this
is the possibility created through neurolinguistic psychotherapy to repair
developmental de®cits, and I consider the relationship of core belief struc-
tures or prime concerns to attachment disorders. I conclude with a sum-
mary of the key points that could be considered as the therapy is progressed
as a practice into the subsequent chapter.
Within neurolinguistic psychotherapy there are some fundamental pro-
grammatic models that assist therapeutic change. These models consist of
`linguistic reframing', discussed in Chapter 4, Cameron-Bandler, Gordon
and LeBeau's (1985) work on `metaprogrammes', `time reframing' (Boden-
hamer & Hall, 1999; James, 2003), `parts reframing' to resolve internal
con¯ict and splitting within the personality (Gilligan, 1997; James, 2003;
O'Hanlon & Bertolino, 1988), the use of motivation patterns through the
values and belief change work developed by Dilts (1990), and elicitation
and reframing of `prime concerns' (Dilts, 1990; James, 1996).
The basis of emotional constructs
James's (1884) essay `What is an Emotion?' suggests that emotions are
visceral and that there is no brain centre for emotional expression. Pert
(1997) expands on this and explains that James held the view that a body
will register a sensation in response to neurological reactions that occur as
it adapts to the environment, and that it is these sensations that are labelled
as emotions. Damasio (1994) supports this and suggests that somatic
markers are formed or `feelings generated from secondary emotions' to
enable the course of action to be determined as a visceral response to an
external stimulus. Positive somatic markers act as a `beacon of incentive'
whereas negative somatic markers when linked to a particular outcome will
act as `an alarm bell' (p. 174).
Pert (1999) expands the theory presented here and demonstrates that the
autonomic nervous system cannot react quickly enough to cause the emo-
tional response that individuals feel in given circumstances; neither do other
aspects of the nervous system react when one particular stimulus is applied
to recreate the visceral changes observed in emotional responses. It was
Pert's realisation that `in fact, it's both and neither! It's simultaneous ± a
two-way street' (p. 137) that led her to continue her research into emotion-
carrying neuropeptides. This work is reinforced by that of Edelman (2004),
who identi®es that there are speci®c areas of the brain that neurologically
give rise to emotions such as fear. Rothschild (2000, pp. 20±21) supports
this view and goes further than Edelman in explaining the role of the
amygdala in storing and processing the emotions and reactions to emo-
tionally charged events. She suggests that because the early developing
brain, notably the hippocampus, is not yet formed, a process referred to as
infantile amnesia occurs and `the resulting memory of an infantile experi-
ence includes emotion and physical sensations without context and
sequence. This is the probable explanation for why, in later life, infantile
experiences cannot be accessed as what we usually call ``memories''.'
Erickson (in Erickson & Rossi, 1989, p. 225) uses this process to thera-
peutic advantage as he works with his client: `I want you to keep this
knowledge in your unconscious and not to discover it until later this
summer. Do you understand? Just as you repressed and forgot painful
things in the past.' Rothschild suggests that the more intense an emotional
experience, the more likely it is that it will be stored, which provides the
basis for reframing the gestalts of negative emotional responses in time
reframing, or the use of positive emotions in anchoring. Satir and Baldwin
(1983) recognise that it is normal for individuals to experience emotions of
sadness, fear, etc., and that these are the consequences of being human. It is
rather how the individual deals with emotions that can create problems,
and the concealing of feelings is identi®ed as the major cause for low self-
esteem.
Reframing internal belief structures 125
A notion that is held in some schools of NLP, and taught as part of a
time reframing process, is that all negative emotions should be resolved and
`let go of'. This runs counter to normal neurological patterning. Damasio
(1994, p. 53) raises questions about removing all sources of emotion:
`Reduction in emotion may constitute an equally important source of
irrational behaviour'. Pert's (1997) work has identi®ed that we need all
emotions to `unite the mind and the body' (p. 192). She suggests that it is
the repression of these emotions that causes `dis-integrity' in the mind±
body system, which will then lead to disease at a cellular level; `All honest
emotions are positive emotions' (p. 193) and it is the role of the therapist to
assist clients to reframe their emotions and any limiting belief structures
that deny the acknowledgement or expression of emotions. In neuro-
linguistic psychotherapy, the role of the therapist is to enable a client to
reframe their emotions such that they can be usefully accessed by the client
and that appropriate and ecological choices occur in response to the emo-
tional charge. In considering the use of time reframing to assist the resolu-
tion of emotionally held constructs, it is important that this enables a client
to deal with the repressed aspects of their emotional experiences, rather
than the healthy aspects. The ®rst evidence of time reframing as a philo-
sophical underpinning for neurolinguistic psychotherapy work is presented
in the hypothesis of Descartes (1991), who suggested that space and time
are needed to create dreams. The purpose of time reframing is to literally
change the meaning of internal dreams that make up the client's reality.
The NLP methodologies of `changing belief systems' (Dilts 1990), `Time
Line Therapy×
' (James, 2003; James & Woodsmall, 1988), `time lining'
(Bodenhamer & Hall, 1999), and Rothschild (2000) in her work on post-
traumatic stress disorder and trauma resolution, present a series of alterna-
tive perspectives on how time reframing may be used to assist resolution of
repressed negative emotions. Rothschild supports the view of Satir and has
reinforced my own thinking that the `goal of trauma therapy is to relegate
the trauma to its rightful place in the client's past' (p. 155). Each of the
techniques mentioned above enables accessing of past experiences through
a linear process of time and the purpose of any trauma therapy is to ensure
that `explicit memory processes must be engaged to secure the context of
the event in time and space. Usually separation of past and present is an
automatic result of any good trauma therapy; it does not usually need to be
addressed head-on' (p. 155). The processes of time reframing provide an
effective technology to place emotions in the past and this dissociation from
the emotional experience, rather than repression, is thought to occur for
three different reasons. James (2003, p. 24) suggests that the ®rst reason is
based in the work of Korzybski (1933) and Cameron-Bandler and LeBeau
(1987) and the notion that `emotions require time to express their meaning,
so a switch in the temporal perspective reframes the emotion'. The second
rationale is based in metaphysics, and is that emotion is an illusion.
126 Reframing internal belief structures
Foundation for Inner Peace (1972) suggests that there is only one real
emotion on the planet ± love ± and that any negative emotion is a deriva-
tive of fear and therefore an illusion. James proposes that the shift in
temporal perspective will show the emotion to be an illusion and the
emotion will then disappear. The third aspect of James's perspective on
emotional reframing through time coding is to provide `a multidimensional
neurological opposite of ``now''. What happens is that this position acts like
anti-matter, and the neurological boundaries of the emotion in the body get
blown out ± they disappear' (2003, p. 24).
Programmes of personality
The notion of different personality types appeared as early as the ®fth
century BCE with Hippocrates' de®nition of four temperaments that deter-
mine human moods and behaviour: choleric or irritable, phlegmatic or calm,
melancholic or depressed, and sanguine or optimistic. By 1907, Adickes had
also observed four distinct world views: dogmatic, agnostic, traditional
and innovative. His work is continued in that of three psychologists and
behaviourists:
· Adler, who observed that individuals pursue mistaken goals when they
are upset, and are driven by the need for recognition, power, service or
revenge
· Kretschmer and his notion that individuals are hyperaesthetic (too
sensitive), anaesthetic (too insensitive), melancholic (too serious), or
hypomanic (too excitable)
· Springer, who identi®ed four predominant human values ± religious,
theoretic, economic and artistic (Keirsey & Bates, 1984, p. 3).
Jung continued this work to formulate a theory of personality that is
summarised in Chapter 3. Neurolinguistic psychotherapy uses Jung's types
to assist clients to gain greater choice within their lives. Bolstad (2002, p.
153) suggests four main neurolinguistic methodologies that can be directly
linked to the Jungian temperaments and enable the development of skills in
clients for more successful lives: dissociation, association, chunking up and
chunking down.
· Thinker. Assists a client to dissociate and distance themselves from
experiences and feelings, and to see themselves from the outside, which
is useful for negative experiences.
· Feeler. Encourages clients to associate and step into experiences and
feel them from the inside, which is useful for positive experiences.
· Intuitor. Teaching a client to chunk up and move to the bigger picture
will enable them to move beyond con¯ict and ®nd alternative solutions
to their existing patterns of behaviour.
Reframing internal belief structures 127
· Sensor. Connecting with sensory-speci®c aspects of their experience and
reconnecting them to the source of their deletions, distortions and
generalisations through chunking down.
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy has within it a further developed model of
the personality known as metaprogrammes: the programmes of behaviour
that run above the conscious known self. Among the work that informed the
early pioneers of NLP was that of Lilly (1968) who drew parallels between
the brain and computers and identi®ed that there are a series of programmes
that the brain runs that can be likened to computer programmes. These
metaprogrammes were further developed by Cameron-Bandler, and were
originally observed as `patterns of coherency' by Bandler. Dilts and Delozier
(2000) and Cameron-Bandler, Gordon and LeBeau (1985) continued
research into this area and developed a way of coding programmes that
`code and direct other thought processes' (Dilts & Delozier, 2000, p. 756).
Subsequent to Cameron-Bandler's work, two of her students, Bailey and
Steward, developed the 13 categories that were later developed by a student
of Rodgers, Charvet (1995), into the Language and Behaviour Pro®le.
Erickson used an individual's pattern of personality to facilitate change,
rather than trying to impress on them the need to change their personality.
He used internal programmed patterns of personality in a number of stories
in My Voice Will Go With You (Rosen, 1982). In `competition' he utilises his
patient's internal programmed competitiveness, which Jung might identify as
`judger' typology, to assist his client to develop a way of dealing with tension
headaches. In `autohypnosis' he assists his client to continue to operate from
within her introverted frame of reference to resolve her problem of neurosis.
He also successfully utilises the motivation pattern of `towards'/`away from'
to facilitate a client to lose weight in `reduce±gain±reduce'.
Bolstad (2002, p. 168) describes Erickson's work with schizophrenics in
using the programmed patterns of behaviour apparent within the diagnosis.
He suggests that someone with schizophrenia will think in `chunked up and
very dissociated' ways. This was Erickson's natural style of communication,
therefore he suggests that this enabled him to `assist them to avoid halluci-
nated ``dangers'' and [in] helping clients work towards goals that most
therapists would have rejected as unrealistic'.
Patterns of identity
It appears that to ®nd and to `know our Self,' we have to ®rst repress and
hide parts of ourselves. Only after we form an `I', a `me', and a personal
identity, can we complete the rest of our psychological and spiritual
growth. Our psychic journey propels us onward toward the rediscovery
and reclaiming of these inner cast-off, disowned, split off portions of
ourselves, personally and collectively. In order to mature and grow, each
128 Reframing internal belief structures
of us is obliged to assume responsibility for our projections, feelings,
ideas, and acts, so that we might reclaim, heal and integrate these aspects
of our psyches and once again become whole and uni®ed.
(Kovelman, 1998, pp. 55±56)
Erickson, Satir and Perls all directly referred to parts or splitting aspects of
the personality. Satir (1972) recognised that people repress aspects of
themselves that they consider unacceptable, and proposed that `If you try
to hide or bridle your tendencies, however, you won't be able to do this
very well. They will be waiting for the chance to escape and act up behind
your back' (p. 87).
Perls (1969) identi®ed that unacceptable aspects of the personality were
disowned by the individual: `There are many of these kinds of ways to
remain intact, but always only at the cost of disowning many, many valu-
able parts of ourselves . . . You do not allow yourself ± or you are not
allowed ± to be totally yourself. We all have a number of different parts,
each with expectations of ful®lment. These parts often ®nd it dif®cult to get
along with each other and may have inhibitory in¯uences on one another'
(pp. 86±95).
Erickson (in Erickson & Rossi, 1989, p. 74) encourages an understanding
of how parts are created:
But she does not want to remember either trauma. This is a peculiar
dissociation: she has a grasp of the connections between the two
incidents, yet she does not want to remember them because her mother
says she should only remember `nice things'. Such is the hypnotic
repressive power of a mother's suggestion on a child troubled by fears
and guilts she does not know how to handle.
O'Hanlon's (1998) work on solution-oriented therapy for sexual abuse and
trauma provides insight into how identities are formed in response to
patterns experienced in early life. He identi®es that individuals will usually
have an integrated sense of self, but `when people subject to trauma split
internally and develop rigid boundaries, the sense of integrated self is lost',
resulting in a self that has disidenti®ed, devalued or dissociated aspects.
This then develops into a pattern of behaviour that is recognised through
the language of `should's, can'ts and don'ts' (p. 7).
Bandler and Grinder (1979, pp. 139±140) ®rst refer to parts of the per-
sonality, `part of you that makes you X ± even though you don't like that
consciously ± is doing something on your behalf, something that bene®ts
you in some way', which later became the basis of the six-step reframe. This
was developed by Dilts, Hallbom and Smith (1990) into parts integration
and more recently into alignment therapy. Lawley and Tompkins (2006)
refer to `multiple perceivers' and highlight the evidence of splitting within
the personality demonstrated within linguistic dissociation.
Reframing internal belief structures 129
James (2003) has developed a series of assumptions about parts within
the ®eld of NLP, including a model for understanding how parts are
created. This model provides a limited insight into the development of
splitting aspects of the self within the personality. I have expanded on this
model and included Bateson's (1972) theory on schismogenesis, noting
James's theory in italics, as follows.
· Parts are non-integrated fragments of the whole, unconscious mind with
their own purpose/intention and function/behaviour. They put boundaries
(or blocks) on the wholeness of the unconscious mind. Bateson (1972)
provides a more comprehensive insight into the development of frag-
mentation within the unconscious and proposes that four basic pre-
mises need to be met to result in unconscious double bind formation:
the child's relationship to the mother is one of vital dependency,
thereby making it essential that the child can accurately assess the
maternal communication; the child receives contradictory or incom-
patible information from the mother, e.g., the child is told that he is
loved after being smacked; the child is unable to clarify or understand
the incoherence of the communication; the child cannot leave the
relationship/environment. Bateson proposes that when each of these
factors is present, severe psychopathological disturbance will arise
through the distortion of the inner and outer reality of the child.
· Parts are functionally detached from the rest of unconscious mind (non-
integrated). This assumes that the conscious mind is unaware of these
aspects of the personality that are split off, disconnected or in some
other way fragmented. Bateson (1972) provides an alternative perspec-
tive to this and considers two types of schismogenesis, complementary
and symmetrical. Within complementary schismogenesis, the two
aspects of the psyche complement each other which results in a class
struggle, with one behaviour eliciting or triggering a complementary
behaviour from a different aspect of the psyche; for example, a client
may binge to get rid of a feeling of self-hatred, which then results in an
increased feeling of self-hatred. Symmetrical schismogenesis elicits
similar behaviour in the alternative aspect of the psyche; for example, a
client may buy a new handbag to reward herself after a dif®cult time at
work, which then triggers a compulsive spending behaviour from the
repressed aspect of the psyche.
· Often parts represent minor personalities or signi®cant others (modelled,
imprinted) which impose arbitrary boundaries. James's model assumes
that these will be self-generated personalities rather than alter egos or
schizoid aspects of the self; for example, they may be a self at a very
young age or on occasions may be an early representation of the
mother or other family member. Bateson (1972), however, would chal-
lenge this perspective and proposes that this development of a
130 Reframing internal belief structures
psychological double bind will, if left unchecked, lead to schizophrenia
because of the mutually competing demands of the different aspects of
the psyche.
· Parts have an intelligence of their own and usually have their own values
and belief systems. They are neurologically detached from the rest of
the system.
· Parts are thought to be in charge of the maintenance of the system.
Because they have been created out of a trauma and are repressed, the
unconscious mind will keep them repressed as a protection mechanism.
This protection process becomes important for the maintenance of the
rest of the system. Bateson's theory suggests an alternative perspective:
that they are in fact co-dependent and that neither can exist in
isolation.
· Parts are frequently born or created from signi®cant emotional events
(wholly associated intense events), usually with others that result in
con¯ict and incongruity, and therefore a boundary is created. In most
instances the part is a younger self that lacks rational thought and
therefore the unconscious mind creates a boundary to repress this
aspect of the personality such that it stays repressed and does not carry
the trauma across contexts as the personality develops.
· Parts protect and continue a non-integrated, and in many cases repressed,
behaviour. This happens only in some instances; in other situations the
splitting may result in a compensatory process being developed, which
is then relayed to the outer world, e.g., narcissism. There may also be a
resultant ®xation and exploitation of particular aspects of the outer
world because of the distortion process that has occurred; for example,
compulsive patterns of behaviour, alcoholism, drug addiction.
· Parts are a source of incongruency in the individual because the behaviour
of the part is incongruent with the behaviours of the adult. The part has
stayed functionally regressed and, because it is also neurologically
detached from the rest of the unconscious, it will not be aligned to
the adult functioning behaviours. Where the distortion has become
ingrained into the adult functioning, this may result in a personality
that operates through narcissistic tendencies, or is apathetic in rela-
tionships.
· The incongruency of parts is generally in the difference between the
purpose/intention and the function/behaviour. The highest purpose/
intention is not congruent with the function/behaviour. Since it is non-
integrated, this results in inner con¯ict. The function of the part may be
to play dead in a person who chose this as a defence mechanism during
a traumatic event; its purpose may be protection so that it can live,
mirroring the complementary schismogenesis. Alternatively con¯ict
may arise because of escalating patterns of behaviour where sym-
metrical schismogenesis exists.
Reframing internal belief structures 131
· A part presupposes an opposite part for balance. It usually has its
opposite number, an alter ego, or a `¯ip side of the coin'. In the example
given in the previous point, the opposite side might be to grow up and
love others. Bateson (1972) considers that symmetrical schismogenesis
towards a positive support of each aspect of the psyche through the
development of rules and agreements is an effective way of resolving
dysfunctional splitting. This mirrors the work of O'Hanlon (1988) and
Gilligan (1997), who consider validation and sponsoring of all aspects
of the psyche as being integral to repair of the self.
· These two parts will have the same highest purpose/intention. This is a
function of chunking and will, therefore, be stated as a nominalization.
· These two parts were also once a part of a larger whole. This assumes a
greater whole and may even include the spiritual aspects of an
individual.
· Reintegration is possible on this basis and will be long term. If not, the
integration will be short term and could be negated in one to three
months. If the integration occurs without recognition of a greater
whole, there is unlikely to be unconscious integration. The recognition
of a greater whole accesses a neurological state that is beyond that of
the two opposing parts; integration into the entire neurological
circuitry is possible at this point and the part no longer remains
dissociated. This can be achieved through dialogical processes and
assisting the client to recognise and validate the less functional aspects
of their own processes.
· Fewer parts are always better than more parts. Neurologically, if a client
has aspects of their personality that are functionally detached from
their unconscious processing, this results in continued fragmentation
and disconnect for the individual. The client will not be able to access
all aspects of their personality and may ®nd that their conscious desires
and drives are not matched by their unconscious patterns of behaviour.
In the case of the client in Chapter 5 who was seeking intimacy, his
disconnected part believed that he was nothing, which meant that he
felt as if he was not really present in relationships, even though he
wanted that `elusive intimacy'.
Rothschild (2000) provides a useful perspective on some of the dissociative
processes that are available within NLP, and considers Janet's hypothesis
`that consciousness was comprised of varying levels, some of which could be
held outside of awareness' (p. 66). Rothschild suggests that dissociation is a
`neurobiological phenomenon that occurs under extreme stress . . . It is
possible that dissociation is the mind's attempt to ¯ee when ¯ight is not
possible' (p. 66). Schore (2003, p. 62) adds to this view that dissociation is a
de®cit of the right brain and suggests that `Dissociation is a very early
appearing survival mechanism for coping with traumatic affects, and it
132 Reframing internal belief structures
plays a crucial role in the mechanism of projective identi®cation' (p. 62). He
describes projective identi®cation as a process that occurs if the child does
not have their immediate trauma responded to by a positive maternal ®gure:
the child then moves into a `dissociative strategy to counterregulate the
hyperarousal, [which] is expressed by staring into space' (p. 68) and rep-
resents the mechanism that drives what Klein (1946) described as an
`evacuation of the self'. Schore (2003, p. 62) suggests that these different
aspects of the personality `that are associated with the patient's past trau-
matic relationships are . . . projected onto the therapist, so that these affects
are also experienced by the therapist'. This directly mirrors Bateson's (1972)
four premises that must exist for splitting to occur.
Carroll (2002, p. 17) brings to mind Damasio's work and the notion `that
potent unconscious representations of the self derive from older, more
primitive parts of the brain; and that the self's most basic foundations are in
systems that represent the body'. Damasio (1994, p. xvi) refers to the
dissociative process as equally damaging as that of an associated trauma. His
view that `it is thus even more surprising and novel that the absence of
emotion and feeling is no less damaging, no less capable of compromising the
rationality that makes us distinctively human and allows us to decide in
consonance with a sense of personal future, social convention, and moral
principle' connects with the one I have given above concerning the absence of
emotions.
There are strong parallels between parts theory of neurolinguistic
psychotherapy and that of a number of other modalities. Freud (1933),
Winnicott (1958), Klein (1960), Kernberg (1976), Kohut (1984) and Mollon
(2001) in psychoanalytic and psychodynamic theory, Mearns and Cooper
(2005) in person-centred therapy, Stewart and Joines (1987) in transactional
analysis, Moreno (1977) in drama therapy, Lowen (1972) in body psycho-
therapy, and Layden et al (1993) in cognitive behavioural therapy all
recognise the development of split-off parts of the personality as defence
mechanisms to trauma. Mollon (2001, p. 128) refers to dissociation, deper-
sonalisation and derealisation as forms of detachment that occur as
reactions to trauma: `If childhood trauma or abuse is repeated, and if the
abuser is a caregiver, so that the child has nowhere to run and no-one to turn
to, then internal escape is resorted to ± the child learns to dissociate more
easily and in a more organized way' (emphasis added). He goes on to
highlight that the personality will preserve parts of itself by `sequestering or
sealing off, the area of damage'.
Repair of the self
Repair of the self within neurolinguistic psychotherapy is possible through a
number of different approaches, ranging from the structured processes of
`Time Line TherapyÙ', `time lining', `parts integration', `alignment therapy',
Reframing internal belief structures 133
`change personal history' and `re-imprinting' through to the more relational
and dialogical therapy that is apparent in Erickson's work and schismo-
genesis as it is carried forward in the work of O'Hanlon and Gilligan. Both
Erickson and Satir enabled an internal perceptual positioning that has been
expanded on by Gilligan (1997). Gilligan's self-relations model recognises
and validates internal aspects of the self, assisting the client to develop
unconscious communication and relationship to their inner world which is
an inherent part of being.
Dilts (1990) also provides an opportunity through neurological levels to
assist the client to reframe their internal reality. In the case summary of K
in Chapter 1, her initial `problem' was held at identity level and it was as
she started to acknowledge and validate this aspect of herself that she could
consider the behaviour at a different neurological level, and it became an
accepted part of her behavioural repertoire.
At a more programmatic level, time code interventions provide an
opportunity for temporal reframing of an experience, collection of experi-
ences or gestalt. Korzybski (1933, p. xx) identi®ed that it was possible for
humans to learn from their experiences in a way that animals could not,
precisely because each generation has the ability to use the learnings from
previous generations:
The origin of this work was a new functional de®nition of `man', as
formulated in 1921, based on an analysis of human potentialities;
namely, that each generation may begin where the former left off. This
characteristic I called the `time-binding' capacity. Here the reactions of
humans are not split verbally and elementalistically into separate
`body', `mind', `emotions', `intellect', `intuitions', etc., but are treated
from an organism-as-a-whole-in-an-environment (external and inter-
nal) point of view. This parallels the Einstein±Minkowski space±time
integration in physics, and both are necessitated by the modern evo-
lution of sciences. (emphasis in original)
Time reframing utilises the unique characteristics of the right brain to assist
resolution of complex constructs that cannot be resolved through left brain
cognitive understanding, hence neurolinguistic psychotherapy can result in
faster change than more cognitive outcome-oriented approaches to therapy
such as CBT. Watzlawick (1978, p. 22) refers to the holographic nature of
the right brain, proposing that the `right hemisphere not only masters the
perception of a Gestalt from the most diverse angles and consequent relative
distortions . . . but that it may manage to perceive and recognise the totality
from a very small portion of the latter'. This results in the client connecting
with one small portion of their experience through their unconscious pro-
cessing, and their unconscious mind carrying any learning associated with
this one portion across all contexts associated with the gestalt.
134 Reframing internal belief structures
James (2003) summarises many of the underlying principles of the
unconscious aspects of Ericksonian therapy as the `prime directives of the
unconscious mind'. These provide a useful insight into the basic functions
of unconscious processing that enable the therapist to provide appropriate
direction and insight for the client in the therapeutic relationship:
· stores memories ± temporal and atemporal
· makes associations and learns quickly
· organises all memories
· represses memories with unresolved negative emotion
· presents repressed memories for resolution
· may keep the repressed emotions repressed for protection
· runs the body and has a blueprint of the body now and in perfect health
· preserves the body, maintaining its integrity
· is the domain of the emotions
· is a highly moral being, guiding from the morality that was taught and
accepted by the developing person
· enjoys serving and needs clear orders to follow
· controls and maintains all perceptions, both regular and telepathic, and
will receive and transmit these to the conscious mind
· generates, stores, distributes and transmits energy
· maintains instincts and generates habits
· needs repetition until a habit is installed
· is programmed to continually seek more and more
· functions best as a whole integrated unit
· uses and responds to symbols
· takes everything personally
· works on the principle of least effort and will follow the path of least
resistance
· does not process negatives directly.
A range of approaches using time reframing are available to the neuro-
linguistic psychotherapist, all of which are supported by the principles
outlined above. `Time Line Therapy×
' (James, 2003) provides a structured
hypnotic programmatic approach to change that can be effective when used
ecologically. The same applies to time lining (1999) developed by
Bodenhamer and Hall, who note that `The strength of Time Lining lies
in its ability to direct the participant in reframing old and no longer useful
thinking patterns' (p. 353). Dilts's (1990) work on re-imprinting provides a
conversational and less programmatic approach to time reframing and
brings in a more dialogical approach to enabling the client to access their
own internal resources.
Parts integration (Bodenhamer & Hall, 1990; Bolstad, 2002; Dilts,
Hallbom & Smith, 1990) and alignment therapy are both core skills taught
Reframing internal belief structures 135
at the more advanced levels of NLP. Both approaches provide a process
whereby the client is assisted to ®rst identify and then dissociate from the
split part of their unconscious. The part is then encouraged to recognise
internal resources and learnings that are present in its behaviour. A process
of chunking up then occurs that moves the client into abstract concepts and
greater unconscious communication, which facilitates resolution and
integration between the split-off part and the rest of the person's
unconscious self.
All the above techniques provide a methodological structured approach
for assisting integration of the self. Although effective in principle, they do
not always provide the most appropriate form of therapeutic intervention
for clients who are unable to verbalise their early experiences and make
sense of them. They also make an assumption that the client has `problems'
that they need to resolve or `let go of'. What is missing is the potential for
mind±body communication between client and therapist, particularly where
there is early childhood trauma and developmental de®cit. One of the
fundamental aspects of NLP, the use of rapport in the therapeutic setting,
sets up a relationship with the client whereby a process of responsiveness
occurs between therapist and client at the level of the unconscious. If one
stays cognitive and methodological in the therapeutic process, the chance is
missed to facilitate deep levels of change through what Schore (2003, p. 80)
refers to as Kohut's (1984) `archaic bond' with the therapist, and thereby
facilitates the revival of the early phases at which his psychological devel-
opment has been arrested. Schore goes on to highlight the need for this
space to be created such that the therapist can experience what is described
as the somatic marker, described earlier in this chapter by Damasio. If the
therapist remains in a detached `third position' space, as is highlighted in
the few books on neurolinguistic psychotherapy, the client misses out on
the possibility of developing a relationship of attunement with the therapist,
what Sands (1995) observes as: `The patient and I succeeded in co-creating
in me a state in which I could ``get'' something viscerally about the patho-
genic interactions of his childhood that he unconsciously needed me to
understand'.
To highlight the process as it occurs in therapy, I return to the case of D
discussed in Chapter 3.
As I have described, his history was one of separation from both his
mother and father at a very young age, and being cared for by
grandparents and aunts. The therapeutic work was underpinned with
the philosophy and principles of neurolinguistic psychotherapy, yet
the methodology of working with patterns and associative and
dissociative processes proved to be ineffective. After only a few weeks
in therapy I recognised that D's presenting problem was not being
136 Reframing internal belief structures
resolved, nor was he moving closer towards his outcome. He was
unable to articulate his internal world, other than feeling angry and
®nding that eating large quantities momentarily eased this feeling
[Bateson's complementary schismogenesis]. I discussed this with D
and we considered the option of revisiting the therapeutic contract to
move to a more relational approach. This process involved both of us
being willing to work with the transferential relationship and assist D
to gain alternative perspectives to his inner reality.
Over time this enabled him to repair the developmental de®cits highlighted
in Schore's work before he could begin to relate to me as his maternal
object. This later enabled him to articulate his somatised distress, and
develop an internal sense of self such that he could repair and soothe his
inner child.
Schore's perspective on working with the regulatory aspects of the self is
more closely aligned to that of Gilligan's (1997) self relations, which is
underpinned by three main principles, the ®rst being what he refers to as the
`Erickson function'. Gilligan recognises that it was the client's unconscious
in relation to Erickson that assisted his success with clients rather than
Erickson being viewed as the observer of a client's internal process. Gilligan
has built on this and encouraged a model of therapy where the client learns
to relate to his own unconscious in the same way that Erickson would have
done. The second principle is that of the embodiment of the unconscious,
where Gilligan encourages the client to bring to consciousness the somatic
experience of their internal state and processes, the somatic markers referred
to by Damasio. This enables the client to develop a somatised sense of self
that they can reconnect to when faced with challenging situations and they
are also encouraged to use somatic markers to identify centres of disturb-
ance, which are enabled through sponsorship of the unconscious to recog-
nise the positive contribution they make to the person. The ®nal aspect of
Gilligan's work is the notion of using trance that is more connected to the
world and the `now' of a person's reality, rather than the traditional utilisa-
tion of trance to move further away from the external world.
Core belief structures or prime concerns
Cogito, ergo sum
(I think therefore I am)
(Descartes, 1991)
Descartes' perspective that because one has the ability to think, one must
therefore exist is frequently called into question by clients who express core
Reframing internal belief structures 137
belief structures of I'm dead; I don't exist; I am nothing. The philosophical
basis of constructivist thinking is rooted in the notion that when a client has
knowledge or beliefs about a particular subject, he will extrapolate this to all
other aspects of the same class or type. Therefore, when he brings doubt into
existence concerning one item in a class, the doubt will generalise across all
other aspects held in the same class or type. This then becomes the basis for
the generalising of core beliefs, which are sometimes referred to as `prime
concerns'. If a client experiences being hurt or abandoned in one rela-
tionship, the ability to generalise will mean that they expect the same thing to
happen in all subsequent relationships. Watzlawick (1978, p. 41) identi®es
with Aristotle's de®nition of core beliefs ± `things are true and primary
which command belief through themselves and not through anything else . . .
generally accepted opinions, on the other hand, are those which commend
themselves to all or to the majority or to the wise ± and suggests that the
purpose of psychotherapy is to assist individuals: `where the world cannot be
changed, he can adapt his image to the unalterable facts'.
There is a strong relationship between core belief structures and the
developing brain of the infant, particularly in relation to stress responses.
An infant who has her stress levels managed for her is unlikely to produce
high levels of cortisol and is therefore less likely to develop negative internal
core belief structures. Infants who are left to cry for prolonged periods of
time have high levels of cortisol ¯ooding the developing brain; this is
thought to cause a level of toxicity which, if left unchecked, can mean that
an individual has problems in reading social cues and adapting their
behaviour accordingly later in life. Gerhardt (2004) suggests that infants
who are handled sensitively and frequently in early life, particularly when
distressed, have greater ability to cope with stress later in life. Infants of
depressed or absent mothers often experience `dead periods' in their own
development which results in cellular death in the infant brain. Schore
(2003, p. 126) describes this as the child ®nally detaching and becoming
silent to match the mother's state: `this state switch from a regulatory
strategy of intense struggling into the dissociative immobilized state
mimicking death is ultimately experienced as a ``dead spot'' in this child's
subjective experience'.
There are parallels between Schore's notion of the `dead spot' and the
object relations theory of Klein (1946) and Bion (1984). Kristeva (2001,
p. 179) suggests there is the presumption of an `innate preconception'
within the infant of a breast, and that when this need is not met, the infant
moves from a `thought as no thing . . . replaced by the non-realisation of the
breast' (emphasis in original). She refers to Klein's idea of how this initial
non-response from the mother can result in a traumatised response in the
infant at the separation: `Some babies are unable to tolerate such separa-
tion; they experience it as a ``projective explosion'' of urine, gas, feces,
saliva, and other substances that are linked to the absent nipple, which
138 Reframing internal belief structures
forces the infant to confront a terrifying world that is no more than a
``black hole''' (Kristeva, 2001, p. 182).
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy provides methodologies that enable the
resolution of core belief structures through Dilts's (1990) work on belief
systems and core beliefs and James's (1996) prime concern. Dilts recognises
the dif®culty in identifying core beliefs as opposed to other belief structures,
and suggests that clients use a number of processes to conceal their core
beliefs from themselves, as well as the therapist. It is important to note that
concealing of beliefs is a protective mechanism of the unconscious mind, is
dissociative in nature and re¯ects an avoidance of Klein's description of the
`black hole'. Processes that clients use to conceal their beliefs may include a
smokescreen, which may be represented through vague language from the
client, a blank response or the therapist getting lost. The client may also
present with a red herring or false clue, whose purpose is to lead the
therapist in the wrong direction as a protection mechanism. This leads to
Dilts's third assumption of concealing processes, that of the `®sh in the
dreams'. A client may accept suggestions made by the therapist of processes
that are not present in their own neurology, as way of cooperating with the
therapist and avoiding addressing their core belief structures. When the
client is involved in this collusive process, there is a high level of risk that
the therapist may install a belief structure that was not there previously.
The ®nal point that Dilts makes is that of critical mass: the more times the
belief is reached, the more likely it is that a chain reaction will eventually
occur and the belief structure will break down, which is the basis of James's
work on quantum linguistics and prime concern elicitation.
James's process works on the principle of utilising quantum linguistics to
break down the neurological structure of the belief as it is held in the `now'
of the client's subjective reality. He has identi®ed a form of questioning that
facilitates elicitation of the core belief structure and taps into a client's sense
of self at the level of `being', `doing', or `having'. The earlier work of
Schore, Klein, Bion and Freud suggests that clients who have `being' level
core beliefs often believe I don't exist or I am nothing. This resonates with
Bion's notion of nothingness that exists before the notion of the innate
breast as an object, and is likely to stem from unful®lled very early
attachment needs. Clients who present with `doing' level beliefs, such as I
am bad, I am evil, I am wrong, are likely to have experienced trauma slightly
later in their development when they were able to differentiate between the
notions of good and bad, based on the principle that the judging subject
cannot exist without a lost object. Clients who present with `having' level
beliefs often represent beliefs around their own worth, such as I am worth-
less, I don't deserve to live; they have experienced trauma within their
differentiated self sometime after the age of 17±21 months, when they are
able to make a symbolic linguistic representation of their relationship to
their external world.
Reframing internal belief structures 139
Whichever process is used to assist in the resolution of core beliefs, it is
important that this is done with ecology, rapport, and sensitivity for the
client's internal state and willingness to explore their own internal world.
Constructing patterns that then define the therapeutic
process
In summary, neurolinguistic psychotherapy offers a process of change at
identity level that can resolve some of the underlying de®cits in devel-
opment through the understanding of the linguistic representation of the
inner world, the distortions that the client has developed in their subjective
reality and the neurological components that facilitate an outcome frame.
In addition, in understanding the relationship between core belief structures
or prime concerns and psychoanalytic theory of attachment disorders, it is
possible to create the potential for change at a neuroscienti®c level, the key
elements of this being:
· to de®ne the emotional constructs and the somatic representation of
these through the work of Gilligan
· to facilitate internal communication, validation and sponsorship of the
various aspects of the psyche
· the use of time reframing to change the meaning of experience and
facilitate a healthy relationship with previously repressed emotions
· to consider the identi®ed personality type and utilise the processes
afforded by neurolinguistic psychotherapy to gain a different per-
spective
· to integrate, validate, sponsor and name dissociated, disowned or
fragmented aspects of the self
· to facilitate integration and/or healing of prime concerns through
alignment of the self
· to develop an effective therapeutic relationship such that re-patterning
can occur within the therapy setting.
In the next chapter I provide two case examples of how I use aspects of
each of these within a therapy setting.
140 Reframing internal belief structures
Chapter 8
Therapy in practice
I am often asked about my psychotherapeutic method.
I cannot reply unequivocally to the question, therapy is different in
every case.
When a doctor tells me that he adheres strictly to this or that method, I
have my doubts about his therapeutic effect.
So much is said in the literature about the resistance of the patient that
it would almost seem as if the doctor were trying to put something over
on him, whereas the cure ought to grow naturally out of the patient
himself . . . I treat every patient as individually as possible, because the
solution of the problem is always an individual one
(Jung, 1961, p. 152)
There are a number of aims and constructs within neurolinguistic psycho-
therapy that set it apart from other modalities, yet as the quote above
demonstrates there are strong parallels between neurolinguistic psychother-
apy and the analytic approach of Jung. Both approaches support the
constructivist principle that each client lives in their own subjective reality
and that the solution will be inherent within their psychological make-up.
In this chapter I present two further case histories to demonstrate the
potential breadth and diversity of neurolinguistic psychotherapy in practice.
One of the case histories involves work with a client with a complex psy-
chological history that demonstrates an Ericksonian approach to facilitate
neurological re-patterning where there are obvious developmental de®cits,
combined with a psychodynamic process. The second case history is less
complex and involves a more structured programmatic approach that
enabled the client to regain control of her projections and her life.
McDermott and Jago (2001, pp. 18±19) list the aims of neurolinguistic
psychotherapy as being:
· to reorganise existing patterns of learnt behaviour/feeling (e.g., by
changing sequences and strategies)
· to shift perspective (e.g., through personal position shifts, representa-
tional system changes, taking a meta position)
· to become less involved, or more fully involved in speci®c experiences
(e.g., through association/dissociation, changing representational
systems and modifying sub-modalities)
· to recognise and manage emotional/behavioural states, reclaim ideas
and experiences that have been rei®ed and are therefore felt to be ®xed,
factual, outside the client's ability to control, and re-establish them as
active and therefore manageable processes (through denominalising)
· to use a variety of linguistic and experiential means to scramble existing
dysfunctional body±mind (neurological) codings of experience so that
more enabling patterns can be established
· to reclassify items as part of larger, or smaller, categorisations in order
to re-contextualise their meaning (e.g., by chunking up or down).
As a neurolinguistic psychotherapist I operate from within the presupposi-
tions of NLP, discussed in Chapter 2, and I also consider a number of
assumptions from O'Hanlon's (1997) `possibility therapy' as I work with
each client.
· `Here is a perfect place to start from' ± this is what Edelman (2004, p. 8)
refers to as the `remembered present', where all the client's past
experiences formulate their reality as it is presented in the `now'.
Kostere and Malatesta (1990, p. 21) propose that `the therapist and the
client co-create a consensual world view which includes within it both
the presenting problem and the resources needed to implement the
desired change'.
· `Nothing is taken away' ± Haley (1993, p. 125) identi®ed that Erickson
did not want people to change; rather he suggested to his patients that
any change he suggested was in fact just an extension of what they were
already doing.
· `The client realises they are more than their problem' ± Problems start
to be reframed as states, strategies or belief structures rather than at
identity level. By working with Schore's (2003) affective states of a
client and assisting change in these it is possible to facilitate a client to
have a more useful relationship to their sense of self. `It is not the past
we seek but the logic of the patient's own state regulating strategies'
(p. 262).
· `As the client gains greater clarity about their strategies of behaviour,
they stop being as reactive and start to be proactive.'
· `It is hard to maintain the myth that ``I'm a victim''' ± Perls et al.
(1973) held the view that clients should be encouraged to own their
projections and begin to take responsibility for them as part of the
therapeutic process.
142 Therapy in practice
· `You work with the client's goal' ± By focusing on the client's goal
rather than their problem, an immediate shift in the neurology occurs
such that the neuronal circuitry attached to the achievement of the goal
is activated. This neuronal circuit is then ¯ooded with neuropeptides
which results in physiological changes in the mind±body system that
would be necessary to achieve the goal.
· `Once is enough' ± the client has already suffered and the therapy
should not reiterate this. Accessing the problem state results in con-
tinuation of the stress response and the client ®nds it more dif®cult to
get out of the negative feedback loop that has caused the continuation
of the problem.
· `The client gets a sense of wonder and renewal of curiosity about
themselves and others and learns to dream a bigger dream.'
· `The client gets to know how their brain works.' This includes con-
scious awareness of strategies that they are using to continue the
existing pattern of behaviour, and also greater awareness of their
emotional, physical and spiritual experiences. As the client learns how
their brain works, they are then able to transfer their learnings to other
contexts and other people.
Central to neurolinguistic psychotherapy is the principle of rapport, which
sets up a process of responsiveness in communication and can be aided
through matching and mirroring a client's physiology. Beyond this, rapport
also enables communication between the client and therapist's unconscious
minds; Schore (2003) suggests that this directly in¯uences the right amyg-
dala, which `acts as a sensor of unconscious affective communications, since
this structure is known to act as ``a dynamic emotional stimulus detection
system''' (Wright et al., 2001). The use of rapport in the therapeutic rela-
tionship assists the client to hold the experience of therapy within their
memory system, which it is thought affects change in the synaptic con-
nections particularly with regard to bonding and attachment. Therefore a
client who has previously experienced problems concerning relationships
and attachment may be enabled to develop a useful bond with the therapist
that can be transferred as an unconscious learning to other contexts. Rosen
(1982, p. 31) refers to Erickson's use of `reparenting', to `replace ``parental''
injunctions with new ideas, which he instilled by means of posthypnotic
suggestions'. Schore (2003, p. 264) suggests that `a critical role of the
psychotherapist is to act as an affect regulator of the patient's dysregulated
states and to provide a growth-facilitating environment for the patient's
immature affect regulating structures'. Within this process, sensory acuity
plays an essential role in enabling the therapist to calibrate negative
psychobiological states and to adapt their own role in the therapeutic
process accordingly.
Therapy in practice 143
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy, reparenting and
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)
The ®rst case history that I present would normally be considered a
contraindication of working with the more unconscious patterns of neuro-
linguistic psychotherapy as OCD involves the client creating conscious
distraction strategies to protect themselves from accessing trauma held
within the unconscious. In accepting the client for therapy, I recognised
that it would be necessary to work both psychodynamically and through
neurolinguistic processes to assist the client to move towards her outcome.
A presented at the age of 27 with a four-year history of depression
and a 12-year history of OCD. She described herself as very obsessive:
each shower would take her four hours to complete; she slept on the
¯oor on a mattress, which seemed to be a contradiction to her phobia
of dirt and germs that could be picked up from the ¯oor. She
recognised the contradiction but could not rationalise it to herself,
other than the fact that when she was clean she felt OK as long as she
did not touch anything, and when she was dirty she felt contaminated
and could not touch anything either.
Her initial history indicated a high level of conscious control and recog-
nition of her irrational behaviour and thought processes, a strong indicator
of clinical OCD as de®ned through DSM±IV.
Her behaviour had improved since commencing Fluoxetine, but now
found that she slept for up to 20 hours a day. She had seen a therapist
previously and had also been under the care of a psychiatrist, but
found their approaches unuseful so had stopped attending for
therapy.
She had found that CBT had helped her in the short term in managing her
symptoms, but she felt that it had not addressed the underlying cause and
she always reverted to her old condition within a few months.
She was married, but had returned home to live with her parents as
she found that her living arrangements with her husband exacerbated
her OCD. She explained that she loved her husband, he was her soul
mate, she felt totally reliant on him, but found his poor personal
144 Therapy in practice
hygiene and messy habits intolerable. This had happened in a pre-
vious relationship, with her again escaping to her family home as she
had been unable to cope with the demands of the relationship. She
said it seemed that the happier she was in her relationships with both
of these partners, the worse her OCD symptoms became.
She was able to recognise the patterns that she had created and that escape
to home was her default position, yet at the same time she recognised that
this was not an effective way of dealing with things.
At her ®rst appointment, A was dressed in shabby clothes and looked
unkempt. She explained that she could cope with her depression, but
was ®nding her OCD and her weight gain out of control. She was able
to identify clearly her outcomes for therapy, which were to be con-
®dent in herself and her appearance and to stop her current binging.
She wanted to stop `mulling over things that have happened', to be
OCD-free and to lead a more normal life. She hated taking her
medication as it made her sleepy, but was scared to come off it as she
had experienced suicidal thoughts in the past. She described three
suicidal episodes where she felt that `I had to leave myself and escape
to another world'. She knew that she needed to develop a wider circle
of friends and move away from what she identi®ed as her overly
strong attachment to her mother, and a father who was `too familiar
with her', but she was terri®ed of going out and meeting people.
She was able to access a solution state, and neurologically could associate
into the potential of this for short periods during therapy. During this
exploration of her history, she would move between being agitated, through
to distancing herself, to then return to the therapeutic process and become
very sweet and compliant with the process.
Her rationale for seeking a neurolinguistic psychotherapist was that
she had heard that this type of therapy was about the future, not the
past. She said she could not look at the past, and did whatever she
could to avoid looking back on things.
She had a high level of expectation for the therapy and was very clear that
she did not want to explore past related issues. Working from constructivist
Therapy in practice 145
principles, it was relatively easy to stay with her in the current and future
and appreciate and value her for all that she brought to therapy, rather
than her past experiences.
At this initial session, I was concerned about accepting A as a client. I
knew that working purely with NLP methodologies would not help
her OCD; she appeared to have a co-dependent relationship with her
mother, and I was not sure that she was ready to commit to the
therapeutic process and be willing to make the necessary changes in
her life. I spent some time with her considering any secondary bene®ts
of her keeping her problems, and between us we identi®ed that she
had the potential to be a `really happy brilliant person', but she was
not sure if she could live a life outside the shell of her parents'
protection. The idea of doing this frightened her, and at the same time
she had considerable insight that she had the potential for change; she
voiced this as `I've discovered that I can be a lot more forgiving and
understanding. I can jump into people's shoes more easily ± they
don't realise what words can do to another person.'
During this ®rst session, beyond ensuring that I undertook a risk assess-
ment of her psychological state, I stayed within a space of creating rapport
with the client and enabling her to share and have validated as much of her
experience as she chose to share with me. I clearly heard her comment `they
don't realise what words can do to another person' and kept my own
communication from my world to a minimum and non-directive.
A returned a week later for a second session of therapy. She had spent
some time thinking about her relationships with her family. She
described her father as controlling and a bit of a bully. She recognised
that her relationship with her mother was exclusive, and explained
that her mother had suffered from depression for most of her adult
life, was socially isolated and would frequently have panic attacks
when left alone. A recalled this as being present for as long as she
could remember, but did not want to talk about it any more as it
upset her. Whenever I tried to encourage A to talk more about her
previous experiences, her past or her relationships within the family,
she would become distressed and have a panic attack. I stayed within
her model of the world and agreed to talk only about the future. I
asked her to consider what outcomes she would like to achieve within
the next six weeks as a result of attending therapy. She identi®ed ®ve
key areas, and I asked her to scale each of these for where she was
146 Therapy in practice
now and where she wanted to be, which she was able to do. At the
same time I asked her to complete some homework for me in the
intervening week, which was to identify what moved her emotionally
in a positive way.
Although the client presented her own experience of her past, she was unable
to allow the therapeutic process to explore this and if I at any point
attempted to move the therapy beyond where she wanted to go, she would
regress and experience an exacerbation of her symptoms. She was com-
fortable with future-oriented work and I used this as part of her tasking such
that she could begin to develop awareness of her emotional self outside of
the therapy session. I considered that it was important that this was non-
directive and enabling rather than speci®c and potentially regressive for her.
At the following session she said that she had found it quite dif®cult
to ®nd something that moved her, but had experienced a recurring
dream that she used to have as a child. She described the dream to
me; it had only one central character, a camel. This camel would be
used to carry tents and provisions across the desert for a nomadic
tribe, and because it could cope for a long time without food and
water, it was never taken care of. It was beaten by its owners but was
so used to this that it did not react to the beatings and would just
stand and take them. She explained that the camel must now be quite
old as she had been having the dream for as long as she could
remember and that it still did not show any emotion in response to
the beatings. She then changed the subject and started to tell me
about her dog. She explained that he was the only `person' in her life
that she did not `do OCD with'. He could climb on to her bed after a
long walk and put paw marks on her covers and she never minded.
Her parents did not approve of the dog sleeping with her, and she had
been unable to take it with her when she married.
We talked for some time about her dog, and we shared stories about the
role of dogs in people's lives and how they developed personalities very
similar to their owners. The client had communicated her own internal
world through her dream of the camel, and to focus on this at this stage in
therapy would have been unhelpful, therefore I validated her story by
listening to it, and metaphorically worked to encourage her to develop an
understanding of her own process through our joint tales about dogs.
Within this I used a series of hypnotic suggestions and embedded com-
Therapy in practice 147
mands with the primary purpose of enabling her to explore her inner world
in a way that was safe and generative.
At her third session of therapy, I continued to stay within an
Ericksonian process of ®nding out more about A and what her
interests and passions were. She explained that she loved to make
jewellery, and would like to become successful at this and sell it for a
living. She was wearing one of these items. I can only describe it as
one of the most unique necklaces that I have ever seen. She had
twisted some gold wire into intricate shapes, and as the necklace was
turned, different animals appeared within the structure of the
necklace. I admired the necklace and asked her how she had managed
to create the unique and beautiful internal image and then transfer
this to the outside in her careful manipulation of the gold wire.
The process within this session was to continue with the generative model-
ling work that I had done in the previous session and to use the metaphor of
something she had created as a medium to validate and honour her
uniqueness as a human being. At a psychodynamic level, my aim was to
provide her with an experience of `good mothering', unconditionally accept-
ing her for herself and assisting her to ®nd a space to develop her own sense
of self.
The following week, she came into the session and began to quietly
cry. I sat with her for a while and ®nally she explained that her dream
had returned, only this time a baby camel had appeared at the
nomads' campsite. As it was being walked through the camp, the
camel that had been around for years looked up and noticed it. As it
did so, a tear appeared at the corner of its eye. As A relayed her
dream to me, she became quite excited and said that she thought that
the baby camel was in fact the long-lost baby of the adult camel, and
it had recognised its own child. I agreed that this might be so, and A
then spent the rest of the session excitedly making up stories of what
might have happened to the baby camel in the period between losing
its mother and ®nding her again.
The direct psychodynamic process within this session was that of the client
acknowledging her own inner child through my validation of her, and once
she had relayed this to me verbally she entered into a fantasy world to try
148 Therapy in practice
to ®gure out the missing components of her own history that she had
hitherto repressed.
At her ®fth session in therapy, A talked a lot about her parents and
their relationship. She described being aware of nudity in the family
home from a very young age and not being bothered by it, but more
recently this was beginning to bother her. Both her parents still
walked in on her while she was taking a bath or using the toilet. We
talked about how she might manage this situation now and she was at
a loss as to what to do. At the same time, she also explained that she
shared everything with her parents, including her therapy sessions
with me. I was moved to operate from within my own countertrans-
ference and discussed with her my relationship with my own
daughters and how I had learned to respect their growing up and
needing to keep certain things private from myself and their father.
She found this concept odd and asked me quite personal questions
about how I felt about this and how I knew whether to trust them
or not.
This was one of the more dif®cult sessions that I had with the client. I
found her questioning quite intrusive and I was also wary of the level of
personal disclosure that I was using as a therapeutic tool. As I continued
further through the process with her, I recognised that the anxiety I was
experiencing was part of her own projective process and I discovered in the
following session that she had unconsciously needed to test out that I could
appropriately contain her process.
She returned to therapy the following week and said that she wanted to
talk about sex and its relationship to her OCD. She recognised that she
had allowed herself to be violated in previous sexual relationships in a
number of different ways, which had started with some very early
sexual experiences; she was now ®nding this quite dif®cult to live with.
She also shared with me that she was using chat rooms to act out some
of her sexual fantasies and wanted to know whether or not I thought
that this was appropriate. I again felt myself reacting from within my
own countertransference and talked to her about keeping safe.
In this session, I moved to work predominantly through the psychodynamic
process and contained her suf®ciently that she could pursue whichever
thought processes seemed relevant to her. At a neurological level, I was
Therapy in practice 149
enabling her to reconnect the neural synapses that had been affected during
her very early childhood, particularly in relation to her mother. It was
important for her that she could begin a process of individuation and that I
continued to respond to her transferential needs. During the following
month she acted out this individuation through verbal and non-verbal
processes.
Up until this point in therapy, I had found it dif®cult to develop an
emotional connection to A and found her very controlling in the
sessions, with her determining the course of dialogue that we would
take. When she returned a week later, I immediately felt that
something had changed and the session was emotionally charged
throughout. I found her quite dif®cult to contain, as she would move
very quickly from intense associated angry states to being highly
dissociated and creating confusion. She ended the session abruptly
and said `I'm not important to you', and walked out. I found this
dif®cult to manage as I was concerned that she might act out her
anger in some way that would be harmful to her. The following week,
she regaled me with tales of challenging her mother all week with
major rows at home, developing an obsessive relationship with a man
on the internet and having cybersex with him for hours on end. She
felt that she was controlling him and loved the feeling of power it
gave her. A few days later she called me to say she had gone away for
a while and she would book an appointment on her return, and I was
not to worry, but to trust that she would be OK. I was concerned that
her OCD had moved to something that could potentially be
dangerous for her if she were to act out her fantasies, and with good
supervisory support I was able to contain this. On her return to
therapy she said that she had been going to extreme lengths to shock
me, and recognised that over the preceding weeks a bit of her had
taken over and that she had felt it necessary for this bit of her to be
given free reign for a while. She was sorry for trying to shock me, but
was pleased that I had let her go. She then disclosed an abusive
episode in her childhood and we spent some time working with heal-
ing her inner child using alignment processes over a number of
sessions. She was able to move to a place where she identi®ed that she
wanted a relationship with a man that enabled her to have spiritual,
sexual and emotional connection. At the end of ®ve months in
therapy, she no longer had obsessive thoughts or patterns of beha-
viour, had ceased her medication, had found herself a job away from
home and was living in a ¯at with a new circle of friends, and had
asked her husband for a divorce.
150 Therapy in practice
Although she was challenging as a client, I enjoyed working with A. The
therapeutic process was contained through the psychodynamic interaction
with the client and the neurolinguistic psychotherapy process enabled an
outcome orientation to the therapy including neurological re-patterning.
In summary, I operated predominantly within an Ericksonian mode during
the relationship and found that the only way I could dialogue with A was
by entering her model of the world. I worked only with the outcomes that
she wanted and recognised very early that she needed to control our rela-
tionship. By utilising the scaling process, she had tangible evidence of things
that she could control in her internal world, and it is interesting that once we
agreed the scale and behaviours that she wanted to measure, we never
revisited this during the rest of the therapy. When I asked her to spend some
time thinking about what it was that moved her to positive emotions, my
purpose was to enable her to ®nd her own internal positive resources. This
process in itself revealed the dream that she used as the metaphor for her life,
which she had hitherto been unable to share with me, or herself. By con-
tinuing in my exploration of her positive resources, she was able to share
with me her passion for jewellery-making, which I utilised within the therapy
through a series of embedded commands to encourage her to bring to
consciousness her own internal world. As we have seen, this had an
immediate effect, enabling her to move her unconscious processing forward,
bringing herself as a baby into the dream, which enabled the parenting
process to begin. She was able to share with me her fantasies around her loss
of the maternal object, and I moved into the parenting role, creating the
space and trust within the therapy such that she could act out her attachment
needs with me. As she worked this through, she was then able to access the
core material and underlying emotional structures that had been created as a
result of her childhood trauma of abuse, which we were then able to address
in therapy. By resolving both her attachment issues and the underlying
sexual trauma she was able to resolve her patterns of obsessive-compulsive
behaviour, heal herself and move forward in her life.
Somatised conflict
The second case that I refer to provides insight into a psychotherapeutic
process that stays within the bounds of purist neurolinguistic psychother-
apy and a programmatic model of change.
J was referred to me by her workplace as she had been off for some
considerable time with ME. Work wanted to support her and she had
asked for therapy as she felt that there might be some underlying
emotional cause behind her illness. She had tried a range of alterna-
tive approaches, had altered her diet and ensured that she rested
Therapy in practice 151
regularly to manage her illness. She was currently experiencing mood
swings, and found that television programmes or her friend's baby
would trigger her to experience depressive episodes; she also noticed
that she was getting quite angry and would often throw things. She
denied any suicidal ideation, rather citing feelings of `why me?'.
At this initial session, she was able to identify clearly an outcome and
evidence procedure. She was aware of patterns within her life and was also
prepared to take responsibility for herself, i.e., she was At Cause. She was
self-containing and requested a model of change that was short term and
outcome-focused, with her primary aim being to return to work in a
measured and sustainable manner.
Her personal history was that she was the eldest of three children in a
working-class family and she saw herself as being a `pseudo-mother'
to her siblings. Her mother had lost her ®rst child in infancy, and J
was premature, spending the ®rst few weeks of her life in the special
care baby unit. Her mother remained in hospital for a while after J
was discharged to the care of her grandmother, with whom she
developed a very close relationship. She recounted tales of refusing to
be fed by her mother and screaming if her mother tried to pick her up.
Her mother remained ambivalent towards her throughout her
childhood.
It would have been relatively easy to make an assessment at this stage with
regard to attachment disorders, and the subjective world of the client
determined that she was clear about her goal and her desire to work
towards achieving this. She was associated into her experiences as a very
young child and had what she considered an appropriate level of emotion
concerning these experiences. In terms of O'Hanlon and Gilligan's model,
she was operating with an integrated sense of self.
At school she was bright and popular, but she used to avoid bringing
friends home because she lived in a council house and was embar-
rassed that her family was not like other families: their house was
regularly full of `other people's kids, that mum looked after'. She had
occasionally binged on food as a teenager and recalled three incidents
of self-harm. She had been quite ill in her teens, and was hospitalised
on a number of occasions. Interestingly it was usually her teachers
that took her to hospital. J had been the ®rst member of the family to
152 Therapy in practice
go to university. During her investigations for ME, her GP said that
she might have cancer, and her immediate reaction was, `Oh good,
that will teach her [mum] a lesson, now she might believe me'. She
had done well at university and had met her husband there.
Within this aspect of her history she remained associated, and could contain
this emotion relatively well. Occasionally she would interrupt the session to
walk to another room `to contain herself', or would walk to the window
and look out until her emotion subsided. She was very clear that she did not
want me to rescue her from this and that she wanted to deal with it in her
own way.
Her husband's background was very different from hers and she had
found this quite dif®cult in the early stages of their relationship,
although she described a much warmer relationship with her hus-
band's family compared to her own, which she voiced as `I am drawn
to people older than me, they can give me motherly advice'.
We discussed her reaction to TV programmes and her friend's baby
and she said that she wanted to have a baby now, but knew it was not
the right time as her friends with children said they mess up your life.
Immediately prior to her marriage she had been diagnosed with
polycystic ovaries, and she was concerned that this might affect her
ability to conceive. Her sister-in-law had recently become pregnant
and J was ®nding it quite dif®cult to observe the attention being paid
to her. She voiced a view that if she got pregnant it would give her
one thing in common with her mother, and it would give her mother
an opportunity to make up for how she was in the past.
Comparing this with her previous statement when she thought she might
have cancer, she has expressed a range of emotions towards her mother and
a desire to heal this for the future. Had she had a less ¯exible perspective on
her relationship with her mother, the therapeutic process would most likely
have been more psychodynamic.
J was a very intelligent woman and wanted to consciously participate
in and own the therapeutic process. We discussed the notion of values
and she suggested that she might be experiencing con¯ict within her
own family value set. She identi®ed the following values:
· everyone getting on, which was away from feeling unwanted,
inadequate or awkward
Therapy in practice 153
· not wanting any ill feeling, which was away from the way she had
felt her entire life
· not wanting her family to be her best friends, which was away from
being judged by her mother
· supported by her friends rather than her family as she felt that she
carried the weight of her family's problems on her own
· taking an active interest in her job and friends, which would make
her feel wanted and needed by other people
· interested and involved with life not being a rollercoaster, which
was away from people not showing that they are interested in her
· recognition and being treated equally, which was away from her
being valued only through money
· no betrayal, moving away from not trusting others and her mum
telling everyone everything about her.
After we had elicited her values she became quite emotional and said
that she found it very dif®cult to let people in. She confessed that `I
need the illness to get attention, it makes me feel needed'.
Following this session, J described it as being quite cathartic and
agreed that she wanted to look at the core belief structure that was
sitting under the `away from' values. I used the prime concern elici-
tation process (James, 1996), and she accessed a core belief of `I
should be dead'. This resulted in a further cathartic release and we
worked together to align and heal her inner child. During this time,
she regressed into child-like voice qualities, became very emotional
and said `I need looking after'. She found this process insightful and
following integration moved to being `a whole person'.
Earlier in the therapy process it was quite clear that she had developed a
series of strategies to ensure that I did not look after her, which was
contrary to what she had been creating through her illnesses.
We then re-elicited her values which had changed to:
· we all support each other and get on, which was towards sharing
achievements
· showing an interest and caring about each other, which was
towards sharing feelings
· giving recognition to each other, which moved her towards feeling
good about herself
· we love each other, which was about being part of a family, and
provided her with grounding.
154 Therapy in practice
Subsequent to this change work, J returned to work within two
weeks, initially on a part-time basis and then full time. She recognised
that she could not change her mother; rather she could change how
she related to her mother, and she started to develop stronger, clearer
boundaries with her husband's family based on equality of relation-
ship rather than them constantly buying J and her husband things.
This case was a relatively straightforward process of working with the
conscious mind of the client to recognise and realign unconscious patterns
of behaviour. My role throughout the process was to hold the torch for J so
that she could explore and reframe her inner world. The structure of the
methodology of NLP enabled J to resolve a deeply held core belief that was
creating con¯ict in her value structure. By working at pattern level, J was
able to quickly enter into the process and through ecological change work,
she could make the necessary changes without entering into a long-term
therapeutic relationship, such that she could return to work.
Patterns of therapeutic process
Although each therapeutic encounter is very much working with the client's
model of the world, I ®nd it helpful to have an overview of the therapeutic
process which I also provide to students. This is provided as a map rather
than a territory, and like any map, all it can ever do is provide direction; it
is entirely up to the therapist as to the mode of transport, speed of travel, or
deviations and sights to see along the way. I very rarely use the map in its
entirety; rather I allow the client's world and experience in the session to
direct me to the page of the map that we might be on.
1 Contract with the client.
· Problem identi®cation ± big chunk.
· Outcome ± evidence.
· Why therapy now?
· How long has the client had this problem?
· What has the client done about this problem?
· Ecology for self and client.
· Client at cause or effect.
· Does the client really want to let go of the problem? At this point I
will often do a success analysis using Prochaska and DiClemente's
(1992) model of change.
2 Sometimes I will ask a client to complete a pre-session questionnaire,
particularly if they are work-referred clients. This will include the
following questions.
Therapy in practice 155
· If you could have anything as a result of therapy, what would you
want?
· What do you currently have in your life that you no longer want?
· What do you not have in your life that you want now?
· Write a short life history including any events that were signi®cant
to you (both positive and negative).
· What patterns have you noticed occurring in your life so far?
3 Initial session.
· Outline structure of therapy.
· Introduce the conscious and unconscious mind ± verifying through
reference experiences where they have had communication with
their unconscious mind.
· Introduce prime directives of the unconscious mind and some of the
presuppositions of NLP, particularly that the unconscious mind
needs orders to follow, thinks in symbols, takes everything per-
sonally, represses memories with unresolved negative emotion for
protection, and presents memories for resolution. Of the presup-
positions I remind them that every behaviour has a positive
intention, that everyone lives in their own model of the world, and
that people are doing their best that they can.
· Introduce the concept of cause and effect.
· If they are consulting for a physiological symptom, I will cite
Chopra and discuss how the unconscious mind controls the body.
With physiological issues it is important to ®nd out what happened
one to ®ve years before the ®rst symptom.
· Con®dentiality with exceptions such as harmful to self or others,
and child protection.
4 Detailed personal history.
· There is no irrelevant information in a detailed personal history.
Write everything down.
· Why is the client here? Why else? Why else? Elicit all reasons for the
client being in therapy to enable full pattern recognition. Often the
®rst reason isn't the real reason; it can be a smokescreen and it is
often the real reason that underpins everything.
· If this problem were to disappear, completely, for good, right now,
how would the client know that it had gone? What would they see,
hear, feel, or notice?
· How does the client know they have this problem? (Elicit a reality
strategy and any diagnosis made.)
· When do they do it?
· When don't they do it?
· How long have they had this problem?
156 Therapy in practice
· What have they done about it so far?
· Was there ever a time when they didn't have this problem?
· In each of these events, what is the relationship between the event
and the current situation in life? (Elicit every single event and scan
for patterns.)
· What happened the ®rst time they had this? (for each event)
· What has happened since then? (for each event)
· What emotions do they have associated with this problem?
· What do they believe about the problem?
· Pattern of childhood in relation to the problem.
· Elicit history to trace the derivation of the problem or problems
back to the source.
· Family history ± parenting, grandparenting
· Siblings
· Parents' relationships and grandparents' relationships with
family and client
· Pay particular attention to 0±7 imprint period, 7±14 modelling
period and 14±21 socialisation period
· Education ± primary
· Secondary
· Tertiary
· Social history ± socialisation
· Friendships
· Separations
· Illnesses
· Relationships ± personal
· Sexual history
· Marriage
· Work history ± job/career development
· Health ± beliefs about illness and wellness
· Role models of illness.
· Ask client's unconscious mind when they decided to create this
problem and for what purpose.
· What is a higher-level presenting problem of this, such that if the
higher-level problem were to disappear all the lower-level examples
would disappear too?
· Ask client's unconscious mind if it is totally willing to assist and
support them in having an undeniable experience of this problem
disappearing.
5 History of development of the problem.
· Circumstances related to the development of the problems.
· Dynamics at work/home when problem was created.
Therapy in practice 157
· What pattern echoes in childhood?
· Are there SEEs (signi®cant emotional events) around the time of
creation of problems?
6 Cause and effect.
· How has person created problem?
· What purpose is being served?
· Do they really want to change it?
· Listen for language of responsibility; are others to blame?
7 Secondary gain.
· What is this problem preventing the client from doing (that they
don't want to do) which, if the problem disappeared, they would
have to do?
· What is it that they're not doing because of the problem?
· What is it that they are doing, which they enjoy doing, that they
won't be able to do if the problem disappears?
· Ask their unconscious mind if there is anything it wants them to
pay attention to such that if they were to pay attention to it, it
would cause the problem to disappear.
· What are they pretending not to know by having things be this way?
· Every presenting problem is an example of something. I share this
diagram with the client (Figure 8.1).
Greater problem
Presenting problem
Presenting problem
Example Example Example Example Example Example
Figure 8.1 Patterns
8 Sourcing the problem: values elicitation.
· Elicit values hierarchy.
· Elicit motivation strategy.
· Elicit go/stay loop (threshold values).
· Elicit `away from' values.
· Listen for modal operators of necessity (got to, must, need, etc.)
· Negative statements (e.g., `not x')
· Dissociated language (you, they, self by ®rst name).
· Elicit complex equivalents of values.
158 Therapy in practice
9 Prime concern or core belief elicitation.
· Three primary energies ± be ± do ± have.
· Prime concern elicitation process.
· Naturalistic elicitation.
· Notice analogically marked-out words
· Child-like voices
· Semantically packed ± physiological response (emotional
response, tonal qualities)
· Universals, modal operators of necessity, dissociated language
· Deliberately vague language
· SEEs
· Vertical gestalts of meaning.
10 Collate information.
· Establish prime concern.
· Notice analogically marked-out words.
· Every presenting problem is an example of something.
· Check out semantically packed words.
· Check out double binds.
· Complex equivalence.
11 Interventions.
· Neurological re-patterning.
· Use least amount of change for maximum amount of bene®t.
· Release all prime concerns.
· Release any negative emotions or limiting decisions.
· Integrate any parts elicited.
· Re-elicit values hierarchy, checking that all `away from' values have
disappeared or at least the balance is at 80% towards and 20% away
from.
· Test and future pace by asking the client to review their previous
problem state, and also by considering a time in the future when the
previous problem might have occurred, running the client's reality
and convincer strategies.
· Install any required strategies and new behaviours.
· Programme the future ± checking for congruence.
I have presented the map of the methodology of neurolinguistic psycho-
therapy in its entirety. This can only represent the science of therapy, whereas
the development of sustainable relationships through healthy and happy
lives is not a science. I have demonstrated, in the case studies throughout this
book, the application of the science within an artistic ¯exible framework,
much in the way that Erickson, Satir and Perls each put aside what they knew
at a scienti®c level before they related to their clients at an emotional level.
Therapy in practice 159
Chapter 9
A postmodern approach
Energy and attention have gone into forcing yourself, because of a
mistaken feeling of `oughtness', along lines that run counter to your
healthy interests. To the extent that you regain and redirect this energy,
the areas of restored vitality will progressively increase. It is nature that
cures ± natura sant. A wound heals or a bone knits by itself. There is
nothing the physician can do but clean the wound or set the bone. It is
the same with your personality.
(Perls et al., 1951, p. 112)
Postmodernism
A style or concept in the arts characterized by distrust of theories and
ideologies and by the drawing of attention to conventions.
(Oxford English Dictionary)
Literature that reacts against earlier modernist principles by reintrodu-
cing traditional or classical elements of style.
(American Heritage Dictionary)
Recognising that my own bias would naturally elicit a preference for a
constructivist model of working with unconscious processes, I have pre-
sented in this book the entirety of neurolinguistic psychotherapy from
its roots through to current practice. Within this I have endeavoured to
bring in a range of perspectives, making links with similarities that exist in
other psychotherapeutic approaches and adding to current research into
neuroscience.
There is a growing move among neurolinguistic psychotherapists to
return to the principles of the original therapists that were modelled by
Bandler and Grinder. In this ®nal chapter, I present my own thoughts on
how the modality of neurolinguistic psychotherapy can move forward. I
return to the quote by DeLozier (1995) in the Introduction: `the patterns of
NLP were not imparted to us, but unfolded in our learning'. NLP is not a
pattern that can be taught; NLP is about self-learning and discovery.
As NLP developed through the 1980s and was adopted by therapists, for
a time it appeared to lose the essence of what made the work of Erickson,
Satir and Perls so effective. This has now re-emerged through the work of
O'Hanlon, Gilligan, Dilts and, within the UK, Gawler-Wright. My aim in
this book is to awaken in the hearts and minds of therapists the joy and
compassion that was present in the therapy work of Erickson, Satir
and Perls.
I consider that NLP as a methodology is effective as an applied
psychology, and on its own it is not psychotherapy: a position that is in
alignment with that of the original developers of NLP. To use it as such, for
clients who need psychotherapy, it will enable short-term change and move-
ment towards a solution state that may require conscious and regular
reprogramming. If it is used on its own where clients have experienced
developmental de®cit, or have traumatic repressed experiences, it is likely to
set up potential problems later on. These problems as they have been
presented by some of my clients have ranged from unful®lled expectations, a
feeling of being let down, a belief that the therapy did not work, that the
person themselves must be bad or wrong because they keep visiting the same
problem, through to severe dysfunction and exacerbation of underlying
pathology. Nowhere in the minds or work of Erickson, Satir or Perls was
there a thought or belief that the therapy had the potential to resolve all of
life's problems; rather they worked to support clients to gain a more useful
perspective on their experience and develop healthier and happier lives.
While she agrees with me in terms of the pursuit of psychotherapy as
practised by Erickson, Perls and Satir, conversations with Gawler-Wright
reveal a different position towards the client and the therapist's diagnosis.
Her credo for practice knowingly subjects itself to a chosen belief in the
client's system as self-balancing. This belief creates a ®lter for the therapist
whereby she responds to symptoms or de®cits as being manifestations of
compensating resourcefulness by the client. She therefore focuses not on the
depth or seriousness of the client's dif®culties as the limit to effectiveness of
any psychotherapeutic approach, but instead on whether the therapist has
respectfully modelled how the client is currently applying their resources
and whether the therapist successfully stimulates the individual, through
co-created relational activity, to engage in different applications of their
strengths and attention. The relational activity may well involve program-
matic `games' in which the client is beheld as `an artist creating themselves'
through engagement in new sensory experiences and linguistic expressions.
This difference in perception about the client, however, also places empha-
sis on the relational skills of the psychotherapist. It highlights, Gawler-
Wright (2005) argues, the need in training for therapists to develop one of
the core NLP skills identi®ed by Grinder and DeLozier: to be knowingly at
A postmodern approach 161
peace in a place of `not knowing'. Hence Erickson's ability to facilitate
highly distressed and even disturbed clients through both brief and some-
times longer-term intervention (in conversation, Gawler-Wright and Wake,
May 2005).
Behaviourism vs. constructivism
Neurolinguistic psychotherapy appears to be trying to ®nd a place that sits
between constructivism, Ericksonian psychotherapy and behaviourism. For
therapists who prefer a behaviourist approach this can provide a setting for
therapy that takes account of the subjective nature of experience, with the
therapist operating from a meta-perspective outside the system to in¯uence
change within the system. Behavioural modelling can work very effectively
in enabling a client to alter their internal representations and strategies for
`doing' a speci®c problem, as highlighted in the case of the young man with
Tourette's in Chapters 1 and 4. Where the therapist stays outside the system,
and there is no relationship with the client other than at a secondary or
super®cial level, the therapist reduces the chance of reacting to counter-
transferential processes. However, this approach of bringing to conscious-
ness that which is held within the unconscious may upset the equilibrium of
the client's ecosystem such that they cannot function effectively. This raises
questions about some of the more provocative pattern interrupts that beha-
viourally oriented therapists might use. Schore (2003, p. 51) has identi®ed
that mismatching a client may result in `misattunement', which can create a
`stressful desynchronization between and destabilization within their right
brains' (emphasis in original), resulting in the client either becoming dis-
tressed or detaching from the relationship with the therapist, i.e., not
returning to therapy, which may mean that the therapist views the client as
having achieved their outcome. Erickson himself expressed concerns about
the use of conscious therapy to address unconscious material in his epilogue
to Bandler and Grinder's work (1975, p. 256).
Experimental investigation has repeatedly demonstrated that good
unconscious understandings allowed to become conscious before a
conscious readiness exists will result in conscious resistance, rejection,
repression and even the loss, through repressing, of unconscious gains.
By working separately with the unconscious there is then the oppor-
tunity to temper and to control the patient's rate of progress and thus to
effect a reintegration in the manner acceptable to the conscious mind.
(p. 256)
How then does a therapist who prefers behavioural modelling work within
the metaphor of a client's reality? Even within a behavioural modelling
approach, a therapist cannot not make meaning of what they perceive, and
162 A postmodern approach
the perceptions of the therapist are based on what is already known by
them. A therapist may view the microcosmos of the client's world and
perceive a history of abuse or inability to maintain successful relationships.
How does the therapist know whether what is perceived is in fact reality or
their own projection onto the client?
In Chapter 7 I discussed the concept of splitting or parts of the person-
ality and how this may be transferred to the therapist through projective
identi®cation. Programmatic therapy presents a dilemma for therapists who
wish to work non-relationally with clients who have experienced trauma
prior to verbal or cognitive ability. The client may only be able to com-
municate somatic markers of distress via the transferential relationship. If
the therapist chooses to stay dissociated from the therapeutic relationship
with clients, the opportunity to assist neurological re-patterning is missed.
Schore (2003, p. 106) states that `when such ``nonconscious affect'' . . . is
interactively regulated, ampli®ed, and held in short-term memory long
enough to be felt and recognized, the patient's affectively charged but now
regulated right brain experiences can then be communicated to the left
brain for further conscious processing'. Basch (1985, p. 11) supports this
and suggests that the clinician's role within this process is to `act the part of
the corpus callosum, so to speak, until that structure can take over and the
patient can do for himself what he needed us to do with and for him'.
I would go further and say that non-relational therapy with a client who
has evidence within their history of trauma and/or repression is likely to
have a negative impact on the neurology and psychology of the client.
Programmatic behavioural therapy can be very effective where the client
has full conscious and unconscious acknowledgement of the presenting
problem state. Any therapist risks working from within a blind spot, and
this may be more likely to happen if therapy is offered from a dissociated or
meta position. The therapist can counter this by ensuring that their per-
sonal supervision and/or therapy is embarked on with a relationally minded
supervisor and/or therapist.
In considering the more constructivist and hypnopsychotherapeutic
approach, the in¯uence of Erickson, Satir and Perls is evident in the
unconscious processes that ¯ow throughout the foundation principles of
NLP. Much of the therapeutic alliance of all three therapists was about
right brain to right brain communication. It is this regulation process that
enables the development of social and emotional growth with the client in
the therapy relationship. I have worked with a group of my students to
model the components of an effective neurolinguistic psychotherapist
within the therapeutic alliance.
· The therapist operates from the three perceptual positions during the
therapy process.
· The therapist suspends judgement.
A postmodern approach 163
· A process is developed that enables the therapist to develop an internal
mechanism that lets her `know how she knows' that what the client is
presenting is representative of the client's reality rather than her own
intersubjectivity.
· The therapist remains open to feedback from the client, the environ-
ment, her own internal mechanisms, her supervisor, her peers.
· There is alignment and congruence with the client's model of the world
when the therapist is in second position.
· The therapist continually checks `whose outcome is it?'.
· The therapist is willing to go where the client wants to go ± regardless
(i.e., the client leads the therapy process, including determining when it
is appropriate for the therapist to lead).
· The therapist is aware of when she is not letting herself progress the
therapy, i.e., she is stopping herself from going to the place that is
required for therapeutic success.
· The therapist is `just' ± this was modelled through the group's experi-
ence and on researching this, it resonates closely with the Japanese
haiku ± an awareness of just this moment.
· The therapist becomes aware of stimuli that are `not me', i.e., she
responds to stimuli from the client.
· The role of the therapist is to create a vacuum or container for the
client and remain aware of who ®lls the vacuum.
· In the Dyson model (therapists described this as if they were operating
in a similar way to the inner workings of a Dyson vacuum cleaner) the
therapist is absorbing information from the client at a number of
different sensory levels.
· The therapist is willing to ask herself if `she is ®t for this' i.e., whether
she is the right person to work with the client.
· The therapist is clear about her exit strategy.
Over and above these factors, the therapists recognised that it is important
to create a container of ecology for themselves that includes:
· supervision
· ongoing learning
· experiential learning
· an attitude of courage, self-re¯ection, self-awareness, openness to learn,
and a willingness and `OKness' to say they had got it wrong
· recognition that they are part of an evolutionary process (Master
Practitioner Class, Spring 2007, Awaken Consulting).
Working with unconscious processes may lay the therapist open to a degree
of risk, of working blindly at times. Constructivism encourages therapists
to stay in the `now' with the client, yet if the therapist does not re¯ect and
164 A postmodern approach
make meaning of their interactions with clients in supervision and personal
therapy, how do they know whether they are projecting their reality on to
the client in either useful or unuseful ways? Watzlawick (1978, p. 43)
usefully summarises this in his acknowledgement that our world image
changes on a day-to-day basis and:
It is not the world, but a mosaic of single images which may be inter-
preted in one way today and differently tomorrow; a pattern of patterns;
an interpretation of interpretations; the result of incessant decisions
about what may and what may not be included in these meta-
interpretations, which themselves are the consequences of past decisions.
For the therapist who is working through cognitive modelling, program-
matic change may not be effective for a client who has never learnt to have
trusting and intimate relationships with others. If the client holds an
existing construct that they are alone in the world, cannot trust others, and
have no internal construct of `love', then it is the development of this that
becomes the basis of therapy. Where clients have experienced develop-
mental delay or de®cit, combining neuroscience with psychodynamic and
relational therapy, and some of the programmatic aspects of NLP, it is
possible to offer a re¯exive and effective model of therapy.
If a therapist stays within a purist constructivist approach, they may
acknowledge the client's presenting construct as in¯uencing their life
negatively, and may, through their own life experiences, work within the
metaphor with the client. Within their own neurology, they may hold an
internal construct of a loving and intimate relationship that is dynamic and
adult, and may project this onto their client in a way that causes the client to
react negatively. Or they may facilitate the client to develop trust with
themselves as the therapist and create the `collaborative dance' as described
by McDermott and Jago (2001, p. 86). Schore (2003, p. 268) suggests that the
optimum place for a therapist to operate is perhaps in both: that where
`genuine dialogue' exists, the patient will bring to the therapy `an inner word
and then into a spoken word what he/she needs to say at a particular moment
but does not yet possess as speech'. Schore emphasises the role of the
therapist in this interaction: that if the client's world is validated and
empathised with, the affects as they have been held can then be moved to a
bodily sensation and then articulated through logical verbal processes, what
in NLP terms is called `proper naming'. Without this, the client's world
remains repressed.
Subjectivity in the therapeutic space
Where it is customary to speak of the `client±therapist relationship', we
want to draw attention to our understanding that the interaction between
A postmodern approach 165
the two constitutes an active system created by and between the two
individuals. As with other systems, there is mutual in¯uence, and, as the
word `system' implies, there are also implicit and explicit structures which
affect both parties. There are assumptions (about the nature and role
each has, about the purpose and process of therapy, about change, about
the self) and there are rules. While some are overt (for example, what
happens if either party has to cancel, how payment is made), others,
although not spelt out, are present nonetheless ± Does the therapist
interpret? What amount of silence is acceptable? In what ways is it
acceptable for the client to in¯uence the therapist? Perhaps the most
signi®cant implication of a systemic approach is the interaction between
the two parties is recognised as mutually regulating; therapy is not a
treatment which the client `receives', the therapist `gives' or even `offers',
but rather an ongoing collaborative dance.
(McDermott & Jago, 2001, p. 86)
McDermott and Jago highlight here the dilemma that is presented to the
neurolinguistic psychotherapist and how he relates within the client±
therapist system. Both client and therapist will have their own experiences
of reality, both of their life and what has brought them to this point where
they have connected with each other in a shared reality, and also how they
experience what they perceive as the shared reality of therapy. Both parties
in the system will have a set of rules, some of which are consciously known
by the individual and some of which are outside conscious awareness.
Unconscious rules can affect therapy much more than either party is aware.
The client may have unwritten rules about what is and is not acceptable to
be discussed with another. The same principle applies for the therapist. Is a
therapist willing to explore, recognise and challenge what some of his
unwritten rules might be? Do therapists readily explore their own internal
subjective processes through supervision and therapy, or do they make the
assumption that their own map is good, right, robust and ecological?
To highlight the in¯uence that rules can have in the therapy setting, I
illustrate two cases, the ®rst being a client that had an internal value
structure and set of rules about being a father that prevented him from
moving on within his grieving process. As a therapist and former nurse, I
too had a set of rules about length of time for grieving processes and how
soon somebody could or should move on.
The client was referred to me through his workplace to enable him to
address some behavioural dif®culties that had been of increasing
concern to his manager. Historically he had always been political at
work and was renowned for voicing his opinion; recently this had
turned into what were perceived as uncontrollable levels of anger.
166 A postmodern approach
There had been two recent incidents at work where his behaviour was
deemed to be unacceptable. The client attended for his ®rst session
and was fully aware of the problems that his behaviour had created at
work. He was quite clear about the change that was required in him
and felt that things had spiralled out of control; he described feeling a
permanent state of apprehension that he could not understand. We
talked about his anger and he explained that he did not understand
where it was coming from. As we discussed this further it soon became
apparent that he was stuck in a grieving process. His daughter had
been killed in a car accident two years previously, while on holiday
and although he felt that he had grieved for her, it seemed that he was
still very angry.
As soon as I became aware of what I perceived to be the cause of his anger,
I focused on it. This was contrary to what the client wanted to focus on. He
was in the latter years of his working life and wanted to retain his job such
that he could move into a secure retirement.
In my own mind I considered this would be a relatively straight-
forward therapeutic process, yet the client seemed to want to focus on
his anger towards some of his colleagues at work. I initially found it
quite dif®cult to stay focused on his work relationships when I knew
that he was experiencing unresolved grief [in my model of the world].
When I was able to put aside my own rules and expectations with
regard to grieving and stayed with the client in his space of anger and
irritation at his workplace, we very quickly developed a strong thera-
peutic bond. In one of the subsequent sessions, while we were talking
about his workplace and colleagues, who in his mind were belligerent
and lazy, he suddenly became very distressed. When he ®nally com-
posed himself he shared with me that he could not move on with
regard to his daughter, because he could not condemn the driver of
the car that his daughter was travelling in. He was scared that I might
judge him for what he was thinking and felt demonised by his
thoughts.
He articulated back to me my own projection from the ®rst session. I had
judged him in that session; I had made an assumption about the cause of
his anger and what he needed to do to resolve it. It was only when I moved
away from my own prejudices that he could then work within his own
world in the therapeutic space. Even though his anger was stemming from
A postmodern approach 167
the death of his daughter, it was up to him to realise this and not have me
point it out for him.
He explained to me that his son had been driving the car and he was
distraught that if he became angry with his son, he might lose him as
well as his daughter.
This complex double bind meant that he was stuck within his grief and
could not see a way out; additionally my own rule structure concerning
grief and my desire to enable him to address it quickly prevented him from
sharing some of his thoughts with me.
Becoming more ¯exible and giving him the space to lead the therapy
gave him permission to own his anger about his daughter's death. I
was able to contain it in the therapeutic space and he was able to
work through his anger. As we moved to conclude the therapy, he
learnt to develop a new set of rules regarding being a father to his
son, based on an adult±adult relationship.
This case example demonstrates how a rule that I consciously knew about
affected my work, and in the following example I share with you client
work where my own unwritten and unconscious rule as a therapist pre-
vented me from working effectively with a client.
A client presented with relationship dif®culties. He found it dif®cult
to manage his partner's temper. She would become very challenging
at times, and his own stress levels generated at work meant that he
wanted his time at home with her to be peaceful and enjoyable. The
effect that this was having on their relationship was apparent in a
number of areas including their sexual relationship. She was becom-
ing very concerned that he was looking at other women in a way that
was sexual, and in her words was `mentally undressing every woman
you meet'. He denied seeing any of these women in a sexual way and
said, `They are just beautiful, I never think sexual thoughts about any
of them'. She was becoming increasingly distant to him and what
little time they had together was becoming tense and unproductive.
Within his own construct, the client recognised that he was becoming
less committed to the relationship and was becoming quite `hung-up'
on the sexual dif®culties that were being presented.
168 A postmodern approach
The client was very clear about his outcome for therapy, and also his
presenting problem. At this initial session, I perceived that this would be a
relatively straightforward process and that he would quickly resolve his
issues and move forward in his life.
He willingly explored his issues in therapy and after some time, we
reached an impasse. It was as if we were getting to the point of
resolution and then something would happen to prevent this. This
occurred over a couple of sessions and I recognised that he was
becoming increasingly frustrated with me. I took the case to super-
vision and within this context recognised that I was avoiding a close
therapeutic relationship with him as I was concerned that I might ®nd
him sexually attractive.
I had acted out for him exactly the process that he had been doing with
females around him. Within my own construct, I had an unwritten rule that
`forbade' me from ®nding clients sexually attractive, in the same way that
he could not accept that he could ®nd people outside of his immediate
relationship attractive. This resulted in his process being avoided by me as
the therapist, and once I internalised my own sexual feelings, he successfully
addressed the issues in therapy.
Schore (2003, p. 56) describes this process of the therapist getting in the
way of the therapy for clients as follows: `Cycles of organization, disorgan-
ization, and reorganization of the intersubjective ®eld occur repeatedly in
the treatment process'. He suggests that our ability to manage this and
work with the feelings of others is dependent on `our capacity to tolerate
varying intensities and durations of countertransferential states marked by
discrete positive affects, such as joy and excitement, and negative affects,
such as shame, disgust, and terror'. The therapist's ability to deal with this
process will be in accordance with their own imprinted experiences, of
which they may or may not have knowledge. Schore (2003, p. 56) con®rms
my own view: `for this reason, I believe personal psychotherapy is a pre-
requisite for anyone entering the ®eld'. Yet neurolinguistic psychotherapy is
promoted as a modality of therapy that requires minimal personal therapy
of the therapist by NLPtCA, which at the time of writing is a total of 12
hours for the four-year duration of training. Kristeva (2001, p. 111)
highlights a dilemma that is faced by therapists, and particularly those who
do not have personal therapy as part of their training, i.e., that very few
therapists can work with the `limits of primal repression, the point at which
the symbolic character of human nature collapses into chaos as the client's
affective state changes . . . without drowning'. Yet if neurolinguistic
psychotherapists enable clients to access and resolve primal states of being
A postmodern approach 169
as outlined in Chapter 6, they risk losing themselves in the chaos of the
client's inner world.
If neurolinguistic psychotherapists were more willing to explore their
own internal constructs and develop even stronger ¯exibility in moving
between ®rst, second and third perceptual position (O'Connor, 2001, p. 33),
they would be enabled to work relationally with others. This process would
facilitate very effective neurological re-patterning through the identi®cation
and resolution of somatic markers of distress. BeeLeaf Institute for Con-
temporary Psychotherapy, a UKCP Training Member Organisation in
neurolinguistic psychotherapy, centralises this development of the self and
use of the self through somatic marker and cognitive naming. Assessment
criteria and learning outcomes of their second year of a four-year training
process utilise Dilts and DeLozier's (2000) qualities of mastery as a solid
basis on which to build the required personal characteristics of a skilled and
safe psychotherapist of any modality (Gawler-Wright, 2004).
Research into neurolinguistic psychotherapy
Compared to other modalities of psychotherapy, neurolinguistic psycho-
therapy is incredibly young, having developed a separate therapy arm to the
voluntary body that regulates NLP in the early 1990s. Because of its brief
history as a modality of psychotherapy it has dif®culty in demonstrating its
effectiveness in suf®ciently large numbers to be considered as a therapy of
choice, particularly within the NHS. A limited number of studies are
available on the internet that, in the main, have researched speci®c aspects
of NLP as a methodology. This has resulted in the development of The
Institute for the Advanced Study of Health's (IASH) Research and Recog-
nition Project, whose aim is to `de®ne and support feasible health projects
involving NLP presuppositions, distinctions and processes in order to make
discoveries in the systems of in¯uence effecting health and healing'. IASH
has commenced a project that aims to develop scienti®cally based research
on the ef®cacy of NLP as a series of potential treatment protocols. The site
is linked to the University of Surrey, which has an educational research
project, and also to an Australian research and training organisation,
Inspirative, that lists over 100 research papers on the use of speci®c NLP
technologies with certain conditions.
· www.nlp.de/cgi-bin/research/nlp-rdb.cgi
· www.nlpco.com/pages/research/index.php
· www.nlpiash.org
· www.inspirative.com.au
Much of the available research concerns the use of speci®c techniques
within the methodology and very little is psychotherapy-speci®c, reinforcing
170 A postmodern approach
my view that it is an applied psychology; however, the IASH project may
well demonstrate its effectiveness as a psychotherapy over time. There is
evidence of only one controlled trial of neurolinguistic psychotherapy,
conducted by Genser-Medlitsch and Schu
Ètz (1997), and no studies exist of
its ef®cacy compared to other therapeutic approaches.
One of the ®rst reviews of NLP research literature was conducted by
Sharpley in 1984, who proposed that there was little supportive evidence
for, particularly, the assumption of a preferred representational system, and
in fact proposed that a substantial amount of data opposed it as a model
of processing information. By 1987, Sharpley had continued his critique of
NLP; he proposed that it `had little to support [it] and much to answer to in
the research literature' and suggested that a meta-analysis be conducted
of the large amount of data already available. One of the major critiques of
the research completed in these early days was that it reviewed one aspect of
the methodology when in fact there are so many other contributing factors
that affect outcome. In 1985 (pp. 589±596) Einspruch and Forman sup-
ported Sharpley's concerns about the methodology used in their review of
39 studies on NLP. They identi®ed that although NLP is `in theory, testable
and veri®able . . . past research was fraught with methodological confounds'
and as such they concluded that it was `not possible at this time to determine
the validity of either NLP concepts or whether NLP-based therapeutic
procedures are effective for achieving therapeutic outcomes' and that `only
when well-designed empirical investigations are carried out may we be
assured of NLP's validity as a model of therapy'. Einspruch and Forman
(1988, pp. 91±100) continued their research and were able to demonstrate
marked improvement in a group of 31 phobic patients within a multifaceted
treatment programme using NLP and Ericksonian approaches. Measure-
ment instruments used were `Mark's phobia questionnaire' and `fear inven-
tory', and the `Beck depression inventory' pre- and post-treatment. The
researchers concluded that `NLP holds promise for becoming an important
set of therapeutic techniques for treating phobias'. This then places the more
programmatic elements of neurolinguistic psychotherapy alongside CBT as
an easily learned and applied model that can be used in a structured way to
treat low-level generalised anxiety disorders.
Genser-Medlitsch and Schu
Ètz's (1997) study demonstrated through a
comprehensive evaluation of 55 patients that neurolinguistic psychotherapy
is an effective modality of therapy in accordance with its therapeutic objec-
tive. The clients all had severe DSM-IV conditions, such as schizo-affective
disorder, psychosis, psychosomatic tendencies, depression or dependency
problems (American Psychiatric Association, 1994); most of them were also
on medication. Patients in the control group all had milder symptoms. At
three points in time, measurements were conducted of changes in individual
complaints, clinical psychological symptoms, individual coping strategies,
and locus of control tendencies, using the linear rating scale model (LRSM)
A postmodern approach 171
and the linear partial credit model (LPCM). After therapy, the clients who
had received NLP scored signi®cantly higher (76%) in each of the measured
areas and experienced a reduction in clinical symptoms. The researchers
concluded that `It could be established that, in principle, NLP is effective in
accordance with the therapeutic objective'. What is missing from this study
is a de®nitive description of the therapeutic process and whether it was
predominantly programmatic, the history of the patients included in the
study or the degree of disturbance. A longitudinal follow-up study of this
group of patients would be bene®cial in demonstrating effects of therapy
over time and whether there is any recurrence of symptoms.
Bolstad and Hamblett (2000) have demonstrated the effectiveness of one-
off treatment sessions using the phobia cure for those experiencing PTSD,
which was later developed by Muss who completed a pilot study using the
process with members of a police force experiencing PTSD. This study
demonstrated 100% effectiveness in resolution of symptoms, which was
sustained over a period of time. The study does not determine that there
was any developmentally associated event prior to the one that was thought
to trigger the PTSD, suggesting that as a stand-alone treatment for single
factor events of PTSD, NLP as an applied psychology is effective. Bolstad
(2002) has continued to support research into a number of the tools and
techniques used in NLP, and reports on research dated between 1984±2001.
He quotes from a variety of sources as wide ranging as the use of anchoring
to access a self-caring state in adult children of alcoholics; the treatment of
phobias including PTSD; and the treatment of asthmatics using time line
therapy that resulted in a near zero use of asthma inhalers in the NLP
group compared to fewer changes in the control group. This analysis of
Bolstad's suggests that there is potential for using NLP as an applied
psychology in speci®c disorders; however, it does not demonstrate neuro-
linguistic psychotherapy.
Bolstad also describes variations on NLP, such as EMDR (eye movement
desensitisation and reprocessing) and thought ®eld therapy, for which there
is substantial research demonstrating effectiveness when combined with
other psychotherapeutic approaches that address the relational aspects.
For neurolinguistic psychotherapy to be taken seriously and to have its
place as an effective and respected modality, the profession might consider
two approaches to developing research into it. Further research could be
conducted into speci®c tools and techniques used for speci®c problem states
or behaviours, within the spectrum of behaviourist approaches as discussed
earlier. This would develop NLP as an applied psychology and would
present the ®eld with a dilemma concerning its use. At the time of writing,
applied psychology as a professional activity is being brought into a statu-
tory regulation system. NLP has so far evaded attention, yet as more and
more psychologists and psychotherapists are starting to use aspects of the
technology, the ®eld will be required to be more accountable for how the
172 A postmodern approach
methodology is taught and principles of practice. Alternatively, research
can be developed into its effectiveness as a psychotherapeutic process,
including the role of the therapist within the relationship.
One of the challenges that the therapy ®eld, and within it neurolinguistic
psychotherapy, is faced with is the desire to use scienti®c measures of obser-
vation for a therapeutic process that is not scienti®c. As I have demonstrated
in this book, the therapist plays an active role in the development of the brain
where affective states are present. A number of studies could be conducted,
including the perceptions of therapists themselves of the role of the therapist
within neurolinguistic psychotherapy. Levels of recurrence of symptoms or
presenting problems would provide insight into the differences arising from
length of time in therapy, and therapist awareness of transferential and
countertransferential processes.
Final thoughts
What you don't realize, Sid, is that most of your life is unconsciously
determined.
(Erickson, in Rosen, 1982, p. 25)
The capacity for experience-dependent plastic changes in the nervous
system remains throughout the life span.
(Schore, 2003, p. 202)
O'Hanlon and Martin's (1992) early work on modelling Erickson's solution-
oriented hypnosis summarises the different perspectives of the unconscious
as they are held by Erickson and Freud. `In the Ericksonian approach, when
we use the word ``unconscious'', we mean something different from the
Freudian view of repressed urges and primal urges that the ego or superego
have to deal with' (p. 108). They de®ne the unconscious as:
· a repository for those things that you don't keep in your conscious
mind, but could recall if you wanted
· it is your deeper, wiser self
· holding the sensory memories from life.
I end this book by returning to the concept of the unconscious mind.
O'Connor and Seymour (1990, p. 6) refer to it as `All the life-giving
processes of our body, all that we have learned, our past experiences, and
all that we might notice, but do not, in the present moment'. Erickson was a
master at working with the unconscious and some of the presuppositions
are derived from his respect for his clients' unconscious minds. He believed
that there was a positive intention to all of the behaviours that they
A postmodern approach 173
presented to him, and that individuals were making the best choices that
they could at the time. His work focused on enabling the client to access
more of their unconscious resources such that they could have a greater
repertoire of choice. What I have demonstrated in this book is that if
neurolinguistic psychotherapists stay within a programmatic model of
working, they are not honouring Erickson's work and most importantly are
staying out of rapport with a client's unconscious. It is only when the
therapist develops a truly responsive relationship of trust and understand-
ing with clients that the unconscious can become conscious; what is held
non-verbally and somatically can be sponsored and validated.
By utilising the principle of systems theory it is important that clients are
encouraged to access their unconscious and view their subjective experience
from within the principles of cybernetics. It is more enabling for a client to
have choice about how they react to their reactions than to change their
reactions per se. Gilligan has expanded this and through self-relations,
clients are encouraged to validate, sponsor and heal disintegrated and
fragmented aspects of themselves. This supports the principles of cyber-
netics, where clients develop a healthy relationship to their emotions and
aspects of themselves that they have been previously told are bad or wrong.
I would urge neurolinguistic psychotherapists to accept and place in
context the programmatic modelled aspects of NLP, which is an applied
psychology. By including relational therapy within their repertoire of skills
it is possible to aid development of neural synapses and neurological re-
patterning, emerging with a psychotherapeutic process that honours the
work of Erickson, Satir and Perls, and the fundamental presuppositions
that:
· enable the client to acknowledge all their internal states and external
behaviours as positive resources
· respect the client's model of the world through inclusion.
174 A postmodern approach
References
Ader, R. and Cohen, N. (1982) `Behaviourally conditioned immunosuppression and
murine systemic', Lupus Erythematosus', Science, 215: 1534±1536.
Adler, A. (1992) Understanding Human Nature (C. Brett, Trans.), Oxford: Oneworld
Publications. (Original work published in 1927.)
American Psychiatric Association (1994) Diagnostic and Statistical Manual IV,
Washington, DC: APA.
Amsterdam, B. (1972) `Mirror self-image reactions before age two', Developmental
Psycho/biology, 5: 297±305.
Amsterdam, B. and Levitt, M. (1980) `Consciousness of self and painful self-
consciousness', Psychoanalytic Study of the Child, 35: 67±83.
Aristotle (389±322 BCE) Causation in the History of Western Philosophy. Retrieved
August 9, 2006, from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/causality
Bandler, R. (1985) Using Your Brain for a Change: Neurolinguistic Programming,
Moab, UT: Real People Press.
Bandler, R. and Grinder, J. (1975a) Patterns of the Hypnotic Techniques of Milton
H. Erickson, M. D., Volume 1, Capitola, CA: Meta Publications.
Bandler, R. and Grinder, J. (1975b) The Structure of Magic, 1, Palo Alto, CA:
Science and Behavior Books.
Bandler, R. and Grinder, J. (1977) Patterns of the Hypnotic Techniques of Milton H.
Erickson, M. D., Volume 2, Capitola, CA: Meta Publications.
Bandler, R. and Grinder, J. (1979) Frogs into Princes, Moab, UT: Real People Press.
Basch, M. (1995) `Kohut's contribution', Psychoanalytic Dialogues, 5: 367±373.
Basch, M. F. (1985) `New directions in psychoanalysis', Psychoanalytic Psychology,
2: 1±19.
Bateson, G. (1972) Steps to an Ecology of Mind, New York: Ballantine Books.
Bateson, G. (2000) Steps to an Ecology of Mind: Collected Essays in Anthropology,
Psychiatry, Evolution and Epistemology, Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Bateson, G. (2006) Global Vision. Retrieved April 30, 2006, from www. global-
vision.org/bateson.html
Beck, A. T. (1976) Cognitive Therapy and the Emotional Disorders, New York:
International Universities Press.
Beck, D. E. and Cowan, C. C. (1996) Spiral Dynamics: Mastering Values,
Leadership and Change, Oxford: Blackwell.
Berne, E. (1957) A Layman's Guide to Psychiatry and Psychoanalysis, New York:
Grove Press.
Bion, W. R. (1984) Learning from Experience, London: Karnac.
Bodenhamer, B. G. and Hall, L. M. (1999) The User's Manual for the Brain, Volume
1, Bancyfelin, UK: Crown House Publishing.
Bollas, C. (1987) The Shadow of the Object, New York: Columbia University Press.
Bolstad, R. D. and Hamblett, M. (2000) `Developing NLP based treatment
programs for fast resolution of psychological trauma', NLP World, 7(1): 5±22.
Bolstad, R. D. (2002) Resolve: A New Model of Therapy, Bancyfelin, UK: Crown
House Publishing.
Bowlby, J. (1969) Attachment, Vol. 1 of Attachment and Loss, London: Hogarth
Press.
Bucci, W. (1997) Psychoanalysis and Cognitive Science, New York: Guilford Press.
Buck, R. W. (1994) `The neuropsychology of communication: Spontaneous and
symbolic aspects', Journal of Pragmatics, 22: 265±278.
Byrom, T. (1976) The Dhammapada: The Sayings of the Buddha, New York:
Vintage.
Cameron-Bandler, L., Gordon, D. and LeBeau, M. (1985) The Emprint Method,
San Rafael, CA: FuturePace.
Cameron-Bandler, L. and LeBeau, M. (1987) Emotional Hostage: Rescuing Your
Emotional Life, Moad, UT: Real People Press.
Carroll, R. (2002) `Neuroscience and psychotherapy', The Psychotherapist, 18:
17±19.
Charvet, S. R. (1995) Words That Change Minds, Dubuque, IA: Kendall Hunt.
Chen, J. (2002) A Quantum Theoretical Account of Linguistics. Retrieved December
17, 2006, from http://nats-www.informatik.uni-hamburg.de/~joseph/di/dis/
node26.html
Chomsky, N. (1957) Syntactic Structures, The Hague, The Netherlands: Mouton
& Co.
Chopra, D. (1989) Quantum Healing: Exploring the Frontiers of Mind/Body
Medicine, New York: Bantam Books.
Chopra, D. (1995) The Way of the Wizard: Twenty Spiritual Lessons for Creating the
Life You Want, New York: Harmony Books.
Chugani, H., Behen, M., Muzik, O., Juhasz, C., Nagy, F. and Chugani, D. (2001)
`Local brain functional activity following early deprivation: A study of post-
institutionalised Romanian orphans', Development and Psychopathology, 6:
533±549.
Clyman, R. (1991) `The procedural organisation of emotions', in T. Shapiro and R.
Emde (Eds), Affect: Psychoanalytic Perspectives, New York: International
Universities Press.
Damasio, A. (1994) Descartes' Error: Emotion, Reason and the Human Brain, New
York: Penguin.
Darwin, C. (1998) The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals (with
introduction, afterword and commentaries by P. Ekmen), Oxford: Oxford
University Press. (Original work published 1955.)
DeLozier, J. (1995) `Mastery, new coding and systemic NLP', NLP World, 2: 1.
Descartes, R. (1991) (J. Cottingham, R. Stoothoff, D. Murdoch and A. Kenny,
176 References
Trans.) The Philosophical Writings of Descartes, Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
de Shayzer, S. (1988) Clues: Investigating Solutions in Brief Therapy, London: W. W.
Norton.
Devinsky, O. (2000) `Right cerebral hemisphere dominance for a sense of corporeal
and emotional self', Epilepsy and Behaviour, 1: 60±73.
Dilts, R. (1990) Changing Belief Systems with NLP, Capitola, CA: Meta
Publications.
Dilts, R. (1999) Sleight of Mouth: The Magic of Conversational Belief Change,
Capitola, CA: Meta Publications.
Dilts, R., Hallbom, T. and Smith, S. (1990) Beliefs: Pathways to Health and
Wellbeing, Portland, OR: Metamorphous.
Dilts, R. B. and DeLozier, J. (2000) Encyclopedia of Systemic NLP and NLP New
Coding, Scotts Valley, CA: NLP University Press. Available online at http://
NLPuniversitypress.com (retrieved December 1, 2006).
Edelman, G. (1987) Neural Darwinism: The Theory of Neuronal Group Selection,
New York: Basic Books.
Edelman, G. (2004) Wider Than the Sky: A Revolutionary View of Consciousness,
London: Penguin Books.
Einspruch, E. L. and Forman, B. D. (1985) `Observations concerning research
literature on neuro-linguistic programming', Journal of Counselling Psychology,
32(4): 589±596.
Einspruch, E. L. and Forman, B. D. (1988) `Neurolinguistic programming in the
treatment of phobias', Psychotherapy in Private Practice, 6(1): 91±100.
Ellis, A. (1962) Reason and Emotion in Psychotherapy, Secaucus, NJ: Lyle Stuart.
Erickson, M. H. (1985) (Eds E. L. Rossi and M. Ryan) The Lectures, Seminars and
Workshops of Milton H. Erickson. Vol II. Life Reframing in Hypnosis, New York:
Irvington.
Erickson, M. H. and Rossi, E. L. (1989) The February Man: Evolving Consciousness
and Identity in Hypnotherapy, New York: Brunner/Mazel.
Fields, R., Taylor, P., Weyler, R. and Ingrasci, R. (0000) Chop Wood, Carry Water,
Los Angeles: Jeremy P. Tarcher.
Foundation for Inner Peace (1972) A Course in Miracles, Mill Valley, CA:
Foundation for Inner Peace.
Freud, S. (1904) `Freud's psycho-analytic procedure', in J. Strachley (Ed. and
Trans.), Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud
(Vol. 7), London: Hogarth Press.
Freud, S. (1926) `Inhibitions, symptoms and anxiety', in J. Strachley (Ed. and
Trans.), Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud
(Vol. 20), London: Hogarth Press.
Freud, S. (1933) New Introductory Lectures on Psychoanalysis (W. J. H. Sprott,
Trans.), New York: W. W. Norton.
Freud, S. (1957) `The unconscious', in J. Strachley (Ed. and Trans.), Standard
Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud (Vol. 14, pp. 166±
204), London: Hogarth Press.
Freud, S. (1958) `Recommendations to physicians practicing psycho-analysis', in J.
Strachey (Ed. and Trans.), Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works
of Sigmund Freud (Vol. 12, pp. 111±120), London: Hogarth Press.
References 177
Freud, S. (1959) `Inhibition, symptoms and anxiety', in J. Strachey (Ed. and Trans.),
Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud (Vol.
20), London: Hogarth Press.
Gawler-Wright, P. (1999) The Skills of Love, London: BeeLeaf Publishing.
Gawler-Wright, P. (2004) Intermediate Contemporary Psychotherapy, Volume 2,
London: BeeLeaf Publishing.
Gawler-Wright, P. (2005) A Time Machine between Your Ears. Presentation to the
Independent NLP Conference, London.
Gawler-Wright, P. (2006) Wider Mind: Ericksonian Psychotherapy in Practice,
London: BeeLeaf Publishing.
Gawler-Wright, P. (2007) Intermediate Contemporary Psychotherapy, Volume 2,
2007 Edition, London: BeeLeaf Publishing.
Genser-Medlitsch, M. and Schu
Ètz, P. (1997) Does Neuro-Linguistic Psychotherapy
Have Effect? New Results Shown in the Extramural Section [online article],
Austria: EANLP.
Gerhardt, S. (2004) Why Love Matters: How Affection Shapes a Baby's Brain,
London: Routledge.
Gilligan, S. (1997) The Courage to Love: Principles & Practices of Self-Relations
Psychotherapy, New York: W. W. Norton.
Goleman, D. (1996) Emotional Intelligence, London: Bloomsbury.
Graves, C. W., Huntley, W. C. and LaBier, D. W. (1965) Personality Structure and
Perceptual Readiness: An Investigation of Their Relationship to Hypothesized
Levels of Human Existence. Union College. Retrieved September 20, 2007, from
www.clarewgraves.com/articles-content/1965_GHL/1965_GHL1.html
Haley, J. (1993) Uncommon Therapy: The Psychiatric Techniques of Milton H.
Erickson, M.D, New York: W. W. Norton.
Hargaden, H. and Sills, C. (2002) Transactional Analysis: A Relational Perspective,
London: Routledge.
Heisenberg, W. (1932) (Trans. C. Eckart and F. C. Hoyt) Physical Principles of the
Quantum Theory, Toronto: General Publishing Company.
Hesse, H. (1965) Steppenwolfe, London: Penguin Books.
Hoffman, H. S. (1987) `Imprinting and the critical period for social attachments:
Some laboratory investigations', in M. H. Bornstein (Ed.), Sensitive Periods in
Development: Interdisciplinary Studies (pp. 99±121), Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence
Erlbaum Associates Inc.
Hudson, P. and O'Hanlon, B. (1991) Rewriting Love Stories: Brief Marital Therapy,
New York: W. W. Norton.
Hudson, P. and O'Hanlon, B. (1996) Stop Blaming: Start Loving, New York: W. W.
Norton.
Huxley, A. (1954) The Doors of Perception and Heaven and Hell, New York: Harper
Collins.
James, T. (1996) Prime Concerns: Using Quantum Linguistics to Increase the
Effectiveness of the Language We Use, Honolulu, HI: Advanced Neurodynamics.
James, T. (2003) Time Line Therapy×
Practitioner Training, Series Notes. Version
6.26, August 2003, London: NLP World.
James, T. and Woodsmall, W. (1988) Time Line Therapy and the Basis of
Personality, Capitola, CA: Meta Publications.
James, W. (1884) `What is an Emotion?', Mind, 9: 188±205.
178 References
Jelem, H. and Schutz, P. (2007) Neuro-linguistic Psychotherapy (NLPt). Retrieved
September 20, 2007, from www.eanlpt.org
Jung, C. G. (1961) Memories, Dreams, Re¯ections, New York: Random House.
Jung, C. G. (1971) Psychological Types, London: Routledge & Kegan Paul.
(Original work published 1921.)
Keirsey, D. and Bates, M. (1984) Please Understand Me: Character and
Temperament Types, Del Mar, CA: Promethus Nemesis.
Kelly, G. A. (1991) The Psychology of Personal Constructs, Vol. 1, London:
Routledge.
Kernberg, O. (1976) Object Relations Theory and Clinical Psychoanalysis, New
York: Aronson.
Klein, M. (1932) The Psychoanalysis of Children, London: Hogarth.
Klein, M. (1946) `Notes on some schizoid mechanisms', International Journal of
Psycho-Analysis, 27: 99±110.
Klein, M. (1952) `Notes on some schizoid mechanisms', in J. Riviere (Ed.),
Developments in Psychoanalysis, London: Hogarth.
Klein, M. (1960) Our Adult World and Its Roots in Infancy, London: Tavistock.
Kohut, H. (1984) How Does Analysis Cure?, Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Korzybski, A. O. (1948) Science and Sanity, Fort Worth, TX: Institute of General
Semantics. (Original work published 1933.)
Kosslyn, M., Ganis, G. and Thompson, W. L. (2001) `Neural foundations of
imagery', Nature Reviews Neuroscience, 2: 635±642.
Kostere, K. and Malatesta, L. (1990) Maps, Models and the Structure of Reality:
NLP Technology in Psychotherapy, Portland, OR: Metamorphous Press.
Kovelman, J. A. (1998) Once upon a Soul: The Story Continues . . . Science,
Psychology and the Realms of Spirit, Carson, CA: Jalmar Press.
Kristeva, J. (2001) Melanie Klein, New York: Columbia University Press.
Lawley, J. and Tompkins, P. (2005) Metaphors in Mind: Transformation through
Symbolic Modelling, London: The Developing Company Press.
Lawley, J. and Tompkins, P. (2006) `What is therapeutic modelling? A dialogue with
James Lawley & Penny Tompkins', Resource, 8: 35±39, London: Porto
Publishing.
Layden, M. A., Newman, C. F., Freeman, A. and Byers Morse, S. (1993) Cognitive
Therapy of Borderline Personality Disorder, Boston: Allyn & Bacon.
Lazarus, A. A. (1971) Behaviour Therapy and Beyond, New York: McGraw-Hill.
Lazarus, A. A. and Abramovitz, A. (1962) `The use of ``emotive imagery'' in the
treatment of children's phobias', Journal of Mental Science, 108: 191±195.
Lazarus, J. (2006) Ahead of the Game: How to Use Your Mind to Win in Sport,
Penryn, UK: Ecademy Press.
Leary, T. (1988) Change Your Brain, Berkeley, CA: Ronin Publishing.
Lewis, M. (1982) `Origins of self-knowledge and individual differences in early self
recognition', in J. Suls (Ed.), Psychological Perspectives on the Self (Vol. 1, pp.
55±78), Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Inc.
Lilly, J. (1968) Programming and Metaprogramming in the Human Biocomputer:
Theory and Experiments, New York: The Julian Press. Retrieved October 21,
2006, from http://www.futurehi.net/docs/Metaprogramming.html
Lorenz, K. (1935) `Der Kumpan in der Umwelt des Vogels: Der Artgenosse als
References 179
auslo
Èsendes moment sozialer verhaltensweisen', Journal fu
Èr ornithologie, 83: 137±
215, 289±413.
Lorenz, K. (1970) Studies in Animal and Human Behaviour (Vol. 1), Cambridge,
MA: Harvard University Press.
Lowen, A. (1972) Cognitive Therapy of Borderline Personality Disorder, Boston:
Allyn & Bacon.
Mahler, M. A. (1980) `Rapprochement subphase of the separation±individuation
process', in R. Lax, S. Bach and J. A. Burland (Eds), Rapprochement: The Critical
Subphase of Separation±Individuation (pp. 3±19), New York: Jason Aronson.
Martin, M. and O'Hanlon, B. (1992) Solution Oriented Hypnosis: An Ericksonian
Approach, New York: W. W. Norton.
Maslow, A. (1943) `A theory of human motivation', Psychological Review, 50: 370±
396.
Massey, M. (1979) People Puzzle: Understanding Yourself and Others, Reston, VA:
Reston Publishing Co.
McDermott, I. and Jago, W. (2001) Brief NLP Therapy, London: Sage.
Mearns, D. and Cooper, M. (2005) Working at Relational Depth, London: Sage.
Meltzer, D. (1979) The Kleinian Development, London: The Clinic Press.
Miller, G., Galanter, E. and Pribram, K. (1960) Plans and the Structure of
Behaviour, New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.
Mollon, P. (2001) Releasing the Self: The Healthy Legacy of Heinz Kohut, London:
Whurr Publishers.
Mollon, P. (2004) EMDR and the Energy Therapies: Psychoanalytic Perspectives,
London: Karnac Books.
Moore, S. M. (1998) `How can we remember but be unable to recall? The complex
functions of multi-modular memory', in V. Sinason (Ed.), Memory in Dispute,
London: Karnac Books.
Moreno, J. L. (1977) Psychodrama: First Volume, New York: Beacon House.
Myers, I. (1962) The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator, Palo Alto, CA: Consulting
Psychologists Press.
NLPtCA (2007) What is Neuro Linguistic Psychotherapy & Counselling? Retrieved
September 20, 2007, from http://nlptca.com/whatisnlpt.php
O'Connor, J. (2001) NLP Workbook, London: Harper Collins.
O'Connor, J. and Seymour, J. (1990) Introducing NLP: Psychological Skills for
Understanding and In¯uencing People, London: Thorsons.
O'Connor, P. (1985) Understanding Jung, Understanding Yourself, New York:
Paulist Press.
O'Hanlon, B. (1997) Guide to Possibility Land: Fifty-One Methods for Doing Brief,
Respectful Therapy, New York: W. W. Norton.
O'Hanlon, B. (2000) Do One Thing Different, New York: Harper Collins.
O'Hanlon, B. (2002) Even From a Broken Web: Brief, Respectful Solution Oriented
Therapy for Sexual Abuse and Trauma (2nd edn), New York: W. W. Norton.
O'Hanlon, B. (2003) A Guide to Inclusive Therapy, New York: W. W. Norton.
O'Hanlon, B. and Bertolino, B. (1988) Even From a Broken Web: Brief, Respectful
Solution-Oriented Therapy for Sexual Abuse and Trauma, New York: W. W.
Norton.
O'Hanlon, B. and Rowan, T. (2003) Solution Oriented Therapy for Chronic and
Severe Mental Illness, New York: W. W. Norton.
180 References
O'Hanlon, B. and Weiner-Davis, M. (1999/2003) In Search of Solutions: A New
Direction in Psychotherapy, New York: W. W. Norton.
O'Hanlon, W. H. (1987) Taproots: Underlying Principles of Milton Erickson's
Therapy and Hypnosis, New York: W. W. Norton.
O'Hanlon, W. H. and Martin, M. (1992) Solution Oriented Hypnosis ± An
Ericksonian Approach, New York: W. W. Norton.
Panksepp, J. (1998) Affective Neuroscience: The Foundations of Human and Animal
Emotions, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Pansepp, J., Siviy, S. M. and Normansell, L. A. (1985) `Brain opioids and social
emotions', in M. Reite and T. Field (Eds), The Psychobiology of Attachment and
Separation (pp. 3±49), Orlando. FL: Academic Press.
Pareto, V. F. D. (1935) Mind and Society (Vol. 3), Kila, MT: Kessinger Publishing.
Parlett, M. and Hemming, J. (1996) In W. Dryden (Ed.), Gestalt Therapy, London:
Sage Publications.
Pavlov, I. P. (1927) Conditioned Re¯exes, London: Routledge. (Original work
published 1904.)
Perls, F., Hefferline, F. and Goodman, P. (1973) Gestalt Therapy: Excitement &
Growth in the Human Personality, New York: Julian Press Dell Publishing.
(Original work published 1951.)
Perls, F. S. (1969) Ego, Hunger and Aggression: The Beginning of Gestalt Therapy,
New York: Vintage Books.
Pert, C. (1997) Molecules of Emotion: Why You Feel the Way You Feel, London:
Pocket Books.
Piaget, J. (1968) Genetic Epistemology: A Series of Lectures Delivered by Piaget,
New York: Columbia University Press.
Pinker, S. (1994) The Language Instinct, New York: Morrow.
Plutchik, R. (1983) `Emotion in early development: A psychoevolutionary
approach', in R. Plutchik and H. Kellerman (Eds), Emotion: Theory Research
and Experience (pp. 221±257). New York: Academic Press.
Prochaska, J. L. and DiClemente, C. C. (1992) `Stages of change in the modi®cation
of problem behaviour', in M. Hersen, R. Eisler and P. M. Miller (Eds), Progress
in Behaviour Modi®cation (Vol. 28), Sycamore, IL: Sycamore Publishing
Company.
Robbins, A. (1991) Awaken the Giant Within, New York: Fireside.
Rogers, C. (1974) `In retrospect: Forty six years', American Psychologist, 29(2):
115±123.
Rogers, C. R. (1951) Client Centred Therapy, London: Constable.
Rosen, S. (1982) My Voice Will Go with You: The Teaching Tales of Milton H.
Erickson, New York: W. W. Norton.
Rothschild, B. (2000) The Body Remembers: The Psychophysiology of Trauma and
Trauma Treatment, New York: W. W. Norton.
Rycroft, C. (1995) A Critical Dictionary of Psychoanalysis (2nd edn), London:
Penguin.
Sands, S. (1995) `Self psychology and projective identi®cation ± whither shall they
meet? A reply to the editors', Psychoanalytic Dialogue, 7: 651±668.
Satir, V. (1972) Peoplemaking, Palo Alto, CA: Science and Behaviour Books.
Satir, V. and Baldwin, M. (1983) Satir, Step by Step, Palo Alto, CA: Science and
Behaviour Books.
References 181
Schore, A. (1996) `The experience-dependent maturation of a regulatory system in
the orbital prefrontal cortex and the origin of developmental psychopathology',
Development and Psychopathology, 8: 59±87.
Schore, A. N. (2003) Affect Regulation and the Repair of the Self, London: W. W.
Norton.
Schro
Èdinger, E. (1958) Mind and Matter, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Sharpley, C. F. (1984) `Predicate matching in NLP: A review on the preferred
representational system', Journal of Counselling Psychology, 31(2): 238±248.
Sharpley, C. F. (1987) `Research ®ndings on neurolinguistic programming:
Nonsupportive data or an untestable theory?', Journal of Counselling Psychology,
34: 103±107.
Skinner, B. F. (1961) `Teaching machines', Scienti®c American, 205(5): 90±107.
Sluzki, C. E. and Ransom, D. C. (1976) Double Bind: The Foundation of the
Communicational Approach to the Family, New York: Crune & Scratton.
Stern, D. (1985) The Interpersonal World of the Infant, New York: Basic Books.
Stern, D. (1998) The Motherhood Constellation: A Uni®ed View of Parent±Infant
Psychotherapy, London: Karnac Books.
Stewart, I. and Joines, V. (1987) TA Today, Nottingham: Lifespace.
Strauss, C. L. (1963) The Structural Study of Myth, New York: Basic Books.
Trevarthen, C. (1993) `The self born in intersubjectivity: The psychology of an
infant communicating', in U. Neisser (Ed.), The Perceived Self: Ecological and
Interpersonal Sources of Self-knowledge (pp. 121±173), New York: Cambridge
University Press.
Trevarthen, C. and Aitken, K. J. (2001) `Infant intersubjectivity: Research, theory
and clinical applications', Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry and Allied
Disciplines, 42(1): 3±48.
Tudor, K. and Worrall, M. (2006) Person Centred Therapy: A Clinical Philosophy,
London: Routledge.
Twitmeyer, E. B. (1902) A Study of the Knee-Jerk. Unpublished doctoral
dissertation, University of Pennsylvania, USA.
Von Foerster, H. (2003) Understanding Understanding: Essays on Cybernetics and
Cognition, New York: Springer-Verlag.
Watzlawick, P. (1978) The Language of Change: Elements of Therapeutic Com-
munication, New York: W. W. Norton.
Winnicott, D. W. (1958) `The capacity to be alone', International Journal of
Psychoanalysis, 39: 416±420.
Winnicott, D. W. (1986) Home is Where we Start From: Essays by a Psychoanalyst,
New York: W. W. Norton.
Wright, C. I., Fisher, H., Whalen, P. J., McInerny, S. C., Shin, L. M. and Rauchs,
S. L. (2001) `Differential pre-frontal cortex and amygdala habituation to
repeatedly presented emotional stimuli', NeuroReport, 12: 379±383.
Zinker, J. (1977) Creative Process in Gestalt Therapy, New York: Brunner/Mazel.
182 References
Index
Note: Page numbers in bold refer to ®gures and information contained within tables.
ABC model of questioning 43±4
Abramovitz, A. 112
abstraction 97; levels of 112
acceptance 148
`acting out' 150, 151
Ader, R. 84±5
Adickes 127
Adler, A. 9, 45, 48, 63, 84, 127
Adlerian therapy 51
affect array 111
affect-regulation 57, 67, 68±71, 143; see
also emotional self-regulation
age regression techniques 68
aggressive drives 50
aims of neurolinguistic psychotherapy
141±2
Aitken, K. J. 75, 83
alcoholism 33, 78, 92, 93, 172
alignment processes 150
alignment therapy 129, 133, 135±6
ambivalence, maternal 152
amnesia, infantile 125
Amsterdam, B. 66
amygdala 26, 125, 143
analogy 58, 97
anchored responses 84
anchoring 27±8, 54, 84, 111±12, 125,
172
Andreas 4
anger 40±1, 69, 70, 79, 150, 166±8
anterior cingulate gyrus 75, 76, 77
antisocial behaviour 83
anxiety-inhibiting responses 112
appearance, non-conformist 121±3
applied psychology, neurolinguistic
psychotherapy as 5±7
approaches in neurolinguistic
psychotherapy 5±9
archaic bond 136
archetypes 101, 102, 109
Aristotle 23, 111, 138
arti®cial intelligence 108
`as if' thinking 42, 86
Asian women 115±16
association 127, 152±3
Association of NLP ± Psychotherapy
and Counselling Section (ANLP-
PCS) (later the Neurolinguistic
Psychotherapy and Counselling
Association) 2
Association of NLP (ANLP) 2
asthma 172
attachment 60, 66±7, 101; insecure 69
attachment disorders 78±9, 152; and
core belief structures 124, 139, 140
attachment ®gures 79, 80
attachment theory 10, 60, 65; and
neurological processes 72, 79, 82±3
attention-seeking behaviour 30, 31, 34
attunement 136; see also misattunement
autism 78
autohypnosis 128
automatic thoughts, negative 53±4
autonomic nervous system (ANS) 74±5,
74, 112, 125
aversion therapy 54, 111±12
avoidance 46
Awaken School of Outcome Oriented
Psychotherapy 3
`away from' values 50, 51, 59, 77, 111,
117, 128, 154, 158
Ayurvedic medicine 26
Bailey 128
balance 33
Baldwin, M. 125
Bandler, Richard 3, 4, 5, 6±7, 8, 9, 14,
15, 25, 36, 40, 45, 46, 55, 64, 108,
128
Basch, M. F. 67, 163
Bates, M. 63
Bateson, G. 4, 8, 11, 22±3, 29, 31, 35,
47, 68, 98, 110, 112, 130±1, 132,
133
Beck, A. T. 53, 55
Beck, D. E. 62
Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) 171
bedwetting 110±11, 113
BeeLeaf Institute for Contemporary
Psychotherapy 3, 170
behavioural modelling 52±5, 162±3;
de®nition 52±3; elements of 53
behavioural therapies 7, 12±13, 54±5
behaviourism 5, 11, 12±13, 111±12,
162±5
Behen, M. 76
being, dimensions of 44
belief structures see core belief
structures; internal belief structures
Berne, E. 51
Bertolino, B. 1
betrayal 154
bingeing 145
Bion, W. R. 138, 139
blamer role 58
blind spots 32±3, 163
Bodenhamer, B. G. 12, 14±15, 24, 61,
135
bodies, four 44, 52
body: and the unconscious mind 156;
see also mind±body system
body psychotherapy 133
Bollas, C. 52
Bolstad, R. D. 4, 11, 112, 127, 128, 172
borderline personality disorder 67
boundaries: between self and other 59,
66; `parts' and 130, 131
Bowlby, John 19, 60
brain: client's understanding of their
143; as computer 108±11;
development 75±9, 81±3, 125, 138;
and the emotions 125; as quantum
mechanical system 99±100; social
(emotional) 75±6, 77, 78; use of 36
brainstem 75
breast: growth 83±4; infants innate
preconception of 138, 139; non-
realisation of the 138±9
Breuer, Josef 48
brief therapy 18, 33, 162; outcome-
oriented therapy 119; solution-
oriented therapy 85±7, 96, 120
Briggs 63
Brion 2
Bucci, Wilma 19
Buck, R. W. 78
bullying 40±1
Burtt 2
Cameron-Bandler, L. 64, 124, 126, 128
care system 82
Carroll, R. 10, 65, 77, 87, 133
case studies 10, 11±12, 69±71, 79±81,
85±7, 92±5, 101±6, 110±11, 115±18,
121±3, 136±7, 141, 144±55, 159,
166±9
categorisation 82, 142; see also chunking
catharsis 154
cause and effect 23, 27, 156, 158
cell division 26
central nervous system (CNS) 74, 74
cerebellum 75, 83
cerebral cortex 75
Chalfont 2
change 119, 136, 140; ®rst-order 112;
logical levels of 112±13, 113;
neurological levels of 112±13, 113;
second-order 112; systemic models
of 112±13; willingness to 33
`change personal history' 134
`changing belief systems' 126
Charcot, Jean Martin 45, 48
Charvet, S. R. 64, 128
Chen, J. 99±100
child death 116, 166±8
childhood abuse 25, 32, 150, 151
childhood experience 57, 76±8
childhood trauma 65, 67, 68, 78, 92±3,
96, 133, 136
choice: client 17, 19, 30±1, 34, 35±6;
making the best 30±1, 174
Chomsky, N. 88±90
Chopra, D. 26, 57, 85, 156
Chugani, D. 76
Chugani, H. 76, 78
chunking 43, 55; down 127, 128; up 127,
128, 136
184 Index
circadian rhythms 75
Clarkson 2
classes 138
classical conditioning 69, 84±5, 107±8,
111±12; conditioned responses 84,
111; negative 111; positive 111
cleanliness obsessions 144±51
client contracts 155
client-as-expert 18
clients: assumptions regarding 18±19;
and choice 17, 19, 30±1, 34, 35±6;
resources of 18
Clyman, Robert 19
cocaine use 79±80
cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) 9,
111±12, 119, 133±4, 144, 171
cognitive modelling 165
cognitive naming 170
cognitive programmatic neurolinguistic
psychotherapy 5, 7, 8, 9
cognitive therapies 7, 9, 53±4
Cohen, N. 84±5
collective consciousness 48
collusion 139
comfort eating 69±71
communication 16; facilitation 32;
meaning of 24±5; responsibility for
24±5
communication model 9, 19±20, 20,
40
competition 128
con®dentiality 156
congruence 159
conscious mind 48, 55±6, 123; attitude
of 63±4; bringing of the unconscious
into 162; collective 48;
communication with the
unconscious mind 6, 40, 91, 98, 155,
162; double bind with the
unconscious mind 92; functions of
63; illusion of 21; integration with
the unconscious mind 101;
introducing the client to the concept
of 156; levels of 132; non-rational
63; and `parts' 130; splitting from
the unconscious mind 97; supportive
rapport with the unconscious mind
6; working with to realign
unconscious patterns 155
constructivism 4±5, 9±10, 12±13, 18,
38±44, 55, 73, 138, 141, 145±6, 160,
162±5
constructs: reframing 41; understanding
client's 43±4
containment 79, 81, 149, 150, 151
context 19, 25, 82; and language
learning 90; and meaning 101
continuous becoming 59
contracts, client 155
control 110
conversion 49
Cooper, M. 133
core belief structures 137±40, 154, 155;
and attachment disorders 124, 139,
140; `being' level 139; concealment
139; de®ning core beliefs 138;
`doing' level 139; elicitation 159;
generalisation 138; `having' level
139; resolution of 46
core identity 62
core values 61
corpus callosum 163
cortisol 77, 83, 138
countertransference 149, 169; as
anchored response 112
Cowan, C. C. 62
creativity 32, 148
Creatura 22±3
crying, prolonged in infants 138
crystal ball technique 119
curiosity 46
cybernetics (systems theory) 8, 46±7,
174; and change 46±7; mind-body as
system of 26; of the self system
67±71
cybersex 149, 150
Damasio, A. 10, 65, 72, 73, 75, 84, 124,
125, 126, 133, 136, 137
Darwin, C. 81, 82
de Shayzer, S. 119±20
dead spots 138
deadness 91, 117, 138
death camps 121
death instinct 51
decision-making 76
defence mechanisms 34, 48±9; primitive/
early 68, 70; splitting 131, 132
de®ning neurolinguistic psychotherapy
17±18
deletions 20, 20, 95
DeLozier, Judith 2, 9, 108, 128, 160±2,
170
denial 49, 68
Index 185
dependency problems 171
depersonalisation 133
depressed position 51
depression 85±7, 101±6, 144±5, 146, 171
derealisation 133
Descartes, Rene
Â 38, 65, 112, 126, 137±8
descriptive matching 97
desynchronisation 162
development 57±66, 138±9; brain 75±9,
81±3, 125, 138; delays 78; values
61±3, 63
Devinsky, O. 66±7
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition
(DSM-IV) 144
DiClemente, C. C. 155
Dilts, Robert 4, 9, 10, 11, 12, 23±4, 30,
34, 36, 60±1, 64, 68, 98, 108, 109,
110, 112±13, 113, 124, 128, 129, 134,
135, 139, 161, 170
disclosure 149
disease 126
dissociation 34, 49, 77, 91, 93±4,
117±18, 121, 123, 129, 132±3, 163;
as function of the right brain 132±3;
use in therapy 53±4, 96, 127, 132,
136
dissociative disorders 67, 78
distortions 20, 20, 21, 95
distractor role 58
`doing' of the situation 27, 28
domestic violence 115±16
domino theory 114±15, 116±18, 123
dopamine 82±3
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex 77
double binds 11, 32, 130±1, 168;
creation 98; and language 90±3,
98±101; resolution 98±101
`double takes' 40
drama therapy 133
dreams 126; recurring 147, 148±9, 151
Dreikurs 51
drug addiction 78, 79±80
dyslexia 25
Dyson model 164
eating disorders 69±71
ecology of systems 27±8, 31, 45
Edelman, G. 8, 10, 73, 81±2, 107, 108,
109±10, 120, 125, 142
Ego 48
Ego Self 101
ego states 51±2
Einspruch, E. L. 171
Einstein, Albert 21, 23
electrons 23
Ellis, A. 54±5
embedded commands 147±8, 151
EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitisation
and Reprocessing) 87, 172
emotion-arousing situations, and
anxiety-inhibiting responses 112
emotion-carrying neuropeptides 26, 125
emotional constructs: basis of 125±7;
reframing 124±40
emotional dysfunction, and
neuroscience 66±7
emotional operating systems 82
emotional self-regulation 77, 80, 81, 142;
see also affect-regulation
emotional (social) brain 75±6, 77, 78
emotions: and the autonomic nervous
system 125; and brain development
125; de®ning 125; as illusion 126±7;
molecules of 85; range 65; resolution
125±6; see also feelings
emotive behavioural therapy 9
empowerment 97
endocrine system 85
endorphins 67
epistemology 9, 16, 41±2; genetic 39, 41
equilibrium 46
`Erickson function' 137
Erickson, Milton 3, 4, 5±8, 9, 10, 11, 12,
13, 14±15, 21±2, 23, 24, 26, 27,
28±9, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36±7, 38, 40±1,
42, 44±5, 47, 48, 55, 57, 58±9, 68,
83±4, 88, 95±8, 96, 107, 108, 109,
110, 114, 119, 120, 121, 125, 128,
129, 134, 142, 143, 159, 161, 162,
163, 173±4
Ericksonian therapy 18, 45, 108, 110,
116, 135, 141, 148, 151, 162
European Association for
Neurolinguistic Psychotherapy
(EANLPt) 17±18
evidence, positive 90
evolution, learning as 112
evolutionary theory 81
existential therapy 44
existentialism 47
experimentation 46
expert systems 108
exposure principle 54
186 Index
external world, internal representation
19±20, 20
extroversion 50, 64
Eye Movement Desensitization and
Reprocessing (EMDR) 87, 172
facial expression 81
failure 33, 119
false memories 43
families: roles 16, 25, 58; rules 68;
systems 45; values 153±5
family therapy 3, 8, 18, 24±5, 48, 58;
and cybernetics 46±7; group 21±2
fantasies 151
fantasy world 148±9, 150
fear inventory 171
fear system 82
feedback 33, 119
Feelers 127
feelings, `justi®ed' 68
®lters 39, 73, 120; deletions 20, 20, 95;
distortions 20, 20, 21, 95;
generalisations 11±12, 19, 20, 20, 95,
119, 138; and internal
representations 19±22, 20, 24; time/
space/matter/energy 21±2
®rst-order change 112
¯exibility 142
¯ooding 112
Fluoxetine 144, 145
forebrain 75, 83
forgetting 21
Forman, B. D. 171
Foundation for Inner Peace 127
fragmentation 124, 130±2
Frankl, Viktor 120±1
free association 42
freezing 77
Freud, Sigmund 9, 22, 23, 26, 45, 47, 48,
49, 50, 51, 60±1, 63, 78, 120, 133,
139, 173
functional preferences 63
future pace 119
future-orientation 95±6, 119±21, 122±3,
145±6, 147
Galanter, E. 15, 107, 108
ganglia 85
Ganis, G. 120
Gawler-Wright, Pamela 2, 3, 4, 6, 57,
58, 59, 161
general semantics, theory of 72±3
generalisations 11±12, 19, 20, 20, 95,
119; core belief structures and
138
generalized anxiety disorder 171
Generation X (syntech generation) 62
Generation Y (Nxters) 62
generational learning 134
generative modelling 148
genetic epistemology 39, 41
Genser-Medlitsch, M. 171±2
Gerhardt, S. 10, 19, 25, 77, 82±3, 110,
138
gestalt therapy 16, 18, 45±6, 59
gestalts 61, 134; of abuse 25
Gilligan, Stephen 4, 6, 15, 31, 38, 59,
132, 134, 137, 140, 152, 161, 174
goal-orientation 17±18, 45, 50±1, 83±4,
143; as pattern of therapy 118±21
goals: setting 83±4; using resistance to
facilitate 121±3; working with the
client's 143
Goleman, D. 75
`good enough' parenting/care 77, 81
`good mothering' 148
Gordon, D. 64, 124, 128
grammar, transformational 88±91
Graves, C. W. 10, 57, 62, 63
grief 166±8
Grinder, John 3, 4, 5, 6±7, 8, 9, 14, 15,
25, 40, 45, 55, 64, 73, 90, 91, 96, 107,
108, 129, 160, 162
Grove 4, 8
Haley, J. 4, 5, 6, 7±8, 15, 21, 29, 31, 38,
58, 95, 96, 121, 142
Hall, L. M. 12, 14±15, 24, 61, 135
Hallbom, T. 129
hallucinations 73
Hamblett, M. 172
Hargaden, H. 119
hedonism 54±5
Heisenberg, W. 23
Hemming, J. 46
`here and now' 24, 59; constructs of 39,
40; determination of the 21, 24
Hesse, Hermann 103±6
Heylighen 10
higher conscious 48
hippocampus 26, 75, 125
Hippocrates 127
homeostasis 74±5
humanistic psychology 18
Index 187
humanistic therapy 3, 9, 51±2
hunches 43, 55
Huxley, Aldous 73
hyperarousal 77±8, 133
hypnopsychotherapeutic neurolinguistic
psychotherapy 5±6, 7±9
hypnopsychotherapy 5
hypnosis 48, 84, 120; autohypnosis 128;
use of presuppositions in 97; see also
Time Line Therapy×
hypnotherapy 3, 44±5, 47
hypnotic suggestion 147±8
hypnotic trances 21±2
hypothalamus 75
`I' 29
Id 48
identity 29±30; core 62; patterns of
128±33
immune system see
psychoneuroimmunology
implosion therapy 112
imprinting 10, 60±1; `imprint' period 50
incongruence 131
indirect suggestion 58
individuation 51, 80, 150
infantile amnesia 125
in¯uence 32±3
information theory 108
initial sessions 156
innate processes, infantile preconception
of the breast 138, 139
inner child 118, 137, 148±9, 150
inner landscape: modelling the client's 5,
6, 8; of the therapist 13
Institute of Advanced Study of Health
(IASH), Research and Recognition
Project 170±1
integration 3, 94, 132, 136, 140; `parts'
159
intelligence 26; somatic 8±9
intention, positive 30±1, 119, 156,
173±4
intentionality 120
interdependence 24±5
internal belief structures, reframing
124±40
internal landscapes/maps 14, 18, 19±22,
24, 42; relation in therapy 32;
respect for the validity of 28±9; of
the therapist 32±3; wisest/most
compassionate 35±6
internal representations 19±20, 20, 21;
collapse of 67; maternal 65;
projection 123
internal states 174
internal working models 19
interruptions 46
interventions 159
intimacy 92, 93, 99
introjection 49
introversion 50, 51, 64
Intuitors 127
involvement, level of 142
irrelevant role 58
isolation 49
Jago, W. 4, 17, 53, 119, 120, 141±2, 165,
166
James, T. 4, 12, 61, 126, 127, 130, 135,
139
James, William 120, 125
Janes 2
Janet 132
Jelem, H. 18
Joines, V. 133
Juhasz, C. 76
Jung, Carl Gustav 9, 10, 22±3, 45, 48,
50, 57, 63±4, 67, 101, 102, 104, 108,
109, 127, 128, 141±2
Jungian analysis 46, 50±1
Kandell 85
Keirsey, D. 63
Kelly, G. A. 39, 42
Kernberg, O. 133
Klein, Melanie 9, 22, 48, 50, 52, 60, 133,
138, 139
Kleinian therapy 50
Koffka 45±6
Kohler 45±6
Kohut, H. 60, 133
Korzybski, A. O. 9, 10, 14, 15, 19, 20,
29±30, 36, 39±40, 53, 72, 126, 134
Kosslyn, M. 120
Kostere, K. 4, 17, 91, 112, 142
Kovelman, J. A. 21, 101, 109, 120, 129
Kretschmer 127
Kristeva, J. 22, 138±9, 169
laddering 43
language 11, 88±106, 107; binding
constraints of 98±101; and the
client's search for meaning 88,
188 Index
101±6; and context 90; development
90; Ericksonian linguistic in¯uences
95±8; as innate process 88±9, 90;
`meta model' of 88, 91±5; neural
basis 99; and Neurolinguistic
Programming 16; non-commuteness
100; time-based 120;
transformational grammar 88±91
Language and Behaviour Pro®le 128
law of contiguity 111
law of requisite variety 33±4, 110
Lawley, J. 2, 4, 5, 8, 11, 53, 100, 113±14,
129
Layden, M. A. 133
Lazarus, A. A. 11, 54, 55, 112
Lazarus, J. 51, 111
learning 112, 134; generalised 119;
generational 134; and synapses 21
Leary, T. 61
least action pathways 109
LeBeau, M. 124, 126, 128
LeDoux 65
left brain 134; development 77; and the
right hemisphere 91, 163
leveller role 58
Levitt, M. 66
Lewin 45±6
Lewis, M. 66
libido 51
life tasks 51
Lilly, J. 64, 128
limbic cortex 26
linear partial credit model (LPCM) 172
linear rating scale model (LRSM)
171±2
linguistics 17; linguistic reframing 124;
linguistic structures 11; quantum 11,
88, 98, 99±100, 139
linking 97±8
Lorenz, K. 10, 60, 61
loss: coping with 93, 104±5; of the
maternal object 151
love 127
Lowen, A. 133
lust system 82
Mahler, M. A. 60, 66
Malatesta, L. 4, 17, 91, 112, 142
mania 78
Marks Phobia questionnaire 171
Martin, M. 173
Maslow, A. 57, 62
Massey, M. 10, 57, 59±62
matching, descriptive 97
maternal ambivalence 152
maternal object 60, 65, 137; loss of
151
McDermott, I. 4, 17, 53, 119, 120,
141±2, 165, 166
ME (chronic fatigue syndrome) 151±5
meaning: client's search for 88, 101±6;
and context 25
Mearns, D. 133
memory 99±100; false memories 43;
neural 84; neurological processes of
75, 76, 84, 85; procedural 19;
working 77
mental illness, and identity 29±30
meta-model 3, 25, 43, 47, 88, 91±5
meta-perspective/chair person role 58
metaphor 7±8, 29, 95, 113, 117, 148,
151; modelling of 100
metaprogrammes 10, 57, 63±4, 124,
128
methodology 155±9, 158
Miller, G. 15, 107, 108
`Milton Model' 88, 95, 97
mind: Freudian concept 48; models of
the 48, 55±6; three aspects/bodies of
the 48
mind±body system 49; communication
of 136; as cybernetic system 26; dis-
integrity of 126; dysfunctional
codings 142; intelligence of 26
`mind-reads' 43
minimalism 89
miracle question 86, 120
mirroring 67, 104
misattunement 162
modelling 9±10, 61, 91, 108, 162±3, 173;
behavioural 52±5, 162±3; cognitive
165; computerised of the human
brain 108±9; de®nition 14±15; of
excellence 16; generative 148; and
personality development 58;
symbolic 98, 100±1, 114; of
therapeutic in¯uences 47
molecules of emotion 85
Mollon, P. 87, 133
Moore, S. M. 101
Moreno, J. L. 133
mortido drive 51
mother-child relationship 130
mothering, `good' 148
Index 189
mothers 150, 153±4; absent 138; co-
dependent relationships with 145,
146; depressed 138; neuroses of 50;
as `object' 60, 65, 137, 151; right
brain attunement with infants 75,
78; self-centred 92; smothering 80,
81
motivation for therapy 156
Muss 172
Muzik, O. 76
Myers, I. 50, 63
Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI)
10, 50, 63, 64, 102
Nagy, F. 76
National Health Service (NHS) 170
Nazis 121
negation 49
negative automatic thoughts 53±4
negative behaviour, positive original
motivation for 30±1
nervous system 73±5, 74, 110±12, 125
neural Darwinism 81±2
neural networks 84, 85
neural pruning 81±2
Neurolinguistic Programming (NLP) 2,
10, 11±12, 67, 161, 163, 165, 170±1,
174; communication model 19±20,
20; components 17; context and 25;
de®nition 16±17; epistemology of 9,
16; founding principles 14±37;
historical roots 14±16; and the law
of requisite variety 110; linguistic
processes of 11; logical levels of 112;
and the meaning of communication
24±5; and neurological processes
72±3, 83±5; and outcomes 118±19;
presuppositions of 23±37, 142, 156;
programming of 108; and reality
perception 22±3, 24; `the map is not
the territory' 14, 19±22, 23, 24;
theory of 16±17
Neurolinguistic Psychotherapy and
Counselling Association (NLPtCA)
2, 4, 18, 169
neurological chains 84, 118
neurological connections 110
neurological processes 17, 72±87, 107;
of dissociation 117±18
neurological re-patterning/re-
programming see re-patterning/
re-programming
neurons, ®ring and wiring 107, 109
neuropeptides 85; emotion-carrying 26,
125
neuroscience 8, 10, 12; and emotional
dysfunction 66±7; and personality
development 64±6
neurotransmitters 84, 85
no, inability to say 90
non-rational consciousness 63
non-response reactions 77
non-verbal/verbal communication,
matching 97
`not knowing' 162
nothingness 139
`nots' 97
nuagers (boomers) 62
object recognition 82
object relations theory 60, 65, 138
objects: maternal 60, 65, 137, 151;
primary 65
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)
144±51
O'Connor, J. 16, 95±6, 109, 173
O'Hanlon, B. 1, 4, 5, 6, 8, 11, 15, 27,
32, 35, 38, 95, 96, 97, 110, 119,
120±1, 129, 132, 134, 142, 152,
161, 173
operant conditioning 27, 73, 107
opposites 50
orbitofrontal cortex 75, 76, 77, 82
order 109
origins of neurolinguistic psychotherapy
1±3
our-self 44
outcome measures 173
outcome orientation 17, 19, 84, 95±6,
118±20, 151±2
overbearing personalities 70
panic attacks 146
panic system 82
Panksepp, J. 10, 65, 73, 82, 87
paranoid position 51
parasympathetic nervous system 74±5;
forced activation 77
parenting, `good enough' 77, 81
parents: alcoholism 92, 93; intrusive 149;
over-protective 66; see also
mothers
Pareto, V. F. D. 15
Parlett, M. 46
190 Index
`parts' 52, 67, 68, 124, 128±33, 136, 163;
creation of 49; integration 93, 129,
133, 135±6, 159; `parts party' 58;
parts therapy 46, 50; reframing
124
patterns 111; detection/utilisation 16; of
identity 128±33; recognition 141;
systemic 112±18; of the therapeutic
process 155±9, 158; working with
114±18, 123
Pavlov, I. P. 10, 11, 15, 45, 84, 107, 108,
111, 112
perception 73; `Perception is Projection'
concept 22±3; `Perception is Reality'
concept 23; of reality 22±3, 24
perceptual categorisation 82
perceptual positions (chairs work) 46
peripheral nervous system (PNS) 74, 74,
110
Perls, Fritz 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13,
14±15, 16, 23, 32, 41, 45±6, 47, 48,
57, 59, 107, 129, 142, 159, 160, 161,
163, 174
Perls, Laura 45
permissive words 97
person-centred therapy 9, 23, 31, 52, 133
personal construct therapy 39, 42±4
personal disclosure, therapist's 149
personal histories 156±7
personal resources 34±5, 95; categories
of 34; interpersonal 35; physical 34;
psychological 34; spiritual 35
personal therapy, of therapists 32±3,
163, 169
personality 57±71; development 9±10;
Jungian typology 63±4; and
neuroscience 64±6; programmes of
12, 127±8; types 127±8, 140;
unacceptable `parts' of the 128±9
personality disorders 67, 78
perspective shifting 142
Pert, C. 8, 10, 26, 73, 83, 84, 85, 125, 126
pets 147
phenomenology 47
phobias 78, 96, 144, 171, 172
physis (movement towards growth/
perfection) 51
Piaget, Jean 9, 39, 40, 41, 42, 66, 89, 91,
112
Pinker, S. 90
placator role 58
Plato 32
play system 82
Pleroma 22±3
Plutchik, R. 66
polarities 46
poliomyelitis 15
positive evidence 90
positive feedback loops 68
positive regard 52
positively intended behaviours 30±1,
119, 156, 173±4
Possibility Therapy 8, 27, 96, 142
post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
126, 172
postmodern approach 160±74
pre-session questionnaires 155±6
preconscious 48
prefrontal cortex 75, 76, 77, 83
pregnancy 83
prenatal period 83
Pribram, K. 108, 109
primal states 169±70
prime concerns 124, 139±40, 159
prime directives 156
privacy 149
proactivity 142
problem states, repeated accessing of
143
problems: and cause and effect 158;
history of the development of
157±8; secondary gain 158; tracing
back to their source 157
procedural memory 19
Prochaska, J. L. 155
programmatic model 11, 12, 17, 124,
151±5, 163, 174; patterns of
programming 107±23
programmes of personality 12, 127±8
projection 49, 56, 64, 123; of reality
22±3; in the therapeutic relationship
50, 52, 78, 79, 81; therapist's 163
projective identi®cation 50, 78, 133,
163
projective transference 52
proper naming 165
prosody 90
psychoanalysis 48±9, 60±1, 87, 112, 133,
140
psychodynamic therapy 9, 48±51, 78±9,
133, 148±9, 151
psychoneuroimmunology 83, 84±5
psychosis 171
psychosomatic networks 85
Index 191
psychotherapy 161; Ericksonian 162;
humanistic 51±2; see also
hypnopsychotherapy
pyramiding 43
quantum linguistics 11, 88, 98, 99±100,
139
questionnaires, pre-session 155±6
questions: ABC model of 43±4; `as if'
86; miracle 86, 120; tag 97
rage system 82
rapport 12, 46, 67, 78, 97, 136, 143, 146,
174
rational consciousness 63
rational emotive behavioural therapy
(REBT) 54±5
rationalisation 49
`re-imprinting' 61, 134, 135
re-patterning/re-programming 78±81,
86±7, 117±18, 123, 141, 151, 159,
163, 170, 174; as effective
therapeutic process 123
reality: constructions of 39±40, 42;
perception of 22±3, 24; see also
subjective reality
recall, state dependent 84
reductionism 108±9
reframing 12, 34, 37, 41, 53, 55, 58, 98,
101, 142, 155; internal belief
structures 124±40; linguistic 96; six-
step reframe 129; time 124, 125±6,
134±5, 140
regression 67, 154; age regression
techniques 68
regulation 172±3
Reich 47, 48
reinforcement 27
relapse 121
relational approach 5, 12, 174
relationships: dif®culties 91, 92±5, 96,
98±9, 102, 115±18, 144±5, 168±9;
values 61
relativity theory, special 21, 23
remembered present 142
reparenting 143, 144±51
representational systems 36±7; see also
internal representations
representations of interactions that have
been generalised (RIGs) 19
repression 31, 36, 48, 49, 125±6, 128±31;
primal 169
research 170±3
resistance 45, 46, 95, 97, 102; and the
facilitation of goals 121±3
resources see personal resources
respect 28±9, 95
reticular activating system (RAS) 75, 76,
83±4
reticular formation 75
right brain 66±7, 70, 143; attunement
between mother and child 75, 78;
connection with the left 163;
desynchronisation 162; development
75, 77, 78; and dissociation 132±3;
growth 68±9; integration with the
left 91; right-right communication
163; and time reframing 134
Rodgers 128
Rogers, C. 23, 30±1, 52
Rosen, S. 4, 6, 24, 33, 40, 95, 98, 143
Rossi, E. L. 4, 5, 6, 15, 38, 68, 95, 96,
114, 119
Rothschild, B. 20±1, 34, 35, 125, 126,
132
rules, therapeutic 166±9
Rycroft, C. 52
Salter 45
Sands, S. 136
Satir, Virginia 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13,
14±15, 15±16, 18, 23, 24±5, 41, 42,
43, 46, 47, 48, 57±8, 59, 68, 88, 91,
95, 107, 108, 125, 126, 129, 134, 159,
161, 163, 174
schemata 53
schismogenesis 68, 130±1, 134;
complementary 130, 131;
symmetrical 130, 132
schizo-affective disorder 171
schizoid position 51
schizophrenia 29, 68, 128, 131
Schore, A. 8, 10, 65, 67, 75, 78, 79, 101,
111, 136, 137, 138, 139, 142, 143,
162, 163, 165, 169, 173
Schro
Èdinger, E. 9, 39, 99
Schu
Ètz, P. 18, 171±2
second-order change 112
secondary gain 31, 33, 43±4, 49, 158
security 79
seeking system 82
SEEPs (signi®cant emotional
experiences of pain) 61
SEEs (signi®cant emotional events) 61
192 Index
self: developing sense of 46, 57, 59±61,
65, 67, 72, 101; emerging sense of 57,
94; evacuation of the 133;
fragmentation 124; integrated/
uni®ed sense of 67, 129, 152;
realignment/repair 68, 124, 132,
133±7, 140; reconnected sense of
93±4; separation of behaviour from
the 29±30; somatised sense of 137;
splitting of the 59
self relations model 6, 134, 137
self system, and cybernetics 67±71
self-actualisation 62
self-adaptation 113±14
self-balancing systems 161
self-consciousness 66
self-esteem/worth 47, 58, 121±3, 125
self-harm 67
self-organising systems 33, 108, 113±14;
levels 113±14; pattern-recognition
processes 112
self-preservation 113±14
semantics, general 72±3
senses 73
Sensor 128
sensory experience 16
sensory motor cortex 75
sentence structure 89; deep 89, 95;
surface 89, 95
separation-individuation 66
`Seven Sermons to the Dead, The'
(Jung) 22±3
sex 92±3, 149; see also cybersex
sexual abuse 129
sexual fantasies 149
sexual instinct 51
sexual problems 168±9
Seymour, J. 173
shame 25, 66
Sharpley, C. F. 171
Sheldrake 108, 109
Siegel 65
Sills, C. 119
six-step reframe 129
Skinner, B. F. 11, 54, 55
sleight of mouth 98
Smith, S. 129
SOAR (state operator and result) 108,
109
social (emotional) brain 75±6, 77,
78
social roles 57
social skills training 54
social values 61
socialisation 10, 61
Socrates 9, 39
solution-oriented approach 8, 11, 12,
35±6, 129; brief therapy 85±7, 96,
120; hypnosis 96±8, 173
somatic intelligence 8±9
somatic markers 125, 136, 137, 170;
positive/negative 125
somatic nervous system (SNS) 74, 74,
110±11
somatisation 11, 49, 151±5, 171
space 126
spirituality 10
splitting 49, 52, 59, 68, 124, 128±33,
136, 163; therapeutic 97; see also
`parts'
Springer 127
stability 33
state dependent recall 84
Stern, Daniel 19, 65±6
Steward 128
Stewart, I. 133
strategic therapy 21±2, 54, 58, 73, 107,
108
Strauss, C. L. 98
stress 65, 81; coping with 77; maternal
during pregnancy 83
stress response 66, 79, 138, 143;
prolonged 77±8, 83
`stuckness', working through 43
subjective experience 5, 9, 19±25, 37, 40,
162±3, 164, 165±70, 174; changing
the client's reality and 19; and
context 25; Neurolinguistic
Programming and 14, 16, 17; and
outcome-oriented therapy 120;
problems and 18; reality perception
and 22±3, 24; of the therapist 13,
32±3; see also subjective reality
subjective reality 9, 32±3, 41, 56, 64, 95,
141; constructed nature 99, 100, 106;
and core beliefs 139; see also
subjective experience
suffering 104±5
suicidal thoughts 145
super-reasonable/computer role 58
Superego 48
supervision 32±3, 163
Surrey University 170
survival 25
Index 193
symbolic modelling 98, 100±1, 114
sympathetic nervous system 74±5, 76;
arousal 77
synapses 21, 76±7, 81±2, 84
synchronicity 101
systematic behavioural studies 15
systemic approach 3, 11, 46±7
systemic desensitisation 111±12
systemic Neurolinguistic Programming
6
systemic patterns 112±18
systemic processes 27±8, 31
systems theory 58, 174
tag questions 97
theory of neurolinguistic psychotherapy
17±19
therapeutic ¯exibility 142
therapeutic process, patterns of 155±9,
158
therapeutic relationship 60±1, 165±6
therapists 78±81, 161±4, 169±70; as
affect regulator 143; archaic bond to
136; attunement to 136; belief
systems of 35; blind spots 32±3, 163;
and collusion 139; detached 136;
effective 163±4; ¯exibility of 33±4;
hunches 43; in¯uence 32±3; non-
judgemental approach 38±9;
operating from a phenomenological
base 38±9; personal disclosure of
149; personal therapy of 32±3, 163,
169; and projection 163; and respect
28±9, 95; risk-taking of 164; role of
41±2, 68±9, 79±81, 119, 126, 143,
173; as secure attachment ®gures 79,
80; self-care 164; subjective
experience of 32±3; in the way of
therapy 169; see also client-therapist
relationship
therapy process model 12
Thinkers 127
Thompson, W. L. 120
thought ®eld therapy 172
tics 28
time 126±7
time code work 12
Time Line Therapy×
61, 126, 133, 135,
172
`time lining' 126, 133, 135
time reframing 124, 125±6, 134±5,
140
time-binding 134
time/space/matter/energy ®lter 21±2
Tompkins, P. 4, 5, 8, 11, 53, 100,
113±14, 129
TOTE (Test±Operate±Test±Exit) model
108
Tourette's syndrome 27±8, 76±7
`towards' values 51, 59, 77, 111,
128
traditionalists 62
trance 45, 95±7; active dissociation
within 96; connected to a person's
reality 137; light-level 111
transactional analysis (TA) 9, 51±2, 119,
133
transference 52, 60±1, 71; as anchored
response 112
transformational grammar 88±91
trauma 115±18; early 65, 67, 68, 78; see
also childhood trauma
trauma therapy 126, 129
Trevarthen, C. 65, 75, 83
trust 25
Tudor, K. 23, 31
Twitmeyer, E. B. 10, 84
UK Council for Psychotherapy (UKCP)
2; Experiential Constructivist
Section 3; Hypnopsychotherapy
Section 3, 4
uncertainty 23
unconscious 4, 8, 36±7, 45, 48, 55±6,
58±9; and ambiguity/choice 97;
and the body 156; bringing into
conscious thought 162;
communication with the conscious
6, 40, 91, 98, 155, 162;
communication with by the
therapist 7, 13, 42, 46, 95, 136, 143,
157, 158; and the concealment of
core beliefs 139; de®ning 173±4;
double bind with the conscious
mind 92; embodiment of the 137;
and epistemology 41; and the
`Erickson function' 136;
fragmentation into `parts' 130,
131, 132, 136; Freudian concept
173; integration with the conscious
mind 101; introducing the client to
the concept of 156; and
neurological processes 73; and
obsessive-compulsive disorder 144;
194 Index
patterning 111, 113, 123; prime
directives of the 135; rational/non-
rational 63; and repression 48, 49,
125; splitting from the conscious
97; and therapeutic change 7, 13;
and therapeutic rapport 6, 78; and
time reframing 134; and trance 95;
wisdom of the 59
values 117, 118; `away from' 50, 51,
59, 77, 111, 117, 128, 154, 158;
core 61; development 61±3, 63;
elicitation 158; family 153±5;
generational 61±2; hierarchy 158,
159; `towards' 51, 59, 77, 111,
128
Verneinung 22
victim role 117
Vienna Psychoanalytic Society 51
`viewing' of the situation 27
Viktor Frankl strategy 120±1
violence, domestic 115±16
vocal eruptions 28
Von Foerster, H. 10, 73
Watzlawick, P. 11, 15, 32, 89, 90, 91,
134, 138, 165
Weiner-Davis, M. 27, 35
Wertheimer 45±6
Wiener 110
Wilbur 113
Winnicott, D. 60, 133
Wolf 108, 109
Woodsmall, W. 4, 61
Worcester State Hospital 29, 45
work dif®culties 166±8
working memory 77
world model 18, 174; as a construct of
the mind 99, 100; expansion of 17
Worrall, M. 23, 31
Zeig 95
Index 195
