2. (a) x (b) x (c) x (d) x (e) x
| | | |
A A A A
| |
B B
As depicted in (2a), a prosodic position can dominate no segmental material,
thus remaining melodically mute, it can be mono-elemental with this prime being
either head or dependent (in (2b) and (2c) respectively), or more elements can build
a segment with one of them being its head or with none of the primes in the head
status (the structures in (2d) and (2e) respectively). Significantly, the head element
(underlined) determines the salient property of the melody. In other words, its
contribution to the phonetic shape of the segment is the largest.
This brief characterization of melodic structure proposed by non-linear frameworks,
Government Phonology in particular,3
reveals two important features of elements as
phonological entities. Namely, thanks to their autonomous interpretation, elements
directly determine the phonetic outcome of a given phonological structure. Secondly,
their residence on separate autosegmental tiers allows them to participate in phonolog-
ical processes independently of the remaining elements belonging to particular seg-
mental representations. Consequently, the recognition of the existence of a given
phonological element rests upon two kinds of evidence. Firstly, a phonological prime
has to have significant phonetic exponent, which is most obviously supported by the
occurrence of melodies defined exclusively by this very element. Secondly, we should
be able to detect phonological processes which directly target the posited prime, or
alternatively, all the other elements building a segment except the prime in question.
Finally, phonological significance of an element derives from its ability to define some
important aspect of the system, for example its susceptibility to licensing constraints or
other language-specific principles (e.g. being able to occupy the head position of the
segment or, alternatively, being a persistent non-head).
2.2 Noise as a Phonological Prime
Let us now turn to the phonetic effect of noise and discuss evidence implying its
phonological status. Government Phonology (henceforth GP) argues in favor
of recognizing three manner-defining phonological primitives: occlusion, noise and
nasality.4
To specify the distinctive characteristics of h, let us quote Harris (1994:
123): “the elemental pattern of h may be defined as noise, which maps onto the speech
3
The framework first proposed in Kaye et al. (1985, 1990) and considerably refined in e.g. Harris
(1994), Gussmann (2002), Cyran (2003), or Scheer (2004).
4
The element of occlusion defines the effect of stoppness, or an abrupt decrease in overall
amplitude. Nasality will naturally reside in the structure of nasal vowels and consonants (Harris
and Lindsey 1995). Further, there are the so-called resonance elements specifying the place of
articulation of consonants: I (palatality), U (labiality) and A (coronality). The laryngeal primes H
and L, in turn, are responsible for defining voicelessness and voicing respectively.
2 Noise as a Phonological Element: On the Representation of Plosives and Affricates 15
signal as aperiodic energy. The articulatory targeting of this effect involves a narrowed
stricture which produces turbulent airflow. This element contributes a noise compo-
nent to the class of obstruent consonants”. As further argued in Harris and Lindsey
(1995c: 70), “the absence of any supralaryngeal gesture in the independent articulation
of [h] is entirely the function of the fact that it lacks its own resonance property.
In compounds with other elements, however, the location of the noise-producing
gesture will be determined by whatever resonance element may also be present”.
Defined in this way, noise will naturally reside in fricatives and affricates,
sounds which at least in some phase of their production involve turbulent airflow.
Yet, in orthodox feature-based models of segmental representation, this component
has not been recognized as phonologically significant in plosives. It has to be
observed, however, that in order to comply with the phonetic facts, phonology
should be able to account for the aperiodic energy characterizing the release phase
of genuine plosives which manifests itself in the form of a noise burst. However,
before bringing up evidence supporting the presence of noise in the lexical structure
of plosives, let us focus on noise itself. As indicated in the introduction, each
phonological prime must have a unique phonetic manifestation. This requirement
is satisfied in the case of noise since its independent interpretation is that of the
glottal fricative [h]. Also, as already stated, in complex segments represented
as elemental compounds, noise defines the aperiodic energy identifiable in the
phonetic signal. To illustrate this situation with some examples, the structures of
selected English fricatives have been depicted in (3).
3. [h] [s] [T] [f] [v] [S]
x x x x x x
| | | | | |
h h h h h h
| | | | |
A A U U A
| | | |
H H H I
|
H
(3) discloses one more important dimension of segmental structure that
pertains in an obvious way to noise-containing sounds, namely headedness relations.
As indicated in (3), head elements are underlined. The head-dependent relation is a
GP-specific means of representing elemental salience. In this way, we possess an
instrument for representing the difference between strident and non-strident fricatives
and affricates. Thus, h-headed segments will display greater stridency, or noisiness,
than ones in which h is just a dependent.
Moving on to the structure of obstruent stops, our aim now is to uphold their
representations involving the element of noise, despite its being less significant than
occlusion. The latter defines the acoustic effect of an abrupt decrease in overall
amplitude, articulatorily effected as constriction. More specifically, we shall
address the data illustrating the participation of noise in phonological processing
16 A. Bloch-Rozmej
as an independent prime. In particular, the following processes indicate the pres-
ence of h:
• Spirantisation,
• Debuccalisation,
• Tapping,
• Glottalling.
2.3 Noise as a Process Target and Result: The Structure
of Plosives
The acoustics of plosives indicates the necessity of representing them by means of
two independent elements: occlusion and noise. Even though the narrowing in the
vocal tract typical of plosives is practically equal to zero, their release is
accompanied by a short noise burst. However, more compelling evidence in favor
of h in plosives comes from lenition processes.
One of them is the process of vocalization, which results in the weakening of the
segment. In Element Theory,5
such an effect is represented as decomplexification
of a melody carried out through the loss of elements which become delinked from
their skeletal slot. From the phonological perspective, the advantage of such effects
derives from their ability to indicate independent elements defining the place and
manner of articulation of sounds. Thus, the process of debuccalisation targets the
place-defining prime and discloses the existence of manner primes. With respect to
obstruents, two processes seem to be of utmost importance: spirantisation and loss
of audible release. Since each process targets one element at a time (Clements
1985), weakening can be characterized as the suppression of some aspect of the
elementary content of a segment. In other words, lenition involves progressive
decrease in the melodic complexity of a segment. It seems reasonable to expect
that the weakest segments, which are pre-deletion targets, are the least complex,
i.e. monoelemental. In this way, lenition testifies to the existence of individual
primes.
With that in mind, let us examine the stages of one of the opening processes,
quoted in Harris (1994):
4. Opening trajectory (Harris 1994: 120)
Spirantization > Aspiration > Deletion
Plosive > Fricative > h > Ø
Defined in terms of progressive decomplexification, the process of lenition reveals
the existence of the noise prime which shows up as the least complex segment between
the two extremes of a released obstruent and zero. In this type of lenition process, the
5
Element Theory is part of the Government Phonology framework. It pertains to the nature and
phonological behaviour of elements within melodic structures.
2 Noise as a Phonological Element: On the Representation of Plosives and Affricates 17
element targeted is that of occlusion, whereas the one that remains is noise. Such a
development can be found in Ireland and Merseyside area of England. A couple of
illustrative examples come from Harris (1994: 121):
5. get [gɛs] letter [lɛsə]
at [æh] not [nɒh]
that [dæh] but [bʊh]
As the [h]-final forms indicate, spirantisation has given way to debuccalization
to [h] in function words. Thus, the element of noise turns up as the most primitive
unit of the lenited segments (see (9) below).
Further, we can identify a process which directly targets the noise prime, often
leaving the remaining elements intact. The development that is meant here is that of
tapping, or flapping. The process is firmly established in most of North America,
Australia, Ireland and parts of England. Examples depicting this phenomenon are
listed in (6):
6. pity [pɪɾɪ] pretty [prɪɾɪ]
fit us fi[ɾ] us get off ge[ɾ] off
city [sɪɾɪ] set up se[ɾ] up
As can be seen, the intervocalic context yields a coronal tap, a segment consisting
of the occlusion prime and one specifying the place of articulation. It loses, however,
the element of noise (see (9) below). A more radical form of weakening resulting in the
loss of both noise and resonance primes takes place in the case of glottalling:
7. Glottalling >> Deletion
Plosive > ? > Ø
In this lenition type, prevalent in Scotland and England, the loss of the coronal
gesture is accompanied by the delinking of noise, the residual reflex being realized
with glottal stricture, as in
8. pit [pɪ?] bit [bɪ?]
pity [[pɪ?ɪ] peter [pi:?ə]
The three weakening developments occurring in the varieties of English can be
structurally depicted as follows:
9.
18 A. Bloch-Rozmej
It can be clearly noticed that the processes of lenition operating in English disclose
the existence of an independent element of noise which can be both the target of the
process and the sole resident of the segment after the delinking of the remaining
primes has been effected.
In what follows, we shall look into the structure of affricates, whose behaviour
implies the presence of both manner-defining primes in their structure: that of
occlusion and that of noise.
2.4 Affricates: Noise and Occlusion Together and Apart
Affricates are often considered as consonants having bi-segmental structure. Such a
conception stems from the articulatory evidence which reveals the presence of two
consecutive phases: constriction and narrowing producing friction. The approaches
to affricates vary. On the whole, we can distinguish the following theoretical
possibilities of representing affricates:
10. (a) One segment attached to a single skeletal slot
(b) Two segments attached to two adjacent slots
(c) Two segments linked to one slot (contour structure)
i. Whole segments are attached to the slot
ii. Elements from different tiers are linked to a single slot
• With an ordered sequence of stop + fricative parts
• With an unordered sequence of stop + fricative parts
The first option was proposed in Rubach (1994), where affricates were treated as
strident stops. Yet, the evidence on the so-called edge effects concerning different
behavior of affricates with respect to the segments on their right and to their left-
hand neighbors implies a bi-partite analysis. The data on stress placement in
English, on the other hand, exclude the analysis of affricates as a sequence of two
independent positions attached to a stop and to a fricative. More specifically, in
English verbs, stress falls on the last heavy syllable and should the last one be light,
on the penult. Consider the words in (11):6
11. (a) Torment (b) Maintain (c) Edit
Collapse Arouse Cancel
If affricates consisted of two positions, syllables containing them should behave
just like ones containing long vowels or a final VCC sequence. This, however, does
not take place, as depicted below:
6
Letters indicating the stressed vowels are in bold type.
2 Noise as a Phonological Element: On the Representation of Plosives and Affricates 19
12. Manage, damage, encourage
Hence, we infer that the affricate-containing word-final syllable is light. This, in
turn, suggests that affricates are linked to a single skeletal position. Such a represen-
tation is known as a contour structure. It has to be acknowledged at this stage that
even among phonologists who opt for the contour analysis, there are ones who argue
in favor of the Ordered Component Analysis, with a strictly determined sequence of
a stop plus fricative parts (e.g. Hoard 1967; Campbell 1974; Hockett 1975; Ewen
1982; Clements and Keyser 1983; Sagey 1986; Steriade 1994; van de Weijer 1996).
The Unordered Component Hypothesis represented by Lombardi (1990) and Hualde
(1988a, b, 1991), assumes that the order of affricate components is irrelevant. These
two opposing viewpoints are possible and justifiable since affricates exhibit on
the one hand edge effects, and on the other hand, anti-edge effects. Put differently,
they sometimes behave with respect to the left-hand segments as stops and to the
right-hand ones as fricatives, but on other occasions this order does not matter.
Consider the past tense allomorphy or plural forms in English:
13. wanted [tɪd] but messed [st] watched [tʃt]
cats [ts] buses [sɪz] watches [tʃɪz]
Clearly in the above examples, with respect to the right-hand segments,
affricates behave like fricatives. However, Lombardi (1991) brings up data from
Basque which undermine the Ordered Component Analysis. In Basque, stops are
voiced after a nasal or lateral segment, as in
14. afal-tu [afaldu] ‘have dinner, perf.’
ken-tu [kendu] ‘take away, perf.’
Yet, affricates resist the voicing operation:
15. afal-tsen [afaltsen] ‘have dinner, imperf.’
ken-tsen [kentsen] ‘take away, imperf.’
The facts addressed so far bring to light the following properties of affricate
segments:
16. Affricates
• Are prosodically simplex.
• Are melodically complex.
• Exhibit inconsistent behavior with respect to the processes targeting them
from the right and from the left, which depends not on the sequential
ordering of their parts but the presence of a given feature or the character
of the process.
To clarify the last point, it has to be added that for the outcome of the process it
seems to matter how much of the internal structure of the affricate is visible to the
process. This point will be illustrated presently.
20 A. Bloch-Rozmej
GP argues in favour of the geometric organization of elements in the subsegmental
plane. This hierarchical arrangement is depicted in (17).
17. Geometric configuration of elements: Elements grouped under class nodes
x
Root • h
Laryngeal • N
• Place
H
A I U (R)
L
Individual elements are organized under class nodes: the Root, Place/Resonance
and Laryngeal. A phonological process can involve either a single prime or target
the whole class node, thus affecting all the elements gathered under it.7
GP has its own answer to the affricate dilemma which is based on the recognition
of class nodes. In detail, Harris (1994) proposes a contour structure with an internal
geometry of elements which are arrayed under class nodes. This structure is
depicted in (18)
18.
x
•
• •
Root nodes
h
Place node
A I
[t ]
The representation rests upon the assumption that elements can co-exist under a
single skeletal position without actually undergoing fusion, unlike in plosives for
instance.8
The structure assumes that within a single melody, two independent
manner elements, occlusion and noise, are dominated by two different Root
nodes, which prevents fusion.9
Both Roots are linked to a single Resonance or
Place node, which expresses the homorganicity of the affricate parts. This structure
accounts for the fact that with respect to the processes depending on syllable
weight, affricates behave as prosodically simplex segments. Importantly, the two
Roots reside on a single autosegmental tier, which secures a sequence of the
7
For more information on element geometry, see Harris (1994) and Bloch-Rozmej (2008).
8
In plosives noise and occlusion are fused under a single slot.
9
The idea of two Root nodes goes back to Clements (1987). McCarthy (1988) proposed that
manner elements should be dominated directly by the Root.
2 Noise as a Phonological Element: On the Representation of Plosives and Affricates 21
stopness and noise phases. Harris’s structure of an affricate is very useful in the
account of affrication processes attested in English. In English, apart from the two
lexical affricates, the coronal [t] and [d] can undergo affrication to [ts] and [dz],
especially in the intervocalic position, as in [pitsi], [tsen] [dzip]. This effect is
characteristic of the London vernacular speech (Wells 1990). In some cases, this
process leads to spirantisation, whereby [t]>[ts]>[s]. In terms of GP, the affrication
of plosives can be analysed in terms of the Root node split. Namely, a single Root
undergoes cloning, whereby each of the new Root nodes comes to dominate its own
manner element, both Roots being still synchronized with a single Place node.
Interestingly, and luckily for our contour analysis, affrication takes place before a
vowel. It must be stressed that between a plosive, which is a constricted sound, and
the vowel, which is characterized by considerable opening in the vocal tract, the
articulatory distance is huge. Hence, affrication can be seen as a mechanism
reducing this distance by the progressive opening of the full constriction of the
stop part of the affricate, through the narrowing of the noise phase of its latter part
before eventually a vowel succeeds.
constriction > narrowing > opening
2.5 Conclusion
In conclusion, we hope to have demonstrated that the element of noise is a
legitimate member in the structure of all released obstruents, including fricatives
and plosives. However, the phonetic contribution of the prime to the manifestation
of these segment types is different. More specifically, in the structure of plosives,
noise has to fuse with occlusion. In fricatives, h is the sole manner-defining
element. Further, it has been shown that noise possesses a unique phonetic mani-
festation and can be a single resident of a consonantal segment. In isolation, h is
interpreted as a glottal fricative.
Furthermore, noise can be directly targeted by phonological processes and it
remains in the structure of a consonant after spirantisation/aspiration processes
have lenited this segment. Both manner-defining primes – occlusion and noise – are
needed in the structure of affricates as they enable us to express both their
bi-segmental phonetic nature and the puzzling behaviour of affricates with respect
to phonological processes. We have demonstrated that a special contour structure
should be employed in the phonological representation of affricates. In such
configurations, noise and occlusion have to be independently dominated by sepa-
rate Root nodes which are both linked to a single Place/Resonance node. This
geometric arrangement of primes enables us to provide an account of the phono-
logical phenomena involving affricates much more efficiently than has been done in
the traditional, non-autosegmental frameworks.
22 A. Bloch-Rozmej
References
Bloch-Rozmej, A. 2008. Melody in government phonology. Lublin: Wydawnictwo KUL.
Campbell, L. 1974. Phonological features: problems and proposals. Language 50: 52–65.
Clements, G. N. 1985. The geometry of phonological features. Phonology Yearbook 2: 223–50.
Clements, G. N. 1987. Phonological feature representation and the description of intrusive stops.
CLS 23, Part 2: Parasession on autosegmental and metrical phonology, 29–50.
Clements, G. N. and S. J. Keyser. 1983. CV phonology: A generative theory of the syllable.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Cyran, E. 2003. Complexity scales and licensing strength in phonology. Lublin: Wydawnictwo
KUL.
Ewen, C. 1982. The internal structure of complex segments. In The structure of phonological
representations. Vol. 2, eds. H. van der Hulst and N. Smith, 27–67. Dordrecht: Foris.
Gussmann, E. 2002. Phonology: Analysis and theory. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Harris, J. 1994. English sound structure. Oxford: Blackwell.
Harris, J. and G. Lindsey. 1995. The elements of phonological representation. In Frontiers of
phonology. Atoms, structures, derivations, eds. J. Durand and F. Katamba, 34–79. London:
Longman.
Hoard, J. E. 1967. Complex phonological segments in distinctive feature theory. Paper presented
at the annual meeting of the LSA, Chicago, Ill. Ms.
Hockett, C. F. 1975. If you slice it thin enough it’s not baloney. American Speech 47: 233–55.
Hualde, J. E. 1988a. On Basque affricates. Anuario del Seminario de Filologia Vasca Julio de
Urquijo XXII-2: 379–389.
Hualde, J. E. 1988b. Affricates are not contour segments. Proceedings of the West Coast Conference
on Formal Linguistics VII: 143–157.
Hualde, J. E. 1991. Basque phonology. London: Routledge.
Kaye, J., J. Lowenstamm and J.-R Vergnaud. 1985. The internal structure of phonological
elements: A theory of charm and government. Phonology Yearbook 2: 305–328.
Kaye, J., J. Lowenstamm and J.-R Vergnaud. 1990. Constituent structure and government in
phonology. Phonology 7: 193–231.
Lombardi, L. 1990. The nonlinear organisation of the affricate. Natural Language and Linguistic
Theory 8: 375–425.
Lombardi, L. 1991. Laryngeal features and laryngeal neutralization. Unpublished PhD disserta-
tion, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA.
McCarthy, J. 1988. Feature geometry and dependency: A review. Phonetica 45: 84–108.
Rubach, J. 1994. Affricates as strident stops in Polish. Linguistic Inquiry 25: 119–143.
Scheer, T. 2004. A lateral theory of phonology: What is CVCV, and why should it be? Vol 1.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Steriade, D. 1994. Complex onsets as single segments: The Mazateco pattern. In Perspectives in
phonology, eds. J. Cole and C. Kisseberth, 203–291. Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications.
Sagey, E. 1986. The representation of features and relations in nonlinear phonology. Unpublished
PhD dissertation, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA.
van de Weijer, J. M. 1996. Segmental structure and complex segments. HIL dissertations no. g.
Holland Academic Graphics.
Wells, J. C. 1990. Longman pronunciation dictionary. London: Longman.
2 Noise as a Phonological Element: On the Representation of Plosives and Affricates 23
.
Chapter 3
Word and Foot Minimality in English:
A Metrical Government Analysis
Tomasz Ciszewski
Abstract Possible foot inventories have been widely discussed in the literature
(Hayes 1995; Halle and Vergnaud 1987; Burzio 1994, among others). While binary
feet are generally accepted in all typologies, other foot types (unary, ternary,
unbounded) have been subject to debate. In this paper we argue that unary feet
are ill-formed due to their inability to support a contour tone. This prohibition is
further reflected not only in word minimality requirements in English, i.e. the ban
on light open monosyllables, but also in the absence of short vowels word-finally
and the avoidance of final stress on light syllables. The acoustic analysis of
monosyllabic CVC words shows that in isolated pronunciations the vowel is
systematically lengthened in order to meet the tonally-driven foot minimality
requirements. Thus, given the abundance of light monosyllabic words in the
English lexicon, the word and foot minimality requirements must be treated as
non-identical. These empirical observations will be formally captured by govern-
ment relations that hold between nuclei. In particular, we will argue that minimal
foot binarity follows from the fact that a full nucleus must always govern another
nucleus to its right. A phonetic result of such internuclear government is the
reduction of the latter. Thus, CV monosyllables are both lexically and metrically
excluded; CVC monosyllables, on the other hand, are lexically possible since the
full nucleus governs the final empty one. However, in order to meet the foot
minimality requirement the nucleus must increase its duration to accommodate a
contour tone (cf. Gordon 2000). The minimal word and foot requirements, there-
fore, differ in one aspect only, namely that the head nucleus in the minimal word
needs a nuclear position to govern, whereas the head of the foot needs to govern a
phonetically full nucleus.
T. Ciszewski (*)
University of Gdańsk, Gdańsk, Poland
e-mail: angtc@univ.gda.pl
M. Pawlak and J. Bielak (eds.), New Perspectives in Language,
Discourse and Translation Studies, Second Language Learning and Teaching,
DOI 10.1007/978-3-642-20083-0_3, # Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2011
25
3.1 Introduction
In this paper we discuss the English word and foot minimality requirements. The
discussion is set in the framework of Metrical Government Phonology, which is
meant to be a prosodic extension of Standard Government Phonology. Thus, we
will first refer to Csides’ (2007) original formulation of Metrical Government
which, however, follows the assumptions of “Strict CV” offspring of Standard GP.
The advantage of our proposal lies in the fact that the theoretical assumptions we
make are empirically testable (as opposed to the empirically doubtful status of
empty nuclei within the Strict CV version of Government Phonology) and ample
acoustic evidence directly supports the analysis. In particular we argue that the
word and foot minimality both follow from obligatory metrical government
relations holding between nuclei. Thus, the minimal word and foot are both
defined as internuclear governing domains but they differ in the stringency of
melodic requirements on the nuclear governee, i.e. in the minimal word the
governee may be the word-final empty nuclear position (CVCØ), whereas in the
minimal foot the position must be filled with a melody (CVCV/CVV). This
explains the absence of CV# words in English as well as the phonotactic ban on
short unreduced vowels word-finally (in which the internuclear governing relation
does not obtain) and the systematic vowel lengthening in isolated and phrase-final
CVC forms and final stressed CVC “syllables” which is imposed by the require-
ment of internuclear metrical government. The acoustic analysis of CVC words
implies that the vowel lengthening is tonally driven since it is invariably
accompanied by a significantly greater pitch slope on the vowel in question. As
such, it is fully supportive of Gordon’s (2000) cross-linguistic study of the tonal
basis of final weight criteria.
3.2 Metrical Government
To the best of our knowledge, the term “metrical government” has been first used
by Csides (2004, 2007),1
but it seems to have been given little attention, even
from government phonology (GP) circles. The proposals that stem from his concept
of “metrical government” – hopefully inseminating for mainstream GP in the long
run – are also of certain relevance to our analysis.
Thus, we propose that metrical government relations are bidirectional and may
be non-local. Ultimately, all government within a morphologically simple domain
emanates from the head nucleus of the domain final maximal foot. The heads of
1
We wish to thank the anonymous reviewer for drawing our attention to Charette (1991) and
especially to Manfredi’s article (1993), who had apparently formulated the principles of metrical
government prior to Csides.
26 T. Ciszewski
the foot can only govern from left to right. Recessive nuclei govern from right to
left. The internuclear government relation is obligatory for all well-formed pho-
nological domains. Here, we agree with the original proposal of metrical govern-
ment relations (Csides 2004: 29–30) which claims that: “[g]overnment directly
affecting melodic complexity takes place at the foot level. In a trochaic system the
stressed vowel governs the farthest contentful vocalic position to its right within
the foot silencing it relatively in the form of vowel reduction and thereby
providing it with governing licence. The government licensed contentful vocalic
position then governs the farthest contentful vocalic position to the opposite
direction within the foot”. We think, however, that Csides (2004) is not radical
enough, i.e. he seems to reject strict directionality and simultaneously adheres to
foot binarity (cf. “a trochaic system” he mentions). Our proposal differs in that it
provides a formal framework that accounts both for the governing relations within
trochaic/dactylic feet with the same set of principles and explicitly excludes
unaries.
3.3 Structural and Acoustic Ill-Formedness of “Unary Feet”
Virtually all past non-government accounts of word stress and foot structure have
been based on a pre-theoretically unwarranted assumption that the syllable is an
indispensable mediating constituent between the segmental and metrical structure.
Our model is grounded on the tenet that foot structure is a derivative of the
internuclear relations within a phonological domain. Since intrapedal government
is contracted between skeletal positions, no intermediate constituent is necessary.
Accordingly, the traditional structural n-ary labels do not refer to the number of
syllables within a foot, but rather to the number of skeletal positions that participate
in metrical government. Thus, unary, binary and ternary feet contain one, two or
three skeletal positions, respectively. This is shown in (1) below (Intermediate
constituent levels Rhyme/Nucleus have been omitted).
1. (a) unary (b) binary (c) ternary
F F F
..... .............. ..........................
x x x x x x
In this way the model is able to directly relate the segmental strength and
metrical structure via the rejection of the syllable constituent. In the following
section we will provide theoretical as well as phonologically relevant acoustic
arguments against skeletally unary F(x) metrical feet.
3 Word and Foot Minimality in English: A Metrical Government Analysis 27
A pivotal theory-internal argument is that a solitary non-branching nucleus may
not form a foot itself since feet are defined as left-headed internuclear governing
domains. In the absence of another non-empty nucleus to its right, the potential
head of the putative unary foot may not metrically govern.
2. *F
N Ø
x
A theoretically conceivable GP mechanism, which could “restore” the minimal
structural binarity of light monosyllables, i.e. the incorporation of the final empty
nucleus into the structure in (2),2
must be ruled out for a few reasons. First of all, as
it has been emphasised before, empty nuclei are claimed to be inactive in foot
construction. Thus, they would have to be made visible to stress in this particular
instance only, i.e. in cotFoot{cotø} but not in cottonFoot{cotton}ø. Secondly, direct
metrical government imposed on foot recessive rhyme is able to destroy its vocalic
melodies only partially, i.e. through the reduction to schwa. Note that in structurally
similar forms, e.g. better [betə], the same government relation in unable to silence
the foot recessive nucleus completely, unless it is followed by a word-final high
sonority onset [m, n,1], as in bottom [bɒtm], button [bʌtn] or bottle [bɒt1], which is
acoustically capable of supporting some (albeit reduced) pitch and intensity
characteristics of the lost vowel.3
In such cases, however, the available vowel slot
is linked directly to the melody of the high sonority consonant. By contrast, the final
empty nucleus in (3a) cannot bear a tone as it is inherently devoid of phonetic
contents. Thus, the representations of cot (3a) and cotton (3b), for instance, may not
be treated as metrically identical.
3.
The empty word final nuclei in (3a) and (3b) follow from theory-internal
licensing requirements, according to which an onset must always be licensed
2
As proposed by Burzio (1994), for example. For arguments against, see Ciszewski (2005).
3
This suggests that a radical a priori exclusion of onsets from foot structure should be approached
with caution. While onsets are indeed unable to contribute directly to foot weight or carry
distinctive pitch, they may indirectly reinforce the acoustic robustness of adjacent vowels
(cf. Gordon 2005).
28 T. Ciszewski
by the following nucleus (for arguments in favour of such analysis see, e.g. Harris
and Gussmann 1998 or Gussmann 2002: 96–101). While we agree with the
observation that word final consonants do not behave like codas and, conse-
quently, we do not treat word final syllables that end in a single consonant as
heavy4
(which has important consequences for the theory of metrical government
proposed here), we reject on acoustic/perceptual grounds the possibility that
empty nuclei are directly accessible to metrical structure. However, an unstressed
governed nucleus enclosed within two consonants between which a right-to-left
interonset government obtains, as in (3b), despite being phonetically absent, does
indirectly participate in intrapedal government since its skeletal slot is ultimately
linked with a melody of the high sonority consonant. It is the interonset govern-
ment between [t] and [n] that licenses the vowel syncope in (3b) on the one hand
and makes the vowel position available for intrapedal government on the other. In
(3a) the melodically empty nucleus N2 may not participate in intrapedal govern-
ment as it is not licensed by the interonset government. Thus, (3a) does not
represent a well-formed binary foot. Structurally it is identical to the prohibited
unary foot in (2).
A collateral problem is the lexical absence of CV monosyllables and word-
final short unreduced vowels. The distributional asymmetry between CV and
CVC/CV: syllables domain-finally follows naturally from the assumption that
both minimal words and minimal feet must constitute left-headed internuclear
governing domains. Therefore, their well-formedness is based upon the ability of
the potential head nucleus to govern the following nuclear position. Unreduced
short vowels are banned both word and foot finally for two reasons: (1) they
cannot be metrical governors and (2) they cannot be governees, since they are
unreduced. Thus, due to the absence of a nuclear position to their right they may
not realise their potential to govern. The minimal word and foot requirements,
however, differ in one aspect only, namely the head nucleus in the minimal word
needs a nuclear position to govern, whereas the head of the foot needs a
phonetically full nucleus. Metaphorically speaking, one cannot be the Head of
the Department, if no staff is employed. The staff, however, may either fake work
(empty nuclei) or be fully involved in it (full nuclei). In the former case, the
department merely exists, in the latter it properly functions. By inference, the
minimal word and the minimal foot requirements are non-identical.5
They are
interrelated by the fundamental condition of internuclear government, but they
differ in the stringency of requirements on the government target. This is
illustrated in (4) below. Note that the requirements on monosyllables are identi-
cal to those on domain-final syllables in polysyllabic forms. (The broken line
4
Note that the double association of [n] with onset and the preceding vowel position does not make
the second syllable of cotton phonologically heavy.
5
Cf. for instance Lahiri (2001: 1357), who claims that “[t]he minimal word must be at least a foot,
or two syllables, or bimoraic, or some other constraint”.
3 Word and Foot Minimality in English: A Metrical Government Analysis 29
separating the minimal and subminimal forms represents the word/foot well-
formedness threshold.)
4.
Due the unrealised governing potential of the nucleus in (4a), domain-final
unreduced vowels and CV monosyllables are banned both lexically and metrically.6
Final and monosyllabic CVC forms in (4b) are lexically well-formed, although
metrically subminimal, i.e. the internuclear government obtains but its target is
empty. This is where the word and foot minimality depart. In terms of their phonetic
realisation, we may expect that for the head nucleus to be properly pedified and
stressed it either has to lengthen or N2 must be filled with a melody, e.g. post-lexically.
The forms in (4c) pass both the word and the foot minimality tests, since two adjacent
full nuclear positions may freely contract government. This accounts for the lack of
distributional restrictions for domain-final reduced vowels (since they are always in
foot-recessive position) and long vowels/diphthongs (since they constitute well-
formed – albeit minimal – binary feet). Thus, the lexical presence of monosyllabic
content words with non-branching nuclei, e.g. pit, pet, pat, putt, pot, put does not
provide a direct falsifier for our ban on unary feet once a sharp distinction is made
between “stressability (¼no reduction)” and “being stressed (¼pedification)”. In our
model, these forms are lexically unstressed since they do not form feet, but potentially
stressable once the minimal foot requirement is fulfilled.
Bearing in mind the relational nature of stress, the theoretical exclusion of unary
feet is also acoustically and perceptually justified, since linguistic stress relies on
fluctuations of acoustic energy and pitch differences both within and between consec-
utive nuclear and/or rhymal positions. Monosyllables in which the rhyme dominates
only one nuclear slot are thus unable to support a distinctive pitch contour.7
Phoneti-
cally they suffer from what has been traditionally referred to in the metrical literature
6
Note that citation forms of function words which end in a vowel (a, the, her, she, your, to, there)
always contain a branching nucleus.
7
Although Terken and Hermes (2000: 89) treat all monosyllables as prosodically prominent, since
they ‘stand out from silence’. Under this assumption, even an isolated fricative, for example, could
constitute a peak of acoustic prominence.
30 T. Ciszewski
as the “unstressable word syndrome” (Hayes 1995: 110–113; cf. (4a) and (4b) above).
This is shown in (5) below, where T and I stand for tone and intensity, respectively.
5. *F
N
x
TX > TY
IX > IY
A possible counterargument against treating the putative foot structures in (2),
(4a) and (4ab) as metrically ill-formed, as we do, may be that light monosyllables
are capable of carrying nuclear stress in a phrase, e.g. It’s a nice [cot, cat, kit, pet,
book, etc.] and therefore they cannot be “footless”, since we take the presence of
stress to be a primary indication of the presence of a foot. (Otherwise, the foot
becomes a theoretically superfluous constituent.) However, as it has been shown
experimentally (Duanmu 1996), light monosyllables in English in order to carry
nuclear stress require a substantial increase in duration, especially in a pre-juncture
position, where their vowels were observed to have lengthened by as much as 75%.
Other analyses, e.g. Umeda (1975), suggest that the increase in duration may be
within 70–100% of the canonical duration of a vowel. As reported by Gordon
(2000, 2001), tonal languages impose severe restrictions on the syllable types which
are allowed to carry contour tones. It is only on the V: or VCSON syllables that
contour tones may occur without any restrictions. This has a direct bearing on our
typology of well-formed English feet. Since foot internal head-dependent relations
in English are phonetically realised as pitch and energy fluctuations, sufficient
duration is required in order to execute the two different tones,8
or to avoid what
has been referred to by Gordon (2000) as “tonal crowding”. A light monosyllable is
inherently unable to carry a contour tone on its single nuclear position. Thus, it must
lengthen its vowel by more than a half in order to be eligible for nuclear (pre-
junctural) stress. Formally, the pre-juncture lengthening may be expressed as a
(post-lexical) addition of a prosodically recessive nuclear position (6).
6. (a) *F (b) F
N O N O
x x# x x x#
T1 T2
T1 T2
An isolated pronunciation of a light monosyllabic (C)VC word is contextually
identical to a pre-junctural or pre-pausal one. Therefore, there are reasons to expect
8
The increased duration of stressed syllable rhymes is, therefore, a derivative of tonal restrictions.
3 Word and Foot Minimality in English: A Metrical Government Analysis 31
that the acoustic characteristics of the nucleus in an isolated (C)VC monosyllable
should be systematically similar in terms of pitch, intensity and duration to the same
nucleus in a word uttered pre-juncturally, i.e. [#bet#] vs. [....bet#], and systemati-
cally different from the occurrence of the same stressed nucleus non-finally, i.e.
[#bet#] vs. [(#)betty#]. The acoustic analysis of relevant examples (Ciszewski
2010) fully supports our predictions concerning the phonological non-identity of
stressed nuclei in isolated light monosyllables and those in well-formed trochees.
The mean durations of nuclei in isolated CVC forms are consistently greater than
those of the corresponding CVC + s items in an identical context (by 59% when
followed by a voiceless consonant and by 77% when followed by a voiced one).
A viable formal alternative to lengthening, which may seem extravagantly
“derivational” within GP, is to postulate that the nucleus in a CVC monosyllable
is bipositional i.e. C[xø]C, which would in effect satisfy both lexical and metrical
minimality requirements. Since the final empty nucleus is unable to properly govern
the other empty nucleus within the C[xø]C domain, the latter would have to
phonetically surface (7a), which amounts to lengthening (by analogy, the CV:C
monosyllables would also retain their long nucleus). However, once the final empty
nucleus is filled with a melody post-lexically, e.g. as in the inflected form betting
(7b), it “regains” its proper government potentials and is able to silence the extra
nuclear position in the CVC stem and prevent the lengthening.
7.
This, however, would be grossly inconsistent with our assumption that phoneti-
cally empty nuclei are visible to metrical structure or available for metrification.
Secondly, the lexically absent CV monosyllables would have to be represented in
the same way, i.e. C[vø]. Then, one would expect them to surface as long vowels
because the empty position – in the absence of a potential proper governor to its
right – would not be properly governed either. Thirdly, and most importantly, in
disyllabic (C)V:CV(C) forms, like paper, the second position of the branching head
nucleus, by virtue of being properly governed by the final full nucleus, would have
to be silenced *[pe(ø)pə]. Thus, we find little empirical support for this theoreti-
cally costly solution.
The phonological ill-formedness of unary feet F(x) is also confirmed by their
defective distribution within a phonological domain. English disyllables, for
instance, are never parsed into two consecutive F(x) feet, e.g. *[Foot1(CV1)
Foot2(CV2)C]. Sequences of two (or more) unary F(x) feet are not attested domain
initially and internally in polysyllabic forms, either. Such footing would obviously
32 T. Ciszewski
violate the rhythmic distribution of stresses and result in word-internal stress clash.9
Its ill-formedness is also independently predicted and accounted for by metrical
government. Since intrapedal structure is a reflection of governing relations
contracted between nuclei/rhymes and the government emanating from the head
nucleus is head-initial, N2 has no target to its left, unless it is compensatorily
lengthened, e.g. in a pre-juncture position. Otherwise, it may not form an internu-
clear governing domain, i.e. a foot. If N1, on the other hand, governed N2, it should
result in the reduction of N2 to schwa. If this did happen, N2 could be no longer
treated as the head of the second foot, since foot heads cannot be reduced. But then,
the resulting structure would be that of an even trochee, i.e. F(xx), rather than two
consecutive unaries F(x)F(x).10
This government “deadlock” is illustrated in (8)
below (V stands for any full short vowel).
8.
Further distributional curtailments are observed domain initially and inter-
nally. While heavy (V: or VC) rhymes, which form binary feet, may – under
certain conditions – appear domain internally, e.g. sentimentality, Halicarnassus,
or initially, e.g. ambition, unary feet are not attested in this position. The reasons
for this ban are also related to the inability of two consecutive unreduced nuclei
to contract metrical government. In a hypothetical context whereby a unary foot
is followed by another well-formed foot within the same domain, e.g. F1[(x)]
F2[(xx)(x)], interpedal government between the putative F1 and F2 does not
obtain since it must be simultaneously licensed by intrapedal government within
both participant feet. F1, however, is not an internuclear governing domain, hence
9
We use the term “stress clash” without recourse to the syllable. Thus, the term is applicable only
when two consecutive nuclear positions, rather than syllables, are stressed. For instance, in the
frequently quoted example thirteen vs. thirteen men, both “syllables” (thir- and -teen) are metrical
governing domains F(xx), and consequently, their head positions are non-adjacent, hence no stress
clash occurs. The stress shift in thirteen men, thus, is a result of a much more complex interplay
between interpedal government and syntactic relations.
10
Direct government between heads of consecutive feet is not allowed in our model. The primary/
secondary stress distinctions result from interpedal government which is contracted between two
consecutive feet, and not between foot heads.
3 Word and Foot Minimality in English: A Metrical Government Analysis 33
its potential head nucleus is not projected to the level of interpedal government.
The inability of the initial nucleus to metrically govern – resulting in its inability
of projection – is phonetically manifested by vowel reduction (cf. agenda,
veranda, America, etc.). Nuclei trapped in this particular position are in fact
unpedified. Consequently, a non-initial nucleus may never evade pedification as
it is invariably preceded by another full nucleus by which it is obligatorily
governed, hence it must be reduced and pedified under the foot-recessive branch.
Therefore, unary feet are never found in polysyllabic domains in initial or
internal position. In the domain final context, on the other hand, the nucleus of
such foot is expected to lengthen to form a legal binary foot. This is confirmed by
the analysis of polysyllabic words in which the final stressed rhyme contains a
lexically short vowel.
Although the EPD lists about 1,100 non-monosyllabic items which are marked
as finally stressed, the group constitutes a fairly exotic collection of borrowings,
mainly of French, Chinese, Russian, Spanish, Arabic and African origin, or English
place names. The only homogenous subset of English native forms is that of
disyllabic verbs (a’ttack), prefixed verbs (re’set), isolated compounds in which
the stressed member is a final light monosyllable (-cook, -with, etc.) or truncated
forms (le’git~le’gitimate or ce’leb~ce’lebrity) where the stress of the non-truncated
form is preserved.
Out of approximately 840 finally stressed borrowings, more than 25% have an
non-finally stressed variant, which is often the dominant one, and 54 items retain
their final stress but lexically lengthen the final nucleus. A selective analysis of their
lexical frequency in the British National Corpus (~100 million words) confirms that
the number of occurrences of particular items in usually negligible. More than half
of them do not occur in the corpus at all. This raises the question of how represen-
tative such items may be and whether any generalisations concerning the English
metrical structure may follow from their analysis. The answer is apparently nega-
tive. Native speakers of English, however, must in principle be able to process such
forms, both articulatorily and perceptually. The argument that the English pronun-
ciation of such non-native forms is a copy of their original pronunciation in the
source language is easily refutable, since rarely do English native speakers have a
direct auditory access to the original form. It is equally unlikely that they possess a
rudimentary knowledge of such diverse sound systems as, for instance, Chinese and
Arabic. Instead, we suggest that the exceptional stress on a lexically non-branching
final rhyme functions as a strong boundary marker. Given the minimal lexical
frequencies of the finally stressed borrowings, their phonetic information load
must be maximal, in the sense of Harris (2005). The hyperarticulation of the
word-final nucleus in lexically rare borrowings, i.e. through enhancing the vowel
quality and tonally-driven pre-junctural lengthening, draws the perceptual attention
of the listener to the word boundary. It seems plausible to assume that such
anomalous acoustic characteristics of the word final stressed nucleus is aimed to
delay the word recognition point until all phonetic information has been presented.
This account seems fully consistent with the “cohort theory” of word recognition
34 T. Ciszewski
(Marslen-Wilson and Tyler 1980). A finally stressed item, e.g. Hamas, in a lan-
guage with a generally non-final stress pattern must in all probability be the last
candidate in the potential cohort of disyllabic items with initial [hæm-], if we
assume that the structure of the cohort reflects the lexical frequencies of the items
it contains.11
Thus, the phonetic execution of stress on a lexically non-branching
final rhyme corresponds to the word recognition point, since no more candidates in
the cohort remain.
The special status of the final stressed nucleus is acoustically marked by an extra
H+
tone on the onset of the final nucleus with a sharp drop towards its end. The
actual frequency of such final H tone is remarkably higher than of a high tone
assigned to a binary foot head in an identical context, e.g. Hamas (287 Hz) vs.
massive (175 Hz). As far as the duration of the stressed nucleus [æ] is concerned,
the one in the finally stressed Hamas is more than twice the length of that in massive
(204 ms and 88 ms, respectively). The acoustic and perceptual energies of the
nuclei in question show similar divergences. Moreover, the pitch maximum on
the final nucleus of Hamas tends to be even higher than the average focal pitch on
the accented nucleus in massive (220 Hz) (e.g. in a carrier phrase: Massive, not
passive).
This entails a further, and perhaps a more radical, inference that stress clash does
not exist, either. In English simple domains consecutive short stressed vowels never
occur. In suffixed forms the suffix either has a reduced vowel (¼foot recessive
position) or it is autostressed (¼bipositional, i.e. a binary foot). Within a phrase,
non-finally stressed items will never cause stress clash (¼they end in foot recessive
nucleus). Finally stressed items and light monosyllabic content words, on the
other hand, may be also be pedified (hence stressed) post-lexically when they
are followed by an unstressed syllable within the same phrase. The following
unstressed syllable may be either a monosyllabic unstressed function word or the
initial unstressed (lexically unpedified) syllable of the following word, e.g. hit
and. . . or hit another. In such cases, the following unstressed nucleus forms the
recessive branch the foot whose head is the stressed light monosyllable. This is
confirmed by the fact that the word-final [t]s in hit will undergo lenition in both
examples, similarly to the foot medial post-head [d] in hidden [hɪɾ/ʔən]. Then, the
T1 > T2 contour tone is distributed over two nuclear slots belonging to two separate
syllables, hence no compensatory lengthening of the foot head is required. For-
mally, it is captured by post-lexical intrapedal government (N1 ! N2) whereby the
N1 becomes the head of the foot and governs the following nucleus N2 in the phrase.
11
This of course refers to an isolated pronunciation whereby no syntactic or semantic/pragmatic
context supports the word recognition by delimiting the number of words in a given cohort.
Interestingly, while the word Hamas is more likely to be finally stressed in isolation, the initially
stressed variant seems more natural in connected speech, especially in a well-established (e.g.
political) context.
3 Word and Foot Minimality in English: A Metrical Government Analysis 35
9.
Finally, light monosyllabic content words and finally stressed items may be
followed by an initial stressed nucleus of the next word, in which case they also
need to lengthen to form a binary foot as well. Interestingly, English phrase
structure rules successfully prevent the construction of longer sequences of stressed
monosyllabic content words,12
e.g. Bob hit Rod, by separating them with unstressed
function words, which restores minimal foot binarity through the post-lexical
adjunction of the following unstressed nucleus, e.g. Foot(Bob and) Rod. Thus, two
consecutive nuclear positions will never be both stressed. Apparently, stress clash is
a representational illusion experienced only by those who have their feet firmly on
the level of the syllable.
The formal exclusion of unary feet, however, needs to be independently
supported by acoustic data. For this, we must first establish which aspects of the
acoustic characteristics of nuclei and rhymes are a true reflection of phonologically
relevant regularities. One may suspect that the actual pitch and intensity values of
nuclei and rhymes, which are natural exponents of pragmatic speaker- and context-
dependent communicative functions, may be to a large extent non-phonological.
Similarly, the duration of nuclei may also be influenced by stylistic functions. Thus,
we assume that it is not the absolute acoustic values that encode phonological
regularities but rather the systematic networks of relations between the acoustic
correlates of stress that are both phonetically and phonologically relevant. These
relations may then be expressed in terms of metrical governing relations. It is
precisely why we take the systematic lengthening of the nucleus in isolated CVC
monosyllables and finally stressed polysyllables to be phonologically relevant.
As far as unary feet are concerned, neither metrical government obtains nor
systematic acoustic relations can be empirically established. For instance, if one
assumes that light monosyllables are inherently stressed, the actual acoustic values
of stress correlates in such forms prove completely irrelevant, since they cannot be
set against corresponding pitch and intensity values of adjacent rhymes/nuclei.
Thus, the pitch and intensity differences between two or more isolated
pronunciations of a given (C)VC item must be treated as non-phonological, and
perhaps even extralinguistic. In other words, whether the nucleus in a monosyllabic
12
It may be accidental, but nonetheless intriguing, that function words following a content word
are syntactically limited in number. This observation requires an extensive corpus-based analysis,
but, if confirmed, these facts must be rhythmically related.
36 T. Ciszewski
word is pronounced with the pitch maximum of 500 Hz or 150 Hz and the mean
intensity of, let us say, 84 dB or 70 dB, seems irrelevant for the perception of stress.
However, if, hypothetically, the same values are mapped on a disyllabic word
respectively, i.e. 500 Hz/84 dB on the initial nucleus and 150 Hz/70 dB on the
final one, stress is unarguably perceived as initial. Note that in a monosyllabic word
pitch and intensity values of approximately 150 Hz/70 dB13
would also have to be
accepted as perceptually sufficient for the perception of stress. Interestingly, these
values are quite similar to those of the final [ə] in a disyllabic initially stressed
word, e.g. header (160 Hz/76 dB). This empirical paradox is resolved only if light
monosyllables are assumed to be lexically unstressed and monosyllabic F(x) feet
excluded from the typology, since no absolute acoustic properties of the nucleus
can be indentified which correspond to the minimum threshold of stress. Both
phonologically and acoustically/perceptually stress remains a relative property of
nuclei and rhymes. As far as light monosyllabic words are concerned, it is only
through the increase in vowel duration or left-to right post-lexical government that
pitch and intensity differences bound to two adjacent non-empty nuclear positions
may become phonologically relevant and perceived as stress. In our model, this is
formally related to the requirement of minimal foot binarity F(xx).
It needs to be emphasised that the strict ban on unary feet F(x) is first of all a
consequence of their inability to support a contour tone T1T2 (e.g. HL).14
Since
statements and questions in English are respectively marked by L and H terminal
tones, isolated unmarked (statement-like) pronunciations of light monosyllables
require a substantial increase in their duration to accommodate the extra L tone
required in statements. The same holds true for the marked question-like isolated
pronunciations, whereby the extra H+
tone needs to be supplied. In either case, the
increase in duration is required for articulatory reasons.15
In disyllabic (and longer
words) the temporal space necessary for the execution and perceptual robustness of
a complex contour tone (HL or LH) is stretched over two consecutive nuclei, hence
no lengthening of the head nucleus occurs. In government theoretical terms, a
contour tone requires government between two adjacent nuclear positions.
Drawing on Gordon’s idea of “tonal crowding” (2000), we attribute these
differences in the realisation of the stressed nucleus in final vs. non-final position
to the cross-linguistic absence of contour tones on light syllables. Since contour
tones are combinations of two distinct level tones (HL or LH), their execution is
impossible over one timing slot. Thus, a unary foot F(x), both in light monosyllables
and in polysyllabic forms (regardless of its position within a word), would be
13
Compare with the isolated (EPD) pronunciations of: (1) Bob (133Hz/77dB) and (2) kit
(493.5 Hz/73 dB).
14
Since this is a purely articulatory requirement, we infer that the ill-formedness of unary feet is
cross-linguistic.
15
Rather than perceptual ones. As shown experimentally by Janse (2003), the perception of speech
signal in artificially accelerated normal speech does not affect intelligibility. By contrast, when the
subjects were asked to increase the speed of delivery they were unable to double the normal rate
and their intelligibility plummeted.
3 Word and Foot Minimality in English: A Metrical Government Analysis 37
ineligible to carry two distinct tones. Hence, the avoidance of final stress on a light
syllable and the absence of F(x) in polysyllables. The exceptional phonetic
behaviour of both word-final stressed light syllables and light monosyllabic items
is thus a derivative of the phonological ill-formedness of unary feet.
3.4 Conclusion
In our model unary feet are not “degenerate” but non-existent. Thus, the CVC
words and final stressed CVC syllables in order to become stressable must either
acquire an extra nuclear slot (lengthening) or post-lexically govern the following
nucleus/nuclei in order to satisfy the requirements of metrical government. Since
the notion of a governing domain necessarily entails the co-existence of the head
(governor) and the complement (governee), the unary foot F(x) does not represent a
well-formed metrical governing domain.
References
Burzio, L. 1994. Principles of English stress. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Charette, M. 1991. Conditions on phonological government. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Ciszewski, T. 2005. The English stress system: Conditions and parameters. Studia Je
˛zykoznawcze
Wszechnicy Mazurskiej w Olecku.
Ciszewski, T. 2010. Is metrical foot a phonetic object? Research in Language 8: 115–134.
Csides, C. 2004. Farewell to strict directionality: Evidence from English. The Even Yearbook
6: 29–48.
Csides, C. 2007. A strict CV approach to consonant lenition: Bidirectional government in English
phonology. Language Sciences 29:177–202.
Duanmu, S. 1996. Pre-juncture lengthening and foot binarity. Studies in the Linguistic Sciences 26:
95–115.
Gordon, M. 2000. The tonal basis of final weight criteria. Chicago Linguistics Society 3: 141–56.
Gordon, M. 2001. A typology of contour tone restrictions. Studies in Language 25: 405–444.
Gordon, M. 2005. A perceptually-driven account of onset-sensitive stress. Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory 23: 595–653.
Gussmann, E. 2002. Phonology: Analysis and theory. Cambridge University Press.
Halle, M. and J.-R. Vergnaud. 1987. An essay on stress. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Harris, J. 2005. Vowel reduction as information loss. In Headhood, elements, specification and
contrastivity: Phonological papers in honour of John Anderson, eds. P. Carr, J. Durand and
C. J. Ewen, 119–132. Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing.
Harris, J. and E. Gussmann. 1998. Final codas: Why the west was wrong. In Structure and
interpretation in phonology: Studies in phonology, ed. E. Cyran, 139–162. Lublin: Folia.
Hayes, B. 1995. Metrical stress theory: Principles and case studies. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
Janse, E. 2003. Word perception in fast speech: Artificially time-compressed vs. naturally pro-
duced fast speech. Speech Communication 42: 155–173.
38 T. Ciszewski
Lahiri, A. 2001. Metrical patterns. In Language typology and language universals, eds.
K. Ekkehard and M. Haspelmath, 1347–1367. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Manfredi, V. 1993. Spreading and downstep: Prosodic government in tone languages. In The
phonology of tone: The representation of tonal register, eds. H. van der Hulst and K. Snider,
133–84. Berlin, De Gruyter.
Marslen-Wilson, W. D. and L. K. Tyler. 1980. The temporal structure of spoken language
understanding. Cognition 8: 1–71.
Terken, J. and D. Hermes 2000. The perception of prosodic prominence. In Prosody: Theory and
experiment. Studies presented to G€
osta Bruce, eds. M. Horne, 89–127. Dordrecht: Kulwer
Academic Press.
Umeda, N. 1975. Vowel duration in American English. Journal of the Acoustical Society of
America 58: 434–445.
3 Word and Foot Minimality in English: A Metrical Government Analysis 39
.
Part II
Grammar: Morphology and Syntax
.
Chapter 4
The Psychological Reality of Grammar.
A Cognitive Linguistics Perspective
Henryk Kardela
Abstract The paper deals with the issue of “psychological reality” of grammar.
It is claimed that a grammar is “psychologically real” to the extent it meets two
criteria of psychological reality: (1) the criterion of explanatory adequacy in the
sense of Chomsky (1965) and (2) the criterion of “realizability” by a psychological
model of language use. The first criterion is connected with the language acquisi-
tion process – a grammar is psychologically real if it can be learned by a child,
while the second, with the “explicit realization mappings” to the PDP neural model
of language use – a grammar is “real” if its elements can be associated with
analogous constructs in a processing model of language use.
4.1 Introduction
As defined by Joan Bresnan (1978: 3), a linguistic concept is psychologically real
to the extent that it contributes to the explanation of behavior relative to linguistic
judgments [. . .] [The issue relates] to the question as to whether constructions which are
suited for description of one form of verbal behavior (intuitive judgments) are equally
suited to the description of other verbal processes (the comprehension and retention of
sentences) [. . .].
A realistic grammar, Bresnan continues (ibid.),
must not only be psychologically real in this broad sense, but also realizeable. That is, we
should be able to define for it explicit realization mappings to psychological models of
language use. These realizations should map distinct grammatical rules and units in such a
way that different rule types of the grammar are associated with different processing
functions.
H. Kardela (*)
Maria Curie-Skłodowska University, Lublin, Poland
e-mail: henkar@klio.umcs.lublin.pl
M. Pawlak and J. Bielak (eds.), New Perspectives in Language,
Discourse and Translation Studies, Second Language Learning and Teaching,
DOI 10.1007/978-3-642-20083-0_4, # Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2011
43
The paper examines the issue of psychological reality of grammar from a cognitive
linguistics perspective. It is claimed that a grammar is “psychologically real” if it
meets:
1. The criterion of explanatory adequacy in the sense of Chomsky (1965);
2. The criterion of the “explicit realization mappings” to the PDP neural psycho-
logical model of language use.
We discuss these criteria in detail below.
4.2 The Explanatory Adequacy of Grammar
According to Chomsky (1965: 25), for a grammar to be “psychologically real” and,
eo-ipso, be “explanatorily adequate”, it must be able to select, as Chomsky puts it,
“a descriptively adequate grammar on the basis of primary linguistic data” and thus
account “for the intuition of the native speaker on the basis of an empirical
hypothesis concerning the innate predisposition of the child to develop a certain
kind of theory to deal with the evidence presented to him”.
A somewhat different formulation of explanatory adequacy of grammar can be
found in Radford (1981, 1988), where it is stated that a grammar meets explanatory
adequacy if
it correctly predicts which sentences are and are not well-formed in the language, correctly
describes their structure, and also does so in terms of a highly restricted set of optimally
simple, universal, maximally general principles which represent psychologically plausible
natural principles of mental computation, and are “learnable” by the child in a limited
period of time, and given access to limited data. [. . .] to attain explanatory adequacy, a
grammar must in effect be “psychologically real”; in addition, it must be maximally
constrained (Radford 1981: 26; emphasis added).
Because the universal, “maximally general principles which represent psycho-
logically plausible natural principles of mental computation”, are, according to
Chomsky, “radically underdetermined by evidence available to the language
learner”, they must – so the argument goes – be supplied, in the process of language
acquisition, by Universal Grammar - UG (Chomsky 1981: 3). UG, let us add, is
defined by Chomsky as an “innate component of the human mind”, genetically
determined, which, to use Chomsky’s (1986: 3) parlance, “yields a particular language
through interaction with presented experience”.
It should come as no surprise, then, that, seen in this light, the idea of psychologi-
cal reality of grammar is of considerable theoretical importance to both cognitivists
and the adherents of generative grammar, although the basic lines of argumentation
developed by the two linguistic camps differ markedly. Says Langacker (2000: 2):
Regarding the issue of innate specification I make no apriori claims. I do however subscribe
to the general strategy in cognitive and functional linguistics of deriving language structure
insofar as possible from more general psychological capacities (e.g. perception, memory,
categorization), positing inborn language-specific structures only as a last resort.
44 H. Kardela
And he adds (ibid.):
If one aims for psychological reality, it cannot be maintained on purely methodological
grounds that the most parsimonious grammar is the best one. Should it prove that the
cognitive representation of language is in fact massive and highly redundant, the most
accurate description of it (as a psychological entity) will reflect that size and redundancy.
The “massive redundancy” of the cognitive representation of language, alluded
to by Langacker, is reflected in the way cognitive models of grammar approach
linguistic structure. According to Langacker (2000: 1–2), for instance, generative
grammar
has always tried to minimize what a speaker has to learn and mentally represent in
acquiring a language. Its minimalism was originally based on economy: the best grammar
was the one that did the job with the fewest symbols. In recent years, the emphasis has
shifted to positing a richly specified universal grammar, so that the role of experience in
learning a language involves little more than the setting of parameters.
Cognitive linguistics rejects the minimalist approach to language and grammar.
For Langacker, the grammar of a language is an “inventory of conventionalized
linguistic units” (1987: 57), among which one finds, apart from lexical items, forms
such as stock phrases, collocations and other fixed expressions which cannot be
derived by means of syntactic or morphological rules, but which, as Langacker (1987:
35) notes, “thoroughly permeate [language] use”. To them, Langacker explains,
belong expressions such as “take it for granted, hold. . .responsible for, express an
interest in, great idea, tough competitor, [. . .], good to see you, mow the lawn, turn the
page, let the cat out, have great respect for, ready to do, play fair, I’ll do the best I can,
answer the phone, and never want to see. . .again, etc.” (ibid.). It is expressions of this
kind – “prefabs”, as they are sometimes called – that have recently attracted attention
of theorists of language acquisition. The reason for this is twofold.
First, the latest research on L1 acquisition appears to indicate that children
acquire a language piecemeal: making use of available expressions and various
simple constructions, they abstract away schemas from them, which are subse-
quently used to sanction more complex new expressions they encounter
(cf. Tomasello 2000; Da
˛browska 2004; Wray 2002).
There is yet another reason as to why L1 acquisition theorists are interested in
formulaic language. The argument comes from language processing research,
where it is claimed that (1) formulaic language “offers shortcuts” for efficient
conveying of message thereby lessening the burden of rule-governed computation
of meaning and (2) it helps fill in gaps in messages uttered in “poor communicative
conditions”. Thus commenting on Segalowitz’s (1997: 105) observation about the
importance of formulaic language in “understanding a spoken message in a noisy
room”, that is, in a situation in which the person “will not be able to engage in all the
complex processing that the situation requires”, Alison Wray (2005: 15–16)
observes that
it seems reasonable that “the main reason for the prevalence of formulaicity in the adult
language system appears to be the simple processing principle of economy of effort”
(Perkins 1999: 56). This economy occurs because it gives us access to “ready-made
4 The Psychological Reality of Grammar. A Cognitive Linguistics Perspective 45
frameworks on which to hang the expression of our ideas, so that we do not have to go
through the labor of generating an utterance all the way out from ‘S’ every time we want to
say something” (Becker 1975:17).
Seen in this light, it should be clear that in order to meet the criteria of explanatory
adequacy and thus be “psychologically real”, a grammar must be able to offer a
viable account of “formulaic language” as well. Good candidates in this respect
appear to be cognitive, “bottom-up” models of language, i.e. models in which more
general constructions and schemas are abstracted from lower level units, rather than
“top-down” rule-governed models of language of the generative grammar type.
In what follows we take a look now at the cognitive, bottom-up approach to
language acquisition.
4.3 The Cognitive Approach to Language Acquisition
As already remarked, the adherents of cognitive linguistics reject the “minimalist”
as well as “universalist” approach to language acquisition as advocated by the
followers of generative grammar. Tomasello (1995: 138; quoted in Da
˛browska
2004: 70), for example, observes, somewhat sarcastically, that
Many of the Generative Grammar structures that are found in English can be found in other
languages—if it is generative grammarians who are doing the looking. But these structures
may not be found by linguists of other theoretical persuasions because the structures are
defined differently, or not recognized at all, in other linguistic theories.
Challenging generative grammar on the issue of the rule-governed linguistic
creativity in the context of L1 acquisition, Tomasello (2000) notes that linguistic
creativity in the case of language acquisition by children has been “overstated”.
Although it is true, he argues, that, children do develop generalizations, transforming
forms from, say, Allgone paper to Allgone sticky “glue”, on the other hand, the child,
upon hearing a sentence such as The window broke is unable – unless he has already
mastered other usages with the verb break – to form such sentences as He broke it or It
got broken. This, according to Tomasello, should be taken to mean that at this stage
small children have not yet developed the predicate-argument structures and are using
context-determined “concrete” verbs, mastering their syntactic behaviour in the pro-
cessoflanguage acquisition.Da
˛browska (2004: 219) arguesinthe same vein.She says:
Because, according to CG, language is a structured inventory of conventional linguistic
units, during the learning process children acquire a repertory of linguistic units—formu-
laic expressions like Do you want milk, together with appropriate connections between
them. This is so because utterances of this sort, addressed to children by adults are used in a
rich and predictable context, which enables the child to gradually develop some idea about
their meaning.
By way of example Da
˛browska describes a situation in which one day during
breakfast a child looks at a milk carton while his mother pours some milk from
it and says: Do you want milk? During the weeks that follow, Da
˛browska
(2004: 219) notes,
46 H. Kardela
the child hears: You want milk, D’you want milk? or Do you want milk? while the mother is
holding the milk carton and looking at him, walking towards the fridge (which the child
knows contains the milk), and in other mealtime contexts.
The outcome of this is that
[e]ventually [the child] learns that you want milk is used when he wants milk and is offered
it — in other words, he acquires a fixed formula with a communicative function
(Da
˛browska 2004: 219–220).
Below we give, based on Da
˛browska (2004: 182), some of the children’s earliest
question formulas appearing in order of emergence in the acquisition process of
three children with age range 1.8–2.4, as found in MacWhinney’s (1995) database:
What’s this/that?; Where NP?; What’s NP?; Who VP (VP ¼ did that)?; What (is) NP
doing; Is it AP?; What happened to NP; Why S?; Is NP going to work?
Formulas of this kind, the results of carefully structured studies on questions
with long distance dependences of the sort What did you say they thought Maria
believed Chris needed? (p. 196), studies on contraction and inverted/uninverted
questions involving auxiliary placement (pp. 191–196) – all this, in Da
˛browska’s
view, argues against a rule governed mechanism of question formation à la
Chomsky, in favor of the “piecemeal learning” thesis as advocated by cognitivists.
Says Da
˛browska (p. 200):
On the standard generative account, the acquisition of questions involves learning to apply
two rules, WH fronting and subject-auxiliary inversion. Both of these rules are very
general, but subject to certain constraints. Such constraints are thought to be unlearnable,
and hence the fact that humans apparently obey them is sometimes regarded as providing
the clinching evidence for the existence of innate Universal Grammar [. . .].
For Da
˛browska, the evidence available now thanks to the advances in modern
acquisition research suggests an entirely different scenario of language develop-
ment. Thus she says (ibid.):
[. . .] early usage is highly stereotypical and [. . .] development proceeds from invariant
formulas through increasingly general formulaic frames to abstract templates. [. . .] devel-
opment is piecemeal, in the sense that children learn the correct word order independently
for each construction, and the same changes occur at different times in different
constructions. We also found no evidence of abrupt changes in behaviour which might
indicate a shift to a different productive mechanism: instead we see slow, steady progress.
This suggests that the endpoint of development – that is to say, adult grammar – might be
rather similar to the kinds of representations that children use; in other words, that adult
knowledge comprises not constraints on movement and such like, but rather fairly general
templates like Can NP VP?, Who VP? And What BE NP TRANS.V-ing? These would also
allow speakers to produce and understand a wide variety of different question types, thus
accounting for the observed flexibility of adult behaviour. However, they do not involve
movement, and hence do not require innate constraints or an abstract level of syntactic
representation distinct from surface structure.1
1
Some evidence that speakers make use of ready-made templates and insert new material in them
when producing long distance wh-question formations rather than follow rules and constraints
comes, in Da
˛browska’s view, from the grammaticality judgments of speakers of English involving
4 The Psychological Reality of Grammar. A Cognitive Linguistics Perspective 47
If Da
˛browska is right – if speakers of a language do indeed “fill in the slots” in the
ready made templates acquired piecemeal in the process of language acquisition –
then a more plausible grammar and thus a more “realistic” one should be a grammar
that makes principled use of formulaic structures of this sort rather than a grammar
which proposes rules and constraints on them. Needless to say, seen from this angle,
all usage-based, bottom-up models of grammar which are currently being devel-
oped in the general framework of cognitive linguistics, Ronald Langacker’s Cogni-
tive Grammar included, can be said to be “psychologically real” grammars.
As we shall see presently, Cognitive Grammar appears to meet another criterion
of psychological reality, namely the criterion of satisfying “explicit realization
mappings” to a theory of language processing. A good candidate for a language
processing theory appears to be a PDP neural model of language use, to which we
turn now.
4.4 The PDP System and the Realizability of a Grammar
The Paralel Distributed Processing system – PDP – is a system of highly complex
computer simulation programs of information processing (also referred to as Con-
nectionism). A “typical” PDP model is presented in Fig. 4.1 below. The PDP model
consists of units which are treated as being equivalent to biological neurons. Units
are linked with other units by connections whereby each unit receives input from
another unit and provides input to other units in the system. Neural network models
of this kind involve units, activations, connections and connection weights.
prototypical and non-prototypical structures of this sort. If, as Da
˛browska notes, people were
following general rules, there would be “no [felt] difference between prototypical and
unprototypical questions, provided that the corresponding declaratives are equally acceptable. If,
however, they use lexically specific templates, they should rate the prototypical questions as more
acceptable than the unprototypical ones”. (p.199) The data presented by Da
˛browska, including the
acceptability ratings, appear to support this claim (p. 199):
Prototypical interrogative: Where do you think they sent the documents? Mean: 4.5
Unprototypical interrogative: Where will the customers remember they sent
the documents?
Mean: 3.3
Prototypical declarative: You think they sent the documents to the
Head Office.
Mean: 4.0
Unprototypical declarative: The customers will remember they sent the
documents to the Head Office.
Mean: 3.7
Ungrammatical: *Who do you think that left? Mean: 1.9
*He left in the office and had to go back.
48 H. Kardela
A connectionist model contains three layers of units, including input units, output
units and hidden units. These three types of units, which are represented diagram-
matically by circles, are linked by connections, symbolized by lines/arrows. In a so-
called feed/forward network, information flows forward from the network’s INPUT
units, via its HIDDEN units, to its OUTPUT units. A hidden unit receives signals
from input units, processes these signals and sends them – in the form of activations
(or activation value) represented by numbers – as OUTPUT to other units.
Neural networks are dynamic systems: when information is processed, some
units send stronger, while others weaker activations. The activation values are
represented by numbers and they oscillate between 0 and 1 for each unit. The
activation value system is shown in Fig. 4.2.
The connections between the input and output units are assigned “weights”,
which represent the function of synapses in the real brain. In order to calculate the
total connection weight, (cj), between the input units and output units one has to
multiply the given weight and the activation value of the unit. The weight calcula-
tion in a neural network can be presented diagrammatically, as depicted in Fig. 4.3.
Now, although Cognitive Grammar and the generative theory both aim at
providing a systematic, explicit description of the internal representation of
Output units
Hidden units
Input units
output information
input information
Fig. 4.1 A typical PDP
model (Stufflebeam 2006; see
also a discussion in Bechtel
and Abrahamsen 1991 and
Cattel 2006)
Least
active
less
active average
more
active
most
active
0 .1, .2, .3, .4, .5, .6, .7, .8, .9 1
discrete
(digital)
discrete
(digital)
Non discrete (analog)
Fig. 4.2 The activation value system (Stufflebeam 2006)
4 The Psychological Reality of Grammar. A Cognitive Linguistics Perspective 49
language structure, of the two it is the cognitive account of such internal represen-
tation that can be more readily, it seems, “realized” within a connectionist model of
language processing. According to Langacker (1991: 533), Cognitive Grammar,
has, as he puts it, (1) a “natural affinity to connectionism” as neither model makes
use of explicit rules, claiming that they “are unnecessary for a viable account of
mental processing” and (2) Cognitive Grammar conceives of the speaker’s know-
ledge of “grammatical patterns and restrictions” in such a way “that a connectionist
account of its internal representation is quite imaginable”. One can “imagine”
a connectionist account of “the internal representation” because the “organizational
features within the cognitive processing” are, as Langacker notes (p. 534),
emergent rather than fundamental; they reside at higher levels of organization that emerge
in processing activity whose basic character is roughly as envisaged in neural network
modeling. [. . .] linguistic knowledge is stored in connection weights, and no direct analog
of linguistic rules is discernible at the level.
Yet, although “no direct analog of linguistic rules is discernible” at the level of
processing activity, this should not be taken to mean, Langacker observes, that “no
analog of linguistic rules can be discerned at any level of cognitive organization”. In
his view, linguistic constructs postulated for linguistic description – although they
“are unlikely to be directly and individually represented at the level of weighted
neural connections” – have for him “some kind of cognitive validity” as they (p. 534)
might [. . .] correspond to certain aspects of the processing supported by these connections.
Thus given a strongly motivated and psychologically plausible linguistic description, as
well as a successful PDP model of the same phenomena, it would be both natural and [. . .]
quite profitable to search for points of contact between the two.
But where exactly should one look, “quite profitably”, for “points of contact”
between the two theoretical systems? The shortest answer is: one should look for
them in the network of schematizations. For, according to Langacker, rules in
Cognitive Grammar have the form of schematizations of expressions and are, as
he puts it, “inherent in [. . .] the patterns of cognitive activity in whose occurrence
COMBINED INPUT (Cj)
wj1
a1
wj2 wj3
x a2 a3
x x
...weights
...activations
cj
... =
Fig. 4.3 The weight calculations in a neural network (Stufflebeam 2006). cj ¼ the sum of each
INPUT activation multiplied by its connection weight
50 H. Kardela
their instantiations reside”. This being the case, linguistic rules, Langacker explains
(p. 535),
have a straightforward connectionist interpretation that invokes the standard notion of a state
space. A PDP system with n units defines an n-dimensional state space, in which each
dimension comprises a range of values that correspond to a particular unit’s possible levels
of activation. [. . .] As the system operates, it changes state from one instant to the next [. . .]
and thus traverses a path through state space. [. . .] [i]f mental experience reduces to patterns of
neural activation, then [. . .] entertaining a concept, or invoking a linguistic structure—can be
identified either with a location in state space or a path (a series of locations).
The parallels between a schema and a “diffuse location (or series of locations)” in
the PDP system established, the extraction of a schema from its instantiations can now
be described in terms of a neural account. Thus, according to Langacker (1991: 528),
when patterns of activation corresponding to specific structures appear within a certain
region of state space, they trigger adjusting connection weights which induce the
occurrence of activation patterns falling in that region. PDP models can be said to be
realistic from the standpoint of categorization, because they can, for instance, give rise
to prototype effects.
What sort of linguistic phenomena then should a PDP system be able to account
for under the “realization mappings” condition between Cognitive Grammar and
a neural network? In Langacker’s view, a linguistically viable PDP model must
account for complex structured conceptualizations such as the conceptual embed-
ding of complex sentences, quantifier scope. The model must be able to implement
the co-activation of distinct structures and establish correspondences between them
while retaining their separate identity. Examples include analyzability, metaphorical
structuring and the correspondences between elements of different mental spaces in
the sense of Fauconnier (1985) and Fauconnier and Turner (2002). An adequate
PDP model must be able to handle conventional imagery, including profiling,
trajector/landmark asymmetry, vantage point, and subjectivity.
In what follows we concentrate on one aspect of linguistic structure, namely the
reflexive – antecedent relation, a relation that crucially involves profiling, salience,
trajector/landmark asymmetry and vantage point.
4.5 Reflexivisation in Cognitive Grammar
Reflexivisation in Cognitive Grammar, together with possessivity, metonymy and
so-called “raising” phenomena, is analyzed in terms of the so-called reference point
relationship (Langacker 1991). In a typical reference point configuration,
exemplified by the possessive construction John’s picture, for instance, the con-
ceptualizer (the speaker/hearer) gains, through the reference point, access to the
range of targets, i.e. to concepts and meanings associated with the concept JOHN
(such as, for example, picture, hat, book, girl-friend, etc.), which are located in the
so-called dominion for the concept JOHN.
4 The Psychological Reality of Grammar. A Cognitive Linguistics Perspective 51
Exactly the same mechanism is responsible, according to Langacker, for the
establishing of the antecedent - reflexive relation in sentences such as John washed
himself (cf. Langacker 1999). In this sentence, the antecedent John sets up
a reference point and establishes a dominion in which the pronoun himself (target)
gets its interpretation. The antecedent is construed as a viewer, who “looks at” the
reflexive from his vantage point. Whereas, as Langacker notes, pronouns like
reflexives, are “immediately accessible” to the conceptualizer in the current dis-
course context, a full nominal (here John), which is potentially treated as a
reference point, is not. What actually determines whether a particular nominal is
eligible or not for a reference point and how large the context over which it ranges
is expected to be is determined by a number of factors including the salience of
the prospective reference point and the nature of the conceptual connections with
other elements. On the Cognitive Grammar account, the decreasing accessibility of
reference points to the targets should be treated as an extent to which a given
reference point configuration should be judged to depart from the prototypical
configuration. In what follows we explore in some detail instances of departure
from the prototype in question.
Consider the following examples, which involve the reference point relationship
proposed for reflexives (cf. Kardela 2009: 262):
1. Peter saw himself in the mirror.
2. John talked to Greg about himself.
3. (a) John talked to Mary about herself.
(b) *John talked about Mary with herself.
4. A picture of himself hanging in John’s office appears to frighten Tom’s brother.
5. Jan obiecał Marysi [– kupić sobie płaszcz].
‘John promised Mary to buy himself a coat.’
6. Jan kazał Marysi [– kupić sobie płaszcz].
‘John asked Mary to buy himself/herself a coat.’
(1) is a well formed sentence: the first NP that is encountered by the conceptualizer
is John, which, in the reference point relationship, fits the specification of person
and number required for the reflexive. In (2), there are two potential reference
points for the target, namely John and Greg. The sentences in (3) show an interest-
ing contrast: whereas, as expected, of the two possible candidates for antecedents in
(3a), it is Mary that is eligible for the reference point (on account of satisfying the
person and number feature specifications); this is not so in the (3b) sentence, where
no mental path can be established between Mary and herself. In (4) the reference
point relationship between the target and the reference point is not easy to establish
as the reflexive is not only situated to the left of the potential antecedent, but also
the potential antecedents, John and Tom, enter the reference point relationships
with office and brother, respectively. Still, himself is associated with Tom’s brother,
not with John or Tom. Certainly, this sentence is not easy to process; it definitely
departs from the prototypical reference point relationship for the reflexives. (5) is
52 H. Kardela
unproblematic: the reflexive sobie in this sentence can only refer to the subject Jan
as the verb obiecac
´ ‘promise’ is a “subject-oriented” verb; (6), however, does pose
a problem as the reflexive sobie here can either refer to the subject or to the object
despite the fact that kazac
´ ‘order’ is an object-oriented verb (hence sobie should
refer to the object of the main clause, that is to Marysia, not to Jan).
4.6 Parameters on Reflexivisation as Weights-Related
Realization Mappings to a PDP System
The sentences involving reflexives discussed above and, indeed, any sentence
involving the reflexive-antecedent relationship, can, as already observed, be arranged
according to the decreasing accessibility of reference points (antecedents) to the
targets (reflexive pronouns). That is, the argument goes, the more difficult it is for
a reflexive to enter a reference point configuration with its antecedent, the less
prototypical this configuration should be judged to be. The question now is how to
measure the degree of this prototypicality.
We would like to suggest, and this solution was adopted in Kardela (2009), that
the departure in question should be formulated in terms of a set of parameters on
reflexivisation. The parameters on reference point configuration for reflexives, in
turn, we would like to claim now, should have – under the “realizability condition”
– some analogs in the PDP theory. It seems to us that the best candidates for such
analogs in a PDP model are weights.
First, consider the parameters on the reference point relationship for reflexivisation.
We shall discusstwosuch parameters: the Accessibility of Reference Points Parameter–
ARPP and the Deagentivisation Parameter – DP (cf. Kardela 2009). The role of such
parameters is, to reiterate, to signal the varying degrees to which a given reference
point relationship should be judged to depart from the prototypical reflexive ante-
cedent relationship.
Let us look at the ARPP parameter first. In Kardela (2009) we claim that this
parameter crucially involves the notion of chain of command principle in the sense
of Kuno (1987: 96; see also Deane 1992: 206). This being the case, the
prototypicality scale involving the ARPP for the Polish reflexives, for instance,
might look as follows (the most prototypical antecedent-reflexive configurations
are instances in (7a)(i) and (7b)(i), while the least prototypical are those in (7a)(iii)
and (7b)(iii); cf. Kardela 2009: 263):
7. The ARPP and the prototypicality scale for the Polish reflexives
(a) The Syntactic Scale: The accessibility of the subject of a verb for a reflexive
varies in strength according to the syntactic role of the anaphor and is
(i) Strongest in the case of the verb’s direct object anaphor: Jan umył sie
˛
‘John washed himself’,
(ii) Middle in the case of the object of a complement clause: Jan kazał Marysi
[SUB kupic
´ sobie płaszcz] ‘J. Asked Mary to buy him/her a coat’,
4 The Psychological Reality of Grammar. A Cognitive Linguistics Perspective 53
(iii) Weakest (unpredictable) inthe caseof sie
˛ in prefixed inchoativeverbs: Jan
za-siedział sie
˛-refl ‘Jan stayed-Perf. too long’ vs.*Jan nie u-siedział-Perf.
sie
˛-refl’ vs. Jan nie usiedział ‘J. did not hold out staying in one place’.
(b) The Semantic Scale: The accessibility of the subject of a verb for a reflexive
varies in strength according to the semantic/discourse nature of the reflexive
and is
(i) Strongest in the case of definite animate NP: Jan umył sie
˛ ‘John washed
himself’,
(ii) Middle in the case of definite inanimate NP: Gała
˛z
´ sie
˛ złamała ‘The
branch broke refl-sie
˛’,
(iii) Weakest in the case of impersonal constructions -no, -to pragmatically
governed: Nie odrobiło sie
˛ lekcji, co? ‘One/you did not do you classes,
did you’ (reproach).
We will take a look now at the parameter-based prototypical reference point
relationship for reflexives from the point of view of the deagentivisation process,
which in Polish is marked by, inter alia, the presence of the reflexive particle sie
˛.
In order to do so, we have to introduce first the notion of energy chain.
In Ronald Langacker’s model of Cognitive Grammar an event can be looked at
from two perspectives: from the point of view of the so-called force dynamics
construal and from the point of view of the so-called absolute construal.2
These
two perspectives involve the so-called energy chain, in which an event is seen as
involving the flow of energy which is transmitted from one participant to another
(Langacker 1991: 283). The energy chain, in turn, gives rise to the so-called
canonical event model, which underlies the prototypical transitive construction
and which, as Langacker (1991: 285–286) puts it, represents “the normal observa-
tion of a prototypical action”.
The canonical event model includes elements which provide specifications for
semantic roles such as agent, patient, instrument, experiencer, etc. In contradistinc-
tion to traditional approaches, however, these roles, called by Langacker “role
archetypes”, are treated by Cognitive Grammar not as linguistic roles but rather
as pre-linguistic conceptualisations. The archetypal agent is thus a person who
volitionally “initiates physical activity”. As a result, the transfer of energy takes
place to an external object. The archetypal patient “absorbs” the energy and
undergoes a change of state. The instrument is a physical object which is
manipulated by the agent and serves as the “intermediary” in the transmission of
energy. The experiencer is a person who is engaged in mental activity, and the
mover (or theme) is an entity which changes its location.
As already observed, the canonical event model represents the prototypical
transitive construction: the participant who is typically an agent initiates the energy
2
For a detailed discussion of the absolute construal of events, see Langacker (1991); for a
discussion of the absolute construal of the sie
˛-constructions in Polish, see Kardela (2000, 2009).
54 H. Kardela
which is transmitted onto the patient. However, there exist constructions which
depart from their transitive prototype in that they form a hierarchical organization
in which each instance of such departure represents a “less transitive” type. The
departures from the prototype form a cline, represented by the transitivity hierarchy
(Maldonado 1992: 63).
8. The transitivity hierarchy
Transitive > reflexive > oblique intransitive > middle > intransitive > absolute
The hierarchy in (8) can be exemplified by the following examples from Polish:
9. Marysia zapamie
˛tała słowa Piotra. (transitive)
‘Mary remembered Peter’s words.’
10. (Ja) zapamie
˛tałem siebie jako małego chłopca skorego do bójki. (reflexive)
‘I remembered myself as a boy ready to fight.’
11. Piotr długo zastanawiał sie
˛ nad problemem przeludnienia. (oblique
intransitive)
‘Peter reflected on the problem of overpopulation for a long time.’
12. (Ja) pamie
˛tałem o jego słowach. (middle)
‘I remembered (of) his words.’
13. Długo myślałem zanim napisałem pierwsze zdanie. (absolute)
‘I reflected a lot before writing the first sentence.’
According to (8), the most prototypical transitive construction is (9), since the
energy flows from the agent (Marysia) to the patient (słowa Piotra ‘Peter’s words’).
A less prototypical construction is (10), in which one participant is coded by both
the subject, ja ‘I’, and the reflexive siebie ‘myself’. The least prototypical is (13), in
which only one participant appears.
We can now introduce the Dagentivisation Parameter.
14. The Deagentivisation Parameter:
The use of sie
˛ signals the departure from a prototypical transitive construction
(with a (human) agent and a patient).
In accordance with (14), out of the following examples, the sentence in (18)
represents a fully deagentivized construction.
4 The Psychological Reality of Grammar. A Cognitive Linguistics Perspective 55
15. Jan uderzył Piotra.
‘John hit Peter.’
16. Me
˛żczyźni pozdrawiali sie
˛/siebie nawzajem.
‘The men greeted each other.’
17. Piotr widział siebie/sie
˛ w lustrze.
‘Peter saw himself in the mirror.’
18. Lód stopił sie
˛.
‘The ice melted-refl.’
The greatest degree of deagentivization of (18) is due to the fact that this sentence
codes an event in which the last element of the energy chain is profiled, with
the agent and instrument being present in the base, but remaining unprofiled
(cf. Langacker 1991).
This brings us to our initial problem, i.e. how to establish the “realization
mappings” between the parameters on the reference point relationship for reflexives
and a PDP system. Suppose that, as already mentioned, the parameters for the
reference point configuration for reflexives, formulated in (7), have, in a PDP system,
their analogs in the form of weights. If so, the prototypicality effects in the case of the
reference point relationship for reflexives should be seen as corresponding to the
activation values-as-reflected-in-the-weights of the PDP system. This being the case,
a diagrammatic presentation of a computer-simulated program for the “realization
mappings” of the parameters on reflexives to the PDP system of weights might look
as depicted in Fig. 4.4 (arrows symbolize realization mappings).3
4.7 Conclusion and Prospects for Further Research
It should be clear that the psychological reality of grammar (and its explanatory
adequacy), defined either in terms of language acquisition theories or in terms of
Joan Bresnan’s “realization mappings” to a language processing model (like PDP)
has no direct link with the actual behaviour of the brain when engaged in informa-
tion processing. This is so because all connectionist theories are computer
simulations of what may be going on in the actual biological brain milieu and are,
3
Note that we say nothing here of what exactly a computer-simulated neural network program
should look like. We have nothing to say about the realization mappings of the sort presented in
Michael Fortescue’s (2009) study A neural network model of lexical organization; nor do we claim
to have aspired and developed in this paper an actual program of the sort proposed by Rummelhart
and McClelland (1986) to account for the acquisition of linguistic structure by the child. Rather,
we have attempted to show what kind of theorizing might lie behind an attempt to associate the
linguistic parameters on the reference point phenomena for reflexives as presented in Sect. 4.6 with
their analogs in a PDP system.
56 H. Kardela
from this point of view, treated as so-called neural bridging theories. This is not to
say, of course, that the theoretical import of such theories is insignificant. Says
Tomasz Krzeszowski (2010: 48–49; trans. mine):
weights weights weights
Accessibility of
Reference Points
Parameter
(i) The Syntactic
Scale: The ac-
cessibility of the
subject of a verb
for a reflexive
varies according
to the syntactic
role of the ana-
phor.
(ii) The Semantic
Scale: The ac-
cessibility of the
subject of a verb
for a reflexive
varies according
to the seman-
tic/discourse na-
ture of the ref-
lexive.
Deagentivisation
Parameter
transitive > re-
flexive > ob-
lique intransit-
ive > middle >
intransitive >
absolute
weights weights
weights
weights
weights
Parameter
X
…
…
…
…
…
…
Parameter
Y
weigths
weights
Fig. 4.4 A diagrammatic presentation of a computer-simulated program for the “realization
mappings” of the parameters on reflexives to the PDP system of weights
4 The Psychological Reality of Grammar. A Cognitive Linguistics Perspective 57
Models based on [the neural theory of language] simulate the ways in which neural
connections perform simple cognitive tasks such as the acquisition of concepts and spatial
terms (cf. Regier 1996), the acquisition of verbs expressing hand movement (Bailey 1997)
or, finally, some issues pertaining to the meaning of conceptual metaphors. Neural bridging
theories are criticized by their critics on the grounds that they describe the behaviour of
virtual connectionist models and not the behaviour of the brains of concrete individuals. By
the same token, the bridging theories – while attempting to define the mechanism of neural
connections – completely ignore the issue of their localization in the brain. It is hard to
overestimate the theoretical value of such models even though they have to be verified on
the grounds of research on real brains.
It is a verification of bridging theories by neurolinguistic brain research that
could bring a real breakthrough in answering the fundamental questions about the
relation between the real brain processing, language and reasoning, including
the following (Krzeszowski 2010: 48; see also Wróbel 2003 for related discussion):
(1) In what way are the neurons in the brain, linked to each other and with the whole
of the human body, related to reasoning or, just to plain thoughts? (2) What do the
computational mechanisms underlying neurons which are responsible for thinking
look like? (3) What is the import of the fact that the neural connections in the brain
are also connected with other parts of the body? (4) How does the neural structure
learn, reflect and relate to conceptual structure and to language corresponding to
it? Until these questions are satisfactorily answered, the psychological reality of
grammar is bound to be defined in terms of the formulaicity-based theories of
language acquisition or the “realization mappings” à la Bresnan involving neural
bridging theories of the PDP type.
References
Bailey, D. 1997. When push comes to shove. A computational model of the role of motor control
in the acquisition of active verbs. Unpublished PhD dissertation, University of California at
Berkeley.
Bechtel, W. and A. Abrahamsen. 1991. Connectionism and the mind: An introduction to parallel
processing in networks. Oxford: Blackwell.
Becker, J. 1975. The phrasal lexicon. In Bolt Beranek & Newman Report no. 3081, AI Report no.
28. Reprinted in Theoretical issues in natural language processing, eds. R. Shank and B. L.
Nash-Webber, 60-63. Cambridge, MA: Bolt Beranek and Newman.
Bresnan, J. 1978. A realistic transformational grammar. In Linguistic theory and psychological
reality, eds. M. Halle, J. Bresnan and G. Miller, 1-59. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.
Cattel, R. 2006. An introduction to mind, consciousness and language. London: Continuum.
Chomsky, N. 1965. Aspects of the theory of syntax. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 1981. Lectures on government and binding. Dordrecht: Foris Publications.
Chomsky, N. 1986. Knowledge of language: Its nature, origin and use. New York: Praeger.
Da
˛browska E. 2004. Language, mind and brain. Some psychological and neurological constraints
on theories of grammar. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
Deane, P. 1992. Grammar in mind and brain. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Fauconnier, G. 1985. Mental spaces: Aspects of meaning construction in natural language.
Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.
Fauconnier, G. and M. Turner. 2002. The way we think. Conceptual blending and the mind’s
hidden complexities. New York: Basic Books.
58 H. Kardela
Fortescue, M. 2009. A neural network model of lexical organisation. London: Continuum.
Kardela, H. 2000. Dimensions and parameters in grammar. A study in A/D asymmetries and
subjectivity relations in Polish. Lublin: Maria Skłodowska Curie University Press.
Kardela, H. 2009. Cognitive grammar as a parametrized continuum of linguistic units. In
New pathways in linguistics, eds. S. Puppel and M. Bogusławska-Tafelska. Olsztyn:
Uniwersytet Warmińsko-Mazurski.
Krzeszowski, T. 2010. Perspektywy semantyki. In Studia je
˛zykoznawcze: od je
˛zykoznawstwa
teoretycznego do stosowanego, ed. J. Fisiak. Kraków: Tertium.
Kuno, S. 1987. Functional syntax. Harvard University Press.
Langacker, R. 1987. Foundations of cognitive grammar. Vol. 1. Theoretical prerequisites.
Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Langacker, R. 1991. Foundations of cognitive grammar. Vol. 2. Descriptive application. Stanford:
Stanford University Press.
Langacker, R. 1999. Grammar and conceptualization. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Langacker, R. 2000. A dynamic usage-based model. In Usage-based models of language, eds. M.
Barlow and S. Kemmer, 1-63. Stanford: CSLI Publications.
MacWhinney, R. 1995. The CHILDES project: Tools for analyzing talk. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence
Erlbaum.
Maldonado, R. 1992. Middle voice. The case of Spanish ‘SE’. Unpublished PhD dissertation,
University of California, San Diego.
Perkins, M. R. 1999. Productivity and formulaicity in language development. In Issues in normal
& disordered child language: From phonology to narrative. Special Issue of The New
Bulmershe Papers, eds. M. Garman, C. Letts, B. Richards, C. Schelletter and S. Edwards,
51-67. Reading: University of Reading.
Radford, A. 1981. Transformational syntax. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Radford, A. 1988. Transformational grammar. A first course. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Regier, T. 1996. The human semantic potential: Spatial language and constrained connectionism.
Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.
Rummelhart, D. and L. McClelland. 1986. Parallel distributed processing: Explorations in the
microstructure of cognition. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.
Segalowitz, N. 1997. Individual differences in second language acquisition. In Tutorials in
bilingualism: Psycholinguistic perspectives, eds. A. M. B. Groot and J. F. Kroll, 85-112.
Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Stufflebeam, R. 2006. Connectionism: An introduction. http://www.mind.ilstu.edu/curriculum.
Accessed 15 August 2010.
Tomasello, M. 1995. Language is not an instinct. Cognitive Development 10: 131-156.
Tomasello, M. 2000. Do young children have adult syntactic competence? Cognition 74: 209-253.
Wray, A. 2002. Formulaic language and the lexicon. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Wróbel, S. 2003. Spór inżynierów: koneksjonizm a klasyczna architektura umysłu. Przegla
˛d
Filozoficzno Literacki 4.
4 The Psychological Reality of Grammar. A Cognitive Linguistics Perspective 59
.
Chapter 5
A Morphologist’s Perspective on “Event
Structure Theory” of Nominalizations
Maria Bloch-Trojnar
Abstract The paper pinpoints problems of a morpheme-based approach to de-
verbal nominalizations as advocated by Grimshaw (1990) and Alexiadou and
Grimshaw (2008). It is argued that nominalizations are capable of exhibiting the
process/result dichotomy regardless of their formal exponent and there are two
types of regular nominals which differ in terms of their aspectual characteristics.
Nominalizations in -ing, which in Grimshaw’s model are regarded as Complex
Event Nominals analyzable in terms of aspectual distinctions and having an
associated argument structure, may display the process/result dichotomy and
some concrete -ing formations can pluralize (building). Zero nominalizations, in
turn, which are regarded as Simple Event Nominals with no a-structure, are
demonstrated to be capable of appearing with satellite phrases corresponding to
verbal arguments. They are telic, i.e. denote events and therefore have an aspectual
analysis. Regardless of their actional interpretation, Grimshaw treats zero
derivatives on a par with result nominalizations because they are countable and
can pluralize, whereas, in fact, countability points to their telic character. Being
telic they do not accept aspectual modifiers (for an hour, in an hour) or modifiers
like frequent or constant, unless they are in the plural. Also their limited ability to
accept NP satellite phrases may be explained in terms of their aspectual
characteristics. Consequently, the properties of nominalizations are a reflection of
the properties of two productive lexical rules which generate countable and
uncountable nominalizations and lexicalization phenomena. Formal exponents
should be regarded merely as clues rather than determinants of meaning/function.
M. Bloch-Trojnar (*)
John Paul II Catholic University of Lublin, Lublin, Poland
e-mail: bloch@kul.pl
M. Pawlak and J. Bielak (eds.), New Perspectives in Language,
Discourse and Translation Studies, Second Language Learning and Teaching,
DOI 10.1007/978-3-642-20083-0_5, # Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2011
61
5.1 Introduction
This paper is an appraisal of a morpheme-based approach to deverbal
nominalizations as advocated by Grimshaw (1990) and Alexiadou and Grimshaw
(2008).1
Grimshaw’s model (1990) undoubtedly pinpoints the differences in the syntactic
patterning of regular and lexicalized deverbal nominalizations and there is merit to
the idea that the analysis of nominalizations should take into account aspectual
distinctions. However, she attributes the properties of nominalizations to the affixes
involved, which results in an inaccurate description of linguistic facts and has
insufficient explanatory potential. By introducing the level of Argument Structure
(henceforth AS), Grimshaw (1990) acknowledges the lack of isomorphism between
semantic and syntactic structures.2
However, she strictly adheres to isomorphism
between lexical and grammatical categories and their phonological manifestation.
In her approach bound morphemes have lexical entries and morphological
operations involve concatenation of morphemes in accordance with their subcate-
gorization restrictions.
In the model of Lexeme Morpheme Base Morphology (Beard 1995) advocated
here “semantics, derivation, and affixation represent three distinct levels of
morphological operations, which require two distinct mapping systems” (Beard
1998: 55). The rules determining the phonological representation of bound
1
By choosing the “event structure theory” of Grimshaw we also refer indirectly to the “structure
model”, in which nouns that have Argument Structure in their representation contain VPs and/or
verbal functional layers (e.g. Fu et al. 2001; Alexiadou 2001, 2009; Roeper 2005; Harley 2009).
Alexiadou and Grimshaw (2008: 10) compare both models and conclude that “the principal
difficulties arise from the non-uniformity of deverbal nominalization patterns: different affixation
types exhibit different behaviour. The successes and failures of the two models occur on exactly
the same questions. What one describes, the other describes. What one fails to explain, the other
fails to explain, and for fundamentally the same reasons.”
2
The lexical representation of verbs has two facets, i.e. syntactic representation (Argument
Structure) and semantic representation, which following Hale and Keyser (1986) has come to be
known as the “lexical conceptual structure” (LCS). LCS serves as a representation of the verb’s
meaning and among others specifies semantic relations obtaining between participants and spatio-
temporal organization of the event. Despite close correlation between the two structures it is
important to keep them distinct since there is no simple one-to-one mapping of theta roles and
various syntactic roles or surface cases. Only true arguments (Pustejovsky 1995: 63–64) are
necessarily mapped onto/expressed as syntactic constituents (John arrived late), whereas default
arguments (John built a house out of bricks), and shadow arguments (Mary buttered her toast with
an expensive butter) are not. The opposite situation is just as conceivable, i.e. there may be verbs
with supernumerary syntactic arguments which contribute nothing to the semantics, e.g. reflexive
arguments of perjure oneself, avail oneself of X. Furthermore, synonymous verbs may feature in
different syntactic configurations, e.g. replace X with Y, substitute Y for X (Jackendoff 2010:
16–17). The level of Argument Structure introduced by Grimshaw (1990) is that part of the lexical
entry which interfaces LCS representation and deep structure. It is derived from Lexical-Concep-
tual Structure via thematic and aspectual hierarchy.
62 M. Bloch-Trojnar
morphemes are independent of the rules targeting the lexical or morphosyntactic
representation, which is known as the Separation Hypothesis.3
In what follows we shall demonstrate that nominalizations are capable of
exhibiting the process/result dichotomy regardless of their formal exponent and
that there are two types of regular nominals which differ in terms of their aspectual
characteristics. Consequently, the properties of nominalizations are a reflection of
the properties of two productive lexical rules which generate countable and
uncountable nominalizations and lexicalization phenomena. Formal markers
should be regarded merely as clues rather than determinants of meaning/function.
5.2 Event Structure Model
5.2.1 Grimshaw (1990)
Grimshaw (1990) distinguishes two types of deverbal nominalizations, which differ
in their Argument Structure licensing potential. There are complex event nominals
(CE nominals) which are analyzable in terms of aspectual distinctions and which
have an associated AS like verbs, and simple event or result nominals which lack
both. In contradistinction to verbs the external argument in CE nominalizations is
optional. If the external argument is present (either as a NP in the genitive case or a
by-PP), the internal argument is obligatory.
1. Complex Event Nominals
shooting, destruction, assignment
(The enemy’s) destruction of the city
The destruction of the city (by the enemy)
The shooting of rabbits by Bill
Simple Event/Result Nominals
destruction, assignment, buy, offer, race, war, storm, trip
The destruction was complete.
A good buy/race
*A good buy of clothes
Gerundive nominals possess all properties typical of CE nominals, i.e. they
allow only the definite determiner thus precluding the indefinite article, the
3
Apart from Beard (1976, 1985, 1995) it is also argued for by Laskowski (1981), Szymanek
(1985), Malicka-Kleparska (1985, 1988), Aronoff (1994), and Bloch-Trojnar (2006). Lexical and
syntactic rules are abstract operations, which apply to the grammatical representation of a lexeme,
whereas affixation and other morphological processes (prosodic variation, internal modification,
∅, etc.) are effected in an autonomous postsyntactic Morphological Spelling Component.
5 A Morphologist’s Perspective on “Event Structure Theory” of Nominalizations 63
demonstrative or pronominal one, never pluralize and never occur predicatively.
The opposite is true of simple event/result nominals.
2. Complex Event Nominals
The shooting of rabbits is illegal.
*A/one/that shooting of rabbits is illegal.
*The shootings of rabbits are illegal.
*That was the shooting of rabbits.
Simple Event/Result Nominals
They studied the/an/one/that assignment.
The assignments were long.
That was the/an assignment.
The varying patterns and differences in terms of determiners and modifiers that the
two types of nominals allow are attributed to the lexical specification of the affixes
involved and the type of their external argument, i.e. Ev or R (Williams 1981; di
Sciullo and Williams 1987; Higginbotham 1985). The nominal suffix -ing is
associated with AS with an external non-thematic argument Ev, Latinate suffixes
like -ation or -ment are specified for either Ev or R, whereas zero derivation
introduces R and zero-derived forms are never CE nominals, as depicted
schematically below.
3. Complex Event Nominals Simple Event/Result Nominals
Latinate suffixes; Latinate suffixes;
-ing – N, (Ev) Zero derivatives – N, (R)
shooting N, (Ev (x(y))) observation N, (R)
observation N, (Ev (x(y))) offer N, (R)
5.2.2 Refinements
In Alexiadou and Grimshaw (2008: 2) and Alexiadou (2009) we find a slightly
modified version of this approach, where nouns like examination are three way
ambiguous, i.e. they have a complex event reading, simple event reading and a
result reading.
4. (a) The examination of the patients took a long time. (Complex Event nominal)
(b) The examination took a long time. (Simple Event nominal)
(c) The examination was on the table. (Result nominal)
Notably, the basis for this classification is their ability to take obligatory
arguments, license event-related PPs and the ability to pluralize. CE nominals
behave like verbs since they license event-related PPs (in an hour, for an hour),
they “have arguments which are obligatorily present” (Alexiadou and Grimshaw
2008: 2) and they cannot be made plural. On a “simple event” reading, like CE
64 M. Bloch-Trojnar
nominals they denote an event, but are not associated with an event structure and
hence lack argument structure because they do not license event-related PPs and
admit plural formation. Result nominals do not denote events and behave like non-
derived nouns (dog, event).
They maintain that “nominals derived from verbs with no (overt) affix behave as
simple event nouns and/or individual nouns”. Hence the ungrammaticality of the
following:
5. *The constant offer of credit cards to students. . .
*(The) frequent report of looting . . .
Furthermore, bare nominals such as stop, end, change, unlike their Latinate
counterparts, do not nominalize transitively (Smith 1972):
6. The climate’s change
*Global warming’s change of the climate
This is to be taken as evidence that “zero derived nominalization never preserves
event structure” (Alexiadou and Grimshaw 2008).
These and other differences between the two types are concisely summarized and
discussed in Alexiadou and Grimshaw (2008: 3) and some of them are listed below:
7. Complex Event Nominals Simple Event/Result Nominals
Obligatory arguments
Event reading
Aspectual modifiers
Modifiers like frequent, constant appear with
singular
Must be singular
No obligatory arguments
No event reading
No aspectual modifiers
Modifiers like frequent, constant only with
plural
May be plural
Zero affixation is opaque to argument transfer, the suffix -ing is argument
preserving, whereas -(a)tion and -ment are ambiguous/unspecified.4
8.
“Zero” affixation
[N [V] ∅] <. . .> (Aspect: . . .)
Affixation with -ing
[N [V] -ing] <x, . . .> (Aspect: telic/atelic/ . . .)
Affixation with -(a)tion; -ment
[N [V] -(a)tion] <. . .> (Aspect: . . .)
[N [V] -(a)tion] <x, . . .> (Aspect: telic/atelic/ . . .)
4
In the “structure model” argument taking properties of nominalizations depend on where the affix
is attached: -ing is specified for “high/outer cycle attachment” and contains verbal projections, ∅
is specified for “low/root attachment”, contains no verbal projections and, therefore, has no
argument structure, whereas Latinate suffixes can be doubly specified or underspecified.
5 A Morphologist’s Perspective on “Event Structure Theory” of Nominalizations 65
5.2.3 Problems
Alexiadou and Grimshaw (2008) admit that there is no formal apparatus to predict
why specific morphemes have the properties they have. In their approach identical
N–V pairs are regarded as zero affixation to maximize parallels with other affixa-
tion processes, despite the fact that an affix which is null is cognitively less
plausible than no affixation at all. They need a separate lexical entry which is
phonologically null since if there was no affix the derivative would lack the head.
They are also puzzled by the fact that zero-nominals which look most like verbs do
not preserve AS.
The first two of these problems are theory internal, and can be circumvented if we
opt for the Separation Hypothesis. Then, it becomes a matter of lexical accidence
that a particular meaning is mapped onto a particular affix or group of affixes. There
is also no need for zero affixes. On this view, morphology is not merely concatena-
tion of morphemes. What matters is the system of relations or contrasts that
morphemes create. If there is a number of co-functional affixes, no marking at all
also performs a contrastive function. However, there are far more serious problems
with Alexiadou and Grimshaw’s proposal. A closer look at linguistic facts makes
their division of affixes difficult to uphold. It turns out that by rights all
formal exponents should be regarded as ambiguous between an actional and result
interpretation since zero-derived nominals display an actional reading (albeit differ-
ent from that of -ing nominalizations) and -ing derivatives display lexicalized
senses. Furthermore, zero-derived nominals can be accompanied by NPs which
correspond to NP arguments of the verbal base whereas the arguments of -ing
nominals aren’t as obligatory as they are professed to be. In a nutshell, the properties
of nominalizations are not a direct consequence of the type of phonological marker
that they bear.
5.3 The Data
5.3.1 Configuration Properties
In their classification, Grimshaw (1990) and Alexiadou and Grimshaw (2008) insist
on the obligatoriness of arguments in CE nominals and the treatment of zero
derivatives as lacking an aspectual interpretation and AS. Alexiadou (2009)
weakens the former statement and speaks in favour of optionality of licensing of
AS in the nominal system but the latter “is a strong tendency, which still awaits an
explanation” (Alexiadou 2009: 257). In his critique of Alexiadou (2009), Bierwisch
(2009) notes that “the distinction between simple and complex nominals rests on
the appearance of complements realizing argument positions. If however, argument
positions of nouns are generally optional, as must be assumed for independent
66 M. Bloch-Trojnar
reasons, the distinction between the absence of a position in AS and an unrealized
optional complement becomes spurious, and the distinction between simple and
complex event nouns collapses” (Bierwisch 2009: 22). Thus, the difference
between simple and complex nominalizations can be attributed to the optionality
of nominal complement positions and not the presence or absence of AS.
If nominalization is a lexical process, in which a verb is turned into a noun, the
structures with derived nominals should resemble structures with morphologically
simple nouns, i.e. there is no reason why their complements should be obligatory
as in their verbal bases. Deverbal nominalizations depending on their number
specification are preceded by appropriate determiners, and are modified by
adjectives and prepositional phrase complements, which are optional. A fair
amount of evidence has accumulated, which can be used in support of this
approach.
Cetnarowska (1993: 71–84) investigates the inheritance of Predicate Argument
Structures in bare nominalizations outside complex predicates and concludes that it
is effected in actional readings as in, e.g.
9. The purchase by India of howitzers from the Swedish firm of Bofors
This would imply that contrary to Grimshaw zero derivatives are ambiguous
between argument-taking and non-argument-taking readings just as Latinate
nominalizations. Consider the example below and contrast it with the one in (6)
above:
10. Climate change – generally refers to the change of the climate by man’s emission
of Greenhouse gasses5
Alexiadou and Grimshaw (2008: 3) do not attempt to conceal cracks in their
analysis by citing David Embick’s examples, in which zero nominals show a full
range of arguments and co-occur with modifiers like frequent and constant, a
feature of CE nominals (Grimshaw 1990: 67). Even more examples can be found
in Alexiadou (2009: 257) from Newmeyer (2009) and Harley (2009):
11. My constant change of mentors
The frequent release of the prisoners by the governor
An officer’s too frequent discharge of a firearm
The ancient Greek’s practice of infanticide
Alexiadou (2009: 257) following Newmeyer and Harley suggests that only zero
derived nominals from French/Latinate roots allow CE interpretation. However, in
Wierzbicka (1982) we find examples of native bare nominals where NPs in the
genitive correspond to the direct object of the verb.
5
http://www.astralweb.co.uk/smart-meters-glossary.html.
5 A Morphologist’s Perspective on “Event Structure Theory” of Nominalizations 67
12. John had a lick of Mary’s ice cream.
Johnny let Jimmy have a throw of his new boomerang.
He went outside and had a kick of his football.
May I have a borrow of your pencil?
Have a sip of my wine.
Newmeyer (2005) in his critique of Roeper’s (2005) article demonstrates
how arguments adduced to argue for CE status of suffixed nominals can be applied
to zero-derivatives. Examples where they occur with an anaphor do so are to point
to the presence of a VP node in nominalizations:
13. John’s destruction of the city and Bill’s doing so too
America’s attack on Iraq was even less justified than the latter’s doing so to Kuwait.
Randall’s (1988: 137) proposal that a deverbal noun derived from a transitive
verb without an accompanying prepositional thematic phrase must receive a non-
actional interpretation is not corroborated by the facts, e.g.
14. “But it’s not the sex I miss so much”, she continues, “it’s the kissing. . .”.
In hospital she’ll be under observation all the time.
Cetnarowska (1993: 71, 43–44) gives many examples of actional bare
nominalizations without thematic prepositional phrases:
15. She drenched my face with a kiss.
A good throw was answered by a good catch.
In the literature we find other examples, which show the erratic behaviour of CE
nominalizations, where an -ing nominal is preceded by the indefinite article and the
plural is accompanied by arguments:
16. There was a capsizing of the boat by Mary (Mourelatos 1978: 425).
The climber’s two ascents of the mountain (Filip 1993: 89).
In sum, in the process of transposition nouns inherit LCS rather than AS of base
verbs. Event participants may appear as optional nominal complements. That is
why the actional reading is available if there are no satellite phrases and it is
possible to find examples where zero derived nominals are accompanied by
NPs corresponding to arguments of the base verb. It is true that non-count
nominalizations are far more likely to occur with satellite phrases and aspectual
modifiers than their zero-derived count counterparts. Bare nominals occur mostly in
complex predicates/light verb constructions (LVCs), in informal registers with
native nominalized items (Adams 2001: 29). Stylistic considerations aside, it will
be argued below that their reluctance to occur with satellite NPs has to do with
their aspectual characteristics and the presence of suffixed nominals based on the
same root.
68 M. Bloch-Trojnar
5.3.2 Aspectual Characteristics and the Ability to Pluralize
and License Satellite Phrases
The analogy between count entities and events, on the one hand, and mass entities
and activities, on the other has been of keen interest not only to linguists but also to
philosophers and cognitive psychologists. This analogy is established on ontologi-
cal, semantic and syntactic grounds (Mourelatos 1978; Langacker 1987; Krifka
1992; Brinton 1998; Willim 2006 and the references therein).
Both events (i.e. telic situations) and things or objects (the referents of count
NPs) are intrinsically countable and not subdivisible. Both have precise limits and
delimit time or space (Krifka 1992: 30). Note the count modifiers with event
nominalizations.
17. Vesuvius erupted three times. > There were three eruptions of Vesuvius.
Mary capsized the boat (once). > There was a capsizing of the boat by Mary
(Mourelatos 1978: 425).
Continuities (i.e. atelic situations) and “stuffs” (the referents of mass NPs) are
non-countable. They are homogenous, they lack precise limits, and they “fill” time
or space (Krifka 1992: 30).
18. Jones pushed the cart for hours. > For hours there was (*a) pushing of the cart
by Jones (Mourelatos 1978: 427).
Brinton (1998) investigates the mapping of aktionsart properties of a verb to a
corresponding nominalization and concludes that unlike Latinate suffixes, -ing
nominals and ∅-derivatives fail to preserve the aktionsart of the verb. Whereas
the -ing suffix “has the effect of converting the situation into an activity, of making
the situation durative, atelic and dynamic” (Brinton 1998: 48), conversion “is a
means of converting the situation into an event (an accomplishment, achievement,
or semelfactive) by adding the feature of telicity” (Brinton 1998: 50).
In line with Wierzbicka (1982), Brinton (1998: 50) regards “complex
predicates” an important means of telicizing activities, “that is, of converting
activities into accomplishments or achievements, without the necessity of stating
an explicit goal”. Willim (2006: 119) also argues for their singulative or partitive
effect and observes that in English when the nominal in the LVC is derived from a
punctual verb a single event is denoted, whereas those based on homogenous
activity verbs refer to an extended activity with an endpoint in its semantic
representation (give a jump vs. have a walk).
The telicizing nature of LVCs in English is achieved by the use of countable
zero-derived nominalizations, which carry the semantic load of the predicate and
impose clear spatiotemporal limits on the situation denoted by the verb. Telic
activities can be multiplied whereas count nouns pluralized. Brinton (1998: 50)
explains: “the result of multiplying situations (no matter what their type) a specific
5 A Morphologist’s Perspective on “Event Structure Theory” of Nominalizations 69
number of times is a situation of the accomplishment type”. Zero derivatives can
co-occur with cardinal numbers, enumerative determiners and take plural morphol-
ogy (Cetnarowska 1993: 43).
19. Give it a few kicks.
Have another guess.
Take a second look.
I took several rides in his car.
Can I have two guesses?
Adverbials of “span” or “duration” denote a specific quantity of an atelic
situation (20a). With in-adverbials atelic situations also receive a telic interpreta-
tion (20b). LVCs (20c) are incompatible with both types (Brinton 1998: 48, 51;
Willim 2006: 119; Filip 1993: 113).
20. (a) He walked for ten hours.
(b) He swam in an hour.
(c) *He had a walk for ten hours./*He had a swim in an hour.
Willim (2006) explains that if have a walk is telic, i.e. its semantic representation
contains an endpoint, it is not possible to combine it with a delimiting expression
with an independent endpoint, as this would violate the “one delimitation per event”
constraint put forward by Tenny (1994: 79).
Being telic, zero derivatives accept neither aspectual modifiers (for an hour, in
an hour) nor modifiers like frequent or constant, unless they are in the plural. In her
characterization of the progressive, Brinton (1988: 9) notes that this form “portrays
the situation as progressing, that is continuing, ongoing or developing, at a certain
time. Normally, a situation so portrayed must be durative in nature, though punctual
situations, if repeated, may be viewed as ongoing”. By parity of reasoning, atelic
nominalizations can occur with constant and frequent, whereas telic
nominalizations are incompatible, unless they are pluralized to imply repetition.
Also their limited ability to accept NP satellite phrases may be connected with
their aspectual characteristics. Brinton (1998: 38–9) observes that “the entire VP
enters into the expression of aktionsart”, e.g. run is an activity verb (atelic), but the
predicate run (home, to the corner) contains an endpoint/goal and is thus an
accomplishment (telic). For this reason atelic nominalizations may be more likely
to accept satellite phrases that correspond to the internal argument which measures
out or delimits the event denoted by the base verb. Nominalizations which are
delimited (telic) show no need for further individuation.
5.3.3 Semantic Considerations and Formal Markers
Nominals with the suffix -ing, which are considered CENs, may display the
process/result dichotomy, in which case some concrete -ing formations can plural-
ize (building, warning, painting, filling (in a tooth), recording) and as such they do
70 M. Bloch-Trojnar
not require obligatory satellite phrases corresponding to the arguments of the base
verb. The nominalization in (21a) can only denote a concrete result (Quirk et al.
1985: 1290), whereas that in (21b) is ambiguous.
21. (a) Brown’s paintings of his daughter
(b) Brown’s painting of his daughter
It can be interpreted as a CE nominal (22a) or a result nominal (22b).
22. (a) Brown’s painting of his daughter is a pleasure to watch.
(b) Brown’s painting of his daughter is a pleasure to look at.
This would imply that the interpretation is context dependent and is not an
inherent property of the affix involved. The meaning of action nouns, regardless
of the derivational type they belong to, is subject to the inexorable process of
lexicalization (cf. Marchand 1969: 303; Malicka-Kleparska 1988). Consider some
examples of lexicalized senses of each type:
23. -ing Latinate suffixes Ø
building(s) possession(s) cut(s)
filling(s) in a tooth solution(s) find(s)
warning(s) government(s) exhibit(s)
stuffing condensation deposit(s)
roofing disposal
attendance
It should be borne in mind that lexicalized senses are not equally frequent with
all markers. Latinate nominals are regarded as lexically listed and described in
terms of redundancy statements (Malicka-Kleparska 1988), whereas -ing and zero
derivatives are generally regarded as productive, hence generated by rule (Malicka-
Kleparska 1988; Cetnarowska 1993; Bauer 2001).
With regard to semantics, traditionally we talk about the process/result dichot-
omy, whereas in fact nominalizations display two kinds of actional reading, i.e. -ing
nominalizations are interpreted as “action or process of V-ing”, whereas the Nomen
Acti reading, i.e. “a single instance of V-ing” is prevalent in zero derivatives
(Cetnarowska 1993: 112–113; Adams 2001: 28–29). Latinate nominalizations are
regarded as ambiguous, but this ambiguity is more complex than generally
assumed. The difference between CE and SE nominals does not lie in the
obligatoriness of arguments but in different aspectual characteristics.
Quirk et al. (1985: 1551) suggest that there is an aspectual contrast between the
nominalisations in -ation, -ment, etc. and the -ing verbal noun, with the former
referring to actions in their entirety, including their completion.
24. His exploration of the mountain took/will take three weeks.
His exploring of the mountain is taking a long time.
Malicka-Kleparska (1988: 30) refutes this argument by demonstrating that the
difference is due exclusively to the context, and provides examples of non-ing
5 A Morphologist’s Perspective on “Event Structure Theory” of Nominalizations 71
nominalizations which do not imply completion. This, in turn, shows that suffixed
nominalizations can denote a process or an action in its entirety without losing the
ability to license arguments.
25. The punishment of the boy is taking a long time.
The organization of the party is taking a long time.
The placement of the stone is taking a long time.
The position that Latinate nominalizations are in fact three-way ambiguous is also
advocated by Pustejovsky (1995: 170). In his analysis, Latinate nominalizations are
logically polysemous items, which form a lexical conceptual paradigm (lcp)
constructed from two base types with three senses available (cf. Pustejovsky and
Anick 1988):
26. Process.result_lcp ¼ {process.result, process, result}
This means that only nominals which have the process and result reading can
have the additional event interpretation (the dot object reading).
27. (a) The house’s construction was finished in two months. (event)
(b) The construction was interrupted during the rains. (process)
(c) The construction is standing on the next street. (result)
That is why -ing nominalizations as in (28) below cannot be polysemous; this is
because they are not interpreted as the result of an event.6
28. The launching of the space shuttle occurred at 10.30.
The launching of the space shuttle was aborted.
To this we could add that there is a zero-derived noun which has the semantics to
fill the remaining slots in the lcp of the same verbal stem. It has the event reading
(the dot object) and the object reading. Consider the examples from CCAD (note the
of-NP following the nominal):
29. This morning’s launch of the space shuttle Colombia has been delayed.
The launch of a ship was a big occasion.
The captain was on the deck of a launch, steadying the boat for the pilot.
Pustejovsky (1995) does not discuss zero derived nominals in any detail. How-
ever, he notes that purchase is logically polysemous between the event and the
object involved in the transaction. Thus, we would use the nominal purchasing to
refer to the process and purchase to an event.
6
Malicka-Kleparska (1988: 165) observes that civilizing and civilization are equivalent and
interchangeable on the actional/process interpretation but not in the lexicalized sense.
. . . to attempt the civilization of the Australian aborigines
the civilizing of the Highlands of Scotland . . .
the ancient civilizations / *civilizings
72 M. Bloch-Trojnar
30. (a) The purchasing of office supplies by State Agencies in Mississippi7
The purchase by India of howitzers from the Swedish firm of Bofors
(b) For hours there was pushing of the cart by Jones.
Information is called up at the push of a button.
However, -ing nominals such as launching, purchasing, pushing should be
contrasted with nominals such as painting discussed at the beginning of this section.
Since the latter display the result reading, the event interpretation should also be
available, which immediately prevents an event interpretation of the noun paint.
31. Brown’s painting of his daughter is taking a long time.
Brown’s painting/*paint of his daughter took one evening.
Brown’s paintings of his daughter
The derivatives terminating in -ing and bare nominals can be part of one lcp
where they show an aspectual contrast as demonstrated in (30) above. However,
they may be derived from two homophonous lexemes, which differ in transitivity.8
This would explain why some bare nominals do not nominalize transitively (Smith
1972). They can be accompanied by an of-NP which corresponds to the subject of
the verb since it is the only participant in their LCS representation. According to
Malicka-Kleparska (1988: 103), there is a strong tendency for -ing to occur with
prototypical transitive verbs with the theta grid (Agent, Theme), whereas Marchand
(1969: 374) points out that the bulk of bare nominals is derived from intransitive
verbs.
32. (a) The campaign for the end of slavery gained momentum in Great Britain . . .9
Economic factors were paramount in dictating Britain’s ending of slave carrying from
Africa in 1807.10
(b) This will usher in the start of World War Three.11
If he supports America’s starting of WW3 with Iran.12
In sum: lexicalization affects lexical items (not classes), which explains why all
types of nominals regardless of the formal marker may show the result reading
(building, civilization, launch). Actional readings are of two types, process and
event. Since only nominals which display the result reading in addition to the
process reading can be three-way ambiguous, this ambiguity characterizes listed
Latinate nominalizations and a fraction of -ing nominals. It follows that nominals
7
http://www.procurement.msstate.edu/officesupplies.pdf.
8
In Levin (1993: 2–3) many verbal diathesis alternations (e.g. causative-inchotative) are regarded
as rule governed conversions, i.e. a particular word is used in two lexical categories, because they
show clear changes in argument structure, e.g. The window broke. vs. The little boy broke the
window.
9
www.guyana.org/features/guyanastory/chapter44.html.
10
http://eh.net/bookreviews/library/0676.
11
http://www.threeworldwars.com/world-war-3/ww3.htm.
12
http://www.bbc.co.uk/blogs/theeditors/2007/05/prime_ministers_questions.html.
5 A Morphologist’s Perspective on “Event Structure Theory” of Nominalizations 73
which denote events and results (zero derivatives) cannot refer to processes. Bare
nominals will not show an event reading if there is a Latinate nominalization based
on the same verbal root. With native roots a bare nominal and an -ing nominal show
an aspectual contrast (launching “atelic” – launch “telic”) or correspond to verbs
differing in transitivity (ending – end).
5.4 Conclusion
The fact that Grimshaw specifies the differences in the syntactic patterning of
actional and lexicalized nominalizations and takes into account aspectual
distinctions shows her model to good advantage. However, it has two flaws.
It has been demonstrated that the classification of nominalizations based on the
formal markers involved cannot be maintained since nominalizations are capable of
exhibiting the process/result dichotomy regardless of their formal exponent. This is
due to lexicalization which targets items not types. Configurational properties can
differentiate only between regular and lexicalized senses to the effect that LCS-
participants of the verbal base may accompany regular (actional) nominalizations
but may not accompany lexicalized ones.
Zero nominalizations, in turn, which are regarded as simple event nominals with
no a-structure, can appear with satellite phrases corresponding to verbal arguments.
They are telic, i.e. denote events (an entire process of verbing) and therefore have
an aspectual analysis. Regardless of their actional interpretation, zero derivatives
are treated on a par with result nominalizations because they are countable and can
pluralize whereas, in fact, countability points to their telic character. Thus, there are
two types of actional (Complex Event) nominals. There are uncountable/atelic
nominals (-ing, Latinate suffixes) and countable/telic nominals (zero derived,
Latinate suffixes). The former denote activities and are more likely to be
individuated contextually by means of NPs and PPs, whereas the latter denote
accomplishments and achievements and due to their aspectual characteristics are
less likely to be further individuated in the syntax.
References
Adams, V. 2001. Complex words in English. London: Longman.
Alexiadou, A. 2001. Functional structure in nominals. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Alexiadou, A. 2009. On the role of syntactic locality in morphological processes: The case of
(Greek) nominals. In Quantification, definiteness and nominalization, eds. A. Giannakidou and
M. Rathert, 253–280. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Alexiadou, A. and J. Grimshaw. 2008. Verbs, nouns and affixation. In Working papers of the SFB
732 Incremental specification in context 01, ed. F. Sch€
afer, 1–16.
Aronoff, M. 1994. Morphology by itself. Stems and inflectional classes. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Bauer, L. 2001. Morphological productivity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
74 M. Bloch-Trojnar
Beard, R. 1976. A semantically based model of a generative lexical word-formation rule for
Russian adjectives. Language 52: 108–120.
Beard, R. 1985. Is separation natural? Studia Gramatyczne 7: 119–134.
Beard, R. 1995. Lexeme morpheme base morphology. Albany, NY: SUNY Press.
Beard, R. 1998. Derivation. In The handbook of morphology, eds. A. Spencer and A. M. Zwicky,
44–65. Oxford: Blackwell Publishers Ltd.
Bierwisch, M. 2009. Nominalization – lexical and syntactic aspects. In Quantification, definiteness
and nominalization, eds. A. Giannakidou and M. Rathert, 281–320. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Bloch-Trojnar, M. 2006. Polyfunctionality in morphology. A study of verbal nouns in Modern
Irish. Lublin: Wydawnictwo KUL.
Brinton, L. 1988. The development of English aspectual systems. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Brinton, L. 1998. Aspectuality and countability: A cross-categorial analogy. English Language
and Linguistics 2: 37–63.
Cetnarowska, B. 1993. The syntax, semantics and derivation of bare nominalisations in English.
Katowice: Uniwersytet Śla
˛ski.
Collins cobuild advanced dictionary of English. 2009. Glasgow: Harper Collins Publishers.
Di Sciullo, A. M. and E. Williams. 1987. On the definition of word. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Filip, H. 1993. Aspect, situation types and nominal reference. Unpublished PhD dissertation,
University of California, Berkeley.
Fu, J., T. Roeper, and H. Borer. 2001. The VP within process nominals: evidence from adverbs and
the VP anaphor do so. Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 19: 549–582.
Grimshaw, J. 1990. Argument structure. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Hale, K. and S. J. Keyser. 1986. Some transitivity alternations in English. Lexicon Project
Working Papers 7. Cambridge, MA: Center for Cognitive Science, MIT.
Harley, H. 2009. The morphology of nominalizations and the syntax of vP. In Quantification,
definiteness and nominalization, eds. A. Giannakidou and M. Rathert, 321–343. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Higginbotham, J. 1985. On semantics. Linguistic Inquiry 16: 547–593.
Jackendoff, R. 2010. Meaning and the lexicon. The parallel architecture. 1975 – 2010. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Krifka, M. 1992. Thematic relations as links between nominal reference and temporal constitution.
In Lexical matters, eds. I. A. Sag and A. Szabolcsi, 29–53. Stanford, CA: Center for the Study
of Language Information.
Langacker, R. W. 1987. Nouns and verbs. Language 63: 53–94.
Laskowski, R. 1981. Derywacja słowotwórcza. In Poje
˛cie derywacji w lingwistyce, ed.
J. Bartmiński, 107–126. Lublin: Uniwersytet Marii Curie-Skłodowskiej, Zakład Je
˛zyka
Polskiego.
Levin, B. 1993. English verb classes and alternations. A preliminary investigation. Chicago and
London: The University of Chicago Press.
Malicka-Kleparska, A. 1985. The conditional lexicon in derivational morphology. A study of
double motivation in Polish and English. Lublin: Redakcja Wydawnictw KUL.
Malicka-Kleparska, A. 1988. Rules and lexicalisations. Selected English nominals. Lublin:
Redakcja Wydawnictw KUL.
Marchand, H. 1969. The categories and types of present-day English word-formation. A synchronic-
diachronic approach. M€
unchen: C. H. Beck.
Mourelatos, A. 1978. Events, processes, and states. Linguistics and Philosophy 2: 415–34.
Newmeyer, F. 2005. Some remarks on Roeper’s remarks on Chomsky’s ’Remarks’. A comment
on Tom Roeper: Chomsky’s remarks and the transformationalist hypothesis. Special issue
of SKASE Journal of Theoretical Linguistics: 26–39. http://www.pulib.sk/skase/Volumes/
JTL03/04.pdf.
5 A Morphologist’s Perspective on “Event Structure Theory” of Nominalizations 75
Newmeyer, F. J. 2009. Current challenges to the lexicalist hypothesis: An overview and a critique.
In Time and again: Papers in honor of D. Terence Langendoen, eds. W. D. Lewis, S. Karimi
and H. Harley, 91–117. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Pustejovsky, J. 1995. The generative lexicon. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Pustejovsky, J. and P. Anick. 1988. On the semantic interpretation of nominals. In Proceedings
of the 12th
Conference on Computational Linguistics. Vol. 2, ed. D. Vargha, 518–523.
Budapest: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Quirk, R., S. Greenbaum, G. Leech and J. Svartvik. 1985. A comprehensive grammar of the
English language. London and New York: Longman.
Randall, J. 1988. Inheritance. In Thematic relations: Syntax and semantics, ed. W. Wilkins,
129–146. San Diego: Academic Press Inc.
Roeper, T. 2005. Chomsky’s remarks and the transformationalist hypothesis. In Handbook
of word-formation, eds. P. Štekauer and R. Lieber, 125–146. Dordrecht: Springer.
Smith, C. 1972. On causative verbs and derived nominals in English. Linguistic Inquiry 3: 36–38.
Szymanek, B. 1985. English and Polish adjectives. A study in lexicalist word-formation. Lublin:
Redakcja Wydawnictw KUL.
Tenny, C. 1994. Aspectual roles and the syntax-semantics interface. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Wierzbicka, A. 1982. Why can you have a drink when you can’t *have an eat? Language
58: 753–799.
Williams, E. 1981. Argument structure and morphology. Linguistic Review 1: 81–114.
Willim, E. 2006. Event, individuation, and countability: A study with special reference to English
and Polish. Kraków: Jagiellonian University Press.
76 M. Bloch-Trojnar
Chapter 6
A Recalcitrant Nature of Object Experiencers
Sylwiusz Żychliński
Abstract Object experiencers have been the object of study for many years now.
The extensive analysis by Beletti and Rizzi (1988) proposed to treat those verbs as
unaccusative. This approach was later revisited by Pesetsky (1995), who provided
arguments against the wholesale unaccusative treatment of object experiencer
verbs, introducing a finer-grained semantic division among them. Recently,
Landau (2010) has come up with an analysis which at first blush reconciles the
two earlier treatments. The crucial part of the analysis concerns the status of verbal
passives. Following a thorough cross-linguistic study, Landau concludes that
languages fall into two types with regard to the presence of verbal passives, the
first type exemplified by languages such as English, Finnish or Dutch, which
possess verbal passives for eventive verbs only; the second type represented by
Italian, French or Hebrew, which have no verbal passives at all. However, this neat
typology seems to run into problems in Polish. It appears that Polish, which shares
some properties of each of the two groups, falls out of the proposed classification.
This paper briefly reviews the previous treatments of experiencer verbs and
highlights the areas where Polish stands out, putting forth possible ways to refine
the existent analyses.
6.1 Introduction
Ever since the inception of the generative enterprise, there has been an ongoing
conflict between the proponents of syntax as the autonomous module of grammar
and the adversaries of such a contention, holding that a continuous recourse to other
S. Żychliński (*)
Adam Mickiewicz University, Poznań, Poland
e-mail: sylwiusz@ifa.amu.edu.pl
M. Pawlak and J. Bielak (eds.), New Perspectives in Language,
Discourse and Translation Studies, Second Language Learning and Teaching,
DOI 10.1007/978-3-642-20083-0_6, # Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2011
77
areas of cognition, e.g. semantics or pragmatics, is inevitable. After more than half
a century, the disagreement has not been settled. The class of psychological
predicates, which is at the core of this article, exemplifies the gist of the disagree-
ment very well. This recalcitrant group of verbs, which are characterized by the
presence of experiencer and theme thematic roles, and involve the experiencer
undergoing a psychological change of state, have long posed a problem for
subsequent analyses because of the mapping/linking problem they display. Over
the course of the last decades, various attempts have been made to disambiguate
this issue, some of which involve purely syntactic machinery, whereas others call
for fine-grained semantics to help explain the superficially surprising arrangement
and properties of psych verbs. This paper focuses on a very narrow selection of
properties of psychological predicates, the status of the experiencer argument being
the most important among them. As more attention has been devoted to the question
of unaccusativity, which is central to the proper treatment and representation of
argument structure of psychological predicates, it is the class of object experiencer
(or ObjExp) verbs that is the primary focus of investigation. The aim of this article
is twofold. On the one hand, it aspires to be a fairly comprehensive overview and
critique of different treatments of ObjExp verbs so far, mainly Belletti and Rizzi’s
(1988), Pesetsky’s (1995) and Landau’s (2010). On the other hand, it considers
how ObjExp verbs in Polish fit into the unaccusative scenario1
and, typologically,
where they belong (or at least where they certainly do not).
6.2 The Beginnings: Psych Predicates and Their
Thematic Structure
6.2.1 Belletti and Rizzi’s Seminal Analysis
Over the years, psychological predicates have been the object of numerous
analyses. Of the myriads of accounts, Belletti and Rizzi (1988), Grimshaw
(1990), Pesetsky (1995) and Landau (2010) are all among recent authors of
comprehensive theories striving to cast light on and explain the diversity of
data.
1
Polish psych verbs were also studied by, inter alia, Klimek and Rozwadowska (2004) and Biały
(2004). Their findings are not included here as the present paper’s main focus is on the difficulties
one meets trying to implement the locative hypothesis into Polish object experiencers.
78 S. Żychliński
The standard problem with psychological verbs is how to reconcile their the-
matic structure with UTAH.2
The canonical patterns manifested by psych verbs are
presented in (1–3)3
(Belletti and Rizzi 1988: 291):
1. Gianni teme questo.
Gianni.Nom fears this.Acc
2. Questo preoccupa Gianni.
this.Nom worries Gianni.Acc
3. (a) A Gianni piace questo.
to Gianni.Dat piace questo.Nom
(b) Questo piace a Gianni.
this.Nom pleases to Gianni.Dat
At first blush the same y-roles are distributed arbitrarily, with the Nominative
experiencer in the subject position and the Accusative theme in the object position
in (1) (frequently referred to as class I of psychological verbs), the Nominative
theme in the subject position and the Accusative experiencer in the object position
in (2) (class II), and the dative experiencer and the Nominative theme in both
orderings in (3) (class III). As such freedom of syntactic positioning is not other-
wise widely attested, a convincing argument to explain this phenomenon was much
2
It has been one of the challenges to prove UTAH right or wrong. In its original formulation, it is as
follows:
1. Uniformity of Theta Assignment Hypothesis (UTAH)
Identical thematic relationships between items are represented by identical structural
relationships between those items at the level of D-Structure (Baker 1988: 45).
A weaker version of UTAH was proposed by Perlmutter and Postal (1984), which reads as
UAH.
2. Universal Alignment Hypothesis (UAH)
There exist principles of UG which predict the initial relation borne by each [argument] in a
given clause from the meaning of the clause.
In Zero syntax (1995), Pesetsky argues that it is actually possible to keep UTAH intact on the novel
assumption that the repository of thematic roles is governed by finer-grained semantics, making it
possible to distinguish among different types of the theme role.
3
Only the Italian examples are cited, but English, Russian or Polish, to mention just a few
languages, exemplify a similar pattern, e.g. in Polish:
3. Janek boi sie
˛ tego.
John fears this
4. To przeraża Janka.
This frightens John
5. Jankowi podoba sie
˛ to.
To John (Dat) pleases REFL it
To podoba sie
˛ Jankowi.
It pleases REFL to John
6 A Recalcitrant Nature of Object Experiencers 79
needed. On the basis of a thorough investigation of Italian facts, Belletti and Rizzi
(1988: 293) proposed one uniform underlying representation for sentences (2–3)
(they treat (1) in an uncontroversial way, with the surface arguments marking their
DP positions):
4.
S
NP VP
ec
V’ NP
Gianni
V NP
preoccupa
piace
a Giann
questo
The diagram in (4) shows that psych verb sentences with different surface
structures project the same configuration at the underlying level, with the
experiencer asymmetrically c-commanding the theme, formalized in (5) (Belletti
and Rizzi (1988: 344).
5. Given a y-grid [Experiencer, Theme], the Experiencer is projected to a higher
position than the Theme.
The motivation for movement out of the VP to the subject position comes from
Belletti and Rizzi’s interpretation of Burzio’s Generalization (1988: 332):
6. V is a structural Case assigner if it has an external argument.
The practical implementation of (6) leads to the conclusion that verbs of the
preoccupare and piacare type (2–3) do not have external arguments, with the
subject position considered as athematic. To derive (2), then, we assume that
the experiencer gets the inherent Accusative,4
and the theme by virtue of (6),
moves to the subject position to get Case. In (3), since Dative is assigned by a
preposition, the experiencer is free to stay in the VP or move to the subject
position.
6.2.2 Landau’s Reanalysis
In The Locative Syntax of Experiencers5
(Landau 2010), Belletti and Rizzi’s
conclusions regarding the case of the experiencer are taken one step further. It is
the author’s original idea that all object experiencers are not only inherently case
marked, but also governed by prepositions, thus Oblique. This applies equally well
to Dative arguments and, albeit in a less obvious way, to Accusative ones. Such an
4
This is possible if unaccusativity is restricted to the lack of structural case.
5
If not indicated otherwise, all references regarding Landau will consider this monograph.
80 S. Żychliński
assumption, to treat the source of Dative and (inherent) Accusative on a par, is not
necessarily novel as it basically follows the argumentation of Emonds (1985), who
noticed that inherent case is assigned by either overt or null prepositions, depending
on language-specific factors. But this is not where Landau’s original contribution
stops. The author goes on to present evidence that experiencers are in fact mental
locations6
and, as such, locatives. To make it more plausible, periphrastic psych
constructions are cited (Landau 2010: 11):
7. (a) Nina is in love (with Paul).
(b) There is in me a great admiration for painters (Arad 1998: 228).
It is easy to reproduce relevant examples in Polish:
8. Wzbiera we mnie gniew na myśl o spotkaniu.
wells up in me anger at the thought of meeting
‘I get angry at the thought of the meeting.’
However, apart from conceptual reasoning Landau amasses more empirical evi-
dence to corroborate the locative nature of experiencers, drawing heavily on the
cross-linguistic adjunct control and Super-Equi facts. The gist of this argumentation
will be presented in Sect. 6.6, where Landau’s findings are confronted with the
Polish data. For the time being, two crucial conclusions follow. One is the logical
consequence of the claim that object experiencers are locatives, namely they must
undergo (covert) locative inversion to a higher subject position. The other conclu-
sion states that the nature of case on class II and class III object experiencers is
basically the same,7
i.e. both groups of verbs are governed and marked for case by
prepositions.
6.2.3 Psych Unaccusatives Revisited
One of the key diagnostics for unaccusativity comes from the domain of
passivization. As observed by Marantz (1984: 144–149), unaccusative verbs are
incompatible with passive morphology:
9. (a) Passive morphology absorbs the external (underscored) Y-role.
(b) Vacuous dethematization is impossible.
6
Landau follows here the tradition of Jackendoff’s decompositional analysis of mental states
(1990), refined in the works of Bouchard and Arad, among others.
7
The distinction is finer-grained, though its details are not of primary significance in the context of
this presentation. As a matter of fact, there is a structural difference between stative/eventive
object experiencers as well as agentive/non-agentive ones. For further reference, see Landau
(2005, 2010).
6 A Recalcitrant Nature of Object Experiencers 81
However, English ObjExp passives are relatively frequent (Pesetsky 1995: 22):
10. Bill was angered by Mary’s conduct.
11. The paleontologist was pleased by the discovery of the fossil.
12. Bill was irritated by the loud noises coming from the next door.
13. Bill would not be satisfied by half measures.
Belletti and Rizzi go to great lengths showing that these passives are adjectival, not
verbal, therefore not subject to facts noted by Marantz. Still, Pesetsky manages to
show that some passives in English are unambiguously verbal:8
14. Sue was continually being scared by odd noises.
6.3 Partial Reconciliation of Facts
Landau (2010) pieces together all the facts compiled by his predecessors and takes
his conclusions one step further, offering a cross-linguistic generalization on
unaccusativity among class II psych predicates. A painstaking analysis of verbal/
adjectival passives in a cross-linguistic perspective allows him to divide languages
into two groups with respect to the status of their class II psych predicates:
15. Psych Passives
Type A Languages: Only eventive (non-stative) Class II verbs have verbal
passive (English, Dutch, Finnish).
Type B Languages: Class II verbs have no verbal passive (Italian, French,
Hebrew) (Landau 2010: 47).
His predictions depart from the reasoning offered by Pesetsky, as Pesetsky assumed
that languages are basically similar with respect to verbal/adjectival passives, and
pointed out flaws in the selection of examples in Belletti and Rizzi whereas Landau
partly agrees with both sides.
With the case on the object being determined as inherent, Landau starts out by
explaining what two strategies can be employed to passivize a quirky object.
16. Strategies for Passivization of Quirky Objects:
(a) P-stranding: The preposition that governs the object is stranded and
reanalyzed with the verb.
Pseudopassive: [TP [DP Exp]1 [T’ Aux [VP [V VPASS + Ø_ ][DP t1 ] ]]]
(b) Pied-Piping: The preposition that governs the object is carried along to the
subject position.
Quirky passive: [TP [PP Ø_ [DP Exp]]1 [T’ Aux [VP VPASS [PP t1 ] ]]]
(Landau 2010: 48)
8
For Pesetsky, the presence of a progressive aspect and the choice of prepositions are some of the
diagnostics for the verbal status of passives.
82 S. Żychliński
English and Dutch are among languages showing the former strategy, whereas
Finnish uses the latter one (Landau 2010: 48):
17. This bed was slept in.
18. Daar werd over gepraat. (Dutch)
There was talked about
19. Sinu-sta pidet€
a€
an. (Finnish)
you.ELA like.PASS
‘You are liked.’
This leads Landau to formulate a cross-linguistic generalization about the
availability of verbal passives in ObjExp verbs (Landau 2010: 49):
20. Verbal passives of non-agentive ObjExp verbs will only be available in
languages allowing either pseudopassives or (oblique) quirky passives.
Neither of the strategies described above for the passivization of quirky objects is
attested in Italian, French and Hebrew (these three were tested by Landau), which is
taken as a clear indication that they do not have verbal passives and, thus, belong to
Type B Languages. Contrary to Pesetsky’s criticism of Belletti and Rizzi’s treat-
ment of Italian participles, Landau is able to show that even though their analysis is
not adequate for English, it still passes muster in Italian.
6.4 Inconvenient Truth (About Polish ObjExp Verbs)
The classification of participles put forth in the last section will only hold water on
the assumption that object experiencers are PPs. What if they are not? All evidence
leads to the inevitable conclusion that the nature of case on the object experiencer is
different in Polish. It has been commonly assumed that the object experiencer bears
inherent case. One of the universally accepted diagnostics for that is case suppres-
sion. Case suppression is clearly manifested in Russian, where the Genitive of
Negation rule is in full operation. This means that objects, which in positive
sentences come in Accusative, switch to Genitive in negated sentences. The rule
does not work with class II psych predicates, in which Genitive is not possible:
21. *Ètot šum ne pobespokoil ni odnoj devocˇki.
that noise.NOM not bothered not one girl.GEN
‘That noise did not bother a single girl.’
22. *Ego neudacca ne ogorcˇila materi.
his failure.NOM not upset mother.GEN
‘His failure did not upset mother.’
(Legendre and Akimova 1993, ex. 40)
This is to be expected given that “[a] standard account for this contrast exploits
the fact that inherent case is fixed in the lexicon; GN, which is a syntactic rule,
cannot override this case” (Landau 2010: 25). Polish, however, despite the fact that
6 A Recalcitrant Nature of Object Experiencers 83
it is very similar to Russian in terms of the Genitive of Negation rule, surprisingly
produces well-formed sentences:
23. Ten hałas nie zaniepokoił ani jednej dziewczyny.
this noise-NOM not worried any single girl-GEN
‘This noise did not worry a single girl.’
24. Jego porażka nie zdenerwowała matki.
his failure-NOM not upset mother-GEN
‘His failure did not upset his mother.’
Apart from case suppression, the non-inherent nature of case is also further
substantiated by reflexivization facts. Neither in English-type languages nor in
Italian-type languages can object experiencer verbs reflexivize:
25. (a) Tedious talks irritate me.
(b) I irritate myself.
26. *Gianni si preoccupa.
Gianni si worries
‘Gianni worries himself.’
A standard account for such a state of affairs involves the restriction on
reflexivization (Landau 2010: 35):
27. Reflexive si/se may absorb accusative or dative case, but not oblique case.
Given that Accusative in Polish has all the hallmarks of structural case, it seems
a correct prediction to assume that Polish reflexives should be well-formed.9
This
is, indeed, the case:
28. Złe wieści martwią Jana.
bad news.NOM worry Jan.ACC
29. Jan martwi sie
˛ (złymi wieściami).
John worries Cl.sie
˛ (bad news.INST)
‘John worries himself.’
As already stated, it is Landau’s underlying assumption that all object experiencers
are introduced by prepositions and marked as Oblique. As prepositional phrases are
islands, extraction out of them is predicted to yield ungrammatical results. The
examples from Polish do not give straightforward results, the judgments being at
least divided.10
9
An anonymous abstract reviewer pointed out that in Russian similar reflexivization facts obtain:
6. Ivan volnuetsja.
Ivan worries-himself
This, in fact, may be a further fact obscuring Landau’s analysis. Alternatively, it may suggest that
the clitic reflexivization is not a true instance of reflexivization.
10
Similarly, different facts corroborating the locative nature of object experiencers are not
unambiguous in Polish, e.g. object control into adjunct clauses and Super-Equi control facts.
84 S. Żychliński
30. ?Czyją irytowało to siostre
˛?
whose irritated it sister
31. ?Czyją straszyłeś siostre
˛?
whose frightened you sister
32. *Czyją irytują nocne telefony siostre
˛?
whose irritate night calls sister?
Interestingly enough, the (at least partial) acceptability of (30) and (31) seems to
be related to the (phonologically) light status of the subject more than to their
agentive versus non-agentive subjects. In (32), whose subject is phonologically
heavier, the judgment is straightforwardly ungrammatical.
6.5 More Trouble with Polish Participles
In the light of the discussion on participles in the preceding sections, Polish
participles should be considered now in greater detail. Similarly as in the prior
discussion, only class II ObjExp verbs are under observation, as they belong to the
only problematic group as regards the question of unaccusativity. Verbs of this class
include, among others, przygne
˛biac
´ ‘depress’, irytowac
´ ‘irritate’, straszyc
´
‘frighten’, niepokoic
´ ‘worry’, kłopotac
´ ‘embarras’:
33. Krzyki za oknem irytują Piotra.
shouts outside irritate Peter
34. Burza z piorunami przestraszyła dzieci.
thunderstorm scared children
35. Wieści o kryzysie niepokoją obywateli.
news about crisis worry citizens
36. Brak biletu zakłopotał pasażera.
lack of ticket embarrassed passenger
Following Landau’s line of reasoning, it should be possible to determine whether or
not a language has verbal passive participles on the basis of (20), repeated below:
37. Verbal passives of non-agentive ObjExp verbs will only be available in
languages allowing either pseudopassives or (oblique) quirky passives.
Crucially, Polish does not exhibit either of these two constructions. This follows
if object experiencers are marked for structural Accusative. Therefore, a straight-
forward conclusion would require the classification of Polish as a Type B language
(see (15)), which could be further supported by examples below:
38. ?Pogoda wciąż przygne
˛bia wczasowiczów.
weather.NOM still depresses holidaymakers.ACC
39. *Wczasowicze są bez przerwy przygne
˛biani (przez pogode
˛).
holidaymakers.NOM are continuously being depressed (by the weather.OBL)
6 A Recalcitrant Nature of Object Experiencers 85
The following two sentences, however, show considerable improvement:
40. Krzyki na zewnątrz wciąż irytują Piotra.
screams.NOM outside still irritate Peter.ACC
41. ?Piotr jest wciąż irytowany przez krzyki z zewnątrz.
Peter.NOM is still being irritated by screams.OBL from outside
With more examples, the picture seems to be blurred even further. As has
already been argued before, progressive aspect is said to be incompatible with
passive morphology on ObjExp verbs. However, (42) shows that the progressive is
possible with a class II psych predicate in the active voice, and (43) proves that
passive is also possible with the same verb. In the light of the discussion so far, this
would indicate that niepokoic
´ ‘worry’ is an eventive predicate, thus not
unaccusative, and it forms verbal passive participles.
42. Wieści o kryzysie właśnie teraz wyjątkowo niepokoją obywateli.
news.NOM about crisis just now exceptionally worry citizens.ACC
43. Obywatele są teraz niepokojeni wieściami o nadciągającym kryzysie (choć
ledwie co
citizens.NOM are now being worried news about forthcoming crisis.(even
though
byli niepokojeni doniesieniami z rynku wschodniego).
they have just recently been worried about news from the eastern market
It becomes apparent, then, that the classification under (37) is insufficient as it
does not predict the behavior of Polish ObjExp verbs.
6.6 Further Implications
Finally, let us see whether Landau’s most innovative finding, i.e. the locative status
of experiencers, bears out the intuitions about Polish and its somewhat unruly
behavior.
6.6.1 The Case of Super-Equi in English
The fact that object experiencers, by virtue of their locative nature, always undergo
movement to the subject position higher in the structure would be harder to accept
were it not for the evidence that Landau supplies. The relevant argument11
for the
present purposes concerns Super-Equi facts. These facts were first observed by
Grinder (1970) and relate to the observation that VP-internal infinitival clauses
which undergo extraposition or intraposition create problematical accounts of
11
Other arguments relate to Adjunt Control, Functional Readings and Forward Binding.
86 S. Żychliński
control facts. The puzzle is presented by the paradigm below (Landau 2001:
113–114):
44. Mary thought that it pleased John [PRO to speak his/*her mind].
45. Mary thought that it helped John [PRO to speak his/her mind].
46. Mary thought that [PRO to speak his/her mind] would please John.
47. Mary thought that [PRO to speak his/her mind] would help John.
Although in each of these sentences two possible controllers exist for the PRO
subject of the infinitival clause, in (44) the possibility of non-obligatory control is
excluded, John being the local and only available controller for PRO. No such
problem arises for (45), where the only difference lies in the main clause predicate,
which is not a psychological verb. The examples featuring intraposition (46–47)
both allow for either the subject of the main clause or the object of the embedded
clause to act as controllers, instantiating, respectively, cases of non-obligatory
(long-distance) and obligatory (local) control. In a more systematical way, the
following facts obtain in English (Landau 2001: 115):
48. (a) In a structure [. . . X . . . [it Aux Pred Y [S PRO to VP]]], where Y and S are
arguments of Pred:
i. If Pred is psychological, Y must control PRO.
ii. If Pred is non-psychological, either X or Y may control PRO.
(b) In a structure [. . . X . . . [S [S PRO to VP] Pred . . . Y]], either X or Y may
control PRO.
To provide the analysis of the Super-Equi facts that would explain all attested
patterns of control Landau has recourse to a number of stipulations. The most
important is the OC Generalization12
(Landau 2001: 118):
49. The OC Generalization
In a configuration [. . . DP1 . . . Pred . . . [s PRO1 . . .] ], where DP controls PRO:
If at LF, S occupies a complement/specifier position in the VP-shell of Pred,
then DP (or its trace) also occupies a complement/specifier position in that
VP-shell.
Once again, such an assumption reduces OC to a certain syntactic configuration.
In the case of Super-Equi constructions under discussion here, it follows that as
long as the infinitival clause stays within its host VP (either in the specifier or the
complement position), then only the controller which is located in the same VP can
control the PRO. Since both extraposition and intraposition force the infinitival out
of the VP, it is logical to expect the impossibility of OC control in these cases.
The question which has not been tackled so far is why infinitival clauses undergo
extraposition. The stipulation that Landau makes in order to answer this question is
found in (50) below (2001: 120):
12
OC stands for Obligatory Control.
6 A Recalcitrant Nature of Object Experiencers 87
50. Extraposition
VP-internal clauses must be peripheral at PF.
The operation of extraposition is taken to be a case of VP adjunction
(an extraposed infinitival is not dominated by VP), and its motivation is derived
from cross-linguistic observations.13
51. Chain interpretation
Any link in a chain may be the LF-visible link.
The condition on chains follows naturally if, after Chomsky (1995), traces are
treated as full copies (Landau 2001: 120). It ensures the freedom of choice of the
controller (the copy within the VP may be co-indexed locally with the VP-argument
or a long-distance relation may be established between the extraposed clause and
the subject of the matrix clause).
Lastly, the thematic make-up of psychological predicates has to be systematized
as in (52) in order to reconcile the strange control facts of psych verbs (Landau
2001: 118):
52. Argument Projection
(a) EXPERIENCER is generated above CAUSER.
(b) CAUSER is generated above GOAL/PATIENT/THEME.
Without going into too many details that are of no direct relevance here, it is (52)
that makes it possible for Landau to explain the strange behavior of experiencers
with respect to Super-Equi constructions. From (52) it follows that in a structure
with the experiencer argument it is generated above the causer argument, thus
making the causer VP-final, and annihilating the need for the infinitival clause to
move ((50) is satisfied in situ). Importantly, non-obligatory control can only be
established once the infinitival clause has left the VP domain. So the correct
prediction is that obligatory control is the only option available as the causer
never leaves the VP. However, in his recent book (2010) Landau no longer assumes
(52). The experiencer is now the higher argument only in stative psych verbs, while
in eventive psych verbs the causer is the external argument (Landau 2010: 104).
The motivation for the infinitival clause to right-adjoin to the VP is still in place,
then, as the external argument position is clearly not VP-final. However, this
operation does not put the extraposed clause outside the scope of the experiencer.
As must be remembered, experiencers (as locative PPs) raise to a higher position at
LF. This means that in terms of scope their VP-internal placement does not mark
their final position in the derivation. When VP-internal subjects undergo
extraposition to a VP-external position, they are situated outside the scope of the
VP-internal arguments, as is the case in (45). But this picture changes in (44), where
13
As Landau (2001: 120) says, (50) “corresponds to the cross-linguistic observation that embedded
clauses are typically peripheral to the VP and seldom intervene between a predicate and other
internal arguments”.
88 S. Żychliński
the experiencer argument, having moved up to Spec,TP, still scopes over the
infinitival subject right-adjoined to the VP.
6.6.2 Polish Super-Equi Facts
Yet again Polish slips out of Landau’s neat picture as the facts about control into
subject infinitival clauses do not confirm the predictions from English. The
sentences below are due to Bondaruk (2004: 262), who first discussed these facts
for Polish. In terms of their illustrative power (49–52) are roughly equivalent to
(44–47):
53. Marek1 uważa, że Ewe
˛2 może irytować [PRO1/arb poprawianie popełnianych
przez nią2 błe
˛dów].
‘Marek thinks that it may irritate Ewa to correct the mistakes made by her.’
54. Marek1 uważa, że wymowe
˛ Ewy2 może poprawić [PRO1/arb poprawianie
popełnianych przez nią2 błe
˛dów].
‘Marek thinks that it may improve Ewa’s pronunciation to correct the mistakes
made by her.’
55. Marek1 uważa, że [PRO1/arb poprawianie popełnianych przez nią2 błe
˛dów]
może irytować Ewe
˛2.
‘Marek thinks that correcting mistakes made by her may irritate Ewa.’
56. Marek1 uważa, że [PRO1/arb poprawianie popełnianych przez nią2 błe
˛dów]
może poprawić wymowe
˛ Ewy2.
‘Marek thinks that correcting the mistakes made by her may improve Ewa’s
pronunciation.’
Unlike English, Polish does not allow for any relation of obligatory (local)
control to be established. This runs counter to Landau’s expectation that at LF the
extraposed infinitival remains within the scope domain of the raised experiencer.
If this were so, obligatory control would be expected, which is not the case.
6.7 Conclusions
Landau’s comprehensive treatment of object experiencers cannot accommodate
Polish facts. The property of having verbal passives is not linked to the
passivization options present in languages studied by Landau. Also, nothing
seems to support the inherent nature of case on the experiencer, which ruins the
locative hypothesis. Thus, the following two conclusions seem inescapable:
• Polish object experiencers do not show many of the syntactic characteristics
typically associated with this group.
• Polish object experiencers are not locatives.
6 A Recalcitrant Nature of Object Experiencers 89
What is more, Polish potentially causes concerns for Burzio’s Generalization,
which relates the capacity to assign structural Accusative to the presence of the
external argument, suggesting that more has to be said about this relation, espe-
cially given that in Polish there is at least one more known situation where Burzio’s
Generalization seems to run into trouble, namely impersonal passive constructions:
57. Napisano listy.
were written letters.ACC
‘The letters were written.’
58. Nie napisano listów.
not were written letters.GEN
‘The letters were not written.’
Not only is Accusative preserved on the object, but also the operative Genitive of
Negation confirms its structural status. It becomes necessary, then, to subject a
greater number of languages to a painstaking analysis and find out if Polish stands
alone as an exception to the locative hypothesis, or whether the locative hypothesis
has to be reworked.
References
Arad, M. 1998. VP-structure and the syntax-lexicon interface. Unpublished PhD dissertation,
University College London.
Baker, M.C. 1988. Incorporation: A theory of grammatical function changing. Chicago: University
of Chicago Press.
Belletti, A. and L. Rizzi. 1988. Psych-Verbs and Theta-Theory. Natural Language and Linguistic
Theory 6: 291–352.
Biały, A. 2004. Polish psychological verbs at the lexicon-syntax interface in cross-linguistic
perspective. Ms. University of Wrocław.
Bondaruk, A. 2004. PRO and Control in English, Irish and Polish: A minimalist analysis. Lublin:
Catholic University of Lublin Press.
Chomsky, N. 1995. The minimalist program. Camdridge: MIT Press.
Emonds, J. 1985. A unified theory of syntactic categories. Dordrecht: Foris.
Grimshaw, J. 1990. Argument structure. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Grinder, J. T. 1970. Super Equi-NP deletion. Chicago Linguistic Society 6: 297–317.
Jackendoff, R. 1990. Semantic structures. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Klimek, D. and B. Rozwadowska. 2004. From Psych Adjectives to Psych Verbs. Poznań Studies in
Contemporary Linguistics 39: 59–72.
Landau, I. 2001. Control and extraposition. The case of Super-Equi. Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory 19: 109–152.
Landau, I. 2005. The locative syntax of experiencers. Ms. Ben Gurion.
Landau, I. 2010. The locative syntax of experiencers. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Legendre, G. and T. Akimova. 1993. Inversion and antipassive in Russian. In The 2nd annual
workshop on formal approaches to Slavic linguistics, eds. S. Avrutin, S. Franks and
L. Progovac, 286–318. Ann Arbor, MI: Michigan Slavic Publication.
Marantz, A. 1984. On the nature of grammatical relations. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Perlmutter, D. and P. Postal. 1984. The 1-advancement exclusiveness law. In Studies in relational
grammar 2, eds. D. Perlmutter and C. G. Rosen, 81–125. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Pesetsky, D. 1995. Zero syntax. Cambridge: MIT Press.
90 S. Żychliński
Chapter 7
On the Representations of Motion Events:
Perspectives from L2 Research
Jolanta Latkowska
Abstract Talmy’s (1985, 2000) influential typology of motion event constructions
divides languages into categories based on typical lexicalization patterns of motion
within the sentence. In the literature, priority is given to satellite-framed
(S-languages) and verb-framed languages (V-languages), which encompass the
majority of languages spoken in the industrialized world. This paper sets out to
discuss the rationale behind Talmy’s classification, and to present evidence that
calls into question the legitimacy of his claims. This encompasses data showing
behavior that diverges from the category norm, as well as an analysis of the
linguistic salience of Manner and Path in two typologically related languages:
Polish and English. Although both are classified as satellite-languages, they show
marked differences in the way they encode Path. Polish prioritizes Path by encoding
it throughout the predicate, while English confines Path information to post-verbal
satellite constructions. The paper closes with an overview of research into the
acquisition of motion patterns by speakers of typologically contrasting languages,
and makes a number of predictions about how Polish-English bilinguals may
lexicalize motion events in L2 English. Overall, the paper accentuates the need to
reevaluate the typology, which is especially important in view of the fact that,
despite its inaccuracies, it inspired a spate of studies in the area of linguistic
relativity, speech production and second language acquisition.
7.1 Theoretical Background
It is widely accepted that motion constitutes a change of location of an object with
respect to another object. Talmy (1985) posits that a motion event is made up of
several semantic components, which in addition to the Motion itself include Path,
J. Latkowska (*)
University of Silesia, Katowice, Poland
e-mail: jolanta.latkowska@us.edu.pl
M. Pawlak and J. Bielak (eds.), New Perspectives in Language,
Discourse and Translation Studies, Second Language Learning and Teaching,
DOI 10.1007/978-3-642-20083-0_7, # Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2011
91
Manner, Ground and Figure (Talmy 2003; cf. Lakoff 1987). Path refers to the
trajectory or directionality of a moving object (Figure) and specifies the Source, e.g.
from the supermarket, and Goal of the activity, e.g. to the bus stop, as well as its
Medium, e.g. through the Red Square. Ground is the reference object, while
Manner covers the motor patterns of movement, its rhythm and pace, and the effort
put into it. Examples (1a) and (1b) present the main elements of a simple motion
event in English (Slobin 2005; Talmy 1985).
1. (a) John ran into the room.
Figure Motion + Manner Path Goal
(b) The bottle rolled off the table.
Figure Motion + Manner Path Ground
Languages differ with regard to how these components are encoded syntacti-
cally. Overall, Talmy (2003) speaks of verb-framed languages (V-languages),
which encode Path and Motion in the main verb of a clause, e.g. enter, exit, and
satellite-framed languages (S-languages), where Path is encoded in a satellite,
i.e. an attached verb particle (in, out), prepositional phrase (PP, e.g. into the cave)
or a verb prefix, as can be observed in Slavic languages, e.g. w-biec in Polish (Eng.
in-run). Both language types also differ as regards the Manner of motion, which in
satellite languages, often referred to as high-Manner languages, is conveyed by the
verb. Consequently, such languages have a larger stock of Manner verbs, the less
frequent of which convey finer semantic distinctions. Verb-framed languages, by
contrast, code Manner of motion by means of an adjunct or simply do not mention it
(Slobin 2003), and are hence labeled low-Manner languages. In Talmy’s typology,
Manner and Cause of motion are treated as semantic equivalents, which are
lexicalized in a similar way.
At the discourse level, S-languages accumulate Path particles and prepositional
phrases next to the main verb and encode both Path and Manner in a single clause
(Allen et al. 2007), while V-languages typically use two or more separate clauses,
as shown in example (2), or omit Manner information altogether.
2. English original: I ran out the kitchen door, past the animal pens, towards
Jasón’s house.
Spanish translation: Sali por la puerta de la cocina (I exited the kitchen door),
pase por los corrales (passed by the animal pens), y me dirigi a casa de Jasón
(and directed myself to Jasón’s house) (Slobin 2005).
This general formula was subsequently modified by Aske (1989), who drawing
on an analysis of how Spanish verbs lexicalize motion, discovered a general
tendency of V-languages to use Manner verbs only in combination with atelic
Path phrases, i.e. those which do not denote event completion or boundary-crossing,
as shown in example (3).
3. We walked along the beach (French: Nous avons marché le long de la plage;
Pourcel 2003: 55).
92 J. Latkowska
Since S-languages make use of both atelic and telic, i.e. directional and
resultative Path satellites, of which the latter clearly indicate an activity’s end
point and/or boundary crossing (Pourcel 2003; Papafragou et al. 2008; Cadierno
and Lund 2004), the differences between the two language types are limited to how
they encode bounded (telic) situations, where V-languages allow Path verbs only.
Satellite-framed languages include Germanic, Celtic, Slavic and Finno-Ugric
languages, while verb-framed languages comprise Greek, Basque, Japanese,
Korean, Romance, Turkic and Semitic languages (Riemer 2010). An additional
category proposed by Talmy includes languages such as Atsugewi and Navajo,
which conflate Figure and Motion in the verb, as exemplified by the English
sentence It rained in through the bedroom window (Aske 1989).
Talmy’s three-way typology was subsequently extended by Slobin (2004, 2006),
who introduced yet another category of equipollently-framed languages
(E-languages). It encompasses serial-verb languages, which express Path and
Motion by using two or three verbs in a clause, none of which is marked for
finiteness, as in the Thai sentence chán dəən (paj) (Eng. I walk go ‘I am walking’)
(Slobin 2006: 4).
7.2 Conflicting Research Results
Although Talmy and his associates continue to refine their framework, evidence of
major inconsistencies has steadily been accumulating. To begin with, it has
been shown that the categorical contrasts suggested by Talmy are by no means
absolute. This is certainly the case with the Manner/Path distinction as speakers of
both V- and S-languages tend to use patterns that diverge from the category norm.
In fact, Beavers et al. (2010) note that most languages straddle more than one
category. For instance, even though Turkish is a V-language, where Manner and
Path are specified in separate clauses, some of its motion verbs convey both
elements in a way typical of S-languages, e.g. the Turkish word for climb (Jarvis
and Pavlenko 2008). Similar trends have been reported by Pourcel and Kopecka
(2005) for French, which allows Manner to be encoded in the main verb and Path in
a gerund, as in courir en montant ‘run ascending’. Moreover, French has a number
of frequent motion verbs, which contain a prefix expressing Path, e.g. a-ccourir
‘run to’ and a-tterir ‘touch down’, ‘land’ (Kopecka 2006). By the same token, both
Polish and English, despite being satellite languages, are capable of encoding
Manner in an adjunct (adverbial of manner), as in opus
´cic
´ sale
˛ biegiem ‘leave a
room at a run’. Likewise, Brown and Gullberg (2008) found that contrary to
typological trends, Japanese (V-language) speakers use a wide range of Manner
verbs as well. The tendency has come to light thanks to the findings of Ohara (2004;
cited in Brown and Gullberg 2008), who on analyzing the translation of Tolkien’s
The Hobbit into Japanese, found the verb to be the prevalent means of conveying
Manner information. What is more, the verbs often conflated Manner and Path.
Further still, Beavers et al. (2004) demonstrate that English allows motion verbs to
7 On the Representations of Motion Events: Perspectives from L2 Research 93
encode neither Path nor Manner since these may be encoded in the satellites, as
portrayed in example (4):
4. John moved stealthily out of the room.
In some S-languages, e.g. English, the coding of Manner is optional. Talmy
(1985) enumerates the following English verbs which carry Path but not Manner:
enter, ascend, descend, cross, pass, circle, advance, proceed, approach, arrive,
depart, return, join, separate, part, rise, leave, near and follow. At the opposite end
are languages such as Russian, which encodes Manner obligatorily (Jarvis and
Pavlenko 2008) but with varying degrees of Manner salience. Finally, in Mandarin,
three options, i.e. V-, S- and E-framing are possible (Beavers et al. 2010: 357).
In the light of the above, the inescapable conclusion, and one that was drawn by
Talmy himself (Talmy 1985: 62), is that the Manner/Path distinction only reflects
the most characteristic, frequent and colloquial ways of talking about motion,
which in turn might be determined by factors such as ease of processing (Slobin
2004) and frequency of use (Papafragou and Selimis 2010). Also, it should not
escape notice that individuals have at their disposal a variety of linguistic and non-
linguistic devices that may compensate for the lack of category specific lexicaliza-
tion. In this connection, Slobin (2004) lists adverbials of Manner, ideophones, i.e.
words which imitate sounds and may function as adverbials, and gestures, which
supply information about Manner that has not been encoded linguistically.
Somewhat overlooked by both Talmy and Slobin is the fact that in some
languages verbs of Manner implicate Path in addition to encoding Manner. That
this may be the case has been pointed out by quite a few researchers with regard to a
representative number of languages. For instance, in English verbs like walk, run,
swim and fly lexicalize both Manner and the direction of motion, which proceeds
towards an unspecified goal (Tsujimura 2007: 403). Likewise, climb a tree
expresses both Manner and upward movement. Malt et al. (2010) used video
clips to elicit Manner verbs for the two basic biomechanical categories of running
and walking. They found that contrary to typological taxonomies Spanish, English
and Japanese used conventional Manner verbs to encode the distinction. What is
more, the Japanese never used their main walking term to refer to walking in place
or backwards, which in the authors’ opinion indicates that for the Japanese forward
movement is part of the meaning of walk. In English, by contrast, movement in a
direction other than forwards has to be specifically qualified by an adverb or PP, as
shown above. Other studies along these lines are Allen et al. (2007) and Férez
(2007). The latter enumerates a number of Spanish and English verbs which, she
contends, encode Path as well as Manner information. Her list includes flee, slink,
scurry, scuttle, charge, track, stalk, and rove together with their Spanish analogues.
Allen et al. (2007), in turn, divide English Manner verbs into those that convey
the idea of Manner causing a change of location, and those where Manner
does not have such an effect (cf. Beavers et al. 2004; Willim 2006). For example,
run denotes continuous movement forward, while rotate does not convey this
notion. Obviously, one could speculate that Allen’s observations allude to the
prototypical scenarios developed for specific Manner verbs rather than their
94 J. Latkowska
semantic composition (c.f. Jackendoff 1990). Although clearly dependent on the
adopted theoretical stance, this perspective is of relevance, particularly in view of
the fact that pragmatic and contextual factors (Willim 2006; Beavers et al. 2004)
often conspire to give the impression of motion along a trajectory, as shown in
example (5), where climb expresses Path but not Manner even though, overall, it
tends to be classified as a Manner verb.
5. The plane climbed to 9000 feet.
Taken together, these considerations create the impression that in linguistic
renditions of directed motion, Path is more semantically salient than Manner (cf.
Jackendoff 1990). Indeed, Talmy’s (2000) modified framework includes Path under
the core schema of motion events, together with Aspect, State Change, and others.
Manner and Cause comprise supporting relations, i.e. those that may be but do not
need to be conveyed. It is the locus of the core schema either in the verb root or in
the satellite that determines classification as a V- or S-language. Relations within
the core schema are implicational in the sense that if Path is encoded in the verb, the
remaining components will also be encoded. Although this modified version offers
a more comprehensive perspective on the lexicalization of motion, the current
discussion will concentrate on the Path/Manner contrast, since it became a point
of departure for numerous investigations in the field of SLA and bilingualism. As
regards the advantage of Path over Manner, the evidence in support of this claim
will be discussed on the basis of Polish, although it is likely to apply to other Slavic
languages, too (cf. Pavlenko’s (2010) analysis of the motion lexicon in Russian).
7.3 Path or Manner: Evidence from Polish
Overall, Polish classifications of motion verbs are more inclusive than the original
Talmyan framework, and consequently incorporate many of the dimensions
that Talmy (1985) was found to be lacking. Thus, Kubiszyn-Me
˛drala (http://celta.
paris-sorbonne.fr/anasem/papers/Motion/CzasRuch.pdf; cf. Laskowski 1999: 176;
Bojar 1979: 24–31) speaks of two semantically distinct verb categories, which refer
either to change of location or to motion that does not result in locational change. Of
relevance to the current discussion are change of location verbs, which can be
further subdivided into directed motion verbs and indeterminate motion verbs. The
former denote one-way movement along a specific trajectory, e.g. is
´c
´, biec ‘walk’
and ‘run’, respectively, while the latter encode habitual and/or iterative movement
along an unspecified path or in multiple directions, e.g. chodzic
´ ‘walk repeatedly’.
Laskowski (1999: 50) enumerates the following semantic components of motion
events in Polish (see example 6):
6. Obiekt przemieszczał sie
˛ przez pole od lasu ku rzece.
Figure Motion Path Source Goal
7 On the Representations of Motion Events: Perspectives from L2 Research 95
‘An object was moving across a field from the woods towards the river.’
He also points out that not all of these components are lexicalized at the sentence
level as sentences with a complete motion representation are relatively rare in
Polish. This is because quite a few motion components are implicated by the
context.
Polish motion verbs convey information about Manner, which Laskowski
broadly defines in terms of intentionality, instrument (use of a vehicle or limbs),
environment (water, air), speed, degree of contact with the surface, attitude and so
on (Laskowski 1999; cf. Slobin 2006). Some verbs combine Manner and direction-
ality of motion, that is, Path, e.g. biec ‘run’ and is
´c
´ ‘walk’ both imply continuous
movement forward. Polish has very few verbs that express Path without simulta-
neously encoding Manner, e.g. przybyc
´ ‘arrive’, wyruszyc
´ ‘depart’, przemieszczac
´
sie
˛ ‘move from one place to another’, zbliz
˙ac
´ sie
˛ ‘approach’, podąz
˙ac
´ ‘follow’,
przedostac
´sie
˛ ‘get through’, mijac
´‘pass’, udac
´sie
˛, wybrac
´sie
˛ ‘make one’s way to’
and dotrzec
´ ‘reach’.
In accordance with Talmy (1985), Polish, being a satellite-framed language,
encodes Path by means of a prefix. The prefix specifies the beginning and end
of the trajectory, as well as the trajectory itself. It also entails the position of the
speaker, expectancy of arrival, departure from the trajectory’s starting point and
approach to the end point (Krucka 2006). Janowska (1999) assigns spatial prefixes
to three categories depending on the relation of the Figure to the Ground. Adlative
prefixes such as od-, wy-, z/s-, roz-, and u- specify the starting point of motion, be it
the inside of an object (Ground), as in w-yjs
´c
´ z domu ‘leave home’, the object’s
surface (z-ejs
´c
´ z drogi ‘get off the road’) or its boundary (od-płynąc
´ od brzegu
‘sail/swim away from the shore’). Ablative prefixes: do-, na-, nad-, pod-, przy-,
w-, za-, z/s- , denote the Figure’s proximity to the Ground, specifying the number
of objects or individuals involved, as in z-jechały sie
˛ tłumy ‘crowds arrived’,
boundary crossing (w-szedł do pokoju ‘he entered the room’) and the exact point of
contact (na-jechał na rower *‘he drove onto a bike’), along with the degree of
proximity to the Ground (do-jechac
´ vs. pod-jechać, ‘reach the destination’ vs. ‘stop
short of the destination’). Willim (2006) explains that in Polish, verbs referring to
caused/directed motion and change of location events require a spatial prefix when-
ever the event in question involves the crossing of a location boundary, as in w-biec na
scene
˛ ‘to run onto the stage’. Change of location verbs that do not have a prefix
obligatorily require a directional PP, as in u-dac
´ sie do Paryz
˙a ‘leave for Paris’
(Willim 2006: 218). Generally, spatial prefixes telicise events by delimiting their
endpoints (see above). Consequently, the events have a perfective reading.
The last of Janowska’s categories consists of perlative prefixes: prze- and o-.
These signify the distance covered during a motion event, as in prze-płynąc
´ rzeke
˛
‘swim across the river’. Quite uncharacteristically for satellites, in Polish, perlative
relations may be expressed by an instrumental noun phrase. This typological
idiosyncrasy is additionally illustrated by the following examples: szli drogą,
s
´ciez
˙ką, lasem ‘they walked the road, path, *the woods’ (Nagórko 1998). On
the whole, Janowska’s (1999) analysis focuses on 18 spatial prefixes, which by
96 J. Latkowska
virtue of their number and nuanced differences in meaning can yield great
precision of description. The way prepositional phrases complement the wealth of
detail provided by prefixation is discussed below.
Generally, prefixed verbs of directed motion connote prepositional phrases
where the preposition often echoes the prefix, e.g. dojechac
´ do centrum miasta
(Eng. to-come to the city centre) and wjechac
´ w drzewo (Eng. in-drive in-to a tree).
Sysak-Borońska (1974) stresses the functional interdependence of prepositions and
case endings in the complement noun phrase, which she sees as exponents of spatial
relations. Notably, case endings may determine the character of the entire phrase by
introducing a contrast between a locative and adlative reading. This is shown in
example (7)
7. Locative: Lez
˙ec
´ pod tramwajem (instrumental) ‘to be lying under a tram’,
adlative: wpas
´c
´ pod tramwaj (accusative) ‘to fall under a tram’.
In Polish, prepositional phrases can denote both bounded and unbounded events.
There is disagreement over their syntactic status since Spencer and Zaretskaya
(1998) see them as adjuncts while Willim (2006) argues that they function as verb
complements, because they are obligatory in cases when a verb of motion does not
have a prefix (see above). Most crucially, a goal/directional PP further qualifies the
Path of the motion event and can even impose a change of location reading on a
basic activity verb, as in Pchne
˛li samochód na bok ‘They pushed the car to the side’
(Willim 2006: 214).
The above evidence seems robust enough to warrant the conclusion that Polish
lexicalization patterns of directed motion prioritize Path, which may be encoded
throughout the predicate. A for Manner, it appears to be downgraded to the pro-
verbial red herring, which despite being finely synchronized with Path and percep-
tually salient, semantically constitutes an addition to an otherwise complete account
of a motion event. In a similar vein, Pourcel (2003) found that English users
perceive the trajectory of motion rather than Manner as the defining feature. It
may also be worth pointing out that in V-languages, too, Path information often
exceeds that conveyed by the verb. This is illustrated by Riemer (2010: 402–403),
who shows that Spanish (see examples (8a) and (8b)) does not restrict Path
information to the verb but further qualifies it in the satellite, which may be
indicative of a general prominence of Path in linguistic expressions of motion.
8. (a) La botella entró a la cueva (flotando)
Eng. The bottle moved-in to the cave (floating)
(b) El globo subió por la chimenea (flotando)
Eng. The balloon moved-up through the chimney (floating).
Finally, to put the current debate into perspective, let us consider the criticisms
made by Cadiot et al. (2006), who drawing on data from French, dismissed the idea
of using displacement as a principal semantic determinant of motion. The rationale
behind their approach is that many of the allegedly typical motion verbs tend to be
used in ways that have nothing to do with change of location. A case in point is
the expression la route monte ‘the road goes up’, which does not imply any
7 On the Representations of Motion Events: Perspectives from L2 Research 97
form of movement, or indeed, la photo est bien sortie ‘the photo came out well’,
which likewise does not convey a hint of displacement. Moreover, preoccupation
with physical components of motion overshadows the emotional, subjective and
impressionistic dimensions of meaning that are intricately interwoven into semantic
networks, and as such, reflect the complexity of human experience. Cadiot et al.
argue that by abstracting displacement from a variety of uses of motion verbs,
Talmy narrowed down his investigations to just one aspect of their meaning, which
should not be treated as privileged or determinative (Riemer 2010). The question
that arises from this critique is whether and to what extent a fragmentary portrayal
of the semantics of motion verbs can reliably be used as an explanatory basis for
research and the ongoing debate on whether and to what extent Talmy’s typology
reflects the cognitive and linguistic operations of the (bilingual) mind. This is
particularly relevant in view of the fact that it became a springboard for
developments in linguistic relativity research, and consequently acquired consider-
able theory-generating potential (cf. Slobin’s (1996) thinking for speaking
hypothesis).
7.4 The Bilingual Perspective
A logical consequence of investigating lexicalization patterns across a broad
spectrum of languages is that the obtained data can be used as a benchmark for
explaining aspects of SLA and bilingual speech. Seen from this perspective, L2
sentence construction appears to be influenced by the L1, which limits the learners’
choices primarily to those aspects of meaning that are encoded in L1 syntax. In
referring to these processes, Slobin (1996: 89) aptly observes that the L1 trains its
users to pay different kinds of attention to events and experiences when talking
about them, to the extent that children as young as three consistently follow
language-specific lexicalization patterns (Allen et al. 2007). What is more, such
effects are exceptionally resistant to restructuring in adult second language acqui-
sition (Slobin 1996: 89). The practical implication is that the L2 learner/user is set
to habitually attend to and/or encode L1-based conceptualizations in the L2.
Interestingly but not surprisingly, this does not preclude L2-induced
restructuring of L1 patterns. As shown by Papafragou et al. (2008), who asked
Greek and English subjects to verbally describe videoed motion events, the Greek
speakers were equally likely to use either a Path or a Manner verb to describe telic
scenes. The authors explain that one of contributing factors might have been
advanced proficiency in L2 English, which sanctions such usage. A similar conclu-
sion has been drawn by Brown and Gullberg (2008) who analyzed oral depictions of
motion events by Japanese–English bilinguals. The evidence they collected bears
marks of bidirectional L1–L2 transfer and convergence because the examined
bilinguals used more Manner verbs in their L1 Japanese than Japanese
monolinguals but fewer verbs of this type than English-only subjects. By the
same token, in their L2 English there was less encoding of Manner than in the
98 J. Latkowska
monolingual English group. Not surprisingly, gesture use in the bilingual group
exhibited features of both L1 and L2. Hohenstein et al. (2006) report parallel
tendencies with regard to the use of Path and Manner verbs in oral film retells
by Spanish–English bilinguals. Other research further validates these tendencies.
For example, Polish-French bilinguals tend to use an adjunct to double-code
manner of movement, which violates logicality constraints in L1 Polish, as shown
in example 9:
9. Doszedł do nas biegając (Eng. He walked up to us running).
An exception to this trend is oral film retellings collected from late Russian-
English bilinguals by Pavlenko (2010), who demonstrates that the L1 Russian
motion lexicon is relatively resistant to cross-linguistic influence, and that of all
the syntactic markers of motion, Path prefixation is the most stable. The few
instances of L2-induced changes that Pavlenko found in her corpus included a
preference for imperfective verbs and loss of a semantic distinction between
walking, riding and driving, which manifested itself as the use of idti/walk, most
likely by analogy to the English go.
Another issue of interest, particularly in SLA contexts, is the semantic
exponents of motion that L2 learners choose to lexicalize. Working along these
lines, Cadierno and Lund (2004) hypothesize that, when learning an S-language,
speakers of V-languages will avoid less frequent manner verbs, especially in
referring to boundary-crossing situations, and will express manner in a separate
unit. By contrast, S-language users will add manner information to sentences in a V-
language, and will fail to distinguish between boundary-crossing and non-boundary-
crossing scenarios. They warn, however, that linguistic behavior will to some extent
be linked to proficiency in a particular language.
Finally, an issue well worth looking into is how speakers of a Slavic S-language,
e.g. Polish, go about expressing directed motion in L2 English, also an S-language.
Keeping in mind the differences in the way both encode Path, it is possible to form a
number of hypotheses about the possible lexicalization patterns in L2 English.
These run as follows:
10. Given the tendency of Polish to lexicalize Path throughout the predicate, Polish
users of L2 English will prioritize Path at the expense of Manner verbs. This will
manifest itself as a preference for Path-only verbs, a tendency reinforced by
their frequent use in English. In fact, The Oxford 3000 Wordlist (www.oup.
com) features most of the English Path-only words, as listed by Talmy (1985).1
11. Since Manner verbs, especially those conveying finer distinctions, are less
common, they are also less likely to be acquired (Cadierno and Lund 2004)
and/or used productively by L2 learners. Consequently, the learners will rely on
the most frequent stock of Manner vocabulary and, if necessary, will attempt to
express Manner by resorting to other parts of speech, such as adverbs.
1
Exceptions include: ascend, descend, cross (v), circle (v), depart, part (v) and near (v).
7 On the Representations of Motion Events: Perspectives from L2 Research 99
12. Since Polish users of L2 English expect the verb to express at least some Path
information, they will initially use deictic English Path verbs, such as come and
go. This is because their semantic composition is broad enough to accommo-
date the nuanced meanings of Polish spatial prefixes. There will also be less
pressure to encode spatial information in the prepositional phrase, by analogy
to L1 Polish. As a result, Polish–English users will produce less elaborate and
shorter Path PPs in L2 English.
Despite their intuitive appeal, these hypotheses only intimate possible linguistic
behavior and should not be interpreted as descriptions of definite trends. Indeed,
with the benefit of hindsight, it seems more practical to adopt a data-driven
approach to explicating these issues, rather than fall into the trap of overprediction,
which for years blighted theory-oriented research into cross-linguistic influence.
Finally, even though research in this area appears to be limited to a confined
semantic field (but see Cadiot et al. 2006), its findings will find wide application
in other domains, including syntax and stylistics. Given the challenges these present
to L2 users, insights into their modus operandi may turn out to be yet another
missing piece of the puzzle as to why it is so difficult to achieve native-like/
monolingual levels of L2 proficiency.
References
Allen, S., A. Özy€
urek, S. Kita, A. Brown, R. Furman, T. Ishizuka and F. Mihoko. 2007. Language-
specific and universal influences in children’s packaging of Manner and Path: A comparison of
English, Japanese, and Turkish. Cognition 102: 16–48.
Aske, Jon. 1989. Path predicates in English and Spanish: A closer look. In Proceedings of the
Fifteenth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, eds. K. Hall, M. Meacham and
R. Shapiro, 1–14. Berkeley, California: Berkeley Linguistics Society.
Beavers, J., B. Levin and S.W. Tham. 2004. A morphosyntactic basis for variation in the encoding
of motion events. Unpublished manuscript. http://comp.ling.utexas.edu/~jbeavers/publications.
html. Accessed 10 July 2010.
Beavers, J., B. Levin and S.W. Tham. 2010. The typology of motion expressions revisited.
Linguistics 46: 331–377.
Bojar, B. 1979. Opis semantyczny czasowników ruchu oraz poje
˛c
´ związanych z ruchem.
Warszawa: Wydawnictwo Uniwersytetu Warszawskiego.
Brown, A. and M. Gullberg. 2008. Cross-linguistic influence in L1-L2 encoding of Manner in
speech and gesture. A study of Japanese speakers of English. Studies in Second Language
Acquisition 30: 225–251.
Cadiot, P., F. Lebas and Y-M. Visetti. 2006. The semantics of motion verbs: Action, space, and
qualia. In Space in languages, eds. M. Hickmann and S. Robert, 175–206. Amsterdam:
Benjamins.
Cadierno, T. and K. Lund. 2004. Cognitive linguistics and second language acquisition: Motion
events in a typological framework. In Form-meaning connections in second language acquisi-
tion, eds. B. Van Patten, J. Williams, S. Rott and M. Overstreet, 139–153. Mahwah, NJ:
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Férez, P. C. 2007. Human locomotion verbs in English and Spanish. IJES 7: 117–136.
100 J. Latkowska
Hohenstein, J., A. Eisenberg and L. Naigles. 2006. Is he floating across or crossing afloat? Cross-
influence of L1 and L2 in Spanish-English bilingual adults. Bilingualism: Language and
Cognition 9: 249–261.
Jackendoff, R. 1990. Semantic structures. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Janowska, A. 1999. Funkcje przestrzenne przedrostków czasownikowych w polszczyz
´nie.
Katowice: Wydawnictwo Uniwersytetu Śląskiego.
Jarvis, S. and A. Pavlenko. 2008. Crosslinguistic influence in language and cognition. New York
and London: Routledge.
Kopecka, A. 2006.The semantic structure of motion verbs in French: Typological perspectives. In
Space in languages, eds. M. Hickmann and S. Robert, 83–101. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Krucka, B. 2006. Kontrasty polsko-rosyjskie w zakresie morfologii a zjawiska interferencji. Łask-
Warszawa: Oficyna Wydawnicza LEKSEM.
Kubiszyn-Me
˛drala, Z. Polskie bezprzedrostkowe czasowniki ruchu w perspektywie kognitywnej.
Unpublished manuscript. http://celta.paris-sorbonne.fr/anasem/papers/Motion/CzasRuch.pdf.
Accessed 23 May 2008.
Lakoff, G. 1987. Women, fire and dangerous things: What categories reveal about the mind.
Chicago: Chicago University Press.
Laskowski, R. 1999. Czasowniki ruchu liniowego (czasowniki przemieszczania) w pespektywie
kontrastywnej. In Semantyka a konfrontacja je
˛zykowa, eds. Z. Greń and V. Koseska-Toszewa,
49–58. Warszawa: Slawistyczny Ośrodek Wydawniczy.
Malt, B. C., S. P. Gennari and M. Imai. 2010. Lexicalization patterns and the world-to-words
mapping. In Words and the mind: How words encode human experience. eds. B. C. Malt and
P. Wolff, 29–57. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Nagórko, A. 1998. Zarys gramatyki polskiej. Warszawa: PWN.
Ohara. K. M. Manner of motion in Japanese and English. Unpublished manuscript.
Papafragou, A., J. Hulbert and J. Trueswell. 2008. Does language guide perception ? Evidence
from eye movements. Cognition 108: 155–184.
Papafragou, A. and S. Selimis. 2010. Event categorization and language: A cross-linguistic study
of motion. Language and cognitive processes 25: 224–260.
Pavlenko, A. 2010. Verbs of motion in L1 Russian of Russian-English bilinguals. Bilingualism:
Language and Cognition 13: 49–62.
Pourcel, S. 2003. Linguistic relativity and motion events in English. Durham working papers in
linguistics 9: 53–67.
Pourcel, S. and A. Kopecka. 2005. Motion expression in French: typological diversity. Durham &
Newcastle working papers in linguistics 11: 139–153.
Riemer, N. 2010. Introducing semantics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Slobin, D. I. 1996. From “thought and language” to “thinking for speaking”. In Rethinking
linguistic relativity, eds. J. J. Gumperz, and S. C. Levinson, 70–96. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Slobin, D. I. 2003. Language and thought on line: Cognitive consequences of linguistic relativity.
In Language and mind. Advances in the study of language and thought, eds. D. Gentner and
S. Goldin-Meadow, 157–192. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.
Slobin, D. I. 2004. The many ways to search for a frog: Linguistic typology and the expression of
motion events. In Relating events in narrative: Vol. 2. Typological and contextual
perspectives, eds. S. Str€
omqvist and L. Verhoeven, 219–257. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Slobin, D. I. 2005. Linguistic representations of motion events: What is signifier and what is
signified? In Iconicity inside out: Iconicity in language and literature 4, eds. C. Maeder,
O. Fischer and W. Herlofsky, 307–260. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Slobin, D. I. 2006. What makes manner of motion salient? Explorations in linguistic typology,
discourse, and cognition. In Linguistic systems and cognitive categories, eds. M. Hickmann
and S. Robert, 59–81. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Spencer, A. and M. D. Zaretskaya. 1998. Verb prefixation in Russian as lexical subordination.
Linguistics 36: 1–39.
7 On the Representations of Motion Events: Perspectives from L2 Research 101
Sysak-Borońska, M. G. 1974. Some remarks on the spatio-relative system in English and Polish.
Poznan studies in contemporary linguistics 3: 185–208.
Talmy, L. 1985. Lexicalization patterns: Semantic structure in lexical forms. In Language
typology and syntactic description. Volume III: Grammatical categories and the lexicon, ed.
T. Shopen, 57–149. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Talmy, L. 2000. Toward a cognitive semantics: Vol. I. Concept structuring systems. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Talmy, L. 2003. Toward a cognitive semantics: Vol. II. Typology and process in concept
structuring. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
The Oxford 3000 Wordlist. http://www.oup.com/elt/catalogue/teachersites/oald7/oxford_3000/
oxford_3000_list?view¼Print&cc¼global. Accessed 10 June 2010.
Tsujimura, N. 2007. An introduction to Japanese linguistics. Oxford: Blackwell.
Willim, E. 2006. Event individuation and countability. A study with special reference to English
and Polish. Kraków: Jagiellonian University Press.
102 J. Latkowska
Chapter 8
On the Interplay Between Prepositional
Categories. The Case of the Polish od–do
Construction
Daria Be
˛beniec
Abstract The Polish prepositions od and do, being opposite in terms of their
spatio-geometric and functional content, display a significant degree of compatibil-
ity and thus tend to co-occur in a number of different contexts. As a result, the two
prepositions appear to have developed a number of joint meanings, and the aim of
the present article is to account for their motivated character by means of one of
the recent cognitive linguistic methodologies, the Principled Polysemy model
(Tyler and Evans 2003). Specifically, it is argued that the od–do construction
constitutes a polysemous category, which consists of several distinguishable yet
interrelated meanings. It is posited that the central spatial meanings of the
prepositions od and do, taken together, form the basis for the remaining extended
senses, the majority of which cannot be predicted from the individual preposi-
tional networks.
8.1 Introduction
The Polish prepositions od and do apparently constitute each other’s polar
opposites.1
In spatial terms, the former encodes the trajector’s orientation away
from the landmark and the latter – the trajector’s orientation towards the landmark.
From a functional perspective, the landmark of od constitutes the trajector’s source,
whereas in the case of do it corresponds to the trajector’s goal.2
The symmetry
between the two prepositions extends well beyond the spatial primary meanings, as
D. Be
˛beniec (*)
Maria Curie-Skłodowska University, Lublin, Poland
e-mail: daria@hektor.umcs.lublin.pl
1
The present paper is based on my dissertation devoted to the semantics of directional prepositions,
including Polish od and do (Be
˛beniec 2010).
2
For a discussion of the prefixal counterparts of the two prepositions, see for example Dąbrowska
(1996), Suchostawska (2005) and Przybylska (2006).
M. Pawlak and J. Bielak (eds.), New Perspectives in Language,
Discourse and Translation Studies, Second Language Learning and Teaching,
DOI 10.1007/978-3-642-20083-0_8, # Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2011
103
od and do have also developed several opposite senses. For example, while od is
used to refer to distance, detachment, distinction and subtraction, do is frequently
employed in the contexts pertaining to proximity, attachment, similarity and addi-
tion.3
In consequence, the two prepositions exhibit a substantial degree of compati-
bility, which has in turn resulted in a number of joint instantiations, such as for
instance examples (1)–(10) below.
1. Od Annasza do Kajfasza ‘from pillar to post’
2. Od Sasa do Lasa ‘~as different as chalk and cheese’
3. Od łyczka do rzemyczka ‘~one thing leads to another’
4. Od ucha do ucha ‘from ear to ear’
5. Od czasu do czasu ‘from time to time’
6. Od góry do dołu ‘from top to bottom’
7. Od deski do deski ‘from cover to cover’
8. Od początku do końca ‘from start to finish’
9. Od stóp do głów ‘from head to toe’
10. Od szczegółu do ogółu ‘from the specific to the general’
In view of this, the aim of the present paper is to account for the status of the
afore-mentioned instances by means of one of the recent cognitive linguistic
methodologies, the Principled Polysemy model (e.g. Tyler and Evans 2001, 2003;
Evans and Tyler 2004a, 2004b).4
It will specifically be argued that that the Polish
od–do construction constitutes a higher-order polysemous category,5
whose emer-
gence might primarily be attributed to the frequent interaction between the
prepositions od and do.6
First, the central spatial senses of the two prepositions
will be taken as the point of departure for the category proposed, and these
meanings will be treated as a kind of joint primary sense motivating the remaining
3
The following are but a few examples: Mieszkamy daleko od centrum miasta ‘We live a long way
from the city centre’, Ma blisko do pracy, ale ciągle sie
˛ spóz
´nia ‘He lives close to his workplace,
but he is always late’, Ta sukienka mocno przylega do ciała ‘The dress is a tight fit’ and Nie mógł
oderwac
´ sie
˛ od ksiąz
˙ki ‘He could not tear himself away from the book’.
4
Among the hallmarks of the Principled Polysemy framework one could enumerate the construct
of a proto-scene, which is a schematic representation of a spatial relation and consists of spatio-
geometric and functional content, and principled criteria for isolating the central prepositional
meaning and distinguishing conventionalized senses from contextual uses. For a detailed exposi-
tion of the assumptions of Principled Polysemy see Tyler and Evans (2003).
5
In Construction Grammar e.g. Fillmore 1988; Kay and Fillmore 1999; Croft 2001; Goldberg
1995, 2006), constructions are taken to be such pairings of form and meaning whose semantic and
syntactic properties are not predictable from the properties of the relevant constituent parts. For an
account of constructional polysemy, as exemplified by the English ditransitive and caused-motion
constructions, see for instance Goldberg (1995). In Goldberg’s terms, polysemy, along with
metaphorical extension, subsumption and instance, constitutes one type of inheritance links
motivating the systematic relationships among constructions.
6
In other words, since the central spatial senses of the prepositions od and do respectively encode
the starting point and end point of the trajector’s potential relocation, which, in dynamic contexts,
constitute crucial components of a motion event, it is only natural that there should exist cases
where the two components are given explicit realization.
104 D. Be
˛beniec
members of the od–do construction. Further, the isolated groups of contexts will be
considered as akin to distinct senses, which are modelled into the semantic network
in its own right. Even though some of the meanings can still be predicted from the
individual prepositional categories, it will be argued that quite a number of others
must have emerged as a result of the afore-mentioned interplay between the two
prepositions.7
8.2 The Central Sense
The central meaning of the od–do construction is motivated by the central spatial
manifestations of each of the two prepositions.8
The trajector’s (¼TR’s) location is
specified relative to two landmarks (¼LMs), which occupy two different positions
in space (see Fig. 8.1).
The following examples instantiate the central meaning of od and do, depicting
the TR’s movement between two different LMs, which respectively correspond to
the starting point and end point of the TR’s relocation.
11. Od Łodzi do Torunia jechali pociągiem. ‘They went by train from Łódź to
Toruń.’
12. Dziewczynka pobiegła od mamy do taty. ‘The girl ran from her mother to her
father.’
13. Od kuzynki pojechałam do sklepu. ‘From my cousin’s I went to the store.’
14. Skakać od jednej latarni do drugiej ‘to jump from one lamp post to another’
15. Pobiec od drzewa do drzewa ‘to run from one tree to another’
It should be noted that the present meaning does not seem to be represented by
purely orientational examples associated with some of the uses of the primary
LM1 LM2
TR
Fig. 8.1 The proto-scene for
the od–do construction
7
Put differently, sometimes we can speak of a less conventionalized association of senses than in
other instances, yet for the sake of the completeness of the picture all these cases will be included
in the discussion.
8
In addition, there is also the od–do phrase, which has begun to function as a unit, especially
in informal language (e.g. pracowac
´ w godzinach od–do ‘to have fixed hours of work’, limit
od–do ‘a fixed limit’, and Stowarzyszenie OD-DO ‘The TO-FROM Association’).
8 On the Interplay Between Prepositional Categories 105
senses of the individual prepositions,9
which is not surprising inasmuch as the
compatibility between od and do follows from the fact that each of them encodes
one essential component of a motion event. Furthermore, owing to the character of
the TR-LM relation in the case of od, the central meaning of the od-do construction
does not cover cases in which the TR’s route starts within a particular LM, which in
examples such as (11) gives rise to the interpretation involving some spatial
segment of a larger path extending beyond both the starting point provided by the
od-phrase and the end point supplied by the LM of do. Symmetrical as the two
prepositions are, it appears that do more readily than od participates in such
readings where the TR is at some stage in contact with the inside of the LM.
In this respect, od competes with the preposition z(e), and itself admits the
TR’s relocation from the confines of the LM only in instantiations involving the
PERSON FOR PLACE metonymy, such as (13) above.10
8.3 Other Meanings
8.3.1 The Spatial Repetitive Sense
The first of the extended meanings, labelled as the Spatial Repetitive Sense, seems to
be related to such instantiations of the central meaning in which the implicature of
repetitiveness is detectable, as for example in (14) and (15) above. Recurrence is
especially manifested in the contexts in which the TR moves from one entity to
another (as well as from entity to entity, to capture the characteristics of form), with
the two entities corresponding to two or more distinct tokens of the same type (see
Fig. 8.2 below). Besides, the contribution of imperfective verbs is also not insignifi-
cant, the more so as it seems to be the concomitant of the present meaning. The
instantiations representing the Spatial Repetitive Sense, quoted below, display varied
degrees of spatiality, which is especially visible in examples (18), (19) and (20).
16. chodzić od wsi do wsi/od sklepu do sklepu/od wystawy do wystawy ‘to go from
village to village/from shop to shop/from one exhibition to another’11
17. Listonosz chodził od domu do domu/od drzwi do drzwi. ‘The postman walked
from house to house/from door to door.’
9
A relation of orientation is exemplified for instance by the sentence Stał odwrócony tyłem od/do
widowni ‘He stood with his back towards the audience’.
10
It thus appears that the contexts of the prepositions od and z(e) highlight different aspects in the
semantics of do, which could respectively be rendered as a boundary and a goal (cf. jechac
´od Łodzi
do Torunia and jechac
´z Łodzi do Torunia ‘to go from Łódź to Toruń’). Notice that in English, due
to the broader scope of the preposition from, such nuances are generally lost, or rather they are
retrievable from the general context of the utterance rather than the relevant prepositional meaning.
11
A similar meaning could be expressed by the preposition po followed by a plural noun,
e.g. chodzic
´ po domach/po sklepach/po wystawach ‘to go to different houses/shops/exhibitions’.
As noted by Przybylska (2002: 465, 467), po is used to refer to situations where the TR moves from
one container-like entity to another, or from one person to another, and the LM constitutes
a collection of containers or persons.
106 D. Be
˛beniec
18. Być odsyłanym od Annasza do Kajfasza ‘to be driven from pillar to post’12
19. Tułał sie
˛ od pracy do pracy. ‘He wandered from job to job.’
20. Przez wiele lat poniewierała sie
˛ od krewnych do krewnych. ‘She wandered
from relatives to relatives for many years.’
8.3.2 The Spatial Limitative Sense
In another spatial meaning, instead of the TR’s relocation from one point to another
we can observe the notion of a path stretching between two positions in space
or between two spatial limits. The Spatial Limitative Sense is thus compatible with
the information retrievable from the central spatial meaning of the current network,
which supplies the starting point and end point of the TR’s relocation.13
However,
path, as used here, is no longer part of any motion event, but it corresponds to
a certain demarcated region where a specific state or state of affairs prevails or
where a particular activity is performed. As the following examples demonstrate,
motion, if at all present, is of a fictive nature.14
21. Motorówki patrolowały Wisłe
˛ od Warszawy do Płocka. ‘Motor boats patrolled
the Vistula from Warsaw do Płock.’
22. Ścieżka była zagrabiona od jednej ambony do drugiej. ‘The path was raked
from one hide to another.’
23. Wiedzą o tym od USA do Sri Lanki. ‘They know about it from the US to Sri
Lanka.’
LM
LM
TR
TR
...
Fig. 8.2 The implicature of
repetitiveness
12
This example makes reference to some historical events, when Jesus was arrested and taken first
to the high priest Annas and then to his son-in-law Caiaphas to stand trial before the Sanhedrin
prior to his Crucifixion. The English translation, in turn, most probably refers to the ancient game
of real tennis involving both pillars and posts, though its etymology is a matter of dispute.
Interestingly, the German equivalent of the phrase is “von Pontius zu Pilatus” (from Pontius to
Pilate), which in yet another way conveys the futility of somebody’s actions.
13
According to Tyler and Evans (2003: 217–218), the concept of path presupposes the connection
between the locational source and the locational goal.
14
See for example Talmy (2000).
8 On the Interplay Between Prepositional Categories 107
24. Łąka ciągnie sie
˛ od jeziora aż do lasu. ‘The meadow stretches from the lake to
the forest.’
25. Uśmiechać sie
˛/ziewać od ucha do ucha ‘to smile/yawn from ear to ear’
26. Te spodnie są proste od góry do dołu. ‘These trousers are straight from top to
bottom.’
8.3.3 The Spatial Holistic Sense
As can be observed from, say, examples (25) and (26) above, the spatial extent
provided may pertain to the whole of a particular entity, especially when it refers
to some salient outermost parts of the entity concerned. Such instantiations, in
which a given spatial region could not be extended any further, appear to constitute
a bridging context for the Spatial Holistic Sense, where the holistic interpretation
predominates over the notion of spatial extent. The main focus of the present
meaning is on the accuracy or wide scope of a particular action or state, rather
than on its spatial limits.
27. Przeszukali go od góry do dołu. ‘They searched him from top to bottom.’
28. Wczoraj umyłam kuchnie
˛ od góry do dołu. ‘Yesterday I cleaned the kitchen
from top to bottom.’15
29. Zamierzamy wyremontować mieszkanie od góry do dołu. ‘We are planning to
redecorate our home from top to bottom.’
30. Przeczytaliśmy ten przewodnik od deski do deski. ‘We read this guide from
cover to cover.’
31. Od stóp do głów była ubrana na niebiesko. ‘She was dressed from head to toe in
blue.’
32. Ten film jest przebojem od jednego krańca świata do drugiego. ‘The film is
a smash hit all over the world.’
8.3.4 The Limitative Sense
The Limitative Sense, for its part, is basically predictable from the limitative senses
of the prepositions od and do and as such, it appears to belong to less
conventionalized senses in the semantic network of the od–do construction. Here,
the TR fluctuates between the two values provided by appropriate LMs, and these
values are typically ranked in ascending order, with the od-phrase and do-phrase
respectively providing the lowest and highest possible amount or quantity.16
Since
15
Notice that the action of cleaning is not necessarily performed from one end to another or in the
vertical direction suggested by the choice and order of the LMs.
16
Since both LMs, taken together, determine the scope of the TR, which is to say that the TR is
described with reference to a certain closed set of possible values, it is also conceivable that the
108 D. Be
˛beniec
the TR may also assume some intermediate values (i.e. the ones positioned any-
where in the region demarcated by the LMs), the present meaning can also be used
to express ballpark estimates, as visible in example (37) below.
33. Weź od 2 do 4 jabłek. ‘Take from 2 to 4 apples.’
34. Me
˛żczyźni w wieku od 15 do 40 lat ‘men aged from fifteen to forty’
35. Ceny pralek wahają sie
˛ od 1,000 do 5,000 złotych. ‘The prices of washing
machines range from 1,000 to 5,000 zloty.’
36. Ste
˛żenia niebezpiecznych substancji były od 10 do 300 razy wyższe od
dopuszczalnych. ‘The concentrations of dangerous substances were from 10
to 300 times higher than permitted.’
37. Mógł mieć od 20 do 25 lat. ‘He could be 20–25 years old.’
8.3.5 The Range Sense
The Range Sense is apparently motivated by such contexts of the previous limitative
meaning in which the quantitative distance between two relevant LMs is so signifi-
cant that it produces an implicature of a multitude of alternatives that could be
adopted by the TR.17
The present meaning thus encompasses instantiations where
the TR ranges widely between the two LMs, which are in turn not necessarily selected
for the purpose of stating some limits, but rather with a view to highlighting diversity.
reverse ordering will be used, as for example in Ceny pralek wahają sie
˛ od 5,000 do 1,000 złotych
‘The prices of washing machines range from 5,000 to 1,000 zloty’. Admittedly, such an arrange-
ment appears somewhat marked in comparison with examples such as (35) above. Moreover, part
of the present meaning might also be instantiations that indicate the internal organization or
ordering of the TR, such as for example the following: od najmniejszego do najwie
˛kszego ‘from
the smallest to the biggest’, idiomy od A do Z ‘idioms from A to Z’ and zestaw witamin i minerałów
od A do Z ‘a combination of vitamins and minerals from A to Z’. The last two examples, on
account of the character of the LMs, additionally give rise to a holistic, though non-spatial,
interpretation, and as such, they could also be classified as instantiations of the subsequent
meaning (i.e. the Range Sense).
17
As far as the present meaning is concerned, it should be observed that it competes with the od-po
construction (cf. Moz
˙na tu kupic
´ wszystko – od ubrań po kosmetyki ‘You can buy anything here -
from clothes to cosmetics’). Other possibilities for expressing diversity encompass the following
lexicalized expressions: zaczynając od – kończąc na (e.g. róz
˙ne gatunki literackie, zaczynając od
wierszy dla dzieci a na powies
´ciach kończąc ‘various genres, ranging from children’s verse to
novels’) and począwszy od – poprzez – (az
˙) po (e.g. Sklepy pełne są upominków z Harrym
Potterem, począwszy od breloczków, naszyjników, poprzez kubki, kielichy, az
˙ po miotły ‘Shops
are full of Harry Potter souvenirs, ranging from key rings and necklaces through mugs and goblets
to besoms’). As noted by Przybylska (2002: 484–485), the prepositions od and po also co-occur in
spatial contexts, in which case the TR of po is conceptualized as a surface extending in many
directions towards the LM which constitutes a linear boundary, as in one of Przybylska’s
examples, Nizina Polska ciągnie sie
˛ od Odry po Bug ‘The Polish Lowlands stretch from the
Oder to the Bug’.
8 On the Interplay Between Prepositional Categories 109
Besides, the LMs are characterized by homogeneity in that they are comprised by
a single domain or some other coherent subset of experience.18
38. Ich okazałe kwiaty mają różne barwy, od czystej bieli przez wszystkie odcienie
różu do ciemnej czerwieni. ‘Their splendid flowers vary in colour from pure
white through various pinks to dark red.’
39. Nasz zespół zajmuje sie
˛ wszystkim – od pisania do składu komputerowego.
‘Our team does everything – from writing to computer typesetting.’
40. Członkowie tej partii wywodzą sie
˛ z różnych środowisk, od Sasa do Lasa. ‘The
members of this party are drawn from various backgrounds, as different as
chalk and cheese.’19
41. “Od buta Gortata do opaski Podolskiego” ‘“From Gortat’s shoe to Podolski’s
armband”’20
42. “Od akordeonu do zasmażki” ‘“From an accordion to a roux”’21
8.3.6 The Temporal Sense
The Temporal Sense of the od–do construction is derivable from the respective
temporal meanings of the two prepositions. It expresses duration of an action, state
or event, delimited by two points in time which indicate the beginning and end of
a particular action. The time period encoded by od in tandem with do may be
grounded in the future, present or past. Moreover, the instantiations of the Temporal
Sense are less dependent on the moment of speaking than is the case with the
temporal meanings of the individual prepositions, where the moment of speaking
often indicates either the beginning or end of duration (that is, the other reference
point not encoded by the preposition in question).22
43. Od marca do maja be
˛de
˛ za granicą. ‘I will be abroad from March to May.’
44. Zaje
˛cia trwają od piątkowego wieczoru do pory obiadowej w niedziele
˛. ‘The
classes last from Friday evening to Sunday lunchtime.’
18
As can be observed in example (42), however, the LMs that do not typically belong to a common
category can be combined for humorous effect.
19
It appears that the primary motivation for this example is no longer active, as it was derived from
the political situation in Poland in the first half of the eighteenth century, when the Polish nobility
at one time supported Augustus II Strong in his claims to the throne, only to turn to Stanisław
Leszczyński soon afterwards. If so, the original meaning of the phrase probably expressed
vacillation between two different options or states, and as such, it would be classified as an
instance of the Change-of-state Sense discussed below.
20
This example is the title of an Internet article describing how scores of sportspeople paid tribute
to the victims of the plane crash in Smoleńsk on 10 April 2010 (retrieved 12 April 2010, from
http://www.tvn24.pl/).
21
The title of one of the albums recorded by the Polish cabaret band “Otto”.
22
Cf. Czekam na ciebie od godziny ‘I’ve been waiting for you for an hour’ and Masz jeszcze duz
˙o
czasu do wyste
˛pu ‘You have plenty of time before you performance’.
110 D. Be
˛beniec
45. Jej mąż był brytyjskim ambasadorem w Grecji od 1998 do 2001. ‘Her husband
was the British ambassador to Greece from 1998 to 2001.’
Moreover, some temporal phrases tend to highlight the holistic view of a
particular event, especially when they refer to the natural beginning and end of
this event (or of one of its fundamental parts). By extension, some of these phrases
are used to express the entirety of a given state or situation, as in examples (48) and
(49) below.
46. Koncert był pasjonujący od pierwszej do ostatniej nuty. ‘The concert was
thrilling from the first to the last note.’
47. Obejrzeć film od początku do końca ‘to see a film from beginning to end’
48. Być uczciwym od początku do końca ‘to be honest from start to finish’
49. Być drużyną od początku do końca ‘to be a team from start to finish’23
Consider also the following example, where the duration of an event is delimited
by spatial rather than temporal LMs.
50. Spała od Warszawy aż do Gdyni. ‘She slept from Warsaw to Gdynia.’24
Furthermore, as indicated by (51) below, the Temporal Sense has a repetitive
variant, which may be motivated by the shift in focus from duration delimited on
both ends just to those two salient points.
51. Od czasu do czasu/od przypadku do przypadku/od wypadku do wypadku/od
okazji do okazji ‘from time to time’25
Finally, in the contexts where the LMs are conceptualized as time periods rather
than points in time, the temporal meaning of the od–do construction acquires
a limitative interpretation, and, just as the Limitative Sense discussed above,
it can also be used to express approximate values, as in the example below.
52. Czas oczekiwania wynosi od 2 dni do 2 tygodni. ‘The waiting time is from
2 days to a fortnight.’
23
Admittedly, it may also be the case that these examples omit to mention a background event
whose duration determines the overall temporal extent of a state or situation evoked, e.g. Musimy
byc
´ druz
˙yną od początku do końca mistrzostw ‘We have to be a team from the beginning of the
championship to the end’. Nevertheless, the attested productivity of the phrase od początku do
końca indicates that it is approaching unit status.
24
Langacker (2008: 74–75), discussing a similar spatio-temporal example, i.e. She’s been asleep
for thirty miles, asserts that it could be explained by reference to the viewer’s motion, which itself
constitutes a modification of the canonical (stative) viewing arrangement.
25
Consider also the sentences Z
˙yli od wypłaty do wypłaty/od cudu do cudu ‘They lived from hand
to mouth/from one miracle to another’, which perhaps do not express frequency as such, but they
still refer to the repetitiveness of an event of a particular type, marking an important stage in
another event (in this case, one’s existence). So the focus here, just as in the phrase od czasu do
czasu ‘from time to time’, is on the salient points and not on the duration of an event taking place in
between these temporal points.
8 On the Interplay Between Prepositional Categories 111
8.3.7 The Change-of-State Sense
The Change-of-State Sense appears to be motivated by such instantiations of the
central meaning in which the TR moves from one entity to another, and thus, given
the experiential correlation between states and locations, may easily be exposed to a
particular state or circumstances associated with a particular LM. The presence of
two LMs in the region of the TR’s relocation, in turn, is likely to create an
implicature of the TR’s transition from one state to another. For instance, the
following quasi-spatial sentences present conceptual proximity and distance
obtaining between two states rather than between representations of spatial entities.
53. Od miłości blisko jest do nienawiści. ‘There is a thin line between love and hate.’
54. Od pomysłu do realizacji jest długa droga. ‘It is a long way from an idea to its
implementation.’
Some other instances associated with the present meaning are presented below.
Notice that in some cases the order of the LMs appears to be more motivated, as in
(56) and (57). In other cases, such as for example in (55), the reversal of the LMs
would not result in any significant meaning variation.26
55. Cierpiał na huśtawki nastrojów – od euforii do przygne
˛bienia. ‘His emotions
see-sawed from euphoria to dejection.’
56. Od szczegółu do ogółu/od ogółu do szczegółu. ‘from the specific to the general
/ from the general to the specific’
57. Od nowicjusza do eksperta ‘from novice to expert’
58. Najwyższy czas przejść od słów do czynów. ‘It’s high time to put words into
actions.’
8.3.8 The Progression Sense
The Progression Sense, apparently related to the previous meaning, expresses
a transition from one state to another. There is a causal connection between the
two relevant states, and together they amount to or precipitate yet another state or
event. Alternatively, it may be the case that the states at issue represent a certain
qualitative progression or accumulative sequence, as a result of which (and as part
of the ordinary course of events) a particular final state, not necessarily a positive
one, is reached.
26
The present meaning also seems to be very productive, as it often occurs in article titles, book
titles, conference session titles and headlines. Among the recently encountered instantiations there
are for example the following: od cukru do octu ‘from sugar to vinegar’, od ros
´liny do leku
naturalnego ‘from a plant to a natural drug’, od biletu do cywila ‘from a ticket to civvy street’, od
bezradnos
´ci do bezpieczeństwa ‘from helplessness to safety’, od stresu do pewnos
´ci siebie ‘from
stress to self-confidence’ and od chaosu do porządku ‘from chaos to order’.
112 D. Be
˛beniec
59. Od słowa do słowa – i pokłócili sie
˛. ‘One thing led to another and they had
a fight.’
60. I tak, od łyczka do rzemyczka, powoli zaczął sie
˛ ich romans. ‘And so, one thing
led to another and their affair began.’27
8.4 The Semantic Network of the od–do Construction
Overall, as presented in Fig. 8.3 below, the semantic network of the od–do construc-
tion consists of the central meaning and as many as eight distinguishable senses.
8.5 Concluding Remarks
To conclude, it seems plausible to claim that the od–do construction constitutes
a distinct polysemous category including several interrelated meanings. As such,
the od–do construction displays both intra- and inter-categorial fuzziness. Firstly,
the senses discussed are on the one hand distinguishable, and on the other, they form
Fig. 8.3 The semantic
network for the od–do
construction
27
This example is part of a larger proverb, saying that starting from misdemeanours, one may
easily get involved in serious offences and end up being hanged in consequence (cf. Od łyczka do
rzemyczka, od rzemyczka do koniczka – be
˛dzie szubieniczka).
8 On the Interplay Between Prepositional Categories 113
a continuum of uses, which pertains not only to the pairs of meanings in which one
sense is claimed to motivate the other, but can also be discerned in the similar
implicatures that arise even when the relevant senses do not seem to be directly
related (as is the case with the limitative, repetitive and holistic variants emerging in
a number of different meanings). Secondly, the whole constructional network
competes at various points with other ablative and adlative prepositional
constructions, such as the following:
• The z-do construction (e.g. Inflacja spadła z 10 do 8 procent ‘Inflation went
down from 10 to 8%’, Z dalekiej podróz
˙y do własnych kątów ‘From a long
journey to one’s own place’)28
• The z-w construction (e.g. wpadac
´z jednego dołka w drugi ‘to fall from one hole
into another’)
• The z-na construction (e.g. zbiegac
´ z górki na pazurki ‘to hurtle helter-skelter
down the hill’, z góry na dół ‘from top to bottom’, z dnia na dzień ‘from day to
day’, Dobry tancerz chodzi z wesela na wesele ‘He who dances well goes from
one wedding reception to another’)29
• The od-po construction (e.g. od morza po góry ‘from the sea to the mountains’)
• The od-na construction (e.g. od wschodu na zachód ‘from the east to the west’)
• The od-ku construction (e.g. od dołu ku górze ‘from the bottom to the top’)
• The z-ku construction (e.g. z niemocy ku sprawnos
´ci ‘from powerlessness to
effectiveness’)
Furthermore, it should be noted that even though some of the members of the
od–do construction do not appear to be fully conventionalized, since for example
the central meaning can be predicted on the basis of the individual semantic
networks of the prepositions od and do, their role for the category at issue can
hardly be neglected. Without positing the primary spatial meaning, for instance,
it would not be possible to account for the motivated character of a number of
extended senses. As far as the remaining meanings of this kind are concerned,
recall that the Limitative Sense seems to have contributed to the emergence of
another distinct meaning and the Temporal Sense includes several variants, none
of which could be explained without positing the two meanings in the semantic
network of under discussion.
Finally, since the foregoing analysis draws on the study of the category of
directional prepositions, it hopefully testifies to the benefits of analyzing preposi-
tional categories displaying some common patterns. Specifically, the juxtaposi-
tion of prepositions that encode either similar or opposite spatio-configurational
and functional content may contribute to the emergence of some distinctive
characteristics that could not be brought to the fore unless embedded in a larger
context.
28
The title of some rehabilitation programme for Children of Alcoholics, encountered 15 April
2010 at http://www.od-do.org/.
29
This example is a translation of the Spanish proverb “Quien bien bayla, de boda en boda se
anda”.
114 D. Be
˛beniec
References
Be
˛beniec, D. 2010. Directional prepositions in Polish and English. Towards a cognitive account.
Unpublished PhD dissertation, Maria Curie-Skłodowska University, Lublin.
Croft, W. 2001. Radical construction grammar. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Dąbrowska, E. 1996. The spatial structuring of events: A study of Polish perfectivizing prefixes. In
The construal of space in language and thought, eds. M. P€
utz and R. Dirven, 467–490. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Evans, V. and A. Tyler. 2004a. Rethinking English ‘prepositions of movement’: The case of to and
through. In Adpositions of movement, eds. H. Cuyckens, W. de Mulder and T. Mortelmans,
247–270. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Evans, V. and A. Tyler. 2004b. Spatial experience, lexical structure and motivation: The case of in.
In Studies in linguistic motivation, eds. G. Radden and K. Panther, 157–192. Berlin/New York:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Fillmore, Ch. 1988. The mechanisms of construction grammar. Proceedings of the Berkeley
Linguistic Society 14: 35–55.
Goldberg, A. 1995. Constructions: A construction grammar approach to argument structure.
Chicago: Chicago University Press.
Goldberg, A. 2006. Constructions at work: The nature of generalization in language. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Kay, P. and Ch. Fillmore. 1999. Grammatical constructions and linguistic generalizations: The
What’s X doing Y construction. Language 75: 1–34.
Langacker, R. 2008. Cognitive grammar: A basic introduction. New York: Oxford University
Press.
Przybylska, R. 2002. Polisemia przyimków polskich w s
´wietle gramatyki kognitywnej. Kraków:
Universitas.
Przybylska, R. 2006. Schematy wyobraz
˙eniowe a semantyka polskich prefiksów czasownikowych
do-, od-, prze-, roz-, u-. Kraków: Universitas.
Suchostawska, L. 2005. Space and metaphor: Polish verbal prefixes expressing the relations
INTO-OUT OF and TO-AWAY FROM. Wrocław: Oficyna Wydawnicza Politechniki
Wrocławskiej.
Talmy, L. 2000. Toward a cognitive semantics. Vol. 1: Concept structuring systems. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Tyler, A. and V. Evans. 2003. The semantics of English prepositions: Spatial scenes, embodied
meaning and cognition. Cambridge/New York: Cambridge University Press.
Tyler, A. and V. Evans. 2001. Reconsidering prepositional polysemy networks: The case of over.
Language 77: 724–765.
8 On the Interplay Between Prepositional Categories 115
.
Chapter 9
Governed Prepositions in English:
A Corpus-Based Study
Jerzy Gaszewski
Abstract The paper is a corpus-based analysis of English governed prepositions,
which are, due to their considerable frequency, an important part of English
grammar. It starts with a discussion of the concept of government, its different
applications in linguistics and confusion it often creates. Government is a syntac-
tic relation in which one constituent determines the grammatical form of its
dependent. It also has a semantic side to it – the grammatical marking resulting
from government denotes the relational meaning of the dependent in the context
of the given head word. The paper presents and discusses results of a series of
corpus case studies. Each case study examined a grammatical pattern (a head
word with a dependent preposition) against a sample of occurrences of the
head from the British National Corpus. Detailed analysis of the results aimed to
decide whether the given pattern involves government. A general objective was
to identify quantitative and qualitative characteristics of government (and non-
government). From the empirical perspective of language corpora, government
seems to be best envisaged as a gradable phenomenon. While all case studies
showed considerable variation in the observed patterns of the head word, much of
it is explicable by syntactic, pragmatic or stylistic considerations and does not
contradict government. However, some of the tested patterns were judged to be
non-governed. These involved inter alia the tested pattern being part of an
antonym set or contextual synonym set.
J. Gaszewski (*)
University of Łódź, Łódź, Poland
e-mail: jgaszewski@op.pl
The research has been financed from the budget funds for science in the years 2010–2012 as a
research project.
M. Pawlak and J. Bielak (eds.), New Perspectives in Language,
Discourse and Translation Studies, Second Language Learning and Teaching,
DOI 10.1007/978-3-642-20083-0_9, # Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2011
117
9.1 Introduction
The present paper reports results of a series of case studies which form a corpus-
based analysis of the syntactic phenomenon of government. The exact focus is on
governed prepositions, i.e. those instances of English prepositions which are fixed
formally by their syntactic heads. Governed prepositions are an important part of
English in statistical terms. Just those that have verbal heads (see Sect. 9.2.2) occur
almost 5,000 times per million words. They are common across registers and
outnumber phrasal verbs1
(Biber et al. 1999: 415).
Each case study featured a syntactic pattern (a head word plus a dependent
preposition) which was tested against a sample of occurrences of the head from the
British National Corpus. Altogether, the case studies involved more than 4,500
excerpted examples. The analysis of each case study aimed to decide whether the
given preposition is governed. The general goal was to pinpoint quantitative and
qualitative differences between governed and non-governed patterns. Authentic
language data present a number of problems when theoretical constructs are applied
to them. Still, the paper offers a way of deciding which patterns involve government
and which do not. It transpires, however, that (non-)government is actually grad-
able. A continuum might be a more appropriate model than a discrete binary
opposition.
The paper deals with government in English but as it is a part of a larger Polish-
English contrastive project, reference will also be made to ideas coming from
Polish linguistics.
9.2 Theoretical Issues
9.2.1 The Notion of Government
The concept of government stems from classical grammar (Latin rectio). Let us
begin with an overview of definitions from various linguistics encyclopaedias:
[T]he way in which the use of one word requires another word to take a particular form,
especially in highly inflected languages. In Latin, prepositions govern nouns: ad is followed
by an accusative of movement (ad villam ‘towards the villa’), in by either an accusative of
movement (in villam ‘into the villa’) or an ablative of location (in villa ‘in the villa’)
(Chalker 1992: 445).
[A] type of grammatical relation between two or more elements in a sentence, in which
the choice of one element causes the selection of a particular form of another element.
(. . .) In German, for example, the preposition mit “with” governs, that is requires, the
1
The decisive test for a sequence being a prepositional verb (and not phrasal) is that a pronominal
object is placed after the preposition (Biber et al. 1999: 404–5; cf. also Huddleston 2002: 281).
Phrasal verbs are beyond the scope of this paper.
118 J. Gaszewski
dative case (. . .): Peter kam mit seiner Schwester. “Peter came with his sister”. Where
sein “his” has the dative feminine case marker –er (Richards et al. 1992: 158–9).
[A] kind of syntactic linkage whereby one word (or word class) requires a specific
morphological form of another word (or class). For example, prepositions in Latin are
said to ‘govern’ nouns (Crystal 1997: 171).
[A syntactic relation in which] the governing constituent is linked with the governed one
freely while the governed constituent must be joined with a syntactic marker whose form is
determined by the governing constituent (Karolak 1999: 503; trans. JG).
The shared element of the definitions is the idea that one syntactic constituent
(dependent) must take a particular grammatical form which is specified by some
other constituent (head). A few clarifications are in order. By far, the best term
to use is “constituent” and not “word”, which is an ambiguous term. Moreover,
government may involve constituents that are larger than word by any standard.
PPs, under scrutiny here, are such multi-word constituents. There is also a
significant difference between relations that link words and word classes (cf.
Crystal’s definition above). Government as understood here applies only to the
former. The governing constituent is in each case a particular lexeme and its
requirement of a given grammatical form of the dependent is its lexical property.
To use an example from Palmer (1971), the Latin verb pareo, parere ‘to obey’
requires one of its arguments to be in the dative case and “this has to be indicated
in the dictionary” (103). In English, we observe that e.g. the verb approve needs
one of its arguments to be a PP with of. Similarly, famous requires an analogical
use of for, etc.
If government seems a neatly defined term now, the impression is misleading. In
actual practice it is used in different ways, which causes confusion. Traditionally
the term was underused – applied virtually only to verbs and prepositions governing
cases (cf. Karolak 1999: 504). Today there is a tendency to overuse it. Dixon
(2010), in his harsh criticism of the term (“linguistics would better off without
it”), notes that it is typically said that for instance in the sentence She took coals to
the fireplace the verb take governs the object coals (231). Since there is no formal
marking of the object here, this has little to do with government applied rigorously.
The notion of syntactic dependency suffices. In generative linguistics government is
practically adopted in its traditional meaning (see Cook and Newson 1996: 50–1),
but the formal definition refers ultimately to the lexical class of the “governor” and
the relation of “c-command” (240). Thus, the relation of government holding
between two syntactic elements follows directly from the structure of the phrase
marker and it need not manifest itself formally at all.2
A crucial issue is the applicability of government to English. Crystal (1997) and
Chalker (1992) explicitly deny it. Since government has typically been associated
with selecting a case form from a paradigm, such opinions are natural. However, if
we do not restrict the scope of government to single-word dependents, we find a
number of analytic dependents in English that fit the notion perfectly. Governed
2
The paper does not adopt the generative concept of government developed primarily by Chomsky
(1981).
9 Governed Prepositions in English: A Corpus-Based Study 119
prepositions emerge as one of the most significant groups here.3
Thus, approve
governs of, famous governs for, etc., much like pareo, parere governs the dative
case in Latin.4
Although government is a syntactic phenomenon, it has a semantic side to it.
First of all, many lexemes license a number of dependents with different meanings
that may all be governed. A classic example is the German verb geben ‘to give’
which has two objects – one in the accusative, the other in the dative. The former
denotes the theme and the latter the recipient, e.g.
1. Er hat mir einen Kuli gegeben ‘He gave me a pen.’
Mir is the dative of ich ‘I’, and einen Kuli bears the accusative masculine
marker –en. In real-life communication, which noun phrase is which participant
would be deducible from general knowledge and context. However, both objects
have fixed grammatical forms (i.e. they are governed). Each case renders a
separate semantic content – this is semantics behind government.5
The meaning of the head is important for government as well. A polysemous
word may have different government patterns for different meanings – compare
ask (‘pose a question’) about and ask (‘request’) for (cf. Lesz-Duk 1998: 23; and
also Latin in in Chalker’s definition above). Thus, government holds between a
head lexeme with a specified meaning and a particular syntactic marker of its
dependent.6
9.2.2 Governed Prepositions (?)
Governed prepositions are the very theme of this paper, but their existence is not
uncontroversial, whence the question mark in the title of the section. In fact, recent
monumental works on English grammar adopt opposite views. For example, the
verb wait typically co-occurs with the preposition for as in the phrase wait for me,
which can have two constituent analyses:
3
Chalker (1992) mentions the possibility of such an extension. See also Karolak’s (1999) criticism
of the inconsistencies in the traditional use of the term. Amendments much in line with his
arguments can be found in Saloni and Świdziński (1998). Also Gołąb et al. (1968) include PPs
in the scope of government (519).
4
This approach assumes that prepositions are like modifiers (or “analytic inflections”) that serve to
link the following NPs to superordinate structures rather than like true legitimate heads of phrases.
This is in fact advocated by Biber et al. (1999: 74) and also Dixon (2010: 49, 232). NB some works
in Polish linguistics use the term “prepositional-nominal phrase” (trans. JG) for prepositional
phrases, cf. the very titles of Kosek (1999) and Grybosiowa (1979). The perspective adopted here
runs contrary to the one presented by Pullum and Huddleston (2002: 598–9).
5
Exactly the same analysis applies to equivalents in other languages, e.g. Latin do, dare or Polish
dac
´/dawac
´.
6
Latin pareo, parere is also polysemous. The meaning ‘to obey’ has an object in the dative and the
meaning ‘to appear’ does not.
120 J. Gaszewski
2. [wait for] [me]
3. [wait] [for me]
The first analysis assumes that the sequence contains a multi-word verb (called
“prepositional verb”) wait for and its object (Biber et al. 1999: 74, 414). The second
option prefers to envisage wait as a single-word verb and for me as its prepositional
object. The label “prepositional verb” can be kept, now referring to wait only and
implying that it takes a PP as an object (Huddleston 2002: 274).
Arguments can be raised for both analyses. The first one is supported by the
supposed semantic unity of the sequence of the verb and preposition. The allegedly
multi-word verb wait for can be replaced by the single-word synonym expect.7
“Semantic unity” is an unclear concept though - Herbst (1999) dismisses it alto-
gether. The argument ignores the fact that the verbs in question are used without the
preposition:
4. So you have been waiting.8
An elliptical sentence like (4) confirms that the verb is the locus of the meaning and
the preposition marks the dependent when it is present. Huddleston (2002:
275–276) gives several structural arguments for the second analysis such as mobil-
ity of the prepositional phrase as a whole and insertion of adjuncts, as in:
5. Terry waited impatiently for me.
Huddleston (2002: 277) explicitly rejects the first analysis, as does Herbst
(1999). Another structural argument for the second analysis is that derived
words and phrases typically involve only the verbal element, cf. waiting room
and not *waiting-for room. Finally, the second analysis is more encompassing. It
can be easily applied to heads other than verbs as in:
6. [allergic] [to dust]
7. [attempt] [at denial]
The extension of the first analysis would mean assuming, rather infelicitously,
the existence of a multi-word adjective allergic to and a multi-word noun
attempt at.9
This paper accepts the second analysis. The verb (e.g. wait) takes
an object whose form is a PP with a specific preposition (e.g. for). Thus, the
preposition is governed by the verb.
7
Biber et al. (1999: 414) give more such pairs, e.g. look like and resemble, think about and
consider.
8
All the examples of English sentences in the paper are excerpted from the BNC.
9
The data below (Table 9.2) show that with attempt such an analysis is unacceptable for statistical
reasons.
9 Governed Prepositions in English: A Corpus-Based Study 121
9.3 Case Studies
9.3.1 Design
Each case study involved a pattern of a given head and a putatively governed
dependent preposition, e.g. attempt(n) at. Each head was homogeneous syntacti-
cally (occurrences of the verb attempt were excluded) and semantically (if attempt
meant ‘attack on a well-known individual with an intention of murder’, the example
was dismissed). Both heads and dependents were defined in semantic terms (see
Table 9.2).
Each head word was queried in the BNC and sampled results underwent manual
labelling that divided them into four groups. The first group contained the tested
pattern, e.g.
8. In the UN, the inevitable instrument of most attempts at mediation was the
Security Council resolution (. . .).
The second group included other syntactic patterns (as it were competing with
the tested one) used to render the same meaning of the dependent, e.g.
9. Venables has been unable to keep his word because of chairman Alan Sugar’s
attempt to oust him from the club.
The data may (and usually did) reveal more than one competing pattern, e.g.
10. No relief attempt was in evidence.
The third group included results not containing any syntactically dependent element
with the researched meaning, e.g.
11. At my next attempt I passed into Eton a whole form from the bottom of the
school.
Lastly, the queries also included some irrelevant examples, e.g.
12. This series attempts to combine the best of traditional and modern mathematics
(. . .).
where the word attempt is a verb but has been misannotated in the corpus as a
noun.
To sum up this exemplification, (8) was labelled as having “at + NP”, the
dependent form of the tested pattern. (9) was labelled as “to + infinitive” and
(10) as “preposed noun”, both being competing patterns. (11) fails to realise the
sought meaning of the dependent and was labelled “zero pattern”. (12) was classified
as “irrelevant”. Labelled results were counted and put into percentages showing
fractions of all the relevant examples from the given query that each pattern
accounted for. The analysis of the tested pattern vs. competing patterns led to
classifying the pattern as either government or not.
122 J. Gaszewski
All tested patterns are presented in Table 9.1. The motivation for the choice of
these particular heads was to represent different lexical classes and to include both
frequent (e.g. speak) and less frequent words (e.g. conducive).
The paper analyses just a dozen patterns while thousands of English words are
available as heads. It was then necessary to make sure the few researched heads
would show differing behaviour. Thus, some of the analysed patterns were chosen
with an assumption that they would represent government. Others were selected as
likely examples of lack of it. The classification as one or the other was based on
general command of English and linguistics practice. Another group was seen as
problematic for an aprioristic decision. These assumptions were only made to
ensure that the results would vary between the case studies. They did not constitute
any research hypothesis per se.
Since the analysis involved time-consuming manual labelling of all the
examples, it was necessary to sample query results.10
Representativeness of
the sample was obtained by quantifying the labelled examples for a smaller sample,
then enlarging it and quantifying it again. The figures for the original and the
enlarged sample were subjected to the chi-square test. When the test showed a
high p-value (very low probability of the differences between the samples being
statistically significant), it was assumed that the sample was representative and
further enlarging would not alter the results.
9.3.2 Results
The tables below provide semantic and statistical details for individual case studies.
Tables 9.2–9.6 present the studies that were assumed to represent government.
Table 9.1 Overview of all case studies
Case study Assumed to represent
Relevant
examples
Irrelevant
examples
All analysed
examples
All results
in the BNC
Attempt(n) at Government 424 30 454 13,189
Afraid of Government 238 65 303 5,437
Blame(v) for Government 488 17 505 3,762
Conducive to Government 279 12 291 291
Effective in Lack of government 134 271 405 9,763
Hide(v) behind Lack of government 182 122 304 5,899
Proud of Government 304 98 402 3,007
Reason(n) for Disputable government 517 92 609 28,971
Speak of Disputable government 803 106 909 24,278
Speak to Disputable government 803 106 909 24,278
Vote(v) for Lack of government 254 103 357 5,003
10
For conducive all examples from the BNC were analysed.
9 Governed Prepositions in English: A Corpus-Based Study 123
As the examples of attributive adjectives never realised the tested or competing
pattern, they were excluded from the count and labelled as irrelevant. The results
refer only to predicative use. This applies to all adjectival heads in the paper.
Table 9.4 Results of case
study of blame(v) for
Head’s meaning: ascribe responsibility for an undesirable
situation
Dependent’s meaning: bad situation that is blamed
Dependent’s structure Occurrences
for+NP/gerund 240 49.18%
NP 62 12.70%
at+NP 1 0.2%
about+NP 1 0.2%
Adverb 1 0.2%
that+clause 1 0.2%
Zero 182 37.3%
Total 488
Irrelevant examples 17
Table 9.2 Results of case
study of attempt(n) at
Head’s meaning: act of putting effort into achieving sth
Dependent’s meaning: thing one wants to achieve
Dependent’s structure Occurrences
at+NP/gerund 33 7.78%
on+NP 1 0.24%
of+NP 1 0.24%
Preposed noun 15 3.54%
to+infinitive 328 77.36%
Zero 46 10.85%
Total 424
Irrelevant examples 30
Table 9.3 Results of case
study of afraid of
Head’s meaning: feeling fear
Dependent’s meaning: reason for the feeling
Dependent’s structure Occurrences
of+NP/gerund 98 41.18%
(that)+clause 44 18.49%
to+infinitive 43 18.07%
Zero 53 22.27%
Total 238
Irrelevant examples 65
124 J. Gaszewski
Table 9.7 Results of case
study of reason(n) for
Head’s meaning: thing that causes another thing
Dependent’s meaning: thing caused by the reason
Dependent’s structure Occurrences
for+NP/gerund 119a
23.02%
behind+NP 1 0.19%
to+infinitive 34 6.58%
(that)+clause 47 9.09%
why+clause 67 12.96%
Zero 249 48.16%
Total 517
Irrelevant examples 92
a
The figure for the tested pattern includes the example with an
archaic derivative of for:
14. The Captain’s mirth over the Butcher’s Assistant’s love-life
and the reasons therefore reached the ears of the Old Stager (. . .).
Table 9.5 Results of case
study of conducive to
Head’s meaning: being a favourable condition
Dependent’s meaning: thing/process favoured by the condition
Dependent’s structure Occurrences
to+NP/gerund 268 96.06%
for+NP/gerund 2 0.72%
of+NP 1 0.36%
Zero 8 2.99%
Total 279
Irrelevant examples 12
Table 9.6 Results of case
study of proud of
Head’s meaning: having the feeling of high self-value
Dependent’s meaning: reason for the feeling
Dependent’s structure Occurrences
of+NP/gerund 172a
56.58%
to+infinitive 58 19.08%
that+clause 9 2.96%
Zero 65 21.38%
Total 304
Irrelevant examples 98
a
The figure for the tested pattern includes the following example,
an obvious typo:
13. One footnote the new clinic is proud off; surgeons from
elsewhere in Britain are asking for details of Hereford’s runaway
success.
9 Governed Prepositions in English: A Corpus-Based Study 125
Tables 9.7–9.9 document the case studies of patterns of “disputable government”.
The last three tables present the case studies that were assumed to represent lack
of government (Tables 9.10–9.12).
Table 9.9 Results of case
study of speak to
Head’s meaning: utter words to convey meaning
Dependent’s meaning: addressee of the message
Dependent’s structure Occurrences
to+NP 183 22.79%
with+NP 7 0.87%
Zero 613 76.34%
Total 803
Irrelevant examples 106
Table 9.8 Results of case
study of speak of
Head’s meaning: utter words to convey meaning
Dependent’s meaning: topic of speaking
Dependent’s structure Occurrences
of+NP 86 10.71%
about+NP 40 4.98%
on+NP 13 1.62%
zero 664 82.69%
Total 803
Irrelevant examples 106
Table 9.10 Results of case
study of effective in
Head’s meaning: producing considerable effects for whose
production sth is used
Dependent’s meaning: activity, domain or field in which the
effects are obtained
Dependent’s structure Occurrences
in+NP/gerund 16 11.94%
for+NP 4 2.99%
at+NP 1 0.75%
in terms of+NP 1 0.75%
to+infinitive 1 0.75%
Zero 111 82.84%
Total 134
Irrelevant examples 271
126 J. Gaszewski
9.4 Discussion
9.4.1 General Remarks
Several general observations are in order. First of all, raw percentages of the tested
patterns vary considerably both with patterns assumed to represent government and
lack of it. Thus, percentages taken on their own cannot be significant. All the case
studies involve examples of zero pattern and competing patterns.
Examples of zero pattern do not contradict government. A governed dependent
may be unrealised because of ellipsis or underspecification (see (4)). Consider also
Table 9.12 Results of case
study of vote(v) for
Head’s meaning: take part in a formalised democratic decision-
making process and support one/some of the possible options
Dependent’s meaning: option in the decision-making process
Dependent’s structure Occurrences
for+NP 85 33.46%
NP 27 10.63%
in favour of+NP 5 1.97%
against+NP 24 9.45%
against+NP rather than for+NP 1 0.39%
Zero 112 44.09%
Total 254
Irrelevant examples 103
Table 9.11 Results of case
study of hide(v) behind
Head’s meaning: position sth in a particular place to have
protection from sth and deny access and/or visibility
Dependent’s meaning: thing that provides protection
Dependent’s structure Occurrences
behind+NP 11 6.04%
beneath+NP 5 2.75%
underneath+NP 1 0.55%
under+NP 4 2.2%
in+NP 37 20.33%
inside+NP 1 0.55%
within+NP 1 0.55%
among+NP 4 2.2%
Adverb 18 9.89%
under+NP or in+NP 1 0.55%
under+NP or behind+NP 1 0.55%
Zero 98 53.85%
Total 182
Irrelevant examples 122
9 Governed Prepositions in English: A Corpus-Based Study 127
15. Carol with proud dad John
where the noun dad implies the semantic content of the unrealised dependent of
proud.
Attested examples of competing patterns prima facie undermine government.
If there are several forms utilised for the same meaning of a dependent after the
same head, how can we talk of it requiring a particular form of the dependent?
Competing patterns surfaced in all the case studies. Should we conclude that there
is no government in any of the studies? On the other hand, we know that blame
“takes” for, proud “takes” of, etc., and the data prove this. Authentic language
material is never neat and includes statistical noise. Unanalysed corpus data do
not prove anything on their own (cf. Rusiecki 2006). It is necessary to investigate
of what kind the competing patterns are, where they occur and, lastly, how
numerous they are.
Bearing in mind the unsure status of government in all the case studies, we will
proceed from ones where it must clearly be rejected to those where it can be upheld
under certain provisions that apply to government in general.
9.4.2 Antonym Sets: Strong Case Against Government
The clearest example of non-government is hide behind. The tested pattern
accounts for only 6% of examples, it has almost a dozen competing patterns, and
some of them are more frequent (hide in – c. 20%). We can also have co-ordination
of dependents with different patterns:
16. Never hide spare keys under doormats or in flowerpots.
17. And to hide the microphone under a table or behind a curtain, while
guaranteeing the naturalness of the content, does little for the acoustic quality
(. . .).
A sentence combining any of the patterns would be acceptable.
Clearly, hide does not govern behind11
– a PP with this preposition is not the
necessary form for rendering the thing that provides cover. This result was of
course easy to predict. Behind names the exact spatial configuration of the hidden
entity and the cover-provider. Other configurations are possible and these are
rendered by the competing patterns. Crucially, behind and its competitors form a
coherent contrastive set. Thus, they are not competing patterns, but different
realisations of the same overarching category – localisation in space. Thus, hide
semantically requires a location argument which may be formally realised in a
plethora of ways.12
Since the actual form of this argument is not specified, there is
11
However, hide would likely prove to govern from (with a different meaning).
12
Some spatial prepositions did not surface in the results since the spatial configurations they
denote are unsuitable for hiding.
128 J. Gaszewski
no government.13
NB the contrastive set evidenced in the researched dependents
of hide has general validity in the language system.
The case study of vote for yields similar results. Vote does not govern for but
opens a slot for a coherent contrastive set of prepositions (for, against), which again
is generally valid in the language.
9.4.3 Contextual Synonymy: Lack of Government (?)
The case study of speak of also yielded a couple of prepositions that can all function
as the researched dependents. Apart from speak of we have speak about and speak
on. Unlike in Sect. 9.4.2, here we cannot discern any clear semantic differences. On
the contrary, the prepositions prove synonymous in the context:
18. You may have heard people speak about the loss of brain cells as we get older.
19. That evening Carter gave a warm toast to the Shah in which he spoke of the
great importance of Iran’s relationship to the United States.
20. (. . .) that he should not be prevented, by convention or otherwise, from
speaking in Parliament on such a matter.
The contextual synonymy of about and of seems very strong. Speak on seems to
stand out somewhat – its occurrences are restricted to phrases with abstract nouns.
Moreover, it seems to be marked stylistically (see Sect. 9.4.5).
As in Sect. 9.4.2, the researched dependent does not have a fixed formal shape,
which suggests there is no government. Yet, we have a very limited set of alterna-
tive patterns. While this case may not meet the definitions of government in
Sect. 9.2.1, it fits the actual scholarly practice (cf. Lesz-Duk 1988: 19–24; Kosek
1999). If we consider speak not to have government, it is clearly a weaker case
than hide behind. An alternative analysis would be that speak has a weak type of
government and allows a fixed limited set of dependent forms instead of just one.
Unlike the ones in Sect. 9.4.2, this set is not valid as a synonym set generally
(though it is rather regular in the context of verbs of speech).
Contextual synonymy abounds in the case studies.14
Thus, alongside speak to we
have speak with, effective in next to effective for and effective at, attempt at and
attempt of, reason for and reason behind. As far as the decisions about government
go, all of these are similar to speak of.
Let us also consider ‘synonyms’ of blame for:
13
This analysis may seem truistic, but the most frequent spatial preposition in a given context tends
to be wrongly assumed to be governed, e.g. Polish do in dochodzic
´do bramy is governed according
to Gołąb (1967: 21–22). More instances can be found in Karolak (1999).
14
NB the case studies discussed in the previous section also include synonyms, e.g. hide under and
hide beneath, which are synonymous generally.
9 Governed Prepositions in English: A Corpus-Based Study 129
21. They have been replaced by a Labour leadership keen to blame many of their
problems at the Government’s door.
22. Mrs Smart, 41, hit the headlines in TODAY when, (. . .), she blamed the Tories
of betrayal after a lifetime of her support.
23. (. . .) there was a lapse with that guy, don’t know who was to blame about that
third goal but (. . .).
In (21) blame for was undoubtedly mixed with lay the blame at sb’s door – a
structure involving the noun blame and not the verb. (22) seems to feature a
confusion of the verbs blame and accuse and was thus labelled “irrelevant” because
of its semantics. (23) cannot be dismissed in a similar way, but it differs quite
significantly from the contextual synonyms mentioned earlier. The few examples of
speak with, effective for, attempt of or reason behind in our sample can be supported
with more instances in the whole BNC. These are infrequent but fairly regular
patterns existing in the language. Blame about appears in (23) and in one more
example only, so we may treat it as marginal.15
It does not undermine the govern-
ment pattern blame for. Similar cases are conducive for and conducive of. The
single example of attempt on in our sample,
24. If only he could manage to finish the Koran. He had made several attempts
on it.
is likely a transfer from the other meaning of the noun.
Such isolated counterexamples should not count against government. In general,
frequency of patterns relative to each other does matter. Speak of occurs only
roughly twice as often as speak about, but attempt at is around thirty times more
frequent than attempt of. The former contextual synonym set defies government
more than the latter. In the case of reason for and reason behind there is an
even greater discrepancy, which cannot be ignored. We could view reason for as
a borderline case of government.
9.4.4 Pragmatic, Syntactic, Stylistic Factors: Defence
of Government
The case study of blame for featured oddities like (21), (22) and (23). Yet, the
competing pattern most significant numerically involves a bare NP instead of a PP
with for:
25. The Trust blames the redundancies on the recession.
15
Cf. Charzyńska-Wójcik’s (2010) discussion of a putative Old English ditransitive verb type.
Despite having a single attested example of the type, she dismisses it as an active syntactic pattern
because the example is unique among all Old English ditransitive structures as well as among the
occurrences of the verb it includes (97).
130 J. Gaszewski
In passive voice it can be placed as a subject:
26. A lot can be blamed on years of dictatorship and rotten planning – but not all.
All examples of this kind also include a PP with on that has a different meaning.
This does not necessarily contradict the government pattern blame for. (25) and
(26) involve a re-shuffling of the thematic structure of a basic clause with blame for.
The peripheral argument (for + NP) is raised to the role of direct object, while the
original direct object is demoted to a peripheral but obligatory argument (on + NP).16
We conclude that blame allows two mutually exclusive clause patterns, one of
which involves governed for.
A large group of competing patterns involved dependents of clausal character:
27. The Mills can be proud that all their hard work has paid off.
28. I am afraid that one day I’ll come to hate even my brothers and sisters.
29. All attempts to engineer a dialogue between the two have so far come to
nothing (. . .).
It seems that in such sentences the amount of information put into the dependent
is rather unwieldy for a PP. Even though a preposition may be combined with a
gerund, which enables including the meaning of practically the whole clause in a
PP, that-clauses and infinitives generally outnumber preposition + gerund
sequences across the case studies. Clausal constituents simply handle that load of
information better and are the most natural way of rendering it. Thus, we should
accept structures alternative to the tested pattern if they are of considerably differ-
ent syntactic character (cf. also Karolak (1999: 504) on infinitival alternants for
governed PPs in Polish). This remark applies to most of the case studies.
9.4.5 Variation in the Data
The data in the case studies showed considerable variation. Sections 9.4.1–9.4.4
commented on the most important problems it poses. One also has to remember that
a reference corpus presents an averaged version of different regional varieties,
sociolects, registers and idiolects and this increases the variation of the extracted
data. Varieties of all these kinds are largely autonomous and may differ at any level
of language structure, e.g. in rules concerning governed prepositions. Variation in
the data may also reflect a diachronic change in progress.
Such factors might motivate at least some of the competing patterns found. For
instance, as mentioned above, speak on seems to belong to the formal register only.
16
Similar alternations exist for other verbs in English, e.g. supply with vs. supply to. In languages
where similar phenomena are more regular and grammaticalised, they are called applicative voice
(see e.g. Dixon 2010: 169–70).
9 Governed Prepositions in English: A Corpus-Based Study 131
Examples in the sample are formal and written, but their low number does not allow
firm statements here. Exact assessment of these factors is beyond the limitations
of this paper.
9.5 Conclusions
This section sums up the observations made heretofore and attempts to model the
distinction between government and lack of it in general terms. The actual concept
of government used in a given research project depends to some extent on its needs.
As is hoped to have been implied so far, the most encompassing analysis is to
envisage government as a gradable phenomenon, some kind of a continuum.
However, if discrete distinctions are necessary, there are certain natural cut-off
points in the continuum.
As said before, percentages of the tested patterns taken separately do not
enable to decide if a preposition is governed. Government and obligatoriness are
different things. There are obligatory, but non-governed dependents, e.g. expression
of location after put, and also governed but optional ones (almost all the examples of
government in the paper).
What is significant is the relation between the tested and competing patterns.
When they form a coherent set of antonyms, this clearly indicates lack of government.
There are also cases in which the competing pattern(s) are contextual synonyms of the
tested pattern. This, on principle, points to lack of government. However, if a looser
concept of government is needed, all such contextually synonymous patterns could be
treated as examples of variable government. If the less common options in a contex-
tual synonym set are of very low frequency relative to the most common pattern, they
could possibly be treated as marginal in the language. In that case the most frequent
option would be governed by more rigid standards as well.
With some head words we can observe contextual antonymy, which could also
count against government, e.g. blame for vs. blame on. However, along the lines of
argumentation in Sects. 9.2.1 and 9.4.4, such contrastive dependents should be
regarded as separate arguments of the head. They do not conflict with each other
and can all be governed. A similar case is the pattern afraid for found in a handful of
examples. It certainly contrasts with afraid of, but it was treated as a separate
argument licensed by the head. Corpus examples with this structure do not render
the researched dependent’s meaning and were labelled “zero”.
The difference between government and non-government is best conceived of as
a continuum.17
Table 9.13 proposes such a continuum with case studies described in
the paper. A continuum may not fit some research purposes. If there is a need to
17
The gradability of government is not a novel idea. Lesz-Duk (1988), for instance, gives an
overview of different concept of government, some of which distinguish “strong” and “weak”
government (7, 9). The distinctions are defined in terms of syntactic functions and obligatoriness.
Hentschel’s (2003) proposal of a continuum of grammaticalisation status of prepositions is closest
to the analysis presented here.
132 J. Gaszewski
draw a line between government and non-government, the most advisable place for
this is above blame for in Table 9.13. For statistical reasons government may be
extended to include reason for and possibly attempt at. If a loose concept of
government is needed, the dividing line should be placed above speak of.
References
Biber, D., S. Johansson, G. Leech, S. Conrad and E. Finegan. 1999. Longman grammar of spoken
and written English. Harlow: Longman.
Chalker, S. 1992. Government. In The Oxford companion to the English language, ed. T. Mc
Arthur, 445. Oxford, NY: Oxford University Press.
Charzyńska-Wójcik, M. 2010. The Syntax of Old English clausal ditransitive verbs. In: Verb
structures: Between phonology and morphosyntax, eds. E. Cyran and B. Szymanek, 75–109.
Lublin: Wydawnictwo KUL.
Chomsky, N. 1981. Lectures on government and binding: The Pisa lectures. Berlin: Mouton.
Cook, V. J. and M. Newson. 1996. Chomsky’s Universal Grammar: An introduction. Oxford: Basil
Blackwell.
Crystal, D. 1997. A dictionary of linguistics and phonetics. Oxford: Blackwell.
Dixon, R. M. W. 2010. Basic linguistic theory. Vol. 1. Methodology. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Gołąb, Z. 1967. Próba klasyfikacji syntaktycznej czasowników polskich (na zasadzie konotacji).
Biuletyn PTJ XXV: 3–43. Wrocław: Ossolineum.
Gołąb, Z., A. Heinz and K. Polański. 1968. Słownik terminologii je
˛zykoznawczej. Warszawa:
PWN.
Grybosiowa, A. 1979. Fraza nominalna przyimkowa w funkcji okolicznika przyczyny. Studia z
filologii polskiej i słowiańskiej XVIII: 67–79.
Hentschel, G. 2003. Zur Klassifikation von Pr€
apositionen im Vergleich zur Klassifikation von
Kasus. In Pr€
apositionen im Polnischen. Beitr€
age zu einer gleichnamigen Tagung, Oldenburg,
Table 9.13 Continuum of government
Description
Relative frequency
of competing
patterns Tested patterns
Non-government
pole
Tested and competing patterns
form an antonym set
Hide behind
Vote for
Tested and competing patterns
are contextual synonyms
(High) Speak of
Effective in
Speak to
Attempt at
(Low) Reason for
Competing patterns are
acceptable on pragmatic
or stylistic grounds
Blame for
Conducive to
Government pole
Competing patterns (if any) are
of syntactically discrepant
character
Afraid of
Proud of
9 Governed Prepositions in English: A Corpus-Based Study 133
8. bis 11. Februar 2000. (Studia Slavica Oldenburgensia 11), eds. G. Hentschel and Th.
Menzel, 161–191. Oldenburg.
Herbst, Th. 1999. English valency structures - A first sketch. Erfurt Electronic Studies in English
(EESE) 6. http://webdoc.gwdg.de/edoc/ia/eese/artic99/herbst/6_99.html. Accessed 30 June 2010.
Huddleston, R. 2002. The clause: complements. In The Cambridge grammar of the English
language, eds. R. Huddleston and G. K. Pullum, 213–321. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Karolak, S. 1999. Rząd. In Encyklopedia je
˛zykoznawstwa ogólnego, ed. K. Polański, 503–505.
Wrocław, Warszawa, Kraków: Ossolineum.
Kosek, I. 1999. Przyczasownikowe frazy przyimkowo-nominalne w zdaniach współczasnego
je
˛zyka polskiego. Olsztyn: UWM.
Lesz-Duk, M. 1988. Czasowniki o składni przyimkowej w je
˛zyku polskim. Cze
˛stochowa: WSP.
Palmer, F. R. 1971. Grammar. Harmondsworth: Penguin.
Pullum, G. K. and R. Huddleston. 2002. Prepositions and preposition phrases. In: The Cambridge
grammar of the English language, eds. R. Huddleston and G. K. Pullum, 597–661. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Richards, J., J. Platt and H. Platt. 1992. Longman dictionary of language teaching and applied
linguistics. Harlow: Longman.
Rusiecki, J. 2006. Badania korpusowe a ‘lingwistyka gabinetowa’: czy te dwa podejścia kiedyś sie
˛
spotkają? In: Korpusy w angielsko-polskim je
˛zykoznawstwie kontrastywnym. Teoria i praktyka,
eds. A. Duszak, E. Gajek and U. Okulska, 17–27. Kraków: Universitas.
Saloni, Z. and M. Świdziński. 1998. Składnia współczesnego je
˛zyka polskiego. Warszawa: PWN.
134 J. Gaszewski
Part III
Historical Linguistics
.
Chapter 10
Reflections on Structural Variation
in Old English Verbs
Magdalena Charzyńska-Wójcik
Abstract The paper shows the inapplicability of traditional descriptions of Old
English verbs (cf. Visser 1963–73; Mitchell 1995; Ogura 1995) construed in terms
of categories and classes suitable for MnE verbs. Classifications based on notions
such as “intransitive”, “transitive” and “ditransitive” verbs or “direct”, “indirect”
and “quasi” objects fail to capture the inherent properties of the syntax of the Old
English verb. The data discussed in the paper reveal the inadequacy of the existing
classifications and show the necessity for a new approach to Old English verbs.
On the basis of selected Old English verbs and their usages it is shown that the Old
English verb exhibits a very high degree of variation as far as the structures it
appears in are concerned. This optionality implies that what is needed is a classifi-
cation resulting from the study of variation exhibited by a particular verb, since it is
precisely the available variation that should be seen as a defining factor in determin-
ing Old English verb classes.
10.1 Introduction
The aim of the paper is to show that a description of Old English (henceforth OE)
verbs (cf. Visser 1963–1973; Mitchell 1985; Ogura 1995) in terms of classifications
which we apply to Modern English (henceforth MnE) verbs is not only inaccurate
but, more importantly, it allows the inherent properties of OE verbs to go unnoticed.
Therefore, we will argue against an account of OE verbs in terms of verb classes,
which divides verbs into transitive vs. intransitive and further subdivides the former
group into monotransitive vs. ditransitive, where still finer distinctions obtain
M. Charzyńska-Wójcik (*)
John Paul II Catholic University of Lublin, Lublin, Poland
e-mail: mcwojcik@kul.pl
M. Pawlak and J. Bielak (eds.), New Perspectives in Language,
Discourse and Translation Studies, Second Language Learning and Teaching,
DOI 10.1007/978-3-642-20083-0_10, # Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2011
137
depending on what the constituent elements are, i.e. NP(s), PP(s) or CLAUSE(s). It
will be demonstrated that an OE verb allows such a degree of optionality as far as
the expression of its complements is concerned that a (relatively) straightforward
classification can apply to a particular usage or structure rather than to a given Old
English verb as such. This, however, is only a necessary first step as it is precisely
the available variation exhibited by a particular verb that, we believe, should be
seen as a defining factor in determining verb classes.
The paper is divided into two major parts. The existing classifications of Old
English verbs together with the problems these traditional approaches induce are
presented in Sect. 10.2. Three major authors are discussed here: Visser
(1963–1973) in Sect. 10.2.1, Mitchell (1985) in Sect. 10.2.2 and Ogura (1995) in
Sect. 10.2.3. These traditional classifications are tested against the actual linguistic
data in Sect. 10.3, which falls into two major parts: Sect. 10.3.1, devoted to verbs
without complement, and Sect. 10.3.2, where verbs with an object are discussed.
The paper ends with concluding remarks given in Sect. 10.4, which brings together
all the classification problems encountered in the course of the discussion and
attempts at some tentative answers.
10.2 Classifications of Old English Verbs
Traditional descriptions of verbs (cf. Visser 1963–1973; Mitchell 1985; Ogura
1995) which focus on the structure of a clause draw a dividing line between
intransitive and transitive verbs. Transitive verbs are further subdivided into
monotransitive and ditransitive ones. Monotransitive verbs can be further
differentiated into those which take an NP complement, a PP complement or a
CLAUSAL one. The same distinctions can be applied to ditransitive verbs, only
here one needs to consider a number of combinations of the two elements: 2NPs,
NP + PP, NP + CLAUSE or PP + CLAUSE. For a language with Case marking
such as OE the number of these combinations for verbs with one or two objects
grows as the objects can reveal a variety of Cases. In OE NP objects can bear ACC,
DAC or GEN Case. Before discussing the actual verbs and verb types we need to
have a look at the available classifications of OE verbs.
10.2.1 Visser (1963–1973)
Visser’s classification of OE verbs is by necessity superficial – the author deals
with syntactic structures throughout the history of English so he imposes a
common panchronic classification and within these divisions shows further
intricacies and details for particular periods. As a result, this classification does
not focus on OE verbs as such but it merely encompasses them. Before
embarking on a discussion of Visser’s classification of verbs, we need to clarify
138 M. Charzyńska-Wójcik
an important terminological point. Visser (1963–1973: }129) defines the term
transitive as referring to verbs which require a direct object, while the term
intransitive is used to mean that a verb “does not take a direct object”, Visser
(1963–1973: }418) explains further on that a direct object1
refers to the accusative
complementing the subject and verb group. In effect, transitive verbs are those
which take an accusative object (cf. Visser 1963–1973: }418), while intransitive
verbs are those which either do not take any object or take an indirect object, i.e. an
object in the dative, or a causative object, i.e. an object in the genitive. The
terminological problems aside, Visser draws a dividing line between “verbs without
complement” and “verbs with complement”.
Verbs which appear without complement are divided by Visser (1963–1973: }
129) into four major groups presented in (1) below.
1. (a) “Self-sufficient intransitive” verbs which never appear with any kind of
object, either direct, indirect, prepositional or causative.
(b) Intransitive verbs for which there exist etymologically related transitive
homonyms2
.
(c) Absolute use of “intransitive verbs that are usually construed with an indirect
object (in the dative) or with a causative object (in the genitive)” (Visser
1963–1973: }129).
(d) Transitive verbs which are used without the direct object they normally
require, i.e. the absolute use of transitive verbs. Visser (1963–1973: }129)
remarks that “the suppression of the direct object occurs wherever it is
so clear from the context that the utterance is intelligible without it”.3
However, as noted by Visser (1963–1973: }152), sometimes “the object
understood is so vague that the verb is virtually an intransitive one, espe-
cially in those combinations in which it has acquired a different meaning
from the habitual one”.
The second major type of verbs distinguished by Visser are verbs with comple-
ment, divided into copulas, where the verb is “semantically subordinated” to the
complement – irrelevant for us here, and verbs which are not semantically
subordinated to the complement, in which case Visser (}315) calls the complement
1
Visser (1963–1973: }418) remarks that the expression is used “for want of a better one” and that it
has not been accurately described in terms of notional or logical relations despite the many efforts.
2
Visser (1963–1973: }129) notes that verbs of this type are conventionally marked in grammar
books and dictionaries as “intrans. + trans.”, a classification which in itself is self-contradictory.
These, Visser remarks, should be viewed as separate verbs and concludes that “[f]or lack of a
better term, and for the sake of convenient reference (. . .) these verbs will be called double-
functioned or amphibious verbs”.
3
Interestingly, in apparent contradiction to this statement, in }}492–4 Visser discusses verbs which
are normally used with an object but appear with a dummy hit. This obviously raises the question
what the function of this dummy object was in view of what Visser says in }129 about the omission
of an object if the context made the meaning of the phrase clear.
10 Reflections on Structural Variation in Old English Verbs 139
an object. The first and obvious distinction within the latter group is drawn between
verbs with a single object and verbs with two objects.
As far as single objects are concerned, these are divided into four types shown in
(2) below.4
2. (a) Indirect object (DAT)
(b) Causative object5
(GEN)
(c) Prepositional object
(d) Direct object (ACC)6
Double objects naturally encompass the existing variations of the above types
and these fall into eight subtypes:
3. (a) Indirect object + causative object (DAT + GEN)
(b) Direct object + causative object (ACC + GEN)
(c) Direct object + ablative object (ACC + DAT)
(d) Indirect object + direct object (DAT + ACC)
(e) Direct object + direct object (ACC + ACC)
(f) Indirect object + prepositional object (DAT + PP)
(g) Direct object + prepositional object (ACC + PP)
(h) Two prepositional objects (PP + PP)
This is all Visser has to say as far as the classification of OE verbs is concerned,
which leaves a lot of questions not only unanswered but also unasked. Our first
major objection concerns the lack of any independent classification of verbs with
clausal objects. In further parts of the book, dealing with other aspects of syntax,
Visser discusses the modally marked form in object clauses (}}868–73), the infini-
tive as object (}}924–5) and the form in -ing as object (}1001–8), which indicates
that this omission in the classification of verbs is not a side effect of the way the
author classifies the above mentioned structures but of the way he classifies the
verbs. Secondly, Visser does not seem to be consistent in the use of the term
“transitive”, as shown in his }152, where under the heading “transitive verbs used
absolutely”, he lists verbs with dative and genitive objects as well. This obviously
results in confusion as far as the understanding of the basic term “transitive” is
concerned. Moreover, Visser’s discussion ignores possible omissions of an object
in the double object subtype and the variation that is recorded within the subgroups:
4
Within these basic divisions Visser introduces semantic classifications to the effect that he lists
verbs appearing in particular structures under headings such as: “verbs of rejoicing, mourning,
sorrowing”, etc.
5
Visser objects to the term “genitive object” for this type of relation, emphasising the fact that
whatever the terminological difficulties, it should be borne in mind that verbs in this construction
type are intransitive. For details see Visser (1963–1973: }370).
6
The class is further subdivided into: impersonal verbs with direct object, objects of result, cognate
objects, instrumental objects, reflexive objects, reciprocal objects. These subdivisions, however,
do not contribute to the general picture as they mostly reflect differences of functions not of
structures.
140 M. Charzyńska-Wójcik
a ditransitive verb of one type can very well be used in a structure of another
ditransitive type, monotransitively, or absolutely.
Visser’s classification of OE verbs despite its drawbacks is the most comprehen-
sive one in the literature. Mitchell (1985) and Ogura (1995), who also discuss OE
verb types, draw heavily on it. Let us see now how the other two authors classify
OE verbs.
10.2.2 Mitchell (1985)
Mitchell (1985: }602) presents the traditional syntactic classification of verbs which
distinguishes principal verbs from auxiliaries. The former embrace “transitive” and
“reflexive” verbs and also “intransitive” and “impersonal”. After Pei and Gaynor
(1954), as reported in Mitchell, transitive verbs are defined as capable of governing
a direct object while “intransitive verbs do not require (and often cannot take) a
direct object”. However, as Mitchell remarks, OE verbs pose certain problems for
this neat classification. One difficulty consists in the existence of etymologically
related homonyms, one of which is transitive, the other intransitive. Here Mitchell
(1985) refers the reader to Visser’s (1963–1973: i 97) discussion (cf. also
Sect. 10.2.1 above). Next, there is a problem with verbs which are classified as
transitive in MnE and which in OE take an accusative, while others take a dative in
OE (cf. Mitchell 1985: }602) as the dative was used in OE for the sole object of
many intransitive verbs7
whose modern cognates are regarded as transitive. This, in
turn, naturally forces Mitchell to pose the question of how to classify verbs which
can take both ACC and DAT, or verbs which can take ACC, DAT or GEN? These
difficulties can, according to Mitchell (1985: }604), be avoided by adapting the
classification used by Visser (1963–1973). Mitchell’s main criticism of Visser
consists in rejecting the use of the term “intransitive” in definition (1c) given
above. Mitchell suggests avoiding the terms “transitive” and “intransitive” as far
as possible and remarks that the terms should only be used in the sense “used
(in)transitively”. Instead, according to Mitchell (1985: }604), the terms “object”
and “complement” should be used in the traditional way (cf. Sect. 10.2.1 above),
where verbs taking objects should not be understood automatically as transitive for
they “may take other kinds of objects than an accusative”. Mitchell (1985: }1565)
declares that he generally avoids the terms “indirect object” and “direct object”.
When necessary, however, he uses the term “indirect object” in “the traditional
way” and the term “direct object” to embrace ACC, GEN and DAT of verbs which
are regarded as transitive in MnE or which take a direct object not found in MnE.
A few remarks are in place here. First of all, some OE verbs are viewed by
Mitchell from the modern perspective and, consequently, they are classified
7
This view is presented in Quirk and Wrenn (1958: }107). To complicate the picture even more,
Mitchell reports that these verbs are referred to by Ardern (1948) as intransitive verbs with
Quasi-objects.
10 Reflections on Structural Variation in Old English Verbs 141
through their MnE reflexes. As a result, a verb accompanied by an object in ACC,
DAT or GEN will be classified as transitive whenever its modern equivalent is
transitive. On the other hand, when a verb takes an ACC object, it is always viewed
as transitive, regardless of its MnE equivalent. In effect, the classification of OE
verbs is partly dependent on MnE verbal system. Moreover, it is obvious that by
adapting Visser’s division of verbs, Mitchell’s classification will naturally suffer
from the same drawbacks as those presented above with reference to Visser’s
groupings. A final, indispensable comment is required here. For the sake of
discussing passivisation, Mitchell (1985: }1090) proposes his own classification
of verbs. This classification relies on cases rather than on grammatical relations,
which makes it more descriptive and less prone to drawbacks.8
Most importantly,
within this classification he does distinguish clausal objects, which were ignored in
his general classification, and remarks that OE verbs tend to straddle groups, which
is an important characteristics of OE.
10.2.3 Ogura (1995)
Ogura’s (1995) classification of verbs is to a great extent based on Visser’s
(1963–1973) and Mitchell’s (1985), as the author declares, hence her discussion
of the terms “transitive” and “intransitive” does not contribute to the debate. Her
own classification of verbs is primarily based on cases and the category of the
object. As a result, the author distinguishes the following types of verbs.9
4. (a) “Impersonal” verbs
(b) Verbs with genitive (including reflexive)
(c) Verbs with dative (including “impersonal” and reflexive)
(d) Verbs with accusative (including “impersonal” and reflexive)
(e) Verbs with genitive and dative (including “impersonal” and reflexive)
(f) Verbs with dative and accusative (including “impersonal” and reflexive)
(g) Verbs with accusative and accusative (including “impersonal” and reflexive)
(h) Verbs with accusative and adverbial dative
(i) Verbs with prepositional objects
(j) Verbs with infinitive
(k) Verbs with dependent clause
Each verb type is supplied with a list of Old and Middle English verbs which
appeared in the given structure. In addition, within these groups, a semantic
classification is added (in a manner resembling Visser’s semantic groupings).
8
This classification is not free from its own drawbacks, as is shown in Charzyńska-Wójcik (2008,
in prep. a).
9
As in the case of Visser’s classification, I ignore copulas here as they are irrelevant for the topic
pursued in this paper.
142 M. Charzyńska-Wójcik
As a result, all available structures are mentioned with the list of verbs used in these
structures under the relevant headings.
Three comments, we feel, are in order here. First of all, the lists of verbs given
under each verb type are by no means complete10
– the index given at the end of the
book contains 1,343 verbs, which consitute a small proportion of the total number
of verbs in OE.11
Moreover, some verbs are listed several times as they appeared in
OE in a variety of structures. Ogura does not, however, concentrate on this co-
occurrence to the extent that she does not comment on any of these options in any
way. This is not in itself a criticism of Ogura’s classification as it was meant for a
different purpose but a necessary comment from the perspective assumed for this
paper. Finally, Ogura’s classification does not encompass verbs without comple-
ment at all and, as a result, the non-expression of an object is not a valid parameter
within her approach.
In conclusion, we have presented three classifications of OE verbs together
with their drawbacks and shortcomings, both those formulated by their authors
and those raised in this paper. Most of these comments were theoretical and
methodological in nature and were apparent even without any detailed analysis.
In the next section we will show the applicability of these classifications to the
actual OE data.
10.3 Traditional Approach to Data vs. Data Themselves
The above classifications offered an overview of verbs from the perspective of a
structure in which they were used. As a result, each verb was classified into a type.
However, one and the same verb could be used in a variety of structures. The kind
of structures a given verb co-occurred in and the type of structures that were never
realised by one and the same verb is not captured in a principled way by any of the
above classifications. The only (partial) exception to this criticism is Visser’s
classification given in (1) above, which takes into account not only the actual
structure but also what (if any) NP the given verb co-occurred with in its other uses.
The picture emerging from the data to be presented below shows that none of the
classifications discussed in Sect. 10.2 above reveals anything about the true nature
of the OE verb. In this section we will show how the above classifications fare with
respect to the actual data. We will first present verbs without complement and then
go on to verbs with an object. Due to the limitations of space we will not be able to
discuss verbs with two objects here. This, however, does not impoverish the
analysis presented, as the conclusions following from the discussion of the former
two types converge with the picture emerging from the analysis of ditransitives
(Charzyńska-Wójcik in prep.b).
10
They are mostly based on Visser’s lists.
11
By comparison, the number of verbal entries in B&T is 6,711, to say nothing of the Supplement
volume.
10 Reflections on Structural Variation in Old English Verbs 143
10.3.1 Verbs Without Complement
Let us begin with verbs which take no complement, i.e. verbs traditionally referred
to as “intransitive”.
5. Intransitive
(a)
(b)
The examples above show the verbs cidan ‘to chide, rebuke’ and arisan ‘to arise’,
which have no complement. At first glance the verbs seem to represent the same
structure, i.e. both seem to be intransitive. However, as we have seen, Visser
divides verbs without a complement into four types so we need to look at these
verbs more closely to see what the two structures represent. A conclusion that
transpires from the examination of example (6a) is that the term “intransitive” is
inapplicable to the verb cidan:
6. (a)
The example in (6a) above features the verb cidan accompanied by a DAT object,
which contrasts with example (5a), where the same verb appears without comple-
ment. Applying Visser’s classification we could say that cidan in (6a) is a verb of
type (2a), i.e. a verb with a single indirect object, while in (5a) it represents a verb of
type (1c), i.e. a verb which can appear with an indirect object but is used absolutely.
However, example (6b) given below renders this classification of (5a) wrong.
6. (b)
The object in (6a) was dative and in (6b) the same verb appears with a direct object,
i.e. in the accusative case. In consequence, (6b) could be classified as (2d), i.e. a verb
with a direct object, while the verb in (5a), if compared with (6b), would be classified
as (1d). However, as we need to view (5a) with respect to both (6a) and (6b), there
seems to be no available way of classifying the structure in (5a).
144 M. Charzyńska-Wójcik
Let us now move on to the verb arisan ‘to arise’ exemplified in (5b). This verb,
unlike the one in (5a) cannot be accompanied with an object of any sort. In Visser’s
classification, then, arisan should be classified as (1a), i.e. a self-sufficient intransi-
tive verb which never appears with any kind of object. Note that Visser’s classifi-
cation is useful here in that it draws a dividing line between (5b), which is classified
as (1a), and (5a). Where it seriously fails is that it is completely incapable of
classifying (5a), unless we resort to Visser (1963–1973: }152), where he confuses
his own classification given in }129 and, under the heading “transitive verbs used
absolutely”, he mixes the verbs which he originally kept apart as (1c) and (1d), i.e.
verbs with dative, genitive and accusative objects (among others). It has to be borne
in mind, however, that this is an effect of confusion rather than his intended
classification.
10.3.2 Verbs with One Object
The next verb type to be discussed are verbs with an object. The available structural
options as far as the category of the object is concerned are illustrated below.
7. (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Considering the category of the object, the above monotransitive structures can be
classified in a straightforward way, as shown in Table 10.1 above.
This seemingly innocent classification, as we intend to show, poses some
interesting questions. First of all, Visser’s classification does not recognise the
10 Reflections on Structural Variation in Old English Verbs 145
types given under (7c) and (7d) at all. Mitchell’s general classification does not
recognise clausal objects, either. In contrast, Ogura would propose the same
classification as the one given above, i.e. based on the category and case of the
internal argument. However, if we look at more data, none of the classifications
seems suitable.
Let us compare the structure in (7a) containing the verb wiþsacan ‘to reject, deny,
refuse’ with the structures given in (8) below, which all contain the same verb:
8.
(a)
(b)
(c)
The verb wiþsacan in (7a) is accompanied with an ACC object NP, but (8a) exhibits
a complex sentence which consists of three clauses with the same verb. Here
wiþsacan is accompanied with DAT, ACC and GEN object NPs.12
Thus, while
(7a) would be classified by Visser as a transitive verb (2d), i.e. a verb with a direct
object in the accusative, there is no suitable group to classify all the uses of the same
Table 10.1 Classification of the structures in (7)
Ex. No. Verb Structure Visser’s classification
7a wiþsacan NP-ACC 2d
‘to reject, deny, refuse’
7b cidan PP 2c
‘to chide, rebuke’
7c tocnawan Finite CLAUSE –
‘to distinguish, understand’
7d teolian/tilian Non-finite CLAUSE –
‘to strive, attempt’
12
This issue is reported by Mitchell (1985: }603), who remarks that such verbs pose a problem.
146 M. Charzyńska-Wójcik
verb shown in (8a), while classifying the three uses under three different types seems
to be missing the point. Moreover, if we consider (8b), we can see that the same verb
can also appear with a clausal object (no classification is available here in Visser’s or
Mitchell’s systems). In (8c) the verb is used with no object at all but which of the
options proposed by Visser (given here in (1) above) captures the structure properly?
(1c)subsumes the absolute use of verbs which are normally usedwith dative or genitive
objects, while (1d) encompasses verbs where the accusative object is not expressed.
This is a recurring problem, as shown in the discussion of (5a) and (6) above.
In sum, whatever terminological problems there are with classifying the relevant
structures, the choice of the internal argument for the verb wiþsacan seems to be
between no object at all or an NP object in any of the Cases available for an object
in OE or it can even be an object expressed by a clause – a wide array of
possibilities. The question, rhetorical for the time being, is whether this range is
predictable in any way?
Let us now move on to the next structure with one object exemplified in (7), i.e. a
prepositional object given in (7b). The example contains the verb cidan, which has
already been shown in examples (5a) and (6) above. In (7b), cidan is accompanied
with a PP object, while in (5a) it is used with no object at all and in (6a, b) with DAT
and ACC objects respectively. If this is not confusing enough, consider example (9)
below:
9.
In (9) the verb cidan appears with two objects: a PP and a clause. As a result, in
terms of a traditional description, as we have already shown, the verb is used
absolutely in (5a) but we cannot classify it into a type (2c or 2d?), monotransitive
with a direct object in (6b), indirect object or quasi-object in (6a) (transitive or
intrasitive?), prepositional object in (7b), i.e. (2c) and ditransitive with a preposi-
tional and clausal object in (9), for which no classification either in Visser’s or in
Mitchell’s system exist. Ogura fails here as well as she does not classify separately
verbs with a prepositional object and a dependent clause. The data throw new light
on the matter, clearly showing the insufficiency of the existing classifications.
Let us move on to another verb, tocnawan ‘to distinguish, understand’. The verb
is used in (7c) with a clausal object. In (10) below, however, we can see it with an
ACC NP object.
10.
10 Reflections on Structural Variation in Old English Verbs 147
While the classification of (10) above is straightforward: a transitive verb with a
direct object in the accusative case, no classification is available for the usage
exhibited in (7c). Note, moreover, that one cannot ignore the fact that while
structures without complement, as discussed by Visser (cf. (1) above), fall into
several very different subtypes depending on what other structure a given verb can
be found in, it seems right that the same be done for structures with a direct object.
In other words, should a transitive verb with a direct object always be classified at
its face value, unlike structures without complement, or should one rather consider
what other structures the verb can appear in?
The last verb quoted in (7) to be discussed here is teolian/tilian ‘to strive,
attempt’. In (7d) it is complemented with a non-finite clause, so no classification
is available for it from Visser or Mitchell. In (11a) below the complement clause is
finite (still unclassified), while in (11b) the verb has no complement at all, which, in
view of the fact that in (11c) it is accompanied with an ACC object (transitive verb
with a direct object, i.e. 2d), indicates that it should be classified as an absolute use
of a transitive verb (1d). Interestingly, the information supplied for this verb by
B&T is that accusative is only one of the three available Cases for the NP object of
this verb, which renders the above classification of (11b) unsuitable.
11.
(a)
(b)
(c)
In sum, we have just analysed four different types of verbs with one object,
shown in (7) above. The discussion that followed indicates that classifying OE
verbs with one object according to the category of the object, in the way shown in
Table 10.1 above is erroneous. This conclusion becomes especially clear if we
classify other structures13
recorded with the very same verbs, as shown in
Table 10.2 above.
13
It has to be emphasised, however, that the presentation of structures possible with the relevant
verbs given in (8)–(11) is not exhaustive. It is merely intended to show that viewing OE verbs in
such “static” terms is incorrect.
148 M. Charzyńska-Wójcik
To further strengthen the point made above that OE verbs should be classified
with great caution, we would like to point out the fact that if one selectively
considered only the italicised structures given in Table 10.2 above, the very same
verbs which are classified as different in Tables 10.1 and 10.2 would end up in the
same class: verbs with an ACC object. While partly true, this classification in itself
would answer no more questions than the one given in Table 10.2, or, for that
matter, any other classification that we can easily make up from the variety of the
data given in Table 10.2. One important conclusion transpires from this discussion:
a classification of OE verbs requires a more holistic approach to the structures
available with a given verb.
10.4 Conclusion
In sum, whatever traditional descriptions based on the actual usage of a given verb
we apply, we fail. If we take verbs with no complement, as the ones given in (5)
above, we can see that some of them can never be used with an object, while others
can appear with a wide range of object types, to the effect that one and the same
verb would have to be classified as intransitive, monotransitive or even ditransitive,
to say nothing of the available subtypes. If we consider verbs with one object, as the
ones exemplified in (7), we can see that they can be found in absolute uses and in
ditransitive usages of various types as well. The same applies to ditransitives, which
have not been discussed here: verbs which appear in ditransitive structures can
easily be shown in a variety of other constructions, ranging from intransitive
through monotransitive to various types of ditransitives in the case of one and the
same verb (cf. Charzyńska-Wójcik in prep. b). One obvious conclusion that follows
from the above discussion is that classifying verbs on the basis of particular usages
does not make sense for OE. In other words, OE requires a different approach to
verb classes. It would be more accurate to classify particular structures, i.e. a set of
usages of a given verb with individual classifications for each usage. However, pure
cataloguing of the different structures available with a given verb (in Ogura’s
manner) does not result in a broader picture of the syntax of a particular verb.
What we need is a classification resulting from the study of variation allowed by a
Table 10.2 Classification of other structures recorded with the verbs from (7)
Verb Structure, Ex. No. Structure, Ex. No. Structure, Ex. No. Structure, Ex. No.
wiþsacan NP-ACC (7a) NP-ACC/DAT/GEN
(8a)
finite CLAUSE
(8b)
no object (8c)
cidan PP (7b) no object (5a) NP-DAT (6a) PP + finite
CLAUSE (9)
NP-ACC (6b)
tocnawan Finite CLAUSE
(7c)
NP-ACC (10)
tilian Non-finite
CLAUSE (7d)
finite CLAUSE (11a) no object (11b) NP-ACC (11)
10 Reflections on Structural Variation in Old English Verbs 149
particular verb. The question that poses itself at this point is the following: is there
any guiding principle behind all this variation? In other words, is the variation
predictable in any way? Is the optionality coded in the syntax of OE, or is it
lexically determined for individual verbs?
Some attempts at accounting for this property of the syntax of OE verbs can be
seen in Charzyńska-Wójcik (2002, 2008, 2010, in prep.a), where it is shown that
at least some variation can be reduced to a common denominator. In particular,
Charzyńska-Wójcik (2002) explores the variation between nominal and Clausal
Themes exhibited by OE Experiencer verbs. What transpires from the study of
the co-occurrence of individual Experiencer verbs in various construction types is
that the expression of the Theme argument (as an NP or a CLAUSE) does not
have to be lexically specified for each verb. Instead, we note that the variation is
present if the meaning of a verb is compatible with a clausal Theme. In
Charzyńska-Wójcik (2008) it is shown that Clausal Themes of ditransitive
verbs with DAT Recipients are in variation with nominal Themes in a way
which, again, suggests that the category of the Theme need not be pre-specified,
i.e. the Theme can be realised as a CLAUSE or an NP by one and the same verb
as long as the meaning of the verb is compatible with a clausal Theme. This line
of reasoning is continued in Charzyńska-Wójcik (2010), where it is argued that
this approach is applicable to all types of clausal ditransitive verbs and has
important consequences for other types of verbs which allow a clausal Theme.
The issue is further expanded in Charzyńska-Wójcik (in prep. a.), where one-
object verbs and prepositional ditransitive verbs are shown to exhibit variation in
the expression of its arguments. The variation exhibited by the above verb types
is, again, largely predictable from the semantics of the verb. These works,
however, only deal with variation between a CLAUSE and an NP rather than
structural variation in general. All, however, point to the same conclusion as far
as this aspect of variation is concerned: the co-occurrence of clausal and nominal
constituents is predictable from the semantics of the verb. The above conclusions
apply to only one type of variation, yet they certainly open up a new perspective
on OE verbs.
Answers to the questions posed in this paper require much further research: as
ever, much less work is necessary to show a particular concept – in this case the
classifications of OE verbs – to be deficient for a given language or construction
than to propose a new accurate account. We hope, however, to have argued
conclusively in favour of a necessity for a new approach to OE verbs.
References
Ardern, P.S. 1948. First readings in Old English. Wellington. (rev) Cambridge 1953.
B&T ¼ Bosworth, J. and T. N. Toller. 1898. An Anglo-Saxon dictionary based on the manuscript
collections of the Late Joseph Bosworth, edited and enlarged by T. N. Toller. London: Oxford
University Press. Available at: http://lexicon.ff.cuni.cz/texts/oe_bosworthtoller_about.html.
150 M. Charzyńska-Wójcik
BTs ¼ An Anglo-Saxon dictionary based on the manuscript collections of the Late Joseph
Bosworth. Supplement, by T. N. Toller. London: Oxford University Press. Available at:
http://lexicon.ff.cuni.cz/texts/oe_bosworthtoller_about.html.
Charzyńska-Wójcik, M. 2002. The syntax of Old English Experiencer verbs. SKY Journal
of Linguistics 15: 31–60.
Charzyńska-Wójcik, M. 2008. Clausal ditransitive verbs in Old English. In Language encounters,
eds. M. Charzyńska-Wójcik, A. Malicka-Kleparska and J. Wójcik, 103–114. Lublin:
Towarzystwo Naukowe KUL.
Charzyńska-Wójcik, M. 2010. The syntax of Old English clausal ditransitive verbs. Verb
structures: Between phonology and morphosyntax, eds. E. Cyran and B. Szymanek, 75–109
Lublin: Wydawnictwo KUL.
Charzyńska-Wójcik, M. in prep. a. The ca(u)se for a clause.
Charzyńska-Wójcik, M. in prep. b. In-, mono- and ditransitive verbs in Old English and how they
all fit in.
DOECEF ¼ Dictionary of Old English corpus in electronic form, ed. di Paolo Healey,
A. Distributed by the Oxford Text Archive.
Mitchell, B. 1985. Old English syntax. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Ogura, M. 1995. Verbs in Medieval English: Differences in verb choice in verse and prose. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Pei, M. and F. Gaynor. 1954. A dictionary of linguistics. New York.
Quirk, R. and C. L. Wrenn. 1958. An Old English grammar. (2nd
edition.) London.
Visser. F.Th. 1963–1973. An historical syntax of the English language. Brill: Leiden.
10 Reflections on Structural Variation in Old English Verbs 151
.
Chapter 11
The Semantic Analysis of Old English unnan
Agnieszka Wawrzyniak
Abstract The aim of the present paper is to draw the semantic profile of unnan.
According to the Anglo-Saxon Dictionary (BT, sv. unnan), unnan denoted the
following senses:
(a) ‘to wish’,
(b) ‘to be pleased with’,
(c) ‘to grant’.
One of the most crucial factors in the profile of unnan was the semantic path of the
verb. Namely, the general development did not proceed from the concrete to the
abstract but the process was reverse. One can observe a change from the abstract sense
‘permission based on wish’ to the concrete one ‘to grant’. In other words, what takes
place is not the growth in the abstractness of meaning but progressive concretization.
The paper focuses on the intermediate stages in the development from the former
sense ‘permission based on wish’ to the latter one ‘to grant’ such as conceptual shift of
a subject, conventionalisation of conversational implicature, as well as defocusing of
the divine referential object and its replacement by a human referential object.
Furthermore, the analysis will also show morphological forms in which either the
new sense or the former one was central. Moreover, the study tries to account for the
semantic factors which contributed to the absence of epistemic senses in unnan.
11.1 Introduction
According to the Anglo-Saxon Dictionary, unnan (BT, sv. unnan) is related to Icel.
unna whose meaning was ‘to grant, allow, bestow’ as well as ‘to love, to bestow
one’s love on a person’. Another cognate is Goth anst denoting joy, thanks, grace,
favour. The common Indo-european root for unnan, unna and anst is ans, which
A. Wawrzyniak (*)
Adam Mickiewicz University, Poznań, Poland
e-mail: agnieszka78kaga@op.pl
M. Pawlak and J. Bielak (eds.), New Perspectives in Language,
Discourse and Translation Studies, Second Language Learning and Teaching,
DOI 10.1007/978-3-642-20083-0_11, # Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2011
153
according to Pokorny (1959) (sv. ans) means ‘wohlgeneigt, gunstig sein’, i.e. ‘to be
favourable’. Following the Anglo-Saxon Dictionary (BT, sv. unnan), unnan
denoted the following senses:
(a) ‘to grant’,
(b) ‘to be pleased with’,
(c) ‘to wish’.
Before starting the analysis of individual morphological forms to indicate
semantic discrepancies between them, the first step will be to analyse the general
concept of unnan and the mechanisms involved in the process of evolving the sense
‘to grant’. Unlike most verbs where the path of a change proceeds from the concrete
to the abstract (Goossens 1987; Traugott 1989; Sweetser 1990; Koivisto Alanko
2000; Barcelona 2003; Radden 2003; Cruse 2004), unnan reflects a reverse shift,
namely from the abstract to the concrete.
To begin with, unnan exemplifies a concept whose initial meaning was not
concrete but abstract, i.e. not ‘to grant’ but ‘to wish/permit’ (permission based on
someone’s wish). Hence, the semantic path did not proceed from the more concrete
sense (to grant) to a more abstract one (to wish/permit), but in the opposite
direction. The abstract meaning was the primary one and acted as a basis for the
development of the concrete sense ‘to grant’, which resulted in the absence of
abstract senses in unnan. The reasons underlying this assumption are the following.
The analysis of the Old English (henceforth OE) data shows that the sense of
unnan when rendered as permission/wish does not need another co-referential verb. It
is the verb itself that evokes such associations. When, however, unnan denotes the
idea of granting, it is mostly in a set phrase with willan, whose meaning was ‘to be
willing’. The frequent connotations of willan and unnan to denote the sense of
granting indicate that this sense was a later development as the verb itself could not
render this concept on its own. Moreover, the collocation willan + unnan evokes
initially the association that it is the speaker’s wish to grant. Though gravitating
towards the independent status, the above phrase makes unnan contingent on another
verb, willan, whose semantics evokes attributes which were initially denoted by
unnan and later implied, namely ‘wish, favour, willingness’. Consequently, the
sense ‘to grant’ is bound with the association it is the speaker’s wish to act so.
Even though there were contexts where ann (first person singular present)
appeared also without the co-referential verb willan, its concept remained unchanged.
In other words, the subject granted some entity because he wished to do so. Granting,
then, always evoked positive associations. There were no contexts recorded in the
Toronto Corpus where the subject granted some entity against his own will. In other
words, the idea of a wish was entrenched in the semantics of unnan so that it no
longer needed another verb which evoked similar, pleasant associations.
Nevertheless, at a certain point of time, when unnan started to develop a new sense,
it often needed co-referential elements. Except for willan, another set phrase recorded
in the analysed texts is ann mid unne, where unne denoted will, wish, pleasure (BT, sv.
unne). Such phrases, which were not conceived as tautologous by the speakers of OE
were indicative of two linguistic factors. Firstly, ann developed a new sense, which
154 A. Wawrzyniak
was viewed as distinct from the noun unne. Secondly, it implied similar semantic
attributes in the sense that granting was always contingent on the speaker’s wish to act
so. The attributes of both interplayed and gave rise to semantically harmonic
expressions.
Another argument that underlies the path of development from the abstract sense
‘will’, ‘wish’, ‘permission’ to the concrete one ‘to grant’ is that the latter sense was
used as the only one in the first person singular present, and scarcely in the past. In
other forms, the earlier meaning ‘wish’ or ‘permission based on wish’ was expressed.
One can trace the semantics of unnan on its way to the emergence of the sense of
granting. It should be emphasised that the roles of both the speaker and the
addressee should be analysed in the path of the development. In the first stage,
the primary sense was ‘to wish/permit’. There is a speaker and his subjective wish.
The speaker voices his/her wish, or rather permission based on the wish.
The idea of granting is conceptually more complex, though it could be conceived as
originating from permission. While the concept of permission needs only an individ-
ual expressing his/her wish, the concept of granting involves the individual’s wish and
some authority’s readiness/willingness to accept it in positive terms. Therefore,
conceptually, the sense of granting evokes the individual and the addressee. One
could even claim that the process of granting, though initiated by the individual, shifts
the point of reference and puts a greater conceptual weight on the addressee while the
initial subject recedes into the background. Consequently, the change from the sense
‘permission/wish’ to the sense ‘to grant’ should also be viewed in terms of a change of
the conceptual subject, as it is no longer the individual who is in the centre, but the
addressee, who is willing to grant, thereby reflecting the speaker’s wish.
The mechanism accounting for the shift of conceptual subjects, and hence for the
shift in meaning, seems to be the mechanism of conventionalisation of conversa-
tional implicature. It should be emphasised that the discourse type accompanying
unnan was of a different nature. Namely, it did not take place between two
interlocutors but between the individual (speaker) and God. The speaker voices
his/her wish. He cannot hear God and may only conceptually project his response.
The speaker asks God to realise his/her wish. He strongly believes that God will act
accordingly. If the speaker says: if you are willing to permit, this may imply you
will do it. Therefore, the conventionalisation of conversational implicature that was
present in the mind of the speaker each time he/she stated his/her wish could lead to
the gradual change in meaning.
The transfer that takes place and leads to the gradual change in meaning is
metonymic in nature, where the result stands for the cause. Thus, the result
corresponds to the final effect of a wish, hence the sense of granting, while the cause
corresponds to a wish for the event to be fulfilled. Therefore, the emergence of the
sense ‘to grant’ in the first person originated in discourse situations, from the speaker’s
wish of implementation of his/her requests, via the conventionalisation of conversa-
tional implicature based on a metonymic link - result for the cause. The consequence is
the shift of the conceptual subjects. Ann gradually acquires conceptual independence,
yet such attributes as a wish or willingness are still present in its conceptual network,
as the implications evoked by ann are always positive for both the person who
11 The Semantic Analysis of Old English unnan 155
grants as well as for the individual whose wish is fulfilled by having received
the gift.
Moreover, another aspect that affected the shift in meaning is the shift in the
degree of abstractness. When God was conceptualised as a point of reference, the
attributes He could give were abstract ones, such as happiness, life in eternity,
peace, etc. Therefore, the interpretation of such instances gravitated towards the
permission sense, where God permits to live eternally rather than gives such a life.
Such contexts presupposed humbleness of the speaker, the greatness of
the Almighty God, and abstract, intangible ideas. The replacement, however, of
divine object by a human being resulted in a subsequent shift in meaning from the
sense ‘to permit’ to the sense ‘to grant’. At that point, abstract, intangible ideas were
substituted for by concrete entities, such as lands and territories. When a human was
conceptualised as a source of gifts, the entities he could give were never abstract but
highly concrete. Furthermore, the range of gifts was narrow as it could be either
land or legal rights. Therefore, one could say that the sense ‘to permit’ was related
to God, as a source of a gift, and abstract soul-directed attributes, while the sense ‘to
grant’ presupposes a human as a source of a gift, and concrete, tangible, entities
limited in scope. The borderline between the two senses seems rather blurred as it is
related to the level of abstractness. In other words, soul-directed attributes gave rise
to the sense ‘permission’ rather than ‘give’, which is related to concrete entities.
The present analysis is based on the Toronto Corpus compiled by Antonette di
Paolo Healey (1986). The Corpus is an online database consisting of about 3 million
words of OE. The study presents a quantitative approach based on detailed statistics
of particular senses. In order to achieve maximum accuracy, unnan was analysed in
all the attested contexts in the Toronto Corpus. Nevertheless, one should take into
account the fact that however detailed and accurate the corpus is, it may not always
reflect the semantic reality of the distant past. The data can thus be distorted as not
all the texts that were written down in the OE period are preserved in the corpora.
Consequently, the semantic analysis of the profile of unnan may be more of a
corpus artifact rather than a reflection of the actual semantics of unnan in the
Anglo-Saxon period. Yet, corpora are valuable sources of information for the
early stages in the history of a language. Consequently, one can hope that its
contents reflect, to a certain extent, the semantic reality of unnan in the Anglo-
Saxon period.
The study concentrates on the three subperiods within the Anglo-Saxon period
and covers the following time span, which was semantically conditioned.
– Stage I – 900
– Stage II – the end of 900 and the beginning of 1,000
– Stage III – 1,000
It should be emphasised that the earlier studies (Campbell 1959; Lightfoot 1979;
Mitchell 1985; Warner 1999) were based on either syntactic or morphological rather
than semantic criteria. The present study is not based on the assumptions postulated
by linguists concentrating on syntax or morphology and thereby neglecting the
156 A. Wawrzyniak
semantic study of lexical units. Instead, it will emphasise the role of meaning and
the gradual changes in the concept of unnan.
11.2 The Semantic Analysis of the Infinitive unnan
The semantic analysis of unnan records three instances dated to the 10c and two to
the 11c. Yet, despite the time span of one century, there seems to be no progress in
the development of the conceptual content of the infinitive. All the analysed
instances are recorded in a set phrase with willan. Moreover, four of them are
related to abstract attributes, i.e. they give rise to the sense of permission. However,
there is one instance, where the direct object of unnan is a concrete entity (oars),
which allows the sense ‘to give/grant’, yet the recorded instance is dated to the 10c.
Consequently, such a statement should be viewed as a rare instance rather than a
step in the development of the sense ‘to grant’. The prototypical meaning of the
infinitive was the permission sense, recorded in a set phrase with willan: permission
sense in a fixed phrase.
1. He wæs æwicsmod, hyhtaleas, ac se halga wer ælda gehwylces unnan wolde þæt
he blædes brucan moste, worulde lifes. (Guthlac: Krapp and Dobbie 1936,
44–88)
‘He was disgraced in mind, in despair, but the holy man, to everybody, wanted to
permit that he would enjoy the glory of worldly life.’
2. Ða antswarede heo þam engle and þus cwæþ, ic gyrnen wolde gif hit mægþ wære
þæt hit gyrnan durste þæt ure drihten me unnan wolde þæt ic þa halga rode iseon
moste. (Invention of the Cross: Napier 1894, 2–34)
‘She answered to the angel: I would yearn, if it were allowed that I would dare to
yearn so that Our God allowed me to see the holy Cross.’
The Toronto Corpus records one context where unnan is juxtaposed with a concrete
entity, thereby allowing the sense ‘to give/grant’.
3. Him ondswarode engla þeoden: We eow aras ofer yþbold unnan willaþ.
(Andreas: Krapp 1932a, 3–51)
‘The highest of angels answered him: We are willing to give you oars across the
shipside.’
However, the analysis of the above sentence shows that the meaning ‘to give’ is
the consequence of the permission received thereby denoting further implications
besides the apparent surface meaning ‘to give’. Firstly, the speaker is an angel
rather than a human being. Thus, the act of giving should be interpreted as
permission to survive, and hence to live. Consequently, the religious sense ‘to
give’ evoked a different dimension where it was linked at some conceptual level
with the permission sense. Contrariwise, the study of ann will exemplify a secular
context where ann denotes the only sense – ‘to give/grant’.
11 The Semantic Analysis of Old English unnan 157
11.3 The Semantic Analysis of Present Forms
11.3.1 The Semantic Analysis of ann
The semantic analysis of ann in the first person singular yields the following senses:
11c
– Grant (land) 12 (52%)
– Grant (rights) 4 (17%)
– Set phrases 7 (31%)
The above analysis leads to the following conclusions. To begin with, ann in the
first person is recorded only in the 11c. Moreover, its central meaning was ‘to give/
grant’. However, the range of entities that could be the subject of granting was
narrow. Namely, it was either land or rights that were linked with ann. The Toronto
Corpus records 52% (12 cases) of contexts which convey the meaning ‘to grant
land’, and 17% (4 cases) which denote ‘to grant rights’. Additionally, ann
collocates frequently with willan, which indicates that the link with the former
sense was preserved at some layer. The analysis documents 7 cases (31%) of fixed
phrases, 6 of which are recorded with the verb willan (ic wille and ic ann), and one
with the phrase mid unne (ic ann mid filre unne), all of which are related to the
property of land.
Furthermore, the context for ann is always secular and appears only in legal
documents, such as wills and transfers of property.
4. And ic ann Æþelwolde bisceope þæs lændes. (Will of Ælgifu, Sawyer 1484:
Whitelock 1930, no. 8)
‘And I grant the land to Athelwold.’
5. Ic ann Leofstane Leofwines brēþer þære land þe ic of his brēþer nam. (Will of
Ætheling Athelstan, Sawyer 1503: Whitelock 1930, no. 20)
‘I grant to Leofstan Leofwine’s brother the land I took from his brother.’
6. Ic ann heom þæt hie habben þer to fullne freodom saca and socna. (Writ of King
Edward, Coventry, Sawyer 1098: Harmer 1952, no. 45)
‘I grant the full freedom of jurisdiction.’
7. Ic ann mid fulre unne þa ilca gife. (Writ of King Edward, Coventry, Sawyer
1098: Harmer 1952, no. 45)
‘I grant with full consent the same gift.’
8. Ic cyþþe eow þæt ic wille and ic ann þæt Sancte Peter and þa gebroþra habben þa
cotlif mid eallum þam landum. (Writ of King Edward, Coventry, Sawyer 1098:
Harmer 1952, no. 46)
‘I let you know that I am willing and I grant to Saint Peter and his brothers the
dwelling with all lands.’
Thus, the sense of granting land is conceptualised in sentences (4), (5), that of
rights in (6), while fixed expressions are exemplified in sentences (7), (8).
158 A. Wawrzyniak
The semantic analysis of ann in the third person singular indicates that such
contexts were scarcely recorded when compared with the first person singular. The
Toronto Corpus records only three instances when the subject was the third person
singular. Moreover, the first instance for ann in the third person singular is recorded
in the 10c, and the two others in the 11c. The statement from the 10c denotes the
sense of permission as it evokes God as a point of reference, and two other contexts
from the 11c record the sense ‘to give/grant’. At that point one can notice that it was
the first person, rather than the third one that gave rise to the new sense. Firstly, there
were no contexts for ann in the first person before the 11c, while in the 11c its only
meaning is ‘to grant’. Secondly, ann in the third person, though it was recorded only
once in the 10c, acquires the meaning of permission, where God is the source of a
gift. Moreover, ann in the third person is scarcely attested, when compared with ann
in the first person. The senses of ann (third person singular) were as follows.
10c 11c
– To permit 1 (100%) –
– To grant – 2 (100%)
– To permit
9. Ic nat hwy he ne sy þara landa wyrþe gyf him heora God ann. (Archbishop
Dunstan to King Æþelred, Sawyer 1296: Napier and Stevenson 1895, no. 7)
‘I do not know why he would not be worth of this land if God permits him to
have it.’
10. Heo ann into ealdan mynster þæs landes. (Willof Ælgifu, Sawyer 1484:
Whitelock 1930, no. 8)
‘She grants the land to the old mynster.’
11.3.2 The Semantic Analysis of unnon
The analysis of unnon (first person plural) records two instances which are dated to
the 11c. No contexts are documented before the 11c. The meaning of unnon (first
person plural) is the same for the two instances, and denotes ‘to permit’.
11. And we þæt nu swyþe eadmodlice unnon. (Letter to Bishop Denewulf, Sawyer
1444: Birch 1885–1999, no. 619)
‘And that is what we humbly permit.’
12. Ðæt is þæt we hit unnon on Godes ast and Sancta Maria and þæs halagan were.
(Ælfweard, Abbot of Evesham, to Æthelmær, Sawyer 1423: Robertson 1956,
no. 81)
‘That is what we permitted for the love of God and Mary and the holy man.’
The analysis of unnon (third person plural) records only one instance dated to the
11c with the sense “to wish”.
13. Ða þe me yfeles unnon (Headings to Psalms 1–50: Thorpe 1835, 1–128)
‘Those who wish me evil’
11 The Semantic Analysis of Old English unnan 159
11.4 The Semantic Analysis of Past Forms
11.4.1 The Semantic Analysis of uþe
The analysis of uþe related to the first person singular reveals only one instance,
dated to the 11c, with the sense ‘to grant’.
14. Ic uþe þara ylca lande Eadmund cyninge. (Writ of King Edward, Westminster,
Sawyer 1150: Harmer 1952, no. 106)
‘I granted land to king Edmund.’
The analysis of uþe indicates that almost all contexts, except for the one
mentioned above, were recorded with the third person pronoun. One can thus notice
the discrepancy between uþe and ann. Ann was most frequently attested with the
first person, while uþe with the third person, which entails semantic consequences.
The Toronto corpus records the following senses of uþe (third person singular).
10c 10/11c 11c
– Give/permit 1 (100%) – 3 (18%)
– Wish/please – 1 (50%) 4 (26%)
– Fixed phrases (swa God uþe) – – 8 (50%)
– Permission – 1 (50%) 1 (6%)
The analysis shows that uþe was typically used with the third person pronoun.
In the time span 10/11–11c uþe in the first person was recorded once, while uþe in
the third person 20 times.
As the process of the development of the new sense ‘to grant’ started in the first
person pronoun, from which it started to spread to other pronouns, the past form uþe
records more senses imbued with permission. Hence, one can notice a discrepancy
in the development of the first and the third person pronouns.
Furthermore, even though the sense ‘to grant’ is recorded in 18% of all contexts, the
entities that are subject to granting are not as concrete as in the first person. Namely, no
contexts involve land, which was mostly documented in the first person. Instead, the
entities recorded in the analysis which were subject to granting were legal rights,
dwelling places and even one abstract attribute – help.
15. Æfter his dæge he nanum menn sel ne uþe þonne me. (Will of King Alfred,
Sawyer 1507: Harmer 1914, no. 11)
‘After his days, he did not give better to anybody but me.’
16. Uþe is swiþor ic hine sylfne geseon moste. (Saint Margaret: Herbst 1957,
62–82)
‘I would be more pleased if I could see him.’
17. Isaias geseah on gesyhþe, swa him God uþe, hu þære þeode for heora synnum
sceolde gelimpan. (Saint Giles: Dictionary of Old English transcript, Corpus
Christi College, MS.303)
160 A. Wawrzyniak
‘Isaias saw, the way God wished, how these people should repent for their sins.’
permission
18. God heom uþe lisse and miltse. (In Letania maiore: Tristram 1970, 430–37)
‘God gave him/permitted him grace.’
11.4.2 The Semantic Analysis of uþon
The semantic analysis of uþon records no instances in the first person and two
instances in the third person. The analysed contexts are from the 11c and denote the
sense ‘to wish/be pleased’ and ‘to grant’:
19. Ða bead he heom feos and landes gif hie him þæs rices uþon. (Oxford, Bodleian
Library, MS. Land Misc. 636: Plummer 1892–9)
‘He asked them for wealth and land if they could give him that.’
20. Ða ne dorste se hym þæs wurnan ac cwæþon hy þæs wel uþon gyf sy cing and
se biscop þæs geuþon. (The Community at Sherborne to Edmund Ætheling,
Sawyer 1422: Robertson 1956, no. 74)
‘He did not dare refuse him that and said that they would be much pleased if the
king and the bishop permitted that.’
11.5 Conclusions
To conclude, the development of the sense ‘to grant’ was morphologically
conditioned. The sense ‘to grant’ was the prototypical one in the first person present
and past indicative, while the sense ‘to permit’ and ‘to wish’ was retained as the
central one in the third person present and past indicative. Moreover, the study has
indicated that unnan in the present tense was most frequently attested with the first
person, while in the past tense in the third person. Finally, the newly developed
concrete sense ‘to grant’, which emerged in the 11c presupposed a narrower range
of objects (land or rights) than the earlier meaning ‘to permit’, whose range of
objects it could be semantically linked with was unlimited. Consequently, its new
meaning became more concrete and narrower.
References
Barcelona, A. 2003. On the possibility of claiming a metaphoric motivation for a conceptual
metaphor. In Metaphor and metonymy at the cross-roads. A cognitive perspective,
ed. A. Barcelona, 31–58. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Bosworth, J. and N. Toller. 1882. An Anglo-Saxon dictionary. London: Clarendon Press.
Campbell, A. 1959. Old English grammar. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Cruse, D. A. 2004. Meaning in language. An introduction to semantics and pragmatics. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
11 The Semantic Analysis of Old English unnan 161
Goossens, L. 1987. The auxiliarisation of the English modals. In Historical development of
auxiliaries, ed. M. Harris and P. Ramat, 111–143. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Healey, A. di Paolo ed. 1986. Dictionary of Old English corpus. Toronto: The University of
Toronto Press.
Koivisto Alanko, P. 2000. Abstract words in abstract worlds. Helsinki: Societe Neophilologique.
Lightfoot, D. 1979. Principles of diachronic syntax. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Mitchel, B. 1985. Old English syntax. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Pokorny, J. 1959. Indogermanisches etymologisches worterbuch. Bern: Francke.
Radden, G. 2003. How metonymic are metaphors. In Metaphor and metonymy at the cross-roads.
A cognitive perspective, ed. A. Barcelona, 92–108. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Sweetser, Eve. 1990. From etymology to pragmatics. Metaphorical and cultural aspects of
semantic structure. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Traugott, E. C. 1989. On the rise of epistemic meaning in English: An example of subjectification
in semantic change. Language 12: 31–55.
Warner, A. 1999. English auxiliaries: Structure and history. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
162 A. Wawrzyniak
Part IV
Pragmatics, Discourse Analysis and
Sociolinguistics
.
Chapter 12
“When We Talk, It Never Materializes”:
Functions of Off-Record Communication
in Conflict Talk
Joanna Bobin
Abstract Drawing on the recent contribution to the studies on linguistic impo-
liteness (Bousfield 2008), this chapter aims at examining and describing the role
of “the inarticulate” in interpersonal conflict, with particular attention devoted
to the dynamics of conflictive exchanges. “The inarticulate” is by all means a
non-academic term referring to a range of off-record strategies such as silence,
“wordy silence”, i.e. “a torrent of words that are not addressing the true issue”
(Tannen 1990), white lies, compassionate untruths, concealments, speaking in
quotes, etc. Understanding what is meant but not said involves a necessity to
work out implicatures, but how easy is it to retrieve speaker intention in conflict
situations? In light of the study of mental context in interaction (Kopytko 2002),
one may attempt to identify the impact of the cognitive, affective and conative
states and processes on the expression and perception of the above mentioned
(non)verbal behaviors. With regard to conflict dynamics, the presentation will
consider the emerging doubts about the Cooperative Principle; namely: is it
always necessary to keep talking? Given the role of the mental context, how
uncooperative is “the inarticulate”? Following the recent interest in discourse
stylistics, especially in the relatively uncharted analysis of dramatic dialogues,
the author will select conflictive exchanges between family members from
modern American plays, e.g. by Eugene O’Neill, Tennessee Williams or Arthur
Miller.
J. Bobin (*)
State School of Higher Professional Education, Gorzów Wielkopolski, Poland
e-mail: jbobin@pwsz.pl
M. Pawlak and J. Bielak (eds.), New Perspectives in Language,
Discourse and Translation Studies, Second Language Learning and Teaching,
DOI 10.1007/978-3-642-20083-0_12, # Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2011
165
12.1 Introduction
Off-record communication, or “the inarticulate” is used as a term covering various
forms of indirect communication. In a conversation, and in this case, in a conflictive
exchange, indirectness serves different functions and may be as meaningful as
direct expression. After all, sometimes what is not said is more important for an
interaction than what actually is said. What indirect expressions, or “inarticulacies”,
often indicate in conflict is repressed emotional intensity rather than lack of
involvement and non-commitment.
12.2 Grice’s Cooperative Principle
The most convenient framework for considering indirectness seems to be Grice’s
Cooperative Principle (the CP). Grice suggests four maxims and a number of sub-
maxims that the CP subsumes: Maxim of Quantity, Quality, Relevance and Manner
(1975: 45–46). The first three categories are related to what people say, and the
fourth – Maxim of Manner – to how they say it, therefore, this aspect of the CP will
include non-verbal, prosodic and paralinguistic information (Bousfield 2008: 22).
In brief, the CP assumes interactants to give exactly as much information as is
necessary, and make sure it is true, relevant and expressed efficiently. However, it is
fairly obvious that people do not always (or, in fact, rarely) abide by the maxims,
yet they are understood. Grice (1975: 49) lists four forms of transgression of the
maxims, of which flouting – or an intentional, blatant failure to observe a maxim –
has greatest significance for conflict analysis. Due to the assumption that the overall
CP is nevertheless being observed (conversations reflect some rational structure,
rather than being disconnected), and with the help of contextual clues, a flout
generates conversational implicature and is a possible vehicle for the expression
of impolite beliefs (Bousfield 2008: 23). At the rational level, this assumption
“allows the audience to detect what the speaker is conversationally implicating
but not explicitly saying” (Lumsden 2008: 1897) under one condition that Grice
clarifies: that the hearer must be able to work out the implicature.
12.3 Flouting the Maxims: Off-Record Communication
Mooney (2004: 905) notes that maxims “help to understand interactions not only
when followed, but also when they are not”. Consequently, off-record communica-
tion in the form of indirectness contributes as much meaning to an exchange as
direct communication (observing Gricean maxims in this case). Brumark (2006:
1207) remarks that “from a Gricean perspective, indirect speech may be explained
as more or less deliberate non-observance of the maxims requesting one to be as
informative, brief, relevant and adequate as appropriate to a given situation”.
166 J. Bobin
12.3.1 Reasons for Going Off-Record: Politeness
One reason why people resort to indirectness is the regard of face: e.g. the want to
minimize negative face threat (cf. Brown and Levinson’s (1987) negative face
wants), with strategies such as the following: be conventionally indirect, don’t
presume/assume (question, hedge), impersonalize (Brown and Levinson 1987:
131). In the face framework, a face threatening act (FTA) may be performed off
record, that is “typically through the deployment of an indirect illocutionary act
which has more than one interpretation and, thus, allows for plausible deniability on
the part of the utterer if the intended recipient takes offence at the face threat
inherent in the utterance” (Bousfield 2008: 58). So while face threat is
communicated, the implicature may easily be cancelled, and even more, the FTA
itself may not be recognized. In terms of Gricean maxims, off-record FTAs are
performed in the form of the following linguistic strategies: those which generate
conversational implicatures, e.g. give hints, give association rules, presuppose
(violating Relevance Maxim), understate, overstate, use tautologies (violating
Quantity Maxim), use contradictions, be ironic, use metaphors, use rhetorical
questions (violating Quality Maxim); and those that violate the Maxim of Manner:
be vague, be ambiguous, over-generalize, displace H, be incomplete, use ellipsis
(ibid.; Locher 2004).1
These strategies are mostly used in order to mitigate face
threat (although the function of e.g. irony is debatable, as it may also be face-
aggravating). Off-record is the weakest strategy for performing FTAs and often
constitutes violating rather than flouting (unostentatious). Off-record FTAs, despite
conveying impolite beliefs, are “redressed” not by strategies of politeness but by the
very fact that their form aims to mitigate face threat.
12.3.2 Reasons for Going Off-Record: Impoliteness
Therefore, off-record impoliteness will often be present in interpersonal conflict. It is
defined as a strategy in which “the FTA is performed by means of implicature but in
such a way that one attributable intention clearly outweighs any others” (Culpeper
2005: 44); with a sub-strategy of mock politeness, an obviously insincere “polite
behavior”, linguistically realized as e.g. sarcasm. Bousfield (2008: 95) presents a
slightly modified definition of off-record impoliteness, adding “withholding polite-
ness where it is expected” as a sub-strategy. The danger of not being understood
(though still existent) is minimized, as impoliteness in general is a framework which
assumes intentionality of offense; thus, given the larger context, it should be possible
to reconstruct that intention. It is a useful framework considering the fact that
another reason for going off-record may be to increase the force of implicature
1
Bousfield (2008) in fact suggests that off-record FTAs should be assigned redressive strategies as
well, since they are equally face-directed as on-record utterances.
12 When We Talk, It Never Materializes 167
(Brumark 2006). In some contexts, the offense communicated indirectly may
increase the force of the message. The strongest, unmistakably “attributable inten-
tion” carries an impolite belief and hostile intention, thus communicating impolite-
ness (superiority, scorn, disagreement, criticism etc.) may clearly be recognized for
example by a third party as well as the addressee. Alternatively, an indirect impolite
expression may aim to reinforce its implicit message when ‘normal’, direct
utterances are ineffective. Brumark (2006: 1211) notes that this function seems
“especially common in asymmetrical but intimate situations, such as family
discourse”.
12.4 Context and the Cooperative Principle
The interpretation of utterances that do not conform to the maxims may sometimes
be troublesome: what is as informative as required for one interactant does not have
to be the same for another; the same may happen with deciding whether what is said
is true, relevant and clear enough not to generate an implicature. Grice’s maxims
are all relative, subject to how the speaker, hearer and analyst interpret the context
of a given interaction. The key issue for conflict analysis is that of speaker intention.
As Culpeper et al. (2003: 1552) put it, people “do not wear their intentions on their
sleeves and one interlocutor does not have access to the internal states of other
interlocutors”, but they also assume that given adequate evidence, plausible speaker
intention can be reconstructed. That “adequate evidence” would include such
features of context as e.g. social and discoursal roles, physical context, previous
events (encounters), affect, power, rights and obligations, co-text and activity type.
Having considered these (and other) contextual clues, the hearer is in the position to
attribute specific intentions to the speaker at a given point of the conversation.
Therefore, since implicatures are generated from different non-observances of the
CP, all maxims and their breaches should be considered within context. However,
there is always risk that it will be misunderstood – indirectness, in fact, requires
more effort from the speaker (who risks “misfiring”) and hearer (who must be in a
position to work out the implicature).
The attribution of hostile intentions and offences, even if indirect, is of great
importance for the study of conflict and its dynamics. In Grice’s framework, the
operation of mental context is crucial as it constitutes the background knowledge
which facilitates the interpretation of utterances: “Gricean language users share
cognitive context, beliefs and background assumptions with their interlocutors and
even more significantly they interpret meaning with the help of shared knowledge”
(Kopytko 2002: 166). Kopytko (2002: 34) claims that “language is used in its
cognitive, affective and conative context”, where the cognitive context is connected
with knowledge structures and their accessibility to interactants, rationality, thinking,
perceiving, attention and information processing; the affective context influences
168 J. Bobin
interaction through language users’ personality traits, needs, attitudes; and the cona-
tive context is associated with the interlocutors’ motivations and goals regulating their
strategic use of language (ibid.: 35). This integrated cognitive-affective-conative
system constitutes the mental (internal) context of language use. It is the conative
context that is viewed as the speaker’s set of goals and motivations, and it is where
speaker intention seems to originate.
12.5 The Cooperative Principle and “Cooperation”
For the purpose of conflict analysis, two important, though mutually exclusive
interpretations of the Cooperative Principle put forward by linguists and interdisci-
plinary researchers should be discussed: social goal sharing and linguistic goal
sharing. From the point of view of conflict researchers, cooperation as social goal
sharing is impossible in language, as “conversation should immediately cease, or at
the very least become highly problematical when ‘quarreling’ or other conflictive or
impolite discourse begins to occur” (Bousfield 2008: 28). For impoliteness to occur,
it has to be communicated and recognized as intentional. For conflict talk, an
impolite utterance has to be replied to. As a consequence, large portions of
everyday interaction would be deemed as uncooperative, rejecting the essence of
Grice’s principle.
Davies (2007: 2311) points to an ambiguity of presentation of the term coopera-
tion in textbooks and papers, resulting in potentially problematic interpretations,
where the general problem with these unclear uses of the term is ascribing the CP
“qualities that are more appropriate to its non-technical sense: high levels of effort
on the part of the speaker, perfect utterances, and avoidance of misunderstandings”
(2311). Precisely because this is not the case, the CP ought to be taken as operating
in terms of linguistic goal sharing.
The notion of linguistic cooperation, as opposed to the everyday, “folk” under-
standing of the term cooperation, legitimizes the production and understanding of
impolite and aggressive utterances in interaction. The Cooperative Principle as
linguistic cooperation in fact renders conflictive exchanges quite cooperative.
Bousfield (2008: 29) supports the view that the only goal of a given interaction is
the transmission of information, and there are no other aims between interactants
than “establishing the speaker’s illocutionary intent and getting the hearer(s) to
understand the proposition which is being expressed or implied”. This happens
regardless of whether the content of the utterance is “cooperative” or “uncoopera-
tive” in the “folk” sense of the term. The CP does not specify that the proposition
expressed or implied must be polite, truthful or relevant; it only facilitates under-
standing of what is being expressed or implied, and has no connection with the
speaker’s good intentions (Bousfield 2008). As an intended meaning can be con-
veyed directly as well as indirectly, and through countless different utterances, it is
the role of context to help the hearer reconstruct the right one.
12 When We Talk, It Never Materializes 169
Activity types are useful for analyses of interactions which are uncooperative
from the perspective of social goal sharing, but which generate implicature and help
establish plausible speaker intentions. Thomas (1995) suggests that an activity type
comprises the following features: the goals of the participants (of the individuals
rather than the event), allowable contributions (linguistic options constrained by
social or legal frames), the degree to which Gricean maxims are adhered to or
suspended (in some contexts, suspension of the maxims is more expected than in
others, this is true of e.g. army discourse), the degree to which the interpersonal
maxims are adhered to or suspended (some activity types anticipate inadherence to
e.g. Leech’s Politeness Principle2
), turn-taking and topic control (as a means of
controlling and managing the interaction), and the manipulation of pragmatic
parameters (or contextual variables, dependant on the participants’ discoursal
roles) (Bousfield 2008: 172–173).
To analyze conflictive exchanges in the framework of the Cooperative Principle,
it should be assumed that they are instances of cooperation a rebours, where
pragmatic principles (such as the Politeness Principle) are suspended.3
Thus,
paradoxically, interactants cooperate in the violation of pragmatic principles,
within the recognized activity type – conflict talk. Such exchanges are non-cooper-
ative in that they do not lead to compromise or solution, but are destructive and
hostile; however, interactants cooperate in conflict, so implicatures and intentions
are correctly recognized.
12.6 Linguistic Output Strategies
Indirectness is a manner of communication that may flout different maxims.
Different linguistic output strategies characteristic of conflict will count as breaches
of different maxims. Some linguistic realizations of maxim non-observances are as
follows:
– Maxim of quantity: silences and pauses; could be flouts or violations, depending
on the context; understatements, overstatements.
– Maxim of quality: white lies, “compassionate untruths” (cf. Mandala 2007),
these are, however, mostly instances of non-ostentatious violation (out of sym-
pathy); rhetorical questions may count as flouts, depending on their presupposi-
tion; in terms of speech act theory, all acts where felicity conditions considering
“proper thoughts and feelings” are not fulfilled, e.g. insincere apologies
(cf. Lowe 1998).
– Maxims of relation and quantity combined: “wordy silence”, i.e. torrents of
words not addressing the issue, blatantly flouting the maxim (cf. Tannen 1990).
2
The Politeness Principle: Minimize the expression of impolite beliefs, maximize the expression of
polite beliefs. It is further divided into submaxims of: Tact, Generosity, Approbation, Modesty,
Agreement, Sympathy.
3
Kopytko, R. (personal communication, 2010).
170 J. Bobin
– Maxim of manner: irony and sarcasm (ambiguity); innuendo, speaking in quotes,
abrupt changes of topic (obscurity), blatantly flouting the maxim.
Each of these linguistic output strategies may indirectly communicates impolite
beliefs (when they are instances of flouting, since violating has been classified as
unostentatious).
12.6.1 Silence
Silence has traditionally been associated with a “void”: lack of communication, lack
of rapport and involvement, absence of cooperation (in terms of social goal sharing),
“absence of speech, and absence of meaning and intention” (Ephratt 2008: 1910).
Tannen (1985), however, highlights the pragmatic functions of silence, claiming
that silence is “anything but” – that is, anything but void, lack, or absence. Ephratt
(2008) examines the role of “eloquent silence” in discourse and finds that it suits
Jakobson’s five functions of language: it may convey information, express emotions,
perform speech acts, fulfill the poetic function, and be a means of maintaining contact
and alliance. Eloquent silence, in Ephratt’s description, is an equivalent of speech.
Eloquent silence is employed by the speaker to communicate a message and can
appear in such circumstances as religious ceremonies, “moments of silence”,
substituting taboo words, following rhetorical questions, terminating conversations,
opting out of conversations; or can take the form of “the unsaid”: empty speech,
metaphor, euphemism, substituting A for B, allusion (Ephratt 2008: 1912).
Tannen (1990) concentrates on the role of silence as a tool for conflict manage-
ment, and also finds that silence and speech (noise) can be functional equivalents,
for example in managing strong, problematic emotions. Silences and pauses are
treated here as actions, not as transitions between utterances. Silence does not
represent an end of turn, but rather a climax, often signifying the most intense,
damaging part of interaction. Similarly, a pause marks a character’s reaction to
what was said, it shows that the character is feeling, thinking something but does
not want to reveal what it is. Pauses and silences, Tannen observes, “prevent the
conflict from exploding and destroying the possibility of continuing the relation-
ship” (ibid.: 263). They mask strong, unstated feelings, but as the mask can be seen,
it is at the same time revealing.
12.6.2 Understatement
Understatement, for example in the form of a minimal response where a more
elaborate one would be expected, is a flout of quantity maxim, and produces
implicature of possibly impolite speaker intention. It may also take the form of
understated criticisms or compliments, or deliberate overt downplaying the seri-
ousness of an issue. Understatement implies a gap between what the speaker says
12 When We Talk, It Never Materializes 171
and what is in fact to be taken as his point of view (Berntsen and Kennedy 1996).
Understatement expresses an attitude: although expressed indirectly (as it is a figure
of reduction), (3) below is a strong criticism.
Example 1: Eugene O’Neill, Long Day’s Journey Into Night ([1955] 2002: 128)
1. EDMUND Ablaze with electricity! One bulb! Hell, everyone keeps a light on in
the front hall until they go to bed.
He rubs his knee.
I damned near busted my knee on the hat stand.
2. TYRONE The light from here shows in the hall. You could see your way well
enough if you were sober.
3. EDMUND If I was sober? I like that!
In this excerpt, Edmund’s indirect criticism is expressed by prosodic features: he
emphasizes “I” drawing attention to the fact that Tyrone is just as drunk, not saying
it though. By merely stressing the pronoun, he retorts with an identical accusation.
12.6.3 Rhetorical Questions/Fallacious Questions
In Douglas Walton’s (1999) model of fallacious questions such uncooperative
questions are in fact intended to trick the respondent. They are a tactic of entrap-
ment very common in everyday arguments. They are not asked to obtain informa-
tion; they’re a means of attack as they’re asked in such a way that they don’t give
options of answers. Needless to say, traps involve high face damage. Walton
illustrates this theory with a classic “Have you lost your horns?” where whichever
way you answer, you either admit that you have horns, or that you had them.
It is so because the respondent is not committed to the presupposition of the
question or to part of it. Presupposition of a question is defined as a proposition, an
implicit assumption or a background belief that is presumed to be acceptable to the
respondent when the question is asked. The respondent becomes committed to this
proposition when he gives any direct answer (Walton 1999).
Example 2: Arthur Miller, Death of a Salesman ([1947] 2006: 2021)
1. WILLY [turning away] Ah, you’re counting your chickens again.
2. BIFF [starting left for the stairs] Oh, Jesus, I’m going to sleep!
3. WILLY [calling after him] Don’t curse in this house!
4. BIFF [turning] Since when did you get so clean?
5. HAPPY [trying to stop them] Wait a. . .
6. WILLY Don’t use that language to me! I won’t have it!
12.6.4 Wordy Silence
Another type of maxim flout is the so-called “wordy silence”. It is also defined
as a torrent of words that stands out against otherwise short turns. It is a smoke
172 J. Bobin
screen – it does not address the issue, so it flouts both the maxim of quantity and
relation. The emotional load of such an outburst is directed at the hearer, but the
contents are irrelevant. Being irrelevant, such an utterance receives no emotional
response from the addressee, so there are no damaging consequences. Wordy
silence as we hear it is an indication of the opposite – of what we do not hear
(Tannen 1990).
Example 3: Sam Shepard, Buried Child ([1977] 2006: 60)
1. DODGE (to VINCE) You could get me a bottle. (Pointing off left.) There’s
money on the table.
2. VINCE Grandpa, why don’t you lay down for a while?
3. DODGE I don’t want to lay down for a while! Every time I lay down something
happens! (Whips off his cap, points at his head.) Look what happens! That’s
what happens! (Pulls his cap back on.) You go lay down and see what happens to
you! See how you like it! They’ll steal your bottle! They’ll cut your hair! They’ll
murder your children! That’s what’ll happen. They’ll eat you alive.
In this example, Dodge’s response is not directed at his grandson Vince, but
rather at his sons who are also present in this scene. It is an indirect form of
(cancellable) attack; Dodge seems to be voicing his resentment at the treat-
ment he receives from his sons – something that Vince is not involved in.
Therefore (3) here contributes to the development of conflict between Dodge
and his sons.
12.6.5 Irony and Sarcasm
A relatively common pragmatic effect of maxim non-fulfillment is irony (saying
one thing and meaning the opposite) and sarcasm (similar to irony, but with an
intent to hurt), which Brumark classifies as “non-conventional indirect” utterances,
whose implicit meaning not only differs from what is their locutionary content/
illocutionary force (as is the case with “conventional indirect” utterances), but
also is even less transparent and even “more off record”, making them hardly
understandable outside their particular context (2006: 1211). In family conflict,
such off-record utterances – given their hostile speaker intention – may carry
increased offensive force hidden under ambiguity.
Irony and sarcasm need not posit threat to face, or be recognized as such.
Brumark suggests that “indirect or implicit utterances often arise as spontaneous
irony or sarcasm in most kinds of communication”, and they may have the same
status as jokes in that they “rely on socio-culturally accepted norms and beliefs”
(ibid.) and serve to strengthen in-group social bonds. In a case like this, however,
they would be treated as banter (mock impoliteness), which does not contribute to
the development of conflict (the context of strong positive ties between
interlocutors would exclude such treatment of irony/sarcasm from the analysis of
conflict).
12 When We Talk, It Never Materializes 173
12.6.6 Innuendo
Innuendo is a pragmatic act – a term which Mey (1993) uses to refer to various forms
of indirect expression: hints, prompts, clues, which are used by interactants to
influence each other. Bell (1997: 41) suggests three main features of pragmatic acts:
they are non-overt, context-dependent and may be denied or ignored. Like indirect
speech acts, innuendos have two layers of meaning: overt (or pseudo-overt, as it may
comprise direct and indirect meaning) and non-overt, or implied meaning (where,
however, the speaker’s intent is not meant to be recognized). Compared to indirect
speech acts, innuendos are motivated by possible sanctions that may be brought
against the speaker rather than interests of face. Innuendo can be said to be a type
of conversational implicature (Bell 1997: 46), at least in the cases where the intent is
recognized. However, while conversational implicature can be cancelled, innuendo
cannot; it becomes more transparent in the act of cancellation. Many fallacious
questions carry innuendos in their presuppositions. Yet, in dyadic exchanges, the
addressee of the innuendo is rarely the target; it seems important in conflict analysis
also as far as the topic is concerned. Using innuendo directed at something that the
addressee identifies with may cause the conflictive episode to continue.
Example 4: Tennessee Williams, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof ([1955] 2004: 118–119)
1. BIG DADDY [leaving a lot unspoken] –I seen all things and understood a lot of
them, till 1910. Christ, the year that–I had worn my shoes through, hocked my–I
hopped off a yellow dog freight car half a mile down the road, slept in a wagon of
cotton outside the gin–Jack Straw an’ Peter Ochello took me in. Hired me to
manage this place which grew into this one.–When Jack Straw died–why, old
Peter Ochello quit eatin’ like a dog does when its master’s dead, and died, too!
2. BRICK Christ!
3. BIG DADDY I’m just saying I understand such–
4. BRICK [violently] Skipper is dead. I have not quit eating!
5. BIG DADDY No, but you started drinking.
In this excerpt, Big Daddy’s utterance contains a weak accusation that his son
Brick is homosexual: by invoking the memory of a homosexual couple, Straw and
Ochello, Big Daddy suggests an analogy between Ochello’s and Brick’s behavior.
He is, as if, sending a hidden message about his suspicions. In terms of context, Big
Daddy is not in a position to accuse his adult, independent son of homosexuality
(a taboo topic in the conservative 1950s), but the innuendo in his utterance is quite
explicit.
12.6.7 Speaking in Quotes
Speaking in quotes is another way of indirect expression; as Bigsby (2000: 18)
notes, “to speak as another is for the moment to evade the self which can be
vulnerable to pain”. It is fairly impersonal, and the implicature can be cancelled.
174 J. Bobin
Ephratt (2008: 1916) discusses the emotive function of eloquent silence: “[e]ven
though ‘I’ (‘me’) changes from one speaker to another, pragmatically speaking, it is
always unequivocal, referring to the ‘I’ who speaks (except in cases of fictive
speech, such as quoting in general and actors on stage in particular . . .)”.
Example 5: Eugene O’Neill, Long Day’s Journey Into Night ([1955] 2002:
32–33)
1. TYRONE(. . .) After all the money I’d wasted on your education, and all you did
was get fired in disgrace from every college you went to!
2. JAMIE Oh, for God’s sake, don’t drag up that ancient history!
(. . .)
3. TYRONE (stares at him puzzledly, then quotes mechanically) “Ingratitude, the
vilest weed that grows!”
4. JAMIE I could see that line coming! God, how many thousand times– ! (He
stops, bored with their quarrel, and shrugs his shoulders)
12.7 Conclusion
When pragmatic principles are suspended, and participants cooperate in
transgressing maxims (other pragmatic principles), then off-record has various
functions equivalent to on-record expression. Speaker intention is recognized and
“the unsaid” has an aggravating function. In terms of options that an interactant has
when faced with an FTA, indirect impoliteness can be said to be an offensive
counter-response, as in the framework of impoliteness it is attributed an unmistak-
able speaker intention. The analysis of context and pragmatic parameters reveals
that conflictive exchanges are in fact cooperative, but they are a mirror reflection of
“cooperation”: the goals of such interaction as well as the outcome are negative –
but they are achieved (e.g. negotiation of power and dominance, expression of
anger, voicing unresolved past grievances, etc.). If pragmatic principles are not
suspended, then the exchange becomes uncooperative and leads to breakdown of
communication – then the unsaid is a termination format, as it ends the conflict
(mostly in a stand-off or withdrawal).
References
Bell, D. M. 1997. Innuendo. Journal of Pragmatics 27: 35–59.
Berntsen, D. and J. M. Kennedy. 1996. Unresolved contradictions specifying attitudes – in
metaphor, irony, understatement and tautology. Poetics 24: 13–29.
Bigsby, C. W. E. 2000. Modern American drama, 1945 – 2000. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Bousfield, D. 2008. Impoliteness in interaction. Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing
Company.
Brown, P. and S. C. Levinson. 1987. Politeness: Some universals in language usage. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
12 When We Talk, It Never Materializes 175
Brumark, A. 2006. Non-observance of Gricean maxims in family dinner table conversation.
Journal of Pragmatics 38: 1206–1238.
Culpeper, J. 2005. Impoliteness and entertainment in the television quiz show: The Weakest Link.
Journal of Politeness Research 1: 35–72.
Culpeper, J., D. Bousfield and A. Wichmann. 2003. Impoliteness revisited: with special reference
to dynamic and prosodic aspects. Journal of Pragmatics 35: 1545–1579.
Davies, B. L. 2007. Grice’s Cooperative Principle: Meaning and rationality. Journal of Pragmatics
39: 2308–2331.
Ephratt, M. 2008. The functions of silence. Journal of Pragmatics 40: 1909–1938.
Grice, H. P. 1975. Logic and conversation. In: Syntax and semantics 3: Speech Acts, eds. P. Cole
and J. Morgan, 4–58. New York: Academic Press.
Kopytko, R. 2002. The mental aspects of pragmatic theory. Poznań: Motivex.
Locher, M. 2004. Power and politeness in action. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Lowe, V. 1998. ‘Unhappy’ confessions in The Crucible. A pragmatic explanation. In Exploring
the language of drama: From text to context, eds. P. Verdonk, J. Culpeper and M. Short,
128–141. London and New York: Routledge.
Lumsden, D. 2008. Kinds of conversational cooperation. Journal of Pragmatics 40: 1896–1908.
Mandala, S. 2007. Twentieth-century drama dialogue as ordinary talk. Speaking between the lines.
Aldershot: Ashgate.
Mey, J. L. 1993. Pragmatics: An introduction. Oxford: Blackwell.
Miller, A. [1947] 2006. Death of a Salesman. In: S. Barnet, W. Burto, and W. E. Cain.
An introduction to literature: Fiction, poetry, and drama, 1564–1631. New York: Pearson
Longman.
Mooney, A. 2004. Co-operation, violations and making sense. Journal of Pragmatics 36: 899–920.
O’Neill, E. [1955] 2002. Long Day’s Journey Into Night. New Haven and London: Yale University
Press.
Shepard, S. [1977] 2006. Buried Child. New York: Vintage Books.
Tannen, D. 1985. Silence: Anything but. In Perspectives on silence, eds. D. Tannen and
M. Saville-Troike, 93–111. Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Tannen, D. 1990. Silence as conflict management in fiction and drama: Pinter’s Betrayal and a
short story, Great Wits. In Conflict talk: Sociolinguistic investigations of arguments and
conversations, ed. A. D. Grimshaw, 260–279. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Thomas, J. 1995. Meaning in interaction. London and New York: Longman.
Walton, D. 1999. The fallacy of many questions: On the notions of complexity, loadedness and
unfair entrapment in interrogative theory. Argumentation 13: 379–383.
Williams, T. [1954] 2004. Cat on a Hot Tin Roof. New York: New Directions.
176 J. Bobin
Chapter 13
Territorialization in Political Discourse:
A Pragma-Linguistic Study of Jerzy Buzek’s
Inaugural Speeches
Katarzyna Molek-Kozakowska
Abstract The purpose of this study is to review some discursive strategies used to
(de)territorialize the European public sphere by the newly elected President of the
European Parliament Jerzy Buzek. A corpus of his inaugural speeches (over 7,000
words) is examined in order to identify salient pragma-linguistic devices, such as
for example high-frequency references, linguistic markers of identities, values and
interests, as well as metaphors and argumentative schemata. These are presumed to
have been used by Buzek to territorialize the presidential office: to position himself
as its leader, to establish his credibility, to become its agenda-setter. Additionally,
the analysis focuses on the way Buzek constructs Europe and the EU rhetorically
for the purposes of political self-legitimization. In this respect, Europe is projected
as a fairly deteritorrialized space: a common, even homogenous, public sphere that
depends on specific European institutions for administration.
13.1 Introduction
According to Macgregor Wise (2008: 11), a territory is an area of influence one has.
We tend to mark our territories with real and symbolic signs that change the spaces
around us. Sometimes we first need to deterritorialize that space by removing the signs
imprinted there by others in order to reterritorialize it in our own fashion, as is the case
with redecorating a newly bought house. That is why some cultural territories tend to
be rather ephemeral configurations of physical and symbolic means of expression of
our diverse identities, affiliations, ideologies and interests, whereas others seem to
persist through our traditions or memories – our habitus (Bourdieu 1990).
Political institutions can also be thought of as symbolic territories, which is
evident in a range of metaphors we use when describing them. For example, one
performs politics through constant attempts to “appropriate public space”.
K. Molek-Kozakowska (*)
Opole University, Opole, Poland
e-mail: molekk@uni.opole.pl
M. Pawlak and J. Bielak (eds.), New Perspectives in Language,
Discourse and Translation Studies, Second Language Learning and Teaching,
DOI 10.1007/978-3-642-20083-0_13, # Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2011
177
One exerts political influence by marking the “political arena” with one’s presence,
by voicing one’s opinions and advancing one’s agenda, by installing a network of
unique signs that could “resonate” with the public (cf. Wodak 2009). As a result,
territorialization is predicated on specific rhetorical resources that one employs to
“refurbish” a political institution or “refashion” its discourse. On the other hand,
one may sometimes attempt to “clear” the political arena of previous influences, or
take a political issue out of its institutional context, usually in order to rhetorically
enhance one’s argument or position. In such cases, the discursive dimension of
deterritorialization seems to be of strategic significance, despite the fact that its
mechanisms have been relatively under-researched so far.
The purpose of this study is to review some discursive strategies used to (de)
territorialize the European public sphere by the newly elected President of the
European Parliament Jerzy Buzek. A corpus of his inaugural speeches (over
7,000 words) will be examined in order to identify salient pragma-linguistic
devices, such as for example high-frequency references, linguistic markers of
identities, values and interests, as well as pervasive metaphors and argumentative
schemata. These are presumed to have been used by Buzek to territorialize the
presidential office: to position himself as its leader, to establish his credibility, to
become its agenda-setter. Additionally, the analysis will focus on the way Buzek
constructs Europe and the European institutions rhetorically for the purposes of
political self-legitimization. In this respect, it is assumed that Europe will be
projected as a fairly deterritorialized space: a common, even homogenous, public
sphere that depends on specific European institutions for administration. The
present study will be informed by the current theoretical models of the European
public sphere, and will apply selected methodological instruments of cultural
linguistics, pragmatics and Critical Discourse Analysis that allow for the operatio-
nalization of the concept of territorialization and for a critical analysis of Buzek’s
speeches.
13.2 European Public Sphere as a Symbolic Territory
Political communication studies, cultural studies and media studies are often cited
as the disciplines that provide contextualization for the pragmatic analysis of verbal
data in political discourse. In like manner, this project attempts to operationalize the
cultural construct of territorialization and apply it to a sample of textual material.
This is because discursive territorialization, as described in the introductory section,
seems to be one of the key mechanisms of “doing politics” (Wodak 2009) through
specific uses of language. Such mechanisms, according to critical discourse
analysts, should be subjected not only to linguistic description but also to pragmatic
evaluation and social explanation and critique (cf. Fairclough 1989). Although
the mechanism of territorialization has only begun to be studied and it is mainly
considered in the context of global popular culture and mass-media influence
(cf. Macgregor Wise 2008), there is no reason to assume that it is somehow absent
178 K. Molek-Kozakowska
from the discourses emanating from the common European public sphere. On the
contrary, because the European public sphere has not been clearly delineated
yet, national, international and transnational issues, interests and influences are
routinely played and displayed there. This may contribute to the fact that the EU’s
political discourse still abounds in ideological inconsistencies and power struggles,
in which territorialization can be used as a useful rhetorical strategy applied by
various political actors and interest groups to “win more space” for themselves.
The notion of the post-modern public sphere has already been extensively
theorized (e.g. Habermas 1989; Thompson 1995), although it is most often used
to describe national political arenas of public debate. By extension, in this paper,
the term European public sphere (EPS) will be used to denote a temporally and
institutionally unified space for a geographically and ethnically dispersed European
population to communicate on the issues of European governance. The develop-
ment of EPS not only facilitates the everyday implementation of transnational
policies in Europe, but also, in further consequence, contributes to the sense of
belonging to a larger European community. This model of EPS has at least two
implications. Firstly and significantly for the present study, such understanding of
the public sphere validates the role of research into the properties of communicative
activities taking place in the European institutions (and the discursive strategies that
are routinely employed there), as well as the processes through which these are
mediated to the populace by the European and national media (Trenz 2004).
Secondly, such understanding is compatible with the idea that EPS is a “projected”
political space, even a form of “imagined community”, to use Benedict Anderson’s
(1984) term. This implies that it is the institutional and mass-mediated discourses of
the European public sphere that largely construct the ways Europeans perceive
and experience their membership to the political, economic, cultural and social
collectivity labeled Europe (and not just reflect a pre-conceived notion of Europe or
European-ness).
So, what are these discourses like? And do European institutions and media
facilitate the construction of a transnational, transcultural, truly European public
sphere through their discourses? John Downey and Thomas Koenig seem to have
doubts about it, observing that “while the European Union is regularly presented as
the leading example of cosmopolitan citizenship, it is also commonly asserted that
it contains a ‘democratic deficit,’ because system integration has greatly outpaced
social integration” (2006: 166). This would suggest that the elimination of many
political, legal and economic boundaries at the institutional level has not yet led to
sufficient cultural and social integration in Europe, which is a condition for the
construction of European community in any meaningful sense. In addition, despite
transnational media’s connectivity and circulation, the development of common
European identity through the media has been relatively difficult, if not to say
ineffective, so far (Volkner 2008).
The European Parliament (EP) might well be the institution that suffers from the
“democratic deficit” the least, as it is the only one that emerges in the course of
direct elections. The EP has important legislative prerogatives that impinge on the
workings of the European Commission, as well as on legislation of individual
13 Territorialization in Political Discourse: A Pragma-Linguistic Study 179
Member States. The EP delegates are often proponents of the “European cause” as
much as guardians of their nations’ interests. The office of the EP’s President,
currently held by a Pole, Jerzy Buzek, is of specific political, representative and
administrative importance. The President’s main function seems to be to ensure
smooth parliamentary proceedings by facilitating co-operation and consensus-
seeking, which are central to the EU’s political style. However, he is also, to borrow
a term from media studies, an important agenda-setter, who is responsible for
deciding not only which issues are communicated, but also how and why they are
discussed.
13.3 Territorialization in Discourse
The notion of (de)territorialization can be operationalized for the purposes of
political discourse analysis; however, there are at least several ways in which
political institutions can be discursively territorialized. At the technical level of
discursive territorialization, for example, it should be considered (1) where land-
mark political speeches are made (at the official headquarters or abroad, e.g. in
historic places), (2) in which language they are delivered, and (3) into which
languages they have been translated, if their mediated/archive versions are avail-
able online. For example, in the case of Jerzy Buzek, most of his early speeches
have been delivered in Polish, and their online transcripts at www.ep-president.eu
are available in English, French, German and Polish, with the exception of the
Inaugural Address, which is posted in the majority of EU official languages.
At the (socio)linguistic level of discursive territorialization, one should note the
speaker’s accent, jargon usage, terms of address or other sociolinguistic variables,
which may either reflect particular local conventions and national cultural
preferences or bear unmarked, transcultural characteristics (e.g. “Euro-English
bureaucratese”). In the last instance, the political speaker will often replicate the
style of the institutional documents, effacing his/her language- and culture-specific
habits for the sake of contributing to a deterritorialized perception of the office. This
is somewhat at odds with the official priorities of the European Union, whose
language policy is to foster diversity and preserve equal status of minority languages.
Finally, at the symbolic level of discursive territorialization, there is a variety of
icons, images and symbols available in political expression, with cultural, religious
and historical references being the most common devices in political rhetoric
(Chruszczewski 2003). These, again, could be more or less nationalistic in character
(Billig 1995), based on the delineation, even polarization, between “us” and “them”
(van Dijk 1998). Sometimes, the accrual of symbolic signs leads to the construction
of myths and other narratives, such as those of “the clash of cultures” between the
West and the East, or “the common European heritage”. These can be invoked as
naturalized, non-reflexive argumentative schemata for persuasive purposes.
In this study particular attention will be paid to the following territorialization
codings: (1) identities – created or projected by means of adjectives and nouns that
180 K. Molek-Kozakowska
index human collectivities, such as ethnic/national references, group labels, mem-
bership categories, e.g. “citizens”, “East Europeans”, “women”, “Christians” or
“immigrants”; (2) values – invoked mainly by means of abstract nouns, e.g.
“freedom”, “democracy” or “progress”, or their derivatives, in order to be posi-
tively emotionally associated with focal issues and to justify specific policies; and
(3) interests – delimited by means of various linguistic exponents, including
predication and modality to establish priorities in political planning and adminis-
tration, e.g. “we need to. . .”, “we should. . .”.
Apart from these linguistic resources for symbolic territorialization in political
discourse, the study aims to investigate the means by which “Europe” is constructed
rhetorically. There seems to be a range of discursive means to actually
deterritorialize Europe and project it as a homogenous community: as a shared
world of meanings beyond diverse interests and affiliations. Looking into the
so-called “European rhetoric” (Trenz 2004: 310) requires identifying stylistic
devices that construct Europe as a unity, for example through the strategic use of
the pronoun “we” for inclusion, or of the adjective “European”, as in such phrases
as “European heritage” or “European unemployment”, which have little precise
denotation but a huge potential for a “bandwagon appeal”. In the same vein, the use
of generalizations and comparative statements may be indicative of the rhetorically
enhanced construction of Europe, rather than its objective representation. Slogans
and catch-phrases may be used to engender “banal Europeanism” (Cram 2001),
while presupposed pan-Europeanism may hide important distinctions and
divisions behind a veil of “common European identity”. Finally, critical attention
to metaphors in which Europe is conceptualized as a specifically evaluated entity
(e.g. “as our common home”), or to framing devices (“European politics as based
on consensus rather than conflict”) that guide recipients to specific interpretations,
helps to demystify the rhetorical uses of deterritorialized Europe applied for
the purposes of justifying the ever-growing European bureaucracy (cf. Molek-
Kozakowska 2010).
13.4 Territorialization in Jerzy Buzek’s Selected Speeches
The material for the subsequent analysis of territorialization is a textual corpus
consisting of 7,009 words of the first four official speeches delivered by the newly
elected President of the European Parliament Jerzy Buzek. All the speeches under
analysis are in English (although three of them were originally made in Polish) and
are available from www.ep-president.eu/view/en/press/speeches:
1. Inaugural speech by Jerzy Buzek following his election as President of the
European Parliament, Strasbourg, European Parliament, 17/07/2009 (990 words);
2. Speech by Jerzy Buzek at the ceremony commemorating the 70th anniversary of
the outbreak of WWII, Westerplatte, Poland, 1/09/2009 (728 words);
13 Territorialization in Political Discourse: A Pragma-Linguistic Study 181
3. Speech by Jerzy Buzek at the Institute of International and European Affairs:
“The Lisbon Treaty, Ireland and the Future of the EU”, Dublin, Ireland, 8/09/
2009 (1,763 words);
4. Inaugural Address by Jerzy Buzek, President of the European Parliament,
Strasbourg, Plenary sitting of the European Parliament, 15/09/2009 (3,528
words).
Although the choice of speeches is random (they have not been cherry-picked to
prove a specific point), the fact that they are the first ones delivered by the new
President makes them especially relevant to the purposes of the study: the inaugural
speeches may include important markers of territorialization as well as carry typical
features of “European rhetoric”.
13.4.1 Self-Positioning in the New Territory: Negotiating
between the Polish and European Identity
Throughout all the studied speeches, Jerzy Buzek attempts to position himself
within the political territory of the office of the EP President. On the one hand he
makes frequent references to his personal experiences and Polish roots, on the other
hand he reveals himself to be a strong proponent of further European integration,
particularly by relentlessly campaigning for the Lisbon Treaty (at that time it was
still not clear if it was to be adopted).
As regards territorialization through identity/value coding, in his inaugural
speeches Jerzy Buzek describes himself as a former dissident political activist,
who used to live behind the Iron Curtain (1: 6, 1: 1, 3: 4),1
and who, like millions of
citizens of Central and Eastern European countries, “refused to give in to a hateful
system” (1: 12). He regularly invokes and validates the role of the Solidarity
workers’ movement in Poland, of which he was a member and a leader (1: 13,
1: 21, 2: 5), stressing its revolutionary drive to abolish the post-war ideological
divisions in Europe. These divisions have been overcome, according to Buzek, who
openly admits his religious affiliation, due to the victory of ethical imperatives that
stem from “our Christian heritage” (3: 15–16, 2: 11). Also “the lessons of Pope John
Paul II” are shown to have catalyzed political change in Europe (1: 6). Last but not
least, Buzek demonstrates his strong national anchoring: he makes use of Poland’s
history for parallels and exemplifications of his political points and sometimes
colors his argumentation with references to Polish traditions (1: 6, 1: 11–13,
1: 21, 2: 1, 2: 5, 3: 4, 3: 15–16). In some instances he “mythologizes” Poland’s
WWII and Cold War sacrifice and its contribution to Europe’s present-day stability.
For example, he draws attention to the Polish struggle against fascism and totali-
tarianism, which he reframes at Westerplatte as the fight “for the freedom and honor
1
Numbers refer to speech number in the corpus (as listed in Sect. 13.4): paragraph number.
182 K. Molek-Kozakowska
of Europe” (2: 1), and applauds Poland for its efforts in promoting democracy and
European integration in the last two decades (1: 11–12, 2: 5).
It can be observed that Buzek’s relatively frequent references to his personal
experiences and political activities, to Christian values, and to Polish war heroism
are mainly oriented towards establishing his credibility within this new European
territory, and should not be interpreted as just “empty rhetoric”. This way of self-
positioning is congruent with the demands of the presidential office, as it is difficult
to be a respected European leader without being a national leader. Moreover, such
an expressive projection of personal stature and national identity is key to European
political discourse, which abounds in symbolism, as in Buzek’s recognition of the
significance of “conferring this great responsibility [of EP presidency] on a repre-
sentative of a Central and Eastern European country” (1: 10). Hence, notwithstanding
his firm roots, Buzek projects himself as a truly European leader, for example
by applauding the Lisbon Treaty or other founding EU documents in all his
speeches, and devoting much space to illustrating why it is crucial to strengthen
the effectiveness of European institutions and, in this way, help to build a more
stable and prosperous union (1: 15–17, 2: 9, 2: 12–14, most of 3 and 4). Indeed,
a rough word frequency count reveals that Buzek uses the word “Europe” or
“European” every 56 words (sometimes the modifier is left out when referring to
the Parliament, the Community or the Commission).
13.4.2 Who Are “We”?
An important aspect of discursive territorialization is how identities are constructed
through linguistic means of inclusion and exclusion. This is why the key category
studied here is the use of the pronoun “we”, which often indicates the speaker’s
implicit categorization of political actors. In Jerzy Buzek’s speeches, “we” seems to
have various scopes depending on his rhetorical purpose. For example, in his first
speech he makes a distinction between “us” – Central and Eastern Europeans and
“you” – Western Europeans, only to invalidate that distinction:
We on one side of the Iron Curtain struggled for freedom and democracy. You, on the other
side, helped us politically and through small, but extremely important, gestures of support
(. . .) we have been working together to build a united Europe. There is no “us” and “you”.
We can say loud and clear that this Europe belongs to us all. (1: 13–14).
The maximally inclusive “we” is instrumental to Buzek’s endeavor to abolish the
long-lasting division into Western and Eastern Europe (also known as “old” and
“new” Europe) still persisting in the EU discourse. In addition, this device functions
to enhance a frequent conceptual metaphor typical of all Buzek’s speeches, namely,
that of a “border-less Europe”, a continent without real and mental “walls” and
“barriers,” as in the following:
Over the many years since that first Community was established, we have been knocking
down the walls left by the Second World War. We cannot now allow them ever to be raised
again, through exploitation of energy resources or manipulation of historical facts. (2: 10)
13 Territorialization in Political Discourse: A Pragma-Linguistic Study 183
In the second speech, commemorating the outbreak of WWII in Europe and
specifically the attack on Westerplatte in Poland, Buzek is careful not to introduce
the opposition between “us” – the victims and “them” – the invaders, as this would
be contrary to his integrationist agenda. Instead he makes systematic references to
“us” – present-day Europeans, who are fairly united and integrated, and who need
to “ensure that our nations are truly reconciled” (2: 14). Constructing this category
of “us” implies the existence of “the others” – those who lived and fought, survived or
perished in past military conflicts and who embody the past ideological divisions of
Europe (2: 5–6). This distinction is a contrast schema that argumentatively
underpins Buzek’s warning to “remember the lessons of the past” and further
“strengthen our European solidarity” in order to make future wars unthinkable
(2: 13), as envisioned by the European Coal and Steel Community’s founding
father Robert Schuman.
The third speech, delivered in Dublin and devoted to promoting the Treaty of
Lisbon before the Irish referendum, makes another strategic use of the pronoun
“we”. Here, Buzek attempts to build an informal friendly relation with the Irish
public, for example by casual references to his personal feelings and experiences:
I am certainly not here to tell the Irish people how to vote (. . .) I believe that this is too
important a referendum for the luxury of a low turnout (. . .) I was very surprised to see
certain posters around the city put up by the NO campaign. (3: 4,7,8)
Such disclaimers make an initial impression that he is not a party in this
controversy, which is not so. Then Buzek highlights some similarities between
Ireland and Poland (which has already completed its process of ratification of the
Treaty) in order to dispel Irish concerns as to the purported loss of sovereignty on
ratifying the Lisbon Treaty. By insisting that Poland and Ireland have much in
common, Buzek develops a narrative in which he applies a schema of comparison
which is conducive to his persuasive purposes:
We have similar traditions and a similar history: a history of occupation, immigration due
to poverty and political oppression. We are both now modern societies with a commitment
to free trade, a market-economy, export-driven growth. (3: 17)
By claiming a common identity and noting the rise of similar concerns with
respect to e.g. taxation, minimum wage regulation and abortion in both countries,
Buzek successfully places himself on “their” side of the debate to convince the Irish
that these issues are not to be regulated by Brussels. The members of the NO
campaign are then effectively marginalized and their fear-mongering and Euro-
skepticism exposed (3: 20).
Finally, in his Inaugural Address, Buzek develops his vision of a united Europe
by repeatedly constructing the common European identity invoked by the inclusive
“we”. He shows his enthusiasm for further European integration in frequent slogan-
like interjections in his political address, e.g. “Old and new Europe are no more.
This is our Europe!” (4: 4), “The richness and strength of our institutions also derive
from our differences (. . .) That is what makes Europe fascinating” (4: 65), “Because
it is our Europe. A modern Europe. A strong Europe” (4: 84). As is common in this
genre, Buzek also uses “we” to refer to his fellow Members of the European
184 K. Molek-Kozakowska
Parliament (MEPs) and outlines the main tasks and challenges the assembly must
face under his guidance. The new President tends to eschew the use of “I” to set
his agenda, preferring the collective “we” to detail his policies, e.g. “Yet, regard-
less of the Treaty, we feel the need for change. We feel the need for a more
dynamic parliamentary dimension within our institution” (4: 48), “We must forge
closer ties with the Council of Ministers” (4: 59). Sometimes Buzek’s “we” is
ambiguous and oscillates between references to MEPs and all Europeans, as in the
following:
As we [MEPs/Europeans] tackle this crisis, let us [MEPs] listen to the economists who say
we [MEPs/Europeans] should use this period to undertake a profound reform of the
European and world economy. Once we [Europeans] emerge from the present crisis, the
enthusiasm for reform will be lost and we [MEPs] will not have safeguarded ourselves
[Europeans/MEPs] against the next one. (4: 14)
Such conflation of the scopes of “we” is quite common in political discourse,
since it is a useful rhetorical strategy to project the interests of the institution as the
interests of the society at large. This type of rhetoric seems to validate the parlia-
mentary decision-making process as truly democratic and representative of all
nations, parties and groups. In its generality and abstractness, it also results in
deterritorializing the European political arena of nation-specific problems and
nuances of policy.
13.4.3 “Common” European Identities, Values, Interests
As shown above, the European identity, especially in the Inaugural Address, seems
to be almost all-inclusive, which is intensified with Buzek’s occasional overgener-
alizations to advance the argument for integration, e.g. (emphases mine) “The
cohesion policy must remain a priority in the next Community budget, if we want
to achieve full integration of our reunited continent” (4: 17), “[l]et us explain to our
citizens why Europe is good, and why the Community method benefits all
Europeans” (4: 19), “[i]mmigration has always brought Europe benefits” (4: 28).
The most commonly used group membership categories are “Europeans” and
“citizens”, which are large collectives invoked to forge common identity. These
are complemented with other collective labels, e.g. “Member States”, “women”,
“immigrants” or “foreign partners”, when specific policies are discussed.
The projection of uniform European identity is consolidated through references
to common values and ideals, which constitute “the basis” or “the foundations”
(4: 7) (note the BUILDING metaphor) of European institutions. By quoting
snippets from various philosophical, historical and religious sources, ranging
from Aristotle (4: 8) to Hannah Arendt (4: 9), form the French revolutionaries
(1: 8) to Pope Benedict XVI (3: 16), from Jean Monnet (4: 36) to Bronisław
Geremek (4: 78), Buzek aims to acknowledge the variety of influences that are
constitutive of the present-day EU ethos. The frequency of such words as
13 Territorialization in Political Discourse: A Pragma-Linguistic Study 185
“democracy”, “peace and stability”, “integration”, “freedom and well-being”, as
well as “change and reform” is, on the one hand, indicative of Buzek’s political
principles and priorities, and, on the other, likely to resonate with general European
public: who would refuse to cherish such values as the “glittering generalities”
listed above?
Out of these values and identities stem the European “common interests”, as
succinctly put by Buzek in his first official speech as the EP President:
On the big issues, we need to stand in defense of democracy. On the bread-and-butter
issues, the people of Europe expect us politicians to resolve this [economic] crisis, and we
must set about doing so immediately. People want jobs (. . .). Energy security is crucial
(. . .). We have to tackle climate change. (1: 15)
In addition, solving the demographic crisis, ensuring equal rights for women and
immigrants, developing effective common foreign policy, campaigning for human
rights and reducing the “democratic deficit” of European institutions seem to be
other “must-do”, “should-do” and “need-to-do” entries of Buzek’s presidency.
Since many interests are expressed by means of bare assertions (and many nouns
are preceded by the definite article “the”, which presupposes previous knowledge),
this projects a particular version of European political reality and constructs that
version as universally shared and undisputable.
What might be noticed in Buzek’s speeches is that very often all the European
countries seem to have the same interests and preoccupations, and that all
Member States do their utmost to cooperate in ensuring that those challenges
are met. This is because the main political ethos of the unified Europe, according
to Buzek, is “to resolve conflicts and opposing interests (. . .) through debate and
argument” (4: 8). Here, the attempt at deterritorializing Europe of national
interests works rhetorically to advance an idealistic vision of the European
Union’s key integrative and mediating role. As deterritorialization backgrounds
particular national differences and priorities, it can be effectively used to justify
the ever-growing European bureaucracy. That is why it can be stated that Buzek’s
inaugural speeches largely conform to the characteristics of “European rhetoric”,
as outlined in Sect. 13.3.
13.5 Conclusions
Although the understanding of a nation as an “imagined community” (cf. Anderson
1984) is widely embraced, and the functioning of national public spheres, even in
their banal forms (cf. Billig 1995), has been relatively well-researched, this cannot
be said of the European public sphere (EPS), which is still a highly contested
territory. Hence, taking into consideration the imagined status of European identity,
its discursive constructedness, and the widespread perception of the “democratic
deficit” in European institutions (cf. Downey and Koenig 2006), the present study
has used the notion of territorialization to investigate some salient properties of EPS
186 K. Molek-Kozakowska
discourse, as exemplified by Jerzy Buzek, the current President of the European
Parliament.
Firstly, the notion of territorialization has been operationalized for the purposes
of political discourse analysis, and then the uses of “territorializing” and
“deterritorializing” pragma-linguistic devices have been identified and analyzed.
In the course of a critical analysis of a corpus of Buzek’s inaugural speeches, it has
been illustrated that (de)territorialization codings are deployed strategically to
enhance his political arguments. This partly confirms Downey and Koenig’s
(2006) thesis of the relative shortage of “truly transnational, pan-European public
sphere”. The patterns of territorialization found in Buzek’s speeches seem to
indicate that the core territorial identification concept in EU discourse is still that
of the nation and that the emphasis on Member State sovereignty is still central to
the EPS. In a qualitative study of recurrent keywords, as well as applications of
salient metaphors, argumentative schemata and markers of identities, values and
interests, it has been demonstrated that territorialization constitutes a powerful
rhetorical strategy and can be used to build political credibility and to advance an
agenda. Likewise, the use of “deterritorialized” Europe – conceived of as a homog-
enous space – can be in many situations an effective rhetorical device. As a slogan,
a presupposition, an overgeneralization or a projection, “Europe” is often a con-
struct used for the legitimization of certain political visions and interests rather than
for the genuine expression of common European identity.
References
Anderson, B. 1984. Imagined community: Reflections on the origin and spread of nationalism.
London: Verso.
Billig, M. 1995. Banal nationalism. London: Sage.
Bourdieu, P. 1990. In other words: Essays towards reflexive sociology, trans. Matthew Adamson.
Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Chruszczewski, P. 2003. American political discourse analysis. Berlin: Logos Verlag.
Cram, L. 2001. Imagining the union: The case of banal Europeanism? In Whose Europe:
Interlocking dimensions of European integration, ed. H. Wallace, 343–362. London:
Macmillan.
Downey, J. and T. Koenig. 2006. Is there a European public sphere? European Journal of
Communication 21: 165–187.
Fairclough, N. 1989. Language and power. Harlow: Longman.
Habermas, J. 1989. The structural transformation of the public sphere. Cambridge, MA: The MIT
Press.
Macgregor Wise, J. 2008. Cultural globalization. Oxford: Blackwell.
Molek-Kozakowska, K. 2010. The rhetoric of space in political discourse: Spatial metaphors in
political speeches of the European Commission. In Exploring space: Spatial notions in
cultural, literary and language studies, ed. A. Ciuk and K. Molek-Kozakowska, 93–103.
Newcastle: Cambridge Scholars Publishing.
Thompson, J. 1995. The media and modernity: A social theory of the media. Cambridge: Polity
Press.
13 Territorialization in Political Discourse: A Pragma-Linguistic Study 187
Trenz, H. 2004. Media coverage on European governance: Exploring the European public sphere
in national quality newspapers. European Journal of Communication 19: 291–319.
Van Dijk, T. A. 1998. Ideology. A multidisciplinary approach. London: Sage.
Volkner, I. 2008. Satellite cultures in Europe: Between national spheres and a globalized space.
Global Media and Communications 4: 231–244.
Wodak, R. 2009. The discourse of politics in action: Politics as usual. Basingstoke: Palgrave
Macmillan.
188 K. Molek-Kozakowska
Chapter 14
From a Complaint through Therapy
to Recovery: Patient Indexicality
in Medical Case Reports
Magdalena Murawska
Abstract In the present paper, the issue of patient indexicality in professional
medical texts has been addressed. To this aim a corpus of medical case reports has
been compiled to examine both direct and indirect references to the patients
described there. The studied tokens have been investigated from two perspectives.
First, the focus has fallen on patient textual presence/absence as conditioned by the
aims of the respective text-parts. Second, the analysis of patient reference in the
sections of the case reports has been discussed with respect to some of the facts
from the history of the development of medicine. The form and content of the
texts under study may also be influenced by the currently practiced model of
medicine, i.e. the biomedical model. Furthermore, the analysis has drawn on the
hierarchical levels of medical description as well as on two models of disease
presentation which also help to explain the choice of modes of writing about
patients and diseases they suffer from. The study reveals that as the texts progress,
they become more patient-evacuated and focus on his/her progressively smaller
body parts. In other words, patient reference changes from direct indexicality to
indirect references to his/her body parts or to the textual absence of the treated. This
effect is achieved not only by the type of information imparted but also by the
lexical and grammatical resources used to describe it. Consequently, the mode
of writing as testified in the case reports at hand contributes to the presentation of
mental/bodily experience, disease and treatment in abstraction from the patient.
14.1 Introduction
The language medical professionals use in order to document their academic
activities has been widely researched in recent years within the framework of
specialised discourse analysis. It may seem that the bulk of the studies on written
M. Murawska (*)
Adam Mickiewicz University, Poznań, Poland
e-mail: mmurawska@ifa.amu.edu.pl
M. Pawlak and J. Bielak (eds.), New Perspectives in Language,
Discourse and Translation Studies, Second Language Learning and Teaching,
DOI 10.1007/978-3-642-20083-0_14, # Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2011
189
medical discourse constitute the quantitative investigations into specific lexical and
grammatical features (Gotti and Salager-Meyer 2006) and their respective
functions as well as the organisation and presentation of ideas in specific text
parts (Myers 1990). Another substantial body of research has examined linguistic
features of texts and the effect they produce. These are studies devoted to
impersonality (Hyland 2001), authorial identity (the KIAP project), metaphors
(Van Rijn-Van Tongeren 1997), and the presentation of patients and diseases
(Anspach 1988; Grice and Kramer-Dahl 1992; Kenny and Beagan 2004). In this
paper, I investigate the modes of patient imaging in medical case reports as
conditioned by the context of their production as well as by the aims of the
respective text-parts. I assume that, depending on the macro-structural functions
of particular sections of the texts, the authors can allocate communicative accents in
a sentence in a variety of ways by adopting different perspectives and the mode of
patient reference. I will begin with a theoretical background for the study. Next, the
data and the methods applied in the study will be described. Finally, the results of
the analysis will be discussed.
14.2 Theoretical Background
In this section, the theoretical background for the study will be presented.
According to Bazerman (1988: 47), scientific discourses are shaped by given
disciplines. It follows that the ways in which academics inform about their scientific
activities are influenced by modes of reasoning, methodologies, objectives, etc. of a
given area of study (cf. Atkinson 2001; Taavitsainen and Pahta 2000). In other
words, how researchers argue in scientific papers and the theories and methods they
choose depend on a particular model which is practiced at a particular moment in a
particular discipline. Following this line of reasoning, features of medical texts
might be conditioned by the nature of medicine both as an area of study and of
practice.
As regards medical practice, the framework that has outlined the premises of
how medicine has been practiced in western societies since the mid nineteenth
century is the biomedical model. It views illness as a direct consequence of the
diseased body and patients as mere recipients of treatment (cf. Wade and Halligan
2004: 1398). Therefore, the model is reductionist because it limits the understand-
ing of disease only to its biological manifestations excluding social and psycholog-
ical aspects. Relevant to the present study is also the perspective on the biomedical
model offered by the sociology of medicine. This discipline approaches medicine
critically, which means that it does not treat medical knowledge as given but as the
product of social and cultural practices (cf. Atkinson 1995: 25). Consequently, the
sociology of medicine provides a number of notions and distinctions which prove to
be instrumental in examining how medical discourse reflects the current status of
medicine, namely the biomedical model.
190 M. Murawska
Firstly, the sociology of medicine distinguishes between disease and illness.
Disease is a concept of a state conditioned by the presence or absence of the
manifestations indicating a given pathological change. Illness, on the other hand,
is defined in terms of its subjective perception by the patient (cf. Bond and Bond
1986: 200). It is a conceptual differentiation between what the doctor sees and what
the patient feels and it goes in line with the biomedical model in which only the
abnormal states within the body are treated. This way, the model centres around the
patient’s body and its biological processes abstracting from the patient as a whole
and social and psychological aspects of his/her illness.
Secondly, according to the sociologists of medicine, the biomedical model
conceptualises diseases as “it”, i.e. as an “isolatable entity” (Blois 1984), which
manifests itself unchangingly in all patients. Associated with Plato, whose aim was
to classify diseases, this mode of disease presentation is referred to as the nominalist
mode. It allows to describe a disease as a purely abstract concept and as separate
from its context, i.e. the patient (cf. Blois 1984: 92). For instance, doctors and
patients may refer differently to the same medical condition. While the patient may
talk about a stomachache, the doctor may refer to it as gallstone colic, thus reducing
the experience of a pathological state to an entity carrying a particular meaning in
medical discourse (cf. Nijhof 1998: 739). This entity can be enumerated and
referred to in abstraction from the patient, as opposed to particular sensations, i.e.
“attributes that constitute his illness” (Blois 1984: 94). The following sentence
exemplifies this mode:
1. Fifteen months after the patient’s injury, staff members reported possible leg
flexion and eye closure on two separate occasions in response to command, but
the responses were rare and inconsistent during the next 2 months (Childs and
Mercer 1996).
Although example (1) includes a direct reference to the whole patient, his/her
symptoms and reactions are enumerated as if they were entities which are not
part of the patient’s experience of illness.
An alternative is the psychological mode, which is attributed to Hippocrates and
views illness as a collection of changes that are experienced by a particular
individual.
14.2.1 Hierarchical Levels of Medical Description (Blois 1984)
The hierarchical levels of medical description as proposed by Blois (1984: 113)
help to explain the choice of modes of writing about patients and their diseases:
Level 0: Patient as a whole.
Level 1: Major patient part: e.g. chest, abdomen, head.
Level 2: Physiologic system: e.g. cardiovascular system, respiratory system.
Level 3: System part, or organ: e.g. heart, major vessels, lungs.
14 From a Complaint through Therapy to Recovery 191
Level 4: Organ part, or tissue: e.g. myocardium, bone marrow.
Level 5: Cell: e.g. epithelial cell, fibroblast, lymphocyte.
Level 6: Cell part: e.g. cell membrane, organelles, nucleus.
Level 7: Macromolecule: e.g. enzyme, structural protein, nucleic acid.
Level 8: Micromolecule: e.g. glucose, ascorbic acid.
Level 9: Atoms or ions: e.g. sodium ion.
Following this description, the departures in the patient’s condition are features
of diseases which can be considered with reference to the patient in general or to the
specific parts of his/her body affected by these changes. On this reasoning, while
anxiety, fever or anorexia pertain to the whole patient’s condition, the pain which
occurs in angina pectoris can be felt in given body-parts (Blois 1984:112). The
levels above start with the whole body, go through systems and organs where bodily
sensations of various sorts can be experienced, and end with cellular, molecular and
atomic levels at which biological processes can be inspected. These processes may
not always cause directly observable or directly felt signs, yet very often certain
bodily or mental reactions are the consequences of the abnormalities at these lower
levels. Therefore, while the description at levels 0–4 may refer to specific
symptoms or reactions which patients have, the other levels describe changes not
directly affecting patients’ experience (levels from 5 to 9). Consequently, a disease
can be presented at various hierarchical levels of medical description referring to
different body-parts or their constituents, which affects patient indexicality.
14.2.2 Container Metaphor
One of the techniques of patient imaging is the metaphor of a container. Metaphor
can be defined as “the use of language to refer to something other than what it was
originally applied to, or what it ‘literally’ means, in order to suggest some resem-
blance or to make a connection between the two things” (Knowles and Moon 2006:
1). In other words, metaphor describes a thing in terms of another thing establishing
a common ground between the two. Introduced by Lakoff and Johnson (1980), the
container metaphor presents objects or notions as having an inside and outside and
as being capable of holding something. As Lakoff and Johnson (1980: 28) explain,
“[w]e are physical beings, bounded and set off from the rest of the world by the
surface of our skins, and we experience the rest of the world as outside us. Each of
us is a container, with a bounding surface and an in-out orientation”. In medical
discourse, the concept of disease in the patient is utilised to describe medical
procedures or to give an account of medical facts. From this perspective, the
patient’s body tends to be viewed as a container in which diseases are localised
and particular treatment is performed. Language-wise, this effect is achieved by
placing patient referents in the positions of complements of prepositional phrases
with the meaning of location.
192 M. Murawska
14.2.3 Sentence from Three Perspectives
As patient imaging will be examined on the basis of exemplary sentences, a few
terms regarding the structure and function of sentential elements need to be
discussed. Traditionally and from a syntactic point of view, a sentence is thought
to consist of two parts, namely the subject and the predicate, the latter comprised of
the object, complement and adverbial. As regards the subject and the object,
position-wise, they precede and follow the verb respectively (in the case of a
declarative sentence) (Greenbaum and Quirk 1990: 207). Functionally, the subject
is “prominent positionally” in that it is a “perspectival centre” and “the starting of
the communication of a sentence” (Smith 2003: 192–193). Supporting evidence for
the prominence of the subject can also be found in psychological studies (Brennan
1995; Paivio 1979). Chafe (1976) compares the structure of a sentence to a package
of information which is “unwrapped” step by step by a reader. Although it consists
of many elements, “knowledge directly attached to the subject may be most
immediately accessible” (Chafe 1976: 44). Semantically, given a prototypical
Active Voice sentence, the Agent, “the ‘doer’, or instigator of the action denoted
by the predicate” (Aarts 1997:88), is “the most topical participant”, “the apex of the
topic hierarchy” (Givon 1990: 566), being the first candidate for the subject
position. In contrast, in a prototypical Passive Voice sentence it is the Patient,
“the ‘undergoer’ of the action or event denoted by the predicate” (Aarts 1997: 88),
who/that is granted the title of “the most topical participant” (Givon 1990: 566) and
the position of the subject. Indeed, if a given situation with participants involved is
described, “they rank on a scale according to their importance” (Givon 1984: 137).
Consequently, the subject and the direct object are primary and secondary clausal
topics respectively (Givon 1984: 138; cf. Smith 2003:193). Clearly then, grammat-
ical relations have their pragmatic consequences for the prominence of specific
participants with their thematic roles (cf. Van Dijk 1980: 95–96). Underlying this
reasoning is the approach to the sentence introduced by the linguists of the Prague
School – Functional Sentence Perspective – in which semantic, grammatical and
functional levels are considered (cf. Firbas 1974).
14.3 Data and Methods
The corpus for this study comprises 56 case reports taken from four international
medical journals aimed at health professionals – The Lancet (15), The Journal of
American Medical Association (13), The New England Journal of Medicine (16)
and The British Medical Journal (12). In their study of case reports from a
diachronic perspective, Taavitsainen and Pahta (2000: 60) define this genre in the
following way: “[i]n its typical form, the case report records the course of a patient’s
disease from the onset of symptoms to the outcome, usually either recovery or death.
The background and a commentary on the disease are also given, but their scope
14 From a Complaint through Therapy to Recovery 193
may vary. Often a limited review of the literature is added and the number of known
cases stated”. Generally, case reports present new diseases or diseases that are
already known but which have unusual manifestations.
As regards their structure, case reports are “the briefest and simplest category of
article” (Adams Smith 1984: 27) and usually consist of three parts: “a short
Introduction, a more detailed Case Report body, and a brief Comment or Discussion
section” (Rowley-Jolivet 2007: 185). Rhetorically, the presentation of information
in case reports renders them “descriptive and expository” (Salager-Meyer et al.
1989: 155), which is in keeping with the primary aim of this genre.
In the analysis, each article was carefully read in search of any words that
referred to the patients described there. Next, the examples containing references
to the patients were isolated by means of WordSmith 5 and further examined. The
examples which did not refer to the patients directly, yet concerned various
aspects of their treatment, were also taken into consideration. In the following
discussion of the results, it will be demonstrated how various grammatical and
lexical configurations of the texts in the examined corpus allow the authors to focus
on various aspects discussed in different sections of the case reports. The presenta-
tion of the results of the study as well as their discussion will follow the order of the
sections in a case report with a view to showing how patient imaging changes as the
texts progress.
14.4 Results and Discussion
14.4.1 Introduction Section
A typical case report commences with an Introduction, which explains the reason of
the patient’s presentation.
2. A 64-year-old woman presented to the emergency department with a stiff painful
jaw (Lindley-Jones et al. 2004).
In this section, the description is restricted to the levels considering conditions of
the whole body or its parts and patients are presented as experiencers of these
conditions (cf. the adjective painful referring to certain bodily experience, which
means that the psychological mode is used here). As such words as painful denote
subjective perception, what is narrated here is the account of an illness as experi-
enced by an individual, in contrast to a disease which is objectively observed by a
physician. The floor is given to the patient who is granted the agency of complaining
or reporting. Yet, it is achieved only symbolically through the authorial persona, as
the patient’s account is in the third person.
Language-wise, the words referring to patients in this section are personal
pronouns or nouns and they are located in the subject position. As a result, patients
are imaged as whole persons (cf. Wade and Halligan 2004: 1400), being the primary
topics and content of the clauses (Givon 1990: 137–138; Halliday 1994: 75).
194 M. Murawska
14.4.2 The Case Report Body
The case report body follows Introduction and consists of three parts: History,
Examination/Tests and Treatment. As regards History, it informs about previous
diseases that the patient underwent.
3. He was otherwise asymptomatic and had no history of drug use (White et al.
2004).
4. The patient’s history was characterised by poor orthostatic tolerance and an
inability to stand upright for more than 2 minutes without fainting (Robertson
et al. 2005).
5. There was no history of trauma (Kong et al. 2005).
In (3), the word referring to the patient occupies the subject position. (4) and (5)
are quite the opposite. Here the history is underscored, yet, while in (4) it is still
presented as belonging to the patient, in (5) there is no mention of him/her. As a
result, the patient’s textual prominence decreases from (3) and (4) to (5), with (5)
being abstracted from him/her. (4) is also an example of the nominalist mode of
disease presentation, i.e. one based on the enumeration of symptoms, reactions,
conditions, etc. and contributing to the perception of a disease as an entity, i.e. “it”
(Blois 1984:97). Consequently, this segment of a case report serves the purpose of
imparting information about the diseases that the patient underwent without
concentrating on their character or course. Also, what can be observed here is a
gradual shift in focus from the patient to disease issues, which announces a more
disease-oriented text that is to follow.
Examination/Tests addresses the assessment of the patient’s condition, which
usually takes place at two levels. The first part of the diagnostic procedure delivers
the external evidence based on the doctor’s observation of the patient’s body and its
reactions that are interpreted accordingly.
6. She was afebrile and growth was on the 50th centile (Carroll et al. 2005).
7. On examination, she had a large, firm, tender mass in the left lower abdomen
which she said she had first noticed a year and a half previously (James 2005).
8. On examination, we found large venous ulcers on both legs, and bilateral ankle
oedema (figure) (Sheridan et al. 2004).
These observations are restricted to the sensorially perceivable phenomena,
hence the level of description reaches only the whole body, its parts and systems.
In (6) and (7), the central sentential positions are held by the patients. In (8), it is the
condition that is described in abstraction from the patient. Referring to patients as
being in a particular condition (cf. 6) contributes to viewing the state as experienced
by him/her. “Having” diseases, on the other hand, presents them as “objects”,
separate from the patient’s experience (cf. 7 above; Fleischman 1999; Staiano
1986). Furthermore, due to the observable character of the phenomena described
here, they are manifested linguistically by the adjectives pertaining to the senses of
e.g. sight and feeling, i.e. tender in (7) and bilateral in (8) respectively.
14 From a Complaint through Therapy to Recovery 195
Physical examination is usually followed by a series of medical tests. Their
modes of presentation are as in the following:
9. Her 24-h urinary freecortisol was high at 31,000 nmol/24 h (normal 270), 900 h
plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) was high at 204.5 ng/L (normal
50 ng/L) (Keenan et al. 2006).
10. Cystoscopy showed an inflamed bladder that bled on distension, and we sent
biopsy samples for analysis (Lo et al. 2004).
This subsection is dominated by the quantitative and qualitative results of
various medical tests. The dominance of such material reflects the widespread
application of modern diagnostic equipment which allows doctors to measure
and/or observe every function or element of the human body respectively (Ashcroft
2000). Such a type of material entails the objective account of a disease, i.e.
“technology as the agent” (Anspach 1988), as exemplified in (10). It is a mode
where diagnostic equipment shows particular results. The fact that the agent is
deleted from the text contributes to rendering the information objective and inde-
pendent from human involvement (“data primacy”, cf. Potter 1996: 153).
Furthermore, as this part contains information revealed by laboratory tests,
medical description goes to the bottom levels of the hierarchical scale, considering
biological processes, usually cellular or molecular in nature. Changes at these levels
are not directly perceivable, hence the mode of presenting the results of tests as in
(9). (10) exemplifies the focus on body-parts/organs. Here the history of medicine
might be helpful in explaining this linguistic phenomenon. According to Virchow
(1880), whose work in autopsy and pathological anatomy underlies the biomedical
model, all diseases stem from the dysfunction of tissues. Following this medical
premise, organs and tissues claimed centrality in medical case writing (Nowell-
Smith 1995:52) as they began to be perceived as the location of diseases. In (10),
the isolated organ represents the patient only metonymically.
Treatment section is devoted to medical procedures performed on patients with a
view to restoring their health.
11. She was treated with intravenous lorazepam for presumed alcohol withdrawal,
receiving a total of 432 mg over 10 h (Tuohy et al. 2003).
12. Initial management was conservative but biochemical hyperthyroidism,
hepatosplenomegaly, and irritability persisted (Carroll et al. 2005).
13. Painful muscular spasms continued for weeks after extubation and were con-
trolled by supranormal magnesium levels for further 9 days and subsequently
baclofen (Sheridan et al. 2004).
Generally, this part considers treatment that patients undergo, so there is no
question of their agency. Yet, although in (11) the patient is not an active participant
but the one to whom medical procedures apply, she is textually prominent thanks to
the subject position of the personal pronoun. (11) and (12) can be contrasted, with
the latter not mentioning the patient to whom these procedures apply. In (12), rather
than to patients themselves, the readers’ attention is drawn to the treatment
performed and its specific execution, the so called “medical techniques and
196 M. Murawska
therapeutics” (Ashcroft 2000: 288). (13) presents the patient’s experience of a
particular symptom as “painful”, yet without mentioning the experiencer. Conse-
quently, it may be argued that the aim of this section is to give technical details of a
chosen therapy and patients are those who undergo it. Nevertheless, the descriptions
tend to omit the very subject of medical procedures and relegate it to the object to
which they apply.
14.4.3 Comment/Discussion
Comment/Discussion discusses the examined case of a disease with reference to the
already available research and draws more general conclusions.
14. Her lack of cardiovascular instability may reflect the chronicity of the
hypovolaemia and activation of the renin angiotensin system (Tuohy et al. 2003).
15. Although vasculitis remains a possible cause of stroke in our patient, the
multiple territorial ischaemic lesions in the setting of atrial fibrillation and
cardiomyopathy make embolism more likely (Libman et al. 2005).
16. Many of the reported cases are children and only two cases have survived
(White et al. 2004).
In this section, the authors refer to a particular aspect of the patient’s condition/
treatment rather than to the whole person (cf. 14). In (15), the patient referent does
not occur either in the subject or object position but in a prepositional phrase with
the meaning of location, which images him/her as a container (cf. Lakoff and
Johnson 1980). In (16), the word case does not refer to an occurrence of a particular
disease but to the patient. As a result, patient imaging in the final section of a case
report refers not to the patient as the “whole self” (Wade and Halligan 2004: 1400)
but to a single aspect of his/her condition/treatment under examination.
14.5 Conclusion
If all three parts are considered, the patient’s textual prominence decreases from
Introduction (his/her account of an illness), through Examination/Tests and Treat-
ment (numerical or graphic values and methods of a chosen therapy taking priority)
to Comment/Discussion where the information about a disease must be abstracted
from a particular patient. In other words, while the beginning describes an
individual’s experience of illness, the rest of the report is constructed as a scientifi-
cally objective report about a disease. In this case, when the account of treatment is
given, the patient’s mental/bodily reactions as well as body-parts and biological
processes are rendered separate from him/her.
Nowell-Smith (1995) concludes that “[m]edical cases are stories not of pain
and fear but of medical intervention, and the leading characters are doctors,
14 From a Complaint through Therapy to Recovery 197
instruments, and organs” (1995:64). Linguistically, it is achieved by choosing
medical procedures and treated body-parts/organs for the subject position in a
sentence or the sentential absence of the patient. Consequently, although the goal
of a particular section has bearing on patient imaging, in many cases, the option of
the depersonalised mode is chosen irrespective of the type of information imparted.
References
Aarts, B. 1997. English syntax and argumentation. Houndmills: Macmillan Press.
Adams Smith, D. E. 1984. Medical discourse: Aspects of author’s comment. English for Specific
Purposes 3: 25–36.
Anspach, R. R. 1988. Notes on the sociology of medical discourse: The language of case
presentation. Journal of Health and Social Behaviour 29: 357–375.
Ashcroft, R. E. 2000. Teaching for patient-centred ethics. Medicine, Health Care and Philosophy
3: 287–295.
Atkinson, D. 2001. Scientific discourse across history: A combined multi-dimensional/rhetorical
analysis of the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London. In: Variation in
English: Multi-dimensional studies, eds. S. Conrad and D. Biber, 45–46. Harlow: Longman.
Atkinson, P. 1995. Medical talk and medical work. London: Sage Publications.
Bazerman, Ch. 1988. Shaping written knowledge. The genre and activity of the experimental
article in science. Madison: The University of Wisconsin Press.
Blois, M. S. 1984. Information and medicine. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Bond, J. and S. Bond. 1986. Sociology and health care. Edinburgh: Churchill Livingstone.
Brennan, S. E. 1995. Centring attention in discourse. Language & Cognitive Processes 10:
137–167.
Carroll, D. N., P. Kamath and L. Stewart. 2005. Congenital viral infection? The Lancet 365: 1110.
Chafe, W. 1976. Giveness, contrastiveness, definiteness, subject, topic and point of view. In:
Subject and topic, ed. C. N. Lee, 25–55. New York: Academic Press.
Childs, N. L. and W. N. Mercer. 1996. Brief report: Late improvement in consciousness after post-
traumatic vegetative state. The New England Journal of Medicine 334: 24–25.
Firbas, J. 1974. Some aspects of the Czechoslovak approach to problems of functional sentence
perspective. In: Papers on functional sentence perspective, ed. F. Danes, 11–37. Prague:
Academia.
Fleischman, S. 1999. I am. . ., I have. . ., I suffer from. . .: A linguist reflects on the language of
illness and disease. Journal of Medical Humanities 20: 3–32.
Givon, T. 1984. Syntax. A functional-typological introduction. Vol. 1. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins Publishing Company.
Givon, T. 1990. Syntax. A functional-typological introduction. Vol. 2. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins Publishing Company.
Gotti, M. and F. Salager-Meyer eds. 2006. Advances in medical discourse analysis – oral and
written contexts. Bern: Peter Lang.
Greenbaum, S. and R. Quirk. 1990. A student’s grammar of the English language. Harlow:
Longman.
Grice, F. and A. Kramer-Dahl. 1992. Grammaticalising the medical case history. In: Language,
text and context: Essays in stylistics, ed. M. Toolan, 56–90. London: Routledge.
Halliday, M.A.K. 1994. An introduction to functional grammar. London: Edward Arnold.
Hyland, K. 2001. Humble servants of the discipline? Self-mention in research articles. English for
Specific Purposes 20: 207–226.
James, R. F. 2005. Rectus sheath haematoma. The Lancet 365: 1824.
198 M. Murawska
Keenan, N., W. S. Dhillo, G. R. Williams and J. F. Todd. 2006. Unexpected shortness of breath in a
patient with Cushing’s syndrome. The Lancet 367: 446.
Kenny, N. P. and B. L. Beagan. 2004. The patient as text – a challenge for problem-based learning.
Medical Education 38: 1071–1079.
KIAP – Cultural Identity in Academic Prose: National vs. discipline-specific. 2006. http://www.
uib.no/kiap/index-e.htm. Accessed 1 July 2008.
Knowles, M. and R. Moon. 2006. Introducing metaphor. London: Routledge.
Kong, M.-F., R. Jogia, S. Jackson, M. Quinn, P. McNally and M. Davies. 2005. Malignant
melanoma presenting as a foot ulcer. The Lancet 366: 1750.
Lakoff, G. and M. Johnson. 1980. Metaphors we live by. Chicago: The University of Chicago
Press.
Libman, R. B., B. L. Menna and S. Gulati. 2005. Consequences of ephedra use in an athlete.
The Lancet 366: 522.
Lindley-Jones, M., D. Lewis and J. L. Southgate. 2004. Recurrent tetanus. The Lancet 363: 2048.
Lo, S., J. Noble, I. Bowler and B. Angus. 2004. Dysuria and a headache. The Lancet 364: 1554.
Myers, G. 1990. Writing biology: The social construction of popular science. Madison, WI:
University of Wisconsin Press.
Nijhof, G. 1998. Naming as naturalisation in medical discourse. Journal of Pragmatics 30:
735–753.
Nowell-Smith, H. 1995. Nineteenth-century narrative case histories: An inquiry into stylistics and
history. CBMH/BCHM 12: 47–67.
Paivio, A. 1979. Imagery and verbal processes. Hillsdale: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Potter, J. 1996. Representing reality: Discourse, rhetoric and social construction. London: Sage.
Robertson, D., E. M. Garland, S. R. Raj and N. Demartinis. 2005. Marathon runner with severe
autonomic failure. The Lancet 366: 513.
Rowley-Jolivet, E. 2007. A genre study of If in medical discourse. In: Language and discipline
perspectives on academic discourse, ed. K. Fløttum, 176–201. Newcastle: Cambridge Scholars
Publishing.
Salager-Meyer, F., G. Defives, C. Jensen, and M. de Filipis. 1989. Communicative function and
grammatical variations in medical English scholarly papers: A genre analysis study. In: Special
language: From humans thinking to thinking machines, eds. C. Laurén and M. Nordman,
151-160. Philadelphia: Multilingual Matters.
Sheridan, E. A., J. Cepeda, R. De Palma, M. M. Brett and K. Nagendran. 2004. A drug user with a
sore throat. The Lancet 364: 1286.
Smith, C. S. 2003. Modes of discourse. The local structure of texts. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Staiano, K. V. 1986. Interpreting signs of illness. A case study in medical semiotics. Berlin & New
York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Taavitsainen, I. and P. Pahta. 2000. Conventions of professional writing: The medical case report
in a historical perspective. Journal of English Linguistics 28: 60–76.
Tuohy, K. A., W. J. Nicholson and F. Schiffman. 2003. Agitation by sedation. The Lancet 361:
308.
Van Dijk, T. A. 1980. Macrostructures. An interdisciplinary study of global structures in
discourse, interaction, and cognition. Hillsdale: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Publishers.
Van Rijn-Van Tongeren, G. W. 1997. Metaphors in medical texts. Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Virchow, R. 1880. Post-mortem examinations: With especial reference to medico-legal practice.
(Translated by T. Smith.) Philadelphia: Presley Blackiston.
Wade, D. T. and P. W. Halligan. 2004. Do biomedical models of illness make for good healthcare
systems? British Medical Journal 329: 1398–1401.
White, J. M., R. D. Barker, J. R. Salisbury, A. J. Fife, S. B. Lucas, D. C. Warhurst and
E. M. Higgins. 2004. Granulomatous amoebic encephalitis. The Lancet 364: 220.
14 From a Complaint through Therapy to Recovery 199
.
Chapter 15
Beyond and within Standard English:
Categories, Category Boundaries and Fuzziness
Maciej Rataj
Abstract Standard dialects are frequently thought of as fixed and stable entities
which possess clear boundaries and a set of criteria that allow us to recognise easily
which texts or utterances are standard and which are not. This view, as has been
proved by sociolinguists, is an oversimplification and idealisation since real-world
standard dialects are best viewed both as fuzzy categories and as members of a large
category centred around a prototype. The paper attempts to present a view of
standard dialects inspired by the prototype theory and present-day sociolinguistics
and exemplify this view by means of Standard British English. The analysis
presents the notion of category in Standard English at three levels. Firstly, particular
fragments of texts and utterances cannot be shown to be doubtlessly standard or
non-standard, this issue being further complicated by the frequent confusion of
typically spoken and typically written norms. Secondly, Standard English cannot be
treated as a fixed entity because of its optional variability, its diversity in terms of
style and register and the considerable number of local standard varieties of English
throughout the English-speaking world. Finally, considering Standard English as
possessing a long history of continued development towards minimal variation in
form and maximal variation in function is also an idealisation of what has actually
been a more complex process, in particular because, as linguists agree, language
standardisation is not a fact but a process. All this leads to the conclusion
that standard dialects can be analysed in terms of cognitive categorisation and
prototypicality.
M. Rataj (*)
University of Gdańsk, Gdańsk, Poland
e-mail: rataj.maciej109@gmail.com
M. Pawlak and J. Bielak (eds.), New Perspectives in Language,
Discourse and Translation Studies, Second Language Learning and Teaching,
DOI 10.1007/978-3-642-20083-0_15, # Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2011
201
15.1 Introduction
Standard dialects1
are frequently conceived of as fixed and stable entities with
negligible variation in form and a finite set of criteria which clearly distinguish them
from non-standard dialects and facilitate recognising whether or not a given sample of
speech or writing represents a given standard dialect. This oversimplified view was
prevalent before the dawn of modern linguistics, i.e. before the acrolects (prestigious
varieties) of some languages became known as their standard dialects, and is still held
by some linguists, in particular those who are in favour of prescriptivism. One instance
of standard-nonstandard dichotomy is Stewart’s (1968) typology of language
varieties, in which he uses a set of binary features, namely “standardisation”, “auton-
omy”, “historicity” and “vitality” (Stewart 1968: 534–536), to classify several types of
what he calls “linguistic systems”. In his set (see Stewart 1968: 537) the standard
possesses all the four attributes, and even though elsewhere in the text Stewart
mentions multimodal standardisation in such languages as English, including
endonormative and exonormative standardisation (i.e. standardisation focusing on
local and foreign norms respectively), his standard linguistic system category fails
to account for the complexity and diversity of the real-world standard dialects and the
processes of standardisation they undergo. The most noticeable problem here, as may
be argued, involves regarding standardisation not as a process which is never complete
but as an attribute that is either present or absent.
In 1962 Ferguson, as quoted by Haugen ([1966] 1974: 107), made an attempt at
considering language standardisation as a gradable phenomenon, labelling
languages with multimodal standardisation as St. 1 and giving St. 2 to languages
with a “single, widely accepted norm which is felt to be appropriate with only minor
modifications or variations for all purposes for which the language is used”.
Together with the “utilisation in writing” scale ranging from W 0 to W 3, the St.
degrees describe standardised languages somewhat more accurately. Nonetheless,
it is felt that a different approach is needed to reflect the complexity of standard
dialects.
Other questionable opinions include the belief that standard dialects are formed
by single people or organisations (see Deumert and Vandenbussche 2003: 455) or
that standard dialects must not be allowed to change in terms of grammar,
spelling, word meaning or pronunciation, as all language change equals decline
(a stance discussed by Aitchison 2001: 4–7). Needless to say, every standard
dialect is embedded in the community of its users and is therefore associated with
a wealth of extralinguistic factors, an issue that will not be discussed in detail in
this paper.
1
The term “standard dialect” is used here instead of “standard language” for two reasons: firstly, in
a natural language a standard dialect is but a language variety and not a complete language and it is
only in the case of artificial languages that the term “standard language” is fully justified; secondly,
we must not mistake standard dialects for standardised languages and the term “standard lan-
guage” may lead to such confusion. For a discussion of the issue see Hudson (1980: 31–32, 34),
Crystal (1994: 109–114) and Trudgill (1999: 118).
202 M. Rataj
To proceed, if the standard dialect is considered as a category, the above-
mentioned claims put forward by Stewart (1968), Ferguson (1962) and others
make it a category consistent with the logical or classical view of categorisation,
as discussed by Ungerer and Schmid (1996) amongst others. Firstly, Stewart’s
“standardisation”, “autonomy”, “historicity” and “vitality” or Haugen’s (1974:
97–111) “selection”, “codification”, “elaboration of function”, and “acceptance”
serve as necessary and/or sufficient conditions which allow one to draw the
boundaries of the standard dialect category and classify particular dialects as
standard or non-standard, all of them being equal members of the category (see
Fig. 15.1).
Secondly, various levels of linguistic structure (morphology, phonology, syntax,
etc.) contain rules and units which may be regarded as the necessary or sufficient
attributes of particular standard dialects, making it possible to decide whether or not
a text or utterance represents a given standard variety (see Table 15.1).
Finally, the logical view enables the linguist to imagine language standardisation
as a continued development towards “minimal variation in form” and “maximal
variation in function”, as used by Haugen (1974: 107) (see Fig. 15.2).
STANDARD
DIALECT
Standard English,
Standard French,
Standard Russian,
etc.
VERNA
CULAR
African Ameri-
can Vernacular,
etc.
- CLASSICAL
LANGUAGE
Latin, Classical
Greek, etc.
Fig. 15.1 The standard dialect category and some other linguistic systems according to the logical
view
Table 15.1 The standardness of language samples according to the logical view
Features
Standardness
(Standard British
English)
Text
He goes to school every day Conforms to the rules of Standard English
grammar, punctuation, vocabulary, etc. +
He going to shool – lah. Contains non-standard features of grammar,
vocabulary, spelling, etc.
Utterance
/hi gəʊz tə sku:1 ‘evri deɪ/ Conforms to the rules of RP, Standard
English grammar, vocabulary, etc. +
/xi ‘gɔwiŋk tʊ ʃʊ:1 1ɑ:/ Contains non-standard features of grammar,
vocabulary, pronunciation, etc.
15 Beyond and within Standard English 203
The problem with the logical view, when applied to the issue under discussion, is
that it misrepresents the nature of standard dialects, for they are not categories with
homogeneous structure or clear boundaries; nor is any one standard dialect a regular
set of units, e.g. sentences, which are its equally good members. Finally, living
languages do not easily submit to rigid codification and they invariably retain some
optional variability, the extent of which may be difficult to assess or describe.
Hence it may be argued that a different approach is needed, one based on
categorisation as viewed by cognitive linguistics, with categories which have
prototypes, central and marginal members and fuzzy boundaries. Standard English,
in particular Standard British English, will be used throughout the analysis to serve
as an instance of such a category.
15.2 The Prototype Structure of the Standard Dialect Category
As has been mentioned, despite the generally traditional approach they adopt,
Stewart (1968) and Ferguson (1962) realise that not all standard dialects and not
all standardised languages are the same, as the former differ in terms of the degree
of codification, elaboration of function, historicity and numerous other factors (see
also Hudson 1980: 34). Furthermore, many of these attributes cannot be expressed
as scalar quantities. For instance, while it is possible to ask a cross-section of a
given speech community whether or not they consider the standard dialect of their
mother tongue prestigious and thus obtain a certain percentage value, doing so will
fail to take into account the complexity of prestige in language, in particular its
historical, sociolinguistic and psycholinguistic background. Needless to say, pres-
tige is just one of many factors concerning standard dialects which are difficult
to put in numbers. If, however, we imagine a prototypical standard dialect that
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
1 2 3 4 5
formal variation
formal variation
time
Fig. 15.2 Variation in form in the standardisation process according to the logical view
204 M. Rataj
possesses a number of attributes which linguists and laypeople alike may expect it
to have and put it in the centre of a category with a heterogeneous structure, we will
obtain a more truthful picture of the standard dialects of natural languages (see
Fig. 15.3).
If we now attempt to place Standard English somewhere in this category, we will
encounter two major difficulties. First of all, English possesses not one standard
dialect but several of them; secondly, even the number of standard Englishes is
disputable (e.g. Microsoft Office 2007 lists 19 national varieties of English for
spelling and grammar correction purposes). One viable alternative is to decide that
there exists one standard English in each English-speaking country, and reduce our
exemplifying discussion to Standard British English (SBE), rejecting the theory of
multiple standards within British English.
To proceed to Standard British English, we may now decide how close to the
prototype it lies. The present discussion does not allow a detailed analysis; how-
ever, one may easily observe that although SBE is without doubt a standard dialect
which has been thoroughly described and prescribed for generations, it differs from
the image of a typical standard dialect in several respects. First, it is not the only
standard dialect of the language in question; consider the notion of Englishes, as
used in a number of papers: for instance for Kachru and Smith (2009: 3) world
Englishes are the result of “the acculturation and nativisation of English in various
parts of the world”. Second, while it has been codified to a considerable extent, it is
not codified so rigidly as Standard Metropolitan French (see Hudson 1980: 34) and
lacks a standardising body such as the authoritative French Academy or the
advisory Council for the Polish Language (attempts to form such an academy
made in the eighteenth century failed). Besides, as will be mentioned below,
Standard British English allows a certain measure of optional variability. Fourth,
some linguists have questioned the status of Received Pronunciation (RP) as an
inherent part of SBE (e.g. Trudgill 1999: 118–119, 123). As regards SBE and RP in
particular, they are used by a minority of the British, and RP, with perhaps fewer
than two per cent of the British population using it in the early twenty-first century
(see Crystal 2006: 184), is regarded as a sign of snobbery or conceit by certain
native speakers of British English (see Crystal 2006: 183–184). All this and many
other factors not mentioned in the present discussion justify the placement of SBE
at a certain distance from the centrally located prototype (see Fig. 15.4), although
not very close to the category boundary.
STANDARD
DIALECT
prototype
Fig. 15.3 The standard
dialect category according to
the cognitive view
15 Beyond and within Standard English 205
In cognitive linguistics, categories possess fuzzy boundaries, often partly merge
with neighbouring categories and may even form continua. This is the case with
regional dialects (consider the Dutch-German continuum between the Netherlands
and Austria) and the standard dialect category as well, for non-linguists may have
difficulties deciding if a given language variety is standard and even linguists may
treat Classical Latin, Esperanto or the written Chancery Standard of William
Caxton (see Burchfield 1986: 22, 147; Crystal 2006: 15–17) as peripheral examples
of standard dialects which at the same time also belong to other categories.
One may conclude this part by deciding which standard dialect is more proto-
typical than SBE. Apparently, Standard Polish might be suggested as a case in
point, as it is the only standardised dialect of Polish, it is, generally speaking,
prestigious among Poles and it has only one standard accent associated with it.
Owing to the demographic changes following World War II, numerous Poles, in
particular educated city dwellers, are native speakers of either Standard Polish or a
levelled dialect which is not considerably divergent from the standard. Further-
more, the codification of Standard Polish has been supervised by the Council for
the Polish Language, and earlier by other more or less authoritative panels of
experts. Last but not least, the teaching of Standard Polish has never aroused as
much controversy as the great debate about the National Curriculum for
England and Wales of the 1990s, discussed at length by Cameron (1995) and by
Carter (1994).
15.3 The Prototype Structure of Particular Standard Dialects
as Categories
In the previous section particular standard dialects are considered to be elements
of a large standard dialect category centred around a prototype. These elements,
however, may themselves be regarded as categories. In such categories units, e.g.
words, and features, e.g. syntactic, phonological and morphological rules, function
as attributes. Consequently, the texts and utterances which consist of standard
units and comply with standard rules are prototypical and those which clearly do
not are not part of the category. Certainly, there also exists a wide spectrum of
more or less prototypical instances of standard dialect texts and utterances,
STANDARD
DIALECT SBE
prototype
Fig. 15.4 Standard British
English as an element of the
standard dialect category
according to the cognitive
view
206 M. Rataj
including borderline cases. The same holds true for smaller units such as spoken or
written sentences.
We may now ask how to decide whether a given text or utterance is indeed part
of a given standard dialect. Unfortunately, three problems that complicate the issue
present themselves here. To begin with, it is difficult to establish what percentage of
non-standard features or errors related to one’s language competence or perfor-
mance is permissible in a text or utterance (in other words, at which point the
standardness test is failed) and which features are more salient, i.e. more non-
standard, than others. In the case of SBE, is the use of renumeration instead of
renumeration a less serious problem than multiple negation or a dangling partici-
ple? And if so, who is to decide? Next, even in the languages which have been well
described and analysed the standardness of certain norms and units remains uncer-
tain. As regards Standard English, while the word ain’t and the form I seen instead
of I saw or I have seen are clearly non-standard, using a preposition at the end of a
relative clause and splitting infinitives have long been a bone of contention, being
stigmatised by some and regarded as standard, though perhaps informal, by others.
All this is connected with a variety of linguistic and extralinguistic phenomena,
including language change, which naturally affects standard dialects, but also
prescriptivism and the complaint tradition present in English, in Britain and else-
where, as well as in other languages (as discussed by Milroy and Milroy 1998:
24–46; McWhorter 1998: 7–8). Finally, numerous linguists postulate that in every
standard dialect we are dealing not with one but with two sets of norms. In Polish
linguistics, for example, many researchers differentiate between the model norm
(norma wzorcowa), which is associated with diligent and conscious use of language
in official contexts, and the common or colloquial norm (norma potoczna), which
suits informal contexts (see Podlawska and Świa
˛tek-Brzezińska 2008: 4–5). In
Anglophone linguistics and the description of English many experts now tend to
recognise a set of norms typical of spoken usage, which permit more formal
variation than the written language, with Carter going so far as to claim that e.g.
standalone relative clauses and double main verbs are features of spoken Standard
English (see Carter 1994: 11–12).
Having briefly considered the difficulties pertinent to the classification of lan-
guage samples as standard or non-standard, we may claim that the only viable
solution is to ask native speakers of a particular language or perhaps only native
speakers of a given standard dialect to judge the standardness of particular units
such as sentences, features such as distinct phonemes or norms such as word order
rules. Fig. 15.5 depicts standardness in SBE from the viewpoint of categorisation
and is based on fragments of an unpublished small-scale survey of language
prototypicality judgements conducted by the present author in 2006 as part of his
Master’s thesis research among about twenty native speakers of British English.
Naturally, it makes no claims to exhaustiveness but instead it serves to exemplify
how a more complete study of the issue could be conducted. From the figure it may
be inferred that the respondents are likely to regard language standardness as a
gradable phenomenon rather than a dichotomous feature and that it is in borderline
cases that the greatest differences in opinion among them tend to occur. Although
15 Beyond and within Standard English 207
the survey cannot be said to represent the language attitudes of a cross-section of
British society, conducted as it was mostly among young members of forums on
language and English usage, its results show certain patterns which may be
analysed in greater detail and lead to general conclusions concerning Standard
English if a large-scale survey of a similar kind is undertaken in the future.
15.4 The Standardisation Process form the Viewpoint
of Cognitive Linguistics
As was stated in the introduction, natural languages do not easily yield to rigid
codification. Thus even in standard dialects there is invariably a margin of optional
variability which must not be underestimated. If we also take account of the
aforementioned norms and units whose standardness is uncertain, we obtain an
image of a category with fuzzy boundaries not only in synchronic but also in
diachronic depiction of the standardisation process.
S B E
(1) (2)
prototype
(3) (4)
Sentences
Average score from 0 (typical of
SBE) to 5 (non-standard)
1. John does not work here. 0
2. Jane has recently moved to a quaint three-rooms cottage. 1.7
3. How R U 2day? 4
4. Hi did not si nothink spezial thear. 4.8
Phonetic features
Average score from 0 (typical of
SBE) to 5 (non-standard)
1. Distinguishing between /ɑɪ/ and /eɪ/ 0.1
2. The long vowel /ɔ:/ instead of /ʊə/ 1.9
3. Stressing the final syllable in every polysyllabic word2
3.7
Fig. 15.5 Standard British English as a category according to the cognitive view
2
None of the phonetic features included in the survey was considered to be entirely non-standard
by the respondents.
208 M. Rataj
“Minimal variation in form” and “maximal variation in function” (Haugen 1974:
107) may be the ultimate objectives of linguistic standardisation but they are
practically unattainable and perhaps also not altogether desirable. They are
unachievable because every natural language, including its standard dialect or
dialects, is invariably subject to the human factor, e.g. idiolects and performance
errors by an individual despite his or her fluency in the standard, and multiple
changes in progress taking place at any moment of its history. It has been shown
that attempts at reducing variation to a minimum or stopping language change are
doomed to failure, as is the case with the efforts on the part of the French Academy
(L’Académie Française) to perfect Standard Metropolitan French, or as Leith
(1997: 50) puts it, “to fix the unfixable”. The supposedly ideal state of codification
and functional elaboration is not a desirable state of affairs either, for if we imagine
a standard dialect which is fixed, arrested in its formal development and possessing
its unique means to express every possible concept related to human experience, it
is bound to be impoverished in terms of style and register and practically dead, as no
language users will be able to meet its strict formal requirements sufficiently well to
be considered its native or habitual speakers. Instead, what we need to take into
consideration is the standard dialect in a state of flux with fuzzy boundaries in its
development. These fuzzy boundaries relate both to codification, as optional
variability never disappears, and to elaboration of function, as arguably each
standard dialect occasionally resorts to calque and borrowing to supplement its
lexical resources. Figs. 15.6 and 15.7 are an attempt at depicting the standardisation
process with the aforementioned issues taken into account, with lighter colours near
the edges indicating optional variability in Fig. 15.6 and borrowed or copied means
of expressing certain concepts in Fig. 15.7. The fact that any clear boundary
whatsoever is shown facilitates the viewing of the graph instead of indicating that
such a boundary is objectively present. It also needs to be explained that the
1 2 3
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
4 5
formal variation
formal variation
time
Fig. 15.6 Variation in form in the standardisation process according to the cognitive view
15 Beyond and within Standard English 209
numbers on the vertical scale are abstract, as standardness is immeasurable, as was
stated in the introduction.
15.5 Conclusions
To summarise, the cognitive view of categorization applied to classifying standard
dialects appears to be a good model on the whole. Several arguments in its favour may
be enumerated. Firstly, to use an expression from the business jargon, it allows us to
think outside the box, i.e. to consider the standard dialect category and particular
standard dialects not as separate entities characterised by dichotomous category
membership and homogeneous structure but as categories with prototypes and mem-
bership as a gradable feature. The latter entails fuzzy category boundaries and
sometimes even the partial merging of categories, e.g. Standard British English and
Standard American English in the case of what is known as Mid-Atlantic English.3
Secondly, teaching this view to students of languages, in particular trainee teachers
and translators of foreign languages, allows them to see the complexity involved in
standard dialects and helps them to avoid prejudice involving e.g. categorising
language and its users as good and cultured as opposed to bad and uncultured. Thirdly,
realising how standardisation and language change work may prevent people to whom
Crystal (2006) and McWhorter (1998) refer as “language pundits” from complaining
about the supposed decline of standard dialects and the accompanying moral decay
of their users. These of course are somewhat indirect consequences of applying
1 2
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
3 4 5
functional variation
functional variation
time
Fig. 15.7 Variation in function in the standardisation process according to the cognitive view
3
Although some people consider Mid-Atlantic English to be an accent, it may be claimed to be a
full dialect which is levelled on the levels of vocabulary and grammar in addition to pronunciation.
This in turn is related to the concepts of World Standard English or International English, which
are not analysed in the present discussion.
210 M. Rataj
the cognitive model to the issue in question and contemporary sociolinguists, e.g.
Deborah Cameron, David Crystal, Lesley and James Milroy, and Peter Trudgill have
dealt without it; however, we may argue that the cognitive view presents some ideas of
present-day sociolinguistics sufficiently well to be applied for the purposes of illustra-
tion of these theories. This usefulness is even more visible where sociolinguists
occasionally refer to concepts related to cognitive linguistics, e.g. McWhorter
(1998: 52–54) talks about “fuzzy logic” when referring to dialect continua. Since, as
discussed above, standard dialects may also be considered as continua, McWhorter’s
term fits in well in the present discussion.
We should nevertheless bear in mind that the cognitive view of standard dialects
is not devoid of problems, as it does not allow us to use a rigid taxonomy of
linguistic systems or clearly decide what constitutes an error or an unacceptable
form. To put it differently, at times prescriptivism is indispensable, e.g. in foreign
language teaching, as instead of discussing the suitability or standardness of a
certain form of structure it is far more suitable to provide clear signals as to
language correctness or what is known as good usage. In a similar vein, in mother
tongue instruction to young learners, providing clear rules is also less confusing that
explaining optional variability and differences between regional and social dialects
or styles and registers to uncomprehending pupils. To conclude, in certain contexts
we may use the logical model without hesitation; we should not forget, however,
that other ways of looking at languages are just as important.
References
Aitchison, J. 2001. Language change: Progress or decay? (third edition). Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Burchfield, R. 1986. The English language. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Cameron, D. 1995. Verbal hygiene. London: Routledge.
Carter, R. 1994. Standard Englishes in teaching and learning. In Who owns English?, eds.
M. Hayhoe and S. Parker, 10–23. Buckingham: Open University Press.
Crystal, D. 1994. Which English – or English Which? In Who owns English?, eds. M. Hayhoe
and S. Parker, 109–114. Buckingham: Open University Press.
Crystal, D. 2006. The fight for English: How language pundits ate, shot and left. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Deumert, A. and V. Vandenbussche. 2003. Research directions in the study of language
standardization. In Germanic standardizations: Past to present, eds. A. Deumert and
V. Vandenbussche, 455–470. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Ferguson, C. 1962. The language factor in national development. Anthropological Linguistics
4: 23–27.
Haugen, E. [1966] 1974. Dialect, language, nation. In Sociolinguistics: Selected readings, eds.
J. B. Pride and J. Holmes. 97–111. Harmondsworth: Penguin.
Hudson, R. 1980. Sociolinguistics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Kachru, Y. and L. E. Smith. 2009. The Karmic cycle of world Englishes: Some futuristic
constructs. World Englishes 28: 1–14.
McWhorter, J. 1998. Word on the street: Debunking the myth of “pure” standard English.
New York: Basic Books.
15 Beyond and within Standard English 211
Milroy, J. and L. Milroy. 1998. Authority in language: Investigating language prescription and
standardization. (third edition). London: Routledge and Kegan Paul.
Podlawska, D. and M. Świa
˛tek-Brzezińska. 2008. Słownik poprawnej polszczyzny. Warsaw: PWN.
Stewart, W. 1968. A sociolinguistic typology for describing national multilingualism. In Readings
in the sociology of language, ed. J. Fishman, 531–545. The Hague: Mouton.
Trudgill, P. 1999. Standard English: What it isn’t. In Standard English: The widening debate,
ed. T. Bex and R. J. Watts, 117–128. London: Routledge.
Ungerer, F. and H.-J. Schmid. 1996. An introduction to cognitive linguistics. London: Longman.
212 M. Rataj
Part V
Translation
.
Chapter 16
Construction Grammar as a Framework
for Describing Translation: A Prolegomenon
Izabela Szymańska
Abstract This paper explores Construction Grammar as a potential framework to
describe translation, arguing that it is a model of language capable of addressing in
an integrated way a wide range of problems recognized by translation studies,
without drawing a sharp distinction between the linguistic and the cultural issues.
Construction Grammar is a non-modular, non-derivational and inherently functional
model of language. The knowledge of the language user is represented as a network of
constructions. A construction is understood as a language-specific pairing of form and
meaning/function, a cluster of properties cutting across the traditional modules of
language description, which may include phonetic, morphological, syntactic, semantic,
pragmatic and discourse properties. Constructions thus understood include morphemes,
lexical items, phrasal patterns, sentence patterns, idioms, intonation patterns, discourse
patterns, etc. Construction Grammar declares the aim of accounting within an integrated
framework for all the conventions that the speaker of a language uses in communication.
It is argued that the constructional view of language and the scope of the
constructional model are highly convergent with the needs of translation studies
and can offer a range of tools to address various aspects of the translation process.
This article focuses on the possibility of describing the lack of exact equivalence
between the constructions of the source and the target language, and the possibility
of identifying very precisely the so-called gains and losses and through them the
translator’s priorities in decision-making.
16.1 Introduction
This paper is intended as a general outline of some premises of my research
(Szymańska 2011) which explores the applicability of the linguistic framework
known as Construction Grammar (henceforth CxG) to translation studies. The CxG
I. Szymańska (*)
University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland
e-mail: i.szymanska@uw.edu.pll
M. Pawlak and J. Bielak (eds.), New Perspectives in Language,
Discourse and Translation Studies, Second Language Learning and Teaching,
DOI 10.1007/978-3-642-20083-0_16, # Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2011
215
framework has not yet been explored from this perspective, so the work mentioned
attempts to “stake out a new territory” for translation studies. Since the territory in
question is obviously vast, this paper can only address a few selected issues. Its aim
is to show some features of CxG which make it a model of language capable of
addressing in an integrated way a wide range of problems recognized by translation
studies.
By way of introduction, some comments need to be made about translation
studies. The development of this discipline in recent decades has been marked by
several “turns”, as it is put by Snell-Hornby (2006), signalling significant changes
of focus. One important turn is the shift of interest from lexico-syntactic problems
in translation to the pragmatic and textual aspects, which has led to exploring the
importance of discourse, register, text-types and usage-related factors in the shap-
ing of the translated text. Another vital development is the so-called cultural turn,
whose proponents focus on the extra-linguistic determinants of the process of
translation, such as the purpose assigned to the translated text by its commissioner,
the aesthetic and ideological requirements of the target culture, power relations, the
status of particular texts and genres in the target culture, the accepted norms of
translation practice, the profile and the cultural background of the targeted
addressee, and many others which may be assumed to influence the decisions
taken by the translator and thus shape the target text. The chief postulate of the
cultural turn is to abandon “painstaking comparisons between originals and
translations” and move “beyond” the text (Lefevere and Bassnett 1990: 4), which
sometimes results in juxtaposing the act of translation viewed as “linguistic
transcoding” and as “cultural transfer” (Snell-Hornby 1990), and in suggesting
that translation is primarily cultural transfer, not linguistic transcoding, since
language cannot be separated from culture. Actually, however, the juxtaposition
is somewhat artificial, since – reversing the perspective – we can also say that
whatever extra-linguistic/cultural factors influence the translator, their impact has
to be traced in the text and, as is pointed out by Tabakowska (1997: 29), all texts are
made of language. Acknowledging the insights of the cultural-turn approaches,
when theorizing about translation we would like to balance the two perspectives,
for instance to find tools to describe how the undeniable extra-linguistic influence is
expressed/realized in language, i.e. to address the micro-level of target text produc-
tion, together with the well-known problem of the lack of exact equivalence
between the signs of two languages and the influence of the available resources
of the target language on the production of the target text.
If we accept the inherent link between the linguistic and the extra-linguistic in
translation, linguistic approaches, somewhat overshadowed by the cultural turn,
may turn out to be “new research avenues to explore for further advancement of
translation studies” (Anderman 2007: 62). However, the gradual extension of the
scope of interest in translation studies signals that a fruitful linguistic approach to
translation should be based on a framework that can at least to some extent
accommodate the insights of both the pragmatic turn and the cultural turn, that is
it has to provide tools for describing individual expressions from the point of
view of the language system, but also of their contribution to the text and of their
216 I. Szymańska
usage, i.e. include pragmatics, and it has to assume that there is no sharp division
between the “linguistic” and the “extra-linguistic” knowledge. We would like tools
that can describe both the motivations of translation choices and their mechanism,
taking into consideration that the translation process, in accordance with the above-
mentioned findings, can be envisaged as taking place on two planes – on the serial
plane of interpreting ST expressions and producing corresponding TT expressions,
as well as on the text-structural plane which involves pragmatic, inter-textual and
socio-cultural knowledge necessary in interpreting and producing texts (Holmes
2006: 418). The following discussion will present CxG as a linguistic model whose
scope is largely convergent with so-defined needs of translation studies, and which
has a potential to address a range of translation issues within an integrated system.
16.2 Construction Grammar
CxG was initiated by Charles Fillmore in the late 1980s, and it is in a way a
continuation of his previous ideas, Case Grammar (1968) and Frame Semantics
(1977, 1985, 1987, among others), underlain by the interest in the exploration of the
semantic, pragmatic and functional motivation of linguistic patterns. Since
the publication of Fillmore’s early works on CxG (1988, Fillmore et al. 1988) the
framework has been developed in various directions, producing several trends, of
which the best known is probably the approach represented by Adele Goldberg
(1995, 2003, 2006), which she herself calls Cognitive Construction Grammar
(CCxG).1
This paper will only concentrate on some of the general premises of
the constructional view of language which are shared by all of them and which can
be considered important for addressing problems of translation.
Within CxG it is assumed that that the linguistic competence of a language user
is best represented in terms of constructions (Fried and Östman 2004: 23), i.e.
conventional learned pairings of form and meaning. Form may include phonetic,
morphological and syntactic properties, while meaning is understood very broadly,
bordering on function and including semantic, pragmatic and discourse (informa-
tion structure) properties (Croft 2007: 472). A construction can be envisaged as a
building block that the user of a language has in his/her repertoire, a cluster of
properties from various traditionally differentiated layers or domains of language
(Fillmore 1988: 35; Fillmore et al. 1988: 534), as is shown in (1). CxG is a non-
modular model; it does not split language into modules whose relations have to be
described; the relations between various aspects of the linguistic sign are internal to
that sign (Croft 2007: 472), which stresses the inseparability of form and function.
1
See Croft (2007) or Goldberg (2006: 213–226) for an exposition of different constructional
approaches.
16 Construction Grammar as a Framework for Describing Translation 217
1.
Discourse
Pragmatic
Semantic
Syntactic
Morphological
Phonetic and prosodic
Constructions are abstract blueprints, generalizations; they may be of various
degrees of schematicity, so in some constructions some of those domains will not be
represented. Constructions are elements of the language system, templates which
license the use of actual expressions and are recognized by the language user as
wholes in the process of interpretation. Actual expressions used in communication
are referred to as constructs, i.e. instantiations of constructions. A construct, e.g. an
actual sentence, is usually an instantiation of several constructions.
Constructions include morphemes, lexical items, phrasal patterns, sentence
patterns, idioms, intonation patterns, discourse patterns, etc. Any language pattern
that is conventionalized and unpredictable and has some functional properties (seman-
tic and/or pragmatic) can be considered a construction. CxG is based on the postulate
of the full coverage of linguistic data, i.e. of describing all the conventions that the
speaker can use in communication (Fried and Östman 2004: 23–24). Consequently,
it does not assume a sharp distinction between the “core” (regular/productive) and
“peripheral” (idiomatic/unproductive) elements of the system, envisaging them as a
cline (Goldberg and Jackendoff 2004: 532) and paying much attention to the
“periphery” end of the cline, for instance idioms and patterns of limited productivity,
pointing out that they are an important part of communication which cannot be
neglected in the description of language (Fried and Östman 2004: 15–16).
One of the semantic properties of constructions is that they are underlain by and
may activate conceptual structures which schematize human experience, termed
interpretive frames (or scenes). This idea is drawn from Frame Semantics (some-
times also called “scenes-and-frames semantics”), Fillmore’s earlier proposal,
which many construction grammarians assume to be the semantic complement of
CxG (e.g. Östman and Fried 2004: 5). Although the notions and goals of Frame
Semantics have been evolving over the decades (e.g. Fillmore 1977, 1985, 1987;
Gawron 2008) and there are differences in focus between various construction
grammarians as to technical details, in general it may be assumed that CxG
(Goldberg 1995: 25–31) shares the general vision of the “semantics of understand-
ing” advanced by Fillmore to account for the relationship between texts and the
language users’ interpretation of texts in contexts (Fillmore 1985: 231). Fillmore
describes text interpretation as relying on the activation of conceptual structures by
actually used linguistic material and applying general cognitive operations (e.g.
filling blanks in schemas or comparing real situations with prototypical ones)
to those structures, which leads to constructing a coherent mental representation
consistent with the language user’s knowledge (Fillmore 1977: 63–66).
218 I. Szymańska
The conceptual/interpretive structures involved, labelled frames, are organized in
such a way that introducing one element to the text makes all the other elements
available to the interpreter, so they create a context necessary for interpretation,
allowing the text recipient to reach beyond what is explicitly said by activating
complex networks of knowledge (Fillmore 1985: 232; Gawron 2008: 4). They are
described as schematizing human beliefs, actions or imaginings, and envisaged as
rooted in cultural experience (Fillmore 1987: 33). The notion of frame can also
account for the schematization of the recipient’s expectations concerning text types
and genres, which play an important role in the interpretation process (Östman
2005: 128–135). In general then, the idea of frame activation is a very powerful tool
for constructions to account for text interpretation and the role of extra-linguistic
knowledge and cultural background in that process.
Constructions are envisaged as basically language-specific, which is obvious in
the case of lexical items, but may be less so in the case of syntactic patterns. The
language-specificity of constructions implies that patterns in two languages, even if
they are traditionally called “the same”, e.g. the passive, need not necessarily
correspond to each other with respect to all their properties (Goldberg 2003:
222). Goldberg (2006: 16) stresses that CxG anticipates considerable variability
between languages, despite the fact that humans have common communicative
needs and that languages need to express similar messages.
Another feature of CxG that should be stressed is its usage-based character. It is
assumed that generalizations about language which are stated in terms of
constructions emerge from usage, which in turn is determined by the need to
communicate in a socially acceptable way.2
Consequently, it is assumed, especially
in CCxG (Goldberg 2006: 64), that some facts about usage, going beyond the
traditionally understood knowledge of the language system and accounting for
the “native-like selection” from the various options conforming to the grammatical
patterns of the language, for instance intuitions about the frequency of some items,
should also be included into the constructional description of the language user’s
knowledge (Goldberg 2006: 54–55).
16.3 The Applicability of Construction Grammar
to Describing Translation
Even this sketchy and highly selective outline of CxG points to its very wide scope
of interest, which is in fact crucial when considering a linguistic model capable of
addressing the variety of issues involved in the process of translation. CxG is in fact
2
The usage-based nature of the constructional approach is strongly related to its account of
language acquisition, which is of secondary importance for the purposes of this paper and cannot
be elaborated on here, but which figures importantly in the constructional agenda in general (e.g.
Goldberg 2006: Chaps. 4–6; Tomasello 2006).
16 Construction Grammar as a Framework for Describing Translation 219
a “maximalist” model of language (Fried and Östman 2004: 24), attempting to
account for all the communicative conventions within one system. Although this
postulate is far from being realized in practice as yet, from the theoretical point of
view such a scope is what is needed to address translation, which involves all kinds
of communicative conventions in actual use. The intended maximalism of CxG and
abandoning the distinction between the core and the periphery in language descrip-
tion, although they seem to be very theoretical aspects of a language model, in fact
make it a very “practical” framework for addressing translation. Let us note that in
translation we have to recognize and represent in the target text any pattern that is
meaningful and functional, and the status of language phenomena in terms of
productivity has no impact on translational choices. Interestingly, it is often the
non-core patterns of low productivity that cause problems in translation and are thus
most interesting, since they often involve complex configurations of properties,
including pragmatic ones, which are not clustered together in the target language.
Assuming that CxG adopts the notions of Frame Semantics, including the
continuity of the linguistic and the extra-linguistic knowledge, and that
constructions are capable of evoking frames of knowledge, which are rooted in
language use and cultural experience, the constructional framework has a potential
to address the cultural conditioning of translational decisions as realized through
the principled choice from the resources of the target language. It also has a way of
addressing text interpretation, which can be seen as the recognition of constructions
and frames and the integration of the interpretive clues that are provided by those
structures. Therefore, the constructional view of language can accounts for the text-
structural plane of translation and capture the widely understood cultural barriers
and cultural conditioning of translation as differences in the framing systems that
underlie two languages. It should be pointed out that the potential of frame-
semantic concepts in that respect has been noticed previously (e.g. Rojo López
2002; Snell-Hornby 2005), but CxG combines it with a complex view of the
language sign, which offers non-negligible descriptive opportunities for explaining
the determinants of the translation process.
CxG has a way of accounting for the relationship between the language system
and language use, which are both involved in translation, by clearly stating the
relationship between constructions as blueprints/templates and constructs as actual
expressions. Being usage-based and including the pragmatic aspects of language,
CxG can also account for the influence of subtle usage-related factors on the
translator’s choices, such as the frequency of certain items and collocability,
which contribute to the “native-like quality” which is usually expected of (although
not necessarily actually exhibited by) a translated text.
In very general terms, constructional thinking about language is highly relevant
to translation since it presents text interpretation and production as relying on
recognizing functional wholes rather than assembling small elements. It is well-
known that in translation the failure to recognize functional wholes often leads to
disastrous effects. An obvious example of that is the translation of idioms, which, as
was already stressed, are of great interest for CxG, but we can also notice this in the
220 I. Szymańska
case of syntactic patterns, which as wholes have information structure functions,
the overlooking of which often leads to incoherence or at least awkwardness of the
target text. The notion of construction is based on the observation that the meaning
of a complex expression need not be predictable from the meanings of its parts.
Analogically, in translation, the global functional equivalence between texts or
fragments of texts need not follow from local equivalences between their segments.
The crucial features of the constructional approach to language from the point of
view of describing translation are its non-modularity, the inseparability of form and
meaning, which underlies the notion of construction, and the language-specificity
of constructions. When considered jointly, they highlight and explain the fact that
in translating we are often restricted by the resources of the target language, which
may cluster various properties differently than the resources of the source language,
which were used in the source text for certain communicative purposes. Looking at
constructs, which are used in text creation as instantiations of a number of
constructions, highlights the fact that they are complex clusters of properties and
that various aspects of the utterance, including its phonetics, morphosyntax, seman-
tics, information structure, register and other pragmatic properties, are realized
simultaneously by the same linguistic “material”. Such a view of language signs
accounts for the text being created simultaneously on the linear and text-structural
plane, in the sense that each choice in the process of the linear production of the text
simultaneously contributes to the creation of its overall structure.
This fact is particularly important in translation, when the target text, as well as
its parts, are usually expected to be equivalent in sense and function to the source
text, as well as to resemble the source text in structure, linguistic organization and
style (e.g. the target text is usually not to be a summary of the source text). What we
constantly experience in translation, however, are difficulties in finding exact
equivalents of the source text constructs in the target language, i.e. expressions
that would match them in all the functional and formal properties. Therefore, it is
customary to speak about losses and gains in translation. CxG explains why
equivalence between constructs in two languages is rarely complete, and how
gains and losses originate, by assuming that constructions are language-specific
clusters of properties. If in translating we cannot find a target language construct
matching the source language construct in all respects, we have to choose the
priority, that is the dimension of equivalence that is most important in the particular
situation of translating. However, the inseparability of forms and functions in
constructions also entails that sometimes the construction(s) chosen because of
that priority will bring into the text some properties absent form the original,
because we cannot filter out or add properties to the constructions of the target
language to suit our translational purposes, we can only use the resources that are
offered by the target language. Since constructions are described as clusters of
properties, CxG offers very precise tools to capture the issue of losses and gains in
translation and the problem of equivalence being approximate. The explanation of
those phenomena follows form the every architecture of the constructional view of
language.
16 Construction Grammar as a Framework for Describing Translation 221
16.4 Gains, Losses and Priorities in Translation: An Example
To illustrate the last point made above, this section will show how the mechanism
of losses and gains in translation can be captured in a constructional framework.
The construction chosen for the purpose of this exemplification is one of the
English periphrastic causative constructions, the pattern make sb do sth. The
suggestions made below are based on the examination of a number of examples
of its translation into Polish in novels and film subtitles, aimed at demonstrating the
constructional grounding of the mechanism which is at work in translation, rather
than at arriving at any closed repertoire of translational options.
In constructional terms the pattern can be characterised as follows: like other
causative and resultative constructions (Goldberg and Jackendoff 2004: 538–539),
the one in question can be assumed to combine two subevents – the causative one
identified by make and the resultant one, identified by the other verb. As to the
participants of the event, the construction involves a Causer and a Causee (Gilquin
2006: 2). Other possible participant(s) will depend on the verb in the second
subevent. The subevents are linked through the assumption that the Causee exerts
some influence on the Causer, which indirectly brings about the second subevent
(Wierzbicka 1988: 240–242, 244–245; Gilquin 2006: 9), but the nature of this
influence is not specified. A corpus-based analysis suggests that the register speci-
fication should be “neutral/informal” (Gilquin 2006: 7). Those properties can be
represented as in (2):
2.
Prag Register Neutral/informal
Sem [Causer CAUSE [Causee resultant subevent]]
Syn NP Subj make NP Obj V-bare infinitve
Polish does not have a construction corresponding to the English one with
respect to all the properties and this is reflected in translations, in which various
constructions are combined to produce constructs matching the original in some
respects. When the indirect causation is rendered without specifying the manner of
the causative influence, as in translations through the verb sprawic
´ z
˙e/z
˙eby/aby
‘cause that’ or spowodowac
´ z
˙e/z
˙eby/aby ‘cause that’ (both require a finite clause to
follow) the register is clearly higher, as in (3a). This is a kind of “gain” not
necessarily welcome in every context. On the other hand, translations which keep
the register introduce other little changes; for example, they “erase” the causative
subevent, loosing the element of causality, as in (3b), which may change the
presentation of the situation and of the participants’ involvement in it, or they
apply one of a range of “coercive” verbs (kazac
´ ‘order’, skłonic
´ ‘persuade’,
namówic
´ ‘talk into’, zmusic
´ ‘force’, etc.), which specify the nature of the causative
influence, unlike the original (e.g. (3c)).
222 I. Szymańska
3. (a) “And have you worked out how to use it?” he said to her. “No. Least, I can
make the three short hands point to different pictures, but I can’t do anything
with the long one”. (Pullman 2003:111)
– Czy dowiedziałaś sie
˛ już, jak go używać? – spytał Lyre
˛.
– Nie. Potrafie
˛ sprawić, aby trzy krótkie wskazówki pokazały obrazki, jednak
nie umiem poruszyć tej długiej. (Pullman 2004:143)
[back translation: And have you got to know how to use it? No. I can cause
that the three short hands point to pictures, but I cannot move the long one.]
(b) We had to make it [the situation] look like a casual social encounter, talk
lightly about matters of life and death. (Lodge 2002: 304)
Musieliśmy udawać zwykłych znajomych, rozmawiać lekko o sprawach
życia i śmierci. (Lodge 2001: 304)
[back translation: We had to pose as casual acquaintances, to talk lightly
about matters of life and death.]
(c) Why make people go through hell before you help them out of it? (Lodge
2002: 283)
Dlaczego zmuszamy ludzi, żeby przechodzili przez piekło? (Lodge
2001: 283)
[back translation: Why do we force people to go through hell?]
Leaving aside the evaluation of the influence of such micro-changes on the
translated text and concentrating on the descriptive perspective, the constructional
view of language signs as clusters of properties from various domains, including the
pragmatic one, highlights the approximate nature of equivalence and helps trace the
translators’ priorities (e.g. the priority of register over the semantic precision in
presenting the event in (3b) and (3c)).
16.5 Conclusion
To sum up, it has been argued that Construction Grammar is highly convergent with
the needs of translation studies defined by the extending scope of this discipline
indicated in Sect. 16.1. CxG is inherently functional and usage-based, being
maximalist in the aim of describing the totality of the communicative conventions
available to the language user. It has a potential to address the issues of pragmatics,
text structure, text interpretation and the influence of culture-bound knowledge on
the use of language, which makes it capable of acknowledging the insights of the
pragmatic turn and the cultural turn in translation studies. On the other hand, it
combines this potential with a very detailed approach to the description of language
signs and to functionalizing structures, which offers an opportunity of a precise
analysis of the translator’s linguistic decisions following from the differences
16 Construction Grammar as a Framework for Describing Translation 223
between the two systems involved in the process of translating. Finally, being non-
modular and including discourse and pragmatic properties in the description of
constructions, it highlights the fact that the micro-level of linguistic decisions and
the macro-level of text are inherently connected.
References
Anderman, G. 2007. Linguistics and translation. In The companion to translation studies, eds.
P. Kuhiwczak and K. Littau, 45-62. Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Croft, W. 2007. Construction grammar. In The Oxford handbook of cognitive linguistics, eds.
D. Geeraerts and H. Cuyckens, 463-508. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Fillmore, C. J. 1968. The case for case. In Universals in linguistic theory, ed. E. Bach and R. T.
Harms, 1-88. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.
Fillmore, C. J. 1977. Scenes-and-frames semantics. In Linguistic structures processing,
ed. A. Zampolli, 55-81. Amsterdam: North Holland.
Fillmore, C. J. 1985. Frames and the semantics of understanding. Quaderni di semantica 6: 222-254.
Fillmore, C. J. 1987. A private history of the concept ‘frame’. In Concepts of case, eds. R. Dirven
and G. Radden, 28-36. T€
ubingen: Gunter Narr Verlag.
Fillmore, C. J. 1988. The mechanisms of Construction Grammar. Proceedings of the Annual
Meetings of Berkeley Linguistics Society 14: 35-55.
Fillmore, C. J., P. Kay and M. C. O’Connor. 1988. Regularity and idiomaticity in grammatical
constructions: The case of let alone. Language 64: 501-538.
Fried, M. and J.-O. Östman. 2004. Construction Grammar: A thumbnail sketch. In Construction
Grammar in a cross-language perspective, eds. M. Fried and J.-O. Östman, 11-86. Amsterdam/
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Gawron, J. M. 2008. Frame semantics. http://www.hf.uib.no/forskerskole/new_frames_intro.pdf.
Accessed 14 April 2009.
Gilquin, G. 2006. The verb slot in causative constructions. Finding the best fit. Constructions SV1-
9/2006. http://www.constructions-online.de. Accessed 10 June 2009.
Goldberg, A. E. 1995. Constructions. A Construction Grammar approach to argument structure.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Goldberg, A. E. 2003. Constructions: A new theoretical approach to language. Trends in cognitive
sciences 7: 219-224.
Goldberg, A. E. 2006. Constructions at work. The nature of generalizations in language. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Goldberg, A. E and R. Jackendoff. 2004. The English resultative as a family of constructions.
Language 80: 532-568.
Holmes, J. S. 2006 [1978]. Describing literary translations: Methods and models. In Translation –
theory and practice. A historical reader, eds. D. Weissbort and A. Eysteinsson, 416-422.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Lefevere, A. and S. Bassnett. 1990. Proust’s grandmother and the Thousand and One Nights. The
‘cultural turn’ in translation studies. In Translation, history and culture, eds. S. Bassnett and
A. Lefevere, 1-13. London: Pinter Publishers.
Lodge, D. 2001. Mys
´la
˛c. . . Translated by Z. Naczyńska. Poznań: Rebis.
Lodge, D. [2001] 2002. Thinks. . . New York: Penguin Books.
Östman, J.-O. 2005. Construction discourse. A prolegomenon. In Construction grammars. Cogni-
tive grounding and theoretical extensions, eds. J.-O. Östman and M. Fried, 121-144.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
224 I. Szymańska
Östman, J.-O. and M. Fried. 2004. Historical and intellectual background of Construction Gram-
mar. In Construction Grammar in a cross-language perspective, eds. M. Fried and J.-O.
Östman, 1-10. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Pullman, P. 2003. The golden compass [first published 1995 as Northern lights]. New York:
Random House.
Pullman, P. 2004. Zorza północna. Translated by E. Wojtczak. Warszawa: Albatros.
Rojo López, A. M. 2002. Applying Frame Semantics to translation: A practical example. Meta
XLVII: 311-350.
Snell-Hornby, M. 1990. Linguistic transcoding or cultural transfer? A critique of translation theory
in Germany. In Translation, history and culture, eds. S. Bassnett and A. Lefevere, 79-86.
London: Pinter Publishers.
Snell-Hornby, M. 2005. Of catfish and blue bananas: scenes-and frames semantics as a contrastive
knowledge system for translation. In Knowledge systems and translation, eds. H. V. Dam,
J. Engberg and H. Gerzymisch-Arbogast, 193-206. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Snell-Hornby, M. 2006. The turns of translation studies. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Szymańska, I. 2011. Mosaics. A Construction-Grammar-based approach to translation.
Warszawa: Semper.
Tabakowska, E. 1997. O tłumaczeniu wiersza – perspektywa je
˛zykoznawcy. In Mie
˛dzy
oryginałem a przekładem III, ed. M. Filipowicz-Rudek, J. Konieczna-Twardzikowa and
M. Stoch, 29-43. Kraków: Universitas.
Tomasello, M. 2006. Construction Grammar for kids. Constructions SV1-11/2006. http://www.
constructions-online.de. Accessed 20 March 2010.
Wierzbicka, A. 1988. The semantics of grammar. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
16 Construction Grammar as a Framework for Describing Translation 225
.
Chapter 17
Crossing the Frontiers of Linguistic
Typology: Lexical Differences and Translation
Patterns in English and Russian Lolita
by Vladimir Nabokov
Łukasz Grabowski
Abstract This article presents the results of the corpus-driven comparison between
the English-original (1955) and Russian auto-translation (1967) of the novel Lolita
by Vladimir Nabokov. The aim of the study, which was facilitated by the computer
program WordSmith Tools 4.0, was to answer the question whether the differences
attested between the English and Russian parallel texts arise from translation
strategies [Nabokov was an ardent advocate of literal translation as the only strategy
of truly transposing the original text (Beaujour 1995: 716; Grayson 1977: 13–15)],
or whether they are due to typological differences between the English and Russian
languages. This corpus-driven study consists of two parts. The first part aims at a
comparison of lexical wordlists (i.e. top-frequency lexical words) generated for
English and Russian Lolita. The analysis revealed, among others, that Nabokov
used synonymy as a frequent translation strategy (particularly in the case of English
reporting verbs), which indicates that repetitions are regarded as a bad style in
Russian texts. Moreover, the analysis highlighted a conspicuous typological differ-
ence between the two languages whereby Russian is more explicit semantically (i.e.
words have more specific meaning distinctions) than English, which in turn is more
ambiguous and vague in its surface forms (Comrie 1981: 31–79). The second part
aims at an examination of translation strategies used by Nabokov while translating
creative, author-specific hapax legomena, following a similar study of English and
German prose conducted by Kenny (2001). The analysis revealed that Nabokov
exhibited a strong tendency towards lexical normalization while translating creative
hapax legomena into Russian. All in all, the corpus-driven analysis revealed
that although translators are free to use multifarious translation strategies while
Ł. Grabowski (*)
Opole University, Opole, Poland
e-mail: lukasz@uni.opole.pl
M. Pawlak and J. Bielak (eds.), New Perspectives in Language,
Discourse and Translation Studies, Second Language Learning and Teaching,
DOI 10.1007/978-3-642-20083-0_17, # Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2011
227
transposing original texts, they are still at the mercy of typological differences
between the relevant languages.
17.1 Introduction
Lolita (1955) is one of the best known novels by Vladimir Nabokov, which firmly
established him as an outstanding American novelist, brought him fame, liberated
him from his teaching post at Cornell University (1959), and created both interest
and the market for English translations of his Russian works. Due to controversial,
at that time, subject matter (both a narrator and protagonist, middle-aged Humbert
Humbert, becomes obsessed and sexually involved with a 12-year-old girl, Dolores
Haze), Nabokov was unable to find a publisher of the novel in the United States, and
instead the book appeared under the imprint of Olympia Press Publishing House in
Paris in 1955 (Boyd 1993: 356–357). The novel is written in a highly artistic,
masterful and precise style which made Nabokov one of the most brilliant and
idiosyncratic stylists of English (Stiller 1991: 421).
If Lolita was ever going to be translated into Russian, Nabokov wanted to ensure
control over the outcome. When his siblings offered to divide the translation task
between them, Nabokov was initially delighted, but at the same time alertly
cautious. Their sample translations, however, left him aghast (Trzeciak 2005: 10).
In one of the interviews given in 1964, Nabokov expressed both dissatisfaction with
and concern about the future prospect of the translation, which prompted him to
commence the self-translation of Lolita himself (quoted in Osimo 1999: 230):
I trained my inner telescope upon that particular point in the distant future and I saw that
every paragraph, pockmarked as it is with pitfalls, could lend itself to hideous mistransla-
tion. In the hands of a harmful drudge, the Russian version of Lolita would be entirely
degraded and botched by vulgar paraphrases or blunders. So I decided to translate it myself.
However, as in the case of his translation into English of the novel Omчaяниe/
Despair,1
a rationale behind his self-translation of Lolita (this time in the opposite
direction, i.e. from English into Russian) was Nabokov’s displeasure at the results
of other translators’ non-conformity to his views and guidelines for successful
translation. In the postscript to Russian Lolita, Nabokov frequently envisioned
abysmal translator blundering of his novel while translating it into Russian
(Nabokov 1989: 361).
1
Beaujour (1995: 720) claims that it provides excellent examples of both the problems inherent in
strict and literal self-translation and instances of advantageous employment of “unfaithful” self-
translation. Obviously enough, his first translation into English was completed in 1936 and
constituted the first attempt to use English for artistic purposes, the experience Nabokov referred
to as disagreeable (ibid.) Having translated Lolita into Russian in 1965, Nabokov capitalized on his
years of experience and undertook his second attempt at translating Omчaяниe into English in a
freer fashion. Later on Nabokov claimed that he would have been “pleased and excited” if he had
had a chance to read his 1965 version of Despair at the end of 1930s (ibid.).
228 Ł. Grabowski
When publishing Lolita in Russian, I have a very simple aim in mind: I want my best
English book – or let’s put it modestly, one of the best of my English books, to be correctly
translated into my native language2
[translation mine, ŁG].
Another important factor was the lack of hope that Lolita will be published in the
Soviet Union in Nabokov’s lifetime (Nabokov 1989: 360; Trzeciak 2005: 10).
It is difficult even to imagine any regime in my stiff fatherland, be it liberal or totalitarian,
which would enable the censorship to launch Lolita into the market3
[translation
mine, Ł. G.].
Holding no hope for the future, the writer decided to translate the novel himself.
He started this task in winter of 1963 and in March 1965 the Russianized Lolita was
revised and completed (Boyd 1995: xlvii; Trzeciak 2005: 11). Nevertheless, his
postscript to the Russian edition of Lolita contains passages which illustrate
Nabokov’s skepticism and dissatisfaction with his self-translation, which he calls
“the story of disappointment” (Nabokov 1989: 358):
My private tragedy, which cannot, and indeed should not, be anybody’s concern, is that I
had to abandon my natural idiom, my untrammeled, rich, and infinitely docile Russian
tongue for a second-rate brand of English, devoid of any of those apparatuses — the
baffling mirror, the black velvet backdrop, the implied associations and traditions —
which the native illusionist, frac-tails flying, can magically use to transcend the heritage
in his own way.4
Even though Nabokov frequently complained about the rusty condition of his
Russian, most of the critics emphasized the role of his translation as a giant step in
the development of the Russian literary language (Grabowski 2008: 129). An
émigré critic, Vladimir Weidle, claimed that in the long term Nabokov’s translation
of Lolita will be “fertile for Russian literature and an even greater phenomenon
there than the English Lolita in English literature” (Boyd 1993: 490). Nevertheless,
there were also negative opinions about the Russianized novel. According to
Proffer (1970: 258), even Nabokov’s most ardent fans dislike the Russian transla-
tion of Lolita and the majority of Russians she had met tend to find Nabokov’s
translation clumsy and even ungrammatical. According to Grayson (1977: 193), the
style of Russian Lolita “bears such strong traces of English constructions that it can
not safely be treated as an autonomous piece of Russian”. Furthermore, Proffer
(1970: 259) quotes an opinion of an anonymous Russian linguist who read the
2
The original reads: Издaвaя “ЛoлиTу” пo-pуccки, я пpecлeдую oчeнь пpocTую цeль:
xoчу, чToбы мoя лучшaя aнглийcкaя книгa – или, cкaжeм eщe cкpoмнee, oднa из
лучшиx мoиx aнглийcкиx книг – былa пpaвильнo пepeвeдeнa нa мoй poднoй язык.
3
The original reads: Mнe Tpуднo пpeдcTaвиTь ceбe peжим, либepaльный ли или
ToTaлиTapный, в чoпopнoй мoeй oTчизнe, пpи кoTopoм цeнзуpa пpoпуcTилa бы
“ЛoлиTу”.
4
The original reads: “Увы, ToT ‘дивный pуccкий язык’, кoTopый, cдaвaлocь мнe, вce ждeT
мeня гдe-To, цвeTeT, кaк вepнaя вecнa зa нaглуxo зaпepTыми вopoTaми, oT кoTopыx
cToлькo лeT xpaнилcя у мeня ключ, oкaзaлcя нecущecTвующим, и зa вopoTaми нeT
ничeгo, кpoмe oбуглeнныx пнeй и oceннeй бeзнaдeжнoй дaли, a ключ в pукe cкopee
пoxoж нa oTмычку”.
17 Crossing the Frontiers of Linguistic Typology 229
Russianized Lolita and found it fascinating because it had been written in a kind of
dead language nobody used in the Soviet Union of the 1960s. Robert Stiller, who
produced the first full translation of the novel into Polish in 1991, represents the
opinion that the auto-translation is awkward and clumsy, riddled with vulgarity,
which is not so omnipresent in the English original (Stiller 1991: 428). Even
Nabokov himself was far from being satisfied with the quality of his auto-transla-
tion; in the postscript to Russian Lolita he opined that many fragments of his
translation are “clumsy, loquacious and frequently disgusting in terms of style
and rhythm” (Nabokov 1989: 358).5
All in all, taking into consideration the inside story of the Russianization of
Lolita, including Nabokov’s attachment to literal translation (Beaujour 1995: 716)
as well as the reception of the Russian Lolita by the critics and the author and
translator himself (Ginter 2003:15), the aim of this article is to identify major
lexical differences between the English and Russian texts of the novel (henceforth
“parallel texts”). In particular, the comparison undertaken herein attempts to deter-
mine whether the lexical differences between the parallel texts arise from transla-
tion strategies or whether they are due to typological differences between English
and Russian. Is it justifiable to claim that although translators are free to use
multifarious translation strategies while translating original texts, they are still at
the mercy of typological differences between relevant languages?
17.2 Methodology, Tools and Stages of the Analysis
In order to provide answers to the aforementioned study questions, the corpus-
driven methodology was applied. In contrast to the corpus-based approach, which
always works within commonly accepted frameworks of theories of language
(which implies prior classification of linguistic data), the parallel texts were not
adjusted to fit any predefined categories or theoretical schemata, and the study
questions were addressed through the analysis of frequency distributions of words
and recurrent patterns of language use as found in English and Russian Lolita. As a
result, the parallel texts were compared through bottom-up observation of empirical
linguistic data, which were presented in quantitative terms and, where necessary,
supplemented with qualitative observations.
Both novels, i.e. the English-original (Nabokov 2000, henceforth ENL) as well as
the Russian Lolita (Nabokov 1989, henceforth RUL), were purchased in bookstores
in paper format and they were further converted into the machine-readable format
supported by the software used throughout the study. To that aim, the parallel texts
5
The original reads: (. . .) нo cToль cвoйcTвeнныe aнглийcкoму Toнкиe нeдoгoвopeннocTи,
пoэзия мыcли, мгнoвeннaя пepeкличкa мeжду oTвлeчeннeйшими пoняTиями, poeниe
oднocлoжныx эпиTeToв – вce эTo, a Taкжe вce oTнocящeecя к Texникe, мoдaм, cпopTу,
ecTecTвeнным нaукaм и пpoTивoecTecTвeнным cTpacTям – cTaнoвиTcя пo-pуccки
Toпopным, мнoгocлoвным и чacTo oTвpaTиTeльным в cмыcлe cTиля и pиTмa”.
230 Ł. Grabowski
were manually scanned and subjected to the OCR procedure. The scanned texts were
subjected to repeated proofreading in order to ensure spelling accuracy, and they were
further verified against the paper format versions. At that stage, any cases of
misrecognition of characters were edited and corrected using a spellchecker, or a
search-and-replace facility of a word processor. Finally, the parallel texts were saved
in two files in a plain text format.
The corpus-driven analysis conducted in this study was facilitated by the use of
the computer software WordSmith Tools 4.0 developed by Scott (2004), which is a
suite of programs custom-designed for text analysis. The study was broken down
into two successive stages. First, top-frequency lexical words and their
distributions, as found in ENL and RUL, were compared. As a result, the most
conspicuous lexical differences between the two texts were identified, and selected
translation strategies used by Nabokov were determined through qualitative inter-
pretation of word frequency lists. In the second stage of the study, translation
strategies used by Nabokov while translating creative, author-specific hapax
legomena were examined. This part of the study was modelled on the study
conducted by Kenny (2001), who studied lexical normalization in the translation
from German into English of creative hapax legomena attested in a custom-
designed corpus of literary texts. Finally, the analyses conducted in stage one and
two highlighted conspicuous typological differences between the English and
Russian languages, which were presented in greater detail.
17.3 Comparison of Wordlists
According to Scott (2004), wordlists, or more specifically – word frequency lists,
can be used, among other purposes, to study type, range and distribution of
vocabulary used in a text, identify the most common word clusters, compare
frequencies of cognate words or translation equivalents across source and target
language texts. The Wordlist facility of WordSmith Tools 4.0 generated the
wordlists for ENL and RUL. Table 17.1 shows 25 top-frequency word types
presented in decreasing frequency order together with the cumulative percentage of
total word count (%W) in each of the texts.
Apart from only a few translation equivalents obtained in the wordlists, such as
conjunctions and – и (the most frequently used co-ordinating conjunction), the
personal pronoun I – я (sign of the 1st person narration), etc., there are no translation
equivalents for the majority of top frequency words, which shows that we are
comparing very different language systems. Where the English language employs
prepositions or articles (which are separate running words in a text), Russian
employs endings, prefixes and suffixes (which are bound with other words). It
explains why the top English words are much more frequent than the top Russian
words – if one adds the percentage of the total word count for 25 top-frequency
words, it occurs that in ENL they account for 35.07% of the overall number of
running words, whereas in RUL – 23.32%. Having determined that, I aimed to find
17 Crossing the Frontiers of Linguistic Typology 231
a word rank at which the total word count reaches 50% in ENL and RUL. It was
revealed that in the case of top-frequency words the lexical variety (in terms of the
number of repetitions of the most frequent words) attested in both ENL and RUL
differs more than considerably – word ranks at which the word count reaches 50%
are 105 and 593 in ENL and RUL, respectively. These results are presented in
Table 17.2 below.
Table 17.2 shows that in ENL 105 word types account for 50% of the total word
count, whereas in the case of RUL – 593 word types. As a result, there are 488 more
word types in RUL which account for 50% of the total word count. This text-specific
data can be further generalized as the difference between distribution of the top-
frequency words in English and Russian texts. English texts have more repetitions
and lower lexical variety in terms of top-frequency words, whereas their Russian
translations (and Russian texts in general) have fewer repetitions and higher lexical
variety among top frequency words. As a result, raw frequencies of top-frequency
words are considerably higher in ENL than in RUL (the word type ranked 105th
(never) in ENL has the frequency of 114, whereas the word type ranked 105th in RUL
Table 17.1 Wordlist with 25 top-frequency word types in ENL and RUL
ENL RUL
Rank Word Frequency %W Rank Word Frequency %W
1 THE 5,165 4.59 1 И 3,394 3.30
2 AND 3,712 7.89 2 B 3,174 6.39
3 A 3,579 11.07 3 Я 2,217 8.55
4 OF 3,179 13.90 4 HA 1,476 9.98
5 I 2,983 16.55 5 ЧTO 1,397 11.34
6 TO 2,446 18.73 6 HE 1,377 12.68
7 IN 2,105 20.60 7 C 1,343 13.99
8 HER 1,613 22.03 8 КAК 915 14.88
9 WAS 1,486 23.36 9 OHA 876 15.73
10 MY 1,419 24.62 10 EE 766 16.48
11 WITH 1,223 25.71 11 MEHЯ 606 17.07
12 HAD 1,197 26.77 12 MHE 603 17.65
13 THAT 1,178 27.82 13 К 545 18.18
14 SHE 1,078 28.78 14 HO 517 18.69
15 ME 809 29.50 15 TO 512 19.19
16 ON 779 30.19 16 ПO 486 19.66
17 IT 738 30.84 17 ИЗ 481 20.13
18 AS 721 31.49 18 У 456 20.57
19 AT 700 32.11 19 БЫ 454 21.01
20 FOR 657 32.69 20 OH 433 21.43
21 NOT 654 33.27 21 BCE 421 21.84
22 YOU 566 33.78 22 ЭTO 394 22.23
23 BUT 536 34.25 23 ЗA 390 22.61
24 HE 462 34.66 24 A 377 22.97
25 WOULD 459 35.07 25 EГO 360 23.32
232 Ł. Grabowski
(oпяmь ‘again’) has the frequency of 85, and the word type ranked 593rd (мoгуm
‘(they) can’) has the frequency of 15).
However, a major problem with information extracted from frequency lists is the
fact that raw frequencies highlight very common grammatical words, such as the, a,
and, of revealed above, and their occurrence is unlikely to provide evidence of any
specifically used vocabulary across source and target language texts. To remedy
this inconvenience, all grammatical words were deleted from the top-frequency
items, and the most common content (lexical) words used in ENL and RUL,
respectively, were isolated. Such a filtered-out frequency list with 25 top-frequency
content words is presented in Table 17.3.
Apart from certain regularities which result from typological differences between
the two language systems, Table 17.3 also reveals some characteristic features of the
translation. As regards the differences between the language systems, high fre-
quency of the verb forms was and have in ENL results from their functioning not
only as inflectional forms of the verbs to be and to have, but also from functioning as
auxiliary verbs used in multiple grammatical tenses (which explains their higher
frequency as compared with the aggregated frequency of the equivalent verb forms
былo, был and былa (was/were) in Russian). Another observation refers to the high
rank and frequency of the reporting verb said, with 344 occurrences in ENL, which
is more than the aggregate frequency of the corresponding Russian reporting
verbs cкaзaл (masc.) and cкaзaлa (fem.), with 211 occurrences of both. This
observation shows that repetitions in Russian texts are regarded as bad style, and
therefore Nabokov used either synonymous reporting verbs while translating the
English reporting verb said into Russian6
(e.g. пoдcкaзaлa, paccкaзaлa,
выcкaзaл, зaгoвopилa, гoвopилa, пpoизнec/лa, пpoгoвopил/a, зaявилa,
гoвopил, пoгoвopил) or employed more specific and concrete verbs, such as
Table 17.2 Proportion of top-frequency words in the total word count in ENL and RUL
ENL RUL
Rank %W (cumulative) Rank %W (cumulative)
1 4.593316 1 3.3032
10 24.62249 10 16.48191
20 32.69747 20 21.43865
30 36.97419 30 25.00268
40 40.03877 40 27.48543
50 42.43993 50 29.35114
60 44.36174 60 30.84507
70 45.95539 70 32.09764
80 47.26624 80 33.19351
90 48.4686 90 34.16578
100 49.54556 100 35.04949
105 50.05869 593 50.01022
6
The data presented below come from the analysis of parallel concordances, i.e. fragments of
English Lolita aligned with the corresponding fragments of Russian Lolita.
17 Crossing the Frontiers of Linguistic Typology 233
выpaзилcя ‘expressed/voiced’, omвemил ‘answered/replied’, oбъяcнил/a
‘explained’, oбeщaлa ‘promised’, кpичaл ‘screamed’, пoдxвamилa ‘picked up’,
oбъявилa ‘announced’, oбpamилacь [кo мнe] ‘turned [to me]’, глacилa7
‘read’,
пpocилa ‘asked’, пpoцeдил ‘muttered/mumbled’, вocкликнулa ‘shouted’,
шeпчem ‘whisper’. Alternatively, he resorted to structural changes, omissions or
condensing, which is revealed in the passages presented in Table 17.4.
Using synonyms or employing various syntactic, semantic or pragmatic
strategies when translating reporting verbs shows that the neutral reporting verb
said is rendered with more emotionally charged synonyms or equivalent expressions
with slightly different meanings (e.g. screamed, shouted, explained, answered,
asked, announced, etc.). As a result, the English verb said is not semantically
determined and it is only context which allows for the specification of its exact
meaning. This observation refers to one of the specific problems of translation
Table 17.3 25 top-frequency content (lexical) words in ENL and RUL
ENL RUL
Rank Word Frequency Rank Word Frequency
9 WAS 1,486 31 БЫЛO 322
30 HAVE 388 32 БЫЛ 308
37 SAID 344 38 TOЛЬКO 222
39 WERE 305 41 БЫЛA 214
42 LITTLE 287 43 ЛOЛИTA 202
51 LO 236 58 БЫЛИ 143
61 OLD 197 62 MOЖET 137
62 LOLITA 193 64 MOГ 132
63 TWO 192 74 CКAЗAЛ 115
81 KNOW 139 87 BPEMЯ 98
84 HAZE 137 88 CКAЗAЛA 96
87 WAY 135 95 ДOЛЛИ 91
89 CHILD 132 101 ДBA 87
93 ROOM 121 102 ЛET 86
95 GIRL 120 103 ГУMБEPT 85
100 AM 117 106 ГEЙЗ 82
101 CAR 117 108 COBEPШEHHO 79
102 GOOD 116 111 ДEHЬ 77
103 HUMBERT 115 117 ЛO 74
108 EYES 109 122 ДOBOЛЬHO 70
113 HAND 104 127 ECTЬ 67
114 MADE 104 131 ДOЛOPEC 64
115 DAY 103 134 OДИH 63
116 FIRST 103 139 BPEMEHИ 60
120 LET 98 141 ЛOЛИTЫ 60
7
Picture of the Week, said the legend. ! Haдпиcь глacилa: ЗaмeчaTeльнeйшaя зa Heдeлю
ФoToгpaфия.
234 Ł. Grabowski
between English and other Slavic languages, i.e. the fact that Russian (and other
Slavic languages) is more explicit semantically (i.e. the words have more specific
meaning distinctions) than English, which in turn is more ambiguous and vague in
its surface forms (Comrie 1981: 31–79). Hence, the English language is more
dependant on pragmatic and contextual information in specifying the exact inter-
pretation of its linguistic forms (e.g. the past tense verb said), which are broad in
meaning. According to Piotrowski (1994: 95–96), users of English tend to choose
lexemes which are broad in meaning rather than specific (even though English has
both broad and specific word types), whereas users of Russian (and probably other
Slavic languages) tend to choose specific lexemes, and therefore they regard texts
with multiple repetitions as plain, simple, or even as having bad style. The side-
effect of that is that a proper translation of English reporting verbs (or broad English
word types in general) requires that more lexical (content) words be used in order to
produce a natural and acceptable text or translation into Russian.
Apart from the general observations adduced above, the 25 top-frequency
content words also provide evidence of certain stylistic choices made by Nabokov
while translating English Lolita into Russian. The frequencies of abbreviated names
Lo and Лo (236 vs. 74 occurrences in ENL and RUL, respectively) show that
instead of Lo Nabokov employed different means of addressing the eponymous
protagonist, such as the full name Лoлиma (Lolita), personal pronoun oнa (she), or
diminutive form Лoлиmoчкa (little Lolita).
The Russian equivalent of the English noun girl, referring to Lolita, is also not
represented among the top-frequency content words in RUL. The analysis of its
translation equivalents shows that Nabokov used different semantic and pragmatic
strategies while translating it into Russian [occasionally he used direct loans when
Table 17.4 Examples of translation of the reporting verb said from English (in ENL) into Russian
(in RUL)
ENL RUL
“Sure,” she said. “Кoнeчнo, пoпpoбуйTe”. [OMISSION]
Now, at twelve, she was a regular pest, said
Haze.
Hынe, в двeнaдцaTь лeT, эTo пpямo бич
Бoжий, пo cлoвaм Гeйзиxи.
[STRUCTURAL CHANGE – according to
Haze/in accordance with Haze’s words]
She had a message for me, she said; and,
topping my automatic thanks with a kindly
“you’re welcome,” good Louise left an
unstamped, curiously clean-looking letter in
my shaking hand.
У нee былo, пo ee cлoвaм, пopучeниe кo
мнe, и увeнчaв мoe aвToмaTичecкoe
“cпacибo” paдушным “нe зa чTo”,
дoбpaя Луизa ocTaвилa cTpaннo-чиcToe,
бeз мapки и бeз пoмapки, пиcьмo в
мoeй Tpяcущeйcя pукe. [STRUCTURAL
CHANGE – according to her]
The muse of invention handed me a rifle and I
shot a white bear who sat down and said:
Ah!
Mузa вымыcлa пpoTянулa мнe винToвку, и
я выcTpeлил в бeлoгo мeдвeдя,
кoTopый ceл и oxнул. [CONDENSING
said: Ah! into one verb, which literally
means to ah]
17 Crossing the Frontiers of Linguistic Typology 235
referring to culture-specific American concepts, e.g. college girl (кoллeджгэpл),
scout girl (гэpл-cкaуm)]. His choices include, among others, дeвoчкa, дeвушкa
(synonyms) ‘girl’, пoдpугa ‘girlfriend’, шкoльницa ‘pupil’, гимнaзиcmкa ‘high
school student’, дeвчуpкa diminutive of ‘girl’, aмepикaнoчкa ‘American girl’,
пoдpocmoк, пoдpужкa diminutive of ‘girlfriend’, дeвчoнoчкa diminutive of
‘girl’, etc.
An interesting finding, however, is the fact that compound nouns which include
the noun girl, such as girl friend, English girl, American girl, girl children, girl
child, school girl are rendered in RUL with single nouns, such as пoдpугa,
aнгличaнкa, aмepикaнoчкa, дeвoчки, гимнaзиcmкa and шкoльницa. It shows
that the meaning of English compound nouns is conflated into single Russian nouns.
Finally, an interesting example of the pragmatic strategy of explicitation is
revealed in the translation of the compound noun career girls, occurring in ENL
twice, which is rendered in RUL with the coordinative compound ceкpemapши и
кoнmopщицы (literally: “secretaries/PAs and office ladies”), and the noun phrase
кoнmopcкaя дeвицa (literally “an office lady”), which are both more explicit in
meaning (as those ladies make their careers in the corporate office world).
17.4 Translation of Creative Hapax Legomena
The comparison of wordlists presented above focuses on top-frequency words, as
found in ENL and RUL. However, creative and author-specific words tend to occur
in a text with low frequency. As a result, wordlists featuring top-frequency words
are not suitable to capture creative or author-specific terms, which can be found
among bottom-frequency words. Thus, in order to compare lexical variety among
bottom-frequency words, I focused on words which occur in a text only once, which
are referred to as hapax legomena. The analysis of the frequency lists generated for
ENL and RUL, respectively, shows that the former text contains 6,984 hapax
legomena (they account for 49.91% of the overall vocabulary and 6.22% of the
overall number of running words in ENL), whereas the latter text contains 20,368
hapax legomena, which account for 68.69% of the overall vocabulary and 19.86%
of the overall number of running words in RUL).8
Due to the lack of lemmatization
of the Russian wordlist, it is impossible to determine whether this discrepancy
results from multiple inflectional forms of the same lemmas treated as separate
word types (and hence also as hapax legomena), or whether it is due to more
creative (i.e. non-normalized) translation of English expressions into Russian. The
latter observation applies also to hapax legomena as it is possible to either translate
them creatively (a hapax legomenon in a source text is rendered with a hapax
8
This difference is due to the fact that each inflectional form of a particular word type (e.g.
genitive, accusative or locative case of the verb, in either singular or plural, feminine or masculine)
is treated as a single occurrence of a type, which accounts for a typical problem of operating with
non-lemmatized types and tokens in highly inflectional languages such as Russian.
236 Ł. Grabowski
legomenon in a target text), or to normalize them (a hapax legomenon in a
source text is rendered with typical or conventional expressions in a target text
in an attempt to solve problems posed by translation of author-specific or
unusual source-text features).
Kenny (2001), who conducted a study of lexical normalization in the translation
from German into English of creative linguistic expressions9
attested in the custom-
designed corpus of literary language, revealed that normalization occurs in 44% of
cases where translators have to deal with creative hapax legomena in source texts
(ibid., 187). Hence, there is a choice between creativity and normalization, and
adherence to one or the other may further influence the differences between the
numbers of hapax legomena as found in source and target texts.
Therefore, this case study aimed to determine whether selected creative hapax
legomena attested in the English original version of Lolita were rendered with
either creative target language forms, or conventionalized (normalized) ones. Next,
it was determined whether the translated expressions account for hapax legomena
in RUL or not. In other words, it was eventually aimed to determine what
tendencies were exhibited and what translation strategies Nabokov had employed
when translating creative, author-specific hapax legomena into Russian.
As the English-original version of Lolita has 6,984 hapaxes,10
a statistically
significant number of hapaxes is 3,575, which was determined by applying the chi-
square formula proposed by Berber-Sardinha (1996: 1–6). As an analysis of such a
number of hapaxes falls beyond the scope of this study, 15 creative hapax legomena
were selected, which account for 0.21%11
of the total number of hapax legomena in
ENL. By creative hapax legomena I understand the word types which occurred in
the text only once, constitute author-specific expressions, are not found in the
reference dictionary of English (Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English,
2003). These are the following: instantenousness, fountainous, crenullated, cob-
webby, beasthood, charshaf, alembics, antiphony, axillary, barroomette, bare-
limbed, biscuity, cesspoolful, semitranslucent and libidream.
The analysis of the patterns of translation revealed that 7 out of 15 creative hapax
legomena in ENL preserved their unique status in RUL, i.e. they occurred in RUL
only once, and these were translated either literally (e.g. libidream – либидocoн,
antiphony – aнmифoния, biscuity – биcквиmный), or were rendered with the
corresponding Russian synonyms (e.g. instantenousness – мгнoвeннocmь,
barroomette – бapчик, crenullated – зубчamый, fountainous – вoдoмemный).
Further, it was determined how many of the said 7 hapaxes both constitute author-
specific expressions and are not recorded in Great Reference Dictionary of Rus-
sian12
(Ozhegov and Shvedova 2000). It was revealed that only 2 hapax legomena
9
Kenny (2001) used selected hapax legomena deemed as creative expressions, which constituted
0.2% of the total number of hapax legomena in a source text.
10
Such a plural form (hapaxes) of “hapax legomena” was used, among others, by Kenny (2001).
11
This figure approximates the one proposed by Kenny (2001), which was 0.2%.
12
Oжeгoв, C., Швeдoвa H. (2000). Toлкoвый Cлoвapь pуccкoгo языкa. 4-e издaниe,
дoпoлнeннoe. Mocквa.
17 Crossing the Frontiers of Linguistic Typology 237
are not recorded in the said dictionary [those are вoдoмemный (equivalent of
fountainous) and либидocoн (equivalent of libidream)]. As a result, only 2 Russian
translations (13%) of the 15 creative hapax legomena in ENL constitute creative
hapax legomena in RUL.
Furthermore, 8 out of 15 creative hapax legomena in English did not preserve
their unique status of hapax legomena in RUL. Five of them were translated with
descriptive expressions, which implies the translation strategy of explicitation (e.g.
cobwebby – пaуmинoй зapocшee; beasthood – cнacmь camиpa; alembics –
вoлxoвcкиe иcчиcлeниe; axillary – пoд мышкoй; cesspoolful – цeлoй
выгpeбнoй ямoй, пoлнoй). The remaining three hapax legomena in ENL were
rendered with non-creative synonyms, which were used in RUL more than once,
e.g. charshaf – вуaль, semitranslucent – кpужeвнoй, barelimbed – гoлoнoгий.
Summing up, the results presented above show that Nabokov exhibited a strong
tendency towards normalization while translating creative hapax legomena into
Russian. On the other hand, the preference for explicitation (and thus for more
words) when translating 5 creative hapax legomena into Russian again provides
evidence of the fact that the English language is more ambiguous and vague in its
surface forms (Comrie 1981: 31–79), which are broad in meaning, whereas Russian
is more explicit semantically. It again follows that more words are required in
Russian to render apt and faithful translation of broad-meaning English words.
17.5 Conclusions
The aim of this corpus-driven comparison of English and Russian Lolita by
Vladimir Nabokov was to identify major lexical differences obtaining between
the two parallel texts. To that end, the study focused on a quantitative comparison
of the wordlists generated for both texts as well as on a qualitative examination of
the translation strategies used by Nabokov while translating creative hapax
legomena from English into Russian. At the same time, the study revealed major
typological differences between English and Russian, which exerted a profound
influence on the characteristics of the Russian translation.
The analysis of word frequency lists revealed that top-frequency words in ENL
account for a higher percentage of the overall number of running words in the said
text, as compared with RUL. As a result, ENL has more repetitions and lower
lexical variety in terms of top-frequency words, while RUL (and Russian texts in
general) has fewer repetitions and higher lexical variety among top-frequency
words. This phenomenon results not from the subjective influence of the
translator’s activity, but it is due to the typological differences between Russian
and English morphology – where English employs articles, prepositions or
particles, Russian employs inflectional endings or affixes, which are bound with
the base forms of lexical words and thus constitute individual word types featured
in the frequency list in lower positions.
238 Ł. Grabowski
The analysis of the lexical wordlists (with top-frequency grammatical words
deleted) revealed more lexical and stylistic features of the translation. While
translating reporting verbs, Nabokov used either synonymous reporting verbs,
employed more specific and concrete verbs, or resorted to structural changes,
omissions or condensing. Using more concrete synonyms indicates that these
English reporting verbs are not semantically determined and it is only context
which allows for the specification of their exact meaning. This phenomenon is
due to another typological difference whereby the Russian language is more
explicit semantically (i.e. words have more specific meaning distinctions) than
English, which in turn is more ambiguous and vague in its surface forms (Comrie
1981: 31–79). As a result, a proper translation of English reporting verbs (or broad
English lexemes in general) requires that more lexical (content) words be used in
order to produce a natural and acceptable text in Russian.
The analysis of translation of English creative hapax legomena into Russian
revealed that Nabokov exhibited a strong tendency towards lexical normalization.
More specifically, only 2 Russian translations of 15 creative hapax legomena in
ENL constitute creative hapax legomena in RUL. Furthermore, the study revealed
the preference for explicitation (and thus using more words) when translating
creative hapax legomena into Russian, which again proves that the English language
is more ambiguous and vague in its surface forms (which are broad in meaning and
undetermined without context), while Russian is more explicit semantically.
All in all, the study revealed that lexical differences between English and
Russian Lolita result form both objective (typological differences between the
language systems) and subjective factors (translation strategies). As a result,
although translators are free to use multifarious lexical, syntactic or pragmatic
translation strategies, they are still to a large extent dependant on the typological
characteristics of source and target languages.
References
Beaujour, E. 1995. Translation and self-translation. In The Garland companion to Vladimir
Nabokov, ed. V. Alexandrov, 714–724. New York: Garland Publishing Inc.
Berber-Sardinha, T. 1996. Applications of WordSmith KeyWords. Liverpool Working Papers in
Applied Linguistics (LWPAL) 2: 1–9.
Boyd, B. 1993. Vladimir Nabokov. The American years. Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Boyd, B. 1995. Chronology of Nabokov’s life and works. In The Garland companion to Vladimir
Nabokov, ed. V. Alexandrov, 37–43. New York: Garland Publishing Inc.
Comrie, B. 1981. Language universals and linguistic typology: Syntax and morphology. Oxford:
Basil Blackwell.
Ginter, A. 2003. S
´wiat za słowami Vladimira Nabokova. Zabawy słowne i ich przekład. Łódź:
Wydawnictwo Uniwersytetu Łódzkiego.
Grabowski, Ł. 2008. Nabokov’s theory of translation and its influence on the Russianization of
‘Lolita’. Studia i szkice slawistyczne IX: 123–132.
Grayson, J. 1977. Nabokov translated: A comparison of Nabokov’s Russian and English prose.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
17 Crossing the Frontiers of Linguistic Typology 239
Kenny, D. 2001. Lexis and creativity in translation. A corpus-based study. Manchester: St. Jerome
Publishing.
Nabokov, V. 1955. Lolita. Paris: Olympia Press.
Nabokov, V. 1989. Lolita: A novel. Moscow: Izvestia [Haбoкoв, B. B. 1989. Лoлиma.Poмaн.
Mocквa: Извecmия].
Nabokov, V. 2000. Lolita. London: Penguin Books.
Osimo, B. 1999. Nabokov’s self-translations: Interpretations, problems and solutions in Lolita’s
Russian version. Sign System Studies 27: 213-233.
Ozhegov, S. and Shvedova, N. 2000. Great reference dictionary of Russian. Moscow: Nauka
[Oжeгoв, C., Швeдoвa H. 2000. Toлкoвый Cлoвapь pуccкoгo языкa. 4-e издaниe,
дoпoлнeннoe. Mocквa: Haукa].
Piotrowski, T. 1994. Problems in bilingual lexicography. Wrocław: Wydawnictwo Uniwersytetu
Wrocławskiego.
Proffer, E. 1970. Nabokov’s Russian readers. In Nabokov: Criticism, reminiscences, translations
and tributes, ed. A. Appel and Ch. Newman, 266-283. New York: Clarion.
Scott, M. 2004. Wordsmith Tools, version 4. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Stiller, R. 1991. Lolita jako gra i paradoks. In Lolita: powies
´c
´, V. Nabokov, 419-439. Warszawa:
Państwowy Instytut Wydawniczy.
Trzeciak, J. 2005. Nabokov as self-translating author. Unpublished PhD dissertation, University
of Chicago.
240 Ł. Grabowski
