Editors’ introduction
(22) ∗
Come ti domandi [chi ha risolto il problema ]?
How do you wonder who solved the problem?
The constraint violated in (21) and (22) is, according to Huang’s orig-
inal approach, the Empty Category Principle (ECP), a principle giving
rise to stronger and cross-linguistically invariant violations than Sub-
jacency: in a nutshell, the Wh adverb cannot be connected to the em-
beddedclauseacrossanotherWhelement;see,amongmanyotherref-
erences, Lasnik and Saito (1992), Rizzi (1990, 2000, 2001a,b), Cinque
(1990),Starke(2001)onthedifferentbehaviorofargumentandadjunct
extraction in this environment, and the discussion of locality below.
In parallel with (21) and (22), an interrogative adverb within an
indirect question cannot be interpreted as a main question element in
Chinese-type languages, Huang showed. The parallel is immediately
shown by French: starting from a structure like (23a), a main interrog-
ative bearing on the embedded adverb is excluded, whether the adverb
is moved or not (NB these judgments hold with normal stress contour;
if the interrogative element in situ is heavily stressed the acceptability
improves: see Starke (2001) for a discussion of the relevance of the
stress contour in these cases):
(23) a. Tu te demandes qui a résolu le problème de cette manière
You wonder who solved the problem in this way
b. ∗
Comment te demandes-tu qui a résolu le problème ?
How do you wonder who solved the problem?
c. ∗
Tu te demandes qui a résolu le problème comment?
You wonder who solved the problem how?
This is immediately explained if speakers of Chinese, colloquial
French, etc. assign Logical Forms like (20) to in situ interrogatives
through covert movement of the interrogative phrase. The same
locality principles apply that are operative in cases like (21) and (22),
19
On nature and language
barring overt and “mental” movement on a par. So, it appears that, in
abstract mental representations, questions are represented uniformly,
in a format akin to (20); what varies is whether movement to the front
has audible consequences, as in English, or is covert as in Chinese,
etc., a difference expressible through a straightforward parametriza-
tion (e.g. in the feature system of Chomsky (1995a)). A single locality
principle applying on uniform Logical Forms accounts for the ill-
formedness of overt extraction in the English and Italian structures
and for the absence of main clause interpretation in the Chinese
structure,withFrenchinstantiatingbothcases.Analogousarguments
for covert Wh movement can be based on the uniform behavior of
moved and in situ interrogative elements with respect to the possibility
of binding a pronoun (Weak Crossover Effects), an extension of the
classical argument for covert movement in Chomsky (1977: ch. 1).
(See also Pollock and Poletto (2001), who reinterpret certain apparent
in situ cases as involving leftward movement of the Wh element,
followed by “remnant movement” of the rest of the clause to an even
higher position, in terms of Kayne’s (1994) approach; and Watanabe
(1992), Reinhart (1995), Fox and Nissenbaum (1999) for alternative
approaches to covert movement.)
The syntax of questions already looks rather uniform on a su-
perficialanalysis,butotheraspectsofsyntaxseemtovaryconsiderably
across languages at first glance. What the work of recent years consis-
tently shows is that, as soon as the domain is studied in detail and with
appropriate theoretical tools, much of the variability dissolves and we
are left with a residue of few elementary parameters.
5.2 Adverbs and functional heads
One aspect with respect to which natural languages seem to vary a lot
has to do with the position of adverbials. For instance, certain low
20
Editors’ introduction
adverbs typically intervene between the verb and the direct object in
French and other Romance languages, while they appear between the
subject and the inflected verb in English:
(24) Jean voit souvent Marie
Jean sees often Marie
(25) John often sees Mary
An elegant and far-reaching approach to this problem was inspired
again by an intuition of uniformity. Perhaps the adverb occupies the
same position in both languages, as is strongly suggested by the fact
that it occurs in a cross-linguistically fixed order with respect to other
adverbs:itmustbeprecededbynegativeadverbslikenot,mustprecede
adverbs like completely, etc. What can vary is the position of the verb in
a constant structural configuration: if the sentence contains a T(ense)
specification in between the subject and the predicate VP, in languages
like French the verb moves to T across the adverb (giving rise to a
representation like (26b) derived from underlying structure (26a)),
while in English it remains in its base position (Emonds 1978, Pollock
1989)orundergoesonlyminimalmovementtoalowerfunctionalhead
(Johnson 1991):
(26) a. Jean T [souvent voit Marie]
b. Jean voit+T [souvent Marie]
(27) John T [often sees Mary]
Once this mode of explanation is adopted in simple cases, it imme-
diately extends to more complex patterns. For instance, the following
paradigm shows that the verb can occupy at least four distinct posi-
tions in French, depending on whether it is inflected or not and on
other properties of the construction (the three positions not occupied
by the verb in a specific example are designated by X):
21
On nature and language
(28) a. X ne X pas X complèment comprendre la th´
eorie (c’est d´
ecevant)
X ‘ne’ X not X completely understand the theory is disappointing
b. X ne X pas comprendre complètement X la th´
eorie (c’est d´
ecevant)
c. X il ne comprend pas X complètement X la th´
eorie
X he ‘ne’ understands not X completely X the theory
d. Ne comprend-il X pas X complètement X la th´
eorie?
‘Ne’ understands he X not X completely X the theory?
Under the influential research trend established by Jean-Yves Pollock’s
theory of verb movement (Pollock 1989), all these cases are reducible
to a unique underlying structure, with the lexical verb VP- internal and
adjacent to the direct object it selects, as in (28a). The clausal struc-
ture is conceived of as an array of hierarchically organized functional
heads, the positions indicated by X in (28). These heads may express
tense and other properties of the morphosyntax of clauses, such as
agreement with the subject (following traditional terminology, the
head where agreement is checked is referred to as AGR, but it may
also express other interpretively relevant properties, such as mood,
etc., if “pure” agreement heads are barred, as in Chomsky (1995a)),
and the declarative or interrogative force in the left-peripheral head
C(omplementizer).Ageneralprocessof head-to-headmovementmay
or must raise the verb to a higher functional head depending on its
morphological shape and other properties of the structure:
(29) C il ne+AGR pas T complètement comprend la théorie
C he ‘ne+AGR’ not T completely understand the theory
So, in French a non-finite verb may remain in the position of head of
the VP, as in (28)a, or optionally move to a functional head expressing
tense higher than certain adverbs like completely but lower than
22
Editors’ introduction
negation, as in (28b); a finite verb must raise to the AGR head higher
than negation to pick up agreement morphology, as in (28c) (we fol-
low here the ordering argued for in Belletti (1990)); in questions, the
verb continues its trip to the next higher functional head, the comple-
mentizer (C), to fulfill certain construction-specific well-formedness
requirements, as in (28d).
Different languages exploit the head movement mechanism in
differentways:someneverraisethelexicalverboutoftheVP(English),
others raise finite and non-finite verbs on a par to higher functional
heads (Italian), others systematically exploit the verb movement pos-
sibility to C in a wider range of cases (Verb Second languages), etc. The
patterns are many, varying across constructions and languages, but
they are all reducible to extremely elementary computational mech-
anisms and parameters: a phrase structure consisting of lexical and
functional heads and their phrasal projections, head-to-head move-
ment (also covering different types of incorporation, as in Mark
Baker’s (1988) approach), certain parametrized principles determin-
ingthe(partlylanguage-specific)morphosyntacticconditionstrigger-
ing head movement.
A major development of this research trend is Cinque’s (1999)
systematic analysis of adverbial positions, leading to a strict universal
hierarchy, which matches the universal hierarchy of functional heads
expressing properties of tense, mood, aspect, and voice. Cinque’s
resultalsostronglysupportstheviewofafundamentalcross-linguistic
uniformity in this domain up to a very fine-grained level of analysis:
languages vary in the morphological marking of temporal, aspec-
tual and modal properties on the verb, but the rich clausal structure
expressing such properties and hosting adverbial positions is strictly
uniform.
23
On nature and language
5.3 Arguments and functional heads
Once this scheme of explanation is adopted to explain diverse and
subtle cross-linguistic properties involving adverbial positions with
respect to verbs, it is natural to extend it to more salient types of varia-
tion, such as the order of verbs with respect to arguments, a classical
topic of typological studies. Consider, for instance, the existence
of languages in which Verb–Subject–Object (VSO) is the dominant
ordering pattern, such as Irish and other Celtic languages (examples
from McCloskey (1996)):
(30) a. Cheannaigh siad teach anuraidh
Bought they a house last year
b. Chuala Roise go minic an t-amharan sin
Heard Roise often this song
The existence of VSO languages has often been regarded as raising
a major theoretical puzzle. In general, a direct object shows a closer
relation to the verb than the subject, which gives rise, for instance, to
frequent V–O idioms (kick the bucket, etc.), to the fact that the subject
is structurally higher than the object, so that a subject can bind a re-
flexive in object position but not vice-versa, etc. These properties are
immediately expressed by the assumption that the verb and the object
form a constituent, the VP, which excludes the subject, the “external
argument” of Williams (1981) (or, in terms of the VP-internal subject
hypothesis of Kuroda (1988), Koopman and Sportiche (1991), these
properties follow from the assumption that the subject is higher than
the object VP-internally). This can be expressed straightforwardly in
S[VO] and S[OV] languages, but what about VSO languages? How can
they fail to express the structural asymmetry between subjects and ob-
jects, and the VP node? By adopting the head movement paradigm, the
24
Editors’ introduction
VSO order is naturally amenable to standard VP structures, with the
verb adjacent to the direct object in underlying representations, plus
independently motivated movement of the verb to a higher functional
head (Emonds (1980), McCloskey (1996) and the references quoted
there). If the functional head is already filled by an autonomous func-
tional verb, like the auxiliary in (31b) in Welsh, the lexical verb remains
in its VP-internal position (or anyhow in a position lower than the
subject; examples from Roberts (2000)):
(31) a. Cana i yfory
Will-sing I tomorrow
b. Bydda i ’n canu yfory
Will-be I singing tomorrow
Along somewhat analogous lines, Koopman (1983) had ana-
lyzed the word-order alternations in the West African language Vata
(SVO; SAuxOV) in terms of a V-final VP and an I-medial IP, with move-
ment of V to I when the inflection is not expressed by an auxiliary,
determining the SVO order.
This mode of explanation was quickly extended to different lan-
guage families, e.g. to the detailed analysis of the clausal structure in
Semitic (Borer 1995, Shlonsky 1997). Examples of this sort easily mul-
tiply. Even basic variations in head-complement order turned out to be
plausiblyreducibletoafixedunderlyingorderpluspossiblerearrange-
ments (e.g. OV derived by VO plus leftward movement of the object),
an analysis enforced by Kayne’s (1994) Antisymmetry approach.
5.4 Left periphery, DP, and other extensions
Analogous developments were possible in the analysis of the higher
layers of clausal structures, the left periphery of the clause. A variety
25
On nature and language
of inversion phenomena in main interrogatives (Subject–Auxiliary in-
version in English, Subject–clitic inversion and complex inversion in
French, etc.: see different essays in Belletti and Rizzi (1996)) was
amenable to the same fundamental ingredients: the postulation of
an essentially uniform structure across languages with movement
of the inflected verb to a head position in the C system and movement
oftheinterrogativephrasetoaSpecifierposition;suchcaseswerethen
reduced to construction-specific residues of generalized Verb Second,
a process still fully active in Germanic root clauses, with the notable
exceptionofModernEnglish.Thestudyof theleftperipheryalsoledto
detailedinvestigationsofdedicatedpositionsforTopicandFocus(Kiss
(1995), Rizzi (1997b), among many other references), preposed adver-
bials and the positions of various types of left-peripheral operators,
again with the uncovering of important elements of cross-linguistic
uniformity.
A parallel trend characterized the analysis of nominal struc-
tures under the DP hypothesis. Originally thought of as the projection
of the lexical head N, ever since the mid 1980s (see Abney’s (1987)
dissertation), the NP started being regarded as the complement of a
functional head, the determiner D, generating its own projection, the
DP. Subsequent studies (Ritter (1991) and references cited there) have
further enriched the functional structure of nominal expressions, with
the identification of several independent layers dominating the lexi-
cal projection NP. The noun phrase then became a complex structural
entity, sharing crucial properties with the functional structure of the
clause. The DP projection could be seen as the periphery of the noun
phrase,astructuralzoneparalleltotheCPprojectionwithrespecttothe
clause proper (Szabolcsi 1994, Siloni 1997); agreement-related func-
tional projections matched the agreement-related functional skeleton
26
Editors’ introduction
of the clause. A substantial parallelism between clauses and nominal
expressions emerges, thus embodying intuitions of cross-categorial
uniformity which went back to the very origin of transformational
grammar, but were now expressible within a much more constrained
setting (see Lees’s (1960) approach to nominalization and the critique
in Chomsky (1970)).
Under the DP analysis, various types of cross-linguistic varia-
tion in the nominal system found a natural interpretation: different
distributional properties of adjectival modifiers in different languages
could be partly related to the different scope of N movement, in a way
which significantly paralleled the study of V-Adv orders in the clause
as a function of V movement. The AN order of Germanic languages
and the (prevalent) NA order of Romance languages with the same
class of adjectives could be partly reduced to the lack or shorter scope
of N movement in the former languages (Cinque 1996; see also
Longobardi 1994, Giorgi and Longobardi 1991):
(32) a. The Italian invasion of Somalia
b. L’invasione italiana della Somalia
(33) [ L’[ invasione+X [ italiana t della Somalia ]]]
IftheNAorderisdeterminedbyNmovementtoafunctionalheadinter-
mediatebetweenNandD(designatedbyXin(33)),alongsimilarlines,
the ND order of certain languages (Romanian portret-ul “portrait-the”)
plausibly manifests further movement of N all the way to (affix-like)
D (see Giusti 1993, Dobrovie-Sorin 1988 for discussion).
The DP hypothesis also suggests a natural analysis of Romance
pronominal clitics as DPs lacking the lexical restriction, thus captur-
ingtheclosemorphologicalcorrespondencetothedefinitedeterminer
27
On nature and language
(forthird-personaccusativeclitics).Cliticconstructionsthereforemay
not involve a peculiar, language-specific category, but, rather, spe-
cial distributional properties (V-relatedness, for Romance clitics) of
familiar D elements. Clitic-doubling constructions may involve the it-
eration of the D head in a complex DP terminating with the lexical NP
restriction. In this way this notoriously recalcitrant domain can find a
natural account which is able to capture both the movement nature of
cliticization(Kayne1975,Sportiche1998)andtheotherwisesurprising
double occurrence of a single argument (see Belletti 1999, Uriagereka
1995, Torrego 1995, among other references).
We have already mentioned the idea that the functional struc-
ture of the clause is fundamentally uniform and much (and possi-
bly all) of the observed variation has to do with the degree of mor-
phological realization of the functional structure. This approach in
fact extends to the domain of verbal morphology the line of inquiry
that proved successful on Case morphology some twenty years ago:
apparently major differences in the functioning of Case systems were
amenable to basically uniform systems of Case assignment/checking,
with language-invariant syntactic consequences (i.e. the triggering of
movement in the passive, with unaccusative and raising verbs, etc.)
and with much of the variation reduced to the overt or covert morpho-
logical manifestation of Case (Vergnaud 1982). The emerging picture
then is one in which a fundamentally uniform syntax, except for a set
of parameters, is combined with systems of inflectional morphology
which allow variation (with an apparently large spectrum of possible
inflectional paradigms, ranging from very rich to extremely impov-
erished, and with the expression of parametric values for the syn-
tactic component: movement of phrases and heads must be overt or
covert, etc.).
28
Editors’ introduction
TheempiricalstudiesontheIP,CP,andDPuncoveredextraordi-
narilyrichfunctionalstructureswhichcompletethelexicalprojections
of nouns and verbs. This discovery, started around the mid 1980s, has
given rise more recently to autonomous research projects, the “carto-
graphic”projects,whoseaimistodrawmapsasdetailedaspossibleof
the syntactic configurations. The results of the cartographic research
in the late 1990s and in current work (see, for instance, the essays col-
lected in Cinque 2001, Belletti in prep., Rizzi in prep.), while leading
to syntactic representations much richer than those assumed a few
years back (with IP, CP, and DP identifying complex structural zones
rather than single layers), strongly support the view of the essential
uniformity of natural languages. On the one hand, they confirm the
fundamental invariance of the functional hierarchies with much more
realistic and fine-grained representations of syntactic configurations
than in previous work (of special prominence in this connection are
Cinque’s (1999) results on the clausal structure); on the other hand,
thecomplexityofthefinestructuresofclausesandphrasesturnsoutto
be amenable to a single building block, the minimal structure arising
from the fundamental structure-building operation, “merge,” in the
system of Chomsky (1995a). The functional lexicon turns out to be
much richer that previously assumed, but the fundamental computa-
tions to string elements together are elementary and uniform across
categories and languages.
The discovery of the depth and width of cross-linguistic unifor-
mity made it possible to think of UG as a substantial component of
particular grammars, in fact by far the most fundamental component;
reciprocally, parametric models introduced the appropriate technical
language to enhance and deepen the discovery of cross-linguistic uni-
formity. So, the development of the models and the sharpening of the
29
On nature and language
empirical discovery that grounded them proceeded hand in hand in
the course of the last twenty years.
6 The Minimalist Program
6.1 Background
The Principles and Parameters approach provides a potential solution
to the logical problem of language acquisition, resolving at the same
time the tension between descriptive and explanatory adequacy: the
acquisition of very complex grammatical patterns can be traced back
to innate principles and a limited process of selection among options.
So, in a sense, the properties that are observed in a particular grammar
are explained, in that they are reduced to properties of UG and to a
limited residue. The next set of questions that arise concerns the very
form of UG: are UG properties amenable to a further explanation, or
has the explanation process somehow to stop there, at the current
state of our understanding? On the one hand, it is conceivable that
a deeper understanding of the physical substrate of UG may provide
further explanations for the existence of some of the properties of
UG: it could very well be that principles of structural organization and
interpretationoflinguisticexpressionshavetheshapeweobserve,and
not some other imaginable shape, because of some inherent necessity
ofthecomputinghardware,therelevantbrainstructures.Ontheother
hand, a detailed exploration of the physical substrate is a distant goal
which awaits major advances in the brain sciences (not to speak of
the even more remote exploration of the embryological and genetic
factorsinvolved),andmaywellrequiretheintroductionofentirelynew
concepts. Major empirical discoveries and conceptual breakthroughs
may be necessary in order to connect and integrate the functional
30
Editors’ introduction
modeling and the study of the computation at the cellular level, as is
stressed in the third chapter of this book. Is there any avenue to pursue
in the meantime? Here the minimalist questions come into play.
That language may be economically designed is suggested by
various kinds of considerations. Much work in the structuralist tradi-
tion already suggested that the organization of linguistic inventories
obeyscertaineconomyprinciples(seeWilliams(1997)forarecentdis-
cussion in terms of the Blocking Principle of the Saussurean idea that
“dans la langue il n’y a que des différences” [in langue there are only
differences]). Within the tradition of generative grammar, attempts
to provide an evaluation measure to select among competing analy-
ses were systematically based on the notion of simplicity, with most
highly valued solutions being those involving the minimum of com-
plexity(smallestnumberofelements,smallestnumberofrules).Direct
reflexes of these ideas are also found in the study of performance, with
attempts to define complexity metrics based on the number of compu-
tational operations to be performed (as in the “Derivational Theory of
Complexity”; see Fodor, Bever, and Garrett (1974) for critical discus-
sion). Principles such as the Avoid Pronoun Principle also implied the
choice of the most elementary form compatible with well-formedness
(inparticular,nullpronounsmustbepreferredtoovertpronounswhen
available), an idea that has connections to the Gricean approach to the
successful conversational use of linguistic structures. The “Avoid Pro-
noun” idea was later generalized, giving rise to principles of structural
economy (e.g. Cardinaletti and Starke 1999, Giorgi and Pianesi 1997,
Rizzi 1997b) with the effect of enforcing the choice of the minimal
structure compatible with well-formedness. As of the mid 1980s, prin-
ciples of representational and derivational economy came to the fore
of syntactic theory. (See also the introductions to the concepts and
techniques of minimalist syntax in Radford 1997, Uriagereka 1998.)
31
On nature and language
6.2 Representational and derivational economy
As for the first kind, an important role was acquired by the principle
of Full Interpretation, according to which at the interface levels every
element must be licensed by an interpretation. So, if computational
processes involve the presence of uninterpretable elements on some
level of representation, they must have disappeared by Logical Form
(LF).Forinstance,expletiveelementslike there,necessarytoexpressthe
obligatory subject position in constructions such as (34a), do not have
a referential content, and presumably don’t receive any interpretation
at all at Logical Form, hence they must disappear before this level
is reached, under FI. One classical approach to this problem is the
hypothesis that the expletive is replaced by the contentive subject at LF,
another instance of covert movement, yielding an LF representation
like(34b),whichrespectsFullInterpretation(butseeWilliams(1984),
Moro (1990) for a different analysis).
(34) a. There came a man
b. A man came
This analysis immediately accounts for the fact that the relation
between the expletive and the contentive subject is local in the same
sense in which argumental chains are (e.g. the relation between the
surface subject of a passive sentence and its “trace,” the empty object
positioninwhichthesurfacesubjectissemanticallyinterpreted:“John
was fired ”; by and large, both relations must obey locality con-
straints like Relativized Minimality, on which see below): the same
kind of configuration holds at LF in both cases (Chomsky (1986a),
based on observations in Burzio (1986)).
At the derivational level, economy was expressed by a principle
statingthatmovementisalast-resortoperation:thereisno“free,”truly
32
Editors’ introduction
optional movement, every extension of a chain must be motivated by
some computational need. A good intuitive illustration of this idea
is provided by the movement of the verb to the inflectional system,
which is motivated by the need for the verb to pick up affixes of tense,
agreement,etc.whichdonotconstituteindependentwords:so,certain
kinds of movement are motivated by the need to express the structure
as a sequence of well-formed and pronounceable words. This kind
of connection between movement and morphological requirements
alsohelpsexplaincertaindiachronicgeneralizations:Englishlostverb
movement to the inflectional system concomitantly or shortly after a
radical weakening of the inflectional paradigm (Roberts (1993) and
much related work). Many factors of complexity must be taken into
account, but a basic correlation between inflectional richness and verb
movement appears to hold quite robustly, at least in Romance and
Germanic (see also Vikner (1997) and references quoted there).
Adirectillustrationofmovementaslastresortisprovidedbythe
pattern of past participle agreement in Romance. The past participle
does not agree with an unmoved direct object, e.g. in French, but it
does if the object has been moved, say, in a relative construction:
(35) Jean a mis(∗
e) la voiture dans le garage
Jean has put(∗
Agr) the car in the garage
(36) La voiture que Jean a mise dans le garage
The car that Jean has put+Agr in the garage
Following Kayne’s (1989) classical theory of participial agreement,
we may assume that agreement is triggered when the object passes
through a position structurally close to the past participle (technically,
the specifier of an agreement head associated to the participle). So,
the relevant representation must be something like (37), with t, t’ the
33
On nature and language
“traces” of movement (on this notion, see below). Now, the point is
that the direct object can transit through this position, but not remain
there: (38), with the object expressed in the pre-participial position, is
ungrammatical:
(37) La voiture que Jean a t’ mise t dans le garage
The car that Jean has put+Agr in the garage
(38) ∗
Jean a la voiture mise t dans le garage
Jean has the car put in the garage
Why is it so? Like every nominal expression, the direct object must
receive a Case, and presumably it receives accusative Case in its canon-
ical object position (or anyhow in a position lower than the participial
verb).So,ithasnoreasontomovefurther,and(38)isruledoutbecause
of the “useless” movement step. On the other hand, in (37) the object,
as a relative pronoun, must move further to the left periphery of the
clause, so it can licitly pass through the position which triggers past
participle agreement.
The movement-as-last resort approach implies that there is no
truly optional movement. This has made it necessary to reanalyze ap-
parent cases of optionality, often leading to the discovery of subtle in-
terpretivedifferences.Forinstance,thesocalled“subjectinversion”of
ItalianandotherNullSubjectLanguages,previouslyanalyzedasafully
optional process, turns out to involve a necessary focal interpretation
of the subject in postverbal position, or a topic interpretation signaled
by an intonational pause and destressing (Belletti 2001):
(39) a. Maria me lo ha detto
Maria said it to me
b. Me lo ha detto Maria
Said it to me Maria(+Foc)
34
Editors’ introduction
c. Me lo ha detto, Maria
Said it to me, Maria(+Top)
6.3 Uninterpretable features
Derivational and representational economy met in the idea that
syntacticmovementisalwaystriggeredbythegoalofeliminatingunin-
terpretable elements and properties. A specification typically consid-
ereduninterpretableisstructuralCase(nominativeandaccusative):an
elementbearingnominativeCaseinEnglishcanbearanythematicrole
(Agent, Benefactive, Experiencer, Patient/Theme), and even no role at
all, as in (40e):
(40) a. He invited Mary
b. He got the prize
c. He saw Mary
d. She was invited/seen by John
e. There was a snowstorm
Accusative is equally blind to interpretive thematic properties:
(41) a. I expected [him to invite Mary]
b. I expected [him to get the prize]
c. I expected [him to see Mary]
d. I expected [her to be invited/seen by John]
e. I expected [there to be a snowstorm]
Other types of Case, inherent Cases, are linked to specific thematic
interpretations: in languages with rich Case systems, an argument
marked with locative Case designates a location, etc., but nominative
and accusative appear to be thematically blind: in this sense, they are
considered uninterpretable (languages allowing subjects with oblique
Case, so called quirky subjects, apparently allow nominals sharing
35
On nature and language
bothtypesof Caseproperties:Zaenen,Maling,andThrainsson(1985),
Bobaljik and Jonas (1996), Jonas (1996), Bobaljik (1995), Sigurdsson
(2000) and references quoted there).
Another feature specification which is considered uninter-
pretable is the grammatical specification of person, number, and gen-
der (and other analogous specifications such as the class specification
inBantulanguages)whichappearsonpredicates,e.g.inthefollowing
Italian example:
(42) La ragazza è stata vista
The girl FS3P hasS3P beenFS seenFS
The specification of gender, number, and (by default) person on the
noun phrase la ragazza in (42) has an obvious interpretive import, but
this specification in the predicate (reiterated on the inflected aspectual
auxiliary, on the passive auxiliary and on the passive past participle
in Italian) is redundant and, as such, is considered non-interpretable:
external systems interpreting linguistic structures will certainly want
to know if the sentence is talking about one girl or many girls, but
the reiteration of this information on the predicate does not seem to
add anything of interpretive relevance. In fact, predicates not reiterat-
ing the feature specification of the subject in non-finite structures,
or in morphologically more impoverished languages, are perfectly
interpretable. (In some cases, an agreement specification seems to
have consequences for interpretation, as has been argued for the par-
ticipial agreement in French discussed above (Obenauer 1994, Déprez
1998), but this may be an indirect effect of the theory of reconstruction
(Rizzi 2001b).)
Movement is seen, in this system, as a way of eliminating
uninterpretable features. For instance, movement of a direct ob-
ject to the subject position has the effect of placing it in a local
36
Editors’ introduction
environment in which its uninterpretable Case feature can be checked
off by the agreeing inflectional head, an operation which, simultane-
ously, checks off the uninterpretable agreement features on the inflec-
tional head. The checking off of a feature amounts to its elimination
from the derivational path leading to the computation of a Logical
Form. So, movement is last resort in that it must be motivated by
the goal of eliminating uninterpretable features, an elimination which
in turn makes it possible to satisfy Full Interpretation at the interface
representations (Chomsky 1995a). An element undergoing movement
must have an inner motivation to move, an uninterpretable feature
specification to eliminate. For instance, going back to the French
construction (36), the object cannot move because it has its unin-
terpretable accusative Case already checked in its base position (or,
anyhow, in a position lower than the participial specifier), and it has
no other feature which would make it “active,” i.e. available for further
movement. In case the object must undergo further movement, e.g.
to the relative complementizer, as in (37), it will have whatever unin-
terpretable features are involved in left-peripheral movement in this
system (Grewendorf 2001), which will make it a suitable candidate for
movement.
In spite of its teleological flavor, the principle of movement
as last resort can be implemented in a very elementary way, taking
only local decisions and not requiring computationally complex pro-
cedures such as transderivational comparisons, look-ahead, and the
like (on local economy, see Collins (1997)). A distinct but related case
of the limitation on movement imposed by economy considerations is
the proposal (Chomsky 1995a, 2000a, 2001a) that Merge, the funda-
mental structure-building operation, preempts movement whenever
both operations are applicable to satisfy computational needs. A case
that illustrates this point is the peculiar distribution of nominals in
37
On nature and language
expletiveconstructions.Theexpletiveconstruction(43a)suggeststhat
the nominal a man is first introduced in the structure as the subject of
the locative in the garden, functioning as a predicate: if no expletive is
selected, the nominal is moved to the subject position of the copula,
otherwise the expletive is inserted:
(43) a. There is [a man in the garden]
b. A man is [t in the garden]
Now,inamorecomplexstructureinvolvingahigherraisingverb,such
as(44a),thefollowingpeculiarconstraintemerges:eithernoexpletive
isselected,andthenominalmovesallthewaytothesubjectpositionof
the higher raising verb (as in (44b)), or an expletive is inserted already
in the embedded clause and then is raised (as in (44c)); the a priori
remaining option (44d), with the nominal moved to the embedded
subject position and the expletive inserted in main subject position, is
excluded:
(44) a. seems [ to be [a man in the garden]]]
b. A man seems [ t’ to be [ t in the garden]]]
c. There seems [ t to be [a man in the garden]]]
d. ∗
There seems [a man to be [t in the garden]]]
It appears that, if an expletive is selected, it must be inserted as soon
as possible: the structure (44d), involving partial movement of the
nominalandthenexpletiveinsertion,isexcluded.Whyisitso?Asimple
explanationofthisparadigmisprovidedbytheassumptionthatmerge
is less costly than movement, so that, in (44a), if an expletive has been
selected, the option of merging it as the subject of be will preempt the
option of moving a man to that position (Chomsky (2000a); see also
Belletti (1988), Lasnik (1992), for alternative analyses in terms of the
38
Editors’ introduction
Case requirements of the nominal, and Moro (1990) for an analysis
based on the idea that the expletive is a pro-predicate).
6.4 Locality
The study of locality is an independent, important research direction
in modern formal linguistics which points to the role of economy in
language design. If there is no upper bound to the length and depth of
linguisticexpressions,asaconsequenceoftherecursivenatureofnatu-
rallanguagesyntax,acoreofcomputationalprocessesandrelationsis
fundamentally local, i.e. it can only take place within a limited amount
of structure. Locality can reasonably be construed as an economy prin-
ciple, in that it limits the amount of structure to be computed in a
single application of a local computational process, thus contributing
to reducing the complexity of linguistic computations. For instance,
the locality principle known as Subjacency, mentioned in connection
with the introduction of the concept of parameters (see above), limits
the search for the target of movement to the portion of structure con-
tained within two adjacent bounding nodes (Chomsky 1973, 1986b).
Subjacency unifies under a single formal statement much classical
work on Island Constraints (Ross 1967, 1986); its effects may now be
subsumed,inwaysthatremaintobefullydevelopedandimplemented,
under the Phase Impenetrability Condition. This principle, assuming
derivations to take place in distinct “phases,” corresponding to the
computation of major clausal categories (VP and CP), states that only
the edge of a phase (its specifier and head) is accessible to operations
taking place in higher phases (Chomsky 2000a, 2001a). So, in a higher
phase a computational process cannot look too deeply inside a lower
phase.
39
On nature and language
Relativized Minimality is another locality principle which limits
the search for the target of a local relation to the closest potential
bearer of that relation (Rizzi 1990); according to this principle, in the
following configuration:
(45) . . . X . . . Z . . . Y . . .
a local relation cannot hold between X and Y if there is an intervening
element Z which is of the same structural type as X, so that Z somehow
has the potential of entering into the local relation with Y (there is a
clear family resemblance here with the “minimal distance” principles
forcontrol,Rosenbaum(1967),andotheranalogousideasforanaphor
binding). Therefore, local relations must be satisfied in the smallest
environment in which they can be satisfied; the amount of structure to
be scanned in the computation of a local relation is correspondingly
restricted. Consider again the impossibility of extracting an adjunct
from an indirect question:
(46) ∗
How do you wonder [who solved the problem t]
Under Relativized Minimality, how cannot be locally connected to its
trace t because of the intervention of another Wh element in the em-
bedded complementizer, an element of the same structural type as
how (both in the rudimentary typology of positions distinguishing be-
tween A and A’specifiers, and in the more sophisticated feature-based
typology of Rizzi (2001a)); so that the antecedent–trace relation fails
in this environment, and the structure cannot be properly interpreted.
ThismodeofexplanationhasbeenextendedtotheanalysisofallWeak
Islands,environmentsselectivelybarringextractabilitytocertaintypes
ofelements,basicallyalongtheargument/adjunctdivide(seeSzabolcsi
(1999) for an overview); consider the sharp contrast between the
following examples in Italian:
40
Editors’ introduction
(47) a. Quale problema non sai come risolvere t t’?
Which problem don’t you know how to solve t t’?
b. ∗
Come non sai quale problema risolvere t t’?
How don’t you know which problem to solve t t’?
On the factors determining the selective extractability from Weak
Islands, in apparent violation of Relativized Minimality, see the ap-
proachesinRizzi(1990,2001a,2001b),Cinque(1990),Manzini(1992),
Starke (2001). The original formulation of Relativized Minimality is
representational:alocalrelationfailsatLFinaconfigurationlike(45);
Chomsky (1995a, 2000a) offers derivational formulations in terms of
theMinimalLinkConditiononAttract,andlocalityontheAgreeopera-
tion; see also Rizzi (2001b) on the derivational/representational issue.
6.5 The copy theory of traces
All the research directions mentioned in the previous sections sug-
gest that language design is sensitive to economy principles, and well
adapted to make linguistic computations simple and smooth. How
far can these observations lead? The Minimalist Program pursues this
questionbyexploringthestrongestthesisthatcanbeenvisaged:could
it be that language is an optimally designed system, given certain
criteria? The minimal need that linguistic computations must satisfy
is to connect interface representations, the representations through
which the language faculty “talks” to other components of the mind:
Phonetic Form, which connects language with the sensorimotor sys-
temsofperceptionandarticulation,andLogicalForm,whichconnects
language with the thought systems of concepts and intentions. So,
could it be that language is an optimally designed system to connect
representations legible to sensorimotor and thought systems?
41
On nature and language
The difficult task that the Minimalist Program has put on the
research agenda is to review all the results achieved in the study of
UniversalGrammartoseeiftheycanbemeaningfullyreconstructedas
meeting minimalist requirements. In some cases, it has been possible
to show that the adoption of a more “minimal” set of assumptions
can even improve the empirical adequacy of the analysis. A case in
point is the copy theory of traces and the explanation it provides for
reconstruction effects. Consider the following sentences:
(48) a. Which picture of himself does John prefer t?
b. ∗
Which picture of John does he prefer t?
(48a) is fine with the anaphor himself bound by John, and (48b) does
not allow coreference between John and he (the sentence is of course
possible if he refers to a different individual mentioned in previ-
ous discourse). Both properties are somewhat unexpected though:
anaphoric elements like the reflexive himself must be in the domain of
(c-commanded by) their antecedents; if this does not happen, as in
(49a), the structure is excluded. Reciprocally, a name and a pronoun
are free to corefer if the name is not in the domain of the pronoun, as
in (49b):
(49) a. ∗
This picture of himself demonstrates that John is really
sick
b. This picture of John demonstrates that he is really sick
Why is it that we get reversed judgments in (48)? It appears to be the
case that, in configurations of this sort, with a complex phrase moved
to the front, the mental computation of the binding principle takes
place as if the phrase was in the position of its trace, and had not
moved at all: in fact the judgments on (48) are the same that we get
with the unmoved phrases:
42
Editors’ introduction
(50) a. John prefers [this picture of himself ]
b. ∗
He prefers [this picture of John]
This is the phenomenon called “reconstruction”: a moved phrase be-
haves, in certain respects, as if it was in the position of its trace. Previ-
ous proposals involved an operation “putting back” the moved phrase
into the position of its trace in the computation of LF, or a more com-
plexcomputationofc-commandrelationsintherelevantenvironment
(Barss 1986). In fact, Chomsky points out in the first minimalist paper
(Chomsky 1993), the solution emerges at once if we go back to the
basic ingredients of the movement operation. Moving a phrase in-
volves copying the phrase into a higher position, and then deleting the
original occurrence. Suppose that, instead of being deleted, the origi-
naloccurrenceissimplyleftunpronounced,withoutphoneticcontent,
butvisibletoabstractcomputationaloperations.Sotherepresentation
of (49) is the following, with the original unpronounced occurrences
within angled brackets:
(51) a. Which picture of himself does John prefer <which picture
of himself>
b. Which picture of John does he prefer <which picture
of John>
The binding principles apply on these richer representations
giving the right result: the anaphor is bound by the name in (51a), the
name cannot enter into a coreference relation with the c-commanding
pronoun in (51b). No complex theory of reconstruction is needed, and
theempiricallycorrectresultisachievedbysimplytracing“movement”
back to its elementary computational components (on the adjust-
ments needed to get appropriate operator-variable structures at LF
see Chomsky (1993), Fox (2000), Rizzi (2001b); on the fact that it is
43
On nature and language
apparently sufficient to bind only one occurrence of the anaphor in
(51a) see the references just quoted, and also the discussion in Belletti
and Rizzi (1988); on the different behavior of arguments and adjuncts
under reconstruction, Lebeaux (1988)).
Other cases of complex empirical patterns are not so easily re-
ducibletoelementarycomputationalprinciplesandtheirinteractions.
Nevertheless, the successful reduction of the theory of reconstruction
is indicative of a mode of explanation that may be generalizable to
other domains of the language faculty.
To the extent to which the fundamental minimalist question
can be positively answered, large portions of UG, as they have been
determined in decades of empirical studies, may be amenable to a
furtherlevelofexplanation,whichmayinturnguidefurtherinquiryon
neighboring cognitive systems, and set sharper conditions for future
attempts at unification with the brain sciences.
44
Chapter 2
Perspectives on language and mind
It would only be appropriate to begin with some of the thoughts of the
master, who does not disappoint us, even though the topics I want to
discuss are remote from his primary concerns. Galileo may have been
the first to recognize clearly the significance of the core property of
human language, and one of its most distinctive properties: the use of
finite means to express an unlimited array of thoughts. In his Dialogo,
he describes with wonder the discovery of a means to communicate
one’s “most secret thoughts to any other person . . . with no greater
difficulty than the various collocations of twenty-four little characters
upon a paper.” This is the greatest of all human inventions, he writes,
comparable to the creations of a Michelangelo – of whom Galileo
himself was a virtual reincarnation according to the mythology con-
structedbyhisstudentandbiographerViviani,memorializedinKant’s
image of the reincarnation of Michelangelo in Newton through the
intermediary of Galileo.
Galileo was referring to alphabetic writing, but the invention
succeeds because it reflects the nature of the language that the little
Galileo Lecture, Scuola Normal Superiore, Pisa, October 1999
45
On nature and language
characters are used to represent. Shortly after his death, the philos-
opher-grammarians of Port Royal took that further step, referring
to the “marvelous invention” of a means to construct “from 25
or 30 sounds that infinity of expressions, which bear no resemblance
to what takes place in our minds, yet enable us to reveal [to others]
everything that we think, and all the various movements of our soul.”
The “infinity of expressions” is a form of discrete infinity, similar to
that of the natural numbers. The Port Royal theorists recognized that
“the marvelous invention” should be the central topic of the study
of language, and pursued the insight in original ways, developing
and applying ideas that became leading topics of inquiry only much
later. Some were revived and reshaped in Frege’s concept of Sinn and
Bedeutung, others in the phrase structure and transformational gram-
mars of the latter part of the twentieth century. From a contemporary
point of view, the term “invention” is of course out of place, but the
core property of language that Galileo and his successors identified is
no less “marvelous” as a product of biological evolution, proceeding
in ways that lie well beyond current understanding.
The same property of human language, and its apparent bio-
logical isolation, also intrigued Charles Darwin when he turned his
attention to human evolution. In his Descent of Man, Darwin wrote
that with regard to the understanding of language, dogs appear to
be “at the same stage of development” as one-year-old infants, “who
understand many words and short sentences but cannot yet utter a
word.” There is only one difference between humans and other an-
imals in this regard, Darwin held: “man differs solely in his almost
infinitely larger power of associating together the most diversified
sounds and ideas.” This “association of sounds and ideas” is the
“marvelous invention” of seventeenth-century commentators, which
46
Perspectives on language and mind
Darwin hoped would somehow be incorporated within the theory of
evolution.
The theory of evolution, not necessarily the workings of natu-
ral selection; and surely not these alone, since, trivially, they operate
within a physical “channel,” the effects of which are to be discovered,
not stipulated. It is also worth recalling that Darwin firmly rejected
the hyperselectionism of his close associate Alfred Russell Wallace,
which has been revived in some contemporary popular versions of
so-called “neo-Darwinism.” Darwin repeatedly emphasized his con-
viction “that natural selection has been the main but not the exclusive
means of modification,” taking explicit note of a range of possibili-
ties, including non-adaptive modifications and unselected functions
determined from structure, all topics that are alive in contemporary
theory of evolution.
An interest in the nature and origins of the “marvelous inven-
tion” leads to investigation of the component of the human brain that
is responsible for these unique and indeed wondrous achievements.
This language organ, or “faculty of language” as we may call it, is a
common human possession, varying little across the species as far
as we know, apart from very serious pathology. Through maturation
and interaction with the environment, the common language faculty
assumes one or another state, apparently stabilizing in several stages,
finally at about puberty. A state attained by this faculty resembles what
is called “a language” in ordinary usage, but only partially: we are
no longer surprised when notions of common sense find no place in
the effort to understand and explain the phenomena they deal with in
their own ways, another achievement of the Galilean revolution, now
takenforgrantedinthehardsciencesbutstillconsideredcontroversial
beyond – inappropriately, I think.
47
On nature and language
The internal language, in the technical sense, is a state of the
facultyof language.Eachinternallanguagehasthemeanstoconstruct
the mental objects that we use to express our thoughts and to interpret
thelimitlessarrayofovertexpressionsthatweencounter.Eachofthese
mental objects relates sound and meaning in a particular structured
form. A clear understanding of how a finite mechanism can construct
aninfinityofobjectsofthiskindwasreachedonlyinthetwentiethcen-
tury,inworkintheformalsciences.Thesediscoveriesmadeitpossible
to address in explicit ways the task that was identified by Galileo, the
Port Royal theorists, Darwin, and some others – a scattering of others,
as far as I have been able to discover. For the past half century, a good
part of the study of language has been devoted to the investigation
of such mechanisms – called “generative grammars” in the study of
language – an important innovation in the long and rich history of
linguistics, though as always, there are precedents, in this case tracing
back to ancient India.
Darwin’sformulationismisleadinginseveralrespects.Itisnow
understood that the linguistic achievements of infants go far beyond
what Darwin attributed to them, and that non-human organisms have
nothing like the linguistic capacities he assumed. Furthermore, asso-
ciation is not the appropriate concept. And his phrase “differs solely”
is surely inappropriate, though “primarily” might be defensible: the
property of discrete infinity is only one of many essential differences
between human language and animal systems of communication or
expression, for that matter other biological systems rather generally.
And of course, the phrase “almost infinite” must be understood to
mean “unbounded,” that is, “infinite” in the relevant sense.
Nonetheless, Darwin’spoint is basically correct. Essential char-
acteristics of human language, such as the discrete-infinite use of
finite means that intrigued him and his distinguished predecessors,
48
Perspectives on language and mind
appear to be biologically isolated, and a very recent development in
human evolution, millions of years after the separation from the near-
est surviving relatives. Furthermore, the “marvelous invention” must
be present in Darwin’s one-year-old, indeed in the embryo, even if not
yet manifested, just as the capacity for binocular vision, or undergoing
puberty, is part of the genetic endowment, even if manifested only at a
particular stage of maturation and under appropriate environmental
conditions. Similar conclusions seem highly plausible in the case of
other aspects of our mental nature as well.
The concept of mental nature underwent an important revision
in the Galilean era. It was formulated in a novel way, in fairly clear
terms – and I think it can be argued, for the last time: the concept soon
collapsed, and nothing has replaced it since. The concept of mind was
framed in terms of what was called “the mechanical philosophy,” the
ideathatthenaturalworldisacomplexmachinethatcouldinprinciple
be constructed by a skilled artisan. “The world was merely a set of
Archimediansimplemachineshookedtogether,”GalileoscholarPeter
Machamer observes, “or a set of colliding corpuscles that obeyed the
lawsofmechanicalcollision.”Theworldissomethingliketheintricate
clocks and other automata that excited the scientific imagination of
thatera,muchascomputersdotoday–andtheshiftis,inanimportant
sense, not fundamental, as Alan Turing showed sixty years ago.
Within the framework of the mechanical philosophy, Descartes
developed his theory of mind and mind–body dualism, still the locus
classicusofmuchdiscussionofourmentalnature,aseriousmisunder-
standing,Ibelieve.Descarteshimselfpursuedareasonablecourse.He
sought to demonstrate that the inorganic and organic world could be
explained in terms of the mechanical philosophy. But he argued that
fundamental aspects of human nature escape these bounds and can-
notbeaccommodatedintheseterms.Hisprimaryexamplewashuman
49
On nature and language
language: in particular, that “marvelous invention” of a means to ex-
press our thoughts in novel and limitless ways that are constrained
by our bodily state but not determined by it; that are appropriate to
situations but not caused by them, a crucial distinction; and that evoke
in others thoughts that they could have expressed in similar ways – a
collectionofpropertiesthatwemaycall“thecreativeuseof language.”
More generally, Descartes held, “free will is in itself the noblest
thing we can have” and all that “truly belongs” to us. As his followers
expressed the thesis, humans are only “incited and inclined” to act
in certain ways, not “compelled” (or random). In this respect they are
unlikemachines,acategorythatincludestheentirenon-humanworld,
they held.
For the Cartesians generally, the “creative aspect” of ordinary
use of language was the most striking illustration of our noblest gift.
It relies crucially on the “marvelous invention,” the mechanisms re-
sponsible for providing the “infinity of expressions” for expressing
our thoughts and for understanding other people, though it relies on
far more than that.
Thatweourselveshavethesenoblequalitiesofmindweknowby
reflection;weattributethemtoothers,intheCartesianmodel,by“best
theory” arguments, as they are now called: only in this way can we deal
withtheproblemof “otherminds.”Bodyandmindaretwosubstances,
oneanextendedsubstance,theotherathinkingsubstance,rescogitans.
The former falls within the mechanical philosophy, the latter not.
Adopting the mechanical philosophy, “Galileo forged a new
model of intelligibility for human understanding,” Machamer argues
plausibly, with “new criteria for coherent explanations of natural phe-
nomena”basedonthepictureoftheworldasanelaboratemachine.For
Galileo, and leading figures in the early modern scientific revolution
generally, true understanding requires a mechanical model, a device
50
Perspectives on language and mind
that an artisan could construct. Thus he rejected traditional theories
of tides because we cannot “duplicate [them] by means of appropriate
artificial devices.”
TheGalileanmodelof intelligibilityhasacorollary:whenmech-
anism fails, understanding fails. The apparent inadequacies of me-
chanical explanation for cohesion, attraction, and other phenomena
led Galileo finally to reject “the vain presumption of understanding
everything.” Worse yet, “there is not a single effect in nature . . . such
thatthemostingenioustheoristcanarriveatacompleteunderstanding
of it.”Formind,theGalileanmodelplainlyfails,asDescartesconvinc-
ingly showed. Though much more optimistic than Galileo about the
prospects for mechanical explanation, Descartes nevertheless specu-
lated that the workings of res cogitans may lie beyond human under-
standing. He thought that we may not “have intelligence enough” to
understand the creative aspect of language use and other manifesta-
tions of mind, though “there is nothing that we comprehend more
clearly and perfectly” than our possession of these capacities, and “it
would be absurd to doubt that of which we inwardly experience and
perceive as existing within ourselves, just because we do not compre-
hendamatterwhichfromitsnatureweknowtobeincomprehensible.”
Hegoestoofarinsayingthatwe“know”themattertobeincomprehen-
sible, but anyone committed to the belief that humans are biological
organisms,notangels,willrecognizethathumanintelligencehasspe-
cific scope and limits, and that much of what we seek to understand
might lie beyond these limits.
The fact that res cogitans escapes the model of intelligibility that
animated the modern scientific revolution is interesting, but in a
way not important. The reason is that the entire model quickly col-
lapsed, confirming Galileo’s worst fears. Newton demonstrated, to
his dismay, that nothing in nature falls within the mechanical model
51
On nature and language
of intelligibility that seemed to be the merest common sense to the
creators of modern science. Newton regarded his discovery of action
at a distance, in violation of the basic principles of the mechanical
philosophy, as “so great an Absurdity that I believe no Man who has
in philosophical matters a competent Faculty of thinking, can ever fall
into it.” Nonetheless, he was forced to conclude that the Absurdity
“does really exist.” “Newton had no physical explanation of it at all,”
two contemporary scholars observe, a deep problem for him and emi-
nent contemporaries who “accused him of reintroducing occult qual-
ities,” with no “physical, material substrate” that “human beings can
understand” (Betty Dobbs and Margaret Jacob). In the words of one
of the founders of modern Galilean studies, Alexander Koyré, Newton
demonstrated that “a purely materialistic or mechanistic physics” is
“impossible.”
To the end of his life, Newton sought to escape the absurdity,
as did Euler, D’Alembert, and many since, but in vain. Nothing has
lessened the force of David Hume’sjudgment that by refuting the self-
evident mechanical philosophy, Newton “restored [Nature’s]ultimate
secrets to that obscurity in which they ever did and ever will remain.”
Later discoveries, introducing still more extreme “Absurdities,” only
entrenched more deeply the realization that the natural world is not
comprehensibletohumanintelligence,atleastinthesenseanticipated
by the founders of modern science.
While recognizing the Absurdity, Newton defended himself
vigorously against the criticism of continental scientists – Huygens,
Leibniz, and others – who charged him with reintroducing the “occult
qualities” of the despised scholastic philosophers. The occult qual-
ities of the Aristotelians were vacuous, Newton wrote, but his new
principles, while unfortunately occult, nevertheless had substantive
content. “To derive two or three general Principles of Motion from
52
Perspectives on language and mind
Phaenomena, and afterwards to tell us how the properties and Actions
of all corporal Things follow from those manifest Principles, would be
a very great step in Philosophy,” Newton wrote, “though the Causes of
thosePrinciplesbenotyetdiscover’d.”Newtonwasformulatinganew
and weaker model of intelligibility, one with roots in what has been
called the “mitigated skepticism” of the British scientific tradition,
which had abandoned as hopeless the search for the “first springs of
natural motions” and other natural phenomena, keeping to the much
more modest effort to develop the best theoretical account we can.
The implications for the theory of mind were immediate, and
immediately recognized. Mind–body dualism is no longer tenable, be-
causethereisnonotionof body.Itiscommoninrecentyearstoridicule
Descartes’s “ghost in the machine,” and to speak of “Descartes’s
error” in postulating a second substance: mind, distinct from body.
It is true that Descartes was proven wrong, but not for those reasons.
Newton exorcised the machine; he left the ghost intact. It was the
first substance, extended matter, that dissolved into mysteries. We can
speak intelligibly of physical phenomena (processes, etc.) as we speak
of the real truth or the real world, but without supposing that there is
some other truth or world. For the natural sciences, there are mental
aspectsoftheworld,alongwithoptical,chemical,organic,andothers.
The categories need not be firm or distinct, or conform to common-
sense intuition, a standard for science that was finally abandoned with
Newton’s discoveries, along with the demand for “intelligibility” as
conceived by Galileo and early modern science rather generally.
In this view, mental aspects of the world fall together with
the rest of nature. Galileo had argued that “At present we need
only . . . investigate and demonstrate certain of the properties of
motion which is accelerated,” putting aside the question of “the cause
of the acceleration of natural motion.” After Newton, the guiding
53
On nature and language
principle was extended to all of science. The eighteenth-century
English chemist Joseph Black recommended that “chemical affinity
be received as a first principle, which we cannot explain any more
than Newton could explain gravitation, and let us defer accounting
for the laws of affinity, till we have established such a body of doc-
trine as [Newton] has established concerning the laws of gravitation.”
Chemistry proceeded along that course. It established a rich body
of doctrine, achieving its “triumphs . . . in isolation from the newly
emerging science of physics,” a leading historian of chemistry points
out (Arnold Thackray). Well into the twentieth century, prominent
scientists regarded molecules and chemical properties as basically
calculating devices; understanding of these matters was then vastly
beyond anything known about mental reality. Unification was finally
achieved sixty-five years ago, but only after physics had undergone
radical revision, departing even more from common-sense intuitions.
Notice that it was unification, not reduction. Chemistry not only
seemed irreducible to the physics of the day, but indeed was.
All of this conveys important lessons for the study of mind.
Though they should be far more obvious to us today, they were already
clear after Newton’s demolition of the mechanical philosophy. And
they were drawn at once, pursuing John Locke’s suggestion that God
might have chosen to “superadd to matter a faculty of thinking” just as
he“annexedeffectstomotionwhichwecaninnowayconceivemotion
able to produce.” In Newton’s words, defending his postulation of in-
nate active principles in matter, “God, who gave animals self-motion
beyond our understanding, is, without doubt, able to implant other
principles of motion in bodies, which we may understand as little.”
Motion of the limbs, thinking, acts of will – all are “beyond our un-
derstanding,” though we can seek to find “general principles” and
“bodies of doctrine” that give us a limited grasp of their fundamental
54
Perspectives on language and mind
nature. Such ideas led naturally to the conclusion that properties of
mind arise from “the organization of the nervous system itself,” that
thoseproperties“termedmental”aretheresultofthe“organicalstruc-
ture” of the brain just as matter “is possessed of powers of attraction
and repulsion” that act at a distance (La Mettrie, Joseph Priestley). It
is not clear what might be a coherent alternative.
A century later, Darwin expressed his agreement. He asked,
rhetorically, “Why is thought, being a secretion of the brain, more
wonderful than gravity, a property of matter?” Essentially Locke’ssug-
gestion, as elaborated by Priestley and others. It is well to remember,
however, that the problems raised by the Cartesians were never ad-
dressed. There is no substantial “body of doctrine” about the ordi-
nary creative use of language or other manifestations of our “noblest”
quality. And lacking that, questions of unification cannot be seriously
raised.
The modern cognitive sciences, linguistics included, face prob-
lems muchlikethoseof chemistryfromthecollapseof the mechanical
philosophy until the 1930s, when the bodies of doctrine that chemists
had developed were unified with a radically revised physics. Contem-
porary neuroscience commonly puts forth, as its guiding idea, the
thesis that “Things mental, indeed minds, are emergent properties of
brains,” while recognizing that “these emergences are not regarded
as irreducible but are produced by principles that control the interac-
tionsbetweenlower-levelevents–principleswedonotyetunderstand”
(VernonMountcastle).Thethesisisoftenpresentedasan“astonishing
hypothesis,” “the bold assertion that mental phenomena are entirely
natural and caused by the neurophysiological activities of the brain,”
a “radical new idea” in the philosophy of mind that may at last put to
rest Cartesian dualism, some believe, while others express doubt that
the apparent chasm between body and mind can really be bridged.
55
On nature and language
These are not, however, the proper ways to look at the matter.
The thesis is old, not new; it closely paraphrases Priestley and others,
two centuries ago. It is, furthermore, a virtual corollary of the col-
lapse of mind–body dualism as Newton undermined the concept of
matter, in any intelligible sense, and left science with the problems of
constructing “bodies of doctrine” in various domains of inquiry, and
seeking unification.
How unification might take place, or whether it can be achieved
by human intelligence or even in principle, we will not know until
we know. Speculation is as idle as it was in chemistry early in the
twentieth century. And chemistry is hard science, just beyond physics
in the misleading hierarchy of “reductionism.” Integration of mental
aspects of the world with others appears to be a distant goal. Even for
insects, the so-called “language of the bees” for example, problems
of neural realization and evolution are barely at the horizon. It is,
perhaps, surprising to find that such problems are lively topics of
speculationforthevastlymorecomplexandobscuresystemsofhuman
higher mental faculties, language and others; and that we regularly
hear confident pronouncements about the mechanisms and evolution
of such faculties – for humans, not for bees; for bees the problems are
understood to be too hard. Commonly the speculations are offered as
solutions to the mind–body problem, but that can hardly be, since the
problem has had no coherent formulation for 300 years.
For the present, the study of language and other higher human
mental faculties is proceeding much as chemistry did, seeking to
“establish a rich body of doctrine,” with an eye to eventual unification,
but without any clear idea of how this might take place.
Some of the bodies of doctrine that are under investigation are
rather surprising in their implications. Thus, it now seems possible
to take seriously an idea that a few years ago would have seemed
56
Perspectives on language and mind
outlandish: that the language organ of the brain approaches a kind
of optimal design. For simple organic systems, conclusions of this
sort seem very reasonable, and even partially understood. If a very re-
cent emergent organ that is central to human existence in fact does
approach optimal design, that would suggest that, in some unknown
way, it may be the result of the functioning of physical and chemical
laws for a brain that has reached a certain level of complexity. And fur-
ther questions arise for general evolution that are by no means novel,
but that have been somewhat at the margins of inquiry until fairly
recently. I am thinking of the work of D’Arcy Thompson and Alan
Turing, to mention two of the most prominent modern figures.
Similarconceptions,nowemerginginacertainforminthestudy
of language, also had a central place in Galileo’s thought. In studying
acceleration, he wrote, “we have been guided . . . by our insight into
the character and properties of nature’s other works, in which nature
generally employs only the least elaborate, the simplest and easiest of
means. For I do not believe that anybody could imagine that swim-
ming or flying could be accomplished in a simpler or easier way than
that which fish and birds actually use by natural instinct.” In a more
theological vein, he held that God “always complies with the easiest
and simplest rules, so that His power could be all the more revealed
through His most difficult ways.” Galileo was guided by the ontologi-
cal principle that “Nature is perfect and simple and creates nothing in
vain,” historian of science Pietro Redondi observes.
The theory of evolution adopts a more complex picture. Evolu-
tionisa“tinkerer,”inFrançoisJacob’softenquotedphrase.Itdoesthe
best it can with the materials at hand, but the best may be convoluted,
a result of path-dependent evolution, and under physical constraints
and often conflicting adaptive demands. Nonetheless, the conception
oftheperfectionofnatureremainsavitalcomponentofcontemporary
57
On nature and language
inquiry into organic nature, at least in its simpler aspects: the poly-
hedral shells of viruses, cell-division into spheres, the appearance of
the Fibonacci series in many phenomena of nature, and other aspects
of the biological world. How far this goes is a matter of speculation
and debate.
Veryrecently,theissueshavecometotheforeinthestudyof lan-
guage. It has become possible to pose in a productive way the question
of “perfection of language”: specifically, to ask how closely human
language approaches an optimal solution to design conditions that
the system must meet to be usable at all. To the extent that the ques-
tion receives a positive answer, we will have found that nature has – in
Galileo’swords – “employed the least elaborate, the simplest and eas-
iest of means,” but in a domain where this would hardly be expected:
a very recent and apparently isolated product of evolution, a central
component of the most complex organic object known, a component
that is surely at the core of our mental nature, cultural achievement,
and curious history.
Perhaps I might add one final remark about the limits of under-
standing. Many of the questions that inspired the modern scientific
revolution are not even on the agenda. These include issues of will
and choice, which were taken to be at the heart of the mind–body
problem before it was undermined by Newton. There has been very
valuable work about how an organism executes a plan for integrated
motor action – how a cockroach walks, or a person reaches for a cup
on the table. But no one even raises the question of why this plan
is executed rather than some other one, except for the very simplest
organisms. Much the same is true even for visual perception, some-
times considered to be a passive or reflexive operation. Recently two
cognitive neuroscientists published a review of progress in solving a
problem posed in 1850 by Helmholtz: “even without moving our eyes,
58
Perspectives on language and mind
we can focus our attention on different objects at will, resulting in very
different perceptual experiences of the same visual field.” The phrase
“at will” points to an area beyond serious empirical inquiry. It remains
as much of a mystery as it was for Newton at the end of his life, when
he was still seeking some “subtle spirit” that lies hidden in all bod-
ies and that might, without “absurdity,” account for their properties
of attraction and repulsion, the nature and effects of light, sensation,
and the way “members of animal bodies move at the command of the
will” – all comparable mysteries for Newton, perhaps even “beyond
our understanding,” like the “principles of motion.”
It has become standard practice in the last few years to describe
the problem of consciousness as “the hard problem,” others being
within our grasp, now or imminently. I think there are good reasons
to treat such pronouncements with at least “mitigated skepticism,”
particularly when we recognize how sharply understanding declines
beyond the simplest systems of nature. History also suggests caution.
In the Galilean era, the nature of motion was the “hard problem.”
“Springing or Elastic Motions” are the “hard rock in Philosophy,”
Sir William Petty observed, proposing ideas that resemble those soon
developed much more richly by Newton. The “hard problem” was that
bodies that seem to our senses to be at rest are in a “violent” state, with
“a strong endeavor to fly off or recede from one another,” in Robert
Boyle’s words. The problem, he felt, is as obscure as “the Cause and
Nature” of gravity, thus supporting his belief in “an intelligent Author
or Disposer of Things.” Even the skeptical Newtonian Voltaire argued
that the ability of humans to “produce a movement” where there was
none shows that “there is a God who gave movement” to matter. To
Henry More, the transfer of motion from one body to another was an
ultimatemystery:ifablueballhitsaredball,themotionistransferred,
but not the color, though both are qualities of the moving blue ball.
59
On nature and language
These “hard problems” were not solved; rather, abandoned as
science turned to its more modest post-Newtonian course. That has
been recognized by leading historians of science. Friedrich Lange, in
hisclassicscholarlyhistoryofmaterialismacenturyago,observedthat
wehavesimply“accustomedourselvestotheabstractnotionof forces,
or rather to a notion hovering in a mystic obscurity between abstrac-
tion and concrete comprehension,” a “turning-point” in the history of
materialism that removes the doctrine far from the “genuine Material-
ists” of the seventeenth century, and deprives it of much significance.
Their “hard problems” disappeared, and there has been little notice-
able progress in addressing the other “hard problems” that seemed
no less mysterious to Descartes, Newton, Locke and other leading
figures, including the “free will” that is “the noblest thing” we have,
manifested most strikingly in normal language use, they believed, for
reasons that we should not lightly dismiss.
For some of these mysteries, extraordinary bodies of doctrine
have been developed in the past several hundred years, some of the
greatest achievements of the human intellect. And there have been
remarkable feats of unification as well. How remote the remaining
mountain peaks may be, and even just where they are, one can only
guess. Within the range of feasible inquiry, there is plenty of work
to be done in understanding mental aspects of the world, including
human language. And the prospects are surely exciting. We would do
well,however,tokeepinsomecornerofourmindsHume’sconclusion
about“Nature’sultimatesecrets”andthe“obscurityinwhichtheyever
did and ever will remain,” and particularly the reasoning that led him
to that judgment, and its confirmation in the subsequent history of
the hard sciences. These are matters that are sometimes too easily
forgotten, I suspect, and that merit serious reflection – possibly, some
day, even constructive scientific inquiry.
60
Chapter 3
Language and the brain
The right way to address the announced topic would be to review the
fundamental principles of language and the brain and to show how
they can be unified, perhaps on the model of chemistry and physics
sixty-five years ago, or the integration of parts of biology within the
complex a few years later. But that course I am not going to try to
attempt. One of the few things I can say about this topic with any con-
fidence is that I do not begin to know enough to approach it in the
right way. With less confidence I suspect it may be fair to say that
current understanding falls well short of laying the basis for the uni-
fication of the sciences of the brain and higher mental faculties, lan-
guage among them, and that many surprises may lie along the way to
what seems a distant goal – which would itself come as no surprise
if the classical examples I mentioned are indeed a realistic model.
This somewhat skeptical assessment of current prospects dif-
fers from two prevalent but opposing views. The first holds that the
skepticism is unwarranted, or more accurately, profoundly in error,
because the question of unification does not even arise. It does not
arise for psychology as the study of mind, because the topic does not
fall within biology, a position taken to define the “computer model of
61
On nature and language
mind”;1
nor for language, because language is an extra-human object,
the standard view within major currents of philosophy of mind and
language, and also put forth recently by prominent figures in neuro-
science and ethology. At least that is what the words seem to imply; the
intentions may be different. I will return to some prominent current
examples.
A contrasting view holds that the problem of unification does
arise, but that the skepticism is unwarranted. Unification of the brain
andcognitivesciencesisanimminentprospect,overcomingCartesian
dualism. This optimistic assessment is expressed forthrightly by
evolutionary biologist E. O. Wilson in a recent publication of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences devoted to the brain, sum-
marizing the state of the art, and seems to be shared rather broadly:
“Researchersnowspeakconfidentlyofacomingsolutiontothebrain–
mind problem.”2
Similar confidence has been expressed for half a
century, including announcements by eminent figures that the brain–
mind problem has been solved.
We can, then, identify several points of view with regard to the
general problem of unification:
(1) There is no issue: language and higher mental faculties
generally are not part of biology.
(2) They belong to biology in principle, and any constructive
approach to the study of human thought and its expression,
or of human action and interaction, relies on this assumption,
at least tacitly.
Category (2), in turn, has two variants: (A) unification is close at
hand; (B) we do not currently see how these parts of biology relate
to one another, and suspect that fundamental insights may be missing
altogether.
62
Language and the brain
The last point of view, (2B), seems to me the most plausible. I
will try to indicate why, and to sketch some of the terrain that should
be covered in a careful and comprehensive overview of these topics.
As a framework for the discussion, I would like to select three
theses that seem to me generally reasonable, and have for a long time.
I will quote current formulations by leading scientists, however, not
my own versions from past years.
The first thesis is articulated by neuroscientist Vernon Mount-
castle, introducing the American Academy study I mentioned. A guid-
ing theme of the contributions, and the field generally, he observes,
is that “Things mental, indeed minds, are emergent properties of
brains,” though “these emergences are not regarded as irreducible
but are produced by principles that control the interactions between
lower level events – principles we do not yet understand.”
The second thesis is methodological. It is presented clearly
by ethologist Mark Hauser in his comprehensive study Evolution of
Communication.3
Following Tinbergen, he argues, we should adopt
fourperspectivesinstudying“communicationintheanimalkingdom,
including human language.” To understand some trait, we should:
(i) Seek the mechanisms that implement it, psychological and
physiological; the mechanistic perspective
(ii) Sort out genetic and environmental factors, which can also
be approached at psychological or physiological levels; the
ontogenetic perspective
(iii) Find the “fitness consequences” of the trait, its effects on
survival and reproduction; the functional perspective
(iv) Unravel “the evolutionary history of the species so that the
structure of the trait can be evaluated in light of ancestral
features”; the phylogenetic perspective
63
On nature and language
The third thesis is presented by cognitive neuroscientist C. R.
Gallistel:4
the “modular view of learning,” which he takes to be “the
normthesedaysinneuroscience.”Accordingtothisview,thebrainin-
corporates “specialized organs,” computationally specialized to solve
particular kinds of problems, as they do with great facility, apart from
“extremely hostile environments.” The growth and development of
these specialized organs, sometimes called “learning,” is the result
of internally directed processes and environmental effects that trigger
and shape development. The language organ is one such component
of the human brain.
In conventional terminology, adapted from earlier usage, the
language organ is the faculty of language (FL); the theory of the initial
state of FL, an expression of the genes, is universal grammar (UG);
theoriesofstatesattainedareparticulargrammars;thestatesthemselves
are internal languages, “languages” for short. The initial state is, of
course, not manifested at birth, as in the case of other organs, say the
visual system.
Let us now look more closely at the three theses – reasonable
I think, but with qualifications – beginning with the first: “Things
mental, indeed minds, are emergent properties of brains.”
The thesis is widely accepted, and is often considered a distinc-
tive and exciting contribution of the current era, if still highly contro-
versial. In the past few years it has been put forth as an “astonishing
hypothesis,” “the bold assertion that mental phenomena are entirely
natural and caused by the neurophysiological activities of the brain”
and “that capacities of the human mind are in fact capacities of the
human brain”; or as a “radical new idea” in the philosophy of mind
that may at last put an end to Cartesian dualism, though some con-
tinue to believe that the chasm between body and mind cannot be
bridged.
64
Language and the brain
Thepictureismisleading,anditisusefultounderstandwhy.The
thesisisnotnew,anditshouldnotbecontroversial,forreasonsunder-
stoodcenturiesago.Thethesiswasarticulatedclearlyintheeighteenth
century, and for compelling reasons – though controversially then, be-
cause of affront to religious doctrines. By 1750, David Hume casually
described thought as a “little agitation of the brain.”5
A few years later
the thesis was elaborated by the eminent chemist Joseph Priestley:
“the powers of sensation or perception and thought” are properties of
“a certain organized system of matter”; properties “termed mental”
are “the result [of the] organical structure” of the brain and “the hu-
man nervous system” generally. Equivalently: “Things mental, indeed
minds, are emergent properties of brains” (Mountcastle). Priestley of
course could not say how this emergence takes place, nor can we do
much better after 200 years.
I think the brain and cognitive sciences can learn some useful
lessons from the rise of the emergence thesis in early modern science,
and the ways the natural sciences have developed since, right up to
the mid twentieth century, with the unification of physics–chemistry–
biology. Current controversies about mind and brain are strikingly
similar to debates about atoms, molecules, chemical structures and
reactions, and related matters, which were very much alive well into
the twentieth century. Similar, and in ways that I think are instructive.
The reasons for the eighteenth-century emergence thesis, re-
cently revived, were indeed compelling. The modern scientific revolu-
tion, from Galileo, was based on the thesis that the world is a great
machine, which could in principle be constructed by a master artisan,
a complex version of the clocks and other intricate automata that fas-
cinated the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, much as computers
have provided a stimulus to thought and imagination in recent years;
the change of artifacts has limited consequences for the basic issues,
65
On nature and language
as Alan Turing demonstrated sixty years ago. The thesis – called “the
mechanical philosophy” – has two aspects: empirical and method-
ological. The factual thesis has to do with the nature of the world: it is
amachineconstructedofinteractingparts.Themethodologicalthesis
hastodowithintelligibility:trueunderstandingrequiresamechanical
model, a device that an artisan could construct.
This Galilean model of intelligibility has a corollary: when
mechanism fails, understanding fails. For this reason, when Galileo
came to be disheartened by apparent inadequacies of mechanical ex-
planation, he finally concluded that humans will never completely un-
derstand even “a single effect in nature.” Descartes, in contrast, was
much more optimistic. He thought he could demonstrate that most
of the phenomena of nature could be explained in mechanical terms:
the inorganic and organic world apart from humans, but also human
physiology, sensation, perception, and action to a large extent. The
limits of mechanical explanation were reached when these human
functions are mediated by thought, a unique human possession based
on a principle that escapes mechanical explanation: a “creative” prin-
ciple that underlies acts of will and choice, which are “the noblest
thing we can have” and all that “truly belongs” to us (in Cartesian
terms). Humans are only “incited and inclined” to act in certain ways,
not“compelled”(orrandom),andinthisrespectareunlikemachines–
that is, the rest of the world. The most striking example for the Carte-
sians was the normal use of language: humans can express their
thoughts in novel and limitless ways that are constrained by bodily
state but not determined by it, appropriate to situations but not caused
by them, and that evoke in others thoughts that they could have ex-
pressed in similar ways – what we may call “the creative aspect of
language use.”
It is worth bearing in mind that these conclusions are correct,
as far as we know.
66
Language and the brain
Intheseterms,Cartesianscientistsdevelopedexperimentalpro-
cedures to determine whether some other creature has a mind like
ours – elaborate versions of what has been revived as the Turing test
in the past half century, though without some crucial fallacies that
have attended this revival, disregarding Turing’s explicit warnings, an
interesting topic that I will put aside.6
In the same terms, Descartes
could formulate a relatively clear mind–body problem: having estab-
lished two principles of nature, the mechanical and mental principles,
wecanaskhowtheyinteract,amajorproblemforseventeenth-century
science. But the problem did not survive very long. As is well known,
the entire picture collapsed when Newton established, to his great
dismay, that not only does mind escape the reach of the mechanical
philosophy, but so does everything else in nature, even the simplest
terrestrial and planetary motion. As pointed out by Alexander Koyré,
one of the founders of the modern history of science, Newton showed
that “a purely materialistic or mechanistic physics is impossible.”7
Accordingly, the natural world fails to meet the standard of intelligi-
bility that animated the modern scientific revolution. We must accept
the “admission into the body of science of incomprehensible and in-
explicable ‘facts’ imposed upon us by empiricism,” as Koyré puts the
matter.
Newtonregardedhisrefutationofmechanismasan“absurdity,”
but could find no way around it despite much effort. Nor could the
greatest scientists of his day, or since. Later discoveries introduced
still greater “absurdities.” Nothing has lessened the force of David
Hume’s judgment that by refuting the self-evident mechanical philos-
ophy, Newton “restored Nature’s ultimate secrets to that obscurity in
which they ever did and ever will remain.”
A century later, in his classic history of materialism, Friedrich
Lange pointed out that Newton effectively destroyed the materi-
alist doctrine as well as the standards of intelligibility and the
67
On nature and language
expectations that were based on it: scientists have since “accustomed
ourselvestotheabstractnotionofforces,orrathertoanotionhovering
in a mystic obscurity between abstraction and concrete comprehen-
sion,” a “turning-point” in the history of materialism that removes
the surviving remnants of the doctrine far from those of the “genuine
Materialists” of the seventeenth century, and deprives them of much
significance.
Both the methodological and the empirical theses collapsed,
never to be reconstituted.
On the methodological side, standards of intelligibility were
considerably weakened. The standard that inspired the modern scien-
tific revolution was abandoned: the goal is intelligibility of theories,
not of the world – a considerable difference, which may well bring
into operation different faculties of mind, a topic some day for cog-
nitive science, perhaps. As the preeminent Newton scholar I. Bernard
Cohen put the matter, these changes “set forth a new view of science”
in which the goal is “not to seek ultimate explanations,” rooted in
principles that appear to us self-evident, but to find the best theoreti-
calaccountwecanofthephenomenaofexperienceandexperiment.In
general,conformitytocommon-senseunderstandingisnotacriterion
for rational inquiry.
On the factual side, there is no longer any concept of body, or
matter, or “the physical.” There is just the world, with its various
aspects: mechanical, electromagnetic, chemical, optical, organic,
mental – categories that are not defined or delimited in an a priori way,
but are at most conveniences: no one asks whether life falls within
chemistry or biology, except for temporary convenience. In each of
the shifting domains of constructive inquiry, one can try to develop
intelligible explanatory theories, and to unify them, but no more than
that.
68
Language and the brain
The new limits of inquiry were understood by working sci-
entists. The eighteenth-century chemist Joseph Black observed that
“chemical affinity must be accepted as a first principle, which we can-
not explain any more than Newton could explain gravitation, and let
us defer accounting for the laws of affinity until we have established
such a body of doctrine as Newton has established concerning the
laws of gravitation.” That is pretty much what happened. Chemistry
proceeded to establish a rich body of doctrine; “its triumphs [were]
built on no reductionist foundation but rather achieved in isolation
from the newly emerging science of physics,” a leading historian of
chemistry observes.8
In fact, no reductionist foundation was discov-
ered. What was finally achieved by Linus Pauling sixty-five years ago
was unification, not reduction. Physics had to undergo fundamental
changes in order to be unified with basic chemistry, departing even
more radically from common-sense notions of “the physical”: physics
had to “free itself” from “intuitive pictures” and give up the hope of
“visualizing the world,” as Heisenberg put it,9
yet another long leap
away from intelligibility in the sense of the scientific revolution of the
seventeenth century.
The early modern scientific revolution also brought about what
we should properly call “the first cognitive revolution” – maybe the
only phase of the cognitive sciences to deserve the name “revolution.”
Cartesian mechanism laid the groundwork for what became neuro-
physiology. Seventeenth- and eighteenth-century thinkers also devel-
oped rich and illuminating ideas about perception, language, and
thought that have been rediscovered since, sometimes only in part.
Lacking any conception of body, psychology could then – and can to-
day – only follow the path of chemistry. Apart from its theological
framework, there has really been no alternative to John Locke’s cau-
tious speculation, later known as “Locke’s suggestion”: God might
69
On nature and language
have chosen to “superadd to matter a faculty of thinking” just as he
“annexed effects to motion which we can in no way conceive motion
able to produce” – notably the property of attraction at a distance,
a revival of occult properties, many leading scientists argued (with
Newton’s partial agreement).
In this context the emergence thesis was virtually inescapable,
in various forms:
For the eighteenth century: “the powers of sensation or
perception and thought” are properties of “a certain
organized system of matter”; properties “termed mental”
are “the result [of the] organical structure” of the brain
and “the human nervous system” generally.
A century later, Darwin asked rhetorically why “thought,
being a secretion of the brain,” should be considered
“more wonderful than gravity, a property of matter.”10
Today, the study of the brain is based on the thesis that “Things
mental, indeed minds, are emergent properties of brains.”
Throughout,thethesisisessentiallythesame,andshouldnotbe
contentious: it is hard to imagine an alternative in the post-Newtonian
world.
The working scientist can do no better than to try to construct
“bodies of doctrine” for various aspects of the world, and seek to unify
them, recognizing that the world is not intelligible to us in anything
like the way the pioneers of modern science hoped, and that the goal
is unification, not necessarily reduction. As the history of the sciences
clearly reveals, one can never guess what surprises lie ahead.
It is important to recognize that Cartesian dualism was a rea-
sonable scientific thesis, but one that disappeared three centuries ago.
There has been no mind–body problem to debate since. The thesis
70
Language and the brain
did not disappear because of inadequacies of the Cartesian concept of
mind, but because the concept of body collapsed with Newton’s de-
molition of the mechanical philosophy. It is common today to ridicule
“Descartes’s error” in postulating mind, his “ghost in the machine.”
But that mistakes what happened: Newton exorcized the machine; the
ghost remained intact. Two contemporary physicists, Paul Davies and
John Gribbin, close their recent book The Matter Myth by making that
point once again, though they misattribute the elimination of the ma-
chine: to the new quantum physics. True, that adds another blow, but
the “matter myth” had been demolished 250 years earlier, a fact that
was understood by working scientists at the time, and has become
part of the standard history of the sciences since. These are issues that
merit some thought, I believe.
For the rejuvenated cognitive science of the twentieth century,
it is also useful, I think, to pay close attention to what followed the
unification of a virtually unchanged chemistry with a radically revised
physics in the 1930s, and what preceded the unification. The most dra-
maticeventthatfollowedwastheunificationofbiologyandchemistry.
This was a case of genuine reduction, but to a newly created physical
chemistry; some of the same people were involved, notably Pauling.
Thisgenuinereductionhassometimesledtotheconfidentexpectation
that mental aspects of the world will be reduced to something like the
contemporary brain sciences. Maybe so, maybe not. In any event, the
history of science provides little reason for confident expectations.
True reduction is not so common in the history of science, and need
not be assumed automatically to be a model for what will happen in
the future.
Still more instructive is what was taking place just before the
unification of chemistry and physics. Prior to unification, it was com-
monly argued by leading scientists that chemistry is just a calculating
71
On nature and language
device, a way to organize results about chemical reactions, sometimes
to predict them. In the early years of the last century, molecules were
regarded the same way. Poincaré ridiculed the belief that the molecu-
lar theory of gases is more than a mode of calculation; people fall
into that error because they are familiar with the game of billiards, he
said. Chemistry is not about anything real, it was argued: the reason
is that no one knew how to reduce it to physics. In 1929, Bertrand
Russell – who knew the sciences well – pointed out that chemical laws
“cannot at present be reduced to physical laws”;11
not false, but mis-
leading in an important way. It turned out that the phrase “at present”
was out of place. Reduction was impossible, as was soon discovered,
until the conception of physical nature and law was (radically) revised.
Itshouldnowbeclearthatthedebatesabouttherealityofchem-
istry were based on fundamental misunderstanding. Chemistry was
“real” and “about the world” in the only sense of these concepts that
we have: it was part of the best conception of how the world works
that human intelligence had been able to contrive. It is impossible to
do better than that.
The debates about chemistry a few years ago are in many ways
echoed in philosophy of mind and cognitive science today – and theo-
reticalchemistry,ofcourse,ishardscience,mergingindistinguishably
with core physics: it is not at the periphery of scientific understanding,
like the brain and cognitive sciences, which are trying to study systems
that are vastly more complex, and poorly understood. These very re-
cent debates about chemistry, and their unexpected outcome, should
be instructive for the brain and cognitive sciences. They suggest that it
is a mistake to think of computer models of the mind that are divorced
from biology – that is, in principle unaffected by anything that might
be discovered in the biological sciences – or Platonistic or other non-
biological conceptions of language, also insulated from important
72
Language and the brain
evidence, to their detriment, or to hold that the relation of the mental
to the physical is not reducibility but the weaker notion of supervenience:
any change in mental events or states entails a “physical change,”
though not conversely, and there is nothing more specific to say. The
pre-unification debates over chemistry could be rephrased in these
terms:thosedenyingtherealityofchemistrycouldhaveheldthatchem-
ical properties supervene on physical properties, but are not reducible
to them. That would have been an error: the right physical properties
had not yet been discovered. Once they were, talk of supervenience be-
came superfluous and we move towards unification. The same stance
seems to me reasonable in the study of mental aspects of the world.
In general, it seems sensible to follow the good advice of post-
Newtonian scientists, and Newton himself for that matter, and seek to
construct “bodies of doctrine” in whatever terms we can, unshackled
by common-sense intuitions about how the world must be – we know
that it is not that way – and untroubled by the fact that we may have
to “defer accounting for the principles” in terms of general scientific
understanding, which may turn out to be inadequate to the task of
unification, as has regularly been the case for 300 years. A good deal of
discussion of these topics seems to me misguided, perhaps seriously
so, for reasons such as these.
There are other similarities worth remembering between pre-
unification chemistry and current cognitive science. The “triumphs of
chemistry” provided valuable guidelines for the eventual reconstruc-
tion of physics: they provided conditions that core physics would have
to meet. In a similar way, discoveries about bee communication pro-
vide conditions that have to be met by some future account in terms
of cells. In both cases, it is a two-way street: the discoveries of physics
constrain possible chemical models, as those of basic biology should
constrain models of insect behavior.
73
On nature and language
Therearefamiliaranaloguesinthebrainandcognitivesciences:
the issue of computational, algorithmic and implementation theories
emphasized by David Marr, for example. Or Eric Kandel’s work on
learning in marine snails, seeking “to translate into neuronal terms
ideas that have been proposed at an abstract level by experimental
psychologists,” and thus to show how cognitive psychology and
neurobiology “may begin to converge to yield a new perspective in
the study of learning.”12
Very reasonable, though the actual course of
the sciences should alert us to the possibility that the convergence may
not take place because something is missing – where, we cannot know
until we find out.
I have been talking so far about the first of the three theses
I mentioned at the outset: the guiding principle that “Things mental,
indeedminds,areemergentpropertiesof brains.”Thatseemscorrect,
but close to truism, for reasons understood by Darwin and by eminent
scientists a century earlier, and that followed from Newton’sdiscovery
of “absurdities” that were nonetheless true.
Let us turn to the second: the methodological thesis, quoted
from Mark Hauser’s Evolution of Communication: to account for some
trait we must adopt the ethological approach of Tinbergen, with its
four basic perspectives: (1) mechanisms, (2) ontogenesis, (3) fitness
consequences, (4) evolutionary history.
For Hauser, as for others, the “Holy Grail” is human language:
the goal is to show how it can be understood if we investigate it from
these four perspectives, and only that way. The same should be true of
vastly simpler systems: the “dance language” of the honeybee, to se-
lect the sole example in the animal world that, according to standard
(though not uncontroversial) accounts, seems to have at least some
superficial similarity to human language: infinite scope, and the prop-
erty of “displaced reference” – the ability to communicate information
74
Language and the brain
about something not in the sensory field. Bees have brains the size of a
grass seed, with less than a million neurons; there are related species
that differ in mode of communication; there are no restrictions on in-
vasive experiment. But basic questions remain unanswered: questions
about physiology and evolution, in particular.
In his review of this topic, Hauser does not discuss mecha-
nisms, and the few suggestions that have been made seem rather ex-
otic; for example, mathematician/biologist Barbara Shipman’s theory
that the bee’s performance is based on an ability to map a certain
six-dimensional topological space into three dimensions, perhaps by
means of some kind of “quark detector.”13
On evolution, Hauser has
only a few sentences, which essentially formulate the problem. The
same is true of other cases he reviews. For example, songbirds, which
are “the success story in developmental research,” although there is no
“convincing scenario” about selection – or even an unconvincing one,
it seems.
It should hardly surprise us, then, that questions about physi-
ological mechanisms and phylogenesis remain so mysterious in the
incomparably more difficult case of human language.
A closer look at Hauser’s study gives some indication of the re-
moteness of the goal that he and others set – a worthy goal, but we
should be realistic about where we stand in relation to it. First, the
title of the book is misleading: it is not about the evolution of com-
munication, a topic that receives only passing mention. Rather, it is a
comparative study of communication in many species. That is made
explicit in the comments in Derek Bickerton’s review in Nature that
are quoted on the jacket cover; and in the final chapter, which specu-
lates about “future directions.” The chapter is entitled “Comparative
communication,” realistically; there is little speculation about evolu-
tion,aquitedifferentmatter.Rathergenerally,whatHauserandothers
75
On nature and language
describe as the record of natural selection turns out to be an account
of the beautiful fit of an organism to its ecological niche. The facts
are often fascinating and suggestive, but they do not constitute evolu-
tionary history: rather, they formulate the problem to be solved by the
student of evolution.
Second, Hauser points out that this comprehensive study of
comparative communication is “irrelevant to the formal study of lan-
guage” (an overstatement, I think). That is no small point: what he
calls the “formal study of language” includes the psychological as-
pects of the first two perspectives of the ethological approach: (1) the
mechanisms of language, and (2) their ontogenesis. And what is irrel-
evant to psychological aspects is irrelevant to physiological aspects
as well, since anything that has bearing on physiological aspects
imposes conditions on psychological aspects. Accordingly, the first
two perspectives of the recommended approach of Tinbergen are ef-
fectively abandoned, for human language. For similar reasons, the
comparative study may be “irrelevant,” in the same sense, to con-
temporary inquiry into bee communication, largely a richly detailed
varietyof “descriptivelinguistics.”Thatseemsaplausibleconclusion:
a great deal has been learned about particular species at a descriptive
level – insects, birds, monkeys, and others. But little emerges of any
generality.
The “irrelevance” to human language is, however, far deeper.
The reason is that – as Hauser also observes – language is not properly
regarded as a system of communication. It is a system for expressing
thought, something quite different. It can of course be used for
communication, as can anything people do – manner of walking or
style of clothes or hair, for example. But in any useful sense of the
term, communication is not the function of language, and may even be
of no unique significance for understanding the functions and nature
oflanguage.HauserquotesSomersetMaugham’squipthat“ifnobody
76
Language and the brain
spoke unless he had something to say, . . . the human race would very
soon lose the use of speech.” His point seems accurate enough, even
apart from the fact that language use is largely to oneself: “inner
speech” for adults, monologue for children. Furthermore, whatever
merit there may be to guesses about selectional processes that might,
or might not, have shaped human language, they do not crucially
depend on the belief that the system is an outgrowth of some mode
of communication. One can devise equally meritorious (that is,
equally pointless) tales of the advantage conferred by a series of
small mutations that facilitated planning and clarification of thought;
perhaps even less fanciful, since it is unnecessary to suppose that the
mutations took place in parallel in the group – not that I am proposing
this or any other story. There is a rich record of the unhappy fate
of highly plausible stories about what might have happened, once
something was learned about what did happen – and in cases where
far more is understood.
In the same connection, it is noteworthy that human language
does not even appear in Hauser’s “taxonomy of communicative in-
formation” (mating, survival, identity of caller). Language can surely
be used for alarm calls, identification of speaker, and so on, but to
study the functioning of language in these terms would be hopelessly
misleading.
A related difficulty is that Hauser restricts the functional per-
spective to “adaptive solutions.” That sharply limits the study of evo-
lution, a point that Darwin forcefully emphasized and is now much
better understood. In fact, Hauser cites case after case of traits that
have no adaptive function, so he argues – appearing only in contrived
situations with no counterpart in nature.
These matters are barely discussed; what I have cited are scat-
teredremarks,asentencehereandthere.Buttheyindicatetheimmen-
sity of the gaps that we must contemplate if we take the ethological
77
On nature and language
perspective seriously – as of course we should, so I believe, and have
beenarguingforfortyyears.14
Hauser’sspeculationsaboutsomefuture
inquiry into the evolution of human language highlight the mystery.
He refers to the two familiar basic problems: it is necessary to account
for (1) the massive explosion of the lexicon, and (2) the recursive sys-
temforgeneratinganinfinitevarietyofmeaningfulutterances.Forthe
latter, no speculation is offered. As for (1), Hauser reports that there
is nothing analogous in the animal kingdom, including his own spe-
cialty (non-human primates). He observes that a precondition for the
explosion of the lexicon is an innate human capacity to imitate, which
he finds to be fundamentally different from anything in the animal
world, perhaps unique. He was able to find only one possible excep-
tion:apessubjectedtotraining.Hisconclusionisthat“certainfeatures
of the human environment are required for engaging the capacity to
imitate in apes,” which, if true, would seem to imply that the capacity
is not the result of the adaptive selection to which he and others insist
we must restrict ourselves in studying evolution. As for the origins of
the human capacity to imitate, he points out that we know nothing
and may never be able to find out when – or for that matter how – it
appeared in hominid evolution.
Furthermore, like many others, Hauser seriously underesti-
mates the ways in which the human use of words to refer differs in
its essential structural and functional properties from the rare exam-
ples of “referential signals” in other species, including some mon-
keys (possibly some apes, though the evidence, he says, is uncertain),
a matter that goes well beyond the issues of displaced and situation-
free reference. And he also seriously overstates what has been shown.
Thus, citing some of Darwin’s cautious speculations, he writes that
“we thus learn two important lessons” about “human language evo-
lution”: that “the structure and function of human language can be
78
Language and the brain
accounted for by natural selection,” and that “the most impressive
link between human and nonhuman-animal forms of communication
lies in the ability to express emotional state.” Similarly, Steven Pinker
“shows how a Darwinian account of language evolution is the only
possible account, . . . because natural selection is the only mechanism
that can account for the complex design features of a trait such as
language” (my emphasis). It would be remarkable if something had
been “shown” about the evolution of human language, let alone the
vastly more ambitious claim cited; or if we could “learn” anything sig-
nificant from speculations about the topic. Surely nothing so amazing
has taken place. Cautious speculation and confident pronouncement
do not show anything, and the most that we learn is that there might be
a useful path to follow. Perhaps.
That aside, the conclusions that have supposedly been demon-
stratedmakelittlesense,apartfromacharitablereading;uncontrover-
sially, natural selection operates within a space of options determined
by natural law (and historical/ecological contingencies), and it would
be the sheerest dogmatism to issue a priori proclamations on the role
of these factors in what comes to pass. That is true whether we are
considering the appearance of the Fibonacci series in nature, or hu-
man language, or anything else in the biological world. What has been
“shown” or “persuasively argued” is that natural selection is plausibly
taken to be a primary factor in evolution, as Darwin argued, and as
no one (within the circles that Hauser considers) even questions; why
he has decided that I (or anyone) have insisted that “natural selection
theory cannot account for the design features of human language,” he
does not say (and it is manifestly untrue, under the charitable reading
required to grant the statement some meaning). Beyond the generally
shared assumptions about natural selection and other mechanisms in
evolution, one tries to find out what took place, whether studying the
79
On nature and language
eye, the giraffe’s neck, the bones of the middle ear, mammalian visual
systems, human language, or anything else. Confident pronounce-
ment is not to be confused with demonstration or even persuasive
argument.
Though I suppose Hauser would deny this, it seems to me that
on a close look, his actual conclusions do not differ much from the
extreme skepticism of his Harvard colleague, evolutionary biologist
Richard Lewontin, who concludes – forcefully – that the evolution of
cognition is simply beyond the reach of contemporary science.15
The remoteness of the proclaimed goals leads to what seem
to me some strange proposals: for example, that “the human brain,
vocal tract, and language appear to have co-evolved” for the pur-
poses of linguistic communication. Hauser is borrowing the no-
tion of co-evolution of language and the brain from neuroscientist
Terrence Deacon.16
Deacon argues that students of language and its
ontogenesis – the first two perspectives of the ethological approach –
are making a serious error when they adopt the standard approach of
the neurosciences: seeking to discover a genetically determined com-
ponent of the mind–brain and the state changes it undergoes through
experience and maturation. They have overlooked a more promising
alternative: “that the extra support for language learning,” beyond the
data of experience, “is vested neither in the brain of the child nor in the
brains of parents or teachers, but outside brains, in language itself.”
Language and languages are extra-human entities with a remarkable
“capacity . . . to evolve and adapt with respect to human hosts.” These
creatures are not only extra-human, but apparently outside the biolog-
ical world altogether.
What are these strange entities, and where did they come from?
What they are is left unstated, except that they have evolved to incor-
porate the properties of language that have been mistakenly attributed
80
Language and the brain
to the brain. Their origin is no less mysterious, though once they
somehow appeared, “the world’s languages evolved spontaneously,”
throughnaturalselection,ina“flurryofadaptation”thathas“beengo-
ingonoutsidethehumanbrain.”Theyhavethereby“becomebetterand
better adapted to people” – like parasites and hosts, or perhaps prey
and predator in the familiar cycle of co-evolution; or perhaps viruses
provide the best analogy, he suggests. We also derive an account of
language universals: they have “emerged spontaneously and indepen-
dentlyineachevolvinglanguage . . . Theyareconvergentfeaturesof lan-
guage evolution,” like the dorsal fins of sharks and dolphins. Having
evolved spontaneously and acquired the universal properties of lan-
guage by rapid natural selection, one of these extra-human creatures
attaches itself to my granddaughter in New England, and a different
one to my granddaughter in Nicaragua – actually she is infected by two
of these mysterious viruses. It is a mistake to seek an explanation of
the outcome in these and all other cases by investigating the interplay
of experience and innate structure of the brain; rather, the right par-
asites attach themselves to hosts in a particular community in some
mystical fashion – by a “magician’s trick,” to borrow Deacon’s term
for the ordinary assumptions of naturalistic science – yielding their
knowledge of specific languages.
Deacon agrees, of course, that infants are “predisposed to learn
human languages” and “are strongly biased in their choices” of “the
rules underlying language,” acquiring within a few years “an im-
mensely complex rule system and a rich vocabulary” at a time when
they cannot even learn elementary arithmetic. So there is “something
special about human brains that enables us to do with ease what no
other species can do even minimally without intense effort and re-
markably insightful training.” But it is a mistake to approach these
predispositions and special structures of the brain the way we do other
81
On nature and language
aspects of nature – the visual system, for example; no one would pro-
pose that insect and mammalian visual organs evolved spontaneously
byrapidnaturalselectionandnowattachthemselvestohosts,yielding
the visual capacities of bees and monkeys; or that the waggle dance of
bees or the calls of vervets are organism-external parasites that have
co-evolved to provide the capacities of the host. But in the special case
of human language, we are not to pursue the normal course of the nat-
uralsciences,seekingtodeterminethenatureofthe“predispositions”
and “special structures” and the ways they are realized in brain mech-
anisms (in which case the extra-organic entities that have co-evolved
with language vanish from the scene).
Since in this unique case extra-organic “viruses” have evolved
that attach themselves to hosts in just the right way, we need not at-
tribute to the child more than a “general theory of learning.” So we
discover once we overcome the surprising failure of linguists and psy-
chologists to recognize that the languages of the world – in fact, the
possible languages that are as yet unspoken – may have evolved spon-
taneously, outside of brains, coming to “embody the predispositions
of children’s minds” by natural selection.
There is, I think, a sense in which Deacon’sproposals are on the
right track. The idea that a child needs no more than a “general theory
of learning” to attain language and other cognitive states can be sus-
tained only with quite heroic moves. That is a basic thrust of the third
of the framework theses introduced at the outset, to which we return
directly. Much the same conclusion is illustrated by the extraordinar-
ily rich innatist and modular assumptions embedded within attempts
to implement what are often misleadingly presented as unstructured
general learning theories, and the no less extraordinary assumptions
about innate structure built into approaches based on speculative evo-
lutionary scenarios that explicitly assume extreme modularity.17
82
Language and the brain
The only real problem, Deacon argues, is “symbolic reference.”
The rest will somehow fall into place if we account for this in evo-
lutionary terms. How the rest falls into place is not discussed. But
perhaps that does not matter, because “symbolic reference” is also left
as a complete mystery, in part because of failure to attend to its most
elementary properties in human language.
I have been giving quotes, because I have no idea what this
means. And understanding is not facilitated by an account of “linguis-
tics” (including views attributed to me) that is unrecognizable, with
allusions so vague that it is often hard even to guess what might have
been the source of the misunderstanding (sometimes it is easy; e.g.,
misunderstanding of terminology used in a technical sense, such as
“competence”). Whatever the meaning may be, the conclusion seems
to be that it is an error to investigate the brain to discover the nature
of human language; rather, studies of language must be about the
extra-biological entities that co-evolved with humans and somehow
“latch on” to them. These proposals have been highly acclaimed by
prominent evolutionary psychologists and biologists, but I do not see
why. Taken at all seriously, they seem only to reshape standard prob-
lems of science as utter mysteries, placing them beyond any hope of
understanding, while barring the procedures of rational inquiry that
have been taken for granted for hundreds of years.
Returning to the methodological thesis that we should adopt
an ethological approach, it is reasonable enough in principle, but the
waysitispursuedraisemanyquestions.AsfarasIcansee,therenewed
call to pursue this approach, as advocated forty years ago in the criti-
cal literature on “behavioral science,” leaves us about where we were.
We can study the genetically determined component of the brain –
and maybe more than the brain – that is dedicated to the structure
and use of language, and the states it attains (the various languages),
83
On nature and language
and we can investigate the process by which the state changes take
place (language acquisition). We can try to discover the psychologi-
cal and physiological mechanisms and principles, and to unify them,
standard problems of science. These inquiries constitute the first two
perspectives of the ethological approach: the study of mechanisms
and ontogenesis. Turning to the third perspective, the functional per-
spective, we can investigate the use of language by the person who
has attained a particular state, though the restriction to effects on sur-
vival and reproduction is far too narrow, if we hope to understand
much about language. The fourth perspective – phylogenesis – seems
a remote prospect at best, and does not seem much advanced by the
comparative study of communication, a wholly different matter.
Let us turn finally to the third thesis I mentioned, quoting
Gallistel: the substantive thesis that in all animals, learning is based
on specialized mechanisms, “instincts to learn” in specific ways; what
Tinbergen called “innate dispositions to learn.”18
These “learning
mechanisms” can be regarded as “organs within the brain [that] are
neural circuits whose structure enables them to perform one partic-
ular kind of computation,” as they do more or less reflexively apart
from “extremely hostile environments.” Human language acquisition
is instinctive in this sense, based on a specialized “language organ.”
This “modular view of learning” Gallistel takes to be “the norm these
days in neuroscience.” He argues that this framework includes what-
ever is fairly well understood, including conditioning, insofar as it is
a real phenomenon. “To imagine that there exists a general purpose
learning mechanism in addition to all these problem-specific learn-
ing mechanisms . . . is like trying to imagine the structure of a general
purpose organ, the organ that takes care of problems not taken care
of by adaptively specialized organs like the liver, the kidney, the heart
and the lungs,” or a “general purpose sensory organ, which solves
84
Language and the brain
the problem of sensing” for the cases not handled by the eye, the ear,
and other specialized sensory organs. Nothing like that is known in
biology: “Adaptive specialization of mechanism is so ubiquitous and
so obvious in biology, at every level of analysis, and for every kind of
function, that no one thinks it necessary to call attention to it as a gen-
eral principle about biological mechanisms.” Accordingly, “it is odd
but true that most past and contemporary theorizing about learning”
departs so radically from what is taken for granted in the study of
organisms – a mistake, he argues.
As far as I know, the approach Gallistel recommends is sound;
in the special case of language, it seems to me to be adopted by all
substantive inquiry, at least tacitly, even when that is heatedly denied.
It is hard to avoid the conclusion that a part of the human biological
endowment is a specialized “language organ,” the faculty of language
(FL). Its initial state is an expression of the genes, comparable to the
initial state of the human visual system, and it appears to be a common
humanpossessiontocloseapproximation.Accordingly,atypicalchild
will acquire any language under appropriate conditions, even under
severe deficit and in “hostile environments.” The initial state changes
under the triggering and shaping effect of experience, and internally
determined processes of maturation, yielding later states that seem
to stabilize at several stages, finally at about puberty. We can think
of the initial state of FL as a device that maps experience into state L
attained: a “language acquisition device” (LAD). The existence of such
a LAD is sometimes regarded as controversial, but it is no more so
than the (equivalent) assumption that there is a dedicated “language
module” that accounts for the linguistic development of an infant as
distinct from that of her pet kitten (or chimpanzee, or whatever),
given essentially the same experience. Even the most extreme “radi-
cal behaviorist” speculations presuppose (at least tacitly) that a child
85
On nature and language
can somehow distinguish linguistic materials from the rest of the
confusion around it, hence postulating the existence of FL (= LAD);19
and as discussion of language acquisition becomes more substan-
tive, it moves to assumptions about the language organ that are more
rich and domain specific, without exception to my knowledge. That
includes the acquisition of lexical items, which turn out to have
rich and complex semantic structure, even the simplest of them.
Knowledge of these properties becomes available on very limited evi-
dence and, accordingly, would be expected to be essentially uniform
among languages; and is, as far as is known.
Here we move to substantive questions within the first three
perspectives of the ethological approach, though again without re-
stricting inquiry into language use to fitness consequences: survival
and reproduction. We can inquire into the fundamental properties of
linguistic expressions, and their use to express thought, sometimes
to communicate, and sometimes to think or talk about the world. In
this connection, comparative animal research surely merits attention.
There has been important work on the problem of representation in a va-
riety of species. Gallistel introduced a compendium of review articles
on the topic a few years ago by arguing that representations play a key
role in animal behavior and cognition; here “representation” is un-
derstood as isomorphism, a one-to-one relation between mind–brain
processes and “an aspect of the environment to which these processes
adapt the animal’s behavior” – e.g. when an ant represents the corpse
of a conspecific by its odor.20
It is a fair question whether, or how, the
results relate to the mental world of humans; in the case of language,
to what is called “phonetic” or “semantic representation.”
As noted, from the biolinguistic point of view that seems to me
appropriate–andtacitlyadoptedinsubstantivework–wecanthinkof
a particular language L as a state of FL. L is a recursive procedure that
86
Language and the brain
generates an infinity of expressions. Each expression can be regarded
as a collection of information for other systems of the mind–brain.
The traditional assumption, back to Aristotle, is that the information
falls into two categories, phonetic and semantic; information used,
respectively,bysensorimotorsystemsandconceptual–intentionalsys-
tems – the latter “systems of thought,” to give a name to something
poorly understood. That could well be a serious oversimplification,
but let us keep to the convention. Each expression, then, is an internal
object consisting of two collections of information: phonetic and se-
mantic. These collections are called “representations,” phonetic and
semantic representations, but there is no isomorphism holding be-
tween the representations and aspects of the environment. There is no
pairing of internal symbol and thing represented, in any useful sense.
Onthesoundside,thisistakenforgranted.Itwouldnotbefalse
to say that an element of phonetic representation – say the internal el-
ement /ba/ in my language – picks out a thing in the world, namely
the sound BA. But that would not be a helpful move, and it is never
made. Rather, acoustic and articulatory phonetics seek to understand
how the sensorimotor system uses the information in the phonetic
representation to produce and interpret sounds, no trivial task. One
can think of the phonetic representation as an array of instructions
for the sensorimotor systems, but a particular element of the internal
representationisnotpairedwithsomecategoryofeventsintheoutside
world, perhapsaconstructionbasedonmotionsofmolecules.Similar
conclusions seem to me appropriate on the meaning side. It has been
understood at least since Aristotle that even the simplest words incor-
porate information of many different kinds: about material constitu-
tion, design and intended use, origin, gestalt and causal properties,
and much more. These topics were explored in some depth during
the cognitive revolution of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries,
87
On nature and language
though much of the work, even including the well-studied British em-
piricist tradition from Hobbes to Hume, remains little known outside
of historical scholarship. The conclusions hold for simple nouns,
count and mass – “river,” “house,” “tree,” “water,” personal and place
names – the “purest referential terms” (pronouns, empty categories),
and so on; and the properties become more intricate as we turn to
elements with relational structure (verbs, tense and aspect, . . .), and
of course far more so as we move on to more complex expressions.
As to how early in ontogenesis these complex systems of knowledge
are functioning, little is known, but there is every reason to suppose
that the essentials are as much a part of the innate biological en-
dowment as the capacity for stereoscopic vision or specific kinds of
motor planning, elicited in considerable richness and specificity on
the occasion of sense, in the terminology of the early modern scien-
tific revolution.
There seems nothing analogous in the rest of the animal world,
even at the simplest level. It is doubtless true that the massive explo-
sion of lexicon, and symbolic representation, are crucial components
of human language, but invoking imitation or symbol–thing corre-
spondence does not carry us very far, and even those few steps could
well be on the wrong track. When we turn to the organization and gen-
eration of representations, analogies break down very quickly beyond
the most superficial level.
These properties of language are almost immediately obvious
on inspection – which is not to say that they are deeply investigated or
well understood; they are not. Moving beyond, we find other proper-
ties that are puzzling. The components of expressions – their features,
in standard terminology – must be interpretable by the systems that
access them; the representations at the interface with sensorimotor
and thought systems consist of interpretable features. One would
therefore expect that the features that enter computation should be
88
Language and the brain
interpretable, as in well-designed artificial symbolic systems: formal
systems for metamathematics, computer languages, etc. But it is not
true for natural language; on the sound side, perhaps never true. One
crucialcasehastodowithinflectionalfeaturesthatreceivenosemantic
interpretation: structural case (nominative, accusative), or agreement
features such as plurality (interpretable on nouns, but not on verbs or
adjectives). The facts are not obvious in surface forms, but are reason-
ably well substantiated. Work of the past twenty years has provided
considerable reason to suspect that these systems of uninterpretable
features are quite similar among languages, though the external man-
ifestation of the features differs in fairly systematic ways; and that a
good deal of the typological variety of language reduces to this ex-
tremely narrow subcomponent of language. It could be, then, that the
recursive computational system of the language organ is fixed and
determinate, an expression of the genes, along with the basic struc-
ture of possible lexical items. A particular state of FL – a particular
internal language – is determined by selecting among the highly struc-
tured possible lexical items and fixing parameters that are restricted
to uninterpretable inflectional features and their manifestation. It
could be that that is not a bad first approximation, maybe more than
that.
It seems that the same uninterpretable features may be impli-
cated in the ubiquitous dislocation property of natural language. The
term refers to the fact that phrases are commonly articulated in one
position but interpreted as if they were somewhere else, where they
can be in similar expressions: the dislocated subject of a passive con-
struction, for example, interpreted as if it were in the object position,
in a local relation to the verb that assigns it a semantic role. Disloca-
tion has interesting semantic properties. It may be that the “external”
systemsof thought(externaltoFL,internaltothemind–brain)require
that FL generate expressions with these properties, to be properly
89
On nature and language
interpreted. There is also reason to believe that the uninterpretable
features may be the mechanism for implementing the dislocation
property,perhapsevenanoptimalmechanismforsatisfyingthisexter-
nallyimposedconditiononthelanguagefaculty.Ifso,thenneitherthe
dislocation property nor uninterpretable features are “imperfections”
of FL,“designflaws”(hereusingtheterm“design”metaphorically,of
course). These and other considerations raise more general questions
of optimal design: could it be that FL is an optimal solution to inter-
face conditions imposed by the systems of the mind–brain in which
it is embedded, the sensorimotor and thought systems?
Such questions have been seriously posed only quite recently.
They could not be raised before there was a fairly good grasp of the
fixed principles of the faculty of language and the restricted options
that yield the rich typological variety that we know must be rather
superficial, despite appearances, given the empirical conditions on
language acquisition. Though naturally partial and tentative, such un-
derstanding has increased markedly in the past twenty years. Now
it seems that questions of optimal design can be seriously raised,
sometimes answered. Furthermore, the idea that language may be
an optimal solution to interface conditions, in non-trivial respects,
seems a good deal more plausible than it did a few years ago. Insofar
as it is true, interesting questions arise about the theory of mind,
the design of the brain, and the role of natural law in the evolu-
tion of even very complex organs such as the language faculty, ques-
tions that are very much alive in the theory of evolution at elementary
levels, in work of the kind pioneered by D’Arcy Thompson and Alan
Turing that has been somewhat at the margins until recently. It is con-
ceivable that the comprehensive ethological approach discussed ear-
lier might be enriched in these terms, though that remains a distant
prospect.
90
Language and the brain
Still more remote are the fundamental questions that motivated
the classical theory of mind – the creative aspect of language use, the
distinctionbetweenactionappropriatetosituationsandactioncaused
by situations, between being “compelled” to act in certain ways or
only “incited and inclined” to do so; and in general, the question of
how “members of animal bodies move at the command of the will,”
Newton’s phrase in his review of mysteries that remain unresolved,
including the causes of interaction of bodies, electrical attraction and
repulsion, and other basic issues that remained unintelligible, by the
standards of the scientific revolution.
In some domains, inquiry into components of the mind–brain
has made dramatic progress. There is justified enthusiasm about the
promise of new technologies, and a wealth of exciting work waiting
to be undertaken in exploring mental aspects of the world and their
emergence. It is not a bad idea, however, to keep in some corner of
our minds the judgment of great figures of early modern science –
Galileo, Newton, Hume and others – concerning the “obscurity” in
which“nature’sultimatesecretseverwillremain,”perhapsforreasons
rooted in the biological endowment of the curious creature that alone
is able even to contemplate these questions.
91
Chapter 4
An interview on minimalism
noam chomsky
with Adriana Belletti and Luigi Rizzi
I The roots of the Minimalist Program
ab&lr: To start from a personal note, let us take the Pisa
Lectures as a point of departure.1
You have often characterized the
approach that emerged from your Pisa seminars, twenty years ago, as
a major change of direction in the history of our field. How would you
characterize that shift today?
nc: Well, I don’t think it was clear at once, but in retrospect
there was a period, of maybe twenty years preceding that, in which
there had been an attempt to come to terms with a kind of a para-
dox that emerged as soon as the first efforts were made to study the
structure of language very seriously, with more or less rigorous rules,
an effort to give a precise account for the infinite range of structures of
language. The paradox was that in order to give an accurate descriptive
accountitseemednecessarytohaveahugeproliferationofrulesystems
of a great variety, different rules for different grammatical construc-
tions. For instance, relative clauses look different from interrogative
clauses and the VP in Hungarian is different from the NP and they are
University of Siena, November 8–9, 1999; revised March 16, June 18, 2000
92
An interview on minimalism
all different from English; so the system exploded in complexity. On
the other hand, at the same time, for the first time really, an effort was
made to deal with what has later come to be called the logical problem
of languageacquisition.Plainly,childrenacquiringthisknowledgedo
not have that much data. In fact you can estimate the amount of data
they have quite closely, and it’s very limited; still, somehow children
are reaching these states of knowledge which have apparently great
complexity, and differentiation and diversity – and that can’t be. Each
child is capable of acquiring any such state; children are not specially
designed for one or the other, so it must be that the basic structure of
language is essentially uniform and is coming from inside, not from
outside.Butinthatcaseitappearstobeinconsistentwiththeobserved
diversity and proliferation, so there is kind of a contradiction, or at
least a tension, a strong tension between the effort to give a descrip-
tively adequate account and to account for the acquisition of the
system, what has been called explanatory adequacy.
Already in the 1950s it was clear that there was a problem and
there were many efforts to deal with it; the obvious way was to try to
show that the diversity of rules is superficial, that you can find very
general principles that all rules adhere to, and if you abstract those
principles from the rules and attribute them to the genetic endowment
of the child then the systems that remain look much simpler. That’s
the research strategy. That was begun around the 1960s when various
conditions on rules were discovered; the idea is that if you can factor
therulesintotheuniversalconditionsandtheresidue,thentheresidue
is simpler and the child only has to acquire the residue. That went on
for a long time with efforts to reduce the variety and complexity of
phrase structure grammars, of transformational grammars, and so on
in this manner.2
So, for example, X-bar theory was an attempt to show
that phrase structure systems don’t have the variety and complexity
93
On nature and language
they appear to have because there is some general framework that they
all fit into, and that you only have to change some features of that
general system to get the particular ones.
What happened at Pisa is that somehow all this work came to-
gether for the first time in the seminars, and a method arose for sort
of cutting the Gordian knot completely: namely eliminate rules and
eliminate constructions altogether. So you don’t have complex rules
for complex constructions because there aren’t any rules and there
aren’t any constructions. There is no such thing as the VP in Japanese
ortherelativeclauseinHungarian.Rather,therearejustextremelygen-
eral principles like “move anything anywhere” under fixed conditions
that were proposed, and then there are options that have to be fixed,
parametric choices: so the head of the construction first or last, null
subject or not a null subject, and so on. Within this framework of
fixed principles and options to be selected, the rules and the con-
structions disappear, they become artifacts.
There had been indications that there was something wrong
with the whole notion of rule systems and constructions. For exam-
ple, there was a long debate in the early years about constructions
like, say, John is expected to be intelligent: is it a passive construction like
Johnwasseen,orisitaraisingconstructionlikeJohnseemstobeintelligent?
And it had to be one or the other because everything was a construc-
tion, but in fact they seemed to be the same thing. It was the kind of
controversy where you know you are talking about the wrong thing
because it doesn’t seem to matter what you decide. Well, the right
answer is that there aren’t any constructions anyway, no passive,
no raising: there is just the option of dislocating something some-
where else under certain conditions, and in certain cases it gives you
what is traditionally called the passive and in other cases it gives you
a question and so on, but the grammatical constructions are left as
94
An interview on minimalism
artifacts. In a sense they are real; it is not that there are no rela-
tive clauses, but they are a kind of taxonomic artifact. They are like
“terrestrial mammal” or something like that. “Terrestrial mammal”
is a category, but it is not a biological category. It’s the interaction of
several things and that seems to be what the traditional constructions
are like, VPs, relative clauses, and so on.
The whole history of the subject, for thousands of years, had
been a history of rules and constructions, and transformational gram-
mar in the early days, generative grammar, just took that over. So the
early generative grammar had a very traditional flair. There is a section
on the Passive in German, and another section on the VP in Japanese,
and so on: it essentially took over the traditional framework, tried to
make it precise, asked new questions and so on. What happened in
the Pisa discussions was that the whole framework was turned upside
down.So,fromthatpointof view,thereisnothingleftof thewholetra-
ditional approach to the structure of language, other than taxonomic
artifacts, and that’s a radical change, and it was a very liberating one.
The principles that were suggested were of course wrong, parametric
choices were unclear, and so on, but the way of looking at things was
totally different from anything that had come before, and it opened
the way to an enormous explosion of research in all sorts of areas,
typologically very varied. It initiated a period of great excitement in the
field. In fact I think it is fair to say that more has been learned about
language in the last twenty years than in the preceding 2,000 years.
ab&lr: At some point, some intuitions emerged from much
work within the Principles and Parameters approach that economy
considerations could have a larger role than previously assumed, and
this ultimately gave rise to the Minimalist Program.3
What stimu-
lated the emergence of minimalist intuitions? Was this related to the
systematic success, within the Principles and Parameters approach
95
On nature and language
and also before, of the research strategy consisting in eliminating
redundancies, making the principles progressively more abstract and
general, searching for symmetries (for instance in the theoretically
driven typology of null elements), etc.?
nc: Actually all of these factors were relevant in the emergence
of a Principles and Parameters approach. Note that it is not really a
theory, it’s an approach, a framework that accelerated the search for
redundancies that should be eliminated and provided a new platform
from which to proceed, with much greater success, in fact. There had
already been efforts, of course, to reduce the complexity, eliminate re-
dundancies, and so on. This goes back very far; it’s a methodological
commitment which anyone tries to maintain and it accelerated with
the Principles and Parameters (P & P) framework. However, there was
also something different, shortly after this system began to crystallize
by the early 1980s. Even before the real explosion of descriptive and
explanatory work it began to become clear that it might be possible
to ask new questions that hadn’t been asked before. Not just the
straightforward methodological question: can we make our the-
ories better, can we eliminate redundancies, can we show that the
principles are more general than we thought, develop more explana-
tory theories? But also: is it possible that the system of language itself
has a kind of an optimal design, so, is language perfect? Back in the
early 1980s that was the way I started every course – “Let’s ask: could
language be perfect?” – and then I went on the rest of the semester
trying to address the question, but it never worked, the system always
became very complicated.
What happened by the early 1990s is that somehow it began
to work; enough was understood, something had happened, it was
possible to ask the question in the first session of a course: could lan-
guage be perfect? and then get some results which indicated it doesn’t
96
An interview on minimalism
sound as crazy as you might think. Exactly why, I’m not so sure, but in
the last seven or eight years I think there have been indications that the
question can be asked seriously. There is always an intuition behind
research, and maybe it’s off in the wrong direction, but my own
judgment, for what it’s worth, is that enough has been shown to indi-
cate that it’sprobably not absurd and maybe very advisable to seriously
ask the question whether language has a kind of an optimal design.
But what does it mean for language to have an optimal design?
The question itself was sharpened and various approaches have been
taken to it from a number of different points of view.
There was a shift between two related but distinct questions.
There is a kind of family similarity between the methodologically
drivenefforttoimprovethetheoriesandthesubstantivelydriveneffort
todeterminewhethertheobjectitself hasacertainoptimaldesign.For
instance, if you try to develop a theory of an automobile that doesn’t
work, with terrible design, which breaks down, say the old car you had
in Amherst for example: if you wanted to develop a theory of that car
you would still try to make the theory as good as possible. I mean, you
may have a terrible object, but still want to make the theory as good as
possible. So there are really two separate questions, similar but sep-
arate. One is: let’s make our theories as good as we can whatever the
object is – a snowflake, your car in Amherst, whatever it may be . . .
And the other question is: is there some sense in which the device
is optimal? Is it the best possible solution to some set of condi-
tions that it must satisfy? These are somewhat different questions and
there was a shift from the first question, which is always appropri-
ate (let’s construct the best theory), to the second question: does the
thing that we are studying have a certain kind of optimal character?
That wasn’t clear at the time: most of these things become clear in
retrospect. Maybe in doing research you only understand what you
97
On nature and language
were doing later: first you do it and later, if you are lucky, you under-
stand what you were trying to do and these questions become clarified
through time. Now you have reached a certain level of understanding,
five years from now you’ll look at these things differently.
ab&lr: You have already addressed the next question, which
is about the distinction between methodological minimalism and the
substantive thesis. But let us go through the point since you might
want to add something. The Minimalist Program involves method-
ological assumptions which are by and large common to the method
of post-Galilean natural sciences, what is sometimes called the
Galilean style; even more generally, some such assumptions are com-
mon to human rational inquiry (Occam’s Razor, minimizing appa-
ratus, search for symmetry and elegance, etc.). But on top of that,
there seems to be a substantive thesis on the nature of natural lan-
guages. What is the substantive thesis? How are methodological and
substantive minimalism related?
nc: Actually there is a lot to say about each of those topics:
so take the phrase “Galilean style.” The phrase was used by nuclear
physicist Steven Weinberg, borrowed from Husserl, but not just with
regard to the attempt to improve theories. He was referring to the fact
that physicists “give a higher degree of reality” to the mathematical
models of the universe that they construct than to “the ordinary world
of sensation.”4
What was striking about Galileo, and was considered
very offensive at that time, was that he dismissed a lot of data; he was
willing to say “Look, if the data refute the theory, the data are probably
wrong.” And the data that he threw out were not minor. For example,
he was defending the Copernican thesis, but he was unable to explain
why bodies didn’t fly off the earth; if the earth is rotating why isn’t
everything flying off into space? Also, if you look through a Galilean
telescope, you don’t really see the four moons of Jupiter, you see some
98
An interview on minimalism
horriblemessandyouhavetobewillingtoberathercharitabletoagree
that you are seeing the four moons. He was subjected to considerable
criticism at that time, in a sort of data-oriented period, which happens
to be our period for just about every field except the core natural
sciences. We’re familiar with the same criticism in linguistics. I
remember the first talk I gave at Harvard (just to bring in a personal
example) (Morris [Halle] always remembers this), it was in the mid
1950s, I was a graduate student and I was talking about something
related to generative grammar. The main Harvard Professor Joshua
Whatmough,aratherpompouscharacter,gotup,interruptedafterten
minutes or so: “How would you handle . . . ” and then he mentioned
some obscure fact in Latin. I said I didn’t know and tried to go on, but
we got diverted and that’swhat we talked about for the rest of the time.
You know, that’s very typical and that’s what science had to face in
its early stages and still has to face. But the Galilean style, what Steve
Weinberg was referring to, is the recognition that it is the abstract
systems that you are constructing that are really the truth; the array of
phenomena is some distortion of the truth because of too many fac-
tors, all sorts of things. And so, it often makes good sense to disregard
phenomena and search for principles that really seem to give some
deep insight into why some of them are that way, recognizing that
thereareothersthatyoucan’tpayattentionto.Physicists,forexample,
even today can’t explain in detail how water flows out of the faucet, or
the structure of helium, or other things that seem too complicated.
Physics is in a situation in which something like 90 percent of the
matter in the Universe is what is called dark matter – it’s called dark
because they don’t know what it is, they can’t find it, but it has to be
there or the physical laws don’t work. So people happily go on with
the assumption that we’re somehow missing 90 percent of the matter
in the Universe. That’s by now considered normal, but in Galileo’s
99
On nature and language
time it was considered outrageous. And the Galilean style referred to
that major change in the way of looking at the world: you’re trying to
understand how it works, not just describe a lot of phenomena, and
that’s quite a shift.
As for the shift towards concern for intelligibility and improve-
ment in theories, it is in a certain sense post-Newtonian as has been
recognized by Newton scholars. Newton essentially showed that the
world itself is not intelligible, at least in the sense that early mod-
ern science had hoped, and that the best you can do is to construct
theories that are intelligible, but that’s quite different. So, the world
is not going to make sense to common-sense intuitions. There’s no
sense to the fact that you can move your arm and shift the moon, let’s
say. Unintelligible but true. So, recognizing that the world itself is un-
intelligible, that our minds and the nature of the world are not that
compatible, we go into different stages in science. Stages in which you
try to construct best theories, intelligible theories. So that becomes
another part of the “Galilean style.” These major shifts of perspective
define the scientific revolution. They haven’t really been taken up in
most areas of inquiry, but by now they are a kind of second nature in
physics, in chemistry. Even in mathematics, the purest science there
is, the “Galilean style” operated, in a striking way. So, for example,
Newton and Leibniz discovered calculus, but it didn’t work precisely,
there were contradictions. The philosopher Berkeley found contradic-
tions: he showed that in one line of a proof of Newton’szero was zero
andinanotherlineoftheproofzerowassomethingassmallasyoucan
imagine but not zero. There’s a difference and it’s a fallacy of equivo-
cation; you’reshifting the meaning of your terms and the proofs don’t
go through. And there were a lot of mistakes like that found. Actually,
British and continental mathematicians took different paths (pretty
much, not 100 percent, but largely). British mathematicians tried to
100
An interview on minimalism
overcome the problems and they couldn’t, so it was a sort of a dead
end, even though Newton had more or less invented it. Continental
mathematicians disregarded the problems and that is where classi-
cal analysis came from. Euler, Gauss, and so on. They just said “We’ll
live with the problems and do the mathematics and some day it will
be figured out,” which is essentially Galileo’s attitude towards things
flying off the earth. That’s pretty much what happened. During the
first half of the nineteenth century Gauss, for example, was creating
a good part of modern mathematics, but kind of intuitively, without a
formalized theory, in fact with approaches that had internal contradic-
tions. There came a point when you just had to answer the questions:
you couldn’t make further progress unless you did. Take the notion
“limit.” We have an intuitive notion of limit: you get closer and closer
to a point; when you study calculus in school you learn about infinites-
imals, things that are arbitrarily small, but it doesn’t mean anything.
Nothingisarbitrarilysmall.Therecameapointinthehistoryofmathe-
matics when one simply couldn’twork any longer with these intuitive,
contradictory notions. At that point it was cleaned up, so the mod-
ern notion of limit was developed as a topological notion. That clears
everything up and now we understand it; but for a long period, in fact
right through the classical period, the systems were informal and even
contradictory. That’sto some extent even true of geometry. It was gen-
erally assumed that Euclid formalized geometry but he didn’t, not in
themodernsenseofformalization,therewerejusttoomanygaps.And
in fact geometry wasn’treally formalized until one hundred years ago,
by David Hilbert, who provided the first formalization in the modern
sense for the huge amount of results that had been produced in the
semi-formal geometry. And the same is true right now. Set theory for
example is not really formalized for the working mathematician, who
uses an intuitive set theory. And what’strue of mathematics is going to
101
On nature and language
be true for everything. For theoretical chemists there is now an under-
standing that there’s a quantum-theoretic interpretation of what they
are doing, but if you look at the texts, even advanced texts, they use
inconsistent models for different purposes because the world is just
too complicated.
Well,allofthisispartofwhatyoumightcallthe“Galileanstyle”:
thededicationtofindingunderstanding,notjustcoverage.Coverageof
phenomena itself is insignificant and in fact the kinds of data that, say,
physicists use are extremely exotic. If you took a videotape of things
happening out the window, it would be of no interest to physical
scientists. They are interested in what happens under the exotic con-
ditions of highly contrived experiments, maybe something not even
happening in nature, like superconductivity which, apparently, isn’t
even a phenomenon in nature. The recognition that that’s the way sci-
ence ought to go if we want understanding, or the way that any kind
of rational inquiry ought to go – that was quite a big step and it had
manyparts,liketheGalileanmovetowardsdiscardingrecalcitrantphe-
nomena if you’re achieving insight by doing so, the post-Newtonian
concern for intelligibility of theories rather than of the world, and so
on. That’sall part of the methodology of science. It’snot anything that
anyone teaches; there’s no course in methodology of physics at MIT.
In fact, the only field that has methodology courses, to my knowledge,
is psychology. If you take a psychology degree you study methodology
courses, but if you take a physics degree or a chemistry degree you
don’t do it. The methodology becomes part of your bones or some-
thing like that. In fact, learning the sciences is similar to learning how
to become a shoemaker: you work with a master artisan. You sort of
gettheideaordon’tgettheidea.If yougettheideayoucandoit,if you
don’t get the idea, you’re not a good shoemaker. But no one teaches
how to do it, nobody would know how to teach how to do it.
102
An interview on minimalism
OK, all that is on the methodological side. Then there is a totally
separate question: what’sthe nature of the object that we are studying?
So, is cell division some horrible mess? Or is it a process that follows
verysimplephysicallawsandrequiresnogeneticinstructionsatallbe-
cause it’sjust how the physics works? Do things break up into spheres
to satisfy least energy requirements? If that were true, it would be sort
of perfect; it’s a complicated biological process that’s going the way
it does because of fundamental physical laws. So, beautiful process.
On the other hand, we have the development of some organ. One fa-
mous one is the human spine, which is badly engineered as everyone
knows from personal experience; it’s a sort of a bad job, maybe the
best job that could be done under complicated circumstances, but not
a good job. In fact now that human technology is developed you find
ways of doing things that nature didn’t find; conversely, you can’t do
things that nature did find. For example, something as simple as the
use of metals. We use metals all the time; nature doesn’t use them
for the structure of organisms. And metals are very abundant on the
Earth’s surface but organisms aren’t built out of metals. Metals have
very good constructional properties, that’s why people use them; but
for some reason, evolution couldn’t climb that hill. There are other
similar cases. A case that really isn’t understood and is just beginning
to be studied is the fact that the visual or photosensitive systems of all
known organisms from plants to mammals access only a certain part
of the sun’s energy, and in fact the richest part is not used by organ-
isms: infrared light. It’s a curious fact, because it would be highly
adaptive to be able to use that energy, and human technology can do
it (with infrared detectors), but, again, evolution didn’t find that path
and it’s an interesting question why. There are at the moment only
speculations: one speculation is that there just isn’t any molecule
around that would convert that part of the light spectrum into
103
On nature and language
chemical energy; therefore, evolution couldn’t by accident hit on the
molecule the way it did for what we call the visible light. Maybe that’s
theanswer.Butifthatisthecase,theeyeisinsomesensewelldesigned
and in other senses badly designed. There are plenty of other things
like that. For example, the fact that you don’t have an eye at the back
of your head is poor design: we would be way better off if we had one,
so if a saber tooth tiger was coming after you, you could see it.
There are any number of questions of this kind: how well de-
signed is the object? And no matter how well or badly, to answer that
question you have to add something: designed for what? How well
designed is the object for X? And the best possible answer is: to let
“X” be the elementary contingencies of the physical world and let
“best design” be just an automatic consequence of physical law, given
the elementary contingencies of the physical world (so, for instance,
you can’t go faster than the speed of light, and things like that).
A quite separate question is: given some organism, or entity,
anything you are trying to study – the solar system, a bee, whatever it
may be – how good a theory can I construct for it? And you try to con-
struct the best theory you can, using the “Galilean–Newtonian style,”
not being distracted by phenomena that seem to interfere with the ex-
planatory force of a theory, recognizing that the world is not in accord
with common-sense intuition, and so on.
These are quite different tasks. The first one is asking how well
designed the system is, that’s the new question in the Minimalist Pro-
gram. Of course “design” is a metaphor, we know it’s not designed,
nobody is confused about that. The Minimalist Program becomes a
serious program when you can give a meaningful answer to the ques-
tion: what is the X when you say “well designed for X”? If that can be
answered, then we have, at least in principle, a meaningful question.
Whether it is premature, whether you can study it, that’s a different
104
An interview on minimalism
matter.AllofthesethingsbegantoemergeaftertheP&Pprogramhad
essentially cut the Gordian knot by overcoming the tension between
the descriptive problem and the acquisition or explanatory problem;
you really had the first genuine framework for theory in the history of
the field.
The problems didn’t arise clearly until the 1950s, although the
field has been going on for thousands of years. Until the 1950s there
was no clear expression of the problem; the fact that on the one hand
you had the problem of describing languages correctly, on the other
hand you had the problem of accounting for how anyone can learn any
of them. As far as I am aware, that pair of questions was never coun-
terposed before the 1950s. It became possible to do it then, because
of developments in the formal sciences which clarified the notion of
generative process and so on. Once the basic questions were formu-
lated, youhadthetension,infactparadox.ThePisa seminarsprovided
the first way of overcoming the paradox and therefore gave an idea of
what a genuine theory of language would be like. You must overcome
the paradox. Then there is a framework, and a consequence of that is
the rise of new questions like the question of substantive optimality
rather than only methodological optimality.
II Perfection and imperfections
ab&lr: The Minimalist Program explores the thesis that hu-
man language may be a “perfect system,” a system optimally designed
tomeetcertainconditionsimposedbyothercognitivesystemsthatthe
language faculty interacts with. But what are the leading ideas about
what would count as “perfection”? Some clarification is useful here.
One can easily imagine criteria of perfection or optimality accord-
ing to which human language would be far from optimally designed.
105
On nature and language
Consider for instance the ubiquitous presence of ambiguity in natu-
ral language, a property which a “superengineer” would presumably
avoid, given certain goals (to use a metaphor you often refer to in
your minimalist writings). One could also argue that language, as an
abstract computational capacity, is less than optimally adapted to the
human performance system (with memory limitations, and so on),
as it can give rise to all sorts of unusable structures (garden paths,
center embedding, etc.), as you have often pointed out. Such criteria
of optimal design are a priori conceivable and not unreasonable, but
clearly they are not what is intended here. So, what kind of criteria of
perfection make the minimalist thesis sustainable?
nc: Let’s distinguish two questions. One is: what do we mean
by optimality? Few rules is better than more rules, less memory used in
computationisbetterthanmorememoryusedetc.Therearesome,not
precise, general ideas about what optimality is. The second question
is:whatconditionsisthesystemsupposedtomeet?Ithinkwhatyou’re
raising has to do with that question and you’re absolutely right: there
can be various points of view. If you take a standard functionalist
point of view, you would ask: is the system designed for its use? So,
is it going to be well designed for the uses to which people put it?
And the answer there is “apparently not”; so the system does not
seem to be all that well designed for use for the kind of reasons you
mentioned (ambiguities, garden paths, lots of expressions that are
unintelligible, expressions that are perfectly intelligible but not well
formed). In some sense the system is not well designed for use, at least
not perfectly designed for use, but it has to be designed well enough
to get by. That’s all that we discover: it’s designed well enough to get
by. That raises the question: can we find other conditions such that
language is well designed, optimal for those conditions? I think we
can, from a different perspective. So, instead of asking the standard
106
An interview on minimalism
functionalist question, is it well designed for use?, we ask another
question: is it well designed for interaction with the systems that are
internal to the mind? It’s quite a different question, because maybe
the whole architecture of the mind is not well designed for use. Let
me see if I can make an analogy: take some other organ of the body,
say, the liver. You may discover that the liver is badly designed for life
in Italy because people drink too much wine and they get all sorts
of diseases of the liver; therefore, the liver wasn’t well designed for
function. On the other hand, the liver might be beautifully designed
for interaction with the circulatory system and the kidney and so on,
and those are just different things. From the point of view of selection,
natural selection, things must be well designed, at least moderately
well designed for use, well designed enough so that organisms can
reproduce and so on. But a totally separate question is: forgetting the
use to which the object is put, is it well designed from the perspective
of internal structure? That’s a different kind of question, and actually
a new one. The natural approach has always been: is it well designed
for use, understood typically as use for communication? I think that’s
the wrong question. The use of language for communication might
turn out to be a kind of epiphenomenon. I mean, the system developed
however it did, we really don’t know. And then we can ask: how do
people use it? It might turn out that it is not optimal for some of the
ways in which we want to use it. If you want to make sure that we
never misunderstand one another, for that purpose language is not
well designed, because you have such properties as ambiguity. If we
want to have the property that the things that we usually would like
to say come out short and simple, well, it probably doesn’t have that
property. A lot of the things we would like to say may be very hard to
express, maybe even impossible to express. You often find that you
can’t express simple intentions and feelings that you would like to
107
On nature and language
convey to somebody; a lot of personal interactions collapse because of
things like that in ordinary life. So, the system is not well designed in
many functional respects. But there’s a totally separate question: is it
well designed with regard to the internal systems with which it must
interact? That’s a different perspective and a new question; and that’s
the question that the Minimalist Program tries to answer.
The way I would like to think of it now is that the system is
essentially inserted into already existing external systems: external
to the language faculty, internal to the mind. So there’s a sensori-
motor system which is there, independently of the language; maybe
it is somewhat modified because of the presence of language, but
in essence it is there independently of language. The bones of the
middle ear don’t change because of language. And there is some kind
of system of thought (conception, intention and so on) which is sort
of sitting there. That includes what were traditionally called “common
notions” or “innate ideas.” Perhaps also analysis in terms of what
is called “folk psychology,” interpreting people’s actions in terms of
belief and desire, recognizing things in the world and how they move,
and so on. Well, that’s presumably not entirely dependent on lan-
guage; probably, non-human primates have something like that, and
perhaps even the capacity of attributing minds to other organisms, a
question currently much debated. The language faculty has to interact
with those systems, otherwise it’s not usable at all. So, we may ask: is
it well designed for the interaction with those systems? Then you get a
different set of conditions. And in fact the only condition that emerges
clearly is that, given that the language is essentially an information
system, the information it stores must be accessible to those systems,
that’stheonlycondition.Wecanaskwhetherlanguageiswelldesigned
to meet the condition of accessibility to the systems in which it is
embedded. Is the information it provides “legible” to those systems?
108
An interview on minimalism
It is like asking: is the liver accessible to the other systems with which
it interacts? If the liver produced something, not bile, but something
else that the rest of the body couldn’t make any use of, it wouldn’t be
any good; and that’s a different question than whether the liver is well
designed for life in a wine-drinking culture. A very different question.
ab&lr: An empirically non-vacuous definition of perfection
implies the identification of possible imperfections. Inflectional mor-
phology is often referred to as an apparent imperfection. For instance,
inventedformallanguageshavearecursivesyntax,capableofcomput-
ing expressions over an unbounded domain, but nothing resembling
natural language morphology. What is the driving intuition here?
Morphology seems to be at the same time an imperfection and
a defining property of natural languages. How can these two aspects
be reconciled within a minimalist perspective?
nc: Morphology is a very striking imperfection; at least, it is
superficially an imperfection. If you were to design a system, you
wouldn’t put it in. It’s not the only one, though; no formal language,
for example, has a phonology or a pragmatics and things like dislo-
cation in the sense we all understand: expressions appear not where
you interpret them but somewhere else. All of these are imperfections,
in fact even the fact that there is more than one language is a kind of
imperfection. Why should that be? All of these are at least prima facie
imperfections, you would not put them into a system if you were trying
to make it work simply. A good guiding intuition about imperfection
is to compare natural languages with invented “languages,” invented
symbolicsystems.Whenyouseedifferences,youhavea suspicionthat
you are looking at something that is a prima facie imperfection. There
are differences at about every point. Formal languages, for example,
don’t have a designated syntax; they just have a set of well-formed
expressions; the syntax can be anything you like. So, there’s no right
109
On nature and language
answer to the question: what are the true rules of formation for well-
formed formulas of arithmetic? What are the axioms of arithmetic?
The answer is: any set of axioms you like to generate all the theorems.
It’s the theorems that are real, not the axioms; the axioms are just a
way of describing them, one of many ways. Similarly, if you invent a
computer language, it doesn’t really matter which rules you pick to
characterize its expressions; it’sthe expressions that are the language,
not the specific computational system that characterizes them. That’s
notthewaynaturallanguageworks.Innaturallanguagethereissome-
thing in the head, which is the computational system. The generative
system is something real, as real as the liver; the utterances generated
are like an epiphenomenon. This is the opposite point of view.
Furthermore, the semantics of natural language and of formal
languagesseemtobetotallydifferent,atleastinmyopinion.Unlikethe
observationaboutsyntax,whichisatruism,thisthesisiscontroversial.
Not many people agree with me about this, but in my opinion they are
totally different. In a Fregean formal system, or in any special-purpose
system that anyone would construct, the symbols are intended to pick
out things, real things. That’s an ideal for natural sciences too. If you
construct a scientific theory you want its terms to pick out real things
of the world. I mean, if we postulate Empty Category Principle (ECP),
we’re assuming there’s something in the world which corresponds
to ECP, that is the purpose of the subject. Scientists may also talk
about longitude, let’s say, but they know it’s not a real thing, it’s just a
notationfordescribingthings.Butit’sagoalforscience–andit’sbuilt
into every invented symbolic system – that the terms pick out some-
thing: that’s their semantics, the word–thing relation, essentially.
Now, it’s a real question whether natural language works like that.
I don’t think it does. In that case it deviates even in this respect from
invented symbolic systems. In fact, it seems it deviates at just about
110
An interview on minimalism
every essential point, and you have to ask why does language have
these properties; it is a fair question. A lot of the questions, I think,
are too hard, like if it’s true, as I believe, that there’s no word–thing
relation, the question why there is no word–thing relation is at the
moment too hard.
But other questions may not be, like morphology. So let’s ask
the question why language has morphology, why should language
have this apparent imperfection? The primary issue concerns one part
of morphology. For example, plurality on nouns is not really an im-
perfection. You want to distinguish singular from plural, the outside
systems want to know about that. So, in fact, plurality on nouns is
rather like different words: just as you have “table” and “chair,” you
have singular and plural, and there are sensible reasons why plural
should be an inflection and “chair” shouldn’t.Namely, everything has
to be singular or plural, but not everything has to be a chair or not
a chair. So there are plausible reasons why some part of morphology
should be there. Formal languages don’t do it but they are just not
interested in singularity and plurality, that’s not an interesting differ-
ence. But human language is interested in this difference, so it has it,
like a lexical item, and languages express it as an inflection because
of its generality in the system, as distinct from “table” versus “chair,”
which is not generalizable. So that part is not an imperfection. What is
an imperfection is plurality on verbs. Why is it there? You already have
it on the noun, so why do you have it on the verb, or on the adjective?
Inflection for number looks redundant there, and that is an imper-
fection. To put it differently, that feature, or that occurrence of the
feature, say, plurality on the verb, is not interpreted. You only interpret
it on the noun, and that’s why in traditional grammars it was always
said that the verbs agree with the nouns and that the adjectives agree
with the nouns, not conversely. Actually, until very recently from the
111
On nature and language
point of view of generative grammar or structuralist grammar, agree-
mentjustlookedlikearelation.Thereisnoasymmetrytoit,nosensein
which verbs agree with nouns any more than nouns agree with verbs,
one would have thought. And as we know, if you look superficially
at languages, it may look as if it is the agreement on the verb that
counts,asinItalian,aNullSubjectLanguage.Itlookslikeit’stheinflec-
tionalfeaturesoftheverbthatareconveyingtheinformation,notofthe
noun.Infact,therearefunctionaliststudiesthatreachthatconclusion.
If you submit these questions to the minimalist critique, things
look quite different. It looks as if there is some real truth to the tradi-
tional idea that verbs agree with nouns and not conversely. The thing
that is agreeing, presumably the verb, the adjective, the article, and so
on, they all seem to have uninterpretable features, features that are not
independentlyinterpretedbytheoutsidesystems.So,whataretheydo-
ingthere?That’stheimperfection.Theimperfectionisuninterpretable
features.
Agreement features are an interesting case, because sometimes
theyareinterpretableandsometimestheyarenot.Butanotherinterest-
ingcaseisinfactCase.Casesystemsandinflectionalsystemshavebeen
studied for thousands of years. That’sthe core of traditional grammar,
inflectional systems including Case systems, there’s a huge literature
on that. By the 1940s and 50s it was getting pretty sophisticated within
thestructuralistframework.So,say,RomanJakobson’s“Kasuslehre”5
is a sophisticated interpretation of Case systems. But as far as I can
determine, there was never any distinction made between what we
now call Structural and Inherent Case; I don’t know the literature well
enough to check, but I asked other people like Giuseppe Longobardi,
and apparently there is no clear recognition of the distinction. In
Jakobson’s “Kasuslehre,” he crucially doesn’t make a distinction;
his intent is to show that every feature has all the “right” properties
112
An interview on minimalism
(as in the standard structuralist approach), so that each Case feature
must have semantic properties. So, Ablative has a semantic property,
etc. Then he tries to show that also Nominative and Accusative have
real semantic properties. But, well, they don’t. There’s a split between
the Cases that have semantic properties, like, say, Dative, mostly, and
the ones that don’t, like Nominative and Accusative (or Ergative and
Absolutive). As far as I am aware, this split was not noticed until the
P & P approach came along; then it suddenly emerged very quickly, in
the early 1980s, that this core system of natural language, which had
been studied for centuries, in fact millennia, broke up into two parts,
one of which is an imperfection (at least prima facie) and the other
which is not. So, the inherent Cases, the ones which are semantically
associated, are really not an imperfection: they are marking a semantic
relationtheinterpreterhastoknowabout(likepluralityonnouns).On
theotherhand,whydowehaveNominativeandAccusative(orErgative
and Absolutive), what are they doing? They are not interpreted: nouns
are interpreted exactly the same way whether they are Nominative or
Accusative, and that is like inflectional features on adjectives or verbs:
it looks as though they shouldn’t be there. This does lead to interest-
ing questions. If you are interested in the minimalist questions, what
you’ll ask is exactly that: why are they there? I think there is at least a
plausible suggestion: they are there as perhaps an optimal method of
implementing something else that must be there, namely dislocation.
The semantics of expressions seems to break up into two parts,
at least: what was at one time called Deep and Surface Structure
interpretation. It seems there are just different kinds of semantic
properties: exactly how they subdivide is not entirely clear, but you
can see some differences. There’s the kind that have to do with what
are often called Thematic Relations, such as Patient, Experiencer, etc.;
and there’s the kind that look discourse related, such as new/old
113
On nature and language
information,specificity,Topic,thingslikethat.Theyseemtobediffer-
entcategoriesofsemanticproperties,andhowtomakethebreakisnot
very clear. Take quantifier scope; in the work of twenty-five years ago
thatwastakentobetheprototypicalsurfaceproperty,nowitistakento
be the prototypical non-surface property, LF-property. It’snot obvious
from the unanalyzed phenomena. But as you learn more, you do see
things breaking up into different kinds and then, within the architec-
ture of a more articulated theory, they even seem to appear in different
places, assuming the theory is right. So there are the LF-related prop-
erties and there are the more surface-related properties. If you look
at the surface-related properties, they are typically edge phenomena,
they have to do with the edge of the construction. So, say, specificity
is typically indicated at the edge of an expression (take Object Shift
for instance, a kind of movement to the edge of verbal phrases which
yieldsspecificity,oldinformation,etc.).Andthereisatradition,which
is hard to make clear, but certainly has something to it, which holds
that the surface subject tends to be more or less specific; there are ex-
ceptions,butittendstohavethespecificinterpretation.That’sperhaps
the same point. Real Focus is also an edge phenomenon, in the Left
Periphery, and all of these things seem to have in fact some peripheral
character. On the other hand, the other category of semantic proper-
tiesseemstobenon-dislocated,notattheedge;rather,itinvolveslocal
relations to other elements that assign the semantic property; a Noun
Phrase is related to a verb, a preposition or something like that. That
gives the Theta relations. If that’s the way the thought system works,
there are two kinds of information it is looking for: one edge related,
the other locally related. Then, well-designed languages are going to
have a dislocation property. An expression will somehow have to dis-
tinguishthesekindsofinformationandinfactanoptimalwayofdoing
it would just be to resort to dislocation; expressions are phonetically
114
An interview on minimalism
interpreted at the edge even though they are semantically (themati-
cally) interpreted at the local position, the position of Merge. That’s a
plausible reason, external reason, as to why languages have the dislo-
cation property.
Now, you have to implement the property somehow. How do
you implement it? Several things have to be indicated, to make it
work. Now we are internal to the computational system. It’s as if we
had assigned an engineer the problem, “implement the dislocation
property,” because the system has to do it. So, how do you do it? You
have to find the target of dislocation, and it looks as if everything is
driven by heads, so let’sassume that. If you find a target of dislocation,
which will be some head, you have to identify it by some property,
which will also determine what kind of element it attracts to it: a Noun
Phrase, an interrogative phrase, something else? Furthermore, that
head has to make available a position of dislocation; some do, some
don’t. And you have to find the thing that is dislocated. So, there must
be three things: you need three properties, in technical terms, three
features; the term “features” just means properties that enter into the
computational system. So, the engineer recognizes: “OK, I need three
features”: a feature that will identify the target and determine what
kind of expression can move to it, one that will identify the thing that
is to be dislocated, and one that will decide whether the target has
an extra position or not. In fact, the thing that is moved is identified
by Structural Case, the target is identified by redundant features –
Agreement features if it is attracting a Noun Phrase – and the extra
position is the EPP feature. What has always been considered weird is
the Extended Projection Principle (EPP), “extended” because there is
no semantic role involved; the role is “here’s a position to which you
candislocate,”whereanelementcanbeinterpretedasdislocated.Soit
seems that you need three features and you have three uninterpretable
115
On nature and language
inflectional features; this suggests, at least, that the uninterpretable
features are there precisely to implement dislocation.
There’s more evidence for that. One of the properties of the
computational system is that, minimally, it has to satisfy the inter-
face condition: expressions have to be interpretable at the interface.
You can’t have things at the interface that the other systems cannot
read. For example, at the sensorimotor level you couldn’t have a word
that wasn’t spelled out phonetically because the sensorimotor sys-
tem would not know what to do: you couldn’t have an orthographic
word, for example. And the same is going to be true at the thought
end: you have got to eliminate the uninterpretable features. So, some-
how the computational system is eliminating all these uninterpretable
features, but how will it eliminate them? The natural answer is to elim-
inate them once they have done their job. If their job is to implement
dislocation,then,whentheyhavedoneit,eliminatethem.Anditlooks
as if that is the way in which things work. So, once these features have
done their job, they can’t do it again: once structural Case has been
satisfied,youcan’tsatisfyitagainsomewhereelse.Withagreementit’s
a little more tricky, because there are internal reasons why the system
seems to be doing it many times, but once you have taken care of an
agreement feature, it can’t agree with something higher, for example.
Itisfrozenwhereitis.Allthesethingshangtogetherinsuchawayasto
lendsomeplausibilitytotheideathatthesearenotimperfections,they
are part of an optimal way of satisfying an external requirement, the
interface conditions. I don’t think this is a knock-down argument. It’s
a plausibility argument but it has some force, and if that is right, then
the inflectional morphology turns out to be not an imperfection. Parts
of it, like plurality on nouns, are extremely natural, it’s good design;
other parts like, say, structural Case or agreement features on other
116
An interview on minimalism
elements, seem to be doing a job that the computational system must
carry out and it is a good way of doing it, in fact.
Now, that good way of doing it does lead to oddities: so, for
example, sometimes the uninterpretable inflectional morphology
functions even though there is no dislocation, with unaccusatives,
for example. Suppose we find a structure with a target T that has both
(redundant) Agreement features and an EPP feature, but the phrase
that agrees with T is unable to move to the target because something
elsesatisfiedtheEPPfeature:perhapsanExpletive,asin(1),oraphrase
that is closer to T and therefore preempts the displacement by virtue of
locality conditions, as in (2), where t marks the position from which
the phrase to-me raised to the subject position, satisfying EPP:
(1) There T-seem (to me) to be many people in the room
(2) To-me T-seem t to be many people in the room
In English, the rule forming (2) is blocked, but not in other languages;
for example Icelandic, or in such Italian constructions as A Gianni
piacciono i dolci, in line with your analysis of experiencer verbs.6
In such
cases,wehave“long-distanceagreement”of Tandthenominalphrase
that remains in its initial position, many people in examples (1) and (2)
(or i dolci, in the Italian experiencer construction). Visibly, many people
and i dolci agree with the target T (hence indirectly with the verb that
adjoins to T). But according to the account sketched here, the Case –
Nominative Case – is also assigned as a reflex of this agreement; in
some languages, such as Icelandic, the presence of this Case is also
visible. In such examples as these, we have all the elements that enter
intodisplacement,buttheagreeingnominalisnotdislocated.Thisisa
result of blind operation of the mechanisms “designed” to implement
displacement, blocked here because other factors intervene.
117
On nature and language
Incase(2)themechanismsdoapplybutnottotheelementsthat
manifest agreement; rather to the target T and to-me, the latter with
inherentdativecase,expressingasemanticrelationthatisindependent
oftheCase-Agreementsystem.Otherconsiderations,stillmoretheory
internal, suggest that there is also a kind of “Agreement” between
T and the closer raised dative, accounting for the local displacement
to satisfy EPP, but only partial agreement, hence not manifested, in
accord with general principles.
This is the research direction: try to show that the apparent
imperfections in fact have some computational function, some opti-
mal computational function. And there are other cases to be thought
about.Onemassivecaseisthephonologicalsystem:thewholephono-
logicalsystemlookslikeahugeimperfection,ithaseverybadproperty
you can think of. Consider the way an item is represented in the lex-
icon, with no redundancy, including just what is not predictable by
rule. So the lexical item does not include the phonetic form in every
context, if that is predictable by rule; it just includes what the phonol-
ogy must know in order to give the output, and it’s a very abstract
kind of representation, abstracted from phonetic form. Probably none
of the elements that appear in the lexical representation are inter-
pretable at the interface, that is, they are all uninterpretable features.
The interface is some kind of very narrow phonetic representation,
maybe not even that, maybe a syllabic representation or a prosodic
representation. The prosody is not in the lexical item, therefore it is
added along the way; what is in the lexical item couldn’t be read at
the interface, it has to be modified along the way. Probably the entire
phonology is an imperfection. Furthermore the phonological system
has, in a way, bad computational properties. For example, one reason-
able computational optimality condition is the Inclusiveness Condi-
tion, which holds that the computation shouldn’tadd anything new; it
118
An interview on minimalism
just takes the features that it has and rearranges them; that is the best
system, it doesn’t add junk along the way. The phonology violates it,
wildly.Thewholenarrowphoneticsisnew,metricsisnew,everythingis
just added along the way. If you look at the phonetics, it seems to vio-
lateeveryreasonablecomputationalprinciplethatyoucanthinkof.So,
that raises a question: is the phonology just a kind of ugly system? Or
is it like what inflectional morphology might be, that is, the
optimal solution to some problem? Well, there is a problem that the
phonology has to satisfy, that an engineer designing the language
would have to address. There are syntactic structures being generated,
and they are being generated the way they are to satisfy the LF condi-
tions, the thought conditions; there is a sensorimotor system, it has
its own properties. The syntactic structures have to interact with this
“external” system. So, the engineer would be forced to find some way
ofrelatingthegivensyntacticobjectstothegivensensorimotorsystem.
It would be nice to show that phonology is an optimal way of doing
it. That’s a meaningful question, maybe way too hard, but certainly a
meaningful question. The best answer that you could hope for is that it
isanoptimalwayofdoingit.Isupposethatsomedayitwillbepossible
to turn this into a realistic question, a real research question. A ques-
tion like this doesn’t even arise until you think of it in these terms, but
once it arises it makes a lot of sense, and in fact everything in language
can be looked at in this way. The fact that there are parameters ought
to follow from something; why didn’t the system just have one state
that it could achieve? Why these parameters and not others? There is
probably some good reason for that, if we could figure it out.
ab&lr: So, the displacement property is an inherent property
of natural languages, one that any theory of language aiming at em-
pirical adequacy must express in some way. As for the question why it
is so, you offer the speculation that displacement may be an optimal
119
On nature and language
solution to the problem of having to connect two types of seman-
tic properties to expressions, traditionally, deep and surface semantic
properties.
Now, we can pursue the speculation and ask why displacement
is the solution chosen by natural language syntax. Clearly there would
be other possibilities.
Consider for instance the model, normally adopted in phonol-
ogy, according to which the sequence of units is on a line at the in-
tersection between distinct planes, such that each plane expresses
certain properties, and a unit can be simultaneously assigned proper-
ties expressed on distinct planes.
A priori, the integration of thematic and informational proper-
tiescouldworklikethat,withthesamepositionassignedtheproperty,
say, “patient” on one plane and “topic” on another (with, say, deep se-
manticpropertiessignaledbyonekindofaffixes,andsurfacesemantic
propertiesalsosignaledinsitubyanotherkindofaffixes).Still,natural
language syntax does not seem to work like that in the general case.
Rather, it postulates positions uniquely dedicated to the prop-
erty “patient” (say, under the Hale–Keyser theory of theta roles), and
positions uniquely dedicated to the property “topic,” with the same
element occurring in different positions in the same representation,
and thus picking up both interpretive properties.7
This is the displace-
ment property.
In other words, natural languages seem to prefer to solve the
problem of connecting deep and surface semantics by proliferating
occurrences of elements, rather than by proliferating intersecting
planes, or finding other ways to assign different types of interpretive
properties to the same position.
Could we speculate on why language systematically goes for
this solution? Could this tell us something about the requirements
120
An interview on minimalism
imposed by the interface systems? Could the requirements of lineari-
zation on the PF side be of relevance here? Or some other constraint
on the format of legible information on the LF side?
nc: It’s a very interesting question, which arises at the outer
limits of current understanding, so anything one suggests has to be
very tentative.
Suppose first that there was only “deep” semantics, so the prob-
lem of displacement does not arise. We now ask: why does language
(apparently) identify semantic roles by configuration instead of by
particular inflectional elements? Actually, it seems to do both. Thus,
InherentCase(say,Ablative)doesidentifyasemanticrolebyinflection,
whileStructuralCase(Nominative-Accusative,orErgative-Absolutive)
carries no specific semantic role. For elements with Structural Case,
the semantic role is determined configurationally, typically by virtue of
their relation to the element that selects them: subject and object of a
verb, for example. That this is true is by no means obvious; until quite
recentlynosuchdistinctionwasrecognized.Butitseemstobecorrect.
Furthermore, configurational relations also seem to enter into deter-
mining the semantic relation of an element that has Inherent Case.
If so, language uses both devices – both inflection and config-
uration – to assign semantic relations, quite apart from the matter of
displacement. We therefore want to know why this is so. The natural
place to seek an answer is at the interface between the language faculty
and the systems of thought to which it provides information. Pre-
sumably, these external systems distinguish among various kinds of
semantic relations, and prefer to have them signaled in different ways.
One can proceed to develop further ideas about what these properties
of the thought system might be. We are now in a notoriously difficult
area, because it is so hard to find out anything about these systems
apart from their interaction with the language faculty. We are asking
121
On nature and language
about thought without language, in traditional terms, a concept often
rejected, though it seems to me reasonably clear that something of the
kind must exist.
Turning to the question of displacement, the question about
configuration vs. inflection once again arises. Why does language pre-
fer to signal the “surface semantics” configurationally rather than by
an inflectional system of the Inherent Case variety? Again, one place
to seek the answer is at the interface. Thus we might ask whether, and
if so why, the external systems require that the surface semantics fall
together with the deep semantics that is not signaled inflectionally
by Inherent Case. But here there are also other possibilities. If surface
semantics were signaled by inflection, the underlying morphologi-
cal system would be complicated. For elements with Inherent Case,
therewouldbedoubleinflectionif theyhavedistinctsurface-semantic
properties; for elements lacking Inherent Case, they would have in-
flection only in this case. In contrast, if surface properties are signaled
configurationally, at the edge, the morphological system is uniform
throughout: a single Case inflection always (whether manifested pho-
netically or not). Possibly that is a factor.
Are requirements of linearization on the sound side relevant?
Perhaps so. To pursue the matter further we should introduce into
the discussion languages with more free word order and (typically)
richer manifested inflection – languages of the kind sometimes called
“non-configurational” (though the term is probably inaccurate).
This is no answer: rather, a suggestion as to where one might
lookforanswerstoquestionsthatdefinitelydoarise,andininteresting
ways,particularlyinthecontextofseriouspursuitofminimalistissues.
ab&lr: If it is true that a constitutive characteristic feature
of natural languages is to privilege representations with many dedi-
cated positions, each with simple interpretive properties, it becomes
122
An interview on minimalism
importanttodrawamapaspreciseandfine-grainedaspossibleofthis
complex positional system. This is the rationale behind the so-called
cartographic studies, which are pursued intensely in some research
centers in Italy and elsewhere. How can this endeavor relate, in your
view, to the topics and goals pursued by the Minimalist Program?
nc: This work has led to fascinating results in many areas.
To first approximation, the clause seems to be of the general form:
[ . . . C . . . [ . . . T . . . [ . . . V . . . ]]],whereVistheverbalheadofthecon-
figuration in which deep semantic roles are assigned, T is the locus
of tense and event structure, and C (complementizer) is a kind of
force indicator distinguishing declarative, interrogative, etc. But the
cartographic inquiries have made it very clear that this is only a first
approximation: the positions indicated by . . . have a rich structure.
The “left periphery” includes not only force indicators, themselves
differentiated, but also at least fixed positions for topic and focus; and
the Cinque hierarchy yields a very detailed and apparently universal
array of structures in the T-V region.8
Other work in progress has pro-
videdmuchinsightintothepositionsatandtotheleftof T,whichhost
clitics and inflections in various ways; and into apparent parallels be-
tweentheT-basedconfigurationandtheV-basedconfiguration.There
are no obvious reasons, at least that I see, why the facts of language
should distribute in just this fashion, so once again we are led to the
kinds of questions you raised about configurational vs. inflectional
solutions, here in a much richer and more diverse terrain.
This kind of work leads us to inquire more closely into the na-
ture of interface relations; the traditional two-interface assumption –
sound and meaning – is presumably only an approximation. And
beyond that, it leads us to investigate the “external” systems them-
selves, and the conditions they impose on a well-designed language
faculty. As is common, these questions have traditional antecedents,
123
On nature and language
but it seems that they can now be addressed on much firmer grounds,
and in much more promising ways, in large part as a result of such
endeavors as the cartography projects.
ab&lr: What kind of empirical discovery would lead to the
rejection of the strong minimalist thesis?
nc: All the phenomena of language appear to refute it, just as
the phenomena of the world appeared to refute the Copernican thesis.
The question is whether it is a real refutation. At every stage of every
science most phenomena seem to refute it. People talk about Popper’s
concept of falsification as if it were a meaningful proposal to get rid
of a theory: the scientist tries to find refuting evidence and if refuting
evidence is found then the theory is given up. But nothing works like
that. If researchers kept to those conditions, we wouldn’t have any
theories at all, because every theory, down to basic physics, is refuted
by tons of evidence, apparently. So, in this case, what would refute the
strong minimalist thesis is anything you look at. The question is, as
in all these cases, is there some other way of looking at the apparently
refuting phenomena, so as to preserve or preferably enhance explana-
tory power, where parts of the phenomena fall into place and others
turn out to be irrelevant, like most of the phenomena of the world,
becausetheyarejusttheresultsoftheinteractionsoftoomanyfactors?
That’s one reason why people do experiments. They do experiments
to try to get rid of irrelevant phenomena: the point of the experiment
is to try to throw out most of the phenomena and discover just those
that matter. An experiment is a highly creative act; it’s like creating a
theory. One may not talk about that in methodology courses, but the
working scientist certainly knows it. To try to devise the right experi-
ment is very hard. The first experiment you think of is usually garbage,
so you throw out the experiment and try to get a better experiment and
so on. Finding the right experiment is very much like finding the right
124
An interview on minimalism
theory and in fact intimately related to it: serious experiment is theory-
guided, sometimes to answer questions that arise in the search for
explanation and understanding, sometimes because you can see that
the phenomena apparently refute your theories and you want to de-
termine whether that is just an artifact. Unanalyzed phenomena don’t
really matter much in themselves. What matters is the results of prop-
erly designed experiments, and “properly designed” means internal to
a theory. That’s true whether the experiment is about the relation be-
tween movement and manifestation of inflectional features, or about
language acquisition, or anything else.
Takeaconcreteexamplefromlinguisticsandcognitivepsychol-
ogy,onethathasbeenbadlymisunderstood,theexperimentthatBever,
Fodor, and Garrett did on click displacement.9
The idea was to see if
you could find phrase boundaries, perceptually, by looking at the dis-
location of a click. So, you play a piece of tape, put a noise somewhere
and ask people where they hear it, and it turns out that they don’t hear
it where it was, they hear it displaced somewhere; maybe the click was
displaced to the edge of the phrase because of some Gestalt property
that says that you try to maintain closure, you don’t want to be inter-
rupted in a coherent unit, so you perceptually displace it at the edge
of the unit. If that worked, it would be an interesting way of finding
phrase boundaries. What they were interested in were the hard cases,
like Exceptional Case Marking contexts: do you have object raising or
not, etc.? So if you have John expected Bill to leave, where is the phrase
boundary? Is it after Bill or before Bill? This is a real question, and the
way they proceeded was completely reasonable: first let’s design an
experiment that works; if we get an experiment which we have faith
in, because it is working in the cases where we know what the answer
is, then we will apply it in a case where we don’t know the answer,
and that’s what they did. They did a lot of experiments, but what was
125
On nature and language
published was an attempt to show that the experiment works, not
to provide new results. In other words, you don’t want to have an
experiment that is going to give the wrong result in clear cases, i.e.
one which in John saw Bill would put the break between saw and Bill.
First you have to find an experiment that works. Suppose that it turned
out that the click invariably got displaced to the middle of the phrase,
then it would have been a good experiment, but it would have been
interpreted the other way: the Gestalt property is that you displace the
click to the middle, we’ve shown that, because that’s what happens.
Testing the experiment and deciding how the experiment should be
interpreted, that’s a large part of the work. In fact, in the case of the
click that was essentially all the work. Well, when they got something
that seemed to work (displacement to the edge), then they tried it on
thehardcase:unfortunately,itdidn’tgiveveryclearresults,soitwasn’t
much pursued. But that shows what experiments are like. Now, this
has been seriously misinterpreted. For example, by W. V. Quine, who
has been much interested in methodology of linguistics for a long
time, since the 1940s. At one time, he argued that phrase boundaries
are just an artifact, just as they would be in a formal language, the
model he had in mind apparently, as is pretty common.10
For formal
languages, there is no “right” grammar; it’sarbitrary, you pick any one
you like. So by analogy, in language the linguist can pick any grammar,
depending on one or another concern or interest; the only thing that
is real is the utterances. That’s a false analogy to start with; human
languages are biological objects. What is real – what is in the brain –
is a particular procedure for characterizing information about sound,
meaning and structural organization of linguistic expressions. The
choice of a theoretical account is no more arbitrary than in the case
of the visual or immune systems. But pursuing the analogy to formal
126
An interview on minimalism
systems, back around 1970 Quine argued in an article on the method-
ologyoflinguisticsthatitis“folly”toassumethatthereisarealanswer
to the question of where the phrase boundary is in something of the
formABC:itcouldbebetweenBandCorbetweenAandB.It’sjustlike
picking an axiom system for arithmetic, any way you like. Later, after
the click experiments came out, Quine changed his mind and said:
“Now it’s real, because the click experiments show that there really is
an answer.” This is a serious misinterpretation. The work on clicks
he refers to was testing the experiment, not the phrase structure. If
the click experiments had given the wrong phrase structure in clear
cases,thatwouldhaveshownthattheexperimentisnotwelldesigned.
One wouldn’t say: “The phrase boundaries are not where the linguists
thought, they’re in the middle of a word” on that basis. Suppose that
the click was always heard in the middle of the sentence, so usually
in the middle of the word. From Quine’s point of view, you’d say:
“OK, that’s where the phrase boundary is,” but from any scientist’s
point of view, you would rather say: “Well, it’s a terrible experiment.”
And in fact, if the clicks were displaced towards the middle of the
phrase you just would reinterpret the experiment. From within the
framework of the empirical sciences, first you have to test the experi-
ment and that’shard: most experiments are just irrelevant, and to find
an experimental procedure that really makes sense is very difficult. It’s
a theory-internal task, often undertaken because the phenomena of
the world are apparently refuting everything, and you want to discover
whether, and how, the appearance is misleading.
So,togetbacktoyourquestionafteralongdetour.If youwantto
know what seems to refute the strong minimalist thesis, the answer is
just about everything you can think of or pick at random from a corpus
of material. That is not particularly interesting because it is the normal
127
On nature and language
situation in the sciences, even the most advanced. Again, this is one
of the reasons why people do experiments, which are a crucial part
of the “Galilean style”: it is the experiments that matter, and the well-
designedones,theonesthatfitintoasensibletheory.Theyaretheones
that give the data that count, not what you come across. That’s not the
way linguistics was done until pretty recently. When I was a student,
thegeneralideawastoacquireacorpusandtrytoorganizeit,toprovide
a structural description of it. The corpus could be marginally modified
by field-method procedures – “elicitation techniques” designed,
basically,todeterminethescopeofpartialregularitiesinobservedpat-
terns. But there are no techniques to try to discover data that might be
relevant to answering theory-determined queries about the nature of
language.That’sacreativeact.Now,thepointofviewisthatthecorpus
doesn’tmatter, it’slike the phenomena that you see out of the window.
If you can find something in the corpus that is interesting, great.
Then you’llexplore that with what amounts to doing experiments. But
in fact, a lot of the most interesting work has been on things that no-
bodyeversays,likeparasiticgaps,forexample.Youcanlistenforthou-
sands of years and never hear a parasitic gap, but that’s what seems
to matter. Sometimes there are really striking results like the work of
Dianne Jonas on the dialects of Faroese,11
where she found dialectal
differences that nobody had expected and they showed up mostly in
thingspeoplealmostneversay,likeTransitiveExpletiveConstructions,
and about which speakers are pretty unsure when they say them; but it
turned out that there were systematic differences in a category of con-
structions in areas that people have very little information about, and
moreover they weren’t aware of such dialectal differences. It’s similar
to the parasitic gaps case . . . Which is, incidentally, normal in exper-
imental sciences: the phenomena that turn out to be interesting are
not the normal phenomena of the world, they are usually very exotic.
128
An interview on minimalism
III Explanatory adequacy and explanation in linguistics
ab&lr: In the characterization of the aims of scientific lin-
guistics, one important conceptual distinction introduced in the early
1960s was the distinction between two levels of empirical adequacy:
descriptive adequacy, achieved when a fragment of grammar correctly
describes an aspect of the speaker’s competence, and explanatory ad-
equacy, achieved when a descriptively adequate analysis is completed
by a plausible hypothesis on its acquisition. The Minimalist Program
characterizes a notion of minimalist explanation according to which,
to quote from “Minimalist Inquiries,”12
“a system that satisfies a very
narrow subset of empirical conditions in an optimal way – those it
must satisfy to be usable at all – turns out to satisfy all empirical condi-
tions” (p. 9). Clearly, minimalist explanation is a different concept
from explanatory adequacy: explanatory adequacy, in the technical
sense mentioned above, could be met by a system not corresponding
to minimalist desiderata (for instance, the assumption of an innate
list of island constraints could reach explanatory adequacy in certain
domains as well as a unifying, simple locality principle, but only the
latter would probably meet minimalist standards). How do you see
the relations between the two concepts of explanatory adequacy and
minimalist explanation?
nc: The “list of islands” model was, of course, developed in
some of the most important work of the 1960s. When the tension
between descriptive and explanatory adequacy came up, there were
several approaches; one approach, which is in “Current Issues in
Linguistic Theory,”13
was to try to find principles like A over A,
actually also the wh- island was in there, and a couple of other things;
the other approach was to give a taxonomy of properties, that’s basi-
cally Ross’s dissertation,14
a taxonomy of islands, and an interesting
129
On nature and language
paper by Emmon Bach in which he argued that there should be spe-
cific principles for restrictive relative clauses, maybe in all language,
and other sets of principles for other constructions. These are just two
different intuitions about which way it is going to turn out; and in fact
Ross’s taxonomy of islands is extremely valuable, a core contribution
whicheverybodygoesbackto,butthatpursuesadifferentintuition,the
onethatyouaredescribing.Whatyousuggestseemstomequiteright.
If the truth about language turns out to be something like a system of
conditions on rules and constructions, with a unifying locality princi-
ple, then only that principle would satisfy minimalist standards, and
the program would be a false hope: our explanatory sights simply can-
not be set that high – unless some independent reasons can be found
for the other properties postulated, which does not seem very likely –
and core aspects of language would remain unexplained. There also
seems to be little prospect for improvement. One would still of course
keeptothemethodologicalimperativeofseekingthebesttheoryofthis
biologicalorgan,however“imperfect”itis.Myownviewisthatwecan
hope for a good deal more than that, but that’s a personal judgment.
Assuming so, we might consider a variety of minimalist theses
of varying strength. One, which has come up in seminars in Siena, is
that every possible language meets minimalist standards. Now, that
means that not only the language faculty, but every state it can attain
yieldsaninfinitenumberofinterpretableexpressions.Thatessentially
amounts to saying that there are no dead ends in language acquisition.
You can’t set parameters in such a way that you get a system that will
fail to have an infinite satisfaction of the interface conditions. That is
far from obvious: it is a strong condition on the system. Let’s assume
that condition is met: minimalist conditions hold for all states of the
language faculty, including the initial state. The issue here is not ex-
planatory vs. descriptive adequacy. The standard way to express that
130
An interview on minimalism
distinction is to take a descriptively adequate theory to be a true theory
of an attained state, whereas an explanatorily adequate theory is a true
theoryoftheinitialstate.So,inthisviewthereisasharpdistinctionbe-
tweentheinitialstate,thetopicof UniversalGrammar,andtheattained
states, the actual languages. But I think that, at least within the P & P
approach,itismorereasonabletoforgetaboutthatdistinction:thelan-
guage faculty just has states; one state is the initial state; others are the
stable states that people reach somehow, and then there are all kinds
of states in between, which are also real states, just other languages.
If the strong “No Dead End” Condition is met, then the minimalist
thesis would say that all states have to satisfy the condition of infinite
legibilityattheinterface–andtodosoinanoptimalmanner,totheex-
tent that the strong minimalist thesis holds. That is orthogonal to the
dimensionofexplanatoryanddescriptiveadequacy,becauseitholdsin
boththeinitialstateandtheattainedstates.Soit’sbothexplanatoryand
descriptive,butthedistinctionisbyandlargeputaside.Onenicething
about the P & P approach, which at least I didn’t realize at that time,
is that it essentially eliminates the distinction: it eliminates the princi-
pled distinction between the initial state and the attained states. That
lookedlikeaprincipleddistinctionintheearlierperiodanditisprinci-
pled in the sense that the initial state is an expression of the genes, and
theothersarenotentirely,butfromthepointofviewoftheadequacyof
theories, the distinction doesn’t matter: you want an adequate theory
forall,theyallhavetobedescriptivelyadequate,meaningtruetheories
of whatever state you are describing (if it is the initial state, this is what
wascalledexplanatoryadequacy).Iftheminimalistthesisholds,itwill
hold for all states, at least on the “No Dead End” assumption. These
questions are really in the process of being formulated, alongside of
efforts – with some success, I think – to show that strong minimalist
conditions can be approached in some domains, sometimes attained.
131
On nature and language
ab&lr: Keeping for a moment this classical distinction, it has
often been said that there are tensions between the goals of descriptive
and explanatory adequacy as the first typically favors the enrichment
ofdescriptivetools,whilethesecondfavorsrestrictivenessandtheim-
poverishment of the descriptive apparatus. It seems to us that partly
analogous tensions could arise between the demands of explanatory
adequacy (in the classical sense of adequacy in addressing the log-
ical problem of language acquisition) and minimalist explanation.
It is conceivable that a less structured, hence more minimal, system
would allow for more alternative analyses of the primary data, thus
making the task harder for the language learner. To give a concrete
example, consider a theory of phrase structure permitting a single
specifier for each head, and one allowing for multiple specifiers. One
could argue, even though the point is not entirely obvious, that the
second is more minimal in that it lacks a specification that the first
has. But consider the problem from the viewpoint of acquisition: the
language learner hears an expression with n phrases and must inte-
grate them into a structural representation. In the first theory, s/he has
no choice: s/he must assume n heads licensing the phrases as spec-
ifiers; in the second theory, s/he has a priori many options ranging
from a single head with n specifiers to n heads, each with a single
specifier. Of course this is crucially related to the question of what can
constitute a possible head, and in practice there are many other com-
plications, but the example is simply aimed at suggesting that some
tensions could arise here. Do you think this tension actually arises?
nc: It could. Minimalist questions are substantive: they ask
whether true theories of states of the faculty of language satisfy the
interface condition in an optimal way. If a proposal yields as options
languages that can’t exist, it is just the wrong theory. The same con-
clusion holds if the proposal does not yield a solution for the logical
132
An interview on minimalism
problem of language acquisition. So, the first condition that has to be
met is truth for every state of the language faculty. At the initial state
it has been called explanatory adequacy, at a later state, descriptive
adequacy. By now, I think this terminology is basically useless; as I
said, just truth matters. Of course, it is not the case that we are given
the truth and then we ask minimalist questions: life isn’t that simple.
You ask minimalist questions to reconstruct your conception of what
is probably true and so on and so forth. Logically speaking, the con-
dition in the background must be that you have got the true theory.
Take for example the case you mention. There are articles on that in
the current literature. Linguistic Inquiry has a recent article in which the
author says that his way of doing things does not require the special
assumption that there are multiple specifiers. But that puts the matter
backwards: the assumption that there is a single specifier is a special
assumption; to say that there are any number of specifiers is not an
assumption, it’s just to say you may continue to merge indefinitely: it
merelystatesthatlanguageisarecursivesystem.Tosaythattheremust
be a single specifier and no more, is to stipulate that when you merge
twice you have got to start a new category: that’s a special enriching
assumption.So,thereisnoissueofgettingridof theextra assumption
of multiple specifiers; on the contrary, you would need evidence for
the special assumption that you can only have two things attached to a
head. Selectional properties of roots may – in fact surely do – impose
conditions on multiple Merge to a single head. But a strong argument
would be needed to show that the same condition must be restated,
independently, within the theory of phrase structure, complicating
that theory, largely redundantly.
In a bare phrase structure theory the distinction between com-
plement and specifier disappears, there is no difference: it’s just first
Merge,secondMerge,thirdMerge,andsoon.So,fromthis viewpoint,
133
On nature and language
a lot of analyses which I have given just don’t make any sense. Take
adjectives, for instance; I used to worry about whether the element
selected by an adjective is a complement of its head or a specifier of
its head, rather different things, but in a bare system you can’task that
question. It’s attached to the head; we call it complement if it’s first
Merge, but it doesn’t mean anything, there’s no further question to be
asked. And the notations that we use are rather misleading; we put
it in front of a head if we mean it to be a specifier, after the head if
we mean it to be a complement: those are meaningless distinctions in
a bare system. So the whole notion of complement and specifier dis-
appears except as a terminological convenience: you have the things
that you merge first, the things that you merge second, and so on.
Let’snow assume that we have the simplest system, meaning no
extra conditions on how many times you are allowed to merge; so you
can do it once, you can do it twice, in which case we call it a specifier,
three times, in which case we call it multiple specifiers, and so on, but
just merge any number of times you like, plainly the simplest system.
And of course we want to know: is it true? Is language perfect in this
respect? Or does it have this extra requirement that you can only
merge n times, for some fixed head, maybe two? Now let’s go back
to the child acquiring the language. If the child is acquiring the lan-
guage with the principle of Universal Grammar that says you can
merge as many times as you like, the child hears two merges and
OK, that’s fine; then he hears the third thing come along and, you’re
right, the child has two choices. One is to say: “OK, it’s third Merge,”
the other is to postulate a new head. But that’sa hard choice: to postu-
late a new head you have to have evidence, you have to know what head
it is, to find it somewhere and if it is a zero head as it could be in this
case, it is very hard. If it is a head that doesn’t have any semantics, you
are in trouble because that head will have to disappear in the course
134
An interview on minimalism
of computation, which will leave you with a headless category and
you’ll have to tell some story about that. If there is some universal
set of options, say, Cinque’s hierarchy, then you can pick something
out of that, but then there has to be a semantic consequence and you
have to have evidence for it. So I don’t think it’s a question of harder
or easier choice, it’s just different choices. If the Universal Grammar
has Cinque’s hierarchy and no limitation on merging, then when you
get to that third element, the child will have to ask whether it has the
semantics of something in the hierarchy. If it does, then that’s where
it belongs; if it doesn’t, just merge down below and that’s the answer.
Let’snowtaketheotherapproach;supposethatphrasestructure
theory is complicated to impose the (largely redundant) requirement
of single or double Merge, not triple Merge. Then the child is forced
to find another head; and if there is nothing around that makes any
sense, it will just have to invent it, and that’s a harder task. So, I don’t
think that the conflict breaks up this way. It seems to me that there are
different factual assumptions about the nature of language. Are there
heads available with the kind of semantics that will compel the child
to merge to them, whether it is third Merge or fourth Merge?
In fact the same question arises for second Merge. Suppose the
child assumes first Merge on a head, and then a second expression
comes along. Let’s assume a Universal Grammar which has no lim-
itation on specifiers and the Cinque hierarchy. After the first Merge,
when the second expression comes along, the child is confronted with
thesamequestion:doesthishavethesemanticsofoneofthepositions
of the hierarchy, because it has some kind of aspect interpretation, or
the like? Well, if so, then the child should postulate a new head; if not,
then the element is a specifier of the first head and the same question
arises on third Merge, fourth Merge, and so on. The situation you are
mentioning could arise and then it would be a question of truth; so
135
On nature and language
the truth may be that you have more complicated phrase structure,
with conditions on the number of specifiers over and above those
that follow from selectional requirements. For example, take the LCA
(LinearCorrespondenceAxiom.)15
Ifthattheoryistrue,thenthephrase
structure is just more complicated. Suppose that you find out that gov-
ernment is really an operative property. Then the theory is more com-
plicated. If ECP really works, well, too bad; language is more like the
spine than like a snowflake.16
You can’t change reality, you can only
ask: does reality happen to meet these surprising conditions?
IV Minimalist questions and other scientific domains
ab&lr: Granting the common background of methodolog-
ical minimalism as a component of scientific inquiry, are substantive
minimalist questions ever asked in other scientific domains?
nc: Not often, I suppose, but they are in some. So, for exam-
ple, there is a standard joke in physics and mathematics that the only
numbers are 1, 2, 3, and infinity; the others are too complicated, so if
anything comes out, say, 7, or something like that, it is wrong. And in
fact that actually shows up in scientific work. It showed up in the de-
velopment of the theory of quarks, apparently: if I remember correctly,
when Murray Gell-Mann and his associates were devising the theory,
it turned out that they had evidence for seven quarks, but nobody was
happy with that, because 7 is too ugly a number; so the assumption
was that the picture must be reconstructed in terms of 2 and 3, which
are nice numbers. And after further experimental work stimulated by
that intuition, the prettier picture turned out to be true. I think that
that kind of reasoning does go on. In a sense the discovery of Pluto
was kind of like that. There were perturbations, so it could be that
the world is ugly and you have to make up some story; but everyone
136
An interview on minimalism
was very happy when they found a postulated entity out there which
may or may not be a planet, that is debated, but whatever it is, it is
out there and it accounts for the perturbations without complicating
physical theories. You want the systems to look nice. Take the Periodic
Table, for example. The known facts didn’t entirely fit, but it was so
nicethatithadtoberight,soit didn’tmatteriftheydidn’tfit.Thereare
famous examples in the history of science that are similar. Chemistry,
which is a rather revealing model for linguistics, provides many exam-
ples. Many chemists were unhappy with the proliferation of elements
and chemical atoms in the theories of Lavoisier and Dalton. Humphry
Davy, for example, refused to believe that God would have designed
such an ugly world. At the same time, in the early nineteenth century,
William Prout observed that the atomic weights of the elements were
pretty close to integral multiples of the atomic weight of hydrogen,
and fudged the data to yield whole numbers exactly. “Prout’s hypoth-
esis,” as it was called, stimulated heavy experimental inquiry trying to
find the exact deviation of the atomic weight of heavier elements from
an integral multiple of hydrogen and to try to find some explanation:
is Prout’s hypothesis right or wrong? Are all elements constructed
from hydrogen, as he speculated? Finally isotopes were discovered in
the 1920s and then it all became clear: it was clear that Prout’shypoth-
esiswasfundamentallycorrect.Withoutanunderstandingofisotopes
and atomic theory generally, the data are a mess. But if you reanalyze
thedataintermsofnewtheoreticalunderstanding,youdiscoverinjust
what sense Prout’s hypothesis was correct, because you get a proton,
many protons, its integral multiples, and electrons don’t add much,
and isotopic effects modify the numbers systematically. The research
inquiry was driven by the hope that somehow this pretty law will turn
out right and there will be a reason for it; finally the reason was found,
and incidentally a good deal of the experimental work of a century
137
On nature and language
went out of the window; nobody cared anymore what the average de-
viations were because you had a fundamental explanation for them.
I suppose the Galilean ideal of perfection of nature is, at some
level, a driving force in all inquiry, but it certainly isn’t very much of a
leading force in most fields, any more than it has been in linguistics.
A good reason is that it is so hard to gain something approaching
descriptive adequacy that you can’t realistically ask further questions.
Take a look for example at Mark Hauser’srecent comprehensive
study Evolution of Communication.17
It really is a comparative study of
communication, comparing communication systems. He reviews a
lot of systems and describes them in very delicate detail. Take the bee
dance. There are extremely detailed descriptions of it, but it’sbasically
like descriptive linguistics. Questions that go beyond are apparently
too hard: for example, what is the “generative grammar” of the bee
dance, the internal state that allows for this range of dances and not
some other range? Or questions about neural mechanisms, their role
in action and perception, their evolution. The problem of just giving
a description is hard enough; and then finding some understanding
of the function of the dance. To go beyond that, to get real minimalist
questions is hard, but there were people who were trying to do it also
in biology. A famous example is D’Arcy Thompson.
ab&lr: This leads to the next question. Let us assume that
some form of the minimalist thesis is correct, and human language
is a kind of optimally designed system. You have often stressed that
this would be a very surprising conclusion in the context of biologi-
cal systems, which are characterized by the “bricolage” or tinkering
of evolution, in François Jacob’s terms.18
So, it would be useful to
try to spell out the consequences of this discovery for biology. One
possible line of approach could be to think that language is effec-
tively rather unique among biological systems, possibly in relation to
138
An interview on minimalism
its combinatorial character; but it could also be that language readily
reveals something that is more common than usually assumed in bio-
logical systems, but only difficult to detect. Could it be that the role of
tinkering has been overstated? And that at different levels of the evo-
lutionary scale “perfect systems” may have come to existence, but are
hard to tease apart from their biological context?
nc: That is, I think, quite reasonable. It is unpopular today, but
the fact is that if you take a look at anything that you don’t understand
it’sgoingtolookliketinkering.Thatwastrueofthewaypeoplelooked
at languages. If you go back to the 1950s a standard assumption – I am
paraphrasing Martin Joos, one of the major theoreticians – was that
languages can differ from one another without limit and in arbitrary
ways. Basically, there is nothing much to say about language: almost
anything goes.19
That is certainly what it looks like. If you consider
the range of languages in the world, it looks as though you can find
just about anything. That was a standard point of view in structural-
ist linguistics, which departed from this assumption only in limited
ways: there is some fixed structure of the phonemic system and maybe
a little bit more, maybe some of the morphology, some loose condi-
tions on phrases . . . but essentially anything goes. Sapir said similar
things and in fact it’s pretty common.20
And it’s true: if you look at
anything that you don’tunderstand it is exactly what it is going to look
like. With regard to evolution, everybody believes Darwin is basically
right, there’s no question about that; but beyond that, not too much
is understood. For evolution of species, there are few cases in which it
can be demonstrated, by the standards of the sciences, that natural se-
lection operated, though everyone assumes that it is true. It is not easy
to measure selective advantages of traits. When you look at what are
called “natural selection explanations,” what you often find is some-
thing different. Hauser’s book is a good source there. He’s trying to
139
On nature and language
show in detail what everybody believes generally: that natural selec-
tion functions crucially to yield and design an output. But the kind of
argument that he gives doesn’t show that. So he takes bats and shows
that they have an amazing technique of echolocation: they can find an
insect flying somewhere and shoot right at it by some kind of echoes
that manmade systems can’tduplicate. The conclusion is: look at how
beautifully natural selection worked. That is very plausible, but the
argument doesn’t show it; what is shown is that it has these beautiful
characteristics. A recent review of the topic in Science points out that
it is plausible to suppose that piranha teeth evolved for cutting, “but
we have no direct evidence that that was the case.” A creationist might
say, irrationally, that God made it that way. It is just that if you have
a naturalistic approach to the organic world, you assume that it must
have been largely the result of natural selection. A description of the
beautiful adaptation to the organism’s needs is just formulating the
problemtobeaddressed.Theproblemis:here’stheobject,hereareits
strange properties marvelously adapted for survival and reproduction.
That sets the problem, but doesn’t answer it. It is often taken to be
an answer to the problem, on the assumption that the outcome has
to be the result of natural selection. The dogma in this case is pretty
plausible (it’s hard to think of anything else), but that’s not an an-
swer and sometimes, when things have been looked at carefully, the
answer turns out to be something different and unexpected. Things
are what they are, not necessarily what we dreamt of. In fact, at the
moment, little is known about evolutionary processes other than the
main principles, and a huge amount of descriptive work that yields
highly plausible assumptions (like echolocation and piranhas’ teeth),
of course, a lot of special things about what genes do, and so on and
so forth. But it does look mostly like a mess, and it may not be. It
may be that the whole of evolution is shaped by physical processes in
140
An interview on minimalism
a deep sense, yielding many properties that are casually attributed to
selection.
Now, of course, when people say that something is the result
of natural selection they don’t mean it literally. Natural selection can’t
work in a vacuum; it has to work within a range of options, a struc-
tured range of options; and those options are given by physical law
and historical contingency. The ecological environment is in a certain
state and it is going to impose constraints: you could imagine a planet
in which you have different ecological conditions and things would
work in a different way. So, there are contingencies and there’s phys-
ical law and within that range natural selection finds its way, finds
a path through it; but it can never be the case that natural selection
is acting on its own. The logic is rather like that of behaviorism, as
was pointed out by Skinner, incidentally.21
He thought it was an ar-
gument for his radical behaviorism, that it works like unstructured
natural selection: so the pigeon carries out any possible behavior and
you reinforce the one you want, and you get pigeons playing ping
pong, etc. He argued this is the same logic as natural selection, which
is true, but what he missed is the fact that natural selection requires
a structured environment, structured entities, and the conditions im-
posed by natural law, and the same is true of the pigeon. So, it is the
same logic, and the same mistake for both. And it’s common. When
you read these excited pronouncements about “show me good design
and I’ll find natural selection,” “God or natural selection,” taken lit-
erally, it’s worse than Creationism. Creationism at least is coherent;
you can be arational creationist(Voltaire, Jefferson,etc.),youcan even
be a neo-Darwinian. A rational creationist could say OK, all this stuff
happened by natural selection but God was necessary to do X. There
is no point in this vacuous assertion, but it is not incoherent. On the
otherhand,abeliefinpurenaturalselectionwouldbetotallyirrational;
141
On nature and language
it is assuming that some selectional process can take place in a vac-
uum, which can’t happen. It is always the case that what goes on is
to some extent conditioned by physical law at least. There is a kind of
“channel” set up by physical law and, in addition to that, there are his-
torical contingencies and so on. Within those structured constraints,
natural selection can operate. Well, that raises a question, always: to
what extent is the channel functioning in determining the output? It is
goingtobemorethanzero,ithastobe.Insomecases,itmayapproach
100 percent. Take the fact that you find the Fibonacci series showing
up all over the place. Nobody believes that it is either God or natural
selection; everybody assumes that it is the result of physical law and
by now there are non-trivial physical explanations of why you should
find it. So, between 100 percent and something, that’sthe effect of the
“channel.”
Now,whenyouunderstandverylittleanditalllookslikeamess,
you assume . . . OK, it is just wandering through the space of possibil-
ities, it is tinkering. But, as you learn more, you may find out that it is
not true at all, maybe most of biological evolution is like the Fibonacci
series. There is a tradition in modern biology of serious scientists
who have tried to exploit that idea. The most famous one is D’Arcy
Thompson,22
who tried to show that you could account for large as-
pects of the nature of organisms by looking at biophysics, basically:
what kinds of forms could there be? Actually Goethe did something
similar.23
He had interesting ideas, some of which turned out to be
right, I mean, not the way he thought, but basically right: in plant
growth everything is a replication of the same structure over and over
again, the stem and the leaf; he kind of guessed, it’s a mixed story,
but kind of right. With D’Arcy Thompson this becomes real science.
Not much was done with it, because it probably was too hard. But that
opened a tradition. The next famous person who picked that up was
142
An interview on minimalism
Alan Turing.24
This is not too well known outside biology. Turing is
mostly known for his mathematics, but he also worked on biological
problems. He was a serious scientist and he was interested in showing
how, if you have a thermodynamic system of some kind and some sin-
gularity exists, a slight perturbation, it might lead to a discrete system,
suddenly. So, he was interested in things like zebra stripes: how come
zebrashavestripesinsteadofjustsomemess?Andhetriedtoconstruct
models in which you’d get things like zebra stripes, just out of physi-
cal processes with a tiny perturbation which changes things around.
And the mathematical models are apparently right, so I am told. The
question whether it works with zebras is another problem, I think the
current belief (I am no expert) is that for zebras it probably doesn’t
work, but for angelfish it probably does work. There’s a certain kind
of fish that has some weird stripes all over the place and apparently
the Turing models or some modification of them do a reasonable job
for explaining that.
At the level of very simple systems, a lot of this is pretty much
assumed. Mitosis is a case in point; nobody thinks there are genes that
tell the breaking cell to turn into spheres, just as you do not have a
gene to tell you to fall if you walk off the roof of a building. That would
be crazy, you just fall because physical laws are operating, and it is
probably physical laws that are telling the cells to break up into two
spheres. Well, another case that is generally assumed is the shell of
viruses, which are polyhedrons and in fact icosahedrons. It turns out
just by pure geometry that there are only certain kinds of forms that
can appear and be stable and fit together. The viruses pick one of those
forms and they pick the one of the possible geometrical figures that is
closertoasphere,sotheydon’tpickpyramids,theypickicosahedrons.
Maybethatinvolvesselection,butthepossibleviralshellsareassumed
to be determined just by physical law. Or take the honeycomb of bees,
143
On nature and language
which is again based on polyhedrons. There are other things: there is
an organism – nobody even knows whether to call it an organism –
called a slime mold, which begins with little organisms and they all
hang together and then become a bigger organism, and finally they
split up and become separate organisms. This happens in a regular
fashion and I understand that the mathematics of this is pretty well
workedout.Thereissomefairlystraightforwardphysicalpropertythat
will lead to this complicated-looking behavior once it is operative. So,
superficially, that might look like tinkering and fitting some environ-
ment, but in fact it is probably just some slight change that led to
this happening. How far does that go? Most things are just not under-
stood, so you don’tknow how far it goes. When you go beyond simple
structures, you are guessing what might have happened, and when
something is learned, the guess often turns out to be wrong, because
youjustcan’tguess,therearetoomanypossibilities,manynotyeteven
imagined. The evolution of the eye, for example, has been extensively
studied, and a standard conclusion was that it had evolved indepen-
dently about fifty times. Recent work has found that there is a single
origin, and a single “master control gene” for all eyes in the organic
world.25
Then, over billions of years, evolutionary processes (natural
selection functioning within a structured “channel”) gave rise to many
kinds of eyes, superficially very different, but with deep uniformities.
Now let’s turn to language. It appears to be a fact that language
is biologically isolated. Let’s look again at Hauser, which is the ency-
clopedic study of evolution of communication, a study of compara-
tive communication, really. Language doesn’teven fit in his taxonomy.
Humanlanguageistheexcitingtopic,sothebookstartswithlanguage,
it ends with language, and in between there’s comparative communi-
cation studies. But in it there is a taxonomy of possible systems and
language does not belong. The possible systems include non-human
144
An interview on minimalism
primate calls, bird songs, etc. There are systems related to survival,
mating, and reproduction, and there are those involved in the identifi-
cation of the caller and so on. That’s about it. Language doesn’t fit in.
You can use language to identify yourself, for reproduction, for warn-
ing about predators. But one can’t study language seriously in these
terms. Language simply has no place in the taxonomy. In fact, Hauser
kind of mentions this, but without making clear the consequences of
what he is saying. He says that everything in his book is “irrelevant to
the formal study of language”; well, “irrelevant” is too strong, but that
is his statement. But what is the formal study of language? The answer
is: virtually everything about language. He may have in mind rules in
some notation, but it isn’t that: “the formal study of language” in-
cludes all the work that seeks to determine the nature of language,
just as “the formal study of bee dance” includes virtually the entire
literature on the topic. So, whether it is syntax or semantics or phonol-
ogy or pragmatics or whatever you call it, that’s the formal study of
language. If everything in the book is “irrelevant to the formal study of
language,”itisjustanotherwayofsayingthatlanguagedoesn’tbelong
in this taxonomy. And apparently that’s true. He is certainly trying to
make a serious effort to show that language belongs, but when you
look, it turns out that it doesn’t fit, whether we have in mind the prop-
erties of language or its various “functions.” When Hauser gets to
the last chapter of the book, called “Future Directions,” he speculates
about how we might some day be able to say something about the evo-
lution of these systems, because now we can say essentially nothing.
In the case of language, what he says is: “look, there are two problems;
you obviously have to memorize a lot of words and you have to have a
generativesystem,whichisgoingtogiveyouaninfinitearrayofexpres-
sions,sosomethinghastodealwiththose.”Well,howdoyoudoit?The
infinite array of expressions, he just drops: he mentions the problem
145
On nature and language
with no speculation, which makes sense, because there is no serious
speculation. What about the explosive growth of the array of words?
He observes that there is little to say about this, either. It is not like
animal calls. Word learning, he points out, must involve a capacity for
imitation; so humans have an innate capacity for imitation. Of course,
far more than that, as he recognizes. What about the capacity for imi-
tation,then?Well,thatturnsouttobeatotalmysterytoo.Accordingto
Hauser, that is not found in any relevant form elsewhere in the organic
world,andthere’snowayofknowinghowthatcameabout,sohe(inef-
fect)concludes.So,it’satotaldeadend.Thereisessentiallynothingto
say, language is off the chart. That is the basic conclusion that follows
from his comprehensive review of comparative communication.
That doesn’t mean that language is not the result of biological
evolution, of course we all assume it is. But what kind of result of bio-
logical evolution? Well, here you have to look at the little bit we know.
We can make up a lot of stories. It is quite easy: for example, take
language as it is, break it up into fifty different things (syllable, word,
putting things together, phrases and so on) and say: “OK, I have the
story: there was a mutation that gave syllables, there was another mu-
tation that gave words, another one that gave phrases . . . another that
(miraculously)yieldstherecursiveproperty(actually,allthemutations
areleftasmiracles).”OK,maybe,ormaybesomethingtotallydifferent;
the stories are free and, interestingly, they are for the most part inde-
pendent of what the language is. So if it turns out that language has a
head parameter, same story; if it doesn’t have a head parameter, same
story. The story you choose is independent of the facts, pretty much.
And that’s going to be the case until you know something. You can
make up stories about the eye, about wings and so on. What happened
is what happened, it is not necessarily the story you chose. And look-
ing at the marvelous adaptation of some system to its environment,
146
An interview on minimalism
when that is what we find, just sets the problem, it is not the answer,
contrary to common misunderstanding.
Going back to language, what you have is a system that is, as
far as we know, essentially uniform. Maybe there was some speciation
at one point but only one species survived, namely us; there seems to
be no variation in the species. True, we find Williams’ syndrome and
Specific Language Impairment. But that’s not variation in the species
in any meaningful sense: those are deviations from the fixed system
that occur now and then, but the basic system seems to be uniform.
In other words, kids learn any language anywhere, as far as we know,
which means the basic system is uniform. Nobody has found any ge-
netic differences; maybe there are some, but they are apparently so
slight that we can’t detect them. So, it is a fundamentally uniform
system, which means that since its emergence there has not been any
significant evolution. It has just stayed that way. People have scattered,
there are groups of people that have been separated for a long period,
but nobody can detect any language difference. So it’s apparently a
recent thing, too recent to have undergone much evolution. There is
also a point that Jerry Fodor has recently stressed:26
language is dif-
ferent from most other biological systems, including some cognitive
systems, in that the physical, external constraints that it has to meet
are extremely weak. So, there’s some innate system of object recogni-
tion: infants can identify object constancies; they know things don’t
go through barriers, etc. But that system, whatever it is, has to be at-
tuned to the outside world; if you had a system that had objects going
throughbarriersandsoon,youcouldn’tgetalongintheworld.Sothat
systemissortofcontrolledbytheoutsideworld.Thenitmakessenseto
speculate that it was selected – this is a speculation, but plausible, like
echolocation. On the other hand, language doesn’t have to meet that
condition, or it has to meet it in an extremely weak way. You have to be
147
On nature and language
abletotalkabouttheworld,somehow,butthere’sanynumberof ways
of doing that. The fundamental condition that language has to meet
is that it can be used, that the person who has it can use it. Actually
you can use language even if you are the only person in the universe
with language, and in fact it would even have adaptive advantage. If
one person suddenly got the language faculty, that person would have
great advantages; the person could think, could articulate to itself its
thoughts, could plan, could sharpen, and develop thinking as we do
in inner speech, which has a big effect on our lives. Inner speech is
most of speech. Almost all the use of language is to oneself, and it can
be useful for all kinds of purposes (it can also be harmful, as we all
know):figureoutwhatyouaregoingtodo,plan,clarifyyourthoughts,
whatever. So if one organism just happens to gain a language capacity,
it might have reproductive advantages, enormous ones. And if it hap-
pened to proliferate in a further generation, they all would have it. In
a larger group all that is necessary is that it be shared. The connection
to the outside world is extremely weak and therefore it could be very
stable,becausethereisnopointinchangingit;there’snoadvantageto
any change that takes place, or it could be stable because it just didn’t
have enough time. One way or another, it has evidently been stable.
What happened pre emergence? That’s anybody’s guess; it
seems to be absurd to regard it as an offshoot of non-human primate
calls. Language doesn’t share any interesting properties with them.
Or with gestural systems; or anything that we know about; so, you
are stuck. Language has highly unusual properties: discrete infinity is
unusual, displaced reference is unusual, the most elementary struc-
tural and semantic properties seem unusual. It is possible that what
happened is what Richard Lewontin and others have speculated:27
the
brain was exploding for a million years; it was getting way bigger than
among other surviving primates, and at some stage (for all we know
148
An interview on minimalism
about 100,000 years ago) some slight change may have taken place
and the brain was reorganized to incorporate a language faculty.
Maybe. That would be like angelfish stripes, polyhedral shells, etc.
The understanding of the physical channel for natural selection is so
limited that you really cannot have an opinion on this. You can make
fun of it, if you like, or you can wave a banner about it. But that doesn’t
make much sense. It is simply not understood how the physical chan-
nel constrains and controls the process of selection, beyond simple
cases.Lewontinisonewhothinksthatwe’llneverknowtheanswerfor
human higher mental processes – that by any method we can imagine
now, there is no way to find the answer, not just for language but for
cognition altogether. Others feel that they can do something. But
telling stories is not very instructive. You can tell stories about in-
sect wings, but it remains to discover how they evolved – perhaps from
protuberances that functioned as thermoregulators, according to one
account. A famous case is giraffes’ necks, that was the one case that
was always referred to as the obvious example of natural selection with
a clear function; giraffes get a little bit longer neck to reach the higher
fruits, and they have offspring and so giraffes have long necks. It was
recentlydiscoveredthatthisisapparentlyfalse.Giraffesdon’tusetheir
necks for high feeding, end of that story. You have to figure out some
other story: maybe sexual display like a peacock tail or some other
story, but the point is that the story doesn’t matter. You can tell very
plausible stories in all sorts of cases but the truth is what it is. You can
tellstoriesabouttheplanets,astheGreeksdid,infact:nicestories,but
thingsdon’tworkthatway.Inthecaseoflanguage,weknowthatsome-
thing emerged in an evolutionary process and there is no indication of
any evolutionary change since it emerged. It emerged once, as far as
we know, very recently. There is no real evidence for use of language
prior to maybe 50,000 years ago or so. But the neuroanatomy seems
149
On nature and language
to have been in place before that, so maybe 150,000 years ago. Anyway
it’s recent. The emergence seems to be fairly sudden, in evolutionary
terms, in an organism with a very large brain, which was developed for
whatever reason, and conceivably through some reconstruction of the
brain that brought into play physical processes that led to something
that works close to optimally, like a virus shell. If the minimalist the-
sis actually gains some significant credibility, that would be not an
unreasonable conclusion; of course you have to establish the thesis.
ab&lr: So, language could have come to existence suddenly,
through a single mutation, basically in its modern form, and nat-
ural selection wouldn’t have had time to act on it. How can we
substantiate this “evolutionary fable,” as you call it in “Minimalist
Inquiries”? What kind of evidence do we have of the recency of
human language?
nc: Well, one thing is that there just weren’t a lot of humans
around, as far as anybody knows. Current estimates of the number
of individuals, I can’t reconstruct reliably from memory, but it may
have been something like maybe 20,000 about a hundred thousand
years ago, in fact a very small population, which then scattered widely.
Unlike other large organisms, humans had escaped any limited eco-
logical niche, so they were all over the place, presumably from a single
origin. They were adapted to many environments. That means very
small groups and not many of them. And then there was an increase;
I mean, nothing like the explosion of the last couple of hundred years,
but there was a substantial increase and that coincided roughly with
the appearance of symbolic manifestations, various ceremonies and
people buried with their tools, lots of things that indicate that there
was complicated social organization. That’s pretty hard to imagine
without language. So that’s the kind of evidence available. There is
also some physiological evidence: Philip Lieberman has argued that
150
An interview on minimalism
their larynx sank.28
Some scientists agree, some don’t. Whatever it
means, it is peripheral. On the perceptual side, there doesn’t seem
to be anything much detectable, and of course, as for thought sys-
tems, there are no records and not a great deal to learn from surviving
non-human primates, so it appears.
V Scope and perspectives
ab&lr: In a recent lecture at the Scuola Normale of Pisa you
quoted English eighteenth-century chemist Joseph Black stressing
the importance, for his discipline, of establishing a “body of doctrine”
on the model of Newtonian physics. Generative grammar and, more
specifically, the Principles and Parameters framework has certainly
permittedmanysubtleandsurprisingdiscoveriesoverabroaddomain,
andonemayarguethatasignificant“bodyofdoctrine”ondifferentas-
pectsof humanlanguagehasbeenestablished.Takingforgrantedthe
obvious fact that nothing is definitively acquired in empirical science,
what are those aspects that you would consider “established results”
in our field?
nc:Myownviewisthatalmosteverythingissubjecttoquestion,
especially if you look at it from a minimalist perspective; about every-
thing you look at, the question is: why is it there? So, if you had asked
me ten years ago, I would have said government is a unifying concept,
X-bar theory is a unifying concept, the head parameter is an obvi-
ous parameter, ECP, etc., but now none of these looks obvious. X-bar
theory, I think, is probably wrong, government maybe does not exist.
If Kayne is correct, the right parameterization is not the head param-
eter, but some other kinds of parameters about optional movements,
certainly plausible, possible. We just have to see. But I don’tthink that
is so unusual. If you look at the history of the sciences, this is just
151
On nature and language
the usual situation. Even in the advanced sciences almost everything
is questionable. What I learned in college, let’ssay, in science courses,
a lot of it would not be taught today. In fact, what was taught twenty
years ago would be taught differently today in physics or chemistry.
Some things are relatively stable. The Periodic Table is still there, but
elementaryparticlesarenothinglikewhatweweretaught.Infactinany
live discipline you really don’texpect the body of doctrine to be terribly
stable. You’ll get new perspectives, things will be reinterpreted. The
changes often may not look very great from the outside but in a sense
you can say the same thing about generative grammar for fifty years.
From the outside it looks more or less the same, but from the inside
you can see that it is very different and I suspect that that will continue.
What are island conditions, for example? This has been a core topic
of research for forty years now; I still don’t think we understand that.
There’s certainly plenty of data that aren’t understood; Paul Postal29
has a recent book about it and I am sure that it has tons of data that
don’t work in any imaginable way. Such problems abound. And also,
to my knowledge at least, there is no really principled account of many
island conditions. On the other hand, something will remain stable.
The difference between weak and strong islands looks stable; maybe
we don’tunderstand it, but there’ssomething there that is stable. Also
conditions on locality and successive cyclic movement look stable to
me, at some level of abstraction. I strongly suspect that the difference
between interpretable and uninterpretable features will turn out to
be stable, though it is a recent observation, five years ago there was
no discussion about it. In some fashion metrical theory will remain.
Argument structure will also remain, as will properties of scope and
reconstruction and the recent discoveries about fine structure. The
essence of binding theory will remain, but probably will be reinter-
preted. It’s not that anything ever gets thrown out; the results about,
152
An interview on minimalism
say,ECPwillremainbuttheymaybeparceledoutindifferentdomains,
maybe with different ways of looking at them and so on. But I don’t
feel that one can really predict much. It’s a young field, changes are
taking place fast, there are lots of unexplained things. I am sure there
are new perspectives that we haven’tthought of yet. I wouldn’texpect,
or even hope for, stability. If there’sstability, it means we are not going
to get very far because, in the stage where we are now, there are just
too many mysteries. So if the field remains stable, that means there
are going to remain mysteries. That was true for chemistry at the time
that Joseph Black wrote, the chemist you quoted, mid eighteenth cen-
tury. Let’s just consider what chemistry was like in the mid eighteenth
century and what it’s like today. Black wouldn’t be able to recognize
the current discipline. In Black’s days, it was still commonly assumed
that the basic components of matter are earth, air, fire, and water, that
water can be transmuted into earth, and so on. Chemists had a sub-
stantial “body of doctrine” at that time, they knew a lot about chemical
reactions, when they took place and how they took place, but the way
of looking at them has totally changed. Take a look at Lavoisier for ex-
ample, who founded modern chemistry and created the nomenclature
that everybody still uses – and the nomenclature wasn’t just terminol-
ogy; it was supposed to be truth, it was designed to tell you the truth:
so oxygen is the acid generator because that’s its nature (which turns
out to be false). In one of his classifications, alongside of hydrogen
and oxygen we find “caloric,” what we call “heat.” So, everything has
changed. And he kind of anticipated it; he said at that time that prob-
ably the nature of the elements is unknowable by humans, so we can
just make some speculations. And chemistry was a pretty advanced
science by that time.
ab&lr: Sometimes speaking with specialists of other disci-
plines, people ask: what are the results of modern linguistics? Is there
153
On nature and language
awayofphrasingsomeoftheresultsindependentlyfromthetechnical
language that makes them opaque for the public at large?
nc: There are things understood which you can illustrate easily,
like, say, properties of wh- movement, which are very dramatic and a
lot of them we understand at some level, for example Huang’s dis-
tinctions and island effects,30
or even more complicated things like
parasitic gaps and so on. Even very simple examples can illustrate
quite complex points. Sometimes I use examples like complex adjecti-
valconstructions(Englishisgoodforthis,betterthanotherlanguages
withcomplexadjectivals),whichillustratesuccessivecyclicmovement
in the predicate phrase, even though there’s nothing visible, there is
an empty operator. But the facts are clear and you can see the same
facts that you see in wh- questions; you can state the principles that
yield the interpretive facts in John is too stubborn to talk to, that sort of
thing. There’s plenty of material like that, which is stable, easy to il-
lustrate; you can state the principles, something that is known about
the general principles. The fact that there is a component that deals
withphrasestructureinsomefashionandacomponentthatdealswith
dislocation in some fashion, that’s, I think, pretty clear, and also that
they have different properties, different semantic properties, different
formal properties. The same if you move to phonology. So, sure there
is a substantial body of things that can be presented in public talks;
say, anything from middle school students to college and general pub-
lic audiences. It is pretty easy to bring this kind of material to them –
and I am sure you do the same – to get them to understand and even
see the underlying principles. So, there are many non-trivial answers.
On the other hand, if you ask for an axiomatic system, there is no such
thing, but then you can’t do it for any other science either. I mean, if
somebody asks you what are the results of biology, all you can do is
give an organized system involving natural selection, genes, Mendel’s
154
An interview on minimalism
results and modern genetics, and so on, and then you can illustrate
things.
ab&lr: The Minimalist Program has led researchers to rethink
the foundations of their work, thus offering fresh perspectives on
old problems, opening new questions, etc. On the other hand, the
Program selects its own empirical domain on the basis of its stringent
criteria, thus leaving out of its scope a significant part of the previously
constituted “body of doctrine.” Is this inevitable? Do you think it is
desirable?
nc: It would be nice to subject everything to a minimalist cri-
tique, but it is quite hard; because nothing resists that critique, in any
domain. So as soon as you look at anything, the best established work,
and you ask, “Can I explain this just on the basis of legibility at the in-
terface?,”theanswerisno.Thatistrueforthemostelementarythings,
like sound–meaning correspondence: that’s the basic data that peo-
ple use, this sound corresponds to this meaning, that is everybody’s
basic descriptive data. But that doesn’t satisfy minimalist criteria, the
stringent ones at least. A stringent minimalist criterion would say:
“The expression has to be legible on the sound side and has to be legi-
ble on the meaning side; but if it pairs up properly, that’ssomething to
be explained.” You are not given that datum and that would require a
much richer set of conditions imposed from the outside; in fact I don’t
think it would even be statable as a set of conditions from the outside
because in order to know that the pairing is correct, you have to know
pretty much everything. So, somehow, even that simple datum, which
every linguist for thousands of years has taken as the basic datum of
the field, isn’t available on a minimalist account. You have to try to
explain it, you have to show that the optimal solution to legibility on
the sound side and on the meaning side independently is going to give
you the right interpretation for John is easy to please, not some simpler
155
On nature and language
interpretation. So the thing to do, at least it seems to me, is to pick
the core pieces, like, say, phrase structure and dislocation, and ask
what components of these systems look as if they are problematic. For
instance, using the criterion that I think you had suggested earlier:
would it be in an invented symbolic system? That’s a good starting
point. If you find something that wouldn’t be in an invented symbolic
system,youhavetoaskwhyitisinlanguage:morphology,forexample,
what is it doing? And as soon as you ask, that drives you to new things,
like the difference, for example, between interpretable and uninter-
pretable features, which is quite transparent but I had never thought
aboutitbefore,atleast.Itneveroccurredtomethatthereisareasonfor
the traditional asymmetry of agreement that we all learned in school.
If you look at it from the point of view of ten years ago, I would have
said the relation is symmetric and the traditional asymmetry is just
arbitrary convention. But it is clearly not irrational, it is an intuitive
perception of something that appears to be quite deep; the distinction
between interpretability in one position and not in another position.
So, it’s not trivial, but these things don’t occur to you until you start
asking: why is it there? But then that proceeds for everything; every-
thing that fell under ECP, under binding, under government, under
proliferation of inflectional categories, almost everything. As soon as
you begin to ask the simplest question, I think that the descriptions
that looked obvious appear quite problematic, and the questions be-
gin to proliferate as soon as you investigate. That’s true of just about
any point that you look at. In anything that you look at, you see that
the assumptions are OK at some level and in fact revealing, some are
very revealing, but then you start looking at the assumptions on which
they are based, and find that the assumptions are dubious, they are not
self-evident and sometimes not even natural. In particular, they surely
don’t follow from just the fact that the language has to be legible
156
An interview on minimalism
at the interface. Therefore you have to seek some other explanation
for them and either you say: “Well, I give up, explanations have to end
somewhere, it’s a mystery,” or else you look for an explanation, and
the assumptions often dissolve. Anyway, we shouldn’t accept the idea
that it’s a mystery. Maybe it is, but it’s way too early to assume that.
That is an admission of defeat that is surely premature. It could turn
out to be right, maybe it’sa mystery. We have been all along (and justly,
I don’t criticize this) willing to accept principles because they yield
results. That’sthe right way to proceed, without asking why such prin-
ciples exist. However at some stage, maybe it is too early, but at some
stage it is going to be necessary to ask why the principles exist and a
minimalist approach gives one way of looking at this. Maybe there’s
some other way but I can’t think of any other way at the moment.
ab&lr: One can address the same problem of empirical cover-
agefromaslightlydifferentperspective.Ontheonehand,theMPrelies
heavilyonatheoryof theinterfaces,whichshouldprovidetheexternal
constraints to be met by the language faculty. As such, MP should
promote research on the neighboring systems and the interfaces even
morethanpreviousmodels.Ontheotherhand,theprogramsofardoes
not offer much guidance for the study of systems that are assumed to
belanguage-related,butdifferentlyconstitutedfrom“narrowsyntax,”
in your sense. Do you think this is a contingency of the current state
of research, and things could, or should change in the future?
nc: First of all, the focus on the interfaces is extremely recent;
until now, it has always been assumed, as far as I know, without any
question, that there are two interfaces. This goes back to Aristotle:
there’s a sound and a meaning, and that’s it. You look at sound–
meaning correspondences, phonetics tells you the sound, nobody
knows what tells you the meaning. That has been the general assump-
tion; and it didn’t matter much. Whether the assumption was right
157
On nature and language
or wrong it had no effect on the theories, because they were not de-
signed to satisfy the interface conditions. As soon as you think about
that, about the fact that the essential property of language must be that
it satisfies the interface conditions – and that much, everybody has to
accept – , then the question arises: what are the interfaces? It didn’t
really arise before, but now it’s going to matter. As soon as you look
at it, you see that we really don’t know.
So, let’s take the easy case: the sensorimotor interface. It has
always been assumed that there is one, but that is not in the least obvi-
ous.Theremightbedifferentonesforarticulationandperception,and
furthermore it is not obvious that there is one interface for either ar-
ticulation or perception. Suppose that something like Morris Halle’s
picture is correct:31
the features at some level are giving instructions to
thearticulators.Well,theydon’tallhavetodoitatthesamepointinthe
derivation. Perhaps some give instructions at one point and then there
could be more phonological computation, then another instruction is
given, and so on. It could be a distributed system in this sense. That
is possible. I mean, why should biology be set up so that there is one
fixed point in the computation at which you have an interface? Inter-
pretation could be “on line” and cyclic, and even at each stage of the
cycle, instruction to articulators and the perceptual apparatus might
be distinct in character (rather than a single phonetic representation)
anddistributedwithinthecomputation.Theremightalsobethekinds
of interaction proposed in the motor theory of perception. These may
involve interactions between two aspects of the phonetic interface. So,
I suspect that there may well be all sorts of surprises.
On the other side, the meaning side, it seems to me that there
may be some suggestive results. A lot of the most interesting syntac-
tic work that is now being done (usually called “semantics” though it
should be considered the edge of the syntax, I think) doesn’t satisfy
158
An interview on minimalism
natural minimalist conditions on the language faculty: binding the-
ory, quantifier scope or even operations that appear to involve move-
ment, like Antecedent Contained Deletion. These do not easily fit in
the whole picture. For one thing the operations are countercyclic, or,
if cyclic, involve much more complex rules transferring structures to
the phonological component, and other complications to account for
lack of interaction with core syntactic rules. It is conceivable that these
are just the interpretive systems on the meaning side, the analogue
to articulatory and acoustic phonetics, what is going on right out-
side the language faculty. Nobody really has much of an idea about
the computational processes right outside the language faculty. One
could say there is a language of thought or something like that, there
are concepts, etc., but there has never been any structure to the sys-
tem outside the language faculty. Well, maybe this is the beginning of
discovery of some structure right at the edge, using operations similar
to internal operations but probably not the same. They have different
properties.
There are some interesting possibilities; for instance these op-
erations on the outside don’t iterate. So, it seems you don’t have suc-
cessive cyclic QR, successive cyclic Antecedent Contained Deletion.
That is also true apparently of the operations that probably are on the
sound side, between the internal syntax–phonology interface and the
external interface between the language faculty and the sensorimotor
system. Things that involve heaviness, let’ssay, Heavy NP Shift, all the
operations that fall under Ross’s Right Roof Constraint. These also
don’t iterate. That part of the internal syntax is, in a way, peripheral.
It is not part of what one would imagine to be the essential core of
language: the mechanisms for formulating thought in internal lin-
guistic expressions. The operations of the phonological component,
broadlyconstrued,areforcedbytheneedsofthesensorimotorsystem.
159
On nature and language
And if these operations have properties similar to those external to
the other interface, that’s suggestive. So, maybe that is the beginning
of some kind of non-trivial study of thought systems, how they are
working at the point near the language faculty where you can gain at
leastsomeaccesstothem.Thosearenewquestions,questionsthatim-
mediately flow from the insistence – right or wrong – that the internal
operations have highly systematic minimalist properties.
The general point is that – as is normal in the sciences – you
are trying to show how the language faculty meets certain conditions,
but you have to discover those conditions, and you expect to discover
what the conditions are in the course of the process of asking how the
language faculty satisfies them. It’s not like the case of an engineer
who is given the conditions and is told: “OK, satisfy them.” Here we
are in a process of discovery, we have to find out what the conditions
are and finding out what the conditions are is part of the process of
finding out how to satisfy them, so the two processes are going to go
hand in hand. If this whole approach turns out to make any sense as a
researchtopic,itshouldleadtoamuchmorecarefulexplorationofthe
interfaces themselves, what’s on the other side of them. That should
be a major research endeavor, which really hasn’t had much of a place
in the subject until now.
Actually, the imaging work may be of particular interest here.
Imaging studies should be particularly valuable in sketching out the
generalarchitectureofsystemsandhowtheyinteract,henceinexplor-
ingthewaysinwhichthelanguagefaculty(ortheseverallanguagefac-
ulties, if that is how the picture develops) interacts with other systems
of the mind–brain. Some light is shed on these questions by “nature’s
experiments” (brain damage, etc.), but direct invasive experimenta-
tion is of course excluded. The newly emerging technologies should
provide a way to overcome some of the barriers imposed by ethical
160
An interview on minimalism
considerations and the diffuse effects of natural events. Even in early
exploratory stages, there are results that are quite suggestive, and it
may be possible to design experimental programs that would yield
important new kinds of information about the nature of the language
faculty and the way it is accessed and used.
161
Chapter 5
The secular priesthood and the
perils of democracy
The term “secular priesthood” I am borrowing from the distinguished
British philosopher and intellectual historian Isaiah Berlin. He was
referring to Communist intellectuals who defended the state religion
and the crimes of power. To be sure, not all Soviet intellectuals joined
the secular priesthood. There were the commissars, who defended and
administered power, and the dissidents, who challenged power and its
crimes.
We honor the dissidents and condemn the commissars, rightly
of course. Within the Soviet tyranny, however, quite the opposite was
true – also of course.
The distinction between “commissars” and “dissidents” traces
back to the earliest recorded history, as does the fact that, internally,
the commissars are commonly respected and privileged, and the dis-
sidents despised and often punished.
Consider the Old Testament. There is an obscure Hebrew word
thatistranslatedas“prophet”inEnglish(and,similarly,otherWestern
languages). It means something like “intellectual.” The prophets
offered critical geopolitical analysis and moral critique and counsel.
Many centuries later, they were honored; at the time, they were not
162
The secular priesthood and the perils of democracy
exactly welcomed. There were also “intellectuals” who were honored:
the flatterers at the courts of the kings. Centuries later, they were de-
nounced as “false prophets.” The prophets were the dissidents, the
false prophets the commissars.
There have been innumerable examples in the same era and
since. That raises a useful question for us: Are our own societies an
exception to the historical rule? I think not: they conform to the rule
rather closely. Berlin used the term “secular priesthood” to condemn
the commissar class of the official enemy; a perfectly just condemna-
tion, but normal. Another historical universal, or close to it, is that we
have a keen eye for the crimes of designated enemies and denounce
them vigorously, often with great self-righteousness. Looking in the
mirror is a little more difficult. One of the tasks of the secular priest-
hood in our societies, as elsewhere, is to protect us from that un-
pleasant experience.
George Orwell is famous for his eloquent denunciation of the
totalitarian enemy and the scandalous behavior of its secular priest-
hood, most notably perhaps in his satire Animal Farm. He also wrote
about the counterpart in free societies, in his introduction to Animal
Farm, which dealt with “literary censorship” in England. In free
England, he wrote, censorship is “largely voluntary. Unpopular ideas
can be silenced, and inconvenient facts kept dark, without any need
for any official ban.” The result is that “Anyone who challenges the
prevailing orthodoxy finds himself silenced with surprising effective-
ness.” He had only a few remarks about the methods used to achieve
this result. One is that the press is in the hands of “wealthy men who
have every motive to be dishonest on certain important topics,” and to
silence unwelcome voices. A second device is a good education, which
instills the “general tacit agreement that ‘it wouldn’t do’ to mention
that particular fact.”
163
On nature and language
The introduction to Animal Farm is not as well known as the
book. The reason is that it was not published. It was found in Orwell’s
papers thirty years later, and prominently published. But it remains
unknown.
The fate of the book and the introduction are a symbolic il-
lustration of the general point. Their secular priesthood is bad, even
despicable; their dissidents are wholly admirable. At home, and in the
dependencies, the values are reversed. The same conditions hold for
crimes that the secular priesthood must condemn with outrage, or
suppress and justify, depending on the agent.
It is, again, all too easy to illustrate. But illustrations are mis-
leading. What is important is their overwhelming consistency, a fact
that has been extensively documented in dissident literature, where it
can easily be ignored, as Orwell pointed out in his unknown essay on
voluntary censorship in free societies.
Although this course is misleading for the reasons mentioned,
I will nevertheless illustrate the general pattern with a few current
examples. Given the consistency, contemporary examples are rarely
hard to find.
We are meeting in November 1999, a month that happens to
be the tenth anniversary of several important events. One was the
fall of the Berlin Wall, which effectively brought the Soviet system to
an end. A second was the final large-scale massacre in El Salvador,
carried out by US terrorist forces called “the army of El Salvador” –
organized, armed, and trained by the reigning superpower, which has
long controlled the region in essentially this manner. The worst atroc-
ities were carried out by elite units fresh from renewed US training,
very much like the Indonesian commandos who were responsible for
shocking atrocities in East Timor, once again, this year – continuing
at this very moment, in fact, in camps in Indonesian West Timor. The
164
The secular priesthood and the perils of democracy
Indonesian killers were the beneficiaries of US training that contin-
ued right through 1998, arranged by President Clinton in violation of
the clear intent of congressional legislation. Joint military exercises
with US forces continued until a few days before the referendum of
August 30, 1999, which unleashed a new wave of army-led violence
after a year of atrocities that reached well beyond what happened prior
to the NATO bombing in Kosovo. All of this is known, but “silenced
without any official ban,” in Orwell’s words.
Let us return to the tenth anniversaries, with a few words about
each of the two examples, beginning with the atrocities in the US
dependency of El Salvador in November 1989.
Among those murdered were six leading Latin American intel-
lectuals, Jesuit priests. One of them, Father Ignacio Ellacuria, was the
rector of the major university in El Salvador. He was a well-known
writer, as were the others. We may ask, then, how the US media and
intellectual journals – and Western intellectuals generally – reacted to
the murder of six leading dissident intellectuals by US terrorist forces:
how they reacted at the time, or right now, on the tenth anniversary.
For today, the answer is simple. The response was silence. An
electronicsearchoftheUSmediafoundnomentionofthenamesofthe
six murdered Jesuit intellectuals. Furthermore, virtually no American
intellectual would know their names, or would have read a word they
have written. Much the same is true in Europe, to my knowledge. In
sharp contrast, everyone can reel off the names and quote the writings
of East European dissidents, who suffered severe repression, but in
the post-Stalin period, nothing like the horrors that have been a
routine fact of life in Washington’s domains.
The contrast is revealing. It teaches us a lot about ourselves, if
we choose to learn. It illustrates well what Orwell described: voluntary
subordination to power on the part of the secular priesthood in free
165
On nature and language
societies – including the media, though they are only the most visible
example.
It would be fair to say that the Jesuit intellectuals were dou-
bly murdered: first assassinated, then silenced by those who put the
guns into the hands of the murderers. The practice should be familiar
here.WhenAntonioGramsciwasimprisoned,theFascistgovernment
summedupitscasebysaying:“Wemuststopthisbrainfromfunction-
ing for twenty years.” Today’s Western clients leave less to chance: the
brains must be stopped from functioning forever, and their thoughts
mustbeeliminatedtoo–includingwhattheyhadtosayaboutthestate
terrorism that finally silenced these “voices for the voiceless.”
The contrast between Eastern Europe in the post-Stalin era and
USdomainsisrecognizedoutsideofthedomainsof Westernprivilege.
After the assassination of the Jesuit intellectuals, the journal Proceso of
the Jesuit University in San Salvador observed:
The so-called Salvadoran “democratic process” could learn a lot
from the capacity for self-criticism that the socialist nations are
demonstrating. If Lech Walesa had been doing his organizing
work in El Salvador, he would have already entered into the ranks
of the disappeared – at the hands of “heavily armed men dressed
in civilian clothes”; or have been blown to pieces in a dynamite
attack on his union headquarters. If Alexander Dubcek were a
politician in our country, he would have been assassinated like
Héctor Oquelı́ [the Salvadoran social democratic leader
assassinated in Guatemala, by Salvadoran death squads,
according to the Guatemalan government]. If Andrei Sakharov
had worked here in favor of human rights, he would have met the
same fate as Herbert Anaya [one of the many murdered leaders of
the independent Salvadoran Human Rights Commission CDHES].
If Ota-Sik or Vaclav Havel had been carrying out their intellectual
work in El Salvador, they would have woken up one sinister
166
The secular priesthood and the perils of democracy
morning, lying on the patio of a university campus with their
heads destroyed by the bullets of an elite army battalion.
Is the Jesuit journal exaggerating? Those interested in the facts
can determine the answer, though only by going well beyond standard
Western sources.
What was the reaction ten years ago, when the intellectuals were
assassinatedalongwiththeirhousekeeperandherdaughter,andahost
of others? That is revealing too. The US government worked diligently
to suppress the overwhelming evidence that the assassins were US-
trained elite military units who had compiled a shocking record of
atrocities, much the same hands that had silenced another “voice for
the voiceless,” Archbishop Romero, ten years earlier. We can be con-
fident that the twentieth anniversary of his assassination, next March,
will pass virtually unnoticed [added in proof: the prediction was con-
firmed]. Facts were suppressed; the main eyewitness, a poor woman,
was induced to withdraw her testimony after intimidation. The official
who organized the suppression and intimidation was US Ambassador
William Walker, greatly admired today for his heroic denunciation of
Serbian crimes in Kosovo before the NATO bombing – terrible no
doubt, but not even a tiny fraction of what happened when he was
Salvadoran proconsul. The press adhered to the Party Line, with rare
exceptions.
A few months after the Jesuit intellectuals were assassinated,
another revealing event took place. Vaclav Havel came to the United
States and addressed a joint session of Congress, where he received a
standing ovation for his praise of his audience as “the defenders of
freedom.” The press, and intellectuals generally, reacted with awe and
rapture. “We live in a romantic age,” Anthony Lewis wrote in the New
York Times, at the extreme of tolerable dissidence. Other left-liberal
167
On nature and language
commentators described Havel’sremarks as “stunning evidence” that
Havel’scountryis“aprimesource”of“theEuropeanintellectualtradi-
tion,”a“voiceofconscience”thatspeaks“compellinglyoftherespon-
sibilities that large and small powers owe each other” – the US and
ElSalvador,forexample.OthersaskedwhyAmericalacksintellectuals
so profound, who “elevate morality over self-interest” in this way.
It is not quite accurate, then, to say that the Jesuit intellectuals
were doubly murdered. They were triply murdered.
We might imagine the reaction had the situation been reversed.
Suppose that in November 1989, Czech commandos with a horrifying
record of massacres and atrocities, armed by Russia and fresh from re-
newedRussiantraining,hadbrutallymurderedHavelandhalfadozen
other Czech intellectuals. Suppose that shortly after, a world-famous
Salvadoran intellectual had gone to Russia and addressed the Duma,
praising the Russian leadership as the “defenders of freedom” to a
rousing ovation, passionately echoed by the Russian intellectual class,
and never mentioning their responsibility for the assassination of his
counterparts in Czechoslovakia. We cannot complete the analogy, re-
ferring to the tens of thousands of other victims of the same “defen-
ders of freedom” in that miserable country alone, many in the course
of the same rampage in which the intellectuals were assassinated.
We need not waste time imagining the reaction. We may com-
pare the imagined events with the real ones, then and now, again
learning valuable lessons about ourselves, if we choose.
Consistent with historical practice, intellectuals who laud
Western power and ignore Western crimes are greatly revered in the
West. There were some interesting illustrations a few months ago,
when it was necessary to find ways to justify NATO bombing in
Yugoslavia.Thiswasnotaneasytask,sincethedecisiontobombledto
a sharp escalation of atrocities and the initiation of large-scale ethnic
168
The secular priesthood and the perils of democracy
cleansing, as anticipated – an “entirely predictable” consequence, as
NATO Commander General Wesley Clark informed the press when
the bombing began. The leading US intellectual journal called on Va-
clav Havel, who again lavished praise on his audience, scrupulously
avoiding all evidence while declaring that Western leaders had opened
a new era in human history by fighting for “principles and values,”
for the first time in history. The reaction was, again, reverence for his
profundity and insight.
There was once another Russian dissident named Alexander
Solzhenitsyn, who also had a few things to say about the bombing. In
his words:
the aggressors have kicked aside the UN, opening a new era
where might is right. There should be no illusions that NATO was
aiming to defend the Kosovars. If the protection of the oppressed
was their real concern, they could have been defending for
example the miserable Kurds.
“For example,” because that is only one case, though a rather striking
one. Solzhenitsyn much understated the case. He did not add the cru-
cial fact that the ethnic cleansing of Kurds and other atrocities, which
vastly exceeded anything attributed to Milosevic in Kosovo, were not
overlooked by Western humanists. Rather, they made the deliberate
choice to participate actively. The crimes were carried out mostly with
US arms, amounting to 80 percent of Turkey’sarsenal. Arms were dis-
patched in a flood that peaked in 1997, along with military training,
diplomatic support, and the great gift of silence provided by the intel-
lectual classes. Little was reported in the media or journals of opinion.
Solzhenitsyn too was “silenced without any official ban,” to
borrow Orwell’s phrase. As noted, the response to Havel was rather
different.Thecomparisonillustratesonceagainthefamiliarprinciple:
169
On nature and language
to gain the approval of the secular priesthood, it helps to demonstrate
a proper respect for power.
Suppression of the role of the US and its allies in the attack on
the Kurds was no slight achievement, particularly while Turkey joined
in bombing Yugoslavia with the same US-provided F-16s that it had
used to such good effect in destroying Kurdish villages. It also took
considerable discipline “not to notice” the atrocities within NATO at
the commemoration of the NATO anniversary in Washington in April
1999. It was not a happy event, held under the sombre shadow of the
ethnic cleansing that was the (anticipated) consequence of the NATO
bombing of Yugoslavia. Such atrocities cannot be tolerated right near
the borders of NATO, speaker after speaker eloquently declaimed.
Only within the borders of NATO, where they must not only be toler-
ated, but expedited, until 3,500 villages were destroyed (seven times
KosovounderNATObombing),2–3millionrefugeesweredrivenfrom
their homes, and tens of thousands killed, with the helping hands of
the leaders who are lauded for their selfless dedication to “principles
and values.” The press and others had no comment on this impres-
sive performance. It has been repeated in the past few days as Clinton
visited Turkey. “A tireless promoter of pluralistic societies,” the press
observed, “Clinton has meetings aimed at finding concord among
ethnic groups that cannot stand each other.” He was praised for his
“I-feel-your-pain visit to a quake site” in Turkey. Particularly notable
was the display of “Clinton charm” when he noticed a baby in the
cheering crowd, then “lifted the baby gingerly from his mother’sarms
and held him close for nearly a minute” while the baby “was trans-
fixed, looking deeply into the stranger’s eyes” (Boston Globe, New York
Times). The unpleasant word “Kurd” never appeared in these accounts
of Clinton’s charm, though it did appear in the Washington Post story,
which reported that Clinton “gently chided” Turkey on its human
170
The secular priesthood and the perils of democracy
rights record and even “gingerly prodded the Turks on treatment of
the Kurds, an ethnic minority that has sought autonomy and often
suffered discrimination in Turkey.” Unmentioned is the nature of the
“discrimination” they suffered while Clinton was feeling their pain.
There is a great deal more to say about the tenth anniversary of
the assassination of the Jesuit intellectuals, and the coming twentieth
anniversary of the assassination of the Archbishop, and the slaughter
of several hundred thousand people in Central America in the years
between, mostly by the same hands, with the responsibility tracing
back to the centers of power in the self-anointed “enlightened states.”
There is also much more to say about the performance of the secular
priesthood throughout these awful years and until today. The record
has been reviewed in some detail in print, with the usual fate of “un-
popular ideas.” There is perhaps little point in reviewing it again,
and time is short, so let me turn to the second anniversary: the fall
of the Berlin Wall.
This too is a rich topic, one that has received a great deal of
attention on the tenth anniversary, unlike the destruction of Central
America by US terror. Let us consider some of the consequences of the
collapse of the Soviet dungeon that largely escaped attention – in the
West, not among the traditional victims.
One consequence of the collapse of the USSR was an end to
nonalignment. When two superpowers ruled the world – one global,
the other regional – there was a certain space for nonalignment. That
disappearedalongwiththeregionalsuperpower.Theorganizationsof
the nonaligned powers still exist; branches of the United Nations that
reflect their interests to some extent also survive, though marginally.
But for the victors, there is even less need than before to pay much
attention to the concerns of the South. One index is the sharp decline
in foreign aid since the collapse of the Soviet Union. The decline has
171
On nature and language
been most extreme in the richest country in the world. US foreign aid
has virtually disappeared, and is scarcely even visible if we remove the
largest component, which goes to a wealthy Western client state and
strategic outpost. There are many other illustrations.
The decline in aid is commonly attributed to “donor fatigue.”
Apart from the timing, it is hard to be impressed by the “fatigue”
over trivial sums, mostly devoted to export promotion. The term
“aid” should be another badge of shame for the wealthy and privi-
leged. “Highly inadequate reparations” would be a more appropriate
term, in the light of a history that is hardly obscure. But victors do not
provide reparations, just as they do not face war crimes investigations
or even see the need for apologies, beyond the most tepid acknowl-
edgment of past “errors.”
The matter is well understood in the South. Prime Minister
Mahathir of Malaysia recently commented that
paradoxically, the greatest catastrophe for us, who had always
been anti-communist, is the defeat of communism. The end of the
Cold War has deprived us of the only leverage we had – the option
to defect. Now we can turn to no one.
No paradox, but a natural expression of the actual “principles and
values” that guide policy. The topic is of extreme importance to the
vast majority of the people of the world, but it is little discussed in the
sectors of privilege and power in the industrial West.
Let us turn to another consequence of the collapse of the Soviet
Union, one of no slight import.
The United States is an unusually free society by comparative
standards, and deserves credit for that. One element of this freedom is
access to secret planning documents. The openness does not matter
much: the press, and intellectuals generally, commonly adhere to the
172
The secular priesthood and the perils of democracy
“general tacit agreement that ‘it wouldn’t do’ to mention” what they
reveal. But the information is there, for those who choose to know.
I will mention a few recent examples to give the flavor.
Immediately after the fall of the Berlin Wall, US global strategy
shifted in an instructive way. It is called “deterrence strategy,” because
the US only “deters” others, and never attacks. This is an instance of
another historical universal, or close to it: in a military conflict, each
side is fighting in self-defense, and it is an important task of the sec-
ular priesthood, on all sides, to uphold that banner vigorously.
At the end of the Cold War, US “deterrence strategy” shifted:
from Russia, to the South, the former colonies. The shift was given
formal expression at once in the annual White House budget message
to Congress, in March 1990. The major element in the budget, regu-
larly amounting to about half of discretionary spending, is the mili-
tary budget. In this regard, the March 1990 requests were much the
same as in earlier years, except for the pretexts. We need a huge
military budget, the executive branch explained, but not because the
Russians are coming. Rather, it is the “technological sophistication”
of third world countries that requires enormous military spending,
huge arms sales to our favorite gangsters, and intervention forces
aimed primarily at the Middle East, where “the threat to our in-
terests . . . could not be laid at the Kremlin’s door,” Congress was
informed, contrary to decades of fabrication, now laid to rest.
Nor could “the threat to our interests” be laid at Iraq’s door.
Saddam was then an ally. His only crimes were gassing Kurds, tortur-
ing dissidents, mass murder, and other marginalia. As a friend and
valued trading partner, he was assisted in his quest for weapons of
mass destruction and other activities. He had not yet committed the
crime that shifted him instantly from favored friend to reincarnation
of Hitler: disobeying orders (or perhaps misunderstanding them).
173
On nature and language
Here we touch upon something else that “it wouldn’t do to mention.”
Every year, when the time comes to renew the harsh sanctions regime
that is devastating the Iraqi people while strengthening their brutal
dictator, Western leaders produce eloquent pronouncements on the
need to contain this monster, who committed the ultimate crime:
not only did he develop weapons of mass destruction, but he even
used them against his own people! All true, as far as it goes. And it
would become fully true if the missing words were added: he commit-
ted the shocking crime “with our assistance and tacit approval, and
continuingsupport.”Onewillsearchinvainforthatslightaddendum.
Returning to the March 1990 call for a huge Pentagon budget,
anotherreasonwastheneedtomaintainthe“defenseindustrialbase,”
a euphemism for high technology industry. The enthusiastic rhetoric
about the miracles of the market manages to obscure the fact that the
dynamic sectors of the economy rely heavily on the vast state sector,
whichservestosocializecostandriskwhileprivatizingprofit–another
well-supportedgeneralizationabout industrial society, tracing back to
the British industrial revolution. In the US since World War II, these
functions have been fulfilled to a significant extent under the cover
of the Pentagon, though in fact the role of the military in economic
developmentgoesbacktotheearliestdaysoftheindustrialrevolution,
notonlyintheUnitedStates,factswellknowntoeconomichistorians.
In short, the fall of the Berlin Wall led to an important rhetorical
shift,andthetacitadmissionthatearlierpretextshadbeen fraudulent.
Some day it may even be possible to face the fact that case by case, the
Cold War factors adduced to justify various crimes commonly dissolve
on inspection: while never entirely missing, the superpower conflict
had nothing like the significance routinely proclaimed. But that time
has not yet arrived. When such matters are brought up outside the
ranks of the secular priesthood, the upstarts are ignored, or if noticed,
174
The secular priesthood and the perils of democracy
instructed to mind their manners and ridiculed for repeating “old,
tired, clichés” – which have been regularly suppressed, and still are.
So far, I have been citing public documents, but since little was
reported,theinformationisrestrictedtosmallcircles,mostlydissident
circles. Let us turn next to the secret record of high-level planning in
the post-Cold War era.
Declassified Pentagon documents describe the old enemy,
Russia, as a “weapons-rich environment.” The new enemy, in con-
trast, is a “target-rich environment.” The South, with its fearsome
“technological sophistication,” has many targets, but not many
weapons, though we are helping to overcome that inadequacy by mas-
sive arms transfers. That fact is not lost on military industry. Thus the
Lockheed–Martin corporation calls for more publicly subsidized sales
of its F-16 fighters, while also warning that hundreds of billions of
dollars are needed to develop more advanced F-22 fighters to protect
ourselves from the F-16s we are providing to potential “rogue states”
(over the objections of 95 percent of the public).
Targeting the South requires new strategies. One is “adaptive
planning” to allow rapid action against small countries: for example,
destruction of half of the pharmaceutical supplies in a poor African
country in 1998, killing probably tens of thousands of people, though
we will never know, because there will be no inquiry. A feeble effort
at the UN to initiate an inquiry was blocked by Washington, and if
inquiries are taking place in the West, they have not reached the gen-
eral public record. There are good reasons for ignoring the topic: the
bombing was not a crime, by definition. The agent is too powerful to
commit crimes; it only conducts “noble missions” in self-defense,
though sometimes they fail because of poor planning, misunder-
standing, or the unwillingness of the public to “assume the burdens
of world leadership.”
175
On nature and language
Alongside of “adaptive planning,” technological innovation is
necessary, the Pentagon explains: for example, new “mini-nukes” de-
signed for use against weak and defenseless enemies in the target-rich
South.
We learn more from an important 1995 study of the US
Strategic Command (STRATCOM), partially declassifed in 1998. This
study, entitled “Essentials of Post-Cold War Deterrence,” reviews “the
conclusions of several years of thinking about the role of nuclear
weapons in the post-Cold War era.” Its primary conclusion is that
nuclear weapons must remain the basis for policy. The US must there-
fore ignore the core provisions of the non-proliferation treaty (NPT),
which call for good faith efforts to eliminate nuclear weapons, and
must firmly reject any ban against first strike. US resort to nuclear
weapons may be either a response to some action Washington does
not like or “preemptive.” The first-strike option must include the op-
tion to attack non-nuclear states that have signed the NPT, contrary to
international conventions.
Two years ago, in November 1997, President Clinton formally
approved these recommendations in Presidential Decision Directive
60 (PDD 60), highly classified but selectively disclosed. The Directive
authorized first use of nuclear weapons and maintains the nuclear
weapons delivery triad – Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBMs),
Sea-launched Ballistic Missiles (SLBMs), and long-range bombers.
These are to remain in “launch-on-warning posture,” perpetuating
the high-alert regime of the past years, with its ever-present danger to
survival. New programs were initiated to implement these decisions,
among them use of civilian nuclear reactors to produce tritium for
nuclear weapons, breaching the barrier between civilian and military
use of nuclear power that the NPT sought to establish. The planned
National Missile Defense system, abrogating the anti-Ballistic Missile
Treaty, is likely to spur development of weapons of mass destruction
176
The secular priesthood and the perils of democracy
by potential adversaries who will perceive the system as a first-strike
weapon, thus increasing the threat of accidental nuclear war, as many
strategic analysts have plausibly argued.
The STRATCOM study stresses the need for credibility: adver-
saries must be frightened, even potential ones. Any Mafia Don can
explain the point. Recall that “maintaining credibility” was the only
serious argument offered by Clinton, Blair, and their associates for
bombing Yugoslavia, though the secular priesthood has preferred a
different story, conjuring up ethnic cleansing and atrocities that can-
notbefoundinthedetailedrecordsproducedbytheStateDepartment,
NATO, and other Western sources – which, interestingly, have been
largely ignored in the extensive literature of justification of the NATO
war. A fairly typical instance of the preferred version, taken from the
International Herald Tribune/Washington Post, is that “Serbia assaulted
Kosovo to squash a separatist Albanian guerrilla movement, but killed
10,000 civilians and drove 700,000 people into refuge in Macedonia
and Albania. NATO attacked Serbia from the air in the name of pro-
tecting the Albanians from ethnic cleansing [but] killed hundreds of
Serb civilians and provoked an exodus of tens of thousands from cities
into the countryside.” Crucially and uncontroversially, the order of
events was the reverse, but the truth is harder to bring into confor-
mity with the “principles and values” that provide a more comforting
self-image.
Nuclear weapons enhance credibility, STRATCOM explains,
because they “always cast a shadow over any crisis or conflict.” They
are preferable to the weapons of mass destruction of the weak because
“unlike chemical or biological weapons, the extreme destruction from
a nuclear explosion is immediate, with few if any palliatives to reduce
its effect.” Washington’s nuclear-based “deterrence statement” must
be “convincing” and “immediately discernible.” Furthermore, the US
must “maintain ambiguity.” It is important that “planners should not
177
On nature and language
be too rational about determining . . . what the opponent values the
most,” all of which must be targeted for destruction. “It hurts to por-
tray ourselves as too fully rational and cool-headed.” The “national
persona we project” should be “that the US may become irrational and
vindictive if its vital interests are attacked.” It is “beneficial” for our
strategic posture if “some elements may appear to be potentially ‘out
of control.’”
In brief, the world should recognize that we are dangerous,
unpredictable, ready to lash out at what adversaries value most, using
weapons of vast destructive force in preemptive strikes, if we see fit.
Then they will bend to our will, in proper fear of our credibility.
That is the general thrust of current high-level strategic plan-
ning, insofar as it has been released to the public. These plans too re-
mainmuchasbefore,butwithafundamentalchangeafterthecollapse
of the superpower enemy. Now “an important constraint is missing,”
STRATCOM observes: the Soviet deterrent. Much of the world is well
aware of that, as was revealed, for example, during NATO’s war in the
Balkans. Western intellectuals generally portrayed it in the manner of
Vaclav Havel: a historically unprecedented act of pure nobility. Else-
where the war was commonly perceived as Solzhenitsyn depicted it,
eveninUSclientstates.InIsrael,militarycommentatorscharacterized
NATO’sleadersas“adangertotheworld,”revertingtothepracticesof
the colonial era under the cynical guise of “moralistic righteousness,”
warning that these practices would lead to proliferation of weapons
of mass destruction and new strategic alliances to counteract the su-
perpower that is perceived much as STRATCOM recommends: as “out
of control.” Hard-line strategic analysts in the United States have ex-
pressed similar concerns.
A world-dominant superpower that is “out of control” has con-
siderable freedom to act unless constrained by its own population. An
178
The secular priesthood and the perils of democracy
important task for the secular priesthood is to reduce such internal
constraints. It is necessary to focus laser-like on crimes of current en-
emies, avoiding those we could mitigate or terminate by such simple
meansaswithdrawingparticipation.Recentliteratureon“humanitar-
ian intervention,” a flourishing genre, illustrates the guiding princi-
ples well. One will have to search diligently to find a reference to the
decisive contribution of the US and its allies to major atrocities and
ethnic cleansing: within NATO itself, or in Colombia, or East Timor,
or Lebanon, or all too many other corners of the world where people
live in misery and subjugation.
The project of keeping the public uninformed, passive, and
obedient traces far back in history, but constantly takes new forms.
That is particularly true when people win a degree of freedom, and
cannot so easily be subdued by the threat or exercise of violence.
EnglandandtheUnitedStatesaretheprimaryexamplesinthepastcen-
tury. DuringWorldWarI,bothoftheleadingdemocraciesconstructed
highly effective state propaganda agencies. The goal of Britain’s
Ministry of Information was “to control the thought of the world,”
and particularly the thought of American intellectuals, who could
be instrumental, it was reasonably expected, in bringing the US
into the war. To help achieve this goal, President Woodrow Wilson
established the country’s first official propaganda agency, called the
Committee on Public Information – which of course translates as
“public disinformation.” Run by leading progressive intellectuals, its
task was to turn a pacifist population into hysterical jingoists and en-
thusiastsforwaragainstthesavageHuns.Theseeffortshadenormous
success, including scandalous fabrications that were exposed long
after they had done their work, and often persist even after exposure.
The successes greatly impressed many observers, among them
Adolf Hitler, who felt that Germany had lost the war because of
179
On nature and language
superior Anglo-American propaganda and vowed that next time
Germany would be ready on the propaganda front. Also deeply im-
pressed was the American business community, which realized the
potential of propaganda for the shaping of attitudes and beliefs. The
huge industries of public relations (PR), advertising, and mass cul-
ture are in part an outgrowth of this realization, a phenomenon of
enormous significance in subsequent years. Reliance on the success
of wartime propaganda was quite conscious. One of the founders of
the PR industry, Edward Bernays, observed in his industry manual
Propaganda that “it was the astounding success of propaganda during
the war that opened the eyes of the intelligent few in all departments
of life to the possibilities of regimenting the public mind.” A dis-
tinguished Wilson–Roosevelt–Kennedy liberal, Bernays was drawing
from his experiences as a member of Wilson’s propaganda agency.
A third group that was impressed by the propaganda successes
wasthesecularpriesthoodofeliteintellectuals,the“responsiblemen”
as they termed themselves. These mechanisms of regimentation of
minds are “a new art in the practice of democracy,” Walter Lippmann
observed. He too had been a member of Wilson’s propaganda agency,
and went on to become the most eminent figure of the century in
American journalism, and one of the most respected and influential
commentators on public affairs.
The business world and the elite intellectuals were concerned
with the same problem. “The bourgeoisie stood in fear of the com-
mon people,” Bernays observed. As a result of “universal suffrage and
universal schooling, . . . the masses promised to become king,” a dan-
gerous tendency that could be controlled and reversed by new meth-
ods “to mold the mind of the masses,” Bernays advised.
The same threat was arising in England. In earlier years, formal
democracy had been a rather limited affair, but by the early twentieth
180
The secular priesthood and the perils of democracy
century working people were able to enter the political arena through
the parliamentary Labor Party and working-class organizations that
could influence political choices. In America, labor had been crushed
with considerable violence, but the franchise was extending and it
was becoming harder to maintain the principle on which the coun-
try was founded: that government must “protect the minority of the
opulent against the majority,” in the words of James Madison, the
most important of the framers of the Constitution, which was insti-
tuted to “secure the permanent interests of the country against inno-
vation,” these “permanent interests” being property rights, Madison
held. Those “without property, or the hope of acquiring it, cannot
be expected to sympathize sufficiently with its rights,” he warned.
The general public must therefore be fragmented and marginalized,
while the government is in the hands of “the wealth of the nation,”
“the most capable class of men,” who can be trusted to safeguard
“the permanent interests.” “The people who own the country ought
to govern it,” as the principle was formulated by Madison’s colleague
John Jay, President of the Constitutional Convention and first Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court.
These arrangements face constant challenges. By the 1920s,
they were becoming serious. The British Conservative Party recog-
nized that the threat of democracy might be contained by “applying
the lessons” of wartime propaganda “to the organization of political
warfare.” In the US variant, Lippmann called for “the manufacture of
consent” to enable the “intelligent minority” of “responsible men”
to set policy. “The public must be put in its place,” he urged, so that
the responsible men will be protected from “the trampling and the
roar of a bewildered herd.” The general public are “ignorant and med-
dlesome outsiders,” whose role in a democracy is to be “spectators,”
not “participants.” They are entitled to lend their weight to one of the
181
On nature and language
responsible men periodically – what is called “an election” – but are
then to return to their individual pursuits.
This is good Wilsonian doctrine, one element of “Wilsonian
idealism.” Wilson’s own view was that an elite of gentlemen with
“elevated ideals” must preserve “stability and righteousness.” It is
goodLeninistdoctrineaswell;thecomparisonisworthpursuing,butI
will keep to the secular priesthood of the Western democracies. These
ideas have deep roots in American history, and in British history back
to the first democratic revolution of the seventeenth century, which
also frightened “the men of best quality,” as they called themselves.
In the post-World War I period, the issues were addressed by
the academic intelligentsia as well. The Encyclopaedia of Social Sciences
in 1933 contained an article on “propaganda” written by one of the
founders of modern political science, Harold Lasswell. He warned
that the intelligent minority must recognize the “ignorance and stu-
pidity of the masses” and not succumb to “democratic dogmatisms
about men being the best judges of their own interests.” They are not;
we “responsible men” are the best judges. For their own benefit, the
ignorant and stupid masses must be controlled. In more democratic
societies, where force is unavailable, social managers must therefore
turn to “a whole new technique of control, largely through propa-
ganda.”
Edward Bernays explained in his 1925 manual Propaganda that
the “intelligent minorities” must “regiment the public mind every bit
as much as an army regiments the bodies of its soldiers.” The task
of the intelligent minorities, primarily business leaders, is “the con-
scious and intelligent manipulation of the organized habits and opin-
ions of the masses.” This process of “engineering consent” is the very
“essence of the democratic process,” Bernays wrote shortly before
he was honored for his contributions by the American Psychological
182
The secular priesthood and the perils of democracy
Association in 1949. A good deal of modern applied and industrial
psychology developed within this general framework. Bernays him-
self had won fame by a propaganda campaign that induced women to
smoke cigarettes, and a few years after receiving his award, confirmed
hismethodsbyrunningthepropagandacomponentofthedestruction
of Guatemalan democracy, which established a terror regime that tor-
tured and massacred for forty years. Both “habits and opinions” must
be “intelligently manipulated.”
Manipulation of opinion is the responsibility of the media, jour-
nals, schools, universities, and the educated classes generally. The
task of manipulation of habits and attitudes falls to the popular arts,
advertising, and the huge public relations industry. Its goal, business
leaders write, is to “nullify the customs of the ages.” One method
is to create artificial wants, imagined needs, a device recognized to
be an effective technique of control from the early industrial revo-
lution, and later after the liberation of slaves. It became a major in-
dustry in the 1920s, and has reached new heights of sophistication
in recent years. Manuals explain that the industry should seek to im-
pose a “philosophy of futility” and “lack of purpose in life.” It should
find ways to “concentrate human attention on the more superficial
things that comprise much of fashionable consumption.” People may
then accept and even welcome their meaningless and subordinate
lives, and forget ridiculous ideas about managing their own affairs.
They will abandon their fate to the responsible men, the intelligent
minorities, the secular priesthood, who serve and administer power –
which of course lies elsewhere, a hidden but crucial premise.
In the modern world, power is concentrated in a few powerful
statesandtheprivatetyranniesthatarecloselylinkedtothem–becom-
ing their “tools and tyrants,” as Madison warned long ago. The private
tyrannies are the great corporations that dominate economic, social,
183
On nature and language
and political life. In their internal organization, these institutions
approach the totalitarian ideal about as closely as any that humans
have devised. Their intellectual origins lie in part in neo-Hegelian doc-
trines about the rights of organic suprahuman entities, doctrines that
alsounderlietheothermajorformsofmoderntotalitarianism,Bolshe-
vismandfascism.ThecorporatizationofAmericawasbitterlyattacked
by conservatives – a category that now scarcely exists – as a return to
feudalism and a “form of Communism,” not unrealistically.
Well into the 1930s, debate on these matters was very much alive
in mainstream discussion. The issues have largely been eliminated
from the public mind by the onslaught of corporate propaganda after
World War II. The campaign was a reaction to the rapid growth of
social democratic and more radical commitments during the depres-
sion and the war years. Business publications warned of “the hazard
facing industrialists in the rising political power of the masses.” To
counterthethreat,large-scaleeffortswereundertakento“indoctrinate
citizens with the capitalist story” until “they are able to play back the
storywithremarkablefidelity,”intheterminologyof businessleaders,
who dedicated themselves to “the everlasting battle for the minds of
men” with renewed vigor. The propaganda assault was enormous in
scale, a major chapter in the history of manufacture of consent. There
is a fairly good scholarly literature on the topic, unknown to the
victims.
These were the methods of choice within the rich and privileged
societies. Elsewhere, as already discussed, more direct measures were
available, carrying a terrible human cost. These were applied from the
last days of World War II to undermine and destroy the anti-fascist
resistance and to restore the traditional order, which had largely been
discredited by its association with fascism. They were then adapted to
ensure that decolonization did not get out of control.
184
The secular priesthood and the perils of democracy
The ferment of the 1960s aroused similar fears in respectable
circles. Perhaps their clearest expression is in the first major publi-
cation of the Trilateral Commission, a group constituted largely of
liberal internationalists in the three major industrial centers, Europe,
Japan, and the United States: the Carter administration was largely
drawn from its ranks, including the President himself and all of his
senior advisors. The Commission’s first publication was devoted to
the “crisis of democracy” that had arisen in the trilateral regions.
The crisis was that in the 1960s, large parts of the population that
are normally passive and apathetic sought to formulate their inter-
ests and concerns in an organized way and to enter the political arena
to promote them: women, minorities, youth, elderly, etc. – in fact
virtually the whole population. Their “special interests” are to be dis-
tinguished from “the national interest,” an Orwellian term referring
in practice to the “permanent interests” of “the minority of the
opulent.”
The naive might call these developments a step towards democ-
racy, but the more sophisticated understand that they are an “excess
of democracy,” a crisis that must be overcome by returning the
“bewildered herd” to its proper place: spectators, not participants in
action. The American rapporteur of the Commission, a distinguished
Harvard University political scientist, described with a trace of nostal-
giatheworldofthepast,whenHarryTruman“hadbeenabletogovern
the country with the cooperation of a relatively small number of Wall
Street lawyers and bankers,” a happy state that might be recovered
if “moderation in democracy” can be restored.
The crisis set off a new attack on democracy through policy
decisions, propaganda, and other methods of control of belief, cus-
tom,andattitudes.Inaparalleldevelopment,optionsforpublicaction
havebeensharplyconstrainedundertheregimeof“neoliberalism”–a
185
On nature and language
dubious term; the policies are neither “new” nor “liberal,” if we
have in mind anything resembling classical liberalism. The “neolib-
eral” regime undermines popular sovereignty by shifting decision-
making power from national governments to a “virtual parliament” of
investors and lenders, primarily organized in corporate institutions.
This virtual parliament can wield “veto power” over government plan-
ning by capital flight and attacks on currency, thanks to the liber-
alization of financial flows that was part of the dismantling of the
Bretton Woods system that had been instituted in 1944. That brings us
to the current period, raising major issues that I will have to put aside,
reluctantly, given time constraints.
The results, and the methods used to bring them about, should
be ranked as among the most significant achievements of power and
its servants in the twentieth century. They also indicate what may lie
ahead – always with the crucial proviso: if we allow it, a choice, not a
necessity.
186
Notes
3 Language and the brain
1 Ned Block (1990), “The computer model of the mind,” in D. N. Osherson
and E. E. Smith, eds., An Invitation to Cognitive Science vol. 3, Thinking
(Cambridge, MA: MIT Press).
2 “The Brain,” Daedalus, Spring 1998.
3 Mark Hauser (1996), The Evolution of Communication (Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press).
4 C. R. Gallistel (1997), “Neurons and memory,” in M. S. Gazzaniga, ed.,
Conversations in the Cognitive Neurosciences (Cambridge, MA: MIT Press);
(1999), “The replacement of general-purpose learning models with
adaptively specialized learning modules,” in M. S. Gazzaniga, ed., The
Cognitive Neurosciences, 2nd edition (Cambridge, MA: MIT Press).
5 David Hume, Dialogue on Natural Religion.
6 N. Chomsky (1990), “Language and cognition,” welcoming address for the
Conference of the Cognitive Science Society, MIT, July 1990, in D. Johnson
and C. Emeling, eds. (1997), The Future of the Cognitive Revolution (New York:
Oxford University Press). Chomsky (1995b), “Language and nature,” Mind
104.413: 1–61, Jan., reprinted in Chomsky (2000b), New Horizons in the Study
of Language and Mind (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press). See the
latter collection for many sources not cited here.
7 Alexandre Koyré (1957), From the Closed World to the Infinite Universe
(Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press).
187
Notes to pages 69–95
8 Arnold Thackray (1970), Atoms and Powers (Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press).
9 Cited by Gerald Holton, “On the Art of Scientific Imagination,” Daedalus
(1996), 183–208.
10 Cited by V. S. Ramachandran and Sandra Blakeslee (1998), Phantoms in the
Brain (London: Fourth Estate).
11 Bertrand Russell (1929), The Analysis of Matter (Leipzig: B. G. Teubner).
12 R. D. Hawkins and E. R. Kandel (1984), “Is there a cell-biological alphabet
for simple forms of learning?,” Psychological Review 91: 376–391.
13 Adam Frank, Discover 80 (1997), Nov.
14 N. Chomsky (1959), Review of B. F. Skinner, Verbal Behavior, Language 35.1:
26–57.
15 Richard Lewontin (1990), in Osherson and Smith (1990), 229–246.
16 Terrence Deacon (1998), The Symbolic Species: The Co-evolution of Language and
the Brain (New York: Norton).
17 For current discussion of these topics, see, inter alia, Jerry Fodor (2000), The
Mind Doesn’t Work That Way: Scope and Limits of Computational Psychology
(Cambridge, MA: MIT Press); Gary Marcus (1998), “Can connectionism
save constructivism?,” Cognition 66: 153–182.
18 See Chomsky (1959), and for more general discussion, focusing on
language, Chomsky (1975), Reflections on Language (New York: Pantheon).
19 On the non-triviality of this rarely recognized assumption, see Fodor
(2000).
20 C. R. Gallistel, ed. (1990), Animal Cognition, Cognition, special issue, 37.1–2.
4 An interview on minimalism
We would like to thank Marco Nicolis and Manola Salustri for editorial
assistance.
1 Noam Chomsky (1981), Lectures on Government and Binding (Dordrecht: Foris
Publications).
2 See, for instance, the articles collected in Noam Chomsky (1977), Essays on
Form and Interpretation (New York: North Holland).
3 Noam Chomsky (1995a), The Minimalist Program (Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press). See also Juan Uriagereka (1998), Rhyme and Reason (Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press), for an introduction to the basic concepts and empirical results
of minimalism.
188
Notes to pages 98–138
4 Steven Weinberg (1976), “The forces of nature,” Bulletin of the American
Society of Arts and Sciences 29. 4: 28–29.
5 Roman Jakobson (1936), “Beitrag zur allgemeinen Kasuslehre:
Gesamtbedeutung der russischen Kasus, TCLP, VI,” English translation in
Roman Jakobson, Russian and Slavic Grammar (Berlin: Mouton).
6 Dianne Jonas (1996), “Clause Structure and Verb Syntax in Scandinavian
and English,’’ PhD dissertation, Harvard University; Adriana Belletti and
Luigi Rizzi (1988), “Psych-verbs and theta theory,” Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory 6: 291–352.
7 Ken Hale and Samuel Jay Keyser (1993), “On argument structure and
the lexical expression of syntactic relations,” in Ken Hale and Samuel
Jay Keyser, eds., The View from Building 20 (Cambridge, MA: MIT Press);
Luigi Rizzi (1997), “The fine structure of the left periphery,” in Liliane
Haegeman, ed., Elements of Grammar (Dordrecht: Kluwer), 281–337.
8 Guglielmo Cinque (1999), Adverbs and Functional Heads – A Cross-linguistic
Perspective (New York and Oxford: Oxford University Press).
9 See the discussion in Jerry Fodor, Thomas Bever, and Merrill Garrett
(1974), The Psychology of Language (New York: McGraw-Hill).
10 W. V. O. Quine (1972), “Methodological reflections on current linguistic
theory,” in Donald Davidson and Gilbert Harman, eds., Semantics of Natural
Language (New York: Humanities Press); W. V. O. Quine (1986), “Reply to
Gilbert H. Harman,” in Edward Hahn and Paul Arthur Schilpp, eds., The
Philosophy of W. V. Quine (La Salle: Open Court).
11 Jonas (1996).
12 Noam Chomsky (2000a), “Minimalist inquiries: the framework”, in
R. Martin, D. Michaels, and J. Uriagereka, eds., Step by Step – Essays in
Minimalist Syntax in Honor of Howard Lasnik, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
13 Noam Chomsky (1964), “Current issues in linguistic theory,” in Jerry
A. Fodor and Jerrold J. Katz, eds., The Structure of Language (Englewood
Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall), 50–118.
14 John Robert Ross (1967), “Constraints on variables in syntax,’’ PhD
dissertation, MIT; Emmon Bach (1971), “Questions,” Linguistic Inquiry, 2:
153–167.
15 Richard Kayne (1994), The Antisymmetry of Syntax (Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press). See also the discussion in Chomsky (1995a).
16 On government and ECP see Chomsky (1981) and much subsequent work.
17 Marc D. Hauser (1996), The Evolution of Communication (Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press).
189
Notes to pages 138–158
18 François Jacob (1981), Le jeu des possibles (Paris: Fayard).
19 Editorial comments in Martin Joos, ed. (1957), Readings in Linguistics
(Washington: American Council of Learned Societies).
20 Edward Sapir (1921), Language (New York: Harcourt Brace).
21 B. F. Skinner (1957), Verbal Behavior (New York: Appleton-Century-Crofts).
22 W. D’Arcy Thompson (1917), On Growth and Form (Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press).
23 Johann Wolfgang Goethe, Bildung und Umbildung organischer Naturen (1807).
24 See Alan Turing’s classical paper “The chemical basis of morphogenesis,”
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London (1952), 37–72, and the
review of the issue in Ian Stewart (1998), Life’s Other Secret (New York: John
Wiley).
25 Walter J. Gehring and Kazuko Ikeo (1999), Trends in Genetics, Sept.
26 Fodor (2000).
27 Lewontin (1990).
28 Philip Lieberman (1984), The Biology and Evolution of Language (Cambridge,
MA: Harvard University Press).
29 Paul Postal (1999), Three Investigations of Extraction (Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press).
30 James Huang (1982), “Logical Relations in Chinese and the Theory of
Grammar,’’ PhD dissertation, MIT. On parasitic gaps see Noam Chomsky
(1982), Some Concepts and Consequences of the Theory of Government and Binding
(Cambridge, MA: MIT Press) and references cited there.
31 Morris Halle and Kenneth N. Stevens (1991), “Knowledge of language and
the sounds of speech,” in Johan Sundberg, Lennart Nord, and Rolf
Carlson, eds., Music, Language, Speech and Brain (London: Macmillan), 1–19;
Morris Halle (1995), “Feature geometry and feature spreading,” Linguistic
Inquiry 26: 1–46.
190
References to chapters 1–4
Abney, S. (1987) “The English Noun Phrase in its Sentential Aspect.” PhD
dissertation, MIT.
Aissen, J. and D. Perlmutter (1976) “Clause reduction in Spanish.” Proceedings of the
Second Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistic Society 2:1–30.
Bach, E. (1971) “Questions.” Linguistic Inquiry 2: 153–167.
Baker, M. (1988). Incorporation: A Theory of Grammatical Function Changing. Chicago:
Chicago University Press.
Barss, A. (1986) “Chains and Anaphoric Dependence.” PhD dissertation, MIT.
Belletti, A. (1988) “The case of unaccusatives.” Linguistic Inquiry 19:1–34.
(1990) Generalized Verb Movement. Turin: Rosenberg & Sellier.
(1999) “Italian/Romance clitics: structure and derivation.” In H. van Riemsdijk,
ed., Clitics in the Languages of Europe. The Hague: Mouton de Gruyter. 543–579.
(2001) “Inversion as focalization.” In A. Hulke and J. Y. Pollock, eds., Subject
Inversion in Romance and the Theory of Universal Grammar. Oxford and New
York: Oxford University Press. 60–90.
ed. (in prep) Structures and Beyond: Current Issues in the Theory of Language.
University of Siena.
Belletti, A. and L. Rizzi (1988) “Psych-verbs and theta theory.” Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory 6: 291–352.
(1996) Parameters and Functional Heads. Oxford and New York: Oxford University
Press.
Bloch, N. (1990) “The computer model of the mind.” In D. N. Osherson and
E. E. Smith, eds., An Invitation to Cognitive Science vol. 3, Thinking. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
191
References to chapters 1–4
Bobaljik, J. (1995) “Morphosyntax: The Syntax of Verbal Inflection.” PhD
dissertation, MIT.
Bobaljik, J. D. and D. Jonas (1996) “Subject position and the roles of TP.” Linguistic
Inquiry 27.2: 195–236.
Borer, H. (1995) “The ups and downs of Hebrew verb movement.” Natural
Language and Linguistic Theory 13: 527–606.
Burzio, L. (1986) Italian Syntax: A Government-Binding Approach. Dordrecht: Reidel.
Cardinaletti, A. and M. Starke (1999) “The typology of structural deficiency: a case
study of the three classes of pronouns.” In H. van Riemsdijk, ed., Clitics in the
Languages of Europe. The Hague: Mouton de Gruyter. 145–233.
Chomsky, N. (1955) “The Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory.” PhD
dissertation, University of Pennsylvania. Excerpts published by Plenum Press:
New York, 1975.
(1957) Syntactic Structures. The Hague: Mouton.
(1959) “A review of B. F. Skinner’s Verbal Behavior 1957.” Language 35: 26–58.
(1964) “Current issues in linguistic theory.” In J. Fodor and J. Katz, eds., The
Structure of Language. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall. 50–118.
(1965) Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(1970) “Remarks on nominalization.” In R. A. Jacobs and P. S. Rosenbaum, eds.,
Readings in English Transformational Grammar. Waltham, MA: Ginn. 184–221.
(1973) “Conditions on transformations.” In S. Anderson and P. Kiparsky, eds.,
A Festschrift for Morris Halle. New York: Holt, Rinehart, and Winston. 232–286.
(1975) Reflections on Language. New York: Pantheon.
(1977) Essays on Form and Interpretation. New York, Amsterdam, and London:
North Holland.
(1981) Lectures on Government and Binding. Dordrecht: Foris Publications.
(1982) Some Concepts and Consequences of the Theory of Government and Binding.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(1986a) Knowledge of Language. New York: Praeger.
(1986b) Barriers. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(1990) “Language and cognition.” Welcoming address for the Conference of the
Cognitive Science Society, MIT, July. In D. Johnson and C. Emeling, eds., The
Future of the Cognitive Revolution. New York: Oxford University Press, 1997.
(1993) “A minimalist program for linguistic theory.” In K. Hale and S. J. Keyser,
eds., The View from Building 20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. 1–52.
(1995a) The Minimalist Program. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(1995b) “Language and nature.” Mind 104. 413: 1–61. In Chomsky (2000b).
192
References to chapters 1–4
(2000a) “Minimalist inquiries: the framework.” In R. Martin, D. Michaels, and
J. Uriagereka, eds., Step by Step – Essays in Minimalist Syntax in Honor of Howard
Lasnik. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(2000b) New Horizons in the Study of Language and Mind. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
(2001a) “Derivation by phase.” In M. Kenstowicz, ed., Ken Hale: A Life in
Language. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(2001b) “Beyond Explanatory Adequacy.” To appear in Belletti (in prep.).
Cinque, G. (1990) Types of A’ Dependencies. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(1996) “On the evidence for partial N-movement in the Romance DP.” In
G. Cinque, Italian Syntax and Universal Grammar. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
(1999) Adverbs and Functional Heads: A Cross-Linguistic Perspective. Oxford and New
York: Oxford University Press.
ed. (2001) Mapping Functional Structure. Oxford and New York: Oxford University
Press.
Collins, C. (1997) Local Economy. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
D’Arcy Thompson, W. (1917) On Growth and Form. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Deacon, T. (1998) The Symbolic Species: The Co-evolution of Language and the Brain. New
York: Norton.
Degraff, M., ed. (1999) Language Creation and Language Change. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Déprez, V. (1998) “Semantic effects of agreement: the case of French past
participle agreement.” Probus. 1–65.
Dobrovie-Sorin, C. (1988) “A propos de la structure du groupe nominal en
Roumain.” Rivista di grammatica generativa 12: 126–151.
Emonds, J. (1978) “The verbal complex V’-V in French.” Linguistic Inquiry 9:
151–175.
(1980)“Wordorderin generative grammar.” Journal of Linguistic Research1:33–54.
Fodor, J. (2000) The Mind Doesn’t Work that Way: Scope and Limits of Computational
Psychology. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Fodor, J. and J. Katz, eds. (1964) The Structure of Language. Englewood Cliffs:
Prentice Hall.
Fodor, J., T. Bever, and M. Garrett (1974) The Psychology of Language: An Introduction
to Psycholinguistics and Generative Grammar. New York: McGraw-Hill.
Fox, D. (2000) Economy and Semantic Interpretation. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
193
References to chapters 1–4
Fox, D. and J. Nissenbaum (1999) “Extraposition and the nature of covert
movement.” MS, Harvard University.
Frank, A. (1997) Discover 80.
Freidin, R. (1988) “Comments on Lightfoot (1988).” Behavioral and Brain Sciences 12.
Friedemann, M.-A. and L. Rizzi, eds. (2000) The Acquisition of Syntax. London:
Longman.
Friedemann, M. A. and T. Siloni (1997) “Agrobj is not Agrparticiple.” The Linguistic
Review 14: 69–96.
Gallistel, C. R., ed. (1990) Animal Cognition, Cognition, special issue, 37: 1–2.
(1997) “Neurons and memory.” In M. S. Gazzaniga, ed., Conversations in the
Cognitive Neurosciences. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(1999) “The replacement of general-purpose learning models with adaptively
specialized learning modules.” In M. S. Gazzaniga, ed., The Cognitive
Neurosciences, 2nd edn. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Gehring, W. J. and I. Kazuko (1999) Trends in Genetics. Sept.
Giorgi, A. and G. Longobardi (1991) The Syntax of Noun Phrases: Configuration,
Parameters and Empty Categories. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Giorgi, A. and F. Pianesi (1997) Tense and Aspect: From Semantics to Morphosyntax.
Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press.
Giusti, G. (1993) La sintassi dei determinanti. Padua: Unipress.
Graffi, G. (1991) La sintassi tra ottocento e novecento. Bologna: Il Mulino.
Grewendorf, G. (2001) “Multiple Wh fronting.” Linguistic Inquiry 32: 87–122
Grimshaw, J. (1986) “Subjacency and the S/S’ parameter.” Linguistic Inquiry 17:
364–369.
Hale, K. (1978) “On the position of Walbiri in the typology of the base.” MS,
MIT.
Hale, K. and S. J. Keyser (1993). “On argument structure and the lexical expression
of syntactic relations.” In Hale and Keyser, eds., The View from Building 20.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Halle, M. (1995). “Feature geometry and feature spreading.” Linguistic Inquiry 26:
1–46.
Halle, M. and K. N. Stevens (1991) “Knowledge of language and the sounds of
speech.’’ In J. Sundberg, L. Nord, and R. Carlson, eds., Music, Language,
Speech and Brain. London: Macmillan. 1–19.
Hanser, M. (1996) The Evolution of Communication. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Hawkins, R. D. and E. R. Kandel (1984) “Is there a cell-biological alphabet for
simple forms of learning?” Psychological Review 91: 376–391.
Holton, G. (1996) “On the art of scientific imagination.” Daedalus. 183–208.
194
References to chapters 1–4
Hornstein, N. (1984) Logic as Grammar. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Huang, J. (1982) “Logical Relations in Chinese and the Theory of Grammar.” PhD
dissertation, MIT.
Hyams, N. (1986) Language Acquisition and the Theory of Parameters. Dordrecht: Reidel.
Jackendoff, R. (1977) X’ Syntax: A Study of Phrase Structure. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT
Press.
Jacob, F. (1981) Le jeu des possibles. Paris: Fayard.
Jakobson, R. (1936) “Beitrag zur allgemeinen Kasuslehre: Gesamtbedeutung der
russischen Kasus, TCLP, VI.” English translation, Russian and Slavic Grammar.
Berlin: Mouton, 1984.
Johnson, K. (1991) “Object positions.” Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 9:
577–636.
Jonas, D. (1996) “Clause Structure and Verb Syntax in Scandinavian and English.”
PhD dissertation, Harvard University.
Joos, M. (1957) Readings in Linguistics. Washington: American Council of Learner
Societies.
Katz, J. and P. Postal (1964) An Integrated Theory of Linguistic Descriptions. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Kayne, R. (1975) French Syntax: The Transformational Cycle. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
(1984) Connectedness and Binary Branching. Dordrecht: Foris Publications.
(1989) “Facets of Romance past participle agreement.” In P. Benincà, ed., Dialect
Variation and the Theory of Grammar. Dordrecht: Foris Publications. 85–103.
(1994) The Antisymmetry of Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(2001) Parameters and Universals. Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press.
Kiss, K., ed. (1995) Discourse-Configurational Languages. Oxford and New York:
Oxford University Press.
Koopman, H. (1983) The Syntax of Verbs. Dordrecht: Foris Publications.
Koopman, H. and D. Sportiche (1991) “The position of subjects.” Lingua 85:
211–258.
Koyré, A. (1957) From the Closed World to the Infinite Universe. Baltimore: Johns
Hopkins University Press.
Kuroda, S. Y. (1988) “Whether we agree or not: a comparative syntax of English
and Japanese.” In W. J. Poser, ed., Papers from the Second International Workshop
on Japanese Syntax. Stanford: CSLI. 103–143 (also in Linguisticae Investigationes
12: 1–47).
Lasnik, H. (1976) “Remarks on coreference.” Linguistic Analysis 2: 1–22.
(1989) Essays on Anaphora. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
195
References to chapters 1–4
(1992) “Case and expletives: notes toward a parametric account.” Linguistic
Inquiry 23: 381–405.
Lasnik, H. and M. Saito (1992) Move Alpha: Conditions on its Application and Output.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Lebeaux, D. (1988) “Language Acquisition and the Form of Grammar.” PhD
dissertation, University of Massachusetts at Amherst.
Lees, R. B (1960) The Grammar of English Nominalization. The Hague: Mouton.
Lewontin, R. (1990) “The evolution of cognition.” In D. N. Osherson and
E. E. Smith, eds., An Invitation to Cognitive Science vol. 3, Thinking. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press. 229–246.
Lieberman, P. (1984) The Biology and Evolution of Language. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press.
Lightfoot, D. (1989) “The child’s triggering experience: degree-0 learnability.”
Behavioral and Brain Sciences 12: 321–375.
Longobardi, G. (1994) “Reference and proper names: a theory of N-movement in
syntax and Logical Form.” Linguistic Inquiry 25: 609–665.
Manzini, M. R. (1992) Locality: A Theory and Some of Its Empirical Consequences.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Marcus, G. (1998) “Can connectionism save constructivism?” Cognition 66:
153–182.
May, R. (1985) Logical Form: Its Structure and Derivation. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
McCloskey, J. (1996) “On the scope of verb movement in Irish.” Natural Language
and Linguistic Theory 14: 47–104.
Mehler, J. and E. Dupoux (1992) Naı̂tre humain. Paris: Odile Jacob.
Moro, A. (1990) The Raising of Predicates: Predicative Noun Phrases and the Theory of
Clause Structure. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Obenauer, H. G. (1994) “Aspects de la Syntaxe A’.” Thèse d’Etat, Université de
Paris VIII.
Perlmutter, D. (1978) “Impersonal passives and the unaccusative hypothesis.” In
Proceedings of the Fourth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistic Society. 157–189.
Pollock, J.-Y. (1989) “Verb movement, Universal Grammar, and the structure of
IP.” Linguistic Inquiry 20: 365–424.
Pollock, J. Y. and C. Poletto (2001) “On the left periphery of some Romance
wh-questions.” MS, to appear in Rizzi (in prep.).
Postal, P. (1999) The Investigations of Extraction. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Quine, W. V. O. (1972) “Methodological reflections on current linguistic theory.”
In D. Davidson and G. Harman, eds., Semantics of Natural Language. New York:
Humanities Press.
196
References to chapters 1–4
(1986) “Reply to Gilbert H. Harman.” In E. Hahn and P. A. Schilpp, eds., The
Philosophy of W. V. Quine. La Salle: Open Court.
Radford, A. (1997) Syntax – A Minimalist Introduction. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Ramachandran, V. S. and S. Blakeslee (1998) Phantoms in the Brain. London: Fourth
Estate.
Reinhart, T. (1976) “The Syntactic Domain of Anaphora.” PhD dissertation, MIT.
(1983) Anaphora and Semantic Interpretation. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
(1995) “Interface strategies.” OTS Working Papers, University of Utrecht.
Ritter, E. (1991) “Two functional categories in Noun Phrases: evidence from
Modern Hebrew.” In S. Rothstein, ed., Perspectives on Phrase Structure: Heads and
Licensing, Syntax and Semantics 26. New York: Academic Press. 37–62.
Rizzi, L. (1976) “Ristrutturazione.” Rivista di grammatica generativa 1: 1–54.
(1978) “Violations of the Wh Island Constraint in Italian and the Subjacency
Condition.” Montreal Working Papers in Linguistics 11.
(1982) Issues in Italian Syntax. Dordrecht: Foris Publications.
(1990) Relativized Minimality. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
(1997a) “A parametric approach to comparative syntax: properties of the
pronominal system.” In L. Haegeman, ed., The New Comparative Syntax.
London and New York: Longman. 268–285.
(1997b) “The fine structure of the left periphery.” In L. Haegeman, ed., Elements
of Grammar. Dordrecht: Kluwer. 281–337.
(2000) Comparative Syntax and Language Acquisition. London: Routledge.
(2001a) “Relativized minimality effects.” In M. Baltin and C. Collins, eds.,
Handbook of Syntactic Theory. Oxford: Blackwell. 89–110.
(2001b) “Extraction from Weak Islands, Reconstruction and Agreement.” MS,
University of Siena.
ed. (in prep.) The Structure of CP and IP. University of Siena.
Roberts, I. (1993) Verbs and Diachronic Syntax. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
(2000) “The fine structure of the C-system in some Celtic languages.” MS,
Cambridge University, to appear in Rizzi (in prep.).
Rosenbaum, P. S. (1967) The Grammar of English Predicate Complement Constructions.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Ross, J. R. (1967) “Constraints on Variables in Syntax.” PhD Dissertation, MIT.
(1986) Infinite Syntax! Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Russell, B. (1929) The Analysis of Matter. Leipzig: Teubner.
Sapir, E. (1921) Language. New York: Harcourt Brace.
Saussure, F. de (1916/1972) Cours de linguistique générale. Paris: Payot.
197
References to chapters 1–4
Shlonsky, U. (1997) Clause Structure and Word Order in Hebrew and Arabic: An Essay in
Comparative Semitic Syntax. Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press.
Sigurdsson, H. (2000) “To be and oblique subject: Russian vs. Icelandic.” Working
Papers in Scandinavian Syntax 66: 1–32.
Siloni, T. (1997) Noun Phrases and Nominalizations. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Skinner, B. F. (1957). Verbal Behavior. New York: Appleton-Century-Crofts.
Sportiche, D. (1981) “Bounding nodes in French.” The Linguistic Review 1: 219–246.
(1998) Partitions and Atoms of Clause Structure: Subjects, Agreement, Case and Clitics.
London and New York: Routledge.
Starke, M. (2001) “Move Dissolves into Merge.” Doctoral Dissertation, University
of Geneva.
Stewart, I. (1998) Life’s Other Secret. New York: John Wiley.
Szabolcsi, A. (1994) “The Noun Phrase.” In F. Kiefer and K. E. Kiss, eds., The
Structure of Hungarian, Syntax and Semantics 27. New York: Academic Press.
179–274.
(1999) Weak Islands. Syn Com Case Studies, M. Everaert and H. van Riemsdijk
eds., University of Utrecht, University of Tilburg.
Thackray, A. (1970). Atoms and Power. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Torrego, E. (1995) “On the nature of clitic doubling.” In H. Campos and
P. Kempchinsky, eds., Evolution and Revolution in Linguistic Theory, Georgetown
University Press.
Turing, A. (1952) “The chemical basis of morphogenesis.” Philosophical Transactions
of the Royal Society of London. 37–72.
Uriagereka, J.(1995) “Aspects of the syntax of clitic placement in Western
Romance.” Linguistic Inquiry 26: 79–123.
(1998) Rhyme and Reason – An Introduction to Minimalist Syntax. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Vergnaud, J.-R. (1982) “Dépendances et niveaux de représentation en syntaxe.”
Thèse de doctorat d’état, Université de Paris VII.
Vikner, S. (1997) “V to I and inflection for person in all tenses.” In L. Haegeman,
ed., The New Comparative Syntax. Harlow: Longman. 189–213.
Watanabe, A. (1992) “Subjacency and S-structure movement of wh in situ.” Journal
of East Asian Linguistics 1: 255–291.
Weinberg, S. (1976) “The forces of nature.” Bulletin of the American Society of Arts and
Sciences 29.4: 28–29.
Wexler, K. (1994) “Optional infinitives, head movement and the economy of
derivation.” In D. Lightfoot and N. Hornstein, eds., Verb Movement.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. 305–350.
198
References to chapters 1–4
(1998) “Very early parameter setting and the Unique Checking Constraint: a new
explanation of the optional infinitive stage.” Lingua 106: 23–79.
Williams, E. (1981) “Argument structure and morphology.” The Linguistic Review 1:
81–114.
(1984) “There insertion.” Linguistic Inquiry 15: 131–153.
(1997) “Blocking and anaphora.” Linguistic Inquiry 28: 577–628.
Wilson, E. O. (1998) “The brain.” Daedalus. Spring.
Zaenen, A., J. Maling, and H. Thrainsson (1985) “Case and grammatical functions:
the Icelandic passive.” Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 3: 441–483.
199
Index
adequacy 10–11, 30, 93, 129, 130–2
adverbs 20–3
agreement 33–4, 36–7, 111–12, 115,
116, 117–18
arguments 24–5, 152
astronomy 98–9, 136–7
Avoid Pronoun Principle 31
Bach, Emmon 130
Baker, Mark 23
bee communication 56, 74–5, 76, 138
behaviorism 141
Belletti, Adriana 23, 34–5, 38–9
Berkeley, George 100
Berlin, Isaiah 162, 163
Berlin Wall 164, 171, 174
Bernays, Edward 180, 182–3
Bever, Thomas 125
Bickerton, Derek 75
binding theory 8, 43–4, 152
biology 71, 138–47
Black, Joseph 54, 69, 151, 153
Blair, Tony 177
bodies of doctrine 54, 55, 56, 60, 70,
73, 151–3
Boston Globe 170
Boyle, Robert 59
brain see faculty of language (FL);
mind; mind–brain problem
Britain 179, 180–1
Burzio, L. 15
Carter, Jimmy 185
cartographic projects 29, 123–4
Case 28, 35–6, 112–13, 115–18, 121,
122
censorship 163
chemistry 54, 69, 71–2, 73, 102, 137–8,
153
Chinese 17, 19
Cinque, Guglielmo 23, 29
Clark, Wesley 169
click displacement 125–7
Clinton, Bill 165, 170–1, 176, 177
clitic constructions 27–8
cognitive revolution 2, 4, 69
cognitive sciences 55, 62, 71, 72–3, 74
Cohen, I. Bernard 68
Cold War 172, 174–5
commissars 162–3
communication 45–7, 48, 63, 74–9,
86, 88, 107–8, 138, 144–6
consciousness 59
constructions 94
copy theory of traces 33–4, 41–3
coreference 6–7, 8, 9
Creationism 141
credibility 177–8
201
Index
Dalton, John 137
D’Arcy Thompson, W. 57, 90, 138, 142
Darwin, Charles 7, 46–7, 48–9, 55, 77,
78
Davies, Paul 71
Davy, Humphry 137
Deacon, Terrence 80–3
democracy 180–2, 185
derivational economy 32–5
Descartes, René 49–50, 51, 53, 66, 67,
71
descriptive adequacy 10–11, 30, 129,
130–2
design 103–4, 106–9
dislocation 89–90, 94, 113–16, 119–21,
122, 125–7
dissidents 162–3, 164
Dobbs, Betty 52
DP hypothesis 26–8
Dupoux, E. 16
East Timor 164–5, 179
Eastern Europe 166–7
El Salvador 164, 165–8, 171
Ellacuria, Father Ignacio 165
Emonds, J. 21, 25
Empty Category Principle (ECP) 19,
110, 136, 153
Encyclopaedia of Social Sciences 182
Euclid 101
Euler, Leonhard 52, 101
evolution 47, 57–8, 77, 78–81, 138–42,
144, 146–51
explanation 129–36
explanatory adequacy 10, 11, 30, 93,
129, 130–2
expletive constructions 32, 38–9
Extended Projection Principle (EPP)
115, 117–18
faculty of language (FL) 1, 7, 47–8, 64,
85–7, 89–90
Faroese 128
features, uninterpretable 35–9, 88–90,
112, 115–16, 118, 152
Fodor, Jerry 125, 147
foreign aid 171–2
Fox, D. 20
free will 50, 58–9, 60
Frege, Gottlob 46
French 15, 18, 19, 21–3, 33–4, 37
Full Interpretation 32
functional heads 22
adverbs and 20–3
arguments and 24–5
Galilean style 4, 98–102, 128
Galileo 45, 48, 50–1, 53, 57, 58, 66,
98–9
Gallistel, C. R. 64, 84–6
Garrett, Merrill 125
Gauss, Karl Friedrich 101
Gell-Mann, Murray 136
generative grammar 3–4, 5, 12, 31, 48,
95
geometry 101
German 13
“ghost in the machine” 53, 71
Goethe, Johann Wolfgang von 142
grammar see generative grammar;
particular grammars; Universal
Grammar
Gramsci, Antonio 166
Gribbin, John 71
Grimshaw, J. 13
Guatemala 183
Hale, Ken 11
Halle, Morris 99, 158
Hauser, Mark 63, 74–80, 138, 139–40,
144–6
Havel, Vaclav 167–8, 169
Heisenberg, Werner Karl 69
Helmholtz, Hermann L. F. von 58–9
Hilbert, David 101
Hitler, Adolf 179–80
Hornstein, Norbert 18
Huang, James 18–19
“humanitarian intervention” 179
Hume, David 52, 60, 65, 67
Hussein, Saddam 173–4
Husserl, Edmund 98
202
Index
Huygens, Christiaan 52
Hyams, N. 17
Icelandic 117
imaging 160–1
Inclusiveness Condition 118–19
infinity of expressions 45–6, 50
inner speech 77, 148
intelligibility 50–2, 53, 66, 67, 68, 100
interfaces 8, 32, 121–2, 123, 157–60
internal languages 48, 64, 89
International Herald Tribune/Washington
Post 177
Iraq 173–4
Irish 24
island constraints 12–13, 39, 129–30,
152
Israel 178
Italian 13, 18–19, 27, 34–5, 36, 40–1,
117
Jacob, François 57, 138
Jacob, Margaret 52
Jakobson, Roman 112–13
Jay, John 181
Johnson, K. 21
Jonas, Dianne 128
Joos, Martin 139
Kandel, Eric 74
Kayne, Richard 14, 20, 25, 33, 151
Koopman, H. 24, 25
Kosovo 167, 169, 177
Koyré, Alexander 52, 67
Kurds 169, 170–1
Kuroda, S. Y. 24
La Mettrie, Julien O. de 55
Lange, Friedrich 60, 67–8
language
and communication 45–7, 48, 76–7,
78–9, 107–8, 144–6
creativity 2, 50, 66
evolution 49, 78–81, 146–51
inner speech 77, 148
internal languages 48, 64, 89
natural vs. formal 109–11, 122,
126–7, 156
non-configurational 11, 122
particular language (L) 86–7
perfection of 58, 90, 96–8, 105–9
VSO languages 24–5
see also faculty of language
language acquisition 5–9, 15–17, 30,
80–2, 84–6, 93, 134–6
languageacquisitiondevice(LAD)85–6
language organ see faculty of language
langue 1, 3, 31
Lasnik, H. 7, 9, 38–9
Lasswell, Harold 182
Lavoisier, Antoine 137, 153
learning by forgetting 16
left periphery 25–6
Leibniz, Gottfried Willhelm von 52, 100
Lewis, Anthony 167
Lewontin, Richard 80, 148–9
Lieberman, Philip 150–1
Lightfoot, David 16
limit 101
Linear Correspondence Axiom (LCA)
136
Linguistic Inquiry 133
linguistic uniformity 147
adverbs and functional heads 20–3
arguments and functional heads
24–5
cartographic projects 29
DP hypothesis 26–8
left periphery 25–6
overt vs. covert movement 17–20
Lippman, Walter 180, 181
locality 39
Relativized Minimality 40–1
Subjacency 13–14, 39
Locke, John 54, 55, 69–70
Lockheed–Martin Corporation 175
Logical Form 18, 32, 41
Longobardi, Giuseppe 112
Machamer, Peter 49, 50
Madison, James 181, 183
Mahathir Mohamad 172
203
Index
Marr, David 74
materialism 66–7
mathematics 100–2, 136
Maugham, W. Somerset 76–7
May, R. 18
McCloskey, J. 24, 25
mechanical philosophy 49–52, 65–6
Mehler, J. 16
mental nature 49
merge 29, 37–9, 133–6
mind 54–6
computer model 61–2
res cogitans 50, 51
theory of 49–50, 53
see also mechanical philosophy;
mind–body dualism; mind–brain
problem
mind–body dualism 49–50, 53, 70–1
mind–brain problem 54–6, 61–3
emergence thesis 55, 63, 64–74
ethological approach 63, 74–84
modular view of learning 64, 84–90
unification 55, 56, 61–3, 70–1
will and choice 58–9
minimalism
background 30–1
cartographic projects 123–4
copy theory of traces 41–3
derivational economy 32–5
design 103–4, 106–9
explanation 129–36
imperfections 109–28
locality 39–41
methodology 57, 98–102, 124–8
morphology 109, 111–18, 121–2
natural vs. formal languages 109–11
optimality 106
and other scientific domains 136–51
perfection 96–8, 105–9
phonology 118–19
rejection of 124–8
representational economy 32
roots 92–105
scope and perspectives 151–61
uninterpretable features 35–9, 112,
115–16, 118
model of intelligibility 50–2, 53, 66,
67, 68, 100
More, Henry 59
Moro, A. 39
morphology 33, 109, 111–18, 121–2
motion 52–3, 54–5, 57, 59
Mountcastle, Vernon 55, 63, 65
NATO 168–9, 170, 177, 178, 179
natural selection 47, 79–80, 139–42,
149, 150
neoliberalism 185–6
neurophysiology 69
neuroscience 55, 84
New York Times 167, 170
Newton, Isaac 51–3, 54–5, 59, 67,
100–1
Nissenbaum, J. 20
non-configurational languages 11, 122
nonalignment 171
nuclear weapons 176–7
see also weapons of mass destruction
Orwell, George 163–4, 165, 185
overt vs. covert movement 17–20
parasitic gaps 128
parole 2–3
participial agreement 33–4
particular grammars 8, 12, 14, 64
particular language (L) 86–7
passive construction 14–15
Pauling, Linus 69, 71
Periodic Table 137
Perlmutter, D. 15
Petty, William 59
Phase Impenetrability Condition 39
Phonetic Form 41
Phonetic representation 87
phonology 118–19, 159
phrase structure 132, 133–6
physics 54, 67, 69, 71, 73, 99–100, 102,
136
Pinker, Steven 79
Poincaré, Jules Henri 72
Poletto, C. 20
204
Index
Pollock, J.-Y. 20, 21, 22
Port Royal theorists 46, 48
Postal, Paul 152
poverty of stimulus 5–6, 8
power 183–4, 186
Priestley, Joseph 55, 65
primary linguistic data 10
Principle of Non-coreference 7
principles and parameters 11–17,
29–30, 95–6, 131, 151
Proceso 166–7
propaganda 179–80, 181, 182–3, 184
Prout, William 137–8
psychology 69, 102, 125, 182–3
public relations (PR) 180, 183–4
quark theory 136
questions 17–20
Quine, W. V. O. 126–7
reconstruction 43–4
Redondi, Pietro 57
referential signals 78
Reinhart, T. 6, 8, 20
Relativized Minimality 40–1
representational economy 32
representations 86, 87–8
res cogitans 50, 51
Rizzi, Luigi 9, 12, 14, 40
Romero, Archbishop 167
Rosenbaum, P. S. 40
Ross, John Robert 129, 130
rule system 93–4
Russell, Bertrand 72
Sapir, Edward 139
Saussure, Ferdinand de 2–3, 31
science 57–8, 61
emergence thesis 65–70
“hard problems” 59–60
mechanical philosophy 49–52, 65–6
methodology 98–102, 124–8
minimalism 136–51
model of intelligibility 50–2, 53, 66,
67, 68, 100
unification 54, 60, 68, 70, 71–2
secular priesthood 162–4, 165–6, 170,
171, 174, 177, 179, 180–3
semantic representation 87–8
semantics 110–11, 113–18, 121–2
Semitic 25
Shipman, Barbara 75
Skinner, B. F. 141
Solzhenitsyn, Alexander 169
Soviet Russia 162, 164, 171, 172
Sportiche, D. 13, 24
structuralist linguistics 139
subjacency 13–14, 39
subject drop 17
subject inversion 34
supervenience 73
syntax 3, 20, 28–9, 31, 109, 158–9
Thackray, Arnold 54
theory of mind 49–50, 53
thought 41, 45, 54, 55, 70, 76, 108,
121–2
Tinbergen, Nikolaas 63, 74, 76, 84
Trilateral Commission 185
Truman, Harry 185
Turing, Alan 49, 57, 66, 67, 90, 143
Turkey 169, 170–1
unification 54–6, 60, 61–3, 68, 70,
71–2
uninterpretable features 35–9, 112,
115–16, 118
United States of America
adaptive planning 175
Committee on Public Information
179
corporaization of 183–4
credibility 177–8
democracy 181–2, 185
deterrence strategy 173, 177–8
and East Timor 164–5
and El Salvador 164, 165–8
foreign aid 172
government 181
military budget 173, 174
neoliberalism 186–7
property rights 181
205
Index
United States of America (cont.)
secret planning 172–3, 175
and the South 172, 173, 175–6
STRATCOM study 176–8
technology 174, 175, 176
and Turkey 169, 170–1
Universal Grammar (UG) 8–9, 29,
64
island constraints 12–13, 39,
129–30, 152
passive construction 14–15
principles and parameters 11–17,
29–30, 95–6, 131, 151
subjacency 13–14
see also language acquisition;
linguistic uniformity
Vata 25
verb movement 21–3, 33
Verb–Subject–Object (VSO) languages
24–5
visual perception 58–9, 103–4
Voltaire 59
Walker, William 167
Wallace, Alfred Russell 47
Washington Post 170–1
Watanabe, A. 20
Weak Islands 40–1
weapons of mass destruction 173–4,
176–7, 178
Weinberg, Steven 98, 99
Welsh 25
Whatmough, Joshua 99
Williams, E. 24, 31
Wilson, E. O. 62
Wilson, Woodrow 179, 182
World War I 179–80
X-bar theory 93–4, 151
Yugoslavia 168–9, 170, 177, 178
206
