Kajsa Djärv, Caroline Heycock & Hannah Rohde
All receive higher directness scores when the question is specific rather than general
(confirmed as a main effect of question type in the statistical analysis: p<0.001).
Of primary interest is how the responses containing factive predicates compare with
other response types. The results show that these responses pattern with the direct un-
embedded responses (in a model of the subset of the data excluding non-factives, the
directness ratings for unembedded responses are not significantly higher than for fac-
tive responses: p=0.54) and differ from the hedged indirect responses (same modeling
technique, significant difference between factive and non-factive: p<0.001). This lends
experimental support to Simons’ claim that factives can be used parenthetically in a
sufficiently supportive discourse context.
We did not specifically predict an interaction between question type and response
type, but the effect of question type is bigger for unembedded responses (p<0.05) and
for non-factives (p<0.05), compared with factive responses. This pattern appears to arise
because of the relatively high directness ratings assigned to the factive responses in
the general question condition (making the difference between the two question types
smaller for the factive condition than for the other two conditions). This may reflect an
interpretation of the general question ‘How was it?’ as seeking information about the
speakers’ own experience, in which case reporting that one was surprised (or happy or
disappointed or relieved) adds to the relevance (and hence directness) of that response
for that question.
Given that discourse contexts can be manipulated such that factives do appear to li-
cense MPU, the next experiment tests whether a discourse context manipulation that
shifts MPU can also influence the acceptability of EV2 in Swedish.
4 Experiment 2: Swedish embedded V2
Acceptability judgments were elicited from native Swedish speakers in a 4 × 2 × 2 design
that manipulated MPU (main vs. embedded clause), verb class (communicative assertive,
epistemic assertive, (emotive) factive, (cognitive) semifactive), and word order (EV2 vs.
EV3).10 Since the consensus among researchers appears to be that EV2 is optional even
when it is permitted, EV3 word order is predicted to be generally more acceptable than
EV2. If MPU is lexically defined, we predict a word order × predicate class interaction
whereby EV2 is acceptable only under assertives and under semifactives (see Wiklund et
al. 2009). Alternatively, if MPU is a property of utterances in context, we predict a word
order × MPU interaction whereby EV2 is more acceptable when the context signals that
the embedded clause is the MPU (see Jensen & Christensen 2013).
10In order to keep the questionnaire to a manageable length, we did not include examples of Class C predi-
cates (e.g. deny, doubt, etc).
18
1 Assertion and factivity
3.6
4.0
4.4
specific general
Question Type
Directness
Score
PredicateType
Factive
Non−Factive
Unembedded
Figure 1: Directness ratings in Experiment 1 by question type (general vs. spe-
cific) and response type (factive vs. non-factive vs. unembedded)
4.1 Methodology
4.1.1 Participants
A group of 118 Swedish-speaking students (age 18–19) from a senior high school in the
northern Swedish city of Umeå participated in the study. All participants were volun-
teers.
4.1.2 Materials
Each item consisted of a 3-utterance passage. For the 16 experimental items, these pas-
sages contained a background sentence, a question to establish MPU for the target sen-
tence, and the target sentence itself, as in (29). The background sentence introduced two
19
Kajsa Djärv, Caroline Heycock & Hannah Rohde
individuals. The second utterance posed a question about one of those two individuals.
The target sentence mentioned one individual as the subject of the matrix clause and one
as the subject of the embedded clause.
The MPU manipulation was achieved via the combination of the question posed and
the positions of mention of the two individuals in the target sentence. In (29), the tar-
get sentence mentions Carina as the matrix clause subject and Albin as the embedded
clause subject. The question to trigger main clause MPU therefore asks about Carina;
the embedded clause MPU trigger asks about Albin. The word order manipulation was
indicated via the position of negation relative to the verb. Both MPU and word order
were manipulated within items. With this design, each passage could be minimally var-
ied to construct 4 conditions (MPU-matrix:EV2, MPU-embedded:EV2, MPU-matrix:EV3,
MPU-embedded:EV3).
(29) Background:
Lille Albin och hans mamma Carina gick och såg en film på bio.
‘Little Albin and his mother Carina went to see a movie in the cinema.’
Embedded Clause MPU Trigger:
Hur upplevde Albin biobesöket?
‘How did Albin find the visit to the cinema?’
Main Clause MPU Trigger:
Hur upplevde Carina biobesöket?
‘How did Carina find the visit to the cinema?’
Target:
Carina
Carina
gissade
guessed
att
that
han
he
(hade)
(had)
nog
maybe
inte
not
(hade)
(had)
väntat
expected
sig
self
så
so
mycket
much
action.
action
‘Carina guessed that he probably hadn’t expected that much action.’
The remaining manipulation of predicate class of the embedding verb was between
items (4 items for each of 4 predicate classes). The predicates were classified according
to Hooper & Thompson’s scheme, omitting their Class C: (communicative) assertive,
(epistemic) assertive, factive (emotive), semifactive (cognitive).11 The predicates we used
for each group are listed in Table 1.
The experiment consisted of 16 experimental items mixed with 16 fillers. Fillers con-
sisted of passages in the same 3-utterance format and their complexity roughly matched
the experimental items, with embedded complement clauses and relative clauses. The
fillers varied as to whether they were fully grammatical (n=8), fully ungrammatical (n=4),
or pragmatically infelicitous (n=4).
11Communicative and epistemic assertives are sometimes labeled “weak” and “strong” assertive Wiklund
et al. (2009). However, it is not at all clear to us that strength of assertion, in any straightforward under-
standing of the concept, is the relevant variable: rather the verbs in Class A are verbs of communication,
while those in Class B are verbs of thought or cognition.
20
1 Assertion and factivity
Table 1: The clause-embedding predicates used in the experiment, by predicate-
type.
Assertive Assertive Factive Semifactive
(communicative) (Epistemic)
Group 1 säga anta vara lättad upptäcka
say suppose be relieved discover
Group 2 berätta förmoda vara glad märka
tell assume be happy notice
Group 3 förklara gissa vara ledsen komma fram till
explain guess be sad/sorry arrive at
Group 4 hävda vara säker vara förvånad få veta
claim be sure be surprised come to know
So as not to repeat verbs across items, only 16 experimental items were constructed.
Each participant saw all 16 items and therefore saw each of the 16 conditions only once.
Because of this, a large number of participants were recruited. The 16 experimental items
were assigned to conditions in a Latin Square design such that, across 4 lists, each item
was presented in each MPU × word order condition once and each participant saw each
condition once.
4.1.3 Procedure
The experiment was conducted as a pen and paper task in a classroom setting. The exper-
imenter provided participants with a booklet containing the instructions and passages
(all in Swedish). Participants were instructed to judge the acceptability of the passages
on a scale from 1 to 6, where 1 represented unacceptable, and 6 represented fully accept-
able. Each passage appeared on a page by itself with a question asking participants to
“Indicate how natural you consider the answers to the questions to be.” The task took
roughly 20 minutes.
4.1.4 Analysis
The raw scores were analyzed with linear mixed effects models in R, with participants
and items as random effects. Maximum random effect structure was used (Barr et al.
2013). The word order and MPU conditions were centered, and predicate class was con-
trast coded. We conducted likelihood-ratio tests between mixed-effects models differing
only in the presence or absence of a fixed main effect or interaction. We report the
p-values derived from the model comparisons.
21
Kajsa Djärv, Caroline Heycock & Hannah Rohde
4.2 Results
Judgments from 6 non-native Swedish speakers were removed. In addition, 8 partici-
pants whose judgments failed to distinguish the grammatical and ungrammatical fillers
were excluded. 20 requested judgments (1%) were left blank. The remaining dataset con-
sisted of 1644 judgments on experimental items from 104 native speakers.
The results from Experiment 2 are illustrated in Figure 2. As predicted, EV3 receiving
higher ratings than EV2 (main effect of word order: p<0.001). In addition, higher rat-
ings were assigned to passages that contained semifactive and communicative assertive
embedding verbs (main effect of predicate class: p<0.001). This main effect of predicate
class was driven by a word order × predicate class interaction (p<0.001): As predicted
under an account in which MPU is lexically defined and the embedding verb directly
influences the acceptability of EV2, ratings for EV2 were almost as high as for EV3 for
the class of communicative assertives and the class of semifactives. There was no main
effect of MPU (p=0.88), and contrary to a context-driven account of the role of MPU in
EV2, there was no interaction with MPU (p’s>0.75).
Given Julien´s claim that – regardless of the MPU – a speaker can use EV2 when re-
porting a 3rd party’s assertion, and the higher frequency of EV2 reported by Jensen &
Christensen for communicative assertives over epistemic assertives in their Danish cor-
pus, we tested whether the acceptability of EV2 is higher for communicative assertives
than epistemic assertives. A model of the data across those two predicate classes shows
a word order × predicate class interaction (p<0.001) whereby the acceptability of EV2 is
indeed much higher for communicative assertives than epistemic assertives. This inter-
action appears alongside a main effect of word order (p<0.001), a main effect of predicate
class (p<0.001) and non-significant effects and interactions for MPU (p’s>0.68). This re-
sult, which matches the frequencies of EV2 in Danish reported by Jensen & Christensen,
lends support to Julien´s claim.
These results support the claim that Swedish EV2 is possible under semi-factive (dis-
cover/realize) and non-factive (think/claim) clause-embedding predicates, but not under
purely factive ones (be happy/be surprised) (Wiklund et al. 2009). However, the results
show no interaction between word order and MPU. That is, our data suggest, contra
Jensen & Christensen (2013), that the low acceptability of V2 under factives cannot be
explained by the twin hypotheses that MPU licenses EV2 and that factives cannot embed
MPU. Even if we set aside the factives, there was no effect of MPU when the embedding
predicate was a non-factive or a semi-factive. There is no controversy in the literature
about the ability of these predicates to embed the MPU. But even in these contexts, par-
ticipants did not rate the use of EV2 any higher in the embedded-MPU condition. Our
results therefore suggest that MPU is not relevant, and a different account is needed to
explain the unavailability of EV2 under factives.
22
1 Assertion and factivity
EC MC EC MC EC MC EC MC
104 native-speaker subjects
AC AE FACT SEMI
Score
V2
V3
1
2
3
4
5
6
Figure 2: Acceptability judgments of target sentences in Experiment 2, broken
down by MPU (Main Clause (MC), Embedded Clause (EC)), Predicate Class
(communicative assertive (AC), epistemic assertive (AE), factive (FACT), semi-
factive (SEMI)), and Word Order (V2, V3).
5 Discussion and conclusion
In this paper we have described two experiments that bear on the relation between “asser-
tion,” factivity, and the distribution of one classic case of an embedded root phenomenon:
embedded Verb Second (EV2) in Swedish. As discussed in Section 2.1, although Hooper &
Thompson (1973) classified complement clauses licensing or disallowing root phenomena
in terms of the semantic properties of the embedding predicates, and the lexical classes
that they set up have been extensively referred to in the subsequent literature, their ex-
planation for the effect of these embedding predicates was a functional/pragmatic one.
For example, factives were argued to disallow root phenomena in their complements
because their complements were presupposed, and hence could not be asserted. Indeed,
H&T argued that even predicates in classes that allow embedded root phenomena only
do so when their complement is in fact the “main assertion” of the utterance, and the
embedding predicate is being used parenthetically – see for example their discussion of
the contrast between (30a) and (30b), their (67) and (68).
(30) (Hooper & Thompson 1973: 476)
a. *That never in his life has he had to borrow money is true.
b. It’s true that never in his life has he had to borrow money.
In their recent corpus work, Jensen & Christensen (2013) have essentially adopted this
explanation for the distribution of EV2 in Danish.
23
Kajsa Djärv, Caroline Heycock & Hannah Rohde
As discussed in the same section, the work of Simons (2007) has provided a way to test
whether indeed the effect of the embedding predicate is only epiphenomenal, as argued
by Jensen & Christensen, since we should be able to manipulate MPU independently
of the class of the embedding predicate. In Experiment 1 we tested Simons’ claim that
factives can be used parenthetically. As reported in Section 3.2, our experiment supports
Simons’ claim. First, the contrast in participants’ judgments on the directness of the
answer depending on the question type shows that we were successful in manipulating
the discourse context to change what they took to be the MPU. Second, the fact that
participants readily judged the complements of factives to constitute direct answers, in
the relevant context, bears out Simons’ view that factives need not necessarily resist
“assertion”: that is, in the right context, factives can indeed embed MPU clauses.
Having established that participants can show sensitivity to the experimental manip-
ulation of the MPU by a preceding question, and that factives can embed the MPU, in
Experiment 2 we then tested whether the same type of manipulation of the MPU af-
fects the acceptability of EV2 in Swedish. In contrast to the robust effects of MPU in
Experiment 1, the MPU manipulations in Experiment 2 yielded no differences in the ac-
ceptability of EV2. Rather, the acceptability of EV2 was shown to be driven entirely by
predicate class. EV2 was most acceptable for semifactives and communicative assertives.
Compared with assertive predicates that explicitly convey a communicative act, epis-
temic (or cognitive) assertives yielded much lower ratings for EV2. And finally, EV2 was
least acceptable under factives. These EV2 preferences match the data reported by Jensen
& Christensen and Wiklund et al., but an account of such data that relies on MPU was
not supported. Lastly, we observed an overall preference for EV3 across all predicate
classes. This is in keeping with prior work suggesting that EV2, even when permitted, is
never required.
These results clearly raise the question: if the deeper explanation for the effect of the
different predicates is not a correlation with MPU, what is the alternative? The proposal
in Wiklund et al. (2009) is that certain classes of verb (H&T’s Classes A, B, and E – the
“strongly and weakly assertive” predicates and the semifactives) syntactically select for
a particular “size” of complement clause (specifically ForceP), while the other classes
(C and D, the non-assertive, non-presuppositional predicates, and the factives) select a
smaller clausal constituent that lacks this projection; V2 is syntactically possible within
ForceP but not in the smaller structure. A variant of this kind of account would be to
adopt the “intervention” approach put forward in Haegeman (2010; 2012), among other
works, according to which A′-movement inside clauses may be blocked by other (often
covert) operations of A′-movement. Thus for example Haegeman argues that English
argument topicalisation inside conditionals is blocked by the A′-movement of a world
operator; similarly, factives have been argued to involve movement of a factive operator,
which would also interfere with other A′ movement (see for example Zanuttini & Portner
2003). If we were to assume that V2 always involves A′-movement of some phrase to
the left periphery (in the examples we have been citing, this is always the subject, but
its high position is evidenced indirectly by the high position of the verb, to the left of
negation), this type of account gives an essentially syntactic explanation for the low
acceptability of V2 in the complement to factives that we observed in our data.
24
1 Assertion and factivity
What prevents such accounts from being circular is that the smaller clause size (in
a “truncation” account such as the one sketched in Wiklund et al. 2009) or the opera-
tor movement (in an intervention account along the lines of Zanuttini & Portner 2003;
Haegeman 2010; 2012) has semantic/pragmatic effects. Wiklund et al. propose that “MPU
and the possibility of non-subject-topicalization (including unrestricted V2) are licensed
by the same structural domain […], ForceP”; Zanuttini & Portner derive the factive in-
terpretation from the presence of the factive operator.
But the results of Experiment 2 are problematic for both of these variants, for different
reasons. Taking the clause-truncation explanation first: as discussed above in §2.2, and
as suggested by the quote just above, Wiklund et al. appear to take the view that factives
(for example) cannot embed the MPU. But as argued by Simons, and now supported also
by the results of Experiment 1, it appears that speakers are able to treat the complement
of a factive as the MPU. Nevertheless, Experiment 2 showed that EV2 is always given
low ratings in the complements of factives – even when the context sets this up as the
MPU. In consequence, the analysis sketched in Wiklund et al. (2009) does not in fact
avoid a circular account of possible environments for EV2. The independent evidence
for the distribution of ForceP – the syntactic environment in which V2 is licensed, by
hypothesis – was to be the possibility for an MPU interpretation. But as we have just
seen, MPU interpretation is possible for the complement of factives, but our results show
that this is not an environment in which speakers accept EV2. So now it appears to be
just a lexical idiosyncrasy that factives do not readily license EV2 in their complements.
Our results are also problematic for an intervention approach to the blocking effect
of factivity. Here the problem is the finding that semifactives constitute one of the most
favourable environments for EV2. This finding confirms what has already been claimed
on the basis of speaker judgments and corpus work (e.g. Wiklund et al. 2009; Jensen &
Christensen 2013; Julien 2015) and what H&T observed for embedded root phenomena
in English. But if factivity is the result of the presence of a factive operator, this operator
ought also to be present in the complement to semi-factives in those environments in
which the factive interpretation is not cancelled – and all the semifactive environments
in our experiment were of this type (declarative non-modal sentences). Clearly a better
understanding of the exact nature of the distinction between factives and semifactives
is crucial here, and this is one topic that merits future investigation.
A sceptical reader may wonder whether the participants in Experiment 2 were paying
sufficient attention to the discourse context manipulation and, if they were, whether the
manipulation successfully established embedded MPU interpretations. We know from
the first study that participants in experimental paradigms like this are capable of attend-
ing to the discourse context in evaluating a target sentence. However, the relationship
between the two paradigms is indirect – in Experiment 1, the task asks participants to pay
attention to how the target sentence responds to the posed question, whereas in Experi-
ment 2, the task asks for an acceptability judgment. The tasks differ because Experiment
1 was probing factivity and MPU, whereas Experiment 2 was designed to determine the
status of EV2 across different contexts. If participants in Experiment 2 effectively ig-
nored the question context, then it might still be possible to give an explanation for the
25
Kajsa Djärv, Caroline Heycock & Hannah Rohde
effect of verb class on the acceptability of EV2 that appeals to MPU as a crucial factor.
For example, since it is at least plausible that the frequency of embedded MPU in the
complement of factives is low compared to its occurrence in other contexts, it could
be that speakers draw on this knowledge when assessing the acceptability of sentences
considered out of context. Finding a single task that could overcome this potential prob-
lem is tricky, but future work should look to address the indirect relationship between
the two experiments just described, perhaps by including in the acceptability ratings a
measure of participants’ assessment of a target sentence as an appropriate answer to the
posed question.
Acknowledgments
Thanks to participants at the Experimental Study of Meaning Lab at the University of
Pennsylvania for helpful feedback and comments. Likewise to audiences at MACSIM
V at the University of Delaware, CSI Lisbon (2014), LEL Syntax and Semantics seminar
at the University of Edinburgh, and the ULAB/LEL undergraduate conferences. Thanks
to Hezekiah Akiva Bacovcin for help with the statistical analysis of Experiment 1 and to
research assistant Ivana Žetko for help with data processing for Experiment 2. Particular
thanks to Florian Schwarz for guidance, feedback, and help with statistical analysis of
Experiment 1. Part of this work was supported by NSF grant BCS-1349009 to Florian
Schwarz.
Like so much work on the syntax of Scandinavian, the inspiration for this study can be
traced back to Anders Holmberg’s research (going all the way back to his dissertation, in
fact). We are grateful to have the opportunity to contribute to this volume in his honour.
References
Andersson, Lars-Gunnar. 1975. Form and function of subordinate clauses. University of
Göteborg dissertation.
Barr, Dale J., Roger Levy, Christoph Scheepers & Harry L. Tily. 2013. Random effects
structure of confirmatory hypothesis testing: Keep it maximal. Journal of Memory and
Language 68(3). 255–278.
Emonds, Joseph. 1970. Root and structure-preserving transformations. MIT dissertation.
Grice, H. Paul. 1975. Logic and conversation. In Peter Cole & Jerry L. Morgan (eds.),
Syntax and semantics, vol. 3, 41–58. New York, NY: Academic Press.
Haegeman, Liliane. 2010. The movement derivation of conditional clauses. Linguistic In-
quiry 41(4). 595–621.
Haegeman, Liliane. 2012. The syntax of MCP: Deriving the truncation account. In Lobke
Aelbrecht, Liliane Haegeman & Rachel Nye (eds.), Main clause phenomena: New hori-
zons, vol. 190 (Linguistik Aktuell / Linguistics Today), 113–134. Amsterdam: John Ben-
jamins.
26
1 Assertion and factivity
Heycock, Caroline. 2006. Embedded root phenomena. In Martin Everaert & Henk van
Riemsdijk (eds.), The Blackwell companion to syntax, vol. II, chap. 23, 174–209. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Holmberg, Anders. 2010. Parameters in Minimalist Theory: The case of Scandinavian.
Theoretical Linguistics 36. 1–48.
Holmberg, Anders. 2013. The syntax of answers to polar questions in English and
Swedish. Lingua 128. 31–50.
Holmberg, Anders & Christer Platzack. 1991. On the role of inflection in Scandinavian
syntax. In Werner Abraham, Wim Kosmeijer & Eric Reuland (eds.), Issues in Germanic
syntax, 93–118. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Holmberg, Anders & Christer Platzack. 1995. The role of inflection in Scandinavian syntax.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Hooper, Joan B. 1975. On assertive predicates. In John P. Kimball (ed.), Syntax and seman-
tics, 91–124. New York, NY: Academic Press.
Hooper, Joan B. & Sandra Thompson. 1973. On the applicability of root transformations.
Linguistic Inquiry 4(4). 465–497.
Jensen, Torben Juel & Tanya Karoli Christensen. 2013. Promoting the demoted: The dis-
tribution and semantics of “main clause word order” in spoken Danish complement
clauses. Lingua 137. 38–58.
Julien, Marit. 2009. Embedded clauses with main clause word order in Mainland Scandina-
vian. http://ling.auf.net/lingBuzz/000475.
Julien, Marit. 2015. The force of V2 revisited. Journal of Comparative Germanic Linguistics
18(2). 139–181.
Kiparsky, Paul & Carol Kiparsky. 1970. Fact. In Michael Bierwisch & Karl Erich Heidolph
(eds.), Progress in linguistics, 143–173. The Hague: Mouton.
Munro, Robert, Steven Bethard, Victor Kuperman, Vicky Tzuyin Lai, Robert Melnick,
Christopher Potts, Tylor Schnoebelen & Harry Tily. 2010. Crowdsourcing and lan-
guage studies: The new generation of linguistic data. In Proceedings of the NAACL
HLT 2010 workshop on creating speech and language data with Amazon’s Mechanical
Turk, 122–130. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Platzack, Christer. 1987. The Scandinavian languages and the null subject parameter. Nat-
ural Language and Linguistic Theory 5. 377–401.
Platzack, Christer & Anders Holmberg. 1989. The role of Agr and finiteness in Germanic
VO languages. Working Papers in Scandinavian Syntax 43. 51–76.
Simons, Mandy. 2007. Observations on embedding verbs, evidentiality, and presupposi-
tion. Lingua 117. 1034–1056.
Simons, Mandy, Judith Tonhauser, David Beaver & Craige Roberts. 2010. What projects
and why. In Nan Li & David Lutz (eds.), Proceedings of SALT 20, 309–327. Ithaca, NY:
CLC Publications.
Stalnaker, Robert. 1974. Pragmatic presuppositions. In Milton K. Munitz & Peter K. Unger
(eds.), Semantics and philosophy, 197–213. New York, NY: New York University Press.
Stalnaker, Robert. 2002. Common Ground. Linguistics and Philosophy 25. 701–721.
Urmson, James Opie. 1952. Parenthetical verbs. Mind 61. 480–496.
27
Kajsa Djärv, Caroline Heycock & Hannah Rohde
Wiklund, Anna-Lena, Kristine Bentzen, Gunnar Hrafn Hrafnbjargarson & Þorbjörg
Hróarsdóttir. 2009. On the distribution and illocution of V2 in Scandinavian that-
clauses. Lingua 119(12). 1914–1938.
Zanuttini, Raffaela & Paul P. Portner. 2003. Exclamative clauses: At the syntax-semantics
interface. Language 79(1). 39–81.
Zwart, Jan-Wouter. 1997. Morphosyntax of verb movement: A minimalist approach to
the syntax of Dutch. In Marcel den Dikken, Joan Maling, Liliane Haegeman & Maria
Polinsky (eds.), Morphosyntax of verb movement: A minimalist approach to the syntax
of Dutch (Studies in Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 39). Dordrecht: Kluwer
Academic Publications.
28
Chapter 2
An argument against the syntactic
nature of verb movement
Jan-Wouter Zwart
University of Groningen
Recent research into the nature of periphrasis converges on the view that periphrastic forms
occupy cells in morphological paradigms. This paper argues that the relative past (“perfect”)
in Dutch should be understood as periphrastic in this sense. Adopting the current minimalist
view on the relation between morphology and syntax, in which inflectional morphemes are
not generated in syntax but realized postsyntactically in a morphological component, the
analysis leads to the conclusion that the relative past’s auxiliary is not an element of narrow
syntax either. The paper argues that this approach simplifies the syntactic analysis of Dutch
verb clusters. The upshot of the analysis is that since auxiliaries undergo verb-second, verb
movement must be a postsyntactic operation, as suggested by Chomsky (2001).
1 Introduction
Like many languages, Dutch has two ways of expressing that an event took place in
the past, a simple (synthetic) past and a periphrastic past, often mistakenly associated
with perfective aspect. These are illustrated in (1), where it can be observed that the
periphrastic tense involves an auxiliary (hebben ‘have’ or zijn ‘be’) and a past participle,
typically marked by a prefix ge-.1
(1) verb simple past periphrastic past
a. wandel-t ‘walk’ wandel-de heeft ge-wandel-d
walk-3sg walk-past.sg aux.3sg ge-walk-part
b. loop-t ‘walk’ liep heeft ge-lop-en
walk-3sg walk:past.sg aux.3sg ge-walk-part
c. gebeur-t ‘happen’ gebeur-de is ge-beur-d
aux.3sg
d. kom-t ‘come’ kwam is ge-kom-en
e. ontdek-t ‘discover’ ontdek-te heeft ontdek-t
1The examples in (1) and (2) are all third person singular.
Jan-Wouter Zwart. 2017. An argument against the syntactic nature of verb movement. In Laura
R. Bailey & Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Order and structure in syntax I: Word order and syntactic
structure, 29–47. Berlin: Language Science Press. DOI:10.5281/zenodo.1117746
Jan-Wouter Zwart
The periphrastic past’s auxiliary itself may express the present tense, as in (1), or the
(simple) past, yielding the opposition in (2).
(2) periphrastic past (present) periphrastic past (past)
a. heeft ge-wandel-d had ge-wandel-d
aux.3sg ge-walk-part aux.past.3sg ge-walk-part
b. heeft ge-lop-en had gelopen
c. is ge-beur-d was gebeurd
aux.3sg aux.past.3sg
d. is ge-kom-en was gekomen
e. heeft ontdek-t had ontdekt
The periphrastic past tense locates the event in the past relative to a reference point,
which may be in the present or in the past, and the tense of the auxiliary refers to the po-
sition of the reference point on the time axis. The choice of the synthetic or periphrastic
past is independent of the telicity or the progressive/completed nature of the verb/event,
showing that the distinction is one of (relative) tense, not aspect.2
The simple past must be used to express cotemporaneity with a reference point in the
past. Making a cotemporaneous reference point in the past explicit forces the use of the
simple past, to the exclusion of all other tenses:
(3) (Dutch)
[ Toen ik binnen kwam ] …
when I in come.past.sg
a. … sliep hij
sleep.past.sg he
b. * … slaap-t hij
sleep.3sg he
c. * … heeft hij ge-slap-en
aux.3sg he ge-sleep-part
‘When I came in, he was asleep.’
We want to recall this as a test for a) the syntactic presence of a feature past and b)
a morphological effect correlated with the presence of the feature past. Assuming, as is
common in current minimalism, that the morphological component is fed by the syntac-
tic derivation, the morphological effect can be described as the selection of a particular
form from the relevant paradigm, based on the features associated with the root sleep
(cf. Halle 1997: 428). In this example, the root sleep activates the paradigm of the Dutch
verb slapen ‘sleep’, and the features past and singular associated with the root sleep
serve to select the unique form sliep from that paradigm.
The question how tense and agreement features come to be associated with a verb root
has been approached in various ways throughout the history of generative grammar. I
2For further discussion see Vendryes (1937: 89), Kiparsky (2002: 117), Verkuyl (2008: 20f), Zwart (2011: 12),
and Broekhuis et al. (2015: 108).
30
2 An argument against the syntactic nature of verb movement
will assume a simple, minimalist approach in which a syntactic structure contains a
range of controllers sharing their feature values with the verb (or, more exactly, with their
sister constituents dominating the verb), where the feature sharing process is taken to
be a function of Merge (as defined in Chomsky 2001: 3). Relevant controllers include the
subject (for person and number features) and the tense operator (typically described as
a functional head T, but I will remain agnostic as to its syntactic status). It helps to think
of the control relation as c-command (where α c-commands β iff α is merged with β or
a constituent dominating β), itself a function of Merge.3
The advantage of this approach to inflectional morphology is that no special mecha-
nisms, such as Affix Hopping, verb raising, or the operations proposed in the context
of Distributed Morphology (Halle & Marantz 1993; Embick 2000), need to be invoked to
get the functional features to be associated with the verb. Feature sharing (Koster 1987)
as a function of asymmetric Merge (Zwart 2005) is all that is needed.
None of this brings us any closer to an understanding of the nature of the periphrastic
tense. In particular, it is not clear what the syntactic status of the auxiliary is, and as
far as I am aware, this question has not often been explicitly addressed, at least not for
Dutch. I think most analyses implicitly take the auxiliary to be a defective verb, gener-
ated inside a more layered VP (following the lead of Akmajian et al. 1979: 20 for English).
Let us call this the syntactic approach (which allows for a range of variants, most no-
tably generating the auxiliary in a functional head position), in which the auxiliary is
an independently merged member of the Numeration (the set of elements feeding the
syntactic derivation).
I can see at least two potential alternative approaches, which we might call presyn-
tactic and postsyntactic. In the presyntactic approach, the auxiliary and the participle
would be syntactically merged in a separate derivation, yielding a cluster to be inserted as
a Root into the Numeration for another derivation (the derivation generating the clause
in which the periphrastic tense features). In the postsyntactic approach, the derivation
would contain just a single verb Root, and the auxiliary will not appear in the syntac-
tic derivation at all; rather, the cluster would happen to fill a cell in the morphological
paradigm, in opposition to other (synthetic or periphrastic) members of the paradigm.
The postsyntactic approach is supported by research of the past fifteen years on the
relation between inflection and periphrasis, as I will show below. What I want to argue
here is that this postsyntactic approach is also supported in that it yields the simplest
syntactic derivation, needing no ad hoc mechanisms to complicate the general minimal-
ist procedure sketched above.
If so, I submit that this state of affairs provides an argument in support of Chom-
sky’s (2001: 37) conjecture that “a substantial core of head-raising processes (…) may
fall within the phonological component”. In particular, since auxiliaries undergo verb-
second in Dutch, and auxiliaries are only introduced in the morphological component,
verb-second must be a postsyntactic process as well.
3Epstein (1999). Note that the concept of feature sharing between a controller and its sister is different from
the probe-goal Agree mechanism of Chomsky (2000: 122). See Zwart (2006) for more discussion.
31
Jan-Wouter Zwart
The discussion is organized as follows. §2 discusses recent research in theoretical
morphology on the status of periphrastic expressions. §3 addresses the question of the
division of labor between syntax and morphology in periphrasis. §4 argues that deriving
the periphrastic past in morphology sheds new light on a range of syntactic problems
associated with verb clusters in Dutch. §5 concludes.
2 Periphrasis and postsyntactic morphology
Let us continue to assume that morphology is postsyntactic, i.e. inflectional affixes do
not exist in syntax (neither in functional heads nor on lexical roots). Inflected words exist
only in morphological paradigms, which are accessed postsyntactically to find a spell-
out for a syntactic terminal. What exists in syntax are roots and grammatical features,
the latter instrumental in picking the right form from the paradigm.
The question to be asked here is the following: given that affixes do not exist in syn-
tax, what evidence is there that the auxiliaries featuring in periphrastic tenses exist in
syntax? Until recently, the fact that auxiliaries undergo movements like verb-second
could be taken as evidence that auxiliaries are syntactically present (cf. Embick 2000:
203, Kiparsky 2005: 132). But since verb movement is at issue here (it might also be
postsyntactic), we need evidence of a different kind.4
Recent research into the nature of periphrasis leans heavily towards the alternative
position, in which periphrastic forms occupy cells in morphological paradigms (see Chu-
makina 2013 and Spencer & Popova 2015 for a survey). The construction of a periphrastic
expression, on this view, is not a matter of syntactic derivation any more than the for-
mation of inflected word forms.
In the three following subsections, we discuss the key issues figuring in the discus-
sion of periphrasis in theoretical morphology: the status of periphrasis vis-à-vis mor-
phological paradigms, the compositionality of periphrastic expressions, and the process
of auxiliation.
2.1 Periphrasis and paradigms
The idea that paradigms may include periphrastic formations appears to have been com-
monplace in structuralist linguistics (see e.g. Robins 1959: 124, Benveniste 1965: 130). The
thinking here is that paradigms “represent interlocking systems of grammatical opposi-
tions” and where periphrastic expressions are “comparable to single words in the corre-
sponding places of a different paradigm they are obviously to be included in paradigms
themselves” (Robins 1959: 124).5
4This is where Chomsky’s observation that verb movements do not seem to feed the postsyntactic compo-
nent dealing with interpretation becomes relevant; I will not address this line of argumentation, but see
Holmberg (2015) for discussion.
5Robins says “syntactically comparable”, the context suggesting that he has syntactic category and syntactic
dependency in mind rather than syntactic position.
32
2 An argument against the syntactic nature of verb movement
This position was (silently) abandoned in the weak-lexicalist approach of early gen-
erative grammar, where even inflectional affixes constituted independent syntactic ele-
ments, generated in functional heads (e.g. Chomsky 1981: 52). But in a strong-lexicalist
approach (as adopted in minimalism, where inflected words are not created in syntax but
introduced pre- or postsyntactically in fully inflected form), the question of paradigm
structure resurfaces, and the idea that periphrasis is part of the inflectional paradigm
can be entertained once more.
This is reflected in the survey article by Spencer & Popova (2015: 202f), referring
to recent work by Börjars et al. (1997), Stump (2001), and Ackerman & Stump (2004),
among others, in which we find versions of the original structuralist position again. As
before, the central idea is that paradigms are structured by the intersection of features
expressed in the forms (e.g. combinations of person, number, tense, voice, etc.). Each
feature intersection defines a cell in the paradigm, which may be filled by a specific
inflectional form, or, in its absence, by a periphrastic expression (Stump 2001: 14).
This may be exemplified by Latin, where the features tense and voice intersect to yield
the paradigm in Table 1. As is well-known, the cell where perfect tense and passive voice
intersect cannot be filled by a synthetic form (forms in third person singular, from the
verb laudāre ‘praise’).
Table 1: Latin tense/voice paradigm
tense voice
active passive
present laudat laudātur
imperfect laudābat laudabātur
perfect laudāvit laudātus est
Another example is provided by Burushaski (Lorimer 1935: 243f), where even a single
tense paradigm can show a mix of synthetic and periphrastic forms, involving the verb
ɛtʌs ‘to do, to make’ and a form of the copula (Table 2; see also Chumakina 2013: 9 and
references cited there).
If periphrastic expressions are not allowed to fill the relevant cells in the Latin and Bu-
rushaski paradigms, these paradigms would be randomly defective. Moreover, we would
have to explain why syntax provides a periphrastic construction precisely there where
these gaps in the paradigm happen to exist. Assuming that periphrasis is syntactic and
inflectional morphology postsyntactic would lead us to the conclusion that periphrasis
somehow causes the gaps in the paradigm observed in Tables 1–2 (i.e. periphrasis blocks
inflection), the converse of what we typically find in blocking relations (Kiparsky 2005).6
In Dutch, the relevant features are tense and some feature responsible for the relative
tense interpretation (anteriority). We may follow Wiltschko (2014: 75) in identifying
6Kiparsky solves this problem by assuming morphology before syntax.
33
Jan-Wouter Zwart
Table 2: Burushaski present tense paradigm (Lorimer 1935: 245)
person number
singular plural
1. εča ba εča ba:n
2. εča εča:n
3. hum.m εčaii εča:n
3. hum.f εču bo εča:n
3. animate εči bi εčiε(n)
3. inanimate εči bi:la / εči:la εčitsʌn
this feature as point of view. Wiltschko calls the tense feature anchoring and locates
both anchoring and point of view as particular areas in the clausal spine, comparable
with TP (IP) and AspP in current minimalist analyses. Using the terminology introduced
above, we may say that both tense and point of view (pov) are potential controllers
that may share features with the verbal root. The paradigm, then, is as in Table 3 (cf. 1).
Table 3: Dutch finite paradigm (3sg)
tense pov
unmarked anterior
present wandelt heeft gewandeld
past wandelde had gewandeld
The “anterior present” is what we described above as the relative past: it locates the
event prior to the here and now. The “anterior past”, marked by the past tense on the
auxiliary, locates the event prior to a reference point in the past (i.e. a past-shifted rel-
ative past). As can be seen, the periphrastic expressions fill the cells where the tense
feature interacts with the anterior point of view feature.
A simple way to describe the situation in Dutch would be to say that the operators
tense and pov control the corresponding features on the verb, assigning them certain
values pointing to particular cells in the paradigm in Table 3. That some of these cells
are filled by periphrastic expressions is not a matter of syntax, but of morphology.
2.2 Compositionality
There is a long tradition, going back to at least Benveniste (1965), that treats the Indo-
European periphrastic perfect, exemplified here by Dutch, as non-compositional, in the
sense that “the construction as a whole might be associated with morphosyntactic prop-
erties that do not arise from any of the component parts” (Spencer & Popova 2015: 211).
34
2 An argument against the syntactic nature of verb movement
To Ackerman & Stump (2004), this is one of the diagnostic criteria for periphrasis (for
which they refer to Mirra Gukhman).
As Benveniste (1965: 184) argues, the auxiliary-participle construction shows a clear
division of labor (the auxiliary carrying inflection and the participle conveying lexical
meaning), but the grammatical property of anteriority arises only as a function of the
combination of the auxiliary and the participle.
In contrast, Kiparsky (2005: 123) argues that the periphrastic (relative) past is composi-
tionally derived from the meaning of its parts. This assumes that the past participle con-
tributes the meaning past (i.e. anteriority), and the auxiliary (through its tense features)
the location of the reference point relative to which the anteriority is to be interpreted.
I am not convinced that the participle denotes the past, as Kiparsky contends. In many
languages, the same participle appears in the passive (with a different auxiliary), without
a hint of anteriority (cf. Wackernagel 1920: 288–289). Moreover, Kiparsky’s suggestion
that the periphrastic tense is compositional fails to specify the contribution made by the
(possessive) auxiliary, since the reference point relative to which the anteriority is to be
interpreted is not derived from the presence and nature of the auxiliary, but from the
tense feature of the clause (spelled out by the auxiliary’s tense morphology).
More seriously, we can show that any compositionality that may have existed origi-
nally in the formation of the periphrastic past is very often lost as the periphrastic past
became enshrined in the temporal/aspectual system of the language. As a result, closely
related languages like Dutch, German and English show subtle differences in the gram-
matical properties of the auxiliary-participle combination.
In English, unlike Dutch, the “perfect time span” in which the event is situated is
not fully anterior, running up to and including the here and now (Iatridou et al. 2001).
This can be seen from the incompatibility of the periphrastic past (“perfect”) with time
adverbials locating the event squarely in the past, like yesterday (cf. Klein 1992; Zwart
2008):
(4) a. John (*has) read the book yesterday.
b. Jan
John
heeft
aux.3sg
het
the
boek
book
gisteren
yesterday
ge-lez-en.
ge-read-part
(Dutch)
‘John read the book yesterday.’
It is not so clear where this subtle but high-impact distinction between Dutch and English
participles originates, or what this instance of variation tells us about the core meaning
of the past participle.
German is like Dutch in this respect, but in large parts of the German speaking area,
the periphrastic past tense has completely replaced the simple past, so that it can now be
used to express cotemporaneity with a reference point in the past (“Präteritumschwund”,
cf. Abraham & Conradie 2001). Compare German (5) with Dutch (3c):
(5) Als
when
ich
I
herein
in
kam
come.past.sg
hat
aux.3sg
er
he
ge-schlaf-en.
ge-sleep-part
(German)
‘When I came in he was asleep.’
35
Jan-Wouter Zwart
This additional shift in interpretation indicates that anteriority is not an inherent or sta-
ble property of the periphrastic tense, casting doubt on the suggestion that the particular
semantics of the Dutch relative past derive compositionally from its morphological com-
ponent parts.
Moreover, as already observed for English in Hoffmann (1966: 8), the forced anteriority
reading of the periphrastic tense disappears in Dutch nonfinite clauses (Zwart 2014). This
can be seen in (6), applying the past tense diagnostics of (3).
(6) Hij
he
beweer-t
claim-3sg
…
‘He claims …
a. … te
inf
slap-en.
sleep-inf
… to be asleep.’
b. … te
inf
heb-ben
aux-inf
ge-slap-en
ge-sleep-part
toen
when
ik
I
binnen
in
kwam.
come:past.sg
… to have been asleep when I came in.’
c. * … te
inf
slap-en
sleep-inf
toen
when
ik
I
binnen
in
kwam.
come:past.sg
In (6b), making the reference point in the past explicit (by toen ik binnen kwam ‘when
I came in’) forces a shift from the unmarked infinitive te slapen ‘to sleep’ to an infinitive
marked for past tense te hebben geslapen ‘to have been asleep’. But since Dutch lacks
a synthetic past tense infinitive, once again the periphrastic expression appears. If the
periphrastic past’s anteriority reading were compositional, (6b) should have a forced
anteriority reading as well, contrary to fact.7
We can now supplement Table 3 with its nonfinite counterpart in Table 4.
Table 4: Dutch nonfinite paradigm
tense pov
unmarked anterior
present te wandelen te hebben gewandeld
past te hebben gewandeld te hebben gewandeld
Like in southern German, the periphrastic expression encroaches on the synthetic form,
apparently ignoring whatever compositionality (if any) gave rise to its formation in the
first place.
The non-compositionality of the periphrastic past in Dutch is consistent with the idea
that the periphrastic past is a morphological rather than a syntactic creation.
7The infinitival periphrastic construction can also be used to express present and past anteriority.
36
2 An argument against the syntactic nature of verb movement
2.3 Auxiliation
The development of the periphrastic past tense of the type discussed here is a textbook
example of the process of grammaticalization (e.g. Hopper & Traugott 1993: 57, Harris
& Campbell 1995: 182f, Kuteva 2001: 40f). In the course of this process, a lexical verb of
possession becomes an auxiliary, and what was initially a secondary predicate is reana-
lyzed as a participial main verb. A detailed discussion of this development is beyond the
scope of this article, so we will assume our understanding of it to be by and large correct,
noting the important refinements by Benveniste (1968: 86f).
What is striking is that the same development took place in many languages, and that
its distribution can certainly not be explained as contact-induced propagation (Vendryes
1937: 87–88). Moreover, what we find repeatedly is a push chain effect, shaking up the
temporal/aspectual system of the language. Thus, Benveniste (1968: 88) notes that the
development of the periphrastic perfect in Latin leads to a reinterpretation of the original
synthetic perfect as an aorist. In other languages, the synthetic perfect has disappeared
completely (Vendryes 1937: 90, Meillet 1921: 149f).
What these changes seem to indicate is that periphrasis and synthesis are competing
for the same turf. This follows naturally if periphrasis is morphological, but is somewhat
unexpected if both processes, periphrasis and synthesis, are in the different leagues of
syntax and morphology.
3 Division of labor between syntax and morphology in
periphrasis
Periphrasis is analyzed as a mix of morphology and syntax in Brown et al. (2012), with
the aim of identifying a set of criteria to be employed for the proper characterization
of apparent periphrastic phenomena in (ideally) any language. Using these criteria, we
may decide where the Dutch periphrastic tense may be located in this morphosyntactic
spectrum.
Criteria favoring morphological character are (i) obligatoriness: the inevitable need
to use a particular form in a particular morphosyntactic environment, (ii) expression of
contextual rather than inherent features, (iii) the creation of a word form rather than
a (new) lexeme, and (iv) the expression of a paradigmatic opposition. All these criteria
apply to the periphrastic past tense in Dutch: it (i) must be used to express relative past,
(ii) expresses tense, a clausal feature, (iii) creates a (periphrastic) form of a word rather
than a new lexeme, which (iv) enters into paradigmatic oppositions (see Tables 3 and 4).
A fifth criterium listed by Brown et al. (2012), that of (v) being complex, applies to
both morphological and syntactic formations, and indeed to the Dutch periphrastic past
as well.
Criteria favoring syntactic character are (vi) word order flexibility and (vii) allowing
inflected subparts. These both apply to the Dutch periphrastic tense: the auxiliary (vi)
need not be adjacent to the participle, and appears on either side of the participle (see
below), and (vii) carries the clausal tense and agreement inflections. There is, however, a
37
Jan-Wouter Zwart
problem with these two criteria, as they serve to demarcate syntax from word formation,
but not (necessarily) syntax from the formation of periphrasis. Being composed of more
than one word is in the very nature of periphrasis, and it is not clear what would block the
component words from undergoing processes of postsyntactic movement or inflection
marking.
It seems, then, that the set of criteria identified in Brown et al. (2012) overwhelmingly
points to periphrasis being morphological.
This is not to deny that periphrasis is complex and structured. A useful starting point
is to assume that anything complex and structured is derived by Merge, i.e. syntactically.
But many complex and structured items are clearly morphological, such as compounds
and the products of derivational morphology. Evidently, the morphological inventory
contains elements that are produced syntactically (see Ackema & Neeleman 2004), just
like lexical items (roots) can be produced syntactically (Hale & Keyser 2002).
However, when we say that a periphrastic item [α β] is syntactic, as opposed to mor-
phological, we mean that α and β, along with a range of other elements {γ, …, ω}, are
members of a single Numeration feeding a single derivation that yields the sentence com-
posed of α, β, γ, etc. and ω. In other words, there is no separate syntactic subderivation
in which [α β] is created, either before syntax (feeding the Numeration) or after syntax
(feeding the morphological paradigms), but the periphrastic expression is created “on the
fly”, during the derivation that yields the clause in which it appears. When I deny the
syntactic status of periphrasis, it is in this particular sense, in which levels of derivation
that should be kept apart have been mixed.
This approach to the division of labor between syntax and morphology is close to that
of Börjars et al. (1997), which drew a sharp critique in Embick (2000: 223–224). Embick’s
point seems to be that if cells in the morphological paradigm can be filled by phrases cre-
ated in a separate derivation, no predictions can be made about the nature and structure
of those phrases. His own proposal holds that both the synthetic and the periphrastic
perfect of Latin are created in clausal syntax (thus mixing the levels of syntax and word
formation in the tradition of weak lexicalism and Distributed Morphology; cf. Halle &
Marantz 1993; Halle 1997). It seems to me that the interesting part of this analysis can
be made compatible with the Börjars et al. approach quite easily, whereas the part in-
volving the syntactic derivation is considerably less compelling, as shown by Kiparsky
(2005: 129f).8
8Embick (2000) argues that the synthetic and the periphrastic perfect in Latin involve the same sets of fea-
tures, distributed across identical syntactic structures, and that word formation is a function of syntactic
movement, which is blocked in the periphrastic present by an opacity factor. The blocking is stipulated,
but let us assume it to be correct. As far as I can tell, the generalizations of the analysis are not lost if
the syntactic structure in fact describes a subderivation feeding into the morphological paradigm, sepa-
rate from the sentential syntactic derivation. Since the elements in the morphological paradigm serve to
express the features in the (sentential) syntactic terminals, some parallelism between the sentential syn-
tactic and morpho-syntactic derivations is to be expected. This also answers Embick’s objection that in
a Börjars et al. (1997) type approach, anything goes. Clearly, for a phrase to obtain a position in an in-
flectional paradigm, some commonality in morphosyntactic features has to exist, which arguably requires
some structural parallelism between the phrasal and inflectional elements as well (perhaps along the lines
of Williams’s (2003) shape conservation). Embick’s analysis goes a long way towards bringing such paral-
lelisms to light, strengthening rather than weakening the lexicalist approach.
38
2 An argument against the syntactic nature of verb movement
4 Further arguments
So far we have seen that there are reasons to consider the periphrastic past as a mor-
phological phenomenon, occupying a cell in the morphological paradigm. Assuming
postsyntactic morphology, this entails that the auxiliary is only introduced after the
narrow syntactic derivation has run its course.
It is important to note that this conclusion does not necessarily carry over to the other
types of verb clusters in Dutch, involving modal auxiliaries (7a) or lexical verbs selecting
infinitival complements (7b).
(7) a. modal auxiliaries
… dat
comp
Tasman
Tasman
het
def.ntr
Zuidland
South.Land
wil
aux.volition.sg
ontdek-ken
discover-inf
‘… that Tasman wants to discover the South Land.’
b. infinitival complements
… dat
comp
Tasman
Tasman
het
it
probeer-t
try-3sg
te
inf
ontdek-ken
discover-inf
‘… that Tasman is trying to discover it.’
Clusters with modal auxiliaries or infinitival complement taking verbs are straight-
forwardly compositional and cannot be analyzed as occupying a cell in an otherwise
inflectional morphological paradigm. These clusters, therefore, must be thought of as
being created either in narrow syntax or before that (i.e. in a separate derivation feeding
the Numeration rather than the morphological paradigms).
With this out of the way, we can briefly discuss a number of additional observations
supporting the morphological (postsyntactic) nature of the periphrastic past in Dutch.
4.1 Variability
The verb cluster expressing the periphrastic past (i.e. consisting of a temporal auxiliary
hebben ‘have’ or zijn ‘be’ and a past participle) shows a remarkable variability in the or-
der of its elements, both across dialects and within the standard language. Marking the
auxiliary 1 and the participle 2, both ascending (1-2, auxiliary—participle) and descend-
ing (2-1, participle—auxiliary) orders occur. This is different from the clusters featuring
modal auxiliaries and infinitive-taking lexical verbs, which are predominantly ascending
(1-2) across dialects and almost invariably ascending (1-2) in the standard language (see
Stroop 1970; Zwart 1996, and more recently Barbiers et al. 2008: 14–25).
Deriving the variable orders in the cluster syntactically poses a range of problems,
giving rise to a diversity of analyses too wide to discuss here (but see Wurmbrand 2005).
Suffice it to say that existing proposals often must resort to ad hoc devices, such as op-
tional movement, rightward movement, movement of intermediate projections, verb in-
corporation (“verb raising”) and excorporation, reanalysis, and roll-up movement. None
of this is necessary if the periphrastic past is a product of postsyntactic morphology.
39
Jan-Wouter Zwart
More particularly, the fact that the verb cluster in the periphrastic past behaves dif-
ferently from the verb clusters headed by modal auxiliaries and lexical verbs taking in-
finitives can now be ascribed to the circumstance that the periphrastic past is created
postsyntactically, and the other verb clusters are not.
To some extent, the problem of how to account for variability in the order of the
auxiliary and the participle remains, but a large part of that problem, namely to describe
the phenomena in terms of syntactic processes, has disappeared. And perhaps we may
even ascribe the variation in linear order to the externalization process (“spell out”),
reducing the problem of cluster generation simply to the merger of an auxiliary and a
participle in a separate derivation feeding morphological paradigms.
4.2 The IPP-effect
In three-verb clusters, where the highest verb is a temporal auxiliary, the second verb
is realized as an infinitive instead of as a past participle (the Infinitivus Pro Participio or
IPP effect; Lange 1981; Zwart 2007; Schallert 2014, among many others):
(8) a. two-verb cluster, auxiliary selects participle
heeft
aux.3sg
{ ge-wil-d
ge-want-part
/
/
*wil-len
want-inf
}
‘wanted’
b. three-verb cluster, auxiliary selects infinitive
heeft
aux.3sg
{ *ge-wil-d
ge-want-part
/
/
wil-len
want-inf
} ontdek-ken
discover-inf
‘wanted to discover’
While much about the IPP-effect remains unclear, the present approach suggests a
new angle. Recall that we assume that the periphrastic past is created postsyntactically:
in syntax, (8a) is just the verb willen ‘want’ with relative past (present anterior) features.
In (8b), however, the syntactic element to be replaced in morphology is not a single verb
but a cluster willen ontdekken ‘want discover’. The generalization, then, would be as in
(9):9
(9) IPP-effect
The relative past of x is marked with ge- only if x is not a verb cluster.
This is a morphological generalization, referring to the inventory of forms and the pro-
cesses generating them, and not to syntax.
One generalization about the IPP-effect follows immediately, namely the generaliza-
tion that the IPP-effect is absent in dialects not marking the relative past with ge- (Hoek-
sema 1980; Lange 1981). More problematic, however, is the generalization that the IPP-
effect is sensitive to linear order, clusters with strictly descending orders (3-2-1) typically
9I am assuming that the replacement of the participial ending by the infinitival ending is a secondary effect,
see Zwart (2007: 85) following Paul (1920: 128).
40
2 An argument against the syntactic nature of verb movement
not showing the IPP-effect (though exceptions do exist, cf. Zwart 2007: 78f). The follow-
ing example is from Achterhoeks Dutch (Blom & Hoekstra 1996: 76).
(10) … dat
comp
ik
I
schriev-m
write-inf
e-wil-d
ge-want-part
had
aux.past.sg
(Achterhoeks Dutch)
‘… that I had wanted to write.’
Further refinement of (9), then, would still be needed, but it is not clear that this
would put the entire approach in any kind of jeopardy. One possibility would be that
in (10), schrievm ‘write’ and willn ‘want’ are separate terminals in syntax (so there is
no presyntactic cluster formation), with only willn marked with the present anterior
features triggering periphrastic tense formation in morphology.10
4.3 Mixed cluster orders
It has been observed that not all mixed cluster orders (1-3-2, 2-1-3, 2-3-1, 3-1-2) are equally
frequent across Continental West Germanic dialects, though all are attested (see Zwart
2007 and Salzmann 2016 on the rare 2-1-3 type). The question is whether this is what we
expect to find if periphrastic tense formation is postsyntactic.
If the temporal auxiliary (have or be) is the highest verb in the cluster, there are two
possibilities. First, the 2-3 verbs form a cluster, created presyntactically; in that case the
cluster is transfered as a single terminal after completion of the narrow syntactic deriva-
tion, which is turned into a three-verb cluster in morphology. The IPP-effect (9) applies,
and we expect the mixed orders 1-3-2 and 2-3-1 to occur (in addition to the consistent
ascending 1-2-3 and descending 3-2-1 orders). The other possibility, hinted at in section
4.2, is that the 2 and 3 verbs are independent elements in the syntactic derivation, only
one of which (the 2 verb) is turned into a periphrastic past in morphology. The IPP-effect
does not apply, as the relevant verb is not a cluster, and we expect the orders 2-1-3 and
3-1-2 to occur (2-1/1-2 being the periphrastic element produced by morphology).
This is indeed what we find. Interestingly, all attested 2-1-3 cases show no IPP-effect
(Zwart 2007; Salzmann 2016). An example is given in (11) from Luxemburgish (Bruch
1973: 95).
(11) … ob-s
comp.int-2sg
de
you
hollänesch
Dutch
ge-leier-t
ge-learn-part
hues
aux.2sg
schwätz-en
speak-inf
(Luxemburgish)
‘… whether you learned to speak Dutch.’
On the other hand, the 3-1-2 order does show the IPP-effect (example from Austrian
Bavarian, Patocka 1997: 278; the IPP-verb is soin, the modal infinitive):
(12) … da
comp
ma
we
wås
something
lean-a
learn-inf
hett-n
aux.past-pl
soi-n
mod-inf
(Austrian Bavarian)
‘… that we should have learned something.’
10The IPP-variant is optional in (10). This variant would then differ in involving presyntactic cluster forma-
tion, so that (9) applies.
41
Jan-Wouter Zwart
On our approach, this can only be explained if the position of the 3 verb leana ‘learn’
is due to a postsyntactic leftward shift process, breaking up the cluster soin leana.
If the temporal auxiliary is the number 2 verb, we again have to consider the two
possibilities of presyntactic cluster formation, yielding a single terminal at the end of
the narrow syntactic derivation, and the alternative derivation in which both verbs are
independent syntactic elements. Let us assume that the number 1 verb is a modal auxil-
iary selecting an infinitive (ultimately the number 3 verb). Then assuming presyntactic
cluster formation, the periphrastic past can only occur if the infinitive has an indepen-
dent tense feature (present anterior), not a straightforward possibility, but let us proceed.
This yields a cluster 2-3 after syntax, which we predict to have to stay together, barring
the postsyntactic leftward shift of the number 3 verb needed for (12). This gives us 1-3-2,
2-3-1 and 3-1-2 (after leftward shift), but not 2-1-3. If the modal and the infinitive are both
independently present in syntax, and the infinitive gets an independent tense feature
(present anterior), the result is the same.
It is interesting, then, to note that all the 2-1-3 orders I have seen in dialect descriptions
and in the theoretical literature involve a number 1 temporal auxiliary, none involving
a number 1 modal auxiliary and a number 2 temporal auxiliary (see also Schallert 2014:
271). This follows from the analysis contemplated here, where the periphrastic past is
produced in postsyntactic morphology, assuming that the cluster thus created can only
be broken up by postsyntactic leftward shift of the participle (itself a generalization in
need of explanation).11
4.4 Auxiliary selection
A well-known property of the periphrastic past is that the nature of the temporal aux-
iliary may vary, with verbs “selecting” as the auxiliary to be used either a copula (be,
Dutch zijn) or a possessive verb (have, Dutch hebben). Basically, auxiliary be is selected
by unaccusative and passive verbs, and have is selected by active transitive and unerga-
tive verbs. Some verbs may select both have and be, but as Hoekstra (1984) has shown,
the variation is not random, as these verbs can be construed in different ways, featuring
either unaccusative or unergative syntax.
I am assuming here that the discussion in Hoekstra (1999) is essentially correct, show-
ing that auxiliary selection is not a function of a lexical mutativity feature (Kern 1912),
but of syntactic structure. But not assuming postsyntactic morphology, Hoekstra de-
scribes the auxiliary have as being created in syntax through movement of a functional
head specific to transitive and unergative structures into Infl (see Kayne 1993 for a related
proposal).
Assuming postsyntactic morphology, this analysis can be simplified in that we may
adopt the syntactic structures without the hypothesized movements. The more complex
11Three-verb clusters in which the number 1 verb is not an auxiliary show the same pattern as the three-verb
clusters with a modal auxiliary in the number 1 position, with 3-1-2 allowed but 2-1-3 excluded, and I would
suggest an explanation along similar lines, except that the pattern also applies where the number 2 verb is
not a temporal but a modal auxiliary. These patterns, then, do not bear directly on the proposed analysis
of periphrastic tense.
42
2 An argument against the syntactic nature of verb movement
structure associated with transitivity (including unergative constructions) may involve
controllers imparting additional features on the verb, to be spelled out in morphology.
The advantage of this approach would be that it leaves room for morphological id-
iosyncrasies, which we know are quite frequent in this domain. For example, languages
featuring the periphrastic past do not always show the same auxiliary selection pattern,
as is immediately clear from the example of English (using have systematically). Realiza-
tion of the auxiliary, then, cannot be an automatic function of syntactic structure.
This is nowhere more apparent than in the selection of the auxiliary for the copular
verb itself. The syntactic analysis of Hoekstra (1999) here predicts the auxiliary to have
to be be, as it is in Dutch, but many languages employ have instead. The crosslinguistic
pattern has been studied in Postma (1993), who derives the surprising generalization that
selection of the auxiliary be in this domain is determined by the presence of suppletive
morphology in the participial form of the copula. This is exemplified in Table 5 for the
closely related languages Dutch and Frisian.12
Table 5: Auxiliary selection
language copula (infinitive) periphrastic tense auxiliary suppletion
Dutch zij-n is ge-wees-t be +
Frisian wêz-e ha wes-t have –
Postma proposes a syntactic analysis of this generalization, which space does not per-
mit me to discuss more fully here. But if suppletion, a hallmark of inflectional mor-
phology, determines auxiliary selection, then auxiliary selection must be morphological
too. And if morphology is postsyntactic, as we have been assuming throughout, then
auxiliary selection must be postsyntactic, too.
5 Conclusion
In this article, I have argued that if morphology is postsyntactic, as in current minimal-
ism, the periphrastic tense must be thought of as a product of morphology rather than
syntax.
We have seen that the periphrastic past in Dutch occupies a cell in the verbal paradigm,
as illustrated in Table 3 for the finite paradigm and in Table 4 for the nonfinite paradigm.
The “meaning” of the periphrastic tense is not compositionally derived from its compo-
nent parts (following Benveniste 1965, pace Kiparsky 2005), witness the shifts in inter-
pretation that the periphrastic tense displays across languages and dialects, sometimes
even replacing the simple past, as in Southern German dialects and in nonfinite contexts
more generally. While the auxiliation process giving rise to the periphrastic tense has
been described as syntactic reanalysis, the fact that the periphrastic tense effectuates
12Postma bases his generalization on 19 Indo-European languages.
43
Jan-Wouter Zwart
a reorganization of a language’s temporal/aspectual system shows that the process is
really morphological.
We have applied the diagnostic criteria of Brown et al. (2012) to show that the pe-
riphrastic tense of Dutch is a morphological, rather than a syntactic phenomenon. This
is not to deny that the fine structure of the periphrastic tense formation may parallel
the structure of the clause in which the periphrastic tense appears, as observed by Em-
bick (2000), but rather than taking the (imperfect) parallel as evidence for a syntactic
derivation of the periphrastic tense, the similarity must be ascribed to the need for the
products of morphology to externalize the features accrued in the syntactic derivation.
We have shown that taking this perspective on the periphrastic tense casts new light
on several curious aspects of Dutch verbal syntax, including the IPP-effect, generaliza-
tions about the order of elements in the verb clusters, and auxiliary selection.
The upshot of the discussion is this. If the periphrastic tense is a product of postsyn-
tactic morphology, the auxiliary that we observe in the periphrastic tense does not exist
in syntax. Yet the auxiliary, when finite, invariably undergoes verb movement (‘verb-
second’) to the position to the immediate right of the first clausal constituent in Dutch
main clauses. This movement, then, cannot take place in narrow syntax, but must be
postsyntactic. Since all finite verbs in main clauses are subject to the same linearization
restriction, all of verb-second must be postsyntactic. And since verb-second represents
a core case of head movement, a case can be made for the postsyntactic nature of head
movement more generally.
References
Abraham, Werner & C. Jac. Conradie. 2001. Präteritumschwund und Diskurs-Grammatik.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Ackema, Peter & Ad Neeleman. 2004. Beyond morphology: Interface conditions on word
formation. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Ackerman, Farrell & Gregory Stump. 2004. Paradigms and periphrastic expression: A
study in realization-based lexicalism. In Andrew Spencer & Louisa Sadler (eds.), Pro-
jecting morphology, 111–158. Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Akmajian, Adrian, Susan M. Steele & Thomas Wasow. 1979. The category AUX in Uni-
versal Grammar. Linguistic Inquiry 10. 1–64.
Barbiers, Sjef, Johan van der Auwera, Hans Bennis, Eefje Boef, Gunther De Vogelaer &
Margreet van der Ham. 2008. Syntactic atlas of the Dutch dialects. Vol. 2. Amsterdam:
Amsterdam University Press.
Benveniste, Émile. 1965. Structure des relations de l’auxiliarité. Acta Linguistica Hafnien-
sia 9. 1–15. Reproduced in Problèmes de linguistique générale, vol 2, 177–193 (Paris: Gal-
limard, 1974).
Benveniste, Émile. 1968. Mutations of linguistic categories. In Winfred P. Lehmann &
Yakov Malkiel (eds.), Directions for historical linguistics: A symposium, 83–94. Austin:
University of Texas Press.
44
2 An argument against the syntactic nature of verb movement
Blom, Elma & Eric Hoekstra. 1996. IPP en werkwoordsvolgorde in het Achterhoeks. Taal
en Tongval 48. 72–83.
Börjars, Kersti, Nigel Vincent & Carol Chapman. 1997. Paradigms, periphrases and pro-
nominal inflection: A feature-based account. In Geert Booij & Jaap van Marle (eds.),
Paradigms, periphrases and pronominal inflection: A feature-based account, vol. 1996,
155–180. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Broekhuis, Hans, Norbert Corver & Riet Vos. 2015. Syntax of Dutch: Verbs and verb phrases.
Amsterdam: Amsterdam University Press.
Brown, Dunstan, Marina Chumakina, Greville Corbett, Gergana Popova & Andrew Spen-
cer. 2012. Defining ‘periphrasis’: Key notions. Morphology 22. 233–275.
Bruch, Robert. 1973. Luxemburger Grammatik in volkstümlichem Abriss. Luxembourg:
Éditions de la Section de Linguistique de l’Institut gr.-d.
Chomsky, Noam. 1981. Lectures on government and binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
Chomsky, Noam. 2000. Minimalist inquiries: The framework. In Roger Martin, David
Michaels & Juan Uriagereka (eds.), Step by step: Essays on minimalist syntax in honor
of Howard Lasnik, 89–155. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2001. Derivation by phase. In Michael Kenstowicz (ed.), Ken Hale: A
life in language, 1–52. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Chumakina, Marina. 2013. Introduction. In Marina Chumakina & Greville G. Corbett
(eds.), Periphrasis: The role of syntax and morphology in paradigms, 1–23. Oxford: Ox-
ford University Press.
Embick, David. 2000. Features, syntax, and categories in the Latin perfect. Linguistic
Inquiry 31. 185–230.
Epstein, Samuel D. 1999. Un-principled syntax: The derivation of syntactic relations. In
Samuel D. Epstein & Norbert Hornstein (eds.), Working minimalism, 317–345. Cam-
bridge: MIT Press.
Hale, Kenneth L. & Samuel J. Keyser. 2002. Prolegomenon to the theory of argument struc-
ture. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Halle, Morris. 1997. Distributed morphology: Impoverishment and fission. MIT Working
Papers in Linguistics 30. 425–449.
Halle, Morris & Alec Marantz. 1993. Distributed morphology and the pieces of inflection.
In Kenneth L. Hale & Samuel J. Keyser (eds.), The view from Building 20: Essays in
linguistics in honor of Sylvain Bromberger, 111–176. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Harris, Alice & Lyle Campbell. 1995. Historical syntax in cross-linguistic perspective. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
Hoeksema, Jack. 1980. Verbale verstrengeling ontstrengeld. Spektator 10. 221–249.
Hoekstra, Teun. 1984. Transitivity: Grammatical relations in Government-Binding theory.
Dordrecht: Foris.
Hoekstra, Teun. 1999. Auxiliary selection in Dutch. Natural Language and Linguistic The-
ory 17. 67–84.
Hoffmann, T. Ronald. 1966. Past tense replacement and the modal system. In Anthony G.
Oettinger (ed.), Mathematical linguistics and automatic translation, 1–21. Cambridge:
Harvard Computational Laboratory.
45
Jan-Wouter Zwart
Holmberg, Anders. 2015. Verb second. In Tibor Kiss & Artemis Alexiadou (eds.), Syntax –
Theory and analysis: An international handbook, 2nd edn., 342–382. Berlin: de Gruyter.
Hopper, Paul J. & Elizabeth Closs Traugott. 1993. Grammaticalization. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
Iatridou, Sabine, Elena Anagnostopoulou & Roumyana Izvorski. 2001. Observations about
the form and meaning of the perfect. In Michael Kenstowicz (ed.), Ken Hale: A life in
language, 189–238. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Kayne, Richard S. 1993. Towards a modular theory of auxiliary selection. Studia Linguis-
tica 47. 3–31.
Kern, Johan Hendrik. 1912. De met het Participium Praeteriti omschreven werkwoordsvor-
men in ’t Nederlands. Amsterdam: Johannes Mulder.
Kiparsky, Paul. 2002. Event structure and the perfect. In David I. Beaver, Luis D. Casil-
las, Brady Z. Clark & Stefan Kaufmann (eds.), The construction of meaning, 113–135.
Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Kiparsky, Paul. 2005. Blocking and periphrasis in inflectional paradigms. In Geert Booij
(ed.), Yearbook of Morphology 2004, 113–135. Dordrecht: Springer.
Klein, Wolfgang. 1992. The present perfect puzzle. Language 68. 525–552.
Koster, Jan. 1987. Domains and dynasties: The radical autonomy of syntax. Dordrecht:
Foris.
Kuteva, Tania. 2001. Auxiliation: An inquiry into the nature of grammaticalization. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Lange, Klaus-Peter. 1981. Warum Ersatzinfinitiv? Groninger Arbeiten zur germanistischen
Linguistik 19. 62–81.
Lorimer, David L. R. 1935. The Burushaski language: Introduction and grammar. Vol. 1.
Oslo: Aschehoug.
Meillet, Antoine. 1921. Linguistique historique et linguistique générale. Paris: Champion.
Patocka, Franz. 1997. Satzgliedstellung in den bairischen Dialekten österreichs. Frankfurt:
Peter Lang.
Paul, Hermann. 1920. Deutsche Grammatik. Vol. 4: Syntax (2. Hälfte). Halle: Max Nie-
meyer.
Postma, Gertjan. 1993. The syntax of the morphological defectivity of be. HIL Manuscripts
3. 31–67.
Robins, G. H. 1959. In defense of WP. Transactions of the Philological Society 58. 116–144.
Salzmann, Martin. 2016. On the limits of variation in West-Germanic verb clusters: Evidence
from displaced morphology and extraposition for the existence of clusters with 213 order.
Ms., University of Leipzig.
Schallert, Oliver. 2014. Zur Syntax der Ersatzinfinitivkonstruktion: Typologie und Variation.
Tübingen: Stauffenburg Verlag.
Spencer, Andrew & Gergana Popova. 2015. Periphrasis and inflection. In Matthew Baer-
man (ed.), The Oxford handbook of inflection, 197–232. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Stroop, Jan. 1970. Systeem in gesproken werkwoordsgroepen. In Jan Stroop (ed.), Neder-
lands dialectonderzoek, 247–264. Amsterdam: Huis aan de drie grachten.
Stump, Gregory. 2001. Inflectional morphology. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
46
2 An argument against the syntactic nature of verb movement
Vendryes, Joseph. 1937. Sur l’emploi de l’auxiliaire avoir pour marquer le passé. In Jan
Wils, Rob. Meesters & W. Slijpen (eds.), Mélanges de linguistique et de philologie offerts
à Jacq. Van Ginneken à l’occasion du soixantième anniversaire de sa naissance, 85–92.
Paris: Klincksieck.
Verkuyl, Henk. 2008. Binary tense. Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Wackernagel, Jacob. 1920. Vorlesungen über Syntax mit besonderer Berücksichtigung von
Griechisch, Lateinisch und Deutsch. Basel: Birkhäuser.
Williams, Edwin. 2003. Representation theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Wiltschko, Martina. 2014. The universal structure of categories: Towards a formal typology.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Wurmbrand, Susi. 2005. Verb clusters, verb raising, and restructuring. In Martin Ever-
aert & Henk van Riemsdijk (eds.), The Blackwell companion to syntax, vol. 5, 227–341.
Oxford: Blackwell.
Zwart, Jan-Wouter. 1996. Verb clusters in West Germanic dialects. In James R. Black &
Virginia Motapanyane (eds.), Microparametric syntax and dialect variation, 229–258.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Zwart, Jan-Wouter. 2005. Verb-second as a function of merge. In Marcel den Dikken &
Christina M. Tortora (eds.), The function of function words and functional categories,
11–40. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Zwart, Jan-Wouter. 2006. Local agreement. In Cédric Boeckx (ed.), Agreement systems,
317–339. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Zwart, Jan-Wouter. 2007. Some notes on the origin and distribution of the IPP-effect.
Groninger Arbeiten zur germanistischen Linguistik 45. 77–99.
Zwart, Jan-Wouter. 2008. Almost perfect: Some notes on the present perfect puzzle. In
Cees Dekker, Alasdair MacDonald & Hermann Niebaum (eds.), Northern voices: Essays
on Old Germanic and related topics offered to Professor Tette Hofstra, 399–404. Leuven:
Peeters.
Zwart, Jan-Wouter. 2011. The syntax of Dutch. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Zwart, Jan-Wouter. 2014. The tense of infinitives in Dutch. In Jack Hoeksema & Dicky
Gilbers (eds.), Black book: A festschrift in honor of Frans Zwarts, 376–387. Groningen:
University of Groningen.
47
Chapter 3
Feature inheritance in Old Spanish:
(re)visiting V2
Geoffrey Poole
Newcastle University
On the basis of an extensive overview of verb-second languages and data, Holmberg (2015:
376) arrives at the following general characterization of the V2 property: (a) a functional
head in the left periphery attracts the finite verb and (b) this functional head requires that
a constituent move to its specifier position. In this paper I argue that this view of the V2
property, together with Salvi’s (2012) observations concerning the syntactic positions which
precede the finite verb in medieval Romance, suggest that Old Spanish was indeed a verb-
second language. More specifically, I argue that the existence and nature of the features
which effect (a) and (b) in Old Spanish find a natural motivation/explanation within Biber-
auer & Roberts’s (2010) feature-inheritance approach to typology, in which languages differ
with respect to whether EPP- and Tense-features are retained by C, donated to T or shared
between the two (cf. Ouali 2008). While I assume, following Biberauer & Roberts (2010),
that EPP- and T-features are donated to T in Modern Romance (including Modern Spanish),
I suggest that these features were retained by C in Old Spanish.
1 Introduction
As noted by Salvi (2012), there is a long-standing observation regarding medieval Ro-
mance to the effect that there are two syntactic positions which precede the finite verb:
one which immediately precedes the finite verb, which Salvi calls P2, and one which pre-
cedes that position, which Salvi calls P1. With respect to information structure, the P1
position hosts “thematic material”, while P2 can host either thematic or focal material.
This traditional observation would seem to be expressible naturally within a standard
version of an articulated left-periphery (in the sense of Rizzi 1997 and much subsequent
work).
(1) [ForceP [TopicP
|{z}
P1
[FocusP [TopicP
| {z }
P2
[FinP [TP ]]]]]
Geoffrey Poole. 2017. Feature inheritance in Old Spanish: (re)visiting V2. In Laura R. Bailey &
Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Order and structure in syntax I: Word order and syntactic structure, 49–68.
Berlin: Language Science Press. DOI:10.5281/zenodo.1117714
Geoffrey Poole
The P1 position would seem to straightforwardly map on to the high Topic position,
while the lower Focus and Topic projections are a natural locus for Salvi’s P2 position.1
In §2, I argue that Salvi’s generalization does descriptively characterize Spanish during
the pre-Golden Age period (i.e., prior to the 16th century), taking P2 to refer to the cluster
of low left peripheral positions as in (1). These positions could contain only one XP, but
it could be either topical or focal. Furthermore, the finite verb must be right-adjacent to
the left-peripheral element. However, I then “extend” Salvi’s generalization, primarily by
considering wide-focus fronting in Old Spanish (Mackenzie 2010). This phenomenon is
of particular interest in this context because it indicates that the lone XP occupying P2,
in addition to being topical or focal, could be neither. In other words, this construction
(and others) appear to show that Salvi’s P2 position in the low left periphery can, in
some cases, be occupied by an element which cannot be interpreted either as topical or
as focal.
In §3, I suggest that Salvi’s extended generalization is naturally captured under the
assumption that elements are attracted to the low left periphery during this period by
a purely formal EPP feature present in the low left periphery (rather than via syntactic
features encoding specific discourse interpretations such as [+focus]). In addition, the
requirement that the verb be immediately adjacent to the fronted element suggests that
Tense features were also retained in this low area of the C-domain. Diachronically, it
appears that certain left-peripheral displacements, including wide focus fronting and
interpolation (see below), decline to extinction in parallel with verb-raising to a high
position during the Golden Age period, suggesting a close connection between the EPP-
and T-features.
§4 observes that Salvi’s descriptive generalization would be naturally accounted for
under the assumption that the EPP and Tense features are retained by a C-related projec-
tion in Old Spanish, but are donated to T in Modern Spanish (thus aligning Spanish with
Biberauer & Roberts’s (2010) feature-inheritance account of modern Romance). This in
turn implies, given standard accounts of the left-peripheral displacement of topics and
foci, that one of the major changes undergone by Spanish during the Golden Age was a
“syntacticization of discourse” (in the sense of Haegeman & Hill 2013). In other words,
displacement to the low-left periphery came to be driven, not by a purely formal EPP fea-
ture as previously, but rather by syntactic features with specific information-structure
value (e.g., [+focus]).
1Throughout the paper, I will use terms such as “C-related”, “the low left periphery”, “the C-domain”, “V-to-
C movement”, etc. as ways of referring to Salvi’s P2 position in the low left periphery. I take no position on
what more specific projection within an articulated CP might be relevant as I believe the choice does not
materially affect the proposed analysis. See, for example, Walkden (2015) for some possibilities in Germanic.
Strictly speaking, as discussed in §4.2, it is possible that Spanish does not even possess FocusP as a syntactic
projection during the medieval period because, as I will suggest, the relevant syntactic features have yet
to develop.
50
3 Feature inheritance in Old Spanish: (re)visiting V2
2 P2 and the low left periphery of Old Spanish
As noted by various authors (e.g., Sitaridou 2011; Poole 2013), Old Spanish possessed
various constructions in which an element displaced to the low left periphery was inter-
preted as topical or focal. The phenomenon of interpolation is of particular relevance,
as it appears that the element displaced to the low left periphery could indeed be either
topical or focal (contra Poole’s (2013) analysis). As such then, Salvi’s Generalization with
respect to the P2 position does seem to correctly describe Old Spanish.
2.1 New information focus
In her study of information structure in the General Estoria of Alfonso the Wise (13th
century), Sitaridou (2011) notes that complements dislocated to a pre-verbal position can
bear a number of information structure roles, including new information focus. (2) for
example instantiates an operation she dubs “Focus Fronting” (174) (see also Cruschina
2008; Cruschina & Sitaridou 2009):
(2) (General Estoria 4, 13th c., Sitaridou 2011: (25))
&
and
los
the
qui
who
se
refl.3pl
gozaron
enjoy.fut.3pl
con
with
el
the
to
your
derribamiento
fall
penados
punished
seran
be.fut.3pl
por
for
ello.
this
‘And those who rejoice with your fall they will be punished for that.’
Unlike Modern Spanish, left-peripheral focus is not obligatorily contrastive. According
to Sitaridou, the fronted participle in (2) simply encodes new information focus.
2.2 Topics
A clear demonstration that the P2 position could be occupied by topics is necessarily
made more difficult by the fact that topics may also occupy Salvi’s P1 position. However,
cases containing a fronted object such as (3), which, as Sitaridou (2011: 170) notes, do
appear to have a topic interpretation, would seem to be plausible candidates.
(3) (General Estoria 1, 13th c., Sitaridou 2011: (16))
e
and
fue
was.3sg
/
/
natural
native
duna
of.one
cibdat
city
q<ue>
which
dixieron
called.3pl
fenis
Fenis
[…] Y
and
esta
this
cibdat
city
poblo
inhabited.3sg
fenis
Fenis
fijo
son
dagenor…
of.Agenor
‘And he was from a city which was called Fenis… and this city was inhabited by
Fenis, son of Agenor.’
Esta cibdat ‘this city’ in (3) resumes the previously mentioned city Fenis.
51
Geoffrey Poole
Cases described as “resumptive preposing” by Mackenzie (2010) are also plausibly in-
stances of topics occupying Salvi’s P2 position. Consider (4), originally discussed by
Fontana (1993):2
(4) (General Estoria 1, 13th c., Mackenzie 2010: (14))
este logar mostro dios a abraam
[this place God showed to Abraham]
As Mackenzie points out, the presence of este ‘this’ suggests that the preposed object is
resuming something in the discourse, and his examination of the context reveals that
este in fact resumes the phrase una cabeça mas alta que todo el otro monte ‘a peak higher
than the rest of the mountain’ which is found in the preceding sentence. In that sense,
(4) appears similar to (3) above.
Mackenzie observes that resumptively preposed elements are “topical within the dis-
course” (2010: 284), though, at the same time, claims that they are not “a topic in any syn-
tactically relevant sense” (385). However, given a more articulated distinction between
types of topics, phrases such as este logar in (4) would seem to plausibly constitute, for
example, G-Topics in the sense of Bianchi & Frascarelli (2010). G-Topics are used to re-
trieve information already present within the conversational common ground content
and are associated with topic continuity. These are also the structurally lowest topics
within Bianci & Frascarelli’s hierarchy. As such they would seem to naturally align with
Salvi’s P2 position. Additionally, as Mackenzie (2010: 392) notes, resumptively preposed
elements are obligatorily adjacent to the verb, further suggesting that they do not occupy
a high topic position along the lines of Salvi’s P1 position.
2.3 Interpolation
The phenomenon of interpolation (e.g., Chenery 1905; Batllori et al. 1995; Poole 2013) is of
particular interest in the context of the information structure of left-peripheral fronting
in Old Spanish because it appears as though the interpolated element can be interpreted
as either a topic or as a focus (partially contra Poole 2013).
In this construction, object and indirect object pronouns can appear separated from
the finite verb by a short intervening constituent, for example an adverb, a short prepo-
sitional phrase, or a subject, as illustrated in (5):
(5) (Castigos e documentos de Sancho IV, 13th c., Poole 2013: (4))
… &
and
vsa
uses
mal
badly
del
of.the
buen
good
entendimiento
understanding
que
that
le
him
dios
God
dio.
gave.3sg
‘…and he makes poor use of the good understanding that God gave him.’
2Mackenzie’s original examples, which lack morpheme-by-morpheme glosses, are reproduced verbatim in
the text. For (4) the glosses would be:
(4) este
this
logar
place
mostro
showed.3s
dios
God
a
to
abraam.
Abraham
‘God showed this place to Abraham.’
52
3 Feature inheritance in Old Spanish: (re)visiting V2
Poole (2013) argues that interpolation targets a low Topic position within the left pe-
riphery and that the interpolated element acts as a given or familiar topic. Consider the
context in (6) preceding the instance of interpolation of esto ‘that’:3
(6) (Crónica de 1344 I, 14th c., Poole 2013: (19))
Et estonçe les dixo el Rey que se salliesen de su tierra Et aquella gente a qujen
esto dixo fueron se a la villa & tanto que les esto dixo luego se armaron muy
bien & venjeron se al Rey onde yazia en su alcaçar & lidiaron conel & lo mataron.
‘And then the king said to them that they should leave his land. And those people
to whom he said that went to the town and as soon as he said that to them they
armed themselves well and went to the king where he rested in his fortress and
fought with him and killed him.’
In (6), the interpolated element esto ‘that’, resumes the recently mentioned event que se
salliesen de su tierra ‘that they should leave his land’, with said event also having been
resumed by esto in the sentence immediately preceding the one in which esto is interpo-
lated. As such, interpolation in (6) seems clearly to be an instance of topic continuity.
However, Poole (2013: 90) notes cases of interpolation such as (7), which are not
straightforwardly associated with topicality.
(7) (Calila e Dimna, 13th c., Poole 2007: (13))
manifiesta
manifest
cosa
thing
es
is
que
that
lo
it
feziste
did.2sg
a tuerto
unjustly
et
and
sin
without
pecado
sin
que
that
te
you
él
he
fiziese.
did.3sg
‘It’s clear that you did it unjustly and without him having done you any wrong.’
From the context, the interpolated personal pronoun subject seems contrastive and even
mildly emphatic. Other cases in which a personal pronoun are interpolated would seem
to be even clearer.
(8) (El Libro de Caballero Zifar 14th c., Poole 2007: (2b))
e
and
dixe
said.1sg
que
that
lo
him
yo
I
auja
had
muerto.
killed
‘and I said that I had killed him.’
In (8), the interpolated subject pronoun is identical with the matrix clause subject, and
in Modern Spanish would be obligatorily emphatic. Insofar as Old Spanish appears to be
identical to Modern Spanish with respect to pro-drop, one would expect that the pronoun
was interpreted as focal in Old Spanish as well. Thus it appears to be the case that the
interpolated element may be interpreted as either a topic or as a focus.
3I omit for reasons of space the morpheme-by-morpheme gloss in (6) as the argument hinges on the larger
discourse context, the relevant portions of which are explicated in the text.
53
Geoffrey Poole
Another interpolation-specific generalization which points to the correctness of
Salvi’s Medieval Romance characterization as it relates to Old Spanish concerns the el-
ements which can precede the “interpolation cluster” – that is, the cluster of clitic pro-
noun, interpolated element and finite verb. In general, it is rare for anything to precede
the interpolation cluster. It most commonly follows the Complementizer or other sub-
ordinating element. However, as Poole (2013) notes, in those cases in which an element
does intervene between the complementizer and the interpolation cluster, the element
is very plausibly topical. Consider (9), for example:
(9) (General Estoria I, 13th c., Poole 2013: (35))
&
and
que
that
desta
of.that
manera
way
se
refl
non
neg
contrallan
contradict.3pl
estas
those
razones
laws
de
of
Moysen
Moses
&
and
de
of
Josepho.
Joseph
‘And in that way the laws of Moses and Joseph were not violated.’
Recall that Salvi claims that the P1 position in Medieval Romance, the position which
precedes the P2 position, is a position which hosts thematic material. Given the presence
of the demonstrative pronoun esto ‘that’, and the fact that it refers back to an element of
the previous discourse, it seems plausible to assume that it occupies Salvi’s P1 position.
2.4 XP co-occurrence restrictions in the low left periphery
The previous sections have illustrated various left-peripheral XP displacements in Old
Spanish, arguing that Salvi’s traditional generalization is correct insofar as it states that
the P2 position in Old Spanish could be occupied by elements which were interpreted as
topical or as focal. In addition however, recall that Salvi’s generalization claims further
that only one XP could occupy this left peripheral position. This predicts that there
should be complementary distribution among the constructions discussed above, and
this prediction appears to be correct.
First, these constructions all require that the pre-verbal element be immediately left-
adjacent to the verb, from which complementarity of distribution then follows deriva-
tively.4 Sitaridou (2011: 174), for example, notes that the fronted element must be adja-
cent to the verb in order to be interpreted as new information focus.5 Mackenzie (2010:
392) observes that verb-adjacency is also required for resumptive preposing, while Poole
(2013), among others, notes that the same is true for interpolation.
Some further co-occurrence restrictions specific to interpolation also suggest that
Salvi’s generalization indeed applies to Old Spanish. As Poole (2013: 94–95) notes, in-
terpolation is in complementary distribution with wh-operators, but not with relative
clause operators. It can be found in all types of relative clauses, whether restrictive, non-
4See §3.1 below for more discussion regarding the significance of the verb-adjacency requirement.
5Obviously verb-adjacency is not a requirement for interpretation as a topic, given the availability of the P1
position for topics in addition to the P2 position.
54
3 Feature inheritance in Old Spanish: (re)visiting V2
restrictive or free, as in (10–12), but there appear to be no examples like the constructed
(13).
(10) (Siete Partidas, 13th c.; Poole 2013: (51))
otra
other
muger
woman
con
with
quien
whom
lo
it
no
not
pudiesse
could.3sg
fazer
do.inf
de
of
derecho.
right
‘…another woman with whom he had no right to [marry].’
(11) (Gran Conquista de Ultramar, 13th c., Poole 2013: (52))
ala
to.the
reyna
queen
halabra
H
su
his
madre
mother
de
of
quien
whom
os
you
ya
already
diximos
said.1pl
en
in
otros
other
lugares
places
‘…to Queen Halabra his mother, about whom we have already spoken
elsewhere,…’
(12) (El emperador Otas de Roma, 14th c., Poole 2013: (53))
quien
who
le
him
entonçe
then
viese
saw.3sg
griegos
Greeks
matar
kill
/ &
and
espedaçar
butcher
espedaçar
butcher
bien
well
ternja
would.have.3sg
quele
that.him
deujan
should.3pl
doler
hurt.inf
los
the
braços
arms
‘Whoever saw him killing Greeks and butchering them would have had to have
had aching arms….’
(13) (Poole 2013: (48))
* ca
because
non
not
sabedes
know.2pl
quien
who
lo
it
asi
thus
fiziese
did.3sg
‘because you don’t know who did it like that’
Under the assumption, following Poole (2013), that wh-operators occupy FocusP in Old
Spanish in both main and embedded clauses, this suggests that Salvi’s generalization
is correct that only one element can occupy the P2 position. Wh-operators, which oc-
cupy P2, are incompatible with interpolation, which also occupies P2. Relative clause
operators, which occupy a higher position (the specifier of ForceP), are not.
2.5 Extending Salvi’s Generalization: elements which are neither
topical nor focal
The previous sections motivated Salvi’s (2012) generalization concerning elements which
can precede the finite verb. However, evidence from quantifier fronting in Old Spanish
(Mackenzie 2010) shows that the generalization can be extended in an important way:
the single element which immediately precedes the finite verb can be not only either
topical or focal, but also be neither topical nor focal.
55
Geoffrey Poole
Mackenzie (2010) notes examples such as (14) and (15), in which a fronted object quan-
tifier appears in an immediately pre-verbal position.6
(14) (General Estoria IV, 13th c., Mackenzie 2010: (22))
Si ell omne algo deue; faze gelo oluidar de guisa ques tiene que mas Rico es que
otros omnes.
[If a man owes something, it [wine] makes him forget it so that he holds himself
to be richer than other men.]
(15) (Estoria de España II, 13th c., Mackenzie 2010: (23))
Mas pero non fizo y quel nada ualiesse de lo que el querie.
[But he didn’t do there [anything] that was of any value to him in terms of what
he wanted.]
As Poole (2016) observes, these fronted quantifiers are in complementary distribution
with the other elements discussed above. Mackenzie himself (2010: 392) notes that they
are in complementary distribution with other focus-fronted elements as well as with
wh-elements and Poole (2016) notes that this complementarity extends to include inter-
polation. It therefore seems plausible to suggest that these are elements which occupy
Salvi’s P2 position.
The importance of the distributional observation stems from the information-struc-
ture of sentences in which this quantifier fronting has taken place. As Mackenzie (2010:
390) observes, “[h]owever hard one looks at examples like these…, it is impossible to see
anything other than neutral assertions”, ultimately concluding (ibid.) that constructions
such as (14) and (15) instantiate wide or broad focus, and indeed labels the construction
Wide Focus Fronting.
This intuition is confirmed by Poole (2016). As he notes, fronting such as that seen in
(14) and (15) cannot instantiate any kind of information- or contrastive-focus. Neither
can (14) and (15) instantiate verum/positive polarity focus, as the construction can be
found in environments such as the complements of factive clauses, which, following
Leonetti & Escandell-Vidal (2009), strongly disallow it:
6Again, for the relevant portions of Mackenzie’s examples in (14) and (15), the morpheme-by-morpheme
glosses are as follows:
(14) si
If
ell
the
omne
man
algo
something
deue….
owes
‘If a man owes something….’
(15) … quel
that.him.dat
nada
nothing
ualiesse
values
de
of
lo
it
que
that
el
he
quierie.
wanted
‘…[anything] that was of value to him in terms of what he wanted.’
56
3 Feature inheritance in Old Spanish: (re)visiting V2
(16) (Sermones, early 16th c., Poole 2013: (4))
y
and
así
thus
atinaron
aimed.3pl
a
to
pedir
ask.inf
el
the
bien
good
y
and
desearlo
desire.it
con
with
grandes
grand
ansias
will
viendo
see.ger
que
that
nada
nothing
podían.
could do.3pl
‘And thus they settled for praying for good and for desiring it with all their
hearts, seeing that they could do nothing else.’
Neither can quantifiers of this sort serve as topics. Non-specific quantifiers such as algo
‘something’ in (14) simply cannot coherently be “what the sentence is about”. Therefore,
it appears to be the case that the fronted quantifier itself is not (and indeed cannot be)
either a topic or a focus. If this is the case, then Salvi’s P2 position can be occupied by
not only topical or focal elements, but also elements which are neither.
3 Explaining Salvi’s Generalization: EPP and tense
features in the low left periphery
The extension of Salvi’s Generalization to include elements which are neither foci nor
topics is significant because it provides a clear direction to pursue with respect to the ex-
planation: the displacement associated with Salvi’s P2 position is triggered by a feature,
hosted in the low left periphery, which does not itself possess any information-structure
value (i.e., a feature such as Chomsky’s (2000; 2001) EPP-feature, a “formal feature” in
the sense of Frey (2006); Light (2012), or Biberauer et al.’s (2014) “movement triggering”
feature). Such an approach would account for the fact that the position can be filled by
one element only, and that the information-structure status of the element is irrelevant.
However, if Salvi’s generalization regarding the P2 position ultimately derives from
an extension of Biberauer & Roberts’s (2010) feature-inheritance typology to Old Span-
ish (and therefore relates ultimately to Holmberg’s (2015) V2 property), we should see
evidence that the low left periphery not only retained an EPP-feature, but also that it
retained a Tense feature. In other words, in addition to the evidence that XPs raise into
the low left periphery in Old Spanish, we should also find evidence that the verb in Old
Spanish raises to a position in the C-domain.
3.1 Verb-adjacency revisited
As mentioned above in §2.5, it has been noted by various authors in various contexts
that the verb in Old Spanish must be linearly adjacent to elements which, by hypothesis,
occupy a specifier position in the low left periphery. Sitaridou (2011: 175), following
Cruschina (2008), notes for example that strict adjacency is required between the verb
and focus fronted elements, as exemplified by (17):
57
Geoffrey Poole
(17) (General Estoria 1, 13th c. Sitaridou 2011: (23b))
Fuerça
power
fizieron
made.3pl
los
the
sabios
savants
e
and
los
the
altos
high
omnes
men
en
in
el
the
nombre
name
d’
of
esta
this
cibdad.
city
‘The savants and the men of high standing imposed power in the name of the
city.’
Under the assumption that the focus-fronted object occupies a position in the low left
periphery (such as FocusP), the strict linear adjacency would be accounted for under the
assumption that the verb moves to a head position in the same area of the clause. As
also noted above, verb-adjacency is also a requirement for resumptive preposing and in-
terpolation: if these elements are correctly analyzed as occupying the low left periphery
(see Sitaridou 2011: Section 3 and the references cited there), then a natural explanation
for the observed linear adjacency with respect to the finite verb is that it too has raised
to a C-related position.
3.2 Sitaridou (2012) on tests for V-raising to the C-domain
In addition, contra Sitaridou 2012, there do appear to be phenomena which suggest that
there is V-raising to the C-domain in Old Spanish. In her survey of a number of medieval
Romance varieties, Sitaridou (2012) enumerates a number of traditional syntactic tests
which are claimed to provide evidence that the verb moves to a position higher than
To.7 She concludes on the basis of these tests that the verb did obligatorily raise to the
C-domain in Old French, among other varieties, but that this was not the case in Old
Spanish. However, there do appear to be examples in Old Spanish which parallel the
examples offered for Old French, once one moves beyond the one text that Sitaridou
examines (the General Estoria of Alfonso X).
One traditional argument/test concerns the position of the verb relative to various
adverbs which are very high on Cinque’s (1999) adverb hierarchy. She notes, for example,
that in Old French the verb can appear higher than adverbs such as vraiment ‘really’.
(18) (Sitaridou 2012: (52b))
Et
and
je
I
croy
think.1sg
vraiement.
really
‘And I really believe.’
Although high, speaker-oriented adverbs are generally not found in Old Spanish, one can
find examples in which the finite verb precedes polarity focus bien ‘well’ (cf. Hernanz
2006; Batllori & Hernanz 2013).8
7Her proposal more specifically is that the verb moves to Fino.
8All unattributed examples from Old Spanish are taken from the Corpus del Español (Davies 2002).
58
3 Feature inheritance in Old Spanish: (re)visiting V2
(19) (Cuento de Tristán de Leonís, 14th c.)
yo
I
creo
believe.1sg
bien
well
que
that
el
he
era
was
tristan
T
ca
because
non
neg
es
is
enel
in.the
mundo
world
caualler
man
que
that
tanto
so.much
pudiese
could
fazer.
do.inf
‘I really believe that he was Tristan because there is no [other] man in the world
who could do so much.’
(20) (Estoria de España, 13th c.)
Et
And
todo
every
omne
man
que
that
viesse
saw.3sg
la
the
posada
ship
que
that
el
The
çid
Cid
tenie
had.3sg
dirie
would say.3sg
bien
indeed
que
that
era
was.3sg
vna
a
grant
great
hueste.
host
‘And everyone who saw the ship that The Cid had would indeed say that it was a
great military force.’
The use and interpretation of bien in examples such as (19) and (20) (particularly (19))
appears entirely parallel to the case of Old French vraiment above. More specifically,
whether polarity focus items occupy a ΣP/PolP phrase between TP and the C-domain or
some higher projection within the C-domain itself, examples such as (19) and (20) would
seem to show that the verb in Old Spanish did indeed undergo “V-to-C movement”, on
analogy with the French cases.
Another class of examples which Sitaridou argues provides evidence that the verb
raises to a high position in Old French are cases such as (21):
(21) (Sitaridou 2012: (53a))
pour
for
la
the
grant
great
amour
love
ai
have.1sg
je
I
pourchacie
pursued
…
‘For the great love I have pursued’
Following Benincà 1994, Sitaridou argues (2012: 589–90) that this inversion pattern, in
which the subject pronoun appears between the auxiliary and the past participle, is evi-
dence of obligatory V-to-C raising. Once again, moving beyond her very specific corpus,
it is not difficult to find examples parallel to the Old French example in (21).
(22) (General Estoria IV, 13th c.)
&
And
de
of
Caripdis.
C
de
of
quien
who
auemos
have.1pl
nos
we
contado
related
enla
in.the
tercera
third
parte
part
desta
of.that
estoria
history
‘…and about Caripdis, about whom we have spoken in the third part of that
history…’
59
Geoffrey Poole
(23) (Gran Conquista de Ultramar, 13th c.)
Todo
All
aquesto
these
he
have.1sg
yo
I
hablado
spoken
conel
with.the
duque
duke
Gudufre.
G
‘I have spoken about all of this with Duke Gudufre.’
Therefore, it appears as though there is some parallel evidence based on the traditional
tests which Sitaridou (2012) discusses in Old French for thinking that the verb in Old
Spanish does indeed raise to some C-related position, and therefore that the C-domain
hosted a Tense feature.
3.3 The diachrony of P2 fronting and its relation to V-to-C raising
A further reason for thinking that both EPP and Tense features are located in the low left
periphery in Old Spanish comes from the diachronic development of some of the con-
structions discussed above. An examination of the Corpus del Español reveals that those
instances of low left-peripheral fronting unequivocally triggered by a discourse-neutral
EPP feature decline in parallel with verb-initial declaratives with a post-verbal object. If
the EPP-feature and the tense feature are somehow linked, as suggested by Biberauer &
Roberts’s (2010) typological analysis, this parallel decline would be expected.
Consider first the diachrony of two particular instances of movement to Salvi’s P2
position: interpolation and wide focus fronting. Recall from §2.3 above that the element
which intervenes between the clitic pronoun and the finite verb in interpolation struc-
tures can be interpreted in some cases as topics and in other cases as foci. This suggests
that the trigger for the fronting of that element is a feature which is independent of any
particular information-structure interpretation. A logical conclusion therefore is that
the trigger is a “pure” EPP or movement-triggering feature. A similar conclusion can be
reached in the case of Mackenzie’s (2010) Wide Focus Fronting (§2.5). Elements such as
non-specific algo are attracted to the low left periphery, but insofar as these elements
cannot be interpreted either as topics or foci, it must be a pure movement-triggering
feature which attracts them.
An examination of the Corpus del Español shows that interpolation of negation, while
robustly attested during the 13th and 14th centuries, declines significantly in the 15th cen-
tury and is essentially extinct by the 16th. Clausal negation, as in (24), is one of the
most commonly interpolated elements and Poole (2013) claims that it too instantiates
XP movement to the low left periphery.
(24) (El Conde Lucanor, 14th c.)
Et
and
desque
since
vio
saw.3sg
que
that
lo
it
non
neg
fazia….
would.do.3sg
‘And since he saw that he wouldn’t do it….’
As Table 1 shows, relative instances of the subordinating Complementizer que ‘that’ or
si ‘if’, followed by an object pronoun, followed by clausal negation, followed by a finite
verb (indicative, conditional or subjunctive) remain unchanged during the 13th and 14th
60
3 Feature inheritance in Old Spanish: (re)visiting V2
centuries. However, they decline to less than a quarter of that value in the 15th century,
and only a handful of cases are to be found by the beginning of the Golden Age period.9
Table 1: Corpus del Español : que/si ObjPn no/non [vi*]/[vc*]/[vs*]
Period 13th c. 14th c. 15th c. 16th c.
Instances 1745 718 479 4
Per Million Words 259.84 268.96 58.69 0.23
A similar diachronic trajectory is seen with respect to Mackenzie’s (2010) Wide Focus
Fronting. One relatively common example is the fronting of esto ‘this’ in examples such
as (25).
(25) (Gran Conquista de Ultramar, 13th c.)
Quando
When
el
the
emperador
emperor
esto
this
oyo
heard
ouo
had
muy
very
gran
great
miedo.
fear
‘When the emperor heard this, he became very afraid.’
Like interpolation, Wide Focus Fronting declines significantly in the 15th century relative
to the 13th and 14th, and is nearly extinct by the 16th.
Table 2: Corpus del Español: Det N esto V
Period 13th c. 14th c. 15th c. 16th c.
Instances 108 56 102 36
Per Million Words 16.08 20.98 12.50 2.11
Interestingly, in parallel with the decline of these XP-fronting constructions, there is
some evidence to suggest that verb-raising to a high position also declines. As Fontana
(1993: Section 3.4.2) notes, one traditional diagnostic for V-to-C raising in the literature
on various Germanic varieties (e.g., Modern Yiddish and Icelandic) is the grammaticality
of verb-initial declarative sentences, and sentences such as (26) are very common in Old
Spanish, particularly in main clauses introduced by and (or variant).
9During the 13th and 14th centuries, non-interpolated clausal negation (i.e., the order no/non ObjPn V) is
found approximately equally frequently. However, in the 15th century, non-interpolation appears approxi-
mately 5.5 times more frequently, and is over 3100 times more frequent in the 16th century. See Poole (2013:
Section 1) for further discussion.
61
Geoffrey Poole
(26) (Estoria de España, 13th c.; Fontana 1993: (74a))
&
&
fizo
did
el
the
papa
pope
penitencia
penance
&
&
dixo
said
Sant
sant
Antidio
Antidio
la
the
missa
mass
en
in
su
his
lugar
place
&
&
consagro
consecrated
la
the
crisma.
host
‘And the pope did penance & S. A. said the mass in his place and consecrated the
Host.’
Fontana notes (1993: 249) that the percentage of verb-initial declaratives followed by
a clitic pronoun (thereby even more clearly suggesting that the verb has raised to a
relatively high position) declines from the 12th to the 16th centuries, and it appears to
decline in a way reminiscent of the XP-fronting data seen above.
Table 3: V-Cl vs Cl-V order
Period 12th c. 13th c. 14th c. 15th c. 16th c.
V – Cl order observed vs.
Cl – V order
84% 85% 87% 68% 14%
Data from a representative search of the Corpus del Español paints a similar picture.
Though the Corpus del Español does not contain any texts from the 12th century, a search
for a coordinating conjunction followed by an indicative verb form with an enclitic plural
indirect-object pronoun shows a significant decline from the 14th to the 15th centuries to
near extinction in the 16th century.
Table 4: Corpus del Español: [cc*] *les.[vi*] minus all 2sg verb forms
Period 13th c. 14th c. 15th c. 16th c.
Frequency 46 84 82 47
Per Million Words 6.85 31.47 10.04 2.76
To summarize then, the data in the tables above suggests that XP-fronting triggered
by a “pure” EPP or movement-triggering feature undergoes a diachronic decline which
bears some resemblance to the decline seen in V-to-C raising.
62
3 Feature inheritance in Old Spanish: (re)visiting V2
4 Convergence: EPP/tense feature inheritance and some
implications
4.1 Biberauer & Roberts’s (2010) feature-inheritance approach to
syntactic typology
As mentioned at various points above, a central claim of this paper is that the synchronic
and diachronic descriptive facts discussed in Sections 2 and 3 can be naturally accounted
for using Biberauer & Roberts’s (2010) feature inheritance typological approach: EPP-
and T-features are retained in the C-domain in Old Spanish, but donated to T in Modern
Spanish.
Following Ouali’s (2008) classification, uninterpretable features present on the phase
head C may either be “kept”, “shared” or “donated”. They are retained by the phase-
head in the first case, but either copied or given over entirely to a phase-internal non-
phase head in the latter two cases respectively. Biberauer & Roberts suggest that Ouali’s
feature-inheritance classification system can be usefully extended into language typol-
ogy. By way of illustration, Biberauer & Roberts argue that phi- and T-features are
donated to T in Romance and English (leading to V-to-T movement in Romance because
of the presence of rich tense) but are kept in Continental Germanic, leading to V-to-C
raising, one part of the well-known verb-second effect. These options also apply in the
case of XP movement-triggering features such as the EPP-feature. In Mainland Scandi-
navian, for example, the EPP-feature present in C is shared with T. As a result, both a
traditional verb-second and English-style EPP effect is seen. (See Biberauer & Roberts
2010: Section 3 for further discussion and examples.)
For Old Spanish then, the claim would be that both the EPP and Tense features were
retained in the C-domain. This accounts first for the distribution of elements seen in the
low left periphery as part of Salvi’s (Extended) Generalization regarding the P2 position.
There can be only one element, and because it is attracted by a pure EPP/movement-
triggering feature, it can be either topical, focal, or neither. The fact that the T-feature is
also kept results in the verb being attracted to this position within the low left periphery,
which places it adjacent to the element in Salvi’s P2 position.
The diachronic data seen in §3.3 finds a natural account under the assumption that at
some point during the Spanish Golden Age period, the EPP and Tense features ceased
being retained in the C domain, and were instead donated to T. This explains why certain
cases of low-left-peripheral fronting appear to decline to extinction in parallel with cases
of verb-initial declaratives with an enclitic object pronoun.
Such an approach to the diachronic data aligns with Biberauer & Roberts’s (2010) ty-
pological account of Modern Romance. As mentioned above, on Biberauer & Roberts’s
analysis of Modern Romance, the EPP feature is donated to T, but the requirement is
met by a deleted pronoun in the case of null subject languages such as Italian and Span-
ish. The T-feature is also donated from C to T, which, because of rich tense, results in
V-to-T movement. We therefore have a straightforward characterization of (part of) the
diachronic change that took place between Old Spanish and Modern Spanish.
63
Geoffrey Poole
4.2 Some synchronic and diachronic implications of the proposed
approach: (re)visiting V2 and a “syntacticization of discourse”
Synchroncially, the proposed account takes a clear position in the debate concerning
whether or not Old Spanish was a verb-second language.10 On Holmberg’s (2015) char-
acterization, there are two components to the V2 property, which may be independently
realized.
(27) a. A functional head in the left periphery attracts the finite verb.
b. This functional head requires that a constituent move to its specifier position.
The characteristics in (27) appear to describe exactly the situation in Old Spanish, as
discussed in the above sections. Indeed, as Holmberg notes (2015: 276) the property
in (27b) “may be formalized as a “generalised EPP-feature”, along the lines of Roberts
(2004)”.
Salvi’s Generalization regarding the P1 position, the position which immediately pre-
cedes P2, then becomes the logical explanation for the well-attested instances of V3 (and
other) orders in Old Spanish. The P1 position hosts topics, and I have suggested that it
finds a natural correspondent in the high topic position within an articulated CP. Given
that topics in this position can be iterated (Salvi 2012: 103), the existence of these orders
does not undermine the claim that Old Spanish was a verb-second language.11,12
Diachronically, the proposed change in the behaviour of the features associated with
C suggests that Spanish underwent a “syntacticization of discourse”.13 Consider first the
relation between syntax and information structure in Old Spanish implied by the analysis
outlined above. Movement to the low left periphery is triggered by a pure movement-
triggering feature. Elements which are attracted by this feature can, however, ultimately
receive an information-structure interpretation. Recall example (2) above:
(2) (General Estoria 4, 13th c., Sitaridou 2011: (25))
&
and
los
the
qui
who
se
refl.3pl
gozaron
enjoy.fut.3pl
con
with
el
the
to
your
derribamiento
fall
penados
punished
seran
be.fut.3pl
por
for
ello.
this
‘And those who rejoice with your fall they will be punished for that.’
10The former position is represented by work such as Fontana (1993), while e.g. Sitaridou (2012) argues for
the latter position.
11Ott (2014: Fn 34) suggests that his ellipsis approach to Contrastive Left-Dislocation could be extended to
account for Romance Clitic Left Dislocation phenomena. Should such an extension prove to be successful,
Old Spanish might more closely resemble a “traditional” verb-second language such as Modern German.
12V1 declarative orders do exist in Old Spanish, but as Poole (2016) argues, they exhibit a specific information
structure interpretation: wide or broad focus. With respect to the satisfaction of the EPP-feature, there are
a number of logical possibilities, including a base-generated “default” operator associated with sentence-
level focus or declarative force, or perhaps even attraction of the entire TP, which would plausibly entail a
wide focus interpretation. However, I leave this question for future research.
13The term is originally due to Haegeman & Hill (2013). See Sitaridou (2011: 160) for some initial speculation
regarding Old Spanish and Poole (2016) for much further discussion.
64
3 Feature inheritance in Old Spanish: (re)visiting V2
Following Sitaridou (2011), I assume that the fronted participle is interpreted as focalized,
but this is not because the movement is triggered or driven by a syntactic information-
structure-specific feature such as [+focus]. In other words, elements are not attracted to
Salvi’s P2 position in the low left periphery for discourse or information-structure rea-
sons per se. It follows therefore that, in Old Spanish, information structure interpretation
is in some way post-syntactic.14
The analysis of interpolation in particular becomes potentially important in this con-
text. As discussed above, it appears as though interpolated elements may be interpreted
as either topical (6) or focal (8).
(6) (Crónica de 1344 I, 14th c., Poole 2013: (19))
Et estonçe les dixo el Rey que se salliesen de su tierra Et aquella gente a qujen esto
dixo fueron se a la villa & tanto que les esto dixo luego se armaron muy bien &
venjeron se al Rey onde yazia en su alcaçar & lidiaron conel & lo mataron.
‘And then the king said to them that they should leave his land. And those people
to whom he said that went to the town and as soon as he said that to them they
armed themselves well and went to the king where he rested in his fortress and
fought with him and killed him.’
(8) (El Libro de Caballero Zifar 14th c., Poole 2007: (2b))
e
and
dixe
said.1sg
que
that
lo
him
yo
I
auja
had
muerto.
killed
‘and I said that I had killed him.’
Under the assumption that cases such as these are instances of “the same” syntactic
phenomenon – that is to say, truly two representations of the same syntactic process –
then information-structure interpretation in Old Spanish must have been post-syntactic.
However, if access to the low left periphery in Old Spanish is mediated by an infor-
mation-structurally neutral EPP feature which is retained in the C-domain, and, as dis-
cussed above, the diachronic change in Spanish involves the donation of this feature to T,
then some method must have been developed by which access to the low left periphery
was regained, given that Modern Spanish unquestionably has such access.
Poole (2016) suggests that one of the major syntactic changes to take place during
the Spanish Golden Age period is that information-structure-specific syntactic features,
such as [+focus], are developed.15 This predicts, for example, the loss of left-peripheral
wide focus fronting, as seen in §3 above. Interestingly, as Poole (2016) notes, two word
orders which signal wide/broad focus in Old Spanish, Mackenzie’s (2010) fronted quan-
tifiers and the verb-initial declarative constructions referred to in the previous section,
14See, e.g., Cinque (1993), Reinhart (2006) and Sheehan (2010) for the suggestion that focus might be ac-
counted for in prosodic terms.
15Note that if in fact the innovated feature which is responsible for focus is [+contrast] rather than [+focus],
following Lopez 2009, that would account for the fact that left-peripheral focus is obligatorily contrastive
in Modern Spanish but not in Old Spanish.
65
Geoffrey Poole
come in later varieties to signal verum/positive polarity focus. Poole suggests that this is
an indication that displacement is driven in these later varieties by an information-struc-
turally specified syntactic feature. In essence, low left-peripheral wide/focus is precluded
because access to low left periphery now requires prior identification as a topicalized or
focalized element, and therefore an element in the low left periphery which cannot be a
topic must be focalizing something. Poole’s suggestion is that these elements have in fact
first been attracted to the specifier of ΣP/PolP, the projection which encodes sentence
polarity, and represent focalization of that category, accounting for the verum focus
interpretation.16
Acknowledgements
Thanks to Maria Maza, the audience at the 2014 Meeting of the Linguistics Association
of Great Britain and two anonymous reviewers for many helpful comments and sugges-
tions.
References
Batllori, Montserrat & Maria-Lluïsa Hernanz. 2013. Emphatic polarity particles in Span-
ish and Catalan. Lingua 128. 9–30.
Batllori, Montserrat, Carlos Sánchez & Avel·lina Suñer. 1995. The incidence of interpola-
tion on the word order of Romance languages. Catalan Working Papers in Linguistics
4(2). 185–209. http://ddd.uab.cat/record/21183. [4 December 2015].
Benincà, Paola. 1994. Osservazioni sulla sintassi dei testi di Lio Mazor. In Paola Ben-
incà (ed.), La variazione sintattica: Studi di dialettologia romanza, 163–176. Bologna: Il
Mulino.
Bianchi, Valentina & Mara Frascarelli. 2010. Is ‘topic’ a root phenomenon? Iberia: An
International Journal of Theoretical Linguistics 2(1). 43–88.
Biberauer, Theresa, Anders Holmberg & Ian Roberts. 2014. A syntactic universal and its
consequences. Linguistic Inquiry 45. 169–225.
Biberauer, Theresa & Ian Roberts. 2010. Subjects, tense and verb-movement. In Theresa
Biberauer, Anders Holmberg, Ian Roberts & Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Parametric vari-
ation: Null subjects in minimalist theory, 263–303. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Chenery, Winthrop Holt. 1905. Object pronouns in dependent clauses: A study in Old
Spanish word-order. Publications of the Modern Language Association of America 20.
1–151.
Chomsky, Noam. 2000. Minimalist inquiries: The framework. In Roger Martin, David
Michaels & Juan Uriagereka (eds.), Step by step: Essays on minimalist syntax in honor
of Howard Lasnik, 89–155. Cambridge: MIT Press.
16See Poole 2016 for much further discussion and Poole 2011 for another potentially relevant diachronic
development relating to n-words.
66
3 Feature inheritance in Old Spanish: (re)visiting V2
Chomsky, Noam. 2001. Derivation by phase. In Michael Kenstowicz (ed.), Ken Hale: A
life in language, 1–52. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 1993. A null theory of phrase and compound stress. Linguistic Inquiry
24. 239–97.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 1999. Adverbs and functional heads: A cross-linguistic perspective. Ox-
ford: Oxford University Press.
Cruschina, Silvio. 2008. Discourse-related features and the syntax of peripheral positions:
A comparative study of Sicilian and other Romance languages. University of Cambridge
dissertation.
Cruschina, Silvio & Ioanna Sitaridou. 2009. From modern to old Romance: The inter-
action of information structure and word order. Paper given at the XI Diachronic
Generative Syntax (DiGS), Universidade de Campinas, 20-22/08/2009.
Davies, Mark. 2002. Corpus del Español (100 million words, 1200s–1900s). http://www.
corpusdelespanol.org/.
Fontana, Josep M. 1993. Phrase structure and the syntax of clitics in the history of Spanish.
University of Pennsylvania dissertation.
Frey, Werner. 2006. Contrast and movement to the German prefield. In Valéria Molnar &
Susanne Winkler (eds.), The architecture of focus, 235–264. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Haegeman, Liliane & Virginia Hill. 2013. The syntactization of discourse. In Raffaela Folli,
Christina Sevdalli & Robert Truswell (eds.), Syntax and its limits (Oxford Studies in
Theoretical Linguistics), 370–390. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Hernanz, Maria-Lluïsa. 2006. Emphatic polarity and C in Spanish. In Laura Brugè (ed.),
Studies in Spanish syntax, 105–150. Venezia: Libreria Editrice Cafoscarina.
Holmberg, Anders. 2015. Verb second. In Tibor Kiss & Artemis Alexiadou (eds.), Syntax –
Theory and analysis: An international handbook, 2nd edn., 342–382. Berlin: de Gruyter.
Leonetti, Manuel & Victoria Escandell-Vidal. 2009. Fronting and Verum Focus in Spanish.
In Andreas Dufter & Daniel Jacob (eds.), Focus and background in Romance languages,
155–204. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Light, Caitlin. 2012. The syntax and semantics of fronting in Germanic. University of Penn-
sylvania dissertation.
Lopez, Luis. 2009. A derivational syntax for information structure. Oxford: Oxford Uni-
versity Press.
Mackenzie, Ian. 2010. Refining the V2 hypothesis for Old Spanish. Bulletin of Hispanic
Studies 87(4). 379–396.
Ott, Dennis. 2014. An ellipsis approach to contrastive left-dislocation. Linguistic Inquiry
45(2). 269–303.
Ouali, Hamid. 2008. On C-to-T φ-feature transfer: The nature of agreement and anti-
agreement in Berber. In Roberta D’Alessandro, Susan Fischer & Gunnar Hrafn Hrafn-
bjargarson (eds.), Agreement restrictions, 159–80. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Poole, Geoffrey. 2007. Interpolation and the left periphery in Old Spanish. Newcastle
Working Papers in Linguistics 13. 188–216.
67
Geoffrey Poole
Poole, Geoffrey. 2011. Focus and the development of N-words in Spanish. In Janine Burns,
Haike Jacobs & Tobias Scheer (eds.), Romance Languages and Linguistic Theory 2009: Se-
lected Papers from “Going Romance”, Nice 2009, 291–303. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Poole, Geoffrey. 2013. Interpolation, verb-second, and the low left periphery in Old Span-
ish. Iberia: An International Journal of Theoretical Linguistics 5(1). 69–98.
Poole, Geoffrey. 2016. Focus and the syntacticization of discourse in Spanish. In Ernestina
Carrilho, Alexandra Fiéis, Maria Lobo & Sandra Pereira (eds.), Romance languages and
linguistic theory 10: Selected papers from “Going Romance” 28, Lisbon, 191–210. Amster-
dam: John Benjamins.
Reinhart, Tanya. 2006. Interface strategies: Optimal and costly computations. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1997. The fine structure of the left periphery. In Liliane Haegeman (ed.), Ele-
ments of grammar: A handbook of generative syntax, 281–337. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Salvi, Giampaolo. 2012. On the nature of the V2 system of Medieval Romance. In Laura
Brugé, Anna Cardinaletti, Giuliana Giusti, Nicola Munaro & Cecilia Poletto (eds.),
Functional heads: The cartography of syntactic structures, vol. 7, 103–111. Oxford: Ox-
ford University Press.
Sheehan, Michelle. 2010. ‘Free’ inversion in Romance and the Null Subject Parameter.
In Theresa Biberauer, Anders Holmberg, Ian Roberts & Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Para-
metric Variation: Null Subjects in Minimalist Theory, 231–262. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Sitaridou, Ioanna. 2011. Word order and information structure in Old Spanish. Catalan
Journal of Linguistics 10. 159–184.
Sitaridou, Ioanna. 2012. A comparative study of word order in Old Romance. Folia Lin-
guistica 46(2). 553–604.
Walkden, George. 2015. Verb-third in early West Germanic: A comparative perspective.
In Theresa Biberauer & George Walkden (eds.), Syntax over time: Lexical, morphologi-
cal, and information-structural interactions (Oxford Studies in Diachronic and Histori-
cal Linguistics 15), 236–248. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
68
Chapter 4
Finite sentences in Finnish: Word order,
morphology, and information structure
Urpo Nikanne
Åbo Akademi University, Finland
According to Holmberg et al. (1993) the finite sentence of Finnish is a structure with 2–6
functional heads. In this article, the theory is developed further and the functional heads
are reanalyzed. The functional categories are divided into two categories: (i) lexical cate-
gories Neg, Aux, V, and C; (ii) morphological categories: AgrS, T, and Ptc. These categories
are in separate tiers, and the tiers are linked to each other. Both lexical and morphologi-
cal categories are hierarchically organized, and the linking between the tiers follows these
hierarchies. The result of the reanalysis is a system that does not involve movement nor a
complicated constituent structure of functional categories even though the desired proper-
ties of the previous analysis remain.
1 Introduction
Anders Holmberg and his colleagues came up with an analysis of the Finnish finite sen-
tence in the early 1990s (Holmberg et al. 1993). The analysis was based on the so-called
incorporation theory in which finite verb morphology assumed to be a result of a head-
to-head movement of the verb: the verb was raised from one functional head (e.g. tense,
mood, subject agreement, etc.) to another, and the functional heads were attached to the
verb. The finite verb morphology was therefore a mirror image of the syntactic struc-
ture (Pollock 1989; Baker 1988; Chomsky 1995), etc.). In the Minimalist Theory (Chom-
sky 1995), the basic idea has remained the same, but, instead of picking up affixes along
its head-to-head movement upwards in the syntactic structure, the verb checks that the
morphological features it is carrying are compatible with the features in the syntactic
tree.
Traditionally, the word order of Finnish has been characterized as free. According to
Vilkuna (1989), the word order in Finnish finite sentences is constraint by information
structure. There are designated word order positions for the topic of the sentence and
a phrase that carries a contrastive focus. Holmberg & Nikanne (1994; 2002; 2008) have
Urpo Nikanne. 2017. Finite sentences in Finnish: Word order, morphology, and information
structure. In Laura R. Bailey & Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Order and structure in syntax I: Word order
and syntactic structure, 69–97. Berlin: Language Science Press. DOI:10.5281/zenodo.1117710
Urpo Nikanne
shown that the word (verb or negation word) carrying the subject agreement suffixes
has its own designated position in the finite sentence word order.
The theory presented by Anders Holmberg and his colleagues (Holmberg et al. 1993;
Holmberg & Nikanne 2002, etc.) is so far the most advanced model of the finite sentence
of Finnish. It is able to combine the Finnish finite sentence morphology and syntax in
an elegant way. As linguists, however, it is our duty always to seek for new ways to
see language and try to come up with theories that can replace the old ones. That is the
purpose of this article.
At first, I explain how the theory by Holmberg and his colleagues works. Then, I
discuss how it can be improved. After that, I suggest improvements that are based on
a “micro-modular” theory of language. The micro-modular theory, Tiernet, is a version
of Conceptual Semantics (Jackendoff 1983; 1990; 2002, etc.) explained and motivated in
detail in Nikanne (forthcoming).
2 Finnish finite sentence: the basic facts
The Finnish finite verb has the morphological structure given in Table 1.
Table 1: Morphological structure of the Finnish verb
verb stem (+ passive) + tense/mood + subject agreement
istu [‘sit’] + i + mme [1pl subj. agr] ‘we sat
down’
istu [‘sit’] + isi + mme [1pl subj. agr] ‘we would sit
down’
istu [‘sit’] + tt [passive] + i [past] + in [pass subj. agr.] ‘it was sat
down’
istu [‘sit’] + tta [passive] + isi [conditional] + in [pass subj. agr.] ‘it would
have been sat
down’
There are two things in the Finnish finite morphology that might be confusing: (i) the
tense and mood markers are in complementary distribution; and (ii) in addition to the
passive marker ttA the passive form has an AgrS suffix -Vn when the negation word or
the auxiliary are not present.
In addition to the predicate verb, there are two more words that may carry finite affixes.
The auxiliary ole- ‘be’ in the perfect and pluperfect tenses and the negation word e(i)-
‘not’ in negated sentences. In the perfect and pluperfect tenses, the predicate verb is in
the perfect participle form. Here is an example of the paradigm (the finite morphemes
are separated with a dash):
70
4 Finite sentences in Finnish: Word order, morphology, and information structure
(1) a. Present active (3rd person plural)
Tytöt
girls
istu-vat
sit-3pl
tuolilla.
chair.ade
‘The girls sit on the chair.’
b. Present passive
Istu-ta-an
sit-pass-pass
tuolilla.
chair.ade
‘It is sat on the chair.’
‘One sits on the chair.’
(2) a. Simple past active (3rd person plural)
Tytöt
girls
istu-i-vat
sit-past-3pl
tuolilla.
chair.ade
‘The girls sat on the chair.’
b. Simple past passive
Istu-tt-i-in
sit-pass-past-pass
tuolilla.
chair.ade
‘It was sat on the chair.’
‘One sat on the chair.’
(3) a. Conditional present active (3rd person plural)
Tytöt
girls
istu-isi-vat
sit-cond-3pl
tuolilla.
chair.ade
‘The girls would sit on the chair.’
b. Conditional present passive
Istu-tta-isi-in
sit-pass-cond-pass
tuolilla.
chair.ade
‘One would sit on the chair.’
(4) a. Perfect tense active (3rd person plural)
Tytöt
girls
o-vat
be-3pl
istu-nee-t
sit-ptc-3pl
tuolilla.
chair.ade
‘The girls have sat on the chair.’
b. Perfect tense passive
On
be-3sg
istu-tt-u
sit-pass-ptc
tuolilla.
chair.ade
‘It has been sat on the chair.’
‘One has sat on the chair.’
(5) a. Pluperfect tense active (3rd person plural)
Tytöt
girls
ol-i-vat
be-past-3pl
istu-nee-t
sit-ptc-3pl
tuolilla.
chair-ade
‘The girls had sat on the chair.’
71
Urpo Nikanne
b. Pluperfect tense passive
Ol-i
be-past.3sg
istu-tt-u
sit-pass-ptc
tuolilla.
chair.ade
‘It was sat on the chair.’
‘One had sat on the chair.’
(6) a. Negative past active (3rd person plural)
Tytöt
girls
ei-vät
not-3pl
istu-nee-t
sit-ptc-pl
tuolilla.
chair.ade
‘The girls did not sit on the chair.’
b. Negative past passive
Ei
not.3sg
istu-tt-u
sit-pass-ptc
tuolilla.
chair.ade
‘It was not sat on the chair.’
(7) a. Negative perfect tense active (3rd person plural)
Tytöt
girls
ei-vät
not-3pl
ole
be
istu-neet
sit-ptc.pl
tuolilla.
chair.ade
‘The girls have not sat on the chair.’
b. Negative perfect tense passive
Ei
not-3sg
ole
be
istu-tt-u
sit-pass-ptc
tuolilla.
chair.ade
‘It has not been sat on the chair.’
(8) a. Negative pluperfect tense:
Tytöt
girls
ei-vät
not-3pl
ol-leet
be-ptc-pl
istu-neet
sit-ptc-pl
tuolilla.
chair.ade
‘The girls had not sat on the chair.’
b. Negative pluperfect tense passive
Ei
not.3sg
ol-lut
be-ptc
istu-tt-u
sit-pass-ptc
tuolilla.
chair.ade
‘It had not been sat on the chair.’
3 Anders Holmberg’s et al. theory of Finnish finite
sentence
According to Holmberg & Nikanne (2002) (based on the analysis of Holmberg et al. 1993),
the Finnish finite sentence in its fullest possible form is as in (9). The category F (= finite)
in Holmberg & Nikanne’s (2002) analysis is marked in (9) as AgrS in order to show the
relation between the morphology and syntactic structure. (This is not a radical difference;
see the discussion of the node F instead of AgrS in Holmberg & Nikanne 2002.)
72
4 Finite sentences in Finnish: Word order, morphology, and information structure
(9) The maximal structure of the Finnish finite sentence
CP
Spec C’
C AgrSP
Spec AgrS’
AgrS NegP
Spec Neg’
Neg TP
Spec T’
T AuxP
Spec Aux’
Aux PtcP
Spec Ptc’
Ptc VP
Spec V’
V […]
“C” stands for Complementizer, “AgrS” for subject agreement (i.e. person 1sg, 2sg, 3sg,
1pl, 2pl, 3pl, and the passive agreement ending), “Neg” for negation, “T” for tempus (i.e.
present, past) and in Finnish also modus (i.e. conditional, potential, imperative), “Aux”
for auxiliary verb (olla ‘be’), “Ptc” for participial (past, present), and “Spec” for specifier.
73
Urpo Nikanne
NB: “Constituency” is marked according to the convention introduced by Petrova (2011):
the “ball” at the end of the line indicates the end in which the dominated element (the
daughter) is. The benefit of this convention is that it does not require that the mother
phrase is above the daughter.
The passive marker ttA is base generated in the Spec(VP), the assumed original posi-
tion for the subject. In standard Finnish, the passive voice is in a complementary distri-
bution with an overt subject.
Only AgrS and T are obligatory. Those are the morphemes that are in an affirmative
present or simple past tense forms (see examples 1–8 above).
The D-structure of the sentence Istu-i-mme tuolilla [sit-past-1pl chair.ade] ‘We sat on
the chair’ is given in (10). The information on the finite sentence morphology is in the
functional positions, and the subject NP is in the Spec(VP) position; note that then both
arguments of the verb istu- ‘sit’ are in the maximal projection whose head the verb is.
The derivation from D-structure to S-structure is illustrated in (10): The verb un-
dergoes a head movement from the head of the VP position (V) via the head of the
Tense/Mood phrase (T) to the head of the AgrSP position (AgrS). The morphological
structure is a mirror image of the head-to-head movement chain. The subject NP is
assumed to be base generated in the Spec(VP) position. As the subject NP is in the nom-
inative case and the AgrS feature (1pl) is compatible with the person and number of the
subject NP, the sentence is grammatical. The verb and the subject NP leave behind traces
in the positions in which they land on the way to their S-structure positions.
(10) AgrSP
Spec AgrS’
AgrS
1pl
mme
TP
Spec T’
T
past
i
VP
Spec
me
‘we’
V’
V
istu-
‘sit-’
PP
tuolilla
‘chair.ade’
The S-structure is given in (11), with the solid arrows indicating the movements. The
finite morphology, as it appears in the surface structure, is given in the grey box, and the
dashed arrow points to syntactic position of the inflected element. (In 12–14, in order to
avoid too many arrows, only the movements of V and Aux are shown.)
74
4 Finite sentences in Finnish: Word order, morphology, and information structure
(11) AgrSP
Spec AgrS’
AgrS
v+past+1pl
TP
Spec T’
T
t
VP
Spec
me
‘we’
V’
V
istu-
‘sit-’
PP
tuolilla
‘chair.ade’
istu-i-mme
sit-past-1pl
The passive marker is base generated in the specifier position of the VP. This is the
position in which the subject argument is supposed to be base generated. The surface
structure is derived as follows:
(12) AgrSP
Spec AgrS’
AgrS
pass
Vn
TP
Spec T’
T
cond
isi
VP
Spec
pass
ttA
V’
V
istu-
‘sit-’
PP
tuolilla
‘chair.ade’
istu-tta-isi-in
sit-past-cond-pass
75
Urpo Nikanne
If the auxiliary olla ‘be’ is present, i.e. in the perfect or pluperfect tense, the Aux
undergoes a head movement from the head of the auxiliary phrase position (Aux) to
AgrS. Then, the verb moves from V to the head of the participial phrase position (Ptc).
(13) AgrSP
Spec AgrS’
AgrS
1pl
TP
Spec T’
T
cond
isi
AuxP
Spec Aux’
Aux
ole-
PtcP
Spec Ptc’
Ptc
neet
VP
Spec V’
V
istu-
‘sit’
PP
tuolilla
‘chair.ade’
istu-neet
sit-ptc(pl)
ol-isi-mee
be-cond-1pl
If the negation is present, the negation word ei undergoes a movement from the head
of the negation phrase (Neg) to AgrS. Then, the auxiliary moves from Aux to T and the
predicate verb from V to Ptc.
76
4 Finite sentences in Finnish: Word order, morphology, and information structure
(14) AgrSP
Spec AgrS’
AgrS
1pl
mme
NegP
Spec Neg’
Neg
e-
TP
Spec T’
T
cond
isi
AuxP
Spec Aux’
Aux
ole-
PtcP
Spec Ptc’
Ptc
neet
VP
Spec V’
V
istu-
‘sit’
PP
tuolilla
‘chair.ade’
istu-neet
sit-ptc(pl)
ol-isi
be-cond
e-mme
neg-1pl
The Complementizer phrase (CP) is understood traditionally as a projection of a Com-
plementizer word, such as a subordinating conjunction (15a), wh-word (15b), or con-
trastively focused element (15c,d). According to Maria Vilkuna (1989 etc.), the two initial
positions of the Finnish finite sentence are reserved for a contrastively focused element
(the first position) and the topic of the sentence (the second position). The topic of the
sentence can be the first element if there is no contrastively focused element present.
According to Holmberg & Nikanne (1994), the contrast position is Spec(CP) position and
the topic position is Spec(AgrSP).
77
Urpo Nikanne
(15) CP
Spec
milläi
C’
C AgrSP
Spec
tytöt
AgrS’
AgrS
eivät
TP
Spec T’
T
olisi
PtcP
Spec Ptc’
Ptc
istuneet
[…]
a. milläi
what.ade
tytöt
girl.pl(nom)
eivät
not.3pl
olisi
be.cond
istuneet
sit.ptc.pl
ti?’
‘What would the girls not have sat on?’
(wh-word as adverbial; topic ‘girls’)
b. Spec(CP)
ketkäi
who.pl(nom)
Spec(AgrSP)
ti
t
AgrS
eivät
not.3pl
T
olisi
be.cond
Ptc
istuneet
sit.ptc.pl
tuolilla?
chair.ade
‘Who(PL) would not have sat on the chair?’
(wh-word as subject; topic ‘who’)
c. Spec(CP)
tuolillai
chair.ade
Spec(AgrSP)
tytöt
girl.pl(nom)
AgrS
eivät
not.3pl
T
olisi
be.cond
Ptc
istuneet
sit.ptc.pl
ti.
t
‘It is the chair that the girls would not have sat on.’
(contrastive focus on ‘on the chair’; topic: ‘girls’)
d. Spec(CP)
eiväti
not.3pl
Spec(AgrSP)
tytöt
girl.pl(nom)
AgrS
ti
t
T
olisi
be.cond
Ptc
istuneet
sit.ptc.pl
tuolilla.
chair.ade
‘It is not the case that the girls would have sat on the chair.’
(focus on negation; topic: ‘girls’)
78
4 Finite sentences in Finnish: Word order, morphology, and information structure
Similar models based on functional categories have been suggested for many other
languages besides Finnish, e.g. French (starting Pollock 1989), Swedish (Holmberg &
Platzack 1995, Italian (e.g. Cinque 1999), etc. The suggested sentence structures are very
similar to that proposed for Finnish. The differences suggested for different languages
have to do with the exact set and the mutual order of the categories.
4 What can be done better?
The model of finite sentence based on functional categories works well, and it has with-
out any doubt been the most advanced model of the Finnish finite sentence so far. How-
ever, there is always room for progress. In the sections that follow, I will show that the
benefits of the theory by Holmberg et al. can be developed into a simpler theory that
even better shows the relationship between finite sentence syntax and morphology.
The two areas that need further development are the theory of constituents and keep-
ing morphological and lexical categories apart from each other:
Constituents: Traditionally, a constituent is defined as a unit that moves as a whole, is
deleted as a whole, etc. In addition, in the X’-theory, a constituent is a projection of
its head. This definition fits well with the good old-fashioned constituents like NP,
PP, AP, and AdvP. The constituents headed by functional categories are much more
abstract and they have been introduced to the theory mostly for theory internal
reasons. The functional categories C and I and their respective projections CP and
IP in Chomsky (1986) enabled the X’-theory cover the sentence structure in its
entirety. Before that, the sentence (S) was the only constituent that did not have
head and an X’-structure. These new “functional” constituents differ from the old-
fashioned constituents, which are based on lexical categories. As the door was
open for abstract functional constituents, they have been assumed to play a role
even in non-finite categories, such as NPs (or DPs). The development has led to a
more and more abstract syntax, and at the same time, the idea of constituency has
shifted further and further away from its original definition, particularly when
it comes to the sentence level constituents headed by functional categories C, I,
and the categories suggested to be parts of I (see the analysis of Finnish in §3
above). The theory of syntax should make a difference between the old fashioned
constituents and functional categories as they are two different things, at least in
the finite sentence.
Separating lexical and morphological categories: In Finnish, for instance, the categories
Neg, Aux, and V must always be raised from their original positions, and they
never appear without morphological suffices AgrS, T or Ptc. The categories AgrS,
T or Ptc on the other hand cannot appear alone. The “mirror image” effect is ex-
plained but it is difficult to justify a complicated model of constituent structure in
which the head nodes of the lexical categories must always be moved out of their
projections (constituents which they are head words of) and at the same time there
are constituents headed by heads that never appear alone without a lexical cate-
gory.
79
Urpo Nikanne
The expansion of the number of functional categories may be a consequence of aim-
ing at a universal description of grammar. A universal (or cross-linguistically relevant)
description of the grammar requires that the overall systems of world’s languages are
described in a comparable manner, not that for instance each part of the grammar, e.g.
finite sentences, must be assumed to have the same underlying structure in all languages.
Thus, even if we can argue for a category, feature or element in one language, we do not
need to generalize the same analysis to all languages. In mainstream generative gram-
mar, syntactic constituent structure has been the most important part of grammar, and
many phenomena have been analyzed as syntactic. That leads to, as it seems to me,
unnecessarily, complicated syntactic constituent analyses of constituent structure. (For
arguments against unnecessarily abstract syntax in mainstream generative grammar, see
also Culicover & Jackendoff 2005.)
One motivation in generative grammar for analysing finite sentence as a constituent
tree has been that the grammatical functions subject and object as well as assigning
grammatical cases can be defined as positions in the constituent tree. Two most impor-
tant morpho-syntactic feature of the grammatical subject is that the finite predicate verb
agrees with the nominative subject in person and number. In Finnish, the word order
may vary because the information structure is marked in the word order (see Vilkuna
1989), and still the predicate verb of a finite sentence agrees with the (nominative) subject,
no matter where the subject is located. For instance in (16), the verb istua ‘sit’ agrees with
the subject tytöt [girl.pl.nom] despite the word order (S = subject, V = predicate verb, X
= object or adverbial):
(16) SVX: Tytöt
girl.pl.nom
istuivat
sit.past.3pl
tuolilla.
chair.ade
‘The girls sat on the chair.’
XVS: Tuolilla
chair.ade
istuivat
sit.past.3pl
tytöt.
girl.pl.nom
SXV: Tytöt
girl.pl.nom
tuolilla
chair.ade
istuivat.
sit.past.3pl
XSV: Tuolilla
chair.ade
tytöt
girl.pl.nom
istuivat.
sit.past.3pl
There is, thus, no obvious reason to assume that the subject of the sentence must have
a particular syntactic position or that the grammatical cases for the subject (nom) and
the object (par or acc) are assigned to particular positions in the constituent tree.
5 A new look at the finite sentence of Finnish
In this section, I will suggest an alternative way to analyse the morpho-syntactic struc-
ture of the Finnish finite sentence.
80
4 Finite sentences in Finnish: Word order, morphology, and information structure
5.1 From constituents to tiers
The analysis is based on Tiernet Theory (Nikanne 1990; 2002; 2008; forthcoming; Pörn
2004; Paulsen 2011; Petrova 2011), which is a generative theory of grammar and based on
Jackendoff’s Conceptual Semantics (1972; 1983; 1987; 2002). The characteristic property
of Tiernet is that the grammar is based on several very simple micro-modules and links
between the micro-representations generated by these micro-modules. (See Nikanne
forthcoming, for a detailed introduction to the theory.)
The binary constituent structure in (9) (based on Holmberg et al. 1993) can be pre-
sented in a horizontal position so that the maximal and middle nodes are at one level,
and heads and specifiers on another level, as shown in Figure 1. The head and specifier
nodes are linked to other domains of the language system: information structure, (in-
flectional) morphology, and lexical categories. The sentence initial positions Spec(CP)
and Spec(AgrSP) are reserved for information structure. The functional head positions
AgrS, Neg, T, Aux, Ptc, and V are linked to morphological and lexical categories. It is
worth pointing out that every second functional head, AgrS, T, and Ptc, are linked to
morphological categories and every second functional head, Neg, Aux, and V, are linked
to lexical categories. The category C is typically understood to be linked to conjunctions,
but there are theories in which C is associated with abstract features of various kinds
(having to do with questions, emphasis, etc.).
In the analyses that follow, we abandon constituent structure as the universal archi-
tecture of syntax and functional nodes as syntactic categories. Information structure,
morphology, and word order are treated as separate tiers. In this way, we are able to
reach the goals set above: (i) to avoid unnecessarily abstract syntactic constituents, and
(ii) to keep the lexical and morphological categories apart when it comes to finite sen-
tence. In order to do this, we need to use a slightly different set of tools than before:
(i) Hierarchies and linking are applied instead of movements.
(ii) Lexical categories, morphological categories, and finite features are kept in sepa-
rate tiers instead of putting them all in the same syntactic constituent structure.
5.2 Morphology
The finite sentence morphological categories (fsm-categories) of Finnish are AgrS, T,
Ptc, and Pass. Instead of assuming a head movement, we analyse them as hierarchically
organized. The hierarchy is the same as the linear order in Holmberg et al.’s (1993) con-
stituent structure:
(17) Hierarchy of Fsm-Categories
AgrS > T > Ptc > Pass
The finite sentence morphological categories select the finite sentence lexical cate-
gories in a strict hierarchical order. The status of a morphological category in the hierar-
chy of fsm-categories determines its place in the picking order. The highest morpholog-
81
Urpo Nikanne
CP
C’
AgrSP
AgrS’
NegP
Neg’
TP
T’
AuxP
Aux’
PtcP
Ptc’
VP
V’
Spec
C
Spec
AgrS
Spec
Neg
Spec
T
Spec
Aux
Spec
Ptc
Spec
V
negation
word
ei
auxiliary
ole
‘be’
verb
Person
agreement
Tense/
mood
Participle
focus1
topic
Lexical
Morphology
Information
structure
Figure
1:
Information
structure,
morphology,
and
lexical
categories
in
the
Finnish
finite
sentence.
82
4 Finite sentences in Finnish: Word order, morphology, and information structure
ical category has the right to select the most desired lexical categories. The desirability
of lexical categories is determined in another hierarchy.
In the hierarchy of fsm-categories, there is one difference compared to Holmberg et
al. (1993), namely that passive is part of the hierarchy but it is not is not a functional
head in the theory of Holmberg et al. As we have abandoned the functional constituent
heads, we can – or should – treat passive in the same way as the rest of the finite sentence
morphology. As already pointed out above, the Finnish passive has two parts: the passive
marker (ttA)1 next to the verb stem and the passive personal ending (Vn)2 in the position
of AgrS-endings:
(18) istu-ta-an [sit-pass-pass] ‘it is sat’
istu-tt-i-in [sit-pass-past-pass] ‘it was sat’
istu-tta-isi-in [sit-pass-cond-pass] ‘it would be sat’
istu-tta-ne-en [sit-pass-pot-pass] ‘it probably will be sat’
In the perfect and pluperfect tense, the passive marker is in the participial:
(19) on istu-tt-u [be.3sg sit-pass-pastptc] ‘it has been sat’
oli istu-tt-u [be.past.3sg sit-pass-pastptc] ‘it had been sat’
The person of the auxiliary olla ‘be’ is traditionally analyzed as 3sg as 3sg is the neutral
or default person in the Finnish grammar. In colloquial Finnish, the perfect and pluper-
fect tenses are not always following the pattern given above: it is common to double the
passive morphology in the auxiliary: ol-la-an istu-tt-u [be-pass-pass sit-pass-pastptc]
‘it has been done’ instead of on istu-tt-u [be.3sg sit-pass-pastptc] ‘it has been sat.’
As mentioned above, the lexical categories of the finite sentence form a hierarchy. I
use the term finite sentence lexical categories (fsl-categories) for the lexical categories
that are characteristic for the finite sentence, i.e. Neg, Aux, and V. The hierarchy of these
categories is as follows:
(20) Hierarchy of Finite Sentence Lexical Categories
Neg > Aux > V
The higher the lexical category is in the hierarchy the more valuable it is from the point
of view of morphological categories. Just as was the case with morphological categories,
the hierarchy of lexical categories corresponds to their order in the syntactic tree in the
constituent analysis by Holmberg et al. (1993).
The morphological form follows from general principles.
(21) Linking between Finite Sentence Morphological and Lexical Categories
A. Each fsl-category must always be selected by at least one fsm-category.
1The suffix ttA (in which A indicates a or ä depending on the vowel harmony) is sensitive to its morpho-
phonological context and may appear as tta, ttä, ta, tä, tt, t, la, lä, ra, or rä. This alternation is, however,
beyond the scope of this article.
2The V in the suffix Vn indicates vowel lengthening: V appears as the lengthening of the preceding vowel.
83
Urpo Nikanne
B. Fsm-categories select a maximal number of fs-morphological categories
from left to right following the lexical and morphological hierarchies, with
exceptions (i) and (ii).
(i) Neg can only be selected by AgrS.
(ii) Ptc can only select V.
The principles of selection based on these hierarchies correspond to the head move-
ment in Holmberg et al. (1993).
The morphological categories must have values. These values are called ϕ-features in
generative grammar. I will call them finite features. Traditionally, the finite sentence
morphology has been divided into such categories as voice, tense, mood, person and
number. Thus, the morphological category T may carry such finite features as present
tense, past tense, conditional mood, imperative mood, or potential mood. AgrS may
carry person and number features, or the passive feature.
The finite features are organized in a constituent structure as in Figure 2 (pass = pas-
sive, pres = present tense, cond = conditional mood, imp = imperative mood, pot =
potential mood). Arrow indicates selection, i.e. dependency relation).
All the finite features of a finite sentence are “collected” by constituency to the same
m-root. The m-root represents the whole set of features, and it selects (arrow indicates
selection) a finite sentence morphological category. The organization of the finite fea-
tures is very much the same as in traditional grammars. The new idea is the linking
between finite features and finite sentence morphology. The feature system above is
based on the grammar of Finnish, but most parts of it are similar to other languages. The
finite sentence morphemes (fsm-categories) and the linking between the morphological
categories and the features is more language specific.
The fsm-categories can carry different finite features, i.e. they can carry a part of the
constituent tree in Figure 2. The restrictions – and possibilities – for categories of AgrS,
T, and Ptc to carry finite features are given in (22). The circles show the range of finite
features each fsm-category may carry in Finnish.
(22) The possible finite features of the fsm-categories AgrS, T, Ptc, and Pass in Finnish.
m-root
voice
active
person
1 2 3
number
sg pl
passive
pass
tense
past pres
mood
cond imp pot
fsm-category
T
AgrS
Ptc
Pass
84
4 Finite sentences in Finnish: Word order, morphology, and information structure
m-root
voice
active
person
1 2 3
number
sg pl
passive
pass
tense
past pres
mood
cond imp pot
fsm-category (AgrS > T > Ptc > Pass)
fsl-category (Neg > Aux > V)
Finite features
Finite sentence morphological categories
Finite sentence lexical categories
Figure 2: The hierarchy of finite features and linking between finite features,
fsm-categories and fsl-categories.
85
Urpo Nikanne
The categories AgrS and T do not share any values but Ptc can carry a part of the
values of AgrS, namely number and passive, as well as a part of the values of T, namely
past or present. The person values can only be carried by AgrS and the mood values
only by T. The main principle is that the branches in the fs-morphological constituent
structure must be interpreted as “pick only one,” with the excpetion that voice can co-
occur wth tense and mood and person can co-occur with number. We can formulate
this into a principle of Finnish grammar:
(23) Co-occurrence of finite features in Finnish
The sisters of the finite feature constituent structure cannot co-occur in the same
finite sentence, except (i) and (ii).
(i) voice, tense, and mood can co-occur with each other.
(ii) person can co-occur with number.
We should keep in mind that the finite sentence is a whole, and one finite sentence can
only express one set of finite features (as represented in figure 3). There is only one set
of fsm-categories per finite sentence, and therefore we can say that the finiteness of the
finite sentence is based on the morphology. The only exception of this is tense, which
we will discuss shortly. As a reminder of this, I mark the set of fsm-categories that belong
to the same finite sentence with brackets and subscript index fs (“finite sentence”).
The principle of the unity of the finite sentence can be formulated as follows:
(24) Finite sentence as a unit (in Finnish)
In a finite sentence, there cannot be more than one instance of each finite feature.
The only exception is tense of which there can be two instances.
The perfect and pluperfect tense can be described as having two instances of tense: one
in auxiliary and another one in the participle. This is an exception to the main principle
that each finite feature cannot be expressed more than once.
In theory by Holmberg & al. the functional heads AgrS and T were supposed to always
be present in a finite sentence of Finnish. We must add this principle in the present
system. In addition, the lexical category V is always present in a finite sentence. The
principle is as follows:
(25) Obligatory categories in Finnish finite sentence
The fsm-categories AgrS and T as well as the fsl-category V are obligatory in a
finite sentence.
Here is an example of the system. The example in (26) istuisimme [eat.cond.1pl] ‘we
would eat’ can be analyzed as follows and istumme [eat.1pl] ‘we sit’:
86
4 Finite sentences in Finnish: Word order, morphology, and information structure
(26) a. istuisimme
eat-cond-1pl
‘we would eat’
V
AgrS]
root
voice
active
number
pl
person
1
[fs T
root
mood
cond
b. istumme
sit-1pl
V
AgrS]
root
voice
active
number
pl
person
1
[fs T
root
tense
pres
The perfect and pluperfect tenses can be analyzed as follows:
(27) a. olemme
be-1pl
istuneet
sit-pastptc-pl
Aux
T
m-root
tense
pres
[fs AgrS
m-root
voice
active
number
pl
person
1
tense
past
V
Ptc]
m-root
b. olimme
be-past-1pl
istuneet
sit-pastptc-pl
Aux
T
m-root
tense
past
[fs AgrS
m-root
voice
active
number
pl
person
1
tense
past
V
Ptc]
m-root
The participles used in the finite sentence are in the same number (sg or pl) as the
whole finite sentence morphology. This agreement can be described as feature spreading.
The feature spreading is marked by dashed constituent lines. The spreading lines are
linked directly to the m-root: the participial forms are just agreeing with the number of
87
Urpo Nikanne
the finite sentence. The primary expression of number is in the morphological form of
the negation word.
As discussed earlier, the Finnish morpho-syntax is peculiar in the way that the finite
features tense and mood cannot co-occur in the same finite verb: the fsm-category T
expresses either mood or tense but not both. There is however, a solution: participle. If
tense and mood co-occur, the mood is expressed by fsm-category T that selects Aux and
tense by fsm-category Ptc that selects V, for instance in (28).
(28) olisimme
be-cond-1pl
istuneet
sit-pastptc-pl
‘we would have sat’
Aux
T
m-root
mood
cond
[fs AgrS
m-root
voice
active
number
pl
person
1
tense
past
V
Ptc]
m-root
In this way, both tense and mood can be expressed in the same finite sentence even
though they do not have room in the same verb form.
Another morphological peculiarity in Finnish is that passive is expressed by two end-
ings: the passive marker and the passive personal suffix. For instance:
(29) istu-tt-i-in
sit-pass-past-pass
‘it was sat’
I suggest the following solution:
(30)
V
AgrS]
m-root
T
m-root
tense
past
[fs Pass
m-root
voice
passive
pass
88
4 Finite sentences in Finnish: Word order, morphology, and information structure
The solution in (31) is rather obvious in a “nonlinear” morphology as the present ap-
proach. The node voice is shared by the m-roots of the fsm-categories Pass and AgrS.
Hakulinen & Karlsson (1979) suggest that passive is “the fourth person.” The motiva-
tion is that the passive form has a person suffix, i.e. AgrS. In the present approach, it is
not necessary to assume a fourth person. The passive is just linked to the fsm-category
AgrS, in addition to the fsm-category Pass, and the passive voice is expressed in two
fsm-categories.
The negation word e(i) ’not’ is selected by the fsm-category AgrS. The mood or the
tense are then expressed by the verb:
(31) a. emme
not-1pl
istuisi
sit-cond
‘we would not eat’
Neg
[fs AgrS
root
voice
active
number
pl
person
1
mood
cond
root
T]
V
b. emme
not-1pl
istu
sit
‘we do not sit’
Neg
[fs AgrS
root
voice
active
number
pl
person
1
tense
present
root
T]
V
We need to stipulate an exception to the system. But this stipulation is something that
any system – known so far – must do. There is a third peculiarity in Finnish: if the finite
sentence has a negation word, the verb or the auxiliary appears in the participial form in
the past tense. The auxiliary is in the participial form in the pluperfect as the pluperfect
(normally) consists of an auxiliary in the past tense plus the verb in a past participial
form:
(32) a. Tyttö
girl.nom
ei
not.3sg
istunut
sit.pastptc
tuolissa.
chair.ine
‘The girl did not sit on the chair.’
(Negation and past tense: V in a participial form.)
b. Tytöt
girl.pl.nom
eivät
not.3pl
istuneet
sit.pastptc
tuolissa.
chair.ine
‘The girls did not sit on the chair.’
(Negation and perfect tense: Aux appears in a participial form.)
89
Urpo Nikanne
c. Tytöt
girl.pl.nom
eivät
not.3pl
ole
be
istuneet
sit.pastptc
tuolissa.
chair.ine
‘The girl did have not sat on the chair.’
(Negation and pluperfect tense: Aux appears in a participial form.)
This exception can tentatively be formalized as follows (i.e. the past tense morphology
of Aux or V is replaced by the participial form in the presence of Neg).
(33) Past tense in the negative sentence in Finnish
If the fs-morphological category AgrS selects Neg, then the value past of the fs-
morphological category T appears as past participle.
Thus, the fsm-category that selects verb in (32a) and the auxiliary in (32b, 32c) is
functionally T but it appears as a participial. The participial form is able to express tense,
and the Finnish grammar takes an advantage of this property in the perfect and the
pluperfect tenses. Why the (simple) past tense is expressed using a participial form in
negative sentence, seems to be just a strange detail of the Finnish grammar. What we
know, however, that this is made possible by the facts (i) that a particple can be selected
by tense and that (ii) the person and number select the negation word when it is possible.
For instance the finite forms in (32) can be described as in (34):
(34) a. ei
not-3sg
istunut
sit-pastptc
‘(she/he/it) did not sit’
Neg
[fs AgrS
m-root
voice
active
number
sg
person
3
tense
past
m-root
T/Ptc]
V
b. eivät
not-3pl
istuneet
sit-pastptc-pl
’(they) did not sit’
Neg
[fs AgrS
m-root
voice
active
number
pl
person
3
tense
past
m-root
T/Ptc]
V
90
4 Finite sentences in Finnish: Word order, morphology, and information structure
c. eivät
not-pl
ole
be
istuneet
sit-pastptc-pl
‘(they) have not sat’
Neg
[fs AgrS
m-root
voice
active
number
pl
person
3
tense
pres
m-root
T/Ptc
Aux
tense
past
m-root
Ptc]
V
d. eivät
not-pl3
olleet
be-pastptc-pl
istuneet
sit-pastptc-pl
‘(they) had not sat’
Neg
[fs AgrS
m-root
voice
active
number
pl
person
3
tense
past
m-root
T/Ptc
Aux
tense
past
m-root
Ptc]
V
The fact that tense is expressed by a participle in negative sentences is marked as T/Ptc,
which should be understood like T that is replaced by Ptc.
When it comes to the ability of the participle form to express tense, the Finnish gram-
mar uses it also when the T is selected by mood. Here for instance is the past tense (or
perfect tense, if you like) of the conditional mood (the example (28) is repeated here as
(35)):
(35) olisimme
be-cond-3pl
istuneet
sit-pastptc-3pl
‘we would have sat’
Aux
T
m-root
mood
cond
[fs AgrS
m-root
voice
active
number
pl
person
1
tense
past
V
Ptc]
m-root
91
Urpo Nikanne
The pluperfect of negative sentences in Standard Finnish has passive marker only in
the participial form of the V (40a). In colloquial Finnish, it is, however, very common to
have the passive marker both in the participial form of the auxiliary and the participial
form of the verb. (School teachers tend to have a hard time trying to make children
use the Standard Finnish form, and even educated adult writers often use the colloquial
form.)
(36) a. ei
not
ollut
be-pastptc
istuttu
sit-pass-pastptc
‘it had not been sat’
pass past past
passive tense tense
voice
m-root m-root m-root
[fs AgrS T/Ptc Ptc]
Neg Aux V
b. ei
not
oltu
be-pass-pastptc
istuttu
sit-pass-ptc
(colloquial)
‘it had not been sat’
pass past past
passive tense tense
voice
m-root m-root m-root
[fs AgrS T/Ptc Ptc]
Neg Aux V
92
4 Finite sentences in Finnish: Word order, morphology, and information structure
In the light of the present nonlinear micro-modular approach, it is easy to understand
why the colloquial form (36b) is so appealing: the passive is spread across the whole
finite sentence, just like in the present the simple past tense. The Standard Finnish form
must be learned separately as skipping the category T/Ptc is somewhat unnatural.
5.3 Word order and information structure in tiers
The system suggested above covers the finite features, as well as the finite sentence
morphology. One thing that is not covered is word order. Word order is a linear system,
and I suggest that the system, the word order tier, is simply a linear order of word order
positions, and the lexical, morphological, syntactic, and other elements are linked to
these positions. Here is a suggestion for the word order tier:
(37) Word order tier
0 1 2 3 4 5 …
The notation X Y indicates ‘X immediately precedes Y in linear order.’ Linear
order is an asymmetric relation: if A precedes B, then B does not precede A. It has a
direction: if A precedes B and B precedes C, then A precedes C. The notation indicates
this asymmetry and direction.
The importance of the linear order in a modular model of grammar has lately been
emphasized by Sadock (2012: 111–113). The technical difference between the word-order
tier suggested above and Sadock’s model is that Sadock suggests that linear order is a
uniformly either left- or right-branching tree structure, which leads to an unambiguous
linear order of the terminal nodes. The word-order tier above is an assumption that is
one step simpler, as the relation “precede” simply states the linear order. We will see
how far we can get with the null-hypothesis.
The information structure categories topic and focus1 (a.k.a. “contrastive focus”)
have their designated positions Spec(CP) and Spec(AgrSP). According to Vilkuna (1989),
the word order of Finnish is based on categories such as contrast (our focus1) and
topic, so in Finnish, the information structure must be linked to the word order tier.
The word inflected in the AgrS-morphology sits in the AgrS-position. Compared to the
functional constituent tree of Holmberg et al. (1993), the word order position 0 corre-
sponds to Spec(CP), 1 corresponds to C, 2 to Spec(AgrSP), and 3 to AgrS.
The designated positions of the information structure categories and the AgrS can be
found in the word order tier:
(38) Fixed links between information structure and word-order in Finnish
focus1 always selects word order position 0 and topic always selects position 2.
The position of the word inflected in the AgrS-morphology can be formulated as fol-
lows:
(39) Fixed link between fsm-category AgrS and word-order in Finnish
AgrS always selects word order position 3.
93
Urpo Nikanne
The question words such as mikä ‘what’, kuka ‘who’, miten ‘how’, millloin ‘when’,
etc. are linked to position 0. One interpretation is, naturally, that a question word has a
contrastive focus as it represents the missing piece of information that is in the focus of
the question sentence.
Position 1 is needed for an expletive in certain structures, when the information struc-
ture must be made visible (Nikanne forthcoming).
0 1 2 3 4 5 …
focus1
AgrS
topic
Information structure
Word order
Finite sentence morphology
Figure 3: The fixed links between the word order tier, information structure,
and finite sentence morphology in Finnish.
The morphological category AgrS is fixed to position 3. The morphological categories
have right to pick the higher position according to the morphological hierarchy. If Neg
and Aux are not present, T and Agr appear as inflectional categories of V, and they are
located in position 3 as in (40). Ptc has the right for position 4 if Neg is not present and
T is in position 3 together with AgrS, as illustrated in (40). If all the fs-lexical categories
(Neg, Aux and V) are present, T (here: conditional mood) is in position 4 and Ptc (here
past participial plural) in position 5. The active voice sentences given in (1–8) are repeated
below as (40). The word-order position is marked above each sentence, and the categories
of other tiers fixed to that position (focus1, topic, and AgrS) are marked above the word
order position:
(40) a. focus1
0
milläi
what.ade
topic
2
tytöt
girl.pl(nom)
AgrS
3
eivät
not.3pl
4
olisi
be.cond
5
istuneet
sit.ptc.pl
‘What would the girls not have sat on?’
(WH-WORD AS ADVERBIAL; topic ‘girls’)
b. focus1
0
ketkäi
who.pl(nom)
topic
2
ti
t
AgrS
3
eivät
not.3pl
4
olisi
be.cond
5
istuneet
sit.ptc.pl
‘Who(pl) would not have sat on the chair?’
(WH-WORD AS SUBJECT; topic ‘who’)
94
4 Finite sentences in Finnish: Word order, morphology, and information structure
c. focus1
0
tuolillai
chair.ade
topic
2
tytöt
girl.pl(nom)
AgrS
3
eivät
not.3pl
4
olisi
be.cond
5
istuneet
sit.ptc.pl
‘It is the chair that the girls would not have sat on.’
(FOCUS ON ‘on the chair’, topic: ‘girls’)
d. focus1
0
eiväti
not.3pl
topic
2
tytöt
girl.pl(nom)
AgrS
3
ti
t
4
olisi
be.cond
5
istuneet
sit.ptc.pl
tuolilla.
chair.ade
‘It is not the case that the girls would have sat on the chair.’
(FOCUS ON NEGATION; topic: ‘girls’)
6 Conclusion
In this article, the finite sentence of Finnish is analyzed as a unit that consists of three
tiers: finite sentence features, finite sentence morphology, and finite sentence lexical
categories. In addition, I have suggested that word order is based on a simple one di-
mensional tier that takes care of the linear order of different tiers. The suggested system
allows us to give up abstract syntax when it comes to constituent structure with func-
tional categories and head movement. The Tiernet-model of finite sentence resembles
traditional grammars:
(i) Morphological and lexical categories are kept apart.
(ii) Finite features are very close to those assumed traditionally.
Grammars of languages may differ at least in the following ways:
(i) The inventory of the finite features, lexical categories, and morphological cate-
gories may be different in different languages.
(ii) The links between the features and the morphological and lexical features may
differ in different languages.
Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in this article follow the Leipzig Glossing Rules’ instructions for
word-by-word transcription, available at: https://www.eva.mpg.de/lingua/pdf/Glossing-
Rules.pdf. Additionally used:
ade the adessive case ‘on’ / ‘at’ ptc participle
95
Urpo Nikanne
Acknowledgements
I would like to thank the editors Laura Bailey and Michelle Sheehan as well as the two
anonymous reviewers for their valuable help with the article. The remaining mistakes
are my own. The theory presented in this article would not have been possible without
my good friend Anders Holmberg, with whom I have had the pleasure to work on the
structure of the finite sentence of Finnish.
References
Baker, Mark. 1988. Incorporation. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1986. Barriers. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1995. The minimalist program. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 1999. Adverbs and functional heads: A cross-linguistic perspective. Ox-
ford: Oxford University Press.
Culicover, Peter W. & Ray Jackendoff. 2005. Simpler syntax. Oxford/New York: Oxford
University Press.
Hakulinen, Auli & Fred Karlsson. 1979. Nykysuomen lauseoppia. Helsinki: Finnish Liter-
ature Society.
Holmberg, Anders & Urpo Nikanne. 1994. Expletives and subject positions in Finnish. In
Mercè Gonzàlez (ed.), NELS 24: Proceedings of the North East Linguistics Society, 173–
187. Amherst: University of Massachusetts.
Holmberg, Anders & Urpo Nikanne. 2002. Expletives, subjects, and topics in Finnish. In
Peter Svenonius (ed.), Subjects, expletives, and the EPP, 71–105. Oxford: Oxford Univer-
sity Press.
Holmberg, Anders & Urpo Nikanne. 2008. Subject doubling in Finnish: The role of defi-
cient pronouns. In Marika Lekakou Sjef Barbiers Olaf Koeneman & Margreet van der
Ham (eds.), Microvariation in syntactic doubling, 325–349. Bingley: Emerald.
Holmberg, Anders, Urpo Nikanne, Hannu Reime, Irmeli Oraviita & Trond Trosterud.
1993. The structure of INFL and the finite clause in Finnish. In Anders Holmberg &
Urpo Nikanne (eds.), Case and other functional categories in Finnish syntax (Studies in
Generative Grammar 39), 176–206. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Holmberg, Anders & Christer Platzack. 1995. The role of inflection in Scandinavian syntax.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Jackendoff, Ray S. 1972. Semantic interpretation in generative grammar. Cambridge, MA:
The MIT Press.
Jackendoff, Ray S. 1983. Semantics and cognition. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Jackendoff, Ray S. 1987. The status of thematic relations in linguistic theory. Linguistic
Inquiry 18. 369–411.
Jackendoff, Ray S. 1990. Semantic structures. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Jackendoff, Ray S. 2002. Foundations of language: Brain, meaning, grammar, evolution.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
96
4 Finite sentences in Finnish: Word order, morphology, and information structure
Nikanne, Urpo. Forthcoming. Tiernet: A micro-modular approach to conceptual semantics.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Nikanne, Urpo. 1990. Zones and tiers: A study of argument structure. Helsinki: Finnish
Literature Society.
Nikanne, Urpo. 2002. Kerrokset ja kytkennät. http://web.abo.fi/fak/hf/fin/kurssit/
KONSEM/yleista.htm.
Nikanne, Urpo. 2008. Conceptual semantics. In Jan-Ola Östman & Jef Verschueren (eds.),
Handbook of pragmatics, 1–21. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Paulsen, Geda. 2011. Causation and dominance: A study of Finnish causative verbs express-
ing social dominance. Åbo: Åbo Akademi University Press.
Petrova, Oksana. 2011. ‘Of pearls and pigs’: A conceptual-semantic tiernet approach to for-
mal representation of structure and variation of phraseological units. Åbo: Åbo Akademi
University Press.
Pollock, Jean-Yves. 1989. Verb movement, universal grammar, and the structure of IP.
Linguistic Inquiry 20(3). 365–424.
Pörn, Michaela. 2004. Suomen tunnekausatiiviverbit ja niiden lausemaiset täydennykset.
Helsinki: Finnish Literature Society.
Sadock, Jerrold M. 2012. The modular architecture of grammar. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Vilkuna, Maria. 1989. Free word order in Finnish: Its syntax and discourse functions. Hel-
sinki: Finnish Literature Society.
97
Chapter 5
Scandinavian object shift is phonology
Nomi Erteschik-Shir
Ben Gurion University
Gunlög Josefsson
Lund University
The problem addressed in this paper is a case of word order microvariation in Mainland
Scandinavian: optional vs. obligatory Object Shift (OS). Following standard assumptions
(see Selkirk 1996), weak object pronouns are assumed to be affixal clitics at PF which do
not themselves have the status of prosodic words. Since adverbs (including negation), are
unsuitable as hosts, weak object pronouns may undergo OS, in other words precede adverbs,
ending up encliticized onto the preceding verb or subject. In standard Danish, OS is obliga-
tory; the order adverb+weak pronoun is blocked. However, in Swedish, OS is optional, as is
the case for some Danish dialects, spoken in the southeastern island area. In our paper we
explain the distribution of optional vs. obligatory OS by the phonological properties of the
two varieties. What “optional OS” in Swedish and varieties of Danish have in common is
the occurrence of a tonal accent, which creates a larger phonological unit than the minimal
prosodic word, a Tonal Unit. We propose that the mechanism that allows a weak pronoun to
remain in the canonical position in Swedish and the southeastern island dialects in Danish,
is the availability of tonal accent. The tonal accent enables the inclusion of the pronoun in
such a unit. Standard Danish, on the other hand, lacks tonal accent altogether which is why
OS is obligatory in this dialect.
1 Introduction
Since Holmberg 1986, pronominal object shift, OS, in the Mainland Scandinavian lan-
guages, henceforth MSc, has become a widely studied and carefully described phenome-
non. It refers to the placement of a weak object pronoun to the left of a sentence adverb,
such as the negation, (1a), instead of in the canonical position for objects, which is to the
right of a sentence adverb, (1b).
Nomi Erteschik-Shir & Gunlög Josefsson. 2017. Scandinavian object shift is phonology. In Laura
R. Bailey & Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Order and structure in syntax I: Word order and syntactic
structure, 99–115. Berlin: Language Science Press. DOI:10.5281/zenodo.1117700
Nomi Erteschik-Shir & Gunlög Josefsson
(1) Swedish
a. Jag
I
mötte
met
honom
him
inte.
not
‘I didn’t meet him.’
b. Jag
I
mötte
met
inte
not
honom.
him
‘I didn’t meet him.’
Following standard assumptions (see Selkirk 1996), we assume that weak object pro-
nouns are affixal clitics at PF which do not themselves have the status of prosodic words,
and that this holds generally for OS in MSc. Whether or not OS is obligatory, however,
varies among the MSc languages and varieties. In this article we will concentrate on Dan-
ish and Swedish. However, we are convinced that the ideas proposed here can be applied
more generally in MSc. Somewhat simplified, OS is obligatory in most Danish dialects,
except for certain areas in southern Denmark (for example the dialect spoken on the is-
land of Ærø), where OS is optional. In Swedish OS is optional, except for Fenno-Swedish
and Oevdalian Swedish.1
In this paper we demonstrate that optionality of OS in MSc is conditioned by language-
and variety-specific phonological properties, and thus PF is responsible for at least some
microvariation in word order. Our argument however goes further: We claim, following
Erteschik-Shir 2005a and Josefsson 2010; 2012, that OS in the Mainland Scandinavian
languages is in fact driven by phonology. The basis of our claim is the well-known re-
quirement of weak pronouns to incorporate, and thus to form a prosodic unit with a
legitimate host. In the shifted word order, the host is the preceding verbal or nominal
element. This is shown in the Danish examples below.2
(2) Danish
a. Jeg
I
mødte ham
met=him
ikke.
not
‘I didn’t meet him.’
b. Hvorfor
why
mødte
met
Peter ham
Peter=him
ikke.
not
‘Why didn’t Peter meet him.’
At first glance it could be tempting to explain the variation by assuming a word order
parameter that would determine whether adverbs may be hosts or not.3 However, such a
solution would be a simple reformulation of the empirical observation, thus circular and
1It should be pointed out that our study is restricted to pronominal shift in the Mainland Scandinavian
languages. Naturally, it would be interesting to explore to what extent our findings could be applied to full
DP shift, as in Icelandic, but that question will not be explored in this article.
2Similar examples could be drawn from the other MSc dialects, except for Fenno-Swedish, discussed in §5.
3Negation behaves like other adverbs in Scandinavian and is therefore classified as an adverb here.
100
5 Scandinavian object shift is phonology
devoid of explanatory force. Therefore, we will hold on to the generalization that adverbs
in general are not legitimate hosts for prosodic incorporation or cliticization, thus that
weak pronouns cannot cliticize onto adverbs in any of the MSc varieties.4 Instead, we
argue that the varieties that allow optional OS – varieties where the weak object pronoun
may follow an adverb as in (1b) – offer another possibility of prosodic incorporation,
namely a prosodic unit created by (the presence of) tonal accent. (This will be elaborated
in §4.)
The idea that prosodic factors determine OS is important more generally, since it
shows that PF can be responsible for microvariation in word order. If this is the case,
the claim that word order is entirely determined by syntax is put into question.
2 Previous proposals on OS, phonology, and information
structure
The idea that OS has phonological properties has been suggested in the literature. More
specifically it has been proposed that weak object pronouns are clitics or clitic-like el-
ements (see Holmberg 1991: 167; Josefsson 1992; 1993; 1994; 2010; 2012; Déprez 1994:
122; Hellan 1994; 2005; Bobaljik & Jonas 1996: 207; Diesing 1996: 77; Diesing 1997: 41;
Erteschik-Shir 2005a,b; Hosono 2010; 2013).
The fact that stressed pronouns cannot undergo OS inspired Holmberg (1999: 25–28) to
propose that OS is driven by a formal feature related to information structure. Holmberg
suggests that objects that undergo OS are marked [-Focus], and that they need to be c-
commanded by a category marked [+Focus]. The reason shift never takes place across
verbs, verb particles, or prepositions (for Holmberg’s Generalization, see Holmberg 1986;
1999) would be that such categories are inherently marked [-Focus], which means that
there would be no trigger for movement of the object to a higher position. Adverbs, on
the other hand, are not marked [-Focus] in this framework, which would explain why
they do not block OS. The requirement that a [-Focus] element has to be licensed by a
[+Focus] element would, in fact, be what forces movement. A suggestion along the same
lines was suggested in Platzack (1996), where a feature Repel F was introduced. The role
of this feature is to force a [-Focus] element, for example, to move out of a focus domain.
3 Phonological background
Since our account is phonological in nature, a short introduction to the phonological
theory which we base our analysis on is called for.
4Languages vary as to which elements can host prosodic incorporation or cliticization. In Scandinavian
languages, for example, but not in English, nominals can host these processes. We do not expect to find
adjoined modifiers, such as adverbs as hosts crosslinguistically. In the cases we discuss here, the formation
of the prosodic unit between the adverb and the weak pronoun is due to the tonal accent, not to the
capability of the adverb to be a host for incorporation.
101
Nomi Erteschik-Shir & Gunlög Josefsson
3.1 Stress and (minimal) prosodic words in MSc
Basing their claims on Swedish, Myrberg & Riad (2013), see also Riad (2013), define a min-
imal prosodic word in terms of culminativity; a minimal prosodic word is a constituent
with exactly one stress. Consequently, most simplex words and derivations are minimal
prosodic words. A compound, such as hus-båt (house-boat) ‘house boat’ and certain
derivations, for example tvätt-bar (wash-BAR) ‘washable’, have two stresses, primary
stress on the first constituent, and secondary stress on the second constituent, which
means that they consist of two minimal prosodic words [ˈhʉːsˌboːt] and [ˈtvɛtˌbɑːr]. Com-
pounds and other prosodic words with two stresses are classified as maximal prosodic
words. These are discussed in §3.2.
Following Selkirk 1996, there is no one-to-one correspondence between prosodic and
morphosyntactic words. For instance, the PP med bil ‘with car’, as in Vi åkte med bil ‘We
went by car’, is pronounced as a minimal prosodic word: [məˈbiːl], and the unit has the
same prosodic contour as e.g. the morphosyntactic word banan ‘banana’: [baˈnɑːn]. In
a similar way, weak object pronouns may incorporate into prosodic words. Riad (2013:
131) exemplifies this with the verb gav ‘gave’ [ˈɡɑːv], followed by the object pronoun
henne ‘her’ (pronounced [ˈhənə] in isolation), which may form a minimal prosodic word,
[ˈɡɑːvənə] ‘gave her’. The loss of /h/ in this position indicates that the first syllable of
henne is neither stressed, nor initial in a prosodic word. (/h/only occurs initially in mini-
mal prosodic words in Swedish.) Furthermore, the syllabification is ga.ve.ne (rather than
*gav.e.ne), which indicates a single syllabification domain, i.e. a single minimal prosodic
word.
As we have seen, Riad discusses examples of verb + weak object pronouns. However,
if we include weak subject pronouns in the discussion, we conclude that the formation
of prosodic words does not depend on syntactic constituency. The sequence jag såg ‘I
saw’ [jaˈsoː] in jag såg hönor ‘I saw chickens’ forms one prosodic word, distinct from
the object hönor ‘chickens’ [ˈhøːnər], which is a prosodic word by itself: [jaˈsoːˈhøːnər] –
it is possible to make a break before hönor. Furthermore, it would be incorrect to leave
the [h] sound out in this example, *[ˈøːnər], which is a strong indication that the object
hönor ‘chickens’ is a (minimal) prosodic word of its own in this case. Further support
that hönor ‘chickens’ in the example in question is a minimal prosodic word on its own
is supported by the fact that it has Accent 2, as opposed to jag såg ‘I saw’, which has
Accent 1. Assuming that verb + object form a syntactic constituent, the subject + verb
example shows that a prosodic word can consist of units that are not syntactic.
What will be important in the following is the assumption that weak object pronouns
are pronouns that have to incorporate into a prosodic word.
3.2 Tonal accent and tonal units in Mainland Scandinavian
In addition to stress, most Swedish and Norwegian dialects, as well as some Southern
Danish dialects, distinguish two tonal accents: Accent 1 and Accent 2. These accents may
differentiate word pairs with two or more syllables in these languages. The actual tone
contour differs between dialects, but a typical Stockholm variant is shown below:
102
5 Scandinavian object shift is phonology
(3) Stockholm Swedish (from Riad 2013: 184)
word accent focus accent
anden ‘the duck’ [1ˈandən] → Accent 1 HL* L*H
anden ‘the ghost’ [2ˈandən] → Accent 2 H*L H*LH
In Standard Swedish, compounds and words derived by suffixes generally have Accent
2:
(4) a. hus-båt (house-boat) ‘houseboat’ [2ˈhʉːsˌboːt]
b. tvätt-bar (wash-BAR) ‘washable’ [2ˈtvɛtˌbɑːr]
In those varieties of Scandinavian that have tone, tone creates a domain that is larger
than that of the minimal prosodic word. Domains larger than the (minimal) prosodic
word domain, but smaller than the phonological phrase have been recognized and dis-
cussed in the literature, cf. Vigário’s “Prosodic Word Group”, PWG, (Vigário 2010). Ac-
cording to Vigário, PWGs are formed by different mechanisms in different languages,
and tonal accent is one of these. The type of PWG that interests us here is the one based
on tonal accent, which corresponds roughly to Kristoffersen’s “Accent Phrase” (Kristof-
fersen 2000) and Riad’s “maximal prosodic word” (Riad 2013).5 In what follows we will
use the term “Tonal Unit”, TU, when referring to the type of PWG that is defined by
Tone. Thus, husbåt and tvättbar in (4) are both TUs.
TUs may be formed by a verb + a weak object pronoun; in such cases the tone of
the verb determines the tone of the whole TU. From a prosodic point of view, the weak
pronoun has the same properties as inflection. Consider the Swedish examples in (5):
(5) a. gav ‘gave’ + henne ‘her’: [1ˈɡɑːv]ω + [2ˈhənə]ω → [1ˈɡɑːvənə]TU
b. gillar ‘likes’ + henne ‘her: [2ˈjɪlar]ω + [2ˈhənə]ω → [2ˈjɪlarənə]TU
c. gav ‘gave’ + det ’it’: [1ˈɡɑːv]ω + [1ˈdə]ω → [1ˈɡɑːvdə]TU
d. gillar ‘likes’+ det ‘it’: [2ˈjɪlar]ω + [1ˈdə]ω → [2ˈjɪlaɖə]TU
As (5) shows, an Accent 1 verb + a weak object pronoun gives rise to an Accent 1 TU,
and an Accent 2 verb + a weak object pronoun gives rise to an Accent 2 TU, regardless
of the tone of the pronoun in isolation.
4 Tonal units and object shift in MSc
As should be evident by now, we assume that weak object pronouns are affixal clitics
at PF which do not themselves have the status of prosodic words (see also Selkirk 1996).
All instances of OS in MSc are thus instances of incorporation. The purpose of our study,
however, is to explain the fact that OS is obligatory in some varieties of MSc, optional in
some, and unavailable in others. As will be evident as we go along, this will be explained
5For the term maximal prosodic word, see also Myrberg & Riad (2013). Other, related terms are “Tonal Foot”
(Fretheim & Nilsen 1989) and “Prosodic Word” (Bruce 1998; Hansson 2003).
103
Nomi Erteschik-Shir & Gunlög Josefsson
by an additional means of incorporation, available in some varieties, but not in others.
We will concentrate our study on Swedish and Danish.
Somewhat simplified, the general picture in the generative literature is that OS is oblig-
atory in Danish, but optional in Swedish (Josefsson 2003; 2010). One way of explaining
this difference would be to assume that adverbs are potential hosts for weak pronouns
in Swedish, but not in Danish. However, allowing the adverb to provide a host in those
languages or dialects in which OS is optional would be a stipulation. Therefore, there
must be a different mechanism which licenses the prosodic incorporation of a pronoun
into an element which does not provide a legitimate host, such as an adverb.
If we take a closer look at the data, the empirical facts become a bit more complex. For
instance, Pedersen (1993) points out that there are Danish dialects where OS is optional
– similar to the situation in Swedish.
Interestingly enough, the dialects where OS is optional coincide to a large extent with
the presence of a tone accent distinction, as described above.6 There is a basic overlap
between the optional OS area and the tone accent area. We propose that this is not a
coincidence; the presence vs. absence of tonal accent has implications for syntax. Tonal
accent may, in fact, drive syntax.
Recall the idea that unstressed pronouns are clitics or clitic-like elements that have to
incorporate prosodically. Consider (5), repeated here:
(5) a. gav ‘gave’ + henne ‘her’: [1ˈɡɑːv]ω + [2ˈhənə]ω → [1ˈɡɑːvənə]TU
b. gillar ‘likes’ + henne ‘her: [2ˈjɪlar]ω + [2ˈhənə]ω → [2ˈjɪlarənə]TU
c. gav ‘gave’ + det ’it’: [1ˈɡɑːv]ω + [1ˈdə]ω → [1ˈɡɑːvdə]TU
d. gillar ‘likes’+ det ‘it’: [2ˈjɪlar]ω + [1ˈdə]ω → [2ˈjɪlaɖə]TU
The native speakers’ judgement that sequences such as those in (5) form TUs are con-
firmed by the Praat diagrams in Figure 1 and 2, which show the sequences köper dom
(buy.prs them) ‘buys them’, where the verb has Accent 1, and hämtar dem (fetch.prs
them) ‘fetches them’), where the verb has Accent 2.
We suggest that weak pronouns may incorporate in the unit created by the TU, also
when the preceding element is an adverb. For example, in (1b) Jag mötte inte honom
(I met him not) ‘I didn’t meet him’, the weak pronoun honom ‘him’ is incorporated in
the same TU as the preceding adverb inte ‘not’. Crucially, this does not mean that the
adverb is the host for the pronoun; it is the tonal accent which allows the formation of
this prosodic unit. The possibility of incorporating weak object pronouns into a TU is
possible only in those varieties of MSc that have TUs, that is those varieties that have
tonal accent.
If our proposal is correct, we predict that the sequence adverb + a weak object pronoun
displays a tone contour, specified as Accent 1 or Accent 2. More specifically, we predict
that an Accent 1 adverb + weak object pronoun will have an Accent 1 contour, and an
Accent 2 adverb + weak object pronoun an Accent 2 contour. To a native speaker’s ear,
this seems indeed to be the case in Swedish. For example inte honom (see 1b) has Accent
6For a map showing the Danish dialects with a tonal accent distinction, see http://dialekt.ku.dk/dialektkort/
kort 3 ‘map 3’.
104
5 Scandinavian object shift is phonology
Figure 1: Swedish TU formation, Accent 1 verb köper (buy.prs) + dom (them)
‘buys them’.
Figure 2: Swedish TU formation, Accent 2 verb hämtar (fetch.prs) + dem
‘fetches them’
105
Nomi Erteschik-Shir & Gunlög Josefsson
2, whereas faktiskt honom Accent 1. (The adverb faktiskt ‘in fact’ has Accent 1, and the
adverb inte Accent 2.)
The Praat diagrams show adverb + weak pronoun sequences. Recall that the prosodic
structure of Accent 1 in Swedish is L*H (L%) (see (3) above). This is also what we find for
the sequence åter dom ‘again them’ in Figure 3.
Figure 3: Swedish TU formation, Accent 1 adverb + pronoun → Accent 1
The prosodic structure of Accent 2 in Swedish is H*LH (L%) (see (3b) above). This is
also what we find for the sequence aldrig dom ‘never them’ in Figure 4.
Figure 4: Swedish TU formation, Accent 2 adverb + pronoun → Accent 2
106
5 Scandinavian object shift is phonology
As we can see, the sequences åter dem and aldrig dem make up one TU. The tone,
Accent 1 or Accent 2, is determined by the tone of the adverb. This supports our claim
that weak object pronouns may form TUs with adverbs.
Ærø Danish instantiates another dialect with both tonal distinctions and optional OS
and therefore provides a strong case in favor of the current proposal. As pointed out
above, tonal distinctions are limited to certain south Danish dialects which vary greatly
in the way the tones are instantiated. The prediction concerning the particular tone to
be found on the sequence of adverb(s) + pronoun(s) is again that the tone of the unit
depends on the tone of the first element.
In the Ærø dialect Accent 1 rises until the stressed syllable and then descends, whereas
Accent 2 has an initial descending tone followed by a rise at the end of the word. The
descending tone is more pronounced in Accent 1 and the rising tone is more pronounced
in Accent 2.7 This is shown in Figures 5 and 6.
Figure 5: The Ærø dialect, Accent 1 alder ‘age’, pronounced 1aller.
Figure 7 shows the sequence så henne ’saw her’, which has the same prosodic contour
as the Accent 1 alder ‘age’ in Figure 5.
Figure 8 shows the sequence henter dem, with the Accent 2 verb henter (fetch.prs)
‘fetches’ + the pronoun dem ‘them’. The sequence henter dem ‘fetches them’ has the
same prosodic contour as the Accent 2 aldrig ‘never’ in Figure 5.
Let us now consider the sequence adverb + pronoun, in other words cases of non-
shift in the Ærø dialect. The prediction is that the result will be the same as in the
corresponding sentences in Swedish, namely that adverb + weak pronoun will form a
TU. Consider first the sequence lige ‘just’ + dem ‘them’. The adverb lige ‘just’ is an Accent
1 adverb (see Figure 9).
7See Kroman 1947 for an extensive description of tonal accents in this dialect.
107
Nomi Erteschik-Shir & Gunlög Josefsson
Figure 6: The Ærø dialect, Accent 2 aldrig ‘never’, pronounced 2aller.
Figure 7: The Ærø dialect, Accent 1 verb + pronoun → Accent 1 TU
108
5 Scandinavian object shift is phonology
Figure 8: The Ærø dialect, Accent 2 verb + pronoun → Accent 2 TU
Figure 9: The Ærø dialect, Accent 1 adverb + pronoun → Accent 1 TU
109
Nomi Erteschik-Shir & Gunlög Josefsson
We also predict that an Accent 2 adverb + pronoun will give rise to an Accent 2 TU
(see Figure 10).
Figure 10: The Ærø dialect, Accent 2 adverb aldrig ‘never’ + pronoun → Accent
2 TU
As we have seen, the prediction is supported: the sequence adverb + weak pronoun
forms a TU, in the same way as in Swedish.
As an experiment, three Ærø informants were asked to repeat sentences where the ob-
ject pronoun had undergone OS. All three informants reversed most of the test sentences
with OS and rendered them with the object following the adverb. This was consistently
the case with the adverb ‘not’ (ikke in standard Danish, it in the Ærø dialect) but not
with the longer adverbs, e.g. aldrig ‘never’. As will be shown below for Falster-Danish,
monosyllabic adverbs, or cases in which adverbs become monosyllabic due to apocope,
must cliticize in certain dialects rendering the order V-Adverb-pronoun. This is preferred
in Ærø-Danish, but not required.
5 Potential counterexamples: Norwegian Vesttrødersk,
Danish Lolland-Falster and Fenno-Swedish
The Lolland-Falster dialect has been claimed to have optional Object Shift, i.e., to allow
the order adverb + weak pronoun even though tonal distinctions are absent from these
dialects. Fenno-Swedish poses another problem: OS has been claimed to be absent in
this dialect – even though there is no tonal accent distinction.
Our prosodic analysis of object-shifted and non-object-shifted sentences in Swedish
and Ærøese shows that the weak pronouns in both orders are tonally incorporated into
their hosts. We argue that the formation of a TU consisting of adverb + pronoun requires
110
5 Scandinavian object shift is phonology
a tonal accent but that the existence of tonal accent does not necessarily force optional
OS. This is attested in Norwegian. In Vesttrødersk (=Nordmørsk), for example, Object
Shift is strongly preferred. In the dialect of Trødersk spoken in most parts of Trønde-
lag (e.g., Trondheim), however, negation undergoes apocope (ikkje → itj) resulting in
a monosyllabic clitic. In this dialect and with this adverb, pronouncing the pronoun in
situ is strongly preferred. If we assume that the word order såg itj’n (saw=not=it) ‘didn’t
see it’ is due to the clitic nature of the negative adverb, we have an explanation of the
difference between these two dialects and the limitation of the phenomenon to the clitic
adverb. We recorded both these dialects and verified these facts.
This phenomenon in Norwegian gave us the inspiration for an explanation of the seem-
ing exceptional properties of Lolland-Falster Danish. As it turns out one of the properties
of the Lolland-Falster dialect is that it has apocope and that negation is monosyllabic. In
order to verify that this is what is going on, recordings were made of two speakers of the
Falster dialect in April 2015. (It should be noted that speakers of the dialect are no longer
easy to find and can be found only among the older generation). It turned out that our
hypothesis was correct: both speakers had obligatory Object Shift, as in standard Danish,
for all adverbs except for the clitic adverbs ik ‘not’ and jo ‘as presumed’. The recordings
clearly show clitic clusters for these adverbs as illustrated in Figure 11. Note that the
weak element is an adverb, her ‘here’. However, the weak adverbs der ‘there’ and her
‘here’ undergo OS in Danish.
Figure 11: The Lolland-Falster dialect, the negation ik + her ‘here’
Interestingly the following example was produced spontaneously:
(6) Jeg
I
kender+jo+ik+(h)am.
know=jo=neg=him
’I don’t know him.’
111
Nomi Erteschik-Shir & Gunlög Josefsson
We were happy to conclude that this Danish dialect does not, in fact, provide a prob-
lem for our thesis. Falster Danish has obligatory Object Shift, as we predict for a dialect
without tonal distinctions. The cases of in-situ weak pronouns are limited to clitic ad-
verbs, which cliticize into the verbs, themselves forming a clitic-cluster with the follow-
ing weak adverbs. We were surprised to discover that Pedersen’s (1993) claim that OS is
optional in the Lolland-Falster dialect was in fact limited to the negative adverb.
Fenno-Swedish presents a different problem since OS is not available (Bergroth 1917:
72). Fenno-Swedish differs significantly from Standard Swedish in not having tonal dis-
tinctions, contra our prediction. Kiparsky (2008: 17) includes pronouns in his list of
function words with short stressed syllables in Helsinki Swedish. This indicates that
pronouns in this dialect are not prosodically weak. If this is indeed the case, our predic-
tion does not apply to Fenno-Swedish since this dialect would not require incorporation
of weak pronouns into the adverb, and it is only such incorporation which requires
the formation of a TU. The lack of tonal distinctions in Fenno-Swedish would then no
longer be a problem. In May 2015, three speakers of Fenno-Swedish from Helsinki were
recorded and the findings were that the given pronouns were not reduced and definitely
not incorporated in the preceding adverbs.
More investigation is needed, of course, but initial data indicates that neither Falster
Danish nor Fenno-Swedish contradict our accent-based analysis of the optionality of OS.
6 Architectural implications
In previous work we have each independently examined the phonological properties of
OS. Here we focus on the optionality of Object Shift and show that leaving the weak pro-
noun in situ is licensed by tonal accent, further strengthening our argument for the claim
that OS is determined by PF. Leaving OS in MSc to phonology allows for at least some
cases of word order to be determined in the phonology. Since the full range of properties
of OS has not to-date been given a satisfactory syntactic account, this is a good result
and falls nicely within the proposal in Berwick & Chomsky (2011), that displacement is
constrained by the syntactic computational system, and the PF externalization system is
responsible for at least microvariation. One implementation of this approach would have
OS operate in the computational system and have PF act as a filter on its output. The only
“advantage” of this approach is to exclude movement from PF in the case of OS. Another
would be to have the position of the object fully determined by phonological processes
and constraints. This implementation raises questions concerning what reordering in
phonology would look like, and what other word order phenomena belong at PF.
7 Summary
We have come a long way in verifying our initial hypothesis concerning the connection
between word order and prosody. In particular, we have found that the order adverb
+ weak pronoun forms a Tonal Unit licensed by a single unifying accent which is not
limited to syntactic constituents.
112
5 Scandinavian object shift is phonology
The three seeming exceptions to this generalization, Vesttrødersk Norwegian, Lolland-
Falster Danish, and Fenno-Swedish have been shown to receive explanations following
from the particular prosodic properties of each of these dialects: apocope in the former
two, and the lack of reduction of weak pronouns in the latter.
In addition to explaining the variation in Object Shift in the various dialects we also
provide a deeper understanding of the prosodic properties of the dialects in question as
well as furthering the understanding of the prosody/word-order interface in general.
Acknowledgements
First and foremost we want to thank Anders Holmberg for having inspired us to write
this paper, and also for being inspirational over the years – in many different areas of
linguistics. Anders’ greatness stems from a mind open to new ideas, curiosity and an
eye for small details as well as broad generalizations. Thank you, Anders!
The research for this work was funded by the Israel Science Foundation Grant No.
302/13. We are indebted to Björn Koenlein for valuable assistance in the interpretation
of the prosodic data. We would also like to thank an anonymous reviewer for valuable
comments. Earlier versions of this paper have been presented at Hebrew University,
Jerusalem; Tel Aviv University; the 25th Scandinavian Conference of Linguistics, Reyk-
javik, May 2013; and at the Grammar seminar, Centre of Languages and Literature, Lund
University, March 2014. We would like to thank the participants at those occasions for
valuable input. All remaining errors and inadequacies are our own.
References
Bergroth, Hugo. 1917. Finlandssvenska: Handledning till Undvikande av Provinsialismer i
Tal och Skrift. Helsingfors: Holger Schildts Förlag.
Berwick, Robert & Noam Chomsky. 2011. The biolinguistic program: The current state
of its evolution and development. In Anna Maria Di Sciullo & Cedric Boeckx (eds.),
The biolinguistic enterprise: New perspectives on the evolution and nature of the human
language faculty, 19–41. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Bobaljik, Jonathan David & Dianne Jonas. 1996. Subject positions and the roles of TP.
Linguistic Inquiry 27. 195–236.
Bruce, Gösta. 1998. Allmän och svensk prosodi (Praktisk Lingvistik 16). Lund: Lund Uni-
versity.
Déprez, Viviane. 1994. Parameters of object movement. In Norbert Corver & Henk van
Riemsdijk (eds.), Studies on scrambling: Movement and non-movement approaches to
free word-order phenomena, 101–152. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Diesing, Molly. 1996. Semantic variables and object shift. In Höskuldur Thráinsson,
Samuel David Epstein & Steve Peter (eds.), Studies in comparative Germanic syntax,
vol. II, 66–84. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
113
Nomi Erteschik-Shir & Gunlög Josefsson
Diesing, Molly. 1997. Yiddish VP order and the typology of object movement in Germanic.
Natural Language & Linguistic Theory 15. 369–427.
Erteschik-Shir, Nomi. 2005a. Sound patterns of syntax: Object shift. Theoretical Linguis-
tics 31. 47–93.
Erteschik-Shir, Nomi. 2005b. What is syntax? Theoretical Linguistics 31. 263–274.
Fretheim, Thorstein & Randi Alice Nilsen. 1989. Terminal rise and rise-fall tunes in East
Norwegian intonation. Nordic Journal of Linguistics 12. 155–182.
Hansson, Petra. 2003. Prosodic phrasing in spontaneous Swedish (Travaux de l’Institute
de Linguistique de Lund 43). Lund: Gleerup.
Hellan, Lars. 1994. A note on clitics in Norwegian. In Henk van Riemsdijk & Lars Hellan
(eds.), Clitics: Their origin status and position. Tilburg: ESF-EUROTYP.
Hellan, Lars. 2005. Comments on Erteschik-Shir’s article. Theoretical Linguistics 31. 137–
145.
Holmberg, Anders. 1986. Word order and syntactic features in the Scandinavian languages
and English. Stockholm: Stockholm University dissertation.
Holmberg, Anders. 1991. The distribution of Scandinavian weak pronouns. In Henk van
Riemsdijk & Luigi Rizzi (eds.), Clitics and their hosts, 155–173. Tilburg: Tilburg Univer-
sity.
Holmberg, Anders. 1999. Remarks on Holmberg’s Generalization. Studia Linguistica 53(1).
1–39.
Hosono, Mayumi. 2010. Scandinavian object shift as the cause of downstep. Working
Papers in Scandinavian Syntax 85. 1–36.
Hosono, Mayumi. 2013. Object shift in the Scandinavian languages: Syntax, information
structure, and intonation. Netherlands Graduate School of Linguistics dissertation.
Josefsson, Gunlög. 1992. Object shift and weak pronominals in Swedish. Working Papers
in Scandinavian Syntax 49. 59–94.
Josefsson, Gunlög. 1993. Scandinavian pronouns and object shift. Working Papers in Scan-
dinavian Syntax 52. 1–28.
Josefsson, Gunlög. 1994. Scandinavian pronouns and object shift. In Henk C. van Riems-
dijk & Lars Hellan (eds.), Clitics: Their origin, status and position, 91–122. Tilburg: ESF-
EUROTYP.
Josefsson, Gunlög. 2003. Four myths about object shift in Swedish – and the truth. In Lars-
Olof Delsing, Cecilia Falk, Gunlög Josefsson & Halldór Á. Sigurðsson (eds.), Grammar
in focus vol. II. Festschrift for Christer Platzack, 18 Nov. 2003, 199–208. Lund: Department
of Scandinavian Languages, Lund University.
Josefsson, Gunlög. 2010. Object shift and optionality: An intricate interplay between syn-
tax, prosody and information structure. Working Papers in Scandinavian Syntax 86. 1–
24.
Josefsson, Gunlög. 2012. Deconstructing object shift. Ms., Scandinavian languages, Centre
for Languages and Literature. Lund University.
Kiparsky, Paul. 2008. Fenno-Swedish quantity: Contrast in Stratal OT. In Andrew Nevins
& Bert Vaux (eds.), Rules, constraints, and phonological phenomena, 185–219. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
114
5 Scandinavian object shift is phonology
Kristoffersen, Gjert. 2000. The phonology of Norwegian. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Kroman, Erik. 1947. Musikalsk akcent i dansk. Copenhagen: Einar Munksgård.
Myrberg, Sara & Tomas Riad. 2013. The prosodic word in Swedish. In Eva Liina Asu &
Partel Lippus (eds.), Nordic prosody. Proceedings of the XIth conference, Tartu, 2012, 255–
264. Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Pedersen, Karen Margrethe. 1993. Lethedreglen og lighedsreglen, novation, ekspansion
og resistens. In Karen Margrethe Pedersen & Inge Lise Pedersen (eds.), Jyske studier,
institut for dansk dialektforsknings publikationer, 199–218. København: C. A. Reitzels
Forlag.
Platzack, Christer. 1996. Germanic verb second languages – Attract vs. Repel: On option-
ality, A-bar movement and the symmetrical/asymmetrical Verb Second hypothesis. In
Ewald Lang & Gisela Zifonun (eds.), Deutsch — typologisch, 92–120. Berlin: Walter de
Gruyter.
Riad, Tomas. 2013. The phonology of Swedish. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Selkirk, Elisabeth. 1996. The prosodic structure of function words. In James L. Morgan
& Katherine Demuth (eds.), Signal to syntax: Bootstrapping from speech to grammar in
early acquisition, 187–213. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Vigário, Marina. 2010. Prosodic structure between the prosodic word and the phonolog-
ical phrase: Recursive nodes or an independent domain? The Linguistic Review 27.
115
Chapter 6
Mainland Scandinavian object shift and
the puzzling ergative pattern in Aleut
Ellen Woolford
University of Massachussetts
Eskimo-Aleut languages turn out to have the same two types of object shift that Holmberg
(1986) describes for Scandinavian. Specific objects move out of the VP in Inuit (Bittner &
Hale 1996) and I argue that object shift also occurs in Aleut, but it is limited to pronouns
as in Mainland Scandinavian. Aleut differs from Mainland Scandinavian in that, for inde-
pendent reasons, only third pronouns successfully undergo object shift. Shifting first and
second person pronouns is blocked by PCC-like constraints on the portmanteau agreement
that occurs in object shift constructions. Shifting reflexives is also blocked, because it would
incur a violation of the Anaphor Agreement Effect. The surface pattern in Aleut has been
described as one where ergative case marks the subject only when another argument in the
clause is null. I argue that there is no direct cause and effect relationship between these. The
key is the fact that pronouns that agree are not spelled out. Agreement correlates with erga-
tive case because, as in Inuit, ergative case marks the subject in Aleut only when the object
moves out of the VP, and in this situation, again as in Inuit, there is portmanteau agree-
ment with the ergative subject and nominative object in object shift constructions. Like
Inuit, Aleut has possessor raising/stranding so that the possessor of an object can undergo
object shift, trigger agreement, and thus pro drop. From the English translations of Aleut
sentences, it initially appears that null objects of prepositions also correlate with ergative
subjects, but Aleut, like Inuit, has possessed relational nouns which function like preposi-
tions if they take locative case. These also allow possessor raising and object shift, with the
same consequences described above.
1 Introduction
Holmberg (1986) establishes that Scandinavian languages divide into two types with re-
spect to the kind of objects that undergo object shift (movement of an object out of the VP
to a position below the subject): In Mainland Scandinavian languages such as Swedish,
only pronouns undergo object shift, as in (1), while Icelandic allows all specific objects
to undergo object shift, as in (2)1:
1The verb moves out of the VP to ‘second position’. Objects that precede the negative have undergone object
shift.
Ellen Woolford. 2017. Mainland Scandinavian object shift and the puzzling ergative pattern in
Aleut. In Laura R. Bailey & Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Order and structure in syntax I: Word order
and syntactic structure, 117–133. Berlin: Language Science Press. DOI:10.5281/zenodo.1117744
Ellen Woolford
(1) Swedish (Holmberg 1986: 242)
Johan
John
köpte
bought
den
it
inte.
not
‘John did not buy it.’
(2) Swedish (Holmberg 1986: 242)
*Johan
John
köpte
bought
boken
book.the
inte.
not
‘John did not buy the book.’
(3) Icelandic (Holmberg 1986: 2)
Jón
John
keypti
bought
bókina
book.the
ekki.
not
‘John did not buy the book.’
The goal of this paper is to show that the Eskimo-Aleut languages divide into the same
two types. Inuit parallels Icelandic in that specific objects undergo object shift (Bittner &
Hale 1996).2 In this paper I argue that, despite its obfuscating surface complexity, Aleut
is like the Mainland Scandinavian languages in that only pronouns undergo object shift.
There are some additional consequences of object shift in the Eskimo-Aleut languages
which are not present in the Scandinavian languages. In clauses with object shift in the
Eskimo-Aleut languages, the case pattern is ergative-nominative, and the agreement is
portmanteau, reflecting features of both the ergative subject and the nominative object.3
The two types of object shift produce two slightly different surface case and agreement
patterns in Inuit versus Aleut. In Inuit, the subject is ergative and the agreement is
portmanteau when the object is specific, because specific objects undergo object shift
in Inuit. In contrast, in Aleut, the subject is ergative and the agreement is portmanteau
only if the object is a pronoun, because only pronouns undergo object shift in Aleut.
Additional complications in Aleut (to be discussed below) produce a surface ergative
pattern which initially seems entirely unlike that of other ergative languages, even that
of the related language Inuit. The Aleut pattern has been described as marking the sub-
ject with ergative case if and only if there is a null argument elsewhere in the clause
(i) a. Structure without object shift: [subject Vi neg [VP ti object]]
b. Structure with object shift: [subject Vi objectj neg [VP ti tj]]
2Although object shift is typically associated with Scandinavian languages, it is known to occur in other
languages, such as Turkish (Diesing 1996) and Hindi (Bhatt & Anagnostopoulou 1996). See Thráinsson
(2001) for an overview of object shift. Bittner & Hale (1996) show that specific objects move out of the VP
in Inuit/West Greenlandic; although they do not label this movement as object shift, it nevertheless fits the
definition of object shift as movement of an object out of the VP to a position below the subject.
3Exactly why object shift alters the case pattern in Eskimo-Aleut languages is controversial. Bittner & Hale
(1996), working within dependency case theory, claim that shifting the object brings it close enough to
the subject to allow it to serve as a case competitor. Woolford (2015) suggests that object shift creates a
defective intervention effect that can be avoided by a ‘last resort’ use of ergative case on the subject.
118
6 Mainland Scandinavian object shift and the puzzling ergative pattern in Aleut
(Bergsland 1997; Boyle 2000; Sadock 2000; 2009). This surprising correlation between
ergative case and null arguments has been referred to as the Aleut Effect:
(4) Description of The Aleut Ergative Pattern (the Aleut Effect):
In Aleut, the subject gets ergative case if and only if there is a null NP elsewhere
in the clause.
This description of the Aleut pattern contrasts sharply with the ergative pattern in Inuit,
following Bittner & Hale (1996):
(5) The Inuit Ergative Pattern:
In Inuit Greenlandic, the subject is marked with ergative case if and only if the
object moves out of the VP, and only specific objects move out of the VP.
Despite this apparent dissimilarity, Hale (1997) nevertheless suggests that the analysis
of Inuit in Bittner & Hale (1996) can be extended to Aleut.4 Hale sketches an analysis
wherein only null pronouns move out of the VP in Aleut.5 Sadock (2000) and Boyle
(2000) point out that Hale’s account of Aleut suffers from various technical problems, and
does not account for all of the Aleut data. While Hale’s proposal to extend Bittner and
Hale’s account of Inuit to Aleut is incomplete, and handicapped by some now outmoded
assumptions of the framework of Chomsky (1995), I argue that his basic idea is correct:
object shift is the key to understanding the case patterns of both Inuit and Aleut. I show
that the differences between these two languages stem from the difference in what type
of objects undergo object shift; specific objects object shift in Inuit but only pronouns
undergo object shift in Aleut, a difference that parallels the two types of object shift that
Holmberg (1986) shows occurs in Scandinavian languages.
With the benefit of improvements in syntactic theory since Hale’s 1997 paper, particu-
larly in the area of case and agreement, and with the benefit of excellent subsequent work
on other Native American languages, I am able to present an account of the complex
Aleut pattern which preserves Hale’s basic idea: subjects get ergative case only when
the object moves out of the VP in both Inuit and Aleut, however the two languages differ
in what kind of objects move out of the VP. Nevertheless, I argue that Hale’s proposal
has one important factor backwards: Hale postulates that pronouns undergo object shift
only if they are null in Aleut.6 In contrast, I argue that cause and effect goes in the other
4Fortescue (1985: 6) also recognizes the parallel between Aleut and other Eskimo languages with respect to
constructions with and without an ergative subject and agreement with both the subject and the object.
5Hale (1997) proposes that only null objects move out of the VP in Aleut, and assuming that case drives
movement, following Chomsky (1995), he postulates that null pronouns in Aleut lack case and must there-
fore move to get case. Boyle (2000) shares this assumption that only null pronouns that move out of the VP,
although his motivation for the movement is different: a need for null pronouns to be licensed by moving
to Spec TP. Merchant (2011) suggests the movement of null pronouns in Aleut is like clitic movement in
other languages.
6To limit object shift to null pronouns, Hale (1997) claims that overt pronouns get case in situ, but null
pronouns have to move to get case. Aside from the problem of why this would be so, case no longer drives
movement in more recent versions of theory (e.g. Chomsky 1995; 2000). Moreover, under the assumption
that the decision as to which pronouns will and will not be pronounced (spelled out) is not made until PF,
there is no distinction between overt and null pronouns in syntax.
119
Ellen Woolford
direction: pronouns are null only if they undergo object shift, because only shifted pro-
nouns are in a position to trigger agreement, and only agreeing pronouns can be pro
dropped (not spelled out/pronounced at PF), in both Aleut and Inuit.
A complication in Aleut is that object shifting some kinds of pronouns is blocked be-
cause it would cause the derivation to crash. Object shifting first and second person
pronouns out of the VP is blocked by PCC-like effects on the resulting portmanteau
agreement (with the ergative subject and nominative object), similar to what we see in
dative-nominative constructions in Icelandic with first and second person objects (Sig-
urðsson 1996).7 Thus first and second person object do not undergo object shift in Aleut,
and thus they do not agree. Because they do not agree, they cannot be pro dropped (null).
Thus first and second person object pronouns are overt and in situ in Aleut. Object shift
of reflexives is also blocked, due to the Anaphor Agreement Effect (Rizzi 1990; Woolford
1999).8
The proposed analysis of Aleut does not posit anything new. The complex Aleut pat-
tern results from the interaction of nine known syntactic and morphological properties,
each of which is independently motivated in other languages. Almost all of these prop-
erties have been documented in Inuit and/or other Native American languages such as
Nez Perce and Navajo:9
(6) Nine Independently Motivated Properties of Aleut:
1. Mainland Scandinavian type object shift (pronouns only)
2. Possessor raising, as in Inuit (Bittner 1994: 71) and Nez Perce (Deal 2010).
3. Possessed positional nouns/nominal stems in Aleut which have the
function of postpositions (Fortescue 1985; Bergsland 1997)
4. Ergative subject only in object shift constructions (as in Inuit and Nez
Perce)10
5. Portmanteau agreement with subject and object in object shift
constructions (as in Inuit)
6. Object shift of reflexives is blocked in Aleut, as in Inuit (Bittner 1994: 82)
and Nez Perce (Deal 2010), which is an instances of the Anaphor
Agreement Effect (Rizzi 1990; Woolford 1999)
7. Object shift of first and second person objects is blocked because the
resulting portmanteau agreement from probing both the ergative subject
and the nominative object would incur a PCC-type violation (cf. Icelandic
dative subject constructions (Sigurðsson 1996))
7PCC stands for Person Case Constraint. Bonet (1994) formulated this constraint to account for person
restrictions on sequences of a dative and accusative clitic in Romance. This term has been extended to
apply to person restrictions on agreement in clauses with a dative subject and a nominative object in
Icelandic and other languages. See Anagnostopoulou (2005) for discussion and additional references.
8Reflexives are prohibited in positions construed with agreement (Rizzi 1990).
9This contrasts with the view expressed in Boyle 2000 that Aleut syntax is unlike that of any other language.
10Since Bittner & Hale (1996) established that there is a type of ergative language where ergative case is used
on the subject only when the object moves out of the VP, additional languages of this type have emerged,
e.g. Nez Perce and Niuean. See Woolford (2015) for a survey and discussion of this type of ergative language.
120
6 Mainland Scandinavian object shift and the puzzling ergative pattern in Aleut
8. Pro-drop of pronouns that agree (as in Inuit (Bok-Bennema 1983; 1991))
9. Fronted topical objects, with a resumptive pronoun in situ (as in Navajo
Speas 1990; Willie 1991) and as argued for Aleut by Boyle (2000))
The conclusion of this paper is that the Aleut Effect, that is, the observed surface corre-
lation between ergative case on the subject and a null argument elsewhere in the clause
in Aleut is a true correlation, but there is no direct causal relation. Both ergative subjects
and null objects are independent, indirect consequences of Mainland Type Object Shift
of pronouns:
• Pronouns that undergo object shift agree, and agreeing pronouns are dropped
(null) in Eskimo Aleut languages, as in many languages.
• Object shift places the object in a local relation with the subject, which requires
ergative case on the subject in the Eskimo-Aleut languages, as in Niuean and Nez
Perce.11
This paper is organized as follows. The data and the proposed analysis of basic transi-
tive clauses in Aleut, with a comparison to Inuit, is presented in §2. This section includes
a discussion of clauses with a fronted topical object, clauses with a first or second person
object, and clauses with a reflexive object. §3 focuses on possessor raising constructions
in Aleut, where the raised possessor behaves like any object, just as in Inuit and Nez
Perce. §4 turns to possessed relational/positional nouns in Aleut, which also allow pos-
sessor raising. §5 discusses some remaining questions and §6 is the conclusion.
2 Transitive clauses in Inuit and Aleut
2.1 Object shift
Object shift occurs in both Inuit and Aleut, but the two languages differ as to what kind
of object undergoes object shift, paralleling the Scandinavian languages. Inuit is like
Icelandic wherein specific objects undergo object shift, while non-specific objects do
not. Bittner (1994) gives the following minimal pair. In the example in (7), the object is
specific: there is one specific book which Juuna has not got:
(7) Inuit (Bittner 1994: 2)
Junna-p
Junaa-erg
atuagaq
book
ataasiq
one
tigu-sima-nngi-laa.
get-perf-neg-ind.3sg.sg
‘There is one book which Juuna hasn’t got (yet).’
Bittner argues that the specific object has moved out of the VP, based on evidence
involving the scope of negation.
(8) [ Junna-erg one booki [VP ti got.neg ]]
11See Woolford (2015) for a survey and discussion of this type of ergative language.
121
Ellen Woolford
The case pattern in object shift constructions in Inuit is ergative-nominative, with port-
manteau agreement resulting from the multiple agree relation created when T probes to
and through the ergative subject down to the nominative object.
In contrast, in the example in (9), the object is non-specific. This object “can only take
narrow scope, indicating that it remains below negation, inside the VP” (Bittner 1994:
35).
(9) Inuit (Bittner 1994: 35)
Juuna
Junna
ataukka-mik
book-instr
ataasi-mik
one-instr
tigu-si-sima-nngi-la-q.
get-ap-perf-neg-ind-3sg
‘Juuna has not got one book.’
(10) [ Junna-erg [VP one book got ]]
Here the subject has nominative case and the agreement is only with the subject.
Although we don’t see a word order change in the above pair of examples, more erga-
tive languages of this type have emerged in the linguistics literature, and for some there
is clear word order evidence. One of these is Niuean. Massam (2010) gives the following
pair of examples from Niuean where word order changes indicate whether or not object
shift has occurred before the VP fronting that characterizes this verb initial language. In
the example in (11), there is a specific object and object shift occurred before VP fronting.
The resulting word order is VSO and the case pattern is ergative nominative:
(11) Niuean (Massam 2010: 98)
[VSO specific object]12
Ne
past
inu
drink
e
erg
Sione
Sione
e
nom
kofe.
coffee
‘Sione drank the coffee.’
(12) a. Base order: S [vp V O]
b. Order after object shift: S Oi [vp V ti ]
c. Order after VP fronting [vp V t ] S O
In contrast, the example in (13) has a non-specific object and no object shift has oc-
curred. The object thus fronts with the verb inside the fronted VP, so that the resulting
word order is VOS:
(13) Niuean (Massam 2010: 98)
[VOS non-specific object]
Ne
past
inu
drink
kofe
coffee
a
nom
Sione.
Sione
Sione drank coffee.
12In Niuean the ergative case morpheme for proper nouns, e, happens to look just like the nominative case
morpheme for common nouns, e.
122
6 Mainland Scandinavian object shift and the puzzling ergative pattern in Aleut
(14) a. Base order: S [vp V O]
b. Order after VP fronting: [vp V O] S
I argue that Aleut manifests a pattern similar to the related Inuit language, the dif-
ference being that only pronouns undergo object shift in Aleut, paralleling Mainland
Scandinavian. Transitive clauses with non-pronominal arguments have an ordinary
nominative-accusative case pattern in Aleut (although neither case is marked) and agree-
ment is only with the subject:
(15) Aleut (Boyle 2000: 2 (1a) from Bergsland & Dirks 1981: 32)
Piitra-x̂
Peter-3sg
Ivaana-x̂
John-3sg
kidu-ku-x̂.
help-pres-3sg
‘Peter is helping John.’
Non-pronominal objects remain in situ in the VP in Aleut:
(16) [ Peter(nom) [VP John(acc) V-3sg]]
In contrast, I argue that (third person) pronoun objects undergo object shift in Aleut,
as in Mainland Scandinavian.13 The case pattern in object shift constructions in Aleut
is ergative-nominative, as in Inuit (Bittner 1994; Bittner & Hale 1996). The agreement
is portmanteau, expressing features from both the ergative subject and the nominative
object:14
(17) Aleut (Boyle 2000: 3 (1b) from Bergsland & Dirks 1981: 32)
Piitra-m
Peter-erg
kidu-ku-u.
help-pres-3sg/3sg
‘Peter is helping him.’
(18) [ Peter-erg pro.nomi [VP ti V-3sg/3sg]]
The object pronoun is not pronounced (not spelled out at PF) because it agrees and
agreeing pronouns drop in Aleut, as in Inuit. We see both subject and object pronoun
drop in the following Aleut example:
13We will see below that the object shift construction is blocked with first and second person objects, as well
as with reflexive objects in Aleut.
14The ergative case is labeled ‘relative’ in descriptive work on Aleut. The portmanteau agreement series is
referred to as the anaphoric series, reflecting the fact that this series identifies the feature of a null ob-
ject. Work on Aleut generally uses the traditional typological label ‘absolutive’ for the object of a clause
with an ergative subject, however the term ‘absolutive’ was meant to be the neutral label of a typologi-
cal pattern (Dixon 1994) rather than the label of an actual case. As Bittner (1994) argues for the related
language Inuit/West Greenlandic, the identity of this case is nominative in Aleut. There are ergative lan-
guages that have accusative objects, e.g. Warlpiri (Legate 2006), but accusative objects do not participate
in portmanteau agreement with the subject.
123
Ellen Woolford
(19) Aleut (Boyle 2000: 3 (5) from Bergsland & Dirks 1981: 10)
Kidu-ku-ngis.
help-pres-3/3pl
‘They are helping him/her/them.’
Bok-Bennema (1983) gives the following examples with subject and object pronoun
drop from Yupi’k:
(20) Yup’ik (Bok-Bennema 1983: 1)
Yurar-tug.
dance-ind.3sg
‘She/he is dancing.’
(21) Yup’ik (Bok-Bennema 1983: 2)
Tangrr-aa.
see-ind.3/3
‘He/she sees him/her/it.
2.2 Topical objects
Aleut allows a topical object to precede the clause, with a resumptive pronoun in situ,
as in example (23):
(22) Aleut (Boyle 2000: 3 (6a) from Bergsland 1969: 27)
Tayaĝu-x̂
man-sg
qa-x̂
fish-sg
qa-ku-x̂.
eat-pres-3sg.
’The man is eating the fish.’
(23) Aleut (Boyle 2000: 4 (6b) from Bergsland 1969: 27)
qa-x̂
fish-sgi
tayaĝu-m
man-erg
qa-ku-u.
eat-pres-3/3sg
’The fish, the man is eating it.’
This is not movement leaving a trace, but rather a base generated topic linked to a
resumptive pronoun in situ (Boyle 2000), paralleling what Willie (1991) and Speas (1990)
argue for in Navajo. As with any pronoun object, this resumptive pronoun undergoes ob-
ject shift, triggers agreement on the verb, and is thus not spelled out at PF (pro-dropped):
(24) fishi [ man-erg pro.nomi [VP ti V-3/3]]
2.3 First and second person objects
Something different happens with first and second person objects; these do not un-
dergo object shift, do not agree, and must thus be spelled out at PF. The case pattern
is nominative-accusative, as in any transitive clause without object shift in Aleut:
124
6 Mainland Scandinavian object shift and the puzzling ergative pattern in Aleut
(25) Aleut (Bergsland 1997: 344)
Tayagˆu-x̂
man-3sg(nom)
ting
me(acc)
kidu-ku-xˆˆ.
help-pres-3sg
‘The man is helping me.’
I argue that the object shift construction is blocked/crashes with first and second per-
son objects because the portmanteau agreement that would result violates PCC-type
constraints, similar to what has been observed in Icelandic dative subject constructions
with first and second person nominative objects, as in Sigurðsson 1996; 2004:15
(26) Icelandic (Sigurðsson 2004: 148)
Honum
him.dat
mundu
would.3pl
alltaf
always
líka
like
þeir.
they.nom
‘He would always like them.’
(27) Icelandic (Sigurðsson 2004: 148)
*Honum
him.dat
munduð
would.2pl
alltaf
always
líka
like
þið.
you.nom
‘He would always like you.’
Thus the only grammatical version of this construction in Aleut is the one without
object shift, as in (25), because it has a nominative-accusative case pattern and agreement
only with the subject.16
2.4 The pattern with reflexive objects
In both Inuit and Aleut, object shift is blocked (or the object shift construction crashes)
when the object is a reflexive. We see this for Inuit in the following pair of examples from
Bittner 1994. The Inuit example in (28) has a specific object, which undergoes object shift,
with the resulting ergative-nominative case pattern. In contrast, in the example in (29)
with a reflexive object, object shift has not occurred and the case pattern is nominative-
dative:
(28) Inuit (Bittner 1994: 82 )
Suulu(t)-p
Suulu-erg
Kaali
Kaali
aallaa-vaa.
shoot-ind.3sg/3sg
‘Suulut shot Kaali.’
15See Anagnostopoulou (2005) for discussion and additional references on PCC effects.
16In contrast to Aleut, the related language Inuit allows first and second person objects to undergo object
shift. We know that PCC-type effects are not universal, and that languages that do manifest PCC effects
vary widely in exactly which feature combinations are prohibited; however, we may be able to identify
a more specific reason why first and second person objects are allowed to undergo object shift in Inuit,
in contrast to Aleut. In addition to portmanteau agreement, Inuit has pronominal clitics which suffix to
the portmanteau agreement. When a first or second person object moves out of the VP, Inuit may avoid
some PCC-type violations by encoding only the number of the object in the portmanteau agreement, and
encoding the first or second person feature of the object in a separate pronominal clitic. See Fortescue
(1985) and Woolford (2016).
125
Ellen Woolford
(29) Inuit (Bittner 1994: 82)
Sullut
Sullut
immi-nut
self-dat
aallaa-vuq.
shoot-ind.3sg
‘Suulut shot himself.’
The object shift version of the reflexive object example is ungrammatical:
(30) Inuit (Bittner 1994: 82)
*Suulu(t)-p
Sullut-erg
immi
self
aallaa-vaa.
shoot-ind.3sg/3sg
‘Suulut shot himself.’
This is an example of the Anaphor Agreement effect (Rizzi 1990; Woolford 1999):
anaphors cannot occur in positions normally associated with agreement.17
We see the same pattern with reflexive objects in Aleut. The following example in
(31) has a pronoun subject (which is not spelled out because it agrees), and an overt
reflexive object. The agreement, which is only with the subject, tells us that object shift
has not occurred. Although the subject pronoun is not spelled out, because it agrees, the
reflexive pronoun has to be spelled out because it does not agree:
(31) Aleut (Bergsland 1969: 139)
Txin
3.refl.sg
achixa-ku-x̂.
teach-pres-3sg
‘He taught himself.’
This contrasts with the example in (32) with a pronoun object that is disjoint in ref-
erence with the subject. Here we see by the portmanteau agreement on the verb that
object shift has occurred. The shifted object is dropped (not spelled out at PF) because it
agrees.
(32) Aleut (Bergsland 1969: 139)
Kidu-ku-u.
help-pres-3/3sg
‘He is helping him.’
3 Possessed objects
3.1 Possessor raising
Pronominal possessors of objects behave like pronominal objects in Aleut. I argue that
this is due to possessor raising, paralleling Nez Perce (Deal 2013).18 Nez Perce is like Aleut
in that it has object shift resulting in an ergative subject and portmanteau agreement, and
17The Anaphor Agreement Effect appears to be universal (Woolford 1999), but why it holds is still a mystery.
18Bittner (1994: 71–72) shows that Inuit allows possessor raising, but only with some verbs.
126
6 Mainland Scandinavian object shift and the puzzling ergative pattern in Aleut
it also has clearly transitive clauses without object shift where the subject is nominative
and agreement is only with the subject.
(33) Nez Perce (Rude 1988: 552)
Háama
man(nom)
hi-’wí-ye
3-shoot-asp
wewúkiye.
elk(acc)
‘The man shot an elk.’
(34) Nez Perce (Rude 1988: 552)
Háama-nm
man-erg
pée-’wi-ye
3/3-shoot-asp
wewúkiye-ne.
elk-obj
‘The man shot an elk.’
In terms of what kind of object undergoes object shift, Nez Perce is more like Inuit
and Icelandic in that non-pronominal arguments can undergo object shift. According to
Rude (1982; 1986), it is the more topical objects that undergo object shift in Nez Perce,
and less topical objects do not.
Nez Perce allows possessor raising, as Deal (2013) shows, and raised possessors un-
dergo object shift; as in other object shift constructions in Nez Perce, the subject is erga-
tive and the agreement is portmanteau and the object takes the case glossed as objec-
tive:19
(35) Nez Perce (Deal 2013: 398 (14) from Rude 1986: 119)
Hi-nees-hex-ne’ny-e
3rd-pl.obj-see-μ-past
ma-may’as-na
pl-child-obj
pist.
father
‘He saw the children’s father.’
In contrast, we see an unraised possessor in the following example in (36). The first
object has undergone object shift, and we see the genitive possessor in the second object:
(36) Nez Perce (Deal 2013: 400 (20a))
’Ew-’nii-se
3obj-give-imperf
Tatlo-na
Tatlo-obj
Angel-nim
Angel-gen
taaqmaaɬ.
hat
‘I’m giving Tatlo Angel’s hat.’
In contrast to Nez Perce, Aleut only allows pronominal possessors to undergo posses-
sor raising and object shift.20 The pair of examples below shows the contrast between
an NP possessor in (37), and a pronominal possessor in (38). In (37), there is no object
shift, which is what we expect with non-pronominal objects in Aleut; thus the subject
case is nominative and the agreement on the verb is only with the nominative subject:
19See Deal (2013) for a discussion of the morpheme she glosses as μ.
20Deal (2013) argues that object shift is directly from the possessor position, without a separate step of
possessor raising in Nez Perce. This could be true of Aleut as well.
127
Ellen Woolford
(37) Aleut (Boyle 2000: 3 (4a) from Bergsland 1997: 144)
Piitra-x̂
Peter-3sg
[hal-s
[boy-pl
ada-a]
father-3/3]
kidu-ku-x̂.
help-pres-3sg
‘Peter is helping the boys’ father.’
In contrast in (38) below the possessor of the object is a pronoun. This pronoun un-
dergoes object shift, and we see all the usual consequences of object shift in Aleut. The
subject is ergative and the shifted plural pronoun is cross-referenced in the portmanteau
agreement on the verb. Because it agrees, the object shifted pronoun is not pronounced
(i.e. it is pro-dropped):
(38) Aleut (Bergsland 1997: 144)
Piitra-m
Peter-erg
ada-ngis
father-3/3pl
kidu-ku-ngis.
help-tns-3/3pl
‘Peter is helping their father.’
(39) [ Peter-erg their.nomi [ [t i father] help-3/3pl]]
3.2 No object shift of coreferent possessors
Aleut parallels Nez Perce as well in constructions where the pronominal possessor of
the object is coreferent with the subject. Here object shift is blocked in both languages,
and Deal’s account of why extends to Aleut. Deal (2013: 413) points out that Binding
Condition B rules out a pronominal object being coreferent with the subject, as in the
Nez Perce example in (40) where the pronominal possessor has undergone object shift
(as evidenced by the ergative subject and portmanteau agreement on the verb):
(40) Nez Perce (Deal 2013: 413 (54a))
Pit’iin’-im
girl-erg
paa-’yax̂-na’ny-a
3/3-find-μ-rem.past
’ip-ne
his/her-obj
picpic.
cat
‘The girli found his/herj cat.’ (no coreference)
If there is coreference, only the version without object shift (and without ergative case
and portmanteau agreement) in (41) is grammatical:
(41) Nez Perce (Deal 2013: 413 (54b))
Pit’iin’
girl(nom)
hi-’yaax̂-n-a
3-find-asp-rem.past
[’ip-nimi
[her-gen
picpic].
cat]
‘The girli found heri cat.’ (coreference)
If the object shifted pronoun were to be interpreted as a reflexive rather than an ordi-
nary pronoun, coreference in (41) would also be ruled out, but for a different reason: the
reflexive pronount would agree and that would be an instance of the Anaphor Agree-
ment Effect: anaphors are barred from positions that agree. Thus the only solution is to
128
6 Mainland Scandinavian object shift and the puzzling ergative pattern in Aleut
block object shift when there is co-reference between the subject and the possessor of
an object.
The same pattern is found in Aleut. When a pronoun possessor undergoes object shift,
it cannot be interpreted as coreferent with the subject:
(42) Aleut (Bergsland 1997: 54)
Hla-m
boy-ergi proj
[
[ tj
ada-a
father-3/3
]
]
kidu-ku-u.
help-pres-3/3
‘The boyi is helping his j father.’ (no coreference)
As Deal (2013) concludes for Nez Perce, this is due to Binding Condition B which
prohibits coreference between a pronoun object and a c-commanding subject in the same
clause.
Coreference is only possible if the pronoun possessor does not undergo object shift,
as in (43). We can tell that object shift has not occurred in (43) because the subject is not
ergative and the verbal agreement is only with the subject.
(43) Aleut (Bergsland 1997: 54)
Hla-x̂
boy-sg(nom)i
[
[proi
ada-an
father-3.refl
]
]
kidu-ku-x̂.
help-tns-sg
‘Peter is helping his (own) father.’
Note that the pronoun possessor is null (not spelled out) even in its base position inside
the object NP in (43) because it agrees with the head noun, and agreeing pronouns are
dropped (not spelled out).
4 Possessed relational nouns in Aleut
From the English translations of the following examples, one could easily get the im-
pression that the subject is ergative in Aleut when the object of a PP is null, and as far
as we know, object shift does not occur out of PPs. However, these constructions do
not actually involve PPs, but rather possessed directional nouns with an oblique case
suffix (Fortescue 1985, Bergsland 1997: 47). These constructions work like the possessed
object constructions discussed above in §3. The version of the sentence in (44) has a non-
pronominal NP possessor, which remains in situ, since only pronouns undergo object
shift in Aleut. In contrast, the version of the sentence in (45) has a pronominal possessor,
which does undergo object shift.
(44) Aleut (Bergsland 1997: 126)
Piitra-x̂
Peter-3sg
tayagu-m
man-gen
had-a-
direction-3/3-loc
huya-ku-x̂.
go-pres-3sg
‘Peter is going toward the man (in the man’s direction).’
129
Ellen Woolford
(45) Aleut (Bergsland 1997: 127)
Piitra-m
Peter-erg
had-a-n
direction-3/3-loc
huya-ku-u.
go-pres-3/3sg
‘Peter is going toward him/her (in his/her direction).’
We observe the same differences in the case and agreement patterns in these examples
as we do in examples (37) and (38) in §3.
5 Remaining questions
There are remaining issues concerning Aleut grammar that have not been discussed in
this paper. One is the question that Sadock (2000) asks: what determines which features
are expressed by the agreement morphology in different constructions in Aleut? This
paper addresses only part of this question, predicting when verbal agreement in clauses
can and cannot be portmanteau; verbal agreement cannot be portmanteau unless object
shift has occurred. However, the question of which agreement features will be spelled
out at PF is a separate issue. Sadock suggests that in some instances, the choice of what
agreement features to realize at PF, especially in agreement in DPs (which have not been
discussed in this paper), can depend on functional/communicative factors.
Another remaining question concerns Aleut examples where (under the analysis pro-
posed in this paper) object shift appears to occur out of some kind of embedded/adjunct
clause. Berge (2010) cites the following pair of examples from Bergsland (1997: 248). In
the first example in (46), the verb ‘go.to.sleep’ agrees only with its subject. In contrast,
in the second example in (47), the agreement is portmanteau, also encoding the 3pl fea-
tures of what looks like the null subject of the adjunct/embedded clause, “When (they)
stopped talking”:
(46) Aleut, Atkan dialect (Berge 2010: 10)
Hla-s
boy-pl
tunum-kada-ku-z-iin
talk-cess-ind-pl-encl
ting
1sg
saĝani-na-q.
go.to.sleep-part-1sg
‘When the boys stopped talking, I went to sleep.’
(47) Aleut, Atkan dialect (Berge 2010: 10)
Tunum-kada-ku-z-iin
talk-cess-ind-pl-encl
ting
1sg
saĝani-qa-ning.
go.to.sleep-part.an-1sg/3pl.an
‘When they stopped talking, I went to sleep.’
One possible clue to understanding these particular examples is that the morpheme -
iin which Berge glosses simply as ‘enclitic’ is actually the 2nd/3rdplural possessive ending
on nouns –iin, as in adam-aziin ‘to our fathers’ (Bergsland 1997: 149). This suggests
the possibility that what is translated as ‘when they stopped talking’ might be more
accurately translated as ‘(at) their stopping-talking’. If so, this could be another instance
of possessor raising.
130
6 Mainland Scandinavian object shift and the puzzling ergative pattern in Aleut
Merchant (personal communication) suggests the possibility of a similar analysis of
Aleut examples which, from their English translations, would appear to involve move-
ment out of a relative clause. As Merchant notes in his 2011 paper “Some Aleut relative
clauses have something like the form of a possessed clause.” (Merchant 2011: 397)
6 Summary and conclusions
The goal of this paper has been to show that the Eskimo-Aleut languages parallel the
Scandinavian languages in manifesting two types of object shift, one where only pro-
nouns undergo object shift, and one where all specific objects undergo object shift. Aleut
is like the Mainland Scandinavian languages in allowing only pronouns to undergo ob-
ject shift, while Inuit is like Icelandic in allowing all specific objects to shift.
We have seen that the consequences of object shift are much more complex in the
Eskimo Aleut languages than they are in Scandinavian languages. In the Eskimo-Aleut
languages, clauses with object shift have an ergative subject and portmanteau agree-
ment, in contrast to clauses without object shift which have a nominative subject and
agreement only with the subject. These consequences of object shift have also been ob-
served in other ergative languages such as Nez Perce and Niuean. Additional factors
interacting with object shift in Aleut include possessed relational nouns instead of PPs
and possessor raising.
A second goal of this paper has been to show that, although the surface pattern of
Aleut shows a perfect correlation between ergative case on the subject and a null ob-
ject (The Aleut Effect), this correlation does not reflect causation. Instead, object shift
(interacting with other factors) causes both ergative subjects and null objects in Aleut.
While the surface complexity of the Aleut pattern might initially seem to warrant adding
significant generative machinery to the grammar, I have shown in this paper that the
Aleut Effect follows automatically from a combination of nine grammatical construc-
tions/factors, each of which is independently motivated in other languages.
Acknowledgements
It is a privilege to have been invited to contribute to this volume dedicated to Anders
Holmberg in honor of his important contributions to linguistic theory. In my case, with-
out his contributions in the area of object shift typology, I would never have been able
to solve the mystery of the puzzle known as the Aleut Effect. I would like to thank Jason
Merchant and Margaret Speas and two anonymous reviewers for reading this manuscript
and providing many helpful comments.
131
Ellen Woolford
References
Anagnostopoulou, Elena. 2005. Strong and weak person restrictions: A feature checking
analysis. In Lorie Heggie & Francisco Ordóñez (eds.), Clitic and affix combinations:
Theoretical perspectives, 199–235. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Berge, Anna. 2010. Unexpected non-anaphoric marking in Aleut. In Jan Wohlgemuth
& Michael Cysouw (eds.), Rara and rarissima: Documenting the fringes of linguistic
diversity, 1–22. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Bergsland, Knut. 1969. A problem of transformation in Aleut. Word 25(1–3). 24–38.
Bergsland, Knut. 1997. Aleut grammar: Unagam tunuganaan achixaasix. Fairbanks, Alas-
ka: Alaska Native Language Center.
Bergsland, Knut & Moses Dirks. 1981. Atkan Aleut school grammar. Anchorage: National
Bilingual Materials Development Center, Rural Education, University of Alaska.
Bhatt, Rajesh & Elena Anagnostopoulou. 1996. Object shift and specificity: Evidence from
ko-phrases in Hindi. In Lise Dobrin, Kora Singer & Lisa McNair (eds.), CLS 32: Papers
from the main session, 11–22. Chicago: Chicago Linguistics Society.
Bittner, Maria. 1994. Case, scope, and binding. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Bittner, Maria & Ken Hale. 1996. Ergativity: Toward a theory of a heterogeneous class.
Linguistic Inquiry 27. 531–604.
Bok-Bennema, Reineke. 1983. On pro-drop pronominal anaphors in Eskimo. Tilburg pa-
pers in language and literature 37. 1–22.
Bok-Bennema, Reineke. 1991. Case and agreement in Inuit. New York: Foris.
Bonet, Eulalia. 1994. The person-case constraint: A morphological approach. MIT working
papers in linguistics 22. 33–52.
Boyle, John. 2000. The Aleut effect: Competition at TP. In Proceedings of CLS, vol. 37,
221–38. Chicago.
Chomsky, Noam. 1995. The minimalist program. Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2000. Minimalist inquiries: The framework. In Roger Martin, David
Michaels & Juan Uriagereka (eds.), Step by step: Essays on minimalist syntax in honor
of Howard Lasnik, 89–155. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Deal, Amy Rose. 2010. Ergative case and the transitive subject: A view from Nez Perce.
Natural Language & Linguistic Theory 28. 73–120.
Deal, Amy Rose. 2013. Possessor raising. Linguistic Inquiry 44. 391–432.
Diesing, Molly. 1996. Semantic variables and object shift. In Samuel Epstein & Höskuldur
Thráinsson (eds.), Studies in comparative Germanic syntax, vol. 2, 66–84. Dordrecht:
Kluwer.
Dixon, Robert MW. 1994. Ergativity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Fortescue, Michael. 1985. Anaphoric agreement in Aleut. In Alide Machtelt Bolkestein,
Casper de Groot & J. Lachlan Mackenzie (eds.), Predicates and terms in functional gram-
mar, 105–126. Dordrecht: Foris.
Hale, Kenneth L. 1997. The Misumalpan causative construction. In Joan Bybee, John
Haiman & Sandra Thompson (eds.), Essays on language function and language type,
199–216. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
132
6 Mainland Scandinavian object shift and the puzzling ergative pattern in Aleut
Holmberg, Anders. 1986. Word order and syntactic features in the Scandinavian languages
and English. Stockholm: Dept. of General Linguistics, University of Stockholm disser-
tation.
Legate, Julie Anne. 2006. Split absolutive. In Alana Johns, Diane Massam & Juvenal
Ndayiragije (eds.), Ergativity, 143–171. Dordrecht: Springer.
Massam, Diane. 2010. V1 or V2?: On the left in Niuean. Lingua 120(2). 284–302.
Merchant, Jason. 2011. Aleut case matters. In Etsuyo Yuasa Yuasa, Tista Bagchi & Kather-
ine Beals (eds.), Pragmatics and autolexical grammar: In honor of Jerry Sadock, vol. 176,
193. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1990. On the anaphor-agreement effect. Rivista di linguistica 2(1). 27–42.
Rude, Noel. 1982. Promotion and topicality of Nez Perce objects. In Monica Macaulay &
Orin Gensler (eds.), Proceedings of the Eighth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics
Society, 463–483. Berkeley: University of California.
Rude, Noel. 1986. Topicality, transitivity, and the direct object in Nez Perce. IJAL 52. 124–
153.
Rude, Noel. 1988. Ergative, passive, and antipassive in Nez Perce. In Masayoshi Shibatani
(ed.), Passive and voice, 547–560. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Sadock, Jerrold M. 2000. Aleut number agreement. In Annual meeting of the Berkeley
linguistics society, vol. 26, 121–138. Berkeley, California.
Sadock, Jerrold M. 2009. The efficacy of anaphoricity in Aleut. In Marc-Antoine Mahieu
& Nicole Tersis (eds.), Variations on polysynthesis: The Eskaleut languages (Typological
Studies in Language 86), 97–113. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Sigurðsson, Halldór Ármann. 1996. Icelandic finite verb agreement. Working Papers in
Scandinavian Syntax 57. 1–46.
Sigurðsson, Halldór Ármann. 2004. Icelandic non-nominative subjects: Facts and impli-
cations. In Peri Bhaskararao & Karumuri Venkata Subbarao (eds.), Non-nominative
subjects, vol. 2 (Typological Studies in Language 61), 137–160. Amsterdam: John Ben-
jamins.
Speas, Margaret. 1990. Phrase structure in natural language (Studies in natural language
and linguistic theory 21). Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Thráinsson, Höskuldur. 2001. Object shift and scrambling. In Mark Baltin & Chris Collins
(eds.), The handbook of contemporary syntactic theory, 148–202. Oxford: Blackwell.
Willie, MaryAnn. 1991. Navajo pronouns and obviation. Tucson: University of Arizona
dissertation.
Woolford, Ellen. 1999. More on the anaphor agreement effect. Linguistic Inquiry 30(2).
257–287.
Woolford, Ellen. 2015. Ergativity and transitivity. Linguistic Inquiry 46(3). 489–531.
Woolford, Ellen. 2016. Two types of portmanteau agreement: Syntactic and morphologi-
cal. In Geraldine Legendre, Michael T. Putnam, Henrietta de Swart & Erin Zaroukian
(eds.), Optimality theoretic syntax, semantics, and pragmatics: From uni-to bidirectional
optimization, 111–135. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
133
Chapter 7
Repairing Final-Over-Final Condition
violations: Evidence from Basque verb
clusters
Ricardo Etxepare
IKER UMR 5478-CNRS
Bill Haddican
CUNY, Queens College/Graduate Center
This article discusses implications of Basque modal constructions for representational mod-
els of Final-Over-Final Condition (FOFC) effects. We argue that FOFC-violating structures
at an intermediate derivational level can be repaired by subsequent movement steps. The
analysis entails that FOFC-violating structures are buildable by the syntax, contra narrow
syntactic approaches to FOFC, and that FOFC evaluation instead applies in the phonology
after copy deletion. Such a view of FOFC helps explain several recalcitrant word order re-
strictions on Basque modal constructions as well as variation in the effect of focus and
negation on modal placement across Basque dialects.
1 Introduction
This article discusses some implications of Basque modal constructions for recent ap-
proaches to Final-Over-Final Condition (FOFC) effects. FOFC is a generalization origi-
nally by Holmberg (2000) about the interaction between dominance relations and {head,
complement} ordering cross-linguistically. In particular, following much previous typo-
logical literature, Holmberg noted that “harmonic” sequences of head-initial and head-
final phrases, as in (1a,1b) are common cross-linguistically, as are “disharmonic” se-
quences where a head-initial phrase dominates a head-final phrase, as in (1c) (Hawkins
1983; 1995). Holmberg noted that what is much rarer – possibly unattested in relevant
domains – are instances of a head-final phrase dominating a head-initial phrase, as in
(1d).
Ricardo Etxepare & Bill Haddican. 2017. Repairing Final-Over-Final Condition violations: Evi-
dence from Basque verb clusters. In Laura R. Bailey & Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Order and struc-
ture in syntax I: Word order and syntactic structure, 135–157. Berlin: Language Science Press.
DOI:10.5281/zenodo.1117702
Ricardo Etxepare & Bill Haddican
(1) a. Harmonic,
right-
branching
ɣP
βP
α
β
ɣ
b. Harmonic,
left-branching
ɣP
ɣ
βP
β
α
c. Disharmonic,
attested
ɣP
βP
β
α
ɣ
d. Disharmonic,
unattested (in
relevant
domains)
ɣP
ɣ
βP
α
β
For the moment, let us summarize Holmberg’s observation about the above interac-
tion as in (2) (taken from Biberauer et al. (2014)).
(2) The Final-over-Final condition (preliminary version)
If β is a head-initial phrase and ɣ is a phrase immediately dominating β, then ɣ
must be head-initial. If β is a head-final phrase, and ɣ is a phrase immediately
dominating β, then ɣ can be head-initial or head-final.
(adapted from Biberauer et al. 2014)
Following Holmberg (2000), a now-considerable body of literature has described
FOFC-effects cross-linguistically (Holmberg 2000; Biberauer et al. 2008; 2014; Sheehan
2013a,b) and diachronically (Biberauer et al. 2009; 2010). Formal approaches to FOFC
effects have generally been of two types.1 One approach, by Biberauer et al. (2014),
takes FOFC effects to be a narrow syntactic phenomenon. Assuming the Linear Cor-
respondence Axiom (LCA) (Kayne 1994), Biberauer et al. (2014) take effects such as (1)
to reflect restrictions on roll-up movement, which follow, in turn, from minimality ef-
fects on the spreading of features which drive such movement. A second approach by
Sheehan (2013a; 2013b; 2017) takes FOFC effects to be phonological in nature. On this
approach, structures such as (1d) are bad because they cannot be linearized by the LCA
(in Sheehan’s modified form) at PF.
The two approaches crucially make different predictions about the possibility of deri-
vational repair. The PF approach, but not the narrow syntax approach, predicts the possi-
bility of a derivation where a FOFC-violating structure is built by the syntax, but repaired
in some way before linearization – for instance by copy deletion of FOFC-violating struc-
ture. In contrast, the narrow syntax approach holds that FOFC-violating structures are
never buildable by the syntax, and therefore predicts that the syntax should never have
occasion to repair a FOFC-violating structure. The goal of this chapter is to describe a
set of modal constructions in Basque where copy deletion appears to bleed FOFC. As-
suming that copy deletion applies in the phonology, our evidence that FOFC evaluation
follows copy deletion is therefore in keeping with a PF approach to FOFC effects in these
1We do not consider consider here Hawkins’ (to appear) processing based approach to FOFC. See Sheehan
(2017) for discussion.
136
7 Repairing Final-Over-Final Condition violations
dialects and not with a narrow syntactic approach. We do not take a position on how
FOFC effects might be derived at PF.
The discussion is organized as follows. In §2, we introduce FOFC and describe PF vs.
narrow syntactic approaches to this phenomenon. §3 reviews a set of facts described by
Etxepare & Uribe-Etxebarria (2009) about the interaction between word order and struc-
tural complexity of modal complements in Basque modal constructions. In §4, we spell
out the nature of the FOFC violation and FOFC repair involved in such constructions.
2 The Final-Over-Final Condition
2.1 Word order (dis)-harmony in mixed-head languages
We begin by illustrating FOFC effects with some examples from the literature. Holm-
berg’s (2000) original characterization of FOFC was in the context of {Aux, O and VP}
order patterns in Finnish as in (3). Finnish is typically VO, but in certain contexts allows
both the object to precede the V and the V to precede the auxiliary, as illustrated in (3a–
3c). What is not permitted, however, is a V-O-Aux order as shown in (3a), that is, where
a head-final auxiliary selects a head-initial V, in violation of (2).
(3) a. Milloin
when
Jussi
Jussi
olisi
would-have
kirjoittanut
written
romaanin?
indef-novel
‘When would Jussi have written a novel?’ [Aux-V-O]
b. Milloin
when
Jussi
Jussi
olisi
would-have
romaanin
indef-novel
kirjoittanut?
written
‘When would Jussi have written a novel?’ [Aux-O-V]
c. Milloin
When
Jussi
Jussi
romaanin
indef-novel
kirjoittanut
written
olisi?
would-have
‘When would Jussi have written a novel?’ [O-V-Aux]
d. * Milloin
when
Jussi
Jussi
kirjoittanut
written
romaanin
indef-novel
olisi?
would-have
‘When would Jussi have written a novel?’ [*V-O-Aux]
(Holmberg 2000)
Similar facts come from the relative order of modals, infinitival verbs and their objects
in Basque. Basque is canonically OV, but many speakers allow objects – especially heavy
objects – to occur postverbally (Rijk 1969; Ortiz de Urbina 1989; Elordieta 2001). In addi-
tion, infinitival complements of modals may appear either to the right or the left of the
selecting modal + auxiliary. When the infinitival complement appears to the right of its
selecting modal as in (4a, 4b) both OV and VO orders are possible. When the infinitival
appears to the left of its selecting modal, only the OV order is possible, a pattern again
in keeping with (2).
137
Ricardo Etxepare & Bill Haddican
(4) a. Nahi
want
zuen
aux
[hobetu
improve
bere
refl
ingelesa.]
English
‘He/She wanted to improve his/her English.’ [Modal-Infin-Obj]
b. Nahi
want
zuen
aux
[bere
refl
ingelesa
English
hobetu.]
improve
‘He/She wanted to improve his/her English.’ [Modal-Obj-Infin]
c. [Bere
refl
ingelesa
English
hobetu]
improve
nahi
want
zuen.
aux
‘He/She wanted to improve his/her English.’ [Obj-Infin-Modal]
d. [*Hobetu
improve
bere
refl
ingelesa]
English
nahi
want
zuen.
aux
‘He/She wanted to improve his/her English.’ [*Infin-Obj-Modal]
Biberauer et al. (2014) note that without further qualification, (2) incorrectly rules out
commonplace, well-formed structures in German of the kind shown in (5).
(5) a. Johann
John
hat
has
[VP [DP einen
a
Mann]
man
gesehen.]
seen
‘John has seen a man.’
b. Johann
John
ist
is
[VP [PP nach
to
Berlin]
Berlin
gefahren.]
gone
‘John has gone to Berlin.’
(Biberauer et al. 2014)
(5a) involves a head-final VP containing a head-initial DP, and in (5b), the head-final
VP contains a head initial PP, both in violation of (2). Biberauer et al. note that such
exceptions to (2) can be explained in terms of the categorial status of α and β. That is,
Biberauer et al. note that the cases in (5) differ from the Basque and Finnish cases just
discussed in that the relevant α and β heads in (5), are categorially distinct – V is clearly
of a different categorial status from both D (5a) and P (5b). By contrast, the Finnish
examples in (3) all crucially involve a sequence of heads in the extended projection of
the verb. Biberauer et al. capture this class of exceptions to (2) by restricting FOFC
evaluation to an extended projection, and by defining the extended projection as in (6),
where spine is defined as in (7).
(6) The Extended Projection of a lexical head L (EP(L)) is the sequence of categories
EP = {α1 … αi … αn} such that:
i. αi is in the spine defined by L; for each pair of heads <Hi, Hi+1> in EP;
ii. Hi c-selects Hi+1;
iii. Hi is categorially non-distinct from Hi+1.
138
7 Repairing Final-Over-Final Condition violations
(7) spine: A sequence of nodes Σ = {α1 … αi … αn} forms a spine iff:
i. αn is a lexical head Hmin;
ii. αi is H-min, a projection of αn;
iii. for all αm > i α is a head H´ which c-selects either H or some αj ∊ Σ, or α is a
projection of some αj ∊ Σ.
Biberauer et al.’s (6) and (7) are intended to formalize the intuition that the extended
projection of a lexical head consists of all of the functional material in the c-selecting
sequence above that lexical head up to the first categorially distinct element. Biberauer
et al. assume that a sequence C-T-v-V is all part of the extended projection of V and
will count as categorially non-distinct. In this way, Biberauer et al. intend FOFC to
encompass disharmonies of the above type involving heads in a canonical clausal spine
as well as those in a canonical nominal spine, but will not extend to sequences of heads
with distinct categorial features, such as in cases where a CP is selected by n.
A second class of exceptions that Biberauer et al. focus on concerns Ā-movement.
Biberauer et al. note that, across languages, topic- and focus-movements appear able to
violate FOFC as described so far. In (8), for example, the head-initial, non-satellite VP
raises to the left-periphery and spells-out to the left of its dominating head in violation
of (2).
(8) We expected John to eat the pies, and [eat the pies] he did eat the pies.
(Biberauer et al. 2014)
Biberauer et al. therefore also exclude Ā-movement from the scope of FOFC. Let us
therefore adopt as our working characterization of FOFC the following from Biberauer
et al. (2014).
(9) The Final-over-Final condition (amended version)
If β is a head-initial phrase and ɣ is a phrase immediately dominating β, then ɣ
must be head-initial. If β is a head-final phrase, and ɣ is a phrase immediately
dominating β, then ɣ can be head-initial or head-final, where:
i. β and ɣ are in the same Extended Projection;
ii. βP has not been Ā-moved to Spec, ɣP.
(adapted from Biberauer et al. (2014))
We consider two main formal approaches to this generalization in the following sec-
tions.
2.2 Biberauer et al.’s narrow syntactic approach to FOFC
Biberauer et al. propose that FOFC effects, as described above, are a property of the
syntactic component, reflecting a condition on movement. In particular, Biberauer et al.
follow Kayne (1994) in assuming a universal spec-head-complement merged order, and
139
Ricardo Etxepare & Bill Haddican
that complement-head orders are a consequence of “roll up” – iterative complement-
to-specifier movement in a given sequence. FOFC effects, from this perspective, are
explained if the following two conditions apply to roll up: (i) it must start at the base of
a given extended projection; and (ii) it proceeds monotonically, that is, it cannot start
and stop and start again.
Biberauer et al. model these conditions in terms of constraints on spreading of a gen-
eral movement-driving feature which they represent with the caret symbol, “∧”. This
feature drives different kinds of movement depending on the formal features that it as-
sociates with: when “∧” associates with edge features of a phase head, it will trigger Ā-
movement; when associated with phi-features it will drive A-movement; and crucially
for FOFC effects, when it associates with c-selectional features, it triggers movement of
a complement to the spec of its selecting head.
Biberauer et al. assume further that this feature can “spread” up the tree. This spread-
ing is crucially constrained in a way typically assumed for head movement, namely that
it can skip no intervening heads. Biberauer et al. state this condition as in (10).
(10) If a head αi in the Extended Projection E of a lexical head L has ∧ associated with
its selection feature for a lower head αi+1, then so does αi+1.
The assumption of monotonic spreading therefore excludes the unattested start-stop-
start pattern that will produce FOFC violations:
(11) Non-monotonic spreading of ∧
*[X∧ [ Y [Z∧ ]]]
Importantly, on Biberauer et al.’s approach, FOFC effects are a narrow syntactic phe-
nomenon. FOFC-violating structures are not filtered out by interface conditions; rather
they are simply not derivable on the approaches to merge and locality proposed by Bib-
erauer et al. In the next section, we briefly contrast this approach with Sheehan’s PF
approach.
2.3 Sheehan’s PF approach
Sheehan (2013a; 2013b; 2017) proposes that FOFC effects are a consequence of the way the
phonology linearizes syntactic structures on a modified version of the LCA (Kayne 1994).
Following Chomsky (1995) and Nunes (2004), Sheehan (2013a; 2013b) takes the LCA to
be a linearization algorithm that orders syntactic objects in the phonological component.
Sheehan’s version of the LCA, however, differs from Kayne’s in that it assumes that lin-
earization maps not just according to c-command relations, but also c-selection relations.
Indeed, in Sheehan’s algorithm, precedence relations are first mapped by c-selection;
c-command is an elsewhere condition. In addition, it adopts from head-parameter ap-
proaches the assumption that linearization of two categories in a c-selection relation is
parametrized to the selecting head. We summarize this proposal in (12) from Sheehan
(2013a,b).
140
7 Repairing Final-Over-Final Condition violations
(12) Sheehan’s (2013b) revised LCA
i. If a category A c-selects a category B, then A precedes/follows B at PF.
ii. If no order is specified between A and B even transitively by (i), then A
precedes B at PF if A asymmetrically c-commands B.
Let us consider now how these assumptions help derive the FOFC effects described in
§2.1, returning to the structures in §1, repeated here.
(1) a. Harmonic,
right-
branching
ɣP
βP
α
β
ɣ
b. Harmonic,
left-branching
ɣP
ɣ
βP
β
α
c. Disharmonic,
attested
ɣP
βP
β
α
ɣ
d. Disharmonic,
unattested (in
relevant
domains)
ɣP
ɣ
βP
α
β
In the harmonic (a) and (b) structures in (1), precedence relations are established un-
problematically by parameter setting attaching to the c-selection relations between β
and α and α and ɣ, pursuant to (12i). In (a), the precedence relations β > α and ɣ > β are
established and by transitivity ɣ > α. In (b), α > β, β > ɣ are established by c-selection, and
by transitivity α > ɣ. In the case of the disharmonic orders in (c) and (d), the condition
in (12ii) becomes relevant. In the attested disharmonic order, (c), c-selectional relations
will determine the orders ɣ > β and α > β. C-selectional relations, however, leave under-
determined the relative order of ɣ and α, that is, the choice between outputs ɣ > α > β
and α > ɣ > β. The fall back c-command criterion in (12ii), however, determines ɣ > α. In
the disharmonic structure in (d), c-selectional relations will likewise determine β > ɣ and
β > α, leaving underdetermined the relative order of ɣ and α. Crucially, the c-command
condition in (12ii) will then determine ɣ > α, yielding the output β > ɣ > α, and not the
FOFC-violating order, β > α > ɣ. On this approach, the unavailability of FOFC-violating
structures in the general case falls out of Sheehan’s modified LCA, since the (d) structure
in (1) is not linearizable on this approach.2
Sheehan’s PF approach and Biberauer et al.’s narrow syntactic approach therefore
make different predictions about the reparability of FOFC-violating structures in the syn-
tax. Again, on the PF approach, but not the narrow syntactic approach a FOFC-violating
structure should in principle be derivable in the syntax; it just will not be linearizable.
One possible case of FOFC repair noted in previous literature involves Head-Final Filter
violations (Greenberg 1963; Williams 1982; Sheehan 2017). A well-known restriction
on adjectival modification cross-linguistically is a ban on complements of prenominal
2Sheehan (2013b) does not take up the issue of how to express the exceptionality of Ā-movement and c-
selectional relations between different extended projections as raised by Biberauer et al. (2014).
141
Ricardo Etxepare & Bill Haddican
adjectives where the adjectival complement appears between the adjective and noun.
(Williams 1982 called this the Head-Final Filter.) Sheehan (2017), in particular, argues
that strings like (13c) should be analyzed as a FOFC effect and proposes a PF approach
akin to the one described in §2.3.
(13) a. the proud man
b. John is proud of his children.
c. * the [ɣP [βP proud [αP of his children]] man]
(adapted from Williams 1982)
As Sheehan notes, different languages employ different “compliance strategies” for
contexts where a Head-Final Filter would otherwise arise. One such case involves extra-
position of CP/PP complements of the prenominal adjective as in (14) and (15) in English
and Slovenian respectively.
(14) a. a difficult book [for anyone to read]
b. * a difficult [for anyone to read] book
(adapted from Sheehan 2017)
(15) zavesten
aware.m
otrok,
child.m
da
that
je
is.3sg
vojna
war.f
‘a child aware that there is a war’
(adapted from Sheehan 2017)
Sheehan (2017) follows Kayne (1994) in taking prenominal adjectives to be reduced
relative clauses where the adjective raises from a postnominal position.
(16) [DP [CP [AP Adj [NP Noun AP ]]]]
Sheehan (2017) proposes that these repair effects might be reconciled with the PF
approach to FOFC effects introduced above where FOFC-violating structures are not lin-
earizable by the LCA. In particular, Sheehan suggests that the FOFC-violating structures
might be repaired at copy deletion by “scattered deletion”, whereby “extraposition” of
the FOFC-offending CP/PP in cases like (14) and (15) are achieved by deleting the higher
rather than the lower copy of these constituents in order for them to be linearizable by
the modified LCA.
In the following discussion, we describe a similar set of facts from Basque verb clusters
which suggest that chain reduction may bleed FOFC-violations in a similar way in the
absence of scattered deletion.
3 Word order and the functional richness of modal
complements in Basque
The core set of facts that we focus on come from observations by Etxepare, Uribe-Etxe-
barria and colleagues concerning word order and the functional richness of infinitival
142
7 Repairing Final-Over-Final Condition violations
complements of the modals behar ‘need’ and nahi ‘want’ (Etxepare & Uribe-Etxebarria
2009; 2012; Balza 2010). As illustrated in (17) the constituent headed by ikusi, ‘see’, can
appear either to the left or the right of the selecting modal, nahi, ‘want’.
(17) a. [Horrelakoak
like.that.pl
maiz-ago
often-more
ikusi]
see
nahi
want
nituzke.
aux
b. Nahi
want
nituzke
aux
[horrelakoak
like.that.pl
maiz-ago
often-more
ikusi.]
see
‘I’d like to see things like that more often.’
Etxepare & Uribe-Etxebarria (2009; 2012) and Balza (2010) note that the word order
difference illustrated in (17) correlates with three other properties suggesting that the
modal-infinitival order in (17b) can involve a functionally richer infinitival complement
than (17a). We describe these in turn below.
3.1 Temporal modification
A first way in which infinitival>modal and modal>infinitival orders differ is in terms of
the temporal independence of the non-finite constituent. In infinitival>modal orders, the
infinitival phrase cannot contain a temporal modifier forcing a temporal interpretation
of the event in the infinitival phrase that is different from that of the modal+auxiliary. In
(18a), the infinitival phrase contains gaur ‘today’ with a temporal interpretation different
from the past interpretation of the modal+auxiliary, and the result is poor. On the other
hand, Etxepare and Uribe-Etxebarria report that this temporal difference is fine in mo-
dal>infinitival contexts such as (18b).
(18) a. * Jon-ek
Jon-erg
atzo
yesterday
[gaur
today
etxe-a-n
house-def-in
ego-n]
be-inf
behar
need
zuen.
aux
b. Jon-ek
Jon-erg
atzo
yesterday
behar
need
zuen
aux
[gaur
today
etxe-a-n
house-def-in
ego-n.]
be-inf
‘Yesterday Jon needed to be home today.’
Etxepare & Uribe-Etxebarria (2009; 2012) take these facts to indicate that, in modal>in-
finitival orders, the non-finite constituent may contain a T head with a tense value dif-
ferent from that of the matrix clause. In infinitive-modal orders, on the other hand, the
non-finite constituent cannot contain a separate T head.
3.2 Agreement
A second difference between the word orders concerns agreement. Open class finite
verbs in Basque are formed periphrastically, with a verb root (bearing any aspectual
morphology) separate from the auxiliary that agrees in person and number with ergative,
143
Ricardo Etxepare & Bill Haddican
absolutive and dative arguments of the main verb. We illustrate this agreement in (19).3
In the examples in (19), ergative, absolutive and dative arguments are all overt; however,
we note that Basque allows pro-drop with all three of these argument types.
(19) a. Ni
1sg.abs
joa-n
go.prf
na-iz.
1sg.abs-root
‘I have gone.’ [unaccusative]
b. Katu-ek
cat-3pl.erg
ni
1sg.abs
ikus-i
see-prf
na-u-te.
1sg.abs-root-3pl.erg
‘The cats have seen me.’ [monotransitive]
c. Ni-k
1sg-erg
liburu-ak
books-pl.abs
Jon-i
Jon-dat
ema-n
give-prf
d-i-zki-o-t.
3sg.abs-root-abs.pl-3sg.dat-1sg.erg
‘I have given Jon the book.’ [ditransitive]
d. Ni
1sg.abs
Jon-i
Jon-dat
mintza-tzen
speak-ipfv
na-tzai-o.
1sg.abs-root-3sg.dat
‘I speak to Jon.’ [applicative unaccusative]
In addition, modal verbs that take infinitival complements are transparent to plural
absolutive and dative agreement marking in transitive constructions. In sentences with
the modal behar ‘must’, agreement marking on the auxiliary is exhaustively determined
by the argument structure of the lower verb as shown in (20), below.
(20) a. % Joan
go
behar
must
na-iz.
1sg.abs-root
‘I must go.’4 [unaccusative]
b. Katu-ek
cat-3pl.erg
ni
1sg.abs
ikusi
see
behar
need
na-u-te.
1sg.abs-root-3pl.erg
‘The cats must see me.’ [monotransitive]
c. Jon-i
Jon-dat
liburu-ak
books-pl.abs
eman
give
behar
need
d-i-zki-o-t.
3.abs-root-pl.abs-3sg.dat-1sg.erg
‘I must give Jon the books.’ [ditransitive]
As Etxepare & Uribe-Etxebarria (2009) note, both absolutive plural agreement and
dative agreement patterns are constrained by the position of the infinitival. As shown
in (21), in the modal>infinitival order, absolutive plural agreement is optional.
3On a closed class of synthetic verbs, tense and agreement marking appear affixed to the verb root in some
aspectual contexts. Addressee agreement works similarly for these forms but we set these forms aside for
expositional convenience.
4In some dialects, the modal behar determines the transitive auxiliary *edun in unaccusative contexts.
144
7 Repairing Final-Over-Final Condition violations
(21) a. Nahi
want
n-it-u-z-ke
1sg.erg-pl.abs-root-pl.abs-irr
[horr-ela-ko-a-k
that-like-gen-def-pl
maiz-ago
frequent-more
ikus-i].
see-inf
b. Nahi
want
n-u-ke
1sg.erg-root-irr
[horr-ela-ko-a-k
that-like-gen-def-pl
maiz-ago
frequent-more
ikus-i].
see-inf
‘I’d like to see things like that more often.’
(Etxepare & Uribe-Etxebarria 2009)
In the infinitival>modal order, on the other hand, plural absolutive agreement on the
auxiliary is obligatory.
(22) a. [Horr-ela-ko-a-k
that-like-gen-def-pl
maiz-ago
frequent-more
ikus-i]
see-inf
nahi
want
n-it-u-z-ke.
1sg.erg-pl.abs-root-pl.abs-irr
b. * [Horr-ela-ko-a-k
that-like-gen-def-pl
maiz-ago
frequent-more
ikus-i]
see-inf
nahi
want
nuke.
1sg.erg-root-irr
‘I’d like to see things like that more often.’
(Etxepare & Uribe-Etxebarria 2009)
Agreement with dative arguments is similarly constrained. (23) shows that that dative
agreement is optional in the modal>infinitival order.
(23) a. Behar
must
zen-i-e-ke
2abs-root-dat.pl-irr
[zure
your
guraso-ei
parent-dat.pl
obeditu].
obey
b. Behar
must
zen-u-ke
2abs-root-irr
[zure
your
guraso-ei
parent-dat.pl
obeditu].
obey
‘You should obey your parents.’
(Etxepare & Uribe-Etxebarria 2009)
As shown in (24), this agreement is obligatory when the order is infinitival>modal:
(24) a. [Zure
your
guraso-ei
parent-dat.pl
obeditu]
obey
behar
must
zen-i-e-ke.
2sg.abs-root-dat.pl-irr
b. * [Zure
your
guraso-ei
parent-dat.pl
obeditu]
obey
behar
must
zen-u-ke.
2sg.abs-root-irr
‘You should obey your parents.’
(Etxepare & Uribe-Etxebarria 2009)
These agreement restrictions stand to reason on the assumption that the loci for dative
and absolutive case in transitive contexts is not T but rather some set of vP-internal
heads – v and Appl for instance – and that the agreement morphemes on the auxiliary
145
Ricardo Etxepare & Bill Haddican
reflect head movement from v/Appl to T (Arregi & Molina-Azaola 2004; Rezac 2008). On
this approach, the unavailability of dative and plural absolutive agreement on the finite
auxiliary plausibly reflects the presence of a lower T blocking movement to the higher
T.
3.3 Negation
The above sets of facts plausibly indicate that, in modal>infinitival but not infinitival>
modal orders, the non-finite constituent may contain a T head. A final set of facts, how-
ever, suggests that in modal-infinitive orders the non-finite constituent can be somewhat
larger than TP – containing minimally a TP-external negation projection. Balza (2010)
and Etxepare & Uribe-Etxebarria (2009) observe that non-finite constituents to the left
of the modal can never contain the sentential negation morpheme ez, which appears to
the left of the auxiliary in Basque (Laka 1990). In contrast, when the infinitive appears
to the right of the modal, ez can indeed appear. This contrast is illustrated in (25).
(25) a. * [Ez
neg
eros-i]
buy-inf
nahi/behar
want/need
n-u-ke.
1sg.erg-root-irr
b. Nahi/behar
want/need
n-u-ke
1sg.erg-root-irr
[ez
neg
eros-i].
buy-inf
‘I want/need not to buy it.’
(Etxepare & Uribe-Etxebarria 2009)
As Etxepare & Uribe-Etxebarria (2009) note, the negation in (25b) is not plausibly
an instance of constituent negation since constituent negation does not license a higher,
clausemate negative polarity item (NPI). Example (26a), illustrating constituent negation
in a non-modal context, shows that the higher NPI inork ‘anybody’ is not licensed, unlike
a true sentential negation context such as (26b).
(26) a. * Inork
Anybody
(ere)
(at-all)
du
aux
ez
neg
eros-i.
buy-inf
‘Nobody at all bought it.’
b. Inork
Anybody
(ere)
(at-all)
ez
neg
du
aux
eros-i.
buy-inf
‘Nobody at all bought it.’
(27) shows that ez in modal>infinitival contexts behaves like sentential negation in
licensing the higher NPI, deus, ‘anything’. Balza (2010) and Etxepare & Uribe-Etxebarria
(2009) take these facts to indicate that the non-finite constituents in these environments
can contain a negative head.
(27) Nahi
want
nuke
aux
deus
anything
(ere)
at.all
ez
neg
eros-i.
buy-inf
‘I’d like to not buy anything (at all).’
146
7 Repairing Final-Over-Final Condition violations
To summarize, we have described four sets of facts drawn mainly from Etxepare &
Uribe-Etxebarria (2009; 2012) and Balza (2010) suggesting that the two word orders dis-
cussed above correspond to different internal structures of the non-finite constituent.
The infinitival phrase in infinitival>modal orders is smaller than TP – a vP, we’ll assume
– while the infinitival in modal>aux>infinitival orders can be a TP and may contain a
TP-external negation position as well. We illustrate this proposal with the sequences of
functional heads in (28), (repeated here) which abstract away from surface linear order.
(28) a. Infinitival>modal orders: [T [Modal [v [V …
b. Modal>infinitival orders: [T [Modal ([Neg) ([T) [v [V …
As noted earlier, Balza (2010) and Etxepare & Uribe-Etxebarria (2009) do not provide an
account of the contrast in (28). In the following discussion, we argue that this contrast
is explainable as a garden variety FOFC effect from the perspective of antisymmetric
approaches to Basque.
4 FOFC and word order in Basque verb clusters
4.1 Antisymmetry and polarity-sensitive word order alternations
Basque is a mixed-head language: heads in the clausal spine below T appear to the right
of their complements, while heads above T, including preverbal speech act and evidential
particles appear to the left of their complements (Rijk 1969; Ortiz de Urbina 1989; 1994;
Laka 1990; Elordieta 2001; Irurtzun 2007; Elordieta 2008). Most generative approaches
to Basque have modeled these facts in terms of a head-directionality parameter: T and
clausal heads below it take their complements to the left, while those heads above T take
their complements to the right. The head-final nature of TP-internal projections, on this
approach, usefully accounts the fact that in neutral declarative sentences like (29), the
finite verb – presumably in T – appears sentence finally.
(29) Affirmative main clauses
Miren-ek
Miren-erg
Jon
Jon-abs
ikus-i
see-prf
du.
aux.3sg.erg
‘Miren has seen Jon.’
In negative sentences, the negative morpheme ez appears left-adjacent to the auxiliary
and the VP appears to the right of the auxiliary as in (30).
(30) Negative main clauses
Miren-ek
Miren-erg
ez
neg
du
aux.3sg.erg
Jon
Jon-abs
ikus-i.
see-prf
‘Miren hasn’t seen Jon.’
Laka (1990) and Elordieta (2001; 2008) propose that these polarity effects reflect the
fact that negation – which is head-initial on this approach – is first-merged outside TP
in Basque, and that the inflected verb must head adjoin to negation as a way of providing
147
Ricardo Etxepare & Bill Haddican
lexical support for the clitic-like auxiliary. The Neg>Aux word order requires that this
be right head adjunction as shown in (31). In affirmative sentences, Neg is not merged,
and the auxiliary stays in its first-merged position in TP.
(31) The head movement approach (Laka 1990)
NegP/ΣP
TP
Aux
AspP
[[[V]-v]-Asp]
vP
[V]-v
VP
V
[Neg-[Aux]]
On an approach that eschews head-directionality parametrization, a different account
is required for the polarity-sensitive word order alternations illustrated in (29) and (30).
In particular, following Haddican (2004; 2008), we propose that (i) the left-branching
structure of the extended VP is derived via roll up (Kayne 1994), and (ii) the relative or-
der of the auxiliary and extended verbal projection reflects the presence or absence of
fronting of the extended verbal projection, a constituent that we will label PolP, for rea-
sons to be made clear shortly. We adopt Laka’s (1990) seminal proposal that Basque has
a left peripheral polarity head, Σ. We propose that this head probes for polarity-specified
elements. Two such elements will be the the negative and the emphatic affirmative mor-
phemes ez and bai, which we take to be polarity adverbs merged in the Spec of PolP.
These forms, where present, will raise to Spec,ΣP, as illustrated in the negative example
in (32).
(32) Ez-raising, negative contexts
ΣP
Σ′
TP
PolP
Pol′
…
Pol
ez
Aux
Σ
ez
148
7 Repairing Final-Over-Final Condition violations
In affirmative root contexts, the position to the left of the auxiliary is not occupied
by the negative morpheme ez, but rather by the extended projection of the verb. We
propose that, in these contexts, in the absence of ez, the extended verbal phrase raises
to Σ to satisfy the latter’s polarity feature. Specifically, in the spirit of predicate fronting
approaches to VSO and VOS word orders (Massam 2000; 2001; 2010; Coon 2010; 2012),
let us assume that what raises is a PolP whose head contains an affirmative polarity [Aff]
feature. In the verb-initial orders they analyze, Massam and Coon take the landing site
of this movement to be TP/IP, and relate this movement to the featural needs of T/C.
In Basque, we take this movement to be related to featural needs of a polarity-related
morpheme, namely Σ. We illustrate this in (33).5
(33) Affirmative orders
ΣP
Σ′
TP
PolP
Aux
Σ
PolP
…
Pol
Evidence in favor of predicate fronting in affirmative clauses comes from TP ellipsis
sentences like (34) and (35). In both cases, the auxiliary in the second sentence is left
unpronounced, plausibly as a banal case of TP ellipsis (Laka 1990). Interestingly, the
elements which escape TP-ellipsis are different in affirmative and negative sentences:
whereas in negative sentences (and in those involving contrastive affirmation) the verbal
predicate is elided together with the finite auxiliary (35), in simple affirmative sentences
the verbal predicate escapes TP-ellipsis, by virtue of obligatory predicate raising (34). On
the head directionality approach, additional movement operations are required to derive
such sentences.
(34) Jon-ek
Jon-erg
kafe-a
coffee
erosi
bought
du,
aux
eta
and
Ane-k,
Ane-erg
[ΣP
x
[PolP
x
[liburu-a
book-the
leitu]
read
Σ [TP du].
‘Jon has bought coffee, and Ane has read the book.’
(35) Jon-ek
Jon-erg
kafe-a
coffee
erosi
bought
du,
aux
baina
but
Ane-k,
Ane-erg
[ΣP
x
ez
neg
Σ
x
TP du kafe-a erosi].
‘Jon has bought coffee, but Ane hasn’t.’
Evidence that the extended VP indeed contains a polarity feature in affirmative con-
texts comes from polarity focus sentences like (36). Here, the extended VP raises to a
left peripheral focus position and co-occurs with an affirmative denial interpretation,
suggesting the raised verbal constituent is the locus of the affirmative feature.
5See Haddican (2004; 2008) and Etxepare & Uribe-Etxebarria (2009) for similar approaches.
149
Ricardo Etxepare & Bill Haddican
(36) [FocP [PolP Etorri]
come
[TP da
aux
Iker.]]
Iker
‘Iker HAS (indeed) come.’
What is important about this approach for the FOFC-effects focused on here is that
TP is a left-headed projection that does not participate in roll-up movement; that is, the
complement of T does not move to its spec. From this perspective, and assuming that
non-fintite T is like finite T in not participating in roll-up movement, Etxepare and Uribe-
Etxebarria’s observed correlation between word order and size of the modal complement
is explicable as a vanilla FOFC effect. That is, what makes the functionally richer con-
stituents impossible in the infinitive>modal order is the presence of a head-complement
structure in the spec of the modal phrase, in violation of (9). Specifically, the comple-
ment of the infinitival T is not spelled out in the spec of the non-finite T, but rather as
the sister of T. The infinitival T itself then moves to the spec of the modal projection and
runs afoul of (2). In contrast, vP-sized infinitives will not run afoul of FOFC, as stated
in (2) and (9), since v does participate in roll-up; that is, it attracts its complement to its
spec. We illustrate this proposal in (37) and (38).
(37) FOFC-violating TP-raising
ModalP
Modal′
TP
Modal
TP
vP
T
(38) FOFC-compliant vP-raising
ModalP
Modal′
vP
Modal
vP
v′
VP
v
VP
From the perspective of the antisymmetric approach to polarity-sensitive word order
alternations described above, the structure-sensitivity of the word order alternations
described by Etxepare & Uribe-Etxebarria (2009) is therefore predicted as a FOFC effect.
From a mixed head perspective, where T takes its complement on the left, some other
account of Etxepare and Uribe-Etxebarria’s observation is required.6
6For the same reason, Sheehan’s (2013a; 2013b; 2017) approach will fail to express the structure-sensitivity
of these word order alternations as a FOFC phenomenon if T is parameterized to take its complement to
its left. Sheehan’s theory, though, entails no commitment to such a derivation versus an XP movement
approach of the kind just proposed.
150
7 Repairing Final-Over-Final Condition violations
4.2 Repairing the violation
The account so far explains why vP-, but not TP-sized modal complements can raise to
the specifier of the modal. Unaddressed so far is why TP-sized modal complements are
licit when they appear to the right of the modal as in (17b). A further fact about the
alternation in (17) that we take to be central to this issue is the fact that the modal-aux-
infinitive order is most readily available in contexts in which the non-finite constituent
to the right is focalized or contains a focus-bearing constituent. The modal+auxiliary
sequence to the left is preferably defocused. From this perspective, sentences like (17b)
are reminiscent of cases of right peripheral focus constructions as in (39) and (40).
(39) Ardoa
wine
ekarri
brought
diot
aux
(#) ANDONI-RI.
Andoni-dat
‘I brought the wine to ANDONI.’
(Elordieta 2001)
(40) Monjak
nuns
egin
do
zigun
aux
[barruan
inside
utz-i.]
leave-inf
‘The nuns LEFT US INSIDE.’
(Haddican 2007)
Ortiz de Urbina (2002) and Uribe-Etxebarria (2003) propose that sentences such as (39)
and (40) are derived by movement of the focused constituents to a left-peripheral focus
position, followed by remnant movement of the non-focused portion of the sentence
to a higher topic phrase. We illustrate this proposal in (41). As Ortiz de Urbina (2002)
notes, this approach is supported by the fact that the remnant-moved material shares
intonational properties with other pre-focus topic constituents.
(41) [TopP [ Ardoa
wine
Andoni-ri ekarri
brought
diot]
aux
Top [FocP [ Andoni-ri
Andoni-dat
]…]
‘I brought the wine to ANDONI.’
Some support for remnant movement comes from the relative scope of focus and nega-
tion. When following the lexical verb, the favored scope of the focal constituent is maxi-
mal with regard to negation, as diagnosed by the continuation and not DP. In this regard,
it behaves like left-peripheral foci as in (42b) (Ortiz de Urbina 2002).
(42) a. Ez
neg
diot
aux
liburua
book-the
oparitu
offered
ANDONI-RI,
Andoni-dat,
eta
and
ez
neg
Miren-i.
Miren-dat
‘The one I did not offer the book to is Andoni, and not Miren.’
b. ANDONI-RI
Andoni-dat
ez
neg
diot
aux
liburua
book-the
oparitu,
offered
eta
and
ez
neg
Miren-i.
Miren-dat
‘It is Andoni that I didn’t offer the book to, and not Miren.’
151
Ricardo Etxepare & Bill Haddican
Also, note that wide-scope foci in non-initial position must occupy the right edge
of the clause as suggested by the fact that they cannot be followed linearly by clausal
material:
(43) a. Jon-ek
Jon-erg
ez
neg
du
aux
liburu-rik
book-inf
irakurri
read
BULEGOAN,
office-in
eta
and
ez
neg
trenean.
train-in
‘The place Jon did not read any book is the office, not the train.’
b. Jon-ek
Jon-erg
ez
neg
du
has
irakurri
read
(liburu-rik)
book-part
BULEGOAN
office-in
(*liburu-rik),
book-part
eta
and
ez
neg
trenean.
train-in
‘The place Jon did not read any book is the office, not the train.’
The crux of our proposal about FOFC repair is as follows. In modal>infinitival orders
such as (17b), affirmative PolP moves to ΣP, as usual. The FOFC-offending infinitival TP
then subextracts to a Focus phrase, as in (44). The position of the modal to the left of the
infinitival is derived via remnant topicalization, not shown here. Crucially, because the
TP targets an A-bar position, this movement step is FOFC-exempt. (See Biberauer et al.
(2014) for discussion.)
(44) PolP movement to ΣP and sub-extraction of infinitival TP
FocusP
Foc´
ΣP
Σ´
TP
PolP
Aux
Σ
PolP
ModalP
Modal´
TPinfinitival
Modal
TPinfinitival
Pol
Foc
TPinfinitival
The derivation in (44) requires that freezing effects do not apply in this context (Collins
2005a,b). We do not consider in detail what conditions the availability of subextraction
here, but note that independent evidence of the ability of focused constituents to extract
152
7 Repairing Final-Over-Final Condition violations
from moved XPs come from examples like (45) and discussed by Elordieta (2008). Here,
the wh-phrase, norekin ‘with who’, cyclically moves from within a moved CP.
(45) Nor-ekin
who-with
pentsa-tu
think-prf
duzu
aux
[CP
text
nor-ekin
who-with
ezkondu
marry
behar
must
naiz-ela]
aux-C
agindu
order
didate-la
aux-C
CP?
‘Who did you think they told me I had to get married with?’
Subextraction of TP to the Focus Phrase is followed by remnant topicalization of ΣP,
as in (41). Evidence that the modal in the relevant cases sits in a derived position comes
from complex functional sequences preceding the non-finite constituent that cannot be
generated in-situ (Etxepare & Uribe-Etxebarria 2009). Consider (46):
(46) Nahi
want
izan
prf
du
aux
beranduago
later
etorri.
come
‘She/he has wanted to come later.’
In (46), the perfect head follows the modal, which it selects, and precedes the auxil-
iary, which in turn precedes the non-finite verb. The hierarchical relations among the
different components of the matrix-clause functional sequence can be represented in
terms of either a head-final structure or roll-up movement, but the relative ordering of
that sequence and the non-finite verb cannot: the modal verb selects the non-finite TP,
but the two elements appear on opposite sides of the sequence, and separated by other
clausal heads. Remnant movement provides a simple rationale for this ordering, and is
well attested in other Basque focal constructions. (47) lays out the derivational steps nec-
essary to arrive to a configuration such as (46), starting from the merger of the Modal
head with the TP-infinitival (47a):
(47) a. Merge modal nahi with infinitival TP:
[ModalP nahi [TP etorri ]]
b. Infinitival TP rolls up with ModalP:
[ModalP [TP etorri] nahi TP ]
c. Merge Aspect (participle izan):
[AspP izan [ModalP [TP etorri ] nahi ]]
d. ModalP rolls up with AspP:
[AspP [ModalP [TP etorri ] nahi ] izan ModalP ]
e. Merge Pol and finite auxiliary in T:
[TP du [PolP Pol [AspP [ModalP [TP etorri ] nahi ] izan ]]]
f. Merge Σ:
[ΣP Σ [TP du [PolP Pol [AspP [ModalP [TP etorri ] nahi ] izan ]]]]
g. Predicate fronting – PolP raising to ΣP:
[ΣP [PolP Pol [AspP [ModalP [TP etorri ] nahi ] izan ]] Σ [TP du PolP ]]
153
Ricardo Etxepare & Bill Haddican
h. Merge focus head and move infinitival TP to spec, Foc:
[FocP [TP etorri] Foc [ΣP [PolP Pol [AspP [ModalP etorri nahi ] izan]] Σ [TP
du ]]]
i. Merge Topic head and remnant move ΣP to spec, Topic:
[TopP [ΣP [PolP Pol [AspP [ModalP nahi ] izan]] Σ [TP du ]] Top [FocP [TP
etorri] Foc ΣP]
To summarize, the importance of the foregoing facts for the debate between narrow
syntactic and PF-based approaches to FOFC is that they suggest a derivation whereby
a FOFC-violating structure is assembled, but then repaired by a subsequent movement
step. The analysis, if correct, entails that Biberauer et al.’s narrow-syntax approach to
FOFC, where FOFC-violating structures are simply not buildable in the syntax, cannot
be correct. Rather, they suggest that copy-deletion can bleed FOFC. This, in turn, means
that FOFC-evaluation is derivationally subsequent to copy-deletion, in the phonological
component of the grammar on standard approaches (Nunes 2004).
5 Conclusion
This paper has presented an analysis of word-order restrictions in Basque modal con-
structions described in recent work by Etxepare & Uribe-Etxebarria (2009; 2012). We
have shown that the relevant restrictions are explained as an utterly banal FOFC effect
on antisymmetric approaches to Basque, but not on a traditional mixed head approach.
The analysis of Basque verb clusters presented, if correct, entails that Biberauer et al.’s
narrow syntactic approach to FOFC effects is not correct and instead recommends a PF-
based approach. How this might be achieved, whether by Sheehan’s promising analysis
(2013a; 2013b) or another approach, might usefully be investigated in future work.
Acknowledgements
This chapter is dedicated to Anders Holmberg for his inspirational leadership in theo-
retical linguistics for a generation. We are grateful to him for his ideas, his mentorship
and friendship. Thanks to Laura Bailey, Michelle Sheehan and an anonymous reviewer
for helpful comments on this paper. Many thanks also to Beñat Oyharçabal, members of
the Basque Dialect Grammar team and an audience at GLOW. This research is supported
by a grant from the Spanish Ministerio de Ciencia e Innovación FFI2008-00240/FILO,
FFI2008-05135/FILO and from the Basque Government GIC07/144-IT-210-07. All errors
are our own.
154
7 Repairing Final-Over-Final Condition violations
References
Arregi, Karlos & Gainko Molina-Azaola. 2004. Restructuring in Basque and the theory
of agreement. In Proceedings of the 23rd West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics,
43–56.
Balza, Irene. 2010. Clausal architecture and morpho-syntactic structure from the point
of view of modal verbs. Ms, University of the Basque Country (UPV/EHU).
Biberauer, Theresa, Anders Holmberg & Ian Roberts. 2008. Structure and linearization
in disharmonic word orders. In Charles B. Chang & Hannah J. Haynie (eds.), Proceed-
ings of the 26th West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics, 96–104. Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla Proceedings Project.
Biberauer, Theresa, Anders Holmberg & Ian Roberts. 2014. A syntactic universal and its
consequences. Linguistic Inquiry 45. 169–225.
Biberauer, Theresa, Glenda Newton & Michelle Sheehan. 2009. Limiting synchronic and
diachronic variation and change: The Final-Over-Final Constraint. Language and Lin-
guistics 10(4). 699–741.
Biberauer, Theresa, Michelle Sheehan & Glenda Newton. 2010. Impossible changes and
impossible borrowings. In Anne Breitbarth, Christopher Lucas, Sheila Watts & David
Willis (eds.), Continuity and change in grammar, 35–60. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Chomsky, Noam. 1995. The minimalist program. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Collins, Chris. 2005a. A smuggling approach to raising in English. Linguistic Inquiry
36(2). 289–298.
Collins, Chris. 2005b. A smuggling approach to the passive in English. Syntax 8(2). 81–
120.
Coon, Jessica. 2010. VOS as predicate fronting in Chol. Lingua 120(2). 354–378.
Coon, Jessica. 2012. Predication, predicate fronting, and what it takes to be a verb. Paper
presented at NELS 43.
Elordieta, Arantzazu. 2001. Verb movement and constituent permutation in Basque.
Utrecht: LOT.
Elordieta, Arantzazu. 2008. OA hizkuntzak: Oinarrizko hurrenkeraz eta hurrenkera era-
torriez. In Iñigo Arteatx, Xabier Artiagoitia & Arantzazu Elordieta (eds.), Antisimetri-
aren hipotesia vs. Buru parametroa: Euskararen oinarrizko hurrenkera ezbaian, 93–126.
Bilbao: EHUko Argitalpen Zerbitzua.
Etxepare, Ricardo & Myriam Uribe-Etxebarria. 2009. Hitz hurrenkera eta birregituraketa
euskaraz. Anuario del Seminario de Filologı́a Vasca Julio de Urquijo 43(1-2). 335–355.
Etxepare, Ricardo & Myriam Uribe-Etxebarria. 2012. Denominal necessity modals in
Basque. In Urtzi Etxeberria, Ricardo Etxepare & Myriam Uribe-Etxebarria (eds.), De-
nominal necessity modals in Basque, vol. 187, 283–332. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Greenberg, Joseph H. 1963. Some universals of grammar with particular reference to the
order of meaningful elements. Universals of Language 2. 73–113.
Haddican, Bill. 2004. Sentence polarity and word order in Basque. Linguistic Review 21.
87–124.
155
Ricardo Etxepare & Bill Haddican
Haddican, Bill. 2007. On egin: Do-support and VP focus in Central and Western Basque.
Natural Language & Linguistic Theory 25(4). 735–764.
Haddican, Bill. 2008. Euskal perpausaren oinarrizko espez-buru-osagarri hurrenkeraren
aldeko argudio batzuk. In Iñigo Arteatx, Xabier Artiagoitia & Arantzazu Elordieta
(eds.), Antisimetriaren hipotesia vs. Buru parametroa: Euskararen oinarrizko hurrenkera
ezbaian, 69–96. Bilbao: EHUko Argitalpen Zerbitzua.
Hawkins, John A. 1983. Word order universals. New York: Academic Press.
Hawkins, John A. 1995. A performance theory of order and constituency. Vol. 73. New York:
Cambridge University Press.
Holmberg, Anders. 2000. Deriving OV order in Finnish. In Peter Svenonius (ed.), The
derivation of VO and OV, 123–152. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Irurtzun, Aritz. 2007. The grammar of focus at the interfaces. Vitoria-Gasteiz: University
of the Basque Country (UPV/EHU) dissertation.
Kayne, Richard S. 1994. The antisymmetry of syntax. Cambridge: The MIT Press.
Laka, Itziar. 1990. Negation in syntax, on the nature of functional categories and projections.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Dept. of Linguistics & Philosophy dissertation.
Massam, Diane. 2000. VSO and VOS: Aspects of Niuean word order. In Andrew Carnie
& Eithne Guilfoyle (eds.), The syntax of verb initial languages, 97–116. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Massam, Diane. 2001. Pseudo noun incorporation in niuean. Natural Language & Lin-
guistic Theory 19(1). 153–197.
Massam, Diane. 2010. V1 or V2?: On the left in Niuean. Lingua 120(2). 284–302.
Nunes, Jairo. 2004. Linearization of chains and sideward movement. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Ortiz de Urbina, Jon. 1989. Some parameters in the grammar of Basque. Dordrecht: Foris
Publications.
Ortiz de Urbina, Jon. 1994. Verb-initial patterns in Basque and Breton. Lingua 94(2). 125–
153.
Ortiz de Urbina, Jon. 2002. Focus of correction and remnant movement in Basque. In Xa-
bier Artiagoitia (ed.), Erramu Boneta. Festschrift for Rudolf PG de Rijk, 511–524. Bilbao,
Basque Country: University of the Basque Country.
Rezac, Milan. 2008. The syntax of eccentric agreement: The Person Case Constraint and
absolutive displacement in Basque. Natural Language & Linguistic Theory 26(1). 61–
106.
Rijk, Rudolf PG de. 1969. Is Basque an SOV language? Fontes linguae vasconum: Studia et
documenta 1(3). 319–352.
Sheehan, Michelle. 2013a. Explaining the Final-over-Final Constraint: Formal and func-
tional approaches. In Theresa Biberauer & Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Theoretical ap-
proaches to disharmonic word orders, 407–468. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Sheehan, Michelle. 2013b. Some implications of a copy theory of labeling. Syntax 16(4).
362–396.
156
7 Repairing Final-Over-Final Condition violations
Sheehan, Michelle. 2017. The Final-over-Final Condition and the Head-Final Filter. In
Michelle Sheehan, Theresa Biberauer, Ian Roberts & Anders Holmberg (eds.), The Final-
over-Final Condition, 121–150. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Uribe-Etxebarria, Myriam. 2003. Euskararen eta hizkuntza erromanikoen foko egituren
arteko zenbait paralelotasunez. In Euskal gramatikari eta literaturari buruzko jardunal-
diak XXI. Mendearen atarian (i-ii), 437–457.
Williams, Edwin. 1982. Another argument that passive is transformational. Linguistic
Inquiry 13(1). 160–163.
157
Chapter 8
Head-initial postpositional phrases in
North Sámi
Marit Julien
Lund University
Most adpositions in North Sámi are postpositions – they follow their complements in the
surface order. Nouns, on the other hand, invariably precede their complements. Strikingly,
when the nominal complement of a postposition has its own complement, the complement
of the noun follows after the postposition, so that the nominal phrase ends up being discon-
tinuous, split by the postposition. This is an indication that North Sámi postpositions are
prepositions underlyingly, and that the surface order is the result of the complement of P
moving to the Spec of a higher functional head. The complement of the noun is however
spelled out in the lower position. Neither the complement stranding approach of Sheehan
(2009) nor the FOFC of Holmberg (2000) and Biberauer et al. (2008; 2014) can fully explain
this pattern. Instead, in North Sámi a more specific requirement appears to be at work,
which dictates that a postposition must follow immediately after the nominal head of its
complement. A similar effect is seen with possessors, which precede the possessees but also
leave their complements behind in postnominal position.
1 Introduction
There are in principle two possible explanations for the ordering contrast between prepo-
sitional and postpositional phrases. One is that a (possibly local) head parameter gives
prepositions when set to <head first> but postpositions when set to <head last>. The
other is that the underlying order is the same in both cases, so that the two surface orders
result from one or more movement operations.
In this paper I will present data from North Sámi which indicate that postpositional
phrases in this language result from movement of the complement of the adposition from
a position following the adposition to a position preceding it. In other words, North Sámi
postpositions are prepositions underlyingly.
A striking feature of North Sámi postpositional phrases is that if the nominal comple-
ment of the postposition has its own complement, then this complement will follow the
postposition, arguably in the position where it originates. At first glance, the observed
pattern appears to be similar to the complement stranding phenomenon described in
Marit Julien. 2017. Head-initial postpositional phrases in North Sámi. In Laura R. Bailey &
Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Order and structure in syntax I: Word order and syntactic structure, 159–
176. Berlin: Language Science Press. DOI:10.5281/zenodo.1117706
Marit Julien
Sheehan (2009), while the resulting order appears to be consistent with the Final-Over-
Final-Condition proposed by Holmberg (2000) and Biberauer et al. (2008; 2014). If the
constructions in question are investigated in more detail, however, it turns out that they
are not entirely in accordance with either approach. Instead, the surface order seen in
North Sámi seems to reflect a specific requirement that a postposition must immediately
follow the lexical head of its complement.
2 The ordering of nouns and adpositions in North Sámi
In North Sámi, most adpositions follow their complement in the surface order, as in (1).
That is, they are postpositions.1 We can also note that complements of adpositions have
genitive case.2 Here and in following examples I boldface the relevant syntactic head
(adposition or noun) and underline its complement.
(1) mánáidgárddiid
kindergarten.pl.gen
várás
for
‘for (the) kindergartens’
Nouns, on the other hand, precede their complements, while adnominal adjectives
precede nouns. This is shown in (2), where the adjective ođđa ‘new’ and the head noun
láhka ‘law’ precede the complement PP mánáidgárddiid várás ‘for kindergartens’:
(2) ođđa
new
láhka
law.nom
mánáidgárddiid
kindergarten.pl.gen
várás
for
‘a/the new law for kindergartens’
Now if a structure like (2) is to be embedded under a P, the result is as shown in (3):
(3) ođđa
new
lága
law.gen
birra
about
mánáidgárddiid
kindergarten.pl.gen
várás
for
‘about a/the new law for kindergartens’
We see here that the complement of the higher P ends up being discontinuous. While
the noun and the adjective precede the higher P birra ‘about’, the PP complement of the
noun follows the higher P.
The same pattern is seen in all cases where the nominal complement of a postposition
has a postnominal modifier: the postposition invariably appears between the noun and
1North Sámi also has a few prepositions. An example is miehtá ‘all over’, which is shown in (i).
(i) Sii
they
galget
shall.pres.3pl
galledit
visit.inf
joatkkaskuvllaid
secondary.school.pl.acc
miehtá
all.over
riikka.
country.gen
‘They are going to visit secondary schools all over the country.’
2The examples in this paper are taken from the North Sámi corpus developed by Giellatekno, Centre for
Saami language technology at the University of Tromsø. See http://gtweb.uit.no/korp/.
160
8 Head-initial postpositional phrases in North Sámi
the postnominal modifier of the noun. The postnominal modifier of the noun can be a
case-marked noun, as in (4), where the noun olbmuid ‘people’ is modified by the noun
govas, which carries locative case and means ‘in the picture’. As we see, the postposition
birra ‘about’ intervenes between olbmuid and govas.
(4) Eará
other
olbmuid
person.pl.gen
birra
about
govas
picture.loc
sus
s/he.loc
eai
neg.3pl
lean
be.past.conneg
gal
prt
dieđut.
information.pl.nom
‘S/he had no information about other people in the picture.’
One can also note here that the modifying noun govas ‘in the picture’ is only loosely
connected to the head noun olbmuid ‘people’ semantically. In some approaches modi-
fiers of this type would be referred to as “adjuncts”. It is clear, though, that all postnom-
inal modifiers of nouns show the same behaviour when their containing noun phrase is
the complement of a postposition. Thus, in (5) the postpositional phrase mielli alde ‘on
the river bank’, which modifies the head noun johtalus(a) ‘traffic’ and which might be
taken to be an adjunct in the nominal phrase, is separated from that head noun by the
postposition dáfus ‘concerning’ in the same way as the modifying PP is separated from
the head noun in (3):
(5) Johtalusa
traffic.gen
dáfus
concerning
mielli
river.bank.gen
alde,
on
ferte
must.pres.3sg
atnit
consider.inf
čielggasin
clear.ess
ahte
that
…
…
‘Concerning traffic on the river bank, one must consider it clear that …’
Hence, the semantic relation between the head noun and the modifier does not make
any difference. To keep things simple I will refer to all postnominal modifiers as com-
plements.
The complement of the noun can also be an infinitival clause, as in (6), or a finite
clause, as in (7). In either case, the clause follows the postposition – birra ‘about’ in (6),
vuostá ‘against’ in (7) – while the noun and prenominal modifiers precede it.3
(6) Departemeanta
department.nom
sáhttá
can.pres.3sg
addit
give.inf
láhkaásahusaid
statutory.law.pl.acc
gildosa
prohibition.gen
birra
about
guolástit
fish.inf
ja
and
bivdit
hunt.inf
dihto
certain
guovlluin.
area.pl.loc
‘The department can issue statutory laws about the prohibition of fishing and
hunting in certain areas.’
3Nouns that are complements of numerals in the nominative singular appear in the genitive singular in
North Sámi, as seen in (7).
161
Marit Julien
(7) Eanetlohku
majority.nom
jienastii
vote.past.3sg
Sáme-dikki
Sámi-parliament.gen
evttohusa
proposal.gen
vuostá
against
ahte
that
dat
dem.nom
njeallje
four.nom
ođđa
new
áirasa
representative.gen
galget
shall.3pl
mannat
go.inf
dan
dem
sohkabeallái
gender.ill
mii
which.nom
lea
is
unnitlogus.
minority.loc
‘The majority voted against the proposal from the Sámi Parliament that the four
new representatives should go to that gender which is in minority.’
In all likelihood, the noun lága in (3) underlyingly forms a constituent with the PP
mánáidgárddiid várás, just like it does in (2). Similarly, the noun olbmuid forms a con-
stituent with the noun govas in (4), and the same holds of the noun and the PP in (5) as
well as of the noun and the clause in (6) and (7). There are two possible ways in which
the surface order seen in these examples can be derived. Either the postpositions take
their complements to the left, and the final PP in (3), the locative noun in (4), the PP in
(5) and the clauses in (6) and (7) have been moved to the right of the postposition, or
else the postpositions take their complements to the right, but parts of the complements
move to the left of the postposition. In the next section, I will take a closer look at these
two possibilities.
3 Leftward or rightward movement?
Let us start by considering the underlying structure that must be postulated for (3) if
North Sámi postpositions take their complement to the left to begin with. I sketch this
structure schematically in (8). The nominal complement of the postposition P2 precedes
P2, and it consists of the head noun N, the prenominal adjective A and the postnominal
complement PP1. In order not to jump to any conclusions concerning the category of
the nominal complement, I use the label XP here.
(8) a. [PP2 [XP A N PP1] P2]
b. * [PP2 [XP ođđa
new
lága
law.gen
[PP1 mánáidgárddiid
kindergarten.pl.gen
várás]]
for
birra]
about
‘about a/the new law for kindergartens’
From the structure in (8), the order seen in (3) above can be derived by movement of
PP1 to the right of P2, as shown in (9):
(9) a. [[PP2 [XP A N PP1] P2] PP1]
b. [[PP2 [XP ođđa
new
lága
law.gen
PP1] birra
about
] [PP1 mánáidgárddiid
kindergarten.pl.gen
várás]]
for
‘about a/the new law for kindergartens’
162
8 Head-initial postpositional phrases in North Sámi
We see that on the assumption that North Sámi postpositional phrases are head-final,
the operation that is needed to get the right order is descriptively quite simple: all that is
required is movement of the complement of the noun embedded under the higher P. As
indicated in (9), one would probably have to say that the moved constituent right-adjoins
to the higher PP. The problem with this proposal is that there is no obvious motivation
for the movement operation.
As an alternative, one might want to propose that the landing site of the moved com-
plement is the specifier position of a higher head Y, which has PP2 as its complement to
the left and takes its specifier to the right. The resulting structure would be as shown in
(10).
(10) [YP [PP2 [XP A N PP1] P2] Y PP1]
There are however also certain problems with this proposal. Firstly, few or no cases of
specifiers located to the right are attested in natural languages (see e.g. Kayne 1994). Sec-
ondly, the trigger for the movement remains mysterious – what property of Y could
cause attraction of constituents as different as nouns, PPs and finite and non-finite
clauses, across other elements in the nominal phrase?
The assumption that North Sámi PPs are underlyingly head-final does not lead to any
satisfactory explanation for the orders that arise when the nominal complement of P has
its own complement. So let us look instead at the consequences of taking North Sámi PPs
to be underlyingly head-initial. Phrases like the one in (3) would then have the structure
shown in (11) after the higher P has been merged over the nominal phrase:
(11) a. [PP2 P2 [XP A N PP1]]
b. * [PP2 birra
about
[XP ođđa
new
lága
law.gen
[PP1 mánáidgárddiid
kindergarten.pl.gen
várás]]]
for
‘about a/the new law for kindergartens’
Then a movement operation applies to (11) which gives as net result the structure
sketched in (12):
(12) a. [[ZP A N] … P2 [XP A N PP1]]
b. [[ZP ođđa
new
lága
law.gen
] birra
about
[XP ZP mánáidgárddiid
kindergarten.pl.gen
várás]]
for
‘about a/the new law for kindergartens’
Here some constituent ZP, which contains the adjective and the noun, has moved to
the left of the higher adposition, while the complement of N is left behind. However,
there cannot be any constituent that contains the adjective and the noun but excludes
the complement of N. This means that there is more involved in the derivation of (3)
than what is indicated in (12).
One possible derivation is shown in (13). Here PP1 has moved to the Spec of a head
Y which is located above PP2. Assuming that adpositions are associated with functional
163
Marit Julien
domains, one could take Y to be a head in the functional domain of P2. Then the whole
nominal phrase, from which PP1 has been extracted, moves to the Spec of an even higher
head Z, while P2 itself moves to Z, presumably via Y (a step not shown here).
(13) [ZP [XP A N PP1 ] P2-Z [YP PP1 Y [PP2 P2 [XP A N PP1 ] ] ] ]
This derivation might be possible, but it is complicated, and it involves a number of
movement operations that would have to be motivated.
I will propose instead a much simpler derivation, which I sketch in (14). Here the
nominal complement of P moves as a whole to the Spec of a functional head p above P.
The noun, and the elements that precede it inside the nominal phrase, are spelled out in
the higher position, while any phrase YP that is the complement of the noun is spelled
out in the lower position. Thus, the surface order is partly a matter of spellout.
(14) a. [pP [XP A N YP ] p [PP P [XP A N YP ] ] ]
b. [pP [XP ođđa
new
lága PP
law.gen
] p [PP birra
about
[XP ođđa lága [PP mánáidgárddiid
kindergarten.pl.gen
várás]]]]
for
‘about a/the new law for kindergartens’
This analysis has a number of advantages. The problems related to extraction of com-
plements of different types disappear, since there is no extraction of complements. The
landing site is unproblematic, since it is a higher specifier position to the left, and the
trigger is likely to be a feature of the attracting head.
As an alternative to the movement sketched in (14), one might want to propose that
the nominal complement of P raises to the specifier of P. However, it has been proposed
for adpositional phrases in many other languages that they contain functional elements
– see e.g. Koopman (2000) and the articles in Cinque & Rizzi (2010). It is likely, then, that
North Sámi postpositional phrases also contain more elements that just P. We also have
indications that at least some postpositions in North Sámi are structurally complex.
In particular, many postpositions with local meaning come in several variants that are
differentiated by suffixes. Some examples are given in (15):
(15) location goal path
a. bálddas báldii báldal ‘beside’
b. duohken duohkái duogi ‘behind’
c. gaskkas gaskii gaskal ‘between’
d. geahčen geahčai geaže ‘at/to/past the end of’
e. maŋis maŋŋái maŋil ‘after’
f. vuolde vuollái vuole ‘under’
These postpositions consist of an invariant, root-like part plus endings that encode
either location, goal of movement or path of movement. In order to show how this
works in context, I give in (16) one example with each of the three postpositions that
correspond to English under:
164
8 Head-initial postpositional phrases in North Sámi
(16) a. Gávdnen
find.past.1sg
iežan
own.1sg
niibbi
knife.acc
duorggaid
twig.pl.gen
vuolde.
at.under
‘I found my knife under the (heap of) twigs.’
b. Doppe
there
čakŋala
creep.pres.3s
liegga
warm
gokčasa
blanket.gen
vuollái.
to.under
‘There s/he creeps under a/the warm blanket.’
c. Geaidnu
road.nom
manai
go.past.3sg
bávtte
cliff.gen
vuole.
past.under
‘The road passed under a cliff.’
Pantcheva (2011) argues that spatial expressions involve a universal hierarchy of ele-
ments which can be given as follows: Route > Source > Goal > Place. The North Sámi
data are compatible with this claim, although the hierarchical ordering is not directly
visible in this language, since there are no containment relations between the relevant
markers. We can nevertheless take the postpositions in (15) to reflect the postpositional
base, which corresponds to the Axial Part in Pantcheva (2011) and also in Svenonius
(2006), in combination with an element that spells out one of the heads Route, Goal or
Place.4 This means that the North Sámi postpositions are structurally complex, so that
there are landing sites in Spec positions above P for constituents that move out of the
complement of P.
This suffices to motivate the analysis that I propose of the constructions exemplified
in (3–7) above. I will continue to refer to the functional head above P as p, and I will
not discuss its identity any further here. The p head has an EPP feature which forces the
nominal complement of P to move to Spec-pP. This means that the real postposition is p.
But note that the morphology of the complex postpositions shown in (15) suggests that P
head-moves to p, since the elements that I take to be realisations of p are suffixed to the
postpositional bases, which I take to be realisations of P. In any case, if the nominal com-
plement of P contains a complement of N, then this complement of N will obligatorily
be spelled out in the lower position.
4 Sheehan (2009) on complement stranding
Sheehan (2009) discusses data from English which bear a striking resemblance to the
North Sámi examples shown above. In English, PP complements of nouns and adjectives
can in some cases be left behind when the nominal or adjectival phrase moves to a higher
position. Two of Sheehan’s examples are given in (17):
(17) a. A new book has come out about String Theory.
b. How certain are you that the Mets will win?
4There is no specialised marking of Source in North Sámi. Instead, the forms that encode Place can also be
interpreted as Source. However, Svenonius (2009) argues that the source reading is always imposed from
outside of the phrase that carries the marking – for example by a motion verb or by some other element
expressing transition. Hence, there appears to be no reflex of the Source head in this language.
165
Marit Julien
As we see, the PP complement of the noun book in (17a) and the CP complement of
the adjective certain in (17b) have apparently been left behind after movement of their
containing constituent. Sheehan analyses this phenomenon, which she calls complement
stranding, as a consequence of the linearization procedure. I will summarise her analysis
very briefly here.
In the structure in (18), the phrase β has been moved from the complement position
of θ to the specifier position of α. Assuming that asymmetric c-command maps to linear
precedence, in accordance with the Linear Correspondence Axiom (LCA) proposed by
Kayne (1994), Sheehan notes that β’s complement λ does not asymmetrically c-command
anything in either of its positions. Moreover, in its higher position λ2 it cannot be ordered
with respect to α and θ, since it neither asymmetrically c-commands nor is asymmetri-
cally c-commanded by either of them, on her definition of c-command. Consequently,
only the base-generated copy of λ is a legitimate target for PF.
(18) α
β2
δ2 β2
β2 λ2
α
α θ
θ β1
δ1 β1
β1 λ1
However, as Sheehan also points out, this analysis predicts that in a phrase that moves
from a complement position to a specifier position, the complement of the highest head
inside that phrase will be stranded. For example, if the highest head in the nominal
phrase many books about morphology is a Num head, with many located in the NumP
projection, we might expect the complement of Num to be stranded, as in (19a), instead
of the complement of N, as in (19b), the grammatical version.
(19) a. * Many have been borrowed books about morphology.
b. Many books have been borrowed about morphology.
To get around this potential problem, Sheehan suggests that the Num head attracts its
complement to its specifier position, and that this is the operation where the decision to
spell out the complement of N in the low position is made. After movement of the com-
plement of Num, the N will be sitting in a Spec position, so that linearization problems
do not arise if the nominal phrase moves further.
166
8 Head-initial postpositional phrases in North Sámi
Importantly, complement stranding in English is subject to certain restrictions. It is
not allowed in specific DPs or in complements of verbs which force a concrete reading
on their complement. Thus, complement stranding is not possible in (20), where the
moved nominal phrase is definite, nor in (21), where the moved nominal phrase gets a
concrete reading since it is underlyingly the object of destroy:
(20) a. This book about String Theory has finally come out.
b. * This book has finally come out about String Theory.
(21) a. A book about String Theory has been destroyed.
b. * A book has been destroyed about String Theory.
Sheehan (2009) argues that complement stranding is not possible in nominals that are
strong islands. Thus, the possibility of stranding goes hand in hand with the possibility
of extraction. Inspired by Uriagereka (1999) Sheehan takes islandhood to mean that the
phrase in question goes to Spell-Out as soon as it is formed, and she suggests that a D
head triggers Spell-Out – presumably because D is a phase head. It follows that when
a DP is formed, it will go to Spell-Out as a unit, and there can be no subsequent extrac-
tion and no split phonological realisation. But if the nominal phrase is not a DP, it will
go to Spell-Out together with its containing phase, and as a consequence, complement
stranding will be triggered.
Following this line of reasoning, Sheehan further suggests that in cases where com-
plement stranding appears to be optional in English, we are actually dealing with two
different structures: nominals that strand their complements are NPs, while nominals
that do not are DPs.
5 The Final-Over-Final Condition
The Final-Over-Final Condition is a constraint on syntactic ordering originally proposed
in Holmberg (2000) and formulated as follows in Biberauer et al. (2014: 171):
(22) The Final-Over-Final Condition (FOFC)
A head-final phrase αP cannot dominate a head-initial phrase βP, where α and β
are heads in the same extended projection.
In the paper just mentioned, and also in Biberauer et al. (2008), a wealth of data from
many languages is presented as evidence that the generalisation holds.
Concerning the nominal domain, Biberauer, Holmberg & Roberts take adpositions to
belong to the same extended projection as their nominal complements. The pattern seen
in the Finnish examples in (23) (from Biberauer et al. 2014: 187) can then be explained
with reference to the FOFC. The Finnish adposition yli ‘via over, across’ can be a preposi-
tion or a postposition. When it is a preposition, it can take a nominal complement which
contains a PP following the noun, as in (23a). But when it is a postposition, as in (23b),
it cannot.
167
Marit Julien
(23) a. yli
across
[rajan
border
[maitten
countries
välillä]]
between
‘across the border between the countries’
b. * [ rajan
border
[maitten
countries
välillä]]
between
yli
across
Biberauer, Holmberg & Robert then observe that Finnish has an alternative way to
express the contents of the nominal phrase in (23ab), with an adjectival expression in-
stead of a complement PP. The adjectival expression is prenominal, and consequently, a
nominal phrase containing this expression can be embedded under a preposition, as in
(24a), or under a postposition, as in (24b).
(24) a. yli
across
[[ maitten
countries
väli-se-n
between-adj-gen
] rajan]
border
‘across the border between the countries’
b. [[ maitten
countries
väli-se-n
between-adj-gen
] rajan
border
] yli
across
‘across the border between the countries’
The authors do not comment on the internal structure of the nominal phrases seen
in these examples – they just state that the nominal phrase is head-initial in (23) but
head-final in (24). Thus, they take the noun to be the head of the nominal phrase, which
means that the adjectival phrase in (24) must be contained in the projection of the noun.
The FOFC is a descriptive generalisation and does not in itself say anything about
the underlying mechanism. Sheehan (2009) points out that if one assumes, with Kayne
(1994), that the LCA holds, and also that head-final orders result from roll-up movement,
then only one additional restriction is needed to make sure that all resulting orders com-
ply with the Final-Over-Final Condition – namely, that roll-up movement must begin
at the bottom of the tree. It follows that the orders Aux – Verb – Object and Object –
Verb – Auxiliary can be derived, for example, but not the order Verb – Object – Auxil-
iary. On this point Sheehan (2009) is fully in agreement with Biberauer et al. (2014). The
potential advantage of Sheehan’s approach is that it also offers an account of stranded
complements. On her analysis, if a head-initial phrase like [Verb Object] is moved to the
Spec of an auxiliary, then the lower copy of the object will be spelled out, so that the
result is Verb – Aux – Object instead of Verb – Object – Auxiliary. In other words, on
this approach derivations that violate the FOFC are not ungrammatical – they just do
not lead to head-initial phrases being spelled out in front of their selecting heads.
6 North Sámi again
The account of complement stranding and of the FOFC presented in Sheehan (2009)
appear at first glance to be relevant also for the ordering pattern seen in North Sámi
postpositional phrases, where, if a nominal phrase containing a complement of the noun
168
8 Head-initial postpositional phrases in North Sámi
moves to the left of a selecting adposition, then the complement will be spelled out in the
lower position. However, the complement stranding that can be observed in North Sámi
postpositional phrases differs in several respects from the cases of stranding discussed by
Sheehan. Firstly, in the North Sámi case there is no optionality. A noun that moves from
the complement position of P to a position immediately preceding P in the linear order
– to Spec,pP on my analysis – obligatorily leaves its complement behind. This holds also
for nominal phrases that get a specific or definite reading, as seen in examples (25) and
(26).
(25) Modealla
model.nom
lea
is
hukse-juvvon
build-pass.ptcp
dan
dem.gen
ipmárdusa
understanding.gen
nala
upon
ahte
that
lea
is
dásseárvu
equality.nom
guovtti
two.gen
álbmoga
people.gen
gaskka.
between
‘The model is built upon the understanding that there is equality between two
peoples.’
(26) Filbma
film.nom
lea
is
sin
their
agálaš
eternal
rahčama
struggle.gen
birra
about
doalahit
keep.inf
guohtun-eatnamiid.
grazing-land.pl.acc
‘The film is about their ever-lasting struggle to keep their grazing lands.’
North Sámi does not have obligatory articles,5 and the categorical status of nominal
phrases in this language is not entirely clear. It is clear, though, that the demonstrative
dan in (25) and the possessor sin in (26) give their containing nominal phrases a definite
reading. In addition, if we assume that adnominal adjectives are located in designated
Spec positions above nP/NP, as proposed by Cinque (1994; 2010), and that other adnom-
inal modifiers are also related to functional heads, it follows that both nominal phrases
have functional structure above the nP/NP level. The presence of a demonstrative in (25)
and of a possessor in (26) might be taken to indicate that both phrases are actually DPs.
In any case, both phrases are of the type that would not allow complement stranding in
English.
Secondly, while complement stranding is obligatory in postpositional phrases, in other
cases a phrase that moves from a complement position to a specifier position can take
its complement along. An example is seen in the passive construction in (27), where
the nominal phrase headed by gažaldagat ‘questions’ has moved from object position
to the surface subject position. Notably, the complex postpositional phrase which is
the complement of gažaldagat is carried along – without this causing any linearization
problems. Also note that there are no modifiers in front of the highest nominal here, and
the phrase as a whole gets an indefinite reading, so that it appears to be of the type that
would strand its complement in English.
5Nowadays, due to influence from Scandinavian, demonstratives are often used as definite articles while
the numeral okta ‘one’ or the indefinite pronoun muhtun ‘some’ appear as indefinite articles.
169
Marit Julien
(27) Gažaldagat
question.pl.nom
doarjagiid
support.scheme.pl.gen
hárrái
concerning
boazodoallo-šiehtadusa
reindeer.husbandry-agreement.gen
olis
based.on
fertejit
must.3pl
čielggad-uvvot
clarify-pass.inf
dábálaš
regular
šiehtadallamiid
negotiation.pl.gen
bokte.
by.means.of
‘Questions concerning the reindeer husbandry agreement funding scheme must
be settled by means of regular negotiations.’
In (28), a similar nominal phrase, headed by a noun without prenominal modifiers
and allowing an indefinite reading, has left its PP complement behind when moving to
a higher position. The phrase is the sole argument of an unaccusative verb, and it might
be taken to originate in complement position.
(28) Dađistaga
gradually
leat
are
dutkan-gáldut
research-source.pl.nom
lassán-an
expand-ptcp
sápmelaččaid birra.
Sámi.pl.gen about
‘Gradually, research sources about the Sámi have expanded.’
Now consider (29), which is another passive construction. This time the passive sub-
ject has a demonstrative in initial position, which could be taken to mean that it is a DP,
or at least that it has functional structure above nP/NP. Again, it carries its PP comple-
ment along to the surface subject position.
(29) Dát
these
iešguđetge
separate
doaimmat
activity.pl.nom
sáme-giela
sámi-language.gen
várás
for
leat
are
hábme-juvvon
form-pass.ptcp
iešguđetge
separate
sektor-surggiin.
sector-branch.pl.loc
‘These different activities for the Sámi language are designed in the different
sector branches.’
It seems clear that complement stranding is not restricted in the same way in North
Sámi as in English. Moreover, in cases where a nominal phrase moves to the front of a
postposition, and the complement of the noun is a PP, there is in fact roll-up movement
in the lower part of the structure. This was seen in example (3), which I repeat here as
(30a). The structure is shown schematically in (30b).
(30) a. ođđa
new
lága
law.gen
birra
about
mánáidgárddiid
kindergarten.pl.gen
várás
for
‘about a/the new law for kindergartens’
b. [pP2 [XP A N pP1 ] p2 [PP2 P2 [XP A N [pP1 XP p1 [PP1 P1 XP ] ] ] ] ]
Since the complement of the lower P has moved to the lower Spec,pP, there should
be no linearization problems when the XP containing the lower PP moves to the Spec
of the higher p – everything inside XP will precede the lower P, and consequently, all
170
8 Head-initial postpositional phrases in North Sámi
these elements should also precede the higher P after movement. In spite of this, the
complement of the noun is left behind when the nominal phrase moves in front of the
higher P. Hence, linearization does not appear to be the issue here.
If we go on to consider North Sámi postpositional phrases in light of the FOFC, the
first point to be noted is that North Sámi nominal phrases are in fact head-initial. This is
seen in the subject nominal phrase in (31), where the order is demonstrative – numeral
– adjective – noun. In other words, elements that are located higher up in the syntactic
structure consistently precede elements that are located lower down.
(31) Dat
dem.nom
guokte
two.nom
maŋemus
latest
iskosa
test.gen
čájehedje
show.past.3pl
ahte
that
das
it.loc
eai
neg.3pl
lean
be.past.conneg
bakteriijat.
bacterium.pl.nom
‘Those two latest tests showed that there were no bacteria in it.’
Consistently head-final nominal phrases have the opposite order, noun – adjective
– numeral – demonstrative, as in the West Greenlandic nominal phrase in (32) (from
Fortescue 1984: 118):
(32) qimmit
dog.pl
qaqurtut
white.pl
marluk
two
taakku
those
‘those two white dogs’
This means that PPs like those in (25) and (26) clearly violate the FOFC – if the p-P
complex belongs to the nominal extended projection. In (25), the order is Dem – N – P,
while in (26), it is Poss – A – N – P. In both cases, a head-initial phrase precedes the P.
Confronted with these constructions, the FOFC can be saved only if we assume that
the postposition and the noun define separate extended projections. And in fact, this
assumption is not entirely unreasonable, at least not for North Sámi. Many North Sámi
postpositions have developed from nouns, and in many cases the nominal source is still
easily recognised. For example, the string joavkkuid gaskkas can be parsed either as a
possessor followed by a possessee in the locative case, as in (33a), or as a postposition
preceded by its complement, as in (33b).
(33) a. joavkkuid
group.pl.gen
gaskka-s
gap-loc
‘in the groups’ gap’
b. joavkkuid
group.pl.gen
gaskkas
between
‘between the groups’
In (33a) the nominal possessor, while contained in the functional domain of the pos-
sessee, necessarily also has its own functional domain. The example in (33b) could be
taken to have a similar structure, the main difference being that the head of the larger
functional domain here is of the category P.
171
Marit Julien
If the line of reasoning that I have presented here is correct, neither the complement
stranding approach presented in Sheehan (2009) nor the FOFC of Holmberg (2000) and
Biberauer et al. (2008; 2014) can explain the ordering seen in North Sámi postpositional
phrases. In North Sámi, there appears to be a restriction that applies specifically to post-
positions, dictating that when the constituent immediately preceding the postposition
is a nominal phrase, it must have the head noun as its final element. The restriction is
mainly phonological in nature, since it forces the complement of the noun, if there is
one, to be spelled out in the lower position.
An observation can now be added which concerns pronominal phrases. If the com-
plement of a postposition is a pronominal phrase, then the pronoun need not be in final
position within that phrase. An example is given in (34):
(34) Mun
I
jurddašan
think.pres.1sg
nu
so
din
you.pl.gen
(buohkaid)
all.pl.gen
birra.
about
‘I think so much about you (all).’
If D is where person features are located, as Longobardi (2008) proposes, then din
‘you’ is in D, while the quantifier buohkaid ‘all’ is a position below D. Crucially, there is
no requirement that din should appear immediately in front of the postposition, so that
the quantifier can freely be added.6
7 A note on relative clauses
A pattern similar to the complement stranding seen with North Sámi postpositions is
also obligatory in cases where a noun combines with a relative clause. Relative clauses
in North Sámi follow their correlates, as illustrated in (35), where the relative clause maid
áigguiga rasttildit ‘which the two of them wanted to cross’ follows the noun jogaš ‘small
river’:
(35) jogaš
river.dim.nom
maid
which.acc
áigguiga
want.past.3du
rasttildit
cross.inf
‘a small river which the two of them wanted to cross’
If the nominal phrase in (35) is to be the complement of a postposition, the result is
as shown in (36) – the nominal correlate of the relative clause precedes the postposition
while the relative clause follows it:
(36) De
then
olliiga
arrive.past.3du
jogaža
river.dim.gen
lusa
to
maid
which.acc
áigguiga
want.past.3du
rasttildit.
cross.inf
‘Then the two of them reached a small river which they wanted to cross.’
6The pronominal part din is also optional, from a formal point of view, but buohkaid ‘all’ would get a third
person interpretation if din is left out.
172
8 Head-initial postpositional phrases in North Sámi
The construction in (36), with the relative clause separated from its correlate by an in-
tervening postposition, is reminiscent of the cases of relative clause stranding discussed
in Kayne (1994). Kayne assumes a raising analysis of relative clauses, which means that
the correlate originates inside the relative clause and moves to the highest Spec of that
clause. It is then to be expected that the correlate should in principle be able to move
even higher, leaving the relative clause behind.
The raising analysis of relative clauses has attracted much attention. It has however
also been challenged, among others by Platzack (2000) and Schmitt (2000), who both
argued that relative clauses are CP complements of N. A well-known objection against
the raising analysis has to do with morphological case, which presents a problem that
can also be seen in the North Sámi example in (37):
(37) Mun
I
in
neg.1sg
diehtán
know.past.conneg
maidege
anything.acc
dan
dem.gen
dili
situation.gen
birra
about
mas
which.loc
son
s/he.nom
elii.
live.past.3sg
‘I did not know anything about the situation that s/he lived in.’
Here the correlate dili ‘situation’ has genitive case, as a consequence of being the
complement of the postposition, while the relative pronoun mas, which introduces the
relative clause, has locative case, in accordance with the syntactic function of the rela-
tivised element. This situation poses a problem for the raising analysis of relative clauses,
which takes the relative pronoun and the correlate to originate as one constituent. It is
possible to get around the problem – see e.g. Bianchi (2000) – but I would like instead to
consider here the consequences of assuming that the relative clause is the complement
of the correlate.
On a complement analysis of relative clauses, examples like (38) indicate that in North
Sámi, complement stranding applies to relative clauses in the same way as it applies
to other complements of nouns that move to pre-postpositional position, since on this
analysis there is no constituent that contains the noun and the prenominal modifiers –
a demonstrative and an adjective – but excludes the relative clause.
(38) Mun
I
illudin
be.happy.past.1sg
dan
that.gen
čáppa
beautiful
skeaŋkka
gift.gen
ovddas
for
maid
which.acc
Vilges
Vilge.loc
ledjen
be.past.1sg
ožžon.
get.ptcp
‘I was happy for the beautiful present that I had got from Vilge.’
Once relative clauses are included in the discussion, it is also possible to draw a parallel
between postpositional phrases on the one hand and possessor constructions on the
other. As we saw already in (33a), possessors in North Sámi precede the possessee, and
they are marked with genitive case. But if the possessor contains a relative clause, the
relative clause follows the possessee. This is shown in (39), where the possessor phrase
is headed by a pronoun, and in (40), where the possessor phrase is headed by a noun.
173
Marit Julien
(39) Čájeha
show.pres.3sg
maid
also
sin
3pl.gen
nummáriid
number.pl.acc
geat
who.pl.nom
leat
be.pres.3pl
geahččalan
try.ptcp
dutnje
you.ill
riŋget.
call.inf
‘It also shows the numbers of those who have tried to call you.’
(40) Mun
I
galggan
shall.pres.1sg
olbmástalla-goahtit
make.friends-begin.inf
dan
dem.gen
máná
child.gen
váhnemiin
parent.com
gii
who.nom
munno
1.du.gen
máná
child.acc
lea
is
givssidan.
bully.ptcp
‘I will begin to make friends with the parent of the child who has bullied our
child.’
In other words, the possessee intervenes between the nominal head of the possessor
phrase and the complement of that head in the same way as postpositions intervene
between the head of its complement and the complement of that head. Two conclusions
can be drawn from this fact. First, possessors in North Sámi originate in a position which
is lower than the surface position of the possessed noun. Second, the same mechanism
and the same restriction might be at work in possessed nominal phrases as well as in
postpositional phrases. In both cases, the nominal head of a complement nominal phrase
must immediately precede the complement-taking head.
8 Conclusion
We have seen that North Sámi postpositions are not strictly postpositional after all. If the
nominal complement of a postposition has its own complement, then the complement
of the noun will follow the postposition in the linear order, although the noun itself
and all elements that precede it within the nominal phrase precede the postposition. In
other words, in these cases the complement of the postposition gets a discontinuous
realisation.
The observed pattern is not explained by the Final-Over-Final Condition (Holmberg
2000), since the preposed complement of the postposition is head initial. If the postpo-
sition is not a part of the extended projection of the noun, then the Final-Over-Final
Condition does not apply at all. The Complement Stranding approach of Sheehan (2009)
appears to be more relevant, but it turns out that the restrictions that regulate Comple-
ment Stranding in English do not carry over to North Sámi.
My conclusion concerning the North Sámi pattern is as follows. North Sámi postposi-
tions take their complement to the right underlyingly. The complement of P is attracted
to the Spec of p, a functional head above P, but if the nominal head of that complement
has its own complement, the latter will be spelled out in the lower position. However,
this does not happen as a consequence of the linearization problems that Sheehan (2009)
discusses. It is instead due to a more specific requirement that the postposition must fol-
low immediately after the nominal head of its complement. A similar effect is seen with
174
8 Head-initial postpositional phrases in North Sámi
possessors, which are spelled out in prenominal position but leave their complement
behind in postnominal position. As it stands, however, the requirement that I propose
here only refers to the surface order. The deeper nature of the requirement will have to
be investigated further.
Acknowledgements
The research for this paper was financially supported by Bank of Sweden Tercentenary
Foundation, grant no. P12-0188:1.
References
Bianchi, Valentina. 2000. The raising analysis of relative clauses: A reply to Borsley. Lin-
guistic Inquiry 31. 123–140.
Biberauer, Theresa, Anders Holmberg & Ian Roberts. 2008. Structure and linearization
in disharmonic word orders. In Charles B. Chang & Hannah J. Haynie (eds.), Proceed-
ings of the 26th West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics, 96–104. Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla Proceedings Project.
Biberauer, Theresa, Anders Holmberg & Ian Roberts. 2014. A syntactic universal and its
consequences. Linguistic Inquiry 45. 169–225.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 1994. On the evidence for partial N-movement in the Romance DP.
In Guglielmo Cinque, Jan Koster, Jean-Yves Pollock, Luigi Rizzi & Raffaella Zanuttini
(eds.), Paths towards universal grammar, 85–110. Washington, D.C: Georgetown Uni-
versity Press.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 2010. The syntax of adjectives. A comparative study. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Cinque, Guglielmo & Luigi Rizzi (eds.). 2010. Mapping spatial PPs. Vol. 6 (The Cartography
of Syntactic Structures). New York: Oxford University Press.
Fortescue, Michael. 1984. West Greenlandic. London: Croom Helm.
Holmberg, Anders. 2000. Deriving OV order in Finnish. In Peter Svenonius (ed.), The
derivation of VO and OV, 123–152. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kayne, Richard S. 1994. The antisymmetry of syntax. Cambridge: The MIT Press.
Koopman, Hilda J. 2000. Prepositions, postpositions, circumpositions, and particles: The
structure of Dutch PPs. In Hilda J. Koopman (ed.), The syntax of specifiers and heads:
Collected essays of Hilda J. Koopman, 204–260. London: Routledge.
Longobardi, Giuseppe. 2008. Reference to individuals, person, and the variety of map-
ping parameters. In Henrik Høeg Müller & Alex Klinge (eds.), Essays on nominal deter-
mination: From morphology to discourse management, 189–211. Amsterdam: John Ben-
jamins.
Pantcheva, Marina Blagoeva. 2011. Decomposing path. The nanosyntax of directional ex-
pressions. CASTL, University of Tromsø dissertation.
175
Marit Julien
Platzack, Christer. 2000. A Complement-of-N° account of restrictive and non-restrictive
relatives: The case of Swedish. In Artemis Alexiadou, Paul Law, André Meinunger
& Chris Wilder (eds.), The syntax of relative clauses, 265–308. Amsterdam: John Ben-
jamins.
Schmitt, Cristina. 2000. Some consequences of the complement analysis for relative
clauses, demonstratives, and the wrong adjectives. In Artemis Alexiadou, Paul Law,
André Meinunger & Chris Wilder (eds.), The syntax of relative clauses, 309–348. Ams-
terdam: John Benjamins.
Sheehan, Michelle. 2009. The Final-over-Final constraint as a result of complement
stranding. Newcastle Working Papers in Linguistics 15. 104–125.
Svenonius, Peter. 2006. The emergence of axial parts. Tromsø Working Papers in Language
and Linguistics (Nordlyd) 33(1). 49–77.
Svenonius, Peter. 2009. Location and source in North Sámi. Ms., CASTL, University of
Tromsø.
Uriagereka, Juan. 1999. Multiple spell-out. In Norbert Hornstein & Samuel David Epstein
(eds.), Working minimalism, 251–282. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
176
Chapter 9
Probing the nature of the
Final-over-Final Condition: The
perspective from adpositions
Theresa Biberauer
University of Cambridge and Stellenbosch University
This paper considers the behaviour of adpositional structures in relation to the Final-over-
Final Condition (FOFC) as originally formulated in Holmberg (2000). More specifically, it
focuses on superficially FOFC-violating PP-structures of two main kinds – (i) circumposi-
tional structures in which a head-initial locative preposition appears to be dominated by a
head-final directional postposition, and (ii) head-initial PPs surfacing in preverbal position,
i.e. structures in which head-initial PPs appear to be dominated by head-final VPs. The dis-
tribution and internal make-up of these structures, it is argued, points to a characterization
of FOFC that crucially references extended projections, in the sense of Grimshaw.
1 Introduction
This paper considers the behaviour of adpositional structures in relation to the Final-
over-Final Condition (FOFC). FOFC’s initial formulation, due to Anders Holmberg, is
given in (1) (the significance of the unrestricted characterization will become clear below):
(1) The Final-over-Final Condition (FOFC) – unrestricted version
If a phrase α is head-initial, then the phrase β immediately dominating α is
head-initial. If α is head-final, β can be head-final or head-initial. (Holmberg
2000: 124)
Adposition-containing structures pose two distinct challenges to (1). Firstly, we observe
that there are languages, notably including all members of the West Germanic family
and also languages in what Stilo (2005) designates the Iranian “buffer zone” between Tur-
kic and Semitic, that permit circumpositional structures in which a head-initial locative
Theresa Biberauer. 2017. Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition: The per-
spective from adpositions. In Laura R. Bailey & Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Order and struc-
ture in syntax I: Word order and syntactic structure, 177–216. Berlin: Language Science Press.
DOI:10.5281/zenodo.1117694
Theresa Biberauer
preposition appears to be dominated by a head-final directional postposition. Consider
Afrikaans (2) in this connection:1
(2) Hy
he
loop
walk
by
by
die
the
deur
door
uit.
out
‘He walks out of the door.’
Secondly, as first noted by Sheehan (2008), we observe that OV-languages with initial
PPs frequently seem to extrapose these PPs. (3) illustrates:
(3) (Kairiru, Papua New Guinea)
Ei
3sg
porritamiok
axe
a-pik
3sg-take
[gege-i
from-3sg
nat
child
nai].
that
‘(S)he took the axe from that child.’ (Wivell 1981: 151, via Hawkins 2008: 170)
This pattern superficially resembles the head-initial CP-extraposition pattern (near-)
universally observed in OV-languages (see Dryer 2009).2 Consider (4) by way of illustra-
tion:
(4) (Bengali)
Chele-Ta
boy-cf
Sune-che
hear-past.3sg
[je
C
or
his
baba
father
aS
come
-be].
-fut.3sg
‘The boy heard that his father will come.’ (Bayer 2001: 14)
Significantly, CP-extraposition produces a FOFC-compliant structure in languages
which otherwise have the ingredients to produce FOFC-violating structures: as schema-
tised in (5), a head-final VP dominating a head-initial CP, as in (5a), would violate (1);
extraposition of head-initial CP circumvents this, producing a FOFC-compliant struc-
ture (5b):3
(5) a. [VP [CP C TP] V] – FOFC-violating structure
VP
CP
C TP
V
1Unless otherwise indicated, all Afrikaans examples were constructed by the author, a native-speaker. The
data in question is entirely uncontroversial.
2Dryer (2009) highlights two exceptions to the extraposition pattern, Harar Oromo and Akkadian; see Bib-
erauer (2017) for discussion suggesting that even these do not constitute FOFC violations.
3See Holmberg (2000: 135) for discussion of another striking case in which languages with the potential to
violate FOFC – in this case, by being VO-languages with a head-final WANT-element – do not in fact do
so.
178
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
b. [VP V [CP C TP]] – FOFC-compliant structure4
VP
V CP
C TP
To the extent that OV-languages with head-initial PPs extrapose those PPs, they super-
ficially appear to be employing another FOFC-compliance strategy (cf. Sheehan 2013).
Importantly, however, the PP-extraposition pattern differs from the CP-extraposition
one in not consistently being obligatory or, in some cases, even possible.
This paper’s objective is to show how closer investigation of adpositional patterns like
those in (3–4) reinforces the correctness of the view that FOFC is a narrower condition
than originally envisaged in Holmberg (2000). More specifically, I will show that the
notion of ‘Extended Projection’ (Grimshaw 1991 et seq.) is central to its formulation in
the manner stated in (6) (pace i.a. Sheehan 2013; Hawkins 2013, Etxepare & Haddican
2017):
(6) The Final-over-Final Condition (FOFC) – restricted version
A head-final phrase αP cannot dominate a head-initial phrase βP where α and β
are heads in the same Extended Projection.
(Biberauer, Holmberg, et al. 2014: 171)
Against this background, it emerges firstly, that the distribution of head-initial PPs in
OV-languages does not constitute a challenge to the proposal that FOFC is a hierarchical
universal in the sense of Whitman (2008), and, secondly, that attested circumpositional
structures and, similarly, structures where head-final Ps dominate head-initial nominals
also do not appear to instantiate FOFC-violating structures.
The paper is structured as follows: §2 briefly introduces the on-going debate regarding
the nature of FOFC, which, I argue, PPs give us important insight into; §3 then consid-
ers the external distribution of head-initial PPs in OV-languages (these are expected to
require obligatory extraposition on a (1)-type definition of FOFC, whereas a (6)-type defi-
nition does not rule out preverbal placement); §4 focuses on the PP-internal distribution
of head-final Ps in languages with head-initial nominals and/or head-initial Ps (both (1)-
and (6)-type FOFC predict head-final and head-initial Ps not to be able to co-occur in
circumpositional structures, except where the latter dominate the former, giving initial-
over-final structures; and (1)- but not (6)-type FOFC predicts that the combination of
head-initial nominals and head-final PPs should not be attested); §5 concludes.
4(5b) is a simplified structure, which does not correspond to any of the extraposition structures that have
been proposed in the literature; the intention is simply to show that a postverbal head-initial CP will not
violate FOFC. The question of the right analysis for extraposed CPs is a very interesting one in relation to
which numerous questions remain open (see Biberauer & Sheehan 2012 for some FOFC-oriented discussion
and references; see also note 10).
179
Theresa Biberauer
2 FOFC: What kind of condition is it?
FOFC has been argued to hold over a wide range of domains, ruling out structures includ-
ing the following (see Biberauer, Holmberg, et al. 2014; Sheehan et al. 2017 for overview
discussion and references, also of cases that superficially appear to instantiate the struc-
tures below):
(7) a. *[VP VO] Aux
b. *[VP VO]… C
c. *[PolP Pol TP] C
d. *[Asp Asp VP] T
e. *[D(em)P [NumP Num NP] D(em)]
It has also been shown to regulate diachronic change, including that taking place
in contact scenarios (see Biberauer et al. 2009; 2010). Word-order changes necessarily
proceed along FOFC-compliant pathways of the kind schematized in (8) and not along
FOFC-violating routes like those in (9) [FOFC-violation bold underlined in each case]:
(8) a. [[[O V] I] C] > [C [[O V] I]] > [C [I [O V]]] > [C [I [V O]]]
b. [C [I [V O]]] > [C [I [O V]]] > [C [[O V] I]] > [[[O V] I] C]
(9) a. *[[[O V] I ] C] > [[I [O V] ] C] > [C [I [O V]]] > [C [I [V O]]]
b. *[[[O V] I] C] > [[[V O] I] C] > [[I [V O]] C] > [C [I [V O]]]
c. *[C [I [V O]]] > [C [[V O] I]] > [C [[O V] I]] > [[[O V] I] C]
d. *[C [I [V O]]] > [[I [V O]] C] > [[[V O] I] C] > [[[O V] I] C]
Given evidence such as the above, the question that arises is what kind of condition
FOFC in fact is. Proposals to date include that it is a:
(10) a. (tendential) processing/parsing effect (Cecchetto 2013; Hawkins 2013,5 Philip
2013; Mobbs 2015)
b. (tendential) product of diachronic forces (Whitman 2013)
c. superficial/“late” PF condition (Sheehan 2013; N. Richards 2016, Etxepare &
Haddican 2017)
d. deep syntactic condition (Biberauer et al. 2009 et seq., Cecchetto 2013)
5It is worth noting that Hawkins (2013) disputes the validity of FOFC as a distinct condition on word-order
variation, pointing out that it appears to be simultaneously too strong (in ruling out attested structures,
including those that are the focus of this paper), and too weak (in failing to rule out unattested structures
that don’t meet the characterisation in (1) (see following note), but seem intuitively similar, e.g. extraposed
head-final CPs of the kind we will discuss in §3.2; see (i) below; and, if one adopts (6) – which Hawkins
rejects – the absence of head-initial relative clauses in languages with head-final nominals; see (ii) below).
(i) * [VP V [CP TP C]] – unattested (Hawkins 1990; though see §3.2 and note 29)
(ii) * [NP [CP C TP] N] – unattested (Lehmann 1984)
His analysis therefore attempts to account for FOFC-type disharmony in processing-efficiency terms that
also apply to initial-over-final (i.e. inverse-FOFC) disharmony.
180
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
With the exception of Cecchetto (2013), which we discuss under (10d) below, (10a,b)-
type approaches allow for less commonly attested, but nevertheless genuine exceptions
to (1)/(6):6 FOFC on this view is a statistical universal, no different to the more ro-
bust of the cross-categorial word-order generalizations initially proposed by Greenberg
(1963). Distinguishing between three sub-types of Greenbergian generalization – cross-
categorial, hierarchical and derivational generalizations (Whitman 2008: 234; see also
§5 below) – Whitman (op. cit.) argues that cross-categorial word-order generalizations
are necessarily statistical, with Whitman (2013) specifically arguing that this is also the
case for FOFC, interpreted as in (6). (10a,b), then, do not specifically rule out any of the
structures we are concerned with in this paper, although processing and/or historical
considerations may limit their attestation. They will be relevant to the present discus-
sion in that we will consider the extent to which the types of external (processing and/or
diachronic) forces proposed by the relevant authors correctly predict the (un)availability
of the adpositional structures that are the main focus of this paper.
(10c) allows for syntax-internal final-over-initial structures, as long as these are not re-
alized as such at PF, i.e. spellout considerations of different kinds preclude the realization
of FOFC violations, with the result that apparent violations, such as those under discus-
sion in this paper, must be shown to instantiate structures that do not pose the same spell-
out obstacle as unattested final-over-initial structures. For Sheehan (2013) and Etxepare
& Haddican (2017 [this volume]), who build on Sheehan’s analysis, FOFC-effects arise as
a result of a linearization difficulty that emerges in the presence of complex specifiers (cf.
also Uriagereka 1999, who first observes that LCA-based linearization of such specifiers
requires an “induction step” over and above the “basic” asymmetric c-command state-
ment standardly associated with the LCA of Kayne 1994).7 As this difficulty arguably
does not arise where a complex specifier has already been spelled out, a situation which
has been argued to produce islands (see Sheehan 2013 for discussion and references),
such structures are expected to be permitted. In the FOFC domain, this produces the
prediction that apparently FOFC-violating structures will involve a head-initial island
dominated by a head-final structure, regardless of the categorial specifications of the
initial and final phrases: as the linearization difficulty outlined above applies equally to
all complex specifiers, regardless of whether they are categorially the same or different
to the projection with which they are merging, Sheehan is necessarily committed to the
6Cecchetto and Hawkins both assume unrestricted FOFC as in (1), while Whitman operates with restricted
(6). The class of FOFC-violating structures that their approaches predict to be disfavoured, but nevertheless
possible are therefore different, with the former authors interpreting a larger range of actually attested
structures as being FOFC-violating – not only those in which a head-final XP dominates a head-initial one
within its own Extended Projection, but also those in which this configuration involves a head-final XP
dominating a head-initial one belonging to a different Extended Projection (e.g. a head-final VP dominating
a head-initial PP, one of the cases of interest in this chapter).
7Worth noting here is that Sheehan and Etxepare & Haddican, like Biberauer, Holmberg, et al. (2014), assume
head-final orders to be derived via some kind of movement. In these terms, a head-initial XP located in
a (derived) specifier position constitutes a potential FOFC-violation; whether it is a real violation or not
depends on the different assumptions these authors make about the nature of FOFC (see main text).
181
Theresa Biberauer
unrestricted FOFC in (1).8 Consider (11), which depicts the linearization options for com-
plex specifiers in Sheehan’s (2013) system; YP represents a complex specifier and Z the
head whose specifier it has, in accordance with standard minimalist assumptions about
how structure is generated, merged (11a) or moved (11b,c) to create:
(11) a. [ZP [YP Y XP] Z …]
b. [ZP [YP Y XP] Z … [YP Y XP]]
c. [ZP [YP Y XP] Z … [YP Y XP]]
(11a) represents the case of a complex specifier spelled out in its first-merge position;
the prediction is that these will necessarily be islands, with YP having been spelled out
prior to merger with Z. (11b) involves a moved complex specifier, which has again been
spelled out prior to movement, with the result that it can be spelled out in its derived
position, again as an island. (11a)- and (11b)-type structures will be superficially FOFC-
violating as Z will give the appearance of being final in relation to head-initial YP. (11c),
on the other hand, involves a complex specifier which has not been spelled out prior to
merger with Z; in Sheehan’s system, head-initial YP cannot be spelled out in its derived
position, requiring a “scattered deletion”-type operation which produces an extraposi-
tion structure, Y-Z-XP (see Sheehan 2013 for details). For this proposal, then, superfi-
cially FOFC-violating head-initial island-containing structures are predicted to be possi-
ble, and we also expect to see extraposition structures of a particular kind in contexts
where a non-island apparently FOFC-violating structure might be expected. The exam-
ples in (12) illustrate – in simplified form – how this proposal would apply in the case
of potentially FOFC-violating VOAux structures (a broadly Kaynian analysis is assumed,
and strikethrough indicates lower copies):
(12) a. *… þæt
that
[TP ænig
any
mon
man
[VP atellan
relate
[DP ealne
all
þone
the
demm]]
misery
mæge
can
]
[pseudo-Old English, based on attested (12b)]
b. [TP þæt
that
ænig
any
mon
man
[VP atellan
relate
ealne þone demm]
all the misery
mæge
can
[atellan
relate
ealne
all
þone
the
demm]]
misery
> þæt ænig mon atellan mæge ealne þone demm
‘… that any man can relate all the misery … ’
[Old English, Pintzuk 2005: 13 (coorosiu, Or_2:8.52.6.998), cited in Sheehan
2013: 429]
Here the idea is that VP movement into the Aux-domain would result in the creation
of a complex specifier containing the moved VO-VP. If VP were an island, it could be
spelled out in the pre-auxiliary position, giving VOAux order of the kind illustrated in
(12a). This is a scenario which potentially arises for VP-fronting structures in null-subject
8This means that not only the, in crosslinguistic terms, less common structures that are of central interest in
this paper, but also undeniably more widely attested structures like head-initial nominals in OV languages
must be interpreted as involving head-initial islands wherever they surface preverbally (see Sheehan (2013)
for initial discussion).
182
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
languages.9 Since “regular” (i.e. non-focused or topicalized) VPs presumably do not
constitute islands, however, (12a) is unattested, not only in Old English, but also more
generally. What we do see, however, are structures like that illustrated in (12b), where V
is spelled out in pre-Aux position with O following; this is Sheehan’s “scattered deleted”
structure (11c) above, i.e. [TP [VP V O] T [VP V O]].10
9The Sardinian example below illustrates:
(i) Sardinian
[CP [VP Tunkatu
shut
su
the
barkone
window
] C [TP asa-T]].
have.2sg
‘It’s shut the window you have!’ (Jones 1988: 339)
Here we have surface VOAux, but the structure, crucially, involves A-bar movement. VP can therefore
plausibly be viewed as an island, with the result that it does not violate FOFC on Sheehan’s account. It
likewise does not violate FOFC on the Extended Projection (EP)-oriented analysis advocated in BHR and
also in this paper as FOFC only applies to structures in which the specifier is occupied by the categorially
identical head-initial XP that constitutes the complement of its head, i.e. where the EP-sister of a head X
has “rolled up” into its specifier (see Biberauer 2017 for more detailed discussion).
The German examples in (ii) underline the striking difference between VOAux involving basic/neutral
structures – which exhibit the ill-formedness expected in terms of FOFC (iib) – and VOAux structures
involving non-neutral/A-bar movement-containing structures – which are well-formed (iia) (here, as else-
where, we offer simplified structural representations):
(ii) a. Colloquial German
[CP [VP Gesprochen
spoken
mit
with
ihr]
her
hat-C
has
[TP er
he
that nicht
not
mehr
more
tVP]]
‘As for speaking with her, he no longer did that.’
b. * … dass
that
er
he
nicht
not
mehr
more
gesprochen
spoken
mit
with
ihr
her
hat.
has
c. … dass
that
er
he
nicht
not
mehr
more
gesprochen
spoken
hat
has
mit
with
ihr.
her
‘… that he didn’t talk to her anymore.’ (Haider 2013: 80)
Exactly the same pattern emerges in Afrikaans, which permits PP-stranding much more readily than
German.
10Assuming CP-complements to be embedded within a (non-island-inducing and often not overtly realized)
nominal shell, as suggested for different reasons by i.a. Kayne (2008); Arsenijević (2009); Moulton (2009;
2013; 2015); Biberauer & Sheehan (2012), and Franco (2012), the CP-extraposition pattern that is typical
of “non-rigid” OV-languages with head-initial CPs instantiates this “scattered deletion” pattern. This is
schematized in (i), with (ii) providing an example from Afrikaans:
(i) [VP [nP n [CP C TP]] V [nP n [CP C TP]]]
(ii) Hy
he
het
has
dit
it
geweet
known
[CP dat
that
ons
us
nie
not
‘n
a
kans
chance
het
have
nie.]
pol
‘He knew it that we didn’t have a chance.’
Of course, if CPs are embedded within this type of nominal shell, preverbal head-initial CPs would not
violate FOFC on (6)-type interpretations of this condition, raising the question why they are nevertheless
always extraposed, a matter I will not go into here. Also worth noting is the fact that the grammatical
PP-extraposition structure in (iic) in the immediately preceding footnote instantiates a further case of the
“scattered deletion” structure predicted by Sheehan’s proposals.
183
Theresa Biberauer
Richards’ PF-oriented proposals, in turn, rule out FOFC-violating structures occurring
within the same phasal domain, or, more accurately, within the same spellout domain,
with these latter corresponding to the domains defined by the original Phase Impenetra-
bility Condition proposed in Chomsky (2000) and schematized for (a simplified version
of) the clausal domain in (13) (see N. Richards 2016: Chapter 5 for detailed discussion):
(13)
[CP Spec C [TP Spec T [vP Spec v [VP Spec V]]]]
Phase Head 2 Phase Head 1x
Spellout domain 2 Spellout domain 1
For Richards, then, FOFC is an even more restricted condition than (6), holding only
within, but not across phasal domains, and thus also not across an entire Extended Projec-
tion. VOAux is therefore ruled out wherever the VO-containing VP and Aux are spelled
out together upon completion of a phase. One circumstance where this applies would
be where V raises to v and the auxiliary is merged within the T-domain, as the v- and
T-space will always be spelled out together at the point where C is merged; another is
where V remains in situ, but the auxiliary is merged within the first phase, below the
phase head (rather clearly, the proposal would make incorrect predictions in the absence
of suitably articulated phasal domains, i.e. clausal structure entailing more than the bare
V-v-T-C structure typically cited in the minimalist literature; see Biberauer & Roberts
2015 for discussion of one route via which to “join up” bare minimalist and more articu-
lated approaches to clause structure).11 Where Aux is T, VO-Aux is, in principle at least,
available, which looks to be correct if we consider the attestation of VOT(ense) struc-
tures, featuring specifically Tense-marking auxiliaries: as already noted by Greenberg
(1963), who consequently excluded non-inflecting auxiliaries from his V, O and Aux in-
vestigations, VOT is attested in systems where T does not inflect (see also Dryer 1992
and Biberauer 2017 for discussion, and see note 9 for another superficial VOAux structure
that would be compatible with Richards’ proposals). One complication here is the fact
that there is no obvious explanation for why languages with inflecting T-auxiliaries do
not permit VOAux structures, which seems to be the case (cf. Biberauer 2017 for further
discussion).
11To the extent that they had not yet grammaticalised into T-elements, but instantiated spellouts of lower,
non-phasal v-related heads, the Old and early Middle English auxiliaries would instantiate the types of
auxiliary elements that Richards’ proposals would predict to be incompatible with VOAux configurations,
an accurate prediction (see Biberauer & Roberts 2010 for discussion of the plausibility of assuming non-T
status for auxiliaries at the relevant stage). If, as is commonly assumed, the relevant pre-auxiliary con-
structions were biclausal, though, it is less clear that VOAux would be predicted to be ruled out. This looks
like the incorrect prediction for earlier English, but it might fit with recent discoveries about the syntax
of Latin, which permitted VO-Aux structures under certain clearly defined circumstances (cf. Danckaert
to appear for discussion); these circumstances would, however, also be amenable to explanation on the
basis of a (6)-type interpretation of FOFC. As the details remain to be worked out, we leave this matter
aside here, noting only that Richards’ proposals do entail different predictions for mono- and biclausal
VOAux-containing structures.
184
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
The same question arises in relation to C-elements in VOC structures. For Richards,
VOC is predicted to be possible where C belongs to the same clause as V, e.g. where
it is a matrix C-particle of the type found in Sinitic and many other languages (cf. Bib-
erauer 2017 for discussion); these particles are never spelled out at the same time as
V, even if V undergoes raising into the higher phase. Structures of this type certainly
exist, as predicted. More problematically, though, Richards’ approach predicts that em-
bedded clauses with VO-ordering should be compatible with final C-heads (e.g. com-
plementizers). This is, however, strikingly at odds with typological findings about the
distribution of non-particle subordinating complementizers (see again Dryer 2009, and
also Biberauer 2017): VOC of this type simply does not seem to occur (see Biberauer
2017 for discussion of the two apparent counterexamples, neither of which ultimately
constitute genuine VOC structures). Precisely why there should be such a striking dif-
ference between (subordinating) Complementizer elements of the kind that typologists
have traditionally paid attention to and complementizer-particles is unclear on this ap-
proach.12 More generally, the question for this approach, as should now be clear, is why
the “inflecting” versus “non-inflecting” distinction should matter as it seems to: “inflect-
ing” elements may not surface in FOFC-violating structures, regardless of how close or
far a final inflecting element is from head-initial structure that is also part of its projec-
tion line (=Extended Projection), while “non-inflecting” elements may, again seemingly
irrespective of the distance between them and the projecting initial element.
In the specific context of the structures we will be focusing our attention on here,
Richards’ approach does not rule out [VP [PP P DP] V]-type structures as PP defines its
own spellout domain, meaning that PP and V could combine to produce structures of the
type found in West Germanic and discussed further in §3.1. To the extent that final Ps can
be shown to be located in a higher phase than the head-initial XPs they dominate (see
§4 below), it also does not exclude [PP [PP P DP] P]- or [PP [DP D NP] P]-type structures.
As we will see below, this approach is therefore as “strict” as the strictest version of (10d)
when it comes to the adpositional structures that are the primary concern in this paper.
These two approaches do, however, differ in respect of the predictions they make about
the nature of the final elements dominating the head-initial XPs, a point we will return
to in the following sections.
The final type of approach, (10d), outright bans the generation, at any stage of the
syntactic derivation, of FOFC-violating structures; in other words, for these researchers,
the ban on FOFC-violating structures is “deep”, extending to the syntactic computation,
12By contrast, the (6)-type, Extended Projection-oriented interpretation of this condition does allow us to
understand why particle and inflecting instantiations of “the same” category do not distribute identically
as far as FOFC is concerned. The key here is that particles can, on independent grounds, be shown not to
be part of the Extended Projection of the verb, while the complementizers that have been the traditional
focus of typological research – which typically encode multiple clause-related properties (subordination,
force, finiteness, mood, etc.) – rather clearly are, at least on the assumption that Extended Projection-
defining elements share features, with the result that they can Agree with one another (see Biberauer 2017
for further discussion).
185
Theresa Biberauer
which may not at any point produce final-over-initial structures.13 These approaches
also crucially understand FOFC as in (6), i.e. as a condition which necessarily makes
reference to Extended Projections. In terms of this type of approach, then, VOAux and
VOC are always ruled out where Aux and C can be shown to contribute to the Extended
Projection of the verb, i.e. where they reflect or are sensitive to formally encoded14
verb-related properties like finiteness, mood, agreement, etc. (see Biberauer 2017 for
detailed discussion). To the extent that elements that have been designated as ‘particles’
do not give evidence of a formal connection with the verb (see note 15), we expect them
to be able to surface in apparently FOFC-violating structures, thus accounting for the
structures mentioned above and also those more generally discussed in Biberauer (2017).
Strikingly, Cecchetto (2013) proposes a parsing-motivated rationale as the basis for
the “deep” ban on FOFC assumed in (10d)-type approaches. Building on Hawkins’ Perfor-
mance-Grammar Correspondence model – i.e. the idea that grammars conventionalize
syntactic structures in proportion to their degree of preference in performance – and the
dependency-parsing ideas originally proposed to account for the Right Roof Constraint
(Fodor 1978, Rochemont 1992) and elaborated in Ackema & Neeleman (2002), Cecchetto
argues that structures in which a selecting head follows and is not immediately adjacent
to the head it selects will never become conventionalized in Hawkins’s sense; as a result,
structures of this type are ruled out for “deep” reasons. Importantly, his approach dis-
tinguishes between heads that select another head within a single Extended Projection
(e.g. v and V or C and T) and heads which select elements outside of their Extended
Projection (e.g. V and P).15 The former are heads which select for the specific featural
content of the selected head, and thus, by hypothesis, have to precede it to satisfy parsing
13Haider (2013) also explicitly states that FOFC-violating structures are ruled out by his Basic Branching
Condition (BBC) as this Condition requires functional heads always to be head-initial, regardless of the
headedness of the lexical projection they dominate (cf. p.71 and section 5.2 for discussion). Crucially,
however, this holds only of derived functional heads, i.e. those which are the target of head-movement
or “feature attraction” (long-distance Agree, effectively). In his own words, “a functional projection is a
functional extension of a lexical projection if and only if the lexical content for the non-lexical functional head
position is derived. … Note that according to this definition, a projection of a lexical functional head (e.g. a
lexical Complementizer or a determiner) does not qualify as the functional extension of the complement of
the functional head.” (emphasis in the original; p.71). Final complementizers or question markers are thus
equally ruled in, as his note 7 directly states, leaving us with no account of the VOC discrepancy that also
poses a challenge for Richards’ analysis (see main-text discussion), or, indeed, of any structures in which
a “functional head is furnished with its own lexical content” (ibid.).
14The formally encoded qualification here is crucial: auxiliary and complementizer-elements which are sen-
sitive to semantic properties that give no evidence of having been formally encoded via features that are
visible Narrow Syntax-internally (cf. Chomsky 1995, Biberauer 2011 et seq.) in the relevant verbal system
will, by hypothesis, not lead acquirers to postulate a formally instantiated connection between auxiliaries
and complementizers; following on from Grimshaw’s original definition of ‘Extended Projection’, we take
the formal connection between verbs and higher verb-related elements like auxiliaries and complemen-
tizers to be crucial in establishing whether an element qualifies as part of an Extended Projection and,
hence, whether it obeys (6)-type FOFC or not. Cf. also Wiltschko (2014 et seq.) on the difference between
projecting versus modifying elements, which delivers the vital distinction in play here.
15CPs take on an interesting place in this context, clearly not being part of the same Extended Projection as
the selecting V, but differing from nominal and adpositional selectees in sharing the [V]-related features
associated with verbal Extended Projections. We leave this challenging case aside here, but see also note
11.
186
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
requirements; the latter involve heads which arguably select for phrasal complements
(PPs) rather than individual heads, with the result that head-head adjacency is not specif-
ically required. In one of the cases of interest to us in this paper, for example, V selects
for a PP, rather than the P-head of the PP; as the featural relationship is between V and
a phrase, that phrase can precede its selector, with the location of the head of the phrase
being immaterial.16
Insofar as the specific focus of this paper is concerned, then, head-initial PPs in OV
languages are not predicted by (10d)-analyses to be problematic, and neither are postposi-
tions dominating head-initial nominals that can be shown not to be part of the Extended
Projection of the nominal; similarly, postpositions dominating prepositions in circum-
positional structures will only be problematic if they are part of the same Extended Pro-
jection. The difference between (10c) and (10d) is thus that the former predicts FOFC to
hold across a more limited domain within an Extended Projection, with the latter also
highlighting the relevance of the formal make-up of elements within an Extended Pro-
jection – broadly speaking, the difference between Extended Projection-defining heads
versus non-projecting/modifying elements.
Having introduced the nature of the debate surrounding the nature of FOFC, let us
now consider the adpositional structures that are our principal focus in this paper.
3 The external distribution of head-initial PPs in
OV-languages
This section will be concerned with the external distribution of head-initial PPs in OV-
languages. If FOFC is unrestricted, as in (1), we would expect systems of this kind either
to extrapose their head-initial PPs in the manner observed for head-initial CPs (cf. (4)
above), or, if Sheehan (2013) is correct, for preverbally occurring head-initial PPs to be is-
lands, with “scattered deletion” structures arising where this is not the case (cf. 11b vs 11c
above). If FOFC is restricted as in (6) or as in N. Richards’s (2016) proposal, head-initial
PPs are not expected to show any special behaviour. If external considerations such as
processing are a factor, we expect the relevant processing considerations to determine
the nature of possible versus impossible structures. What we will see is that the distri-
bution of head-initial PPs in OV languages does not exhibit the patterns (10a,b) would
lead us to expect; both (10c) and (10d) are compatible with the observed data, however.
We start with a consideration of OV Germanic (§3.1), before looking specifically at
languages which, at first sight, appear to exhibit the obligatory PP extraposition pattern
predicted by unrestricted (1-type) interpretations of FOFC, i.e. (10c)-type approaches
(§3.2).
16Cf. also i.a. Baltin (1989), Payne (1993), Williams (2003), Sportiche (2005), Bruening (2009), Fowlie (2014),
and Bruening et al. (2015) for argumentation focusing on completely different phenomena that also points
to the fact that selection across Extended Projections is fundamentally different to selection within an Ex-
tended Projection. This is also necessarily the case in the context of theoretical approaches like Nanosyntax
(cf. i.a. Starke 2009 and Pretorius in progress for discussion).
187
Theresa Biberauer
3.1 The distribution of head-initial PPs in OV West Germanic
In all OV West Germanic languages, it is unproblematic for head-initial PPs, like nominal
complements, to surface preverbally. The illustrations in this section will mostly come
from Afrikaans, the most extraposition-tolerating modern OV Germanic system. As (15)
shows, mixed OV/VO Mòcheno,17 which extraposes even more readily than Afrikaans,
also permits preverbal PP-placement (the labelled bracketing is simplified for expository
convenience):
(14) (Afrikaans)
a. Ek
I
het
have
[VP [PP in
in
die
the
bos]
bush
geloop].
walked
‘I walked in the bush.’
b. Ek
I
sal
shall
[VP die
the
presente
presents
[PP vir/aan
for/to
hulle]
them
gee].
give
‘I will give the presents to them.’
c. Ek
I
het
have
[VP [PP (vir)
for
haar]
her
gegroet].
greeted
‘I greeted her.’
(15) (Mòcheno)
Gester
yesterday
hot
has
der
the
Mario
Mario
en
to
de
the
Maria
Mary
a
a
puach
book
gem.
given
‘Yesterday Mario gave Mary a book.’ (Cognola 2012: 46)
(14a,b) illustrate the preverbal placement of adjunct and argument PPs respectively,
while (14c) instantiates an innovated structure in modern Afrikaans, a form of differential
object-marking involving the preposition vir, which also serves, as (14b) shows, as one
of the options for marking indirect objects. As the comparison between (16a) and (16b)
shows, vir is optional where an object has undergone leftward scrambling, but obligatory
where it is in its unscrambled position:
(16) a. Ek
I
het
have
(vir)
for
haar
her
/
/
Sarie
Sarah
gister
yesterday
gegroet.
greeted
‘I greeted her/Sarah yesterday.’
b. Ek
I
het
have
gister
yesterday
*(vir)
for
haar
her
/
/
Sarie
Sarah
gegroet.
greeted
‘I greeted her/Sarah yesterday.’
17Mòcheno, also known as Fersentalerisch, is an Upper German variety spoken in three villages in the Fersina
valley in the Trentino province of northern Italy. Like neighbouring Cimbrian, it has been strongly influ-
enced by contact with local varieties of Italian.
188
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
Assuming, in line with standard assumptions about West Germanic scrambling (cf. i.a.
M. Richards 2004, Haider 2005, and Chocano 2007), that scrambled elements are located
outside of VP, whereas their unscrambled counterparts are located VP-internally, the
data in (16) mean that Afrikaans has innovated a context in which a head-initial PP is
dominated by a head-final VP, namely (16b). This is contra what we might expect on
the unrestricted interpretation of FOFC in (1), where it should never be possible for any
head-initial XP to be dominated by a head-final XP.18 Even more significantly in view
of the (1)-induced expectation that OV-languages with initial PPs should permit these
to be extraposed (cf. (3) above), it is completely impossible to extrapose a differentially
object-marked nominal. As (17) shows, such objects are as unextraposable (17a) as their
non-object-marked counterparts (17b) and nominal objects more generally (17c):
(17) a. * Ek
I
het
have
gister
yesterday
gegroet
greeted
vir
for
haar
her
/
/
Sarie.
Sarah
b. * Ek
I
het
have
gister
yesterday
gegroet
greeted
daardie
that
meisie.
girl
c. * Ek
I
het
have
gister
yesterday
gelees
read
daardie
that
boek.
book
Further, as (18) shows, it is (colloquially) possible to extrapose from a differentially
object-marked object (18b):
(18) a. Ek
I
het
have
net
just
gister
yesterday
vir
for
Sarie
Sarah
wat
what
by
by
Sam-hulle
Sam-them
bly
stay
gegroet.
greeted
‘I greeted Sarah who lives with Sam and them just yesterday.’
b. Ek
I
het
have
net
just
gister
yesterday
vir
for
Sarie
Sarah
gegroet
greated
wat
what
by
by
Sam-hulle
Sam-them
bly.
stay
Strikingly, however, this extraposition does not resolve the superficial violation of (1)
– [VP [PP P DP ] V] – although it does decrease the number of elements that need to be
parsed in order to identify the verb’s PP-complement, which is in line with the Minimize
Domains component of Hawkins’ (1994 et seq.) processing proposals.19 It also does not
reflect the kind of extraposition pattern predicted by Sheehan’s (2013) approach: a non-
island PP-complement would, on this proposal, be expected to be linearized as in (19),
which is, however, ungrammatical:
18It is usually thought (pace Haider 2013 and this author’s previous work) that the verbal functional structure
immediately above VP is also head-final in West Germanic systems, meaning that scrambling of a head-
initial PP will still result in a configuration where a head-final PP is dominated by a head-final verbal
XP; the point here, though, is that vir-structures of the kind illustrated in (16b) represent a novel final-
over-initial structure, i.e. an innovation of the kind that FOFC should rule out (see Biberauer et al. 2009,
Biberauer et al. 2010).
19Minimize Domains (MiD): The human processor prefers to minimize the connected sequences of linguistic
forms and their conventionally associated syntactic and semantic properties in which relations of combi-
nation and/or dependency are processed. (Hawkins 2004: 32)
189
Theresa Biberauer
(19) a. … [PP vir Sarie wat by Sam-hulle bly] gegroet [PP vir Sarie wat by Sam-hulle
bly]
b. * Ek
I
het
have
net
just
gister
yesterday
vir
for
gegroet
greeted
Sarie
Sarah
wat
what
by
by
Sam-hulle
Sam-them
bly.
stay
As already hinted at above, there are other kinds of head-initial PPs in Afrikaans
– and also to a lesser extent in Dutch and to an even lesser extent in German – that
can extrapose, particularly in the spoken language. Consider the following examples
(the judgments below reflect those of the author and, additionally, 11 native-speakers,
who were asked to consider the acceptability of these structures in their own spoken
Afrikaans20):
(20) a. Ek
I
het
have
geloop
walked
in
in
die
the
bos.
bush
(contrast 14a)
‘I walked in the bush.’
b. Ek
I
sal
shall
die
the
present
present
gee
give
vir
for
/ aan
to
⁇ hulle
them
/ iemand
someone
wat
what
dit
it
sal
shall
waardeer.
appreciate
‘I will give the present to them/someone who will appreciate it.’
c. Ek
I
het
have
gereken
counted
op
on
hom.
him
‘I counted on him.’
(21) a. … dat
that
ek
I
[AP [PP met
with
die
the
antwoord]
answer
tevrede]
satisfied
is.
am
‘… that I am satisfied with the answer.’
b. … dat
that
ek
I
[AP tevrede
satisfied
[PP met
with
die
the
antwoord]]
answer
is.
am
c. … dat
that
ek
I
[AP tevrede]
satisfied
is
am
[PP met
with
die
the
antwoord].
answer
Here we see that adjunct PPs readily extrapose (20a), while argument PPs can be more
resistant to extraposition, although weight considerations of the sort that one might
expect to play a role in an approach like that of Hawkins (1994 et seq.) can ameliorate
argument-extraposition to the point of full acceptability (20b). Since argument PPs do
not constitute islands – cf. the stranding examples in (22c) and (23c) – the requirement
that precisely these head-initial PPs must be placed before their selector and cannot be
extraposed constitutes a challenge to Sheehan’s proposed analysis, in terms of which,
recall, superficially FOFC-violating structures like [VP [PP P DP] V] and [AP [PP P DP] A]
are predicted to involve head-initial islands:
20My informants were all native-speakers of Afrikaans, who either live in South Africa or use the language
daily. They ranged in age from 17 to 65, and none are speakers of a markedly regional variety.
190
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
(22) a. (Afrikaans)
Ek
I
het
have
[VP [PP op
on
hom]
him
gereken].
counted
‘I counted on him.’
b. (Standard Afrikaans)
Op
on
wie
who
het
have
jy
you
[VP [PP op wie ] gereken]?
counted
‘On whom were you counting?’ (piedpiping)
c. (Colloquial Afrikaans)
Wie
who
het
have
jy
you
[VP [PP wie21 op
on
wie ] gereken?]
counted
‘Who were you counting on?’ (stranding)
(23) a. Ek
I
is
am
[AP [PP met
with
daardie
that
student]
student
tevrede].
satisfied
‘I am satisfied with the answer.’
b. (Standard Afrikaans)
Met
with
wie
who
is
are
jy
you
[AP [PP met wie] tevrede]?
satisfied
‘With whom are you satisfied?’ (piedpiping)
c. (Colloquial Afrikaans)
Wie
who
is
are
jy
you
[AP [PP wie
with
mee wie] tevrede]?
satisfied
‘Who are you satisfied with?’
Importantly, PP-selecting verbs like reken in (20c) differ from ditransitives like gee in
(20b) in that they do permit extraposition as an alternative to preverbal placement. In-
terestingly, the same is true for the PP-complements of adjectival predicates; thus (21c)
is as readily accepted by the informants I consulted as (21a), while (21b) is more marked,
but was nevertheless also accepted by all informants. Here, both Hawkins’ and Shee-
han’s proposed analyses may facilitate insight into the observed extraposition patterns,
though not into the optionality between (21a) and (21c); further, neither of these ap-
proaches would seem to have anything to say about the difference between (21b) and
the corresponding verbal-complement pattern, VOAux, which is, of course, sharply un-
grammatical – cf. (iib) in note 10, which is presented as (24a) here, with (24b) showing
that the same pattern holds for Afrikaans:
21There is strong evidence that wh-extraction in Afrikaans, as in other (West Germanic) languages, involves
extraction via the PP-edge (cf. Abels 2003; 2012 for detailed discussion). As (23c) shows, a subset of
Afrikaans Ps undergo form-change when wh- and other pronominal elements pass through their speci-
fiers; in this case, met (‘with’) becomes mee.
191
Theresa Biberauer
(24) a. (German)
*… dass
that
er
he
nicht
not
mehr
more
[AuxP [VP gesprochen
spoken
[PP mit
with
ihr]]
her
hat]
has
b. (Afrikaans)
*… dat
that
hy
he
nie
not
meer
more
[AuxP [VP gepraat
spoken
[PP met
with
haar]]
her
het]
has
Importantly, PP-complements of copulas constitute an exception to the pattern that
has emerged above: regardless of length, they cannot be fully extraposed (25b)22; where
a complement-PP features independently extraposable material (e.g. the adjunct-PP in
25c), extraposition of this latter material is, however, possible, something which fits with
the more general pattern in Afrikaans:
(25) a. … dat
that
ek
I
by
by
die
the
huis
house
met
with
die
the
eindelose
endless
tuine
gardens
is.
am
‘… that I am at house with the endless gardens.’
b. *… dat
that
ek
I
is
am
by
by
die
the
huis
house
(met
with
die
the
eindelose
endless
tuine).
gardens
c. … dat
that
ek
I
by
by
die
the
huis
house
is
am
met
with
die
the
eindelose
endless
tuine.
gardens
As was the case for (18b) above, the extraposition pattern in (25c) does not ameliorate
the (1)-type FOFC-violation, although it does conform to MiD (see note 20).
Taken together, then, what the OV West Germanic data considered here seem to show
is that:
• head-initial PPs are not banned from positions in which they superficially appear
to violate (1), with some structures, like the copula-complements just considered
(25), and the differentially marked objects discussed in (16–18), actually requiring
superficially (1)-violating structures, and that
• it does not appear to be the case that all of the apparently (1)-violating structures
constitute islands (cf. the data in 22–23).
Unexplained at this point, however, is why PP-extraposition should seem to be nec-
essary in at least some OV-systems outside of West Germanic. This fact, first noted by
Sheehan (2008), leaves open the possibility that West Germanic head-initial PPs may
be crosslinguistically unusual and thus deserving of more detailed study in the FOFC
context. The following section presents an empirical argument that this is not in fact
the case, and that the conclusion reached here – namely that the external distribution of
head-initial PPs in OV Germanic points to the inadequacy of (1)-type and also of at least
some PF-oriented interpretations of FOFC – should stand.
22This mirrors the more generally observed pattern in Dutch, which, as Broekhuis (2013: 65) notes, consis-
tently requires predicative complements to precede their selector, regardless of its nature.
192
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
3.2 The distribution of head-initial PPs in OV systems more generally
As Sheehan (2008; 2013) notes, head-initial PPs in OV systems are less common than
head-final PPs in VO systems, i.e. the distribution of disharmony predicted by FOFC.
Consultation of the World Atlas of Language Structures (WALS 2013) reveals that the cur-
rent survey features just 14 OV and preposition systems, as opposed to 41 VO-languages
with postpositions. Worth noting here, though, is that the West Germanic languages,
like others exhibiting both pre- and postpositions, are not included in this total.23 Never-
theless, what Sheehan (2008) showed for the 10 OV-plus-preposition systems registered
in WALS 200824 is that 5 of these (Persian, Neo-Aramaic, Iraqw, Päri and Tobelo) neces-
sarily require PPs to be extraposed, while Mangarrayi does not obviously have Ps, and
all the other systems, barring Sorbian, permit both pre- and postverbal placement of
PPs.25 (25), deriving from Sheehan (2013: 435–436), illustrates structures from two of the
obligatorily PP-postposing systems:
(26) a. (Päri)
Á-lw’ʌʌr’
1sg-fear
kí
prep
kwàc.
leopard
‘I am afraid of leopards.’ (Anderson 1988: 303)
b. (Iraqw)
I-
3sg-
na
past
ta’<a’>ín
run<hab>3sgm
ay
prep
dí-r
place.f-con
konkomo.
cock
‘He ran to the place where the cock was.’ (Mous 1993: 100)
Evidently, then, there are languages that avoid (1)-violating PP-V structures via an
extraposition pattern that superficially resembles the CP-extraposition pattern in (4);
furthermore, those that do not obligatorily do so all, with the exception of Afro-Asiatic
Tigré (see below), belong to a single language family, Indo-European.
Closer consideration of the obligatory-extraposition systems – Persian, Neo-Aramaic,
Iraqw, Päri and Tobelo – however highlights an important fact about the nature of the
OV found in these systems: they are what Hawkins (2008) terms OVX systems, i.e. lan-
guages in which only nominal objects precede the verb, but elements of other kinds (e.g.
PPs, CPs, etc.) follow it. For Hawkins, these languages are “basically VO” (see below and
note 29 for further discussion)26, a typological observation which is also readily under-
standable in (broadly Kaynian) generative terms. In these terms, these systems can be
insightfully distinguished from more systematic (i.e. more consistently head-final) OV-
languages in respect of the trigger underlying head-final orderings: in OVX languages,
23The OV-plus-preposition systems given in WALS 2013 are: Central Kurdish (Indo-European), Persian (Indo-
European), Tajik (Indo-European), Sorbian (Indo-European), Iraqw (Afro-Asiatic), Neo-Aramaic (Afro-
Asiatic), Tigré (Afro-Asiatic), Tigrinya (Afro-Asiatic), Päri (Nilo-Saharan), Tobelo (West Papuan), Tuvaluan
(Austronesian), Mangarrayi (Australian), Kuku-Yalanji (Australian), and Tapiéte (Tupian).
24These 10 are those given in the previous footnote, except Kuku-Yalanji, Tapiéte, Tigrinya, and Tuvaluan.
25Sorbian is known to have had contact with German, which also exhibits fairly rigid, though, as noted in
the previous section, not exceptionless PP-V behaviour.
26Interestingly, Persian and Neo-Aramaic are known to have derived from initially VO-systems.
193
Theresa Biberauer
this is a specifically nominal-oriented trigger (e.g. a phi-probe on v); in more gener-
ally OV-systems, v (and, possibly, a contiguous subset of the verbal heads dominating
it) will have a less specialized trigger – possibly a “blind” diacritic of the kind assumed
in Biberauer, Holmberg, et al. (2014) – resulting in more V-final patterns;27 and in rigid
OV-languages (e.g. Japanese and Malayalam), the “blind” diacritic is associated with all
the heads making up the clausal spine, delivering consistently V-final structures. This
gives the (simplified) OV-typology in (27) (cf. Biberauer & Sheehan 2013 for discussion
and references):
(27) a. rigid OV: consistently V-final, e.g. Japanese, Malayalam, Sinhala, Korean,
Kannada
b. intermediate OV: DP/PP-V-CP/PP, e.g. West Germanic, Turkish, Hindi
c. OVX OV: DP-V-X, e.g. Nupe, Mande (Niger-Congo), Päri, Iraqw, and
Neo-Aramaic
Taking this into account, then, we can understand obligatory PP-extraposition as a
reflex not of a FOFC-compliance strategy of the kind observed in the CP-domain (cf.
again (4) above and also the discussion below), but, instead, of a particular type of OV-
system.
That this seems to be the correct conclusion is strongly suggested by a very surprising
and, to the best of our knowledge, to date unremarked-on fact about the nature of the PPs
in OVX systems. As Hawkins (2008: 183) shows in a table demonstrating the headedness
of PP in OVX systems (see Table 1 below), 14/21 languages that he considers (i.e. 67%)
are postpositional, and, of the remaining 7 languages, some are designated as having “no
dominant order”. Table 1 reproduces Hawkins’ table, while (28) illustrates OVX systems
which extrapose postpositional PPs:
Table 1: Headedness of PP in different types of OV and VO languages
Language type Postpositions Prepositions or No dominant order
XOV 97% (32) 3% (1)
OXV 94% (15) 6% (1)
OVX 67% (14) 33% (7)
VO 14% (22) 86% (134)
27As will be clear from the discussion in §3.1, structures in which PPs and CPs “leak” past V are possible in
these systems. On the view that head-final structures are always derived, data of this kind can be accounted
for by appealing to devices like a “scattered-deletion” mechanism of the kind proposed by Sheehan (2013;
see main text) or remnant fronting which strands the extraposed XP. What is crucial is that the explanation
should allow us to understand the difference between extraposable and non-extraposable XPs, which is, as
things stand, an unresolved matter.
194
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
(28) a. (Supyire)
U
2sg
sí
fut
sìɲciiyí
firewood.def
cya
seek
mìì
1sg
á.
post
‘She will fetch firewood for me.’ (Carlson 1994: 274)
b. (Koyraboro Senni)
Ay
1sg
ga
impf
nooru
money
wiri
seek
ay
1sg
baaba
father
ga.
post
‘I will seek money from my father.’ (Heath 1999: 139)
The OVX PP-facts, then, constitute a striking exception to the more general head-
initial orientation of OVX systems: where we might have expected the postverbal PPs
in OVX systems to be head-initial, making these systems more VO-like in the usual
generative sense (i.e. more consistently head-initial), what we in fact find is that these
PPs are head-final, i.e. that there are at least two lexical heads in these systems that
are head-final.28 In the present context, the fact that the extraposed PPs are head-final
is particularly significant as it suggests that PP-extraposition in OVX systems is not
correlated with PP-headedness in the way that CP-extraposition is. To see this, consider
Bayer’s (2001) discussion of CP-placement possibilities in languages like Bengali which
have both initial and final C-elements. These can be schematized as follows:
(29) a. V [CP C [TP…]]
b. [CP [TP …T] C] V
c. * [CP C[TP…]] V
d. ⁇ V [CP [TP …T] C]
Here we see that head-initial CPs must be extraposed (29a vs 29c) and that head-
final CPs are perfect in preverbal position and only very marginally available (hence:
28It is worth noting that Hawkins’ characterization of OVX languages as “basically VO” is not undermined
by the fact that these languages so frequently have head-final PPs. This becomes clear from the way he
leads into the table representing the adpositional headedness facts (Table 1 in the main text): ”The OVX
languages should be more head-initial and have head ordering correlations more like those of VO. … For
correlations involving postpositions vs. prepositions within a PP as XP, there is a clear tendency in this
direction: one third of OVX languages have either prepositions or no dominant order within PP and are
transitional between the overwhelmingly postpositional XOV and OXV and the predominantly preposi-
tional VO” (p.183). In clausal placement terms, then, postverbal PPs fit the VO pattern, departing from the
preverbal placement patterns – XOV and OXV – observed in OV languages. To the extent that OVX lan-
guages can be shown to have been “more OV” – i.e. more consistently head-final and thus less amenable
to extraposition – at earlier points in their history, it may be that the 14 OV languages in Hawkins’ sam-
ple afford insight into the way in which OV languages become more VO at the lowest levels of clausal
structure: PP extraposition precedes a change in PP headedness. From a (1)-type FOFC perspective, this
would be the expected sequence as VP dominates PP, and head-final to head-initial changes are expected
to proceed top-down (cf. (8) above); on the (6)-type view being advocated here, the sequence of changes
could as easily be the reverse, though, as V and P do not form part of the same extended projection line.
As stable OV systems with head-initial PPs are clearly attested (see main text), there do not seem to be
FOFC-based grounds for ruling out the reverse sequence of changes. Systems which have undergone these
changes – like Persian and Neo-Aramaic (see note 27) – would nevertheless be interesting to investigate.
195
Theresa Biberauer
⁇) postverbally (29b vs 29d).29 Extraposition of head-final CPs, then, appears to be,
at best, very marginal, whereas head-final PP-extraposition is required in two-thirds of
OVX systems (cf. Table 1).
OVX systems clearly merit much closer attention than has been the case to date –
also because the obligatory extraposition of postpositional PPs would seem to entail a
decrease in processing efficiency, a point that Hawkins (2008) does not address.30 For
our purposes, though, it seems that the following conclusions can be drawn about the
FOFC-relevant insights afforded by the external distribution of PPs in OV-languages:
(i) uncontroversial unrestricted (i.e. (1)-type) FOFC-violating preverbal prepositional
PP structures can be found in West Germanic and elsewhere (Persian, Sorbian,
etc);
(ii) obligatory PP-extraposition in OV-languages is characteristic of OVX-type OV lan-
guages, which are “minimally OV”, exhibiting many traits found in VO languages,
i.e. there is an independent reason why we see PP-extraposition in the relevant
languages, one which is not in force in more fundamentally OV languages; and
(iii) because PP-extraposition affects postpositional PPs twice as frequently as prepo-
sitional PPs, PP-extraposition cannot be viewed as a FOFC-compliance strategy
parallel to CP-extraposition; it appears to apply independently of the need to cre-
ate FOFC-compliant structures.
Taken together, these facts suggest, firstly, that a more restricted (6)-type interpreta-
tion of FOFC is required, and also that the distribution of PPs in OV-languages cannot
always be viewed as being straightforwardly dictated by processing considerations (see
again note 31).
29 That head-final CP-extraposition is not crashingly bad in the way immediately preverbal placement of
head-initial CPs is (29d vs 29c) is worth noting in the context of one of Hawkins’ (2013) objections to FOFC
as a condition that is too weak (see note 6). Hawkins’ argument is that the two structures are equally bad,
but this does not seem to be the case.
30That the postverbal placement of head-final PPs is not predicted to be optimal in processing efficiency
terms is shown in the schematic representations in (i-ii) below:
(i) [VP [PP NP P] V]]
(ii) [VP V [PP NP P]]
As the structures show, immediately preverbal placement – XVO as in (i) – would be more efficient as
selectee and selector are immediately adjacent in this case, in contrast to (ii), where the NP necessarily
intervenes between V and the PP it selects (since PPs always extrapose in OVX languages, we can reason
on the basis of selected – i.e. argument – PPs as these will necessarily be affected in the way described here;
it is, of course, the case that PPs can also function as adjuncts). Interestingly, a preliminary investigation
of the distribution of Hungarian PPs – which are most commonly postpositional – reveals that native-
speakers are very happy to accept these in postverbal rather than the optimal preverbal position when
the PPs in question are short (3 words, rather than 5 or 7 words; cf. Benson 2016 for discussion). Cursory
investigation of some of the OVX languages listed on WALS suggests that length may more generally be
a relevant consideration as the languages in question lack articles, and nominals appear to extrapose their
complements, in the same way that Vs in these languages generally do. These patterns clearly deserve
more detailed investigation.
196
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
In the following section, we will consider evidence from the internal make-up of PPs in
languages featuring superficially (6)-type FOFC-violating structures in order to further
support this conclusion.
4 The internal distribution of head-final Ps in languages
with head-initial Ps (and nominals)
Our presentation in this section will again focus mostly on Afrikaans, a language that
has been described as having all of the ingredients that are of principal interest to us here,
namely prepositions, postpositions and circumpositions (and head-initial nominals).
4.1 A closer look at the Afrikaans adpositional system
(30) illustrates Afrikaans’ head-initial nominals, prepositions, postpositions and circum-
positions:
(30) a. die
the
boek
book
oor
about
Chomsky
Chomsky
‘the book about Chomsky’
b. Hulle
they
loop
walk
die
the
bos
bush
in/
in
skool
school
toe.
to
‘They walk into the bush/to school.’
c. Hy
he
loop
walk
by
by
die
the
huis
house
uit.
out
‘He walks out of the house.’
If in and toe in (29b) combine with head-initial die bos/skool as part of the Extended
Projection of N, as shown in (31), they will violate (6)-type FOFC (see i.a. Ledgeway 2012,
and Sheehan & van der Wal 2015 for an argument in favour of the idea that Ps constitute
part of the Extended Projection of fully extended nominals):
(31) PP
NP
D NP
P
Similarly, by die huis uit in (30c) will violate (6)-type FOFC if it can be shown that uit
dominates by, as diagrammed in (32):
197
Theresa Biberauer
(32) PP
PP
P NP
P
This does indeed seem to be the case as closer inspection of Afrikaans circumposi-
tional structures reveals – and the same is true, more generally, for (non-English) West
Germanic (cf. den Dikken 2010a and Koopman 2000; 2010 for two much-cited, com-
prehensive discussions of Dutch). More specifically, prepositions in these structures
typically express location, while postpositions express direction,31 and it is by now well
established that Pdir dominates Ploc as shown in (33):32
(33) PdirP
PlocP
Ploc NP
Pdir
Various considerations, however, point to the need for care when it comes to simply
assuming that Afrikaans’ pre- and postpositions are equivalent types of element which
can therefore be equally straightforwardly interpreted as elements belonging to the same
Extended Projection. Consider, for example, the data in (34–37):
(34) a. Hulle
they
het
have
[PP in
in
die
the
bos]
bush
geloop.
walked
‘They walked (around) in the bush.’
b. Hulle
They
het
have
geloop
walked
[PP in
in
die
the
bos].
bush
‘They walked (around) in the bush.’
(35) a. Hulle
they
het
have
[PP die
the
bos
bush
in]
in
geloop.33
walked
‘They walked into the bush.’
31See Pretorius (2015; in preparation) for more detailed discussion, which also highlights some counterexam-
ples to this generalization, however (see also J. Oosthuizen 2000, and H. Oosthuizen 2009).
32To the extent that Pdir can be shown to be part of a different phasal domain to Ploc , it will not violate
the very restricted FOFC assumed by N. Richards (2016). In phasal terms, Pdir could well be a plausible
candidate for p (cf. Svenonius 2007; 2010), but we leave this matter aside here as it will emerge in the main
text that there are good reasons not to worry about postpositional Pdir as a violator of less restricted (6)-
type FOFC; in other words, the restriction that Richards’ proposed analysis would impose is not required
as there are independent considerations.
198
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
b. *Hulle
they
het
have
geloop
walked
[PP die
the
bos
bush
in].
in
Here we see a striking difference in extraposition possibilities, apparently depending
on whether the PP is headed by a preposition or a postposition. Thus the PP headed
by the prepositional (locative) in in (34) readily undergoes extraposition (cf. also the
extraposition cases illustrated in (20–22) above), but it is not possible to extrapose post-
positional PPs like (35). The data in (36–37), however, highlight the fact that this pre-
versus postpositional distributional dichotomy is too simple:
(36) a. Hulle
they
het
have
[PP vir
for
reën]
rain
gebid.
prayed
‘They prayed for rain.’
b. Hulle
they
het
have
gebid
prayed
[PP vir
for
reën].
rain
‘They prayed for rain.’
(37) a. Hulle
they
het
have
[PP daarvoor]
there.for
gebid.
prayed
‘They prayed for it.’
b. Hulle
they
het
have
gebid
prayed
[PP daarvoor].
there.for
‘They prayed for it.’
(38) a. (Colloquial Afrikaans)
Hulle
they
het
have
[PP vir
for
dit]
it
gebid.
prayed
‘They prayed for it.’
b. Hulle
they
het
have
gebid
prayed
[PP vir
for
dit].
it
‘They prayed for it.’
As (37b) shows, postpositions can extrapose when they are combined with so-called R-
pronouns, i.e. pronouns in which a superficially locative R-containing form has replaced
the expected pronominal form: here daar (‘there’) has replaced neuter dit (‘it’), for ex-
ample. Strikingly, though, it is not just the form of the pronoun that differs from what
might be expected here; the P also takes on a different form as vir in (36) becomes voor
in (37). The expected pronominal and prepositional forms are both possible in colloquial
Afrikaans, but must co-occur as indicated in (38).34
33The adposition in offers a particularly clear illustration of the dominant preposition = location while post-
position = direction pattern in Afrikaans. The same pattern holds in Dutch (see i.a. den Dikken 2010b:
27).
34Vir daar (‘for there’) and voor dit (‘before it/that’) are both possible in Afrikaans, but have different mean-
ings, as the bracketed translations indicate.
199
Theresa Biberauer
Appealing to similarities with the behaviour of adpositions in Hungarian and other
languages, Vos (2013) proposes that voor is in fact the agreeing counterpart of vir. That
this is the correct intuition will become clear from our discussion of (47) below. For the
moment, it suffices to note the important point that Afrikaans postpositions appear to
be of at least two types: a non-alternating, non-extraposable type of the kind illustrated
in (35), and an alternating, extraposable type of the kind illustrated in (37).
Focusing, then, on the extraposition discrepancy between preposition-containing (34)
and postposition-containing (35): Pretorius (2015) suggests a potential reason for it, pro-
posing that postpositions in Afrikaans, for the most part, instantiate the particle-com-
ponent of particle verbs (I suggest that the alternating postpositions just introduced are
the exception here, a matter to which we return below). Simplifying greatly, this has
implications of the following kind for (35) (in the representations to follow, we leave
aside considerations such as the fact that the object DP would probably have to originate
to the left of the particle V in (4.1a’), where the moved object DP would be located, etc.):
(39) a. Hulle
they
het
have
[PP die
the
bos
bush
in]
in
geloop.
walked
(=35a) 7
‘They walked into the bush.’
a.’ Hulle het [VP [DP die bos] [particleV in geloop35 ]]. 3
b. * Hulle
they
het
have
geloop
walked
[PP die
the
bos
bush
in].
in
(=35b)
The idea here is that in is structurally represented in such a way that it is spelled out
as part of V as in (4.1a’), rather than as part of the object as in (35/4.1a). This proposal
rests on an intuition – fleshed out in more detail in Pretorius (2015; in preparation), but
developed in a different way here – that also underlies the proposal made in den Dikken
(2010b) for (standard spoken) Dutch, and part of what Aelbrecht & den Dikken (2013)
propose in their analysis of identical doubling structures in certain Belgian varieties (e.g.
Asse, illustrated in 40b), namely that postpositional elements are structurally deficient.
To see how this is the case, consider, firstly, the data in (40):
(40) a. (Afrikaans)
Hulle
they
het
have
in
in
die
the
bos
bush
in
in
geloop.
walked
‘They walked into the bush.’
b. (Asse Dutch)
Hij
he
is
is
op
on
den
the
berg
hill
op
on
geklommen.
climbed
‘He climbed onto the hill.’
35Importantly, in geloop (‘walked in’) here is distinct from ingeloop (‘done in, cheated’). The distinction is
readily captured by appealing to the distinction between separable (in geloop) versus non-separable parti-
cle verbs, though. Worth noting is that Afrikaans spelling conventions do not reflect the analysis proposed
here; instead, they distinguish between “regular” particle verbs, which are written as a single word, and
postposition-containing structures, in which the postposition – which, here, is simply another verbal par-
ticle – is written separately from the verb. I will continue to follow the Afrikaans spelling conventions in
my presentation and discussion of the data.
200
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
Here we see sentences in which apparently identical pre- and postpositions create
what seems to be a circumpositional structure, with the usual directional interpretation
associated with these structures.36 Importantly, both in loop (‘walk in’) and op klim
(‘climb up’) exist as (directional) particle verbs in the respective varieties. Drawing on
the further observation that both Dutch and Afrikaans have silent go, which surfaces in
structures like (41) (cf. Van Riemsdijk 2002 and Biberauer & Oosthuizen 2011), a (simpli-
fied) structure of the kind in (42) suggests itself to account for (40):
(41) a. (Afrikaans)
Hy
he
is
is
dorp
town
toe
to
[gegaan].37
gone
‘He has gone to town.’
b. (Gaan)
Sy
she
moet
must
lughawe
airport
toe
to
[gaan].
go
‘She must go to the airport.’
(42) VdirP
PlocP
Ploc
in
DP
die huis
Vdir’
go PpathP
Ppath
in
tPlocP
In (41), we see directionally interpreted structures that superficially lack a lexical verb.
Van Riemsdijk (2002) provides convincing argumentation that this is only apparently
the case, and that a silent motion verb, go, is in fact present in the structure. If this silent
verb is also present in directional circumpositional structures like (40) and in directional
postpositional structures more generally, we can understand why the “postpositions” in
both types of directional structures are not in fact postpositions at all. Consider (42) to
36As J. Oosthuizen (2000) and Aelbrecht & den Dikken (2013) both note, certain colloquial varieties appear
to be in the process of extending this pattern to locative PPs; but it is clear in both cases that directional
PPs were the starting point for this unusual pattern, an important consideration in view of the availability
of silent go (see main text).
37Since Afrikaans differs from Dutch in lacking have vs be auxiliary selection in compound tenses, it might
at first sight seem implausible to assume the presence of van Riemsdijk’s silent go in structures like (41a),
which contains a form of be. Given the systematic discrepancies between null and overt elements of “the
same” kind, however (cf. i.a. Nunes 2004; Kayne 2010; Biggs 2014; Douglas 2015 and Biberauer 2017), and
also the minimal specification associated with be in Afrikaans, as in Dutch, this become less troubling,
however.
201
Theresa Biberauer
see why this is so. In this simplified structure, we follow den Dikken (2010a; 2010b) in as-
suming a PP-structure in which PLocP is selected by PPathP which is, in turn, potentially
dominated by PDirP (see also Koopman 2010 for a variant of this proposal). The presence
of silent go, however, raises the possibility of structures in which the directionality com-
ponent is represented not by a fully-fledged PDirP, but instead, by a V that incorporates
Dir, the silent VDir go, i.e. a structure in which the PP-component is defective, with part
of what PPs can contribute to directional meaning being contributed by the verbal en-
tity with which they combine rather than by the PP itself.38 Significantly in the current
context, this structure does not violate (6)-type FOFC.
That directional postpositions appear to be defective compared to locative preposi-
tions has already been demonstrated in (34–35) above, and the same discrepancy emerges
when we consider the few directional prepositions in Afrikaans relative to their postpo-
sitional counterparts. Contrast (43) with (35), repeated here as (44), for example:
(43) a. Hy
he
het
has
na
to
die
the
swembad
swimming.pool
gehardloop.
run
‘He ran to the swimming pool.’
b. Hy
he
het
has
gehardloop
run
na
to
die
the
swembad.39
swimming.pool
(44) a. Hulle
they
het
have
die
the
bos
bush
in
in
geloop.
walked
‘They walked into the bush.’
b. *Hulle
they
het
have
geloop
walked
die
the
bos
bush
in.
in
While prepositional na-PPs can extrapose, postpositional in-phrases like those in (35/
44b) cannot. Aelbrecht & den Dikken (2013) propose that the PDirP-component of iden-
tical doubling structures lacks the full functional structure associated with the locative
component of the circumposition: in lexicalization (and also “spanning”; see note 38)
terms, we can think of this as doubling Ps being unspecified for dir, with the result that
they cannot themselves project PdirP (in in (42) is the head of PPathP). Here, we pro-
pose that this is also more generally true of directional postpositions in Afrikaans (and
in West Germanic more generally).
This has two immediate consequences. The first of these is that PPath will incorpo-
rate with Vdir, and, from there, into the lexical verb with which the Vdir-structure is
ultimately merged. Assuming the approach to incorporation in Roberts (2010), PPath
constitutes a defective goal in relation to Vdir, as it lacks the dir-specification present
38In Pretorius (2015), these options are conceived of as the consequence of different ‘spanning’ choices (cf.
Svenonius 2011; 2016).
39Significantly, the circumpositional variant of this structure, in which na is reinforced by toe – Hulle het
gehardloop na die swembad toe – is also readily acceptable, in sharp contrast to the pattern to be discussed
below and illustrated in (43). We return to this matter below.
202
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
on the latter head;40 the incorporated PPath-Vdir-structure, in turn, is plausibly a defec-
tive goal in relation to the lexical verb, which will bear verbal specifications typical of
fully-fledged overt lexical items (cf. again the references cited above on the idea that
null elements lack properties associated with their overt “counterparts”, and i.a. Peset-
sky 1995 and Bošković & Lasnik 2003). Taken together, these incorporations predict that
postpositional Ps in Afrikaans (and Dutch) will always precede the lexical verb. This,
in turn, allows us to understand why extraposition structures such as those in (35/44b)
are barred: postpositional in must incorporate with a higher verbal head in order to be
licensed, and, as such, cannot surface in the kind of non-adjacent, rightward position
that extraposition structures would require. Further, thanks to this dependence on the
relevant lexical verbs, the P-V combinations are recognized by native-speakers as (sep-
arable) particle verbs of the transparent (rather than idiomatic; cf. Wurmbrand 2000)
kind.
The second immediate consequence is that we can understand the unavailability of
Afrikaans (and Dutch) postpositional PP-extraposition as another manifestation of a
more widely observed pattern in terms of which only “full” structures are extraposable
(cf. i.a. Wurmbrand 2001: 294, Hinterhölzl 2005: 15, Biberauer & Sheehan 2012: 32ff, and
Sheehan & van der Wal 2015: 8–9 for different versions of this idea). In West Germanic
and many other OV-systems, for example, we observe that full CP-complements sur-
face in postverbal position (cf. again (4) above, and (45a) below), while reduced clausal
complements necessarily appear to the left of the verb (45b):
(45) a. (German)
Es
it
scheint,
seems
[CP dass
that
der
the
Hans
John
sich
self
rasiert].
shaves
‘It seems that John is shaving himself.’
b. … dass
that
Hans
Hans
[TP sich
self
zu
to
rasieren]
shave
schien.
seemed
‘… that Hans seemed to shave himself.’
c. * … dass
that
Hans
Hans
schien
seemed
[TP sich
self
zu
to
rasieren].
shave
If, as we have argued above, postpositional (directional) Ps lack the full functional
structure associated with prepositional Ps, – which are mostly, but not exclusively loca-
tive; cf. na in (43) – we expect prepositional PPs to be extraposable, while postpositional
PPs are not. Further, we also expect the pattern in (46), which would be puzzling if
extraposition simply rested on the presence versus absence of a preposition-containing
PP:
40If PPATH is to constitute a defective goal in Roberts’ terms, it has to be assumed that its categorial status
will not render it partially distinct from Vdir. Precisely how the formal specification of “what it means to
be a V” versus “what it means to be a P” is to be captured is not a matter on which there is currently any
consensus. What is clear, however, is the empirical fact that certain P-elements, like certain predicative
nominal elements, can incorporate into verbal elements; if Roberts (2010) is correct in analyzing incorpo-
ration as involving the presence of defective goals, we can use cases like those under discussion here to
make progress on long-standing questions about the categorial make-up of P-elements.
203
Theresa Biberauer
(46) a. Hulle
They
het
have
by/in
by/in
die
the
bos
bush
in
in
geloop.
walked
‘They walked into the bush.’
b. * Hulle
they
het
have
geloop
walked
by/in
by/in
die
the
bos
bush
in.
in
c. Hulle
they
het
have
ingeloop
in.walked
by/in
by/in
die
the
bos.41
bush
‘They walked into the bush.’
Here we see that circumpositional directional PPs mirror the behaviour of their post-
positional counterparts (35/44b) in resisting extraposition (46b), despite the presence of
a preposition. Significantly, extraposition of the (locative) prepositional component of
the structure becomes possible where the postposition is immediately left-adjacent to
the verb (46c), i.e. where, in our terms, it has incorporated, via Vdir (cf. 42 above), with
the lexical verb and thus been licensed by it.42 In this case, the prepositional PP, which
is, as always, a complete phasal structure, may extrapose; in (46b), by contrast, extrapo-
sition is barred because postpositional in, located on top of the fully phasal prepositional
PP, is defective, meaning the circumpositional structure as a whole is non-phasal and
thus, by hypothesis, non-extraposable. An appealing way to think about what is at stake
here is via Sheehan & van der Wal’s (2015) Extend licensing mechanism, given in (47):
(47) Extend: All categories must be part of a phase (where phases include vP, CP, nP,
DP, pP, and its CP-/upper-phase counterpart – MTB).
In terms of this plausibly interface-imposed requirement, incorporation into V in cases
like (46c) allows defective directional in, which lacks its own functional structure, to
satisfy (47): via incorporation, it becomes part of the vP-phase. Because postpositional
in is not part of a (complete) phase prior to incorporation with V, it is not extraposable
along with the lower (prepositional) phase of the PP-structure it is first-merged with.
As registered in note 39, na … toe circumpositions constitute an exception to the pat-
tern illustrated in (46): a na … toe circumposition can extrapose, unlike by/in die bos in
in (46b). Strikingly, we also do not see incorporation of the type in (46c) with na … toe
circumpositions. This is shown in (48), which is interpretively equivalent to (43) above:
41Importantly, Hulle het ingeloop in die bos in (46c) means ‘They walked into the bush’, like (46a), and not
‘They walked in the bush’, like (34b), Hulle het geloop in die bos.
42Interestingly, this structure may at first sight seem to resemble the extraposition pattern predicted by
Sheehan’s (2013) FOFC analysis (see again §2 above). As it is very clearly the postposition that precedes
the verb, with the prepositional PP following it, this is not a possible analysis of the structure, however.
This is demonstrated in (i), which shows the scattered-deletion operation that would be expected on this
approach:
(i) Hulle
they
het
have
by/in
by/in
die bos in
the
geloop
bush
by/in
in
die
walked
bos
by/in
in.
the bush in
204
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
(48) a. Hulle
they
het
have
na
to
die
the
swembad
swimming.pool
toe
to
gehardloop.
run
‘They ran to the swimming pool.’
b. Hulle
they
het
have
gehardloop
run
na
to
die
the
swembad
swimming.pool
toe.
to
‘They ran to the swimming pool.’
c. *Hulle
they
het
have
toegehardloop
to.run
na
to
die
the
swembad.
swimming.pool
An immediate difference between (46a) and (48a) is that the preposition in (48), na,
is already inherently directional, i.e. dir-bearing; postpositional toe thus simply echoes
its directional meaning in a manner semantically, though not lexically, reminiscent of
the so-called German shadow Ps discussed in Noonan (2010). Further toe is one of the
alternating P-forms in Afrikaans: like vir/voor illustrated in (36–37) above, it consistently
takes a different form (toe) when it surfaces postnominally to that which we see when it
occurs prenominally (tot); met/mee (‘with’) is the final member of this trio. (49) illustrates
the alternation between tot and toe.
(49) a. Sy
she
het
has
tot
to
[PP by
by
die
the
see]
sea
gehardloop
run
(en
and
daarna
there.after
omgedraai).
around.turned
‘She ran to the sea and then turned around.’
b. Sy
she
het
has
see
sea
toe
to
gehardloop.
run
‘She ran to(wards) the sea.’
As noted above, Vos (2013) analyses this alternation as signifying a difference between
agreeing (voor/toe/mee) and non-agreeing (vir/tot/met) prepositions. Building, on the one
hand, on this insight and on the idea that agreement is a property of a non-defective
phasal domain (cf. i.a. Chomsky 2001), and, on the other, on the observation that toe dif-
fers from tot in giving non-telic directional interpretations, we propose that toe differs
from the (particle) postpositions discussed to date in (i) being part of a non-defective
upper (i.e. directional) phasal domain, and (ii) selecting a defective lower (i.e. locative)
phasal domain. More specifically, I propose that toe is a Ppath-head which consistently
selects a nominal headed by silent place (cf. Kayne 2008); see (51b) below. This nom-
inal and the overt nominal structure it introduces are then always available for prob-
ing (and, in keeping with phi-probing heads in Afrikaans more generally,43 subsequent
movement) by the agreement-bearing PPath-head that is ultimately spelled out as toe.
43v, T and C can all be viewed as phi-probes which raise the nominals they probe. Prepositional Ps would
then be an exception to this generalization. Since agreeing Ps are crosslinguistically unusual, it is tempting
to think that selection relations between Ps and their complements do not typically involve phi, with the
cases where we do see agreement signifying a departure from this norm. This would, of course, require
rethinking of P’s role as a licensor, with Sheehan & van der Wal’s (2015) approach presenting a possible
way forward.
205
Theresa Biberauer
A simplified version of the proposed derivation is schematized in (50) (strikethrough
signifies a non-spelled-out lower copy, as before; the probing PDir-phasehead remains
unrealized in (49b), but see (51) below for the overt realization option, which represents
an innovation in Afrikaans):
(50) [PdirP dir… [PpathP [DP place [NP see] ] Path-toe [DP place [NP see] ] ] ]
Tot, by contrast, selects a non-defective locative complement, necessarily introduced
by an overt preposition (e.g. by in (49a)44), and lacks the phi-probe associated with toe, a
factor which does not, however, render it defective in phasal terms, as the extraposition
facts clearly show (see note 43 on the relation between P and phi); tot instead appears
to lexicalize both Path and Dir, suggesting that it may be the spellout of a composite
head, i.e. both Path and Dir in (50) above.
Significantly, the analysis proposed here means that toe in structures like (48) does
not in fact combine with a PP headed by na, i.e. na … toe structures do not involve
a FOFC-violating final-over-initial configuration and are actually very different from
the superficially very similar identical doubling circumpositions discussed above. The
difference is schematized in (51):
(51) a. (=42) VdirP
PlocP
Ploc
in
DP
die huis
Vdir’
go PpathP
Ppath
in
tPlocP
b. PdirP
Pdir
na
PpathP
PlaceP
Place dp
die see
Path’
Path
toe
tPlaceP
44Temporal tot – e.g. tot Maandag, ‘until Monday’ – is different, systematically selecting nominals.
206
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
The proposal for Afrikaans circumpositions, then, is that they come in two types. The
first and most common type is that illustrated in (51a), in which the superficial postpo-
sition is not in fact part of a PP-structure, but is instead part of a particle-verb structure
in which the directional component is contributed by silent Vdir go. Not expressing dir
itself, this defective P-element incorporates into Vdir and, from there, into the lexical
verb, which allows it to become part of a non-defective phasal domain (vP); the fact that
it necessarily surfaces adjacent to the lexical verb and cannot be extraposed as part of
a circumpositional structure thus follows. This type is also found in Dutch, mostly in
the non-doubling form (e.g. by die bos in as in (46)), but also in some varieties in the
doubling form found in Afrikaans (i.e. the in die bos in-variant of (46); cf. the Asse Dutch
example in (40b)). The second type is an innovation in Afrikaans and involves a genuine
circumpositional structure. This is, however, not a FOFC-violating structure either as
head-initial na dominates head-final toe, as shown in (51b). The Ps in this structure are
both non-defective, with the result that we expect it to be able to extrapose as in (48b);
since the postpositional element is structurally too distant from the lexical verb to un-
dergo incorporation, the ungrammaticality of (48c) above is also expected. Afrikaans,
then, does not present any challenges to (6)-type FOFC.
4.2 A brief look at circumpositions beyond Afrikaans
We do not have the space to demonstrate this here, but it appears to be the case that
Afrikaans’ West Germanic relatives do not present additional FOFC challenges: the ma-
jority appear to feature only particle-type postpositions and, thus, lack genuine final-
over-initial PP-structures as the structure in question is that illustrated in (42/51a). Worth
noting, though, is the fact that the varieties of colloquial German that permit the shadow
Ps analysed in Noonan (2010) and illustrated in (52) appear to mirror Afrikaans in featur-
ing both (51a)- and (51b)-type circumpositional structures, with the shadow-containing
circumpositions instantiating the latter type:
(52) a. in
in
der
the
Kiste
box
drin
DR-in
‘inside the box’ (=locative; Noonan 2010: 164)
b. um
round
den
the
Tisch
table
rum
R-round
‘around the table’ (=directional; Noonan 2010: 169)
The Gbe languages discussed in Aboh (2005; 2010), in turn, appear only to feature the
(51b)-type, i.e. initial-over-final, inverse FOFC structures. In fact, this language family
facilitates particularly clear insight into how different the P-elements in circumpositional
structures can be. Consider (53):
(53) a. Kɔjó
Kojo
zé
take
àkwɛ
money
xlán
P1
Kwésí.
Kwesi
[Gungbe]
‘Kojo sent money to Kwesi.’
207
Theresa Biberauer
b. Kɔjó
Kojo
xɛ
climb
távò
table
lɔ
det
jí.
P2
‘Kojo climbed on top of the table.’
c. Kpònɔn
police
lɛ
num
nyì
throw
àgbàn
luggage
cè
poss
xlán
P1
gbó
trash
jí.
P2
‘The policemen threw my luggage onto the dumpster.’ (Aboh 2010: 227)
As Aboh demonstrates, the prepositional Ps (P1) behave consistently differently from
the postpositional Ps (P2). The former evidently constitute a small closed class of 5 mem-
bers all expressing direction/goal/path, all derive from verbs (possibly via serial construc-
tions), seem to assign Case, and, rather unusually given the crosslinguistic trend, must
necessarily be stranded. The latter, in turn, are all derived from nouns and closely resem-
ble the elements Jackendoff (1996) originally designated Axial Parts;45 there are about 30
of them, they do not assign Case, and they must be piedpiped. Following Svenonius’s
(2006) characterization of Ax(ial)PartP as a nominal-peripheral (‘light noun’) projection
located below the P-layers expressing location and direction (54a), Gungbe circumposi-
tions will be initial-over-final structures (54b), with the finality of the high nominal layer
being unproblematic in view of Gungbe’s head-final nominal system (54c):
(54) a. pP > LocP > AxPartP > KP > DP
b. P1P (direction/goal/path) > P2P (Aboh 2010)
c. Mì
2pl
fɔn
stand
hàɖòkpólɔ
immediately
sɔn
P1
zàn
bed
lɔ
Det
jí!
P2
‘Get out of the bed immediately!’ (Aboh 2010: 229)
Neither the West Germanic nor the Gbe languages, then, appear to constitute a chal-
lenge to FOFC as defined in (6). Interestingly, they do not challenge Richards’s more
restrictive phasal-domain-based definition either (see §2) as we have seen that none of
the superficially problematic structures we have considered here involves a final head
dominating an initial one that is located in the same spellout domain. What is striking
about the adpositional facts discussed here, however, is the way in which Extended Pro-
jections repeatedly emerge as a relevant consideration in characterizing the structure
of the observed phenomena: in some cases, postpositions can be shown to be defective,
lacking the higher functional structure that would lead to their forming part of a com-
plete phasal domain, with the result that they incorporate into another lexical category
(here: V) and become part of a second Extended Projection (possibly, in line with Ex-
tend, as given in (47); this holds for particle-type postpositions as in 42/51a); in others,
functional structure below the final element is defective, meaning that we again have a
45Jackendoff (1996: 14) clarifies the notion “Axial Part” as follows: ‘The “axial parts” of an object – its top,
bottom, front, back, sides, and ends – behave grammatically like parts of the object, but, unlike standard
parts such as a handle or a leg, they have no distinctive shape. Rather, they are regions of the object (or its
boundary) determined by their relation to the object’s axes. The up-down axis determines top and bottom,
the front-back axis determines front and back, and a complex set of criteria distinguishing horizontal axes
determines sides and ends.’ (my emphasis –TB)
208
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
defective Extended Projection (this holds for (51b)-type postpositions). That apparently
FOFC-violating structures should repeatedly exhibit some kind of Extended Projection-
related peculiarity is precisely what is expected on the restricted condition in (6), while it
is unexplained on Richards’ phasal-domain alternative.46 The internal structure of appar-
ently FOFC-violating PPs, we contend, therefore provides another argument in favour
of this intermediate interpretation of FOFC’s restrictiveness.
5 Conclusion
Our objective in this paper was to take a closer look at adpositional phrases in order
to establish what kinds of insights these may add to our understanding of a by now
much-discussed word-order condition, FOFC. Adpositions present numerous superficial
challenges to FOFC, in both of its most familiar formulations, (1) and (6) above. Closer
inspection of, on the one hand, the external distribution of PPs in OV-languages and, on
the other, the internal make-up of post- and circumpositional PPs suggests that the lat-
ter, which crucially makes reference to Extended Projections, seems the most promising.
The data we have considered reveals a range of ways in which postpositions and circum-
positional structures can be unproblematic in the FOFC context. This is the same finding
as that which has emerged from closer investigation of two other domains in which ap-
parently FOFC-violating structures seem to abound, final particle-containing structures
(Biberauer 2017), and 231 verb-clusters in West Germanic (Biberauer 2013). In each case,
it has proven productive to investigate each apparently problematic structure indepen-
dently as it has become clear that apparently FOFC-violating structures can arise from
quite diverse underlying structures (hence also their (relatively) frequent attestation);
and, in each case, it has emerged either that there are reasons to reject the possibility that
the troublesome final elements examined form part of the same Extended Projection as
lower head-initial elements, or that the underlying structure is in fact the inverse-FOFC
(initial-over-final) one. Many cases still require detailed investigation, but, at this stage,
the hypothesis that something like the restricted, crucially Extended Projection-based
FOFC defined in (6) may indeed be universal remains promising.
If this is correct, FOFC is a ‘deep’ universal, constituting a condition on syntactic
structure-building that has wide-ranging consequences for word order. This makes it,
in the terms of Whitman (2008), both a cross-categorial generalization – i.e. ‘one that
references the internal properties of two or more categories, irrespective of their rela-
tionship in a particular structure’ (233); Greenberg’s Universal 3 is an example47 – and a
hierarchical generalization – i.e. ‘one that describes the relative position of two or more
46It is worth noting that acknowledging the significance of defectivity in the FOFC context also seems like an
important step in facilitating progress on the intriguing question of why VOC should be completely barred
where C is a subordinating Complementizer of the kind considered in typological studies since Greenberg
(1963; see again Dryer 2009 for overview discussion) while it seems extremely common where C is some
kind of particle; and, similarly, why inflecting auxiliaries obey FOFC, while their particle counterparts do
not. If the conforming elements contribute to Extended Projections, while particle elements do not, the
discrepancy becomes less mysterious (see Biberauer 2017 for discussion).
47Universal 3: Languages with dominant VSO order are always prepositional (Greenberg 1963: 78).
209
Theresa Biberauer
categories in a single structure’ (234); Greenberg’s Universal 1 is an example.48 For Whit-
man, cross-categorial and hierarchical generalizations are very different, with only the
latter being ‘deep’ (in hierarchical terms, Universal 3 follows from the universal leftness
of specifiers; cf. i.a. Kayne 1994, Ackema & Neeleman 2002, and Biberauer, Roberts &
Sheehan 2014). FOFC, however, would seem to be a hybrid of two of the generalization-
types identified by Whitman, a truly novel kind of syntactic universal, the existence
of which was first registered by the linguist to whom this volume is dedicated, Anders
Holmberg.
Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in this article follow the Leipzig Glossing Rules’ instructions for
word-by-word transcription, available at: https://www.eva.mpg.de/lingua/pdf/Glossing-
Rules.pdf.
Acknowledgements
This paper is based on a presentation at the International Workshop on Adpositions, or-
ganized by Anders Holmberg and Sameerah Saheed and held at the University of New-
castle in June 2014. Thanks to the audience for their comments and suggestions, to Erin
Pretorius for subsequent (and on-going) discussions of matters Afrikaans PP-related, and
to Ian Roberts and two anonymous reviewers for input that has hopefully led to a sharp-
ening of some of the ideas in this paper.
References
Abels, Klaus. 2003. Successive cyclicity, anti-locality and adposition stranding. University
of Connecticut (Storrs) dissertation.
Abels, Klaus. 2012. The Italian left periphery: A view from locality. Linguistic Inquiry 43.
229–254.
Aboh, Enoch. 2005. The category P: The Kwa paradox. Linguistic Analysis (32). 615–646.
Aboh, Enoch. 2010. The P-route. In Cinque Guglielmo & Luigi Rizzi (eds.), Mapping spa-
tial PPs. The cartography of syntactic structures, vol. 6, 225–260. New York: Oxford
University Press.
Ackema, Peter & Ad Neeleman. 2002. Effects of short-term storage in processing right-
ward movement. In Sieb Nooteboom, Fred Weerman & Frank Wijnen (eds.), Storage
and computation in the language faculty, 219–256. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Aelbrecht, Lobke & Marcel den Dikken. 2013. Preposition doubling in Flemish dialects
and its implications for the syntax of Dutch PPs. Journal of Comparative Germanic
Linguistics 16. 33–68.
48Universal 1: In declarative sentences with nominal subject and object, the dominant order is always one
in which the subject precedes the object.
210
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
Anderson, Torben. 1988. Ergativity in Päri, a Nilotic OVS language. Lingua 75. 289–324.
Arsenijević, Boban. 2009. Clausal complementation as relativization. Lingua 119. 39–50.
Baltin, Mark. 1989. Heads and projections. In Mark Baltin & Anthony S. Kroch (eds.),
Alternative conceptions of phrase structure, 1–16. Chicago: UCP.
Bayer, Josef. 2001. Two grammars in one: Sentential complements and complementizers
in Bengali and other South-Asian languages. In Peri Bhaskararao & Karumuri Venkata
Subbarao (eds.), The Yearbook of South Asian Languages 2001, 11–36. New Delhi: Sage
Publications.
Benson, Charlie. 2016. Processing efficiency in flexible word order languages: An investiga-
tion into Hungarian. BA dissertation, University of Cambridge.
Biberauer, Theresa. 2011. In defence of lexico-centric parametric variation: Two 3rd
factor-constrained case studies. Paper presented at the Workshop on Formal Gram-
mar and Syntactic Variation.
Biberauer, Theresa. 2013. Germanic verb clusters again – with Afrikaans centre-stage.
Paper presented at the 28th Comparative Germanic Syntax Workshop (CGSW 29).
Biberauer, Theresa. 2017. Optional V2 in Modern Afrikaans: Probing a Germanic pecu-
liarity. In Bettelou Los & Pieter de Haan (eds.), Verb-Second languages: Essays in honour
of Ans van Kemenade. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Biberauer, Theresa, Anders Holmberg & Ian Roberts. 2014. A syntactic universal and its
consequences. Linguistic Inquiry 45. 169–225.
Biberauer, Theresa, Glenda Newton & Michelle Sheehan. 2009. Limiting synchronic and
diachronic variation and change: The Final-Over-Final Constraint. Language and Lin-
guistics 10(4). 699–741.
Biberauer, Theresa & Johan Oosthuizen. 2011. More unbearably light elements? Silent
verbs demanding overt complementizers in Afrikaans. Snippets 24. 5–6.
Biberauer, Theresa & Ian Roberts. 2010. Subjects, tense and verb-movement. In Theresa
Biberauer, Anders Holmberg, Ian Roberts & Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Parametric vari-
ation: Null subjects in minimalist theory, 263–303. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Biberauer, Theresa & Ian Roberts. 2015. Rethinking formal hierarchies: A proposed uni-
fication. In James Chancharu, Xuhui Hu & Moreno Mitrović (eds.), Rethinking formal
hierarchies: A proposed unification, vol. 7, 1–31. Cambridge: Cambridge Occasional Pa-
pers in Linguistics.
Biberauer, Theresa, Ian Roberts & Michelle Sheehan. 2014. No-choice parameters and
the limits of syntactic variation. In Robert Santana-LaBarge (ed.), Proceedings of the
31st West Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics (WCCFL 31), 46–55. Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla Press.
Biberauer, Theresa & Michelle Sheehan. 2012. Disharmony, antisymmetry, and the Final-
over-Final Constraint. In Valmala Elguea & Miriam Extebarria (eds.), Ways of structure
building, 206–244. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Biberauer, Theresa & Michelle Sheehan. 2013. Introduction. In Theresa Biberauer &
Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Theoretical approaches to disharmonic word order, 1–46. Ox-
ford: Oxford University Press.
211
Theresa Biberauer
Biberauer, Theresa, Michelle Sheehan & Glenda Newton. 2010. Impossible changes and
impossible borrowings. In Anne Breitbarth, Christopher Lucas, Sheila Watts & David
Willis (eds.), Continuity and change in grammar, 35–60. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Biggs, Alison. 2014. Dissociating Case from Theta-Roles: A Comparative Investigation. Uni-
versity of Cambridge. Ph.D. dissertation.
Bošković, Željko & Howard Lasnik. 2003. On the distribution of null complementizers.
Linguistic Inquiry 34. 527–546.
Broekhuis, Hans. 2013. Syntax of Dutch: Adpositions and adpositional phrases. Amsterdam:
Amsterdam University Press.
Bruening, Benjamin. 2009. Selectional asymmetries between CP and DP suggest that
the DP Hypothesis is wrong. In Laurel MacKenzie (ed.), U. Penn Working Papers in
Linguistics 15.1 : Proceedings of the 32nd Annual Penn Linguistics Colloquium, 26–35.
Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania. http://repository.upenn.edu/pwpl/vol15/
iss1/. last accessed 2 June 2016.
Bruening, Benjamin, Xuyen Dinh & Lan Kim. 2015. Selection, idioms, and the structure of
nominal phrases with and without classifiers. http://udel.edu/~bruening/Downloads/
IdiomsClassifiers7.3.pdf, accessed 2016-6-2. Unpublished ms.
Carlson, Robert. 1994. A grammar of Supyire. Berlin: Mouton.
Cecchetto, Carlo. 2013. Backwards dependencies must be short: A unified account of
the Final-over-Final and the Right Roof Constraints and its consequences for the syn-
tax/morphology interface. In Theresa Biberauer & Ian Roberts (eds.), Challenges to
linearization, 57–92. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Chocano, Gema. 2007. Narrow syntax and phonological form: Scrambling in the Germanic
languages. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Chomsky, Noam. 1995. The minimalist program. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2000. Minimalist inquiries: The framework. In Roger Martin, David
Michaels & Juan Uriagereka (eds.), Step by step: Essays on minimalist syntax in honor
of Howard Lasnik, 89–155. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2001. Derivation by phase. In Michael Kenstowicz (ed.), Ken Hale: A
life in language, 1–52. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Cognola, Federica. 2012. Syntactic variation and verb second: A German dialect in Northern
Italy. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
den Dikken, Marcel. 2010a. On the functional structure of locative and directional PPs.
In Guglielmo Cinque & Luigi Rizzi (eds.), Mapping spatial PPs, 74–126. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
den Dikken, Marcel. 2010b. Directions from the GET-GO: On the syntax of manner-of-
motion verbs in directional constructions. Catalan Journal of Linguistics 9. 25–55.
Douglas, Jamie. 2015. Unifying that that-trace and anti-that-trace effects. http://ling.auf.
net/lingbuzz/002793, accessed 2016-12-15. Unpublished ms.
Dryer, Matthew. 1992. The Greenbergian word order correlations. Language 68. 81–138.
Dryer, Matthew. 2009. The branching direction theory revisited. In Sergio Scalise, Elisa-
betta Magni & Antonietta Bisetto (eds.), Universals of language today, 185–207. Berlin:
Springer.
212
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
Etxepare, Ricardo & Bill Haddican. 2017. Repairing Final-Over-Final Condition violations:
Evidence from Basque verb clusters. In Laura R. Bailey & Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Or-
der and structure in syntax: Word order and syntactic structure, vol. I. Berlin: Language
Science Press.
Fodor, Janet Dean. 1978. Parsing strategies and constraints on transformations. Linguistic
Inquiry 9(3). 427–473.
Fowlie, Meaghan. 2014. Adjunction and minimalist grammars. In Glyn Morrill, Reinhard
Muskens, Rainer Osswald & Frank Richter (eds.), Proceedings of Formal Grammar 2014,
Lecture Notes in Computer Science Vol. 8612, 34–51. Dordrecht: Springer.
Franco, Ludovico. 2012. Complementizers are not (demonstrative) pronouns and vice versa.
http://ling.auf.net/lingbuzz/001539. Unpublished ms.
Greenberg, Joseph H. 1963. Some universals of grammar with particular reference to the
order of meaningful elements. Universals of Language 2. 73–113.
Grimshaw, Jane. 1991. Extended Projection. Unpublished ms. (Also appeared in J.
Grimshaw (2005), Words and Structure, Stanford: CSLI).
Haider, Hubert. 2005. Mittelfeld phenomena: Scrambling in Germanic. In Martin Ever-
aert & Henk van Riemsdijk (eds.), The Blackwell companion to syntax, vol. 3, 204–284.
Oxford: Blackwell.
Haider, Hubert. 2013. Symmetry breaking in syntax. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Hawkins, John A. 1990. A parsing theory of word order universals. Linguistic Inquiry 21.
223–262.
Hawkins, John A. 1994. A performance theory of order and constituency. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
Hawkins, John A. 2004. Efficiency and complexity in grammar. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Hawkins, John A. 2008. An asymmetry between VO and OV language: The ordering of
obliques. In Greville Corbett & Michael Noonan (eds.), Case and grammatical relations:
Essays in honour of Bernard Comrie, 167–190. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hawkins, John A. 2013. Disharmonic word orders from a processing efficiency perspec-
tive. In Theresa Biberauer & Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Theoretical approaches to dishar-
monic word orders, 391–406. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Heath, Jeffrey. 1999. A grammar of Koyraboro (Koroboro) senni. Köln: Rüdiger Köppe.
Hinterhölzl, Roland. 2005. Scrambling, remnant movement, and restructuring in West Ger-
manic. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Holmberg, Anders. 2000. Deriving OV order in Finnish. In Peter Svenonius (ed.), The
derivation of VO and OV, 123–152. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Jackendoff, Ray S. 1996. The architecture of the linguistic-spatial interface. In Paul Bloom,
Mary Peterson, Lynn Nadel & Merrill Garrett (eds.), Language and space, 1–30. Cam-
bridge, MA: MIT Press.
Jones, Michael Allan. 1988. Sardinian syntax. London: Routledge.
Kayne, Richard S. 1994. The antisymmetry of syntax. Cambridge: The MIT Press.
213
Theresa Biberauer
Kayne, Richard S. 2008. Expletives, datives, and the tension between morphology and
syntax. In T. Biberauer (ed.), The limits of syntactic variation, 175–217. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Kayne, Richard S. 2010. Movement and silence. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Koopman, Hilda J. 2000. Prepositions, postpositions, circumpositions, and particles: The
structure of Dutch PPs. In Hilda J. Koopman (ed.), The syntax of specifiers and heads:
Collected essays of Hilda J. Koopman, 204–260. London: Routledge.
Koopman, Hilda J. 2010. Prepositions, postpositions, circumpositions and particles. In
Guglielmo Cinque & Luigi Rizzi (eds.), Mapping spatial PPs. The Cartography of syntac-
tic structures, 26–73. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Ledgeway, Adam. 2012. From Latin to Romance: Morphosyntactic typology and change.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Lehmann, Christian. 1984. Der Relativsatz. Tübingen: Narr.
Mobbs, Ian. 2015. Minimalism and the design of the language faculty. University of Cam-
bridge dissertation.
Moulton, Keir. 2009. Natural selection and the syntax of clausal complementation. Univer-
sity of Massachusetts, Amherst dissertation.
Moulton, Keir. 2013. Not moving clauses: Connectivity in clausal arguments. Syntax 16(3).
250–291.
Moulton, Keir. 2015. CP: Copies and compositionality. Linguistic Inquiry 46(2). 305–342.
Mous, Marten. 1993. A grammar of Iraqw. Hamburg: Buske.
Noonan, Michael. 2010. À to zu. In Guglielmo Cinque & Luigi Rizzi (eds.), Mapping spatial
PPs. The Cartography of syntactic structures, vol. 6, 161–195. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Nunes, Jairo. 2004. Linearization of chains and sideward movement. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Oosthuizen, Helena. 2009. Prepositions and verb particles in Afrikaans: Dialectal variation
and developmental patterns. University of Potsdam MA thesis.
Oosthuizen, Johan. 2000. Prepositions left and right in Afrikaans. Stellenbosch Papers in
Linguistics 33. 67–90.
Payne, John. 1993. The headedness of Noun phrases: Slaying the nominal hydra. In Gre-
ville Corbett, Norman Fraser & Scott McGlashan (eds.), Heads in grammatical theory,
114–139. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Pesetsky, David. 1995. Zero syntax: Experiencers and cascades. Cambridge, MA: The MIT
Press.
Philip, Joy. 2013. (Dis)harmony, the Head-Proximate filter, and linkers. Journal of Lin-
guistics 49(1). 165–213.
Pintzuk, Susan. 2005. Arguments against a universal base: Evidence from Old English.
English Language and Linguistics 9. 115–138.
Pretorius, Erin. in preparation. Adpositions and verbal particles in Afrikaans: A nanosyn-
tactic analysis. Utrecht & Stellenbosch Universities.
Pretorius, Erin. 2015. On the status of postpositions in Afrikaans. Paper presented at the
4th South African Microlinguistics Workshop.
214
9 Probing the nature of the Final-over-Final Condition
Richards, Marc. 2004. Object shift and scrambling in North and West Germanic: A case
study in symmetrical syntax. University of Cambridge dissertation.
Richards, Norvin. 2016. Contiguity theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Roberts, Ian. 2010. Agreement and head movement: Clitics, incorporation, and defective
goals. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.
Rochemont, Michael. 1992. Bounding rightward Ā-dependencies. In Helen Goodluck &
Michael Rochemont (eds.), Island constraints, 373–397. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Sheehan, Michelle. 2008. FOFC and phasal complenents of V/v. Unpublished handout.
Sheehan, Michelle. 2013. Explaining the Final-over-Final Constraint: Formal and func-
tional approaches. In Theresa Biberauer & Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Theoretical ap-
proaches to disharmonic word orders, 407–468. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Sheehan, Michelle, Theresa Biberauer, Ian Roberts & Anders Holmberg (eds.). 2017. The
Final-over-Final condition. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Sheehan, Michelle & Jenneke van der Wal. 2015. Do we need abstract case? In Kyeong-
min Kim, Pocholo Umbal, Trevor Block, Queenie Chan, Tanie Cheng, Kelli Finney,
Mara Katz, Sophie Nickel-Thompson & Lisa Shorten (eds.), Proceedings of WCCFL 33,
351–360. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
Sportiche, Dominique. 2005. Division of labor between Merge and Move: Strict locality of
selection and apparent reconstruction paradoxes. http://ling.auf.net/lingbuzz/000163,
accessed 2016-6-2. Unpublished ms.
Starke, Michal. 2009. Nanosyntax. A short primer to a new approach to language. ling.auf.
net/lingbuzz/001230/current.pdf, accessed 2016-6-2. Unpublished ms.
Stilo, Don. 2005. Iranian as buffer zone between the universal typologies of Turkic and
Semitic. In Éva Ágnes Csató, Bo Isaksson & Carina Jahani (eds.), Linguistic conver-
gence and areal diffusion: Case studies from Iranian, Semitic and Turkic, 35–63. London:
Routledge/Curzon.
Svenonius, Peter. 2006. The emergence of axial parts. Tromsø Working Papers in Language
and Linguistics (Nordlyd) 33(1). 49–77.
Svenonius, Peter. 2007. Adpositions, particles, and the arguments they introduce. In Eric
Reuland, Tanmoy Bhattacharya & Giorgios Spathas (eds.), Argument structure, 63–103.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Svenonius, Peter. 2010. Spatial P in English. In Guglielmo Cinque & Luigi Rizzi (eds.),
Mapping spatial PPs. The cartography of syntactic structures, vol. 6, 127–160. New York:
Oxford University Press.
Svenonius, Peter. 2011. Spanning. Unpublished ms: University of Tromsø. http://ling.auf.
net/lingBuzz/001501, accessed 2015-12-26.
Svenonius, Peter. 2016. Spans and words. In D. Siddiqi & Heidi Harley (eds.), Morpholog-
ical metatheory, 201–222. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Uriagereka, Juan. 1999. Multiple spell-out. In Norbert Hornstein & Samuel David Epstein
(eds.), Working minimalism, 251–282. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Van Riemsdijk, Henk. 2002. The unbearable lightness of going. The projection parameter
as a pure parameter governing the distribution of elliptic motion verbs in Germanic.
Journal of Comparative Germanic Linguistics 5. 143–196.
215
Theresa Biberauer
Vos, M. De. 2013. Afrikaans mixed adposition orders as a PF-linearization effect. In
Theresa Biberauer & Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Theoretical approaches to disharmonic
word order, 333–357. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Whitman, John. 2008. The classification of constituent order generalizations and di-
achronic explanation. In Jeff Good (ed.), Linguistic universals and language change,
233–252. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Whitman, John. 2013. Diachronic interpretations of word order parameter cohesion. Pa-
per presented at the 15th Diachronic Generative Syntax Conference (Ottawa).
Williams, Edwin. 2003. Representation theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Wiltschko, Martina. 2014. The universal structure of categories: Towards a formal typology.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Wivell, Richard. 1981. Kairiru grammar. University of Auckland MA thesis.
Wurmbrand, Susi. 2000. The structure(s) of particle verbs. http://web.mit.edu/susi/www/
research/, accessed 2015-12-26. Unpublished ms.
Wurmbrand, Susi. 2001. Infinitives: Restructuring and clause structure. Berlin: Mouton.
216
Chapter 10
Nuclear stress and the life cycle of
operators
Norvin Richards
MIT
I offer a new argument in this paper for the proposal that empty categories left by extraction
of DP may be of different kinds, depending on the nature of the extraction (Perlmutter 1972;
Cinque 1990; Postal 1994; 1998; 2001; O’Brien 2015; Stanton 2016, and much other work). The
argument is based on Postal’s (1994; 1998; 2001) discussion of the interaction of extraction
with antipronominal contexts, together with Bresnan’s (1971) observations about the effects
of extraction on the position of nuclear stress.
1 Introduction
I will offer a new argument in this paper for the frequently defended proposal that empty
categories left by extraction of DP may be of different kinds, depending on the nature
of the extraction (Perlmutter 1972; Cinque 1990; Postal 1994; 1998; 2001; O’Brien 2015;
Stanton 2016, and much other work). The argument will lean on two discoveries in
previous work.
Postal (1994; 1998; 2001) (and following him, Stanton 2016 and O’Brien 2015) draws
a distinction between two kinds of A-bar extraction. He notes that some kinds of ex-
traction cannot take place out of positions that could not be occupied by an unstressed
pronoun (Postal’s antipronominal contexts), while other kinds of extraction can move
DPs from such positions:
(1) a. That Porsche cost $50,000/*it.
b. * $50,000, which that Porsche cost, (…is a lot of money.)
c. What did that Porsche cost?
Postal, Stanton, and O’Brien all claim that extractions which are impossible out of
antipronominal contexts leave something like a pronoun in the position of the gap, while
other kinds of extractions leave some other kind of empty category behind. I will adopt
and argue for this proposal.
Norvin Richards. 2017. Nuclear stress and the life cycle of operators. In Laura R. Bailey &
Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Order and structure in syntax I: Word order and syntactic structure, 217–
240. Berlin: Language Science Press. DOI:10.5281/zenodo.1117716
Norvin Richards
Bresnan (1971) also draws a distinction between two kinds of A-bar extraction. Her ob-
servations are about the interaction of extraction with the distribution of nuclear stress.
We will see that Bresnan’s distinction is the same as Postal’s and Stanton’s, and I will ar-
gue that it has the same explanation; extraction of a DP from a position of nuclear stress
has different effects, depending on what kind of DP is left behind in the gap position.
In the end, Bresnan’s observation will allow for an explanation of the ban on certain
kinds of extraction from antipronominal positions, which will be based on the principle
that nuclear stress may not be assigned to phonologically null material. We will see that
English uses various means of creating PF representations that avoid stress on phono-
logically null material, and that when these means fail, the structure is ill-formed. The
account will rely on an approach to syntax and phonology, like the one in Bresnan (1971)
and in Richards (2016), in which the narrow-syntactic computation is responsible for the
creation of certain kinds of phonological representations; in particular, syntax will have
to determine the position of nuclear stress.
Stanton (2016) proposes that some kinds of extraction involve the creation of an opera-
tor out of a pronoun via liberal use of Late Merge; such extractions, she claims, therefore
leave a null pronoun behind in the extraction site, which is why they cannot take place
out of antipronominal contexts. Similarly, Johnson (2012) and O’Brien (2015) argue that
movement involves the creation of multidominance structures, which again effectively
allow an operator to grow in size as it moves up the tree. Either of these approaches will
be consistent with the facts to be discussed here. We will see that the proposal offers
new support for something like Johnson’s (2012) version of Fox’s (2003) operation of
Trace Conversion; the syntactic differences between the operator and its trace, rather
than being created by a rule at LF, are present throughout the derivation.
The next section will describe some facts of English nuclear stress that will be impor-
tant for the coming arguments. I will then review the data discussed by Postal (1994;
1998; 2001); Stanton (2016), and O’Brien (2015), and show how an account based on con-
ditions on assignment of stress might capture them. We will then turn to Bresnan’s (1971)
observations about extraction and nuclear stress, and I will show that the categories of
movement identified by Bresnan are the same as those identified by Postal, Stanton, and
O’Brien. Finally, the paper will conclude with some observations about consequences of
the proposal, and suggestions for possible future work.
It may also be worth directly pointing out several things I will not attempt to do in
this paper. The account will rest on two ideas from previous work: that certain types of
extraction leave behind null pronouns in the extraction site, and that there are positions
in the sentence where a pronoun must, unusually, receive nuclear stress. Both of these
ideas raise a host of interesting questions: what determines which types of extraction
leave pronouns behind? Why must pronouns receive stress in certain positions, though
not in others? I will offer some speculations about the answers to these questions, but
will leave serious investigation of them for the future. For answers to the first question,
in particular, see Stanton (2016) and O’Brien (2015).
218
10 Nuclear stress and the life cycle of operators
2 English nuclear stress
In English, and possibly universally, nuclear stress in examples like (2) typically appears
on the direct object (I will mark nuclear stress throughout with small capitals):
(2) a. Bill saw a car.
b. Mary bought a book.
c. I heard music.
There are various kinds of expressions that typically do not get nuclear stress, even in
object position, including pronouns and words like something, someone, anything, any-
one, which I will refer to here as ‘simple indefinites’. When a direct object is a pronoun
or a simple indefinite, nuclear stress appears on the verb:
(3) a. Bill saw me.
b. Mary bought something.
c. I don’t hear anything.
Bresnan (1971) notes that DPs which are immediately anaphoric to a preceding DP,
even if definite, exhibit the same behavior (Bresnan 1971: 258):
(4) John knows a woman who excels at karate, and he avoids the woman.
Pronouns, simple indefinites, and immediately anaphoric DPs, then, all avoid nuclear
stress; in all of the examples just discussed, nuclear stress then shifts to the verb. I will
review some other salient cases in the following section. In the section after that, we
will turn to Postal’s antipronominal contexts, where we will see the facts change.
2.1 Nuclear stress in PP
Objects of prepositions are a common locus of nuclear stress, and when the object cannot
bear nuclear stress, stress is relocated, typically either to the preposition or to the verb.
The main point of this section is simply to demonstrate that for most contexts, pronouns,
simple indefinites, and anaphoric DPs are generally treated alike.
Many prepositions, apparently including both arguments and adjuncts, behave like
verbs in accepting nuclear stress from their unstressable complements:
(5) a. The car crashed into it/me/you…
b. The car crashed into something.
c. (John spent most of the race well away from the perimeter wall, but then…)
he crashed into the wall.
(6) a. The hikers climbed up the mountain.
b. The hikers climbed up it.
219
Norvin Richards
c. The hikers climbed up something.
d. (I spent my whole childhood admiring the mountain from afar, and today…) I
climbed up the mountain.
(7) a. Mary is walking beside the car.
b. Mary is walking beside it/me/you…
c. Mary is walking beside something.
d. (Mary ran up to the car at the head of the parade, and now…) she is walking
beside the car.
(8) a. The waves crashed against the rock.
b. The waves crashed against it.
c. The waves crashed against something.
d. (I threw a rock towards the ocean as I left, and turned to watch as…) the
waves crashed against the rock.
The examples in (5–8) do not all have identical stress patterns; to my ear, the verbs
in (7–8) have a secondary stress which the corresponding verbs in (5–6) lack, perhaps
reflecting adjunct status for the PPs in (7–8).1
Another set of prepositions, all of which are plausibly arguments of some kind, pass
nuclear stress to the verb when their object is incapable of bearing it:
(9) a. They’re talking about the movie.
b. They’re talking about it/me/you…
c. They’re talking about something.
d. (They just got back from a movie, and now…) they’re talking about the
movie.
(10) a. They’re fighting over the food.
b. They’re fighting over it/me/you…
c. They’re fighting over something.
d. (They bought a bunch of food to cook together, but now…) they’re fighting
over the food.
(11) a. They’re running from the predator.
b. They’re running from it/me/you…
c. They’re running from something.
d. (The ecologists came here to study a certain predator, but now…) they’re
running from the predator.
1We might imagine, for example, that these adjunct PPs represent a stress domain of their own, unlike
argument PPs, and that the verb receives nuclear stress in its domain, while the object of the preposition
receives sentence-level nuclear stress.
220
10 Nuclear stress and the life cycle of operators
The facts in (5–11) suggest that the distribution of stress is at least partly relatable
to the verb’s argument structure; (9–11) involve verbs which are plausibly unergative,
while the verbs in (5–6) may be unaccusative (and the PPs in (7–8) could be adjuncts).
Some prepositions seem to vary in their behavior depending on whether a direction or
location meaning is intended:2
(12) a. They’re walking under the trees. [location]
b. They’re walking under them.
c. They’re walking under something.
d. (There’s a nice grove of trees behind my house, so whenever I need to take a
break…) I walk under the trees.
(13) a. They’re walking under the awning. [direction]
b. They’re walking under it.
c. They’re walking under something.
d. (It was just starting to rain as they made it to the town square and saw an
awning, so…) they walked under the awning.
Some temporal PPs seem to me to be ill-formed with pronoun or indefinite objects:
(14) a. John has been sleeping since the party.
b. * John has been sleeping since it.
c. * John has been sleeping since something.
On the other hand, immediately anaphoric DPs do not sound bad:
(15) (Most of us really enjoyed the party, but John sort of overdid it, and…) he’s been
sleeping since the party.
2Compare Wagner’s (2005: 231–232) observation about a contrast in stress placement in German:
(i) a. Sie
she
hat
has
im
in.the.dat
Garten
garden
getanzt.
danced
’She danced in the garden.’
b. Sie
she
ist
is
in
in
den
the.acc
Garten
garden
getanzt.
danced
’She danced into the garden.’
The version of the sentence with the location meaning, in (ia), has nuclear stress on the verb, while
the directional meaning in (ib) gives nuclear stress on the object of the preposition. I find a corresponding
contrast in English when the object of the preposition is a pronoun:
(ii) a. She danced in it.
b. She danced into it.
221
Norvin Richards
With this exception, the behavior of the various nuclear-stress-avoiding nominals
seems to be more or less parallel in all of the above examples. In structures in which
nuclear stress would ordinarily appear on a pronoun, a simple indefinite, or an imme-
diately anaphoric DP, stress is shifted instead to a verb or a preposition. The choice
between stress on a verb and stress on a preposition is apparently determined by a num-
ber of factors, possibly including argument/adjunct status of the PP and the argument
structure of the verb.
Developing a predictive theory of these facts is, again, beyond the scope of this paper.
Descriptively, just for these data, we could say that nuclear stress that is shifted from
the object of a preposition is realized on the verb just when the PP is an argument and
the verb is unergative, and is otherwise realized on the preposition.3 An imaginable
account of these facts might divide the VP into domains in which stress may be realized,
with domain boundaries around adjunct PPs and the underlying position of subjects
(perhaps because stress-shifting takes place before unaccusative subjects move out of
the VP, or at least before the trace of such movement has been definitely determined to
be phonologically null). The general principle would then be that stress is shifted as far
left as possible within the domain to which stress would ordinarily be assigned:
(16) a. They’re | talking about it. |
b. The car | crashed | the car | into it. | [unaccusative verb]
c. She’s | walking | beside it. || [adjunct PP]
For what follows, however, the only important point of this section will be that the
various types of nominals that avoid nuclear stress are generally treated in the same
way.
2.2 Nuclear stress and antipronominal contexts
There are contexts in which pronouns are treated differently from both simple indefinites
and anaphoric DPs:
(17) a. Frank turned into a frog (after drinking the potion).
b. Frank turned into me.
c. Frank turned into something.
d. (Frank’s always been afraid of frogs, which is ironic, because today…) he
turned into a frog.
The object of into in (17) is one of Postal’s (1994; 1998; 2001) examples of what he calls
an antipronominal context, by which he means a context in which unstressed pronouns
cannot appear. Pronouns like it, which cannot bear stress unless focused, are impossible
in such contexts; (18) is an odd response to a question like Where did that frog come
from?:
3The account sketched below does not extend to the behavior of prepositions like since in (14). Perhaps this
preposition, not unlike the pronoun it, is simply incapable of bearing stress.
222
10 Nuclear stress and the life cycle of operators
(18) * Frank turned into it.
As (17) shows, simple indefinites and anaphoric DPs are unlike pronouns in this con-
text, in that they can appear without stress, with nuclear stress appearing, in this case,
on the preposition.
The contrast in (17) seems to be general in Postal’s antipronominal contexts (though
in some of them, at least for me, the only pragmatically reasonable pronouns are inani-
mates that are incapable of bearing stress at all, yielding ungrammaticality rather than
a stressed pronoun). Examples include:
(19) a. Frank became a frog.
b. Frank became me.
c. Frank became something.
d. (Frank’s always been afraid of frogs, which is ironic, because today…) he
became a frog.
(20) a. Frank is Hamlet.
b. Frank is me (that is, I am a character in the play, and Frank plays me).
c. Frank is somebody (that is, Frank has a part in the play).
d. (Frank has always wanted to play the murderer, and in this play,) Frank is
the murderer.4
(21) a. The movie stars Madonna.
b. The movie stars me.
c. The movie doesn’t star anyone.
d. (The director swore to the producers that he wouldn’t cast his wife, but in the
end,) the movie stars his wife.
(22) a. Those facts mean [that he is guilty].
b. * (These facts may not mean that he’s guilty, but) those facts mean it.5,6
c. Those facts mean something.
d. (She’s spent a decade fighting to avoid the end of the company, but in the
end,) these facts mean the end of the company.
4Here stress is on the verb, rather than on the subject as in (20c), perhaps because the subject is also imme-
diately anaphoric.
5Compare (i), with a different meaning for mean:
(i) I mean it.
By (i), the speaker means something like “I was serious in what I just said.”
6Note that the problem here is not just that it cannot refer to the clausal complement of mean:
(i) Those facts mean that he’s guilty, though he denies it.
223
Norvin Richards
(23) a. Those remarks betrayed disregard for human rights.
b. * Those remarks betrayed it.7
c. Those remarks betrayed something.
d. (John has spent his whole life fighting against widespread disregard for
human rights, but, actually, in the end…) his remarks betrayed disregard
for human rights.
(24) a. The Porsche cost fifty thousand dollars.
b. * The Porsche cost it.
c. The Porsche cost something.
d. (When he saw my car, he said he’d give half his fortune for it, and in the
end,) the Porsche cost half his fortune.
I will not attempt to formally characterize the distribution of antipronominal contexts
in this paper; see Stanton (2016), in particular, for one proposal. All of the examples
above have subjects that are non-agentive, and in many cases inanimate, and several of
the predicates are clearly unaccusative, some with transitive variants that have the same
antipronominal positions as their intransitive versions:
(25) a. She turned John into a frog.
b. She turned John into me/*it.
c. She turned John into something.
At the end of §2.1 above I sketched an account of the behavior of stress shift that
suggested that unaccusative subjects can block shift of nuclear stress from the object of
a preposition to the verb:
(26) The car | crashed |the car| into it.|
On this view, examples like (18b-c) above might have relevant representations like
those in (27):
(27) a. Frank | became | Frank | me. |
b. Frank | became | Frank | something. |
7Postal (2001: 226) claims that this example would be well-formed with a stressed them as its object. The
examples crucially involve betray with a meaning something like ’inadvertently reveal’, and contrast with
similar examples in which betray has a meaning more like ‘treat treacherously’, which are not antipronom-
inal:
(i) He betrayed his country.
(ii) He betrayed it/me…
(iii) He betrayed someone.
224
10 Nuclear stress and the life cycle of operators
Antipronominal status would then reflect the grammar’s attempts to realize the nu-
clear stress that would ordinarily appear on the last object; the grammar must choose
between stressing a stress-avoiding nominal (as it does with the pronoun in (27a)) and
shifting stress across the base position of the subject (as in 27b). I have nothing insight-
ful to say about why the grammar makes the choices that it does in this case. Moreover,
this cannot be the whole story, not least because there are examples with the relevant
argument structure which lack antipronominal properties; contrast (28) with (25):
(28) a. She turned John against his country.
b. She turned John against me/it.
c. She didn’t turn John against anything.
The speculations of the last paragraph are logically separable from the rest of the
account. All that will truly be relevant for our purposes is that antipronominal contexts
have a special status with respect to nuclear stress. In general, as we saw in (3–15) above,
nuclear stress is shifted from pronouns, simple indefinites, and anaphoric DPs to some
preceding head, either a verb or a preposition in all the examples considered. Just in
antipronominal contexts, we have now seen, this general pattern breaks down; simple
indefinites and anaphoric DPs may shift stress away from themselves, but pronouns are
obligatorily stressed (and if the pronoun is one which cannot receive stress, like it, the
result is ungrammaticality).
2.3 Summary
The previous two sections have sketched the lay of the land. We have seen that in English,
nuclear stress is generally retracted from pronouns, simple indefinites, and immediately
anaphoric DPs, either to the verb or to a preposition (with the choice between verbs and
prepositions conditioned by factors that I have not tried to explore in any depth). We
have also seen that just in Postal’s antipronominal contexts, this retraction of stress is
blocked specifically for pronouns, which must receive stress.
The following sections will build on this understanding of the behavior of English
nuclear stress. In section 3 below, we will review Postal’s (1994; 1998; 2001) observa-
tion that some forms of A-bar movement are blocked out of anti-pronominal contexts:
following much work, we can understand this as evidence that the forms of A-bar move-
ment in question leave behind null pronominals at the extraction site, and that these
null pronominals are incapable of receiving nuclear stress. §4 will turn to Bresnan’s
(1971) observations about the interactions of various forms of A-bar movement with the
placement of nuclear stress. We will see that Bresnan’s insights, just like Postal’s, may
be described as an observation that certain forms of A-bar movement, but not others,
leave behind null pronominals, which behave like pronominals for purposes of nuclear
stress placement. Moreover, we will see that Bresnan and Postal identify the same set of
A-bar extractions as the ones that leave null pronominals at the extraction site.
225
Norvin Richards
3 Avoiding nuclear stress
Postal (1994; 1998; 2001) notes that some but not all forms of A-bar movement are blocked
out of anti-pronominal contexts:
(29) a. What kind of frog did he turn into? [wh-movement]
b. Any frog that he turns into is going to be
poisonous. [restrictive relative]
c. The best kind of frog to turn into is a poison dart
frog. [infinitival relative]
d. When we were in wizard school together, you always disliked whatever
kind of frog you turned into. [free relative]
e. * This frog, which John turned into, is ugly. [non-restrictive relative]
f. * Frogs, her victims always turn into. [topicalization]
g. * Not a single frog did any of her victims turn into. [negative inversion]
h. * What kind of frog did he eat before turning into? [parasitic gap]
i. * That kind of frog is too ugly to turn into. [gapped degree phrase]
j. * That kind of frog would be tough to turn into. [tough-movement]
Postal refers to the types of extraction in (29a-d) as A-extractions, and the ones in
(29e-j) as B-extractions. He proposes (and see Perlmutter 1972; Cinque 1990; O’Brien
2015, and Stanton 2016 for related proposals and important discussion) that the empty
category left behind by B-extraction is a pronoun, and hence banned from appearing in
antipronominal contexts.
Given the facts about nuclear stress reviewed in the last section, we can understand the
ban on B-extraction out of antipronominal contexts as an consequence of some condition
like (30):
(30) Phonologically null material may not receive nuclear stress.
Recall that what distinguishes antipronominal contexts from the other positions of nu-
clear stress that we considered is that in antipronominal contexts, pronouns must receive
nuclear stress (though other nuclear stress-avoiding elements need not). B-extraction
out of an antipronominal context, then, will leave a pronominal empty category behind
in a necessarily stressed position, in violation of (30). A-extraction from an antipronom-
inal context, by contrast, will leave behind some kind of empty category that is not a
pronoun, and nuclear stress may safely be shifted away from the extraction site.
This way of thinking about the facts involves thinking of (30) as a filter imposed by
the PF interface on a syntactic representation in which nuclear stress has been irrevo-
cably assigned. We have seen that the position of nuclear stress is apparently sensitive
to a number of syntactic and semantic notions; the preceding informal discussion has
made reference to ‘unaccusatives’, to ‘adjuncts’, to ‘indefinites’, and so forth. In every
case in which a phrase is unable to bear stress for these semantic and syntactic reasons,
226
10 Nuclear stress and the life cycle of operators
stress is shifted to another element. It is not hard to imagine a system in which (30)
is enforced by shifting nuclear stress at PF away from phonologically null elements to
which it might otherwise be assigned; such a system might treat phonologically null
elements, for example, the way simple indefinites are treated. But if we are to use (30)
to rule out B-extraction from antipronominal contexts, then it must not in fact be pos-
sible for the grammar to shift stress in this way. Rather, nuclear stress is assigned to a
structure in which, perhaps, nothing is phonologically null, and PF then filters out struc-
tures in which nuclear stress has been assigned inappropriately. In other words, stress
is apparently assigned to a structure that contains syntactic and semantic information
(“unaccusative”, “indefinite”), but not phonological information (“phonologically null”).
For extraction from positions of nuclear stress to succeed, the phrases left behind by
movement must be safely free of nuclear stress, not simply because they are phonologi-
cally null, but because they belong to the categories of elements that avoid nuclear stress
when overt (pronouns, simple indefinites, anaphoric DPs). The ban on B-extraction from
antipronominal contexts, on this view, represents a failure to avoid the effects of (30); B-
extraction leaves behind a pronoun, which is ordinarily enough to avoid nuclear stress,
but just in antipronominal contexts, nuclear stress is assigned to the null pronoun in the
extraction site, violating (30). To the extent that the account outlined above is successful,
it represents an argument for approaches to the interface between syntax and phonology
in which the building of phonological representations begins during the narrow syntax
(e.g., Bresnan 1971, Richards 2016).
4 Nuclear stress and movement
Bresnan (1971) also observes a difference between kinds of extraction, this one having
to do with effects on nuclear stress. In particular, she points out that wh-movement and
restrictive relative formation (both A-extractions) interact with nuclear stress differently
from tough-movement (a B-extraction). Consider the wh-movement examples in (31)
(Bresnan 1971, 259):
(31) a. What has Helen written?
b. What books has Helen written?
As Bresnan points out, the wh-phrases have effects on the position of nuclear stress
like those of corresponding indefinites:
(32) a. Helen has written something.
b. Helen has written some books.
Bresnan concludes that the derivation of (31) involves assignment of nuclear stress
prior to wh-movement. The simple wh-phrase in (31a), like the simple indefinite in (32a),
triggers shift of nuclear stress to the verb, and the complex expressions in the (b) exam-
ples receive nuclear scope in the standard way for direct objects.
227
Norvin Richards
The relative clauses in (33), Bresnan suggests, can be given a similar analysis (Bresnan
1971: 259):
(33) a. George found someone he’d like you to meet.
b. George found some friends he’d like you to meet.
Assuming a raising analysis of relative clauses, Bresnan proposes an account of the
contrast in (33) which is essentially identical to the one developed for the parallel wh-
movement facts in (31) above; nuclear stress is assigned before the head of the relative
clause becomes external, and the contrast in (33) is to receive the same account as the
one in (34):
(34) a. He’d like you to meet someone.
b. He’d like you to meet some friends.
On the other hand, Bresnan claims that tough-movement behaves differently from wh-
movement and relativization, never assigning nuclear stress to the tough-moved phrase
(Bresnan 1971: 265):
(35) That theorem was tough to prove.
Bresnan assumes that tough-movement involves literal movement of the promoted
subject (here, that theorem) from the gap site. On this assumption, the position of nuclear
stress in (35) demonstrates that tough-movement, unlike wh-movement and relativiza-
tion, bleeds assignment of nuclear stress.
We can contrast (35) with the examples in (36):
(36) a. What theorem did she prove?
b. George found a theorem he’d like you to prove.
The facts in (36) are familiar from the discussion of wh-movement and relativization
above, and both involve, in Bresnan’s terms, assignment of nuclear stress to a moved
phrase prior to movement. In (35), by contrast, it is the verb that is stressed. Bresnan
takes the (35–36) contrast as evidence that while wh-movement and relativization take
place after assignment of nuclear stress, tough-movement precedes nuclear stress assign-
ment.
Another approach to (35), given the observation that tough-movement, like other B-
extractions, cannot take place out of antipronominal contexts, would be to follow Postal,
O’Brien, and Stanton in claiming that the empty category left behind by tough-movement
is a pronoun. The position of stress in (35), on this account, has the same explanation as
the position of stress in (37):
(37) It’s tough to prove it.
In both (37) and (35), the object of prove is a pronoun, and nuclear stress therefore
appears on the verb. Antipronominal contexts, we have now seen, are just those contexts
in which nuclear stress appears on pronouns, and B-extraction from such contexts is
therefore ruled out by the general ban on nuclear stress on phonologically null material.
228
10 Nuclear stress and the life cycle of operators
4.1 A-extractions, B-extractions, and nuclear stress
In this section I will outline an account of the effects of different types of extraction on
stress. The account will be based on the following generalizations:
(38) a. B-extractions leave null pronouns behind in the extraction site, which must
not be stressed.
b. A-extractions leave behind full DPs in the extraction site.
c. Nuclear stress assigned to the tail of a movement chain may be realized on
the head.
Let us consider kinds of extractions in turn, beginning with A-extraction. What type
of empty category does A-extraction leave behind?
We have some reason to think that the answer to this question may vary depending
on what is A-extracted. As we have seen, Bresnan observes that the position of nuclear
stress in clauses with A-extractions depends on the nature of the moved phrase (Bresnan
1971: 259):
(39) a. What has Helen written?
b. What books has Helen written?
This contrast is subject to two possibly related complications, which we will need to
bear in mind as discussion proceeds. One has to do with an asymmetry in the judgments
in (39). For me, at least, (39a) does indeed represent the only possible position of nuclear
stress, unless some other constituent (like Helen) is being contrastively focused. The
judgment in (39b), on the other hand, is not nearly as sharp; nuclear stress on the verb
in (39b) is not obligatory, as it is in (39a), but for me at least it is certainly an option.
The other complication about the contrast in (39) has to do with the distance over
which the contrast can be maintained. We can find instances of the contrast over a fairly
large structural distance, I think:
(40) a. What do you think Helen will claim she has written?
b. What books do you think Helen will claim she has written?
However, at least for me, the contrast vanishes if wh-movement takes place across
any constituent that contains its own nuclear stress, like a complex subject:8
(41) a. What has [every author with an interest in history] claimed to have
written?
b. What book has [every author with an interest in history] claimed to have
written?
8The facts are reminiscent of the suggestion in footnote 2 above, that nuclear stress shift from PP to the
verb is blocked in unaccusatives, perhaps because the subject intervenes between the verb and the PP
at the relevant level of representation. Perhaps nuclear stress can never be shifted across an intervening
sentential stress.
229
Norvin Richards
Bearing these caveats in mind, let us consider the distribution of Bresnan’s effect.
Bresnan notes that there are complex wh-phrases that do not attract nuclear stress.
Her example is in (42) (Bresnan 1971: 259):
(42) Which books has John read?
Bresnan claims that “the interrogative which is inherently contrastive”, and that (42)
involves contrasting read with some other activity (such as skim). It is not clear to me
that contrastive focus on the verb is necessary; (42) is a natural way to ask a question
about a known list of books, for example. On the other hand, if there is no particular list
of books under discussion, and I am asking just because I think finding out which books
someone has read is a good way to learn about them, then (43) sounds better:
(43) Which books has John read?
The key examples in (44) can be understood as having derivations that begin as in (45),
with nuclear stress as marked:
(44) a. What has Helen written?
b. What books has Helen written?
c. Which books has John read? [preestablished set of books]
d. Which books has John read? [no preestablished set]
(45) a. [vP Helen write something]
b. [vP Helen write some books]
c. [vP John read the books] [preestablished set of books]
d. [vP John read the books] [no preestablished set]
Wh-movement will then create a new copy of the object at the edge of vP, simultane-
ously converting the object to a wh-phrase, perhaps via Late Merge as in Stanton (2016):
(46) a. [vP what Helen write something]
b. [vP what books Helen write some books]
c. [vP which books John read the books ] [preestablished set of books]
d. [vP which books John read the books ] [no preestablished set]
In (46a) and (46c), the direct object of the verb is unstressable as soon as it is introduced
(by virtue of being a simple indefinite, in (46a), and anaphoric on preceding discourse,
in (46c)), and nuclear stress therefore appears on the verb.
In (46b) and (46d), by contrast, the direct object receives stress, and this stress is re-
alized on the head of the chain. Currently popular approaches to movement generally
230
10 Nuclear stress and the life cycle of operators
arrive at the conclusion that the moved element is effectively in two places at once. If
movement involves, for example, the creation of a multidominance structure, then in an
example like (46d) there is literally a single DP node with two mothers, one inside the VP
and another inside the phrase which book. Similarly, on the copy theory of movement,
movement in (46d) creates two instances of a single object which book, and we must
understand phonology as being directed to pronounce the higher of these two instances.
On either account, we can say that the factors that determine the pronounced position
of the displaced element dictate, not only that the segments that make up the DP are to
be pronounced near the beginning of the clause, but that the nuclear stress assigned to
the DP by virtue of its position as an object is to be realized in its pronounced position.
Contrast the derivation for B-extractions like the ones in (47):
(47) a. Something was tough to prove.
b. Some theorems were tough to prove.
c. The theorems were tough to prove.
Derivations for all of these examples will begin with the vP in (48):
(48) [vP PRO prove it]
Since the object in (48) is a pronoun, nuclear stress appears on the verb. Subsequent
movement might then convert the pronoun into one of the various kinds of subjects in
(47), but will have no effect on nuclear stress; the object left behind by tough-movement
has no stress that can be realized on the head of its chain, and nuclear stress will therefore
invariably be on the verb, as desired.
These two types of derivations will have different consequences for extraction from
an antipronominal position. A-extraction, as desired, will be able to shift stress away
from the extraction site:
(49) a. What did that Porsche cost ?
b. How much money did that Porsche cost?
(50) a. That Porsche cost something.
b. That Porsche cost some money.
The A-extractions in (49) will have the underlying forms in (50), with stress being
realized either on the verb or on the moved phrase, as desired. B-extraction, on the
other hand, is correctly predicted to be impossible:
(51) a. * Fifty thousand dollars would be tough for that Porsche to cost.
b. * It would be tough for that Porsche to cost it.
(51a) will be doomed by the fact that its derivation must begin with (51b), in which the
pronoun, by virtue of being in an antipronominal context, must receive stress.
231
Norvin Richards
Why is the stress on the null pronoun in the extraction site in (51a) not simply trans-
ferred to the head of the movement chain, as in an example like (49b)? Here I think we
can take advantage of a difference between A-extraction and B-extraction. The nominal
Merged in object position in (49b), by hypothesis, is something like some money, and
nuclear stress is assigned in the usual way to money. Subsequent operations determine
that money is to be pronounced, not in object position, but at the head of a movement
chain, and we have seen that wherever it is pronounced, money retains the nuclear stress
assigned to it at an earlier point in the derivation.
In (51a), by contrast, nuclear stress has been assigned, by hypothesis, to it. This pro-
noun will not be pronounced anywhere; no matter what we think about whether the
head of the tough-movement chain in (51a) is fifty thousand dollars or a null operator in
a structurally lower position, the pronoun is pronounced in neither of these positions.
Consequently, the nuclear stress assigned to the pronoun also cannot be realized any-
where else; it must be realized on the null pronoun itself, leading to ungrammaticality.
The derivations sketched above allow us to capture both Postal’s and Bresnan’s ob-
servations about the different effects of different kinds of extraction. By claiming that
B-extractions leave pronouns behind, we account both for the fact that they are banned
out of antipronominal contexts and for the fact that they invariably leave nuclear stress
on the verb. A-extractions, by contrast, leave behind non-pronominal DPs, which means
both that extraction is licit out of antipronominal contexts and that the position of nu-
clear stress is more variable than it is for B-extractions.
4.2 Extending Bresnan’s paradigm
Bresnan discusses a distinction between wh-movement and relativization, on the one
hand, and tough-movement, on the other. Let us consider the other instances of A- and
B-extraction.
4.2.1 A-extractions
We have already discussed wh-movement in some detail:
(52) a. What has Helen written?
b. What books has Helen written?
Most of Bresnan’s examples of relativization have no overt relativization operators,
and the position of stress is determined by the head of the relative clause:
(53) a. George found someone he’d like you to meet.
b. George found some friends he’d like you to meet.
These facts are consistent with the account offered above; Bresnan assumes a raising
analysis of relative clauses, but a matching analysis could presumably also be made con-
sistent with the facts, as long as ‘matching’ is understood as being relevantly like the
232
10 Nuclear stress and the life cycle of operators
pronunciation of the head of a movement chain, forcing the pronounced head of the
relative clause to be phonologically identical to the moved operator.
Relative clauses with overt operators seem to me to also be consistent with the theory
above:
(54) a. George found someone who he’d like you to meet.
b. George found someone whose mother he’d like you to meet.
c. George found some friends who he’d like you to meet.
d. George found some friends whose mother he’d like you to meet.
The readings in (54) all follow from the proposal on offer. In particular, (54b) and (54d)
have the option of not stressing the verb of the relative clause, regardless of the form of
the head of the relative clause, presumably because of the form of the relative operator.
Stress may also appear on the verb in these examples, as is standard for A-extractions
(see section 4.1 above for discussion).
Infinitival relatives pattern with restrictive relatives (without overt operators):
(55) a. George found someone to talk to.
b. George found some friends to talk to.
Free relatives seem to me to invariably place nuclear stress outside the operator:
(56) a. He’ll attack whatever I talk about.
b. He’ll attack whatever theory I talk about.
This is not because free relatives have been misclassified as A-extractions; they are
compatible with extraction from antipronominal contexts:
(57) a. Whatever he becomes, I’ll always love him.
b. I’ll pay whatever this Porsche costs.
c. You won’t have heard of whoever this movie stars.
I suspect that free relatives may have their own intonational cues that make them
appear to be counterexamples. Fully understanding their intonation is well beyond the
scope of this paper, but for me, there are at least two kinds of intonational ‘tunes’ that
may go with free relatives. In one, which is more or less obligatory in examples like (57a),
there is a high pitch that begins at the end of the relative operator and lasts until the end
of the free relative clause, at which point pitch falls. The same intonation is possible for
me in examples like (51b-c) in which the free relative appears in an argument position, as
is an alternative featuring a high pitch on the matrix verb, and then a low and flat pitch
for most of the relative clause, ending in another high pitch at the end of the relative.
I conclude that these pitch excursions make the true position of nuclear stress in free
relatives difficult to determine.
233
Norvin Richards
4.2.2 B-extractions
The B-extraction already discussed was tough-movement, which invariably has nuclear
stress outside the moved element. This is true regardless of the properties of the mover:
(58) a. That theorem was tough to prove.
b. What theorem was tough to prove?
c. It was tough to prove.
d. I consider some theorems tough to prove.
I have followed Postal, O’Brien, and Stanton in claiming that tough-movement leaves
a null pronominal in the gap site; as a result, regardless of the identity of the moving
phrase, nuclear stress will appear on the verb in examples like (58), just as it would if the
object of the verb were an overt pronoun.
I have said nothing about why tough-movement differs from the A-extractions in in-
variably leaving a pronoun in the gap site (see Stanton 2016 for one proposal). I think
it is fair to say that the syntax of tough-movement is still not completely clear. Bresnan
(1971) assumed that the subjects of the examples in (58) begin the derivation at the gap
site; another well-attested approach to tough-movement (Chomsky 1977 and much sub-
sequent work) posits a null operator within the embedded clause, and we could imagine
that this operator is a null pronoun.
Other B-extractions which reliably place nuclear stress outside the moved phrase in-
clude:
(59) a. That theorem, I won’t talk about. [topicalization9]
b. Some theorems, I won’t talk about.
(60) Not a single theorem did she talk about. [negative inversion]
(61) a. That theorem is too complicated to talk about. [gapped degree phrase]
b. Some theorems are too complicated to talk about.
(62) a. Caligula, [who I’ve talked about], was a terrible emperor. [non-restr.
relative]
b. Caligula, [whose mother I’ve talked about], was a terrible emperor.
Parasitic gaps, intriguingly, have the B-extraction pattern of stress both for the para-
sitic gap and for the main gap:
(63) What books has she published after writing?
And, as Postal (2001) observes, in parasitic gap constructions, both the parasitic gap
and the main gap are sensitive to antipronominal contexts:
9Bresnan (1971) also notes that topicalization has this property (footnote 18, pp. 276–277); she excludes it
from her discussion on the grounds that it has a distinctive intonation that may blur the relevant distinc-
tions, much as I have done for free relatives above.
234
10 Nuclear stress and the life cycle of operators
(64) a. What color did she paint the house __?
b. * What color did she paint the house __ [after discussing __ with Abigail]?
c. * What color did she discuss __ with Abigail [after painting __ the house]?
Again, sensitivity to antipronominal contexts seems to coincide with the placement
of nuclear stress.
O’Brien (2015) discusses another case in which forms of extraction which are ordi-
narily A-extractions take on the antipronominal-sensitivity of B-extraction. Extraction
from islands, he points out, makes wh-movement and restrictive relativization sensitive
to antipronominal contexts:
(65) a. * Coppe painted his bike orange, and Ted painted his car it.
b. That’s the color that I think I’ll paint my bike __.
c. * That’s the color that I don’t know why [anyone would paint their bike __ ].
d. ? That’s the bike that I don’t know why [anyone would paint __ that color].
(65a) reminds us that the color-denoting expression following a verb like paint is an
antipronominal context. (65b) demonstrates that restrictive relativization is normally im-
mune to antipronominal contexts. The contrast in (59c-d) shows that relativization out of
a wh-island becomes impossible out of antipronominal contexts: (65c), which takes place
out of an antipronominal position, is much worse than (65d), which is merely somewhat
degraded. I refer interested readers to O’Brien (2015) for much further discussion of the
pattern in (65), which seems to be general across a number of kinds of islands.
Extraction out of islands also appears to behave like B-extraction for purposes of stress
placement, reliably placing stress on the verb:
(66) a. ? What books are you wondering [why she would have written __ ]?
b. * What books are you wondering [why she would have written __ ]?
c. ? What book should she have resigned [after writing __]?
d. * What book should she have resigned [after writing __ ]?
I have not offered an account of why extraction types that ordinarily pattern with
A-extraction become B-extraction just under particular circumstances, and will not, for
reasons of space; see O’Brien (2015) for an account of the island facts. The important
observation, for purposes of this paper, is just that the properties of B-extraction seem
to pattern together reliably.
4.3 Conclusion
It seems that Bresnan’s observations divide types of extraction in the same way as
Postal’s. B-extractions leave null pronouns behind in the gap site, and this has conse-
quences both for their distribution (they cannot take place out of antipronominal con-
texts) and for their effects on nuclear stress (stress is invariably retracted to a verb or
235
Norvin Richards
preposition). A-extractions, by contrast, leave an anaphoric DP behind; this DP may be
safely left in antipronominal contexts, where it can avoid receiving stress, and it will
sometimes pass nuclear stress along to the head of the movement chain, and sometimes
to a verb or preposition, depending on the nature of the moving phrase. The two types of
properties—sensitivity to antipronominal contexts and effects on placement of nuclear
stress—appear to pattern together reliably.
5 Some other consequences and conclusions
This paper has been an attempt to demonstrate that various people were right, and that
their proposals support each other.
In fact, not only were Postal (1994; 1998; 2001); Stanton (2016); O’Brien (2015), and
Bresnan (1971) right, but Fox (1999; 2003); Sauerland (1998; 2004), and Johnson (2012)
were also right. Let us turn to this fact next.
Chomsky (1993) proposes the copy theory of movement, which claims that examples
like (67a) should have a syntactic representation like that in (67b):
(67) a. Which book did Mary read?
b. [which book] did Mary read [which book]
As Chomsky notes, the structure in (67b) is difficult to interpret as an operator-variable
construction. He posits a later operation altering (67b) to (68):
(68) whichx did Mary read book x
Fox (1999; 2003) and Sauerland (1998; 2004) posit versions of a process which Fox
(2003) names Trace Conversion, which converts the lower of two copies of movement
into a definite description, yielding something like (69) as an LF representation of (67a):
(69) which book x did Mary read [the book x]
Chomsky, Fox, and Sauerland all assume that the syntax creates a structure with multi-
ple copies of a moving operator, and that the lowest copy is converted to something else
postsyntactically, for reasons having to do with interpretation. If the account developed
here is right, the direct object of read in (67–69) has, not only the semantics of a definite
description, but also some of the phonological properties of a definite description—in
particular, it patterns with definite descriptions with respect to the placement of nuclear
stress. If the gap site is a definite description both at LF and at PF, we should probably
regard it as a definite description in the narrow syntax.
This is Johnson’s (2012) suggestion, which O’Brien (2015) adopts and extends. They
posit movement operations that create A-bar operators out of definite descriptions, ulti-
mately creating multidominant representations like the one in (70b):
236
10 Nuclear stress and the life cycle of operators
(70) a. Which story about her should no linguist forget?
b. CP
QP2
Q
CP
C
should
TP
DP
no linguist
T’
T VP
V
forget
DP
D
which
the 2
NP
story about her
In (70b), QP and VP both immediately dominate the DP which story about her, and
Q has converted the D the into which by Agreeing with it. Formally similar, though
lacking Johnson’s (2012) appeal to multidominance, is Stanton’s (2016) use of Wholesale
Late Merger, which creates operators for B-extraction out of pronouns (represented as
instances of D) by Late Merging an NP to D.
Both of these mechanisms have the property, which I think is appealing, of preserving
the original insight and virtues of Chomsky’s Copy Theory; movement is just another
instance of Merge. Where they depart from Chomsky is in identifying the repeatedly
Merged phrase, not as an instance of the A-bar operator, but as a subpart of that operator,
expanded on structurally in the course of the movement operation.
Let me end with three notes for future research.
The first has to do with covert movement. Fox (1999; 2003) and Sauerland (1998; 2004)
intend Trace Conversion to apply, not only to overt movement, but to QR and wh-in-situ.
I leave for future work the question of how the proposal here can be generalized to such
cases; I hope that such work will shed further light on the syntax of covert movement.10
10The account developed here avoids a ‘look-ahead’ problem connected with wh-in-situ. Consider pairs like
the one in (i-ii):
(i) Which book did the teacher say we should read?
(ii) Which teacher said we should read which book?
237
Norvin Richards
A second area of future research has to do with languages other than English. Lan-
guages vary in how they treat the kinds of phrases that avoid nuclear stress in English.
Spanish, for example, assigns nuclear stress, when appropriate, to pronouns, simple in-
definites, and immediately anaphoric DPs (Zubizarreta 1998; Hualde 2007; Nava & Zu-
bizarreta 2009; 2011):
(71) Spanish (Karlos Arregi, p.c.; Hualde 2007: 61; Nava & Zubizarreta 2009: 179)
a. He
I.have
hablado
talked
con
with
ella.
her
‘I’ve talked with her.’
b. Vi
I.saw
algo.
something
‘I saw something’.
c. Por_qué
why
compras
you.buy
ese
that
sello
stamp
tan
so
viejo?
old
—
—
Porque
because
colecciono
I.collect
sellos.
stamps
‘Why are you buying that old stamp?’ — ‘Because I collect stamps.’
If the account developed here is correct, and if it is safe to regard Spanish nuclear stress
and English nuclear stress as the same phenomenon, then Spanish cannot be using null
pronouns for the tails of B-extractions. We might imagine, for example, that Spanish
B-extraction chains have null clitic pronouns as their tails, since clitic pronouns do not
bear nuclear stress in Spanish. This should have consequences for the distribution of
B-extraction in Spanish (for instance, it should only be possible to B-extract DPs from
positions of nuclear stress if they could in principle be clitic pronouns). Investigation of
these consequences, and of similar facts in other languages, is a topic I will have to leave
for the future.
Another topic for the future is the phonology of extraction of phrases other than
DPs. AP extraction, for example, seems to me to be able to participate in alternations of
nuclear stress position like those Bresnan (1971) identifies for A-extractions:
(72) a. How do you feel?
b. How dizzy do you feel?
An example like (72b), in particular, allows me to destress the verb, particularly if the
topic of dizziness is not yet part of the discourse (imagine, for example, that I see you
In a bottom-up derivation, (i-ii) will have the same starting point, Merging which book as the object of read.
On a certain set of assumptions, this poses a look-ahead problem: if movement is successive-cyclic, and
if the decision about whether to perform overt successive-cyclic movement of which book must be made
before the matrix subject is Merged, then it is difficult to see how this decision can be made without poten-
tially crashing the derivation. There are various ways of avoiding the look-ahead problem, of course, some
of which involve denying the assumptions just sketched (or being at peace with the idea that derivations
can crash). But in the theory offered here, the problem does not arise; the matrix subject is invariably
something like the teacher. If which book is successive-cyclically moving past it, the grammar must simply
refrain from converting the teacher into which teacher, yielding (i) instead of (ii); if which book elects to
remain in situ, then the grammar can convert the teacher into a wh-phrase, yielding (ii).
238
10 Nuclear stress and the life cycle of operators
in some kind of distress and am trying to diagnose your problem; under these circum-
stances, (72b) seems like a natural way of saying the sentence).
Partly for reasons of space, I have had to leave these and many other mysteries largely
unexplored. I have tried to demonstrate that Postal’s division of A-bar movement types
into A- and B-extractions is mirrored in Bresnan’s observations about different effects
of movement on nuclear stress. I have also argued that this parallelism represents an
argument for something like Johnson’s (2012) narrow-syntactic rendition of Trace Con-
version; heads and tails of chains are different, not only in the semantic representation,
but also in the phonological representation, and we should therefore posit a difference
between them in the syntax.
6 Acknowledgements
Many thanks to Karlos Arregi, Juliet Stanton, David Pesetsky, audiences at MIT and the
University of Pennsylvania, and two anonymous reviewers for comments on this work.
I’m also very grateful to Anders Holmberg, for everything he’s done for the field; it’s a
pleasure to be able to offer this paper in his honor. Responsibility for remaining errors
is mine.
References
Bresnan, Joan. 1971. Sentence stress and syntactic transformations. Language 47. 257–
281.
Chomsky, Noam. 1977. On wh-movement. In Peter Culicover, Thomas Wasow & Adrian
Akmajian (eds.), Formal syntax, 77–132. New York: Academic Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1993. A minimalist program for linguistic theory. In Kenneth L. Hale
& Samuel Jay Keyser (eds.), The view from building 20: Essays on linguistics in honor of
Sylvain Bromberger, 1–52. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 1990. Types of A’-dependencies. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Fox, Danny. 1999. Reconstruction, binding theory, and the interpretation of chains. Lin-
guistic Inquiry 30. 157–196.
Fox, Danny. 2003. On logical form. In Randall Hendrick (ed.), Minimalist syntax, 82–123.
Oxford: Blackwell.
Hualde, José I. 2007. Stress removal and stress addition in Spanish. Journal of Portuguese
Linguistics 5. 59–89.
Johnson, Kyle. 2012. Towards deriving differences in how wh movement and QR are
pronounced. Lingua 122. 529–553.
Nava, Emily & Maria Luisa Zubizarreta. 2009. Order of L2 acquisition of prosodic promi-
nence patterns: Evidence from L1 Spanish/L2 English speech. In Jean Crawford, Koichi
Otaki & Masahiko Takahashi (eds.), Proceedings of the 3rd Conference on Generative Ap-
proaches to Language Acquisition North America (GALANA 2008), 175–187. Somerville,
MA: Cascadilla Proceedings Project.
239
Norvin Richards
Nava, Emily & Maria Luisa Zubizarreta. 2011. Encoding discourse-based meaning:
Prosody vs. Syntax. Implications for second language acquisition. Lingua 121. 652–
669.
O’Brien, Chris. 2015. How to get off an island. Ms., MIT.
Perlmutter, David. 1972. Evidence for shadow pronouns in French relativization. In Paul
Peranteau, Judith Levi & Gloria Phares (eds.), The Chicago which hunt, 73–105. Univer-
sity of Chicago: Chicago Linguistics Society.
Postal, Paul. 1994. Contrasting extraction types. Journal of Linguistics 30. 159–186.
Postal, Paul. 1998. Three investigations of extraction. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Postal, Paul. 2001. Further lacunae in the English parasitic gap paradigm. In Peter Culi-
cover & Paul Postal (eds.), Parasitic gaps, 223–250. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Richards, Norvin. 2016. Contiguity theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Sauerland, Uli. 1998. The meaning of chains. Cambridge, MA: MIT Doctoral dissertation.
Sauerland, Uli. 2004. The interpretation of traces. Natural Language Semantics 12. 63–
127.
Stanton, Juliet. 2016. Wholesale late merger in A’-movement: Evidence from preposition
stranding. Linguistic Inquiry 47. 89–126.
Wagner, Michael. 2005. Prosody and recursion. Cambridge, MA: MIT Doctoral disserta-
tion.
Zubizarreta, Maria Luisa. 1998. Prosody, focus, and word order. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
240
Chapter 11
Response particles beyond answering
Martina Wiltschko
University of British Columbia
In recent years, response particles (yes/no) have received some attention in the formal syn-
tactic and semantic literature. Most analyses focus on the use of response particles as an-
swers to polar questions as well as (to a lesser extent) as responses to affirmations. In this
paper I extend the empirical domain to explore the use of response markers as responses to
other clause types including wh-questions, imperatives, and exclamatives. It is established
that response particles can be used as (dis)agreement markers. Moreover it is shown that in
German, response particles can also be used to mark the following utterance as a response.
A unified analysis is developed according to which the difference in function of response
markers is syntactically conditioned. Following recent work on the syntax of speech acts,
an articulated speech act layer is utilized to derive these functions. The case is made for a
more fine-grained typology of response markers than previously assumed.
1 Introduction
In his recent monograph (Holmberg 2015), Anders Holmberg extends the empirical do-
main for generative syntacticians by exploring the syntax of yes and no (henceforth
response particles, ResPrt) as in (1) (see also Holmberg 2001; 2002; 2007; 2013; 2014).
(1) Q: Did you feed the dog?
A: a. Yes. (= I fed the dog.)
b. No. (= I didn’t feed the dog.)
While ResPrts have been explored within other subfields of linguistics (e.g., conver-
sation analysis) they have not been part of the core body of data generativists have
typically taken into account (with the early exception of Pope 1976, and more recent
studies such as Farkas & Bruce 2009; Kramer & Rawlins 2009, and Krifka 2013.) The
absence of ResPrt from the syntactician’s empirical domain may have to do with two
factors. First, ResPrts are only found in conversations, while syntactic theory is typically
concerned with sentences in isolation. Secondly, ResPrts – as the term particle suggests
– are frequently morphologically simplex. That is, in many languages, neither positive
Martina Wiltschko. 2017. Response particles beyond answering. In Laura R. Bailey & Michelle
Sheehan (eds.), Order and structure in syntax I: Word order and syntactic structure, 241–279. Berlin:
Language Science Press. DOI:10.5281/zenodo.1117726
Martina Wiltschko
nor negative ResPrts display any surface complexity: they are mono-morphemic. If we
consider syntax to be concerned with understanding the ways complex structures are
derived, then ResPrts are not obviously an interesting object of exploration. However,
modern syntactic theory is not only concerned with understanding word- or morpheme-
order restrictions but it is a way to explore the relation between form and meaning. And
in this respect, ResPrts are in fact interesting. Despite their morphological simplicity,
they are able to convey a full fledged positive or negative proposition. So, the first ques-
tion that is of interest to syntactic theory concerns the relation between the form of the
ResPrt and its interpretation: how can we model the fact that a seemingly simplex form
can convey a full proposition? And how is the content of this proposition determined? In
§2, I review two current approaches to this question: Holmberg’s ellipsis-based account
and Krifka’s (2013) pronominalization account. I then move on to the core empirical con-
tribution of this paper. In particular, I explore other uses of ResPrts (§3) and whether they
can be accounted for under current analyses. ResPrts serve as answers if they are used
to respond to polar questions; but this is not their only function. Rather, I show that
ResPrts can be used as responses to clause-types other than polar questions, in which
case they function as agreement or disagreement markers, respectively. In §4, I propose
an analysis for the (dis-)agreement function of ResPrts: they establish how the trigger of
the response relates to the responder’s set of beliefs. Furthermore, in §5, I introduce an-
other use of ResPrts: in German ResPrts can be used to mark the utterance they precede
as a response. In §6, I conclude.
For the purpose of this paper, I adopt the following terminological and representa-
tional conventions. It will be useful to distinguish between what the ResPrt responds
to and what it responds with. I refer to the former as the trigger (of response) and to
the latter as the content (of response). This is exemplified in (1′) for the example in (1).
Here the trigger of the response is the polar question (Did you feed the dog?), which
(by virtue of containing an unvalued polarity variable) introduces a proposition and its
negation (p (B fed the dog) ∨¬p (B didn’t feed the dog)). If the answer given is yes, the
content of the response is the affirmation of the positive proposition (p: B fed the dog.).
If the answer given is no, the content of the response is the negation of the proposition
(¬p: B didn’t feed the dog).1
(1′) A: Did you feed the dog? trigger: polar question (p ∨¬p)
B: Yes. (= I fed the dog.) content: affirming p (= p)
No. (= I didn’t feed the dog.) content: negating p (= ¬p)
Furthermore, I will use the term responder to refer to the speech-act participant who is
responding; and I will use the term respondee to refer to the speech-act participant who
the responder is responding to (i.e., the person who uttered the trigger of the response).
1For a discussion of answers to negative questions see §2 below.
242
11 Response particles beyond answering
2 Holmberg’s syntax of answers
Holmberg (2015) (following previous work of his) argues that ResPrts that are used to
answer polar questions are best analyzed as combining with a full propositional structure
the content of which depends on the preceding question. Their apparent simplicity stems
from the fact that the propositional structure can be elided (i.e., remain unpronounced)
as shown in (2), where strike-through indicates the elided constituent.
(2) Q: Did you feed the dog?
A: Yes [I fed the dog].
This much accounts for the distributional properties of ResPrts – as we shall see – but
what about their interpretation? How can they serve as answers to polar questions?
Holmberg argues that polar questions introduce a polarity variable [±pol] inside the
propositional structure (henceforth p-structure). In particular, as illustrated in (3), the
polarity variable is analyzed as the head of a polarity phrase between CP and TP (though
the position of PolP is assumed to be subject to cross-linguistic variation in Holmberg
(2015); cf. also Laka (1990) for an early version of this idea ).
(3) Did you feed the dog?
CP
C
Aux
PolP
Subj Pol
Pol
[± pol]
TP
Thus, according to Holmberg (2015: 4) the interpretation of a polar question is some-
thing like: What is the value of [±pol] such that ‘you fed [±pol] the dog’ is true?. The
contribution of the ResPrt is to bind the polarity variable in the embedded p-structure.
It does so from the specifier position of a focus phrase (FocP). If the answer is yes, the
polarity variable is valued as [+pol], yielding the answer [you [+pol] fed the dog] as in
(4a). In contrast, if the answer is no, the polarity variable is valued as [-pol] yielding the
answer [you [-pol] fed the dog], as in (4b), which translates as ‘You didn’t feed the dog’.
243
Martina Wiltschko
(4) The ResPrt binds the polarity variable
a. the contribution of yes
FocP
yes Foc
Foc PolP
Pol
Pol
[+ pol]
TP
b. the contribution of no
FocP
no Foc
Foc PolP
Pol
Pol
[- pol]
TP
The reason that the constituent following the ResPrt (i.e., PolP) can be elided is that it
is essentially identical to the propositional clause in the question it answers, i.e., it has
an antecedent.
Since anaphoricity can be signalled via ellipsis or via pronominalization, it is not sur-
prising that ResPrts have also been analyzed in terms of pronominalization. For example,
Krifka 2013 argues that ResPrts can be viewed as propositional anaphors. As such, they
are assumed to replace the entire p-structure, as illustrated in (5).2
(5) ResPrt as propositional anaphors
p-structure
yes/no
One empirical fact that speaks in favor of the ellipsis approach of the type developed
by Holmberg (see also Kramer & Rawlins 2009 and Haegeman & Weir 2015) is the fact
2Replacing p-structure is however not the only possibility for response markers in Krifka’s (2013) model. In
particular, he assumes that p-structure is dominated by a speech act Structure (ActP) which, in turn, can
also serve as the antecedent for a propositional anaphor. Depending on which layer of the clausal spine
the propositional anaphor picks out, their interpretation differs. As we shall see the proposal developed
here builds on this insight, but introduces a more fine-grained speech act structure.
244
11 Response particles beyond answering
that the proposition that serves as the antecedent for the ResPrt can be pronounced, as
shown in (6).
(6) A: Did you feed the dog?
B: a. Yes, I fed the dog.
b. No, I didn’t feed the dog.
The well-formedness of the complex answers in (6) is immediately predicted by the
ellipsis analysis: the p-structure need not be elided since ellipsis is generally not obliga-
tory. In contrast, the pronominal analysis, according to which ResPrts are propositional
anaphors, will have to be augmented to accommodate the facts in (6).
Holmberg (2015: 2–6) discusses two more pieces of evidence for the syntactic com-
plexity of ResPrts: one pertaining to their form and the other to their meaning.
Consider first variation in the form of polar responses. Not all languages make use
of ResPrts to answer polar questions. Another cross-linguistically common strategy to
answer polar questions is to repeat (echo) the verb (or auxiliary) of the question with the
remainder of the proposition elided. This is exemplified in (7) on the basis of Finnish.
(7) Finnish (Holmberg 2015: 3 (6))
Q: Tul-i-vat-ko
come-pst-3pl-q
lapset
children
kotiin?
home
‘Did the children come home?’
A: Tul-i-vat.
come-pst-3pl
‘Yes.’
This cross-linguistic pattern lends support to the ellipsis analysis of ResPrts as it allows
for a unified analysis of polar responses.
The other piece of evidence Holmberg considers pertains to differences in the distribu-
tion and interpretation of ResPrts. There are essentially two types of patterns languages
display. The two patterns are distinguishable based on responses to negative polar ques-
tion. The first strategy is the so called agree/disagree system (cf. Kuno 1973; Pope 1976,
and Sadock & Zwicky 1985) also known as the truth-based system (Jones 1999). This
system is characterized by the fact that a positive response to a negative polar question
indicates agreement with the respondee: both the respondee and the responder believe
in the negative proposition. Hence, a positive answer is used to assert a [-pol] value for
p. This is exemplified by the Cantonese data in (8).
(8) Cantonese (Holmberg 2015: 4 (9))
Q: John
John
m
not
jam
drink
gaafe?
coffee
‘Does John not drink coffee?’
245
Martina Wiltschko
A: Hai.
yes
(‘John does not drink coffee.’)
The second strategy is the positive/negative system also known as the polarity-based
system. This system is characterized by the fact that a negative response to a negative
polar question indicates that the polarity of the proposition is valued as [-pol]. Hence,
unlike in the agree/disagree system, a negative answer is used to assert a [-pol] value for
p. This is exemplified by the Swedish data in (9).
(9) Swedish (Holmberg 2015: 4 (10))
Q: Dricker
drinks
Johan
Johan
inte
not
kaffe?
coffee
‘Does Johan not drink coffee?’
A: Nej.
no
(‘He doesn’t drink coffee.’)
In sum, in a truth-based system, the use of a positive ResPrt results in an interpretation
according to which the negative proposition is asserted to be true. In contrast, in a polar-
ity based system the same effect is achieved by means of the negative ResPrt. According
to Holmberg, the difference between the two systems reduces to a syntactic difference
in negation. That is, Ladd (1981) observes that a negative polar question like (10) can have
two readings (see also Büring & Gunlogson 2000; Romero & Han 2004; Asher & Reese
2007). The first reading (10-i) introduces a negative bias and is characterized by low scope
of negation; hence this is known as the “inside negation reading”. The second reading
(10-ii) introduces a positive bias and is characterized by high scope of negation; hence it
is known as the “outside negation reading”.
(10) Q: Doesn’t John drink coffee?
A: i. Is it true that John does not drink coffee? [low neg]
ii. Is it not the case that John drinks coffee? [high neg]
To distinguish the two readings we can add the negative polarity item either, which
forces the low negation reading (11i). Alternatively, we can add the positive polarity item
too, which forces the high negation reading (11ii).
(11) i. Doesn’t he drink coffee either? [low neg]
= Is it also the case that he does not drink coffee?
ii. Doesn’t he drink coffee too? [high neg]
= Is it not also the case that he drinks coffee?
The difference between high and low negation affects the syntax of ResPrts: if the elided
proposition contains negation (as is the case with low negation), then a positive ResPrt
246
11 Response particles beyond answering
is used to mean ‘Yes it is the case that not p’; if the elided proposition does not contain
negation (as is the case with high negation), then the negative ResPrt has to be used to
achieve the same result because the positive ResPrt would have to be interpreted as ‘Yes,
it is not the case that p’, which is not a well-formed answer. In other words, yes, has to
agree in polarity with the assertion rather than with the proposition.
(12) Q: Doesn’t John drink coffee
A: i. Yes. (=He does drink coffee.) content: p
(=He doesn’t drink coffee.) content: ¬p
ii. No. (=He doesn’t drink coffee.) content: ¬p
(= He does drink coffee.) content: p
To obtain a positive response in such contexts, some languages make use of a dedicated
ResPrt, namely a polarity reversing particle. This is exemplified in (13) by German doch
(Holmberg 2015: ch. 6; Krifka 2013).3
(13) German
Q: Trinkt
drinks
Hans
Hans
nicht
not
Kaffee?
coffee
‘Does Hans not drink coffee?’
A: Doch
yes
(er trinkt Kaffee).
(‘He does drink coffee.’)
In sum, what Holmberg’s study establishes is that ResPrts are syntactically complex: they
are sensitive to categories that are syntactically defined, namely the distinction between
low and high negation.
In addition, the syntactic treatment of ResPrts has another advantage: it makes it pos-
sible to explore the cross-linguistic differences in a systematic way. And there are good
reasons to explore this variation. The form and function of ResPrts is under-documented:
existing grammars of individual languages do not often contain information about the
strategies used to answer polar questions. Hence, exploring this question from a cross-
linguistic point of view will contribute to our knowledge base, which in turn will inform
the formal analyses of ResPrts.
The present paper contributes to the question regarding the range of variation. In
particular, I explore other uses of ResPrts, hence extending the typological space within
which to investigate them. That is, in addition to Holmberg’s two questions (i) does a
language make us of the ResPrt strategy and (ii) how do ResPrts pattern as answers to
negative questions, we can also ask questions about the other functions of ResPrts. In
particular, in what follows, I show that ResPrts can be used as markers of (dis)agreement
(Sections 3–4) and as generalized response markers (§5).
3The Old English ResPrt system used to distinguish between two forms of positive ResPrts: gae was used to
answer positive utterances while gyse was used to answer negative ones, mirroring the difference between
German ja and doch (Wallage & van der Wurff 2013).
247
Martina Wiltschko
3 Yes and no as markers of (dis)agreement
The bulk of Holmberg’s (2015) treatment of ResPrts is dedicated to their use as answers to
polar questions (henceforth the answering function). This answering function of ResPrts
comes about when the trigger of the response is a polar question and the content is
either affirmation or negation, as summarized in (14).
(14) Conditions for the answering function of ResPrts
trigger: polar question (p ∨¬p)
content of response:
i. yes: affirming p (= p),
ii. no: negating p (= ¬p)
However, ResPrts can be used in a variety of other contexts that go beyond the answer-
ing function.
3.1 triggers across clause-types
In this section, I explore the use of ResPrts following triggers other than polar questions.
To make a systematic exploration possible, it is useful to make explicit some assumptions
about the relation between utterance form (clause type) and utterance function (speech
act type). I assume a (simplified) mapping between clause-type and speech act-type.
In particular, I assume that declaratives map onto assertions; interrogatives map onto
questions; imperatives map onto commands or requests; and exclamatives map onto
exclamations. Thus, for the purpose of this paper, I abstract away from indirect speech
acts and other forms of modifying speech acts. The mapping is summarized in 1.
Table 1: Mapping between utterance form and utterance function
Utterance form Utterance function
Declarative
Assertion
Interrogative
Question
Imperative Command/request
Exclamative Exclamation
In what follows I explore the possibility of responding with a ResPrt to each of these
utterance forms.
248
11 Response particles beyond answering
3.1.1 Responding to assertions
As discussed in Holmberg (2015), ResPrts can be used to respond to assertions (cf. also
Farkas & Bruce 2009; Krifka 2013). In this use, they are sometimes referred to as rejoin-
ders (Halliday & Hasan 1976) but I will refer to them as (dis)agreement markers. Consider
the examples in (15–16). Assertions are encoded with declarative syntax and falling into-
nation (indicated by \). Note that (dis)agreement markers, too, are associated with falling
intonation.
(15) A: John speaks French really well \. trigger: assertion (p)
B: i. Yes \. (= p) content: agreement w/p
ii. No \. (=¬p)4 content: disagreement w/p
(adapted from Holmberg 2015: 211 (4))
(16) A: You stole the cookie \. trigger: assertion (p)
B: i. Yes \. (= p) content: agreement w/p
ii. No \. (=¬p) content: disagreement w/p
(adapted from Krifka 2013: 2 (2a))
Despite the difference in the trigger, ResPrts still express the same content as in
their answering function: affirmation or negation. Nevertheless, the effect of the ResPrt
is different. With a positive response to an assertion, the responder agrees with the
previous utterance and conversely, with a negative response, the responder disagrees
with the previous utterance (cf. Farkas & Bruce 2009).
This contrasts with ResPrts when used as answers to polar questions. In this case, there
is nothing to agree with, because no statement is being made with which the responder
could agree or disagree. Polar questions are used to shift the commitment to p from the
speaker (S) to the addressee (A) (Gunlogson 2003), thereby requesting an answer from
A. If the respondee is committed to the content of her utterance (as is the case with an
assertion), it follows that the response will be interpreted as (dis)agreement. In contrast,
if the respondee is not committed to the content of her utterance (as is the case with polar
questions), it follows that the response is not interpreted as agreement or disagreement,
but as an answer.
Within the syntactic analysis developed in Holmberg (2015), the difference between
the answering function and the (dis)agreement function is as follows. As we saw above,
ResPrts used as answers are analyzed as occupying SpecFocP c-commanding an embed-
ded p-structure, which contains an unvalued polarity variable (the head of PolP). Yes
values this variable as [+pol] while no values it as [-pol].
4According to Holmberg (2015), no cannot be used as a disagreement marker without adding more content
to the response. According to my consultants, however, the short answer is well-formed though it comes
across as confrontational. One might therefore reframe Holmberg’s generalization as follows: a negative
response is ill-formed only in polite conversations. Note also that there appears to be a special intonation
associated with it. I tentatively identify this as the contradiction contour (Liberman & Sag 1974).
249
Martina Wiltschko
As for their (dis)agreement function, Holmberg (2015: 81) suggests that it does “not
assign a value to a polarity variable, because there is no polarity variable in the preceding
statement.”
Holmberg (2015) doesn’t offer an explicit syntactic analysis for the (dis)agreement
function of ResPrts, but given his description of this phenomenon, we may conclude that
the structure is something like in (17).5
(17) a. yes
XP
yes Pol
Pol
[+ pol]
TP
elided
b. no
XP
no Pol
Pol
[- pol]
TP
elided
Like in their answering function, the (dis)agreement ResPrts combine with an elided
p-structure, the content of which (including its polarity value) is determined by the
trigger of the response. This assumption is consistent with the fact that the content
of the response can be overtly spelled out.
(18) A: John speaks French really well \.
B: i. Yes\. He {does\, speaks French really well\}.
ii. No\. He {doesn’t\, speak French really well\}.
(19) A: You stole the cookie \.
5I have left the label for the structure dominating the ResPrt vague (X). This is because Holmberg (2015)
suggests two possible analyses: one according to which the (dis)agreement function is instantiated by a
different type of yes/no, one that is more akin to predicates like true or false which can take a valued
proposition as their complement. The other option is that the (dis)agreement function is instantiated by
the same lexical element as the answering function: it still is associated with a focus projection but it
doesn’t bind the polarity variable associated with PolP.
250
11 Response particles beyond answering
B: i. Yes\. {I did\, I stole the cookie\}.
ii. No\. {I didn’t\, I didn’t steal the cookie\}.
This analysis raises the question as to what the contribution of the ResPrt is in this
configuration. That is, if it doesn’t serve to value the polarity variable, how does the
positive ResPrt contribute to agreement and the negative ResPrt to disagreement with the
trigger? This is a particularly pressing problem with the negative answer (no), because
there is no negative proposition available to serve as the antecedent for the embedded
p-structure.
Holmberg’s analysis correctly predicts that the answering function differs from the
(dis)agreement function. Empirical support for this difference stems from the fact that
other expressions of agreement (true, right, that’s right) and disagreement (false, wrong,
that’s wrong) can be used as responses (20–21) but unlike ResPrts, they cannot be used
as answers, as shown in the examples in (22–23) (adapted from Holmberg 2015: 211 (5)).6
(20) A: John speaks French really well. trigger: assertion (p)
B: i. Yes. content: agreement w/p
ii. True. content: agreement w/p
iii. Right. content: agreement w/p
iv. That’s right. content: agreement w/p
(adapted from Holmberg 2015: 211 (4))
(21) A: John speaks French really well. trigger: assertion (p)
B: i. No. content: disagreement w/p
ii. False. content: disagreement w/p
iii. Wrong. content: disagreement w/p
iv. That’s wrong. content: disagreement w/p
(22) A: Does John speak French? trigger: polar question (p ∨¬p)
B: i. Yes. content: affirming p
6The difference between ResPrt and other expressions of (dis)agreement has to be explored in more detail.
An informal survey suggests that matters are complicated. While true/false can be used in response to
assertions, they are less well-formed (though not fully ruled out) in response to rising declaratives (i) or
tag questions (ii).
(i) Q: You fed the dog?
A: Yes./?True./?Correct.
(ii) Q: You fed the dog, didn’t you?
A: Yes./?True./?Correct.
(iii) Q: Did you feed the dog?
A: Yes./*True./*Correct.
Before we can develop an analysis that captures these differences, it is necessary to properly establish the
empirical facts. I will have to leave this as an avenue for future research however.
251
Martina Wiltschko
ii. * True.
iii. * Right.
iv. * That’s right.
(23) A: Does John speak French? trigger: polar question (p ∨¬p)
B: i. No. content: negating p
ii. * False.
iii. * Wrong.
iv. * That’s wrong.
Thus, ResPrts have a wider distribution than other forms of agreement. This confirms
Pope’s (1976) insight that English is simultaneously an agreement-based system and a
polarity-based system. When the trigger is a polar question, yes shows up in its polarity
guise: it values the polarity value. When the trigger is an assertion it shows up in its
agreement guise. This still leaves us with the question as to what yes and no contribute
when they function as (dis)agreement markers. How is this function derived?
Suppose that as an agreement marker, yes asserts the truth of the preceding proposi-
tion while as a disagreement marker, no asserts that the preceding proposition is false,
thereby establishing agreement or disagreement with the interlocutor, respectively.
However, this potential analysis cannot be right, given what we find with negative asser-
tions. First consider positive answers. Just as with negative questions, yes is ambiguous:
it can be used to agree with the negated proposition or else it can be used to assert the
truth of the proposition and hence reject the negation of the proposition (24). In this way,
yes differs from the other predicates of agreement and hence cannot simply be analyzed
as a predicate of agreement (like true or right).
(24) A: John doesn’t speak French well. trigger: negative declarative ¬p
B: i. Yes. content: agreement w/¬p
content: disagreement w/¬p
ii. True. content: agreement w/¬p
iii. Right. content: agreement w/¬p
iv. That’s right. content: agreement w/¬p
Next consider the negative answers. Here no – unlike the other predicates of rejection
– is ambiguous. It can be used to reject the negated proposition or else it can be used to
agree with it. The other predicates of rejection, in contrast, can only be used to disagree
with the negated proposition.
(25) A: John doesn’t speak French well. trigger: negative declarative ¬p
B: i. No. content: disagreement w/¬p
content: agreement w/¬p
ii. False. content: disagreement w/¬p
252
11 Response particles beyond answering
iii. Wrong. content: disagreement w/¬p
iv. That’s wrong. content: disagreement w/¬p
This establishes that the contribution of ResPrts cannot simply be asserting or negat-
ing the truth of p. So we are still left with the question about the contribution of ResPrts
when they function as (dis)agreement markers. Moreover, the data in (24-i) and (25-i)
raise the additional question as to how interlocutors determine the contribution of the
ResPrts, if both are ambiguous. Of course, this is the signature of a system that is simulta-
neously an agree-based system and a polarity based system. Goodhue & Wagner (2015),
and Goodhue et al. (2013) show that the ambiguity of the ResPrts is resolved by means
of intonation contours: speakers most frequently use the Contradiction Contour (Liber-
man & Sag 1974) when reversing, and they use declarative intonation when confirming,
regardless of the particular ResPrt used.
We have also established that the agreement vs. polarity function of ResPrts does
not correlate with the difference between binding the polarity value of the embedded
proposition or not, because both functions are possible with answers to polar questions
(where ResPrts bind the polarity value) and with responses to assertions (where there is
no open polarity variable to be bound).
In the remainder of this section, I show that ResPrts have an even wider distribution
than typically discussed. That is, they are not restricted to serve as responses to polar
questions or assertions. Instead they can be used to respond to all kinds of speech acts –
a fact that makes the question as to what their contribution is even more pressing.
3.1.2 Responding to wh-questions
Wh-questions differ from polar questions in that they require an answer to the open
variable denoted by the wh-word in the question.7
(26) A: When did you feed the dog?
B: i. {At around eight\, After I had breakfast\,…}
ii. * Yes\!
iii. * No\!
(27) A: Why did you feed the dog?
B: i. {Because he was hungry\, Because you told me to\, …}
ii. * Yes\!
iii. * No\!
The temporal wh-word in (26) requires the answer to give an indication of the time of
feeding whereas the causal wh-word (why) in (27) requires the answer to give an indi-
cation of the reason for feeding, etc. Unsurprisingly, in these contexts, simplex ResPrts
are ill-formed.
7Thus the meaning of a wh-question is not a proposition with a valued polarity variable. According to
Hamblin’s (1958; 1973) influential work, wh-questions denote sets of propositions (as indicated by {p1, p2,
p3…} in (32)).
253
Martina Wiltschko
However, there are contexts where ResPrts are possible as a response to a wh-question.
Consider the examples in (28)–(30) from the corpus of American soap operas (SOAP;
http://corpus.byu.edu/soap/).8
(28) Katie: Why would he do something like that?
Brooke: Yes, I know. That is the question.
BB-2012-05-239
(29) Brady: Why is joining Basic Black so important to me?
Madison: Yes, please tell me, Brady, because I really want to know.
DAYS-2012-01-06
(30) Avery: How did that happen?
Lauren: (Chuckles) yes.
Michael: It happened because your amazing nephew convinced Daisy to move
out of the building.
YR-2012-05-17
Bill: What do you want to bet?
Liam: No, I am not playing this game with you.
BB-2012-03-27
Sami: Rafe, what are you doing here?
Rafe: No, I’m sorry to drop by so late.
DAYS-2012-02-10
These responses do not answer the wh-question triggers but they are still well-formed.
With the use of the positive ResPrts the responders indicate that they have the same
question as the respondee. In other words, the responder indicates agreement with the
respondee in their evaluation of the situation as triggering a particular question. This is
confirmed by the content of the statements following the ResPrts. Note that these state-
ments are more or less obligatory in these contexts. They all suggest that the responder
has no real answer to the preceding question precisely because s/he has the same ques-
tion. Hence, we can conclude that ResPrts can be used to respond to wh-questions despite
the fact that they do not serve as answers.
The question still remains, however, as to what exactly the ResPrts contributes and
how. Ideally, an analysis of ResPrts should be able to account for all uses of ResPrts. The
8SOAP was chosen over other available corpora of spoken language for several reasons. While soap operas
are in part scripted, they are not necessarily scripted in full detail (many discourse markers may not be
found in the script; Thoma 2016). Moreover, the current exploration is ultimately one of competence. I
assume that both the script writers as well as the actors will create conversations that do not violate their
conversational competence. Finally, according to Jones & Horak’s (2014) study, the spoken language used in
a British Soap Opera (EastEnders) is similar to unscripted conversational language in other spoken language
corpora. Our quantitative study is based on the episodes aired in 2012 which consists of 2.2 million words.
9Abbreviations underneath the SOAP examples are as follows: BB (Bold and Beautiful), (DAYS) Days of
Our Lives, (GH) General Hospital, YR (Young and Restless). The 8-digit number following the abbreviation
represents the release date for the episode from which the example is selected.
254
11 Response particles beyond answering
ellipsis-based analysis developed in Holmberg (2015) cannot straightforwardly account
for ResPrts when used to respond to wh-questions. This is because the proposed structure
has an embedded p-structure containing a valued polarity variable as in (31) repeated
from (17) above. However, if the trigger of the response is a wh-question, then the
elided structure cannot be a p-structure with a valued polarity variable.
(31) a. agreement w/assertion
XP
yes Pol
Pol
[+ pol]
TP
elided
b. disagreement w/assertion
XP
no Pol
Pol
[- pol]
TP
elided
So the question remains as to the contribution of the ResPrts. Descriptively, the contri-
bution of the positive ResPrt is to agree that the respondee’s question is a valid question
and the contribution of the negative ResPrt is to disagree that the respondee’s question
is a valid question, at least not from the responder’s point of view. This is summarized
in (32).
(32) A: [Wh …?] trigger: wh-question {p1, p2, p3…}
B: i. Yes … content: agreement with wh-question
ii. No … content: disagreement with wh-question
But how does this (dis)agreement function come about?
3.1.3 Responding to imperatives
We now turn to imperatives, a clause-type that is used to express requests and commands.
Unlike questions, imperatives do not explicitly solicit a response in the form of an answer
from the addressee. However, we have already seen that ResPrts are not restricted to
255
Martina Wiltschko
answering contexts. They can serve as more general response markers. Hence, we might
expect that they can also be used to respond to imperatives. This is indeed the case, as
exemplified by the data in (33)–(37), which are all from SOAP.
(33) Alison: So go back to the farmhouse and wait for us.
Deacon: Yes, Ma’am.
BB-2012-06-20
(34) Steffy: Treat me like one of your patients..
Taylor: Yes, I will.
BB-2012-06-29
(35) Michael: Breathe!
Starr: Yes.
GH-2012-03-29
(36) Tracy: Give it to me!
Maxie: No!
GH-2012-01-20
(37) Billy: Hey, open the door! Let me in!
Chloe: No, I am not letting you in. Forget about it!
YR-2009-03-16
The well-formedness of these examples indicate that ResPrts can be used to respond
to imperatives. In this context they can roughly be paraphrased as Yes, I will do what you
requested of me vs. No, I won’t do what you requested of me.
Again, existing analyses of ResPrts cannot account for this use. This is because, like
wh-questions, imperatives do not denote propositions, and hence do not make available
a proposition to agree with nor a proposition whose polarity value has to be valued.
Instead, an imperative is often analyzed as denoting a property that can only be true of
the addressee (Portner 2004). So again, the question arises as to what the contribution of
the ResPrt is when it is used to respond to an imperative. Descriptively, the contribution
of the positive ResPrt is to agree with the respondee’s evaluation of the situation that
a command is in order (and hence the responder indicates that s/he will comply with
it). In contrast, the contribution of the negative ResPrts is to disagree with the validity
of the command in this situation (and hence the responder indicates that they refuse to
comply with it). This is summarized in (32).
(38) A: [Imperative!] trigger: Imperative P
B: i. Yes … content: agreement with command
ii. No … content: disagreemen with command
256
11 Response particles beyond answering
3.1.4 Responding to exclamatives
Finally, we consider exclamatives. While some languages have dedicated exclamative
clause-types, it is also the case that all kinds of utterances can be interpreted as excla-
mations, provided they have the right intonation and occur in the right context. What is
crucial for our purpose is that responders can respond to commands with a ResPrt. This
is exemplified by the data in (39)–(44). Note that none of the examples from the corpus
are exclamations that are based on the dedicated exclamative clause-type. Nevertheless
they still are instances of exclamations. Furthermore, the constructed example in (41)
shows that the use of ResPrts as a response to dedicated exclamative clause-types is also
well-formed.
(39) Steffy: Whoo-hoo.
Liam: Yes!
BB-2012-05-03
(40) Brooke: Steffy is leaving town.
Hope: No way!
Brooke: (Squeals) Yes! I shouldn’t say “good” because she is Ridge’s daughter,
and I really shouldn’t celebrate, but I am.
BB-2012-03-19
(41) A: What a beautiful sunset.
B: Yes, I know. Isn’t it gorgeous.
(42) Anita: She found it at Victor’s.
Chelsea: Oh, my God!
Anita: No, relax. It’s Victor’s problem.
YR-2012-02-17
(43) Will: What a perfect time to lay low.
Gabi: No, Will, look, I’m trying to find an agent.
DAYS-2012-05-15
(44) Michael: What a lovely family tradition to hand on to your own niece.
Avery: No, I got to know Daisy through all this.
YR-2012-02-24
In this context ResPrts can roughly be paraphrased as follows. The positive ResPrt
indicates that the responder agrees with the evaluation of the situation by the respondee
(45i); the negative ResPrt indicates that the responder does not agree with the evaluation
of the situation by the respondee (45ii).
(45) A: [Exclamative!] trigger: Exclamative {p1, p2, p3,…}
B: i. Yes … content: agreement w/exclamation
ii. No … content: disagreement w/exclamation
257
Martina Wiltschko
Again, existing analyses of ResPrts cannot account for this use. This is because, like
wh-questions and imperatives, exclamatives do not denote propositions, and hence do
not make available a proposition to agree with nor a proposition whose polarity value
has to be valued. Instead, as indicated in (45), an exclamative can be analyzed as denoting
a set of alternative propositions (Zanuttini & Portner 2003). So again, the question arises
as to how the (dis)agreement function of ResPrt is derived when they are used to respond
to an exclamative.
3.2 The analytical challenge
We have now explored ResPrt as responses to all major clause-types and we have seen
that they are not only used as answers to polar questions. In fact, a survey of 1013 tokens
of positive ResPrt in SOAP reveals that the vast majority of instances of yes is used to
respond to preceding assertions (n = 654), followed by responses to yes/no questions (n =
279). The other functions of yes are much less frequent, but nevertheless occur: response
to exclamatives (n = 44); response to imperatives (n = 36); and response to wh-questions
(n = 9). This is summarized in Figure 1.10
YNQ assertion imperative exclamative wh-question
0
200
400
600
279
654
36 44
9
clause type
instances
Figure 1: Distribution of yes across different triggers
As shown in Figure 2, the numbers are similar for no. The vast majority is used to
respond to preceding assertions (n = 1387), followed by responses to yes/no questions (n
= 711). The other functions of no are again much less frequent, but nevertheless occur:
response to exclamatives (n = 16), response to imperative (n = 172), and response to wh-
questions (n=58).
We have established above that the function of the ResPrt differs depending on the
clause type of the trigger, as summarized in Table 2.
10In this study, we looked at 1469 tokens of yes and 3093 tokens of no. Not all tokens are included in the
quantitative analysis above. In particular, not included in the chart above are those tokens that respond to
tag questions and rising declaratives, as well as echo-questions, addresses, and backchannels.
258
11 Response particles beyond answering
YNQ assertion imperative exclamative wh-question
0
500
1,000
1,500
711
1,387
172
16 58
clause type
instances
Figure 2: Distribution of no across different triggers
Table 2: Distribution and function of ResPRTs
Trigger of response yes function no function
Polar question positive polar
questions
✔ Answer:
affirmative
✔ Answer:
negative
negative polar
questions
✔ Answer:
i) polarity-based
ii) agreement-
based
✔ Answer
i) polarity-based
ii) agreement-
based
Declarative ✔ agreement
w/assertion
✔ disagreement
w/assertion
Interrogative ✔ agreement
w/question
✔ disagreement
w/question
Imperative ✔ agreement
w/command
✔ disagreement
w/command
Exclamative ✔ agreement
w/exclamation
✔ disagreement
w/exclamation
259
Martina Wiltschko
Note that ResPrts function as answers only if they serve to answer polar questions. In
all other contexts they serve to express agreement or disagreement with the speech act
of their trigger. At first sight, the fact that ResPrts can be used to express agreement
might not be surprising within a language that makes use of an agree/disagree-based
system (referred to as truth-based in Holmberg 2015). But unfortunately, this is not suffi-
cient to understand this pattern. First, we do not have a good understanding of what the
contribution of yes and no is when they are used to mark agreement and disagreement.
We have seen throughout the discussion that it is not immediately clear how to extend
Holmberg’s analysis to cover the full range of functions of ResPrt. Second, if the multi-
functional profile of the type identified for English ResPrt is dependent on English having
a polarity based system AND an agree/disagree based system in the sense of Kuno (1973),
then we would expect that languages where answers are polarity-based will have a dif-
ferent profile, and that ResPrts could not be used as (dis)agreement markers following
triggers other than polar questions. However, this prediction is not borne out, as I now
show.
According to Holmberg (2015: Section 4.2), German does not have an agree/disagree-
based system. Nevertheless, German ResPrts can be used with all of the triggers dis-
cussed for English ResPrts and with the same functions. This is shown below with exam-
ples from the Upper Austrian variety of German (henceforth UAG).11
Relative to the parameters explored in Holmberg (2015), UAG ResPrts have the fol-
lowing profile. The first thing to note is that ResPrt exist in this language. That is, in
answering a polar question, UAG employs dedicated particles jo (‘yes’) and na (‘no’).
As shown in (46), both can be used in isolation or be followed by the content of the
response (i.e., the proposition introduced in the trigger of the response).
(46) Upper Austrian German
Q: Host
Have
du
you
an
det
Hund
dog
gfuattat?
fed
trigger: p ∨¬p
‘Did you feed the dog?’
A: a. Jo.
Yes.
(I
I
hob
have
an
det
Hund
dog
gfuattat.)
fed
content: p
b. Na.
No.
(I
I
hob
have
an
det
Hund
dog
net
neg
gfuattat.)
fed
content: ¬p
Moreover, according to the criteria Holmberg (2015) adopts, UAG has a polarity-based
system: negative questions cannot be answered with the positive ResPrt (47i). Like Stan-
dard German, UAG has a dedicated polarity reversing strategy: the positive ResPrt is
prefixed with oh (47iii). With this strategy the content expressed by the response is p
by virtue of reversing the negation of p (¬(¬p)).
11There are several reasons to use dialectal data for this discussion. First, conversations like those reported
on here are a spoken language phenomenon and the status of Standard German as a spoken language is
questionable (Weiß 2004; Auer 2004). In addition, in ongoing work on the form and function of response
particles we find a staggering range of variation even among dialects of the same language (i.e., German).
260
11 Response particles beyond answering
(47) Upper Austrian German
Q: Trinkt
drinks
da
det
Hons
Hans
net
neg
an
det
Kaffee?
coffee
trigger: ¬p ∨¬(¬p)
‘Does Hans not drink coffee?’
A: i. * Jo. (=He does drink coffee.) *content: p
ii. Na. (= He doesn’t drink coffee.) content: ¬p
iii. Oh jo. (= He does drink coffee.) content: p =(¬(¬p))
Now, if the possibility for ResPrt to be used as (dis)agreement markers were contingent
on the answering system of the language being an agree/disagree based system, then we
would predict that ResPrt in UAG cannot be used in this way. However, this prediction is
not borne out. The same ResPrts that can be used as answers to polar questions can also be
used to respond to assertions (48), wh-questions (49), commands (50), and exclamations
(51).
(48) Upper Austrian German
A: Da
det
Hons
Hons
red-t
speak-3sg
guat
well
Französisch
French
\. trigger: assertion (p)
‘Hans speaks French well.’
B: i. Jo\. (= p) content: affirming p
ii. Na\. (=¬p) content: negating p
(49) Upper Austrian German
A: Wonn
When
foast
leave-2sg
denn
prt
du
you
jetzt
now
eigentlich?
prt
trigger: wh-question
‘When are you finally leaving?’
B: i. Jo,
Yes,
des
dem
is
is
a
indf
guate
good
frog.
question
content: agree w/Q
‘Yes, that’s a good question.’
ii. Na,
No,
des
dem
deafst
may-2sg
me
me
ned
not
frogn.
ask
content:disagree w/Q
‘No. You can’t ask me that.’
(50) Upper Austrian German
A: Jetzt
Now
geh
go
endlich
finally
ins
into.the
Bett.
bed
trigger: command
‘Go to bed now!’
B: i. Jo
yes
i
I
geh
go
jo
prt
eh
prt
scho.
prt
content: agree w/command
‘but I’m going already.’
261
Martina Wiltschko
ii. Na
No
wirkli
really
ned.
not
content: disagree w/command
‘No way.’
(51) Upper Austrian German
A: Ma
Prt
is
is
des
dem
a
indf
liaba
cute
Hund.
dog
trigger: exclamation
‘What a cute dog that is!’
B: i. Jo
yes
wirkli
really
woa,
true,
geu?
tag?
content: agree w/excl.
‘Yeah, that’s true, isn’t it?’
ii. Na
no
owa
prt
wirkli
really
ned.
neg
content: disagree w/excl.
‘No, that’s really not true.’
This establishes that the possibility for using ResPrt as responses to speech acts other
than assertions is not contingent on the answering system being an agree/disagree based
one. And, as indicated in the above examples, the general function of ResPrt in contexts
where the trigger is not an assertion is still agreement or disagreement with the trig-
gering speech act. Thus we can conclude that the ability of ResPrts to express agreement
or disagreement is not restricted to agree/disagree based answer systems.
But this still leaves us with the question as to how to analyse the (dis)agreement func-
tion of ResPrt.
4 The syntax of (dis-)agreement
To understand the difference between the answering function and the (dis)agreement
function of ResPrt it is useful to compare their contribution with two triggers: polar
questions vs. wh-questions. With polar questions, the ResPrts are used to affirm or negate
the proposition (52) embedded in the question while with wh-questions, they are used to
agree with or reject the question (53).
(52) A: [y/n…?] trigger: polar question (p ∨¬p)
B: i. Yes … content: affirming p (= p)
ii. No … content: negating p (= ¬p)
(53) A: [Wh …..?] trigger: wh-question {p1, p2, p3…}
B: i. Yes … content: agreement w/wh-question
ii. No … content: disagreement w/wh-question
Thus when responding to a wh-question, the content of the response is the same
as the trigger, namely the speech act of questioning itself. This contrasts with the
262
11 Response particles beyond answering
answering function of ResPrts in response to polar questions. Here the content of the
response is the proposition embedded in the polar question, and not the polar question
itself. To account for this difference, let us begin by assuming that the analysis for ResPrts
in their answering function is essentially as in Holmberg (2015): the ResPrt values the
polarity value associated with the p-structure, as in (54), repeated from (4) above.
(54) ResPrts bind the polarity variable
a. the contribution of yes
FocP
yes Foc
Foc PolP
Pol
Pol
[+pol]
TP
b. the contribution of no
FocP
no Foc
Foc PolP
Pol
Pol
[-pol]
TP
However, as we have seen, ResPrts are not restricted to indicating the polarity value of
a proposition. Hence this cannot be their intrinsic content. In fact, the association with
polarity is, on this analysis, syntactically conditioned. ResPrts value an open polarity
variable, but they do not themselves establish polarity per se.
So suppose that the core content of the ResPrts is to value an unvalued clausal feature
as either positive (yes) or negative (no). Positive and negative values are themselves not
restricted to propositional polarity. Instead, all types of features have been assumed to
be bi-valent such that one value is positive and the other negative (Jakobson 1932; Trubet-
zkoy 1939). I propose that – when used to establish (dis)agreement – the contribution of
ResPrts is to value an unvalued feature in the speech act structure. In particular, follow-
ing Wiltschko (2017); Wiltschko & Heim (2016); Thoma (2016), I assume that speech act
structure contains a grounding layer, which is responsible for encoding the commitment
of S towards p. The label GroundP is meant to evoke Clark & Brennan’s (1991) mecha-
nism of grounding as well as the notion of the common ground (cf. Heim et al. (2014);
Thoma (2016) and Wiltschko & Heim (2016) for discussion). In particular, GroundP takes
the CP (typed p-structure) as a complement and an abstract argument referring to the
263
Martina Wiltschko
S’s ground (Ground-S) in its specifier as in (55).12
(55) Speech act structure
GroundP
Ground-S Ground
Ground
[ucoin]
CP
This structure follows the basic template for functional categories assumed in Wiltschko
(2014): they are transitive heads which establish a relation between their complement
and an abstract argument in their specifier. The relation is established via the unvalued
coincidence feature [ucoin] which is universally associated with all clausal heads. This
feature establishes whether or not the two arguments coincide and is independent of the
dimension relative to which they coincide. That is, coincidence may be in time, place,
participancy or belief states, among other things. That coincidence is a central universal
characteristic of a variety of grammatical categories was first observed in Hale (1986)
(see Wiltschko 2014 for detailed discussion).
On this analysis then, the contribution of ResPrts is to value the unvalued coincidence
feature associated with Ground. So when the trigger is a wh-question, the structure
associated with the ResPrt is as in (56). The ResPrt attaches to GroundP, which in turn
takes a CP as its complement. This CP corresponds to the trigger and is typically elided
but can also be spelled out, as shown in (57).13
(56) ResPrt values [ucoin] in Ground
a. the contribution of yes
yes GroundP
Ground-S Ground
Ground
[+coin]
CP-interrog
12For evidence that the speaker’s ground (Ground-S) and the addressee’s ground (Ground-A) are associated
with two distinct layers in the structure, see Lam (2014); Heim et al. (2014); Thoma (2016). Since Ground-A
plays no role in the analysis of the ResPrts discussed here, I will not discuss it here.
13In (56) the ResPrt is represented as attaching to GroundP in the same fashion as ResPrts are analysed in
Holmberg (2015). It may be the case, however, that ResPrts are better analysed as heads associating directly
with the Ground head. For the purpose of this discussion, the question whether ResPrts function as heads
or phrases can be put aside.
264
11 Response particles beyond answering
b. the contribution of no
no GroundP
Ground-S Ground
Ground
[-coin]
CP-interrog
(57) A: When are you leaving?
B: i. Yes. (When am I leaving?) That’s the question.
ii. No! (When am I leaving?) You can’t ask me that.
According to this analysis, yes values [ucoin] associated with Ground as [+coin], thereby
asserting that the wh-question is in the speaker’s ground; in contrast, no values [ucoin]
as [-coin] thereby asserting that the question which serves as the trigger is not in the
speaker’s ground. The assumption that questions can be part of someone’s ground (in
addition to propositions and discourse referents) has been independently established in
Ginzburg (1995a; 1995) and Roberts (1996). They argue that the discourse component
associated with wh-questions is a Question Set (a set of propositions). Evidence that
this is so comes from the fact that a question may serve as a discourse referent, just like
propositions do. Hence they can be anaphorically referenced, as in (57) by that.
According to this analysis, the multi-functionality of ResPrts derives from the fact
that they can associate with the clausal spine in two different positions: i) immediately
above p-structure and ii) above the speech act structure. In the former case, which is the
one that Holmberg discusses, ResPrts serve to value an open polarity variable associated
with the proposition. This derives their answering function because they provide the
value for the open variable. Since by hypothesis, there is no polarity variable associated
with wh-questions, this function is not available if the trigger is a wh-question. The
felicity of ResPrts in this context derives from the fact that the ResPrts can also associate
with the spine above the speech-act structure. In this context, they serve to value the
unvalued coincidence feature. This derives the (dis)agreement function of ResPrts. In par-
ticular, if the responder asserts that the trigger question is in their ground it follows
that they agree with the responder. By virtue of asking the question in the first place,
the respondee makes it clear that this question is in their ground. If the same question
is also in the respondee’s ground, it follows that they agree on the felicity of the speech
act. In this way, the proposed analysis can derive the fact that ResPrts can be used to
respond to all clause-types. As just discussed, with assertions, the discourse component
is a proposition; with wh-questions the discourse component is a Question Set. And fol-
lowing Portner (2004), we can assume that with imperatives, the discourse component is
265
Martina Wiltschko
a to do list. Finally, for expository reasons I assume that with exclamatives, the discourse
component is list of exclaimables.
Hence the agreement function is communicated without a dedicated agreement mark-
er. The essence of this analysis is summarized in (58).
(58) The agreement vs. answering function of ResPrt
GroundP
yes CP
agreement
affirmative answer
GroundP
no CP
rejection
negative answer
In the remainder of this section, I discuss two predictions of this analysis. First, I
show that the (dis)agreement function does not interact with negation. This follows,
because the agreement function arises by associating ResPrt with GroundP, and hence
is too high to interact with negation within the propositional structure. Second, I show
that the (dis)agreement function is also available with polar questions.
Evidence that the agreement function derives from a high position of the ResPrts
comes from the fact that in this position they do not interact with negation in the same
way as they do when they serve the answering function. Recall that in English, answers
to negative questions are ambiguous between the polarity and the truth-based reading
because the ResPrts may or may not take negation in their scope. The relevant data
exemplifying this pattern are repeated below for convenience.
(59) Q: Doesn’t John drink coffee?
A: i. Yes. (=He does drink coffee.) content: p
(= He doesn’t drink coffee.) content: ¬p
ii. No. (=He doesn’t drink coffee.) content: ¬p
(= He does drink coffee.) content: p
If ResPrts in their (dis)agreement function associate with the spine above the speech
act phrase we predict that they cannot interact with negation in the same way. This pre-
diction is borne out. When a wh-question contains negation, the positive ResPrt agrees
with the negated question (60i/ii) while the negative ResPrt has to disagree with the
negated question (60iii/iv). Hence no ambiguity arises with ResPrts in this context and
negated wh-questions behave just like their positive counterparts.
266
11 Response particles beyond answering
(60) A: Why wouldn’t he do something like that?
B: i. Yes. That is the question.
ii. * Yes. That is not the question.
iii. * No. That’s the question.
iv. No. That’s not the question.
Next we turn to another question that the analysis raises: Why does the function of
the ResPrt correlate with the speech act of the trigger? That is, up until now we have
seen that as responses to polar questions ResPrts function as answers while as responses
to wh-questions as well as other speech acts, they function as (dis)agreement markers.
Everything else being equal, we might expect that ResPrts could be associated with the
answering function and the agreement function with any speech act. However, every-
thing else is not equal. First, answering requires there to be an open variable inside the
p-structure of the trigger. This is the case in polar questions, but not in other speech
act types such as assertions, content questions, commands, and exclamations. However,
there are other ways to ask questions: rising declaratives and tag questions. And indeed,
ResPrts can serve the answering function when these questions are the triggers for the
response.
(61) A: You fed the dog/?
B: i. Yes. I fed the dog.
ii. No. I didn’t feed the dog.
(62) A: You fed the dog, didn’t you?
B: i. Yes. I fed the dog.
ii. No. I didn’t feed the dog.
But what about the (dis)agreement function? The analysis predicts that the agreement
function should also be available when the trigger is a polar question. This prediction is
indeed borne out. ResPrts can be used to (dis)agree with polar questions as well. That is,
they can serve not only to answer the polar question but also to agree with or disagree
with its felicity. Note however, that this use of the ResPrt is much more marked. It seems
to improve with an initial hmmm, which, I assume, marks the responder’s evaluation of
the question.
(63) A: Did you feed the dog?
B: i. (Hmm) Yes. Did I feed the dog? That’s a good question.
ii. (Hmm) No. Did I feed the dog? That’s an unfair question.
In sum, I have argued that the two different functions of ResPrts we have identified
are syntactically conditioned. The answering function arises if the ResPrt associates
just above p-structure and values the open polarity value; the (dis)agreement function
arises if the ResPrt associates above the speech-act structure and values [ucoin] to assert
whether or not the embedded speech act is in the responder’s ground.
267
Martina Wiltschko
Note that simple ResPrts cannot be felicitously used with all types of assertion trig-
gers. Specifically, agreement is only possible if the content of the response is already
in the responder’s ground at the time of the exchange. However, if the respondee reports
on something that is new to the responder (as indicated by the initial phrase guess what),
then a simple ResPrt is infelicitous; rather, the ResPrt has to be modified. In such cases, as
shown in (64), in English the positive ResPrt is preceded by oh, which marks the newness
of the trigger while at the same time, yes indicates that there are no contradictory be-
liefs in the responder’s ground. Hence, this modified ResPrt serves to indicate acceptance.
Note also that there is a rising intonation on yes, which indicates that the responder is
requesting confirmation that this proposition is really true. Thus, with the rising intona-
tion the responder indicates that s/he accepts the interlocutor as the authority over the
truth of the proposition. As shown in (65), UAG has a dedicated particle that serves the
acceptance function: it simultaneously indicates the newness of the proposition in the
responder’s ground and its acceptance. Like in English, this particle is realized with a
rising intonation.
(64) A: Guess what. My sister just gave birth to a baby\.
B: i. * Yes\.
ii. Oh, yes/?
(65) Upper Austrian German
A: Stoe
Put
da
2sg
voa.
prt.
Mei
my
Schwesta
sister
hot
aux
grod
just
a
det
Kind
child
kriagt\.
got.
‘Imagine that. My sister just had a baby.’
B: i. * Jo\.
ii. Aso/?14
This much establishes that languages can have special means to mark the status of
a particular proposition relative to the responder’s ground: in English and in German,
special markers are available to mark the newness of the proposition in the common
ground. This is akin to the marking of the novelty or familiarity of a given discourse
referent (i.e., definiteness marking). Given that definiteness is not marked across all lan-
guages, we may expect that the marking of novel propositions too is also not universally
available. Hence this is another potential source of cross-linguistic variation that should
be tracked when developing a typology of yes and no.
5 Marking response
We have now seen that there are at least two different functions available for ResPrts.
They can be used as answers to polar questions and they can be used as markers of
(dis)agreement with the speech act. I have argued that the difference between these two
14The standard German version of this particle is ach so.
268
11 Response particles beyond answering
functions is syntactically conditioned: associating a ResPrt with the spine just above the
p-structure results in the answering function, while associating it above the speech act
structure (GroundP) results in the (dis)agreement function. The assumption that ResPrts
can associate with different positions in the spine and that they can thereby acquire
different functions raises the question as to whether there are any other positions that
ResPrts can associate with and that would derive other functions for ResPrts. In this
section I show that this is indeed the case.
In Wiltschko (2017), it is argued that the speech act structure consists not only of the
GroundP but also contains an articulated response layer above GroundP. That is, many
speech acts can be characterized not only by the commitment the speaker displays to-
wards the proposition (encoded in GroundP) but also by a request for the addressee as
to how to respond to the utterance. This is known as the Call on Addressee (henceforth
CoA; Beyssade & Marandin 2006). In English, CoA can be encoded by the intonational
contour associated with a given utterance. For example, rising intonation can be anal-
ysed as encoding a request to respond (Beyssade & Marandin 2006), and according to
Wiltschko (2017) is associated with another layer in the speech act structure, namely
RespP (see also Heim et al. 2014). This is schematized in (66).
(66) A fully articulated speech act structure
RespP
GroundP
CP
CoA
Commitment
Given the structure in (66), we might expect that ResPrts can also associate with RespP.
There is indeed a use of ResPrts in UAG which is amenable to such an analysis. In partic-
ular, ResPrts can be used to mark the following utterance as a response. In this case the
trigger of the response can be an immediately preceding utterance as in (67) but also
an immediately preceding (non-linguistic) situation as in (68)).
(67) Upper Austrian German
Context. A and B work in the same cubicle. A usually leaves work at 4, but
sometimes his schedule is a bit off. B wants to know if A is indeed planning to
leave at 4 today.
B: Gehst
Go-2sg
du
you
heit
today
um
at
4
4
ham?
home.
‘Are you going home at 4 today?’
269
Martina Wiltschko
A: i. Jo/Na
yes/no
des
that
was-st
know-2sg
doch
prt
eh.
prt
I
i
geh
go
imma
always
um
at
4
4
ham.
home.
‘But you know that. I always go home at 4.’
ii. Jo/Na
yes/no
des
that
was-st
know-2sg
leicht
prt
net?
neg
‘So you don’t know that?’
(68) Upper Austrian German
Context. A and B are co-workers. Their working hours are fixed and they always
go home at 4.30. Typically, they get ready to leave at 4.25 so they can be out the
door by 4.30. Today B is not showing any signs of getting ready even at 4.25. A
comments:
a. Jo/Na
yes/no
wonn
when
gehst
go-2sg
denn
prt
du
you
heit
today
ham?
home
‘So when are you leaving today?’
b. Jo/Na geh-st du heit ned ham?
yes/no go-2sg you today neg home
‘So aren’t you going home today?’
In this use of the ResPrt, the content of the response is not established by the response
marker itself, but instead by the following utterance. This has a number of consequences
for the distribution of the ResPrt when used in this function. First, the following utterance
cannot be elided. And second, the content of the response does not differ. depending
on whether the positive or the negative ResPrt is used.15 Finally, given that the trigger
can be a non-linguistic situation, we may expect there to be no restrictions on the type
of linguistic triggers. This is indeed the case. All types of speech acts can serve as
15An anonymous reviewer points out that the interchangeability of the positive and negative ResPrt might
indicate that at least in certain cases they might effectively be used expletively. To support this idea, the
reviewer points out that in South African English there are certain uses of no that do not seem to mean no
at all, as for example in i).
(i) A: How are you today?
B: No, I’m doing really well.
It is not clear that no is in fact meaningless here.
In particular, ResPrts do not only respond to propositional content and speech acts, but they may also
respond to the mere fact that the trigger expresses a belief on behalf of the speaker. So for example in ii)
yeah and no co-occur without introducing a contradiction. In particular, yeah expresses that B accepts that
A beliefs p, but no indicates that B does not agree (see Guntly 2016; Guntly & Wiltschko 2016 for further
discussion).
(ii) A: Yeah you don’t know which is you don’t know which is worse.
B: Yeah no i know which is worse. (Switchboard Corpus 02078A)
In light of the data in ii), I hesitate to conclude that no in i) is really expletive. But to determine its function
will have to await further research.
270
11 Response particles beyond answering
triggers for this use of the ResPrt. In (67), the trigger is a polar question, and in the
data below we observe all other speech act types serving as triggers: wh-questions
(69), assertions (70), commands (71), and exclamations (72).
(69) Upper Austrian German
A: Wonn
When
gehst
go-2sg
denn
prt
du
you
heit
today
ham?
home.
‘When are you going home today?’
B: Jo/Na
ja/no
des
that
was-st
know-2sg
doch
prt
eh.
prt
I
i
geh
go
imma
always
um
at
4
4
ham.
home.
‘You know that already. I always go home at 4.’
(70) Upper Austrian German
A: I
I
boag
borrow
ma
me
gschwind
quickly
dei
your
Auto
car
aus.
prt
‘I’m going to quickly borrow your car.’
B: Jo/Na
yes/no
des
that
geht
goes
owa
but
ned.
neg
‘But that’s not okay.’
(71) Upper Austrian German
A: Jetzt
Now
geh
go
endlich
finally
ins
into.the
Bett.
bed
‘Go to bed now!’
B: Jo/Na
yes/no
i
I
geh
go
jo
prt
eh
prt
scho.
prt
‘But I’m going already.’
(72) Upper Austrian German
A: Ma
prt
a
a
so
so
a
a
grossa
big
Hund.
dog
‘Gee, what a big dog!’
B: Jo/Na
yes/no
ho-st
have-2sg
den
dem
no
prt
ned
neg
gsegn?
seen
‘Haven’t you seen him before?’
I assume that the head of the response phrase (RespP) is associated with an unvalued
coincidence feature [ucoin], just as any other clausal projection. It relates the utterance
to the interlocutor’s response set. With the use of the positive ResPrt, [ucoin] receives a
positive value [+coin] and thus asserts that the utterance coincides with the responder’s
response set thereby marking it as a response, as in (73).
271
Martina Wiltschko
(73) Valuing [ucoin] in Resp
yes RespP
Response Set Resp
Resp
[+coin]
Ground
However, this raises the question as to why the negative ResPrt can also be used in
this context. Everything else being equal, we expect it to value [ucoin] as [-coin] as in
(74).
(74) Valuing [ucoin] in Resp
no RespP
Response Set Resp
Resp
[-coin]
Ground
So why is it possible to express the same thing by valuing [ucoin] as either positive
or negative? I tentatively suggest that this may have to do with the timing of when the
content of the response entered into the responder’s response set. Specifically, with
the positive ResPrt the responder indicates that the content is in the response set now
([+coin]); in contrast, with the negative ResPrt the responder indicates that the content
was not in the response set prior to the time of utterance ([-coin]).16 This is compatible
with its being in the response set at the time of utterance. Hence, both the positive and
the negative ResPrt can express the same content, with a difference in perspective. If the
negative ResPrt is used, then the fact the response is now in the response set contrasts
with the assertion that it wasn’t in the response set prior to the time of utterance. Hence,
the use of the negative ResPrt focusses on the surprising nature of the response.
16This is reminiscent of the difference between languages with and without definiteness marking as analysed
in Wiltschko (2014).
272
11 Response particles beyond answering
Note that the possibility for a ResPrt to mark the utterance as a response is subject
to cross-linguistic variation. While in UAG this function is possible for ResPrt, it is not
in English: neither the positive nor the negative ResPrt are well-formed in this context
(75a); instead, the particle so is used (75b).
(75) Context. A and B are co-workers. Their working hours are fixed and they always
go home at 4.30. Typically, they get ready to leave at 4.25 so they can be out the
door by 4.30. Today B is not showing any signs of getting ready even at 4.25. A
comments:
a. * Yes/*no, when are you leaving today?
b. So, when are you leaving today?
It may be noted, though that UAG is not the only language where ResPrts can be used
in this way. While relevant information about ResPrts is not easy to come by in grammars,
I have found two candidates for ResPrts that serve to mark the utterance as a response,
one in Macushi (Cariban) and the other in Cambodian. I briefly describe the relevant
data in turn.
Consider first Macushi. Here the positive ResPrt (inna) can be used to answer po-
lar questions as in (76) but it can also be used after questions of other types (i.e., wh-
questions) as in (77), in which case it seems to express “Yes I’m answering you.” (Abbott
1991: 46–49).
(76) Macushi (Abbott 1991: 46)
A: attî
2.go
pra
neg
nan?
2.be.q
‘Didn’t you go?’
B: inna,
Yes
uutî
1.go
pra
neg
wai.
1.be
Aminke
far
man.
3.be
‘Yes, I didn’t go. It was far.’
(77) Macushi (Abbott 1991: 49)
A: î’ warapo
how:many
i-tî-pai-nîkon
adv-go-desid-coll
nai?
3.be.q
‘How many are wanting to go?’
B: inna,
yes,
tamî’nawîrî
all
anna
1:excl
wîtî
go
e’-pai
be-desid
man.
3:be
‘Yes, we are all wanting to go.’
Thus, in Macushi, ResPrt can be used for answering as well as for marking the follow-
ing utterance as a response.
A similar pattern is also found in Khmer (Cambodian), where affirmative responses
to yes/no questions may consist of repeating the main verb in the question, or a full
273
Martina Wiltschko
repetition of the question in affirmative form. Crucially, in polite speech, the echoed
verb is usually preceded by a form of the response particle baat for men (78) and caah
for women. In the examples below, the optional ‘full’ responses are shown in brackets.
(78) Khmer (Huffman 1970: 24)
A: Look
you(polite)
sok-səpbaay
well-well
ciə
well
tee?
prt
‘Are you well?’
B: Baat
Yes
(kñom)
(I)
sok-səpbaay
well-well
(ciə
well
tee).
prt
‘Yes, I’m quite well.’
Interestingly, negative responses to yes-no questions may consist solely of the nega-
tive particle tee which is often followed by the negative form of the main verb. Relevant
for our purpose is the fact that in polite speech, tee may be preceded by the appropriate
form of the positive ResPrt in which case it is followed by the full negative answer to the
question. This is shown in (79).
(79) Khmer (Huffman 1970: 24)
A: look
You(polite)
sdap
listen
baan
can
tee?
q
‘Can you understand?’
B: (baat)
Yes
tee,
q
(kñom)
I
sdap
listen
min
neg
baan
can
tee.
q
‘(Resp) no (I) don’t understand.’
Given the profile of the ResPrt in Macushi and Khmer, I conclude that in these lan-
guages, ResPrts can be used to mark the host utterance as a response, just like in UAG,
though a more thorough investigation will have to confirm that this analysis is indeed
on the right track.
The use of ResPrts as markers of response is yet another source of cross-linguistic
variation that will have to be tracked when developing a typology of yes and no.
6 Conclusion
In this paper I have shown that ResPrts are multi-functional: they can be used as answers
to polar questions, as markers of (dis)agreement with preceding utterances no matter
what their speech act type; and finally they can also be used to mark the utterance they
precede as a response to some situation (linguistic or non-linguistic).17 We have seen
that there is considerable cross-linguistic variation. For example, in UAG simple positive
17There are still other uses of ResPrt that I haven’t discussed here. These include backchannels (in the sense
of Yngve 1970) and discourse particles.
274
11 Response particles beyond answering
ResPrts cannot be used to answer a negative polar question. On the other hand, in English,
ResPrts cannot be used to mark a following utterance as a response. This is summarized
in Table 3.
Table 3: Three functions of ResPrts
English UAG
yes no jo na
Answering function
Positive question ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔
Negative question ✔ ✔ ✘ ✔
Marker of (Dis)agreement ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔
Marker of Response ✘ ✘ ✔ ✔
In the analysis I have developed here, I have assumed (following Wiltschko 2014) that
multi-functionality can be syntactically conditioned. A given unit of language may ac-
quire different functions depending on its place of association with the syntactic spine.
In addition, I have assumed an updated version of Ross’ 1970 performative hypothesis
according to which speech-act structure is part of the syntactic computation. With these
assumptions we were able to develop a unified analysis for the three different functions
of ResPrts we have discussed.
In this context, it is interesting to note that ResPrts can also grammaticalize.18 In par-
ticular, no-elements are a common source of negative reinforcers and/or presupposition
negation markers (Zanuttini 1997; Poletto 2008a,b; DeVos & van der Auwera 2013) while
yes-type elements can grammaticalise as sentence-internal discourse particles in Ger-
man (Er hat ja gesagt, dass …). It will be interesting to explore whether there are any
correlations between the types of responses ResPrts can be used for and their grammati-
calization paths.
These findings highlight the importance of Holmberg’s insight that i) ResPrts have a
syntax, and ii) that the cross-linguistic patterns of ResPrts should be carefully studied. In
fact, give the recent interest in the syntacticization of speech acts (Speas & Tenny 2003;
Sigurðsson 2004; Giorgi 2010; 2015; Haegeman 2013; Haegeman & Hill 2013 a.o.) it seems
that ResPrts will provide valuable insights into the articulation of speech act structure.
Acknowledgments
Research on this paper was financially supported by a SSHRC Insight grant (‘Towards a
typology of confirmationals’) awarded to the author.
I wish to thank Strang Burton, Lisa Matthewson, Michael Rochemont and members
of the eh-lab at UBC (http://syntaxofspeechacts.linguistics.ubc.ca) for useful discussion
and help with data collection. In particular, Yifang Yang is responsible for the SOAP
18I am grateful to an anonymous reviewer to draw my attention to this fact.
275
Martina Wiltschko
corpus study and Jordan Chark for his help with the search for information on ResPrts in
grammars. Furthermore, I thank the students in the seminar on the grammar of discourse
held at UBC, audiences of the workshop on Linguistic Variation in the Interaction between
Internal and External Syntax (Utrecht, February 2014) and the students in Leslie Saxon’s
seminar at the University of Victoria.
This paper is dedicated to Anders Holmberg, who - once again - has been a pioneer
in extending the empirical base for generative syntacticians by studying the syntax of
response particles.
References
Abbott, Miriam. 1991. Macushi. In Desmond Derbyshire & Geoffrey Pullum (eds.), Hand-
book of Amazonian languages 3, 23–160. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Asher, Nicholas & Brian Reese. 2007. Intonation and discourse: Biased questions. Inter-
disciplinary Studies on Information Structure. Working Papers of the SFB 632 8. 1–38.
Auer, Peter. 2004. Non-standard evidence in syntactic typology–methodological remarks
on the use of dialect data vs spoken language data. In Bernd Kortmann (ed.), Dialectol-
ogy meets typology: Dialect grammar from a cross-linguistic perspective, 69–92. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Beyssade, Claire & Jean-Marie Marandin. 2006. The speech act assignment problem revis-
ited: Disentangling speaker’s commitment from speaker’s call on addressee. In Selected
papers of CSSP 2005, 37–68. http://www.cssp.cnrs.fr/eiss6/index_en.html.
Büring, Daniel & Christine Gunlogson. 2000. Aren’t positive and negative polar ques-
tions the same? Unpublished manuscript, University of California at Santa Cruz.
Clark, Herbert & Susan Brennan. 1991. Grounding in communication. In Lazren B.
Resnick, John M. Levine & Stephanie D. Teasley (eds.), Perspectives on socially shared
cognition, 127–149. Washington DC: American Psychological Association.
DeVos, Mark & Johan van der Auwera. 2013. Jespersen cycles in Bantu: Double and triple
negation. Journal of African Languages and Linguistics 34. 205–274.
Farkas, Donka & Kim Bruce. 2009. On reacting to assertions and polar questions. Journal
of Semantics 27. 81–118.
Ginzburg, Jonathan. 1995a. Resolving questions, part I. Linguistics and Philosophy 18. 459–
527.
Ginzburg, Jonathan. 1995. Resolving questions, part II. Linguistics and Philosophy 18. 567–
609.
Giorgi, Alessandra. 2010. About the speaker: Towards a syntax of indexicality. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Giorgi, Alessandra. 2015. Discourse and the syntax of the left periphery: Clitic left dis-
location and hanging topic. In Josef Bayer, Roland Hinterhölzl & Andreas Trotzke
(eds.), Discourse-oriented syntax, vol. 226 (Linguistik Aktuell/Linguistics Today), 229–
250. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
276
11 Response particles beyond answering
Goodhue, Daniel, James Pickett & Michael Wagner. 2013. English reverse prosody in yes-
no responses. In Sem Dial 2013: Proceedings of the 17th Workshop on the Semantics and
Pragmatics of Dialogue 2013.
Goodhue, Daniel & Michael Wagner. 2015. It’s not just what you say, it’s how you say it:
Intonation, yes and no. In The Proceedings of the North East Linguistics Society (NELS)
45. http://semanticsarchive.net/Archive/TRjYmNiN/GoodhueWagner_2015.pdf.
Gunlogson, Christine. 2003. True to form: Rising and falling declaratives as questions in
English. New York: Routledge.
Guntly, Erin. 2016. Yeah no. Response markers can tell you a lot. Unpublished manuscript.
Guntly, Erin & Martina Wiltschko. 2016. Response markers in Ktunaxa. Poster given at
Semantics of Understudied Languages of the Americas 2016.
Haegeman, Liliane. 2013. West Flemish verb-based discourse markers and the articula-
tion of the speech act layer. Studia Linguistica 68. 116–39.
Haegeman, Liliane & Virginia Hill. 2013. The syntactization of discourse. In Raffaela Folli,
Christina Sevdalli & Robert Truswell (eds.), Syntax and its limits (Oxford Studies in
Theoretical Linguistics), 370–390. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Haegeman, Liliane & Andrew Weir. 2015. The cartography of yes and no in West Flemish.
In Josef Bayer, Roland Hinterhölzl & Andreas Trotzke (eds.), Discourse-oriented syntax,
vol. 226 (Linguistik Aktuell/Linguistics Today), 175–210. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hale, Kenneth L. 1986. Notes on world view and semantic categories: Some Walpiri ex-
amples. In Pieter Muysken & Henk van Riemsdijk (eds.), Features and projections, 233–
254. Dordrecht: Foris.
Halliday, M.A.K. & Ruqaiya Hasan. 1976. Cohesion in English. London: Longman.
Hamblin, Charles Leonard. 1958. Questions. Australasian Journal of Philosophy 36. 159–
168.
Hamblin, Charles Leonard. 1973. Questions in Montague English. Foundations of Lan-
guage 10. 41–53.
Heim, Johannes, Hermann Keupdjio, Zoe Wai Man Lam, Adriana Osa Gomez, Sonja
Thoma & Martina Wiltschko. 2014. What to do with particles. In Proceedings of CLA.
http://syntaxofspeechacts.linguistics.ubc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/heim-et-al-
cla-2014-proceedings.pdf.
Holmberg, Anders. 2001. The syntax of yes and no in Finnish. Studia Linguistica 55. 141–
174.
Holmberg, Anders. 2002. Expletives and agreement in Scandinavian passives. Journal of
Comparative Germanic Linguistics 4. 85–128.
Holmberg, Anders. 2007. Null subjects and polarity focus. Studia Linguistica 61. 212–236.
Holmberg, Anders. 2013. The syntax of answers to polar questions in English and
Swedish. Lingua 128. 31–50.
Holmberg, Anders. 2014. The syntax of the Finnish question particle. In Peter Svenonius
(ed.), Functional structure from top to toe, 266–289. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
http://www.ncl.ac.uk/elll/research/publication/177509.
Holmberg, Anders. 2015. The syntax of yes and no. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
277
Martina Wiltschko
Huffman, Franklin E. 1970. Modern spoken Cambodian. Ithaca, New York: Cornell Univer-
sity. reprinted in 1991.
Jakobson, Roman. 1932. The structure of the Russian verb. The Hague: Mouton. Reprinted
in: Russian and Slavic Grammar Studies, 1931-1981, Mouton 1984.
Jones, Bob Morris. 1999. The Welsh answering system. Vol. 120 (Trends in Linguistics, Stud-
ies and Monographs). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Jones, Christian & Tania Horak. 2014. Leave it out! The use of soap operas as models of
spoken discourse in the ELT classroom. The Journal of Language Teaching and Learning
4. 1–14.
Kramer, Ruth & Kyle Rawlins. 2009. Polarity particles: An ellipsis account. In. Amherst,
MA: Graduate Student Linguistic Association.
Krifka, Manfred. 2013. Response particles as propositional anaphors. In Proceedings of
Semantics and Linguistic Theory (SALT) 23, 1–18.
Kuno, Susumu. 1973. The structure of the Japanese language. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Ladd, Robert D. 1981. A first look at the semantics and pragmatics of negative questions
and tag questions. In Papers from the 17th regional meeting of the Chicago Linguistic
Society, 164–171.
Laka, Itziar. 1990. Negation in syntax, on the nature of functional categories and projections.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Dept. of Linguistics & Philosophy dissertation.
Lam, Zoe Wai-Man. 2014. A complex ForceP for speaker- and addressee-oriented dis-
course particles in Cantonese. Studies in Chinese Linguistics 35. 61–80.
Liberman, Mark & Ivan Sag. 1974. Prosodic form and discourse function. Chicago Lin-
guistic Society 10. 416–427.
Poletto, Cecilia. 2008a. On negative doubling. Quaderni di Lavoro ASIt 8. 57–84.
Poletto, Cecilia. 2008b. The syntax of focus negation. University of Venice Working Papers
in Linguistics 18. 181–202.
Pope, Emily Norwood. 1976. Questions and answers in English. The Hague: Mouton.
Portner, Paul P. 2004. The semantics of imperatives within a theory of clause types. Se-
mantics and Linguistic Theory 14. 235–252.
Roberts, Craige. 1996. Information structure: Towards an integrated formal theory of
pragmatics. In Andreas Kathol & Jae Hak Yoon (eds.), OSU working papers in linguistics,
91–136. Columbus, OH: Ohio State University Department of Linguistics.
Romero, Maribel & Chung-hye Han. 2004. On negative yes/no questions. Linguistics and
Philosophy 27. 609–658.
Ross, John R. 1970. On declarative sentences. In Roderick Jacobs & Peter Rosenbaum
(eds.), Readings in English transformational grammar, 222–272. Waltham, Mass.: Ginn
& Co.
Sadock, Jerrold M. & Arnold Zwicky. 1985. Speech act distinctions in syntax. In Tim-
othy Shopen (ed.), Language typology and syntactic description, 155–196. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Sigurðsson, Halldór Ármann. 2004. The syntax of person, tense, and speech features.
Italian Journal of Linguistics 16. 219–251. Special issue.
278
11 Response particles beyond answering
Speas, Peggy & Carol Tenny. 2003. Configurational properties of point of view roles.
In Anna-Maria Di Sciullo (ed.), Asymmetry in grammar, 315–343. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Thoma, Sonja. 2016. Discourse particles and the syntax of discourse. Evidence from Mies-
bach Bavarian. University of British Columbia. Unpublished PhD dissertation.
Trubetzkoy, Nikolai Sergeevich. 1939. Grundzüge der Phonologie. Prague: Jednota
ceskoslovenskych matematiku a fysiku.
Wallage, Philip & Wim van der Wurff. 2013. On saying ‘yes’ in early Anglo-Saxon Eng-
land. Anglo-Saxon England 42. 183–215.
Weiß, Helmut. 2004. A question of relevance: Some remarks on standard languages. Stud-
ies in language 28. 648–674.
Wiltschko, Martina. 2014. The universal structure of categories: Towards a formal typology.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Wiltschko, Martina. 2017. Ergative constellations in the structure of speech acts. In Jes-
sica Coon, Diane Massam & Lisa Travis (eds.), The Oxford handbook of ergativity, 419–
446. New York: Oxford University Press.
Wiltschko, Martina & Johannes Heim. 2016. The syntax of sentence peripheral discourse
markers. A neo-performative analysis. In Gunther Kaltenböck, Evelien Keizer & Arne
Lohmann (eds.), Outside the clause: form and function of extra-clausal constituents, 305–
340. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Yngve, Victor. 1970. On getting a word in edgewise. Chicago Linguistic Society 6. 567–578.
Zanuttini, Raffaela. 1997. Negation and clausal structure: A comparative study of Romance
languages. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Zanuttini, Raffaela & Paul P. Portner. 2003. Exclamative clauses: At the syntax-semantics
interface. Language 79(1). 39–81.
279
Chapter 12
The common syntax of deixis and
affirmation
George Tsoulas
University of York
This paper pursues a formal analysis of the idea that affirmative answers to Yes/No questions
correspond to a sort of propositional deixis whereby the relevant proposition is pointed at.
The empirical case involves an analysis of the deictic particle Nà in Greek and a comparison
of its syntax with that of the affirmative particle Nè. It is shown that both involve an extra
head which in the case of the deictic particle is uniformly externalised as the pointing ges-
ture. It is argued that gestural externalisation of syntactic structure should be considered
on a par with phonetic externalisation (not only in sign languages). The grammar of the af-
firmative particle gives us also an account of the observed facts about Greek whereby both
the truth and the polarity answering system appear to coexist.
1 Introduction
Holmberg (2015) begins thus: ‘It is certainly not obvious that expressions like Yes and
No have syntactic structure.’ It is even less obvious that elements like Yes and No have
complex internal syntactic and semantic structure. In the literature on the semantics of
Yes/No questions an explicit semantics for Yes is rarely given. Groenendijk & Stokhof
(1984) is one of these exceptions and their semantics is given in (1):
(1) [[yes]]=λp p(a)
Groenendijk & Stokhof’s (1984) syntactic assumption is that Yes and No are sentential
adverbs of type S/S. It would then seem that there is not much of interest that either the
semantics or the implied syntax would give us. In this paper I will take Holmberg’s stance
and try to show that interesting insights and conclusions can follow from pursuing the
non-obvious. Yes/No questions in Greek can receive either a verb-echo answer (2-b) or
a particle answer (2-c):
(2) a. Petai
flies
o
the.nom
gaidaros?
donkey
‘Do donkeys fly?’
Laura R. Bailey & Michelle Sheehan. 2017. Order and structure in syntax I. in Laura R. Bailey
& Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Order and structure in syntax I: Word order and syntactic structure,
281–309. Berlin: Language Science Press. DOI:⁇
George Tsoulas
b. Petai
flies
c. Ne
Yes
Our focus in this paper will be on particle answers only and verb echo answers will
not be considered. Holmberg’s (2015) proposal for the particles Yes and No is that they
are the spell-out values of a focused polarity variable. If this is so, and given that lan-
guages usually have small unanalysable particles for this function, it makes little sense to
ask why these particles take the form that they do. They just do. But now imagine that
there is a language where the affirmative particle is, if not immediately transparently
complex, at least arguably so. Then it does make sense to ask why it is this, rather than
a different complex form that has this meaning and function. Furthermore, if the parti-
cle is indeed complex, the question of its internal syntax and compositional semantics
justifiably arises over and above that of its external distribution. This seems correct, but
is there such a language? In this paper I will argue that Greek, at least concerning the
affirmative particle Nè (Yes), corresponds quite precisely to the above description and,
therefore, gives us a very good opportunity to formulate and explore questions that may
lead to a better understanding of affirmation.
My ultimate goal here is to understand the affirmation particle Nè in Greek. Anec-
dotally, speakers of Indo-European languages are often surprised not only because the
way to say Yes in Greek resembles more the way to say No in other languages but also
that the language does not use the -n- element in negatives. Greek n-words have no /n/
in them.
To understand this particle, however, we will have to take a somewhat circuitous
route starting from the properties and analysis of the deictic (or presentational) parti-
cle Nà. Nà and Nè share the initial element N- and the hypothesis that I will explore is
that this is not an accident. In other words, deixis and affirmation have a common core.
I contend here that understanding what I call N- deixis leads us to a particular under-
standing of affirmation as essentially a sub-case of deixis, namely propositional deixis.
The paper is structured as follows. §2 begins with two apparently unrelated observa-
tions regarding, on the one hand, an intuitive understanding of what it means to answer
a Yes/No question and, on the other, an observation regarding the (possible) origin of
the word Nè in Greek. §3 consists of a short primer on Greek particles focusing mainly
on an observation from Tsoulas (2015) on the meaning of the endings of two classes of
particles (speaker and addressee oriented particles respectively). §4 is an analysis of the
deictic particle Nà which relates its syntax and semantics directly to the required pres-
ence of a pointing gesture. An extension of the proposal to other gestural elements is
also discussed. Having established the syntax and semantics of Nà, §6 applies the same
principles to the affirmation particle Nè using the analysis of Holmberg (2015) as point
of departure.
282
12 The common syntax of deixis and affirmation
2 Two apparently unrelated observations
To make the argument that I want to make here, I will start with two seemingly unrelated
observations. The first is a generally offered intuitive and informal description of what
answering a Yes/No question amounts to. I will again borrow this intuitive description
from Holmberg (2015) who writes:
(3) […] The answer provides a value for the variable in the question, and thereby
indicates which of the two disjunctive propositions posed by the question
the respondent presents as being true [Emphasis mine, GT].
The first part of the above quote will be important later on in this paper in §6. It is
the emphasised part that I would like to draw attention to for now. Although it is an
informal way of describing what answering a Yes/No question amounts to, it can be
taken to express an important intuition regarding the formal relationship between the
respondent and the relevant proposition.
The second observation is an etymological one. The Greek word for Yes, i.e. Nè, has
a somewhat mysterious etymology. It is already found in Homer and is a very common
marker of affirmation and agreement in Plato’s dialogues as well as the major tragic po-
ets of the 5th century BCE, and it is also found frequently in the New Testament and in
Medieval texts. So it seems that this particle was part of Greek from the start though it
is trickier to establish its origin with certainty. There is, however, general agreement be-
tween Indo-Europeanists that it incorporates the Proto-Indo-European element *n whose
function is deictic.1 There is an obvious intuitive connection here: if answering a Yes/No
question amounts to presenting or pointing at a proposition (or its truth-value) then it
is not unexpected that elements with a deictic function appear in the formation of the
Yes/No particles. In other words, the speech act that the speaker performs by answering
a Yes/No question amounts to, or is at least related to, a kind of propositional deixis,
as if in order to say Yes one had to point at the relevant proposition and state that it is
true by providing the relevant polarity value (which, of course, is positive in the case
of Yes). And this is what the Greek case shows more clearly. If the above connection
remains merely an (informed) intuition it is not of great value. I contend here that it can
be cashed out in formal structural and semantic terms. To see this we need to start with
a short primer on Greek particles.
3 Greek particles: A primer
Greek has a large number of particles of different types and functions. Tsoulas’s (2015)
study of the higher field particles in Greek shows that so-called discourse particles in
Greek, though small and monosyllabic, are consistently complex elements that are made
up of (at least) two heads, one that encodes anchoring and perspective and another that
1There is a vast literature on deictic and demonstrative pronouns in (proto)-Indo-European and their uses as
elements of inflection. Brugmann (1904; 1911) are classic references. Shields (1992) and references therein
provide further context.
283
George Tsoulas
encodes attitude/evidentiality. The most relevant observation for the purposes of the
present work is that the elements E and A, while particles in their own right, as in (4)–
(5), also combine with other elements to create complex particles (6), (7)2:
(4) a. A,
prt
irthe
came.3rd.sg
o
the
Kostas
Kostas
‘I see, Kostas has arrived.’
b. A,
prt
o
the
giannis
Giannis
agorase
bought
aftokinito
car
‘I see, Giannis bought a car.’
(5) a. E,
prt
irthe
came.3rd.sg
o
the
Kostas
Kostas
‘As you know/would expect, Kostas has arrived.’
b. E,
prt
agorase
bought
o
the
Giannis
Giannis
aftokinito
car
‘As you know/would expect, Giannis bought a car.’
(6) E-series
Re, De, Vre etc…
(7) A-series
Na/Nà, δa, Ba etc…
The meanings of the particles in (6)–(7) are complex and difficult to describe.3 Except
for Nà (to which we return) they are not directly relevant to the present paper, and an
illustration will be given shortly. The point to retain from this is the following:4 the
particles in the E series are what I will call addressee-anchored particles while those
in the A-series are speaker-anchored ones. We will elaborate further on the notion of
anchoring later on. Comparing the distribution of the different particles, Tsoulas (2015)
observes that the complex particles of the E-series have a wider distribution than the
bare particle E, which is restricted to the sentence initial and sentence final position.5 In
other words, complex E-particles can appear at various positions inside the sentence.6
Interestingly, this is not true of the A-series particles, which remain restricted in their
distribution to sentence initial position. From these facts, the conclusion is that the
two series of particles have different syntactic structures. The E-series is headed by the
evidential/attitudinal morpheme, which allows and accounts for their wider distribution,
while the A-series is headed by what we called the anchor. The two structures are as
follows:
2To avoid unnecessarily complicating the glosses, and when there is no possibility of confusion, I will simply
gloss the particles prt.
3Blakemore’s (2002) term for the difficulty in formulating descriptively the meanings of discourse particles
is descriptive ineffability. Speakers mostly provide contexts where the particles are felicitous in order to
explain their meanings.
4See Tsoulas (2015) for more details.
5In fact, Tsoulas (2015) suggests that only the sentence initial position is available to these particles and the
sentence final one results from slifting of the clausal complement of the particle.
6With some restrictions for some particles which can be derived from their meanings.
284
12 The common syntax of deixis and affirmation
(8) E-series
Evid/AttitudeP
X
X -E
AnchorP
anchor
-e
(9) A-series7
AnchorP
Anchor0
Y A
YP
Y XP
With this in mind, let us illustrate with one example from the list of particles in (7) the
general approach. Consider the particle De. This particle only appears in sentence final
position. Deriving this restriction would take us too far afield but the final structure will
look similar to the following:8
(10) AttitudeP
CP Attitude
D
D -E
AnchorP
anchor
-e
7We will return shortly to the nature of the element noted as Y in the structure.
8I also set aside here the question whether the CP has moved from a lower position.
285
George Tsoulas
The attitude head relates a proposition to an anchor. The semantic question, given that e
is the anchor is the content of the attitude expressed by D. To formulate this the following
examples will help:
(11) a. Graps-to
write-it
De.
prt
‘Write it (for goodness sake).’
b. To
it
vlepo
see.1.sg
De.
prt
‘I see it.’
As can be seen from the above example the particle can follow imperatives as well
as declaratives – therefore the notion of proposition should be understood broadly. The
attitude is one of exasperation. (11-a) is felicitous in a context where the addressee has
perhaps been talking repeatedly about writing something but never does. (11-a) is then
an expression of the speaker’s exasperation with the addressee’s failure to do the rele-
vant writing. A similar description applies to (11-b) where the addressee has repeatedly
drawn the attention of the speaker to a particular object. Although formalising precisely
these notions remains to be done, this example can serve as a general illustration of the
relevant types of meaning.
Now if the above is on the right track, it seems reasonable, or at least possible, to
identify the -e ending of the Yes particle Nè with the addressee oriented element seen
above. But what about the N part? It may be that there was a deictic element N in Proto-
Indo-European but what is the evidence, if any, in the Modern version of Greek? In the
next section I show that the evidence is rather strong and that the analysis leads us to
unexpected considerations.
4 N- deixis in Greek
The particle that is of immediate interest here is the particle Nà. There are two versions
of this particle, one that is a modal particle and marks the subjunctive (12), and one that
is a deictic particle (13).
(12) I
The.nom
Maria
Maria
theli
wants
na
sbjv
fai.
eat
‘Maria wants to eat.’
Although the two may be related and perhaps, ultimately the same particle9 we will set
aside for the purposes of this discussion the modal particle and concentrate on the deictic
version. Deictic uses of Nà are accompanied by a pointing gesture:
9This is the claim made by Christidis (1990). We will return to his account, though not the issue of whether
there is one or two different elements Nà, which is not directly relevant to our concerns here.
286
12 The common syntax of deixis and affirmation
(13) Nà
Nà
Z
Z
o
the
Giannis
Giannis
‘There is Giannis’
The orientation of the deixis is always with respect to the speaker, since it is the
speaker who actually gestures towards the thing that is pointed at. This is confirmed by
the fact that this particle contains the speaker anchoring morpheme -a that we saw in
the previous section. Let me set aside the question of the pointing gesture and return to
it in §4.5. A closer look at the properties of the deictic particle Nà reveals an interesting
set of properties and is necessary in order to substantiate the claim that particles have
complex structure. I will focus here on three aspects of the grammar of this particle,
namely the Case patterns of the DPs following the particle, ethical datives and Person
Case Constraint effects, and the plural agreement that is manifested on the particle in
some dialects.
4.1 Case patterns
To begin with, as Tzartzanos (1946/1953) has observed, the DP following the particle
can surface in either nominative or accusative. Note, however, that in the case of the
accusative, a clitic pronoun must accompany the particle:10
(14) Nà *(ton)
Nà him.acc
ton
the.acc
Kosta.
Kosta.acc
‘Here is Kostas.’
(15) Nà (tos)
Nà he.nom
o
the.nom
Kostas.
Kostas.nom
‘Here is Kostas.’
It is also possible that the DP following the accusative clitic is in the nominative:
(16) Nà ton
Nà him.acc
o
the.nom
Kostas.
Kostas.nom
‘Here is Kostas.’
The origin of the case marking here is unclear. An ellipsis-based account whereby the
DP is the object or subject of some verb that has been deleted immediately suggests itself.
Unfortunately, there appears to be little justification for postulating an elided sentence
here. More importantly, sentences like (16) above seem to militate openly against such
an account given that not only would there be no source for the nominative on the overt
DP but even if we accepted that it surfaces in some sort of default case11 as we eventually
10Joseph (1981) claims that (14) is grammatical without the clitic pronoun though he acknowledges that some
speakers reject it. In my dialect Nà +accusative is completely ungrammatical. These judgements are shared
by all those speakers I asked too. There may be dialects where Nà +Acc is grammatical. It is, however,
unclear whether any significant conclusion can be drawn from that fact.
11And it seems appropriate to think that if there is a default case in Greek it would be the nominative.
287
George Tsoulas
might have to do, the problem is that the overt counterpart of (16) is generally ungram-
matical. By generally, I mean that with some verbs, a nominative DP co-referential with
the clitic can appear in the post-verbal position as an apposition after a markedly long
pause, which suggests that these cases are indeed examples of elliptical constructions
where a T level constituent has been omitted. It is significant that there should be a
pause in these cases especially as the pause is not required in the cases with Nà:
(17) ⁇/*Kita
Look
ton,
him
o
the.nom
Kostas.
Kostas.nom
‘Look at him, Kostas.’
But with other verbs this is impossible:
(18) *Pare
Take
ton
him
[…]
[…]
o
the.nom
ipologistis.
computer.nom
‘Take the computer.’
Note that (18) with the deictic particle and an understood12 take is perfectly fine in the
acc-nom pattern:
(19) Nà ton
here
o
him
ipologistis.
the.nom ipologistis.nom
‘Here is the computer.’
This suggests that if an ellipsis account were the right approach then there ought to
be some way, grammatical or contextual, to ensure that the right verb is chosen. But
there is no such way, at least none that I can think of. The content of the putative elided
predicate cannot readily be recovered (though guesses can be made). Furthermore, there
can be follow ups with further specification of the intended predicate which could not
have been the origin of the elided material as the overt counterpart is ungrammatical, as
in (20)-(21) respectively:
(20) Nà ton o ipologistis …hrisimopiise/katharise/spase/kan’ ton (oti thelis.)
here him the.nom computer.nom …use/clean/break/do him (what want-you)
‘Here is the computer, use it, clean it, break it do whatever you want to it.’
(21) *Hrisimopiise/etc
Use
ton
him
o
the.nom
ipologistis.
computer.nom
‘Use the computer.’
It therefore appears that the ellipsis account is not prima facie at least a viable one.13
12By Understood I mean roughly accommodated. There is no suggestion here that there is a verb that has
been deleted/left unpronounced.
13A significantly different variant of the ellipsis account is Joseph (1981). We return to his account in §4.4.
288
12 The common syntax of deixis and affirmation
4.2 Ethical datives and Person-Case Constraint effects
Another interesting property of these constructions is that in certain contexts, mostly
narrative, an ethical dative clitic (su) can appear before the DP or accusative clitic:
(22) Kai
And
opos
as
strivo
turn.1sg
stin
in
Kalidromiu
Kalidromiu
na
here
su
2sg.dat
mia
one
kluva
bus
me
with
MAT
MAT
‘And as I turn into Kalidromiu street there is a bus full of riot police.’
Interestingly in the presence of the ethical dative the clitic cluster is subject to the
Person Case Constraint (PCC). At least in my Greek these clitic clusters are subject to
the strong version of the PCC (the one that bans all first/second person direct object
clitics if any dative clitic is present):14
(23) a. *Nà su
Nà 2.dat
me
1.acc
b. *Nà me
Nà 1.acc
su
2.dat
c. *Nà se
Nà 2.acc
mu
1.dat
d. *Nà mu
Nà 1.dat
se
2.acc
I take this as another indication of more complex covert structure.
4.3 Plural agreement
The final property of this particle that we will mention here is that in certain dialects of
Greek the deictic particle Nà shows person and number agreement.15 In the dialects that
have it, the plural version of the particle is Nàte:
(24) Nàte ta
Here.2pl
pedia
the.pl
sas.
children yours
‘Here are your children.’
(25) Nàte enan
Here.2pl
para
one
ke
coin
min
and
ton
not
skotosete.
him kill
‘Here you all, take some money and don’t kill him.’
14On ethical datives in Greek and more generally, see Michelioudakis & Kapogianni (2013) and references
therein. It would be interesting to juxtapose the ideas in this paper with the analysis in Michelioudakis &
Kapogianni (2013). Unfortunately, this will have to be left for another occasion.
15Although I have not been able to check in many dialects, the plural versions of the particle are certainly
found in Cretan Greek and in North-Western dialects (Epirus). It can be found in texts and transcripts of
folktales from Epirus and it is very common in Cretan Greek as well as – seemingly at least – other Island
varieties. This form of the particle first appeared in Medieval Greek
289
George Tsoulas
In general, no other particles of this type show this sort of agreement. There is, how-
ever, another particle, Ade, meaning roughly Go when followed by a second person verb
in the imperative:
(26) a. Ade
Go
na
sbjv
vrite
find
to
the
Gianni.
Gianni
‘Go find Gianni.’
b. Ade
Go
gamisou.
fuck.yourself
‘Go fuck yourself.’
When followed by a first person verb the meaning is more complex. In certain cases
it can mean roughly Let’s:
(27) Ade
Let’s
na
sbjv
pigenoume.
go
‘Let’s go.’
It also conveys the meaning that it is difficult (for whatever reason) to do what is de-
scribed in the proposition:
(28) Ade
prt
na
sbjv
vroume
find
trapezi
table
tetia
such
ora.
hour
‘Go find a table at this hour.’ (meaning: ‘It is virtually impossible.’)
(29) Ade
prt
parkare
park
sto
in.the
kentro.
centre
‘Go find a parking place in the centre…’ (meaning: ‘It is virtually impossible.’)
Now, in the same dialects as those that show a plural form of Nà, Ade also has a plural
form adeste:16
(30) Adeste
Adeste
tora
now
pame.
go.1pl
‘Come on now, let’s go.’
Again, the origin of this agreement remains unclear. It would be difficult to incorporate
it into an ellipsis account as it would require us to accept that while the whole verb has
been elided the agreement ending would somehow stay and stick to the particle.
Having said that, accounting for the presence of agreement on these particles is not
straightforward in the model presented here either. Assuming that the anchor head can
optionally carry a [+PL] feature is descriptively adequate but no more. This idea is also
generally in line with a suggestion made by an anonymous reviewer for this volume.
16The meaning of the plural here is somewhat unclear in the sense that judgements vary on whether the
plurality in question includes the speaker or not. I want to thank Anna Roussou for giving me this example
and also Evi Sifaki and Stella Gryllia for discussing their intuitions on the interpretation of these plurals.
290
12 The common syntax of deixis and affirmation
The reviewer suggests that in these cases we may be dealing with something akin to
allocutive agreement. If this is so, it makes the argument against an ellipsis account a
little weaker as the agreement is not the one that is found on the verb. In other words
while there is ellipsis, the agreement is independent from what we find on the verb.
While this is an interesting possibility it does not rescue the ellipsis account from the
earlier objections. This suggestion, of course, faces the same difficulties. There is no
reason why this agreement would appear only with these particles. I will leave this issue
open for further research at this point. More needs to be discovered about the agreement
patterns in the relevant dialects before a more convincing account can be developed.
To summarise, we have seen that the deictic particle shows properties that would
push us to associate it with a larger structure and yet as far as we can tell an account
that is based on mere ellipsis of a larger, fully clausal, structure seems unwarranted and
unsupported by the evidence.
4.4 Two earlier proposals
The issues surrounding the particle Nà have been the focus of some attention in the
literature. Joseph (1981) and Christidis (1990) are the most complete accounts. The two
accounts differ sharply but from the perspective pursued here, they both contain valid
insights and intuitions. Both Joseph (1981) and Christidis (1990) are concerned with the
proper categorisation of Nà. I will briefly present their accounts below.
Joseph’s (1981) careful study considers a number of issues regarding the status of deic-
tic Nà. His central claim is that Nà is a verb and more specifically a non-finite imperative
form of a verb meaning roughly look or take. This analysis allows us to understand the
presence of an accusative (in clitic form or bare, see footnote 10) after the particle as
well as the fact that it does not appear before a verb. It also affords an understanding
of the plural agreement that appears dialectally on the particle. At the same time, the
analysis runs into problems (as Joseph himself observes) in the cases where the particle
is followed by a nominative which would have no source. He offers a view according to
which this is the result of reanalysis that is mainly due to the case ambiguity found in
Greek with neuter nouns (where nominative and accusative are not differentiated). The
result is that there is a finite version of the verb Nà which takes the nominative DP as
its subject, deriving from an abstract underlying Here comes DPNOM .
Although ultimately I disagree that Nà itself is a verb in the sense that it carries a
category determining V feature, I think that Joseph’s intuition that there are two types
of deictic Nà and that the way to capture the difference is by appealing to something
predicative is correct. My general implementation will differ greatly though.
Another aspect of Joseph (1981) is the discussion of the etymology of the particle. He
discusses what he calls the generally accepted etymology (due to Hatzidakis 1907) and
which he describes as follows:
(31) […] The Classical Greek form ēnìde ‘see there!’, composed of the interjection
ēn ‘see there’ plus the imperatival form íde ‘see!’ was reanalyzed as ēní plus
de, with the result that a new form ēní was abstracted from ēníde. Then by
291
George Tsoulas
the substitution of the final -a of adverbs […] and other particles (as in δά
[…]) for the ί, along with the regular aphaeresis of the unstressed initial
vowel ē-, the form nά arose. (Joseph 1981: p.141)
Quite rightly perhaps, Joseph notes that this is a rather involved etymology for a very
simple word and that, most importantly ‘It is not at all clear why a particle like ēni
(or even dé for that matter) would be influenced by the form of adverbial elements like
kálista ‘very well’, katakéfala ‘on the head’, akóma [‘more’], and so forth’.
Instead, Joseph proposes that Nà is a borrowing from South Slavic where similar ele-
ments are found. What the ultimate truth about the etymology of deictic Nà is I don’t
know. However, if we assume that the a that was substituted for ί is that of the speaker
anchoring particle a, which is both independently found in the language and appropriate
for the final nature of the particle, as in the structure in (9) then the accepted etymology
becomes less problematic and more attractive than a borrowing from South Slavic. Hav-
ing said that, not much really turns on the etymology anyway. I take it that, should it
be the case that Nà is indeed a borrowing from South Slavic, Greek must have projected
on it the morphosyntactic structures existing in the language.
The etymological issue notwithstanding, Joseph’s (1981) account expresses some im-
portant insights as already mentioned.
Let me now turn briefly to the account offered by Christidis (1990), who, unlike Joseph,
suggests that searching for a category to assign Nà to is futile and in the end misleading
as the particle resists all categorisation attempts17 simply because it is just not the sort
of element that falls within any of the traditionally recognised categories. He suggests
that this is natural if we assume (following Ross 1972) that categorial distinctions are
elastic and are better understood as a continuum rather than a set of discrete points.
He also rejects Zwicky’s (1985) ban on acategorial words. His analysis of Nà makes it a
holophrase. Holophrases are syntactically undifferentiated units that often express fully
sentential meanings. To fully understand the idea it is best to quote at some length:
(32) Holophrasis is a term meant to describe linguistic formations where, to use
Halliday & Hasan’s (1976: 26) terminology, the differentiation between the
‘ideational’ and the ‘interpersonal’ components of language is ‘still’ undif-
ferentiated. The ‘ideational’ component […] concerned with the expression
of content […] the interpersonal component […] is concerned with express-
ing the speaker’s angle. […] The holophrastic nature of Nà is a manifes-
tation of an archaic fusion of the interpersonal and ideational component
(Christidis 1990: 67).
It must be said too that while Christidis does offer an account of Nà, his main objec-
tive is to argue against the views on categorisation championed by Zwicky (1985) and
instantiated in a sense in Joseph’s work. Nonetheless, and despite the fact that his ac-
count is couched in very different analytical and theoretical terms, it is clear that it
17He rightly also rejects the view held, albeit rather halfheartedly, by Householder et al. (1964) that Nà is a
preposition.
292
12 The common syntax of deixis and affirmation
contains important insights. Overall it seems that both Joseph and Christidis, despite
their differences, see the elliptical or incomplete character of the particle as essential to
understanding its nature.
The question of categorisation is rendered rather moot, however, if we adopt a view
where traditional categories are mostly epiphenomenal and where labels on syntactic
objects often include none of the traditional categorial features. This allows us to build
a theory that preserves, and eventually analyses away, the important insights of appar-
ent incompleteness, while circumventing the problems of the ellipsis view, whether one
holds that the particle is a verb or something altogether different. I attempt this in the
next section. The novelty of the account I develop is that I don’t take, like Joseph (1981),
Christidis (1990), and others who mention this particle in passing, the pointing gesture
as a mere optional accompaniments to the particle, nor do I subscribe to Christidis’ view
that the particle is ‘the linguistic substitute of the pointing gesture’. I think both these
statements are wrong. The idea is that the gesture is a fully integrated part of the syn-
tactic makeup of the particle.
4.5 The role of the gesture Z
The proposal I will put forward here is that, as the evidence suggests, there is indeed
invisible (or rather inaudible) structure involved in this particle but it is not structure that
has been elided. Rather, the idea is that the central element of the structure that appears
as the complement of the particle is the pointing gesture itself, notated for convenience
simply as Z.
Thinking about example (13), repeated here:
(33) Nà Zo
Nà Zthe
Giannis
Giannis
‘There is Giannis.’
It needs to be emphasised that the pointing gesture does not merely accompany the par-
ticle or vice versa in fact. Without the gesture itself the sentence is ungrammatical or at
the very least completely uninterpretable. Note here that I use the word “gesture” in a
general sense, not confined to hand pointings: it could be a head nod or an eye move-
ment or something else altogether (we will see another example shortly). The crucial
point is that it is not omissible. The relation of the gesture to the particle must, how-
ever, be elucidated. First of all, merely pointing at an object does achieve some effect,
albeit a rather limited one: the object has been pointed at and that’s about it. Clearly, the
person perceiving the gesture might, and often will, extract some meaning from it but
whatever that meaning is will be reached via the application of standard Gricean prin-
ciples (i.e. if the person sitting across from me is winking at me he is either deranged
or …, where the […] part can be filled with reasoning guided by the Cooperative princi-
ple). The point here is that while a gesture itself can be related to the overall meaning
293
George Tsoulas
of the exchange this can only happen through global pragmatic principles rather than
local compositional processes. As a result the object pointed at is not fully integrated
in the discourse as a discourse referent. Lascarides & Stone (2009) claim that a gesture
on its own is limited in what it can contribute to linguistic meaning through inference.
They show that while gesturally introduced referents remain available for the interpre-
tation of subsequent gestures, it is not the same for subsequent discourse. For example,
merely pointing at an object does not suffice to create a discourse referent which would
license subsequent pronominal anaphora. This is not surprising, as they point out, since
pronominal anaphora require a linguistic antecedent. 18
While the above is true for the gesture on its own, interestingly, the particle on its own
does not have the required demonstrative effect either. The particle without a gesture is
ungrammatical/uninterpretable. The composition of the two has the effect of making the
thing that is being pointed at relevant to the current discourse, relating it to the epistemic
state of the speaker, and adding it to the common ground. This may be in contrast to other
deictic elements which are, apparently, interpretable without a pointing. Concerning
the particle at hand, unsupported (gestural) uses lead to more than just infelicity or too
much underspecification. These uses are as ungrammatical as a transitive verb missing
its object. (34) corresponds to (36) and the status of (35) is analogous to that of (37):
(34) Nà Zo
Nà Zthe
Giannis.
Giannis
‘There is Giannis.’
(35) Nà o
Nà the
Giannis.
Giannis
‘There is Giannis.’
(36) John admires Mary.
(37) John admires.
18A reviewer raises an interesting objection at this point, namely that in some pro-drop languages the gesture
by itself does suffice to create a discourse referent that would be available for subsequent pronominal
anaphora. It is clear that more research is needed in order to establish the extent to which this is true and
the specific contexts where it applies, including the specific grammatical positions where anaphora may
be licensed; it is for example conceivable that there is a difference between pronouns in subject and object
position. But if we assume that the observation is correct, within the present analysis we may speculate
that a pointing to a cup, which may license an utterance of wash it, where it refers to the cup, has the
structure in (ii) rather than the one in (i):
(i) ZKK
(ii) ZproK
Given that the relevant languages certainly license pro it is not unreasonable to assume that they could
take it as an argument.
294
12 The common syntax of deixis and affirmation
Consider now a gesture together with a naming act19 in a neutral context.20 This
amounts, I think, to a presentational statement, a thetic statement which has little effect
on the discourse.21 Again, it seems that it is the complex [Particle + Gesture + Naming
Act] that foregrounds the relevance of the object referred to to the concerns of the par-
ticipants. To clarify the position I am defending here: many proposals exist according
to which speakers use both language and gesture in tandem to construct meaning and
ultimately, a single semantic representation. Many, such as Mcneil (2005), Lascarides &
Stone (2009), Kopp et al. (2004) among others, have suggested that gesture is fully inte-
grated with speech. The position that I take here for the gestures following the particle
under discussion is that they are more than just vaguely integrated or just semantically
integrated. They are in fact the “pronunciation” of specific syntactic heads. In this I differ
from some of the authors cited above in that although they assume that coverbal gesture
is timed to align with prosodic units and that sometimes it fills a vacant grammatical
slot, they do not assume, at least not overtly, that gestures have syntactic reality and
syntactic effects. The strong position that I take in this paper concerning the syntax-
semantics interface is that elements that contribute to meaning and are present in the
semantic representation must have some kind of syntactic substance. This is true of in-
tonation, which contributes to meaning but not, say, palatalisation or other phonetic
processes that do not contribute to the construction of a semantic representation. This,
it goes without saying, leaves completely open the possibility that such processes offer
pragmatic clues that lead to additional “meaning” distinctions, sociolinguistic or other. I
am not interested in those here. I think the deictic gestures accompanying the particles
show that they do. So I would like to take Lascarides & Stone’s (2009) idea that since ges-
ture and language contribute to the construction of meaning, they should be represented
in the same logical language one step further and suggest that at least for some gestures
they should be represented in the same syntactic representation too. This is in exactly
the same spirit as Jouitteau’s (2004) proposal that gestures can be expletives filling the
EPP position in Atlantic French. The basic claim here is that at least some gestures are
fully grammatical elements. It would not be appropriate here to talk of grammaticalised
gestures. Rather, certain syntactic heads have a gestural rather than an oral externali-
sation. It follows that, under this view, we should not be talking of PF as the relevant
interface level but of EF, for Externalization Form, which will contain in most cases more
than just phonetic information. I will briefly return to this discussion after showing more
precisely the relevant structures.
19As a reviewer correctly points out, we should ensure that we make the distinction between an Austinian
naming act (Austin 1962) which corresponds to the use of an example like (i) which provides a new name
for something that was nameless prior to the relevant act:
(i) I name this ship the Heart of Gold
and the naming act as used in the text which amounts to supplying the pre-existing name to an entity
that one points at and does amount to a presentational statement:
(ii) This is the Nostromo
20In this case by “neutral context” I mean specifically that this is not an answer to a question.
21Indeed these are difficult to integrate in a coherent discourse save for special cases.
295
George Tsoulas
5 The syntax of Nà
In this section my aim is to put some syntactic meat on these semantic bones. The pro-
posal is that in the case of the deictic Nà the pointing gesture heads its own projection,
ZP. The gesture takes a DP as its argument and is in turn merged with the N element
which is then merged with the speaker-anchoring particle A. Movement of N into A
completes the derivation.22 Schematically: 23
(38) AnchorP
Anchor0
N A
DeicticP
N ZP
Z DP
O Giannis
The labels in the tree in (38) are chosen for ease of reference purposes. The N mor-
pheme then can be understood as a relation between a pointing and an anchor. One
might question the need for a special element to indicate this relation between the anchor
and the pointing; usually the pointing instrument tends to be attached to the speaker’s
body, after all. This is true in most cases but in contexts of reported speech/gesture (at
least in Greek) it is not the case that the anchor is the individual who actually makes the
gesture while reporting:
(39) Otan
When
bike
entered
o
the
Giannis
Giannis
sto
into
grafio
office
girnai
turns
o
the
Kostas
Kostas
ke
and
xoris
without
na
sbjv
me
me
proidopiisi
warn
mou
to.me
lei
say
na
there
Zo
Zthe
Giannis
Giannis
‘When Giannis came into the office Kostas turned to me and without warning
he said there Zis Giannis.’
In this case the gesture is made by the reporting speaker but the anchor is the original
one. There is no requirement that the pointing be at Giannis or at anything identifiable
really. There has got to be a pointing though, this is the important requirement. One
way to explain this is that gestures cannot be very easily embedded partly due their
nature as an externalisation device, so (40), with an overt complementiser, is actually
ungrammatical:
22The reason for the N-to-A movement is somewhat unclear.
23Clearly, the pointing can take many forms as we noted before depending on the context (a rather famous
one involved a kiss) but the relation remains constant.
296
12 The common syntax of deixis and affirmation
(40) *O
The
Giannis
giannis
ipe
said
oti
that
Nà
here
Z o
Z the
Alexis
Alexis
pou
who
tha
will
figi.
leave
‘Giannis said that this is the Alexis who will leave.’
This suggests an incompatibility between the anchor -a and the complementiser. This is
also true of other particles in the -A series. Consider the negative particle Ba:
(41) *O
The
Kostas
Kostas
ipe
said
oti
that
ba
prt
dhen
neg
tha
will
erthi.
come
‘Kostas said that he will not come.’
There is no incompatibility between the negative particle and sentential negation:
(42) Ba,
prt
dhen
neg
tha
will
ertho.
come
‘I will not come.’
Also, the notion of Anchor should not be understood in too limited a fashion. Although
for the limited purposes of this paper I just link it to the speaker/addressee, it should be
underlined that this linkage will interact with the rest of the discourse in complex ways
which we have to set aside for now. In sum, the idea is that there is no reason to postulate
elided clausal structure in order to understand the behaviour of the complex category
that surfaces as the deictic/presentational particle Nà in Greek. The gesture that must
accompany the particle is not a “parallel” yet independent act. It is part of the syntactic
structure like any other morpheme might have been, say the agreement morpheme on
a verb.
Before we turn to a more explicit formulation of the semantics we need to consider the
case and agreement properties mentioned earlier in the light of the proposed structure.
5.0.1 Case and agreement
The pieces of the case puzzle are the following: The DP complement to the particle can be
a single DP in the nominative or a complex [clitic+DP] where the following combinations
are possible:
(43) a. CL-acc DP-acc
b. CL-acc DPNOM
c. *CLNOM DP-acc
d. CLNOM DPNOM
Recall also that, pace Joseph (1981), an accusative DP without the clitic is ungrammat-
ical. Note further that nominative clitics are very rare in Greek. In fact they only appear
following deictic Nà and in the interrogative Puntos/i/to, ‘where is he/she/it’. Puntos is
a contracted form of Pu ‘where’, n, which is a reduced form of the copula (Ine) and the
nominative clitic:
297
George Tsoulas
(44) a. Puntos
where.is.he
b. Natos
here.he.is
Anticipating somewhat the evidence in §5.2 on intransitive gestures I would like to
suggest that the solution to the case puzzle lies in the recognition that the gesture-head
(Z) has two versions, one which is transitive and one which is unaccusative. This is not
particularly strange since we take the gesture to be the externalisation of a linguistic
morpheme. The cases where a clitic is present are cases of clitic doubling (which is
independently found in Greek). When the gesturally expressed element is transitive it
assigns accusative case to its object and nothing more needs to be said. When the DP
associated with the clitic surfaces in the nominative it is attached in a higher position
and surfaces in the default case, which is nominative. In the unaccusative case, there is
no appropriate case assigner and the DP and clitic appear in nominative case.24 Given
how restricted nominative clitics are it seems correct to suggest that this is a realisation
of default Case. What is impossible is for the clitic to appear in the nominative, which
signals that the unaccusative version of the pointing is selected, and the associated DP
to appear in the accusative. Given that nominative is the default, it is predicted that an
accusative marked DP in the absence of a case assigner will lead to ungrammaticality.
Why the clitic is obligatory with the accusative in many dialects is a question I have no
answer to at present and will leave it for future work.
Turning now to the agreement issue involving the appearance of second person plu-
ral agreement on the particle, we should recognise that the gestural expression of the
pointing, while, as I argued, fully integrated into the structure, differs from other lexical
items in that it cannot act as host to other bound morphemes by its very nature. As a
result, the agreement morpheme will attach to the next (only) available host which is
the particle complex itself. Presumably this is not generally allowed since the agreeing
version of the particle is only found in some dialects.
Let’s now turn to the semantics of these structures.
5.1 The semantics of deictic Nà
In this section we turn to the compositional semantics of the structure in the (38). A
pointing gesture can be understood broadly as an event. For maximal regularity in the
semantics of different heads I will take the gesture head to have the semantics in (45)
(45) J ZK = λx.λe Z(x),e
In other words the gesture functions, at the relevant level of abstraction, unsurprisingly,
as a demonstrative (event). Now clearly, a pointing entails a pointer. However, I want
to propose that the pointing in itself is not syntactically a two place relation. Rather,
24The details of the analysis might slightly differ with respect to the view one takes of clitic doubling and
nominative case but the central points will remain unchanged.
298
12 The common syntax of deixis and affirmation
the anchor or subject of the pointing is introduced by the N morpheme, much like v
introduces the external argument (which is the Anchor rather than the actual pointer).
In this way N introduces a relation between an individual that was pointed at and the
anchor of that pointing, simplifying somewhat:
(46) JNK = λwλyλ Z. Anchor(Z,y) in w
To keep things simple, I will assume that the A particle introduces the relevant anchor
as an individual.25
Once the Anchor argument has been introduced the result is:
(47) λw. Anchor(Z, x ) in w
It all really works in a manner parallel to the way vPs and nPs are built, a welcome
result.
Before we turn to the case of Yes (Ne) I would like to show briefly how this approach
generalises to other gestures with one example.
5.2 Generalising to other gestures
The approach sketched here also allows us to understand cases where the particle Nà
is accompanied by a gesture but no naming act, in other words the use of intransitive
gestures. One case in point is the rather notorious Greek moutza. This is a very com-
monplace insulting gesture in Greek which consists in the palm and fingers open wide
pointed towards the addressee (in the same way that an English speaker might indicate
the number five). Roughly like this:
(48)
This gesture is made towards the addressee but crucially it does not point at the ad-
dressee. Using it to point at someone in a neutral situation would be roughly as felicitous
as pointing to the next questioner during the question period after a presentation and
identifying him as the bastard in the second row. A felicitous use of this gesture would be
to another driver who has just moved at high speed across the path of your car almost
causing an accident.
Given the framework adopted here which shares much of the underlying objectives
and guiding principles of Lascarides & Stone’s (2009)26, especially the idea that linguistic
discourse and at least co-speech gesture must be represented in the same logical and
25A different approach is possible which would keep more in line with the fact that A is not directly referring
to an individual (the speaker). The ensuing complications are, however, not relevant to the points of this
paper.
26Though my implementation of these ideas differs significantly from theirs.
299
George Tsoulas
syntactic language, I want to propose that the moutza functions much as a particle in
Greek. More precisely, it can combine with Nà, by taking the place of Z. There are two
empirical arguments for this position. First, semantically, its meaning is qualitatively
similar to that of particles in that it is descriptively ineffable, to use Blakemore’s (2002)
term. A speaker of Greek will have great trouble explaining what a moutza actually
means, beyond the fact that it is an insult. As for the actual content of the insult, he or
she will most likely resort to a series of contexts where the use is felicitous. The same
is true of discourse particles. The second argument is that there are both coocurrence
restrictions with other particles and ordering effects when used with more than one
particle. The gesture can be used on its own, which suggests that in some cases the
anchoring particle can remain silent, but when used in conjunction with other particles
it must be simultaneous/immediately adjacent to Nà. Interestingly, it can never occur
alone with an addressee oriented particle such as Re.27 If used, an addressee oriented
particle must follow the gesture. Consider the following examples:28
(49) a. Nà
b. *Re
c. Nà Re
d. *Nà Re
The proposal above that is merged as the complement of N predicts precisely these
patterns. For the cases at hand (no pun intended) the structure will be as follows:
(50) EvidP
AnchorPi
Anchor0
N A
DeicticP
N P
Evid’
Evid0
R E
AnchorP
E ti
27On Re, see Tsoulas & Alexiadou (2006)
28This gesture has further characteristics, found in linguistic elements, that we cannot go into here in detail.
For example, it can be reduplicated and this reduplication leads to two different meanings. If the hands
overlap then a focus or emphatic reading is obtained. When the hands are further apart and do not overlap
a distributive reading is favoured.
300
12 The common syntax of deixis and affirmation
Semantically, given the contextual dependency of the gesture’s meaning we can give the
following general semantics:
(51) J K= λsλk( k in s)
where the variable k indexes a contextual parameter which independently determines
the nature and felicity of the insult in situation s and relates it causally to s.
My purpose in this section was to show that the idea of integrating gesture within
both the syntactic and the semantic representation of the sentences with which they are
co-temporaneous is a viable and perhaps illuminating option. We will turn now to the
issue of the affirmative particle Nè.
6 The affirmative particle Nè
With this analysis of Nà in mind let us now turn to the affirmative particle Nè. This par-
ticle seems to combine deixis with what we called addressee anchoring. Intuitively, this
does not seem quite right since in a question-answer situation the questioner asks (in a
yes/no question) for the respondent to tell which of the two values of the proposition is
the true one. Admittedly, this ought to be done from the point of view of the participant
who provides the answer, the respondent. Anchoring to the addressee seems like an odd
thing to do. I want to suggest here that we should take a closer look at the notion of
anchoring in order to understand what is going on. The importance of the notion of
anchoring in deixis is obvious especially given the analysis of Nà in the previous section.
In the case of answers to questions, however, perhaps less so. However, anchoring is
not the only notion that these speaker/addressee elements can express. Consider ques-
tions in general. There are many types of questions and many speech acts that may be
performed using the interrogative form. However, when we restrict attention to open,
non-confirmation, non-rhetorical questions, we can say that in a relatively standard set-
ting uttering in good faith a question addressed to a particular addressee entails the
following:29
(52) a. That there is a proposition p such that p is the answer to the question.
b. That knowledge of that proposition lies with the addressee.
c. That p is relevant to the questioner.
Setting (52-a) aside, we can identify (52-b) with Holmberg’s (2015) Q-force operator
(see (54)) equivalent to Tell me which… (an imperative which is clearly addressee-anchor-
ed) which is externalised in various way in different languages. Marking (52-c) in the
answer is what we find in Greek. This idea can be formalised using Truckenbrodt’s
(2006) notion of Context Index. The following (53) are context indices for declaratives
and interrogatives based on Truckenbrodt (2006):
29We also have to exclude the sort of question that may have no answer. Scientific questions are sometimes
like that. The qualification in good faith in the text is meant to also exclude sarcasm, irony etc. For very
relevant commentary and analysis on these issues see Fiengo (2007). I am indebted to an anonymous
reviewer for comments on this point and for bringing the relevance of Fiengo’s book to my attention.
301
George Tsoulas
(53) a. Declarative: < DeontS , A, < Epist >>
‘S wants from A that it is common ground that p.’
b. Interrogative: < DeontS , A, < Epist >>
‘S wants from A that it is common ground whether p.’
The effects of these context indices are given in the paraphrases. In these cases, in
Truckenbrodt’s words, S wants to change the world by changing the epistemic state of S
or A. So the intuition here is that the particle Nè in Greek encapsulates a deictic ele-
ment that relates a proposition to that participant to whose epistemic state it is rele-
vant. Clearly this participant is the addressee. It is therefore expected that the E particle
will be part of this particle complex (Nè). To formalise this I introduce the notion of
AnchorREL(EVANCE) which encodes a relevance-related perspectival dependence as op-
posed to an origo-related one. In informal, intuitive terms this particle says: This is the
proposition that is of relevance to your belief/knowledge.30 Now let’s turn to a more spe-
cific syntactic implementation. Holmberg’s (2015) structure for Yes/No questions is (54),
and for a Yes answer, (55):
(54)
Q-force CP
±Pol
does ±Pol
CP
C PolP
DP
John
Pol’
± Pol
does ± Pol
TP
like this book
30This notion has implications for the analysis of indexicality and perspective (especially in the context of
Giorgi (2010); Hinzen & Sheehan (2013)) as it implies that in particle answers the speaker is, if not absent,
at least somewhat removed from the representation. Space and time constraints prevent me from delving
deeper into these questions on this occasion.
302
12 The common syntax of deixis and affirmation
(55) FocP
+Pol
Yes
Foc’
Foc PolP
DP
John
Pol’
+Pol TP
like this book
One thing that we should observe is that in face-to-face dialogue, saying Yes is also ac-
companied by a gesture (usually a head nod). It is, however, not the case that this gesture
is as necessary as the deictic pointing discussed in the previous section. I assume that
the reason for this is that the question provides enough context for the interpretation. At
the same time, I also understand it to be evidence, beyond what was discussed up to now,
that an account in parallel with the deictic particle is called for and may prove fruitful. I
will therefore assume that the structure of the particle Nè is roughly equivalent to that of
Nà except that the Anchor A will now be replaced with what I called AnchorREL(EVANCE).
For maximum consistency with Nà (but hopefully avoiding potential confusion) I use
the label G for the head which is the complement of N-. So the structure that we start
with is (56):
(56) AnchorRELP
Anchor0
REL
N E
DeicticP
N GP
G XP
…
Turning to the nature of the XP, I will assume that Greek Yes/No questions have, for
the relevant part, a structure that is similar to the one proposed by Holmberg. Most
importantly, I assume that there is a PolP, which is the highest functional head in the
IP domain. I also assume, again following Holmberg, that the PolP is copied from the
303
George Tsoulas
question with its Pol feature unvalued. Unvalued Pol can be valued in two ways: it
can be valued by negation which is lower in the structure. It can also be valued by the
G head. I propose that the G head is specified with two features. First, a selectional
uPol feature. Technically, if selectional features are by definition uninterpretable then
this feature should be a uuPol. In other words G selects for a PolP whose head Pol
is specified for a uPol feature. Presumably, if the uPol feature is carried by a different
element then that element can in principle be selected by G. The second feature for
which G is specified is +Pol, which represents the effect that it has on the PolP. This
is not contradictory, it is simply a way to express modification. Modifiers are of type
<x,x>. Syntactically we need to express that they are also selective (“*a passionately
car” is, after all, not a well formed expression), and this is what uPol expresses. +Pol tells
us what the result of the composition is, i.e. a syntactic object of category Pol specified
for +Pol. What happens next is relatively unremarkable: G values the uPol feature of
PolP and the derivation proceeds in exactly the same way as with the deictic particle
Nà. The deictic head N- merges with GP and licenses the introduction of the AnchorREL
argument which this time is E. The final result is produced following head movement of
N in Anchor0
REL, which is pronounced NE. Ideally, nothing more would need to be said.
However, a complication arises with negative questions to which we turn in the next
section. To summarise, the account of the affirmative particle Nè stands as follows:
(57) a. There is a head G specified for uuPol and + Pol.
b. G merges with the PolP (with uPol) inherited from the question.
c. G values uPol as +.
d. Deictic N- merges with G and introduces the Anchor argument.
e. AnchorREL E is merged.
f. N- moves to E.
Now for negative questions.
6.1 Negative polar questions
The approach that we have pursued up to this point brings the issue of negative polar
questions into sharp focus. This is so in two related ways. First, assuming that uPol
acts just like any other uninterpretable feature, then one expects it to act as a probe and
find a matching goal in Neg0 and will be valued -Pol. We could argue here that Neg
is an inactive goal for the Pol probe. But this, together with the idea that saying Yes
involves propositional deixis, makes the general prediction that Greek should pattern
more like Chinese in that it would always be possible to answer Yes to a negative question
and confirm the negative alternative. In other words Greek should have a truth-based
answering system rather than a polarity based one. As it turns out, Greek seems to allow
both. There seems to be two major dialects in Greek in this respect. It has been reported
(Holton et al. 1997)31 that Greek allows Yes answers to negative questions whereby the
negative alternative is confirmed:32
31See also the data in SSWL (http://sswl.railsplayground.net/)
32Example (58) is adapted slightly from Holton et al. (1997: 414)
304
12 The common syntax of deixis and affirmation
(58) Dhen
neg
to
it
pire
took
to
the
danio
loan
o
the
Giannis
Giannis
telika?
finally
‘In the end, didn’t Giannis get the loan?’
(59) Ne
Yes
dhen
neg
to
it
pire
took
‘Yes he didn’t get it.’
Call this Dialect 1. Dialect 233 does not allow this type of confirmatory answer except in
the presence of special elements to which we return. Observe, however, that the pattern
above is only possible, in Dialect 1, if the answer contains an overtly realised copy of the
PolP of the question. If the PolP is not overt the result is ungrammatical:
(60) Dhen
neg
to
it
pire
took
to
the
danio
loan
o
the
Giannis
Giannis
telika?
finally
‘In the end, didn’t Giannis get the loan?’
(61) *Nè
Yes
How can we account for these patterns with the theory that we have so far? To begin
with Dialect 1, the data suggest that there is a formal recoverability condition that must
be met in order for ellipsis of the PolP to be licensed. We can formulate this condition
as follows:
(62) Recoverability Condition for PolP
PolP can be elided if the valuer of uPol is overt.
This principle derives Dialect 1 directly. If Neg values Pol, then ellipsis of PolP is not li-
censed. Note that (62) is a formal condition and therefore immune to being circumvented
pragmatically given that recovering the meaning of PolP is rather easy. It may be but it
is not allowed. Note that in the case of a No answer ellipsis will be licensed since there
is no way to distinguish which -Pol feature valued uPol of Pol0. So despite appearances,
Dialect 1 seems to be a polarity-based system.
Let me turn now to Dialect 2. This dialect does not allow Yes confirmation answers
to negative questions quite generally except when there is overt material between the
affirmative particle and the PolP. The material in question is not just any material. As
far as I can tell what is required is either certain particle clusters like Re gamoto, mean-
ing roughly bloody hell or, more interestingly, elements like siga and kala. The literal
meaning of siga is ‘slowly’ or ‘quietly’ and of kala is ‘fine/OK’. Their meaning qua parti-
cles in this context is scalar and indicates that the proposition with the opposite polarity
value of that of the PolP is, in fact, the most unlikely.34 Note, also, that these elements
33As far as I know Dialect 1 and 2 are not geographically circumscribed.
34The proposition whose position at the scale is made salient through the particle can be made overt with
the particle siga but not with kala. Offering a detailed analysis of the resulting patterns, including the
appearance of expletive negation with siga, would take us too far afield and are set aside for future work.
305
George Tsoulas
are prosodically grouped with the affirmative particle rather than with what follows.
Consider the following examples:
(63) Dhen
neg
to
it
pire
took
to
the
danio
loan
o
the
Giannis
Giannis
telika?
finally
‘In the end, didn’t Giannis get the loan?’
(64) a. Ne
Yes
[re
prt
gamoto]
prt
dhen
neg
to
it
pire.
took
‘Yes, bloody hell, he didn’t get it.’
b. Ne
Yes
kala,
prt
dhen
neg
to
it
pire.
took
‘Yes, how could he, he didn’t get it.’
c. Ne
Yes
siga,
prt
dhen
neg
to
it
pire.
took
‘Yes, how could he, he didn’t get it.’
I believe that we can understand these patterns if we take seriously the idea that the
syntax of the G head is really very closely aligned with the syntax of the Zhead in the
case of the deictic particle Nà. Specifically, the pattern above is reminiscent of the cases
of the deictic particle when it is followed by a clitic and a full DP. We can think of the
complement of G as the Pol equivalent of the [clitic DP] doublet where the clitic element
can be realised overtly by elements like siga or kala. As the intonational pattern suggests,
just as in the case of the DPs, the PolP ends up higher in an extraposed position. Whether
it moves there or it is base-generated in the higher position is an important question but
one that can be safely set aside for now. The result, in either case, is that the PolP ends
up outside the scope domain of the G-head. To capture this I want to propose that there
is a second constraint alongside recoverability which can be formulated as follows:
(65) G-Scope Constraint
If G has a determinate feature specification (+ or -) it does not tolerate contradic-
tory Pol values in its scope.
Perhaps (65) is ultimately formulable in terms of AGREE but there are complications as
we saw earlier.
We could also draw a parallel with the Case patterns observed with Nà too. Recall that
an accusative clitic could associate with a higher DP in the nominative while the opposite
is impossible. Depending on the speaker’s attitude to the fact that Giannis did get the
loan or to Giannis himself, the following patterns are observed. Assuming nom=+Pol
and acc=-Pol and that the particle complex in (66-a) corresponds to a negative value:
(66) a. *Ne
Yes
[re
prt
gamoto]
prt
to
it
pire.
took
‘Yes, bloody hell, he got it.’
306
12 The common syntax of deixis and affirmation
b. Ne
Yes
kala,
prt
to
it
pire.
took
‘Yes, how couldn’t he, he got it.’
c. Ne
Yes
siga,
prt
to
it
pire.
took
‘Yes, how couldn’t he, he got it.’
At the same time, if the particle position in the [prt PolP] doublet is filled by the ele-
ment pos which is a polarity-reversing positive particle35 a negative PolP is impossible:
(67) Ne
Yes
pos
prt
to
it
pire.
took
‘Yes, on the contrary, he got it.’
(68) *Ne
Yes
pos,
prt
dhen
neg
to
it
pire.
took
‘Yes, on the contrary, he didn’t get it.’
Intuitively the effect of this is to produce a two part answer, roughly: ‘Correct, (¬)p’. We
can then think of the difference between the two dialects as involving the interplay of
the two constraints:
(69) a. Recoverability
b. G-Scope Constraint.
While Dialect 1 tolerates violations of (69-b), Dialect 2 does not. Neither tolerates viola-
tions of (69-a).
7 Conclusion
This paper explored the hypothesis that affirmation and deixis share a common core.
Greek shows this common core overtly in the morphological composition of its deictic
and affirmative particles. But looking at the details of the syntactic representations we
observed very striking similarities. Most importantly the fact that there is a head that
corresponds to a pointing, real or metaphorical, which is clearly part of the syntactic
representation. Accepting this leads us to take at least a subset of gesture as an integral
part of linguistic representations. The syntactic complexity of seemingly very simple
words was also a surprising conclusion. Of course much work remains to be done. The
role of focus and intonation deserves closer study than I have been able to offer here, the
negative particle όχι ‘No’ was set aside (for good reason, as the morphology is far less
transparent), and the cross-linguistic applicability of the account was not considered.
I would expect that this account extends crosslinguistically quite widely although one
35Akin to French Si, although Si cannot coocur with Oui, unlike pos. There is another version of the particle
pos which is scalar along the same lines of siga/kala. The claim here is for the polarity reversing one.
307
George Tsoulas
cannot expect that the morphology will be as transparent as what we saw in Greek
(although there is suggestive evidence). This I leave for future work.
C. P. Cavafy wrote in a famous poem:36
[…] It’s clear at once who has the Yes
ready within him; and saying it,
he goes forward in honor and self-assurance.
He who refuses does not repent. Asked again,
he would still say no. Yet that no—the right no—
undermines him all his life.
I am sure the poet is right, but if I am right too then saying Yes in Greek is no mean
feat either.
Acknowledgments
It is with great pleasure that I dedicate this work to Anders on his birthday. Much of
what is in here was prompted by his work on Yes and No. The influence of his work on
the present paper is pervasive.
Parts of this paper have been presented at the 12th International Conference on Greek
Linguistics in Berlin, and at seminars in York and Newcastle. I want to thank these
audiences for many useful comments and suggestions. More specifically I would like
to thank: Kook-Hee Gil, Stella Gryllia, Anders Holmberg, Shin-Sook Kim, Margarita
Makri, Dimitris Michelioudakis, Moreno Mitrovic, Bernadette Plunkett, Anna Roussou,
Peter Sells, Evi Sifaki, and Rebecca Woods for suggestions and comments. I would also
like to thank the two anonymous reviewers for this volume for comments that led to a
number of improvements. Finally, I would like to thank the editors, Laura Bailey and
Michelle Sheehan, for giving me this opportunity and for being so patient.
References
Austin, John L. 1962. How to do things with words. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Blakemore, Diane. 2002. Relevance and linguistic meaning (Cambridge Studies in Linguis-
tics 99). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Brugmann, Karl. 1904. Die demonstrativpronomina der indogermanischen sprachen.
Leipzig: Teubner.
Brugmann, Karl. 1911. Grundriss der vergleichenden grammatik der indoger manischen
sprachen. Vol. 2. Strassburg: Trübner.
Christidis, Anastasios-Phoebos. 1990. On the categorial status of particles: The case of
holophrasis. Lingua 82(1). 53–82.
Fiengo, Robert. 2007. Asking questions: Using meaningful structures to imply ignorance.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
36Che fece …Il gran rifiuto, which I quote in Edmund Keely’s translation.
308
12 Order and structure in syntax I
Giorgi, Alessandra. 2010. About the speaker. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Groenendijk, Jeroen & Martin Stokhof. 1984. Studies in the semantics of questions and the
pragmatics of answers. University of Amsterdam dissertation.
Halliday, M.A.K. & Ruqaiya Hasan. 1976. Cohesion in English. London: Longman.
Hatzidakis, G. 1907. Meseonika ke nea elinika (medieval and modern Greek) 2 vols. Athens:
P.D. Sakelariou.
Hinzen, Wolfram & Michelle Sheehan. 2013. The philosophy of Universal Grammar. Ox-
ford: Oxford University Press.
Holmberg, Anders. 2015. The syntax of yes and no. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Holton, David, Peter Mackridge & Irene Philippaki-Warburton. 1997. Greek: A compre-
hensive grammar of the modern language. London: Routledge.
Householder, Fred, Kostas Kazazis & Andreas Koutsoudas. 1964. Reference grammar of
Literary Dhimotiki. International Journal of American Linguistics 30(2). 1–187.
Joseph, Brian. 1981. On the synchrony and diachrony of Modern Greek NA. Byzantine
and Modern Greek Studies 7. 139–154.
Jouitteau, Mélanie. 2004. Gestures as expletives: Multichannel syntax. In Gina Garding &
Mimu Tsujimura (eds.), Proceedings of WCCFL 23, 101–114. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla
Press.
Kopp, Stefan, Paul Tepper & Justine Cassell. 2004. Towards integrated microplanning
of languages and iconic gesture for multimodal output. In Proceedings of ICMI. State
College, PA.
Lascarides, Alex & Matthew Stone. 2009. A formal semantic analysis of gesture. Journal
of Semantics 26(4). 393–449.
Mcneil, David. 2005. Gesture and thought. Chicago: Uiversity of Chicago Press.
Michelioudakis, Dimitris & Eleni Kapogianni. 2013. Ethical datives: A puzzle for syn-
tax, semantics, pragmatics, and their interfaces. In Raffaella Folli, Christina Sevdali
& Robert Truswell (eds.), Syntax and its limits, 345–369. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Ross, John Robert. 1972. The category squish: Endstation hauptwort. In Judith N. Levi &
Gloria C. Phares (eds.), Papers from the 8th regional meeting.
Shields, Kenneth. 1992. A history of Indo-European verb morphology. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Truckenbrodt, Hubert. 2006. On the semantic motivation of syntactic verb movement to
C in German. Theoretical Linguistics 32. 257–306. DOI:10.1515/TL.2006.018
Tsoulas, George. 2015. Higher field particles in Greek. Ms. University of York.
Tsoulas, George & Artemis Alexiadou. 2006. On the grammar of the Greek particle
Re. Sprach und Datenverarbeitung: International Journal for Language Data Processing
30(1). 47–56.
Tzartzanos, Achileas. 1946/1953. Neoeliniki sintaxis (modern Greek syntax). Thessaloniki:
Ekdotikos ikos adelfon Kiriakidi.
Zwicky, Arnold. 1985. Clitics and particles. Language 61. 283–305.
309
Part II
Squibs
Chapter 13
V2 and cP/CP
Sten Vikner
Ken Ramshøj Christensen
Anne Mette Nyvad
Dept. of English, Aarhus University, Denmark
As in Nyvad et al. (2017), we will explore a particular derivation of (embedded) V2, in terms
of a cP/CP-distinction, which may be seen as a version of the CP-recursion analysis (de
Haan & Weerman 1986; Vikner 1995 and many others). The idea is that because embedded V2
clauses do not allow extraction, whereas other types of CP-recursion clauses do (Christensen
et al. 2013a; 2013b; Christensen & Nyvad 2014), CP-recursion in embedded V2 is assumed
to be fundamentally different from other kinds of CP-recursion, in that main clause V2
and embedded V2 involve a CP (“big CP”), whereas other clausal projections above IP are
instances of cP (“little cP”).
1 Introduction
Verb second (V2) has long been and continues to be a fascinating topic, as witnessed by
articles and books all the way back to Wackernagel (1892) and Fourquet (1938) and up to
Holmberg (2015).
This paper will briefly present an analysis of the CP-level in embedded clauses, includ-
ing what is often seen as CP-recursion in cases of embedded V2. The analysis is discussed
in much more detail in Nyvad et al. (2017).
We follow the suggestion in Chomsky (2000) that syntactic derivation proceeds in
phases and that the syntactic categories vP and CP are phases. We also follow Chom-
sky (2005; 2006) in taking Internal Merge operations such as A-bar movement to be
triggered by an edge feature on the phase head (in Chomsky 2000, this feature is called
a P(eripheral)-feature, in Chomsky 2001 a generalised EPP-feature). Below, this feature
will be referred to as an OCC (“occurrence”) feature (following Chomsky 2005: 18), which
provides an extra specifier position that does not require feature matching. OCC offers
an escape hatch allowing an element to escape an embedded clause.
The availability of this generic edge feature OCC together with the availability of
multiple specifier positions, however, in principle permits any element from within the
Sten Vikner, Ken Ramshøj Christensen & Anne Mette Nyvad. 2017. V2 and cP/CP. in Laura
R. Bailey & Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Order and structure in syntax I: Word order and syntactic
structure, 313–324. Berlin: Language Science Press. DOI:10.5281/zenodo.1117724
Sten Vikner, Ken Ramshøj Christensen & Anne Mette Nyvad
phase domain to move across a phase edge, and so island effects should not exist (as also
observed by Boeckx 2012: 60–61).
If instead of multiple specifiers, CP-recursion is possible, the Danish data presented
in the present paper may be captured in a uniform manner. We will explore a particular
derivation of (embedded) V2, in terms of a cP/CP-distinction, which may be seen as a
version of the CP-recursion analysis (de Haan & Weerman 1986; Vikner 1995; Bayer 2002;
Walkden 2017, and many others). Because embedded V2 clauses do not allow extraction,
whereas other types of CP-recursion clauses do (Christensen et al. 2013a; 2013b; Chris-
tensen & Nyvad 2014), CP-recursion in embedded V2 is assumed to be fundamentally
different from other kinds of CP-recursion:
(1) a CP with
a CP without
V2
V2
(headed by a finite verb)
(headed by a functional element)
=
=
CP
cP
(“big CP”)
(“little cP”)
The idea is to attempt a distinction parallel to the vP-VP distinction (Chomsky 1995:
347), with cP being above CP (cf. Koizumi 1995: 148 who posits a CP-PolP corresponding
to our cP-CP, and de Cuba’s (2007) independent proposal that non-factive verbs select
a non-recursive cP headed by a semantic operator removing the responsibility for the
truth of the embedded clause from the speaker).
c° like v° is a functional head, whereas C° like V° should be a lexical head. The latter
admittedly only works partially, in that C° is only lexical to the extent that it must be
occupied by a lexical category, i.e. a finite verb.
2 C°
(2) cP
c’
c°
at
CP
topic C’
C°
verb[fin]
IP
Although CP-spec is the specifier position that attracts topics, also in embedded clauses,
its associated head, C°, does not have a topic-feature “in the ordinary way”, because verb
314
13 V2 and cP/CP
movement into C° would then erase that feature. The fact that C°’s topic feature is thus
different from e.g. the way c° can have a feature like wh should be related to the fact
that topicalisations are never selected for, i.e. there are verbs that select only embedded
questions, but there are no verbs that select only embedded topicalisations (maybe not
being selected is what allows verb movement into C°, whereas being selected prevents
movement into c°[wh]). The closest we get are verbs that allow embedded topicalisations,
but even such verbs never require them, e.g. vide ‘know’, tro ‘think’, etc.
Where we thus say that the C° associated with the specifier that attracts topics is
deficient/unusual in not really having a topic-feature, e.g. Julien (2015: 146) argues that
the topic head is a normal head that may contain other things than finite verbs, e.g. så
‘then’ in contrastive left dislocations, (3a):
(3) Danish
a.
b.
[Topic-sp
[cP-spec
Hvis
Hvis
If
man
man
one
ikke
ikke
not
kan
kan
can
sige
sige
say
noget
noget
smth.
pænt,
pænt,
nice
]
]
[Topic° så
(then)
] [ForceP
[CP så
(then)
[Force°
[C°
skal
skal
shall
]
]
man
man
one
tie
tie
keep
stille.]]
stille.]]
quiet
We take it that the fact that så also occurs in the first position in V2 clauses with no
dislocation means that it is a rather unlikely head element. We also hesitate to draw
conclusions about the syntax of embedded V2 from contrastive left dislocations, as they
are also perfectly possible in non-V2 embedded clauses (although we have no account
for why this is strongly degraded in Swedish and Norwegian, cf. Johannesen 2014: 407):
(4) Danish
Det
It
er
is
en
a
skam
shame
at
that
den her artikel
this here article
den
it
aldrig
never
er
is
blevet
been
udgivet.
published
As topicalisations are never selected for, it follows that a topicalisation-CP (i.e. with
a topic in CP-spec and with a verb moving into C°) cannot be the highest level of an
embedded clause (in most Germanic languages, e.g. Danish or English). Another level is
necessary above CP, viz. a cP with at/that in c° (though see the discussion at the end of
section 4 below). It is this higher at/that which prevents extraction from CP-spec (as a
kind of that-trace violation, perhaps derived in terms of anti-locality as in Douglas 2015),
i.e. (5d):
(5) Danish
a.
b.
c.
d.
*
*
*
Lego-filmen
Lego-filmen
(Lego-film.the)
Sagde
Sagde
sagde
sagde
said
Andrea
Andrea
Andrea
Andrea
Andrea
at
at
(that)
Lego-filmen
Lego-filmen
(Lego-film.the)
havde
havde
havde
havde
had
Kaj
Kaj
Kaj
Kaj
Kaj
allerede
allerede
allerede
allerede
already
set
set
set
set
seen
?
?
.
.
(Notice that (5c) is ungrammatical for the same reason as (5a): topicalisations cannot
be selected, they must be inside a cP.)
315
Sten Vikner, Ken Ramshøj Christensen & Anne Mette Nyvad
This is supported by German, which for some reason allows embedded topicalisation
without this higher that, (6a), and which allows extraction via CP-spec, (6c):
(6) German
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
*
*
Den
Den
(The
Lego-Film
Lego-Film
Lego-film)
Hat
Hat
hat
hat
has
Andrea
Andrea
Andrea
Andrea
Andrea
gesagt,
gesagt,
gesagt,
gesagt,
said
dass
dass
(that)
den Lego-Film
den Lego-Film
(the Lego-film)
hat
hat
hat
hat
has
Kai
Kai
Kai
Kai
Kai
schon
schon
schon
schon
already
gesehen?
gesehen?
gesehen.
gesehen.
seen
CP may thus be a phase in German, and also in Danish and English (where extractions
via spec-CP are that-trace violations). From this, it would follow that CPs are strong
islands (cf. Holmberg 1986: 111; Müller & Sternefeld 1993: 493ff; Sheehan & Hinzen 2011),
provided there is no OCC escape hatch in CP, like the one suggested for cP in §3 below:
(7) Danish
a.
b. * Lego-filmen
(Lego-film.the)
Sagde
sagde
said
Andrea
Andrea
Andrea
at
at
that
måske
måske
maybe
havde
havde
had
Kaj
Kaj
Kaj
allerede
allerede
already
set
set
seen
Lego-filmen?
?
(Lego-film.the)
(8) German
a.
b. * Den Lego-Film
(The Lego-film)
Hat
hat
has
Andrea
Andrea
Andrea
gesagt,
gesagt,
said
vielleicht
vielleicht
maybe
hat
hat
has
Kai
Kai
Kai
den Lego-Film
(the Lego-film)
schon
schon
already
gesehen?
gesehen.
seen
A different approach that might explain the absence of an escape hatch could be to say
that embedded V2 clauses are not really embedded at all, but instead there is a radical
break/restart at the beginning of an embedded V2 clause, similar to what happens at the
beginning of a new main clause (as argued e.g. by Petersson 2014). Then extraction out
of an embedded V2 clause like (7b/8b) would correctly be ruled out, but this would also
incorrectly rule out all other potential links across the edge of embedded V2 clauses (see
also Julien 2015: 157-159), so that e.g. the following c-command difference should not
exist, as co-reference should incorrectly be ruled out in both (9a) and (9b):
(9) Danish
a.
b.
* Han1
Hans1
He/His
mor
mum
sagde
sagde
said
at
at
that
[CP
[CP
den
den
this
her
her
here
bog
bog
book
ville
ville
would
Lars1
Lars1
Lars
aldrig
aldrig
never
læse.
læse.
read
]
]
Both (9a,b) would be expected to be just as impossible as such links across a main
clause boundary:
(10) Danish
a.
b.
*
*
I går
I går
Yesterday
mødte
mødte
met
jeg
jeg
I
ham1
hans1
him/his
mor
mum
i
i
in
bussen.
bussen.
bus-the
[CP
[CP
Lars1
Lars1
Lars
var
var
had
lige
lige
just
blevet
blevet
been
forfremmet.
forfremmet.
promoted
]
]
316
13 V2 and cP/CP
3 c° with OCC
(11) cP
t c’
c°[OCC] cP/CP/IP
c° can have a feature that may cause movement to cP-spec, and such a feature can
either be a so-called occurrence-feature or a slightly more standard type feature as e.g.
a wh-feature. (As mentioned above, for some reason C° cannot have an OCC-feature.)
Chomsky (2005: 18–19) suggests an OCC (“occurrence”) feature, which provides an
extra specifier position “without feature matching”, i.e. the XP moves into the specifier
of c°[occ] without itself having an OCC-feature. A c°[occ] thus offers an escape hatch
which allows an XP to escape an embedded clause. In fact only those XPs that move into
a cP-spec because of OCC will be able to move on, because they are the only XPs whose
feature make up has not been altered/valued/checked as a result of the movement into
cP-spec.
c°[occ] may be above another cP, and then the cP-layer headed by a c° carrying an
OCC-feature is transparent to selection in the same way as e.g. NegP is in constituent
negation (e.g., she ate not the bread but the cake) or quantificational layers (as in she ate
all/half the cake), cf. the notion of extended projections (Grimshaw 2005). However,
c°[occ] may also be inside another cP, in which case nothing further needs to be said.
4 c° with other features, e.g. wh
(12) a. cP
wh c’
c°[WH] cP/CP/IP
b. cP
OP c’
c°[OP] cP/CP/IP
We take the basic distinction between CP and cP to be whether or not there is verb
movement into the head, but we want this to go hand in hand with other basic distinc-
317
Sten Vikner, Ken Ramshøj Christensen & Anne Mette Nyvad
tions between the two, e.g. that C° is the potential host of the topic feature, whereas c°
is the relevant/necessary head for the outside context, e.g. as the highest head of embed-
ded questions or of relative clauses (= in the terms of Rizzi 1997: 283, cP is ‘facing the
outside’ whereas CP is ‘facing the inside’).
In other words, we want to link the difference c°/C° not just to individual features
(much like the difference between different heads in the C-domain is linked to features in
the cartographic approach, Rizzi 1997; Wiklund et al. 2007; Julien 2015; Holmberg 2015…)
– but we also want to link the difference to whether or not the head is the landing site
of verb movement.
Spec-cP[wh] in (12a) is where the wh-phrase in an embedded question occurs, and spec-
cP[OP] in (12b) is where we find the empty operator that may occur in e.g. som-relative
clauses in Danish (and in that-relative clauses in English).
It appears that a wh-element that has moved into such a specifier cannot move on
from here:
(13) Danish
a.
b. * Hvilken
(Which
film
film)
Spurgte
spurgte
asked
Andrea
Andrea
Andrea
[cP hvilken
[cP
(which
film
_
film)
c°[wh]
c°[wh]
Kaj
Kaj
Kaj
allerede
allerede
already
havde
havde
had
set]?
set]?
seen
This may be because the embedded clause in (13b) with an empty specifier and an
empty c° can no longer be identified as a wh-clause, as is required of an object clause of
the verb ask (cf. clausal typing, Cheng 1991).
Following Rizzi & Roberts (1996: 20), Vikner (1995: 50), Grimshaw (1997: 412), the
reason why there can be no verb movement into c°[wh] is that this would change the
properties of the selected head (i.e. c°[wh]), and therefore this head would no longer
satisfy the requirements of the selecting matrix expression. In fact, according to Mc-
Closkey (2006: 103), a head modified in this way (by movement into it) is not an item
that could possibly be selected by a higher lexical head (it is not part of the “syntactic
lexicon”), which would lead to the prediction that there could not be movement into
heads of complements of lexical heads (which may very well be too strong, cf. that it
would have consequences for many other cases, e.g. N°-to-D° movement in Scandinavian
would have to be something like N°-to-Num° movement).
If, on the other hand, there is a cP (with the declarative Complementizer at in c°) above
the CP in which V2 takes place, then this problem does not arise. The selected clause is
a cP, its head is a c° containing a complementiser, and the C° into which there is verb
movement is situated lower down inside the cP.
(Embedded topicalisations in German, embedded questions in Afrikaans, and embed-
ded questions in some variants of English might be exceptions to the above in that they
seem to have embedded V2 into the highest selected complementiser head. In such cases,
an ”invisible” cP above the embedded V2 CP have been suggested, e.g. in McCloskey
318
13 V2 and cP/CP
(2006: 101) and in Biberauer & Roberts (2015: 12–13). In fact, being inside such an ”in-
visible” cP might even be a possible analysis for those Danish examples with embedded
V2 but not preceded by at, which do occur sometimes, e.g. (ii) in Jensen & Christensen
(2013: 55), although we find such examples ungrammatical.)
5 c° without features
(14) cP
c’
c°
at
CP/IP
It is also possible for a c° not to have any features, in which case no movement will
take place into spec-cP. This is possible both when such a c° is the sister of an IP and the
sister of a CP.
(15) Danish
a.
b.
Sagde
Sagde
Said
Andrea
Andrea
Andrea
at
at
that
Lego-filmen
(Lego-film.the)
havde
(had)
Kaj
Kaj
Kaj
allerede
allerede
already
havde
(had)
set
set?
seen
Lego-filmen?
(Lego-film.the)
Because such an at/that has no special features, it may also occur below other comple-
mentisers, when these are selected from above, e.g. below a wh- or a relative cP-layer. As
an extra complementiser, at is preferred over other complementisers, which have more
content:
(16) Danish (Tom Kristensen, Livets Arabesk (novel), 1921, cited in Hansen 1967: III:
388; in Vikner 1995: 122, (149c); and in Nyvad 2016: 368, (10)).
… hvis
if
at
that
det
it
ikke
not
havde
had
været
been
så
so
sørgeligt.
sad
6 Predictions concerning extraction
The above suggestions (especially the OCC escape hatch in cP) make the prediction that
extraction is possible almost everywhere (i.e. except topic islands), which is much more
319
Sten Vikner, Ken Ramshøj Christensen & Anne Mette Nyvad
general than usually assumed (including in Vikner 1995). However, it turns out that such
unexpectedly acceptable examples are fairly widespread, including extractions from rel-
ative clauses:
(17) Danish (Christensen & Nyvad 2014: 35, (13c,d))
a. Pia
Pia
har
has
engang
once
mødt
met
en
a
pensionist
pensioner
som
that
havde
had
sådan
such
en
a
hund.
dog
b. Sådan en hund1
Such a dog
har
has
Pia
Pia
engang
once
mødt
met
[DP en
a
[NP pensionist
pensioner
]
[cP 1 c°[occ] [cP OP2 [c° som
that
] [IP 2 havde
had
1.]]]]
… and extractions from embedded questions (wh-islands):
(18) Danish (Christensen et al. 2013a: 63)
a. Hvilken båd1
Which boat
foreslog
suggested
naboen
neighbour.the
[cP 1 c°[occ] [cP
hvor billigt2
how cheaply
c°[wh] [IP vi
we
skulle
should
sælge
sell
1 2.]]]
b. Hvor billigt2
How cheaply
foreslog
suggested
naboen
neighbour.the
[cP 2 c°[occ] [cP
hvilken båd1
which boat
c°[wh] [IP vi
we
skulle
should
sælge
sell
1 2.]]]
(19) Danish (http://ordnet.dk/ddo/ordbog?query=stads, Hjorth & Kristensen
2003-2005)
Om
In
morgenen
morning-the
skulle
should
jeg
I
give
give
dem
them
medicinen,
medicine-the,
noget
some
brunt
brown
stads,
stuff,
[cP OP1 som
that
[IP jeg
I
ikke
not
ved
know
[cP 1 c°[occ] [cP hvad2 c°[wh]
what
[IP 1 var
was
2.]]]]]
… as well as extractions from adverbial clauses:
(20) Danish (Knud Poulsen, 1918, cited in Hansen 1967, I: 110)
… men
but
det1
that
bliver
becomes
han
he
så
so
vred
angry
[cP 1 c°[occ] [cP OP [c° når]
when
[IP man
one
siger
says
1.]]]
320
13 V2 and cP/CP
7 Conclusion
We have presented an analysis of the CP-level in embedded clauses, including what is
often seen as CP-recursion in cases of embedded V2. The analysis, which is discussed
in much more detail in Nyvad et al. (2017), attempts to unify a whole range of different
phenomena related to extraction and embedding, while acknowledging that extraction
in Danish is considerably less restricted than has often been assumed.
The CP-recursion that takes place in syntactic environments involving movement out
of certain types of embedded clauses seems to be fundamentally different from that
occurring in embedded V2 contexts, and hence, we propose a cP/CP distinction: The
CP-recursion found in complementiser stacking and long extractions requiring an OCC-
feature involves a recursion of cP, (21a), whereas the syntactic island constituted by em-
bedded V2 involves the presence of a CP, (21b).
(21) a. cP
tWH c’
c°[OCC] cP
wh/OP c’
c°[WH]/[OP] IP
b. cP
c’
c°
at
CP
topic C’
C°
verb[fin]
IP
The exact structure of CP-recursion may be subject to parametric variation: German
does not seem to allow CP-recursion given that extraction from embedded wh-questions
is ungrammatical irrespective of which function the extracted element has (unless it
moves via spec-CP, (6c)), and that embedded V2 is in complementary distribution with
the presence of an overt complementiser in C°.
Whether a cartographic approach to the structure of the CP-domain in the Scandina-
vian languages will turn out to be more appropriate than a CP-recursion analysis (e.g.
Rizzi 1997; Wiklund et al. 2007; Julien 2015; Holmberg 2015), we will leave for future
research to decide. Until we have data that support a fine-grained left periphery in the
relevant structures in Danish, the version of CP-recursion as argued for here would ap-
pear promising, as it captures the data presented here while making perhaps slightly
fewer stipulations than e.g. the cartographic approach or the multiple specifier analysis.
321
Sten Vikner, Ken Ramshøj Christensen & Anne Mette Nyvad
8 Acknowledgements
We are grateful to Laura Bailey, Theresa Biberauer, Constantin Freitag, Hans-Martin
Gärtner, Johannes Kizach, Doug Saddy, Johanna Wood, and two anonymous reviewers
for helpful comments and suggestions as well as to participants in the Grammar in Focus
workshop series at the University of Lund, participants in the SyntaxLab talk series at the
University of Cambridge, and participants in the DGfS conference in Konstanz, February
2016.
Special thanks to Anders Holmberg not just for being such a role model when it comes
to creating worldwide interest in Scandinavian syntax, but also for his help and support
from Trondheim 1984 to this very day.
The work presented here was partly supported by Forskningsrådet for Kultur og Kom-
munikation (Danish Research Council for Culture and Communication).
References
Bayer, Josef. 2002. Decomposing the left periphery: Dialectal and cross-linguistic evidence.
Israeli Association of Theoretical Linguistics. http://linguistics.huji.ac.il/IATL/18/
Bayer.pdf.
Biberauer, Theresa & Ian Roberts. 2015. Rethinking formal hierarchies: A proposed uni-
fication. Cambridge Occasional Papers in Linguistics 7. 1–31.
Boeckx, Cedric. 2012. Syntactic islands. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Cheng, Lisa Lai-Shen. 1991. On the typology of wh-questions. Cambridge, MA: MIT (doc-
toral dissertation).
Chomsky, Noam. 1995. The minimalist program. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2000. Minimalist inquiries: The framework. In Roger Martin, David
Michaels & Juan Uriagereka (eds.), Step by step: Essays on minimalist syntax in honor
of Howard Lasnik, 89–155. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2001. Derivation by phase. In Michael Kenstowicz (ed.), Ken Hale: A
life in language, 1–52. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2005. Three factors in language design. Linguistic Inquiry 36(1). 1–22.
Chomsky, Noam. 2006. Approaching UG from below. Ms, MIT.
Christensen, Ken Ramshøj, Johannes Kizach & Anne Mette Nyvad. 2013a. Escape from
the island: Grammaticality and (reduced) acceptability of wh-island violations in Dan-
ish. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research 42. 51–70.
Christensen, Ken Ramshøj, Johannes Kizach & Anne Mette Nyvad. 2013b. The processing
of syntactic islands: An fMRI study. Journal of Neurolinguistics 26(2). 239–251.
Christensen, Ken Ramshøj & Anne Mette Nyvad. 2014. On the nature of escapable rela-
tive islands. Nordic Journal of Linguistics 37(1). 29–45.
de Cuba, Carlos. 2007. On (non)factivity, clausal complementation and the CP-field. Stony
Brook: Stony Brook University (doctoral dissertation).
322
13 V2 and cP/CP
de Haan, Germen & Fred Weerman. 1986. Finiteness and verb fronting in Frisian. In Hu-
bert Haider & Martin Prinzhorn (eds.), Verb Second Phenomena in Germanic Languages,
77–110. Dordrecht: Foris.
Douglas, Jamie. 2015. The that-trace and anti- that-trace effects: Unification and theoretical
implications. http://linguistics.concordia.ca/nels46/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/
nels_2015_talk_douglas.pdf. Hand-out from a talk at NELS 46, Concordia University,
Montréal, 16.-18.10.2015.
Fourquet, Jean. 1938. L’ordre des éléments de la phrase germanique ancien — études de
syntaxe de position [The order of the elements in the Old Germanic clause – Studies in
positional syntax]. Paris: Les Belles Lettres.
Grimshaw, Jane. 1997. Projections, heads, and optimality. Linguistic Inquiry 28. 373–422.
Grimshaw, Jane. 2005. Words and structure. Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Hansen, Aage. 1967. Moderne dansk [Modern Danish]. Vol. 1–3. Copenhagen: Grafisk For-
lag.
Hjorth, Ebba & Kjeld Kristensen. 2003-2005. Den danske ordbog [the Danish dictionary].
Copenhagen: Gyldendal. http://ordnet.dk/ddo/.
Holmberg, Anders. 1986. Word order and syntactic features in the Scandinavian languages
and English. Stockholm: Stockholm University dissertation.
Holmberg, Anders. 2015. Verb second. In Tibor Kiss & Artemis Alexiadou (eds.), Syntax –
Theory and analysis: An international handbook, 2nd edn., 342–382. Berlin: de Gruyter.
Jensen, Torben Juel & Tanya Karoli Christensen. 2013. Promoting the demoted: The dis-
tribution and semantics of “main clause word order” in spoken Danish complement
clauses. Lingua 137. 38–58.
Johannesen, Janne Bondi. 2014. Left dislocation in main and subordinate clauses. Nordic
Atlas of Language Structures Journal 1. 406–414.
Julien, Marit. 2015. The force of V2 revisited. Journal of Comparative Germanic Linguistics
18(2). 139–181.
Koizumi, Masatoshi. 1995. Phrase structure in minimalist syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT
(doctoral dissertation).
McCloskey, James. 2006. Questions and questioning in a local English. In Raffaella Zanut-
tini, Hector Campos, Elena Herburger & Paul Portner (eds.), Crosslinguistic research
in syntax and semantics: Negation, tense, and clausal architecture, 87–126. Washington,
DC: Georgetown University Press.
Müller, Gereon & Wolfgang Sternefeld. 1993. Improper movement and unambiguous
binding. Linguistic Inquiry 24(3). 461–507.
Nyvad, Anne Mette. 2016. Multiple complementizers in Modern Danish and Middle En-
glish. In Sten Vikner, Henrik Jørgensen & Elly van Gelderen (eds.), Let us have articles
betwixt us: Papers in historical and comparative linguistics in honour of Johanna L. Wood.
Aarhus: Dept. of English, Aarhus University. www.hum.au.dk/engelsk/engsv/papers/
vikn16a.pdf.
Nyvad, Anne Mette, Ken Ramshøj Christensen & Sten Vikner. 2017. CP-Recursion in
Danish: A cP/CP-Analysis. Forthcoming in The Linguistic Review. DOI:10.1515/tlr-2017-
0008
323
Sten Vikner, Ken Ramshøj Christensen & Anne Mette Nyvad
Petersson, David. 2014. The Highest Force Hypothesis: Subordination in Swedish. Lund: Uni-
versity of Lund (doctoral dissertation).
Rizzi, Luigi. 1997. The fine structure of the left periphery. In Liliane Haegeman (ed.), Ele-
ments of grammar: A handbook of generative syntax, 281–337. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Rizzi, Luigi & Ian Roberts. 1996. Complex inversion in French. In Adriana Belletti & Luigi
Rizzi (eds.), Parameters and Functional Heads. 91–116. New York: Oxford University
Press. (Reprinted from 1989, Probus 1(1), 1-30).
Sheehan, Michelle & Wolfram Hinzen. 2011. Moving towards the edge: The grammar of
reference. Linguistic Analysis 37. 405–458.
Vikner, Sten. 1995. Verb movement and expletive subjects in the Germanic languages. Ox-
ford: Oxford University Press.
Wackernagel, Jacob. 1892. Über ein gesetz der indogermanischen wortstellung [about a
law for word order in Indoeuropean]. Indogermanische Forschungen 1. 333–436.
Walkden, George. 2017. Language contact and v3 in Germanic varieties new and old.
Journal of Comparative Germanic Linguistics 20. 49–81.
Wiklund, Anna-Lena, Gunnar Hrafn Hrafnbjargarsson, Þorbjörg Hróarsdóttir & Kris-
tine Bentzen. 2007. Rethinking Scandinavian verb movement. Journal of Comparative
Germanic Linguistics 10. 203–233.
324
Chapter 14
Verb second not verb second in Syrian
Arabic
Mais Sulaiman
Newcastle University
This paper discusses the obligatory verb second order in a non-verb second dialect, Syrian
Arabic. It will be argued following Holmberg (2012) that the obligatory Wh-V-S order in
Syrian Arabic is a consequence of a property on a functional head F in the left periphery
similar to that on C in V2 languages. This head has another property that allows movement
of one and only one constituent past its specifier. In cases where more than one XP precedes
the verb, the first XP is externally merged. Unlike C, it does not have to attract a constituent
to its Spec, so declarative clauses may have VS(O) order.
1 Verb second and residual verb second
In verb second (V2) languages, the finite verb must obligatorily be the second constituent
in main clauses or in all finite clauses (den Besten 1977; Rizzi 1990b; Holmberg 2012).
Some languages manifest V2 in specific constructions, as is the case with wh-questions
in languages such as English and Italian illustrated in (1) and (2). A subject cannot inter-
vene between the wh-element and the auxiliary in main questions. These languages are
classified as residual verb second, a residue of a verb second system.
(1) English (Rizzi 1996: 63)
a. What has Mary said?
b. * What Mary has said?
(2) Italian
a. Che cosa
what
ha
has
detto
said
Maria?
Maria
‘What has Mary said?’
b. * Che cosa
what
ha
has
Maria
Maria
detto?
said
Mais Sulaiman. 2017. Verb second not verb second in Syrian Arabic. In Laura R. Bailey &
Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Order and structure in syntax I: Word order and syntactic structure, 325–
331. Berlin: Language Science Press. DOI:10.5281/zenodo.1117720
Mais Sulaiman
Similarly, some languages derive verb second order; however, they are not real V2
languages. This is the case in Standard Arabic:
(3) Standard Arabic (Fassi Fehri 1993: 13)
a. Kataba
wrote.3sg.m
Zayd-un
Zayd-nom
r-risaalat-a.
the-letter-acc
‘Zaid wrote the letter.’
b. Zaydun
Zayd-nom
kataba
wrote.3sg.m
r-risaalat-a.
the-letter-acc
‘Zayd wrote the letter.’
Sentences like (3b) manifest a V2-like effect; however, Standard Arabic is different
from V2 languages in that it allows a V-initial order as the unmarked order see Fassi
Fehri (1993: 27ff).
In this paper, I argue that Syrian Arabic is not a residual V2 language, yet the subject
cannot intervene between the wh-phrase and the verb in wh-questions. This order can
be accounted for if we assume that there is a specific feature on a lower functional head
in the left periphery that is in common with V2 languages.
2 Syrian Arabic: A non-residual V2-language
Syrian Arabic employs the VSO order, as is the case in Standard Arabic. V2 orders are
forced in specific constructions, as in SVO declarative sentences and wh-questions. The
Wh-V-S order is obligatory with most questions introduced by argumental wh-phrases.
(4) Syrian Arabic (Sulaiman 2016: 32)
a. shw
what
ħaka
said.3sg.m
basem?
Basem
‘What did Bassel say?’
b. * shw
what
basem
Basem
ħaka?
said.3sg.m
(5) a. miin
who
shaf
saw.3sg.m
Iyad?
Iyad
‘Who did Iyad see?’
b. * miin
who
Iyad
Iyad
shaf?
saw.3sg.m
However, the Wh-V-S can be optional with some questions introduced with certain
adjuncts like lesh ‘why’. Compare (6a) and (6b):
326
14 Verb second not verb second in Syrian Arabic
(6) a. lesh
why
mary
Mary
tddayʔ-et?
upsetted-3sg.f
‘What did upset Mary?’
b. lesh
why
tddayʔ-et
upsetted-3sg.f
mary?
Mary
‘What did upset Mary?’
It is also possible to have a topic phrase preceding the wh-phrase in questions, as in
(7):
(7) a. bassel
Bassel
šw
what
ħaka?
said
‘What did Bassel say?’
b. mama
mom
lesh
why
ʕam
prog
tʕayeT?
shouting
‘Why is mom shouting?’
An adverbial phrase can intervene between the wh-phrase and the verb see (8).
(8) a. min
who
hallaʔ
now
ija?
come
‘Who has just arrived?’
b. shw
what
issa
still
ʕam
prog
t-ʕml-i?
pres.f-doing-2sg.f
‘What are you still doing?’
In contrast, movement of either an auxiliary or the support do to C is obligatory in
English, leaving the adverb behind, as in (9a, b).
(9) a. Who would you never offend with your actions?
b. Which language does Pepita still study in her free time?
From what has been discussed, it can be concluded that Syrian Arabic is not a V2
or a residual V2 language, yet it manifests a V2 order in specific constructions derived
by V movement to a lower functional head in the left periphery (see Benmamoun 2000;
Aoun et al. 2010; Sulaiman 2016 for an overview). The obligatory restriction on the verb
appearing in a second position in wh-questions can be explained following Holmberg’s
(2012) account of V2 languages.
3 Movement condition
Holmberg (2012) argues that V2 languages are characterised by two properties: There is
a functional head in the left periphery, C1, which (a) attracts the finite verb, and (b) has
327
Mais Sulaiman
an EPP feature that requires movement of a constituent to the Spec of C1. C1 has a third
property as well: it prevents movement of any other constituent across it, apart from
the one attracted by its EPP feature. The rationale for this property, in Holmberg (2012),
who follows Roberts (2004), is the following: the EPP feature can attract any constituent
(argument or adjunct or wh-phrase, with almost any features). This property blocks
movement of any other category to a higher position than Spec of C1. This allows for
the possibility, however, that categories are externally merged in the C-domain higher
than Spec of C1. The two properties are independent, so in some languages C1 may
have property (a) but not property (b), as is the case in certain VSO languages. It is also
possible that a language may have a finiteness particle or a null C as C1 with the EPP
with no verb movement to C1.
Following from these assumptions, it can be argued that in Syrian Arabic, there is
a functional head in the left periphery marked with a feature that is in common with
that of C1 in V2 languages. This head allows movement of only one constituent past
its specifier, assuming Rizzi’s (1997) fine structure of the left periphery. More than one
constituent can appear before the verb if one of the constituents is externally merged.
Unlike C1, it does not have to attract a constituent to its Spec, so declarative clauses may
have the VS(O) order.
This analysis can thus explain sentences like (10), where more than one XP can appear
before the verb.
(10) a. basem
Basem
šw
what
ħaka?
said.3sg.m
‘What did Bassel say?’
b. Mama
mom
lesh
why
ʕam
prog
t-ʕayeT?
pres-shouting.3sg.f
‘Why is mom shouting?’
Basem in (10a) and mama in (10b) can be externally merged in the highest TopP posi-
tion in the left periphery, only when the wh-phrase raises across C1.1
This analysis can also explain sentences like (8), in which an adverbial phrase inter-
venes between the verb and the wh-phrase, if we assume that the adverb is externally
merged as an adjunct.
A subject can intervene between the wh-phrase and the verb in questions introduced
with wh-phrases like lesh ‘why’, as illustrated in (11):
(11) a. lesh
why
mary
Mary
tddayʔ-et?
upset-3sg.f
‘What upset Mary?’
b. lesh
why
tddayʔ-et
upset-3sg.f
mary?
Mary
‘What upset Mary?’
1For discussion on externally merged aboutness topics see Reinhart (1981); Lambrecht (1994), and Frascarelli
& Hinterhölzl (2007).
328
14 Verb second not verb second in Syrian Arabic
It is well known since Rizzi (1991) that why questions are distinctive. Rizzi noted that
while other wh-questions require inversion in Italian, this is not the case with perché
‘why’.
(12) Italian (Rizzi 2001: 273)
a. Dove
where
è andato
went
Gianni?
Gianni
‘Where did Gianni go?’
b. * Dove
where
Gianni
Gianni
è andato?
went
Rizzi (1991) proposed that this is because perché ‘why’ is base-generated (i.e. exter-
nally merged) in the C-domain. Rizzi (2001) suggests that perché is externally merged
in SpecINT, a position higher than the landing site of other, moved wh-phrases. INT
is an interrogative head marked with an [uWh] feature. This feature is checked/valued
by movement of the wh-phrase to SpecC1, or by an externally merged wh-phrase in
SpecINTP like lesh ‘why’. This can also be the case for lesh ‘why’. If lesh ‘why’ is exter-
nally merged in the C-domain, the EPP feature on C1 can still attract a subject to its Spec,
which explains subject intervention between the wh-phrase and the verb in (11a).
While V2 appears as a restrictive order in Germanic languages, V2 is only triggered
in certain constructions like wh-questions in Syrian Arabic. V3 orders are possible in
wh-questions provided that the first constituent is initially merged in that position as is
the case with a topic preceding the wh-phrase, or a base generated wh-adjunct. This can
be accounted for following Poletto’s (2002) theory that languages can vary with regards
to whether left-peripheral functional features are distributed over a hierarchy of distinct
heads, each with its own Spec, assuming Rizzi’s (2001) hierarchy of [Force, Focus, Topic,
and Finiteness], and that only one Spec-position higher than the head hosting the finite
verb can be filled by movement, which can be the case in Syrian Arabic, or whether they
are encoded in one head, with one Spec-position.
4 Conclusion
The fact that the subject cannot intervene between a wh-phrase and the inflected verb in
main questions renders Syrian Arabic similar to residual V2 languages; however, differ-
ent facts prove Syrian Arabic not to be a V2 or a residual V2 language, yet this restrictive
V2 order can best be accounted for following Holmberg’s (2012) analysis of V2 languages.
The assumption that a lower functional head in the left periphery is specified for a feature
that attracts a finite verb, and an EPP feature that can attract a subject or a wh-phrase
allowing movement of only one constituent past its specifier can justify this restrictive
Wh-V-S order in most questions.
329
Mais Sulaiman
Acknowledgements
This work is dedicated to Anders Holmberg to express my gratitude for his support and
feedback.
References
Aoun, Joseph, Elabbas Benmamoun & Lina Choueiri. 2010. The syntax of Arabic. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
Benmamoun, Elabbas. 2000. The Feature Structure of Functional Categories: A Comparative
Study of Arabic Dialects. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
den Besten, Hans. 1977. On the interaction of root transformations and lexical deleave
rules. In W. Abraham (ed.), On the formal syntax of Westgermania, 47–138. John Ben-
jamins: Amsterdam.
Fassi Fehri, Abdelkader. 1993. Issues in the structure of Arabic clauses and words. Dor-
drecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Frascarelli, Mara & Roland Hinterhölzl. 2007. Types of topics in German and Italian. In
Kerstin Schwabe & Susanne Winkler (eds.), On information structure, meaning and
form, 87–116. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Holmberg, Anders. 2012. Verb second. In Tibor Kiss & Artemis Alexiadou (eds.), Syntax –
an international handbook of contemporary syntactic research, 343–384. Berlin: Walter
de Gruyter Verlag.
Lambrecht, Knud. 1994. Information structure and sentence form: Topic, focus, and the
mental representation of discourse referents. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Poletto, Cecilia. 2002. The left-periphery of V2-Rhaetoromance dialects: A new view on
V2 and V3. In Sjef Barbiers, Leonie Cornips & Susanne van der Kleij (eds.), Syntactic
microvariation, 214–242. Amsterdam: Electronic publications of Meertens Instituut.
Reinhart, Tanya. 1981. Pragmatics and linguistics: An analysis of sentence topics in prag-
matics and philosophy i. Philosophica anc Studia Philosophica Gandensia Gent 27. 53–
94.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1990b. Speculations on verb-second. In Joan Mascaró & Marina Nespor (eds.),
Grammar in progress: Essays in honour of Henk van Riemsdijk, 375–386. Groningen:
Foris.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1991. Residual verb second and the Wh criterion. In Technical reports in for-
mal and computational linguistics 2. Geneva: University of Geneva.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1996. Residual verb second and the wh-criterion. In Andriana Belletti & Luigi
Rizzi (eds.), Parameters and functional heads, 63–90. Oxfort: Oxford University Press.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1997. The fine structure of the left periphery. In Liliane Haegeman (ed.), Ele-
ments of grammar: A handbook of generative syntax, 281–337. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Rizzi, Luigi. 2001. On the position “Int(errogative)” in the left periphery of the clause.
Current studies in Italian syntax 14. 267–296.
330
14 Verb second not verb second in Syrian Arabic
Roberts, Ian. 2004. The C-system in Brythonic Celtic languages, V2, and the EPP. In Luigi
Rizzi (ed.), The cartography of syntactic structures, vol. 2, 297–327. New York & Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Sulaiman, Mais. 2016. The syntax of Wh-questions in Syrian Arabic. Newcastle University
dissertation.
331
Chapter 15
Uniqueness of left peripheral focus,
“further explanation”, and Int.
Luigi Rizzi
University of Geneva, University of Siena
In this paper I would like to address the uniqueness of the focus position in the left periphery
of the clause and the fixed order of focus with respect to Int, the left-peripheral position
hosting interrogative complementizers corresponding to English if, Italian se, etc. (Rizzi
2001). Such properties may be amenable to “further explanations” in terms of principles
applying at the interfaces of the syntactic component, or in terms of locality principles
directly operating on syntactic computations. I will discuss the interplay between these
two modes of explanation in the cases at issue, and will briefly explore the consequences of
this analysis for ordering constraints involving focus and certain main-clause left peripheral
particles such as Sicilian chi Bianchi & Cruschina (2016) and Finnish -ko Holmberg (2013;
2014).
1 Introduction
Cartographic research uncovers properties of functional sequences such as ordering and
co-occurrence constraints. The observed generalizations are in need of “further expla-
nations” in terms of more elementary ingredients of linguistic computations, or of prin-
ciples ruling the interpretive processes at the interfaces with sound and meaning. In
this short paper I would like to address certain properties of focus in the left periph-
ery of the clause, such as the uniqueness of the focus position and the fixed order of
focus with respect to Int, the left-peripheral position hosting interrogative complemen-
tizers corresponding to English if, Italian se, etc. (Rizzi 2001). Such properties may be
amenable to “further explanations” in terms of principles applying at the interfaces of
the syntactic component, or in terms of locality principles directly operating on syntac-
tic computations. I will discuss the interplay between these two modes of explanation
in the cases at issue, and will briefly explore the consequences of this analysis for order-
ing constraints involving focus and certain main-clause left peripheral particles such as
Sicilian chi Bianchi & Cruschina 2016 and Finnish –ko (Holmberg 2013; 2014).
Luigi Rizzi. 2017. Uniqueness of left peripheral focus, “further explanation”, and Int. In Laura
R. Bailey & Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Order and structure in syntax I: Word order and syntactic
structure, 333–343. Berlin: Language Science Press. DOI:10.5281/zenodo.1117718
Luigi Rizzi
2 Uniqueness of focus
A traditional observation in the study of the left periphery of the clause is that left periph-
eral focus is typically unique. This was observed, e.g. in Italian (Rizzi 1997; capitalization
is used to express the special prosody of focal constituents, on which see Bocci 2013):
(1) a. A MARIA devi dare il tuo libro (, non a Giulia).
‘TO MARIA you should give your book, non to Giulia.’
b. IL TUO LIBRO devi dare a Maria (non il disco).
‘YOUR BOOK you should give to Maria, not the record.’
c. * A MARIA(,) IL TUO LIBRO devi dare (non a Giulia, il disco).
’To Maria your book you should give, not to Giulia the record.’
d. * IL TUO LIBRO(,) A MARIA devi dare (non il disco, a Giulia).
‘Your book, to Maria you should give, not the record to Giulia.’
As the negative tag suggests, (1a) and (1b) are instances of corrective focus. If some-
body says I have to give my book to Giulia, I can correct him/her by uttering (1a), and
similar felicity conditions are observed for (1b); but (1c–d), correctively focalizing both
the direct and indirect object, are ungrammatical, whatever order is selected.
The uniqueness requirement holds for corrective focus and for “mirative” focus, the
other major kind of focus which in Italian (and other Romance languages) licenses move-
ment to the left periphery:
(2) Pensa un po’…
‘Just think of it…’
a. UNA FERRARI vogliono regalare a Mario! Che pazzia!
‘A FERRARI they want to give to Mario! That’s crazy!’
b. A MARIO vogliono regalare una Ferrari! Che pazzia!
‘TO MARIO they want to give a Ferrari! That’s crazy!’
c. * A MARIO(,) UNA FERRARI vogliono regalare! Che pazzia!
‘TO MARIO A FERRARI they want to give! That’s crazy!’
d. * UNA FERRARI(,) A MARIO vogliono regalare! Che pazzia!
‘A FERRARI TO MARIO they want to give! That’s crazy!’
As pointed out by Bianchi et al. (2015), mirative focus differs from corrective focus
both in the pragmatic conditions for its felicitous use (it expresses surprise for a state of
affairs falling outside natural expectations, rather than correcting someone else’s state-
ment) and intonational contour. But it shares the uniqueness requirement with correc-
tive focus. Both focal constructions were collapsed under the label “contrastive focus” in
Rizzi (1997); new information focus differs from these special focal constructions in that,
in Romance, it is expressed in a lower position, internal to the IP (Belletti 2004).
334
15 Uniqueness of left peripheral focus, “further explanation”, and Int.
The special left peripheral focus constructions sharply contrast with topic construc-
tions such as Clitic Left Dislocation, which is consistent with a proliferation of topics in
any order:
(3) a. Il tuo libro, a Maria, glielo devi dare al più presto.
‘Your book, to Mary, you should give it to her as soon as possible.’
b. A Maria, il tuo libro, glielo devi dare al più presto.
‘To Maria, your book, you should give it to her as soon as possible.’
The uniqueness of left peripheral focus is not a quirk of Italian/Romance. A similar
constraint has been observed in Finno-Ugric (Puskás 2000), West-African (Hager M’Boua
2014), and Jamaican Creole (Durrleman 2008). A principled explanation thus seems to
be in order.
3 “Further explanation” of cartographic properties
Cartographic research has uncovered a variety of properties of functional elements oc-
curring in specific zones of the clause, such as ordering and co-occurrence constraints.
Some such properties are variable across languages, whereas other properties look cross-
linguistically stable. These results raise the question of why one finds certain stable pat-
terns rather than other imaginable alternative arrangements. As pointed out in Cinque
& Rizzi (2010) it is unlikely that such patterns may be absolute syntactic primitives, to
be stated in UG as unrelated to other requirements or constraints: why should natu-
ral language syntax have evolved to express such complex and apparently unmotivated
primitives? It is more plausible that functional hierarchies and their properties (to the
extent to which they are invariant) may be rooted elsewhere, hence be amenable to “fur-
ther explanations”. There are two major imaginable kinds of such explanations (here I
follow the discussion in Rizzi (2013): they may invoke
• Interface principles: certain observed properties of the hierarchies may be derived
from principles ruling the interfaces between syntax and the interpretive systems
of sound and meaning;
• Formal syntactic principles: “further explanations” may also invoke formal prin-
ciples internal to the syntactic box, for instance principles of locality (Abels 2012;
Haegeman 2012) or labeling (Rizzi 2016).
For the case at issue, Rizzi (1997) proposed an explanation of the uniqueness of left-
peripheral focus by invoking the routines that interpret discourse related “criterial” con-
figurations at logical form. Suppose that the interpretive principle triggered by the Foc
head is something like the following, in terms of a traditional terminology of, e.g., Jack-
endoff (1972):
(4) [
“Focus”
] Foc [
“Presupposition”
]
335
Luigi Rizzi
i.e., a Foc head goes with the instruction: “interpret my specifier as the focus (correc-
tive or mirative), and my complement as the presupposed part”.
So, let’s suppose, counterfactually, that the Foc head could recursively occur in the left
periphery, giving rise to a double focus. The derived representation would be something
like the following:
(5) * [[A MARIA] Foc1 [ [ IL TUO LIBRO ] Foc2 [ devi dare __ __ ] ] ].
‘TO MARIA YOUR BOOK (you) should give.’
Here IL TUO LIBRO should be interpreted as a focus of the relevant kind, being the
Spec of Foc 2; but the whole sequence [ [ IL TUO LIBRO ] [ Foc2 [ devi dare ] ] ] is the
complement of Foc1, hence, under (4), it should be interpreted as the presupposed part.
So, il tuo libro should at the same time be focus and presupposed; but presumably a clash
arises between the two notions, hence Foc recursion in the left periphery never gives rise
to a properly interpretable structure. The observed syntactic constraint is thus derived
from a natural interpretive requirement.
I phrased the argument in terms of the traditional definition of the relevant articu-
lation as Focus – Presupposition (Jackendoff 1972). If the articulation is more neutrally
characterized as Focus – Background, as in much recent work, as far as I can tell the idea
of the interpretive clash arising in configurations of double left-peripheral focus would
remain unchanged: something cannot be simultaneously focus and background.
Now, there is a natural competitor to an interface explanation in this case. Abels (2012)
argues that major ordering properties observed in the left periphery in Rizzi (1997; 2001)
can be derived from the theory of locality and in particular from a featural characteri-
zation of Relativized Minimality (fRM) (as in Starke 2001; Rizzi 2004, building on Rizzi
1990).
Consider a representation like (5). When two foci are moved to the left periphery,
one inevitably crosses over the other. So, in (5) the attempt to connect A MARIA to
its variable would cross a featurally identical focus position filled by IL TUO LIBRO,
a configuration which would be ruled out by fRM. So, the theory of locality seems to
provide a competing “further explanation” for the uniqueness of left-peripheral focus.
There is, of course, another possibility: it could be the case that (5) is excluded by
both orders of considerations. In general, a natural strategy of theory construction is to
avoid redundancies, so that, if two paths of explanation compete, it is quite generally
productive to try to eliminate the redundancy. Nevertheless, the elimination of redun-
dancies is a useful research strategy, not a dogma: it is imaginable that two optimally
stated principles may have areas of overlap, as well as areas of non-overlap in their re-
spective empirical domains. Let us consider the case at issue by looking at other related
but distinct effects.
4 Double focus exclusion without intervention
Consider the case of a complex sentence with a complement of the main verb and a com-
plement of the embedded verb. Either one can be focused and moved to the left periphery
of the clause immediately containing it, but they cannot be focalized simultaneously:
336
15 Uniqueness of left peripheral focus, “further explanation”, and Int.
(6) a. Devi dire a Gianni che comprerai questo libro.
‘You should say to Gianni that you will buy this book.’
b. A GIANNI devi dire che comprerai questo libro (non a Piero).
‘To GIANNI you should say that you will buy this book (not to Piero).’
c. Devi dire a Gianni che QUESTO LIBRO comprerai (non quest’altro).
‘You should say to Gianni that THIS BOOK you will buy (not that one).’
d. * A GIANNI devi dire che QUESTO LIBRO comprerai (non a Piero,
quest’altro).
‘TO GIANNI you should say that THIS BOOK you will buy (not to Piero,
that one).’
Sentence (6d) is sharply deviant, but in this case no crossing or intervention configu-
ration arises because each focalized element is moved to the periphery of its own clause.
So, this example is solely excluded by the interface considerations based on (4): even if
the two FocP’s are not adjacent and occur in different clauses, the presupposition of the
higher focus still contains the lower focus, hence the interpretive clash arises here as
well.
Other cases not amenable to locality considerations, but excluded by interface consid-
erations, are those which involve clause initial adjuncts which plausibly are externally
merged directly in the left periphery, such as “scene setting” adjuncts (Benincà & Poletto
2004):
(7) a. Nella foto di Gianni, Piero dà un bacio a Maria.
‘In Gianni’s picture, Piero gives a kiss to Maria.’
b. NELLA FOTO DI GIANNI, Piero dà un bacio a Maria (non in quella di
Giuseppe).
‘In GIANNI’s picture, Piero gives a kiss to Maria (not in Giuseppe’s picture).’
c. Nella foto di Gianni, A MARIA Piero dà un bacio (non a Giulia).
‘In Gianni’s picture, TO MARIA Piero gives a kiss (not to Giulia).’
d. * NELLA FOTO DI GIANNI, A MARIA Piero dà un bacio (non in quella di
Giuseppe, a Giulia).
‘In GIANNI’s picture, TO MARIA Piero gives kiss (not in Giuseppe’s, to
Giulia).’
In (7a) the PP Nella foto di Gianni is not a locative fronted from a lower position but an
adverbial setting the scene for the following sentence; as such, it is plausibly externally
merged directly in the periphery of the sentence (Reinhart 1981). It can be a corrective
focus, as in (7b), but it cannot co-occur with another corrective focus, as in (7d). Again,
there is no locality effect to be invoked here, whereas the interface explanation based on
(4) correctly rules out the structure.
337
Luigi Rizzi
5 The strict ordering of Focus and Int
There are also cases that are naturally analyzable as involving intervention, whereas
they don’t seem to immediately fall under the effect of interface principles. Consider
the relative ordering of Int, the position hosting yes-no interrogative complementizers
like Italian se and English if (Rizzi 2001) in embedded questions, and Focus. The only
possible order is Int Focus:
(8) a. Mi domando se IL TUO LIBRO abbiano comprato (non il mio).
‘I wonder if YOUR BOOK they bought (not mine).’
b. * Mi domando IL TUO LIBRO se abbiano comprato (non il mio).
‘I wonder YOUR BOOK if the bought (not mine).’
In this case, focus sharply contrasts with topic, which can both precede and follow
Int:
(9) a. Mi domando se, il tuo libro, lo abbiano comprato.
‘I wonder if, you book, they bought it.’
b. Mi domando, il tuo libro, se lo abbiano comprato.
‘I wonder, your book, if they bought it.’
The ordering constraint illustrated by (8) is not straightforwardly amenable to an in-
terface account of the kind ruling out a double focus, whereas it can be captured by a
locality account à la Abels (2012): se presumably hosts a yes-no operator in its Spec (and,
in any event, it is marked by a +Q feature, an operator feature). Hence, movement of
an element plausibly involving an operator feature, like focus, determines a violation of
Relativized Minimality, under the approach based on feature classes developed in Rizzi
(2004). No violation is expected in the case of a topic construction like (9b), if such con-
structions in Italian/Romance do not involve any operator feature (Cinque 1990, Rizzi
2004). Putting together (8) and (6–7), we thus seem to reach the conclusion that both
an interface approach and a locality approach are needed on independent grounds, and
the two approaches may overlap in some cases, such as the exclusion of double focus
constructions like (1–2).
There are additional elements of complexity, though. Callegari (2014) and Cinque &
Krapova (2013) point out a problem for a simple locality account in cases analogous to
(8b): long distance extraction of a focal element from an indirect question is more accept-
able than local movement across se. In my judgement, there is a detectable difference of
severity of ill-formedness: long distance focalization from an indirect question is only
mildly deviant, and more acceptable than local focus movement across if, as in (8b):
(10) ? IL TUO LIBRO mi domando se abbiano comprato, non il mio.
‘YOUR BOOK I wonder if they bought, not mine.’
338
15 Uniqueness of left peripheral focus, “further explanation”, and Int.
The status of (10) suggests that movement of focus across se does indeed cause a lo-
cality violation, but the local movement in cases like (8b) must involves a mild locality
violation, plus an aggravating factor. What could it be? Let us briefly reconsider the
interface idea. (8b) would have, for the relevant part, the following representation:
(11) … IL TUO LIBRO Foc [ seQ abbiano comprato ]
‘…YOUR BOOK if they bought’
We have seen that, according to (4), the complement of Foc must be interpreted as the
presupposed part. We may speculate that a question (a clausal constituent headed and
labeled by Q) is not the natural syntactic object expressing a presupposed part, whereas
a FinP expressing a propositional content would be, as in the ordering in (8a) correspond-
ing to the following configuration:
(12) … seQ … IL TUO LIBRO Foc [IntP abbiano comprato ]
‘…if YOUR BOOK they bought’
If an interface analysis along these or similar lines can be made precise, it may well be
that both factors play a role in the ill-formedness of (8b), with the mild locality violation
observed in (10) getting “reinforced”, as it were, by an interface factor in (8b). (For a
compositional analysis requiring the order Q > Foc in the case of mirative focus, see
Bianchi et al. 2015.)
6 Some comparative considerations
Main yes-no questions with left peripheral focus are also possible (Holmberg 2013; 2014
on Finnish; Bianchi & Cruschina 2016 on Italian and other Romance varieties), e.g.,
(13) IL TUO LIBRO hanno comprato? (non volevano quello di Gianni?)
‘YOUR BOOK they bought? (didn’t they want Gianni’s?)’
This case differs from the embedded question case in that the Int marker is null in main
environments in Italian. Where does the structural position Int appear in main clauses?
An extension of what was observed in embedded clauses suggests that the unpronounced
Int of main clauses should be higher than Foc, much as the pronounced Int of embedded
clauses: the opposite ordering Foc > Int would be ruled out both by locality and the
interface requirement discussed in connection with the embedded environment.
When a given order is assumed in a certain language on the basis of abstract consid-
eration, it is good practice to check if in other languages the assumed order is visibly
manifested. In fact, Bianchi & Cruschina (2016) show that in Sicilian, which has a pro-
nounced form of main Int (chi), the order is chi > Foc in main questions, as would be
expected:
(14) Chi a Maria salutasti?
‘Chi to Maria (you) greeted? = Did you greet Maria?’
339
Luigi Rizzi
Belletti (p.c.) points out that in the colloquial variety of Italian spoken in Rome, main
yes-no questions are introduced by the particle che, homophonous to the declarative
Complementizer, which thus appears to be a plausible candidate for the overt lexicaliza-
tion of Int in main clauses. As expected, che must precede a left-peripheral corrective
focus:
(15) a. Che MARIA hai salutato (e non Gianni)?
‘int MARIA you greeted (and not Gianni)?’
b. *MARIA che hai salutato (e non Gianni)?
‘Maria int you greeted (and not Gianni)?’
Belletti also observes that in this variety topics differ from foci in that a clitic left-
dislocated element can both precede and follow main clause Int:
(16) a. Maria, che la conosci già?
‘Maria, Int (you) already know her?’
b. Che Maria, la conosci già?
‘Int Maria, (you) already know her?’
The pattern is thus identical to the one visible only in embedded clauses is Standard
Italian (as in 8–9): the sharply ungrammatical (15b) is ruled out both as a locality violation
and, plausibly, as a violation of interface requirements, as per our previous discussion;
neither kind of violation arises with a topic, as in (16a–b).
A potential problem arises in Finnish. Holmberg (2013; 2014) shows that in main en-
vironments in this language the question particle –ko occurs after a focalized element:
(17) Pariisissako Matti on käynyt?
‘Paris Matti has visited?’
This order would be unexpected if –ko were to be analyzed as the Finnish equivalent of
Int. But Holmberg argues in detail that (this instance of) –ko must be analyzed as affixed
to the focused constituent, and then moved to the left periphery with it, rather than as
a particle externally merged in the left peripheral spine (as Int is, under our analysis).
Other considerations support this analysis. For instance, Karoliina Lohiniva (p.c.) ob-
serves that, in her native Oulu dialect, –ko can be repeated after each conjunct in case
of a coordination of focused DPs:
(18) Isä-s-kö
father-poss-q
ja
and
äiti-s-kö
mother-poss-q
se-n
that-acc
auto-n
car-acc
ost-i?
buy-3sg.past
‘Was it your father and your mother who bought that car?’
This is expected if –ko is affixed to the focal DP(s), whereas it is inconsistent with an
analysis of –ko as a lexicalization of Int. Not surprisingly, a bona fide lexicalization of
Int such as Roman che cannot be reduplicated in such cases (Belletti, p.c.):
340
15 Uniqueness of left peripheral focus, “further explanation”, and Int.
(19) Che MARIA e (*che) FRANCESCA hai salutato?
‘Int MARIA and (*Int) FRANCESCA (you) greeted?’
The observed ordering in Finnish thus is consistent, under Holmberg’s analysis of –ko,
with the general ordering constraint Int > Foc that we have discussed.
7 Conclusion
The necessity of seeking for “further explanations” of cartographic properties leads us to
take into consideration the possible explanatory role of interpretive principles applying
at the interfaces, and of locality principles applying within the syntactic box. In the at-
tempt to study the interplay between these two orders of considerations, we have been
led to look at the case of the exclusion of multiple left peripheral foci in Romance and
other languages. Here, simple considerations on the functioning of interpretive princi-
ples of the scope-discourse articulations involving left peripheral focus may provide a
straightforward analysis of the observed restriction: in cases of double left peripheral
focus, the lower focalized element would inevitably end up in the presupposed, or back-
ground part, of the higher focus, giving rise to an interpretive clash. On the other hand,
under minimal assumptions on the functioning of intervention, locality also marks cases
of double focus movement as deviant, as one focalized constituent would necessarily be
moved across the other. In the attempt to disentangle these two modes of further expla-
nation, we have observed cases in which locality considerations are not (immediately)
relevant, e.g. in ill-formed cases in which two focused elements come from different
clauses and are moved to the respective immediate left peripheries: in such cases there
is no crossing, and still the structures are deviant. So, such cases appear to be “pure”
cases of violation of interface constraints. We have also looked at a potential case of
“pure” locality violation: the case of the obligatory ordering Int > Foc in Romance. Here
a violation of featural Relativized Minimality is certainly involved in the ordering Foc
> Int, as the focal operator is crossing the Q-marked Complementizer particle, also a
position marked by an operator feature. But the hypothesis that this is a pure case of
locality violation has to face the problem of the different degree of deviance of local and
long distance movement of a focal element across Int (as in 8b–10). The more severe vio-
lation of local movement suggests that some other consideration in addition to locality
is operative here: this has led us to look again at the role of interface principles. Finally,
comparative considerations on overt manifestations of the ordering phenomena in main
clauses have lead us to assume, with Bianchi & Cruschina (2016), that Sicilian chi is a
genuine Int marker, exhibiting the expected order Int > Foc also in main clauses, and to
adopt Holmberg’s (2013; 2014) analysis of Finnish –ko as an affix attached to the focused
constituent, rather than as a manifestation of the Int head in the left peripheral sequence.
341
Luigi Rizzi
Acknowledgments
This paper is dedicated to Anders, who showed us the intricacies of the languages of
the Northern countries, and their theoretical underpinning. I would like to thank Adri-
ana Belletti, Valentina Bianchi and Karoliina Lohiniva for very helpful comments. This
research was supported in part by the ERC Grant n. 340297 “SynCart”.
References
Abels, Klaus. 2012. The Italian left periphery: A view from locality. Linguistic Inquiry 43.
229–254.
Belletti, Adriana. 2004. Aspects of the low IP area. In Luigi Rizzi (ed.), The structure of
CP and IP. The Cartography of syntactic structures, vol. 2, 16–51. New York: Oxford
University Press.
Benincà, Paola & Cecilia Poletto. 2004. Topic, focus and v2: Defining the CP sublayers. In
Luigi Rizzi (ed.), The structure of CP and ip, 52–75. New York: Oxford University Press.
Bianchi, Valentina, Giuliano Bocci & Silvio Cruschina. 2015. Focus fronting, unexpected-
ness, and evaluative implicatures. Semant. Pragmat.
Bianchi, Valentina & Silvio Cruschina. 2016. The derivation and interpretation of polar
questions with a fronted focus. Lingua 170. 47–68.
Bocci, Giuliano. 2013. The Syntax-Prosody interface: A cartographic perspective with evi-
dence from Italian. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Callegari, Elena. 2014. Why Locality-Based Accounts of the Left Periphery Are Unfit
To Account for its Variation. Paper presented at Variation in C: Macro- and micro-
comparative approaches to complementizers and the CP phase (Workshop). Venice,
21 – 22 October 2014.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 1990. Types of A’-dependencies. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Cinque, Guglielmo & Iliyana Krapova. 2013. DP and CP: A Relativized Minimality ap-
proach to one of their non parallelisms. Paper presented at Congrès International des
Linguistes, Geneva. July 2013.
Cinque, Guglielmo & Luigi Rizzi. 2010. The cartography of syntactic structures. In Bernd
Heine & Heiko Narrog (eds.), The Oxford handbook of linguistic analysis. New York:
Oxford University Press.
Durrleman, Stephanie. 2008. The syntax of Jamaican Creole. Amsterdam: John Ben-
jamins.
Haegeman, Liliane. 2012. Adverbial clauses, main clause phenomena, and composition of
the left periphery (The Cartography of Syntactic Structures 8). New York: Oxford Uni-
versity Press.
Hager M’Boua, Clarisse. 2014. Structure de la phrase en Abidji. University of Geneva dis-
sertation.
Holmberg, Anders. 2013. The syntax of answers to polar questions in English and
Swedish. Lingua 128. 31–50.
342
15 Uniqueness of left peripheral focus, “further explanation”, and Int.
Holmberg, Anders. 2014. The syntax of the Finnish question particle. In Peter Svenonius
(ed.), Functional structure from top to toe, 266–289. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
http://www.ncl.ac.uk/elll/research/publication/177509.
Jackendoff, Ray S. 1972. Semantic interpretation in generative grammar. Cambridge, MA:
The MIT Press.
Puskás, Genoveva. 2000. Word Order in Hungarian: The Syntax of Ā-positions. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Reinhart, Tanya. 1981. Pragmatics and linguistics: An analysis of sentence topics in prag-
matics and philosophy i. Philosophica anc Studia Philosophica Gandensia Gent 27. 53–
94.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1990. Relativized minimality. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1997. The fine structure of the left periphery. In Liliane Haegeman (ed.), Ele-
ments of grammar: A handbook of generative syntax, 281–337. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Rizzi, Luigi. 2001. On the position “Int(errogative)” in the left periphery of the clause.
Current studies in Italian syntax 14. 267–296.
Rizzi, Luigi. 2004. Locality and left periphery. In Adriana Belletti (ed.), Structures and
beyond: The cartography of syntactic structures, 223–251. New York: Oxford University
Press.
Rizzi, Luigi. 2013. Notes on Cartography and further explanation. Probus 25.1.
Rizzi, Luigi. 2016. Labeling, maximality, and the head-phrase distinction. The Linguistic
Review.
Starke, Michal. 2001. Move dissolves into Merge, a theory of locality. Université de Genève
dissertation.
343
Chapter 16
Swedish wh-root-infinitives
Christer Platzack
Lund University
The purpose of this short paper is to present a minimalist account of the syntax of the
Swedish Wh-Root-infinitives, trying to characterize the syntax of this generally neglected
main clause equivalent while comparing its syntax to the syntax of finite root clauses. See
(i) and (ii):
(i) Swedish
Varför
why
sälj-a
sell-inf
huset?
house.the
‘Why sell the house?’
(ii) Swedish
Varför
why
sälj-er
sell-pres
ni
you
huset?
house.the
‘Why do you sell the house?’
My account is based on the hypothesis that C minimally probes the sentence type features
finite, imperative or infinitive, present in the inflection of the verb. More precisely, I will
show that the Swedish facts, like corresponding facts in English, German and Icelandic,
follow from a grammar driven by an asymmetry with respect to feature values (see Chomsky
2007: 6 and subsequent papers), and that all unvalued features must be eliminated before
syntax can zip together form and meaning.
1 Root infinitives
In the Germanic languages, the overwhelming majority of independent sentences are
finite, with a verb inflected at least for tense. Occasionally, however, we find independent
sentences with an infinitival verb, as in the English examples in (1). These are usually
introduced by why or how:
Christer Platzack. 2017. Swedish wh-root-infinitives. In Laura R. Bailey & Michelle Sheehan
(eds.), Order and structure in syntax I: Word order and syntactic structure, 345–361. Berlin: Lan-
guage Science Press. DOI:10.5281/zenodo.1117712
Christer Platzack
(1) English (Huddleston & Pullum 2003: 874)
a. Why be so soft with them?
b. Why not accept his offer?
c. How to persuade her to forgive him?
In this paper I will discuss the syntax of Swedish independent infinitive sentences
or Root-infinitives, introduced by a wh-word (Wh-RIs). This is a minor and mainly ne-
glected sentence type, classified by The Swedish Academy Grammar (Teleman et al. 1999:
IV: 826–827) as a kind of main clause equivalent. Some Swedish examples are presented
in (2); as in English, Swedish mainly prefers root infinitives introduced by a wh-adverb
varför ‘why’ or hur ‘how’:
(2) Swedish (# indicates that the example is not fully productive)
a. #Vad
what
göra?
do.inf
‘What to do?’
b. #Vart
where
vända
turn.inf
sig?
refl
‘Where to turn?’
c. Varför
why
inte
not
gå
go.inf
på
to
bio?
movie
‘Why don’t you go to the movie?’
d. Varför
why
sälja
sell.inf
huset?
house.the
‘Why sell the house?’
e. Hur
how
få
get.inf
personalen
staff.the
att
to
förstå?
understand
‘How to get the staff to understand?’ (Teleman et al. 1999: IV: 826–828)
German accepts both wh-arguments and wh-adverbs (including warum ‘why’), as
shown by the examples in (3), mainly from Reis (2003).
(3) German
a. Was
what
tun?
do.inf
‘What to do?’ Reis (2003), example (37a)
b. Wohin
where.to
sich
refl
wenden?
turn
‘Where to turn?’ Reis (2003), example (37b)
346
16 Swedish wh-root-infinitives
c. Warum
why
nicht
not
ins
to.the
Kino
movies
gehen?
go.inf
‘Why not go to the movies?’ Reis (2003), example (38b)
d. Warum
why
das
the
Haus
house
verkaufen?
sell.inf
‘Why did you sell your house?’
Icelandic, finally, according to Halldór Sigurðsson p.c., seems to accept only Wh-RIs
with hvers vegna ‘why’, preferably together with the infinitival marker að, see (4c,d).
(4) Icelandic
a. *Hvað
what
(að)
to
gera?
do.inf
‘What to do?’ (Halldór Sigurðsson p.c.)
b. *Hvert
where
(að)
to
snúa
turn.inf
sér?
refl
‘Where to turn?’ (Halldór Sigurðsson p.c.)
c. Hvers vegna
why
ekki
not
(að)
to
fara
go.inf
í
to
bíó?
movie
‘Why don’t go to the movie?’ (Halldór Sigurðsson p.c.)
d. ?Hvers vegna
why
(að)
to
selja
sell.inf
húsið?
house.the
‘Why sell the house? (Halldór Sigurðsson p.c.)
None of the other languages investigated seem to accept an infinitive Complemen-
tizer (English to, German zu, Swedish att) in Wh-RIs. Swedish and German (see Reis
2003: 156 for German) never use the infinitival marker in Wh-RIs. English, according to
Huddleston & Pullum (2003: 875), has two types of Wh-RIs, one without infinitival to
(5c,d), and one with infinitival to that accepts more options, as shown in (5a,b):
(5) English
a. *Where go? Where to go?
b. *What do next? What to do next?
c. Why be so soft with them?
d. Why not accept his offer?
In short, of the four Germanic languages discussed above, German seems to be less
restricted with respect to which Wh-RIs that are possible (both argumental and adverbial
wh-words, e.g.). Swedish, Icelandic and English mainly allow Wh-RIs introduced by why
(English) and its Swedish and Icelandic counterparts varför and hvers vegna. English Wh-
RIs with to also accept other adverbial wh-words.
347
Christer Platzack
In this paper I will take a closer look at Swedish Wh-RIs, claming that Wh-RIs belong
to an independent infinitival sentence type and arguing for an analysis that expands
Reis’ account of German Wh-RIs (2003). Reis’ analysis is in its turn inspired by Platzack
& Rosengren’s (1997) account of the imperative sentence type, launched within the Min-
imalist program (Chomsky 1995 and subsequent work).
The paper is organized in the following way. §2 gives a brief introduction to those
parts of the Minimalist program that are vital for understanding my account, and §3
outlines the analysis of the ordinary finite sentence type. §4 presents the non-finite
sentence type Wh-RIs and comppares its syntax with the syntax of finite sentences. A
short conclusion and discussion follows in §5.
2 A short presentation of the theoretical framework
In this section I will present some central assumptions of the feature-driven version of
the minimalist program that I use for my analysis of Wh-RIs in Swedish. In general, I
will stay close to Chomsky (2007; 2008) and Pesetsky & Torrego (2001; 2004; 2007). The
assumption that there are three types of independent sentence types, finite, infinite and
imperative, corresponding to the same three types of basic verbal inflection, is outlined
in more detail in Platzack & Rosengren (2017).
2.1 Morphology Lexicon and Features
Following a recent discussion in Cecchetto & Donati (2015) I have chosen a version of the
minimalist program where words are created in an autonomous morphological module.
Hence a word can be seen as an atomic element from the point of view of syntax. Each
word is, according to Chomsky (2007: 6), “a structured array of properties (features) to
which Merge and other operations apply to form expressions.”
Features enter the syntactic computation either as valued or unvalued; the purpose of
the computation is to build structure so that all unvalued features become valued.
2.2 Merge, EPP and the operation Agree
The central player of the Minimalist syntactic derivation is the operation Merge that
builds structure. Merge operates on (bundles of) features (valued or unvalued) that pro-
vide the building material for syntactic structure. Merge takes a feature bundle and adds
it to another feature bundle, creating a minimal structure, see (6):
(6) Pick the feature bundle A and merge it to an available feature bundle B:
A/B
A B
A B →
348
16 Swedish wh-root-infinitives
The result of merging A and B is labeled either A or B. Merge can now take a new
feature bundle X from the lexicon and merge it to the root of the structure, illustrated in
(7), or it may take the feature bundle B, already present in the derivation, and remerge
it to the root of the structure, yielding (8); this operation is also called “Move”:
(7) X
X A/B
A B
(8) A
B A/B
A B
The operation Agree, see Chomsky (2001: 31ff.) and below, establishes a connection
between an unvalued and a valued instance of a feature, valuing the unvalued one, see (9).
The derivation will crash if there is any unvalued feature left at the semantic interface.
(9) The operation Agree
Step 1: Select a probe i.e. a head with at least one unvalued feature [¬F], where
[F] is a variable over features.
Step 2: Search the c-command domain of the probe for the closest goal with a
valued instance of the same feature, [F].
Step 3: Value the unvalued feature of the probe in accordance with the value of
the goal.
Agree may be accompanied by movement of the bearer of the valued feature to the
bearer of the unvalued feature. This operation presupposes the presence of what I here
call “EPP” which is associated with an unvalued feature, [¬FEPP], saying that the agree-
relation must be visible.
2.3 The Morpho-Syntactic interface
Following Cecchetto & Donati (2015: 14), I assume that “[a] word which is delivered by
morphology to syntax, is intrinsically endowned with a category feature”. For verbs, I
assume the verbal feature [v], for nouns the nominal feature [n] and for adjectives the
adjectival feature [a]. In addition to the categorial feature, morphology also provides
349
Christer Platzack
inflectional features. With Platzack & Rosengren (2017), I assume three kinds of inflec-
tional features in Germanic verbs, listed in (10) and exemplified in (11) with Swedish
independent main clauses:
(10) a. The finite inflection, introducing the feature [fin] and expressed by the tense
suffix in Swedish.
b. The imperative inflection, introducing the feature [imp] and expressed by
the verbal stem in Swedish.
c. The infinitival inflection, introducing the feature [inf] and expressed by the
infinitive suffix -a in Swedish.
(11) Swedish
a. Johan
Johan
läs-te
read-tns
en
a
roman.
novel
‘Johan read a novel.’
b. Läs
read
en
a
roman!
novel
‘Read a novel!’
c. Varför
why
läs-a
read-inf
en
a
roman⁉
novel
‘Why read a novel⁉’
Simplifying, the first step in the derivation of a sentence like Swedish (11a) or its Ger-
man counterpart, Johann las einen Roman, is to pick the verb läste / las ‘read.past’ from
the lexicon and merge it with a DP en roman / ein Roman ‘a novel’ bearing an internal
theta-role in relation to the verb. The Swedish case is outlined in (12) and the German
one in (13), the main difference being that the Swedish vP structure is VO, the German
one OV.
(12) Swedish
[vP Johan [läste en roman]]
(13) German
[vP Johan [ein Roman] las]
Like all DPs, both the external argument Johan in Spec,vP and the object en roman
/ ein Roman in the complement of v carry a valued ϕ-feature. In addition, v carries a
valued [fin] feature. The different order between v and DP in Swedish and German is
mandatory to capture the syntactic differences between VO languages and OV languages,
see Haider (2010: 5–43) for a detailed presentation. Among other things, this difference
plays a role in accounting for the fact that Swedish but not German displays subject–
object asymmetries, see Haider (2010: 79ff). Since the VO/OV distinction is not in focus
here, I will mainly give structures where the head governs to the right, as in English,
Icelandic and Swedish.
350
16 Swedish wh-root-infinitives
3 The derivation of the Swedish finite sentence type
In this section, I will illustrate the functional parts TP (called Finite Phrase in Rizzi 1997)
and CP (called Force Phrase in Rizzi 1997).
In the absence of sentence adverbs and auxiliaries, which are supposed to be adjoined
to vP, the next step after vP is assembled is to pick T from the lexicon and merge it to
vP. The result is depicted in (14), assuming T to carry both unvalued phi-features and an
unvalued fin-feature:
(14) TP
T
[¬ϕEPP]
[¬fin]
vP
DP
Johan
[ϕ]
v’
v
läste
[fin]
DP
en roman
[ϕ]
In Swedish, as in the Germanic languages in general, the subject is visible in Spec,TP,
indicating the presence of an EPP feature. The presence of a visible subject is accounted
for by postulating that EPP is attached to the unvalued [ϕ]-features in T, hence the proper
formulation of this feature will be [¬ϕ EPP]. This forces the closest c-commanded DP, i.e.
Johan, to move to Spec,TP.
The derivation of TP as illustrated in (14) is not complete. T contains an unvalued
finiteness feature that must be valued. Acting as a probe, T with feature [¬fin] will
establish an Agree relation with [fin] in little v and thereby the finite feature in T is
valued. There is no reason to assume that the verb moves from v to T in Swedish; if
so, we would, contrary to facts, have expected the finite verb to appear in front of the
negation in an embedded clause, taking for granted that the negation is adjoined to vP
and thus to the right of a verb that has moved to T.
The highest phase in the derivation of a sentence is the C-projection with an unvalued
finiteness feature in C, which is valued by merging C to TP. In most Germanic languages
the tensed verb is moved to C, due to EPP associated with [¬fin] in C. Among other
things, this gives rise to verb second. Spec,CP may be filled by the subject or object,
by an adverb phrase, prepositional phrase and various other elements. Since the main
part of this paper discusses the adverb varför ‘why’ I will here show how a finite clause
introduced by varför is derived. Being a wh-adverb, varför must move to Spec,CP. See
Shlonsky & Soare (2011) for a partly different account.
I will assume that a TP containing varför ‘why’ merges with C that carries the features
[¬fin] and [¬wh], both with EPP. This will force the closest wh-phrase to move to Spec.
CP
351
Christer Platzack
This is illustrated with the Swedish sentence in (15) where both the unvalued features
in C are marked EPP. The structure when C has merged is given in (16):
(15) Swedish
Varför
why
läs-te
read-past
Johan
Johan
en
a
roman?
novel
‘Why did Johan read a novel?’
(16) CP
varför
[wh]
C’
C
[¬finEPP]
[¬whEPP]
TP
DP
Johan
[ϕ]
T’
T
[fin]
vP
varför vP
DP
Johan
[ϕ]
v’
v
läste
[fin]
DP
en roman
[ϕ]
Let us start with the unvalued finiteness feature in C. When Agree is applied, C will
probe its c-command domain for a goal with valued finiteness feature, which it finds in
T. Due to EPP, the finiteness feature [fin] will be pronounced in C, a prerequisite for verb
second.
As seen in (16), C hosts a second unvalued feature with EPP, viz. [¬whEPP]. This
feature probes wh-words, varför ‘why’, in our example. In line with Shlonsky & Soare
(2011: 667), why (and, I assume, Swedish varför) is first merged in Spec,ReasonP, here
simplified as a high adjunction to vP. In particular, ReasonP is assumed to be to the left
of the negation, which is adjoined to (a low) vP.
Starting from the structure in (16), I will in the next section compare the syntactic
properties of the independent Swedish Wh-RIs with the properties of the independent
Swedish finite sentence.
352
16 Swedish wh-root-infinitives
4 The syntax of the independent Swedish
wh-root-infinitive
4.1 Structural analysis
In this section I will present an analysis of the independent Swedish root infinitive intro-
duced by a wh-phrase, arguing for a structure that differs from the finite structure (cf.
(16)) mainly in lacking a T-projection between C and v. This idea, which is taken from
Reis (2003), is compatible with the fact that the infinitive verb is not inflected for tense
and lacks a (visible) subject. See also Platzack & Rosengren (2017).
In short, I will assume that there is no TP in root infinitives. The Wh-RI in (17) will
thus get the structure in (18) when all unvalued features are valued.
(17) Swedish
Varför
why
läs-a
read-inf
bok-en?
book-the
‘Why read the book?’
(18) CP
varför
[wh]
C’
[wh]
[inf]
vP
varför vP
DP
[ϕ]
v’
v
läsa
[inf]
DP
boken
[ϕ]
As will be shown below, the analysis proposed accounts for the main syntactic dif-
ferences between Wh-RIs and the finite sentence type. §4.2 compares the finite and
infinitival sentences with respect to word order, section 4.3 points out similarities and
differences with respect to the external argument in Spec.vP, and section 4.4 briefly dis-
cusses A-bar movement of varför ‘why’ in the two sentence types. I will argue that the
syntactic similarities and differences between Wh-RIs and Wh-finite clauses follow from
the structural differences and similarities of (16) and (18).
353
Christer Platzack
4.2 Word order
As seen above, both the finite sentence and the root infinitive may be introduced by a
wh-phrase with an adverbial function:
(19) Swedish
a. Varför
why
stäng-er
shut-pres
Lisa
Lisa
dörr-en?
door-the
‘Why does Lisa shut the door?’
b. Varför
why
stäng-a
shut-inf
dörren?
door-the
‘Why shut the door?’
Only finite sentences may be productively introduced by an argumental wh-phrase:
(20) Swedish
a. Vem
who
välj-er
vote-pres
vi
we
denna
this
gång?
time
‘Who do we vote for this time?’
b. #Vem
who
välj-a
vote-inf
denna
this
gång?
time
‘Who vote for this time?’ (Teleman et al. 1999: IV: 827)
The finite verb precedes sentence adverbs and the negation, the infinitival verb follows
sentence adverbs and the negation:
(21) Swedish
a. Varför
why
stäng-er
shut-pres
Lisa
Lisa
inte
not
dörr-en?
door-the
‘Why doesn’t Lisa shut the door?’
b. *Varför
why
stäng-a
shut-inf
inte
not
dörr-en?
door-the
‘Why not shut the door?’
c. Varför
why
inte
not
stänga
shut-inf
dörr-en?
door-the
‘Why not shut the door?’
The differences and similarities listed in (19–21) are all related to the C-domain. Com-
paring with the analysis of the finite main clause in section 3, the presence of a wh-phrase
in first position, more precisely in Spec,CP, is accounted for by the presence of an un-
valued wh-feature in C, [¬whEPP], which forces a wh-phrase to take first position. Since
also the wh-infinitive begins with a wh-phrase, the feature [¬whEPP] is supposed to be
354
16 Swedish wh-root-infinitives
present in the infinitival C as well as in the finite C. The specific mechanism that in the
absence of a wh-word allows almost any phrase to be fronted in Swedish finite main
clauses (verb second) is not present in Swedish root infinitives, however.
In Wh-RIs, as we see in (20b), the choice of initial wh-phrase is restricted in wh-
infinitives but not in finite main clauses. Descriptively, we can account for this restric-
tion if we limit the range of the feature wh in C in wh-infinitives to be only sentence
adverbials, roughly adverbials being first merged as a high adjunct to vP. This is more or
less the area that Cinque (1999) claims consists of functional projections hierarchically
ordered in the same way in all of the world’s languages. I will use the notation whvP to
remind the reader of this limitation, claiming that C in wh-infinitives is merged with the
feature bundle [¬whvP
EPP] and that the agree-relation that is established, see (9), will
probe the closest goal in vP, supposed to be varför ‘why’.
Whereas the wh-feature in C has an EPP feature both in finite main clauses and in
wh-infinitives, there is a difference with respect to the other features in C. In §3 we
concluded that the C of the tensed main clause in Swedish hosts an unvalued finiteness
feature with EPP, [¬finEPP], forcing V2. There is no finiteness feature associated with wh-
infinitives, but an infinitival feature is associated with the infinitive inflection in little v,
see (21c).
As (21b,c) indicate, the infinitival verb does not seem to move away from little v, as
the finite verb does, hence there is no indication of an EPP feature associated with the
infinitival feature. In other respects the two inflectional features [fin] and [inf] are syn-
tactically used in the same way: they are, for example both merged in v as valued, and in
C as unvalued. The unvalued versions of the feature for the two cases are summarized
in (22):
(22) a. C in the finite sentence type contains the unvalued feature [¬finEPP]
b. C in the infinitive sentence type contains the unvalued feature [¬inf]]
Both finite and infinite C will probe its c-command domain, valuing the feature in C.
Like the finite sentence type, we conclude that the Wh.-RIs contain both CP and vP. The
main difference is the absence of a T-projection between C and v.
4.3 The external argument
The external argument, less precisely the subject argument, is visible in Swedish finite
sentences, but not in infinitive sentences.
(23) Swedish
a. Varför
why
stäng-er
shut-pres
han
he
fönstr-et?
window-the
‘Why does he shut the window?’
b. Varför
why
stäng-a
shut-inf
(*han)
he
fönstr-et?
window-the
‘Why shut the window?’
355
Christer Platzack
In the finite sentence type introduced by varför ‘why’, the subject appears in Spec,TP,
after the finite verb in C. See the analysis in (16). The subject is visible in this position,
due to EPP associated with the Agree relation between the unvalued [ϕ]-feature in T
and the valued [ϕ]-feature in Spec,vP. The absence of a visible DP in the infinitive case
indicates that there is no TP present to establish an agree relation between T and the
external argument in this sentence type, as I argued above.
An alternative possibility would be to assume that no DP is merged to vP, but there is
indirect evidence against such an analysis and in favour of the analysis which assumes
the presence of an invisible DP in Spec,vP of the infinitive sentence, with the same theta-
role as the visible subject in the finite sentence. As the examples in (24) and (25) show, the
invisible DP in (24), like the visible counterpart in (25), may bind an anaphoric pronoun,
or the possessive reflexive sin, and it agrees with a predicative adjective:
(24) Swedish infinitive clauses
a. Varför
why
gömm-a
hide-inf
sig
refl
under
under
säng-en?
bed-the
‘Why hide under the bed?’
b. Varför
why
gömm-a
hide-inf
sin
refl
bok
book
under
under
sängen?
bed-the
‘Why hide his book under the bed?’
c. Varför
why
komm-a
come-inf
full-ø
drunk-sg
/
/
full-a
drunk-pl
till
to
fest-en?
party-the
‘Why come drunk to the party?’
(25) Swedish finite clauses
a. Varför
why
gömm-er
hide-pres
han
he
sig
refl
under
under
säng-en?
bed-the
‘Why does he hide under the bed?’
b. Varför
why
gömm-er
hide-pres
han
he
sin
poss.refl
bok
book
unde
under
säng-en?
bed-the
‘Why hide his book under the bed?’
c. Varför
why
komm-er
come-pres
han
he
full-ø
drunk-sg
/
/
de
they
full-a
drunk-pl
till
to
fest-en?
party-the
‘Why does he / they come drunk to the party?’
Hence the binding and predicative agreement facts support the analysis that there is
an invisible DP in Spec.vP.
From a syntactic point of view there seems to be no reason to expect anything else
than a symmetrical distribution of varför in both finite and infinitival clauses. Thus, if
we find a well-formed infinitive sentence introduced by varför ‘why’, we predict the
existence of a corresponding finite sentence introduced by varför ‘why’, and vice versa.
356
16 Swedish wh-root-infinitives
So far, none of the Swedish examples given seems to violate this prediction; here I give
another two examples of the same kind.
(26) Swedish
a. Varför
why
frukta-r
fear-pres
hon
she
hundar?
dogs
‘Why does she fear dogs?’
b. Varför
why
frukt-a
fear-inf
hundar?
dogs
‘Why fear dogs?’
(27) Swedish
a. Varför
why
sprang
run.past
Erik
Erik
till
to
affär-en?
shop-the
‘Why did Erik run to the shop?’
b. Varför
why
spring-a
run-inf
till
to
affär-en⁈
shop-the
‘Why run to the shop?’
So far, the prediction seems to hold. However, notice that the invisible subject cannot
be some arbitrary 3rd person feminine in (26) or invisible Erik in (27), but must repre-
sent the person spoken to (an invisible you). Thus, there is an interpretative difference
between the finite and the infinitival sentence types. As can be seen, this interpretative
difference also shows up in cases like (28) and (29), where the “spoken-to” interpretation
of the invisible DP in Spec.vP is not available, and hence there is no infinitival correspon-
dence:
(28) Swedish
a. Varför
why
dog
die.past
han
he
efter
after
operation-en?
operation-the
‘Why did he die after the operation?’
b. *Varför
why
dö
die.inf
efter
after
operation-en⁉
operation-the
(29) a. Varför
why
sjönk
sink.past
fartyg-et
ship-the
snabbt?
fast
‘Why did the ship sink fast?’
b. *Varför
why
sjunk-a
sink-inf
snabbt⁈
fast
To understand why there is no well-formed infinitival correspondent to the well form-
ed finite sentences in the a-examples in (28) and (29), and why there is an interpretation
357
Christer Platzack
restriction in (26) and (27), I will turn to an observation by Reis (2003: 186). Reis notices
with respect to the subject of Wh-RIs, that “[n]o matter how we represent the silent sub-
ject argument in RIs in syntax, whether by PRO or nothing (that is, by just suppressing
the respective argument variable), one thing is clear: In order for RIs to receive a sensi-
ble utterance interpretation, the subject reference must be specified.” As Reis (2003: 186)
notices “[t]he possible candidates [---] are limited to the participants in the utterance
situation: speaker(s) and addressees.” A closer look at the ungrammatical b-examples in
(28–29), reveals that in these cases, the subject reference cannot be a participant in the
utterance situation, whereas in all the well formed cases it can.
4.4 A-bar movement of varför ‘why’
As we saw in the last section, Wh.-RIs do not seem to allow A-movement, whereas finite
sentences do. A-bar movement, on the other hand, is found in both sentence types, in
the infinitive one only in form of Wh-movement. Consider the finite sentence in (30).
(30) Swedish
Varför
why
sa
say.past
du
you
att
that
Johan
Johan
skrev
write.past
brev-et?
letter-the
‘Why did you say that Johan wrote the letter?’
This sentence is ambiguous: the speaker is either asking why the subject of the main
clause said something (the matrix reading), or why the subject of the embedded clause
wrote the letter (the embedded reading). See Shlonsky & Soare (2011) and Simik (2006).
Since the wh-word is in the same position in both cases, we must assume that varför
has moved from its position in the embedded clause to the edge of the matrix clause
(Spec,CP), supporting the analysis in §3 above. Notice that varför in this case is first
merged in a finite domain and has moved to a position within a finite domain (Spec,CP
of the matrix).
The corresponding Wh-RI is (31):
(31) Varför
why
säga
say.inf
att
that
Johan
Johan
skrev
wrote
brev-et⁈
letter-the
‘Why say that Johan wrote the letter⁈’
Contrary to the finite clause in (30), example (31) only displays the matrix reading;
hence in both the finite sentence matrix and the infinitival one, one option is that varför
is merged to matrix vP and moved to matrix Spec,CP of the infinitive sentence. With
regard to the embedded reading, varför is first merged to a high Spec,vP inside a finite
domain, i.e. the embedded att-clause. Obviously, movement out of this domain to a
position in the matrix infinitive domain is not allowed. In the sentence with an infinitive
matrix, varför, when extracted, must move out of a finite domain and into an infinitive
domain, which presumably is not allowed. There is no corresponding switch of domains
in finite sentences like (30), hence extraction of varför from an embedded clause to the
matrix one is only possible in finite sentences.
358
16 Swedish wh-root-infinitives
5 Summary and conclusion
As mentioned in the introduction, the purpose of my paper has been to present a nar-
row syntactic account of the Swedish Wh-Root-infinitives, trying to characterize this
often neglected main clause equivalent while comparing it with finite root clauses. My
account is based on the hypotheses that C minimally hosts the sentence type features
finite, imperative and infinitive, in addition to an edge feature (Chomsky 2007: 11 f).
More precisely, I have tried to show that the Swedish facts follow nicely from a gram-
mar driven by an asymmetry with respect to features, which come in two guises, valued
and unvalued, and that all unvalued features must be eliminated before the semantic and
pragmatic interfaces are reached.
Working mainly with one language might be seen as a drawback: after all, our under-
standing of syntax has improved tremendously over the last 30 years, much as a result
of us having a theory that may take variation (especially on a macro-level) into account.
However, it may also be a problem for our field of research that we are always ready to
take other languages into consideration before we are confident that the machinery we
have at our disposal can handle at least one human language. Thirty years of studying
macro-variation have taught us that the beautiful generalizations we found initially (the
parameters), see e.g. Holmberg & Platzack (1995), usually fade away under a closer study.
And we should not forget that each natural language is a possible outcome of Universal
Grammar. Therefore, what I have presented in this paper can be seen as the basis for
comparative syntactic studies. The outcome of a detailed study of a certain part of a
single language will result in lists of properties, which, when used in the computation,
predicts particular properties of the language studied. Any change that we are forced to
make with respect to the theoretical apparatus that is motivated by a careful description
of a single language when we are describing another language from the same perspec-
tive must be evaluated both with respect to the basic account of the data and possible
accounts we have of other languages.
Acknowledgements
Thanks to two anonymous referees for a number of helpful and ingenious comments,
only a handful of which it has been possible for me to take into consideration. I am also
grateful to the editors Laura Bailey and Michelle Sheehan for additional help. A special
thank you to professor emerita Inger Rosengren; without her enthusiasm and encour-
agement, I would never have thought about Wh-RIs in the first place. Thanks also to
Halldór Sigurðsson for providing me with some Icelandic facts. I take full responsibility
for all remaining faults and shortcomings.
359
Christer Platzack
References
Cecchetto, Carlo & Caterina Donati. 2015. (re)labeling. Cambridge, MA & London, Eng-
land: The MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1995. The minimalist program. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2001. Derivation by phase. In Michael Kenstowicz (ed.), Ken Hale: A
life in language, 1–52. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 2007. Approaching UG from below. In Uli Sauerland & Hans-Martin
Gärtner (eds.), Interfaces + recursion = language?: Chomsky’s minimalism and the view
from Syntax-Semantics, 1–29. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Chomsky, Noam. 2008. On phases. In Robert Freidin, Carlos P. Otero & Maria Luisa
Zubizarreta (eds.), Foundational issues in linguistic theory: Essays in honor of Jean-Roger
vergnaud, 133–166. Cambridge, MA, London: MIT.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 1999. Adverbs and functional heads: A cross-linguistic perspective. Ox-
ford: Oxford University Press.
Haider, Hubert. 2010. The syntax of German. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Holmberg, Anders & Christer Platzack. 1995. The role of inflection in Scandinavian syntax.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Huddleston, Rodney & Geoffrey K. Pullum. 2003. The Cambridge grammar of the English
language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Pesetsky, David & Esther Torrego. 2001. Tense-to-C Movement. Causes and Conse-
quences. In Michael Kenstowicz (ed.), Ken Hale: A life in linguistics, 355–426. Cam-
bridge, MA: The MIT Press.
Pesetsky, David & Esther Torrego. 2004. Tense, case, and the nature of syntactic cate-
gories. In Jacqueline Guéron & Jacqueline Lecarme (eds.), The syntax of time, 495–537.
Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.
Pesetsky, David & Esther Torrego. 2007. The syntax of valuation and the interpretability
of features. In Simin Karimi, Vida Samiian & Wendy K. Wilkins (eds.), Phrasal and
clausal architecture: Syntactic derivation and interpretation, 262–294. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Platzack, Christer & Inger Rosengren. 1997. On the subject of imperatives: A minimalist
account of the imperative clause. Journal of Comparative Germanic Linguistics 1. 177–
224.
Platzack, Christer & Inger Rosengren. 2017. What makes the imperative clause type au-
tonomous? A comparative study in a modular perspective. Working Papers in Scandi-
navian Syntax 98. 1–82.
Reis, Marga. 2003. On the form and interpretation of German Wh-infinitives. Journal of
Germanic Linguistics 15. 155–201.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1997. The fine structure of the left periphery. In Liliane Haegeman (ed.), Ele-
ments of grammar: A handbook of generative syntax, 281–337. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Shlonsky, Ur & Gabriella Soare. 2011. Where’s ‘why’? Linguistic Inquiry 42. 651–669.
360
16 Swedish wh-root-infinitives
Simik, Radek. 2006. Why the hell what? A remark on the syntax and semantics of
‘why’ and ’what’ in Czech. Paper presented at Syntaktisches Kolloquium in Leipzig
01/12/2006.
Teleman, Ulf, Erik Andersson & Staffan Hellberg. 1999. Svenska akademiens grammatik.
Stockholm: Norstedts.
361
Chapter 17
A note on some even more unusual
relative clauses
Richard S. Kayne
New York University
Relative clauses can be found that contain a relative pronoun whose antecedent is not the
head of the relative. The familiar relation between the head of a relative and the relative
pronoun can thus be seen as a special case of a more general relation between a relative
pronoun (a stranded determiner) and its antecedent (whose movement has stranded that
determiner). The piece of relative clause syntax that is the antecedent-relative pronoun
relation is less specific to relative clauses that it might have seemed.
1 Some general points on relative clauses
In the spirit of Chomsky (1970) on ‘passive’, the notion ‘relative clause’ is unlikely to be
a primitive of the language faculty. This was explicitly recognized in Chomsky (1977),
to the extent that the wh-movement operation that plays a role in the derivation of
relative clauses also plays a role elsewhere (e.g in interrogatives). Rizzi (1997) might
be interpreted as backtracking from this position insofar as the landing site for wh-
movement in relatives is different (Spec,ForceP) from the landing site in interrogatives
(Spec,FocP/IntP).
The difference in landing site, though, could be factored out from the common move-
ment operation, and taken instead as something to be explained. The following proposal
is based on the fact that the wh-phrase in headed relatives is in a relation to the ‘head’
of the relative in a way that has no exact counterpart in interrogatives, which lack a
comparable ‘head’:
(1) Wh-movement in relatives cannot (normally) land below ForceP (or TopP1)
because of locality requirements holding between the ‘head’ of the relative and
the wh-phrase.
1Cf. Cinque (1982) on links with topicalization.
Richard S. Kayne. 2017. A note on some even more unusual relative clauses. In Laura R. Bailey
& Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Order and structure in syntax I: Word order and syntactic structure,
363–371. Berlin: Language Science Press. DOI:10.5281/zenodo.1117708
Richard S. Kayne
The informal formulation in (1) abstracts away from the question of the correctness
of the raising analysis of relatives.2 In what follows, I will assume the raising approach
(perhaps not crucially).
In addition to wh-movement, a second, related aspect of relative clauses that is not
specific to them is the very presence of overt wh-words. A proposal expressing this
non-specificity would be (cf. Postma 1994):
(2) a. The which of English (headed) relatives is identical to the which of English
interrogatives (and to the which of every which way).
b. The where of English relatives is identical to the where of English
interrogatives, as well as to the where of somewhere, nowhere, anywhere,
everywhere, elsewhere.
c. and similarly for other wh-words in whatever language.
Needless to say, the surrounding syntactic environment must be at least partially dif-
ferent in relatives, interrogatives and indefinites.3
Note that (2) does not state that the sets of wh-words occurring in relatives and inter-
rogatives and indefinites have to match perfectly. In English where occurs in all three,
but who occurs only in relatives and interrogatives. In Italian quale (‘which’) occurs in
both relatives and interrogatives, but cui (‘who/what’)4 occurs only in relatives and chi
(‘who’) occurs only in interrogatives (and free relatives).
This point about wh-words not being specific to relative clauses carries over to those
relative pronouns that are clearly related to demonstratives (such as German relative
d-words). If Kayne (2010a) is correct, this point also holds for English that, which occurs
both as a relative pronoun and as an ordinary demonstrative.
The proposal in (2) can be understood as a particular case of a more general approach
that is also illustrated by English numerals.5 Consider:
(3) They have seven children.
(4) Their youngest child has just turned seven.
2See Brame 1976: 125, Schachter 1973; Vergnaud 1974; 1985; Kayne 1994: chap. 9; Bianchi 1999; and Kato
& Nunes 2009. Headless relatives may be hidden instances of (adjunct) interrogatives, thinking of the
similarity between:
(i) We’ll buy whatever you suggest.
and
(ii) No matter what you suggest, we’ll buy it.
For a suggestion along such lines, see Lin (1996).
3It is not essential to this discussion whether everywhere is a true indefinite – Beghelli & Stowell (1997).
4Italian cui is arguably an oblique form of che, i.e. ch-+-ui, with oblique (possibly bimorphemic - cf. Martín
(2012)) -ui lacking in Spanish (and similarly for Italian lui, altrui). (Note that non-oblique che does occur
in interrogatives in Italian.)
5Cf. Kayne (2016) on English there and more generally on anti-homophony.
364
17 A note on some even more unusual relative clauses
(5) It’ll be exactly seven in a couple of minutes.
Example (3) shows an ordinary instance of the numeral seven. In (4) and (5), a bare
seven appears to be interpreted as an age and as a time of day, respectively. Kayne (2003)
argued that cases like (4) and (5) are best analyzed in terms of the presence of silent
nouns, with (4) containing (at least) the noun YEAR (capitalization indicates silence)
and (5) containing (at least) HOUR.6
2 Unusual relative clauses (with more than one relative
pronoun)
Like interrogatives, relatives can sometimes to some extent contain more than one wh-
word:
(6) (?)Mary Smith, whose husband’s love for whom knows no bounds, is a famous
linguist.
(7) ?The only woman whose husband’s love for whom knows no bounds is Mary
Smith.
In (6) and (7), both of the wh-words/relative pronouns are related to the head of the
relative. It may be that whose husband’s love for whom in (6) and (7) has been pied-piped
by the initial who(se), rather than by whom. This whom appears in any case to be ‘in
situ’ within the larger wh-phrase. Yet there is evidence that this whom is involved in a
movement relation, perhaps of the parasitic gap sort.7 This is suggested by the existence
of ECP-like effects, as in:8
(8) ?Mary Smith, whose husband’s desire for me to paint a picture of whom is
perfectly understandable, is a very famous linguist.
(9) *Mary Smith, whose husband’s desire for whom to paint a picture of me is
perfectly understandable, is a very famous linguist.
6This approach, in which interpretations are constrained by the availability of silent elements, looks likely
to be more restrictive that the allosemy-based approach of Marantz (2010) and Wood & Marantz (2017).
This will be especially clear if the language faculty disallows elements that would be consistently silent in
all languages.
7For some discussion, see Kayne (1983: 239ff).
8On the Empty Category Principle, see Chomsky (1981).
365
Richard S. Kayne
3 Even more unusual relative clauses
There also exist relative clauses containing two relative pronouns such that only one of
them is related to the head of the relative.9 These are for me somewhat more marginal
than the preceding, but are still surprisingly close to acceptability (in the English of some
speakers). An example is:10
(10) ?That car over there belongs to my old friend John Smith, whose long-standing
attachment to which is well-known to all his friends.
Here, who(se) is related to the head of the relative my old friend John Smith, but which
is not; rather, which is related to the subject of the matrix sentence, that car over there.
As in (8)-(9), sentences like (10) show ECP-like effects. These can be detected by com-
paring the following two examples. The first is:
(11) ⁇That car over there belongs to my old friend John Smith, whose long-standing
desire for me to buy which is well-known to all his friends.
Although more marginal than (10), (11) nonetheless contrasts sharply with:
(12) *That car over there belongs to my old friend John Smith, whose long-standing
desire for which to be sold quickly is well-known to all his friends.
Replacing the embedded infinitive following desire with a finite sentence results in an
appreciable drop in acceptability, but the contrast remains clear:
(13) ⁇?That car over there belongs to my old friend John Smith, whose long-standing
desire that I buy which is well-known to all his friends.
(14) **That car over there belongs to my old friend John Smith, whose long-standing
desire that which be sold quickly is well-known to all his friends.
It seems clear that the extra deviance of (12) and (14), as compared with (11) and (13), is
akin to the greater difficulty that holds in a general way for extraction of or from within
subjects as compared with extraction of or from within objects.
9There is a point of similarity here with Stowell’s (1985) discussion of parasitic gap examples such as:
(i) Who did your stories about amuse?
which for some speakers (but not me, in this case) allow an interpretation in which two distinct individuals
are at issue.
It remains to be understood what underlies the variation in speaker judgments, both in the case of (i)
and in the case of the unusual relatives discussed in the text.
10Another is:
(i) ?That car over there just ran into my old friend John Smith, whose inability to get a good view of
which was a determining factor in the accident.
This kind of relative is more difficult as a restrictive:
(ii) ⁇?That car over there belongs to the very person whose attachment to which is so well-known.
366
17 A note on some even more unusual relative clauses
4 Steps toward an analysis
The raising approach to ordinary relative clauses, when extended to cover relative pro-
nouns, leads one to take what we call relative pronouns to come about as the result of
stranding a particular kind of determiner.11 For example, a head + relative clause struc-
ture such as:
(15) books which I’ve read
will have a derivation that looks like:12
(16) I’ve read which books → wh-movement
which books I’ve read <which books> → raising of NP to ‘head’ position,
stranding the relative determiner which
books which <books> I’ve read <which books>
The convenient informal term ‘relative pronoun’, then, is usually to be understood as
short for ‘determiner occuring within a relative clause and stranded by movement of its
associated NP to the position of the ‘head’ of the relative’.13 Let me call the movement
operation that strands which in the last pair of lines in (16) ‘relative pronoun stranding’,
henceforth abbreviated as RPS.
It seems natural, however, to also take the which of (10–14) to be a relative pronoun
(in almost exactly the same sense), despite the unusual position of its antecedent. This
is supported by the fact that it is also possible to find examples of such unusual relatives
in which the unusual relative pronoun is who(m):
(17) ?My old friend Mary Jones is still unaware of yesterday’s discovery, the capacity
of which to surprise whom cannot be exaggerated.
In (17), which is related to the nearby ‘head’ yesterday’s discovery in a familiar way,
whereas whom is related not to that head, but rather to the matrix subject my old friend
Mary Jones.
To say that the which of (10–14) and the whom of (17) are relative pronouns is to say,
then, that they have been stranded by RPS, despite the fact that the antecedent in ques-
tion is not the head of the relative. Put another way, in (10–14) and in (17) RPS has moved
the NP associated with which and whom to the position of matrix subject, hence out of
the relative clause entirely.
11Various details are discussed in Kayne (2008a; 2010a).
12I abstract away from questions concerning the “outside” determiner, for example the in:
(i) the books which I’ve read
For relevant discussion, see Leu (2014).
13Alongside relative who there is no *who person. Possibly, who = wh- + -o, with the latter a noun, thinking
of Bernstein (1993) on Spanish uno. Alternatively, who is a determiner and there is a link to *mine book
(cf. Bernstein & Tortora (2005)) and/or to French Lequel (*livre) veux-tu? (‘the-which (book) want-you) (cf.
Kayne 2008b) and other cases of the same sort.
367
Richard S. Kayne
That RPS can apply out of a relative clause might seem surprising, but the difficulty of
extraction out of a relative clause is often exaggerated. For a detailed survey, see Cinque
(2010). To his examples of extractions leaving a gap might well be added, thinking back
to Ross (1967),14 examples in which the extraction leaves behind a resumptive pronoun.
For all of (10–14) and (17) the question arises as to what precisely has been moved. RPS
may perhaps be moving a full DP in such examples, rather than a NP. Alternatively, RPS
may be moving just NP, in a more familiar way, if sideways movement is allowed.15
That the which of (10–14) and the whom of (17) are relative pronouns (and not just
pronouns) is also suggested by the following considerations. Sentences like (10–14) and
(17) require that which or whom be pied-piped as part of a phrase containing the other
(ordinary) relative pronoun. This is shown by the contrast between (17), for example, and
the unacceptable:
(18) *My old friend Mary Jones is still unaware of yesterday’s discovery, which will
definitely surprise who(m).
The pied-piping in (17) now recalls the pied-piping of ordinary relative pronouns seen
in:
(19) the book the first chapter of which is being widely discussed.
That the which of (10–14) and the whom of (17) are not just ordinary pronouns is shown
by:
(20) *My old friend Mary Jones is still unaware of yesterday’s discovery, even though
it’s very likely to surprise who(m).
As a final point to this squib, we can note that the ‘head’ of the relative cannot be
‘skipped’ entirely (even if the relative contains a resumptive pronoun linked to it):
(21) **That car over there belongs to my old friend John Smith, a picture of which
shows how tall he is.
This may be due to a requirement that the head of a relative clause must in all cases
originate together with some relative pronoun (and that in (21) there is no option for a
silent relative pronoun).
5 Conclusion
Relative clauses can be found that contain a relative pronoun whose antecedent is not
the head of the relative. The familiar relation between the head of a relative and the
14Cf. Boeckx (2001; 2003). Kayne (2002) extends this tradition to all pronouns, even those with antecedents
in A-positions.
That (resumptive) pronouns may reflect movement is not taken into account by Bošković (2015).
15On sideways movement, see Bobaljik & Brown (1997) and Nunes (2001).
368
17 A note on some even more unusual relative clauses
relative pronoun can thus be seen as a special (even if overwhelmingly frequent16) case
of a more general relation between a relative pronoun (a stranded determiner) and its
antecedent (whose movement has stranded that determiner). The piece of relative clause
syntax that is the antecedent–relative pronoun relation is less specific to relative clauses
that it might have seemed.
Acknowledgments
An earlier version of this squib was presented (as part of a longer talk on relative pro-
nouns) in June, 2010 at the Comparative Germanic Syntax Workshop, University of
Tromsø and at the Workshop: ‘Adjectives and Relative Clauses: Syntax and Semantics’,
University of Venice; in October 2010 at Rencontres d’Automne en Linguistique Formelle:
Langage, Langues et Cognition, University of Paris 8; in May, 2011 at the University of
Poitiers, at the Linguistics Institute, Academy of Sciences, Budapest, and at the Univer-
sity of Bucharest; in June, 2011 at the University of Vienna; and in October, 2011 at Leiden
University. I am grateful to all those audiences, as well as to two anonymous reviewers
of an earlier version of this paper, for useful questions and comments.
References
Beghelli, Filippo & Tim Stowell. 1997. Distributivity and negation: The syntax of Each
and Every. In A. Szabolcsi (ed.), Ways of scope taking, 71–107. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Bernstein, Judy. 1993. The syntactic role of word markers in null nominal constructions.
Probus 5. 5–38.
Bernstein, Judy & Christina Tortora. 2005. Two types of possessive forms in English.
Lingua 115. 1221–1242.
Bianchi, Valentina. 1999. Consequences of antisymmetry. Headed relative clauses (Studies
in Generative Grammar [SGG] 46). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Bobaljik, Jonathan David & Samuel Brown. 1997. Interarboreal operations: Head move-
ment and the extension requirement. Linguistic Inquiry 28. 345–356.
Boeckx, Cedric. 2001. Resumptive Pronouns as Derivational Residues. WCCFL, Univer-
sity of Southern California.
Boeckx, Cedric. 2003. Islands and chains: Resumption as stranding. Amsterdam: John Ben-
jamins.
Bošković, Željko. 2015. From the complex NP constraint to everything: On deep extrac-
tions across categories. The Linguistic Review 32. 603–669.
Brame, Michael K. 1976. Conjectures and refutations in syntax and semantics. New York
& Amsterdam: North-Holland.
16In languages that have relative pronouns. For a proposal on why prenominal relatives lack relative pro-
nouns, see Kayne (1994: chap. 9).
369
Richard S. Kayne
Chomsky, Noam. 1970. Remarks on nominalization. In Roderick A. Jacobs & Peter S.
Rosenbaum (eds.), Readings in English Transformational Grammar, 184–221. Waltham,
MA: Ginn.
Chomsky, Noam. 1977. On wh-movement. In Peter Culicover, Thomas Wasow & Adrian
Akmajian (eds.), Formal syntax, 77–132. New York: Academic Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1981. Lectures on government and binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 1982. On the theory of relative clauses and markedness. The Linguistic
Review 1. 247–294.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 2010. On a selective “violation” of the Complex NP Constraint. In
Jan-Wouter Zwart & Mark de Vries (eds.), Structure preserved studies in syntax for Jan
Koster, 81–90. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kato, Mary A. & Jairo Nunes. 2009. A uniform raising analysis for standard and nonstan-
dard relative clauses in Brazilian Portuguese. In Jairo Nunes (ed.), Minimalist essays
on Brazilian Portuguese syntax, 93–120.
Kayne, Richard S. 1983. Connectedness. Linguistic Inquiry 14. 223–249. Reprinted in
Kayne (1984).
Kayne, Richard S. 1984. Connectedness and binary branching. Dordrecht: Foris.
Kayne, Richard S. 1994. The antisymmetry of syntax. Cambridge: The MIT Press.
Kayne, Richard S. 2002. Pronouns and their antecedents. In Samuel Epstein & Daniel
Seely (eds.), Derivation and explanation in the minimalist program, 133–166. Malden,
MA: Blackwell. Reprinted in Kayne (2005).
Kayne, Richard S. 2003. Silent years, silent hours. In Lars-Olof Delsing, Cecilia Falk, Gun-
lög Josefsson & Halldór Á. Sigurðsson (eds.), Grammar in focus. Festschrift for Christer
Platzack, vol. 2, 209–226. Lund: Wallin & Dalholm. Reprinted in Kayne (2005).
Kayne, Richard S. 2005. Movement and silence. New York: Oxford University Press.
Kayne, Richard S. 2008a. Antisymmetry and the lexicon. Linguistic Variation Yearbook
8. 1–31. Also in Anna Maria di Sciullo and Cedric Boeckx (eds.) The Biolinguistic En-
terprise: New Perspectives on the Evolution and Nature of the Human Language Faculty,
Oxford University Press, London, 329-353, 2011. Reprinted in Kayne (2010b).
Kayne, Richard S. 2008b. Some preliminary comparative remarks on French and Italian
definite articles. In Robert Freidin, Carlos P. Otero & Maria Luisa Zubizarreta (eds.),
Foundational issues in linguistic theory. essays in honor of Jean-Roger Vergnaud, 291–
321. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. Reprinted in Kayne (2010b).
Kayne, Richard S. 2010a. Why isn’t this a complementizer? In Comparisons and contrasts.
New York: Oxford University Press.
Kayne, Richard S. 2010b. Comparisons and contrasts. New York: Oxford University Press.
Kayne, Richard S. 2016. The Unicity of There and the Definiteness Effect. Ms., New York
University.
Leu, Thomas. 2014. The architecture of determiners. New York: Oxford University Press.
Lin, Jo-Wang. 1996. Polarity licensing and Wh-phrase quantification in Chinese. University
of Massachussets, Amherst dissertation.
Marantz, Alec. 2010. Locality Domains for Contextual Allosemy in Words. Handout, New
York University.
370
17 A note on some even more unusual relative clauses
Martín, F.J. 2012. Deconstructing Catalan object clitics. New York University dissertation.
Nunes, Jairo. 2001. Sideward movement. Linguistic Inquiry 32. 303–344.
Postma, Gertjan. 1994. The indefinite reading of WH. In Reineke Bok-Bennema & Crit
Cremers (eds.), Linguistics in the Netherlands 1994, 187–198. Amsterdam: John Ben-
jamins.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1997. The fine structure of the left periphery. In Liliane Haegeman (ed.), Ele-
ments of grammar: A handbook of generative syntax, 281–337. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Ross, John Robert. 1967. Constraints on variables in syntax. M.I.T dissertation.
Schachter, Paul. 1973. Focus and relativization. Language 49. 19–46.
Stowell, Tim. 1985. Licensing conditions on null operators. In J. Goldberg, S. MacKaye &
M. Westcoat (eds.), Proceedings of the west coast conference on formal linguistics vol. 4
(WCCFL 4), 314–326.
Vergnaud, Jean-Roger. 1974. French relative clauses. M.I.T. dissertation.
Vergnaud, Jean-Roger. 1985. Dépendances et niveaux de représentation en syntaxe. Ams-
terdam: John Benjamins.
Wood, Jim & Alec Marantz. 2017. The interpretation of external arguments. In Roberta
D’Alessandro, Irene Franco & Ángel J. Gallego (eds.), The verbal domain, 255–278. Ox-
ford: Oxford University Press.
371
Chapter 18
Theoretical limits on borrowing through
contact; not everything goes
Joseph Emonds
Palacky University, Olomouc
The traditional derivation of Middle English (me) from Old English (oe) is highly problem-
atic.
• Essentially no Scandinavian borrowing in oe (Baugh & Cable 2002; Strang 1970).
• In a short period (1130–1200) when English wasn’t written, most oe vocabulary was
lost.
• The earliest me texts (from 1200, Ormulum) are the first to contain numerous daily life
Scandinavian “borrowings”.
• Roughly half of the me grammatical lexicon is cognate with Old Norse.
• me syntax shares with North Germanic (ng) over 20 syntactic properties that West
Germanic (wg) lacks (Emonds & Faarlund 2014).
From these facts, these authors conclude that me is an ng language “Anglicized Norse”
(an) with many oe borrowings rather than the other way around. This paper proposes
to strengthen this hypothesis by arguing on theoretical grounds that several ng syntactic
properties of me could not have been borrowed from ng. They must have resulted from in-
ternal developments in an. That is, the paper justifies a hypothesis that limits the type of
morpho-syntax that can be borrowed via language contact.
1 Introduction
The traditional derivation of Middle English (me) from Old English (oe) is highly prob-
lematic.
• Essentially no Scandinavian borrowing in oe (Baugh & Cable 2002; Strang 1970).
Joseph Emonds. 2017. Theoretical limits on borrowing through contact; not everything goes.
In Laura R. Bailey & Michelle Sheehan (eds.), Order and structure in syntax I: Word order and
syntactic structure, 373–384. Berlin: Language Science Press. DOI:10.5281/zenodo.1117698
Joseph Emonds
• In a short period (1130–1200) when English wasn’t written, most oe vocabulary
was lost.
• The earliest me texts (from 1200, Ormulum) are the first to contain numerous daily
life Scandinavian “borrowings”.
• Roughly half of the me grammatical lexicon is cognate with Old Norse.
• me syntax shares with North Germanic (ng) over 20 syntactic properties that West
Germanic (wg) lacks (Emonds & Faarlund 2014).
From these facts, these authors conclude that me is an ng language “Anglicized Norse”
(an) with many oe borrowings rather than the other way around. This paper proposes to
strengthen this hypothesis by arguing on theoretical grounds that several ng syntactic
properties of me could not have been borrowed from ng. They must have resulted from
internal developments in an. That is, the paper justifies a hypothesis that limits the type
of morpho-syntax that can be borrowed via language contact.
Emonds & Faarlund (2014) discuss several ng constructions in me that are not in-
stances of single lexical items. The first four below are well attested in earliest Mainland
ng and me.
(a) A full system of post-verbal directional and aspectual particles, contrasted with wg
pre-verbal separable prefixes.
(b) Preposition stranding, including in sluicing (who with, what about, etc.)
(c) Unmarked head-initial word order in vps, in both main and dependent clauses.
(d) Subject and object raising, absent in in both oe and wg generally.
(e) Parasitic gaps, freely formed only in ng; restricted or absent in wg.
(f) Tag questions, based on syntactic copies of Subjects and Tense in ng but not in wg.
It is difficult to see how these properties, taken as changes from oe to me, could be
“borrowings” of lexical items via language contact of oe with Norse in England. Whole
classes of verbs and prepositions would have to be borrowed en masse. The properties
in italics satisfy no independent sense of “lexical item.” Though these all are properties
particular to ng (none seem to be Indo-European), there is no clear evidence that any
have ever been borrowed by contact into or from neighbouring Germanic, Romance, or
Slavic languages. At one time in the past, these constructions have developed, internal
to ng. Consequently, properties (a-f) could not have entered me through simple contact
with Scandinavian even in a rapidly evolving oe language. Properties (a-f) rather testify
to an unchanging ng character of me.
374
18 Theoretical limits on borrowing through contact; not everything goes
2 A-theoretical perspectives on language contact
Middle English (me), in contrast to Old English (oe), has many words of Scandinavian
origin, conventionally attributed to language contact and borrowing. However, recourse
to such an account doesn’t stand up to even moderate scrutiny. Traditional scholarship,
e.g. Campbell (1959) and Strang (1970), locates the great bulk of this borrowing from c.
1170 onwards, starting with the me period, while in the oe period, hardly any Scandina-
vian words were borrowed (Baugh & Cable 2002: 99). Yet, the Scandinavian language in
England, of which there are no records in the oe period, is taken to have died out by 1150
(Thomason 2016; Baugh & Cable 2002: 96), before serious borrowing from it even started.
Hence this borrowing can’t be ascribed to contact, at least contact with the living.
This inconsistent dating has been a fertile source for creative sociolinguistic scenarios,
although no facts actually confirm these speculations in the contact literature.1 A centre
piece in such thinking is often some kind of “spoken Old English” (there are no texts)
which must have borrowed extensively from the English variant of Scandinavian before
the latter died out. Subsequently, these extensive borrowings, including much daily life
vocabulary, suddenly came to light in written Early me.
Moreover, this (allegedly borrowed) Scandinavian vocabulary was not limited to con-
tent words, counter to normal contact situations, as was the massive influx of French
words into Late me when French speakers in England all switched to English as their
first language (14th c.). The fact is, not only did hundreds of daily life terms in me have
a known Scandinavian origin, so also did roughly half of its grammatical lexicon (For
more on how this component differs from the open class lexicon, consult Ouhalla 1991
and Emonds 2000: Chs. 3 and 4). Something other than “borrowing through contact”
must have transpired, not only because of dating but also because of the types of “bor-
rowed” words and morphemes.
3 The importance of Middle English syntax
Another discrepancy between oe and me is the key to understanding all these puzzles.
If one assembles the data patterns of me syntax, the language groups typologically with
North Germanic (ng), while oe has unmistakable West Germanic (wg) syntax (Gianollo
et al. 2008: 133). On the basis of such patterns, Emonds & Faarlund (2014) argue that me
1One variant (Thomason & Kaufman 1988: 286–287) proposes that when in the 10th c. Norse died out in
various areas, Anglo Saxon speakers introduced numerous aspects of Norse grammar and phonology into
(unattested) oe dialects such as “East Mercian” and “East Saxon”. These “packets” of dozens of “Norse
grammatical elements” then spread southward and westward to the whole country, ultimately resulting
in “Norsified English” (i.e. Early me). The authors devise this sui generis scenario of contact to account
for why, a century or more later, these diverse Norsification features first appear as a group in written me:
“These features of Simplification and Norsification … did not appear gradually; they appear in the earliest
Middle English documents of the Danelaw.” (op. cit. 278–279, my emphasis). In place of elaborate contact
scenarios, Emonds & Faarlund (2014) claim that me but not oe was a development of North Germanic
Norse, eventually learned as a second and then first language by all Anglo-Saxons. Consequently, much
me grammatical vocabulary and morphophonology was Norse.
375
Joseph Emonds
shares with Mainland Scandinavian more than 20 syntactic properties that oe and other
wg languages lack. They conclude (1):
(1) English as North Germanic. Middle English was a direct descendent of the
Mainland Norse spoken by Scandinavian settlers in England.
The presence in me of Norse morphophonology and daily life and grammatical vo-
cabulary is thus explained. The familiar facts that this hypothesis now makes strange
are the daily life and grammatical vocabulary of oe found in me; because of this factor,
Emonds and Faarlund call Early me by the name “Anglicized Norse”. Under this view, in
the realm of syntax there is basically nothing to explain, since, they argue, me shares no
syntax or morpho-syntax with oe that is not common to Germanic languages in general.
According to this study’s guiding hypothesis (1), me continues Mainland Norse and not
Icelandic. I continue to follow Emonds & Faarlund (2014: Ch.1, p.127), who exclude any
particularities of Icelandic, because all known or plausible Scandinavian immigration
into the Danelaw was directly from Denmark and Norway, and also because Icelandic
centrally differs from both Mainland Scandinavian and me in maintaining productive
proto-Germanic morphological case.2
In the new perspective that me is basically the written down form of Anglicized Norse,
there remains no reason why the earliest me texts must follow the last oe texts. Indeed, a
British Library webpage concludes that the first text in me, a translation of a Latin homily,
dates from c. 1150.3 This dating is suspiciously late (possibly to reconcile its language
with the notion that it must post-date oe texts), since Ralph d’Escures’s original must
have pre-dated his debilitating stroke in 1119 (d. 1122).4 Though traditional histories of
English don’t acknowledge any dating overlap, works arguably in oe, e.g. the poem The
Owl and the Nightingale, were written at least until close to 1200.5
When Anglicized Norse began to be written extensively around 1200 (e.g. the text
Ormulum), it was considered to be a version of English, what is now called the East Mid-
lands dialect of me. Uncontroversially this dialect is the forerunner of Modern English,
which therefore descends from Norse, not from oe. The latter became the Southern and
Western dialects of me, which eventually ceased being written or spoken.
This paper proposes to strengthen the hypothesis (1) by arguing on theoretical grounds
that several ng syntactic properties of me could not have entered me by borrowing. They
must have resulted from internal developments in Anglicized Norse. That is, the paper
puts forward a claim that limits the type of morpho-syntax that can be borrowed via
2A reviewer objects that because the latter’s texts are older, arguments about me must be primarily based
on Icelandic. This logic comes down to a version of post hoc ergo propter hoc: “if the texts of X are older
than the texts of a related language Y, the a third related language Z must descend from X not Y.” To see
the fallacy, take X to be the oldest Italian texts, Y to be medieval French, and Z to be any dialects of Quebec
French.
3http://www.bl.uk/learning/timeline/item126539.html
4https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ralph_d’Escures
5This poem is said to be in the me “southern dialect”, again to preserve the idea that oe “changed” diachroni-
cally into me in a short period around 1150. Historians of English allude to a long hiatus in written English to
allow for this “development”, but the hiatus was no more than 50 years; the two different written languages
may have even co-existed for a short time.
376
18 Theoretical limits on borrowing through contact; not everything goes
language contact. It is of course not disputed that changes are sometimes simply internal
to a language (e.g. in Modern English, the sharply differing syntax of modals and lexical
verbs, the development of the progressive). My proposal here is that several Early me
syntactic properties must have developed this way. If these properties are moreover
typical of ng, it must be that Early me is also.6
Before continuing, I should acknowledge an extensive attempted refutation of hypoth-
esis (1), the review of Bech & Walkden (2015). About a quarter of it consists of a section
on method,7 and the rest proposes different interpretations of mostly well-known pat-
terns. Space limitation obviously precludes an evaluation of their 20 page work in this
study, which focuses on presenting another type of argument for (1). I can indicate,
however, that one syntactic argument which they stress (their Sect. 3.3.1) concerns their
claim that me and Scandinavian “verb-second” systems are different, and that the for-
mer continues at least one salient oe pattern, allowing scene-setting pps in pre-subject
position. Emonds & Faarlund (2016) argues that a better account of this me construction
is available in terms of Universal Grammar, and is unrelated to a language-particular
continuation of oe.
4 Borrowable syntax: The lexical entries of Borer’s
Conjecture
Emonds & Faarlund (2014) discuss over 20 morpho-syntactic properties that indicate that
me has ng syntax. Some 15 of these can be formally expressed, without much difficulty,
as single entries in its Grammatical Lexicon. According to Borer’s Conjecture (Borer
1984: 29), now widely adopted in generative studies, such entries are the essence of
language-particular grammars.
As a result, it is possible in principle that a rapidly evolving oe could have borrowed (or
lost) such properties/entries through contact with Scandinavian speakers. Nonetheless,
as Emonds and Faarlund argue, the sheer number of these entries and the short interval
in which they were borrowed or disappeared (leaving aside speculations about a distinct
“spoken oe”), constitutes a strong argument in favour of the Anglicized Norse Hypothe-
sis (1).8 Here is a list of the changes that can be associated with individual grammatical
morphemes: The last two (2p–q) have been brought to my attention after publication of
Emonds & Faarlund (2014).
6Rephrasing, if Early me simply continues wg oe, and yet displays the ng properties discussed in §4, me
would have had to acquire them by borrowing. I will argue that certain such borrowings are impossible
(contrary to the literature of language contact, which essentially holds that under contact “anything can
happen”.)
7That section takes issue with the decision of Emonds & Faarlund (2014) to argue on the basis of syntax and
morpho-syntax, leaving aside studies of dna, whether the bilingualism of the time was social or individual,
sound change, etc.
8The traditional view (oe → me) must locate this avalanche of changes and several others inside a single
century.
377
Joseph Emonds
(2) Single entries in the me Grammatical Lexicon (attributable to Norse)9
(a) As in ng, certain modals start to express the future tense in me. In contrast, oe
uses present tense and Modern wg uses non-modal (agreeing) auxiliary verbs.
(b) The me infinitival to is a free morpheme like Old Norse at; both can be split from V.
wg uses only bound prefixes (Dutch te, German zu), and this includes oe to (Susan
Pintzuk, pers. comm.).
(c) No passive/past participle prefix is the general rule in Old Norse and me. But in oe
and German the prefix ge-/y- is frequent and sometimes obligatory. (Ge- was also
lost in some wg dialects bordering on ng areas, but these were not sources of me.)
(d) The ng languages including me have a perfect infinitive to have V+en. oe does not
(Fischer 1992: 336–337).10
(e) Like ng, me expresses sentence negation with free morphemes that are initial in
vp (Norse ikke, me naht). oe uses a pre-verbal bound morpheme ne-.11
(f) As in Old Norse, me that appears in complex subordinators like now that, if that,
before that, in that, etc. while oe and wg typically don’t use general subordinators
(þe, dass) in this way (Emonds & Faarlund 2014: 143–144; Fischer 1992: 295).
(g) The oe “correlative adverbs” swa…swa, tha…tha, etc. are unknown in Mainland
Scandinavia and disappear in me.
(h) Early me loses oe relative pronouns that display case or gender (se ƿe; Mitchell &
Robinson 1992). As in Old Scandinavian, Early me relativizers are invariant.
(i) me, like ng, grades long adjectives analytically (more, most). oe does not.
9These constructions are all discussed separately in Emonds & Faarlund (2014: Chs 3-6). I don’t formalize
these entries here because specific notations might be controversial and/or difficult to grasp at a glance. It
is unfortunate that three decades of lip service to Borer’s Conjecture have produced so few actual proposals
for formalizing these entries, now the sine qua non for truly generative grammars. Cf Emonds (2000) for
extensive arguments favouring syntax-based formalized lexical entries.
10A reviewer observes that the modern “West Germanic languages Dutch and German also have a perfect
infinitive.” But even so, no one suggests that these languages influenced the change from oe to me, so this
observation is beside the point. The only issue here is then whether the oe lack of a perfect infinitive was
typical of wg or was somewhat special.
11Early me puts together the oe prefix ne- and the post-verbal free morpheme noht (i.e. ‘double negation’),
but eventually drops ne-, and so syntactically adopts the ng pattern. Three reviewers bring up “Jespersen’s
cycle”, a descriptive name for the preceding process, combined with the possibility that free negation
morphemes can also become bound (Modern English not → n’t). As always, the issue is, can we explain
such replacements? Emonds & Faarlund (2014: Sect. 7.2.6) argue that the free morpheme in me is simply a
part of Anglicized Norse replacing West Saxon. One reviewer, after commenting that this “similarity of me
and ng is indeed striking,” cites Breitbarth (2009) to the effect that negation developed similarly in Dutch,
German and Frisian. If so, the question is again, which of Norse and these wg languages were in contact
with Early me, so that one of them could have either influenced oe (the traditional view) or replaced it (the
view of this essay). Under either view, the historical facts point unambiguously to Norse.
378
18 Theoretical limits on borrowing through contact; not everything goes
(j) As in Mainland Scandinavian, the me subjunctive is no longer used to mark indi-
rect speech, as it could in oe (Fischer 1992: 314).
(k) Subject pronouns could be pro-clitics on second position Vs in oe, but not in ng
languages. me came to resemble ng in this regard (Kroch et al. 2000).
(l) The copula selects infinitive complements in both me and ng, but not in oe (Fischer
1992: 336–337).
(m) The derived nominal suffix in oe is –ung (like German). ng also allows –ing, and
in me the latter form is the only possibility.
(n) The general patronymic suffix in ng for new families is –son; it replaces oe –ing
throughout England in c. 1200 (Strang 1970).
(o) oe genitive case appears on the head and pre-modifiers in a possessive phrase. But
in both me and ng a single enclitic –s follows a possessive phrase, whether its head
is final or not.
(p) In wg (oe and German), some intransitive verbs, with meanings “of movement
and change of state” form the perfect with be (Denison 1993). But in the earliest
Norse texts, the perfect auxiliary was uniformly hafa ‘have’ (J. T. Faarlund, pers.
comm.) Similarly in England, the change to uniform use of have (me) rather than
be (oe) with motion verbs begins just after the Conquest (Denison 1993: 350–355).
(q) Mainland Scandinavian and Modern English (bur not Icelandic) share the possi-
bility of a null Complementizer in a range of finite clauses (Holmberg 2016), It is
difficult to search for null items in corpora, so this may be a medieval np property
or a more recent shared innovation.
On point (o) of (2), a reviewer asks if it isn’t “very unlikely that the version of Norse
that was spoke in the British Isles only marked genitive by adding –s at the end of the en-
tire np”? As there are no texts prior to me, one can only note that this device, unknown in
oe and wg generally, is restricted to and yet general in Mainland Scandinavian through-
out the me period. Chalupová & Chavratová (in preparation) give numerous examples,
including these from Kroch & Taylor (2000).
(3) Middle English
ani
q
ancre
hermit
Iesu
Jesus
cristes
Criste-s
spuse
spouse
(Ancrene Riwle, II.98.1173) (1215–1222)
sein
Saint
gregories
George-s
wordes
word.pl
(Ancrene Riwle, II.61.632) (1215–1222)
te
the
holy
Holy
gostes
Ghost-s
helpe
help
(Ayenbite of Inwyt, 98.1923) (1250–1350)
þe
the
dome
judgment
of
of
godes
god-s
spelle
story
(Ayenbite of Inwyt, 11.125) (1250–1350)
379
Joseph Emonds
These authors further point out what most corpus dating obscures: mature authors are
presumably using grammar acquired as children, often easily thirty years earlier than
the date of a text. In particular, they report the last two examples as penned by a 70-year
old born between 1180 and 1280. Hence these examples of phrasal -s no doubt reflect the
spoken language of 1185–1285.
The question that emerges from such data is: where else could this highly unusual
type of case-marking (a phrasal suffix in an otherwise analytic head-initial language)
have come from, if not from a Norse continuously spoken in England throughout this
period? We expect odd borrowings only into contracting or dying languages (the re-
viewer exemplifies with Prince Edward Island French), but me was not dying out.
For purposes of discussion I grant that, at least singly, the Norse features of Early
me in (2) could have been borrowed through contact. Individually they all conform to
Borer’s Conjecture, and plausibly, changes in particular grammars involve borrowing or
deleting single entries in Grammatical Lexicons.
Thus, looking through the list (2) one by one, no single one of these properties is in
itself implausible as “contact borrowing in syntax” from Norse into an evolving oe.12 A
rather transparent interpretation of Borer’s Conjecture is thus that changes in particular
grammars are simply changes in the lexical entries of individual functional category
morphemes, and as such, they can be borrowed through contact.13
5 Language-particular architecture: Syntax which cannot
be borrowed
In addition to the constructions in (2), Emonds & Faarlund (2014) discuss six ng construc-
tions in me that cannot be expressed as lexical entries for single morphemes. That is, these
constructions are generalizations that lexical entries may reflect, but the entries them-
selves do not suffice for expressing them in single statements. Because of their more
general nature, I call them architectural rather than lexical properties. The first four
in the list (4) are well attested in earliest Mainland ng as well as me; the last two are
easily found only in the modern period. Discussion and references for each property are
given in the sections indicated below from Emonds & Faarlund (2014).
These generalizations that describe these language-particular configurations cannot
be adequately expressed formally by single lexical entries, e.g. P-stranding is not a prop-
erty that different Ps accidentally have in common. To maintain an adequate model,
either Borer’s Conjecture or the notion of lexical entry will have to be modified in some
12But taken together, as noted above, it is completely implausible that the long list in (2) could be borrowings
effected within a century. And sociologically, why would monolingual Anglo-Saxon speakers borrow so
copiously from the supposedly dying language of their former adversaries?
13One reviewer provides a sequence of alternative scenarios for many of the points in (2). There is no unified
pattern in these disparate and sometimes complex suggestions; it is simply a list of separate diachronic
events which must be postulated to counter the unified explanation of (1), namely that in the syntactic
development of early me, nothing happened. In a few instances, the reviewer supports suggestions with
evidence. Thus, there are me remnants y- of the wg participial prefix ge-. I suggest this –y was due to
bilingual Saxons, and predictably disappeared after a few generations. In other instances, data seems mis-
interpreted. E.g. me and Norse both uniformly use have in the perfect tense, unlike the wg and Romance
languages cited by the reviewer, where have and be alternate.
380
18 Theoretical limits on borrowing through contact; not everything goes
way. However this is to be accomplished, the content in (5) below of “lexical specifica-
tions of only single functional category items” should remain unchanged.
(4) North Germanic architectural properties of me, not part of oe:
(a) Head-initial word order within vps is unmarked, in both main and
dependent clauses (Emonds & Faarlund 2014: 3.1).14
(b) A system of post-verbal directional and aspectual free morpheme particles,
contrasted with wg systems of pre-verbal separable prefixes (3.2). This
change may be facilitated by (4a), but the two properties are definitely not
the same (Emonds & Faarlund 2016).
(c) Preposition stranding, at first in relative clauses and eventually even in
sluicing constructions (who with, what for, etc. Emonds & Faarlund 2014:
3.7–3.8.)
(d) Subject raising, both into subject and object position after epistemic verbs.
These are absent in both oe and wg generally (Denison 1993: 221; Hawkins
1986: 82; Emonds & Faarlund 2014: 3.3–3.4).
(e) Freely formed parasitic gaps; these appear freely only in ng, and are
restricted or absent in wg languages (for German, see Kathol 2001; for
Dutch, see Bennis & Hoekstra 1985; Emonds & Faarlund 2014: 6.4 ).15
(f) Tag questions based on syntactic copies of the Subject and Tense in ng but
not in wg (Emonds & Faarlund 2014: 6.5).
These constructions all seem to be language-particular properties of ng languages. For
example, there is no widely accepted evidence that any of them are Indo-European. This
suggests that all must have developed internally in ng languages during the Germanic
phase of their history. There is no evidence outside the issue at hand (the relation of oe
to me) that any of the six constructions in (4) have ever been borrowed by contact either
into or from neighbouring West Germanic, Celtic or Slavic languages.
There are 72 ways one of these six properties could have been borrowed from one of
these four language families into another.16 While I cannot categorically state that none
14A reviewer feels that Norse could have changed English word order by contact. Keeping in mind that Norse
was dying out under this traditional scenario, this is as likely as French shifting to vso order in the face of
Breton dying out. The reviewer also claims that the ie shift away from verb-final orders was “arrested” in
Indo-Aryan by contact with Turkic and Dravidian. But arrested change is no change and requires no con-
voluted contact explanations. This reviewer also repeats a widespread assumption that “Southern Semitic
languages have shifted to head-final orders … due to contact with Nilotic” [sic; presumably Cushitic, JE].
For a carefully argued alternative to this scenario in terms of diglossia, see Ouhalla (2015).
15As a reviewer notes, these sources indicate that the basic ov character of West Germanic seems to preclude
many parasitic gaps that exist in English. A more complete future understanding of them may lead to
deriving property (4e) from (4a). This does not affect this study’s conclusion; it simply would mean that of
the six architectural properties listed here, only five are independent.
16Given four families A, B, C, D, possible borrowings for each property are A→B, B→A, A→C, C→A, A→D,
D→A, B→C, C→B, B→D, D→B, C→D, D→C, 12 total. There are six properties, so the total conceivable
borrowings are 72 in all. Even if the source family for these properties is taken as certain, there are still 18
possible but unattested borrowings.
381
Joseph Emonds
have ever occurred, the number of such borrowings is minuscule compared to the impli-
cation of traditional histories of English. These contend that contact with dying Norse
(or pure accident) caused Middle and Modern English to acquire all six ng architectural
properties, four in the space of at most 200 years.17
Given these considerations, I wish to strengthen the hypothesis that me is Anglicized
Norse (1), by proposing that the ng syntactic properties in (4), or at least most of them,
could not in principle have been borrowed into late oe from ng. They must have re-
sulted from internal developments in Norse, most of which we know predated or were
simultaneous with Scandinavian settlement in England. That is, I suggest a restrictive
and historically justified hypothesis that limits what aspects of morpho-syntax can be
borrowed via language contact. Under this hypothesis, the ng syntax of me cannot in
principle be due to “oe + contact with Norse speakers”.
To formulate this hypothesis, the morpho-syntactic properties that distinguish me
from oe (and group it with ng) have been divided into two types. As explained above,
I coin the contrasting labels “lexical” and “architectural” for language-particular prop-
erties, according to which the second group has properties that cannot be reduced in a
trivial way to the first, i.e. to the format required by Borer’s Conjecture.
(5) Restricted Borrowing Hypothesis.
Under language contact, a living language L1 can borrow from L2 lexical
specifications of only single functional category items.
That is, lexical properties can be (sparingly) borrowed under contact, but architectural
properties cannot be.
It follows that properties (4a–f) could not have entered me even in a rapidly evolving
oe (a fortiori, essentially simultaneously) through language contact of oe with Scandina-
vian. The me properties (4a–f) testify rather to an unchanging ng character of me. That is,
changes in patterns that we here call the syntactic “architecture” of a particular language
can only arise through internal developments, not through simple contact of adjacent
languages.
I note in conclusion how strongly this view contrasts with the traditional claim that oe
→ me, and hence that all the properties in (4) developed in a very short time, at least four
of them in the 12th and 13th c., via language contact with a language which had already
died out (c. 1150) before the evidence of borrowing is attested (after 1170). The traditional
view of the genesis of Early me, when one reflects on its actual claims, violates not only
the canons of a restrictive diachronic theory, but also those of common sense.
17There is one problematic instance that might require some revision in (5). Current research may point to a
relation between Celtic and ng languages in the syntax of tag questions. When the import of this research
becomes clearer, we can re-assess its relation to (5).
382
18 Theoretical limits on borrowing through contact; not everything goes
Abbreviations
an Anglicized Norse
dna Derived Nominal Agreement
ie Indo-European
me Middle English
ng North Germanic
np Noun Phrase
oe Old English
ov Object-Verb
p Preposition
pp Prepositional Phrase
v Verb
vp Verb Phrase
vso Verb-Subject-Object
wg West Germanic
Acknowledgements
I have enjoyed and greatly profited from many linguistic conversations over three de-
cades with Anders Holmberg, in many different venues throughout Europe. I am espe-
cially appreciative of his encouragement regarding this work relating Modern English
to its syntactic and morphological Scandinavian roots, and for his suggestions of points
to follow up on. I thank two reviewers and the editors for helpful suggestions and en-
couragement.
References
Ancrene Riwle. N.d. https://www.ling.upenn.edu/hist- corpora/PPCME2- RELEASE-
4 / info / cmancriw - m1 . html. The Penn-Helsinki Parsed Corpus of Middle English
(PPCME2).
Ayenbite of Inwyt. N.d. https://www.ling.upenn.edu/hist-corpora/PPCME2-RELEASE-
4 / info / cmayenbi - m2 . html. The Penn-Helsinki Parsed Corpus of Middle English
(PPCME2).
Baugh, Albert C. & Thomas. Cable. 2002. A History of English (th edition). London: Rout-
ledge & Kegan Paul.
Bech, Kristin & George Walkden. 2015. English is (still) a west germanic language. Nordic
Journal of Linguistics 21. 559–571.
Bennis, Hans & Teun Hoekstra. 1985. Gaps and parasitic gaps. The Linguistic Review 4.
29–87.
Borer, Hagit. 1984. Parametric syntax. Dordrecht: Foris.
Breitbarth, Anne. 2009. A hybrid approach to Jespersen’s cycle in west germanic. The
Journal of Comparative Germanic Linguistics 12. 81–114.
Campbell, Alistair. 1959. Old English Grammar. Oxford: the Clarendon Press.
Chalupová, Anya & Petra Chavratová. in preparation. The Phrasal Host of the Germanic
Genitive in English. The Norse Origins.
Denison, David. 1993. English Historical Syntax: Verbal Constructions. London: Longman.
Emonds, Joseph. 2000. Lexicon and grammar: the English syntacticon. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
383
Joseph Emonds
Emonds, Joseph & Jan Terje Faarlund. 2014. English: The language of the Vikings. Olomouc:
Palacky University Press.
Emonds, Joseph & Jan Terje Faarlund. 2016. Anglicized Norse, or anything goes? Lan-
guage Dynamics and Change 6.1. 49–66.
Fischer, Olga. 1992. Syntax. Middle English. In Norman Blake (ed.), The Cambridge history
of the english language, vol. 2, 207–408. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Gianollo, Chiara, Cristina Guardiano & Giuseppe Longobardi. 2008. Three fundamen-
tal issues in parametric linguistics. In Theresa Biberauer (ed.), The Limits of Syntactic
Variation, 109–142. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hawkins, John A. 1986. A comparative typology of English and German: Unifying the con-
trasts. London: Croom Helm.
Holmberg, Anders. 2016. Norse against old English. Language Dynamics and Change 6.1.
21–23.
Kathol, Andreas. 2001. On the nonexistence of true parasitic gaps in standard German. In
Culicover Peter W. & Paul Postal (eds.), Parasitic gaps, 315–338. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Kroch, Anthony S. & Ann Taylor. 2000. The Penn-Helsinki Parsed Corpus of Middle English
(PPCME2). CD-ROM, second edition, release 4.
Kroch, Anthony S., Ann Taylor & Donald Ringe. 2000. The Middle English Verb-Second
Constraint: A Case Study in Language Contact and Language Change. In Susan Her-
ring, van Pieter Reenen & Lene Schøsler (eds.), Textual parameters in older languages,
353–91. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Mitchell, Bruce & Fred C. Robinson. 1992. A Guide to Old English. 5th edn. Oxford: Black-
well.
Ouhalla, Jamal. 1991. Functional Categories and Parametric Variation. London: Routledge.
Ouhalla, Jamal. 2015. The origins of Andalusi-Moroccan Arabic and the role of diglossia.
Brill’s Journal of Afroasiatic Languages and Linguistics 7. 157–195.
Strang, Barbara. 1970. A History of English. London: Routledge.
Thomason, Sarah G. 2016. Middle English: English, not norse. Language Dynamics and
Change 6.1. 42–45.
Thomason, Sarah G. & Terrence Kaufman. 1988. Language Contact, Creolization, and Ge-
netic Linguistics. Berkeley: University of California Press.
384
Name index
Abbott, Miriam, 273
Abels, Klaus, 191, 335, 336, 338
Aboh, Enoch, 207, 208
Abraham, Werner, 35
Ackema, Peter, 38, 186, 210
Ackerman, Farrell, 33, 35
Aelbrecht, Lobke, 200–202
Akmajian, Adrian, 31
Alexiadou, Artemis, 300
Anagnostopoulou, Elena, 118, 120, 125
Anderson, Torben, 193
Andersson, Lars-Gunnar, 5, 11
Aoun, Joseph, 327
Arregi, Karlos, 146
Arsenijević, Boban, 183
Asher, Nicholas, 246
Auer, Peter, 260
Austin, John L., 295
Baker, Mark, 69
Baltin, Mark, 187
Balza, Irene, 143, 146, 147
Barbiers, Sjef, 39
Barr, Dale J., 21
Batllori, Montserrat, 52, 58
Baugh, Albert C., 373, 375
Bayer, Josef, 178, 195, 314
Bech, Kristin, 377
Beghelli, Filippo, 364
Belletti, Adriana, 334, 340
Benincà, Paola, 59, 337
Benmamoun, Elabbas, 327
Bennis, Hans, 381
Benson, Charlie, 196
Benveniste, Émile, 32, 34, 35, 37, 43
Berge, Anna, 130
Bergroth, Hugo, 112
Bergsland, Knut, 119, 120, 123–126, 128–
130
Bernstein, Judy, 367
Berwick, Robert, 112
Beyssade, Claire, 269
Bhatt, Rajesh, 118
Bianchi, Valentina, 52, 173, 333, 334, 339,
341, 364
Biberauer, Theresa, viii, 49, 50, 57, 60, 63,
136, 138, 139, 141, 152, 159, 160,
167, 168, 172, 178–181, 183–186,
189, 194, 201, 203, 209, 210, 319
Biggs, Alison, 201
Bittner, Maria, 117–123, 125, 126
Blakemore, Diane, 284, 300
Blom, Elma, 41
Bobaljik, Jonathan David, 101, 368
Bocci, Giuliano, 334
Boeckx, Cedric, 314, 368
Bok-Bennema, Reineke, 121, 124
Bonet, Eulalia, 120
Borer, Hagit, 377
Börjars, Kersti, 33, 38
Bošković, Željko, 203, 368
Boyle, John, 119–121, 123, 124, 128
Brame, Michael K., 364
Breitbarth, Anne, 378
Brennan, Susan, 263
Bresnan, Joan, 217–219, 225, 227–230, 234,
236, 238
Broekhuis, Hans, 30, 192
Brown, Dunstan, 37, 38, 44
Brown, Samuel, 368
Bruce, Gösta, 103
Bruce, Kim, 241, 249
Name index
Bruch, Robert, 41
Bruening, Benjamin, 187
Brugmann, Karl, 283
Büring, Daniel, 246
Cable, Thomas., 373, 375
Callegari, Elena, 338
Campbell, Alistair, 375
Campbell, Lyle, 37
Carlson, Robert, 195
Cecchetto, Carlo, 180, 181, 186, 348, 349
Chalupová, Anya, 379
Chavratová, Petra, 379
Chenery, Winthrop Holt, 52
Cheng, Lisa Lai-Shen, 318
Chocano, Gema, 189
Chomsky, Noam, 29, 31, 33, 69, 79, 112,
119, 140, 184, 186, 205, 234, 236,
313, 314, 317, 345, 348, 349, 359,
363, 365
Christensen, Ken Ramshøj, 313, 314, 320
Christensen, Tanya Karoli, 5, 11, 12, 15,
18, 22–25, 319
Christidis, Anastasios-Phoebos, 286, 291–
293
Chumakina, Marina, 32, 33
Cinque, Guglielmo, 58, 65, 79, 164, 169,
217, 226, 335, 338, 355, 363, 368
Clark, Herbert, 263
Cognola, Federica, 188
Collins, Chris, 152
Conradie, C. Jac., 35
Coon, Jessica, 149
Cruschina, Silvio, 51, 57, 333, 339, 341
Culicover, Peter W., 80
Davies, Mark, 58
de Cuba, Carlos, 314
de Haan, Germen, 313, 314
Deal, Amy Rose, 120, 126–129
den Besten, Hans, 325
den Dikken, Marcel, 198–202
Denison, David, 379, 381
Déprez, Viviane, 101
DeVos, Mark, 275
Diesing, Molly, 101, 118
Dirks, Moses, 123, 124
Dixon, Robert MW, 123
Donati, Caterina, 348, 349
Douglas, Jamie, 201, 315
Dryer, Matthew, 178, 184, 185, 209
Durrleman, Stephanie, 335
Elordieta, Arantzazu, 137, 147, 151, 153
Embick, David, 31, 32, 38, 44
Emonds, Joseph, ix, 5, 373–378, 380, 381
Epstein, Samuel D., 31
Erteschik-Shir, Nomi, 100, 101
Escandell-Vidal, Victoria, 56
Etxepare, Ricardo, 137, 143–147, 149, 150,
153, 154, 179–181
Faarlund, Jan Terje, ix, 373–378, 380, 381
Farkas, Donka, 241, 249
Fassi Fehri, Abdelkader, 326
Fiengo, Robert, 301
Fischer, Olga, 378, 379
Fodor, Janet Dean, 186
Fontana, Josep M., 52, 61, 62, 64
Fortescue, Michael, 119, 120, 125, 129, 171
Fourquet, Jean, 313
Fowlie, Meaghan, 187
Fox, Danny, 218, 236, 237
Franco, Ludovico, 183
Frascarelli, Mara, 52, 328
Fretheim, Thorstein, 103
Frey, Werner, 57
Gianollo, Chiara, 375
Ginzburg, Jonathan, 265
Giorgi, Alessandra, 275, 302
Goodhue, Daniel, 253
Greenberg, Joseph H., 141, 181, 184, 209
Grice, H. Paul, 10
Grimshaw, Jane, 179, 317, 318
Groenendijk, Jeroen, 281
Gunlogson, Christine, 246, 249
Guntly, Erin, 270
386
Name index
Haddican, Bill, 148, 149, 151, 179–181
Haegeman, Liliane, 24, 25, 50, 64, 244,
275, 335
Hager M’Boua, Clarisse, 335
Haider, Hubert, 183, 186, 189, 350
Hakulinen, Auli, 89
Hale, Kenneth L., 38, 117–120, 123, 264
Halle, Morris, 30, 31, 38
Halliday, M.A.K., 249, 292
Han, Chung-hye, 246
Hansen, Aage, 319, 320
Hansson, Petra, 103
Harris, Alice, 37
Hasan, Ruqaiya, 249, 292
Hatzidakis, G., 291
Hawkins, John A., 135, 178–180, 189, 193,
194, 196, 381
Heath, Jeffrey, 195
Heim, Johannes, 263, 264, 269
Hellan, Lars, 101
Hernanz, Maria-Lluïsa, 58
Heycock, Caroline, 6
Hill, Virginia, 50, 64, 275
Hinterhölzl, Roland, 203, 328
Hinzen, Wolfram, 302, 316
Hjorth, Ebba, 320
Hoeksema, Jack, 40
Hoekstra, Eric, 41
Hoekstra, Teun, 42, 43, 381
Hoffmann, T. Ronald, 36
Holmberg, Anders, vii–ix, 3, 4, 32, 49,
57, 64, 69, 70, 72, 77, 79, 81, 83,
84, 93, 99, 101, 117–119, 135–137,
159, 160, 167, 172, 174, 177–181,
194, 241, 243, 245–251, 255, 260,
263, 264, 281–283, 301, 302, 313,
316, 318, 321, 325, 327–329, 333,
339–341, 359, 379
Holton, David, 304
Hooper, Joan B., 3, 5, 8, 20, 23
Hopper, Paul J., 37
Horak, Tania, 254
Hosono, Mayumi, 101
Householder, Fred, 292
Hualde, José I, 238
Huddleston, Rodney, 346, 347
Huffman, Franklin E., 274
Iatridou, Sabine, 35
Irurtzun, Aritz, 147
Jackendoff, Ray S., 70, 80, 208, 335, 336
Jakobson, Roman, 263
Jensen, Torben Juel, 5, 11, 12, 15, 18, 22–
25, 319
Johannesen, Janne Bondi, 315
Johnson, Kyle, 218, 236, 237, 239
Jonas, Dianne, 101
Jones, Bob Morris, 245
Jones, Christian, 254
Jones, Michael Allan, 183
Josefsson, Gunlög, 100, 101, 104
Joseph, Brian, 287, 288, 291–293, 297
Jouitteau, Mélanie, 295
Julien, Marit, 12, 22, 25, 315, 316, 318, 321
Kapogianni, Eleni, 289
Karlsson, Fred, 89
Kathol, Andreas, 381
Kato, Mary A., 364
Kaufman, Terrence, 375
Kayne, Richard S., 42, 136, 139, 140, 142,
148, 163, 166, 168, 173, 181, 183,
201, 205, 210, 364, 365, 367–
370
Kern, Johan Hendrik, 42
Keyser, Samuel J., 38
Kiparsky, Carol, 6
Kiparsky, Paul, 6, 30, 32, 33, 35, 38, 43,
112
Klein, Wolfgang, 35
Koizumi, Masatoshi, 314
Koopman, Hilda J., 164, 198, 202
Kopp, Stefan, 295
Koster, Jan, 31
Kramer, Ruth, 241, 244
Krapova, Iliyana, 338
387
Name index
Krifka, Manfred, 241, 242, 244, 247, 249
Kristensen, Kjeld, 320
Kristoffersen, Gjert, 103
Kroch, Anthony S., 379
Kroman, Erik, 107
Kuno, Susumu, 245, 260
Kuteva, Tania, 37
Ladd, Robert D., 246
Laka, Itziar, 146–149, 243
Lam, Zoe Wai-Man, 264
Lambrecht, Knud, 328
Lange, Klaus-Peter, 40
Lascarides, Alex, 294, 295, 299
Lasnik, Howard, 203
Ledgeway, Adam, 197
Legate, Julie Anne, 123
Lehmann, Christian, 180
Leonetti, Manuel, 56
Leu, Thomas, 367
Liberman, Mark, 249, 253
Light, Caitlin, 57
Lin, Jo-Wang, 364
Longobardi, Giuseppe, 172
Lopez, Luis, 65
Lorimer, David L. R., 33, 34
Mackenzie, Ian, 50, 52, 54–56, 60, 61, 65
Marandin, Jean-Marie, 269
Marantz, Alec, 31, 38, 365
Martín, F.J., 364
Massam, Diane, 122, 149
McCloskey, James, 318
Mcneil, David, 295
Meillet, Antoine, 37
Merchant, Jason, 119, 131
Michelioudakis, Dimitris, 289
Mitchell, Bruce, 378
Mobbs, Ian, 180
Molina-Azaola, Gainko, 146
Moulton, Keir, 183
Mous, Marten, 193
Müller, Gereon, 316
Munro, Robert, 16
Myrberg, Sara, 102, 103
Nava, Emily, 238
Neeleman, Ad, 38, 186, 210
Nikanne, Urpo, 69, 70, 72, 77, 81, 94
Nilsen, Randi Alice, 103
Noonan, Michael, 205, 207
Nunes, Jairo, 140, 154, 201, 364, 368
Nyvad, Anne Mette, 313, 314, 319–321
Oosthuizen, Helena, 198
Oosthuizen, Johan, 198, 201
Ortiz de Urbina, Jon, 137, 147, 151
Ott, Dennis, 64
Ouali, Hamid, 49, 63
Ouhalla, Jamal, 375, 381
O’Brien, Chris, 217, 218, 226, 235, 236
Pantcheva, Marina Blagoeva, 165
Patocka, Franz, 41
Paul, Hermann, 40
Paulsen, Geda, 81
Payne, John, 187
Pedersen, Karen Margrethe, 104, 112
Perlmutter, David, 217, 226
Pesetsky, David, 203, 348
Petersson, David, 316
Petrova, Oksana, 74, 81
Philip, Joy, 180
Pintzuk, Susan, 182
Platzack, Christer, 4, 79, 101, 173, 348,
350, 353, 359
Poletto, Cecilia, 275, 329, 337
Pollock, Jean-Yves, 69, 79
Poole, Geoffrey, 51–57, 60, 61, 64–66
Pope, Emily Norwood, 241, 245, 252
Popova, Gergana, 32–34
Pörn, Michaela, 81
Portner, Paul P., 24, 25, 256, 258, 265
Postal, Paul, 217, 218, 224, 226, 234, 236
Postma, Gertjan, 43, 364
Pretorius, Erin, 198, 200, 202
Pullum, Geoffrey K., 346, 347
Puskás, Genoveva, 335
388
Name index
Rawlins, Kyle, 241, 244
Reese, Brian, 246
Reinhart, Tanya, 65, 328, 337
Reis, Marga, 346, 347, 353, 358
Rezac, Milan, 146
Riad, Tomas, 102, 103
Richards, Marc, 189
Richards, Norvin, 180, 184, 187, 198, 218,
227
Rijk, Rudolf PG de, 137, 147
Rizzi, Luigi, 49, 120, 126, 164, 318, 321,
325, 328, 329, 333–336, 338, 351,
363
Roberts, Craige, 265
Roberts, Ian, 49, 50, 57, 60, 63, 184, 202,
203, 210, 318, 319, 328
Robins, G. H., 32
Robinson, Fred C., 378
Rochemont, Michael, 186
Romero, Maribel, 246
Rosengren, Inger, 348, 350, 353
Ross, John Robert, 292, 368
Rude, Noel, 127
Sadock, Jerrold M., 93, 119, 130, 245
Sag, Ivan, 249, 253
Salvi, Giampaolo, 49, 55, 64
Salzmann, Martin, 41
Sauerland, Uli, 236, 237
Schachter, Paul, 364
Schallert, Oliver, 40, 42
Schmitt, Cristina, 173
Selkirk, Elisabeth, 99, 100, 102, 103
Sheehan, Michelle, viii, 65, 136, 140–142,
159, 160, 165, 167, 168, 172, 174,
178–183, 187, 189, 192–194, 197,
203–205, 210, 302, 316
Shields, Kenneth, 283
Shlonsky, Ur, 351, 352, 358
Sigurðsson, Halldór Ármann, 120, 125,
275
Simik, Radek, 358
Simons, Mandy, 3, 5, 7–16, 18, 24, 25
Sitaridou, Ioanna, 51, 54, 57–60, 64, 65
Soare, Gabriella, 351, 352, 358
Speas, Margaret, 121, 124
Speas, Peggy, 275
Spencer, Andrew, 32–34
Sportiche, Dominique, 187
Stalnaker, Robert, 8
Stanton, Juliet, 217, 218, 224, 226, 230,
234, 236, 237
Starke, Michal, 187, 336
Sternefeld, Wolfgang, 316
Stilo, Don, 177
Stokhof, Martin, 281
Stone, Matthew, 294, 295, 299
Stowell, Tim, 364, 366
Strang, Barbara, 373, 375, 379
Stroop, Jan, 39
Stump, Gregory, 33, 35
Sulaiman, Mais, 326, 327
Svenonius, Peter, 165, 198, 202, 208
Taylor, Ann, 379
Teleman, Ulf, 346, 354
Tenny, Carol, 275
Thoma, Sonja, 254, 263, 264
Thomason, Sarah G., 375
Thompson, Sandra, 3, 5, 8, 20, 23
Thráinsson, Höskuldur, 118
Torrego, Esther, 348
Tortora, Christina, 367
Traugott, Elizabeth Closs, 37
Trubetzkoy, Nikolai Sergeevich, 263
Truckenbrodt, Hubert, 301
Tsoulas, George, 282–284, 300
Tzartzanos, Achileas, 287
Uriagereka, Juan, 167, 181
Uribe-Etxebarria, Myriam, 137, 143–147,
149–151, 153, 154
Urmson, James Opie, 8
van der Auwera, Johan, 275
van der Wal, Jenneke, 197, 203–205
van der Wurff, Wim, 247
Van Riemsdijk, Henk, 201
389
Name index
Vendryes, Joseph, 30, 37
Vergnaud, Jean-Roger, 364
Verkuyl, Henk, 30
Vigário, Marina, 103
Vikner, Sten, 313, 314, 318–320
Vilkuna, Maria, 69, 77, 80, 93
Vos, M. De, 200, 205
Wackernagel, Jacob, 35, 313
Wagner, Michael, 221, 253
Walkden, George, 50, 314, 377
Wallage, Philip, 247
Weerman, Fred, 313, 314
Weir, Andrew, 244
Weiß, Helmut, 260
Whitman, John, 179–181, 209
Wiklund, Anna-Lena, 6, 12–15, 18, 20, 22,
24, 25, 318, 321
Williams, Edwin, 38, 141, 142, 187
Willie, MaryAnn, 121, 124
Wiltschko, Martina, 33, 263, 264, 269, 270,
272, 275
Wivell, Richard, 178
Wood, Jim, 365
Woolford, Ellen, viii, 118, 120, 121, 125,
126
Wurmbrand, Susi, 39, 203
Yngve, Victor, 274
Zanuttini, Raffaela, 24, 25, 258, 275
Zubizarreta, Maria Luisa, 238
Zwart, Jan-Wouter, 11, 30, 31, 35, 36, 39–
41
Zwicky, Arnold, 245, 292
390
Language index
Ærø Danish, 107
Afrikaans, viii, ix, 178, 1781, 18310, 1839,
188–190, 19020, 191, 19121, 192,
197–199, 19933, 19934, 200, 20035,
201, 20137, 202, 203, 205–207,
318
Aleut, 123–126, 128–130
Aleut, Atkan dialect, 130
Arabic, viii, 326–329
Basque, viii, ix, 135–138, 142–144, 146–
149, 153, 154
Cantonese, 245
Central Kurdish, 19323
Danish, ix, 11, 22, 23, 100, 102, 104, 1046,
107, 110–113, 314–316, 318–321
Dutch, ix, 4, 29–37, 39, 41–44, 190, 19222,
198, 19933, 200, 201, 20137, 203,
207, 378, 37810, 37811, 381
Eskimo Aleut, 121, 131
Fenno-Swedish, 100, 1002, 110, 112, 113
Finnish, viii, ix, 69, 70, 72–74, 77, 79–81,
83, 84, 86, 88–93, 95, 137, 138,
167, 168, 245, 333, 339–341
French, 58–60, 79, 249–252, 261, 295, 30735,
36713, 375, 3762, 380, 38114
Gbe, 207, 208
German, ix, 4, 35, 36, 43, 6411, 138, 1839,
18817, 190, 192, 19325, 203, 205,
207, 2212, 242, 247, 2473, 260,
26011, 268, 26814, 275, 316, 318,
321, 346–348, 350, 364, 378, 37810,
37811, 379, 381
Greek, ix, 281–283, 286, 28711, 289, 28914,
28915, 291, 292, 296–304, 307,
308
Gungbe, 207, 208
Hungarian, 19630, 200
Icelandic, 41, 61, 1001, 117, 118, 120, 1207,
121, 125, 127, 131, 347, 350, 376,
3762, 379
Inuit, 121, 122, 125, 126
Iraqw, 19323
Italian, 63, 79, 18817, 325, 329, 333–335,
338–340, 364, 3644, 3762
Jamaican, 335
Khmer, 274
Kuku-Yalanji, 19323
Latin, 21, 33, 37, 38, 388, 18411, 376
Macushi, 273
Mainland Scandinavian, 4, 63, 99, 100,
1001, 117, 118, 120, 123, 131, 376,
379
Mangarrayi, 19323
Middle English, ix, 18411, 373, 375, 3751,
376, 379, 383
Neo-Aramaic, 19323
Nez Perce, 127, 128
Niuean, 122
Norse, 373, 374, 3751, 376–378, 37811, 379,
380, 38013, 38114, 382, 383
Language index
North Sámi, ix, 159, 160, 1601, 1602, 1613,
162–165, 1654, 168–174
Norwegian, ix, 102, 111, 113, 315
Oevdalian, 100
Old Spanish, viii, ix, 50–55, 57, 58, 588,
59–61, 63, 64, 6411, 6412, 6413,
65, 6515
Persian, 19323
Päri, 19323
Romance, vii, 49, 50, 54, 58, 63, 6411, 1207,
334, 335, 338, 339, 341, 374, 38013
Sardinian, 1839
Scandinavian, viii, 3–6, 11–13, 15, 1003,
1014, 103, 117, 118, 1182, 119, 121,
131, 1695, 318, 321, 373–378, 382
Semitic, 177, 38114
Sicilian, 333, 339, 341
Slavic, 292, 374, 381
Slovenian, 142
Sorbian, 19323
Spanish, 238
Swedish, viii, ix, 4, 5, 15, 18, 19, 21–24,
79, 100, 102–104, 106, 107, 110,
112, 117, 118, 246, 315, 346–348,
350–359
Tajik, 19323
Tapiéte, 19323
Tigrinya, 19323
Tigré, 19323
Tobelo, 19323
Turkic, 177, 38114
Tuvaluan, 19323
Upper Austrian German, 260–262, 268–
271
West Germanic, ix, 41, 177, 185, 188, 189,
18918, 19121, 192–194, 196, 198,
202, 203, 207–209, 373–375, 37810,
381, 38115, 383
Yiddish, 61
Yup’ik, 124
392
Subject index
A-bar movement, ix, 1839, 225, 226, 239,
313, 353, 358
A-movement, 140, 358
Addressee, 1443
adposition, 160, 163, 167, 200
agreement, 30, 313, 37, 69, 70, 73, 82, 87,
94, 118–131, 142–146, 18512, 186,
18613, 205, 20543, 287, 289–291,
297, 298, 349, 351, 352, 356, 378
Anchoring, 301
applicative, 144–146
Aspect, 29, 30, 148, 180
AspP, 34, 148, 153
assertion, 5–7, 74, 8, 11, 12, 128, 2011, 22–
24, 247–249, 251, 252, 255, 259,
261, 262, 268, 272
Attitude, 285
Auxiliary, viii, 29–31, 34, 35, 37, 39–42,
4211, 43, 44, 59, 70, 73, 74, 76,
77, 79, 81–83, 85–92, 94, 137,
143–149, 151–153, 168, 180, 182–
184, 18411, 186, 18614, 20137, 243,
245, 325, 327, 378
Borrowing, 292, 373–377, 3776, 380, 38012,
381, 382
Case, 208, 287, 298, 306
clitic, 54, 60, 62, 111, 112, 1195, 1207, 12516,
238, 287, 28710, 288, 289, 291,
297, 298, 29824, 306, 340
Clitic Left Dislocation, 6411, 335
cliticization, 101, 1014
complementizer, 501, 54, 60, 64, 73, 77–
79, 81, 82, 93, 139, 142, 153, 166,
173, 178, 179, 1794, 185, 18613,
194, 204, 20946, 237, 243, 263,
264, 269, 285, 2858, 302, 313–
319, 321, 340, 341, 347, 351–355,
358, 379
compound, 38, 102, 103
CP-recursion, 313, 314, 321
Danelaw, 3751, 376
deixis/deictic, 282, 283, 2831, 286–289,
291, 292, 294–297, 301–304, 306,
307
demonstrative, 54, 169–171, 173, 2831, 294,
298, 364
determiner, ix, 18613, 367, 36712, 36713,
369
directional, 129, 178, 201, 20136, 202–205,
207, 2212, 374, 381
EPP, 50, 57, 60, 62–64, 6412, 65, 165, 295,
313, 328, 329, 349, 351, 352, 355,
356
ergative, 42, 118, 1183, 119, 1194, 120, 12010,
121, 12111, 122, 12212, 123, 12314,
125–129, 131, 143, 144, 221, 222
expletive, 94, 27015, 30534
extended projection, 138–140, 179, 1816,
183–187, 197, 198, 208, 209, 20946
externalization, 295
extraction, 152, 153, 164, 167, 19121, 217,
218, 225–229, 231–235, 237, 238,
314–316, 319, 321, 338, 358, 366,
368
factive, 5, 52, 6–11, 13–18, 20, 22–26, 56,
314
Final-over-Final Condition, viii, 135–142,
147, 150, 1506, 152, 154, 160, 167,
Subject index
168, 171, 172, 177–187, 189, 18918,
192–198, 202, 20442, 207–209,
20946, 210
finiteness, vii, 4, 43, 44, 49, 50, 52, 54, 55,
58, 587, 60, 64, 69, 70, 72–74,
77, 79–81, 83–90, 93–95, 143,
146, 147, 149–151, 153, 161, 163,
291, 314, 315, 325, 327, 329, 339,
345, 348, 350–359, 366, 379
Focus, 50, 51, 56, 60, 61, 101, 152–154, 244,
263, 303, 329, 335, 336, 338, 339,
341
force, 6412, 18512, 302, 315, 329, 351
fronting, 50–52, 55, 56, 60–63, 65, 148,
149, 153, 182, 19427
gender, 378
gesture, 281, 282, 286, 287, 293, 294, 29418,
295–300, 30028, 301, 303, 307
Ground, 264, 26413, 265, 272
head directionality, 147–149
infinitive, ix, 36, 40–43, 146, 147, 150, 151,
153, 233, 346, 347, 350, 353–
356, 358, 359, 366, 378, 37810,
379
Infinitivus Pro Participio, 40
Int, 333, 338–341, 363
interrogative, ix, 230, 297, 301, 329, 333,
338
island, 167, 181, 182, 1828, 183, 1839, 187,
189, 190, 192, 235, 314, 316, 319–
321
lexicon, 318, 349–351, 375, 377
Linear Correspondence Axiom, 136, 166
Main Point of Utterance, 5, 7, 74, 8, 9, 11,
12, 128, 13–15, 17–22, 24–26
maxim of quantity, 9, 10
Merge, 31, 38, 40, 153, 154, 182, 218, 230,
232, 237, 23810, 304, 313, 348,
349, 351
Minimalist, 31, 34, 69, 182, 184, 348
Modal, 6, 25, 39–42, 4211, 135–138, 143,
144, 1444, 146, 147, 150–154, 286,
378
morphology, viii, 30–33, 336, 34–38, 388,
39–44, 69, 70, 72, 74, 79, 81, 83–
90, 93–95, 120, 130, 143, 165,
173, 242, 307, 308, 348, 349, 376
negation, viii, 4, 6, 20, 24, 60, 619, 70, 73,
76, 77, 79, 81–85, 88–91, 94, 99,
111, 121, 122, 146–148, 151, 242,
246–249, 252, 260, 266, 275, 297,
304, 305, 30534, 317, 351, 352,
354, 378, 37811
null subject, 63, 130
number, 31, 33, 58, 74, 80, 84, 86–88, 90,
12516, 143, 166, 180, 289, 299,
318
Object shift, 120, 121
OCC-feature, 317, 321
P-stranding, 380
participle, 29, 31, 35, 37, 39, 40, 42, 51,
59, 65, 70, 82, 86, 88, 90, 91, 95,
153, 378
passive, 33, 35, 42, 70–75, 81, 83–86, 88,
89, 92, 93, 169, 170, 363, 378
Path, 206
periphrasis, 31–33, 35, 37, 38
person, 291, 31, 33, 34, 71–74, 80, 82–84,
86, 89, 90, 120, 1207, 121, 123,
12313, 124, 125, 12516, 143, 172,
1726, 289, 290, 298, 357
Person Case Constraint, 1207, 12515, 12516,
287, 289
phase, 63, 140, 167, 184, 185, 204, 313, 314,
316, 351
Place, 165, 1654
polarity, 56, 58, 59, 66, 146–149, 152–154,
180, 242–244, 246, 247, 249, 250,
2505, 251–253, 2537, 255, 256,
394
Subject index
258, 260, 263, 265–267, 282, 283,
302–306, 30735
Poss, 171
possessive, 35, 42, 130, 171, 356, 379
possessor, 120, 121, 126, 12618, 127, 12720,
128–131, 169, 171, 173, 174
postposition, 159–162, 165, 167, 168, 170–
174, 178, 199, 19933, 20035, 204,
207
pragmatic, viii, 4, 5, 9, 11, 15, 23, 25, 294,
295, 334, 359
pragmatics, viii
preposition, ix, 167, 168, 178, 188, 193, 19323,
199, 19933, 204–206, 219, 2201,
2212, 222, 2223, 223–225, 236,
29217
presupposition, 6, 9, 17, 275, 335–337
pro-drop, 144, 29418
projection, ix, 24, 50, 501, 59, 66, 74, 77,
79, 138–140, 146, 148–150, 166–
168, 171, 174, 179, 181, 1816, 1839,
184, 185, 18512, 186, 18613, 18614,
18615, 187, 18716, 19528, 197, 198,
208, 209, 2505, 271, 296, 351,
353, 355
question, 7–10, 106, 13–20, 24–26, 94, 185,
18613, 222, 230, 237, 242–248,
251–253, 2537, 254, 255, 258–
264, 26413, 265–267, 271, 273–
275, 282, 283, 286, 29520, 301,
30129, 303–305, 318, 338–340
recursion, 314, 321, 336
reference, 30, 34–36, 126, 129, 316, 358
relative, ix, 4, 20, 30, 33–37, 40, 54, 55,
60, 12314, 131, 142, 172, 173, 1805,
227, 228, 232, 233, 318–320, 363–
366, 36610, 367, 36713, 368, 369,
36916, 378, 381
Relativized Minimality, 336, 338, 341
root phenomena, viii, 5–7, 23, 25
Salvi’s Generalization, 49, 50, 501, 51, 52,
54–57, 60, 63–65
semantics, vii–ix, 11, 12, 23, 25, 36, 70,
81, 161, 18614, 18919, 226, 227,
236, 239, 281–283, 286, 295–
298, 301, 314, 349, 359
Spell-Out, 40, 165–167
tense, viii, ix, 29–37, 41, 42, 4211, 43, 44,
50, 57, 60, 63, 69–72, 74, 76,
82–84, 86–91, 93, 143, 1443, 20137,
345, 350, 353, 374, 378, 38013,
381
tensed, 351, 355
tonal unit, 103, 1035, 104, 112
tone, 102–104, 107
Topic, 50, 53, 154, 315, 329
TP, 34, 59, 6412, 1195, 146–150, 152–154,
243, 255, 302, 303, 351–353, 356
trace, 74, 124, 218, 222, 236, 237, 239, 315,
316
universal, 80, 81, 12516, 12617, 139, 165,
179, 181, 209, 210, 264
Universal Grammar, 359, 377
utterance, 5, 7, 10, 11, 13, 16, 19, 20, 23,
242, 248, 249, 269–275, 29418,
358
verb movement, viii, 32, 44, 314, 315, 317,
318, 327, 328
verb raising, 31, 39, 50, 61
verb second, vii, viii, 3, 4, 6, 13, 22, 24, 25,
57, 64, 313–316, 318, 319, 321,
325–329, 351, 352, 355
VP fronting, 122, 123
wh-movement, ix, 227–229, 232, 235, 363,
364, 367
395
Did you like this
book?
This book was brought to you for free
language
science
press
Please help us in providing free access
to linguistic research worldwide. Visit
http://www.langsci-press.org/donate to
provide financial support or register as
a community proofreader or typesetter
at http://www.langsci-press.org/register.
Order and structure in syntax I
This book reconsiders the role of order and structure in syntax, focusing on fundamental issues
such as word order and grammatical functions. The papers in the collection ask what word order
can tell us about syntactic structure, using evidence from V2, object shift, word order gaps and
different kinds of movement. All of the papers address in some way the tension between modelling
what can vary across languages whilst improving our understanding of what might be universal
to human language.
9 783961 100262
ISBN 978-3-96110-026-2
