Primate Intentional Communication 15
municator” even knows it exists (e.g., he may not even
know he has a red tail). In contrast, when communicators
are attempting to influence the behavior or psychological
states of recipients intentionally, we now have the start-
ing point for communication from a psychological point
of view. When such intentionality exists, and in addition
recipients recognize it to at least some degree, then we
may refer to the overall process as intentional communi-
cation. To qualify as cooperative communication, among
other things the communicator’s proximate goal must be
somehow to help or share with the recipient—even
though, of course, evolutionarily there must be some
benefit to the communicator for being so helpful as
well.
Beginning with this basically psychological perspec-
tive on communication, the best place to look for the
evolutionary roots of human cooperative communication
is, of course, nonhuman primates—and especially (or so
I will argue) to their gestural, as opposed to their vocal,
communication.
2.1 Vocal Displays
When a vervet monkey hears a “snake alarm call,” it
knows that a snake is nearby; when it hears an “eagle
alarm call” it knows that an eagle is nearby. Vervet
monkey recipients thus extract referentially specific infor-
mation from alarm calls, and this has been demonstrated
repeatedly by playback experiments in which the call is
16 Chapter 2
played over a loudspeaker when no predator is nearby—
and recipients still engage in the appropriate predator-
specific avoidance behavior (Cheney and Seyfarth 1990a).
Impressively, individuals of a number of monkey species
may even learn during ontogeny to use the alarm calls of
other species, including those of some birds, to obtain
information about nearby predators (Zuberbühler 2000).
Although great apes do not produce any referentially
specific calls (i.e., beyond calling at different rates or in
slightly modified form for different amounts or qualities
of food; Hauser and Wrangham 1987; Crockford and
Boesch 2003), they also extract information from vocal
calls, and may even learn during ontogeny to respond to
novel calls (Seyfarth and Cheney 2003).
In stark contrast to this picture of flexible comprehen-
sion, monkeys and apes do not learn to produce their
vocal calls at all, and they have very little voluntary
control over them. Here are some important facts (see
Tomasello and Zuberbühler 2002 for a review):
• within any monkey or ape species all individuals have
the same basic vocal repertoire, with essentially no indi-
vidual differences in repertoire;
• monkeys raised in social isolation and monkeys cross-
fostered by another monkey species (with very different
vocal calls) still produce their same basic species-typical
vocalizations (and not those of the other species);
• the connection between a vocal call and its eliciting
emotion or situation is mostly very tightly fixed; non-
Primate Intentional Communication 17
human primates do not vocalize flexibly by adjusting to
the communicative situation; and
• human attempts to teach new vocalizations to monkeys
and apes always fail, and attempts to teach them to
produce their own vocalizations on command either fail
or take many thousands of trials to work only a little.
The one dimension of flexibility that has been systemati-
cally documented is that individuals may not give certain
calls when they are alone or without kin, as opposed to
in the presence of others or with kin, but other animal
species also refrain from alarm calling in these situations
as well (including prairie dogs and domestic chickens;
see Owings and Morton 1998), and so one may easily
imagine that this is part of the genetically fixed adaptive
specialization.
The reason for this lack of flexibility in vocal produc-
tion is that nonhuman primate vocalizations are mostly
very tightly tied to emotions. Goodall says:
The production of a sound in the absence of the appropriate
emotional state seems to be an almost impossible task for a
chimpanzee. (1986, p. 125)
Evolutionarily, this is because vocal calls are often asso-
ciated with especially urgent functions such as escaping
predators, surviving in fights, keeping contact with the
group, and so forth. In such cases urgent action is
needed, and there is little time for thoughtful delibera-
tion. In all cases, each particular call has been selected
evolutionarily because it benefits the caller in some way.
18 Chapter 2
Thus, in recent analyses it has been stressed that vervet
monkey alarm callers benefit directly from the call
because, for example, the predator is directly deterred
by the noxious noise, or because the call alerts the
predator that it has been detected (Owren and Rendell
2001; see also Bergstrom and Lachman 2001). The other
vervets inform themselves by eavesdropping, but they
are not the target of the caller’s calls. Tellingly, when
macaque mothers in experiments see a “predator”
approaching their offspring, they do not give an alarm
call so long as they themselves are not at risk (Cheney
and Seyfarth 1990b). In all, this pattern of flexible com-
prehension but totally inflexible production in primate
vocalizations is captured quite nicely by Seyfarth and
Cheney:
Listeners acquire information from signalers who do not, in the
human sense, intend to provide it. (2003, p. 168)
Another important characteristic of primate vocaliza-
tions, deriving simply from the physics of the acoustic
channel, is that they are broadcast indiscriminately to
everyone nearby. This is an obvious advantage in highly
emotional, evolutionarily urgent situations, but what this
means psychologically is that the caller need not pay any
attention to the recipient(s), and indeed cannot easily
direct vocal calls to selected individuals to the exclusion
of others. Evidence that the caller typically ignores the
audience comes from the fact that vervet monkeys quite
often persist in giving their alarm calls even when all the
Primate Intentional Communication 19
individuals of the group are already in some safe position
looking at the predator (Cheney and Seyfarth 1990a; see
also Gouzoules, Gouzoules, and Ashley 1995), and chim-
panzees give “pant-hoots” upon finding large amounts
of food even if the whole group is already there and
eating (Clark and Wrangham 1994; though see Mitani
and Nishida 1993). On the whole, primate vocalizations
would seem to be mainly individualistic expressions
of emotions, not recipient-directed acts. According to
Zuberbühler:
Nonhuman primates vocalize in response to important events,
irrespective of how potential recipients may view the situation.
(2005, p. 126)
Recognizing all of this, some theorists (e.g., Seyfarth
and Cheney 2003) have argued that primate vocal com-
munication was an important step on the way to human
language mainly in terms of skills of vocal comprehen-
sion. The problem is that such “comprehension” skills are
not specialized only for communication; they are merely
general skills of cognitive assessment. Thus, when a
monkey learns that a certain alarm call of a certain bird
species, or even of its own species, predicts the presence
of a leopard, it is not clear that this is best thought of as
the comprehension of a communicative act. The monkey
has simply learned that one thing predicts another, or
even causes another, in the same basic way as many other
phenomena in their daily lives. If we are looking for evo-
lutionary steps along the way to human communicative
20 Chapter 2
activities, therefore, we must look at how the production
of communicative signals works, since these are specifi-
cally communicative. And from the perspective of pro-
duction, general mammalian, including primate, vocal
displays, with their genetically fixed and highly inflexible
structure, would seem to be a very long way from human-
style communication.
2.2 Gestural Signals
Nonhuman primates also communicate with one another
on a regular basis gesturally, where gesture designates a
communicative behavior (not a physical characteristic) in
the visual channel: mostly bodily postures, facial expres-
sions, and manual gestures. Although many of these are
as genetically fixed and inflexible as primate vocaliza-
tions—and thus should be called displays—an important
subset are individually learned and flexibly used, espe-
cially in the great apes, and so may be properly called
intentional signals. These intentional gestural signals
often concern less emotionally charged and evolution-
arilyurgentsocialactivitiessuchasplay,nursing,begging,
and grooming.
By far the most research on primate gestural commu-
nication has been conducted on great apes. Evidence
that an important subset of great ape gestures are indi-
vidually learned, intentionally and flexibly produced
communicative signals is as follows (see Tomasello
Primate Intentional Communication 21
et al. 1985, 1994, 1997, 1989; Call and Tomasello
2007):
• there are many and very large individual differences
in the gestural repertoires of different individuals of
the same species, even within the same group, includ-
ing some idiosyncratic gestures produced by single
individuals;
• individuals regularly use the same gesture for different
communicative ends, and also different gestures for the
same communicative end;
• individuals typically produce a gesture only when the
recipient is appropriately attentive, and afterward they
often monitor the recipient’s reaction and wait for a
response;
• individuals sometimes use sequences or combinations
of multiple gestures when the other does not react appro-
priately; and
• individuals with significant human contact invent
or learn different kinds of novel gestures quite
easily.
And so, although primate vocal communication obvi-
ously shares with human linguistic communication the
vocal-auditory channel, great ape gestural communica-
tion shares with human linguistic communication foun-
dational aspects of its manner of functioning, namely, the
intentional and flexible use of learned communicative
signals.
22 Chapter 2
2.2.1 Two Types of Gesture
There are two basic types of great ape gesture, based
on how they function communicatively: intention-
movements and attention-getters. Unlearned intention-
movementdisplaysareubiquitousintheanimalkingdom,
and indeed they were first noted informally by Darwin
(1872), and then named and systematically described
by Tinbergen (1951) in his classic studies of seagulls.
Intention-movements occur when an individual performs
only the first step of a normal behavioral sequence, often
in abbreviated form, and this first step is already enough
to elicit a response from a recipient (i.e., the same response
that would normally be given to the entire behavioral
sequence). For example, wolves growl and bare their
teeth, ritualized from preparations for actual biting,
which leads a recipient to withdraw, and some birds
perform various preparations for mating that signal their
impending sexual advances. The normal case is that such
displays are “ritualized” phylogenetically; for example,
wolves who conspicuously prepare for biting by baring
their teeth and growling have an adaptive advantage, as
do wolves who respond to this preparatory behavior by
withdrawing before the actual biting comes. Over evolu-
tionary time, this results in the genetic fixation of inten-
tion-movement displays performed invariably in specific
emotional and/or social circumstances.
But what we are interested in here are intention-
movement signals that have been ritualized (learned)
Primate Intentional Communication 23
ontogenetically and so are used with more flexibility.
Ontogenetically ritualized intention-movement gestures
in chimpanzees—the ape species studied most inten-
sively—are such things as arm-raise to initiate play and
touch-back (by infants to moms) to request being carried
(see table 2.1 for a list of examples). Like intention-
movement displays, these intention-movement signals
are basically abbreviations of full-fledged social actions,
and they are almost always dyadic in the sense that the
communicator is attempting to influence the behavior of
the recipient directly in the interaction (not communicate
about some third entity). For those intention-movement
gestures that are learned, the learning process, using
arm-raise to illustrate, seems to go something like this:
(i) initially one youngster approaches another with
rough-and-tumble play in mind, raises his arm in prepa-
ration to play-hit the other, and then actually hits, jumps
on, and begins playing;
(ii) over repeated instances, the recipient learns to antici-
pate this sequence on the basis of the initial arm-raise
alone, and so begins to play upon perceiving this initial
step; and
(iii) the communicator eventually learns to anticipate
this anticipation, and so raises his arm, monitors the
recipient, and waits for her to react—expecting this arm-
raise to initiate the play.
We now have an ontogenetically ritualized gesture, arm-
raise, that the communicator produces intentionally—
24 Chapter 2
Table 2.1
Some intentional gestural signals used by chimpanzees in their
spontaneous social interactions in social groups (C = communicator;
R = recipient). See Call and Tomasello 2007.
Gestural Action Goal/Function
Intention-Movements
Arm-raise C raises arm toward R,
beginning hitting.
Initiate play
Touch-back C touches back of R
lightly, beginning
climbing on.
Request ride-on-back
Hand-beg C places hand under R’s
mouth, beginning taking
food.
Request food
Head bob C “bobs and weaves” in
bowing position at R,
beginning play.
Initiate play
Arm-on C approaches R and
places arm on R’s back,
beginning dragging.
Initiate tandem walk
Attention-Getters
Ground-slap C slaps the ground (or an
object) and looks to R.
Often play
Poke-at C pokes a body part of R. Various
Throw-stuff C throws something at R. Often play
Hand-clap C slaps own wrist or
hand, as approaches R.
Often play
Back-offer C insistently puts its own
back in the face of R.
Typically grooming
Primate Intentional Communication 25
with a plan and with monitoring of the recipient’s
response (trying something else if the desired response is
not forthcoming)—in order to initiate play. The touch-back
gesture is learned in a similar way, as the infant initially
grabs the mother’s back and pulls it down physically so
as to climb on. Mom comes to anticipate on the basis of
the first touch, and so lowers her back when just this
initial part of the sequence is produced. The infant learns
to anticipate this response, and so comes to use the gesture
intentionally, touching mom’s back lightly and waiting
for her to lower it in response as expected.
The main competing explanation for how apes acquire
intention-movement gestures is imitation. But there is
basically no evidence for this and much against it.
Evidence that chimpanzees and other apes learn their
most flexible intention-movement gestures mainly by
ontogenetic ritualization, and not by imitation, includes
at least the following (see Tomasello et al. 1994, 1997; Call
and Tomasello 2007):
• when different captive groups are compared, there are
no systematic group differences, but many individual
differences within both groups;
• individuals in natural social groups acquire gestures
they have had little or no opportunity to observe (e.g.,
infant nursing gestures), and there are some idiosyncratic
gestures used only by single individuals (who of course
had no one else to observe);
26 Chapter 2
• youngsters raised in captive peer groups, with no adult
gestures to observe, acquire many of the same gestures
as youngsters in natural groups—because they engage in
many of the same activities (play, nursing, etc.) within
which these gestures are ritualized;
• in the experiment of Tomasello et al. (1997), when one
individual was taken from a captive group, trained to use
a novel gesture for a reward, and put back in the group,
no other individuals learned the new gesture (the experi-
ment was performed twice with different demonstrators
and gestures).
Intention-movements are thus created as two interac-
tants anticipate and so shape one another’s behavior
dyadically over repeated instances of the same interac-
tion. Importantly, this means that the “meaning” or
communicative significance of intention-movements is
inherent in them, in the sense that they are one part of
a preexisting, meaningful social interaction—which is
what is being anticipated back and forth in the first place.
Because of this, individuals do not need to learn, by imi-
tation or any other means, to connect the signal with its
“meaning”—the “meaning” comes built in. Also, because
of the way ritualization works, these gestures are only
“one-way” (not bidirectional) communicative devices in
the sense that the communicator and recipient each learn
it in terms of their own role only—without knowing
the role of the other (so that the communicator would
not recognize the gesture as “the same” as his own if
Primate Intentional Communication 27
someone directed it at him). Finally, some researchers
have claimed that some intention-movements are actu-
ally functioning iconically, for example, when one gorilla
moves its arms in a particular direction in a sexual or
play context and a recipient responds by moving in that
direction (Tanner and Byrne 1996). But these are most
likely garden-variety ritualized behaviors that appear to
humans to be iconic because they derive from attempts
to actually move the body of the other in the desired
direction; they are not functioning iconically for the apes
themselves.
The other kind of ape gesture is attention-getters, and
these kinds of gestures most assuredly are not widespread
in the animal kingdom; they may even be unique to pri-
mates or even great apes. Attention-getters are such
things as ground-slap, poke-at, and throw-stuff, which serve
to attract the attention of the recipient to the slapping,
poking, or throwing communicator—again mostly in
dyadic fashion without external referents (see table 2.1
for a list of examples). Initially in our research, because
these gestures are used quite often by youngsters in play
contexts, we classified them as play gestures. But then we
saw them being used in other contexts, and we realized
that they operate somewhat differently from intention-
movements. What happens in the prototypical case is
that the youngster is in a play mood—which is apparent
fromhermood-induced“playfaceandposture”display—
and the attention-getter serves to draw attention to the
display. Another example is when male chimpanzees
28 Chapter 2
who are in the mood for sex engage in leaf-clipping
behavior, which makes a sharp, loud noise that attracts
the attention of females to their erect penis (Sugiyama
1981). Importantly, in both of these cases the “meaning”
or function of the communicative act as a whole resides
not in the attention-getting gesture, but rather in the
involuntary display, which the individual knows the
recipient must see in order to react appropriately. Evi-
dence for this interpretation is that on some occasions
apes will actually hide a display from others, for example,
covering up a facial fear-grimace display with their hands
(Tanner and Byrne 1993; de Waal 1986).
One small variation on this theme is a very interest-
ing subset of attention-getters that operate without dis-
plays, and may even move in the direction of triadic
(referential) communication. These involve such things
as the communicator “offering” to another individual
either a body part, typically for grooming, or an object,
which is then quickly retracted, as a solicitation for play.
There are even some rare observations of apes “offer-
ing” unwanted food to others (Liebal, Pika, and Toma-
sello 2006). Although rare, individuals directing the
attention of conspecifics in this way is theoretically very
important, because it is the closest thing we have to
apes directing others’ attention intentionally to external
things triadically, referentially, in the manner of virtually
all of human communication.
Because they operate differently from intention-
movements, attention-getters are learned in a somewhat
Primate Intentional Communication 29
different way as well. They are not bound up with any
particular social activity, and so they cannot be ritualized
from recurrent social behaviors directly (and there is no
evidence that they are imitated). Instead, they are learned
by individuals engaging in behaviors like slapping the
ground or throwing things or pushing others for
noncommunicative reasons, which naturally attracts the
attention of others—and this result is then noticed and
exploited in the future by the behaving individual. Once
learned, an attention-getter may be used quite widely for
many different social goals such as play, grooming,
nursing, and so forth. And it is precisely this indirectness
that is the true novelty here. The communicator has some
action he wants from the recipient—what we may call his
social intention—and to attain this he attempts to draw the
recipient’s attention to something—what we may call his
“referential” intention1
—in the expectation that if she looks
where he wishes, she will do as he wishes. This two-
tiered intentional structure is a genuine evolutionary
novelty—almost certainly confined to great apes and
perhaps other primates—and may be considered the
closest thing we have to a “missing link” between nonhu-
man primate communication and the sophisticated atten-
tion-directing and attention-sharing characteristic of
human referential communication.
1. “Referential” is in scare quotes because, I would argue, what apes
are doing is a precursor to human reference while differing in some
respects—which can only be fully characterized after human reference
is described in the next chapter.
30 Chapter 2
Finally, it is important that apes regularly string
together sequences of gestures, involving both intention-
movements and attention-getters. Systematic investiga-
tion of these, however, has revealed no “grammar” in the
sense of specific combinations creating new communica-
tive functions or “meanings” (Liebal, Call, and Tomasello
2004). What seems to happen—and this provides further
support for the intentional nature of great ape gestural
communication—is that the communicator tries one
gesture, monitors the response of the recipient, and, if
needed, repeats or tries a different gesture. This shows
persistence to a goal with adjusted means as necessary—
the prototype of intentional action—but it does not show
any kind of combinatorial or grammatical capacity (see
chapter 6).
2.2.2 Attention to the Attention of the Other
A crucially important difference between communication
in the vocal and gestural modalities is how the partici-
pants monitor one another’s attention in the process. In
vocal communication, there is basically no monitoring. In
most cases, the communicator is simply expressing his
individual emotion, and so his call is broadcast relatively
indiscriminately throughout the surrounding environ-
ment. In contrast, most gestural communication takes
place in the visual channel, spatially directed toward a
single individual, which requires the communicator to
check that the recipient is visually attending, or else the
Primate Intentional Communication 31
gesture will not work. For her part, the recipient needs to
determine if the gesture is directed to her or her neighbor,
to know whether she should or should not respond.
In our twenty years of research on ape gestures, we
have documented many times that ape gestures are pro-
duced with sensitivity to the attentional state of the recip-
ient—in the sense that purely visually based gestures are
given almost exclusively when the recipient is already
visually oriented to the communicator (see Call and
Tomasello 2007 for a review). There are some well-known
experimental studies by Povinelli and Eddy (1996)
showing that when chimpanzee communicators are faced
with the choice of two potential human recipients—one
of whom is unable to see her because, for example, he has
a bucket on his head—they produce visually based
begging gestures toward both humans equally, suggest-
ing little sophistication in judging the attentional states
of others. But choosing whom to direct gestures to is a
very unnatural communicative situation, and when the
experimental paradigm is changed so that the chimpan-
zee does not have to choose—on one trial he faces a
human who can see him and on another trial he faces one
who cannot (and these are then compared across trials)—
their performance looks much better (although they still
do not, as do human infants, attend much to the role of
the eyes specifically; Kaminski, Call, and Tomasello 2004).
And other studies in noncommunication paradigms have
demonstrated in many different ways that apes—for
example, in competition with one another, or when
32 Chapter 2
concealing things from a human competitor—understand
what others do and do not see (see Tomasello and Call
2006 for a review).
With all of this attention to the attention of the other, a
natural question is whether chimpanzees and other apes
produce some sequences of gestures with the specific
ordering: attention-getter (to obtain the recipient’s atten-
tion) followed by intention-movement (visually based
and therefore requiring the recipient’s visual attention).
The answer is that they do not. That is to say, they do
produce such sequences on occasion, but they produce
all kinds of other sequences as well (including the
reverse), and so this is not an especially privileged
sequence (Liebal, Call, and Tomasello 2004). On the face
of it this would seem not to fit with the finding of sensi-
tivity to the attention of the other. But the reason apes do
not privilege attention-getter > intention-movement
sequences is because they have an alternative strategy.
When they need to produce a visually based intention-
movement gesture, they quite often walk around in front
of the other to produce it. We observed this first natural-
istically, but then later experimentally. When a human
faced an ape with some food behind her, the ape gestured
to her face straightaway; but when the human turned her
back, even if the food was directly in front of the ape, the
ape walked around and gestured to the human’s face
(Liebal, Pika, Call, and Tomasello 2004). The species who
did this most readily were humans’ two closest relatives,
chimpanzees and bonobos. Why apes use this “walk
Primate Intentional Communication 33
around” strategy rather than using an attention-getter-to-
intention-movement sequence is unknown at this time.
All of this attention to the attention of the other during
communication is unprecedented in nonprimate, and
maybe even non-ape, communication.
2.2.3 Summary
From a functional, communicative point of view, then, on
practicallyeverydimensionimaginable,greatapesdisplay
more sophisticated communicative skills in the gestural
rather than in the vocal modality (see also Pollick and de
Waal 2007). First, many ape gestures are individually
learned and flexibly used, including in combination,
whereas this is not true of ape vocalizations. Second, many
apegesturesareusedwithattentiontotheattentionalstate
of the recipient, which is mostly not even relevant in ape
vocal communication. The overall communicative act in
ape gestures is thus: check the attention of other > walk
around as necessary > gesture > monitor the reaction of
other > repeat or use another gesture. This would seem to
be a paradigm case of intentional action, in this case
toward others and with some understanding of the way
the other’s reaction depends on her abilities to perceive
and intend things. It is also important evolutionarily that
gestural communication is more sophisticated in apes
(humans’ closest relatives) than in monkeys and other
mammals (Maestripieri 1998), whereas something close
to the opposite is true of vocal communication. These
34 Chapter 2
considerations all give us good reason to think that great
ape gestures are the more likely candidate, in comparison
with great ape vocalizations, for the evolutionary precur-
sor of human-style communication.
2.3 Communication with Humans
For better or for worse, many monkeys and apes grow
up in one or another kind of human context, either a zoo,
a research facility, or a human home. There are no sys-
tematic reports of any monkey acquiring any new com-
municative skills naturally as a result of their exposure
to humans. And apes, as noted above, do not acquire
anything new in the vocal domain when they grow up in
the midst of humans. But apes who grow up with humans
do acquire some new gestures specifically for use with
humans. Most interesting in the current context is the fact
that many apes—some with no explicit training—learn
to do something that might be called “pointing,” as a
powerful extension of their natural attention-getting
gestures.
2.3.1 Pointing and Other Imperatives
Chimpanzees and other apes growing up in human
captivity learn to indicate for their human caretakers
things they want but cannot obtain on their own. The
most basic such behavior, documented extensively by
Leavens and colleagues (e.g., Leavens and Hopkins
Primate Intentional Communication 35
1998; Leavens, Hopkins, and Bard 2005), is chimpanzees
“pointing” to out-of-reach food so that a human will
retrieve it for them. Approximately 60 to 70 percent of
all captive chimpanzees engage in this behavior when
presented with the appropriate situation, spontaneously
with no explicit training from humans. Typically, they
are doing this through a cage, and so they orient their
body toward the out-of-reach food, and thrust their
fingers and hands through the caging toward the food
as well. They are not reaching for the food, because
when a human is not present they do not engage in
this behavior. How these chimpanzees acquire their
pointing skills is not known.
This “pointing” is used relatively flexibly. For example,
if several different types of food are available, apes will
point to the most desirable one, and they will continue
pointing to that one persistently even if given a less desir-
able food (Leavens, Hopkins, and Bard 2005). Also, when
human-raised apes observe a human hiding food in an
open area outside their cage, many hours later they will
still point, for a naive human, to the location where the
food is hidden (Menzel 1999). And when apes observe
that a human needs a tool to retrieve food for them, and
that tool is then hidden while the human is away, when
the human returns they will point to the location of the
hidden tool (Call and Tomasello 1994). This is still best
seen as a request that the human retrieve the tool (so that
he can retrieve the food) because apes do not gesture in
this situation if the tool is for the human’s own use
36 Chapter 2
(Haimerl et al., in prep.); but its indirectness is neverthe-
less remarkable.
Also important is the fact that apes raised in rich human
contexts, similar to the way human children are raised,
have been observed to request things imperatively in
other ways as well. For example, some human-raised
apes point to a locked door when they want access behind
it, so that the human will open it for them—or in some
cases they lead the human to the door or a high shelf by
pulling his hand, stopping and waiting in front of it
expectantly (Gomez 1990). Another common observa-
tion, based on my own personal experience interacting
with young chimpanzees, is that they will bring a recal-
citrant object (e.g., a locked box) to humans for help, and
they will grab a human’s hand and put it in or on his
pocket, and wait for a good result. Apes in zoos often
develop attention-getters for the human visitors, such as
clapping their hands, so that they will attend to them and
throw food. And apes may be taught something like
human sign language signs or touching visual symbols
for communicating with humans as well (Gardner and
Gardner 1969; Savage-Rumbaugh et al. 1986, 1993). It is
thus clear that human-raised apes have a fairly flexible
understanding that humans control many aspects of their
world, and that these humans can be induced to do things
that help them reach their goals in this human environ-
ment with some kind of attention-directing behavior. The
fact that apes often look to the eyes of the human when
making such requests is perhaps also important, as it
Primate Intentional Communication 37
suggests that they know that the causality/intentionality
somehow emanates from behind the eyes and not just
from the external limbs carrying out the desired actions
(Gomez 1990, 2004).
The most reasonable interpretation of ape pointing,
then, would seem to be that it is a natural extension of
their attention-getting gestures. Just as they attract atten-
tion to the self by slapping the ground or even attract
attention to their shoulder for grooming, in the right cir-
cumstances with humans they attract attention to desired
food by indicating it “referentially”—because they have
some social intention they think this will help them to
achieve. In all of these cases, ape communicators presum-
ably can predict from past experience in similar situa-
tions what the human recipient will do if she indeed
sees what they want her to see. One obvious question,
however, is why apes point for humans, but not for one
another. The obvious answer is that other apes are not
motivated to help them in the same way as humans. If
an ape pointed to food as a request to another ape, it is
not very likely that he would end up getting it—whereas
captive apes have much experience of humans giving
them food freely. The evolutionary implication of this
obvious fact is that if the social environment of apes sud-
denly became more cooperative, they could point imper-
atively to request help from each other with no additional
cognitive machinery necessary.
But at the same time it is critically important to note
that no apes in any kind of environment produce, either
38 Chapter 2
for other apes or for humans, acts of pointing that serve
functions other than the imperative function. That is, they
do not point declaratively to simply share interest and
attention in something with another individual (Gomez
2004), and they do not point informatively to inform
another of something she might want or need to know—
as human infants do from very early in ontogeny (see
chapter 4). Tomasello and Carpenter (2005) even pre-
sented three young human-raised chimpanzees with sit-
uations that reliably elicit expressive-declarative pointing
in human infants (e.g., surprising, interesting events),
but observed no declaratives from them in response.
And even the signed productions of “linguistic” apes are
almost all imperatives—approximately 96–98 percent in
the only two systematic studies (Rivas 2005; Greenfield
and Savage-Rumbaugh, 1990), with the other 2–4 percent
having no clear functional interpretation (they are not
clearly declarative or informative, but more recognitory
or classificatory, as the ape simply recognizes something
and produces the associated sign in recognition). This
functional restriction probably accounts in large part for
apes’ surprising troubles in comprehending human
pointing gestures designed to inform them of things
helpfully, as we shall now see.
2.3.2 Comprehending Pointing
Great apes follow the gaze direction of others, even to
hidden locations behind barriers (Tomasello, Hare, and
Primate Intentional Communication 39
Agnetta 1999; Bräuer, Call, and Tomasello 2005). If a
human points and looks toward some food that an ape
currently does not see, and by following the pointing/
looking the ape comes to see the food, she will go get it.
In this sense, one could say that the ape understood the
intention behind the human’s attention-directing gesture
in this simple situation.
But a seemingly minor change in this procedure leads
to a drastically different result—which might lead us
to reassess the simpler situation. Tomasello, Call, and
Gluckman (1997) introduced apes to a game in which one
human, the hider, hid food in one of three buckets and a
second human, the helper, helped them find to it—what
has been called the object choice task. Apes knew from
previous experience that there was only one piece of food
hidden, and they would get only one choice. In the key
experimental condition, the hider hid the food from the
ape while the helper peeked, and then the helper simply
pointed informatively for the ape to the bucket in which
the food was hidden. Astoundingly, apes then chose
buckets randomly, even though they were highly moti-
vated to find the food on almost every trial. Quite often
an ape followed the helpers’ pointing and looking to the
correct bucket but then did not choose it. This means that
following the directionality of the point was not the
problem; they just did not seem to understand its
meaning, its relevance to their search for the food. It is as
if the apes said to themselves “OK. There’s a bucket. So
what? Now where’s the food?” Human infants perform
40 Chapter 2
well in this seemingly trivial task by 14 months of age,
mostly before language (Behne, Carpenter, and Toma-
sello 2005).
Task failures may be explained in an unlimited number
of ways. But a follow-up study constrains the possibilities
considerably. Hare and Tomasello (2004) conducted a
competitive version of the basic object choice task. Chim-
panzees participated in two experimental conditions.
One condition, the cooperative condition, was identical
to the basic task, and so, not surprisingly, the results were
identical as well: despite following the point to the correct
bucket the apes chose randomly. In the other, competitive
condition, however, a human began in the warmup
session by competing with the chimpanzee for food, and
then in the experimental session attempted to continue
competing. Specifically, without looking to the ape in any
way, the human reached toward the correct bucket, but
due to the physical constraints in the situation (her arm
would not go very far because the hole in the Plexiglas
was not large enough), was unable to reach it. When the
buckets were now pushed to the ape (by another experi-
menter), she now knew where the food was! Even though
the superficial behavior in the two experimental condi-
tions was highly similar—arm extended toward correct
bucket—the apes’ understanding of the humans’ behav-
ior was seemingly very different. They were thus able to
infer: she wants to get into that bucket for herself; there-
fore, there must be something good in there. But they still
Primate Intentional Communication 41
were not able to infer: she wants me to know that the food
is in the bucket.
What are we to make of apes’ behavior in this task?
They follow the pointing gesture to the correct bucket
naturally, but then they do not seem to know what it
means. Based only on the standard object choice task, we
might suppose that they cannot go beyond what they see
to infer the location of hidden food. But many other
studies show that they can make inferences in other situ-
ations (Call 2004), and in the follow-up study of Hare and
Tomasello (2004) they made this inference easily (i.e., “his
reaching suggests that there must be something good in
there”). One reasonable hypothesis, then, is that apes
simply do not understand that the human is communi-
cating altruistically in order to help them toward their
goals. That is, they themselves communicate intention-
ally only to request things imperatively, and so they only
understand others’ gestures when they are imperative
requests as well—otherwise they are simply mystified as
to what the gesticulating is all about.
2.3.3 Summary
Overall, the most important facts about apes communi-
cating with humans are three: (i) again, it is the gestural
modality that wins the day; (ii) again, it is ape attention-
getters (i.e., “pointing”) with their split between the social
intention and the referential intention that are most
42 Chapter 2
Interestingly, domestic dogs perform very well in the
basic object choice task with a human pointing informa-
tively to the location of hidden food. Wolves perform
poorly, and dog puppies perform very well even before
they have had much experience with humans (Hare
et al. 2002). It would thus seem that when humans
were domesticating dogs, over the past 10,000 to 12,000
years, they somehow selected for individuals with char-
acteristics enabling them to understand, in some sense,
what the human is doing in this situation. We do not
know how the dogs do this—research is ongoing—but
one hypothesis is that they do not actually understand
that the human is informing them of the location of the
hidden food cooperatively, but rather, they understand
the pointing as imperative: the human is ordering them
to that location. This makes sense because dogs have
been selected/domesticated in large part to follow human
orders. Another plausible interpretation is in terms
of helping: because of their unique evolutionary histories,
domestic dogs understand in a way that apes do not
that the human is actually attempting to help them. These
two interpretations are given added plausibility by the
fact that basically all of the animals who do well in
this task are either domesticated animals or animals
who have been raised or trained extensively by humans—
including trained dolphins, domestic goats, and some
human-raised apes (see Call and Tomasello 2005 for a
review). In any case, in the current context, we may
at least note that dogs’ and other domesticated animals’
excellent performance provides an existence proof that
at least some animals respond appropriately to human
Box 2.1
On Dogs and Other Mammals
Primate Intentional Communication 43
human-like; and (iii) even with relatively sophisticated
means of communication taught to them by humans,
apes still communicate almost exclusively imperatively,
to get others to do things, and indeed it appears that they
do not even comprehend cooperative informatives.
2.4 Intentionality in Ape Communication
For people who study only humans, and who have never
looked in detail at animal communication, it is difficult
to appreciate how astounding are apes’ flexible skills of
gestural communication. The vast majority of animal
communication is basically genetically fixed. Even among
pointing in the object choice task. The basis on which they
do this is still unknown.
In terms of production, there are observations of dogs
and other domesticated animals communicating with
humans in seemingly complex ways. There are not so
many systematic studies of this (see Hare, Call, and
Tomasello 1998), but even accepting these observations
to some degree, it is important to note that these animals
do not communicate with conspecifics in these same
complex ways—only with humans. And so, these com-
municative skills may be thought of as, in a sense,
“unnatural,” as they are instances of interspecific com-
munication resulting at least partly from the process of
domestication.
Box 2.1
(continued)
44 Chapter 2
monkeys and apes, vocal communication is mostly genet-
ically fixed. And the gestural communication of monkeys,
though it has not been studied in much detail (see Mae-
stripieri 1998), has a distinctly stereotypic appearance.
The flexibility of great ape gestural communication is
thus truly an evolutionary novelty.
Behavioral flexibility is generally a sign that learning
is involved, and indeed we presented evidence that
many ape gestures are learned. But this could, in theory,
be either relatively simple associative learning—when
a certain situation presents itself a certain gesture is
likely to be effective—or else relatively complex cogni-
tive processes involving an understanding of the inten-
tionality of the communicative partner. We believe that
complex cognitive processes are involved, and that this
view is supported by studies documenting great ape
understanding of intentionality in other domains of
activity.
2.4.1 Understanding Intentional Action
Just as animals may solve physical problems without
understanding all of the underlying causality involved,
animals may communicate without understanding all of
the intentionality involved—and indeed that is what they
mostly do. They know that when they do X, recipients do
Y, without any understanding of how this works. But for
more flexible communication in which, for example, dif-
ferent signals are chosen on different occasions depend-
Primate Intentional Communication 45
ing on such things as the attentional state of the recipient,
as in ape gestural communication, the communicator
needs some kind of cognitive model of how the recipient
perceives the signal and acts as a result.
Recent research has demonstrated that great apes
understand much about how others work as intentional,
perceiving agents. Specifically, great apes understand
something of the goals and perceptions of others
and how these work together in individual intentional
action in ways very similar to young human children
(though see Povinelli and Vonk 2006 for a different view).
First, great apes (most of the research is with chimpan-
zees) understand that others have goals. Evidence is
as follows:
• When a human passes food to a chimpanzee and then
fails to do so, the ape reacts in a frustrated manner if the
human is doing this for no good reason (i.e., is unwilling)
whereas she waits patiently if the human is making good-
faith attempts to give the object but failing or having
accidents (i.e., is unable) (Call et al. 2004; see Behne et al.
2005 for similar findings with human infants).
• When a human or conspecific needs help reaching an
out-of-reach object or location, chimpanzees help them in
a way very similar to human infants—which requires an
understanding of the other’s goal (Warneken and Toma-
sello 2006; Warneken et al. 2007).
• When a human shows a human-raised chimpanzee an
action on an object that is marked in various ways as a
46 Chapter 2
failed attempt to change that object’s state, the ape, in her
turn, actually executes the intended action (and not the
action actually demonstrated, e.g., hands slipping off
the object) (Tomasello and Carpenter 2005; based on
Meltzoff’s 1995 study with human infants).
• When a human shows a human-raised chimpanzee a
series of two actions on an object, one of which is marked
in various ways as accidental, the ape, in her turn, usually
executes only the intended action (Tomasello and Car-
penter 2005; based on Carpenter, Akhtar, and Tomasello’s
1998 study with human infants; see also Call and Toma-
sello 1998 for further evidence).
• When a human-raised chimpanzee observes a human
produce actions that are either freely chosen or forced by
circumstances, the ape understands the difference—as
demonstrated by her selective imitation of freely chosen
acts but not those forced by circumstances (if the circum-
stances do not apply to her)—thus demonstrating an
understanding not just of the intentionality of action, but
also its rationality (Buttelmann et al. 2007, based on the
study of Gergely, Bekkering, and Király 2002 with human
infants).
The conclusion is thus that apes and young human chil-
dren both understand in the same basic way (in simple
situations) that individuals pursue a goal in a persistent
manner until they have reached it—and they understand
the goal not as the result produced in the external envi-
ronment, but rather as the actor’s internal representation
Primate Intentional Communication 47
of the state of the world she wishes to bring about. They
also understand that the actor chooses an action to pursue
a goal “rationally” in the sense that they consider the
actor’s reasons for doing what he is doing.
Second, great apes (most of the research is again with
chimpanzees) also understand that others have percep-
tions. Evidence is as follows (see Tomasello and Call 2006
for a review):
• When a human peers behind a barrier, apes move over
to get a better viewing angle to look behind it as well
(Tomasello, Hare, and Agnetta 1999; Bräuer et al. 2006;
see Moll and Tomasello 2004 for a similar study with
human infants).
• When a human’s gaze is directed toward a barrier and
there is also an object further in that same direction, apes
look only to the barrier and not to the object—unless the
barrier has a window in it, in which case they look to
the object (Okamoto-Barth, Call, and Tomasello 2007; see
Caron et al. 2002 for similar findings with human
infants).
• When apes beg a human for food, they take into account
whether the human can see their gesture (Kaminski, Call,
and Tomasello 2004; Liebal, Pika, Call, and Tomasello
2004).
• When chimpanzees compete with one another for food
they take into account whether their competitor can see
the contested food (Hare et al. 2000; Hare, Call, Tomasello
2001), and even on occasion attempt to conceal their
48 Chapter 2
approach from a competitor (Hare, Call, Tomasello 2006;
Melis, Call, and Tomasello 2006).
The conclusion is thus that apes and young human chil-
dren both understand in the same basic way (in simple
situations) that individuals perceive things in the world
and react to them—and they understand that the content
of the other’s perception is something different from
their own.
The last-cited competition experiments are especially
important because they demonstrate that chimpanzees
do not just understand goals and perception separately,
but rather understand how they are interrelated in the
basic logic of intentional action: agents want certain envi-
ronmental states to obtain (have goals); agents see the
world and so can assess the situation with respect to the
desired goal state; and agents do things when they per-
ceive that the environment is not in the desired goal state.
This kind of understanding of intentional action supports
a basic form of practical reasoning that enables individu-
als to understand and predict what others are doing and
will do, even in novel circumstances. Thus, in the Hare
et al. competition experiments, participants understand
that if their competitor can see his goal (the food) he will
pursue it, whereas if he cannot see it he will not pursue
it; and conversely, if the competitor sees something that
is not its goal (e.g., a rock), he will not pursue that. And
they can understand basic things about opportunities
and obstacles to goals for others in novel situations—for
Primate Intentional Communication 49
example, when the other has a free path to food or his
path is blocked—and how this affects their behavioral
choices. This kind of practical reasoning about others—in
terms of the psychological predicates want, see, and do—is
foundational to all kinds of primate and human social
interaction, including intentional communication viewed
as social action in which individuals attempt to get others
to do what they want them to.
The overall conclusion is thus that apes understand
others in terms of their goals and perceptions and how
these work to determine behavioral decisions, that is,
they understand others as intentional, perhaps even
rational, agents. Based on this understanding, they can
engage in the kinds of practical reasoning that underlie
flexible, strategic social interaction and communication—
for example, determining what the other wants, the
reason he wants it, and what he is likely to do next.
Importantly, because ape gestures arise directly out of
meaningful social interactions as expressed in overt
behavior—whereas vocalizations are more individualis-
tic expressions of emotions with few overt behavioral
manifestations—practical reasoning skills about inten-
tional action would seem to be applicable in an especially
natural way in the case of gestural communication.
2.4.2 How Ape Gestures Work
It is possible that great apes use none of this under-
standing of individual intentionality in their gestural
50 Chapter 2
communication, that they simply rely on associative
learning or some such. But this seems highly unlikely. If
they know what others see and want and do in the above-
cited experiments, they presumably know these things
also when they are gesturing and being gestured to.
Nevertheless, we must still be careful not to give things
a human interpretation where it is not warranted. This
“third way” theoretical stance (cognitivist, but not anthro-
pocentric; Call and Tomasello 2005) leads to the following
analysis of great ape intention-movement and attention-
getting gestures in terms of the primitive psychological
predicates of want, see, and do, as justified by the experi-
ments cited above.
Apes’ intention-movement gestures emanate from the
communicator’s social intention that the recipient do
something such as play, lower her back, or groom. The
communicator’s expectation is that if the recipient sees his
gesture, she will do what he wants, because that is what
she has done in past (the basis of the ritualization process).
For her part, upon seeing the intention-movement the
recipient knows that the communicator wants her to do
some particular thing (based on her intention-reading
abilities and her past experience in similar interactions).
In contrast, apes’ attention-getting gestures emanate from
the communicator’s social intention that the recipient see
something, which he expects, based on his intentional
understanding (in combination with past experience),
will most likely lead her to do what he wants. This creates
a two-tiered intentional structure comprising the com-
Primate Intentional Communication 51
municator’s social intention, as his fundamental goal,
and his “referential” intention, as a means to that goal.
For her part, upon seeing the attention-getter the recipi-
ent knows that the communicator wants her to see some-
thing, and, possibly, that he is doing this as a means to
get her to do something. Thus, the recipient typically
looks in response to the attention-getting gesture, and
then responds naturally to what she sees, and possibly to
what the communicator wants, if she is for her own
reasons so inclined.
Thus, at this point, our analysis of the two types of ape
gesture, from the communicator’s point of view, may
be represented schematically as in figure 2.1. The critical
point is this. Because intention-movements are simply
social intention
intention-
movement
WANT DO x
social intention
WANT DO x
SEE y
“referential”
intention
=>
attention-
getter
Figure 2.1
52 Chapter 2
ritualizations (abbreviations) of initial steps in intentional
actions, their “meaning” is built in; it is simply what the
communicator intends the other to do in the interaction,
which was already present in some preexisting act in the
social interaction before the signal was ritualized. In con-
trast, attention-getters introduce a modicum of indirect-
ness into the process. Their two-tiered intentional
structure creates a “distance” between the overt commu-
nicative means (act of “reference”) and the covert com-
municative end (social intention). The recipient then
potentially infers from what she is looking at what
the communicator wants (although it is also possible
that she simply reacts to it naturally without such an
inference).
Amazing though this process is from the point of view
of animal communication in general, it still differs from
human communication in some fundamental ways. These
will be spelled out more fully in the next chapter, but for
now we may focus on one key difference, from the point
of view of the recipient. When one human points for
another, the recipient implicitly asks herself why—why
does he think that looking in that direction will be useful
or interesting for me? This is based on the assumption
that he is indeed pointing for her benefit (at least imme-
diately). Thus, young children know that an adult’s
pointing to a bucket in the context of a searching activity
is probably relevant in some way to their joint goal of
finding the toy. In contrast, great apes cannot and do not
assume that the other is pointing for their benefit, and so
Primate Intentional Communication 53
they do not ask themselves “why does he think this is
relevant for me?” They want to know what he wants for
himself (since when they point it is always for them-
selves), not how he thinks their looking in this direction
will be relevant for them—and so they simply do not see
another’s pointing gesture as relevant to their own goal.
(For what it is worth, the same is true of recipients of ape
vocalizations: they hear an excited or fearful scream and
they ask what prompted it, but they do not ask how the
screamer thinks it is relevant for them.) The general point
is that when communication becomes governed by more
cooperative motives—not just individual intentionality,
but shared intentionality—a whole new inferential
process ensues, as we shall see in some detail in the
chapter that follows.
2.5 Conclusion
The vast majority of studies of nonhuman primate
communication focus on their vocal displays, and virtu-
ally all treatises with titles such as “Primate communica-
tion and human language” focus on the vocal channel,
often without even mentioning gestures (two recent
exceptions are Corballis 2002 and Burling 2005). In my
opinion, this is a huge mistake. Primate vocal displays
are basically no different from those of other mammals;
there is no growth in sophistication or complexity from
other mammals to primates or, within primates, from
monkeys to apes. For all mammals, including nonhuman
54 Chapter 2
primates, vocal displays are mostly unlearned, geneti-
cally fixed, emotionally urgent, involuntary, inflexible
responses to evolutionarily important events that benefit
the vocalizer in some more or less direct way. They are
broadcast mostly indiscriminately, with little attention to
potential recipients. When apes grow up in the presence
of humans they learn no new vocalizations, and cannot
even be trained to vocalize in new ways. How could such
mechanical reflexes be a direct precursor to any of the
complexities of human communication and language,
beyond simple cries of “Ouch!”?
In stark contrast, a significant number of nonhuman
primate gestures, especially those of great apes, are indi-
vidually learned and flexibly produced communicative
acts, involving an understanding of important aspects of
individual intentionality. Apes’ intention-movement ges-
tures express the intention that I want you to do some-
thing, and they are chosen in light of the attentional state
of the recipient. Apes’ attention-getting gestures express
the two-tiered intention that I want you to see something
so that you will do something, with some attention-
getters even being used triadically (e.g., to “offer” a body
part or object to another, or to “point” for humans). Ape
attention-getters are an extremely rare form of communi-
cation evolutionarily—I have even referred to them here
as a kind of “missing link” to human communication and
all of its attention directing and sharing—because they
introduce a split between the referential intention that the
recipient look at something and the social intention that
Primate Intentional Communication 55
she do something as a result. In all, I personally do not
see how anyone can doubt that ape gestures—in all of
their flexibility and sensitivity to the attention of the
other—and not ape vocalizations—in all of their inflexi-
bility and ignoring of others—are the original font from
which the richness and complexities of human commu-
nication and language have flowed.
3 Human Cooperative
Communication
I wouldn’t know what I should point to in the picture as a correlate
of the word kiss . . . or . . . the word taller. . . . [But] there is an act of
“directing attention to the size of people” or to their actions. . . . This
shows how it was possible for the general concept of meaning to come
about.
—Wittgenstein, The Big Typescript
It would be easy to think that nothing great apes do is
of much importance to human communication because
humans communicate using language, and language
works in an utterly unique way—as a kind of abstract
symbolic code that conveys meaning directly. But if our
question is about origins, this way of thinking has two
fundamental problems.
The first is that although conventional languages are in
some sense different codes, linguistic communication
relies to a much greater degree than is readily apparent
on uncoded communication and other forms of mental
attunement. To give just two very simple examples:
(1) everyday linguistic communication is peppered with
58 Chapter 3
expressions such as it, she, they, here, the guy we met, whose
referents cannot be determined directly from any code
but must be inferred from common conceptual ground;
and (2) everyday conversation is full of communicative
exchanges such as, Ernie: “Wanna go to the movie?,”
Bert: “I’ve got a test in the morning”—in which Ernie can
only understand Bert’s response given much shared
background knowledge and inferences from facts outside
of any code (e.g., knowing that having a test in the
morning means studying the night before, which pre-
cludes going to a movie). The linguistic “code” rests on
a nonlinguistic infrastructure of intentional understand-
ing and common conceptual ground, which is in fact
logically primary (Wittgenstein 1953).
The second problem concerns origins directly. The
basic point is that human communication could not have
originated with a code, since this would assume what it
attempts to explain (as do all social contract theories).
Thus, establishing an explicit code requires some preex-
isting form of communication that is at least as rich as
that code. For example, if two employees want to estab-
lish a code whereby they knock twice on the wall to warn
that the boss approaches, how can they establish this
except through some other form of communication? A
symbolic communicative code assumes some preexisting
form of communication that is being codified—in much
the same way that money assumes a preexisting practice
of barter and trade that is being, in a sense, codified.
Explicit codes are thus by their very nature derivative.
Human Cooperative Communication 59
But what about more naturally arising “codes” like
languages? They are not explicitly formulated ahead of
time, and so perhaps they are not subject to this same
bootstrapping problem. Alas, no. One of the central
insights of Wittgenstein’s (1953) trenchant analysis of lin-
guistic communication is that new potential users of a
language—for example, children—can break into the
code only if they have some other means of communicat-
ing with, or at least communing with, mature users. Oth-
erwise, they are in the position of Quine’s (1960) visitor
to a foreign culture who hears a native utter “Gavagai”
as an animal runs past, with no clue as to which aspect
of the situation the native intends to indicate with this
unknown linguistic expression. The native might “show”
the stranger what he means, but this showing will, in the
end, come down to some form of uncoded communica-
tion or, again, some other, uncoded way in which the two
of them attune to one another mentally.
If we want to understand human communication,
therefore, we cannot begin with language. Rather, we
must begin with unconventionalized, uncoded commu-
nication, and other forms of mental attunement, as foun-
dational. Excellent candidates for this role are humans’
natural gestures such as pointing and pantomiming.
These gestures are simple and natural, but still they are
used to communicate in very powerful, species-unique
ways. Our first question must therefore be how these
gestures work—before we take on language and its
myriad complexities. Our answer will focus on the mostly
60 Chapter 3
hidden, highly complex, species-unique, psychological
infrastructure of shared intentionality within which
humans use their natural gestures—which generates a
whole new world of things to communicate about. Speci-
fying the components of this infrastructure systemati-
cally—in terms of both the cognitive skills and the social
motivations involved—amounts to constructing a model
of human communication, what we will call the coopera-
tion model.
3.1 Pointing and Pantomiming
Much of the research on human gestures has focused on
the conventionalized sign languages of the deaf (e.g.,
Armstrong, Stokoe, and Wilcox 1995; Liddell 2003). But
since such languages have basically all the complexities
of modern vocal languages, they presumably do not rep-
resent the earliest evolutionary stages of uniquely human
gestural communication. Other research has focused on
the gestures that accompany vocal language, which have
a number of unique qualities owing to their merely sup-
porting role in the communicatory process (McNeil 1992;
Goldin-Meadow 2003a). But if gestures came first in
human evolution, then humans’ earliest gestures would
have been used without any conventionalized languages,
either vocal or signed, on their own. Our interest here
then, at least initially, is not in human gestures used as
substitutes for or supplements to vocal language, but
Human Cooperative Communication 61
rather gestures used as complete communicative acts
in themselves—because it is here that we may see most
clearly all the different components of human coopera-
tive communication working together, as they do for pre-
linguistic infants and as they presumably did for early
humans before language. We want to know both how
humans’ unique forms of gesture might have emerged
from the gestures of apes evolutionarily, and how these
gestures might then subsequently have paved the way
toward fully conventionalized natural languages.
If we look at human gestures from a functional, psy-
chological point of view—at how human gestures are
used to communicate—it is widely agreed that there are
at bottom two basic types, based on how they are used
to make reference (see Kendon 2004, p. 107). Humans
gesture to:
• direct the attention of a recipient spatially to something
in the immediate perceptual environment (deictically)
• direct the imagination of a recipient to something that,
typically, is not in the immediate perceptual environment
by behaviorally simulating an action, relation, or object
(iconically)
By drawing the recipient’s attention or imagination to
something, these referential acts are intended to induce
her to infer the communicator’s social intention—what
the communicator wants the recipient to do, know, or
feel.
62 Chapter 3
These two basic types of human gesture are, in a very
general way, parallel to the two types of great ape gesture.
Human pointing gestures are similar to ape attention-
getters in that they are both aimed at directing the
attention of a recipient to something in the immediate
perceptual environment. Human iconic gestures are
similar to great ape intention-movements in that they are
both actions but not real actions: intention-movements
are abbreviated from the real thing, and iconic gestures
depict the real thing symbolically in its absence. But there
are important differences as well. Thus, whereas ape
attention-getters rest on the natural tendency of recipi-
ents to attend to the source of noises or touches, human
pointing rests on the natural tendency of recipients to
follow the gaze direction, and so the pointing direction,
of others to external targets. And whereas ape intention-
movements rest on the natural tendency of recipients to
anticipate the next step in an action sequence—themati-
cally, so to speak—human iconic gestures rest on the
natural tendency of recipients to understand intentional
actions—in this case, outside their normal context as used
to communicate about a situation “like this one” symboli-
cally and categorically.
3.1.1 Pointing
Arguably the most fundamental type of human gesture
used as a complete communicative act is what we may
call attention-directing or deictic gestures, the prototype
Human Cooperative Communication 63
of which is human pointing. Although there are signifi-
cant variations of form (e.g., in some cultures the norm
is lip-pointing or chin-pointing rather than index finger
pointing), the basic interpersonal function of directing
someone’s attention to something gesturally is present
in all known human societies (Kita 2003). Attention-
directing gestures work by directing the attention of the
recipient spatially to some location in the immediate per-
ceptual environment (including holding up objects to
show them to others). Extra cognitive work must then be
done for the social intention—why this referential act has
been performed, what the communicator wants from the
recipient—to be inferred. Exactly how human beings
learn to point, if indeed they do, is not known, but we
discuss some alternatives in chapter 4 on ontogeny.
Over the past few years I have from time to time looked
for examples of people pointing in natural contexts,
mostly without language. These occur in situations in
which, for one reason or another, language is not practical
or appropriate. Some are quite simple, while others are
like mini soap operas, with whole stories behind them.
Each can be glossed in terms of the referential inten-
tion (“attend to”) plus the social intention. Some exam-
ples are:
Example 1: A man in a bar wants another drink; he waits
until the bartender looks at him and then points to his
empty shotglass. Gloss: Attend to the emptiness of the
glass; please fill it up with liquor.
64 Chapter 3
Example 2: We are climbing up a steep riverbank, me
already on top, and the person following, in order to have
her hands free for climbing, hands up to me a book and
points to the protruding end of a pen. Gloss: Attend to the
precariousness of the pen; please be careful and don’t let
it drop out.
Example 3: People standing in line. The line has moved
forward and a man hasn’t noticed this because he is
turned around talking to the person behind him. Someone
from still further back points for him to the newly opened
gap. Gloss: Attend to the empty space; please move up
into it.
Example 4: A well-known professional athlete is stand-
ing in line at the airport. From some distance away, one
man points to him for his companion. Gloss: Attend to
Charles Barkley; it’s cool we see him, don’t you think?
Example 5: I am standing in the rear of the airplane, just
to stretch for a bit, and this is near the bathroom. A
woman approaches, and when she sees me points to the
bathroom door with a quizzical look on her face. Gloss:
Attend to the bathroom; are you waiting for it?
The main thing to notice in these utterly quotidian
observations is simply the variety and complexity of
ways in which pointing may be integrated into the various
forms of life in which we operate on a daily basis. All of
these observations involve the split between the referen-
tial and the social intention, as the communicator attempts
Human Cooperative Communication 65
to direct the recipient’s attention to something for some
reason, and the recipient attempts to follow this attention
directing and to infer this reason—sometimes with a
great inferential “distance” to be covered. For example,
on the basis of my friend pointing to a pen in a notebook,
I am supposed to infer that she wants me to make sure it
stays safe; on the basis of someone pointing to a place on
the floor, the recipient is supposed to know that she is
being requested to move her body there; on the basis of
the woman pointing to the airplane bathroom, I am sup-
posed to tell her if I am waiting. Each of these depends
on all kinds of background knowledge to make sense
(and, as I shall argue below, this knowledge must be
shared common ground). Thus, for me to comprehend
the social intention of the woman inquiring about the
bathroom—which,ofcourse,Ididimmediately—requires
a large amount of common conceptual ground between
us about airplanes, airplane bathrooms, human biology
and waste management, waiting in line, politeness con-
ventions, and so forth. Even the very simple first example
requires a common understanding that customers are at
the bar because they want to drink, that an empty glass
does not afford drinking, that the bartender has drink
if the customer can pay, that a shotglass usually holds
liquor and not beer or wine, and so forth.
One might suppose that only someone who is linguis-
tic already could use a pointing gesture to communicate
in such complex ways—that somehow the ability to
66 Chapter 3
communicate so richly with a simple pointing gesture is
parasitic on linguistic skills. But, as we shall see in the
next chapter, human infants, before they have much or
any language, can already use pointing to direct others
to all kinds of referents in order to communicate all kinds
of complex social intentions.
3.1.2 Iconic Gestures (Pantomiming)
The second type of human gesture used as a complete
communicative act is iconic gestures or pantomimes
(depictive, imagistic, characterizing, representational,
and symbolic gestures are other terms that have been
used). In one form or another, iconic gestures are presum-
ably culturally universal as well. In using an iconic gesture
the communicator enacts some action with her hands
and/or body (or perhaps depicts a referent statically),
and this is intended to induce the recipient to imagine
some corresponding perceptually absent referent (or
some perceptually absent aspect of a present referential
situation), for example, an action the communicator
wants the recipient to perform or an object he wants her
to fetch. In other words, the gesturer symbolizes the ref-
erential situation for the recipient. Again in this case,
extra cognitive work must be done after the referent is
identified for the social intention to be inferred.
Because iconic gestures are typically simulations of
actions that are not currently happening (or objects or
Human Cooperative Communication 67
relationships not currently perceptually present), they
depend, in a way that pointing does not, on skills involv-
ing some kind of imitation, simulation, or symboliz-
ing—which goes a long way toward explaining why apes
do not use them. The seemingly most common uses of
iconic gestures are (i) to indicate that this is the action I
want you to perform, or that I intend to perform myself,
or that I want to tell you about; and (ii) to request or
otherwise indicate an object that “does this” or an object
that “one does this with.” Of course these are instanti-
ated in an almost infinite variety of contexts. Here are
some observed examples, again glossing in such a way
that the referential and social intentions are clearly
differentiated:
Example 6: I am in a cheese shop in Italy, and I ask for
“parmegiano.” The proprietor asks me something I do
not understand, but guessing—and not having the appro-
priate word—I twiddle my fingers as if sprinkling grated
cheese onto my pasta. Gloss: Imagine what I am doing
this to; and give me some of it.
Example 7: I am at the front of the lecture hall, getting
ready to give a lecture. A friend in the audience fiddles
with her shirt button, frowning at me, and sure enough
when I look down mine is unbuttoned. Gloss: Imagine
buttoning a button like this; do it on yourself.
Example 8: The airport security guard motions his hand
in a circular motion to tell me to turn around so he can
68 Chapter 3
scan my back. Gloss: Imagine your body doing this
motion; do it.
Example 9: At a vegetable stand, the proprietor—from a
few meters away with back partially turned—is follow-
ing a customer’s request to fill a bag with potatoes. She
pauses with a questioning look to query nonverbally
“Should I stop here?” The customer motions his hand in
a shoveling motion like the one she was just doing. Gloss:
Imagine doing this action (which you were just doing);
do it (i.e., “Keep going”).
Example 10: At a loud construction site, one worker pan-
tomimes to another ten meters away as if he were using
a chainsaw. Gloss: Imagine me doing this; bring me the
thing I need to do it.
Example 11: On television, a soccer match. A shot on
goal narrowly misses the net. The TV camera focuses on
the coach. He arranges his thumb and index finger about
two inches apart and holds them up to his assistant. Gloss:
Imagine a tiny distance like this; “It only missed by this
much.”
The basic behavior here is to enact an action, or in the
last example a spatial relationship, not currently percep-
tually present, in order to induce the recipient to imagine
a corresponding real action or relationship (and hence, in
some cases, a related object), which—given some common
conceptual ground—should allow her to infer the social
intention. Thus, my sprinkling gesture at the cheese
shop indicates what I will do with the object I desire, and
Human Cooperative Communication 69
the proprietor’s comprehension is premised on shared
knowledge of how grated cheese works. It is important
to note that the comprehension of iconic gestures depends
fundamentally on an understanding of the intention to
communicate behind the gesture: without a recognition
of my intention to communicate the proprietor will see
my sprinkling motion as some kind of strangely mis-
placed instrumental action, rather than an action designed
to inform him of something (see Leslie’s 1987 argument
for the need to “quarantine” pretend acts from real
acts).
Because iconic gestures are almost always aimed at
absent entities (including actions that perceptually
present entities might or should perform), they work
somewhat differently from pointing—in this case in
terms of what is “in” the gesture symbolically and what
must be inferred. For example, a customer at a bar
with no empty glass in front of him might iconically
gesture to the bartender for a drink by pantomiming
pouring a drink or bringing a glass to his lips—that
is, by simulating either the initiating or final consum-
matory act of drinking. In contrast, in pointing to the
perceptually present empty glass (as in example 1), what
is indicated is its emptiness, and what is requested is
its fullness, which will then lead the bartender to perform
the desired action. To my knowledge, there is no sys-
tematic research concerning which aspects of a situation
are indicated by different kinds of gestures on different
occasions when language is impractical, including when
70 Chapter 3
a person might choose a pointing versus an iconic
gesture. It seems plausible that people point to percep-
tually present things as their first option, when that is
feasible and likely to suffice communicatively, and that
only when, for whatever reason, pointing is impractical
(e.g., when the intended referential situation is not
currently present perceptually) do people use iconic
gestures.
Once again one might suppose that only someone who
already has language could use iconic gestures to com-
municate in such complex ways. But again in this case,
as in pointing, human infants before they begin acquiring
language in earnest begin to use iconic and/or conven-
tionalized gestures in complex ways—although not
nearly to the same extent as they do with pointing (see
chapter 4). Also, deaf children who have not been exposed
to any conventional vocal or signed language invent
iconic gestures to communicate in extremely rich and
complex ways early in development (Goldin-Meadow
2003b; see also chapter 6). Iconic gestures thus do not
rely on language.
It is important to reiterate that although iconic gestures
are most often used to simulate actions, the referential
intention involved can also target an object: “the object
that does this” or “the object that one does this with”
(analogous to a relative clause in language), as in example
10 in which the worker asks for the chainsaw by panto-
miming the way one uses it. It is thus not the case that
pointing is only for objects and iconic gestures are only
for actions. We will therefore not posit in chapters 4 and
Human Cooperative Communication 71
5 that pointing is a precursor for nouns and iconic ges-
tures are precursors for verbs in the development and
evolution of language; rather, we will associate pointing
with demonstratives and other deictics (indicated in
space), whereas we will associate iconic gestures with
contentful linguistic conventions, including both nouns
and verbs.
3.1.3 Summary
These acts of pointing and pantomiming did not origi-
nate from any preestablished code between interactants,
linguistic or otherwise, and so our question is: how can
they communicate so richly? How can we account for the
great diversity and complexity of communicative func-
tions involved, including even reference to different per-
spectives on entities and to absent entities? How does the
recipient cover the great inferential distances from the
indicated referent to the communicator’s social inten-
tion? The answer to these questions is a whole set of
complex processes that will take some time to spell out—
integrated, ultimately, into what we will call the coopera-
tion model of human communication—and indeed the
complete answer requires in addition an explication of
the ontogenetic and phylogenetic processes involved (in
the two chapters that follow). But for now, we may sketch
out the basic elements of this model, so that we may see
clearly the endpoint of the path human beings had to
traverse to get from ape gestures to human pointing and
pantomiming.
72 Chapter 3
3.2 The Cooperation Model
The ultimate explanation for how it is that human
beings are able to communicate with one another in
such complex ways with such simple gestures is that
they have unique ways of engaging with one another
socially in general. More specifically, human beings coop-
erate with one another in species-unique ways involving
processes of shared intentionality.
According to a number of philosophers of action,
shared intentionality refers to behavioral phenomena
that are both intentional and irreducibly social, in the
sense that the agent of the intentions and actions is the
plural subject “we.” For example, Gilbert (1989) looks at
extremely simple collaborative activities such as taking a
walk together—as opposed to walking down a sidewalk
in parallel to an unknown person—and concludes that
the agent of the social activity is “we.” The difference can
be clearly seen if one person simply veers off in another
direction unannounced. If we just happen to be walking
in parallel, this deviation means nothing; but if we are
walking together, my veering off is some kind of breach
and you may rebuke me for it (since we have made a joint
commitment to take a walk together and so certain social
norms now apply). Scaled up, we may even get to phe-
nomena in which “we” intend things together in such
a way that they take on new powers—such as when
pieces of paper become money, and ordinary people are
transformed into presidents within institutional realities
Human Cooperative Communication 73
(Searle 1995). The proposal is that because humans are
able to engage with one another in acts of shared inten-
tionality—everything from a joint walk together to joint
participation in transforming people into institutional
officials—their social interactions take on new qualities.
The basic psychological underpinning of the ability to
participate with others in acts of shared intentionality,
including communicating with them in human-like ways,
is the ability to engage with others in a human-like coop-
erative manner, characterized by Searle as follows:
[Shared] intentionality presupposes a background sense of the
other as a candidate for cooperative agency . . . [which] is a
necessary condition of all collective behavior and hence all
conversation. (1990, pp. 414–415)
For current purposes, we may decompose this under-
standing of others as cooperative agents into: (i) the cog-
nitive skills for creating joint intentions and attention
(and other forms of common conceptual ground) with
others; and (ii) the social motivations for helping and
sharing with others (and forming mutual expectations
about these cooperative motives).
3.2.1 Cognitive Skills: Creating Common Ground
All the instances of pointing and pantomiming just
recounted involve one person simply directing another’s
attention or imagination to some referent. The recipient
then looks to the indicated referent, or imagines it, and
from this discerns what the communicator is attempting
74 Chapter 3
to communicate—anything from “Are you waiting for
the bathroom?” to “I’d like my cheese grated.” How
do we do it? Where does this communicative complexity
come from, if it is not “in” the protruding or sprinkling
fingers?
The answer is of course “context,” but this only takes
us so far. Thus, great apes often operate in complex social
contexts without seeming to communicate so richly. It is
possible that adult humans can conceive of more complex
contexts than apes and that this is the answer. But, as will
be documented in the next chapter, even prelinguistic
infants communicate gesturally in much more complex
ways than apes, though it is not clear their conceptual
skills are so much greater. Instead, in the current view,
a large part of the explanation for humans’ uniquely
complex ways of communicating gesturally is that
“context” for humans means something very special. For
humans the communicative context is not simply every-
thing in the immediate environment, from the tempera-
ture of the room to the sounds of birds in the background,
but rather the communicative context is what is “rele-
vant” to the social interaction, that is, what each partici-
pant sees as relevant and knows that the other sees as
relevant as well—and knows that the other knows this as
well, and so on, potentially ad infinitum. This kind of
shared, intersubjective context is what we may call, fol-
lowing Clark (1996), common ground or, sometimes
(when we wish to emphasize the shared perceptual
context), the joint attentional frame. Common ground
Human Cooperative Communication 75
includes everything we both know (and know that we
both know, etc.), from facts about the world, to the way
that rational people act in certain situations, to what
people typically find salient and interesting (Levinson
1995).
Common ground is necessary for the recipient to deter-
mine both what the communicator is directing attention
to (his referential intention) and why he is doing it (his
social intention). Thus, in the relatively simple first
example of pointing given above (a customer points for
the bartender to his empty shotglass to request another
drink), without some kind of common ground the bar-
tender cannot know if the customer is pointing to the
glass as a whole, or its color, or a small crack in it. Indeed,
in the actual example, the customer is pointing not to the
glass itself but to its emptiness (imagine the difference
if the pointed-to glass were already full—the customer’s
meaning would have to be something very different).
And even keeping the exact same referent, the social
intentionmaybedifferentdependingoncommonground.
Thus, in the normal situation the customer is pointing to
his empty shotglass to request it being filled with liquor—
which the bartender understands because they both
know together that, as noted above, customers are at the
bar because they want to drink, an empty glass does not
afford drinking, the bartender has drink if the customer
can pay, and so forth. But, if the customer and bartender
are actually buddies who regularly attend Alcoholics
Anonymous together, the customer could be pointing to
76 Chapter 3
the emptiness of his shotglass in this case to indicate to
his buddy that he has still managed, after an hour at the
bar, to resist having a drink.
The critical point about common ground is that it takes
people beyond their own egocentric perspective on
things. For example, modifying an example from Sperber
and Wilson (1986), suppose that in a park I point to direct
your attention to a location some meters away. There
are three people there: an ice-cream vendor, a jogger you
have never seen before, and William, who is your lover.
If you are being egocentric, you assume in the first
instance that I am drawing your attention to William, as
he is very relevant for you, whereas the other two are not
relevant for you. In the normal case, though, your search
for relevance is not egocentric but takes place within the
context of our shared common ground from the begin-
ning, for example, taking into account from the beginning
whether we both know together that we both know about
William. Thus, suppose that I do not know about William
and you know this for certain (he is your secret lover),
and suppose further that you and I both know that we
both share a passion for ice cream (we have explicitly
discussed this). If I now direct your attention in the
general direction of these same three people, no matter
how relevant William is for you egocentrically, and even
if you were lying to me about the ice cream (so that it is
not in reality relevant for you at all), you will still assume
that I am indicating for you the ice-cream vendor, since
we both “know” from our previous discussion that we
Human Cooperative Communication 77
both love ice cream and you think I do not know about
you and William. In direct competition, shared common
ground trumps individual personal relevance every
time.1
Of course, you may hypothesize that I really do know
about William somehow and proceed on that assump-
tion. But then you are, essentially, guessing about the
kind of common ground that would make the process
the canonical one. In the normal case, you want to know
from the outset why I think that looking in that direction
will be relevant for you, with a prerequisite being that
we know together about the potential referent and its
relevance for you. And so what comes to your mind most
readily as an interpretation of my pointing gesture, at the
top of the stack as it were (even though you may have
your own personal interests as well), will be those things
that are in our common ground. Another variation is
cases in which we do not have direct personal common
ground, but we both, as members of a particular culture
or social group, have assumptions about what the other
should know (and know I know, etc.). Thus, I might point
to a sight for you out the airplane window even though
1. If we want to get really perverse, we can, following Clark and Mar-
shall (1981), imagine a situation in which I have found out, unbe-
knownst to you, that William is your secret lover. Then we both know
that he is extremely relevant for you, but since you do not know that
I know this, you will not assume I am referring to him. This recursion
may continue ad infinitum, with successful reference not possible with
any finite number of iterations. It is required that we both know
together, it is in our common ground, that William is especially
relevant for you.
78 Chapter 3
we have never before met, as I assume that you can
identify the referent based on (presumably) shared
assumptions about what people typically find salient,
beautiful, and so forth. But note that in both of these
cases—guessing and general cultural common ground—
the recipient attempts to comprehend the communicative
act by, in effect, imagining or assuming some form of
common ground that she must share with the communi-
cator if the whole thing is to make sense. The normal
case—the one with which young children begin and the
one that adults process without hesitation—is thus the
case in which we both recognize our common ground
within which the communicative act is immediately
comprehensible.
This leads us to propose a kind of typology of common
ground based on three distinctions (see Clark 1996 for
a slightly different typology). The first is whether the
common ground is based in our immediate perceptual
environment, what I will call joint attention (what Clark
1996 calls perceptual co-presence), or rather is based in
shared experiences from the past. Second, we may also
distinguish between common ground created by top-
down processes—for example, we are pursuing a shared
goal together and so know together that we are focusing
on certain things relevant to our goal—and common
ground created by bottom-up processes—for example,
we both hear a loud noise and know together that we did.
Later I will argue that common ground created by top-
down processes in an immediately copresent perceptual
Human Cooperative Communication 79
environment—specifically in the joint attention of col-
laborative activities—is in some sense primary in that it
provides for especially salient and solid common ground.
Third and finally, common ground may be based on such
generalized things as common cultural knowledge, never
explicitly acknowledged between us—often signified by
cultural markers of various sorts—or it may be based on
things overtly acknowledged, for example, when we look
to one another knowingly as a mutually known friend
approaches. Explicitly acknowledged common ground
may also have special salience and importance in some
communicative situations, or for novices such as human
children.
Importantly, for all types of human communication
including language, the relationship between the overt
communicative act and common ground—of whatever
type—is complementary. That is, as more can be assumed
to be shared between communicator and recipient, less
needs to be overtly expressed. Indeed, if enough is shared
in common ground, the overt expression of either motive
or referent may be totally eliminated without diminish-
ing the message at all. For example, in the dentist’s office
the dentist may sometimes point to the instrument she
wants without overtly expressing her desire per se to the
assistant, since her desire to have the instrument is mutu-
ally assumed in this mutually known context (cf. Witt-
genstein’s builders). Conversely, the dentist may simply
hold out her hand, indicating that she wants an instru-
ment, and the assistant, based on shared knowledge of
80 Chapter 3
the procedure, puts the correct one (of many on the table)
in her hand without the intended referent ever having
been indicated specifically. An observed real example in
which the referent is not indicated but assumed, based
on shared common ground, is as follows:
Example 12: In an airplane, I take my seat on the aisle.
There is a woman sitting next to the window in my row.
A man comes into the row behind us, talking extremely
loudly and obnoxiously. I look to the woman and roll my
eyes, expressing an attitude best glossed as “Ugh, this is
going to be a long trip.” I did not need to indicate the ref-
erent of my exasperation for her; it was clear to us both.
Note that if the man had taken his seat in an utterly
quiet manner, and I now wanted to refer my seatmate to
him, I would need to somehow indicate him to her overtly
since there would be no basis for joint attention. Interest-
ingly, if the common ground or joint attention is strong
enough, for example, if it is routinized or even institu-
tionalized, it is also easy to actually point about absent
referents. For example, if many mornings I must remind
my child to bring her backpack, and today she has forgot-
ten it, at the critical moment I may simply point to her
back, or to mine, and she will know exactly what I mean.
Without this shared routine, the same pointing gesture
could not indicate the absent backpack. And even though
iconic gestures and language express much more referen-
tial content “in” the signal than does pointing, they still
depend on common ground in the same basic way as
Human Cooperative Communication 81
pointing. Thus, when the airport security guard whirls
his hand in a circular motion (example 8), no matter how
descriptive the act, it presupposes a mutually known
context of airport security procedures for appropriate
interpretation. Without this common ground—imagine a
child at an airport for the first time—it is not clear what
goes around or is supposed to go around in such a circu-
lar motion. And of course everyday language is full of
referential expressions such as pronouns that depend
absolutely on a shared context for interpretation.
In all, then, it is only because humans are able to con-
struct with others various forms of conceptual common
ground and joint attention that very simple pointing and
iconic gestures can be used to communicate in complex
ways—ways that go far beyond what great apes are able
to communicate with their intention-movement and
attention-getting gestures. Indeed, in many cases, when
the common ground is particularly well defined, simple
gestures may communicate as powerfully as language.
Most basically, as can be clearly seen in the examples in
which the referent of pointing changes with the common
ground—for example, pointing to the shotglass to indi-
cate either the object itself, its color, its emptiness, or its
state of repair—a certain kind of perspective shifting is
involved. It is thus possible that this kind of reference
shifting in gesturing—accomplished by making contact
in different ways with communicator-recipient common
ground—paves the way for perspectival linguistic con-
ventions both phylogenetically and ontogenetically.
82 Chapter 3
Moreover, although reference to entities displaced in
space and time has traditionally been seen as the exclu-
sive province of language—and there is no doubt that
language does this by far most productively—within an
appropriate shared context, people may point or gesture
iconically to direct attention to the nonpresence of
expected entities (e.g., a missing backpack) or even to
indicate absent entities directly (e.g., the desired chain-
saw in example 10), which may also pave the way for
displaced reference in language.
What this means is that many of the especially power-
ful properties that people often attribute to language—
including referring others to perspectives on things and
to absent referents—are actually present more fundamen-
tally in human cooperative communication with very
simple gestures. This is possible because of—and only
because of—various types of common conceptual ground
and joint attention between communicators.
3.2.2 Social Motivations: Helping and Sharing
The other side of the picture is humans’ especially coop-
erative social motivations. In his seminal analysis, Grice
(1975) emphasized that, most fundamentally, communi-
cators and recipients interact cooperatively to get the
message across (i.e., to get the recipient to know the com-
municator’s social intention), which is their joint goal.
This means that the communicator makes efforts to com-
municate in ways that are comprehensible to the recipi-
Human Cooperative Communication 83
ent, who in turn makes efforts at comprehension by
making obvious inferences, asking for clarification when
needed, and so forth (see Clark 1996 for a description of
reference as a joint activity). It is not clear that other
animal species collaborate in this way in communication;
for example, there is no evidence that other animals ever
ask one another for clarification.
The underlying reason for the cooperative spirit by
which humans work to get the message across is their
species-unique cooperative motivations for communicat-
ing in the first place. These are evolved motivations, and
so we must have some phylogenetic story for their emer-
gence and structuring of human communication, includ-
ing how both communicator and recipient benefit from
interactions so motivated—which we do in chapter 5. For
now, we may begin by noting that communicators often
overtly express these motives emotionally in the com-
municative act—to give recipients information, in addi-
tion to the act of reference, for inferring their specific
social intention. For example, I might point to a pen for
you with a demanding or pleading facial expression to
request that you fetch it for me; or with a surprised or
excited demeanor to simply share my happiness that my
lost pen is here; or with a quizzical expression to ask if
that is your lost pen; or with a neutral expression to
simply inform you of the pen’s presence. Although spe-
cific social intentions are innumerable, there are just three
basic human communicative motives—justified by the
fact that they emerge earliest in ontogeny (chapter 4) and
84 Chapter 3
that they have plausible evolutionary roots in human
social interaction more generally (chapter 5).
The first and most obvious human communicative
motive is requesting—getting others to do what one
wants them to—which, in a general way, is characteristic
of the intentional communicative signals of all apes. The
difference is that instead of ordering the other what to
do, humans often do something more gentle like request-
ing help (from someone who likes helping). That is,
unlike ape imperatives, human imperatives can range
from orders to polite requests to suggestions to hints,
depending most fundamentally on the degree to which a
cooperative attitude may be assumed of the recipient.
Thus, if you are on my land I can order you to leave, or
I can simply inform you that I would like you to leave
(or even that it is my land) if I think you will readily
comply. We might call the first type individual impera-
tives or requests—since I tell you what to do directly—
and the second type cooperative imperatives or
requests—since I simply inform you of my desire and
assume that you will decide to help me fulfill it (i.e., if I
simply inform you of my desire that you leave, you must
care about my desire if the request is to work).2
In all
likelihood, chimpanzees pointing for humans to desired
2. Following Searle (1969, 1999) and others, it is most natural to clas-
sify questions as simply requests for information from others (and
again I could either torture or threaten the information out of you, or
I could simply state that I would like it or ask a conventionalized ques-
tion). Also note that requesting an object is actually requesting that
someone fetch it for you.
Human Cooperative Communication 85
food is not a cooperative imperative, as the ape is trying
to get the human to do something directly, not informing
her of his desire—and he has no expectation that, if he
did, the human (much less another chimpanzee) would
care. But human recipients often do care. For reasons of
their own, they like fulfilling the requests of others if they
are not too onerous; and knowing this, human commu-
nicators in many situations need only make their desires
known.
The second fundamental human communicative
motive, seemingly unique to the species, results from the
fact that individuals often want to offer help to others
without even being requested to—specifically, by inform-
ing others of things, even when they themselves have
no personal interest in the information. And informing
is indeed offering help, since typically I inform you of
things that I think you (not I) will find helpful or interest-
ing, given my knowledge of your goals and interests
(even if on a higher, individual level I have other selfish
motives for doing so). Thus, it is assumed that I am being
helpful, or at least attempting to be helpful, when I point
out the paper you just dropped or tell you that the boss
is in a bad mood today. Socializing a well-known formula
of Searle’s (1999), we may say that requests reflect a You-
to-Me direction of fit, as I want you to conform to my
desire, whereas informatives reflect a Me-to-You direc-
tion of fit, as I want to conform to your desires and inter-
ests. Obviously, helping others by informing them of
things they will find useful or interesting—and also
86 Chapter 3
complying with requests by helping the requesting
person—involves altruistic motives of a type that will
require a special evolutionary explanation (see chapter
5)—again, even if I may sometimes inform you of things
(or comply with your requests) for higher, individual
motives that are anything but altruistic.
In addition to these two most basic motives, we must
posit a third basic communicative motive as well—
although the reasons for positing it as basic will become
clear only after we have considered things from both
ontogenetic and phylogenetic perspectives. People often
simply want to share feelings and attitudes about things
with others—what I will call an expressive or sharing
motive. For example, on a beautiful day it is quite
common to say to your officemate upon arrival at the
office, “What a beautiful day today!”—which derives not
from any imperative or informative motive involving
help, but rather from a purely social one. This kind of
communicative act is simply a sharing of attitudes and
feelings so as to expand our common ground with others.
This sharing motive underlies much of the everyday talk
of people as they gossip about all kinds of things,
expressing opinions and attitudes which they hope the
other will to some degree share. It turns out that this
motive emerges ontogenetically quite early in infants’
prelinguistic pointing, as they, for example, point for a
parent to a colorful clown and squeal with glee. Although
infants might sometimes point simply to inform the
Human Cooperative Communication 87
parent of the presence of the clown, they often point and
squeal with glee even when the parent has already seen
the clown or even is currently looking at it—because
they want the adult to share their enthusiasm nonethe-
less. We will discuss this motive more fully in chapter 4
on ontogeny where I present experimental evidence for
its fundamentally social nature, and also in chapter 5 on
phylogeny where I stress its importance in individuals
identifying with a specific community of like-minded
people (to the exclusion of other communities of people
with whom one does not gossip and share in this same
way).
We may thus posit three general types of evolved
communicative motives. They are determined by the
kind of effect the communicator is attempting to have
on the recipient, expressed here in terms of the shared
intentionality motivations of helping and sharing with
others:
Requesting: I want you to do something to help me
(requesting help or information);
Informing: I want you to know something because I
think it will help or interest you (offering help including
information);
Sharing: I want you to feel something so that we can share
attitudes/feelings together (sharing emotions or attitudes).
These three most basic of human communicative motives
underlie a virtual infinity of particular social intentions
88 Chapter 3
in particular contexts, and they will play a pivotal role in
both our ontogenetic and phylogenetic accounts of the
emergence of human cooperative communication.3
3.2.3 Mutual Assumptions of Helpfulness and
Cooperative Reasoning
The facts that communicators operate with these cooper-
ative motives and that recipients are inclined to respond
appropriately (all other things being equal) are part of the
commongroundbetweenhumancommunicators.Indeed,
this is what motivates them to cooperate in getting the
message across in the first place—they both assume
mutually that it will be to their individual and mutual
benefit to do so. Because the communicator knows this,
he makes sure that the recipient knows that he is attempt-
ing to communicate, as if to say: “You’re going to want
to know this” (i.e., that I have a request of you, that I have
something I want to inform you about, that I have an
attitude I want to share). This additional layer of inten-
tionality—”I want you to know that I want something
3. There is some correspondence here with the basic speech act func-
tions posited by theorists such as Searle (1999), though the mapping is
not totally straightforward. We should also note a number of special-
ized motives for specialized situations that are ontogenetically early
and very likely culturally universal: greeting/leave-taking (“Hello”
and “Goodbye”), expressing gratitude (“Thanks”), and expressing
regret (“Sorry”). These are special because they are not referential in
the normal way and so work a bit differently—and they apply to
highly restricted and socially important circumstances that are crucial
to human social evolution (see ch. 5).
Human Cooperative Communication 89
from you”—is absolutely critical to the process and is
most commonly referred to as the (Gricean) communica-
tive intention.
Grice (1957) observed that human communicative acts
involve an intention about the communication specifi-
cally. That is, when I point to a tree for you, I not only
want you to attend to the tree, I also want you to attend
to my desire that you attend to the tree (often signaled
by eye contact, etc., and also implicit quite often in the
expression of motive, as a sign that this act is done “for
you”). This additional intentional layer is necessary to
motivate you to make the kinds of relevance inferences
required to identify both my referent and my social inten-
tion (Sperber and Wilson 1986). Thus, when you see me
pointing to a tree, and clearly wanting you to know that
I am pointing it out for you, then naturally you want to
know why I am doing that: what I want you to do, think,
or feel with respect to the tree. You assume that when I
point to the tree for you, I believe it will be interesting or
relevant for you in some way: perhaps because it is your
favorite kind of tree and I want to inform you of its pres-
ence here, or perhaps because I have a request about it
that I think you would like to fulfill, or perhaps because
I want you to share my enthusiasm for it.
To make this crystal clear, let us compare cases with
and without a communicative intention (modified from
Sperber and Wilson 1986). Thus, suppose that while on a
hike we sit down on a rock in the woods, and I lean back
because I am tired, which exposes a large tree to your line
90 Chapter 3
of sight. No inferences follow. But if I lean back and point
to the tree for you with an insistent expression, you natu-
rally attempt to determine why I am doing this. That is,
you notice that I have gone to some trouble to point out
the tree to you and to express my insistence, and this
generates in you a search for some relevance (typically
within our common ground): why does he want me to
attend to the tree? Since I know that this is the process, I
make sure that you know that my pointing out of the tree
for you is intentional—so that you will seek to discover
the reason for my intentional act toward you: what I want
you to know or to do or to feel. That this is a natural part
of most human communication is evidenced by the fact
that, in most situations, it takes a distinct effort to circum-
vent it. Thus, if a guest wants more wine in his glass, but
thinks it impolite to request it directly of his host, he
might simply place his empty glass in a conspicuous loca-
tion so that she will see it and (he hopes) refill it, but
without knowing that he had this in mind all along. The
guest wants the host to know about the empty glass, but
he does not want her to know that he wants her to know
this. Such cases of “hidden authorship”—or, in some
cases, simply indifference about the recipient noticing
one’s authorship—signal an especially deep understand-
ing of the way communicative intentions operate within
the communicative act as a whole.
The main point is that this process occurs because
both participants know together and trust together the
cooperative motivations involved. That is to say, in
Human Cooperative Communication 91
general, if a human communicator requests help (all
other things being equal), the recipient will want to
help—and they both know this and trust in this. Simi-
larly, if the communicator offers information, they can
mutually assume that he thinks the information will be
useful or interesting for the recipient (and that normally
means “true” as well)—and so she will accept it. And
finally, if the communicator wants to share attitudes,
they assume together the prosocial motive of sharing,
and the communicator may expect the recipient to share
unless there are good reasons against it. The communi-
cator therefore overtly signals his intention to commu-
nicate, and they therefore both work together to ensure
that the communicative act succeeds.
Importantly, overt expression of the Gricean commu-
nicative intention places the communicative act itself—
the gesture or the utterance—into the participants’
common ground, specifically, into the ongoing joint atten-
tional frame within which they are communicating. Thus,
it is most precise to say not just that I want you to know
that I want you to attend to something, but that I want us
to know this together—I want my communicative act to be
a part of our perceptually copresent joint attention (I
want it to be mutually manifest, in the terms of Sperber
and Wilson 1986, or “wholly overt”). Because human
communicators make their communicative intention
mutually manifest, this makes this intention, in an impor-
tant sense, public—which triggers a whole other set of
processes (Habermas 1987). Specifically, the fact that I
92 Chapter 3
have communicated to you overtly, publicly, actually
creates not just expectations of cooperation but actual
social norms, whose violation is unacceptable.
First, at the level of comprehending the message, if
I attempt to communicate with you—I say “Hey, Ethel”
and you look at me—when I then produce my gesture or
utterance, you cannot just ignore me as though I did not
attempt to communicate. Acting occasionally in this way
will ruin friendships, and acting consistently in this way
will lead to some kind of psychiatric diagnosis and pos-
sible removal from mainstream society. And you must at
least sometimes attempt to generate communication with
others yourself, or the diagnosis will be catatonia and
institutionalization will result immediately. Second, at
the level of compliance after comprehension, if I make
a small request, like “Please pass the salt” at the dinner
table (either in speech or gesture), you cannot really reply
with “No”—unless you make some excuse for why you
cannot comply in this circumstance (and knowing this, I
must make reasonable requests). Similarly, if I inform you
of some fact I think you will find interesting—“Hey, did
you hear Bob Dylan is in town tonight”—you cannot
really reply with “I don’t believe you,” again without
some kind of good reason for, in essence, calling me a liar.
For my part, if I find out something that we know together
you would want to know (we know together that Bob
Dylan is your favorite, and so you would of course want
to know if he was in town), I must tell you; if I do not,
and you find out later, our friendship will be seriously
Human Cooperative Communication 93
damaged. And if you express to me how important reli-
gion is in your life, and I respond that I think it’s stupid,
I risk damaging our relationship built on common atti-
tudes about the world.
Thus, from the production side, we humans must com-
municate with others or we will be thought pathological;
we must request only things that are reasonable or we
will be thought rude; and we must attempt to inform and
to share things with others in ways that are relevant and
appropriate or we will be thought socially weird and will
have no friends. From the comprehension side, we again
must participate, or we will be thought pathological; and
we must help, accept offered help and information, and
share feelings with others, or we will risk social estrange-
ment. The simple fact is that, as in many domains of
human social life, mutual expectations, when put into the
public arena, turn into policeable social norms and obli-
gations. The evolutionary bases of this normative dimen-
sion of human communication, in terms of public
reputation, will be elaborated in chapter 5.
The cooperative motives involved here, and the mutual
knowledge of these cooperative motives and even norms,
mean that the participants in human communication
must reason not just practically, but cooperatively. Thus,
when apes observe another ape signaling to them, they
try to discern what he wants via individual practical rea-
soning about his goals and perceptions. But they are not
trying to understand the message because he wants them
to, since the two of them do not share an assumption that
94 Chapter 3
he is trying to be helpful. The communicator thus does
not signal or “advertise” his intention specifically, as
humans do in signaling their communicative intention.
And in choosing a response, ape recipients do not respond
in a certain way because the other wants or expects them
to; rather, they simply try to do what is best for them-
selves in the situation given what the communicator
apparently wants. In contrast, when humans see that
someone is attempting to communicate with them, they
want to know what he is attempting to communicate at
least partly because he wants them to (and they trust his
cooperative motives), and they choose a response—for
example, complying with a request or accepting offered
information or sharing enthusiasm about something—at
least partly because that is what the other wants them to
do. Because human recipients comprehend and respond
to communicative bids in certain ways at least partly
because that is the way the communicator wants them to
(with the communicator relying on this)—and indeed
because this way of operating is, if everything is public,
normatively prescribed—we call the kind of practical rea-
soning characteristic of human communication coopera-
tive reasoning.
A final word about the recursivity involved in all of
this. First, as noted throughout, the creation of common
ground and/or joint attention between two persons
requires that each of them sees, knows, or attends to
things that she knows the other sees, knows, or attends
to as well—and knows that the other knows this about
Human Cooperative Communication 95
her as well, and so on recursively potentially ad infini-
tum. Also, the Gricean communicative intention is clearly
recursive—at least to several levels. Thus, in Sperber and
Wilson’s (1986) account, in a declarative speech act I want
youtoknowsomething(e.g.,thatyourfriendapproaches),
but my communicative intention is that you know that I
want this. In this analysis, therefore, communicative
intentions are either third or fourth order (depending on
how one counts): I want1 you to know2 I want3 you to
know4 your friend approaches. Finally, the motivational
structure of human communication is also recursive in
that we both know together that we both are helpful—so
that you are expecting me to expect you (and so on with
further embeddings as needed) to be helpful. Most clearly,
such recursivity is absolutely required for norms of coop-
eration in which it is mutually expected by everyone
(including oneself) that everyone will be a cooperative
communicative partner.
There is much controversy about common ground and
related concepts such as mutual knowledge and mutual
manifestness—precisely because of their recursive na-
ture. Since people must communicate in real time, infi-
nite computations of this kind cannot be at work in
actual practice (Clark and Marshall 1981). And of course
the psychological reality is not all of this backing-and-
forthing about knowing what others know I know, etc.,
but rather simply that we both know that we both see,
know, or attend to something together: we “share” it,
and we have various heuristics for identifying common
96 Chapter 3
ground with others. Nevertheless, the underlying recur-
sive levels may become clear when there is some kind
of breakdown, as for example, when I think I share
something with someone that it turns out I do not. This
breakdown may potentially occur at any level of itera-
tion. For example, me saying to you “How beautiful!”
will not work (1) if you think I am attending to some-
thing I am not, (2) if I think you think I am attending
to something I am not, (3) if you think I think you
think I am attending to something I am not, and so
forth and so on. The fact that breakdowns can occur at
different levels—and that people repair such breakdowns
differently in each of these cases—provides evidence for
the different iterations, at least implicitly, in the partici-
pants’ understanding.
Overall, a reasonable way of dealing with all of this—
or at least the one we will adopt here—is simply to say
that the recursive spiral is not infinite but only indefinite;
we compute it as far as we need to or are able to, which
is typically only several levels up, and of course we
mostly do not compute it at all but only note, via some
heuristic, whether something is or is not shared with an
interactive partner. Or possibly, we simply have a “bird’s-
eye view” of the interaction, which enables switching
perspectives as needed indefinitely (see chapter 7 for a
bit more discussion of various alternatives). We will refer
to this ability—an absolutely critical skill involved in
many aspects of shared intentionality—as recursive min-
dreading or recursive intention-reading.
Human Cooperative Communication 97
3.2.4 Summary
Figure 3.1 depicts all of the different components of the
cooperation model of human communication, and some-
thing of their interrelations. Beginning in the top left and
following the arrows, very sketchily: I as communicator
have many goals and values that I pursue in my life: my
individual goals. For whatever reason, I feel that you can
help me on this occasion with one or more of them, by
helping me or accepting my offer of information (which
I want to make for my own reasons) or sharing attitudes
with me: my social intention. The best way for me to get
your help, or to help you, or to share with you in this
situation is through communication, and so I decide to
make mutually manifest to us (in our current joint atten-
tional frame) a communicative act; this is my communica-
tive intention (perhaps indicated by “for you” signals such
as eye contact or with some expression of motive). Given
my signal of a communicative intention, I draw your
attention to some referential situation in the external
world—my referential intention—which is designed (along
with some expression of motive) to lead you to infer my
social intention via processes of cooperative reasoning,
since you are naturally motivated to find out why I want
to communicate with you (based on mutual assumptions
or norms of cooperation). You thus first attempt to identify
my referent, typically within the space of our common
ground, and from there attempt to infer my underlying
social intention, also typically by relating it to our
98 Chapter 3
Communicative Intention
want R know social intention
Referential Intention
- want R attend to §
Social Intention/Motive
- want R do X
- want R know Y
- want R share Z
Common Ground/Joint Attention:
we know together:
……….
……….
……….
……….
“for you” signals
[eye contact, etc.]
point to §
Reference
identify C’s referent
Comprehension
know what C wants
(social intention)
Cooperative reasoning => Relevance
Action
comply with what C wants
Individual Goals
- many levels
- express whine
- express ø
- express smile
Norms of Cooperation and
Cooperative Reasoning
R
C
Figure 3.1
Summary of cooperative model of human communication (C = com-
municator; R = recipient).
common ground. Then, assuming you have compre-
hended my social intention, you decide whether or not
to cooperate as expected.
This fundamentally cooperative process makes human
communication utterly different from the communica-
tive activities of all other species on the planet. The
communicative power of the processes summarized in
this model, as they work together, may be seen by
considering a famous pronouncement. In stressing the
powers of language over gestures, Searle (1969, p. 38)
states:
Human Cooperative Communication 99
Some very simple sorts of illocutionary acts can indeed be
performed apart from any use of conventional devices at
all. . . . One can in certain special circumstances “request”
someone to leave the room without employing any conven-
tions, but unless one has a language one cannot request of
someone that he, e.g., undertake a research project on the
problem of diagnosing and treating mononucleosis in under-
graduates in American universities.
But indeed we can make such a request without lan-
guage. That is to say, if we have linguistic individuals
who have been discussing, in language, the fact that “we
need someone to undertake a research project on the
problem of diagnosing and treating mononucleosis in
undergraduates in American universities,” then I could,
at the right moment in the conversation, point to you, and
the meaning of that pointing act would be that “you
should undertake a research project on the problem of
diagnosing and treating mononucleosis in undergradu-
ates in American universities.” Of course this cannot
happen without linguistic organisms setting up the
context linguistically—this much is clear. But the key
point for current purposes is simply that when the
context—the shared conceptual ground—is set up in
enough detail, however that is done, a pointing gesture
can refer to situations as complex as one wants.
3.3 Communicative Conventions
And what about modes of human communication that
are not “natural” but “conventional”? What about
100 Chapter 3
conventionalized gestures (e.g., for greeting and leave
taking, for threatening and insulting, for agreeing and
disagreeing, etc.—as found in most cultures) and also
vocal and signed languages? Are these “codes” that
obviate the need for all this complicated psychological
infrastructure? Does linguistic communication work
totally differently?
3.3.1 Linguistic Communication and the Shared
Intentionality Infrastructure
In a word, no. First and most importantly, linguistic and
other forms of conventional communication depend fun-
damentally on the common ground and current joint
attentional frame between communicator and recipient
just as natural gestures do (Clark 1996). Thus, the vast
majority of utterances in everyday speech contain pro-
nouns (he, she, it, they) and other context-dependent
expressions that require common ground for appropriate
interpretation (that other guy, the place we used to go, etc.);
even the very simplest referring expressions such as
Bill or the cat require common ground to determine which
Bill or which cat is intended. Linguistic utterances thus
depend, in basically the same way as natural gestures, on
common conceptual ground, and indeed the “stronger”
the common ground the less language is needed, as the
communication of dentists and their assistants (in the
examples cited above) amply illustrates.
Human Cooperative Communication 101
Further, the communicative intention is also basically
the same in both the gestural and linguistic modalities,
and the recipient’s search for relevance is guided equally
in both cases by mutual assumptions of helpfulness. For
example, if I enter your office and say out of the blue
“Cuba has the best weather in the world,” you com-
prehend the utterance fine, but you are still perplexed
as to why I think this information is useful or interest-
ing for you—whereas if we have just been discussing
where we might vacation this summer, the reason for
the utterance is obvious. Just as in pointing, the assump-
tion that I am attempting to inform you of something
I think you will find useful or interesting guides your
search for communicative relevance. And the general
motives for communicating are basically the same in
gestural and linguistic communication as well: request-
ing, informing, and sharing (though linguistic commu-
nication enables some other, less basic motives as well,
as elaborated in speech act theory). And we work
together collaboratively to establish joint reference and
to get the message across in linguistic communication,
just as in natural gestures (Clark 1996). In general, then,
linguistic communication depends on exactly the same
shared intentionality infrastructure that we have been
using to explain the surprising communicative power
of pointing and pantomiming.
The only substantive difference between natural ges-
tures and communicative conventions in the current
102 Chapter 3
context is in the referential intention, what is put “in”
the signal to direct attention. But even here, on a very
general level, the same description may be applied
equally in the two cases. Thus, in both gestural and
linguistic communication reference may be divided into
the old, given, shared part—the topic, often assumed or
indicated only briefly—and the new, newsworthy part—
the focus, typically elaborated more fully because it is
less shared. For example, if you and I are looking at a
cloud together, as topic, I may either point to it or
comment on it verbally as it changes shape, to highlight
the new aspect. But of course linguistic conventions can
be used to make reference to the world in uniquely pow-
erful ways that go well beyond what is possible in natural
gestures. This derives mainly from the “arbitrariness”
of the communicative devices of a language, which
means that we can create a device to indicate pretty
much any aspect of experience we can conceptualize—so
long as we both know that we share the use of this
convention.
3.3.2 Conventions as Shared Communicative Devices
Humans create communicative conventions as everyone
uses the same device as a means of coordinating attention
and action when other ways would be possible as well,
so long as everyone did them (Lewis 1969). These “arbi-
trary” conventions are thus possible only if all individu-
als have some fairly serious skills of cultural learning, in
the form of imitative learning focused on intentional
Human Cooperative Communication 103
actions (Tomasello 1999), of a type not needed for produc-
ing natural gestures. Specifically in the case of communi-
cative conventions, what is needed is so-called role
reversal imitation, in which an individual comprehends
how a communicator is using some communicative
device toward her and then reproduces that use in her
own communication back toward others in kind (Toma-
sello 1999). This creates what de Saussure (1916/1959)
called the bidirectionality of the sign, which means that
the actual form of the communicative device is conven-
tional or shared among users in that they all know that
they all know how to both comprehend and produce
these devices for specific communicative ends. Impor-
tantly, this sharing of linguistic and gestural conventions
depends again on some kind of recursivity—we all know
that we all know the convention—in this case at the level
of the communicative vehicle or device itself (Lewis
1969).
Linguistic conventions thus basically codify the ways
that previous individuals in the community have con-
verged upon to manipulate the attention and imagination
of others in specific ways. The arbitrary sound or gesture
itself carries no message “naturally,” but observing its
use reveals—for those with the appropriate cognitive
skills and motivations—how those who share the con-
vention use it to direct the attention and imagination of
others. The appropriate cognitive skills and motivations
are of course none other than (i) the same shared inten-
tionality infrastructure that underlies human pointing
and pantomiming, and (ii) a shared learning history with
104 Chapter 3
the convention that we all know together (implicitly) that
we share—a fact that may be signaled by various kinds
of cultural markers (including even use of the convention
itself in an appropriate manner). Humans’ creation
and use of shared communicative conventions thus
means that now even the communicative forms them-
selves depend on processes of shared intentionality.
There is more to be said here, and we will do so in
chapters 4, 5, and 6 in which we attempt to provide onto-
genetic and phylogenetic accounts of how human
communicative conventions (and even grammatical con-
structions) might have arisen out of natural gestures.
Importantly, I will argue in chapter 5 that it would have
been impossible evolutionarily to jump from ape vocal-
izations or gestures to arbitrary linguistic conventions
directly without passing through an intermediate stage
of nonconventional, action-based, naturally meaningful,
cooperative gestures that could act as a kind of natural
grounding. In the case of infants during ontogeny, I will
argue in chapter 4 that language acquisition is possible
only when young children have available to them some-
thing resembling the full shared intentionality infrastruc-
ture originally built during human evolution as support
for natural gestures.
3.3.3 Summary
Table 3.1 summarizes the present account of those
aspects of the psychological infrastructure of human
Human
Cooperative
Communication
105
Table 3.1
The psychological infrastructure of human cooperative communication: (1) in the first column things already
present in apes, (2) in the second column the new human components, and (3) in the third column how the human
version is transformed by recursivity.
(1) intentional
communication
(2) first glimmers
of cooperative
communication
(3) recursivity => fully
cooperative
communication
(a) Communicative Motives requesting helping; sharing norms of cooperation
(b) Intentionality in Communication
understanding goals shared goals and
communicative
intentions
understanding perception joint attention and
common ground
practical reasoning cooperative reasoning
(c) Communicative Devices ritualized signals imitation communicative
conventions
106 Chapter 3
cooperative communication, both natural and conven-
tional, that involve shared intentionality. The three
dimensions labeled at the left are: (a) communicative
motives; (b) underlying intentionality in terms of under-
standing intentions, understanding attention, and practi-
cal reasoning; and (c) form of the communicative device.
In the first full column (1) is the state of affairs for great
apes in each of these three dimensions: they request
things using ritualized signals, and they understand
intentions and perceptions and reason practically about
them. In the second column (2) are the two new compo-
nents of human communication, which have been
stressed here: the new motives of helping and sharing in
communication, and the new ability to imitate actions
(much more skillfully than apes, including the ability to
engage in role reversal), enabling both iconic gestures
and, ultimately, communicative conventions. The third
column (3) depicts the way that recursive intention-
reading transforms everything: turning helping and
sharing into mutual expectations or even norms of coop-
eration; turning the understanding of goals and inten-
tions into joint goals and Gricean communicative
intentions; turning the understanding of attention into
joint attention and common ground; turning practical
reasoning into cooperative reasoning; and turning imi-
tated signals into bidirectional, shared conventions. The
way this transformation due to recursivity works is dif-
ferent in the cases of ontogeny and phylogeny, as we
shall soon see.
Human Cooperative Communication 107
3.4 Conclusion
My goal in this chapter has been to lay bare the hidden
psychological infrastructure of human communication
by looking at natural human gestures and how they
work. Pointing, in particular, as a complete communica-
tive act, is so utterly simple—an extended finger—that it
raises the question of how it could communicate so richly.
In the right context, pointing may communicate as richly
as language, even directing the recipient’s attention to
perspectives on things and to absent referents, capacities
often attributed uniquely to language. Iconic gestures are
used to refer in more specific ways to referents, especially
absent referents, and they too may be used to convey
highly complex messages. These two types of natural
gesture are used by all humans, and only humans.
The “value added” in both pointing and pantomiming
comes, in one way or another, from the shared intention-
ality infrastructure—and so we call our model the co-
operation model of human communication. In this model:
(i) human communicators and recipients create the joint
intention of successful communication, adjusting for one
another as needed; (ii) human communicative acts are
grounded in joint attention and shared understandings
of the situation at hand; (iii) human communicative acts
are performed for fundamentally prosocial motives such
as informing others of things helpfully and sharing emo-
tions and attitudes with them freely; (iv) human com-
municators operate in all of this with shared assumptions
108 Chapter 3
(and even norms) of cooperation between participants;
and (v) human linguistic conventions, as the crowning
pinnacle of human discourse, are fundamentally shared
in the sense that we both know together that we are both
using a convention in the same manner.
Other primates do not structure their communication
in this same way with joint intentions, joint attention,
mutually assumed cooperative motives, and communica-
tive conventions; rather they simply attempt to predict or
manipulate the individual goals, perceptions, and actions
of others directly. And as we shall now see, human infants
begin to structure their gestural communication coopera-
tively even before language, and they do so in develop-
mental synchrony with the emergence of their more
general skills of shared intentionality as manifest in other
collaborative activities.
4 Ontogenetic Origins
It isn’t the colour red that takes the place of the word red, but the
gesture that points to a red object.
—Wittgenstein, The Big Typescript
Often it is easiest to see the components of complex skills
and how they work together when we study their emer-
gence in children’s early development. An important
source of evidence for the cooperation model of human
communication, therefore, is how things work ontoge-
netically. Moreover, it turns out that gestures used as full
communicative acts (without language) have been inves-
tigated much more intensively, especially in experiments,
in infants and young children than in adults. There are
infant experiments directly relevant to several key com-
ponents of our model of the communicative process, and
even some that may help us to decide difficult theoretical
issues, for example, with respect to the role of joint atten-
tion and common ground.
In addition to this general interest in ontogeny as a way
of testing our model and its various components, in this
110 Chapter 4
chapter we also want to ask three specific questions rele-
vant to the three overall hypotheses as explicated in
chapter 1. The first is whether infants’ prelinguistic ges-
tural communication has something resembling the full
structure of adult cooperative communication, as out-
lined in the previous chapter. If it does, this would dem-
onstrate that human cooperative communication does
not depend on language directly (a fact we cannot deter-
mine through observation of normally functioning adults
alone), and it would make more plausible the evolution-
ary hypothesis that human cooperative communication
evolved first in the gestural modality.
The second question is whether the emergence of coop-
erative communication in human ontogeny is connected
in some way with the emergence of broader skills and
motivations of shared intentionality as manifest in other
social and cultural activities, for example, collaborative
social interactions in general. If so, this would support
the analysis of the previous chapter that human-like skills
of cooperative communication are made possible by an
infrastructure of social-cognitive and social-motivational
skills for shared intentionality more generally. It would
also make more plausible the evolutionary hypothesis
that human cooperative communication evolved as part
of a larger adaptation for collaborative activities and cul-
tural life in general.
The third question concerns language more particu-
larly, specifically the nature of the transition from
prelinguistic gestural communication to linguistic com-
munication in human ontogeny. In particular, we would
Ontogenetic Origins 111
like to know if the early acquisition and use of linguistic
conventions depends on the same shared intentionality
infrastructure as does infants’ early gestural communica-
tion. If so, this would support the idea that the acquisition
of linguistic conventions depends crucially on social-
cognitive skills and motivations originally deployed in
early gestural communication. We would also like to
know if children’s two different types of gesture—point-
ing and iconic gestures—interact with early language in
different ways, as this may give us hints about the evo-
lutionary transition from more natural into more conven-
tionalized forms of human communication.
4.1 Infant Pointing
In the months around their first birthdays, and before
they begin acquiring language in earnest, most infants in
Western culture begin pointing, with some evidence that
this is a widespread, if not universal, pattern cross-
culturally (Butterworth 2003). Our central question ini-
tially is the degree to which, and the ways in which,
infant pointing shares all the social-cognitive complexi-
ties of the adult version of this communicative gesture,
as just elaborated. Also of interest, of course, are infants’
iconic gestures. The problem is that there is relatively
little research, especially experimental research, on how
infants acquire and use iconic gestures early in develop-
ment. Our procedure, therefore, will be to explore the
cooperation model—explicitly in terms of its different
components—in the case of infant pointing, where there
112 Chapter 4
is much relevant research. I will report what little is
known about how infants acquire and use iconic gestures
later, mainly in exploring the transition to linguistic
communication.
4.1.1 Infant Pointing in Context
In classic accounts, infants point communicatively for
one of two motives: they point to request things (impera-
tives) and to share experiences and emotions with others
(declaratives), with no difference in age of emergence for
these two types (Bates, Camaioni, and Volterra 1975; Car-
penter, Nagell, and Tomasello 1998). Surprisingly, no one
knows where pointing comes from ontogenetically. Spe-
cifically, no one knows whether pointing is somehow
ritualizedbyinfantsfromsomeotherbehavior,orwhether
they learn it from others by imitation. Given that many
apes come to request things from humans by “pointing”
(almost certainly not by imitation), and given that some
kind of pointing is very likely universal among human
societies, the most plausible hypothesis at the moment is
that infants do not acquire their pointing gesture by imi-
tating others; rather it comes naturally to them in some
way—perhaps as a nonsocial orienting action that
becomes socialized in interaction with others. But there
is no directly relevant research here, and it may be that
even the fully socialized version requires no learning. Or
it may be that even though there is no learning initially,
imitation plays a role later as the child notes the
Ontogenetic Origins 113
correspondence between her pointing gesture and that
of others. We simply do not know.
Current theoretical debates about infant pointing and
prelinguistic communication center on the question of
whether the most accurate interpretation is a cognitively
rich or a cognitively lean one. Specifically, the question
is whether young infants are attempting in their prelin-
guistic communication to influence the intentional/
mental states of others (Golinkoff 1986; Liszkowski 2005;
Tomasello, Carpenter, and Liszkowski 2007) or whether,
alternatively, they are simply aiming to achieve certain
behavioral effects in others (Shatz and O’Reilly 1990;
Moore 1996; Moore and D’Entremont 2001). Related to
this is the question of whether infants are attempting in
their prelinguistic communication to inform others of
things helpfully and to share experience with them emo-
tionally, as opposed to, once again, simply trying to get
others to do things they want them to. I will argue and
present evidence here for the cognitively rich, and moti-
vationally altruistic, interpretation.
There are surprisingly few systematic studies of infants
pointing in their everyday lives. What studies there are
have been primarily concerned with children’s language
development, and so have viewed pointing and other
gestures through this lens (e.g., Bates 1979)—to the
neglect of other interesting and important aspects of the
process. Carpenter et al. (in prep.) had parents make
diary observations of eight young infants’ pointing in the
context of their everyday social interactions. Here are
114 Chapter 4
some especially interesting and instructive examples,
produced mostly before the infants had any serious lan-
guage (other than, in some cases, a few words like no and
there):
Example 13: At age 11 months, J points to the closed
window when he wants it open. Gloss: Attend to the
window; open it.
Example 14: At age 11.5 months, J points to the door as
Dad is making preparations to leave. Gloss: Attend to the
door; Dad’s going out of it soon.
Example 15: At age 11.5 months, after Mom had poured
water into J’s glass at the dinner table, a few minutes later
J points to his glass to request that she pour him some
more. Gloss: Attend to my glass; fill it up.
Example 16: At age 12 months, A points from inside the
house out a window in the direction of the sound of an
airplane (cannot see). Gloss: Attend to the (sound of the)
airplane; isn’t it cool?
Example 17: At age 13 months, J watches as Dad arranges
the Christmas tree; when Grandpa enters the room J
points to tree for him and vocalizes. Gloss: Attend to the
Christmas tree; isn’t it great?
Example 18: At age 13.5 months, after finishing eating, L
points to the bathroom in anticipation of going to wash
her hands. Gloss: Attend to the bathroom; it’s time to go
there.
Example 19: At age 13.5 months, while Mom is looking
for a missing refrigerator magnet, L points to a basket of
Ontogenetic Origins 115
fruit where it is (hidden under the fruit). Gloss: Attend to
the basket of fruit; it’s there.
Example 20: At age 14 months, two different children, J
and L, have accidents when a parent is not looking; when
the parent comes to investigate, the infant points to the
offending object (i.e., the thing he bumped his head on,
or the thing that fell down). Gloss: Attend to that object;
it hurt me/fell down.
Example 21: At age 14.5 months, as Mom is bringing the
highchair to the table, L points where it goes. Gloss: Attend
to that place; put it there.
The main thing to notice in these observations is that,
although the particulars differ greatly, the kinds of things
that are going on seem very similar to the kinds of things
going on in adult pointing. (Note especially J’s pointing
to the glass to request that it be filled, just as in our
adult bar scene, example 1, in the previous chapter).
And, as in the adult cases presented in the last chapter,
there is great variety in the different underlying social
intentions. Thus, in the examples involving requests,
these infants pointed not only to objects they wanted—
the classic imperative—but also to the object involved
when they wanted the adult to perform an action with
it, for example, the window to be opened or the glass
to be filled with water. And they also pointed to a place
at the table when they wanted Mom to put the highchair
there. These are all clearly requests, but none of them is
concerned with obtaining objects as in classic proto-
imperatives, and the pointing itself sometimes indicates
116 Chapter 4
the object involved (the window) with the action to be
performed being assumed (opening), but sometimes
indicates instead a location (the normal place at the table)
with both the object and action being assumed (the chair
and pushing).
In addition, these infants also pointed for a wide array
of other social intentions based on nonrequestive motives.
For example, they pointed to the door through which
Dad was preparing to leave or the bathroom they were
getting ready to visit, to the sound of an airplane, to a
sight that was new and interesting for Grandpa (not for
the infant), to the place where a missing object was to be
found, and to the location where an exciting event
occurred just previously. These could all be classified as
declaratives, in the sense that the infant’s intention is to
direct or share attention to something, but in the various
observations the infants are directing and sharing atten-
tion to very different aspects of the target events—every-
thing from a sound to a hiding location to the place where
something happened previously—and they are doing so
for a wide variety of different reasons including both
anticipating and remembering nonpresent events. Again,
this is significantly different from classic declaratives,
which typically target an exciting new perceptually
present object or event. The references to absent objects
or events (the empty glass, the missing refrigerator
magnet, the heard plane, the past event) are perhaps
especially noteworthy as evidence that the communica-
tion is taking place not just on the perceptual level but
Ontogenetic Origins 117
on the mental level of cognitively represented entities
(more on this below).
And this is all happening for the most part before lan-
guage acquisition has begun in earnest. Nevertheless,
despite the superficial similarity to the observations of
adult pointing—in the sense of a relatively large distance
between social intention and referential intention in a
variety of contexts, perhaps based on common ground—
we still cannot tell from natural observations alone the
nature of the social-cognitive processes involved in these
interesting communicative acts. We must therefore sup-
plement these observations with experiments investigat-
ing the various social-cognitive and social-motivational
processes involved, either directly in studies of pointing
or indirectly in studies of related developmental phe-
nomena. We thus look now at evidence, mostly experi-
mental, for each of the major components of the pointing
act, as explicated in the cooperation model of human
communication,intheearliestpointinggesturesofhuman
infants.
4.1.2 Communicative Motives
As noted, infant pointing has classically been hypothe-
sized as emanating from two communicative motives:
declarative and imperative. We think the situation is a
bit more complex than this. In particular, we think the
declarative motive has two important subtypes, and that
the imperative motive actually involves a continuum
118 Chapter 4
from something like ordering (forcing) to something like
suggesting (influencing choice). In addition, in order to
integrate communication into the infant’s other cognitive
activities, we think it is best to conceptualize the different
motives more broadly in terms of shared intentionality,
specifically, infants’ skills and motivations for helping
and sharing with others.
In the original formulation by Bates, Camaioni, and
Volterra (1975), declarative pointing was analogous to a
declarative sentence, such as “The cat is on the mat.”
Statements of this type have truth-values that indicate
how well they fit with the true state of the world.
However, in many subsequent analyses, the prototype of
declarative pointing is when the infant points to, for
example, an interesting animal in the distance, expresses
emotions, and alternates gaze to the adult. The infant is
interested or excited about the new animal, and seem-
ingly wants to share her excitement with the adult by
getting him to look at it along with her and share her
reaction to it. This is not much like a declarative state-
ment with a truth-value, since its motive seems very dif-
ferent. We thus believe that we should distinguish
between (i) declaratives as expressives, in which the
infant seeks to share an attitude with an adult about a
common referent, and (ii) declaratives as informatives, in
which the infant seeks to provide the adult with needed
or desirable information (which he currently does not
have) about some referent. Experimental research has
Ontogenetic Origins 119
established each of these as an independent motive for
infants by around their first birthdays.
First, Liszkowski et al. (2004) elicited pointing from
12-month-olds in a situation in which a declarative
motive—of the expressive subtype—would be likely
(e.g., novel and interesting objects suddenly appearing
at some distance). They then experimentally manipulated
the adult’s reaction in order to test the hypothesis that
the infants’ social intention in such situations is indeed
to share their attitude about the novel event with the
adult, and not just to get the adult to look at them or at
the event. Specifically, the adult reacted to the infant’s
pointing by: (i) looking to the event without looking to
the infant—on the hypothesis that the infant simply
wants to direct the adult’s attention to the event, not
share attention and interest (Event condition); (ii) emoting
positively toward the infant without looking at the
event—on the hypothesis that the infant simply wants
adult attention to the self (Moore and Corkum 1994;
Moore and D’Entremont 2001) (Face condition); (iii)
doing nothing—on the hypothesis that the infant is point-
ing for the self only, or is not attempting to communicate
at all (Ignore condition); or (iv) alternating gaze between
the infant and the event while emoting positively—on
the hypothesis that the infant wants to direct adult atten-
tion to the referent, so that they can share attention and
interest in the event together (Joint Attention/Share
condition).
120 Chapter 4
Infants’ reactions to these adult reactions were then
noted in an attempt to establish the infants’ motive for
pointing. Results showed that when the adult simply
looked to the indicated referent while ignoring the infant
(Event condition), or when the adult simply expressed
positive emotions to the infant while ignoring the indi-
cated referent (Face condition), infants were not satisfied.
In comparison with the Joint Attention condition, in
which infants typically gave one long point, infants in
these conditions (as well as in the Ignore condition)
tended to repeat their pointing gesture more often within
trials—apparently as persistent attempts to establish
shared attention and interest. Moreover, infants in these
conditions (as well as in the Ignore condition) pointed
less often across trials than in the Joint Attention condi-
tion—apparently indicating growing dissatisfaction with
this adult as a communicative partner since she did not
respond by sharing infants’ attitude to the referent. Even
more directly, using the same basic design, Liszkowski,
Carpenter, and Tomasello (2007a) had the adult look at
the infant’s intended referent, but in different conditions
the adult either: (i) expressed interest (“Cool!”) or (ii)
expressed disinterest (“Uh . . .”) in the referent. When the
adult expressed disinterest, infants did not prolong or
repeat their pointing within trials, presumably because
they understood that the adult did not share their enthu-
siasm, and they also decreased pointing for this adult
across repeated trials compared to when the adult
expressed interest. These results specifically isolate the
Ontogenetic Origins 121
infants’ motive to share their attitude with an adult in the
expressive subtype of declarative pointing, their motive
that the adult not just attend to a referent but also align
with their attitude about it.
Second, the informative subtype of declarative point-
ing occurs when the infant’s intention is to help the adult
(dispassionately) by providing her with information she
needs or would be interested in. This motive for pointing
is actually much closer to that behind most declarative
statements expressed in language. To have this motive
infants must have, first, an understanding that others can
be knowledgeable or ignorant (see section 4.2.2 for evi-
dence), and second, an altruistic motive to help others by
supplying them with the needed or desirable informa-
tion. In order to test whether 12-month-old infants point
with such a motive, Liszkowski, Carpenter, Striano, and
Tomasello (2006) placed infants in various situations in
which they observed an adult misplace an object or lose
track of it in some way, and then start searching. In these
situations infants pointed to the needed object (more
often than to distractor objects that were misplaced in the
same way but were not needed by the adult), and in
doing this they showed no signs of wanting the object for
themselves (no whining, reaching, etc.) or of wanting to
share emotions or attitudes about it. These results suggest
that when pointing declaratively infants sometimes want
to do something other than share their excitement about
a referent with an adult, as occurs in the classic cases;
they sometimes simply want to help the adult by
122 Chapter 4
providing her with needed or desirable information—
and these two motives are distinct.
Turning now to imperative pointing, some researchers
have argued that imperatives expressed through point-
ing are at least potentially quite simple, based on an
understanding of others as causal (vs. intentional or
mental) agents who make things happen (e.g., Bates,
Camaioni, and Volterra 1975; Camaioni 1993). This view
is based at least partially on the well-known facts that
children with autism point imperatively but not declara-
tively, as do some apes when interacting with humans.
But imperatives actually form a continuum. Some are
based on individualistic motives for inducing or even
forcing the other, as causal agent, to do what one wants;
for example, a young infant might point to a toy with the
goal that the adult retrieve it for her, with the adult under-
stood as a kind of social-causal tool. Other imperatives
are based more on cooperative motives for telling the
other what one wants, as in so-called indirect requests,
and hoping that she, as intentional/cooperative agent,
will decide to help.
Obviously, human infants sometimes produce more
individualistic imperatives to get adults to do things for
them as social tools. But they also sometimes produce
more cooperative imperatives in which they attempt to
go through the intentional/mental states of the recipi-
ent—her understanding and motivations—in a way that
more individualistic imperatives do not. It is not totally
clear what kind of evidence would be persuasive that
infants are sometimes using such cooperative impera-
Ontogenetic Origins 123
tives. One indirect piece of evidence is that from a very
young age infants point in other ways that are clearly
cooperative and that clearly go through the intentional/
mental states of the other, that is, they use both expressive
and informative declaratives (as demonstrated above)
as early as they use imperatives (Carpenter, Nagell, and
Tomasello 1998). More directly—although the evidence is
only for somewhat older children at 30 months of age—
when young children request something from an adult,
and the adult misunderstands them but then, by luck,
they get what they want anyway, they still attempt to
correct the misunderstanding (Shwe and Markman 1997).
This suggests that fairly early in development children
understand that their request works not by forcing the
adult into a specific action, but rather by informing the
adult of their desire and then her comprehending this
and agreeing to cooperate with it. Precisely when this
understanding first occurs in infant development, we do
not know.
Our contention is thus that recent research on infant
pointing establishes three general classes of social inten-
tion or motive, just as in the case of adults: (1) sharing
(they want to share emotions and attitudes with others);
(2) informing (they want to help others by informing
them of useful or interesting things); and (3) requesting
(they want others to help them in attaining their goals).
As with adults, these three motives all involve in some
way or another the cooperative motives of helping and
sharing—the two main types of motivation in shared
intentionality. Pointing within each of these motives is
124 Chapter 4
used for innumerably many particular social intentions,
as illustrated most clearly by the diary examples cited in
the previous subsection.
4.1.3 The Referential Intention
When infants produce points, there is very good evidence
that they intend for the other to attend to a referent in
their common ground. This is not a foregone conclusion.
Indeed, Moore and colleagues have expressed skepticism
that 12-month-olds produce gestures as an attempt to
direct the attention of others to external entities. Thus,
Moore and Corkum (1994) contend that early (declara-
tive) pointing is mostly aimed at gaining an adult posi-
tive emotion to the self, and Moore and D’Entremont
(2001) claim that it is the adult’s reaction to the infant,
instead of to the external entity, that serves as a reinforcer
for the pointing behavior. The main evidence for this
skeptical interpretation is that infants sometimes point to
things for the adult that she, the adult, is already looking
at, and so the pointing cannot be an attempt to direct her
attention to something new, since they are already both
attending to the object.
Liszkowski et al. (2004) directly tested the hypothesis
of Moore and colleagues in an attempt to determine
whether 12-month-old infants’ declarative points are
attempts to direct adult attention to a referent, so that
they can then share their attitude about it. As noted above,
pointing was elicited from infants in a situation in which
Ontogenetic Origins 125
a declarative motive would be likely, and the adult’s reac-
tion was experimentally manipulated. The main finding
with respect to reference was that when the adult
responded to the infant’s pointing by simply emoting
directly to her, ignoring the referent, infants showed signs
of dissatisfaction by repeating their pointing, in an
attempt at message repair, and they pointed less often
over trials—again indicating dissatisfaction with the
adult’s response which ignored the intended referent.
Even more directly, using the same basic methodology,
Liszkowski, Carpenter, and Tomasello (2007a) had the
adult either correctly identify the infant’s intended refer-
ent or else misidentify it by alighting on a different nearby
object (in both cases with positively expressed emotion
and gaze alternation). When the adult correctly identified
the intended referent, infants simply continued sharing
attention and interest with him, but when the adult
alighted on the incorrect referent, infants repeated their
pointing to the intended referent in an attempt to direct
him there. They were not satisfied to share emotions
about something other than their original intended
referent.
Interestingly and importantly, 12-month-old infants
can also refer others to absent entities in their pointing.
This is apparent in a number of the diary observations
reported above, as 12- and 13-month old infants refer to
events that happened in the near past or will happen in
the near future. More systematically, Liszkowski, Car-
penter, and Tomasello (2007b) exposed infants to targets
126 Chapter 4
likely to elicit declarative pointing, and then, after a
while, the targets disappeared. The majority of infants—
both those who pointed to the visible target and those
who did not—pointed for an adult to the location where
the visible entity used to be, especially if she had not seen
the entity previously. Pointing to absent referents is
important because it makes clear that pointing infants are
not doing very low-level, behavioristic things like
attempting to get the other person to orient bodily to
perceptible entities, but rather are attempting to get the
other person to orient mentally to some nonperceptible
entity they have in mind (see also Saylor 2004).
By around 12 to 14 months of age, then, infants dem-
onstrate an understanding of acts of reference as inten-
tional acts intended to induce the other to attend to some
particular external entity or aspect of an entity, even an
absent entity, as a part of some larger social act. This
process involves much more than simply gaze following,
point following, or gaining attention to the self. It involves
a communicator’s intention to direct a recipient’s atten-
tion to a particular referent so that the recipient, by iden-
tifying this intended referent (and motive) via some
relation to their common ground, will make the needed
relevance inferences and so comprehend the overall social
intention.
4.1.4 Common Ground
We might presume that common ground plays a critical
role in infant pointing from the beginning, based on such
Ontogenetic Origins 127
things as our diary observations involving many differ-
ent contexts determining many different meanings for
the infant’s pointing gesture. However, demonstrating a
role for common ground requires demonstrating that the
context is indeed “shared” or mutually known, and that
is (or at least has been) most readily demonstrated in
comprehension. This is true for both the social intentions
and referential intentions involved.
In terms of social intentions, Liebal et al. (in press) had
14- and 18-month-old infants and an adult clean up
together by picking up toys and putting them in a basket.
At one point the adult stopped and pointed to a target
toy, which infants then picked up and placed in the
basket. However, when the infant and adult were clean-
ing up in exactly this same way, and a second adult who
had not shared this context entered the room and pointed
toward the target toy in exactly the same way, infants did
not put the toy away into the basket—presumably because
the second adult had not shared the cleaning-up game as
common ground with them. Rather, because they had not
just been interacting with this adult, they seemed most
often to interpret the new adult’s pointing gesture as a
simple invitation to notice and share attention to the toy
(i.e., as an expressive declarative). Infants in both cases
were thus directed to the same referent toy—they under-
stood the referential intention in the same way in both
cases—but their interpretation of the underlying social
intention was different in the two cases. Most impor-
tantly, this interpretation did not depend on their own
current egocentric interests, but rather on their recently
128 Chapter 4
shared experience (joint attention, common ground) with
each of the pointing adults.
In the case of the referential intention, Moll et al. (2008)
had an adult direct an ambiguous request to 14-month-
old infants by gesturing in the general direction of three
objects (the target and two distractors) and asking the
child to hand “it” over. In different experimental condi-
tions, the infant had had different experiences with the
adult previously, and so had different common ground
on which to draw in identifying the referent of the
request. Specifically, in the experimental condition, prior
to the request the adult and infant had shared the target
object excitedly as it unexpectedly appeared and reap-
peared in several places in a hallway (whereas they had
handled the two other objects [distractors] in a more
normal fashion). In this condition infants responded to
the adult’s request by handing him the target object, the
one they had shared, more often than the distractors—
based on their common ground with him previously.
Importantly, they did not do this in either of two control
conditions. In one of these a new adult made the request,
and so there was no common ground; infants then chose
randomly. In the other the adult who made the request
had previously experienced the objects individually (in
the same excited fashion) while the infant simply looked
on unnoticed; so again there was no common ground and
the infants chose randomly. Thus, when faced with a
request for an unspecified referent object, infants did not
assume that the requestor was asking for the object that
Ontogenetic Origins 129
she, the child, had been excited about (or else they would
have retrieved the target also when the different adult
requested it), nor did they assume that the requestor was
asking for the object that he himself had been excited
about (or else they would have retrieved the target also
in the condition in which they simply watched the
requestor become excited about the target object on their
own). Instead, the infants assumed that the adult was
requesting the object about which the two of them
together, in their recent common ground, had showed
excitement.
Infants thus use their shared common ground with a
pointing adult—not their own egocentric interests—to
interpret both the adult’s referential intention and his
underlying motive and social intention.
4.1.5 Mutual Assumptions of Helpfulness and
Cooperative Reasoning
In general, it would appear that even one-year-old infants
expect others to respond to their communicative acts by
attempting to comprehend, and they expect others to
provide help when it is requested, or to accept offered
information, or to share when invited. Whether or not
these are mutual expectations has never been directly
investigated. But infants seem to make relevance infer-
ences based on cooperative reasoning and common
ground—for example, in the Behne et al. (2005) object
choice experiment, and the Liebal et al. (in press) and
130 Chapter 4
Moll et al. (2008) studies described above—in the sense
that they seem to be doing things communicatively at
least partly because they know the adult wants and
expects them to. And in difficult cases, infants cooperate
with adults in “negotiating” the intended message
through queries and repairs about the message itself
(Golinkoff 1986).
This interpretation is perhaps given additional cre-
dence by evidence that one-year-old infants understand
the basics of the Gricean communicative intention that
“we know together” or it is “mutually manifest” that I
want something from you—based crucially on mutual
expectations of helpfulness. First of all, in their natural
social interactions, infants from around the first birthday
clearly produce communicative acts “for” another person,
as they make sure they have the attention of the other,
direct the act to them, make eye contact, and so forth
(Liszkowski et al. in press). Also, they seem to recognize
such ostensive cues when produced by others as desig-
nating acts that are “for” them (see Csibra 2003, on infants’
recognition of the communicative/pedagogical inten-
tions of others toward them). But the strongest evidence
comes from two experiments.
First, in the object choice experiment of Behne et al.
(2005), described in chapter 2, there was not only an
experimental condition in which infants inferred a toy’s
location on the basis of an informative pointing gesture,
there was also a control condition in which the adult
directed his extended index finger toward one of the
Ontogenetic Origins 131
buckets absentmindedly as he was examining his wrist.
He also glanced up to the child so that his superficial
behavior was similar to the experimental condition both
in terms of his finger extending toward the correct bucket
and his gaze alternating between the infant and the
correct bucket. What differed was that, unlike in the
experimental condition, in this control condition the adult
did not make direct eye contact with the infant with the
specific intention that she know this was a communica-
tive act; the looking in the control condition was more
casual, as if simply checking the child’s status—as
opposed to marking the pointing as an ostensive act. The
14-month-old infants did not see this more casual pro-
truding finger and looking as a communicative act “for”
them, and so they did not make the appropriate relevance
inference; that is to say, infants did not see the adult as
informing them of the location of the hidden toy, and so
they did not find it as they did in the experimental condi-
tion. Whatever the specific cues were in this experiment,
the general fact is that young infants see a protruding
fingerincompletelydifferentwaysdependingonwhether
the adult intends them to see it as an intentional com-
municative act.
Second is the study of Shwe and Markman (1997),
noted above, with somewhat older children at 30 months
of age. In this experiment infants requested a desired
object from an adult. In the two key conditions, they got
the object they wanted, but in one case the adult signaled
that she had understood everything correctly whereas in
132 Chapter 4
the other case the adult signaled that she thought the
child wanted a different (wrong) object sitting nearby—
which she said he could not have, so she actually gave
him the one he really wanted (by accident, as it were).
That is, in this especially interesting condition, the child
got what he wanted in terms of the object, but his message
was actually not understood correctly. In this case, chil-
dren corrected these adult misunderstandings neverthe-
less. This suggests that these children had both the goal
of getting the object (as social intention) and the intention
of communicating successfully with the adult as a means
to that end—which they wanted to accomplish in its own
right.
We must recognize, however, that infants’ understand-
ing of all of this is still not fully adult-like. Thus, the full-
fledged understanding of Gricean communicative
intentions by older children and adults include, most
conspicuously, an understanding of hidden authorship
and concealment—such acts as placing one’s empty wine
glass for the host to see (and fill), but not revealing that
this is what one has done. Adults engage in this kind of
hidden authorship quite often in cases involving polite-
ness or other forms of concealment, whereas 1- and 2-
year-olds seemingly do not engage in this behavior at all.
We thus think that infants comprehend a primordial
version of communicative intentions in the sense that
they understand when a communicator intends an
act “for” someone else’s benefit, but that coming to
understand the full intentional structure of adult-like
Ontogenetic Origins 133
communicative intentions involving hidden authorship,
concealment, and the like does not emerge until around
3 or 4 years of age. This presumably is based on a process
of understanding and controlling the more specific means
by which an initially undifferentiated communicative
intention may be expressed and understood. This may
await more mature skills of differentiating the various
perspectives involved in joint attentional interactions in
general (Moll and Tomasello 2007b).
It is also unclear whether infants’ expectations of help-
fulness are truly mutual or shared in the sense that they
know that their communicative partners expect these
things of them as well—and know that he knows that she
also has these expectations, and so forth and so on. One
possibility is that infants are simply built to operate in
terms of Sperber’s (1994) naive optimism—to simply
assume a cooperative environment initially based on
some simple heuristic, and to assume that everyone else
does as well. But at some point infants come to under-
stand more aspects of the process. Most importantly, at
some point they come to understand that the other person
ought to engage communicatively and ought to help as
requested, and they may become offended if the other
person does not act as she is supposed to—and they will
begin to operate under politeness norms aimed at regu-
lating these things. Children do not typically operate
with these kinds of norms in other domains of activity
until later in the preschool period (Kagan 1981), and so
perhaps they are operating with something less than
134 Chapter 4
adult-like norms initially. But our knowledge of all this
is very sketchy.
4.1.6 Summary
The data presented here argue strongly that from almost
as soon as they begin pointing infants understand the
most important aspects of how human-style, cooperative
communication works—they communicate on a mental
level, within the context of common conceptual ground,
and for cooperative motives—thus displaying something
approaching the complete social-cognitive infrastructure
of mature cooperative communication. For most infants,
pointing emerges at around the first birthday, before lan-
guage, and so this indicates that in human ontogeny the
infrastructure of cooperative communication operates
initially not in support of language but in the use of the
pointing gesture. Since typically developing children
grow up in a language-rich environment from birth, it is
perhaps important to note as well that deaf children of
hearing parents, exposed to basically no conventional
language during their first year of life or more (either
spoken or signed), still begin to use the pointing gesture
normally and at around the same age (Lederberg and
Everhart 1998; Spencer 1993).
Although infants seem to understand something about
how communicators achieve their social intention by
making their communicative intention mutually mani-
fest, they do not engage in such things as hiding author-
Ontogenetic Origins 135
ship, deception, and so forth, and so they very likely do
not understand the internal structure of this complex
intention in adult-like ways. Similarly, there is no evi-
dence that they have an understanding of any norms
governing the process at the outset. But further research
on both of these topics is needed.
4.2 Sources of Infant Pointing
A basic question in all developmental analyses is why
some competence emerges when it does in ontogeny—in
the case of infant pointing, at around 11 to 12 months of
age—since answering this question often provides impor-
tant information about the underlying cognitive and
motivational skills involved and how they interrelate.
What we want to know now, therefore, is where infants’
skills of cooperative communication, as embodied in the
pointing gesture, come from ontogenetically. Our answer
will take the form of a kind of dynamic systems model
in which the various components outlined in the previ-
ous chapter develop somewhat independently, but then
come together synergistically in the new function of
cooperative communication. This account provides
support for the hypothesis that skills and motivations of
shared intentionality are critical to the process, as it turns
out that cooperative communication does not emerge
ontogenetically until these skills and motivations are
present, as manifest in infants’ collaborative activities
with others more generally.
136 Chapter 4
4.2.1 Why Don’t Three-Month-Olds Point?
Perhaps surprisingly, the overt behavioral form of human
pointing emerges reliably in infant sensorimotor behav-
ior as young as three months of age (Hannan and Fogel
1987). Infants of this tender age often hold their hands in
a distinctive shape with extended index finger, some-
times for extended periods of time—and in a way that
other primates seemingly do not (Povinelli and Davis
1994). The behavioral form of infant pointing is thus
developmentally ready at three months of age. As far
as anyone can tell, however, infants at this age are not
using this hand shape for any social or communicative
function.
One might argue that infants this young do not have
the necessary social motivations for communication. But
this is not true. In the account in the previous chapter and
this one, we posited three basic communicative motives:
requesting, sharing, and informing. These motives repre-
sent natural human motivations for communicating, and
they each have their own evolutionary origin (see chapter
5). As it turns out, they each have their own ontogenetic
origin as well, and in at least two of the cases, this is well
before any intentional communication.
First, within the first few months of life infants regu-
larly get adults to do what they want them to. When
young infants are in need of food or comfort they cry,
and this typically results in a helpful adult response.
The infant learns that as soon as she begins to cry
Ontogenetic Origins 137
adults respond, and so crying often becomes ritualized
into a kind of incipient crying or whining—a kind of
vocal intention-movement. This whining represents the
roots of imperative requesting, but with no understand-
ing on the infant’s part, of course, of how it works
intentionally (e.g., that the adult must perceive the cry
and form a goal to act). Whining as incipient crying is
the natural basis for the requesting intonation charac-
teristic of young children’s gestural and linguistic
requests.
Second, infants within the first few months of life also
engage with others socially and share emotions with
them in face-to-face dyadic exchanges sometimes called
protoconversations (Trevarthen 1979; Rochat 2001). Stern
(1985) describes a process of affective attunement in
which infants and adults tune into the emotions of one
another in multiple modalities simultaneously. These rich
emotional exchanges are the roots of expressive declara-
tives, but again with no understanding on the infant’s
part of how they work intentionally. The emotions
expressed in these exchanges, such as excitement and
surprise, are precisely those that infants express when
they point at something with glee some months later in
their expressive declaratives.
Third, and in contrast to the communicative motives
for requesting and sharing, the informing motive does
not have its roots in earliest infancy. If, as we have argued,
the fundamental motivation for informatives is to help
others by providing them with information they might
138 Chapter 4
need or want, then the most fundamental prerequisites
are an understanding of others’ goals and an understand-
ing of knowledge or information. Based on current
research, 12 months is the earliest age at which infants
possess these two prerequisites. Thus, infants seem to
understand helping for the first time at around 12 to 14
months of age as they discern the goals of others that they
might facilitate (Kuhlmeier, Wynn, and Bloom 2003;
Warneken and Tomasello 2007), and it is also at this age
that they understand the difference between someone
being knowledgeable and ignorant (Tomasello and
Haberl 2003). And so, in contrast to the other two motives,
the informative motive awaits infants’ understanding of
others as intentional agents who both help and need help
from others—including through the provision of infor-
mation for ignorant recipients. Offering help to others
typically is not accompanied by any exuberant emotional
expressions, and so informative pointing and language
typically are not either.
If infants can make the appropriate hand shape at three
months of age, and have at least two appropriate motives
by about this same age, then why are they not pointing
for others communicatively? The answer is that to begin
directing the attention of others to things for a reason,
infants must have something in the direction of the entire
social-cognitive, social-motivational infrastructure char-
acteristic of mature human communication, and infants
this young do not yet have the necessary skills of either
individual or shared intentionality.
Ontogenetic Origins 139
4.2.2 The Nine-Month Revolution—In Two Parts
At around 9 months of age, infants begin displaying a
whole new suite of social behaviors, based both on their
ability to understand others as intentional and rational
agents like the self and on their ability to participate with
others in interactions involving joint goals, intentions,
and attention (shared intentionality). Based on the best
available evidence, here is when some of the key pre-
requisites of understanding individual intentionality
emerge:
• By at least 9 months of age infants understand that
others have goals, that is, that they want things (e.g.,
Csibra et al. 1999; Behne, Carpenter, Call, and Tomasello
2005)—and perhaps even younger infants understand
this (Woodward 1998).
• By at least 12 months of age infants understand that
actors actively choose means for pursuing goals, that is,
they form intentions, and they are even able to discern
some of the rational reasons why an actor chooses one
particular means over another (Gergely, Bekkering, and
Király 2002; Schwier et al. 2006).
• By at least 12 months of age, if not before (Woodward
1999), infants understand that others see things (Moll and
Tomasello 2004), and by 12 months of age they also
understand that actors choose to attend intentionally, for
some reason, to some subset of the things they perceive
(e.g., Tomasello and Haberl 2003; Moll et al. 2006).
140 Chapter 4
• By at least 12 to 15 months of age infants can determine
what others know, in the sense of “are familiar with”
(e.g., Tomasello and Haberl 2003; Onishi and Baillargeon
2005).
Once infants understand other persons in these ways,
they may begin to engage in some kinds of practical rea-
soning about others’ actions; specifically, they may begin
to make inferences about why someone did what she
did—as opposed to some other thing she might have
done—and what this implies about what she might do in
the immediate future.
But this is not enough for cooperative communication.
As emphasized in chapter 3, for cooperative communica-
tion to work in the way that it does infants also need to
be able to create shared conceptual spaces, or common
ground, with other persons—a basic skill of shared inten-
tionality. In the normal case, this provides a constrained
domain of possible referents for the referential intention,
and a constrained domain of possible motivations for the
social intention—both necessities for the recipient to
make appropriate relevance inferences (and for the com-
municator to formulate a communicative act that facili-
tates these inferences). Based on the best available
evidence, here is when the key prerequisites of shared
intentionality emerge:
• By at least 9 to 12 months of age infants begin partici-
pating with others in bouts of triadic joint attentional
engagement, creating the kind of common ground neces-
Ontogenetic Origins 141
sary for cooperative communication (Bakeman and
Adamson 1984; Carpenter, Nagell, and Tomasello 1998).
• Relatedly, by at least 12 to 14 months of age infants can
determine which objects they have and have not mutu-
ally experienced with another person just previously in
joint attention—that is, they can determine not just what
we see together (joint attention), but what we know
together from previous experience (Tomasello and Haberl
2003; Moll and Tomasello 2007a; Moll et al. 2008).
• By at least 14 months of age infants can construct with
others shared goals and intentions in, for example, coop-
erative problem-solving activities (Warneken, Chen, and
Tomasello 2006; Warneken and Tomasello 2007)—and
earlier joint intentional interactions might be evidence for
shared goals before the first birthday as well (e.g., Ross
and Lollis 1987; Ratner and Bruner 1978; Bakeman and
Adamson 1984; Carpenter, Nagell, and Tomasello 1998).
And so, from just a few months of age infants have
some of the prerequisite capacities for pointing, including
the appropriate hand-shape form and at least two appro-
priate motives. But they do not begin pointing commu-
nicatively for many more months because they do not yet
understand others as rational agents and they have not
yet begun constructing the kinds of joint attentional
frames and common ground that enable them to make
reference to the world in meaningful ways for other
persons triadically. However, as soon as they begin to
understand others and interact with others in these ways,
142 Chapter 4
at around 9 to 12 months of age, they begin to point for
them communicatively. In combination with the evidence
that adult-like pointing emerges at 12 months of age (as
presented in the previous section), this developmental
synchrony suggests that infants’ early communicative
pointing does indeed rely on precisely these skills and
motivations of individual and shared intentionality, as
proposed here in the cooperation model of human
communication.
Unfortunately, it is not possible by looking at naturally
occurring development to specify whether the emergence
of infants’ communicative pointing at around one year of
age is due to their emerging skills of individual or shared
intentionality, or to both, because they emerge together
ontogenetically. But the data comparing humans to chim-
panzees suggests that the skills of shared intentionality,
in particular, are critical here for supporting the unique
aspects of human-like cooperative communication, and
that without these skills human infants who understood
others as intentional agents would communicate inten-
tionally, but not cooperatively. Further evidence in this
direction is provided by children with autism, who point
for others imperatively, but not declaratively—for certain
not expressively, and perhaps not informatively (this has
never been tested). Importantly, children with autism
have some skills for understanding the basics of inten-
tional action—that others have goals and see things—
which are capable of supporting imperative pointing,
at least of the more individualistic variety (Carpenter,
Ontogenetic Origins 143
Pennington, and Rogers 2001). In contrast, children with
autism have very poor skills of joint attention (see Mundy
and Sigman 2006 for a review) and collaboration (Liebal
et al. 2008), and this is very likely why they do not point
declaratively. Indeed, there is a very strong correlation in
children with autism between skills of joint attention and
communication such that children with autism who are
capable of engaging more readily in joint attentional
behaviors—typically operationalized in terms of coordi-
nating visual attention—are the ones who subsequently
acquire more sophisticated skills of gestural and linguis-
tic communication (see Mundy and Burnette 2005 for a
review).
4.2.3 Summary
A highly simplified depiction of the developmental
process—a very crude dynamic systems model—is pre-
sented in figure 4.1. Our knowledge here is still very
primitive, however, and providing detailed answers to
the question of how infants acquire their various com-
municative activities awaits further research investigat-
ingmorepreciselyhowthedifferentskillsandmotivations
involved actually pattern temporally—with experiments
to determine causality—in human ontogeny. The key
points for now are only two. First, each of the three main
motives for infant pointing must be accounted for sepa-
rately, on its own ontogenetic terms, as each represents a
fundamental mode of social interaction that must have
144 Chapter 4
Point to Request Help - Imperative
Demand
Action
Share Emotions
Point to Share Attitudes -
Expressive
Point to Offer Help -
Informative
Age in Months
0 3 6 9 12
Skill
Level
Understanding
Intentions
Shared
Intentionality
Offer Help
Figure 4.1
Developmental emergence of cooperative communication in
pointing.
its own evolutionary basis, with advantages for both
communicator and recipient (see chapter 5). And second,
despite the developmental readiness of many other com-
ponents, young infants do not begin to engage in coop-
erative communication by pointing until their skills of
shared intentionality emerge at around the first birthday
(these skills are thus the “control parameter” constrain-
ing age of emergence).
It is important as well, in this context, that in the current
account we do not credit 12-month-olds with the full
structure of mature cooperative communication. In par-
ticular, they seem not to have fully mastered all aspects
Ontogenetic Origins 145
of the Gricean communicative intention or norms of
cooperation. These are aspects of shared intentionality
that do not emerge in other arenas of children’s cognitive
development until three or four years of age as well, thus
providing still further evidence that children’s skills of
cooperative communication depend crucially on their
skills of shared intentionality more generally.
4.3 Early Pantomiming
We have so far avoided talking about infant gestures
other than pointing. This is mainly because there is much
less relevant research, and so we know much less about
their nature and acquisition. But they are nonetheless
very important for our story, especially in the transition
to language. Of particular importance, of course, are
iconic gestures (pantomiming) as they may be said to be
in some sense symbolic or representational in a way that
pointing is not. In addition, iconic gestures are categori-
cal—the communicator wants the recipient to imagine
something “like this”—in a way that pointing normally
is not.
4.3.1 Conventional and Iconic Gestures
As argued in the previous chapter, in addition to direct-
ing others’ attention to things deictically, for example, by
pointing, one may also attempt to induce others to
imagine things by gesturing iconically, that is, by
146 Chapter 4
pantomiming. But that is only if one is being creative.
Many human gestures are simply conventional. For
example, the gestures for “OK,” for greeting and leave
taking, for various obscene messages, and so forth, are
not related to their referents iconically in any obvious
way (although they may have been at one time histori-
cally). In studies of infants’ earliest gestural communica-
tion during the second year of life, the nondeictic gestures
cataloged are almost exclusively conventionalized ges-
tures learned by imitation from adults. For example,
Iverson, Capirci, and Caselli (1994) report such things as
shaking the head “No,” waving “Bye-bye,” raising the
palms “All gone,” raising arms high for “Tall,” blowing
for “Too hot,” flapping arms for “Birdie,” panting for
“Doggie,” and so forth. Acredolo and Goodwyn (1988)
report a systematic study of such “baby signs,” also in
the second year of life, with much individual variability.
In general, the use of such conventionalized gestures is
much less frequent, by several orders of magnitude, than
use of pointing gesture alone (Iverson, Capirci, and
Caselli 1994; Camaioni et al. 2003).
Several lines of evidence suggest that infants acquire
and use these conventionalized gestures in basically the
same ways they acquire and use linguistic conventions.
First, infants acquire both of these kinds of conventions
at basically the same age (Acredolo and Goodwyn 1988),
suggesting that they depend on the same social-cognitive
infrastructure, and infants acquiring conventionalized
sign languages, such as American Sign Language, acquire
Ontogenetic Origins 147
their first conventional signs at the same age as well
(Schick 2005). Second, in experiments, novel arbitrary
gestures for objects are acquired just as readily as are
novel words for objects (Namy and Waxman 1998; Wood-
ward and Hoyne 1999). And third, the frequency with
which children experience such gestures and the way the
adult introduces them in naming games affects their
acquisition, in much the same way that these same things
affect the acquisition of linguistic conventions (Namy,
Acredolo, and Goodwyn 2000; Namy and Waxman
2000)—which suggests similar learning processes in the
two cases.
A substantial number of conventionalized gestures are
iconic in some way, but it is not clear whether infants
notice or use this—which again makes them more like
arbitrary linguistic conventions (Tomasello, Striano, and
Rochat 1999). Thus, children learning conventional sign
languages are exposed to both iconic and arbitrary ges-
tures (i.e., signs), but there is no preference or age advan-
tage for learning iconic signs (Folven and Bonvillian 1991;
Orlansky and Bonvillian 1984). Also, in experiments, 18-
month-old infants show no preference for learning iconic
over arbitrary gestures for objects (Namy, Campbell, and
Tomasello 2004). Very young children’s comprehension
of iconicity in gestures or any other medium has yet to
be convincingly demonstrated.
And what about truly creative iconic gestures at this
early age? There is almost no research, but Carpenter et
al. (in preparation) have reported diary observations of
148 Chapter 4
what were almost certainly spontaneously created iconic
gestures by infants in the months immediately after the
first birthday. These were rare, but all infants observed
produced one or more of these on several different
occasions.
Example 22: At age 13 months, A playfully pantomimes
biting to indicate an action he was not supposed to do on
a particular object. Gloss: Attend to my biting; that’s what
I’m going to do to that object.
Example 23: At age 14 months, A tilts his head to the side
to indicate to Mom what she should do to dump a bucket
off her own head. Gloss: Attend to my action; do that!
Example 24: At age 14 months, A “fingers” his chest,
looking and smiling at Mom whose shirt has strings he
likes to play with. Gloss: Attend to my action; I like those
strings (or doing this to those strings).
Example 25: At age 17 months, A pantomimes crumpling
a ball of paper to ask that it be done. Gloss: Attend to my
action; do that!
Deaf children who have not been exposed to any con-
ventional language, spoken or signed, use such iconic
gestures fairly frequently, but exactly how they come by
these gestures (i.e., the degree to which they are learned
from adult models) has not been extensively studied
(Goldin-Meadow 2003b). In any case, to produce such
creative iconic gestures, infants need to have some skills
of imitation, simulation, symbolic representation, or pre-
tense, in the sense that they must enact a familiar action
Ontogenetic Origins 149
not for real, in order to bring about its normal effect,
but rather only in pretense, in order to communicate
something related to that absent action. Importantly, to
gesture iconically infants must also connect the ability
to enact an action outside its normal context (simulation,
pretense, representation) with an understanding of the
Gricean communicative intention. This is because, as
noted in chapter 3, if the gesturer does not connect his
simulating act to some indication of a communicative
intention, then the potential comprehender could simply
think he is acting bizarrely or engaging in pretend play
instead of trying to communicate about some absent
situation (again, see Leslie’s 1987 argument for the need
to “quarantine” pretend acts from real acts). Creative
iconic gestures thus involve some kind of symbolic rep-
resentation, produced for purposes of interpersonal
communication, in a way that pointing to present enti-
ties does not.
There is almost no research on the comprehension of
iconic gestures by young children just beginning to learn
language, but presumably this requires all of the infra-
structure used to interpret pointing gestures in terms of
joint attentional frames, three layers of intentions and
practical reasoning, assumptions of cooperativeness,
Gricean communicative intentions, and so forth, in addi-
tion to the ability to make some kind of symbolic mapping.
In ongoing research we have found that young children
have much difficulty understanding these creative iconic
gestures, not only when they are used to request objects
(as in Tomasello, Striano, and Rochat 1999, noted above),
150 Chapter 4
but also when they are used to simulate for infants what
action they need to perform to solve a problem (Haimerl
et al. in prep.). The research of DeLoache (2004) suggests
that young children have special difficulties with sym-
bolic representations when the medium is physical, for
example, a scale model for the spatial layout of a real
room.
In all, despite the relative lack of research, it is clear
that infants in the second year of life use conventional-
ized gestures much less frequently than they use the
pointing gesture, and spontaneously invented iconic ges-
tures are rarer still. What this means is that pointing—
drawing attention to a perceptually present entity—seems
to be a much simpler and more natural means of com-
munication for young children than is the use of iconic
gestures, and indeed early conventionalized gestures are
in many ways more similar to linguistic conventions than
they are to iconic gestures. One possible implication of
these facts for human evolution is that the most primitive
form of human cooperative communication—in the sense
of being the first or original—is the pointing gesture, with
iconic and conventionalized gestures requiring extra
skills in addition, especially of imitation and symbolic
representation.
4.3.2 Iconic Gestures, Pretense, and Language
A critical developmental fact is this: over the second
year of life nondeictic gestures (conventionalized and
Ontogenetic Origins 151
iconic) actually go down in frequency in comparison with
pointing (Iverson, Capirci, and Caselli 1994; Acredolo
and Goodwyn 1988). The explanation most often given is
that children are learning language during this time, and
conventionalized and iconic gestures compete with lin-
guistic conventions in a way that pointing does not—
perhaps because iconic and conventionalized gestures
and language, but not pointing, involve some kind of
symbolic representation and even categorization of a
referent.
Experimental evidence for this conclusion comes from
several experimental studies. First, Bretherton et al. (1981)
found that early in the second year infants prefer to indi-
cate objects with a gesture, whereas later in the second
year, after they have begun acquiring more language,
they prefer a linguistic convention. Second, Namy and
Waxman (1998) found that infants learn arbitrary ges-
tures and words for objects equally well early in the
second year, but they learn words much more readily
than arbitrary gestures by around the second birthday,
again after language acquisition has begun in earnest. In
contrast to this decline of iconic and conventionalized
gestures, the pointing gesture increases in frequency over
the second year of life, and as infants begin learning lan-
guage pointing is integrated into the process; for example,
manyofinfants’earliestcomplexcommunicationsinvolve
combinations of a conventional word and a pointing
gesture, each indicating a different aspect of the referen-
tial situation (Ozcaliskan and Goldin-Meadow 2005).
152 Chapter 4
These data imply that the pointing gesture serves a
basic function different from that of linguistic commu-
nication, whereas iconic and conventionalized gestures
compete with language for the same function. But, inter-
estingly, infants do continue to do something like iconic
gesturing for noncommunicative purposes during this
same developmental period: they begin to engage ever
more frequently in pretense or symbolic play. Thus, when
a young child pretends to drink from an empty cup,
she is in some sense iconically representing the real act;
she is just not doing this for communicative purposes.
It may then be that humans’ biological predisposition
to iconically represent absent entities and actions for
communicative purposes in the gestural modality is sup-
planted by vocal language in normal ontogeny, but this
ability manifests itself instead in children’s pretense
activities in which they symbolically represent absent
entities and actions for playful purposes. Indeed, when
a young child pretends to drink from an empty cup and
looks playfully to the adult’s face, one could say that
in addition to pretense for the self this is also an iconic
gesture to share this representation with the adult
communicatively.
Children continue to engage in pretend play through-
out childhood, and end up as adults in all kinds of artistic
endeavors such as theater and representational art. But
in terms of communication, the nondeictic gestures of
older children and adults seem to change their way of
working as they become adapted to serve complemen-
Ontogenetic Origins 153
tary functions to language. Thus, both McNeil (2005)
and Goldin-Meadow (2003a) argue that in face-to-face
linguistic communication language is used for the more
propositional aspects of communicative messages,
whereas accompanying gestures are used for the more
imagistic aspects, for example, to outline the shape of
something named or to imaginatively traverse a path
talked about. Interestingly, very young children (before 3
years or so) mostly do not use these kinds of supplemen-
tary gestures as they talk—at least not in the way adults
do—although this has been very little studied.
It may thus be that humans’ evolved abilities to repre-
sent the world iconically in gestures for purposes of inter-
personal communication manifests itself in ontogeny
today in several different ways as a result of the emer-
gence of vocal language. Infants produce some iconic
gestures to communicate very early, but then as language
emerges the use of these abilities is “diverted” to playful
pretense, mainly for the self but sometimes for others.
The use of gestures as supplements to language in face-
to-face communication undergoes a gradual and fairly
long development in which children must learn to parti-
tion their communicative message between vocal lan-
guage and gestures in supplementary ways (some of
which may be different for different languages; McNeill
2005). These are all extremely important facts evolution-
arily, as they suggest to us, among other things, that
when humans began to use vocal conventions they
replaced not pointing, but pantomiming.
154 Chapter 4
4.4 Shared Intentionality and Early Language
In chapter 3, I argued that the everyday use of language
depends on the shared intentionality infrastructure in
basically the same way as pointing and other natural
gestures. Of special importance is some kind of joint
attention or common ground between communicator and
recipient, which serves as the background of shared
understanding against which linguistic conventions are
chosen and comprehended. The necessity of common
ground is even more evident in the case of language
acquisition: how is the young child to comprehend when
an adult utters “Gavagai” if not with reference to their
shared common ground? The critical role of the shared
intentionality infrastructure in language learning and
use, including joint attention and common ground, is the
central premise of the social-pragmatic theory of lan-
guage acquisition, as espoused by Bruner (1983), Nelson
(1985, 1996), and Tomasello (1992b, 2003).
4.4.1 Acquiring Linguistic Conventions
Soon after infants begin pointing and using iconic and
conventionalized gestures, at around their first birthdays,
they also begin comprehending and using linguistic con-
ventions. As surprising as it may seem, most extant theo-
ries of language acquisition have no systematic account
of why infants begin with language acquisition at pre-
cisely this age. In the words of Bloom (2000, p. 45): “In
Ontogenetic Origins 155
the end, nobody knows why word learning starts at about
12 months and not at six months or three years.” But that
is true only for theorists who think of language acquisi-
tion as associating words with things, or perhaps words
with concepts, with no consideration of the cooperative
infrastructure of shared intentionality (Tomasello 2004).
If all infants had to do to learn a linguistic convention or
word was to associate reliably a sound with an experi-
ence (“mapping” is the typical metaphor), then indeed
infants should begin acquiring language at 6 months of
age—since they are perfectly capable of such associations
at this age (Haith and Benson 1997). In the social-
pragmatic theory of language acquisition, however, the
close developmental synchrony between gestural and
linguistic communication is expected because both ges-
tures and language are learned and used within the same
interpersonal nexus of shared intentionality—and that
emerges, as documented, at around 9 to 12 months
of age.
Quine (1960) captured the problem most poignantly in
his famous parable (though Quine himself was address-
ing a somewhat different philosophical issue): A stranger
visits an unknown culture. A rabbit runs past. A native
of the culture utters what is presumably a piece of lan-
guage: “Gavagai.” Assuming that the stranger knows this
is a communicative act, the question is still: how is she to
know whether the native is attempting to direct her atten-
tion to the rabbit, to its leg, to its color, to its fur, to
running, to a potential dinner, and so forth? The answer
156 Chapter 4
is that without any forms of shared experience or common
ground with the native speaker (which are, for purposes
of the parable, specifically excluded), there simply is no
way. Quine (1960, p. ix), himself, says: “Language is a
social art. In acquiring it we have to depend entirely on
intersubjectively available cues as to what to say and
when.”
Specifically in the case of language acquisition children
may achieve the necessary common ground in one of two
basic ways. The first is inside of collaborative interactions
with others, which have joint goals that generate top-
down joint attention. To illustrate, let us imagine a varia-
tion on Quine’s parable. Suppose that there is a cultural
practice in the native’s village of catching small fish for
dinner in a certain way: first one must get a bucket
(usually found inside a particular hut) and a pole (usually
found outside the same hut), and one must take these to
the stream, and each person must stand on a different
side of the stream holding one end of the pole with the
bucket in the middle so that water goes in it, and so on.
And let us assume that the stranger is in the process of
becomingenculturatedintothispracticethroughrepeated
participation. Now one evening when dinnertime comes,
and preparations begin, the native picks up the pole from
outside the hut and points for the stranger through the
door to inside the hut—perhaps saying “Gavagai.” To the
degree that the stranger understands the practice, she
will know that the native wants her to fetch the bucket
inside so that they can go fishing—and so the word
Ontogenetic Origins 157
gavagai almost certainly means either “bucket” or “fetch,”
or perhaps something more generic like “that” or “there.”
But if upon arriving at the stream, the native starts indi-
cating to the stranger that she should fetch other things,
also using the word gavagai, and not using this word to
point out things when they do not need to be fetched, our
stranger can begin to crack into the native language.
Much of children’s early language acquisition is like
this. Bruner (1983) presented evidence that virtually all
of children’s earliest language is acquired inside routine
collaborative interactions with mature speakers of a lan-
guage—in Western culture, such things as eating in the
high chair, going for a ride in the car, changing diapers,
feeding ducks at the pond, building a block tower, taking
a bath, putting away the toys, feeding the dog, going
grocery shopping, and on and on. In each one of these
practices the infant, like our stranger, first learns to par-
ticipate and form with the other shared goals, and this
enables her to understand what the other person is doing
(in terms of his goals and intentions) and why he is doing
it (in terms of why one plan was chosen, in the current
situation with its particular contingencies, and not
another). This in turn determines to a large extent the
domain of joint attention and where the other person’s
attention is focused at any given moment in the activity,
and so what he is very likely talking about with some
novel term. Future uses of the same term in other con-
texts will serve to narrow down the possible intended
referents and messages even more.
158 Chapter 4
Soon children become able to learn new words in all
kinds of collaborative interactions. For example, Toma-
sello, Strosberg, and Akhtar (1996) had an adult and an
18-month-old infant play a finding game. In the context
of this game, at one point the adult announced her inten-
tion to “find the toma.” She then searched in a row of
buckets all containing novel objects (rejecting some by
scowling and replacing them) until she found the one she
wanted (indicated by a smile and the termination of
search). Children learned the new word toma for the
object that the adult’s smile indicated, no matter how
many rejected objects intervened in the process—thus
ruling out any simple process of association based on
spatiotemporal contiguity. Indeed, Tomasello, Strosberg,
and Akhtar (1996) found that in the context of a similar
finding game, 18-month-old infants could identify the
adult’s intended referent even when they themselves
never saw it—because it was an object they knew to be
locked inside the toy barn the adult was currently trying
to get into (see Tomasello 2001 for other similar studies).
To learn the new word in these situations, the child basi-
cally had to understand the intentional structure of the
shared finding game and to reason practically, indeed
cooperatively, about the adult’s actions in it.
The second way to establish joint attention for word
learning is bottom-up; for example, a strange animal
might simply appear to a father and child during their
walk in the park, and the father might then name it. One
might assume that infants would simply learn the name
of the new animal in such situations egocentrically, attach-
Ontogenetic Origins 159
ing it to whatever is salient for them alone. But this is not
what happens. From very early in development, young
children understand that in using a novel piece of lan-
guage the adult is inviting them to share her attentional
focus. Thus, Baldwin (1991) waited until an 18-month-old
child was focused on one object, and then she looked at
another object and named that one. Children learned the
word not for the object they were already focused on, but
rather for the one the adult was inviting them to attend
to.Similarly,andevenmorestrikingly,Akhtar,Carpenter,
and Tomasello (1996) had a child, her mother, and an
experimenter play together with three novel objects. The
mother then left the room. A fourth novel object was
bought out and the child and experimenter played with
it. When the mother returned to the room, she looked at
the four objects together and exclaimed to the child “Oh,
wow! A modi! A modi!” Understanding that Mom would
most likely be excited about the object she was seeing for
the first time, 24-month-old children learned the new
word for that object (even though they themselves were
equally familiar with all four objects). To learn the new
word in these situations, children had to determine not
just what was salient for the adult, but what the adult
thought would be salient for them—actually, what the
adult thought they would think she would think was
salient for them, and so on. They needed to imagine the
necessary common ground.
When joint attention is measured very generally as
joint visual focus on potential referent objects, it is found
to correlate quite strongly with young children’s initial
160 Chapter 4
acquisition of words (Tomasello and Farrar 1986; Carpen-
ter, Nagell, and Tomasello 1998; see Tomasello 1988, 2003,
for reviews of related findings). Specifically, the way
mothers use language inside joint attentional frames
facilitates their children’s acquisition of words, whereas
the way mothers use language outside these frames has
no effect. We may thus think of joint attentional frames
as “hot spots” for language acquisition. Interestingly,
however, this correlation seems to decrease over the
second year of life (Carpenter, Nagell, and Tomasello
1998). This may be for two reasons. First, infants may be
learning to acquire new words more flexibly by “eaves-
dropping” on third parties’ use of language to one another
(Akhtar, Jipson, and Callanan 2001)—perhaps by imagin-
ing themselves in the interaction, which they compre-
hend, whether they are participating or not, from a
“bird’s-eye view” (Tomasello 1999). Second, joint visual
attention may become less important for language acqui-
sition, as children become able to use language itself for
establishing joint attention. Thus, at some point, children
do not need to determine where the adult’s visual atten-
tion is focused when she says to them “Give me that modi
you’re playing with”—as they know the meaning of the
language around the unknown word, and this establishes
the joint attentional frame within which the novel word
is understood.
In any case, these theoretical considerations and empir-
ical findings all point to the same conclusion. Young chil-
dren do not learn their initial linguistic conventions by
Ontogenetic Origins 161
simply associating or mapping arbitrary sounds onto
recurrent experiences in an individualistic manner.
Rather, they acquire their initial linguistic conventions by
attempting to understand how others are using particular
sounds to direct their attention within the space of their
current common ground—sometimes supplied top-down
by the joint collaborative activity in which they are cur-
rently participating, and sometimes by other forms of
bottom-up common ground as well. This is of course the
same basic process that supports infants’ initial compre-
hension of pointing and other gestures. Without some
kind of meaningful social engagement with the adult
using the novel piece of language, children just hear
noises coming from the mouths of others; they do not
experience others directing their attention in meaningful
ways. They then must imitatively learn the convention
by engaging in role reversal imitation in which they use
the acquired piece of language toward others in the way
that others have used it toward them.
4.4.2 Using Linguistic Conventions
Young children produce their earliest referential language
typically between 14 and 18 months of age. In the vast
majority of cases, children have previously been com-
municating for some weeks or months using gestures. In
the study of Carpenter, Nagell, and Tomasello (1998), all
24 infants had used some kind of communicative gesture,
typically pointing, before they began producing any
162 Chapter 4
referential language. Although it is theoretically possible
that children might begin to use language within the
context of some kind of common ground before produc-
ing any gestures, it is a significant fact that the vast major-
ity gesture first, thus setting up the shared intentionality
infrastructure of language for use with prelinguistic
gestures.
Infants’ earliest motives for communicating linguisti-
cally are the same as for pointing: informing, requesting
(including requesting information), and sharing atti-
tudes.1
Often, infants use early pieces of language in the
same way as adults by simply reversing roles with them
in the same or similar situations. For example, Ratner and
Bruner (1978) observed a young child just after his first
birthday playing a game of “hide the puppet” with his
mother. In repeated rounds of the game, the mother
tended to say “All gone” at the same moment in the
game, just after the puppet had disappeared. The child’s
first production of “All gone,” not surprisingly, simply
involved doing what the mother had done, at the same
juncture,previously.Childrenalsonameobjectsforadults
by reversing roles in the naming game that the adult at
some earlier point originated. But children also learn
pieces of language from adults for making reference to
1. Three more specific functions that young children quite often
acquire early in their language development as well—and which typi-
cally do not occur with pointing—are expressions of gratitude
(“Thanks”), greeting (“Hi” and “Bye”), and apologizing (“Sorry”),
however imperfectly they may understand these functions.
Ontogenetic Origins 163
the world, but then use them for different purposes than
the adults from whom they learned them. For example,
many parents ask their children of food “Do you want
some more?,” but when children start using parts of this
expression they use it to request “More!” The child thus
learns the referential device from the adult model, but
then uses it for her own purposes.
Children’s early use of both pointing and language
show the same complementarity between what must
be expressed in the referential act itself and what may
be left implicit in common ground; that is to say, point-
ing and linguistic utterances have the same “information
structure.” Thus, in most cases pointing presupposes
the joint attentional common ground as “topic” (old
or shared information), and the pointing act is actually
a predication, or focus, informing the recipient of
something new, worthy of her attention. In other cases,
pointing serves to establish a new topic, about which
further things may then be communicated. Both of these
are functions served by whole utterances in linguistic
communication (see Lambrecht’s 1994 predicate focus
and sentence focus constructions). When infants first
begin talking—when they are still confined to only one-
or two-word utterances—they typically choose to refer
to complex situations by using the most “informative”
term available. For example, if a new object enters the
scene, or an already present object begins engaging in
a new activity, beginning language learners tend to refer
to the new element in the situation (Greenfield and
164 Chapter 4
Smith 1976). More recent evidence demonstrates that
from as early as the second birthday, children choose
the new element on the basis of its newness not for
themselves but for the listener (Campbell, Brooks, and
Tomasello 2000; Wittek and Tomasello 2005; Matthews
et al. 2006).2
In addition, many of children’s early utter-
ances are combinations of gestures (mostly pointing)
and words, dividing up in various ways the topic and
focus functions (Tomasello 1988; Ozcaliskan and Goldin-
Meadow 2005; Iverson and Goldin-Meadow 2005), which
suggests a common infrastructure for gestures and lan-
guage as well.
4.4.3 Summary
Many animals can associate sounds with experiences,
and human infants can do this from a few months of
age. If association or “mapping” were all that is involved
in acquiring a linguistic convention, then language
would be everywhere in the animal kingdom, and
it would start at three months of age in humans. But
the fact is that animals and young human infants do not
2. Interestingly, when young children choose inadequate referring
expressions leading to misunderstandings, what is most useful in
helping them learn to choose expressions more adequate to the recipi-
ent’s perspective is the adult signaling in a salient way her noncom-
prehension—rather than, for example, the adult simply demonstrating
examples of adequate referential acts, which are less helpful since they
are not connected to child misunderstandings (Matthews, Lieven, and
Tomasello 2007).
Ontogenetic Origins 165
acquire or use linguistic conventions. The reason is that
“arbitrary” linguistic conventions can be acquired only
in the context of some kind of conceptual common ground
with mature speakers, often in collaborative activities
with joint goals and joint attention, and this only becomes
possible in human ontogeny at around one year based
on species-unique shills and motives for shared
intentionality.
4.5 Conclusion
In this chapter I have tried to make the case that infant
gestural communication, especially pointing, has some-
thing approaching the full adult structure, with perhaps
a few sophistications still to come. In doing this, I pro-
vided empirical support for many of the components of
the cooperation model in general, as well as for three
specific hypotheses.
First, the full cooperative infrastructure is basically in
place before language acquisition has begun in earnest,
as demonstrated by the various experimental studies of
12-month-olds’ pointing reviewed here. Of course, chil-
dren are bathed in language from birth, and one might
suppose that they are influenced by that in some way
even though they are not producing language themselves.
But the early pointing of deaf infants who have been
exposed to no systematic vocal or signed language is
essentially the same as that of hearing infants (Lederberg
and Everhart 1998; Spencer 1993). And so we claim that
166 Chapter 4
in ontogeny the first manifestations of uniquely human
forms of cooperative communication emerge in prelin-
guistic gestural communication—especially in the point-
ing gesture—and that they do not depend on language
production or comprehension.
Second, although pointing and other gestures typically
emerge before language, they emerge only after the con-
stitutive skills of individual and shared intentionality.
Indeed, we noted that infants have at least two motiva-
tions for pointing from very early in infancy—requesting
things from adults and sharing emotions with them—and
they also have the pointing hand shape as well. But
infants’ first pointing gestures come only as they are
beginning to understand others as intentional agents and
to participate with them in joint attentional interactions.
This ontogenetic pattern—along with several experimen-
tal studies—provides strong support for many of the
hypothesized components of the cooperation model of
human communication, including the crucial role of joint
attentional frames and other forms of common ground.
Third, infants’ first acquisition and use of linguistic
conventions also provides support the cooperation model.
The problem of referential indeterminacy arises precisely
when an act of reference is removed from the kinds of
shared intentionality contexts within which language
acquisition normally occurs. When children experience
an adult using a linguistic convention outside of such
contexts, it is true: they acquire nothing. But when chil-
dren experience an adult using a linguistic convention
Ontogenetic Origins 167
within such inherently meaningful contexts, they are
quite often able to understand what is being communi-
cated independent of language and so to acquire produc-
tive use of that convention. They then use it in ways that
are not so different, from a functional point of view, from
the way they use pointing and iconic gestures—and,
indeed, early language and gestures are often used
together. Early linguistic conventions tend to supplant
not pointing, which often supplements language, but
rather iconic gestures, which operate in a similar manner
to language in being both symbolic and categorical.
5 Phylogenetic Origins
If I want to show a person the way I point my finger in the direction
he is to follow, and not the opposite one. . . . It is in human nature to
understand pointing a finger in this way. And thus the human lan-
guage of gestures is in a psychological sense primary.
—Wittgenstein, The Big Typescript
If the claim is that human communication is fundamen-
tally cooperative, we have a problem. Specifically, we
have a problem in explaining its evolution because, as is
well known, in modern biology the evolution of coopera-
tion requires special treatment if there is any hint that the
individual is subordinating its own interests to those of
others altruistically, for example, in acts of helping. We
therefore must explain why human recipients are so
motivated to comply with communicators who request
help from them, and why human communicators are
motivated to actually offer help to recipients by inform-
ing them of things freely for their benefit. Why do
individuals who do these altruistic things leave more
offspring?
170 Chapter 5
Our proposal is that human cooperative communica-
tion was adaptive initially because it arose in the context
of mutualistic collaborative activities in which individu-
als helping others were simultaneously helping them-
selves. This is not quite as obvious as it first sounds,
as cooperative communication today may be used for
all kinds of selfish, deceptive, competitive, and otherwise
individualistic ends—and so these could theoretically
have been contexts in which human-style communica-
tion originated as well. But the current proposal is that
in the beginning skills of cooperative communication
originated and were used only in activities that were
collaborative all the way down (and so structured by
joint goals and attention, which provided the necessary
common conceptual ground). Only later was coopera-
tive communication co-opted for use outside of col-
laborative activities and for noncooperative purposes
such as lying.
The intimate relation between collaborative activities
and cooperative communication is most readily apparent
in the fact that they both rely on one and the same under-
lying infrastructure of recursively structured joint goals
and attention, motivations and even norms for helping
and sharing, and other manifestations of shared inten-
tionality. This common infrastructure is most clearly
evident in the fact that great apes have noncooperative
forms of both group activities and intentional communi-
cation, underlain by skills for understanding individual
intentionality, whereas human infants develop coopera-
Phylogenetic Origins 171
tive forms of both collaboration and communication
underlain by skills and motivations for shared intention-
ality (and before language). We thus believe that our
evolutionary account is more than just another “just-so
story,” as the common infrastructure of shared intention-
ality underlying both the collaborative and communica-
tive activities of contemporary human beings provides
us with a tangible stamp of their common evolutionary
origin.
To go beyond cooperative communication in mutual-
istic contexts, we will also need at some point to invoke
processes of indirect reciprocity in which individuals care
about the reputation they have among others in the social
group, since having a reputation as a good helper
and cooperator contributes in important ways to social
success. This will be necessary especially to account for
humans’ tendency to simply inform others of things help-
fully even outside of contexts in which they themselves
receive a mutual benefit. We will also need, at some later
point, to invoke processes of social identification, affilia-
tion, and conformity to account for the sharing motive,
whose function, in the current hypothesis, is to increase
common ground with others and the sense of social
belonging—which provide the kind of within-group
homogeneity necessary for natural selection to work on
the level of the cultural group. These processes of social
identification are also necessary to account for the fact
that human communication is governed by social norms
that dictate how things ought to be done (e.g., granting
172 Chapter 5
reasonable requests, not lying, etc.), if one is to be a fully
functioning member of the social group.
Finally, we begin in this chapter and continue in the
next to provide an account of how human skills of
linguistic communication build on this already existing
platform of cooperative communication evolutionarily to
provide humans with the most flexible, open-ended, and
powerful form of communication on the planet. For this
we also will need, in addition to the shared intentionality
infrastructure, skills of cultural learning and imitation,
including role reversal imitation, to enable the creation of
group-shared communicative conventions. We will argue
that arbitrary communicative conventions—first gestural
and then vocal, with a period of overlap—could only
have arisen by building on action-based gestures (i.e.,
pointing and pantomiming) which were already mean-
ingful “naturally.”
5.1 The Emergence of Collaboration
The current hypothesis is that human cooperative com-
munication emerged as part and parcel of the evolution
of humans’ unique forms of collaborative activity. We
cannot here attempt to explain the evolution of humans’
hyper-cooperativeness in general (see Richerson and
Boyd 2005 for an excellent overview), but what we can
show is that human collaborative activities differ from
great apes’ group activities in precisely the same way that
human cooperative communication differs from great
Phylogenetic Origins 173
ape intentional communication. Specifically, human col-
laborative activity and cooperative communication both
rest, in a way that great ape group activity and intentional
communication do not, on such things as recursive inten-
tion-reading and the tendency to offer help and informa-
tion to others freely.
5.1.1 The Group Activities of Chimpanzees
Chimpanzees, as representative of great apes (and the
ape species on whom there is by far the most research),
are very social creatures, and engage in a number of
complex group activities, for example, in group hunting.
But our question here is whether they also engage more
specifically in collaborative activities, defined more nar-
rowly as multiple individuals pursuing a joint goal—and
all knowing together that they are doing so—with inter-
related, complementary roles. This kind of collaboration
requires, in our analysis, skills and motivations for shared
intentionality, including as the basic social-cognitive pre-
requisite, recursive mindreading.
In their natural habitats, chimpanzees sometimes hunt
in small parties to capture small animals such as
monkeys. Most impressively, male chimpanzees in the
Taï forest hunt together in small groups for red colobus
monkeys (Boesch and Boesch 1989; Boesch and Boesch-
Achermann 2000; Boesch 2005). In the Boeschs’ account
the animals have a common goal and take complemen-
tary roles in their hunting. In this account, one individual,
174 Chapter 5
called the driver, chases the prey in a certain direction,
while others, so-called blockers, climb the trees and
prevent the prey from changing direction—and an
ambusher then moves in front of the prey, making an
escape impossible. Of course, when the hunting event is
described with this vocabulary of complementary roles,
it appears to be a truly collaborative activity: comple-
mentary roles already imply that there is a joint goal,
shared by the role-takers. But the question is whether
this vocabulary is appropriate.
From our perspective, a more plausible characteriza-
tion of this hunting activity is the following (see Toma-
sello et al. 2005). One chimpanzee begins by chasing the
monkey, given that others are around (which he knows
is necessary for success). Each other chimpanzee then
goes to, in turn, the most opportune spatial position still
available at any given moment in the emerging hunt. In
this process, each participant is attempting to maximize
its own chances at catching the prey, without any kind of
prior joint plan or agreement on a joint goal or assign-
ment of roles. This kind of hunting event clearly is a
group activity of some complexity in which individuals
are mutually responsive to one another’s spatial position
as they encircle the prey. But wolves and lions do some-
thing very similar, and most researchers do not attribute
to them any kind of joint goals and/or plans (Cheney and
Seyfarth 1990a; Tomasello and Call 1997). It is also rele-
vant that in other chimpanzee communities, the group
hunting seems to be much less coordinated (e.g., Ngogo:
Watts and Mitani 2002; Gombe: Stanford 1998)—perhaps
Phylogenetic Origins 175
owing to differences in the local ecologies in terms of how
easy it is to hunt successfully alone, to find alternative
food sources, and so forth.
This cognitively leaner interpretation is supported by
studies that have investigated chimpanzees’ abilities to
collaborate in experimental settings. The basic facts are
these:
• In Crawford’s (1937, 1941) classic studies, sometimes
cited as demonstrating collaboration, chimpanzee pairs
did not synchronize their actions until they received
extensive human training. This training included sepa-
rating the individuals and teaching them each to pull on
command, which jump-started the synchronization of
actions later when they were put back together and the
command was given so that both pulled simultane-
ously—by accident, as it were. When subjects were later
given a slightly different transfer task, all pairs reverted
to uncooperative behavior. (See Savage-Rumbaugh, Rum-
baugh, and Boysen 1978 for a study involving even more
extensive human training.)
• In more successful experiments with less or no training,
most chimpanzee coordination involves individuals
learning to refrain from acting (i.e., waiting) until the
other is in place and ready to act (Chalmeau 1994;
Chalmeau and Gallo 1996; Melis, Hare, and Tomasello
2006a,b).
• There are no published experimental studies—
and several unpublished negative results (two of them
by myself and colleagues)—in which chimpanzees
176 Chapter 5
collaborate by playing different and complementary
roles; the only successes have come in tasks with identical
parallel roles such as simultaneous pulling.
• In the successful studies involving parallel roles, almost
no communication among partners is observed (Povinelli
and O’Neill 2000; Melis, Hare, and Tomasello 2006a,b;
Hirata and Fuwa 2006)—although there was some
tugging at a recalcitrant partner in Crawford’s (1937)
study. Also, in chimpanzees’ group hunting in the wild,
little if any intentional communication among partici-
pants is observed (i.e., none that anyone has suggested
serves a coordinating function).
These results suggest that human-like collaborative activ-
ity—group activity with an intentional structure com-
prising both a joint goal and complementary roles—is
something in which great apes do not participate. In
general, it is almost unimaginable that two chimpanzees
might spontaneously do something as simple as carry
something heavy together or make a tool together.
One potential explanation for why chimpanzees and
other apes do not collaborate with one another in human-
like ways is that they do not understand the goals and
perceptions of their partner as an individual actor in the
situation (Povinelli and O’Neill 2000). Because the goals
and perceptions of others are not readily observable, and
so require inferences, we ourselves at one time thought
that only humans understood them and how they work
together in goal-directed action (Tomasello and Call
Phylogenetic Origins 177
1997). But recent research, much of it cited above in
section 2.4.1, has changed all of that. Apes understand
that others have goals and perceptions and how these
relate to one another in intentional action, perhaps even
rational action. So this is not the reason they do not col-
laborateinhuman-likeways.Rather,asmightbeexpected,
we believe that whereas apes understand what the other
is doing as an individual intentional agent, they have
neither the skills nor the motivations to form with others
joint goals and joint attention or otherwise participate
with others in shared intentionality.
A recent experiment supports this interpretation.
Warneken, Chen, and Tomasello (2006; see also Warneken
and Tomasello 2007) presented 14- to 24-month-old chil-
dren and three human-raised juvenile chimpanzees with
four collaborative tasks: two instrumental tasks in which
there was a concrete goal, and two social games in which
there was no concrete goal other than playing the collab-
orative game itself (e.g., the two partners using a kind of
trampoline to bounce a ball up in the air together). The
human adult partner was programmed to quit acting at
some point in the tasks as a way of determining subjects’
commitment to the joint activity. Results were clear and
consistent. In the problem-solving tasks, chimpanzees
synchronized their behavior relatively skillfully with that
of the human, as shown by the fact that they were often
successful in bringing about the desired result. However,
they showed no interest in the social games, basically
declining to participate. Most importantly, when the
178 Chapter 5
human partner stopped participating, no chimpanzee
ever made a communicative attempt to reengage her—
even in cases where they were seemingly highly moti-
vated to obtain the goal—suggesting that they had not
formed with her a joint goal. In contrast, the human
children collaborated in the social games as well as
the instrumental tasks. Indeed, they sometimes turned
the instrumental tasks into social games by placing the
obtained reward back into the apparatus to start the
activity again; the collaborative activity itself was more
rewarding than the instrumental goal. Most importantly,
when the adult stopped participating in the activity, the
children actively encouraged him to reengage by com-
municating with him in some way, suggesting that they
had formed with him a shared goal to which they now
wanted him to now recommit. Overall, the children
seemed to collaborate just for the sake of collaborating,
whereas the chimpanzees were engaged in a more indi-
vidualistic manner.
Further support for this interpretation comes from a
recent longitudinal study in which the same three human-
raised chimpanzees were assessed on a whole suite of
social-cognitive skills (Tomasello and Carpenter 2005; see
also Tomonaga et al. 2004). It was found that the chim-
panzees were very similar to human infants on the more
individually based social-cognitive skills involving the
understanding of goals and perceptions. But in a series
of simple cooperative tasks in which a human played one
role and the chimpanzee a complementary role—for
Phylogenetic Origins 179
example, the human held out a plate and the chimpanzee
placed a toy on it—when the human forced a role reversal
chimpanzees basically either did not reverse roles, or else
they performed their action without reference to the
human. In a similar series of tasks, human infants not
only reversed roles, but when they did so they looked
expectantly to the adult in anticipation of her playing her
new role in their shared task (Carpenter, Tomasello, and
Striano 2005). Our interpretation is that human infants
understand joint activity from a “bird’s-eye view,” with
the joint goal and complementary roles all in a single
representational format—which enables them to reverse
roles as needed. In contrast, chimpanzees understand
their own action from a first-person perspective and that
of the partner from a third-person perspective, but they
do not have a bird’s-eye view of the interaction—and so
there really are no roles, and so no sense in which they
can reverse roles, in “the same” activity.
In terms of joint attention, the most systematic com-
parative study is that of Carpenter, Tomasello, and
Savage-Rumbaugh (1995; see also Bard and Vauclair 1984,
for some similar observations). They observed human
18-month-olds as well as chimpanzees and bonobos in
interaction with an adult human and some objects, with
a focus on objectively defined looking patterns. In this
situation, all three species interacted with objects and
simultaneously monitored the adult human’s behavior
reasonably frequently. However, human infants spent far
more time than apes looking back and forth from object
180 Chapter 5
to adult, and their looks to the face of the adult were, on
average, almost twice as long as those of the apes. The
infants’ looks were also sometimes accompanied by
smiles, whereas apes do not smile. These differences gave
the impression that the apes’ looks to the adult were
“checking” looks (to see what the adult was doing or was
likely to do next), whereas the infants’ looks to the adult
were “sharing” looks (to share interest); the apes knew
that the other had goals and perceptions, but they did not
have the ability or desire to share them. These apes inter-
acted with others around objects, but they did not engage
with them in shared endeavors with shared goals and
experiences. Tomasello and Carpenter (2005) found some-
thing very similar when they had a human attempt in
various ways to encourage three human-raised chimpan-
zees to share attention with her in the context of play with
objects. The chimpanzees sometimes looked at the inter-
acting human to check what she was doing, but they did
not look to her as a way of sharing interest in and atten-
tion to some external entity. They also did not attempt to
initiate joint attention by communicating gesturally, and,
in an experiment, they did not use shared experience
with the human to determine what was novel, and thus
surprising, for that adult (as do human infants: Moll et
al. 2006).
Based on these results and others (see Tomasello et al.
2005 for a review), it seems clear that human infants
create with others joint goals and complementary roles
in collaborative activities in a way that our nearest primate
Phylogenetic Origins 181
relatives do not. The sine qua non of collaborative action
is a joint goal and a joint commitment among participants
to pursue it together, with a mutual understanding among
all that they share this joint goal and commitment
(Bratman 1992; Gilbert 1989). Joint goals also structure
joint attention, since acting with a partner toward a joint
goal, with mutual understanding that we are doing this,
quite naturally leads to mutual attention monitoring.
And so, one important reason that nonhuman primates
do not participate in collaborative activities in human-
like ways, or participate in joint attentional interactions
in human-like ways, is that although they have human-
like skills for understanding individual intentionality,
they do not have human-like skills and motivations of
shared intentionality.
It is a very important fact for our story here that when
chimpanzees engage in group hunting they do not com-
municate intentionally about the ongoing activity in any
observable way—either to set a goal or to coordinate
roles. In other contexts chimpanzees use their intentional
gestural signals to get others to do what they want them
to, and they also point imperatively for helpful humans
to get them to fetch things for them, and they compre-
hend the requests of others to some extent. To make and
interpret requests requires skills for understanding indi-
vidual intentionality, that is, skills for engaging in practi-
cal reasoning about an intentional agent who perceives
things and has goals. Similarly, when multiple chimpan-
zees are simultaneously attempting to catch a monkey
182 Chapter 5
they understand one another as intentional agents and
react to each other as such. But since they are, in an
important sense, competing in this activity—or, at least,
behaving individualistically—they do not engage in any
intentional communication. If my most immediate goal
is that I capture the monkey unbeknownst to you, then I
will not be doing much communicating.
The basic fact is that chimpanzees’ (and presumably
other apes’) competitive nature makes it very difficult for
them to share the food after the monkey is captured—and
how can there be a joint goal of capturing a monkey when
everyone knows there will be a fight over sharing it at
the end? It is true that when a group of chimpanzees
captures and kills a monkey, the participants in the hunt
typically all get meat—more than late-arriving chimpan-
zees who did not participate in the hunt (Boesch and
Boesch-Achermann 2000). However, recent research by
Gilby (2006) elucidates the basically individualistic mech-
anisms involved in this “sharing.” Gilby notes, first of all,
that chimpanzees who possess meat after the kill often
attempt to avoid others by stealing away from the kill
site, by climbing to the end of a branch to restrict the
access of other chimpanzees, or by chasing beggars away
(see also Goodall 1986; Wrangham 1975). Nevertheless,
meat possessors are typically surrounded by beggars,
who do such things as pull on the meat or cover the
possessor’s mouth with their hand. The possessor typi-
cally allows the beggars to take some of their meat, but
what Gilby documents quantitatively is that this is a
Phylogenetic Origins 183
direct result of the begging and harassment: the more a
beggar begs and harasses, the more food he gets. The
logic is that if the possessor actually fights the harasser
for the meat actively, it is very likely that he will lose all
or some of it to either the harasser or others nearby in the
melee—so the best strategy is for him to eat quickly all
that he can, and allow others to take some meat to keep
them happy (the so-called tolerated theft, or harassment,
model of food sharing). Tomasello et al. (2005) suggest
the further possibility that hunters obtain more meat than
latecomers because they are the first ones immediately at
the carcass and begging, whereas latecomers are rele-
gated to the second ring.
This account of chimpanzee group hunting is sup-
ported by a recent experimental study as well. Melis,
Hare, and Tomasello (2006a) presented a pair of chimpan-
zees with out-of-reach food that could only be obtained
if they each pulled on one of the two ropes available
(attached to a platform with food on it) and did so simul-
taneously. Two findings are of particular importance here.
First, when there were two piles of food, one in front of
each participant, there was a moderate amount of syn-
chronized pulling. However, when there was only one
pile of food in the middle of the platform, making it dif-
ficult to share at the end, coordination fell apart almost
completely. Second, Melis et al. identified in pretesting
individual pairs who were particularly tolerant of one
another and fed together relatively peacefully. There was
much more synchronized pulling from these pairs than
184 Chapter 5
from less tolerant pairs. These findings demonstrate
especially clearly that chimpanzees can only coordinate
synchronized activities when there is likely to be no
squabbling over the food at the end.
It is perhaps also relevant here that although chimpan-
zees sometimes help humans and one another (Warneken,
Chen, and Tomasello 2006; Warneken et al. 2007), they do
not help others in situations in which they themselves
have a chance to obtain food—even when it would be
easy for them to do so at no cost (Silk et al. 2005; Jensen
et al. 2006). This raises the possibility that chimpanzees
might be able to engage in collaboration in non-food-
related activities. It is not so easy to think of what these
might be, as collaboration is only useful for things in
which it is difficult to be successful on one’s own. The
best possibility would seem to be coalitions and alliances
in intragroup fighting, but in the vast majority of cases
what actually happens is that a fight starts between two
individuals, and their friends join in to help them after
the fact (see Tomasello and Call 1997 for a review). The
best gloss for this activity is thus helping, not collabora-
tion, as there is no evidence that the same-team combat-
ants have created a joint goal (although they each may
have “the same” goal separately) and coordinated plans
or roles toward that joint goal.
And so, chimpanzee group hunting would not seem to
be a highly facilitative context for the emergence of coop-
erative communication because it is not a truly collabora-
tive enterprise in the narrow way we have defined
Phylogenetic Origins 185
collaboration here, as joint goals with coordinated plans/
roles (but see Boesch 2005 for a defense of the view that
it is truly collaborative). Indeed, if one chimpanzee helped
another play his “role” in the hunt by informing him, for
example, that the monkey was coming his way, the com-
municator would actually be decreasing his likely intake
of meat at the end, as the informed individual would
very likely use this information to maximize his own
meat intake. It is perhaps also important that bonobos do
not hunt in groups in the wild, suggesting that the chim-
panzee version and the human version may have arisen
independently, based on different underlying psycho-
logical processes (since if the common ancestor to all
three species hunted cooperatively—if group hunting
was homologous in Pan and humans—bonobos should
also).
5.1.2 The Collaborative Activities of Humans
As compared with other primates, humans engage in
an extremely wide array of collaborative activities, many
of these on a very large scale with non-kin and many
under the aegis of social norms in the context of symbols
and formal institutions. And different cultural groups
collaborate in different activities: some in hunting, some
in fishing, some in house building, some in playing
music, some in governing, and on and on, which testi-
fies to the flexibility of the underlying cognitive skills
involved. Thus, while most primates live in social groups
186 Chapter 5
and participate in group activities, humans live in cul-
tures premised on the expectation that its members par-
ticipate in many different kinds of collaborative activities
involving shared goals and a division of labor, with
contributions by all participants and a sharing of the
spoils at the end among all deserving participants.
Humans even create cultural practices and institutions
whose existence is nothing more or less than the collec-
tive agreement of all group members that it should be
so—and these may be governed by social norms with
real punitive force. As just one example, while nonhu-
man primates have some understanding of familial relat-
edness, humans assign social roles such as “spouse” and
“parent” that everyone recognizes and that carry social
and legal obligations to cooperate in specified ways—or
else suffer sanctions.
With respect to hunting in particular, much research
has been done on various hunter-gatherer groups to doc-
ument the ways they forage for certain kinds of game
and/or plants that are not so easily captured by single
individuals (e.g., large game, some fish, underground
plants, and so forth; see Hill and Hurtado 1996 for a
review). Typically in these activities, a small group estab-
lishes the joint goal of capturing a certain prey or extract-
ing a certain plant, and then they plan their various roles
and how they should be coordinated ahead of time—or
else those roles are already common knowledge based on
a common history of the practice. The participants almost
always share the catch with others, not only in their
Phylogenetic Origins 187
immediate families but also more broadly in the social
group at large—and indeed they are typically under strict
social norms to do so, as those who do not share are
harshly sanctioned.
This propensity to share the fruits of collaborative labor
in a “fair” way is extremely strong in humans; people in
almost all cultural groups have internalized norms for
sharing and fairness (see Fehr and Fischbacher 2003 for
a review). For example, humans from both industrialized
societies and hunter-gatherer groups have played the so-
called ultimatum game under experimental conditions
(see Henrich et al. 2005)—always under anonymous con-
ditions and only a single time. In brief, it goes like this.
An individual is given a relatively large sum of money
(in some studies comparable to a month’s pay). The indi-
vidual is told that she can offer some of this to an anony-
mous other person from the same group, and then that
person has the opportunity to either accept the offer—so
that they each get their share—or reject it so that no one
gets anything. What people typically do is to offer the
other person about half the money. They do this at least
partly to be “fair” in some general sense, but also because
they surmise, correctly, that the other person will reject
unfair offers (typically less than 30–40 percent). Exactly
how this works varies from culture to culture, but in all
cultures there is at least some obligation to share impor-
tant goods with others (there are even some cultures in
which the offers are much more than half, and these are
nevertheless often rejected—presumably because they
188 Chapter 5
create an obligation in the recipient to repay later in kind).
When people are told they are playing against a com-
puter, they do not share or reject unfair offers but rather
try to maximize their own take.
In terms of the actual social coordination involved in
collaborative activities, thinkers from Schelling (1960)
and Lewis (1969) on have noticed that human coopera-
tive coordination quite often depends on recursively
understood common ground in an especially critical way.
Thus, if you and I get separated at some large outdoor
gathering, we very likely will end up back together
because we both can figure out what is a likely meeting
place that the other would go to, for example, the car. To
do this successfully, I have to think where you will likely
go, but you are also thinking where I would likely go, so
then I have to think where you think I would go, and on
and on, again, ad infinitum. In other words, we both have
to know that the other’s thinking is contingent on our
thinking if we are to attain our joint goal of finding one
another. Importantly, in the current approach any time
we create a joint goal, this must involve a kind of negotia-
tion that inherently involves such mental coordination—
because I only want to engage in the collaborative activity
if you do also (and you feel the same about me), and so
we must both assess the other’s propensities, which
depend on their assessment of our propensities, and so
on. There are many other kinds of social interactions,
including competitive interactions, that involve some
Phylogenetic Origins 189
form of intention-reading or mindreading, but they do
not have the recursive structure of pure coordination of
this kind.
Human infants begin collaborating with others with
joint goals and coordinated plans, as noted above, soon
after their first birthdays, at about the same time they
begin communicating cooperatively. In the Warneken
and Tomasello (2007) study, infants as young as 14 months
of age seemed to form joint goals (see also Ross and Lollis
1987), and in the Carpenter et al. (Carpenter, Tomasello,
and Striano 2005) study infants as young as 12 months of
age sometimes reversed roles in a simple collaboration.
Graefenhein, Behne, Carpenter, and Tomasello (submit-
ted) found that somewhat older children (around 3 years
of age) were even sensitive to the normative dimension
of the process. That is, these children reacted more
strongly when the adult quit cooperating if they and the
adult had begun the collaborative activity with an explic-
itly acknowledged commitment (“Let’s go play that
game, OK?), as opposed to cases in which the play activ-
ity had arisen by the adult joining the child unbidden. In
all of these studies, infants and young children attempted
to regulate the collaboration by communicating.
And what about cooperative communication? If, as I
have been arguing, human cooperative communication
is “designed” to operate in, and indeed to facilitate,
mutualistic collaborative activities, then what should it
look like? What should be its design features? One
190 Chapter 5
feature would certainly be that it takes advantage of the
fact that collaborators are already acting together with
joint goals and joint attention in the space of common
conceptual ground—which of course it does. Another
would be that it is often used to help others by inform-
ing them of things that would be interesting or useful
to them (since that helps me)—which of course it is. And
indeed, given the joint attention and common ground
created by collaborative activities (involving recursive
mindreading), participants should actually expect the
other to be helpful, and expect the other to expect them
to be helpful, and so on—which of course they do. In
contrast, great ape intentional communication comprises
almost exclusively requests aimed at individualistic goals
in which others are used as social tools—which fits well
with their basically individualistic motives in group
activities such as hunting. This is of course not to say
that modern humans cannot use their skills of coopera-
tive communication for individualistic, competitive, and
selfish ends—they can and they do—but even lying
requires collaboration to get the deceptive message
across and a sense of trust on the part of the recipient
(or else the lying could not ever work), and so even here
we see the cooperative infrastructure. Interestingly and
importantly, whereas chimpanzees can conceal them-
selves from others (Melis, Call, and Tomasello 2006),
there is still no experimental evidence that they can
actively mislead others—perhaps because, to repeat,
lying requires cooperative communication.
Phylogenetic Origins 191
5.1.3 Summary
Thus the present hypothesis about the origins of co-
operative communication is more than just another “just-
so story” of what some human behavior “is good for.” It
is more because cooperative communication actually
shares an infrastructure of shared intentionality with col-
laborative activities, and indeed it seems difficult to
imagine how joint goals and attention, not to mention
mutual assumptions of helpfulness and the communica-
tive intention, could have arisen in contexts in which we
were all operating solely for our own benefit or in compe-
tition. If human cooperative communication had arisen
initially to enable more complex forms of competition
and deception, then we would not expect to see a common
cognitive infrastructure with collaborative activity, nor
would we expect to see as its most basic motivation the
desire to help others by providing them with information
they need (which, to repeat, is actually a prerequisite
assumption if lying is to succeed in fooling the recipient).
5.2 The Emergence of Cooperative Communication
We do not have a specific and detailed evolutionary story
to tell here, but there are certain logical or at least plau-
sible ordering relationships among the various compo-
nents of human communication as we have laid them out
so far. Our task now, therefore, is to propose some order-
ings of things that can take us from great ape intentional
192 Chapter 5
communication, based on the understanding of individ-
ual intentionality, to human cooperative communication,
based on skills and motives of shared intentionality—
using evolutionary processes known to be involved in the
evolution of cooperation. The sequence we propose is
organized around three basic processes by which coop-
eration is known to evolve, as tied to our three basic
motives of human cooperative communication:
• to explain the granting of requests and the initial motive
to help by informing, we invoke mutualism (the request
is granted or the information is offered because it helps
us both);
• to explain offering help by informing outside of mutu-
alistic contexts, we invoke reciprocity and indirect reci-
procity (help is offered because it adds to my reputation
for co-operativeness so that others will want me as a
cooperative partner—and help me in return); and
• to explain sharing emotions and attitudes, we invoke
cultural group selection (emotions and attitudes are
shared as a way of increasing common ground and solidi-
fying group membership).
In the current account, most of this took place evolution-
arily within the context of collaborative activities, for all
of the reasons outlined in the preceding section, and
within the gestural modality, for all of the reasons out-
lined in chapters 2 and 3—although at some point we
must account for cooperative communication outside of
collaborative contexts and the shift to the vocal modality.
Phylogenetic Origins 193
5.2.1 Mutualistic Collaboration and Requesting Help
Our starting point is great ape group activities, which,
as I have just argued, are not truly collaborative in the
sense of being structured by joint goals, and great ape
intentional gestural signals, which are used to spur
others to desired actions but generally not within group
activities. Our overall model for an initial move in the
direction of human collaboration and cooperative com-
munication is the two-stage model proposed by Hare
and Tomasello (2005)—based on an analogy to processes
of domestication.
First, since our nearest ape relatives are not so inclined
to share the spoils of group activities, or indeed to share
food freely in any situation, step one in the direction of
human-like collaboration and cooperative communica-
tion is for individuals to become more tolerant, generous,
and less competitive with one another, perhaps especially
in feeding contexts. An interesting possibility is that this
first step is represented by modern-day apes interacting
with cooperative humans. In the study by Hirata and
Fuwa (2006), for example, chimpanzees who did not
solicit other chimpanzees to engage in a group activity
quite readily solicited a presumably more helpful human.
And recall that apes raised by humans learn to spontane-
ously point (and do other things) for those humans to
request things from them imperatively, which they do
not do with other apes (see section 2.3). Even within
the species, chimpanzees solicit as a partner in group
194 Chapter 5
activities individuals whom they have learned are more
helpful and tolerant (Melis, Hare, and Tomasello 2006a).
All of this suggests that in human evolution greater toler-
ance among conspecifics would have been enough to
begin moving in the direction of true collaboration as
well as imperative pointing—with no further cognitive
skills necessary beyond those of modern-day great apes.
The second step is that these individuals, who are coor-
dinating actions with one another more regularly and
tolerantly, would then be in a position for natural selec-
tion—given the appropriate ecological conditions—to
specifically favor cognitive and motivational machinery
supporting more complex collaborative interactions. As
Bateson (1988, p. 12) puts it:
Once evolutionary stability of co-operative behavior was
achieved . . . features that maintained and enhanced the coher-
ence of the highly functional co-operative behavior would then
have tended to evolve. Signals that predicted what one indi-
vidual was about to do, and mechanisms for responding appro-
priately to them, would have become mutually beneficial.
What might be selected for in these tolerant, peacefully
co-feeding individuals is the ability to create joint goals
and joint attention. Thus, if at some point group hunting
chimpanzees became more tolerant and less competitive
about sharing the food at the end, then it does not matter
who captures the monkey because the food will be shared
in the end in any case. When we all expect to share
the food in the end and we all know this together, then
we can have—if the necessary cognitive abilities have
Phylogenetic Origins 195
evolved—a mutually known joint goal that “we” capture
the monkey. And when individuals are pursuing a joint
goal, each knows that what is relevant for her is also rel-
evant for the others jointly—at least potentially. Joint
attention can also arise from the bottom up, as it were, as
when a strange animal appears on the horizon, we each
see it, and then look to one another to confirm our shared
interest—which does not derive from a current collabora-
tive activity (though in many cases it derives from some
past shared activity or experience). But the current pro-
posal is that joint attention started (and starts today in
human infants) top down in collaborative activities with
joint goals.1
Mutualistic collaboration is thus the birth-
place of the common conceptual ground necessary for
inferentially rich cooperative communication of the
human kind.
In terms of communication specifically, as we are
working toward our joint goal in mutualistic collabora-
tion, it is to each of our advantages that we help the
other—and we are also likely to understand attempts to
request and offer help communicatively as we are in the
common ground of the collaborative activity. In this
context, the communicator’s tendency to request help
1. Interestingly, it would seem difficult to get any kind of recursive
processes going in the auditory domain alone—since auditory stimuli
are broadcast to everyone simultaneously. In the visual domain, I see
something, and to know whether you also see it I have to look at you
(unlike audition). I also have to look at you to see if you see me seeing
it, and so forth and so on. Thus, nocturnal animals with no vision, fol-
lowing this line of thinking, would never evolve joint attention.
196 Chapter 5
and the recipient’s tendency to simply help might natu-
rally arise as a way of facilitating progress toward a joint
goal. Note that chimpanzees do offer help to conspecifics
on occasion, which means that the evolutionary process
would have had something to work with as an initial
state in the evolution of requesting help from others as a
fundamental communicative motive. But they do not
offer help in most group activities, or inform others help-
fully in any activities, which means that the evolutionary
process still has work to do. Note also that in mutualistic
collaborative activities the difference between requesting
help and offering help by informing is minimal. That is,
if we are moving a log together toward a joint goal, if
there is an obstacle in the way I can request that you
remove it to help us, or I can inform you of its presence
which I assume will lead you to want to remove it to help
us. If we are outside of mutualistic contexts, the differ-
ence between requesting help (I want you to move that
stone because it will help me toward my goal) and helping
by informing (I want you to notice that stone because it
is impeding you toward your goal) is much greater.
An analogy here might be instructive. It is an interest-
ing morphological fact that of all the primates only
humans have highly visible eye direction (because of
white sclera; Kobayashi and Koshima 2001), and indeed
even human infants tend to follow the eye direction over
the head direction of others, whereas great apes tend to
follow the head direction over the eye direction of others
(see also Tomasello et al. 2007). Why should this be?
Phylogenetic Origins 197
There must be some advantage to the human individual
that she “advertise” her eye direction for others, and this
would seem to assume a predominance of situations in
which the individual may count on others using that
information collaboratively or helpfully, not competi-
tively or exploitatively. We may think of communicative
behaviors that serve to advertise the internal states of
individuals in the same way. For example, we may think
of cooperative requests as “advertisements” of my inter-
nal state of wanting, which can only be adaptive in situ-
ations in which it is to my benefit for others to know
about my wanting—prototypically when they have their
own reasons for wanting to help satisfy my desires, as in
mutualistic collaboration. It is thus in these kinds of con-
texts that human beings might have developed the ten-
dencies and skills to simply inform others of their desires,
or to inform others of things that might be useful to them
both.
In terms of the communicative devices themselves,
the most obvious candidate for requesting help, and
perhaps even offering help, in mutualistic collaborative
activities is pointing. Mutualistic collaborative activities
take place in the here and now and are structured very
powerfully, in a top-down manner, by joint goals and
joint attention. Pointing should thus be sufficient in most
instances to get the job done. We could even communi-
cate successfully about the missing tool by pointing in
the direction where it probably resides currently. Iconic
gestures are probably not possible at this early stage
198 Chapter 5
because they require a Gricean communicative intention
to mark them as something other than vacuous actions
in the wrong context (see below). However, if individuals
at this point were capable of some skills of imitation,
then naturally occurring intention-movements (e.g.,
“pushing” someone toward the location where they
should be operating from) could not only be created by
ontogenetic ritualization, as in apes, but perhaps could
be imitated as well.
And so, our proposal is the relatively uncontroversial
one that human collaboration was initially mutualistic—
with this mutualism depending on the first step of more
tolerant and food-generous participants. The more novel
part of the proposal is that mutualistic collaboration is
the natural home of cooperative communication. Specifi-
cally, skills of recursive mindreading arose initially in
forming joint goals, and this then led to joint attention on
things relevant to the joint goal (top-down) and eventu-
ally to other forms of common conceptual ground.
Helping motives, already present to some degree in great
apes outside of communication, can flourish in mutual-
istic collaboration in which helping you helps me. And
so communicative requests for help—either for actions or
for information—and compliance with these (and perhaps
even something in the direction of offering help by
informing) were very likely born in mutualistic collabo-
ration. At this point in our quasi-evolutionary tale, then,
we have, at a minimum, pointing to request help and
a tendency to grant such requests—with perhaps some
Phylogenetic Origins 199
offers of help in the form of useful information—in the
immediate common ground of mutualistic collaborative
interactions.
5.2.2 Indirect Reciprocity and Helping by Informing
Human beings help one another (including by informing)
and request help from one another in many situations
outside of mutualistic collaboration. And so we have to
account for this generalization from the original adaptive
situation. But offering help and responding positively to
requests for help outside of mutualistic contexts involve
something in the direction of altruism, one individual
subordinating its interests to another’s, and this requires
special explanation. Again, I cannot even begin to give a
full account of the evolution of human altruism, so here
I offer just a few thoughts on how it might have gone in
the case of cooperative communication.
Chimpanzees already do some helping (Warneken and
Tomasello 2006; Warneken et al. 2007). What this is based
on is not exactly clear, although there are some suggestive
data for direct reciprocity—helping the individual who
helped you—in chimpanzees’ natural interactions (de
Waal and Lutrell 1988). But it is unlikely that this direct
reciprocity is wide-ranging or robust, and it almost cer-
tainly is not present when food is involved. In a field
study, Gilby et al. (2006) found that sharing meat after a
hunt was not associated with the recipient “repaying” the
donor later reciprocally with either sex or support in
200 Chapter 5
fights (although see Watts and Mitani 2002). And, again,
in the studies of Silk et al. (2005) and Jensen et al. (2006)—
although not testing reciprocity directly—individuals did
not help others get food, even if their history with those
others was as parent, child, or ally.
In any case, helping outside of collaborative interac-
tions would seem to require some kind of reciprocity.
Given the limitations of direct reciprocity, a good candi-
date is indirect reciprocity, in which individuals choose
to help or cooperate with others who have good reputa-
tions for helping and cooperating in general (Nowak and
Sigmund 1998; Panchanathan and Boyd 2003). Evidence
that chimpanzees do indeed form judgments about others
relevant to their reputations was provided by Melis,
Hare, and Tomasello (2006b). In that study, chimpanzees
needed a partner to help them obtain food, and there
were two potential partners available (both novel to them
in this context). One partner turned out to be a poor
partner—a dominant male who usually attempted to
monopolize the situation—and the other turned out to be
a good partner. After only a small amount of experience
with each of these partners, chimpanzees began choosing
the better partner almost exclusively. This shows that
noncooperators pay a price for their selfishness and com-
petitiveness by being excluded from attractive opportu-
nities for mutualistic collaboration (and the individuals
who shun them basically pay no price for this—it is not
costly punishment and so there is no second-order
problem of altruism here).
Phylogenetic Origins 201
That fact that individuals choose partners for mutu-
alistic collaboration based in some sense on their repu-
tation means that individuals who understand this may
now seek to enhance their reputations by public acts
of helping and cooperation, assuming that they under-
stand that others are observing and assessing them.
Therefore, in the context of nonmutualistic activities in
which the individual does not benefit at all, she might
still offer help to others, including by offering informa-
tion she thinks will be helpful or relevant to them, in
order to enhance her reputation as a helpful person—
whom others will want to cooperate with in the future.
Another possible ultimate cause of helping by inform-
ing is so-called showing off (by means of a costly signal
of fitness; Zhavi and Zhavi 1997) in which, in the
context of sexual selection, I show my social power
by exhibiting my knowledge of useful things. Of special
importance in this regard might be informing others
of things relevant to the reputations of others in the
group (gossiping; see Desalles 2006). Another important
adaptive context for informing may have been peda-
gogy (Gergely and Csibra 2006), especially of one’s
own offspring as this then brings benefits of inclusive
fitness (kin selection) to the informing act. But still,
even though these were probably important derivative
functions, the common cooperative infrastructure of
human collaboration and communication suggests that
collaborative activities were the original home of human
cooperative communication.
202 Chapter 5
Once we get beyond requesting and into informing,
communication about things displaced in time and space
becomes much more of a need. Although human pointing
enables the communication of much more complex
messages than ape attention-getters, it is obviously still
limited in a number of ways. Most critically, the common
conceptual ground, which is the fundamental source of
pointing’s communicative power, is also a source of its
limitations. Thus, if you and I have much experience
together at a watering hole and sometimes see a gazelle
there, and today you see me returning from that direction
and pointing excitedly back there, you will probably
assume there is now a gazelle there; I have succeeded in
referring to an absent entity by pointing. But, of course,
if we do not share that previous experience, I cannot
point to the absent referent; pointing is essentially impo-
tent in situations in which the participants have little or
no common ground, especially where large inferences are
required. Thus, pointing will not be a very effective form
of communication for teaching novices or young children
how to do things. If I am engaged in a complex procedure
of extracting tubers from underground with a stick, and
I need your help in removing the dirt, if you have done
this with me before I may simply point to the dirt cover-
ing my access point; but if you have never experienced
this activity before, it is unlikely that a simple point will
convey to you what you are supposed to do. For this
same basic reason, pointing is unlikely to be a very effec-
tive means of communication between strangers. The
Phylogenetic Origins 203
almost complete dependence of pointing on common
ground between communicator and recipient is thus both
its strength and its weakness.
Iconic gestures rely on common ground in the same
basic way, but a bit less so because more information is
potentially in the gesture itself. And so I may gesture to
my novice partner iconically how she is to dig out the
dirt I want her to dig out, even if she has never done this
before in this context (though she still needs to see my
gesture as communicative and as relevant to our current
activity). I may depict for a friend antelope movements
and sounds to indicate its presence at the watering hole
(perhaps pointing there too), even if we have never before
seen one there together. And iconic gestures should be
more effective than pointing, in many contexts, with
strangers. But there is a reason why iconic gestures
emerge later in human ontogeny and are absent in apes.
To use an iconic gesture one must first be able to enact
actions in simulated form, outside their normal instru-
mental context—which would seem to require skills of
imitation, if not pretense. But even more importantly, to
comprehend an iconic action as a communicative gesture,
one must first understand to some degree the Gricean
communicative intention; otherwise the recipient will
suppose that the communicator is simply acting bizarrely,
trying to run like an antelope or to dig a hole for real
when the context is clearly not appropriate (the act must
thus be “quarantined” from interpretation as a real action,
in a sense similar to that proposed by Leslie 1987 for
204 Chapter 5
pretense). Iconic gestures thus presumably derive from
ape intention-movements—incipient real actions—but
add a representational dimension based on simulation/
imitation and the recipient’s comprehension of the com-
municative intention. The reward for mastering iconic
gestures is the ability to communicate more effectively
about a wider range of situations to people with whom
one shares less experience (Donald 1991).
From a functional perspective, when people start actu-
ally wanting to be helpful so as to enhance their reputa-
tions, and they can count on others wanting to be helpful
as well, they start informing them of things freely. Indeed,
even individualistic imperatives can turn into coopera-
tive imperatives: I do not tell you what to do, but I merely
inform you of my desire because I know you will want
to help me fulfill it. Importantly, it is in these ultrahelpful
contexts that the Gricean communicative intention
emerges. The sequence might go something like this
(C = communicator, R = recipient):
• C’s goal is that R know something: either some helpful
or interesting information (in an informative) or his own
internal states (in a cooperative request).
• R understands that C wants her to know something,
and she wants to be cooperative and accept this informa-
tion because she trusts that it will be something that
either is helpful to her directly (if it is an informative) or
else will provide her with the opportunity to be helpful
herself (if it is a cooperative imperative) and thus to
enhance her reputation by granting C’s request.
Phylogenetic Origins 205
• C recognizes that R wants to understand and respond
to his desire for her to know something, at least partly
because she trusts his cooperativeness; and so now in
addition to letting her know that he wants her to know
something, he emphasizes to her that he wants her to
know that he wants her to know something—in the
expectation that, given her helpful attitude, her knowing
that he wants this will make her try harder to understand
and comply.
This kind of reasoning—what I have called cooperative
reasoning—is fundamentally different from practical rea-
soning either about one’s own actions or about those of
others individually. In the words of Levinson:
There is an extraordinary shift in our thinking when we start
to act intending that our actions should be coordinated with—
then we have to design our actions so that they are self-
evidently perspicuous. (1995, p. 411)
One can easily imagine that the communicative actions
described in the first step of this sequence (essentially
Sperber and Wilson’s 1986 “informative intention”) actu-
ally held at one point early in human evolution—again,
especially in mutualistic contexts. I want you to see that
food so you will get it, since we are going to share it in
the end (and I do not really care one way or the other if
you know that I want you to see the food); for example,
I pull a branch of berries down in front of your face. But
once the communicator appreciates that the recipient
really cares about what he wants, then he can exploit this
by making sure that she knows that he is trying to inform
206 Chapter 5
her either of some interesting information or his internal
states; for example, if you do not notice the berries in
front of your face, I might vocalize or otherwise draw
your attention to me and the fact that I have pulled these
berries in front of your face intentionally for a reason
(mutually assumed to be a cooperative reason—so you
should try to discern it). None of this is possible until
both participants know together that they both want to
be helpful. It is also interesting to note that it is highly
unlikely, as noted above, that this sequence would have
played out initially in iconic gestures. I can easily direct
your attention to something in the immediate environ-
ment without highlighting my authorship so much, for
example, as apes do by pointing, and then rely on nature
taking its course as you see and react to that thing as
predicted. But when I gesticulate at you, for example by
pantomiming an antelope, I cannot inform you without
at the same time letting you know that I want to inform
you—no informative intention without a communicative
intention—because unless you recognize my communi-
cative intention the action will just be bizarre and com-
municate nothing.
Complying with the requests for help of others and
indeed offering help to others thus likely began in mutu-
alistic collaboration, where compliance is always adap-
tive because it benefits the self, and then generalized to
nonmutualistic situations owing to their positive effects
on the reputation of the helper. Two interesting related
phenomena are these. First, humans quite often—and
Phylogenetic Origins 207
almost always in certain situations—express gratitude by
thanking someone who has helped them. This special-
ized communicative function evolved because it benefits
the reputation of both participants. When I thank you for
a favor I have advertised to anyone in the neighborhood
that you are a helpful person, and I have also made it
clear that anyone who helps me can expect to get this
kind of good publicity—people want to help grateful
recipients who advertise their altruism to others. Second,
another important dimension of politeness is not order-
ing people to do things (as in individualistic impera-
tives), but rather simply expressing one’s desire (as in
cooperative imperatives), perhaps even very indirectly,
and letting them volunteer—after which they may be
thanked because they did it of their own free will and not
under order (Brown and Levinson 1978). One interpreta-
tion of this behavior is that in asking you a favor one
incentive I am offering is that you will be allowed to do
it freely (so you get credit for it as a voluntary act) and
then I will thank you publicly in return. In a sense, in
expressing gratitude and in asking for favors only indi-
rectly, one is making sure that the one doing the favors
gets a reputation benefit for having done them. The com-
bination of such processes with social norms leads to
emotions such as guilt, publicly expressed as apologies,
when one person does not help another as she should
have.
We thus have now, in our quasi-evolutionary story,
humans who respond to requests and offer helpful and
208 Chapter 5
interesting information to others relatively freely, even
outside of mutualistic contexts—using both pointing and
iconic gestures to do so. A critical question now is how
such behaviors might have generated sanction-carrying
social norms governing this helpfulness. This is a very
difficult question, far beyond my competence and
purview. But for now, I can at least point to the fact that
in a group of individuals capable of recursive mindread-
ing and also concerned with their reputations—so that
everyone knows together that everyone is worried about
their reputation—mutual expectations of helpfulness
could easily arise. Mutual expectations are not norms
because they have no punitive force, but they are one step
in that direction. And so we can posit at this point the
kinds of mutual expectations of helpfulness so crucial for
displaying one’s communicative intention and having it
recognized with appropriate relevance inferences from
others—but with normative force coming from another
direction, to which we now turn.
5.2.3 Cultural Group Selection and Sharing Attitudes
All of the studies of great ape social learning and imita-
tion that include human children as a comparison find
that quantitatively, if not qualitatively, children learn
from others in a much more detailed fashion (see Whiten
et al. 2004 for a review). One possible reason for this is
that humans focus to a greater extent than apes on the
actual actions performed (as opposed to the results, or
Phylogenetic Origins 209
desired results, in the environment). This more action-
based approach might possibly have come as a result of
humans’ need to learn from others imitatively in human-
specific situations, such as complex toolmaking, and
would presumably be helpful in creating iconic gestures
that simulate real events.
However, there is another dimension to imitation not
typically highlighted in experimental studies, and this is
the so-called social function of imitation (Uzgiris 1981;
Carpenter 2006). It is well known in social psychology,
for example, that one way of expressing solidarity with
others in a group is to behave like them, dress like them,
talk like them, express attitudes like theirs, and, in general,
to be like them. The gist of this idea is captured very
nicely by the moment in the movie ET in which the chil-
dren face the child-sized alien in their bedroom, and the
little girl stares at him and slowly raises her index finger.
When the friendly beast looks back at her and slowly
raises his index finger in return, the children (and the
audience) gasp in recognition: he is like us (and so could
potentially be one of us)! The reverse side of this, of
course, is that human groups discriminate against others
that are not like them, and they go to great pains to devise
ways for marking explicitly who is one of them and who
is not. Most obviously, anyone who does not speak our
language is not one of us, but also anyone who does not
dress like us, or eat like us, or paint his face like us, or
worship like us, or all kinds of other things. To an unprec-
edented degree, human groups mark themselves to make
210 Chapter 5
sure of group membership, even having group-specific
greetings—a unique kind of speech act—that serves, in
part, to solidify group membership. On the psychological
level, the way that human infants come into this in-
group/out-group way of living is by imitating those
around them and even conforming to them, so as to be
like them—even leading to regional accents in languages.
But more than just being like others, humans also want
to be liked by others, and one way of cultivating affilia-
tion and liking is by sharing emotions and attitudes about
the world in various kinds of gossip, narrative, and
expressive speech acts within the social group. In both
the case of wanting to “be like” others and to “be liked
by” others, failures lead to negative emotions: shame or
guilt if I behave in deviant ways that violate a social
norm, and loneliness or isolation if no one likes me—
which presumably evolved precisely to help ensure atten-
tion to and compliance with social norms of both
helpfulness/reciprocity and also conformity/solidarity/
affiliation.
This imitation/conformity/solidarity/affiliation dime-
nsion of things has two important consequences for the
evolution of human cooperative communication, and
they concern very different aspects of the process. First,
the desire to cultivate affiliations with others forms the
basis for one of the three basic motives in the cooperation
model of human communication: the desire to share
emotions and/or attitudes with others. Although it may
not seem sharply distinct from the informing motive in
Phylogenetic Origins 211
general—one could say that when I express my enthusi-
asm for a painting, I am simply informing you of my
attitude—studies with human infants (reviewed in the
previous chapter) show that my goal in expressing my
enthusiasm is not, as in the case of informatives, to
provide you with information that you want or need, but
rather to elicit from you an expression of attitude that
aligns with mine. When we feel the same about some
common experience, this makes us feel psychologically
closer. To appreciate the importance of this process, one
need only imagine what would happen if one’s spouse
one day began expressing contempt for all of one’s best
friends and most beloved objects and activities in the
world. Similarly, when people are asked to explain love
affairs begun without personal contact on the Internet, a
common response is that “we share so much,” “we like
the same things,” and so forth. A well-established finding
in social psychology is that people tend to affiliate with
others who share their perspective and attitudes about
things (Schachter 1959). And much of the reminiscing in
personal narratives characteristic of families or friends
reuniting after separation serves to cement relationships
as well, with an especially important part being the
shared evaluations of the past events as they are narrated
(“It was so cool when we . . . ,” “It was so sad when
he . . .”; Bruner 1986). It is thus possible that sharing emo-
tions and attitudes serves a kind of group identity func-
tionforhumansandthatthisisauniquelyhumanfunction.
And so the proposal is that expressive-declaratives,
212 Chapter 5
so important in early infant communication and affilia-
tion, represent a distinct social intention for sharing
emotions, and indeed, one could even look at expressive-
declaratives as particularly proactive efforts to expand
common ground with others, as a way of affiliating with
them in ever deeper ways.
The second consequence of the imitation/conformity/
solidarity/affiliation dimension of things for communi-
cation concerns the establishment of norms. Pressure
from the group for the individual to conform is the
essence of social norms; the ultimate threat is being ostra-
cized or even physically excluded from the group. And
so we noted above that on the basis of mutual under-
standing in a group that everyone wants to help and is
also concerned with their reputation for helping, humans
might have evolved mutual expectations about helpful-
ness in communicative situations. But when we add in
pressure to conform with group expectations (if asked, I
simply must pass the salt), we get full-fledged norms
such as norms of helpfulness in communicative situa-
tions, with accompanying social sanctions for violations
(e.g., loss of reputation, shunning). Our formula for
norms, at least in the case of communication, then, con-
sists in mutual expectations about behavior and a concern
for reputation plus pressure to conform to group expecta-
tions—or else! It is interesting to note, in this regard, that
whereas humans have norms for helpfulness in commu-
nication—apparent in obligations for informing in certain
situations (e.g., informing you that your car lights are on
Phylogenetic Origins 213
if I discover this)—such norms do not govern expressive-
declaratives. There is no social sanction for not express-
ing oneself to others or for not agreeing with such
expressions—only a personal loss in terms of diminished
opportunities for friendship and affiliation.
Interestingly and importantly, great apes seem to have
none of this. That is to say, there is no good evidence that
apes imitate others only for social conformity and/or
solidarity; they do not use expressive-declaratives in their
communication (even with humans); and their commu-
nication does not seem to be governed by any social
norms (nor does any other aspect of their lives). And so,
although great apes share with humans the ability to
learn instrumental actions from others socially, perhaps
even via imitation in some instances, the social function
of imitation and the resulting pressures to conform to
group norms would seem to be uniquely human. It is
certainly possible that this dimension of things evolved
in the normal way, working on individuals. But I myself
am convinced—for reasons that would take us too far
afield to recount—that humans evolved this “wanting to
be like others” dimension of things as a way of maximiz-
ing within-group conformity and between-group differ-
ence, in the context of multilevel selection on the group
as a whole: so-called cultural group selection (Richerson
and Boyd 2005). This very controversial process is prob-
ably not critical to our story here, but if groups are indeed
possible units of selection in evolution—especially in the
context of cultural processes for conformity within groups
214 Chapter 5
and differentiation between groups—it would help to
explain why humans, and only humans, have developed
systems of linguistic communication that are effective not
with all members of their species, as for all other organ-
isms, but only with those who have grown up in their
same cultural group.
Finally, let us return to the Gricean communicative
intention. We saw above that the functioning of the
Gricean communicative intention can be understood only
in light of various kinds of mutual understandings and
expectations among communicators, that is, specifically,
when everyone knows together that everyone expects
helpfulness and cooperation, and when everyone knows
together that everyone is concerned with reputation. But
there are not just expectations, but actual norms govern-
ing the process. One important function of the Gricean
communicative intention—above and beyond the com-
municator alerting the recipient that she wants some-
thing from her—is that it essentially makes everything
public, what some theorists call “wholly overt.” This
means that the norms apply and cannot be avoided. If
somehow we take things out of the public space, by not
expressing a communicative intention, then the norms do
not apply. Consider again our example from chapter 3
concerning hidden authorship. If I place my empty wine
glass in a conspicuous position, hoping my host will see
it and fill it, but (for reasons of politeness) making sure
he does not see me do it and so does not view it as an
overt request, no norms apply. If my host sees my empty
Phylogenetic Origins 215
glass, and even if I notice him see it (and even if he looks
in the mirror and notices me noticing him see it), still no
norms apply. But if I signal him overtly by brandishing
the empty glass in his direction, in most cases this would
trigger a norm—we know together that he has seen the
empty glass and presumably has inferred from the bran-
dishing act toward him that I want a full glass, and so he
must deal with it in some way, or pretend that he did not
in fact see my act. Or consider an analogous example. My
colleague and I know together that she has to fetch her
child at 5:30 every day, and we are talking in the hall at
around that time. She very subtly glances down at her
watch. I see this. If my seeing it is not made public, I can
keep talking and ignore it. But if she glances down at her
watch ostensively—wanting us to notice this together—I
cannot ignore it, but must deal with it in some way.
A major function of the Gricean communicative inten-
tion, then, is to place my communicative act in the public
space so that all the norms apply. When I address you, if
you acknowledge this address, you must engage with me
communicatively. If I do not address you, but simply
hope you will notice something and act in a certain way,
then you do not have to engage with me. If you engage
with me, and I ask you a favor or inform you of some-
thing publicly, then you must comply or accept—or give
a reason why you will not. Of course, you could pretend
that you did not understand the message, but when com-
prehension becomes public then the norms of helpfulness
apply. On the more positive side, when something is in
216 Chapter 5
the public space it is relevant to my positive reputation
as well. Thus, when I engage you and you accept, you
are ratifying that you are playing the same game that I
am. When I ask you a favor and you comply, your reputa-
tion benefits. When I offer useful information, my reputa-
tion benefits. And so, by making the communicative act
public the Gricean communicative intention structures
human communication so that all of the norms and their
sanctions are in force. Anyone who doubts the complexi-
ties that can result from this form of publicly expressed
communication need only consider the incredible intrica-
cies resulting from considerations of politeness in coop-
erative communication (see, e.g., Brown and Levinson
1978).
Again, it almost goes without saying that all of this is
uniquely human. There is no evidence that nonhuman
primates create anything resembling a public space in
which considerations of reputation and normative sanc-
tions are at play. One other interesting aspect of this nor-
mative dimension is that it is used to sanction antisocial
uses of the powerful new tool of cooperative communica-
tion. That is to say, skills of cooperative communication—
and all of the assumptions of cooperativeness underlying
them—create the possibility of lying. Lying usually works
because recipients assume that communicators are being
helpful, including truthful, unless there is a specific
reason to believe otherwise. The social group attempts to
correct this “unintended consequence,” this flaw in an
otherwise beautiful tool, by making public strong social
Phylogenetic Origins 217
norms against lying so that anyone caught lying (for no
good reason) suffers a significant reputational decrement.
Thus, whereas great apes can conceal things from others
(Melis, Call, and Tomasello 2006), there is no evidence
that they can actively mislead or lie to others—because
they do not communicate cooperatively with the mutual
expectation that both participants are attempting to be
helpful, including truthful.
5.2.4 Summary
What we have done here is to use the three basic pro-
cesses that evolutionary biologists use to explain the
emergence of cooperation (other than kin selection) and
apply them to the three basic motives human cooperative
communication. Thus, to explain the granting of requests
we invoked mutualism, to explain offering help by
informing we invoked indirect reciprocity, and to explain
the sharing of emotions and attitudes we invoked cul-
tural group selection. We tried to explain how humans’
motivations for helping and sharing in communication—
the basic motives of shared intentionality—might have
arisen as part and parcel of an adaptation for collabora-
tive activities more generally. We thus proposed that the
basic cognitive skill of shared intentionality—recursive
mindreading—arose as an adaptation for collaborative
activity specifically (given an initial adaptation in the
direction of tolerance and generosity with food), leading
to the creation of joint attention and common ground.
218 Chapter 5
The combination of helpfulness and recursive mindread-
ing led to mutual expectations of helpfulness and the
Gricean communicative intention as a guide to relevance
inferences, which could then come under social norms
created by still another uniquely human propensity, in
this case to be like and to be liked by others in this social
group, as opposed to those other social groups. The initial
communicative device in this scenario early on would
almost certainly have been pointing (and some intention-
movements), and then iconic gestures came into being
only after the emergence of the Gricean communicative
intention was there to “quarantine” it from misinterpreta-
tion. Where exactly in this process humans began to con-
ventionalize their communicative devices is not known.
5.3 The Emergence of Conventional Communication
This rather complicated, though still somewhat sketchy,
account was mainly about the social-cognitive, social-
motivational infrastructure of human cooperative com-
munication and how it evolved. But it would seem that
we are still a long way from how humans today com-
municate with one another using one of the world’s
6,000+ languages. But we are not so far, actually. The
main point of these lectures is that most of what makes
human communication so powerful is the psychological
infrastructure that is present already in species-unique
forms of gesturing such as pointing and pantomiming,
and language is built upon, and relies totally upon, this
Phylogenetic Origins 219
infrastructure. Without this infrastructure, communica-
tive conventions, like gavagai, are only sounds, signifying
nothing.
Whereas pointing and pantomiming may be consid-
ered “natural” communication because they direct
attention and imagination in ways that all humans can
understand among one another, even with no previous
contact, “conventional” communication uses arbitrary
signs, and these require shared social learning experi-
ences among all the members of the group (who all know,
in principle, that they share these learning experiences).
And this highlights a key theoretical point. Communica-
tive conventions are defined by two separable character-
istics (Lewis 1969). First and most critically, we all do
something in the same way because that is the way every-
one is doing it (and we all know this together): it is
shared. Second, we could have done it differently if we
had wanted to: it is, at least to some degree, arbitrary. But
arbitrariness is a relative notion, and could indeed be
seen on a continuum. Are certain obscene gestures “arbi-
trary,” or are they iconic representations of real actions?
Many such gestures were at one time iconic, and then
became more arbitrary over historical time—but they
were conventional, in the sense of shared, throughout. In
any case, our proposal here will be that first came shared
conventions, and then there was a kind of “drift to the
arbitrary” over historical time. In this view, the most
arbitrary forms of conventional communication—that is,
linguistic communication in the vocal modality—could
220 Chapter 5
never have evolved de novo, but had to have evolved
from, or by overlapping with, more naturally meaningful
gestural conventions.
5.3.1 The Drift to the Arbitrary
Our model at this point, before the advent of communica-
tive conventions, might be something like a modern-
day, 12- to 14-month-old prelinguistic human infant:
communicating regularly by pointing and occasionally
using iconic gestures when pointing is not feasible.
Perhaps combinations of these were at some point possi-
ble as well, such as pantomiming an antelope while
pointing to the out-of-sight location where it is presum-
ably grazing.
For the evolution of language, iconic gestures are espe-
cially important as they involve symbolic representation,
typically of displaced referents, and indeed in the previ-
ous chapter we provided evidence that in children’s
development linguistic symbols supplant not pointing,
but iconic gestures. Nevertheless, iconic gestures, like
pointing, have communicative limitations as well, espe-
cially as compared with language. If I pantomime for you
the act of digging to suggest to you, a novice, what you
should now do (assuming you understand it as a com-
municative act), comprehension relies to some degree on
your familiarity with digging in general and your assess-
ment of what is needed now in the current situation. If I
could simply tell you what to do with a conventional
Phylogenetic Origins 221
language, it might still depend on your past experience
and your current assessment of the current situation to
some degree, but much less so. But of course communica-
tive conventions rely on a previous common history of
social learning, and so it is also fair to point out that when
we do not share that social learning history—as, for
example, when two people who speak different languages
attempt to communicate—iconic gestures actually are
superior to conventional communicative devices, which
are useless in this situation.
In any case, human groups at some point went beyond
iconic gestures that needed to be invented anew on every
occasion, and moved to communicative conventions.
Conventions are ways of doing things that are somewhat
arbitrary—there are other ways they could be done—but
it is to everyone’s advantage if everyone does it in the
same way, and so everyone just does what everyone else
is doing because that is what everyone is doing (Lewis
1969). This arbitrariness means that one cannot invent
conventions on one’s own. One can invent communica-
tively effective iconic gestures, but arbitrary communica-
tive conventions require that they be “shared,” so that
everyone can rely on everyone else in the group knowing
how the convention is used communicatively—which is
obviously, again, at least a partial product of recursive
mindreading. We have argued previously that the form
of social learning required here is not just imitation, but
role reversal imitation, in which each initiate to the con-
vention understands that she can use the convention
222 Chapter 5
toward others as they have used it toward her, and vice
versa—so that both producer and comprehender roles
are implicitly present in both production and comprehen-
sion (Tomasello 1999).
But we are still left with the problem of how conven-
tions get started in the first place. Invoking a process of
explicit agreement—as in various kinds of social contract
theories—is not really a viable option, as agreement pre-
supposes an already existing means of communication,
more powerful than the one to be invented, in which to
formulate the agreement. But among organisms who
already possess the cooperative communicative infra-
structure we have laid out here, and who are also capable
of collaboration and role reversal imitation, conventions
can arise “naturally” as a result of a combination of shared
and unshared experiences. Here is the kind of scenario
that must have occurred at the dawn of arbitrary com-
municative conventions. First came some kind of coop-
erative iconic gesture. For example, perhaps a female of
the genus Homo wishes to go digging for tubers. To get
others to come with her, she pantomimes digging for
them in exaggerated fashion in the direction in which
tubers are normally found. The cavemates understand
this gesture naturally, that is, they understand that this
digging gesture is intended to depict a real instrumental
action of digging. It is possible that some of them might
then learn this gesture from her, by role reversal imita-
tion, thus creating a shared communicative device that is
conventional in the sense of being shared, and at least
Phylogenetic Origins 223
partially arbitrary in the sense that other gestures for this
same function could certainly have been used.
But now let us assume the following extension of the
scenario. Some individuals not familiar with digging,
perhaps children, observe this “Let’s go digging” gesture,
and for them the connection between the ritualized
digging gesture and the act of digging for tubers is opaque
(though they do see that it is intended to be communica-
tive); they think it is just intended to initiate leaving gen-
erally. They might then imitatively learn the gesture to
initiate leaving (for something other than digging) on
some future occasion—so that the original iconic ground-
ing of the gesture is now completely erased. (This is not
unlike the way that some motivated linguistic forms,
such as metaphors, become opaque [“dead metaphors”]
across historical time as new learners are not exposed to
the original motivation.) One can possibly imagine in
addition some kind of general insight at some later point
that most of the communicative signs we use have only
arbitrary connections to their intended referents and
social intentions, and so, voilà, we can if we want make
up new arbitrary ones as needed.
Another important outcome of this process is a kind of
standardization of signs. That is, when iconic gestures are
motivated, “the same” action or event is typically depicted
in different ways depending on context; for example,
opening a door is pantomimed in one way whereas
opening a jar is pantomimed in another. This is typical of
individually created home signs, for example (Goldin-
224 Chapter 5
Meadow 2003b; see next chapter). However, as the iconic-
ity becomes opaque for new learners the possibility arises
for a stylized depiction of opening that is highly abstract
and resembles no particular kinds of opening with par-
ticular objects. This is typical of many signs in conven-
tionalized sign languages, and of course opens the way
for the totally arbitrary and abstract signs characteristic
of the vocal modality.
The first uses of communicative conventions were pre-
sumably as holophrases. This term has been used to mean
different things (see Wray 1998), but here we simply
mean a one-unit communicative act. But actually, from
the communicative point of view, even in this simplest of
cases, there is more than this going on. First of all, as
shouldbeclearfromourpreviousarguments,themeaning
conveyed by a one-unit utterance may be as complex as
you wish—depending on the joint attentional context
within which it is used. To return to our boyfriend’s
bicycle example from chapter 1, in such a context I com-
municate the same message whether I point, or say
“There!,” or say “There’s your boyfriend’s bicycle!” A
single unit in the communicative signal says nothing
about the complexity of what is communicated, as what
is communicated depends not only on what is in the com-
municative signal explicitly but also on what is in the
common ground implicitly. The second important con-
sideration is that holophrases actually have two compo-
nents. As outlined in chapter 3, the communicative act
always comprises both an attention-directing, referential
Phylogenetic Origins 225
aspect, and a potential expression of motive. And so, if I
want you to give me some water, I might say “Water”
with a demanding intonation, whereas if we are walking
down the sidewalk and I want to warn you of a puddle,
I might say “Water!” with a surprised and warning tone
of voice and/or facial expression. The holophrase, just
like the pointing gesture, thus always has these two
components—reflecting reference and motive—even if in
some contexts the motive is assumed and so not expressed
with any distinctive tone of voice or facial expression.
The fact that from a functional point of view even holo-
phrases are inherently composite might be seen as a kind
of initial wedge into grammar.
The move to communicative conventions is thus, para-
doxically, a natural one. No one intends, certainly not
initially, to invent any conventions. Communicative con-
ventions happen naturally as organisms who are capable
of role reversal imitation and who already know how to
communicate in fairly sophisticated ways—coopera-
tively, with gestures—imitatively learn one another’s
iconic gestures. Then individuals who are not privy to the
iconic relation observe the communicative efficacy of the
gesture and use it on that basis only, without any iconic
motivation—at which point it has become, for these new
users, arbitrary. This is what has been called a “process
of the third kind,” a sociological result of human
intentional actions, but not something that any one
person actually intended (Keller 1994; more on this in
chapter 6).
226 Chapter 5
5.3.2 The Switch to the Vocal Modality
We have so far remained fairly neutral about whether the
earliest communicative conventions—after nonconven-
tional pointing and pantomiming—were in the gestural
or the vocal modality. But actually the first communica-
tive conventions absolutely could not have arisen in the
vocal modality, at least not given the starting point of
nonhuman primate vocalizations. There are two essential
points.
The first point is the same one documented at length
in chapter 2. Nonhuman primate vocalizations are teth-
ered quite tightly to emotions and so are not produced
intentionally. Like almost all animal communication, they
are essentially “coded” communication in the sense that
individuals are born producing species-specific vocaliza-
tions and reacting to them in species-typical ways. Mother
Nature has left almost no room for intentionality, coop-
eration, or inferences, beyond recipients associatively
learning what often happens in conjunction with a vocal-
ization (e.g., leopards tend to appear with certain bird
alarm calls). And so for vocalizations to participate in
intentional and ultimately cooperative communication,
vocalizing individuals would first need to gain inten-
tional control over them.
Human beings did of course at some point gain control
over their vocalizations. But this brings us to the second
problem. Vocalizations are not as good a medium for
referential communication as are action-based gestures.
Phylogenetic Origins 227
Thus, in terms of attention directing, it does not come
naturally to any primates, including humans, to direct
the attention of others by vocalizing to external targets.
Indeed, what primates do naturally upon hearing
someone vocalize is locate the vocalizer himself and iden-
tify his emotional state, and perhaps in some circum-
stances look around to locate the cause of his emotional
state. What comes naturally to some primates, namely
humans, is to direct others’ attention visually in space
through some form of action such as looking or pointing,
based ultimately on the tendency of all primates to follow
the gaze direction of others. In terms of directing imagi-
nation to absent referents, nonconventionalized vocaliza-
tions are again extremely limited. We might mimic some
environmental sounds associated with important refer-
ents and so indicate them indirectly (e.g., the sound of a
leopard—or a sound mimicking my normal emotional
reaction to leopards), but again this would seem much
less natural and productive than action-based pantomim-
ing in the visual channel.
An interesting exercise might be to imagine two groups
of young children who have never before communicated
with anyone. Each is isolated on its own desert island,
“Lord of the Flies” style. One group of children has their
mouths bound with duct tape and the other has their
hands tied behind their backs. (Apologies to all Human
Subjects committees everywhere—I promise that the
children are otherwise very well taken care of and that
their parents have given informed consent before their
228 Chapter 5
bondage.) What kinds of communication might arise in
each of these two groups? Well, we actually know quite
a bit about what might happen in the case of the children
unable to use their mouths, because deaf children born
to parents who do not know any sign language actually
develop with their parents and siblings quite sophisti-
cated systems of action-based gestures that use pointing
and pantomiming, so-called home sign (Goldin-Meadow
2003b). And if such children come together later, they
develop even more sophisticated, conventionalized ges-
tural sign systems with grammatical properties (as in
Nicaraguan Sign Language; see next chapter). In the case
of the children unable to use their hands, we do not know
what would happen, of course. But it is difficult to imagine
them inventing on their own vocalizations to refer the
attention or the imagination of others to the world in
meaningful ways—beyond perhaps a few vocalizations
tied to emotional situations and/or a few instances of
vocal mimicry. This is because humans have no natural
tendencies in the vocal modality—analogous to follow-
ing gaze directionally in space or interpreting actions as
intentional in the gestural/visual modality—to serve as
natural starting points. And so the issue of conventional-
izing already meaningful communicative acts never
arises. Incidentally, my own guess is that the children
with their hands tied would probably end up trying to
direct attention with their eyes and/or heads and to pan-
tomime with their bodies.
Phylogenetic Origins 229
The point of this fanciful, if perhaps a bit grotesque,
exercise is simply to underscore that given the nature of
the vocal medium, and especially its functions in the lives
of primates in general, it is very difficult to even imagine
the evolution of meaningful, human-like, cooperative
communication—much less communicative conven-
tions—exclusively in the vocal modality. But it is not dif-
ficult at all to imagine this happening in the action
domain, and indeed we do not need to imagine it because,
as noted, it sometimes does happen with deaf children
born in special circumstances (there are also a number of
well-documented cases of adult humans in special cir-
cumstances such as noisy factories, or for communication
among different linguistic communities in such activities
as trade, inventing gesture sign systems; Kendon 2004).
Perhaps the fundamental reason underlying this differ-
ence is that for primates in general, and human beings in
particular, we automatically follow gaze direction and we
automatically see behavioral actions as intentional and
inherently meaningful, including when they are directed
to us. If the essence of human communication is its inten-
tionality, then human action is the ultimate source of its
meaning. It is not that this could not conceivably happen
in the vocal modality in some other organisms; it is just
that given how vocalizations work in primates—espe-
cially their close tie to emotions and their tendency to
draw attention to themselves, their source, not to external
referents—it is almost inconceivable.
230 Chapter 5
And so, to get to human cooperative communication,
in all its cooperative peculiarities, we must start with an
action-based infrastructure. This must be based ulti-
mately on the human propensity for gaze following and
for pointing directionally to induce gaze following, and
for interpreting the actions of others in intentional terms
(and also on collaborative actions as the main source of
the cooperative infrastructure). And so the question natu-
rally arises: why did humans end up switching to the
vocal modality? When humans today communicate they
most often use both language and gesture, but language
does most of the referential work (perhaps in combina-
tion with pointing) and gestures supplement this with
imagistic signs conveying information not easily codified
in language (McNeill 2005; Goldin-Meadow 2003a).
However, there is no doubt that vocal language is pre-
dominant and even has a grammatical dimension (and
sometimes a written version), which naturally occurring
gestures do not. How did the vocal modality assume
such preeminence?
In the history of thought on this question, there has
been no shortage of hypotheses, as all of the classic
gesture origins theorists have had something to say on
the matter. One could thus posit, for example, the supe-
riority of the vocal modality because: it enables commu-
nication at a longer distance; it enables communication
in dense forests; it frees the hands so that one may be
communicating and manually manipulating things
simultaneously; it frees the eyes to be scanning for preda-
Phylogenetic Origins 231
tors and other important information while communica-
tion is taking place auditorily; and on and on. Any or all
of these may have played a role. What we would simply
like to contribute as an additional possibility here, con-
sistent with the account we have been giving in this
chapter, is that communication in the vocal modality is
more public than communication in the gestural modal-
ity. In discussing primate communication in chapter 2, we
noted that primate vocalizations are broadcast indiscrim-
inately so that everyone nearby hears them, and that
gestures are directed to individuals. Having gone through
a period of using gestures to direct communicative acts
to individuals, the switch to the vocal modality might
have meant that communicative acts are still directed at
individuals—and indeed the communicative intention
may be seen as a metasignal for communicating that this
is “for you”—but at the same time the vocal medium
enables anyone nearby to eavesdrop, as it were (this
being preventable only by special acts such as whisper-
ing). This means that vocal acts are by default public, and
so are relevant for reputation-making and the like.
Finally, our proposal for how the transition came about
more specifically is that in the beginning the earliest vocal
conventions were emotional accompaniments, or perhaps
added sound effects, to some already meaningful action-
based gestures—or at least some already meaningful
collaborative actions. There was thus at least some
redundancy, at least from the point of view of the recipi-
ent, in what the communicator was attempting to
232 Chapter 5
communicate with the gestures and the vocalizations. As
humans gained more voluntary control over their vocal-
izations, they could have also used some vocal icons
(e.g., making the sounds of a leopard), though like visual
icons those could only have arisen after the emergence of
the Gricean communicative intention. But at some point,
in some situations, the vocalization came to be functional
on its own—perhaps under pressure to communicate at
longer distances, or for the communication to be in the
public space, and so forth.
As one example, an especially interesting class of
words, universal in all languages, is that of so-called
demonstratives, which are often accompanied even today
by pointing. In English, these are words such as this and
that or here and there. The special nature of these words
may be seen (as Wittgenstein 1953 first noted) by thinking
about how children might learn them. For words such as
nouns and verbs we may, given the appropriate joint
attentional frame, point to something and name it for a
child and she will learn the name. But how might we use
pointing to teach children the words this and that and here
and there? The answer is we cannot really. How does one
point at that or there? The problem is that if we point to
something in an attempt to teach these special words, the
pointing is both part of the ostensive act intended to teach
(to direct attention to the appropriate referent) as well as
the meaning itself—a peculiar situation that, miracu-
lously, does not seem to confuse children at all. They
must in some way understand the redundancy involved.
Phylogenetic Origins 233
In any case, demonstratives are clearly special because
they are present in all known languages; they almost
always embody a spatial component of distance from the
speaker (as in this versus that); they are very often accom-
panied by pointing gestures; and they in all cases seem
to be primitive, as they do not derive from other types of
words (Diessel 2006). And so demonstratives may be the
most basic communicative acts in the vocal modality—
they often are used quite early in development by
infants—quite plausibly because of their redundancy
with the pointing gesture.2
Iconic gestures, of course, contain more referential
specificity in the communicative act itself than do point-
ing gestures. Thus, without context, pointing to an
animal running past could be intended to refer to almost
anything, whereas pantomiming running or pantomim-
ing a rabbit—while still fundamentally indeterminate
without common ground—narrows things down quite
a bit. I can only point and intend to indicate a rabbit
that is not currently perceptible in very special circum-
stances, but I can pantomime an absent rabbit with the
same intention quite easily. As noted in chapter 3, iconic
2. It is noteworthy that the crucial distinction between demonstratives
and contentful words was first proposed by Bühler (1934/1990), whose
theory of language highlighted the critical importance of the current
interactive context in which we are speaking, the “deictic center,”
and its relation to the referential scene about which we are currently
speaking. He thus proposed that, though small, demonstratives rep-
resent a separate class of items because they relate to this deictic
center in a fundamentally different way than the contentful elements
of language.
234 Chapter 5
gestures are typically used for two basic functions: (i) to
indicate an action, and (ii) to indicate an object associated
with the enacted action (or, less often, the object depicted
in a static display). We may then posit that the elements
of language that correspond to iconic gestures are the
referentially contentful words such as verbs (prototypi-
cally for actions) and nouns (prototypically for objects).
On almost everyone’s account verbs and nouns are the
most fundamental types of content words in a language,
as they are the only two classes that are plausibly uni-
versal, and most of the other types of words in a par-
ticular language can be shown to be historically derived
from nouns and verbs (or else demonstratives; Heine
and Kuteva 2002). The proposal would thus be that ini-
tially humans used some vocalizations while pantomim-
ing actions or objects in a naturally meaningful way.
These became conventional as others learned the vocal-
izations socially, conventionally, making the pantomime
unnecessary—with vocalizations having some of the
advantages listed above such as freeing the hands, long-
distance communication, making things public, and so
forth.
In terms of our quasi-evolutionary story, then, we may
go all the way back to ape attention-getter and intention-
movement gestures, then move through the human use
of pointing and pantomiming as natural communicative
acts (based on new skills and motivations of shared inten-
tionality), and end in human communicative conventions
for directing attention (demonstratives) and inducing the
Phylogenetic Origins 235
recipient to imagine intended referents (content words
such as nouns and verbs and their derivatives).
ape attention-
getters
human
cooperative
pointing
demonstratives
and deictics
in language
ape intention-
movements
human
iconic
gestures
content words
(nouns, verbs)
in language
These two lines of correspondence simply reflect that in
action-based gestures there are really only two things that
humans can do to refer others’ attention to things, at least
naturally: we can direct their visual attention in space (as
in the top row), or we can do something to evoke absent
objects and events in the imagination (as in the bottom
row). Human linguistic conventions simply provide us
with special ways of doing these things based less on
current common ground and more on a shared history of
social learning.
We have not focused at all here on asking when par-
ticular things happened during human evolution; we
have chosen, rather, to focus simply on the ordering of
events. But one additional fact about human vocal-
auditory competence is especially noteworthy. Recent
genetic research has established that one of the key genes
responsible for articulate human speech (the FOXP2
gene) came to fixation in the human population no more
than 150,000 years ago with modern humans (Enard
et al. 2002). It is difficult to imagine any function other
236 Chapter 5
than articulate speech, as used in modern languages, for
the incredibly fine-grained motor control that this gene
seems to enable. And so this very recent date of 150,000
years (right before modern humans starting spreading
out all over the globe) might be taken as indicating a
point in human evolution where good articulators—
which presumably facilitate the use of a vocal language—
were at a competitive advantage. We are not concerned
here about a specific timeline for all of this, and so for
now the important point is simply that these genetic data
provide additional evidence that humans began using
the vocal modality as their major modality of communi-
cation only very late in the process.
5.3.3 Summary
The argument is simply that one cannot jump straight to
conventional communication. When we visit a foreign
country with a very different language we can get lots
of things done by the “natural” communicative acts of
pointing and pantomiming, especially in collaborative
activities such as transporting something together or in
institutionalized activities occurring in shops or railway
stations where common ground is solid. But we do almost
nothing communicative in the vocal medium, other than
express a few emotional reactions to things, and we basi-
cally never invent new vocal communicative conven-
tions. We could theoretically invent new and arbitrary
communicative conventions with our foreign friends
even in the vocal modality, but only if there was a transi-
Phylogenetic Origins 237
tion period in which these arbitrary devices were used
redundantly with other communicative devices that were
more naturally meaningful. Or perhaps, if there was a
significant amount of time involved, arbitrary communi-
cative conventions could arise among foreigners implic-
itly across a transmission chain in which the originators
used naturally meaningful gestures and later learners
reproduced that use without understanding its natural
basis (typically because of some missing aspect of
common ground). These are really the only two possibili-
ties for the origin of communicative conventions, and
they both involve an intermediate step of natural
communication.
Our overall account, then, is an evolutionary sequence
in which we go from (1) collaborative activities, to (2)
“natural” action-based cooperative communication
(first within collaborative activities and then outside
them), and then to (3) conventional communication—
with perhaps some parallel developments in the latter
two as natural forms of communication began being con-
ventionalized (and so became partially arbitrary) and
also supplied a grounding for totally arbitrary vocal
conventions.
5.4 Conclusion
If one paints with very broad strokes, it is possible to
characterize much animal social behavior as cooperative,
as one might even say that herd animals cooperate by
staying close together, thereby discouraging predators.
238 Chapter 5
But the human version of cooperation has unique char-
acteristics, most clearly manifest in human cultural insti-
tutions from marriage to money to government, which
exist because and only because of the collective practices
and beliefs of human groups (Searle 1995). The cogni-
tive bases for these special types of cooperative activity
are the various skills and motivations for shared inten-
tionality (Tomasello and Rakoczy 2003). Our proposal
is thus that the cooperative structure of human com-
munication is not an accident or an isolated human
characteristic, but rather one more manifestation of
humans’ extreme form of cooperativeness. But exactly
how this is so, and how it came to be this way, is far
from straightforward.
Our story here has thus been both complicated and
speculative. A graphic summary—from ape gestures to
human linguistic conventions—is provided in figure 5.1.
To recapitulate briefly, modern-day great apes—repre-
senting our model of the starting point—have many of
the necessary components for human cooperative com-
munication: they gesture flexibly to one another with
imperative motives, they understand intentional action
and engage in practical reasoning about it, they direct
attention in the service of social intentions, they have
some motives for helping others in some contexts, and
they engage in complex group activities. But they do not
seem to have skills and motivations of shared intentional-
ity, and so their communication is not fully cooperative
and inferential, in the sense that the recipient does not
Phylogenetic Origins 239
Attention-Getters
Intention Movements Pantomiming
(conventional)
Pointing
Arbitrary Vocal
Conventions
Collaborative Activities
Joint Goals/Intentions
Joint Attention/
Common Ground
Recursive Mindreading
Group Activities
Understand Goals/
Intentions
Understand Perception
Practical Reasoning
APES
Mutual Expectations
of Cooperation
Communicative
Intentions
Role Reversal
Imitation
Cooperative
Reasoning and Norms
Social Imitation
Action Imitation
Requesting:
Mutualism
Homo
Informing:
Ind. Reciprocity
Earlier Sapiens
Sharing:
Cultural Gp. Selection
Later Sapiens
Figure 5.1
Evolutionary foundations of human cooperative communication.
attempt to infer the relevance of the communicator’s
referential act to his social intention, and so the commu-
nicator does not display his communicative intention for
her ostensively—and there is no common conceptual
ground, nor any mutual expectations or norms governing
the process.
Human skills and motivations of shared intentionality
emerged initially within mutualistic collaborative activi-
ties in creatures we will simply call Homo (second column
in figure 5.1). But mutualistic collaborative activities
could not emerge until humans first became more toler-
ant and generous in sharing the spoils of group activities
(e.g., meat of the prey in group hunting), and then evolved
240 Chapter 5
a new piece of cognitive machinery: recursive mindread-
ing. This critical component created joint goals, which
then created joint attentional frames relevant to the joint
goal, which then served as the common conceptual
ground giving meaning to pointing and other coopera-
tive communicative acts. In the context of mutualistic
collaboration toward a joint goal, the tendency to request
help and to supply help in return, as the initial motive of
human cooperative communication, could flourish
because in this context helping my partner helps me. And
then helping could generalize to other contexts based on
indirect reciprocity, which provided the second coopera-
tive motive of offering help by informing so as to enhance
reputation—as characteristic of a creature we will call
Early Sapiens (third column in figure 5.1). Mutual assump-
tions of cooperation and the resulting Gricean communi-
cative intention, in which the communicative act is put
into the public space, resulted from recursive mindread-
ing combining with these two cooperative motives of
requesting and offering help and information. The third
major motive, sharing attitudes, very likely came from a
completely different source involving motives to be like
groupmates and to be liked by groupmates—in a creature
we will call Later Sapiens (fourth column in figure 5.1).
This motive, combined with mutual expectations, led to
norms governing many human activities, including coop-
erative communication.
In the context of this evolutionary pathway, great ape
attention-getters transformed into human pointing
Phylogenetic Origins 241
(bottom row in figure 5.1). After this first step, ape inten-
tion-movements could then evolve into human iconic
gestures for use in situations in which the common
ground, or joint attentional frame, of the communicators
made pointing a less than ideal mode of communica-
tion—given that the iconic gesture could be seen as com-
municative, based on an understanding of the Gricean
communicative intention. Communicative conventions
then emerged as outsiders imitated the iconic gestures
for their perceived communicative ends but without
all of the original common ground—leading, over time,
to a kind of “drift to the arbitrary,” then generalized to
the creation of conventions. The switch to the vocal
modality probably occurred for many reasons, one of
which may have been that vocal communication puts
things more readily into the public space. But the switch
had to have used naturally meaningful, action-based
gestures as a kind of temporary bridge, as “arbitrary”
communicative conventions cannot arise without in
some way piggybacking on already meaningful com-
municative activities.
6 The Grammatical
Dimension
To imagine a language means to imagine a form of life.
—Wittgenstein, Philosophical Investigations
We have structured our evolutionary account of human
cooperative communication around the emergence of the
three major motives involved: requesting, informing, and
sharing. We have also speculated on some of the pro-
cesses by which naturally meaningful, action-based ges-
tures used for these purposes could have at some point
turned into full-blown communicative conventions, cul-
turally created and learned. But at every step along the
way, including even the spontaneous gestures of great
apes, individuals also use sequences of gestures and/or
conventions to communicate, and we have so far given
no systematic account of these. What we need is an
account that will enable us, in the end, to explain the
emergence not of Language (with a capital L), but the
emergence of 6,000 different human languages with 6,000
different sets of communicative conventions—including
244 Chapter 6
grammatical conventions for structuring multiunit utter-
ances into coherent messages. Of course there will be
universals—it is everywhere the same species with the
same cognitive tools trying to do many of the same
things—but there are particularities as well, and indeed
the fact that humans do not have one single means of
communication for all members of the species is already
an evolutionary novelty that must be explained.
Our general approach is once again to focus on the
three major motives of human cooperative communica-
tion: requesting, informing, and sharing. The basic idea
is that the purpose for which one communicates deter-
mines how much and what kind of information needs to
be “in” the communicative signal, and therefore, in a very
general way, what kind of grammatical structuring is
needed. Thus, since requesting prototypically involves
only you and me in the here and now and the action I
want you to perform, combinations of natural gestures
and/or linguistic conventions require no real syntactic
marking but only a kind of “simple syntax” in a grammar
of requesting (even though with modern languages we
may formulate quite complex requests). But when we
produce utterances designed to inform others of things
helpfully, this often involves all kinds of events and par-
ticipants displaced in time and space, and this creates
functional pressure for doing such things as marking par-
ticipant roles and speech act functions with “serious
syntax” in a grammar of informing. Finally, when we
want to share with others in the narrative mode about a
The Grammatical Dimension 245
complex series of events with multiple participants
playing different roles in different events, we need even
more complex syntactic devices to relate the events to one
another and to track the participant across them, which
leads to the conventionalization of “fancy syntax” in a
grammar of sharing and narrative.
Although the basic steps in this sequence of different
kinds of grammatical structuring must have taken place
before human beings dispersed across the globe, after
this dispersal different groups of humans conventional-
ized different ways of fulfilling the functional demands
of simple, serious, and fancy syntax. This structuring was
embodied in grammatical constructions—complex pat-
terns of multiunit utterances—which were conventional-
ized in different groups via grammaticalization and other
cultural-historical processes. The way these processes
operate depends crucially on processes of shared inten-
tionality and cooperative communication in combination
with other cognitive processes and constraints. As in the
case of the origin of communicative conventions in
general, the origin of grammatical conventions thus high-
lights the ongoing dialectic between biological and cul-
tural evolution.
With regard to modality, the evolutionary hypothesis
is, again, that even when grammar is involved most of
this story played out in the gestural modality. This is sup-
ported by the fact that conventional sign languages with
full grammars seem to arise quite rapidly and easily
when certain sociological conditions hold (e.g., deaf
246 Chapter 6
people interacting in certain kinds of communities). The
most well-publicized recent examples are Nicaraguan
Sign Language (Senghas, Kita, and Özyürek 2004) and
Bedouin Sign Language (Sandler et al. 2005), which have
each developed complex grammatical structures in only
a few generations. The upshot is that while most linguists
typically think of sign languages as unusual expressions
of the human capacity for vocal language, it is also pos-
sible that the human capacity for language evolved quite
a long way in the service of gestural communication
alone, and the vocal modality is actually a very recent
overlay. If humans were actually adapted for communi-
cating in complex ways gesturally, with voluntarily con-
trolled articulate speech being a recent evolutionary
modification, this would go a long way toward explain-
ing the naturalness of complex human communication in
the gestural modality.
6.1 The Grammar of Requesting
Based on the account given in chapter 5, at some point
after humans started down their own evolutionary
path—labeled the Homo stage in figure 5.1—they began
engaging in mutualistic collaboration. This created some
joint attentional frames and common ground within
which they could request things from others in more
elaborate ways than, for example, apes pointing for
humans—and the recipients were likely to comply. They
also had some skills of imitation at this point, and so
The Grammatical Dimension 247
some of their intention-movements may have been
socially learned as well. But, on our hypothesis, at this
moment in evolutionary time human communication
was not yet fully cooperative—they were requesting but
not informing, and so there were no indirect, coopera-
tive requests that asked others to do things displaced
in time and space (as fully linguistic creatures can
do).
Here we would like to explore what the grammatical
structuring of communication at this stage might have
looked like. We do this by looking at several extant situ-
ations that are comparable to Homo in several dimen-
sions—“linguistic” apes, deaf children using home sign,
and nascent language learners—though we should
emphasize at the outset that none of them is comparable
in all dimensions. Our goal will be to characterize a kind
of grammar of requesting with a simple syntax adapted
for getting others to do things in the here and now. Maxi-
mally, this will involve gesture combinations that create
new meanings, but without any syntactic marking, as this
would serve no function in communication whose refer-
ence is confined to me and you in the here and now and
the action I want you to perform (to repeat, we focus here
only on these immediate requests and not on indirect and
other more cooperative requests that are possible after a
complex language has been developed). But before this,
we begin by specifying, very briefly, our starting point in
apes’ natural gestural sequences, which have no gram-
matical structure at all.
248 Chapter 6
6.1.1 Great Ape Gesture Sequences
In their natural communication with one another, chim-
panzees and other great apes quite often produce
sequences of gestures in a single context, toward a single
social goal. In the systematic study of Liebal, Call, and
Tomasello (2004), about one-third of all gestural commu-
nicative acts of chimpanzees contained more than one
gesture. These sequences contained pretty much all
possible combinations of intention-movements and
attention-getters, from the visual, auditory, and tactile
modalities (see Call and Tomasello 2007 for similar find-
ings with the other great ape species).
Almost 40 percent of these gesture sequences consisted
of simple repetitions of the same gesture more than one
time. The other sequences were sequences of different
gestures—raising the possibility of some kind of gram-
matical structure in the sense of creating new meanings
not possible with single gestures, or even in the sense of
different gestures playing different roles in the commu-
nicative act. However, systematic analysis of these
sequences provided no evidence for such grammatical
structure. On the basis of several different analyses, what
seemed to be happening was that the communicator used
one gesture, and then when the recipient failed to respond
in the desired way, he produced another one right after-
ward—perhaps in some cases even in anticipation of a
lack of response. In no analysis could investigators dis-
cover any new messages communicated by a sequence
The Grammatical Dimension 249
that could not have been communicated by one of the
individual gestures alone. As noted in chapter 2, there
was also no structuring based on manipulating the atten-
tion of the other; that is, it did not happen that chimpan-
zees preferentially used an attention-getter as the first
gesture to secure the recipient’s attention and then fol-
lowed this with an intention-movement of some kind
(i.e., nothing resembling topic-focus structure either).
It is of course possible that investigators have not been
lookingforgrammaticalstructureinapegesturesequences
in the right way. But based on all available analyses, the
gesture sequences of great apes seem to contain basically
no relational or grammatical structuring of any kind—
and there are no reports of anything resembling gram-
matical structure in the vocal communication of any great
ape species either. We thus use the term “sequence” and
not “combination,” which we will reserve for multiunit
messages with at least some kind of structuring creating
a new meaning.
6.1.2 Great Ape “Language” with Humans
There has been much controversy over the grammatical
structure, or lack thereof, of the signed utterances pro-
duced by language-trained great apes. (Note again that
attempts to teach apes new vocalizations of any kind
have all failed.) Much of this controversy is due to lack
of systematic, quantitative data. However, there are now
two studies of the gestural productions of these special
250 Chapter 6
animals that have the kind of data needed: one with
five chimpanzees using a sign language, and one with
a bonobo named Kanzi using an artificially created
system. These studies both used systematic samples of
naturally occurring communicative interactions, with
two independent observers for a significant portion of
these, enabling quantitative estimates of interobserver
reliability.
First, in a recent study, Rivas (2005) systematically ana-
lyzed four corpora from five chimpanzees over a seven-
year period—consisting of the well-known Washoe and
friends—trained in something like American Sign Lan-
guage (ASL) by the Gardners, Fouts, and collaborators.
There were 22 hours total of taped interaction involving
the various chimpanzees with one of several human care-
takers (with a variety of types of interobserver reliability
estimates for the different measures taken—all of which
were reasonably high). Excluding immediate imitations
and unintelligible sequences, there were 2,839 communi-
cative acts. The apes both “pointed” (and also used some
other natural gestures such as begging) and used ASL
signs, sometimes in combination.
The first result, as noted in chapter 2, was that of the
acts that had a clear communicative function (and exclud-
ing responses to questions), 98 percent were requests for
objects or actions; the remaining 2 percent were classified
as “naming,” which mostly came in the context of a kind
of naming/recognition game with a picture book. In a
subset of utterances called “unprompted,” because they
The Grammatical Dimension 251
initiated an interaction, 100 percent of the acts were
requests. Because the utterances were almost all requests,
the action words in the two-unit and three-unit utter-
ances were almost exclusively about very concrete physi-
cal actions that the animals liked such as eating, drinking,
and playing games such as chase, and the objects were
almost always things that the humans controlled and the
apes coveted. These desired actions/objects typically
were signed first in the sequence, followed by some kind
of “wild card” or requestive sign or an indication of
the person that should fulfill the request. We thus get
such things as “FLOWER there(point),” “TOOTHBRUSH
gimme(beg gesture),” “BALL GOOD,” “GUM HURRY,”
and so forth—all as requests. The conclusion of Rivas
(2005, p. 413) is that this ordering is best interpreted
as “the expression of an acquisitive motivation”: “The
objects and action signs are produced first because these
are the more important or salient signs of the (usually
request) utterances, specifying what is requested. The
request markers THAT/THERE/YOU/GOOD/HURRY
are produced last because they are less important (not
specifying what is requested) and function to add empha-
sis or to spur the human into action.”
The second main result was that the utterances had no
real grammatical structure and indeed were mostly very
short: 67 percent were one-unit utterances, 20 percent
were two-unit utterances, and 13 percent were more than
two-unit utterances. Because all of the utterances during
the sampled period of time were analyzed, it was
252 Chapter 6
possible to see that there were many “unrelated combina-
tions” that made little sense, such as “DRINK GUM” and
“CLOTHES EAT.” There were other sequences, however,
that seemed to embody the kinds of semantic relations
characteristic of young children’s requests, such things as
“action + object” (“EAT CHEESE”), “action + location”
(“TICKLE there(point)”), and so forth. It may be that in
these sequences the chimpanzees were simply indicating
two different aspects in a single requestive situation,
without relating them to one another explicitly. But it
would seem reasonable to suppose, as in the case of
young children, that at the very least, the apes are indicat-
ing multiple things in the situation and so are expressing
meanings richer than those they could have expressed
with a single sign alone. We should thus credit them with
at least some minimal grammatical competence, some
first glimmerings on the road to human syntax. Never-
theless, there were no sequences anywhere in any of the
data in which sign order or any other syntactic device
actually marked a systematic difference in meaning of
any kind or a particular syntactic role in the utterance as
a whole—the criterion that most linguists would adopt
for truly grammatical structure. If “EAT CHEESE” does
not mean something different from “CHEESE EAT,” then
word order is not being used as a significant syntactic
device.
In the other main, quantitatively based study of the
gesture sequences of language-trained apes, Greenfield
and Savage-Rumbaugh (1990) examined data from a five-
The Grammatical Dimension 253
month period of daily observations of the bonobo Kanzi
when he was five years old. The overall corpus consisted
of 13,691 utterances, of which 1,422 (10.4 percent) were
sequences involving either two lexigrams (from a key-
board with a made-up set of lexigram symbols) or a lexi-
gram and a gesture. Excluding communicative acts for
which interpretation was unclear (second observer not
present to take context notes) and responses to test ques-
tions, the final corpus of sequences consisted of 723 two-
element utterances (longer utterances were excluded, so
their structure is unknown). About 5 percent of the data
was checked for interobserver reliability, which was quite
good.
As in the Rivas (2005) study, the proportion of requests
was extremely high, approximately 96 percent of all
two-element utterances (function of the other 4 percent
unknown). Also as in the Rivas study, almost all of the
actions requested were concrete, dyadic actions such as
bite, chase, carry, grab, hide, hug, slap, tickle, and keep-
away (a game). Like Rivas, Greenfield and Savage-
Rumbaugh found that almost a quarter of Kanzi’s
productions did not have much structuring, being classi-
fied as “miscellaneous,” “no relation,” or else as “con-
joined actions, entities, or locations.” Over one-third of
the two-unit sequences consisted of pointing and naming.
More interestingly, almost one half of the utterances were
classified as representing two of the three elements agent-
action-object or else an entity plus an attribute or location
(note that no reliability analyses were done on this
254 Chapter 6
classification). The majority of these last types were a
sequence of a lexigram and a gesture (mostly pointing or
related directional gestures). Kanzi’s preferred ordering,
which was not a reflection of the caregiver’s behavior,
was first to indicate the lexigram and then to gesture, as
in“KEEP-AWAYthat(gesture)”and“JUICEyou(gesture).”
This ordering seems very similar to that of Washoe and
friends in which the desired object or action is indicated
first, followed by some further instigating sign. The lexi-
gram-lexigram sequences showed no particular ordering
preference. Of the seven action words used in such
sequences, five of them were used with an order prefer-
ence: two for preceding the involved object and three for
following it. But note again that, even where there might
be an ordering preference, it was not the case that differ-
ent orders meant different things.
Interestingly, Kanzi has shown impressive competence
in comprehending many types of English sentences used
as requests (his caregivers typically spoke to him in
English along with their gesturing and use of lexigrams).
This includes the ability to recognize that different lexi-
gram orders indicate requests to do different things (all
ofthetestingwasdoneintermsofhisresponsetorequests;
Savage-Rumbaugh et al. 1993). However, it turns out that
a number of other nonprimate species, such as dolphins
and parrots (Herman 2005; Pepperberg 2000), have also
shown essentially the same ability to recognize correla-
tions between sign orders and particular types of
requested actions, and so the ability to attribute signifi-
The Grammatical Dimension 255
cance to ordering patterns in learned signs is not confined
to apes. In none of these animals is there a corresponding
competence with sign order in the production of commu-
nicative acts, and so their comprehension skills might be
based on many different kinds of cognitive and/or learn-
ing skills, some of them having very little to do with
communication in particular.
The communicative abilities of these “linguistic” apes
are indeed amazing, in the sense that they are learning
novel communicative gestures and signs and using them
effectively with another species—the clearest and most
impressive examples of such flexible skills ever docu-
mented. And they might even be using sequences to
communicate in more elaborate ways than they could
with single-unit communicative acts alone—a very simple
kind of grammar. This might indicate that these apes
have the ability to, in effect, parse a conceptual situation
into two different elements, such as event and partici-
pant, that is not so different from the way humans do it.
It is possible that this distinction between events and
participants derives from skills of imitation (demonstra-
bly better in human-raised apes than in typical apes, and
better still in human children; see Tomasello 1996) in
which event categories are formed as a result of the judg-
ment that I want to perform “the same” action I just
saw (i.e., imitation = same action, different participant).
However, from the point of view of syntactic structure
more rigorously defined, it is fair to say that not much is
here. In neither of the two systematic, quantitative studies
256 Chapter 6
is there any evidence for grammatical structure in the
sense that different orders of signs (or any other device)
function to mark participant roles or in any way to change
meaning.
The simple explanation for why “linguistic” apes do
not use syntactic devices in their communication with
humans (even if they may comprehend the contrastive
use of order when signed or spoken to) is that all their
communication is designed for the requestive function.
This exclusive focus on requests in the here and now of
current interaction means that there are almost no func-
tional demands on the gestural or sign production of
these apes for syntactically marking the roles that differ-
ent actors play in an event (syntactic marking), for iden-
tifying more explicitly the different actors involved (as in
noun phrases), for designating the time of an event (as
with tense markers), for marking a topic (as with topic
markers), for designating speech act function (as with
intonation or special constructions), or for doing any of
the other things that we will call, a bit later, serious syntax
in the grammar of informing. They have thus created, in
this species-atypical environment, a kind of grammar of
requesting quite well adapted to their particular com-
municative needs: they typically sign what they want in
a single sign, followed by some indication of the person
they want to do it, the object they want it done on, or
some kind of wild card request marker as a spur to the
human requestee.
The Grammatical Dimension 257
6.1.3 Deaf Children Using Home Sign
Greenfield and Savage-Rumbaugh (1990) claim that what
Kanzi does with his gestures and lexigrams is compara-
ble to what is done by deaf children growing up without
any kind of conventionalized language model (because
their parents have chosen not to expose them to a con-
ventional sign language; Goldin-Meadow 2003b). These
children develop with the adults around them a way of
communicating based on a combination of pointing (and
other deictic gestures) and pantomiming. The children
learn some of their pantomimes from their parents, but
others they invent (which, interestingly, is not really fea-
sible in a spoken language based on totally arbitrary
signs)—and there is pressure for these all to be iconic so
that other people outside the family may comprehend
them as well. The multisign utterances the children expe-
rience from adults are degenerate in a number of ways,
mainly because the parents are speaking as they gesture,
and their speech quite often preempts their gestures for
certain functions. Nevertheless, the children end up with
multisign utterances that seem to have at least some
grammatical structure—demonstrably more than that of
their parents and, as we will argue here, demonstrably
more than those of “linguistic” apes.
Because we began with signing apes and their grammar
of requests, the first thing to note is that much of these
children’s language consists of comments on things,
258 Chapter 6
informing others of things that they presumably are inter-
ested in and would like to know—including narratives
displaced in time and space. Although no exact percent-
ages of different kinds of utterances are reported, in one
systematic coding of all the utterances of a sample of ten
of these children (age 1 to 4 years) during 30 to 60 minutes
of play, roughly one-third of their multisign utterances
seemed to be simple comments (not requests) referring
to actions involving transfer of objects or people (e.g.,
move or come), another one-quarter referred to transform-
ing objects (e.g., twist or break), and many others had
to do with transporting objects (e.g., carry); only a small
minority had to do with playing games or performing
concrete actions (Goldin-Meadow and Mylander 1984).
This contrasts markedly with the language-trained apes’
fixation on requesting games and concrete, dyadic activi-
ties such as chasing and hugging. The lack of overlap in
the kinds of actions that apes and home-signing children
talk about may be seen clearly in table 6.1, where out of
almost 100 action words altogether, only two (eat and go)
are used by individuals of both species. This difference is
quite plausibly attributed to the different social goals the
two species are pursuing in their use of communicative
devices.
Nevertheless, it is still the case that the utterances of
these children are relatively short. The majority consist of
only one gesture, and approximately 85 percent of their
multiunit utterances contain only one iconic sign, typi-
cally combined with pointing, with the mean number of
The
Grammatical
Dimension
259
Table 6.1
Action signs used by home signing children (Goldin-Meadow and Mylander 1984), apes, and both (number of
individuals, out of 6, in parentheses). (Thanks to Esteban Rivas for help compiling the chimpanzee list.)
Action Signs
of Children
Con’t. Con’t. Action Signs of
Apes
Action/Object
Signs of Apes
Action Signs by
Children and Apes
act on (1) go out (1) shoot (2) bite (1) brush (3) go (2/3)
beat (3) go up (2) sip (1) carry (1) comb (2) eat (2/4)
blow (3) hammer (1) spray upward
(1)
chase (4) dirty (2)
bounce (1) hit (2) squeeze (1) cry (1) drink (4)
chew (2) hold (2) strum (2) go (3) flower/smell (3)
circle (1) hold/spray (1) suck (1) go-there (1) food/eat (4)
climb (2) jump (1) take off (2) go-you (1) hear/listen (2)
cradle (1) leave thru (1) take out (1) grab (1) light (1)
cut (2) lick (1) tie (1) groom (3) oil (2)
dance (1) lift (1) tilt (1) hide (1) paint (1)
depress (1) lift in (1) transfer (1) hug (4) see/look/
glasses (1)
dive (1) lift out (1) turn (1) keep-away (1)
260
Chapter
6
Table 6.1
(continued)
Action Signs
of Children
Con’t. Con’t. Action Signs of
Apes
Action/Object
Signs of Apes
Action Signs by
Children and Apes
do (1) march (1) twist (5) open-room (1)
don (2) move (6) twist off (1) peekaboo (2)
drive (1) move back-
forth (1)
walk (2) peekaboo/
smell (1)
eat (2) pedal (1) wash (1) slap (1)
fall (1) pet (1) wing (1) smell (2)
float (1) puff at (1) wriggle (1) swallow (1)
fly up (2) pull (1) tickle (3)
give (6) pull off (1)
go (2) ride (1)
go around (2) roar (1)
go away (1) scamper (1)
go down (1) scoop (1)
NB: Classification of ape signs done by original researchers (not Rivas 2005), and may be an artifact of correspon-
dence with human signs.
The Grammatical Dimension 261
gestures per utterance being between 1 and 1.4 for all but
one of the children (including pointing)—and with very
little development on this dimension over a several-year
period of observation. Goldin-Meadow (2003b) provides
evidence that these relatively modest productions are
underlain by what she calls predicate frames, as on dif-
ferent occasions children explicitly indicate objects
playing different roles in a given action or event; for
example, with the iconic sign for cutting, the same child
on different occasions will indicate the cutter, the thing
cut, or the instrument used in the process. This would
seem to be an especially clear indication of very produc-
tive event-participant parsing, perhaps based on humans’
especially powerful skills of action imitation, or even role
reversal imitation (again, imitation = same action, differ-
ent participant).
Children using this home sign, as it is called, structure
their utterances in simple ways. Most importantly, they
sometimes use a device quite common in conventional
sign languages to indicate the “patient” of an action,
namely, as they make the iconic sign for the action they
move their hand(s) in the direction of the patient of the
action—a kind of iconic depiction of the “acting on” rela-
tion to mark the patient. It is not clear how often this
device is used; the description in Goldin-Meadow (2003b,
p. 111) only says “at times, the children orient their ges-
tures toward particular objects in the room.” Speakers of
conventional sign languages of course do such things
obligatorily, and they do many more of them for different
262 Chapter 6
functions (Padden 1983). In terms of sign order, only
some of the children show consistent ordering patterns,
and these essentially involve first pointing to an object
and then producing the iconic gesture for the action (the
one child who produced sufficiently many transitive
actions for analysis put the patients relatively consistently
after the action gesture)—basically the opposite of the
ordering pattern favored by the linguistic apes. There is
little evidence, however, that different orders are intended
to signify any differences of meaning contrastively.
Another possible manifestation of grammatical struc-
ture—systematically investigated for only one child—is
that when a given iconic sign seems to be used for indi-
cating an object as opposed to an action (e.g., for the
object brush instead of the action brushing), it is given in
more abbreviated form—though still in only a minority
of cases, possibly suggesting some notion of word classes
in the direction of noun and verb (Goldin-Meadow 2003b,
p. 130).
It is true that both the bonobo Kanzi and young chil-
dren using home sign produce many one-element utter-
ances, a fair number of two-element utterances, and only
a small minority of longer utterances. In both cases the
prototypical multielement utterance is one sign (lexigram
or iconic) and one more or less natural gesture, typically
pointing. But there are two fundamental differences. The
first is that Kanzi (and the other apes) produce almost
exclusively requests (with the very few nonrequests
mainly being some kind of naming or recognition),
The Grammatical Dimension 263
whereas the home signers produce in addition many
informative utterances—which means they talk about a
whole range of topics, such as objects and their move-
ments and properties, that the apes do not normally talk
about. It is possible that this difference accounts for the
difference in their preferred ordering patterns. That is,
because they are requesting, the apes indicate the desired
object or action first, followed by some kind of indication
of the person they want to do it, the object they want it
done on, or some kind of requestive marker, whereas
home signers tend to indicate first what they are talking
about (e.g., by pointing to it) and then predicate some-
thing interesting about it (nascent topic-focus structure,
perhaps). The second difference is that because the home
signers are making their signs iconically in space, they
have the possibility of using space to modulate meanings
in systematic ways, and some of them have begun to do
this. Kanzi does not have this possibility in his lexigram
system, and it is not clear whether these kinds of things
are modeled for apes in ASL, or whether they are looked
for when observing apes using ASL-like signs. But, again,
when all one is doing is requesting, there is not much
need for indicating the subject or direct object of an
action.
And so these home-signing children are not confined
to a grammar of requesting, but actually seek to inform
others of things helpfully quite often. But they still
produce utterances with very simple syntax, mostly of
the probabilistic, and not normative, variety. They are
264 Chapter 6
cognitively normal in all other ways—including the pos-
session of skills and motives for shared intentionality—so
why are they not more grammatically sophisticated? The
obvious reason is that they are not learning a full-blown
conventional language that has developed in a commu-
nity of users. And they do not even have other people
who also use home sign naturally, without speech, and
with whom they could conventionalize some things;
when children such as these do have such a community,
they begin to use utterances with much more grammati-
cal structure, as we shall see shortly.
6.1.4 Children’s Earliest Language
Typically developing, speaking human infants point and
use other kinds of gestures before they begin acquiring
their spoken language. As documented in chapter 4, chil-
dren learning a vocal language in the normal way tend
to increase their amount of pointing as they are acquiring
a language, but decrease their use of iconic and conven-
tional gestures, presumably because language is usurp-
ing their function. What this means is that many of
children’s earliest one-word utterances, their holophrases,
are actually combinations of pointing and language (as
well as intonational marking of motive). And it seems
that such gesture-word combinations are forerunners of
children’s early syntax.
Two recent studies document how this happens.
Assuming that children’s early acts of pointing accompa-
The Grammatical Dimension 265
nying language indicate objects, Iverson and Goldin-
Meadow (2005) defined two types of gesture-language
combinations. In one, what we may call redundant com-
binations, the child points at an object and simultane-
ously names it; in the other, called supplementary
combinations, the child points at an object and simultane-
ously predicates something about it, for example, point-
ing to a cookie and saying “Eat.” What these researchers
found was an astoundingly high correlation between
young children’s use of supplementary gesture-word
combinations and their early word-word combinations
(rs = .94), whereas children’s use of redundant gesture-
word combinations did not correlate at all. Ozcaliskan
and Goldin-Meadow (2005) extended these findings to
even more complex linguistic productions (see also
Capirci et al. 1996). The interesting thing to note here is
that supplementary gesture-word combinations manifest
something like the kind of simple syntax that we see in
linguistic apes and home-signing children: utterances
composed of a pointing gesture to an object and some
kind of iconic or arbitrary sign for an action, property, or
other kind of predicate—without any syntactic devices
involved at all (indeed pointing and words are typically
produced simultaneously so that ordering is not even an
issue).
In their earliest multiword utterances, young speaking
children quite often do something a bit different—but
still not totally different. Beginning at around 18 months
of age, most children produce word combinations in
266 Chapter 6
which one element is a constant and the other element is
a variable. Prototypically, a relational or event-word is
used with a wide variety of object labels (e.g., “More
milk,” “More grapes,” “More juice,” or “Ball gone,” “Dog
gone,” “Grapes gone”). Following Braine (1963), we may
call these pivot schemas, which represent a widespread
and productive strategy for children acquiring many of
the world’s languages, sometimes including productive
utterances never before heard from adults, for example,
the famous “Allgone sticky.” Although it has not been
documented to nearly the same extent, the early gram-
matical combinations of deaf children learning a conven-
tional sign language show many of the same properties
(Schick 2005). One way of conceptualizing these early
pivot schemas, and also the predicate frames of home-
signing children, is as fairly direct manifestations of their
growing conceptualization of event-participant structure,
such that basically any participant may fill basically any
of the different participant roles. This conceptualization
of events may depend on something like role reversal
imitation in collaborative activities in which the child
conceptualizes the event, as argued above, from a bird’s-
eye view with all participant roles, including its own, in
the same representational format. This might be another
reason why apes tend to talk about simple concrete
actions in requestive form: they do not really understand
events from a bird’s-eye view and so do not really form
anything like pivot schemas or predicate frames with
open slots.
The Grammatical Dimension 267
But even so, young children’s pivot schemas are not
really syntactic. That is to say, whereas in many early
pivot schemas there is a consistent ordering pattern of
event-word and participant-word (e.g., More or gone),
a consistent ordering pattern, to repeat, is not the same
thing as productive syntactic marking used contrastively
to indicate what role a word is playing in a larger com-
binatorial structure. The same basic analysis also holds
for children’s earliest period of acquisition of languages
that employ case marking: children acquire their early
nouns in one or another case form, but they do not have
contrastive control over the different case forms of the
same noun. This means that although young children are
using their early pivot schemas to partition scenes con-
ceptually with different words, they are not using such
things as word order or case marking productively to
indicate the different roles being played by different par-
ticipants in that scene (see Tomasello 2003 for a review).
Young speaking children—and also young deaf chil-
dren learning a conventional sign language—thus are not
confined to a grammar of requesting, but they still begin
without any serious syntax. In this case the reason would
seem to be simply that it takes some time to discern the
grammatical structure embodied in the particular utter-
ances heard in a normal speech community. This is an
important fact in any debate about the evolutionary
origins of grammar. Young children acquiring a spoken
language naturally, even though they have all of the cog-
nitive and social-cognitive capacities and motivations
268 Chapter 6
they need as well as a mature linguistic community
around them, do not start with syntactically structured
utterances, but rather start with a kind of simple syntax
that does not yet employ productive syntactic devices.
6.1.5 Summary
If we are thinking evolutionarily, other than apes’ natural
communication none of the situations we have examined
here is representative of any early stage of human evolu-
tion. The “linguistic” apes are growing up in modern
human environments, and the human children all have
cognitive abilities that early humans very likely would
not have had, including especially skills of role reversal
imitation and shared intentionality. And so our model of
the evolution of grammar at its earliest point will have to
be some combination of these different situations (sketch-
ily characterized in table 6.2). The communicative devices
our imaginary Homo would have had at this time for
potential combination (see chapter 5) would have been
pointing and conventionalized intention-movements
(since full-blown iconic gestures await the emergence of
the communicative intention—see section 5.2.2).
What makes our task a bit easier is that, beyond great
apes’ natural gesture sequences, in all the other situations
individuals produce true combinations and with a similar
kind of simple syntax—in the sense that they partition
the referential situation into multiple elements, often
events and participants. Interestingly, although both
The
Grammatical
Dimension
269
Table 6.2
Joint Attention Imitation Pointing Other Signs Motives Community
of Speakers
Homo yes yes yes Intention-
Movements
Request yes
“Linguistic” Apes — ? yes ASL/
Lexigrams
Request yes
Home Signers yes yes yes Iconic All —
Young Children yes yes yes Words +
Iconic
All yes
270 Chapter 6
pointing and pantomiming may be used on their own to
refer to either objects or actions, in their combinations all
the individuals here typically use pointing to indicate
objects (participants) and pantomiming (or signs) to indi-
cate events. Given the ubiquity of some such distinction
in the world’s signed and spoken languages, we may
posit that event-participant organization (as some kind
of basis for verbs and nouns?) comes naturally to both
apes and humans.1
We may thus propose that our early
Homo produced not just gesture sequences but gesture
combinations that partitioned the referential situation
into different elements—prototypically events and par-
ticipants—but without any syntactic marking of those
elements for their role in the utterance as a whole.
6.2 The Grammar of Informing
Given Homo individuals who have what it takes to
combine multiple gestures to request things from one
another, in the context of collaborative activities and joint
attention, what happens to their multigesture combina-
tions when they (i.e., Earlier sapiens) go beyond request-
1. When the spontaneously produced speech of mature speakers is
examined in terms of intonation units—often the speech between
pauses (typically containing four or five words and lasting a few
seconds)—it is found that they prototypically contain single phrases
(clauses) indicating a single event or state and one or a few participants
(Chafe 1994; Croft 1995), suggesting the naturalness of simple event-
participant organization in the language use of mature speakers as
well.
The Grammatical Dimension 271
ing and begin to inform one another of things helpfully,
even outside of collaborative activities (due to processes
of indirect reciprocity)? Informing prototypically involves
events and participants beyond me and you in the here
and now, as they concern things about which the recipi-
ent is currently ignorant. Communicating about this
wider range of events and objects creates at least three
new communicative challenges:
Identifying: as we move beyond requests, the commu-
nicator must have ways for making reference to absent
or unknown objects and events, even using multiple
items as a single functionally coherent constituent, but
still grounding the referential act for the recipient in their
shared common ground;
Structuring: as we move beyond requests, the commu-
nicator must have ways to syntactically mark such things
as who did what to whom (including third parties) in the
indicated event or state of affairs;
Expressing: when motives other than requests are pos-
sible, the communicator must distinguish those (and pos-
sibly other speaker attitudes) for the recipient.
6.2.1 Conventional Syntactic Devices
There are many different ways for meeting each of these
challenges in both the gestural and the vocal modalities.
First, in modern signed and spoken languages there are
many ways of identifying specific participants and events
272 Chapter 6
for the recipient when they exist outside of me and you
in the here and now. In both modalities, however, the key
is that the communicator uses me and you in the here and
now—that is, the current joint attentional frame, common
ground, Bühler’s (1934/1990) deictic center—to ground
his acts of reference in what they both perceive or know
together. Thus, if he can, the communicator will point to
something perceptually present or indicate an entity with
a sign designed for things already in current joint atten-
tion (e.g., with she or it). But for nonpresent entities and
events, most of the contentful words/signs in both
modalities are category terms that cannot by themselves
single out particular referents; if I say or sign “cat” or
“bite” these do not pick out any individual referents from
our common ground, or from anywhere else, without
further specification. The communicator thus must give
search directions for finding individual referents: objects
must generally be located in space, including conceptual
space, and events must generally be located in time,
including imagined time (Langacker 1991; Croft 1991). I
thus say or sign things like “the cat” (the one in our
current joint attention) or “my cat” or “the cat that lives
in the vacant house on the corner,” to single out one
among all members of that category—there is a whole
referential hierarchy depending on how salient the
intended referent is within our current common ground
(see Chafe 1994; Gundel, Hedberg, and Zacharski 1993).
And I say or sign such things as “will bite” or “was
biting” to indicate which particular event, or imagined
The Grammatical Dimension 273
event, I am referring to by locating it in time relative to
now. The fact that multiple items work together in a
certain pattern to effect a single coherent communicative
function (e.g., referring to a single object or event) means
that they form a single constituent in larger construc-
tions—creating hierarchical structure.
Second, in modern sign languages there are a number
of ways for structuring things to make clear who did
what to whom, the most common being simply order
(Liddell 2003)—and of course order is used quite fre-
quently in spoken languages as well. In almost all of the
languages of the world, both gestural and vocal, the
actor/subject is referred to before the patient/object in
the utterance, presumably because in the real world
causal sources typically move and are active before the
things they act upon or affect. This ordering principle
thus has at least somewhat natural sources, but to be
productive it needs to be conventionalized in opposition
to other alternatives. In addition, sign languages some-
times also use space for this same function; for example,
to indicate me giving you something, I move the sign for
giving from me to you iconically (and the opposite for
you giving to me)—another device with an obvious
natural source. Signers may also, as noted above, indicate
the patient of a designated action by pantomiming the
action in the direction of a perceptually present object, a
device sometimes referred to as agreement (to highlight
its affinity with such things as subject-verb agreement in
spoken languages). To indicate who is doing an action,
274 Chapter 6
signers may also shift their own body in space to act from
the spatial perspective of someone present in the situa-
tion indexically, again a natural iconic device. Both types
of languages also sometimes use conventional signs,
words, or markers (e.g., prepositions, case markers) for
indicating the role a participant is playing in an event.
Third, in both modalities the communicator gives some
expression to his motive (and sometimes other attitudes)
as additional information to help the recipient infer his
social intention. In both modalities these tend to be
natural expressions of emotion, although to serve as con-
trastive markers they must be conventionalized for such
use. Thus, a question is asked with a certain kind of facial
expression in sign languages, and/or a certain intonation
in spoken languages, possibly related in deep history to
natural expressions of puzzlement and/or surprise. Not-
so-polite requests may be given with a demanding facial
expression or tone of voice, possibly related in deep
history to expressions of anger. These expressions of
motive—with a natural basis in human emotional reac-
tions in both signed and spoken languages—have become
conventionalized, each in their own way contrastively, in
both modalities.
In the previous chapter, what we called natural com-
munication was communication based on action-based
gestures adapted to humans’ natural tendency to do such
things as follow gaze direction (i.e., pointing) and inter-
pret the actions of others intentionally (i.e., pantomim-
ing). Individuals are able to understand these gestures
The Grammatical Dimension 275
without any particular learning history (assuming they
have the shared intentionality infrastructure of coopera-
tive communication with communicative intentions,
common ground, and so forth), just as one may under-
stand such gestures naturally in a shop or railway station
in a foreign country. Conventionalization removes the
naturalness and replaces it, so to speak, with a shared
learning history: everyone who grew up in this commu-
nity knows what this arbitrary communicative conven-
tion is typically used for because we all had similar
learning experiences with it (and all know this together).
Syntactic devices and constructions are like this too,
despite attempts to make them into contentless, algebraic
“rules” (e.g., Chomsky 1965; Pinker 1999). Each of the
different languages of the world, both spoken and signed,
has its own syntactic and other grammatical conventions
for structuring utterances so as to solve the various prob-
lems raised by informative communication. Indeed, each
of the different languages of the world has a variety of
prepackaged constructions that combine various types of
signs/words and grammatical markers for use in recur-
rent communicative situations; for example, the English
passive construction (e.g., “The dog was injured by the
car,” in which the subject is the patient of the action) is
composed of a certain arrangement of certain constitu-
ents (each of which is its own constructional pattern as
well) for a specific communicative function. This more
functional view of grammar does not deny that there
might be very general processing or computational
276 Chapter 6
principles that in some way shape or constrain the kinds
of grammatical patterns that human beings may conven-
tionalize, or that things may start with “natural” princi-
ples like indicating first the agent of an action. But what
grammar consists in most immediately is a set of con-
ventional devices and constructions—conventionalized
differently in particular languages—for facilitating com-
munication when complex situations outside the here
and now need to be referred to.
6.2.2 Nicaraguan Sign Language
An extremely interesting illustration of the transition
from simple syntax to serious syntax—and the begin-
nings of the conventionalization of grammar—is pro-
vided by different generations of users of Nicaraguan
Sign Language. Nicaraguan Sign Language represents a
situation in which deaf children, each of whom had
developed on her own some skills with some form of
home sign, were brought together in a school setting.
They spontaneously developed ways of communicating
with one another using a common set of signs, and new
children coming to the school began learning this common
set from them. The uniqueness of this situation is that it
occurred just a few decades ago, and so the first genera-
tion of children is still alive, as adults, and two other
generations of children and adults are available for study
as well. The basic finding is that the younger signers
seem to be more fluent with the signs, and they seem to
The Grammatical Dimension 277
have given them some added grammatical structure, as
compared with the original creators represented by earlier
generations.
Home signers, as noted above, are pretty much con-
fined to whatever they and their parents can invent, with
pressure to stay “natural” (iconic) arising from other
persons not in on the inventing. But in the birth of a new
language such as this, a new process enters the picture.
As multiple users communicate with one another, new
signs and constructions are created, and then as these are
acquired by new learners via imitation (without always
understanding the naturalness involved), we begin to
get, again, “a drift to the arbitrary.” We may call this
process the conventionalization of grammar (or “gram-
maticalization,” though this term has other connotations),
and it will be treated at some length below. The important
point for current purposes is simply that the addition of
this creation and transmission process leads to the emer-
gence of grammatical structure beyond that invented by
individuals using their own idiosyncratic home sign.
In the case of Nicaraguan Sign Language, both analysis
of spontaneous signing and experiments involving elic-
ited production and comprehension have established
that grammatical structure has been created in a very
short time. First, later generations of Nicaraguan Sign
Language users have learned to use space in a number
of important ways to structure their utterances gram-
matically, in ways that resemble the devices of conven-
tional sign languages (whereas first-generation signers
278 Chapter 6
have not). For example, they use space to identify
nonpresent referents that might require multiple signs
working together (constituency). Thus, they use a
common spatial reference point to indicate items that go
together in a constituent in some way—sometimes called
agreement—so that, for example, an object and a modify-
ing expression may be signed in the same location, indi-
cating a modifying relationship—and the same for an
agent and an action. In addition, spatial devices are also
used to keep track of referents across time: once a signer
has referred to an object with a sign, she may subse-
quently simply point to the location at which the object
sign was originally produced to indicate that object a
second time—in a manner very similar to the pronouns
of spoken language. This is essentially using a spatial
device to indicate things as a way that takes advantage
of the already established joint attentional frame. Another
interesting use of space by second-generation signers is
the indication of perspectival reference point before ges-
turing, for example, signing onto a location in space asso-
ciated with an already established object but from the
point of view of someone other than the self (Senghas and
Coppola 2001; Senghas 2003).
Second, with respect to sign order as a structuring
device, in experiments in which subjects narrate what is
happening in films, first-generation signers produce only
one participant per action (as is mostly the case in home
sign), so that the ordering of even fairly long narrations
is an alternation of verb and participant signs. But second-
generation signers prefer to produce verb-final utter-
The Grammatical Dimension 279
ances, no matter how many participants are involved,
with actors/subjects/topics coming almost invariably
before patients/objects/foci (Kegl, Senghas, and Coppola
1999). This verb-final ordering has also been found in
another newly invented sign language, Bedouin Sign
Language, with verb-final utterances outnumbering other
types of orderings by about six to one (Sandler et al.
2005). Also, like some home signers, users of these newly
created systems produce action signs toward objects to
indicate that those objects are the patients or direct objects
of the action.
Second-generation users of Nicaraguan Sign Language
have thus begun employing—in a way that home signers
and first-generation users have not—a number of gram-
matical structuring devices constituting serious syntax.
Since sign languages have arisen spontaneously many
times, and all of the mature ones have much grammatical
structure, such conventionalization is presumably the
normal process by which a community creates a full-
blown sign language.
6.2.3 Speaking Children’s Earliest Grammar
Not long after typically developing children begin pro-
ducingmultiwordutterances—ofteninthepivotschemas,
as described above—they begin structuring their utter-
ances grammatically, as do deaf children acquiring a sign
language. From fairly early their utterances show hierar-
chical structure in the sense that they have multi-item
noun phrases and verb phrases that are identified by
280 Chapter 6
particular constructional patterns (see Tomasello 2003 for
a review). They also use second-order syntactic devices
for structuring the roles that participants play in events
from fairly early as well, using ordering devices or other
forms of syntactic marking such as case marking. Ini-
tially, these are typically tied locally to particular event
types. For example, children may learn a particular order-
ing device to indicate agents and patients in particular
kinds of events like giving or pushing, but not use those
same devices for other types of events. These so-called
verb island constructions (Tomasello 1992a, 2003) indi-
cate that children’s earliest syntactic marking is fairly
local in scope and becomes general and abstract only
gradually. The main lesson for current purposes is simply
that syntactic devices—even conventional ones that
change meaning in contrastive ways—may apply either
more locally to specific word/signs or more broadly
across whole categories of words/signs. In thinking about
evolution, it is thus reasonable to suppose that at the
early stages of serious syntax in the grammar of inform-
ing human beings may have structured their utterances
with syntactic devices that did their work only locally
with some particular words/signs, and not categorically
across all known word/signs.
6.2.4 Summary
Again if we think evolutionarily, none of the situations
we have examined here—Nicaraguan Sign Language or
The Grammatical Dimension 281
children acquiring a conventional signed or spoken lan-
guage—fits any earlier stage in human evolution. The
children creating and learning Nicaraguan Sign Lan-
guage may be pretty close to some earlier stage, but they
have more cognitive and social-cognitive skills than
humans would have had at the point we are targeting
(particularly with regard to issues of sharing and norma-
tivity), and they all begin their lives by learning home
sign in interaction with mature, modern, speaking adults.
What we are looking for here is something that is created
de novo and that goes beyond the grammar of requesting
to include more sophisticated grammatical structuring,
but that still does not yet include all of the syntactic
devices that will be required for sharing experience in
narratives and also does not include the normative
dimension of human cooperative communication.
The main innovation we are targeting in the grammar
of informing is the communicator’s use of conventional
syntactic devices (i) to ground and so to identify the ref-
erents in the current joint attentional frame, including
using multiunit constituents to do so; (ii) to structure the
utterance as a whole for the recipient by indicating
the different roles being played by the participants in the
event; and (iii) to express motive and attitude conven-
tionally (often still emotionally in face and voice). These
innovations are motivated by a new communicative func-
tion—though obviously no particular devices are specifi-
callydeterminedbythesefunctions,asdifferentlanguages
embody them in very different ways. In the grammar of
282 Chapter 6
requesting, tied to me and you in the here and now, none
of these complexities is needed; in the grammar of inform-
ing, all of these complexities are needed. Presumably, the
first conventional syntactic devices used evolutionarily
were derived from “natural” principles—that is, ones
that all human beings naturally employ based on their
general cognitive, social, and motivation propensities,
such as “actor first” or “topic first” or looking puzzled
when asking for information—but the conventionaliza-
tion process then transformed these into communica-
tively significant syntactic devices in human cooperative
communication.
6.3 The Grammar of Sharing and Narrative
The sharing motive, as noted from the outset, is a species
of informing. It concerns the basic human motivation to
simply share information—and, most importantly, atti-
tudes about that information—with others. We have
speculated that sharing with others in this way serves to
expand one’s common ground with others—to be like
others in the group and to, one hopes, be liked by them
and be able to communicate with them more intimately—
and so serves as a form of social identification and
bonding. We also noted that this sharing/identification
motive also led ultimately to the normativity of many
social behaviors, the implicit social pressure to do it the
way others do it. As language displays very strong nor-
mative structure—both in the way we refer to things with
The Grammatical Dimension 283
particular linguistic conventions and in the form of utter-
ances as grammatical versus ungrammatical—it is possi-
ble that this motive is at least partially responsible for our
judgment that “That’s not the way it is said.”
A major venue through which people of all the cultures
of the world share information and attitudes with others
in their group is in narratives. Basically all cultures
have narratives that help define their group as a coherent
entity through time—creation myths, folk tales, parables,
and the like—and indeed these are passed on from gen-
eration to generation as a part of the cultural matrix.
(Interestingly, even home signers without a truly conven-
tional language appear to tell simple narratives via their
iconic gestures—Goldin-Meadow 2003b—as do children
acquiring Nicaraguan Sign Language—Senghas, Kita,
and Özyürek 2004.) From a linguistic point of view, nar-
ratives that tell an extended story raise a host of problems
of how to relate multiple events and their various partici-
pants to one another across time. These problems are
solved with a number of different syntactic devices of
what we might call fancy syntax, and indeed many of the
seemingly inordinate complexities of modern grammars
derive specifically from devices that, on the current
hypothesis, were created to deal with the problems
created by narratives and other forms of extended dis-
course. Indeed, even the grammar of individual utter-
ance-levelconstructionshasbeenaffected,asthelinguistic
expression of event sequences in separate utterances, or
even across conversational turns, may get compressed,
284 Chapter 6
grammaticalized, into a single construction involving
multiple events produced more or less under one intona-
tion contour. All of this can and does occur in both signed
and spoken languages, and we will posit that it was char-
acteristic of Later Sapiens.
6.3.1 Discourse and Narrative
To engage in narrative discourse we need ways for talking
about multiple events and states of affairs related to one
another in complex ways, and we need means for ground-
ing our discourse not so much in the immediate nonlin-
guistic context as in the linguistic context formed by the
previous discourse. Becoming a skillful narrator therefore
requires mastery of a set of devices for providing coher-
ence and cohesion across events in order to tell a good
story.
The two major problems that narrative discourse sets
are: relating events to one another in time, and keeping
track of the participants in those events when they are
sometimes the same and sometimes different across
events (and playing different roles in different events
when they are the same). First, keeping track of events in
time leads to some incredibly complex grammatical struc-
tures. The simplest situation is of course when an event
is located in time relative to now: I slept for an hour or I
will sleep for an hour. But narratives require us also to
situate events displaced in space and time relative to one
another, so that I can say such things as:
The Grammatical Dimension 285
While I was sleeping, a bomb exploded (one past event
occurring inside of another past event).
After I had slept for an hour, mother came (one past event
occurring after another past event).
By next month, I will have finished my book (a future time
point relative to which another future event is past).
By the time I finish my book, I will have been living in
Australia for ten years (a future event at which point
another future extended event ends).
It is difficult to imagine any other communicative context,
other than narrative discourse, that would require such
arcane temporal bookkeeping in the form of different
verb tenses and aspects.
Second, tracking referents across events is quite com-
plicated as well. In some cases, the referent does not even
need to be identified in the second event, as in “Bill drove
to town and bought a shirt.” In other cases the referent
is identified with a pronoun, but this can be tricky if there
are two previously mentioned participants who might be
its referent, as in “Bill drove Sarah to town and bought
a shirt,” in which case the person who bought a shirt (Bill)
is actually farther away from the word bought than is the
other named referent (Sarah). But this can be overridden
if a pronoun that is marked in some way is used, as in
“Bill drove Sarah to town and she bought a shirt,” in
which the feminine pronoun she overrides the default
case as in the previous example. Languages in which all
286 Chapter 6
nouns belong to different genders, or noun classes, are
able to use this strategy much more productively than
English. These simple examples only scratch the surface
of the complexities of so-called reference tracking in dis-
course, but they at least illustrate in a very simple way
some communicative pressures that might shape emerg-
ing grammars (e.g., the pressure to find ways to keep
track of referents across events), which might be respon-
sible for such things as a variety of different pronoun
forms, different noun classes, some kinds of agreement
marking, and so forth. As noted, this same function is
often performed in sign languages by the signer making
a sign for a person or object at a particular location in
front of him or her, and then referring back to that person
or object by pointing to that location subsequently.
The grounding of events in time in extended discourse
and the tracking of referents across events are very much
more complex than the simple discussion here would
indicate—and there is great linguistic diversity in both of
them. The main point is simply that communicative func-
tion drives the process, such that all linguistic communi-
ties who wish to tell narratives and engage in other forms
of extended discourse must create grammatical conven-
tions of the general type described here for getting these
things done.
6.3.2 Complex Constructions
This kind of extended discourse leads to the most
complex, utterance-level, syntactic constructions in a lan-
The Grammatical Dimension 287
guage, that is, those containing more than one event. In
a process that will be described in more detail below,
extended sequences of discourse indicating multiple
events—loosely organized and expressed across different
intonation units—“congeal” over historical time in the
discourse community into more or less tightly organized
grammatical constructions expressed within a single
intonation contour. There are three basic types of such
constructions that extend our identifying, structuring,
and expressing functions in even more complex ways.
In terms of identifying, there are myriad different con-
structions that are used to identify referents using multi-
ple elements, as in English noun phrases (“the big green
car”) and verbal complexes (“will have been sleeping”).
The most complex of these—because they involve iden-
tifying a referent using an event—are relative clauses:
The man who was wearing the green coat left early.
There’s that woman who was at the shop yesterday.
Other constructions change perspective and emphasis so
as to identify a key participant for the recipient’s benefit,
such as:
It was the man who got robbed (not the woman, as you
suppose).
It was the girl who robbed him (not the boy, as you
suppose).
The details of how such constructions work should not
divert us, as we only need to reiterate that they function
288 Chapter 6
to identify referents and derive from extended discourse
in ways that will be spelled out in a bit more detail
below.
In terms of structuring, all languages have complex
constructions that relate events to one another and
to participants in complex yet systematic ways. For
example, in English we can say things involving two
events like:
She finished1 her homework, and then she went2 to
town.
She pulled1 the door, but it wouldn’t shut2.
She rode1 her bike because she needed to find2 him
quickly.
Such juxtaposed events, with a key word connecting
them and specifying their relation, are mundane in dis-
course and narrative, and these are only a very few exam-
ples. There are many other types and there is great
cross-linguistic diversity in these kinds of loosely orga-
nized complex constructions as well.
In terms of expressing, there are special constructions
designed to indicate different speech act functions
(motives) such as questions and commands:
Close the door! (Imperative)
Did you close the door? (Question)
He closed the door. (Informative)
The Grammatical Dimension 289
In other constructions expressing speaker attitude, an
event is reported within the framework of someone’s
psychological state or attitude. Some constructions of this
type concern desire and volition, many of which—and
those that are first in children’s acquisition—express the
communicator’s attitude in the here and now toward the
event. Most simply:
I want to play Batman.
I must do my homework.
I’m trying to win.
These may ultimately be generalized to reports about
other people’s psychological states or attitudes toward
events. Other constructions in this category concern epis-
temic states. Some simple examples are:
I know I can do it.
I think he went home.
I believe she’ll come to the party.
These may also be displaced to reports about other peo-
ple’s psychological states or attitudes toward events, of
course.
Importantly, modern children’s earliest complex con-
structions do not need to be grammaticalized out of dis-
course sequences, because children hear the constructions
in their current complex form from adults (Diessel
and Tomasello 2000, 2001; Diessel 2005). This is another
290 Chapter 6
manifestation of the more general cultural dialectic by
which invented cultural products become ever more
complex over historical time in social interaction and col-
laboration, but new generations simply acquire the new
product by imitation or some other form of cultural learn-
ing (the ratchet effect; Tomasello, Kruger, and Ratner
1993). The critical point here is simply that many, if not
most, of the very most complicated grammatical con-
structions of a language are conventionalized historically
from larger discourse sequences in order to manage the
many complexities of engaging in extended discourse
and narrative with multiple-event structure—as we will
outline in more detail below.
6.3.3 Grammaticality as Normativity
Why do all people in all cultures tell stories in the first
place? In chapter 5 we laid out an evolutionary rationale
for people sharing information, emotions, and attitudes
with others. Basically, such sharing is a way of expanding
our common ground with others and so expanding our
communicative opportunities, and, in the end, making us
more like them and enhancing our chances of social
acceptance (with conformity to the group playing a criti-
cal role in processes of cultural group selection). Telling
narratives contributes to this process as only members of
our group know our stories, and our shared evaluations
of the characters and their actions as we tell these stories
are an important bonding mechanism as well (see Bruner
The Grammatical Dimension 291
1986, who distinguishes within narratives “the landscape
of action” and the “landscape of evaluation”).
In chapter 5 we also argued that this process leads to
social norms. Humans have a strong need to belong to
some social group, and group-level norms for behav-
ior—that you must be cooperative, that you must dress
and eat and act like us—can emerge only because indi-
viduals are sensitive to social evaluation and sanctions
(and actually preempt them by feeling on their own
embarrassment, guilt, and shame). Importantly, norma-
tivity also extends to many of the everyday practices of
the people in a social group, as a result of general pres-
sure to conform and be a member of the group: this is the
way we, the members of this group, harvest honey (as
our forebears have done since the beginning of time); this
is the way we use chopsticks to eat; and so forth.
The phenomenon of grammaticality—that certain
utterances sound ungrammatical (“That’s not English”)—
would seem to be very far removed from following social
norms in order to avoid shame and guilt. But, we would
argue, it is actually just another instantiation of social
norms for everyday behaviors, like harvesting honey in
our group-specific way and using chopsticks to eat—but
reinforced by the fact that commonplace grammatical
utterances are heard dozens or even hundreds of times
every day so that their pattern is quite entrenched in our
communicative activities (note that grammatical patterns
heard less often do not sound as bad when violated as
do more frequently heard patterns; Brooks et al. 1999).
292 Chapter 6
Interestingly, the second-generation children acquiring
Nicaraguan Sign Language seem to have a sense of gram-
maticality that home signers do not (i.e., they notice that
the first generation does not always do it “right”; Senghas,
Kita, and Özyürek 2004), suggesting that when the con-
ventionalization process occurs with individuals possess-
ing modern human cognitive and social skills and
participating in a linguistic community, it creates the
impression that things must be done this way—and that
some others are not doing it correctly.
Many linguists and philosophers have puzzled over
grammaticality: if it is not explicit rules as taught in
school (that is, conscious, prescriptive grammar intended
to signal to others one’s education and social status) but
something more basic, then what is it? In the current
view, it is just another case of the normativity of group
behavior, but with the added force of especially frequent
habitual behavior so that violations sound strange. This
is an unexpected, but extremely important, additional
effect of the motive for sharing/conformity/group iden-
tification in the evolution of human communication.
6.3.4 Summary
I can see the linguists cringing now at the terrible over-
simplifications of discourse and complex constructions
(and indeed of serious syntax as well) that this brief
account represents. But my goals here have been very
concrete and simple. I have simply tried to show that:
The Grammatical Dimension 293
• engaging in extended discourse and narrative creates
certain functional demands such as relating events to one
another, tracking participants, and taking perspectives;
• all known languages have grammatical devices for
meeting these demands, but there are many different
ways of doing this and so these devices vary greatly from
one language to another;
• recurrent discourse sequences involving multiple
events are the ultimate source of complex syntactic con-
structions (elaborated below).
Individuals engaged simply in requesting things from
one another in the here and now, or even informing one
another of things removed a bit from the here and now,
would simply have no need for many of the fancy syn-
tactic devices we see in modern languages whose func-
tion seems to be related in fairly straightforward ways to
the functional demands of narrative discourse about
structured series of events displaced in space and time.
In any case, we may summarize our evolutionary steps
in terms of the grammar of requesting, the grammar of
informing, and the grammar of sharing in narrative, as
in figure 6.1. This figure is merely intended to depict, in
a very general way, the grammatical properties charac-
teristic of human communication as the different com-
municative motives emerged across evolutionary time.
(In this figure, as in figure 5.1, we use the terms Homo,
Earlier Sapiens, and Later Sapiens as handy and suggestive
labels concerning evolutionary sequences, nothing more.)
294 Chapter 6
Gesture
Sequences
Combos of Pointing
Intention-Movements &
Sign and Vocal
Language Mixed
Mainly Vocal
Language
Entrenched Normatively
Grammatical
Grammar of
Requesting
Homo
Grammar of
Informing
Earlier Sapiens
Grammar of
Sharing
Later Sapiens
APES
Serious Syntax
Syntactically mark
roles in events
ID participants in joint
attentional frame
Fancy Syntax
Relate events in
narrative
Track participants
across events
Simple Syntax
Parse experience into
events and participants
Combine gestures
toward single goal
Figure 6.1
Evolutionary foundations of grammar in three steps.
The conventionalization process, taking place in cultural-
historical time, is not depicted here, but it is to that (after
a brief resummary in different terms) that we now turn.
As another way of summarizing our total, three-step
evolutionary account, consider the modern-day creation
of linguistic pidgins and creoles under special social
circumstances by individuals who are native speakers
of different vocal languages. The hypothesis would be
that—even though they are cognitively very different
from early humans—if these individuals only interacted
in something like a work situation in which basically all
of the communication was requesting that others do
things in the context of the collaborative work activity,
the resulting grammatical structure would lack most of
the structuring devices of modern languages. To request
The Grammatical Dimension 295
that someone dig in this place now does not require
the pluperfect tense or relative clauses, and indeed we
know that in the very earliest stages many pidgins have
very limited grammatical structure (so-called jargon;
McWhorter 2005). But then, at Step 2, if these people
needed to inform one another of things helpfully—espe-
cially third parties and other things removed in time and
space—then this functional pressure would lead to the
conventionalization of some serious syntactic devices
(e.g., contrastive word order, syntactic marking, complex
noun phrases, etc.) and more complex grammatical con-
structions, creating a “pidgin.” As for Step 3, a pidgin
typically begins to be called a creole, or even a normal
natural language, when the speakers begin to identify
themselves as a coherent cultural group, at least partly
on the basis of their common language and perhaps the
narrative stories they tell in sharing with one another in
this common language.
6.4 The Conventionalization of Linguistic
Constructions
The way that modern languages work is thus a complex
mix of “natural” principles of communication and
grammar—processes that derive directly from the way
humans are built to cognize the world and interact
socially—and conventionalized communicative devices
created and passed along within specific cultural groups.
Obviously, the processes by which communicative
296 Chapter 6
devices are conventionalized are not processes of biologi-
cal evolution, but rather of cultural-historical evolution.
The key to understanding these processes is the phenom-
enon of language change. To understand language change
more clearly in the case of grammar, we must first under-
stand what it is exactly that is created and passed along
(answer: constructions). We then must understand why
grammatical constructions change over historical time.
The puzzle is that for efficient communication among all
members of a group across generations, it would seem
reasonable that communicative conventions, including
grammatical conventions, stay always the same. And so
the question is who is changing them and why (answer:
no one is doing this on purpose), and in which modality
(answer: both gestural and vocal languages).
6.4.1 Constructions
Communicators do not need to figure out totally creative
ways of cobbling together multiunit utterances in every
speech event—and they do not have “rules” out of
grammar books (whatever those might be) for doing this.
That is, they do not just have words and isolated gram-
matical devices; rather, they have already available in
the speech community prepackaged, internally complex
communicative conventions known as linguistic con-
structions. Linguistic constructions are essentially prefab-
ricated, meaning-bearing structures for use in certain
recurrent communicative situations. These constructions
The Grammatical Dimension 297
may involve particular words and phrases, such as “How
ya doin’?,” “See ya later,” and “I dunno,” or they may
involve an abstract pattern not of particular words but of
word types, for example, as in the English passive con-
struction (X was VERBed by Y) or past tense construction
(VERB + ed).
One of the great theoretical advances in twentieth-
century linguistics is the recognition that conventional-
ized grammatical constructions may take on Gestalt
properties of their own independent of the meanings of
the individual words, and this creates a kind of auton-
omy at the grammatical level of analysis (Langacker 1987;
Fillmore 1989; Goldberg 1995, 2006; Croft 2001). Thus, if
I say to you “The dax got mibbed by the gazzer,” you
know—without knowing the meaning of a single content
word—that the gazzer did something (called mibbing)
to the dax (and we have entered that event from the
perspective of the dax, as patient). Indeed, the Gestalt
properties of constructions can even “override” indi-
vidual word meanings in many cases. For example, the
grammar books will say that the verb sneeze is an intran-
sitive verb, used with a single actor, the one who sneezes.
But I can say something like “He sneezed her the tennis
ball” and you will concoct a scene in which his sneezing
causes a ball to go from him to her. That movement is
not communicated by the verb sneeze, but rather by the
construction as a whole (the ditransitive construction).
It is thus not an exaggeration to say that the construction
itself—the abstract pattern—is a linguistic symbol, albeit
298 Chapter 6
a complex one with internal structure (Goldberg 1995).
This means that just as linguistic communities create
and pass along particular words in their vocabulary, they
also create and pass along grammatical constructions.
Constructions comprising specific words and phrases
may be passed along in the normal cultural way by imi-
tation. But since abstract constructions are essentially
patterns of use, they cannot be imitated directly, but
rather children must (re-)construct them across individ-
ual learning experiences with different exemplars of the
construction.
But neither words nor grammatical constructions get
passed along totally faithfully. All one has to do is pick
up some work of Chaucer and, as a modern speaker of
English, attempt to read it. Much of it is incomprehensi-
ble, and that is only from a few hundred years ago.
Modern linguistics actually began with the discovery that
almost all of the European languages, and some that
stretch as far away as India, have a common origin in a
common ancestor language (proto-Indo-European), and
that most of the different languages we see in Europe
today have all arisen and differentiated almost completely
from one another in just a few thousand years. And this
change is not just in the words; the grammatical construc-
tions of these languages have diverged radically from
one another as well. Over a period of just a few hundred
years, for example, English changed from using primar-
ily case marking to indicate who did what to whom to
using primarily word order (with remnants of the case
The Grammatical Dimension 299
system still visible in the pronouns: I-me, he-him, she-her,
etc.). If we want to understand how linguistic construc-
tions are created and transmitted across generations, we
must begin by attempting to understand processes of
language change.
6.4.2 Language Creation and Change
All individuals of all social species, with one exception,
can communicate effectively using their evolved com-
municative displays and possibly signals with all other
individuals of their species (even birds with different
dialects still recognize and respond appropriately to
songs in other dialects), and these displays and signals
do not change appreciably across generations. The one
exception is, of course, humans. Humans have over 6,000
different languages whose speakers cannot comprehend
one another, and indeed even the speakers of the same
language at different points in historical time would have
great difficulties comprehending one another (e.g.,
Chaucer and us). The explanation for this is simply that
human linguistic communities are constantly reinventing
their languages—although not intentionally.
Language creation and change is what has been called
a phenomenon of the “third kind” (also called, following
Adam Smith, an invisible hand phenomenon; Keller
1994). Like such other societal-level phenomenon as infla-
tion and resource depletion, it is something that results
from intentional human actions, even though no single
300 Chapter 6
individual or even group of individuals intended for it to
happen. Language creation and change result from the
fact that human communication is open and dynamic,
with interlocutors constantly adjusting to one another in
order to communicate effectively and accomplish other
social goals—relying to different degrees in different cir-
cumstances on different degrees and kinds of common
ground. Although there is not much research on the cog-
nitive dimensions of the process, one account of how it
works that is generally consistent with the phenomena as
observed in language histories is as follows (see Croft
2000; Dahl 2004; Deutscher 2005).
When people communicate with one another linguisti-
cally, the communicator is attempting to be efficient by
saying as little as possible to get the message across. The
recipient, of course, is interested in getting enough infor-
mation to comprehend the message, relying both on the
message and on the common ground she has with the
communicator. And so if I ask a question “Where is Jeff?,”
appropriate answers are such curt things as “New York,”
“Sleeping,” and other locutions that specify only the
needed information, leaving the already shared informa-
tion out of the utterance itself (i.e., I do not need to say
“Jeff is in New York” or “Jeff is sleeping”). If you ask me
a question to which I do not know the answer, my
response in everyday English is typically something
barely intelligible to a nonnative speaker, “I dunno,”
which I assume you will recognize since my possible
responses are few and so this compressed utterance is
The Grammatical Dimension 301
probably sufficient to indicate the one intended. In spe-
cialized settings where people share much common
ground—such as a dentist and her assistant who have
worked together for years—a kind of abbreviated code
arises in which participants communicate quickly and
efficiently by taking advantage of their mutual experi-
ence to leave much unsaid. Low-information words in
highly predictable places are typically barely articulated
in everyday speech; for example, the actual articulation
of a refusal might be something like “m-busy” (“I am
busy”). The general principle is that the more common
ground and predictability there is among interlocutors,
the more reduced in form are the actual utterances pro-
duced. Speakers thus automatize and reduce certain
utterances, and phrases within utterances, for purposes
of efficiency—within the constraints of the recipient’s
ability to comprehend.
The utterances produced in particular situations of lin-
guistic communication are thus basically compromises
between the communicator’s desire to say only what is
needed to get across the message, and the recipient’s
desire to have all the information that is needed to com-
prehend the message. This happens at two levels. First,
longer discourse sequences across intonation contours
are reduced to utterance-level constructions produced
mostly within a single intonation contour. Here are some
examples, based on Givón (1979—although in many
cases the historical record is not sufficiently detailed for
confidence in the specifics):
302 Chapter 6
• Loose discourse sequences such as He pulled the door and
it opened may become telescoped into He pulled the door
open (a resultative construction).
• Loose discourse sequences such as My boyfriend . . .
He plays piano . . . He plays in a band may become My
boyfriend plays piano in a band. Or, similarly, My boy-
friend . . . He rides horses . . . He bets on them may become
My boyfriend, who rides horses, bets on them (a relative
clause construction).
• If someone expresses the belief that Mary will wed
John, another person might respond with an assent I
believe that, followed by a repetition of the expressed
belief that Mary will wed John—which become telescoped
into the single statement I believe that Mary will wed John
(a sentential complement construction).
• Complex constructions may also derive from discourse
sequences of initially separate utterances, as in I want
this . . . I buy it evolving into I want to buy it (an infinitival
complement construction).
The second level is one in which strings of words with
many syllables are reduced to a smaller number of words
with fewer syllables. A simple English example concerns
the future marker gonna, a fusion of going and to. The
original use of going was as a verb for movement, often
in combination with the preposition to to indicate the
destination (I’m going to the store), but sometimes also to
indicate an intended action that the “going to” enabled
(Why are you going to London? I’m going to see my bride).
The Grammatical Dimension 303
This later became I’m gonna VERB, with gonna indicating
not just the intention to do something in the future, but
futurity only (with no movement or intention necessary;
see Bybee 2002). This additional element—the notion of
intention that was only a possible implication in the origi-
nal—can only come from the common ground between
interlocutors when such things are normally said. Other
well-known examples include:
• The main future tense marker in English comes from
the full lexical verb will, as in I will it to happen. This
expression then at some point became something like It’ll
happen (with the volitional component of will “bleached”
out).
• English phrases such as on the top of and in the side of
evolved into on top of and inside of and eventually into
atop and inside. In some languages relator words such as
these spatial prepositions may also become attached to
nouns as case markers)—in this instance as possible loca-
tive case markers.
• In French, the main negative is the expression ne . . . pas,
as in Je ne sais pas. Currently in spoken French, the ne is
becoming less often used and pas is becoming the main
negative marker. But the word pas was at one point the
word for “step,” with the expression being something
like the English “not one bit” or “not one step further.”
A critical part of this process is the propagation and
transmission of such changes in the linguistic community
304 Chapter 6
(e.g., spread of an innovation due to social prestige, etc.;
Croft 2000), but of special importance for our account is
transmission across generations. Recall that in account-
ing for the emergence of linguistic conventions in human
evolution, we postulated a kind of “drift to the arbitrary”
based on the fact that outsiders, who are missing some
common ground as a basis for “naturalness,” may have
a difficult time comprehending and parsing the commu-
nicative signs of the others. What seems to happen in the
case of grammar is something similar. Children hear
utterances and just want to learn to do things like adults—
they do not know or care anything for any “natural” roots
of these. Thus, when they hear utterances whose constit-
uent parts are hard to hear or absent (or they do not yet
know them), they may understand how that utterance
works in a different manner from the adult producing it
(i.e., which parts of the utterance are serving which com-
municative functions). This is called functional reanaly-
sis, and it results from the fact that comprehenders
typically do two things simultaneously. On the one hand,
they attempt to understand the overall meaning of the
utterance: what does the speaker want me to do, know,
or feel? But in addition they also engage in a kind of
“blame assignment”: in the overall meaning, what role is
being played by each of the internal constituents of the
utterance? Thus, if a child hears an adult say “I’d better
go,” she might not hear the -’d so well and just assume
that better is a simple modal auxiliary like must, as in “I
must go” or “I should go” or “I can go.” That is then a
The Grammatical Dimension 305
blame assignment that differs from that of the adult, and
so, if there are many similar children, at some historical
point better will indeed become a modal auxiliary like
must in the English language at large. This kind of reanal-
ysis happens constantly, and it often spreads to related
constructions by analogy (see Croft 2000 for a thorough
discussion of these processes).
The cycle as we have characterized it is thus something
like what is shown in figure 6.2. When predictability is
high owing to strong common ground, speakers automa-
tize and reduce constructions, which sometimes makes it
difficult for new learners (who may then engage in a
reanalysis), and these reduced, reanalyzed forms are then
combined in discourse, and the whole process then starts
over. Relatedly, if abstract constructions must be (re-)con-
structed by children from patterns of adult use, then
“slippage” in the transmission may also occur if patterns
of adult use change substantially—so that children end
up with slightly different constructions from those of
adults. For example, when English adults begin using an
Figure 6.2
combining
constructions
in discourse
reanalysis in
transmission
automatization
> reduction
306 Chapter 6
irregular past tense of a verb less frequently (e.g., sneak-
snuck and dive-dove), children tend to regularize it (e.g.,
sneaked and dived) because many and frequent exemplars
are needed to entrench irregular forms that differ from
the predominant pattern—leading to change over time
(Bybee 1995).
As with almost every aspect of my account of linguistic
communication as presented here, I have oversimplified
vastly and deleted important details. But that is because
for current purposes we only need to understand enough
of the process to make two key points of special relevance
to the current account based on processes of shared inten-
tionality. First, the conventionalization of grammar, as we
have described it, can only take place if communicator
and recipient have the common goal of successful com-
munication. That is, we have characterized the outcome
of grammaticalization processes as a kind of compromise
between the needs of the communicator and those of the
recipient. This compromise is possible only if the two
participants are working together toward the common
goal of the communicator’s message being successfully
comprehended by the recipient, and each of the partici-
pants is monitoring what the other is doing as they work
toward that joint goal—so that, for example, the recipient
may signal comprehension or noncomprehension as
appropriate and the communicator may adjust the for-
mulation of the message in response. This process is
utterly different from the kind of compromise between
The Grammatical Dimension 307
communicator and recipient characteristic of great ape
communication, described in chapter 2, in which each
individual has its own individualistic end, and those
signals survive which serve both of those individualistic
ends adequately. As suggestive evidence, we may note
again the fact that no nonhuman species, to our knowl-
edge, ever asks for clarification of a communicative
message or repairs one for the recipient.
Second, the creation and change of grammatical con-
structions—especially the process of reanalysis over
time—depends crucially on the way common ground
and joint attention work. Specifically, aspects of linguistic
communication that are predictable owing to strong
common ground (and which might be transparently
iconic or compositional) become reduced in form as inter-
locutors are able to use this common ground, even with
a weak linguistic signal, to make the appropriate infer-
ences about the intended message. This is fine for the
cognoscenti, but for outsiders, such as children, this makes
the linguistic formulations less transparent, and so they
must simply learn form-function parings arbitrarily (and
imperfectly). In doing this, they engage in a blame assign-
ment process—that is, they identify which parts of the
construction are effecting which subfunctions—that may
differ from that of mature speakers. Our specific proposal
is thus that the conventionalization of grammatical con-
structions—grammaticalization and similar processes—
can occur only in species who have cognitive skills for
308 Chapter 6
constructing common ground in joint attention, and in
communities that have enough sociological complexity
such that different individuals have different common
ground with one another (see Croft 2000). This suggests
that if we were to put various “linguistic” apes together,
even if they did use some of their “linguistic” signs to
communicate with one another, those signs and their
combinations would not show any historical develop-
ment because apes do not construct with one another the
kind of common conceptual ground within which this
process takes place.
Overall, it may be said without fear of contradiction
that human skills of linguistic communication are multi-
farious and derive from multiple sources. The founda-
tionalaspectsconcernedwithcooperativecommunication
are due mainly to evolutionary processes, but the actual
creation of the linguistic conventions and constructions
that people use to structure their linguistic interactions
with one another in particular languages are due both to
cultural-historical processes that transcend individuals
and to psychological processes during ontogeny of social
learning, joint attention, analogy, and so forth. The
shared intentionality inherent in communicating with a
common goal within the context of common conceptual
ground—in combination with various human tendencies
of information processing and automatization—gener-
ates the possibility for language creation and change
over cultural-historical time in particular linguistic
communities.
The Grammatical Dimension 309
6.4.3 Language Universals and Diversity
The empirical fact is that different cultural groups of the
world have conventionalized very different sets of lin-
guistic conventions and constructions, in some cases
based on very different grammatical principles. It is pos-
sible to shoehorn all of these different linguistic conven-
tions and constructions into some categories from classical
and modern formal linguistics, but it is not at all clear
that it is appropriate to do this. That is, just as all linguists
agree that it is no longer appropriate to shoehorn all
European languages into Latin grammar, as we once did,
it is also no longer appropriate to shoehorn all of our
recently discovered “exotic” languages into the catego-
ries of classical European grammars such as subject and
direct object, relative clauses, and so forth.
Linguistic typologists study linguistic diversity, and
those who are not bent on squeezing all languages into a
European Procrustean bed report an incredible panoply
of strange devices that different linguistic communities
use for structuring their utterances grammatically (Croft
2003). On just the most general level, some languages
have many small morphological endings on words,
whereasothershavenone.Somelanguagesbreakcomplex
events and ideas down into many small units each
designated by a separate word, whereas others express
complex events and ideas in a single complex word.
Some languages work with the categories of subject and
direct object, whereas others do not. Some languages
310 Chapter 6
have very clear classes of nouns and verbs, whereas
others have mostly a single class whose items may play
both roles (like the English words brush and kiss). Some
languages have lots of embedding structures such as rela-
tive clauses, and others have very few. Some languages
have noun phrases whose items come together (as in “the
big green fish”), whereas in others the items in such
phrases are “exploded” all over the sentence. Some lan-
guages have one or the other of prepositions, auxiliary
verbs, modal verbs, conjunctions, articles, adverbs, inter-
jections, complementizers, pronouns, whereas others
are missing one or more of these. Some languages allow
speakers to simply leave out referential terms freely when
the referent is implicit in the context (ellipsis), whereas
others do not. And this only scratches the scratches on
the surface of all the wonders that abound in the different
languages of the world.
But there are linguistic universals. These are perhaps
not as straightforward as once believed, however, as
they concern not specific syntactic devices or construc-
tions, but rather general constraints or functions served.
For example, one of the reasons for many language
universals is that people speaking in any language con-
ceptualize the world in similar ways in terms of such
things as agents acting on objects, objects moving from
and to locations, events causing other events, people
possessing things, people perceiving and thinking and
feeling things, people interacting and communicating
with one another—all involving a basic event-participant
The Grammatical Dimension 311
distinction. Another reason is that people speaking in
any language have a large set of communicative func-
tions in common as well, because they have similar
social intentions and motives: to request things of others,
to inform others of things helpfully, and to share things
with others, to name just the most general classes of
motives. Another reason is that people speaking in any
language manipulate the attention of others in similar
ways, for example by treating things already in atten-
tion (topics) as different from things new to attention
(foci). People all over the world also learn and process
information in similar ways based on such things as
visual perception, categorization, analogy, automatiza-
tion, working memory, and cultural learning, within
whose constraints all linguistic communication, conven-
tionalization, and acquisition must operate. People all
over the world also have the same vocal-auditory appa-
ratus and process vocal-auditory information in similar
ways. And, in terms of the dimension of things we
have focused on here—skills and motives of individual
and shared intentionality—people all over the world
are similar as well, including a common evolutionary
history of pointing and pantomiming in acts of coopera-
tive communication.
In this context, the question arises whether specifically
linguistic and grammatical principles—not based on
general processes of human cognition and communica-
tion—have also evolved in the human species. The
most well-known proposal of this type is, of course,
312 Chapter 6
Chomskian universal grammar. Originally the hypothe-
sis was fairly straightforward, as universal grammar con-
tained such purely linguistic things as nouns, verbs, and
basic rules of European grammar. But as it became clear
that these things did not fit many non-European lan-
guages, the hypothesis changed to include very abstract
linguistic things, supposedly representing the universal
computational structure of language—such things as this
subjacency constraint, the empty category principle, the
theta-criterion, the projection principle, and so on. But as
it has become clear that these things are totally theory-
dependent and the theory has been abandoned, the pro-
posal is now that there is simply one specifically linguistic
computational principle, and that is recursion—and that
may not even be specifically linguistic (Hauser, Chomsky,
and Fitch 2002). The Chomskian hypothesis of an innate
universal grammar thus currently has no coherent for-
mulation (Tomasello 2004).
There is no question that there are general computa-
tional constraints on how languages may be created,
acquired, and changed, and there are even implicational
universals such that if a language accomplishes function
X in this way, then it almost always accomplishes func-
tion Y in that way (Greenberg 1963). But the question is
whether we need an innate universal grammar to account
for these kinds of things. In recent research, many of
these constraints and implicational relations have been
accounted for in terms of the general way that people
process information (Hawkins 2004) or the way that they
The Grammatical Dimension 313
focus on things informationally in different constructions
(Goldberg 2006). In this view, then, universal computa-
tional constraints on all languages reflect general cogni-
tive, social, and vocal-auditory principles and constraints
inherent in human psychological functioning. Languages
have been created within the constraints of preexisting
human cognition and sociality, and if these are under-
stood well enough, on the current hypothesis, these con-
straints will supply what is needed. It is not that the
evolution of some kind of innate syntactic template such
as universal grammar is impossible, it is just that cur-
rently there is no evidence for it empirically, no precise
formulation of it theoretically, and no need for it at all—if
the nature of language is properly understood.
Our conclusion is thus that although many aspects of
human linguistic competence have indeed evolved bio-
logically, specific grammatical principles and construc-
tions have not. And universals in the grammatical
structure of different languages have come from more
general processes and constraints of human cognition,
communication, and vocal-auditory processing, operat-
ing during the conventionalization and transmission of
the particular grammatical constructions of particular
linguistic communities. The question of why human
groups each create their own linguistic conventions,
including grammatical conventions, that change so
incredibly rapidly over time is not so easy to answer. But
presumably it is a reflection of more general processes of
culture—humans are born to imitate and become like
314 Chapter 6
those around them—and language is just one manifesta-
tion of this. The most plausible explanation for this
general pattern is the need for groups of humans to dif-
ferentiate themselves from other groups, and indeed lan-
guage is a major barrier for outsiders becoming full
members of a cultural group later in life (a kind of cul-
tural isolating mechanism). And conversely, as argued
above, the use of language—including for sharing experi-
ences and attitudes about common experiences in narra-
tives—is a major way that cultural groups create their
own internal group identities. Many of the changes of
grammatical structure result from the inherent messiness
of children reconstructing abstract constructions from
individual instances of language use, given that every
child has a slightly different linguistic experience from
every other (Croft 2000).
6.4.4 Summary
There is a fundamental ambiguity in modern discourse
in the cognitive sciences about what we mean when we
use the terms grammar or syntax. Indeed, there is a whole
line of recent research in which human infants or nonhu-
man primates detect recurrent patterns in streams of syn-
thesized sounds and this is most often called “grammar
learning” (more cautious researchers use “statistical
learning”), even though the sounds have no meaning or
communicative significance whatsoever. That is not what
I mean here by grammar. Grammar presupposes inten-
The Grammatical Dimension 315
tional communication, at the very least, and then gram-
matical devices and constructions structure multiunit
utterances in functionally meaningful ways. Conven-
tional grammatical devices and constructions, just like
simple conventions such as words, are cultural-historical
products created by specific cultural groups for meeting
their communicative needs. Universals of language are
produced by commonalities in the social, cognitive, and
vocal-auditory raw materials that both enable and con-
strain the conventionalization process. In the spirit of
Bates (1979), there are universals of language because
people all over the world have similar communicative
jobs to get done and similar cognitive and social tools
with which to do them.
Therefore, the challenge in attempting to reconstruct
the evolution of human linguistic communication, as
built on top of human cooperative communication in
general, is that across modern human groups there are
both universals and diversity. This presumably reflects a
situation in which there was some modern human group,
somewhere in Africa, that went quite a long way toward
modern vocal languages—how far we do not know—but
then, as subgroups from this larger group began to spread
out all over the world, they conventionalized their
own linguistic conventions and constructions. All of these
groups retained the same basic cognitive, social-
cognitive, communicative, and vocal-auditory capacities,
of course, and so the conventionalization process was
constrained in similar ways for all of them as well.
316 Chapter 6
6.5 Conclusion
The answer to the question of where grammar comes
from is: many places. Apes already string together ges-
tures in sequences to communicate with others. “Linguis-
tic” apes even produce true combinations in which they
parse their intended message into multiple elements,
often event and participants. The cognitive machinery for
doing this, what we called simple syntax, thus has very
deep evolutionary roots. And as long as the communica-
tive motive involved is one of simple requesting—I want
you to do something here and now—there will be no
need for any more complex grammatical structuring of
utterances.
Once cooperative communication and the motive to
inform emerged—structured by common ground and
communicative intentions—the way humans communi-
cated became much more complex. The grammar of
informing requires additional devices for specifying
which particular events and participants are being talked
about (perhaps in complex yet coherent constituents
grounding them in the current joint attentional frame)
and marking the roles they are playing in the talked-
about event or situation. And when I need to narrate a
whole sequence of events—for example, to relate what
happened to me during yesterday’s hunt—a grammar of
sharing and narrative, involving even more grammatical
devices, is required for relating events to one another and
tracking the participants across those events. The evolu-
The Grammatical Dimension 317
tionary roots for the grammars of informing and sharing
in narrative derive from basic competencies of coopera-
tive communication and its complex shared intentional-
ity infrastructure. But the actual grammatical conventions
are, of course, not created by evolutionary processes
at all; they are created by cultural-historical (“invisible
hand”) processes that we have called the conventional-
ization of grammatical constructions.
The grammatical constructions of modern human lan-
guages are thus products of a long and complex series of
events in human history, involving both evolutionary
and cultural processes—taking place within the con-
straints of a panoply of general cognitive and social-cog-
nitive processes. Much of this happened in the gestural
modality, which explains why it is that sign languages
seem to spring into existence so easily today. The creation
and modification of grammatical constructions is possi-
ble, in the current account, only because humans engage
with one another communicatively as a joint activity with
a common goal, and the communicator leaves much
unsaid if it can be assumed to be in common ground and
so pragmatically inferred by the recipient—so that indi-
viduals outside this joint attentional cocoon quite often
analyze which parts of the utterance are serving which
functions in novel ways. Even at the very latest stages of
the process of language evolution, the fundamental skills
and motives of shared intentionality with which humans
began down the road of cooperative communication are
still at the heart of the process.
7 From Ape Gestures
to Human Language
Our talk gets its meaning from the rest of our activities.
—Wittgenstein, On Certainty
I promised it would be a complicated story, and so it is.
But highly distinctive and complex phenotypic outcomes,
such as human cooperative communication, almost
always have complicated and circuitous evolutionary
histories. And highly distinctive and complex cultural
outcomes, such as conventional human languages, almost
always have complicated and circuitous cultural histories
laid on top of this. I thus choose to blame all of this
complexity on reality—though it is of course possible
that we just do not understand everything well enough
to find the hidden simplicity. In any case, I make here a
final attempt at simplicity by first summarizing the
overall argument in a few pages, and by then revisiting
our three hypotheses from chapter 1 to see how they have
fared. I end with some thoughts on language as shared
intentionality.
320 Chapter 7
7.1 Summary of the Argument
A summary of the overall argument of these lectures
(organized, approximately, by chapter) might go some-
thing as follows.
The road to human cooperative communication begins with
great ape intentional communication, especially as manifest
in gestures.
• Apes learn many of their gestures (by ontogenetic ritu-
alization), and so they use them very flexibly, indeed
intentionally, including with attention to the attention
of specific others—which contrasts totally with their
unlearned, inflexible, emotional vocalizations indiscrimi-
nately broadcast to the world.
• Apes always use their learned, intentional gestures to
request/demand actions from others, including humans.
They use their intention-movements to demand action
directly. They use their attention-getters to demand action
indirectly, that is, they use them to direct the other’s
attention so that she will see something and then do
something as a result. Apes’ learned attention-getters
may be the only intentional communicative acts in the
nonhuman world that operate with this split-level inten-
tionality: that the other see something and so do some-
thing as a result.
• The comprehension and production of these gestures
are underlain by skills for understanding individual
From Ape Gestures to Human Language 321
intentionality—understanding that others have goals and
perceptions—and result in a kind of practical reasoning
(including inferences) about what others are doing and,
perhaps, why they are doing it. Communicators and
recipients each have their own distinct goals in the com-
municative process, with no jointly shared goals.
Human cooperative communication is more complex than
ape intentional communication because its underlying
social-cognitive infrastructure comprises not only skills
for understanding individual intentionality but also skills
and motivations for shared intentionality.
• The basic cognitive skill of shared intentionality
is recursive mindreading. When employed in certain
social interactions, it generates joint goals and joint atten-
tion, which provide the common conceptual ground
within which human communication most naturally
occurs.
• The basic motives for shared intentionality are helping
and sharing. When employed in communicative interac-
tions, these generate the three basic motives of human
cooperative communication: requesting (requesting
help), informing (offering help in the form of useful infor-
mation), and sharing emotions and attitudes (bonding
socially by expanding common ground).
• Mutual assumptions (and even norms) of cooperation
and the Gricean communicative intention are generated
as recursive mindreading is applied to the cooperative
322 Chapter 7
motives: we both know together that we are (and should
be, from the point of view of the social group) coopera-
tive. This leads human interactants to work together
toward the joint goal of successful communication, and
to engage in not just practical but cooperative reasoning,
and so make inferences of communicative relevance, in
the process.
• To communicate nonlinguistically, humans use the
pointing gesture to direct the visual attention of others,
and they use iconic gestures (pantomiming) to direct
the imagination of others. These two types of gesture
may be considered “natural” communication as they
exploit, respectively, the recipient’s natural tendency to
follow gaze direction, and the recipient’s natural ten-
dency to interpret the actions of others intentionally.
These simple gestures communicate in complex ways
because they are used in interpersonal situations in which
the participants share conceptual common ground as
interpretive nexus, as well as mutual assumptions of
cooperation.
• ”Arbitrary” communicative conventions, including lin-
guistic conventions, rely on the same cooperative infra-
structure as “natural” human gestures, and indeed they
derive originally from these natural gestures through a
“drift to the arbitrary” as neophytes acquire the instru-
mental use of iconic gestures whose iconicity they do not
fully grasp.
From Ape Gestures to Human Language 323
The ontogeny of human infants’ gestural communication,
especially pointing, provides evidence for the various
components of the hypothesized cooperative infrastructure
and a connection to shared intentionality—and before
language acquisition begins.
• Experiments on infants’ pointing demonstrate the criti-
cal role of the shared intentionality infrastructure: the
joint attentional frame and common ground; the three
basic motives of requesting, informing, and sharing; and,
less certainly, the communicative intention and coopera-
tive norms.
• Infants’ pointing emerges developmentally only
with their emerging skills of shared intentionality in
collaborative action—not before, even though many
other prerequisites are ready earlier—and this emergence
antedates any substantial skills with a conventional
language.
• Infants’ iconic gestures emerge on the heels of their
first pointing, requiring a communicative intention to
be effective (otherwise they are just empty actions);
they are quickly replaced by conventional language
(while pointing is not displaced by the emergence of
language) because both iconic gestures and linguistic
conventions represent symbolic ways of indicating
referents.
• The ontogenetic transition from gestures to conven-
tional forms of communication, including language, also
324 Chapter 7
relies crucially on the shared intentionality infrastruc-
ture—especially joint attention in collaborative activi-
ties—to create the common ground necessary for learning
“arbitrary” communicative conventions.
• The ontogenetic transition from gestures to language
demonstrates the common function of (i) pointing and
demonstratives (e.g., this and that); and (ii) iconic gestures
and content words (e.g., nouns and verbs).
Human cooperative communication emerged phylogentically
as part of a broader adaptation for collaborative activity and
cultural life in general.
• Humans’ skills and motives for shared intentionality
arose initially within the context of mutualistic collabora-
tive activities—with skills of recursive mindreading
leading to the formation of joint goals, which then gener-
ated joint attention to things relevant to those joint goals.
Great apes do not participate in collaborative activities of
this type, and so they do not have the human-like skills
and motives for shared intentionality.
• First pointing and then pantomiming arose as ways of
coordinating the collaborative activity more efficiently,
initially by requesting that the other do something—with
compliance assured because it helped both participants.
Initially, such cooperative communicative acts were used
only within the context of collaborative activities—and
so their intentional structure was cooperative all the way
From Ape Gestures to Human Language 325
down. The use of skills of cooperative communication
outside of collaborative activities (e.g., for lying), came
only later.
• Actually offering help by informing may have arisen
by processes of indirect reciprocity in which people
sought to gain reputations as good collaborators. This
created a public space of mutual expectations about how
cooperative communication should work.
• Sharing emotions and attitudes with others may have
arisen as ways of social bonding and expanding common
ground within the social group (tied to cultural group
selection)—with the actual norms that govern coopera-
tive communication originating from group sanctions for
not cooperating.
• Human skills of imitation enabled humans to create
and acquire from others iconic gestures used as holo-
phrases (requiring the communicative intention to even
get off the ground), which quite naturally experience a
“drift to the arbitrary” in the transmission process when
those sharing less common ground are involved—thus
creating communicative conventions.
• The eventual switch to totally arbitrary vocal conven-
tions was only possible because these conventions
were first used in conjunction with—actually piggy-
backed on—more naturally meaningful action-based
gestures.
326 Chapter 7
The grammatical dimension of human linguistic
communication consists in the conventionalization and
cultural transmission of linguistic constructions—based on
general cognitive skills, as well as skills of shared
intentionality and imitation—in order to meet the functional
demands of the three basic communicative motives, leading to
a grammar of requesting, a grammar of informing, and a
grammar of sharing and narrative.
• Apes use sequences of gestures, and “linguistic” apes
actually combine gestures toward a single communica-
tive end and parse experience into events and partici-
pants—and so these basic grammatical skills are “given”
as a starting point for the evolution of human grammati-
cal competence.
• When “linguistic” apes—and so perhaps very early
humans—produce multiunit utterances, they use them
almost always for requestive functions—which typically
involve only “me and you in the here and now,” and
which means that there is no functional pressure for any
serious syntactic marking. These apes and early humans
thus have only a grammar of requesting.
• With the emergence of the informing function and
referents displaced in time and space, there arises a
need for grammatical devices to (i) identify absent refer-
ents by grounding them in the current joint attentional
frame (perhaps using multiunit constituents), (ii) syntac-
tically mark the roles of participants, and (iii) distinguish
requestive from informative communicative motives.
From Ape Gestures to Human Language 327
These functional demands lead to a grammar of
informing.
• With the emergence of the sharing motive and utter-
ances intended to narrate complex series of events
displaced in time and space, there arises a need for gram-
matical devices to (i) time stamp and relate events to one
another, and (ii) track participants across events. These
functional demands lead to a grammar of sharing and
narrative.
• The particular grammatical constructions of particular
languages are created by a conventionalization process
(grammaticalization and other processes) in cultural-
historical time, depending crucially on joint goals for
communicating, common conceptual ground, and some
basic processes of cognition and information processing.
The group-level processes involved here also create the
normativity of constructions as “grammatical.”
7.2 Hypotheses and Problems
In chapter 1 I proposed three hypotheses about the origins
of human communication: (1) human cooperative com-
munication evolved initially in the gestural domain
(pointing and pantomiming); (2) this evolution was
potentiated by skills and motivations for shared inten-
tionality, themselves originally evolved in the context of
collaborative activities; and (3) it is only in the context
of inherently meaningful collaborative activities,
328 Chapter 7
coordinated by “natural” forms of communication such
as pointing and pantomiming, that totally arbitrary lin-
guistic conventions could have come into existence. We
are now in a position to see how these three hypotheses
have fared.
With regard to gestures, a number of theorists over
the centuries have proposed that humans’ first step on
the evolutionary road to language was gestures (e.g.,
Hewes 1973; Corballis 2002; Kendon 2004; Armstrong
and Wilcox 2007). These authors have offered a number
of evolutionary arguments for this thesis, having to do
mostly with various advantages of the visual-manual
modality. Also important are the facts that human infants
communicate meaningfully with gestures before lan-
guage and that deaf infants not exposed to sign language
soon begin to communicate in complex ways using
invented gestures. Also, human beings who share no
communicative conventions—everyone from strangers
in a strange land to the creators of Nicaraguan Sign Lan-
guage—find it relatively easy to begin communicating
using gestures. And given a few generations and the
appropriate social conditions, these may even end up
being conventionalized into something that is arguably
a full-blown human language. If humans were adapted
for a vocal language only, then these gestural inventions
are incredible, almost inexplicable, extensions of the core
capacity. If humans were adapted first for something like
gestural communication, and then the vocal modality
took over only later, then these gestural inventions are
much more readily explained.
From Ape Gestures to Human Language 329
I added to this two other arguments, one empirical
and one theoretical. The empirical argument is that all
four great ape species learn and use gestures in very
flexible ways—which contrasts markedly with their
unlearned, inflexible vocalizations. They also use their
gestures with sensitivity to the attentional state of specific
recipients, and even use some attention-getting gestures
which already differentiate two levels of intention—ref-
erential and social—clearly presaging all of the sophis-
ticated attention-directing that goes on in human
referential communication. One may then easily imagine
how these flexible gestures could have evolved into
human pointing and iconic gestures, which already
embodied, before vocal language, the most fundamental
characteristics of human cooperative communication. It
should be noted, however, that the vocalizations of great
apes have not been so well studied—the vast majority
of primate vocalization research is with monkeys—and
so this is clearly an area that needs more research atten-
tion in the future. The attention-getters of apes, perhaps
especially those that involve external objects (and includ-
ing pointing for humans), need further investigation as
well.
The theoretical argument is that it is very difficult to
see how humans could have gone directly from ape-like
vocalizations—associated basically with the communica-
tor’s emotions—to created, learned, and mutually known
communicative conventions, shared by all members of a
group. To dramatize the point, I used a somewhat gro-
tesque Gedankenexperiment of nonlinguistic children on a
330 Chapter 7
desert island who either could not vocalize or could not
gesture. The children who could not vocalize would
gesture up a storm and communicate quite nicely, but it
is difficult to imagine that the children who could not
gesture would create vocal conventions easily—since
vocalizations tend to draw attention to the self and the
self’s emotional state and not to external referents at all.
The proposal was thus that the path to human vocal
conventions had to pass through an intermediary stage
of more naturally meaningful, action-based gestures
based on humans’ natural tendencies to follow the gaze
direction of others and to interpret their actions as inten-
tional. Indeed, I even argued that vocal conventions came
to possess communicative significance originally only by
piggybacking on—being used redundantly with—natu-
rally meaningful gestures.
In terms of the second hypothesis—shared intentional-
ity as the basis for human cooperative communication—
there are two lines of empirical evidence and a few
theoretical arguments. The first line of empirical evidence
comes from comparing great apes and humans. Experi-
mental research, much of it reviewed in section 2.4,
demonstrates that great apes understand individual
intentionality. Some researchers believe that our assess-
ment here is too generous, and that apes and other
nonhuman animals have only simple behavioral rules
for predicting what others will do in certain situations
(Povinelli and Vonk 2006). Our response is that the
studies speak for themselves—providing converging
From Ape Gestures to Human Language 331
evidence using several different methods for all key
points (see Tomasello and Call, in press, for a more
systematic argument). And the analysis of apes’ gestural
communication here would seem to be consistent with
an understanding of individual intentionality as well.
However, in contrast to this strong evidence for under-
standing individual intentionality, there is no experimen-
tal evidence that great apes participate in shared
intentionality, as their synchronized activities in experi-
ments do not seem to have the structure of human col-
laboration, nor do they participate in joint attention in
human-like ways. In this case there are researchers who
believe that my assessment is too negative; for example,
Boesch (2005) believes that naturalistic observations of
chimpanzee hunting establish its collaborative nature.
But to demonstrate underlying cognitive processes, natu-
ralistic observations are not sufficient; we need experi-
ments. And the experiments that have been done—in
fairness, there are not so many—have demonstrated
apes’ ability to synchronize with others in problem-
solving situations, but not to form joint goals, joint plans,
and joint attention with them while doing so. Negative
results from experiments are always difficult to interpret,
of course, and so experimental research on great ape
collaboration is another area in dire need of greater sci-
entific attention.
Because they do not engage in truly collaborative activ-
ities in general, great apes’ communication, in the current
hypothesis, is basically individualistic as well—just as
332 Chapter 7
that of other mammals. Their intentional communication
is aimed exclusively at making demands/requests. There
are some observations of great apes communicating in
ways that do not seem like prototypical requests; for
example, the researchers who have trained “linguistic”
apes typically report some utterances used when the
ape apparently does not want anything. Experimental
research is needed here, however, because a viable alter-
native hypothesis is that the apes are simply exercising
their skill by “naming” something as they see it—without
any prosocial desire to inform others of things helpfully
or to declaratively share emotions or attitudes with them.
Another example is the several experiments showing that
when apes want food, and a human needs to find a
hidden tool in order to fetch it for them, the apes will
point to that tool’s hidden location (see section 2.3 for
references). One could say they are informing the human
here, but since apparently apes do not point in this way
when the human only wants something for herself
(research is ongoing)—and they certainly do not do any-
thing like this with conspecifics—one could also view
this as something more like “social tool use”: requesting
that the human fetch and use the tool for the ape. And
note that there is no evidence anywhere that apes employ
common ground or mutual expectations of helpfulness
or that they comprehend the Gricean communicative
intention, since they routinely fail to make simple rele-
vance inferences in experiments testing their comprehen-
From Ape Gestures to Human Language 333
sion of the human pointing gesture (see section 2.3). In
any case, our interpretation of these two sets of data, on
ape collaboration and communication, suggests to us that
great apes do not engage in either truly collaborative
activities or truly cooperative communication. Since
humans engage in both, and since from a theoretical
point of view these both involve cooperative skills and
motives, a reasonable hypothesis is that these two skills
share a common psychological infrastructure of shared
intentionality. This shared infrastructure suggests a
common evolutionary origin of the two skills.
The second line of evidence for the central role of
shared intentionality comes from human ontogeny.
Human infants have the physical ability to point and
gesture with their hands and bodies from fairly early in
development, and they would seem to have at least some
motives that cooperative communication could satisfy,
for example, getting others to do things by requesting
(and perhaps sharing emotions). But they do not engage
in cooperative communication until they are close to one
year of age, which just happens to be the same age that
they begin displaying skills of shared intentionality in
their collaborative activities with other persons. The tem-
poral synchrony is not so straightforward here because
a number of things all happen at around the first birth-
day, but this developmental coemergence is certainly
very suggestive. And from the first birthday, infants’
pointing and other gesturing already shows evidence of
334 Chapter 7
the use of common ground, cooperative motives, and,
perhaps, mutual assumptions of cooperativeness and
the Gricean communicative intention—though more
research is needed here for sure.
Again, as in the case of apes, we have critics coming
from both directions. Although not addressing these
issues specifically, there are some infancy researchers
who would very likely believe that infants actually engage
in something like cooperative communication much
earlier than is manifest in the pointing gesture at one year
of age (e.g., Trevarthen 1979). In contrast, there are other
theorists who think we are too generous in interpreting
one-year-olds’ pointing as manipulating the mental states
of others altruistically (e.g., Carpendale and Lewis 2004).
But as in the case of apes, these are mostly researchers
who are more focused on natural observations than on
experiments, and we believe that the current experimen-
tal research, as reviewed in chapter 4, supports our posi-
tion on the mentalistic and altruistic structure of early
communication. There are certainly no experimental
studies that argue against this conclusion.
The major theoretical arguments for shared intention-
ality as the basis for human cooperative communication
derive from the philosophical analyses of communication
provided by classic scholars such as Wittgenstein (1953),
Grice (1957, 1975), and Lewis (1969), and more contem-
porary scholars such as Sperber and Wilson (1986), Clark
(1996), Levinson (1995, 2006), and Searle (1969, 1995). I
certainly do not claim to have done anything theoreti-
From Ape Gestures to Human Language 335
cally that goes beyond their insights in significant ways,
but I have tried to put together something new from their
seminal ideas as applied to the communicative activities
of great apes, human children, and perhaps our human
forebears. What is clear in doing this is that the central
unifying concept is something like recursive mindread-
ing (as summarized in table 3.1, for example). Thus, we
see apes’ understanding of intentions and attention turn
into human joint intentions, joint attention, and commu-
nicative intentions; we see humans’ cooperative motives
for communicating turn into mutual assumptions and
even norms of cooperation; and we see humans’ “natural”
communicative gestures turn into human communicative
conventions. These transformations all result from some
kind of recursively structured mutual understanding
between two or more human beings who each know that
the other knows, and so forth, back and forth indefi-
nitely—at least in one way of looking at it.
The notion of mutual knowledge was first employed
in the context of communication by Lewis (1969) in his
analysis of coordinating conventions. Sperber and Wilson
(1986) do not like the connotations of mutual knowledge
(as implying certainty), and so prefer to speak of mutual
cognitive environments and mutual manifestness to
capture some of the same insights. Clark (1996) opts
for talk of common ground as a more neutral way of
describing the phenomenon, and Searle (1995) simply
speaks of collective or we-intentionality. There is much
debate about whether the notion of recursivity is needed
336 Chapter 7
in all of this or whether it is more reasonable to simply
characterize we-intentionality in all its various forms as
a psychological primitive without all of the backing-
and-forthing. My own view is that whether we treat
we-intentionality theoretically as a primitive or as some-
thing derived from a back-and-forth between individuals
depends on what we are trying to explain. In explaining
how contemporary humans operate in real time, it is
possible that no notion of recursivity is actually opera-
tive, but rather humans simply possess a primitive notion
of we-intentionality. Indeed, I think that this is exactly
what young infants do; they simply distinguish situa-
tions in which we are sharing attention to something
from those in which we are not. But as development
proceeds, the various individual perspectives embodied
in sharing are articulated out (presumably on the basis
of bumpy interactions in which things thought to be
shared turn out not to be), perhaps as hypothesized by
Barresi and Moore (1996). I earlier cited as evidence for
recursivity the fact that breakdowns can occur at various
levels in the back-and-forth—and humans diagnose these
differently and repair them in different ways as a result—
but the actual data for this hypothesis are not so numer-
ous. And when we turn to evolution, I think it would
be extremely implausible to posit that we-intentionality
arose full-blown as a one-shot innovation. Rather, it is
almost certainly the case that there was a point at which
individuals simply began to understand something like
From Ape Gestures to Human Language 337
“he sees me seeing it,” and then only later did the full
recursivity of this understanding become manifest.
Finally, with respect to the third hypothesis about the
origin of communicative conventions specifically, I have
suggested that totally arbitrary communicative conven-
tions, such as those in spoken language, could only have
arisen through the intermediary of more “natural,”
action-based gestures within collaborative interactions
structured by joint attention—taking advantage of
humans’ natural tendencies to follow the gaze direction
of others and to interpret actions intentionally. Perhaps
the best evidence for this proposal comes from early child
language. Even though young infants are perfectly
capable of associating sounds and experiences from
several months of age (and even imitating vocalizations),
they do not begin acquiring linguistic conventions until
they begin participating with others in collaborative
activities structured by joint attention at around the first
birthday. And indeed, infants’ participation in such activ-
ities correlates quantitatively very strongly with how
quickly they acquire their initial communicative conven-
tions (see Tomasello 2003 for a review). Also required for
conventional communication, of course, are strong skills
of action imitation—perhaps even role reversal imita-
tion—to ensure that the conventions are both passed
along across generations and mutually known to be
shared among all who participate in this cultural-
historical process.
338 Chapter 7
And in the child’s transition to grammar, the use of
pointing and other gestures seems to supply a critical
bridge, even though of course modern children are keen
to acquire both communicative and grammatical conven-
tions straightaway, simply to be like others, and so they
may acquire them without any support from natural ges-
tures if the joint attentional frame is strong enough. Deaf
children who create with their parents idiosyncratic com-
municative conventions in the form of home sign must
perforce start with natural gestures in joint attentional
interactions or else they would not be understood—with
any move to the arbitrary in such signing systems requir-
ing a community in which a mutually known shared
learning history may develop (as in Nicaraguan Sign
Language).
The origin of grammar in human evolution, in the
current hypothesis, was part of a single process in which
humans began to conventionalize means of communica-
tion. That is, it was a stepwise process in which emerging
new communicative motives for informing and sharing/
narrative placed new functional pressures on individuals
alreadyrequestingthingsfromoneanotherwith“natural”
gestures, and then holophrastic conventions. In response,
humans created conventional syntactic devices for struc-
turing multiunit utterances grammatically—and so
meeting the new communicative needs precipitated by
informing and sharing—and these became conventional-
ized into Gestalt-like linguistic constructions: prepack-
aged patterns of linguistic conventions and syntactic
From Ape Gestures to Human Language 339
devices for recurrent communicative functions. Impor-
tantly, the process by which linguistic constructions are
conventionalized (grammaticalized) depends crucially
on interactants who have a shared communicative goal
and are able to “negotiate” with one another the form
the utterance needs to take based ultimately on their
common conceptual ground. Thus, the grammatical
dimension of human cooperative communication very
likely originated in combinations of pointing and panto-
miming within collaborative activities, and it moved
outside this restricted context by means of a “drift to the
arbitrary” in the same manner as holophrastic linguistic
conventions. The passing along of grammatical construc-
tions across generations requires not just cultural learn-
ing and imitation, but also the ability to (re-)construct
patterns of language use from experienced acts of lin-
guistic communication.
Overall, then, the analysis presented here suggests
that, following Bates (1979), human language is best seen
as “a new machine made out of old parts.” And indeed,
though it is difficult to imagine this in the twenty-first
century, it could have ended up a different machine if
some of its parts had evolved differently initially—since
the parts are many and each has its own contingent evo-
lutionary history. Thus, in the current analysis, skills for
understanding individual intentionality gave an adap-
tive advantage to primate individuals originally in the
context of competition; skills of action imitation evolved
originally in humans’ tool use and making; joint
340 Chapter 7
intentions and joint attention evolved originally in the
context of human collaborative activity; the Gricean com-
municative intention emerged in the context of mutual
expectations of cooperation; human motives for inform-
ing others of things evolved originally in the context of
concernsaboutreputationforhelpfulness;humanmotives
for sharing emotions and attitudes with others evolved
originally in the context of group-level processes and
norms; human norms arose to maximize within-group
homogeneity in the context of cultural group selection;
human gestures have a deep history in great apes, but
new ones such as pointing and pantomiming arose in
human evolution based on primates’ natural tendency to
follow gaze direction and to interpret action intention-
ally; human communicative conventions arose in situa-
tions with joint goals based on human skills of role
reversal imitation and cooperative motives, and are trans-
mitted based on human skills of social imitation; human
vocal skills have a deep history in great apes, but also
have evolved unique features fairly recently presumably
tofacilitateconventionalcommunication(andso,perhaps,
to distinguish natal members of our group); human skills
of grammar have deep roots in the primate tendency to
parse experience into events and participants and to
combine acts toward a single goal; conventionalizing
grammatical constructions takes place above the level of
individuals and depends on human skills of shared inten-
tionality,imitation,andvocal-auditoryprocessing,among
others. And on and on.
From Ape Gestures to Human Language 341
The point is simply that if any of these parts had
been different in significant ways—for any of a zillion
evolutionary reasons—human languages could have
turned out very differently as well. Perhaps we could
have evolved only to request things from others using
natural gestures. Perhaps we could have evolved lin-
guistic conventions, but still only to request things—so
that we would have conventionalized only a simple
syntax. Or perhaps we could have created linguistic
conventions and constructions for informing others of
things helpfully but not to narrate events displaced in
time and space—so that we would have no fancy syntax
involving complex verb tenses and aspects or devices
for tracking referents across events. Even more arresting
is to try to imagine what human “language”—if we
would even want to call it that at all—would look like
if it had evolved not in the context of cooperation but
competition. In this case, there would be no joint atten-
tion and common ground and so acts of reference could
not be made in the human-like way, certainly not for
perspectives or absent referents. There would be no
communicative intention based on mutual assumptions
of cooperation, and so no reason to try hard to discover
why someone is trying to communicate with me—and
no norms of communication. There would be no con-
ventions, which can only arise when individuals have
common, cooperative understandings and interests. And
without the motives of informing and sharing, this hypo-
thetical competitive form of “language” could only be
342 Chapter 7
used for coercion and deception—and actually not even
that, as the communicators could not collaborate to get
the message across, owing to a lack of trust. So basi-
cally, there could in fact be no language as we know
it based on competition. And if the cooperation had
evolved differently—for example in the scenarios out-
lined above—the form of language would have been
different as well. Simply put, if human social life had
evolved in a different direction, our means of commu-
nication would have evolved in a different direction as
well. To imagine a language is to imagine a form of
life, says Wittgenstein.
7.3 Language as Shared Intentionality
If one were to ask a panel of scientists and laypersons
what accounts for the remarkably complexity of human
cognitive abilities, social institutions, and culture, the
most common response would almost certainly be “Lan-
guage.” But what is language? At least partly because
there is written language, which may be looked at and
examined, and reexamined, and then put on a shelf, we
intuitively think of language as some kind of object
(Olson 1994). But it is not an object—at least not in any
interesting sense—any more than a university or a gov-
ernment or a game of chess is an object in any interesting
sense. In the formulation of Searle (1995, p. 36):
In the case of social objects . . . process is prior to product.
Social objects are always . . . constituted by social acts; and, in
From Ape Gestures to Human Language 343
a sense, the object is just the continuous possibility of the
activity.
Linguistic acts are social acts that one person intention-
ally directs to another (and highlights that he is doing
this) in order to direct her attention and imagination in
particular ways so that she will do, know, or feel what
he wants her to. These acts work only if the participants
are both equipped with a psychological infrastructure of
skills and motivations of shared intentionality evolved
for facilitating interactions with others in collaborative
activities. Language, or better linguistic communication,
is thus not any kind of object, formal or otherwise; rather
it is a form of social action constituted by social conven-
tions for achieving social ends, premised on at least some
shared understandings and shared purposes among
users.
Like many cultural products, human languages may in
their turn contribute to further developments in the origi-
nating skills. This is true in at least two fundamental
ways. First, and most obviously, modern human collabo-
ration and culture are as complex as they are mainly
because they are typically organized and transmitted via
linguistic conventions. Human collaboration for building
skyscrapers and creating universities, for example, is
unimaginable without conventional forms of communi-
cation for setting the shared goals and subgoals and
formulating the coordinated plans to achieve them.
Human collaboration is the original home of human
cooperative communication, but then this new form of
344 Chapter 7
communication facilitates ever more complex forms of
collaboration in a coevolutionary spiral.
Second, and less obviously, participating in conven-
tional linguistic communication and other forms of shared
intentionality takes basic human cognition in some sur-
prising new directions. Although it is taken completely
for granted by cognitive scientists, human beings are the
only animal species that conceptualizes the world in
terms of different potential perspectives on one and the
same entity, thus creating so-called perspectival cognitive
representations (Tomasello 1999). The key point here is
that these unique forms of human conceptualization
depend crucially on shared intentionality—in the sense
that the whole notion of perspective presupposes some
jointly focused entity that we know we share but are
viewing from different angles (Perner, Brandl, and
Garnham 2003; Moll and Tomasello 2007b). Importantly,
perspectival cognitive representations are not a format of
human conceptualization given at birth, but are actually
constructed by children as they participate in the process
of cooperative communication—in the to-and-fro of
various kinds of discourse in which different perspec-
tives are expressed toward shared topics in the partici-
pants’ common conceptual ground (Tomasello and
Rakoczy 2003). The cooperative infrastructure of human
communication, including conventional linguistic com-
munication, thus not only arises from but also contributes
to humans’ uniquely cooperative, cultural ways of living
and thinking.
From Ape Gestures to Human Language 345
The origins of human cooperative communication are
thus many, and their culmination in skills of linguistic
communication represents one more instance—perhaps
the fundamental instance—of the coevolutionary process
by which basic cognitive skills evolve phylogenetically,
enabling the creation of cultural products historically,
which then provide developing children with the
biological and cultural tools they need to develop
ontogenetically.
References
Acredelo, L. P., and Goodwyn, S. W. (1988). Symbolic gesturing in
normal infants. Child Development, 59, 450–466.
Akhtar, N., Carpenter, M., and Tomasello, M. (1996). The role of dis-
course novelty in early word learning. Child Development, 67, 635–
645.
Akhtar, N., Jipson, J., and Callanan, M. (2001). Learning words through
overhearing. Child Development, 72, 416–430.
Armstrong, D., Stokoe, W., and Wilcox, S. (1995). Gesture and the Nature
of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Armstrong, D., and Wilcox, S. (2007). The Gestural Origin of Language.
New York: Oxford University Press.
Bakeman, R., and Adamson, L. (1984). Coordinating attention to people
and objects in mother-infant and peer-infant interactions. Child Devel-
opment, 55, 1278–1289.
Baldwin, D. (1991). Infants’ contributions to the achievement of joint
reference. Child Development, 62, 875–890.
Bard, K., and Vauclair, J. (1984). The communicative context of object
manipulation in ape and human adult-infant pairs. Journal of Human
Evolution, 13, 181–190.
Barresi, J., and Moore, C. (1996). Intentional relations and social under-
standing. Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 19(1), 107–129.
348 References
Bates, E. (1979). The Emergence of Symbols: Cognition and Communication
in Infancy. New York: Academic Press.
Bates, E., Camaioni, L., and Volterra, V. (1975). The acquisition of
performatives prior to speech. Merrill-Palmer Quarterly, 21, 205–
224.
Bateson, P. (1988). The biological evolution of cooperation and trust.
In Trust: Making and Breaking Cooperative Relations, ed. D. Gambetta
(pp. 14–30). Oxford: Blackwell.
Behne, T., Carpenter, M., Call, J., and Tomasello, M. (2005). Unwilling
versus unable? Infants’ understanding of intentional action. Develop-
mental Psychology, 41, 328–337.
Behne, T., Carpenter, M., and Tomasello, M. (2005). One-year-olds com-
prehend the communicative intentions behind gestures in a hiding
game. Developmental Science, 8, 492–499.
Bergstrom, C. T., and Lachmann, M. (2001). Alarm calls as costly signals
of anti-predator vigilance: The watchful babbler game. Animal Behavior
61(3), 535–543.
Bloom, P. (2000). How Children Learn the Meanings of Words. Cambridge,
Mass.: MIT Press.
Boesch, C. (2005). Joint cooperative hunting among wild chimpanzees:
Taking natural observations seriously. Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 28,
692–693.
Boesch, C., and Boesch, H. (1989). Hunting behavior of wild chimpan-
zees in the Tai Forest National Park. American Journal of Physical Anthro-
pology, 78(4), 547–573.
Boesch, C., and Boesch-Achermann, H. (2000). The Chimpanzees of the
Taï Forest: Behavioural Ecology and Evolution. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Boyd, R., and Richerson, P. (1985). Culture and the Evolutionary Process.
Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Braine, M. (1963). The ontogeny of English phrase structure. Language,
39, 1–14.
References 349
Bratman, M. (1992). Shared co-operative activity. Philosophical Review,
101(2), 327–341.
Bräuer, J., Call, J., and Tomasello, M. (2005). All four great ape species
follow gaze around barriers. Journal of Comparative Psychology, 119,
145–154.
Bräuer, J., Kaminski, J., Call, J., and Tomasello, M. (2006). Making infer-
ences about the location of hidden food: Social dog—Causal ape.
Journal of Comparative Psychology, 120, 38–47.
Bretherton, I., Bates, E., McNew, S., and Shore, C. (1981). Comprehen-
sion and production of symbols in infancy. Developmental Psychology,
17, 728–736.
Brinck, I. (2004). The pragmatics of imperative and declarative point-
ing. Cognitive Science Quarterly, 3(4), 1–18.
Brooks, P., Tomasello, M., Lewis, L., and Dodson, K. (1999). Children’s
overgeneralization of fixed transitivity verbs: The entrenchment
hypothesis. Child Development, 70, 1325–1337.
Brown, P., and Levinson, S. (1978). Universals in language usage:
Politeness phenomena. In Questions and Politeness, ed. E. Goody. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
Bruner, J. (1983). Child’s Talk. New York: Norton.
Bruner, J. (1986). Actual Minds, Possible Worlds. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press.
Bühler, K. (1934/1990). Theory of Language: The Representational Function
of Language. Trans. D. F. Goodwin. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Burling, R. (2005). The Talking Ape. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Buttelmann, D., Carpenter, M., Call, J., and Tomasello, M. (2007).
Enculturated apes imitate rationally. Developmental Science, 10, F31–
38.
Butterworth, G. (2003). Pointing is the royal road to language for
babies. In Pointing: Where Language, Culture, and Cognition Meet, ed. S.
Kita (pp. 9–33). Hillsdale, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum.
350 References
Bybee, J. (1995). Regular morphology and the lexicon. Language and
Cognitive Processes, 10, 425–455.
Bybee, J. (2002). Sequentiality as the basis of constituent structure. In
From Pre-language to Language, ed. T. Givón and B. Malle. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Call, J. (2004). Inferences about the location of food in the great apes
(Pan paniscus, Pan troglodytes, Gorilla gorilla, Pongo pygmaeus). Journal of
Comparative Psychology, 118, 232–241.
Call, J., Hare, B., Carpenter, M., and Tomasello, M. (2004). Unwilling
or unable? Chimpanzees’ understanding of intentional action. Devel-
opmental Science, 7, 488–498.
Call, J., and Tomasello, M. (1994). The production and comprehension
of referential pointing by orangutans. Journal of Comparative Psychology,
108, 307–317.
Call, J., and Tomasello, M. (1998). Distinguishing intentional from acci-
dental actions in orangutans (Pongo pygmaeus), chimpanzees (Pan trog-
lodytes), and human children (Homo sapiens). Journal of Comparative
Psychology, 112(2), 192–206.
Call, J., and Tomasello, M. (2005). What chimpanzees know about
seeing, revisited: An explanation of the third kind. In Joint Attention:
Communication and Other Minds, ed. N. Eilan, C. Hoerl, T. McCormack,
and J. Roessler (pp. 45–64). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Call, J., and Tomasello, M. (2007). The Gestural Communication of Apes
and Monkeys. Mahwah, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Camaioni, L. (1993). The development of intentional communication:
A re-analysis. In, New Perspectives in Early Communicative Development,
ed. J. Nadel and L. Camaioni (pp. 82–96). New York: Routledge.
Camaioni, L., Perucchini, P., Muratori, F., Parrini, B., and Cesari, A.
(2003). The communicative use of pointing in autism: Developmental
profiles and factors related to change. European Psychiatry, 18(1), 6–12.
Campbell, A. L., Brooks, P., and Tomasello, M. (2000). Factors affecting
young children’s use of pronouns as referring expressions. Journal of
Speech, Language, and Hearing Research, 43, 1337–1349.
References 351
Capirci, O., Iverson, J. M., Pizzuto, E., and Volterra, V. (1996). Gestures
and words during the transition to two-word speech. Journal of Child
Language, 23, 645–673.
Caron, A. J., Kiel, E. J., Dayton, M., and Butler, S. C. (2002). Comprehen-
sion of the referential intent of looking and pointing between 12 and
15 months. Journal of Cognition and Development, 3(4), 445–464.
Carpendale, J. E. M., and Lewis, C. (2004). Constructing an understand-
ing of mind: The development of children’s understanding of
mind within social interaction. Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 27, 79–
150.
Carpenter, M. (2006). Instrumental, social, and shared goals and
intentions in imitation. In Imitation and the Development of the Social
Mind: Lessons from Typical Development and Autism, ed. S. Rogers and
J. Williams. New York: Guilford.
Carpenter, M., Akhtar, N., and Tomasello, M. (1998). Fourteen- through
18-month-old infants differentially imitate intentional and accidental
actions. Infant Behavior and Development, 21, 315–330.
Carpenter, M., Nagell, K., and Tomasello, M. (1998). Social cognition,
joint attention, and communicative competence from 9 to 15 months
of age. Monographs of the Society of Research in Child Development,
63(4).
Carpenter, M., Pennington, B. F., and Rogers, S. J. (2001). Understand-
ing of others’ intentions in children with autism and children with
developmental delays. Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders,
31, 589–599.
Carpenter, M., Tomasello, M., and Savage-Rumbaugh, S. (1995). Joint
attention and imitative learning in children, chimpanzees, and encul-
turated chimpanzees. Social Development, 4(3), 217–237.
Carpenter, M., Tomasello, M., and Striano, T. (2005). Role reversal imi-
tation and language in typically-developing infants and children with
autism. Infancy, 8, 253–278.
Chafe, W. (1994). Discourse, Consciousness, and Time: The Flow and Dis-
placement of Conscious Experience in Speaking and Writing. Chicago: The
University of Chicago Press.
352 References
Chalmeau, R. (1994). Do chimpanzees cooperate in a learning task?
Primates, 35(3), 385–392.
Chalmeau, R., and Gallo, A. (1996). What chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes)
learn in a cooperative task. Primates, 37, 39–47.
Cheney, D. L., and Seyfarth, R. M. (1990a). How Monkeys See the World:
Inside the Mind of Another Species. Chicago: The University of Chicago
Press.
Cheney, D. L., and Seyfarth, R. M. (1990b). Attending to behaviour
versus attending to knowledge: Examining monkeys’ attribution of
mental states. Animal Behaviour, 40, 742–753.
Chomsky, N. (1965). Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. Cambridge, Mass.:
MIT Press.
Clark, A. P., and Wrangham, R. W. (1994). Chimpanzee arrival pant-
hoots: Do they signify food or status? International Journal of Primatol-
ogy, 15, 185–205.
Clark, H. (1996). Uses of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Clark, H., and Marshall, C. R. (1981). Definite reference and mutual
knowledge. In Elements of Discourse Understanding, ed. A. K. Joshi,
B. L. Webber, and I. A. Sag (pp. 10–63). Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Clark, H. H. (1992). Arenas of Language Use. Chicago: The University of
Chicago Press.
Corballis, M. C. (2002). From Hand to Mouth: The Origins of Language.
Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Crawford, M. P. (1937). The cooperative solving of problems by young
chimpanzees. Comparative Psychology Monographs, 14, 1–88.
Crawford, M. P. (1941). The cooperative solving by chimpanzees of
problems requiring serial responses to color cues. Journal of Social Psy-
chology, 13, 259–280.
Crockford, C., and Boesch, C. (2003). Context-specific calls in wild
chimpanzees, Pan troglodytes verus: Analysis of barks. Animal Behaviour,
66, 115–125.
References 353
Croft, W. (1991). Syntactic Categories and Grammatical Relations: The Cog-
nitive Organization of Information. Chicago: The University of Chicago
Press.
Croft, W. (1995). Intonation units and grammatical units. Linguistics,
33(5), 839–882.
Croft, W. (2000). Explaining Language Change: An Evolutionary Approach.
London: Longmans.
Croft, W. (2001). Radical Construction Grammar: Syntactic Theory in
Typological Perspective. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Croft, W. (2003). Typology and Universals, second ed. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Csibra, G. (2003). Teleological and referential understanding of action
in infancy. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, London B, 358,
447–458.
Csibra, G., Gergely, G., Bíró, S., Koós, O., and Brockbank, M. (1999).
Goal attribution without agency cues: The perception of “pure reason”
in infancy. Cognition, 72, 237–267.
Dahl, O. (2004). The Growth and Maintenance of Linguistic Complexity.
Studies in Language Companion Series. Amsterdam/Philadelphia:
John Benjamins.
Darwin, C. R. (1872). The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals.
London: Murray.
Dawkins, R., and Krebs, J. (1978). Animal signals: Information or
manipulation. In Behavioral Ecology: An Evolutionary Approach, ed. J.
Krebs and N. Davies (pp. 282–309). Oxford: Blackwell.
DeLoache, J. S. (2004). Becoming symbol-minded. Trends in Cognitive
Sciences, 8, 66–70.
de Saussure, F. (1916/1959). Course in General Linguistics. New York:
Philosophical Library.
Dessalles, J.-L. (2006). The Evolutionary Origins of Language. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
354 References
Deutscher, G. (2005). The Unfolding of Language. London: William
Heinemann.
de Waal, F. B. M. (1986). Deception in the natural communication of
chimpanzees. In Deception: Perspectives on Human and Nonhuman Deceit,
ed. R. W. Mitchell and N. S. Thompson (pp. 221–244). Albany: SUNY
Press.
de Waal, F. B. M., and Lutrell, L. M. (1988). Mechanisms of social reci-
procity in three primate species: Symmetrical relationship characteris-
tics or cognition? Ethology and Sociobiology, 9, 101–118.
Diessel, H. (2005). The Acquisition of Complex Sentences. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Diessel, H. (2006). Demonstratives, joint attention, and the emergence
of grammar. Cognitive Linguistics, 17, 463–489.
Diessel, H., and Tomasello, M. (2000). The development of relative
constructions in early child speech. Cognitive Linguistics, 11, 131–
152.
Diessel, H., and Tomasello, M. (2001). The acquisition of finite comple-
ment clauses in English: A usage based approach to the development
of grammatical constructions. Cognitive Linguistics, 12, 97–141.
Donald, M. (1991). Origins of the Modern Mind. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press.
Enard, W., Przeworski, W., Fisher, S., Lai, L., Wiebe, V., Kitano, T.,
Monaco, A., and Pääbo, S. (2002). Molecular evolution of FOXP2, a
gene involved in speech and language. Nature, 418, 869–872.
Fehr, E., and Fischbacher, U. (2003). The nature of human altruism.
Nature, 425, 785–791.
Fillmore, C. (1989). Grammatical construction theory and the familiar
dichotomies. In Language Processing in Social Context, ed. R. Dietrich
and C. F. Graumann. North Holland: Elsevier.
Folven, R., and Bonvillian, J. (1991). The transition from nonreferential
to referential language in children acquiring American Sign Language.
Developmental Psychology, 27, 806–816.
References 355
Gardner, R. A., and Gardner, B. T. (1969). Teaching sign language to a
chimpanzee. Science, 165, 664–672.
Gergely, G., Bekkering, H., and Király, I. (2002). Rational imitation in
preverbal infants. Nature, 415, 755.
Gergely, G., and Csibra, G. (2006). Sylvia’s recipe: The role of imitation
and pedagogy in the transmission of cultural knowledge. In Roots of
Human Sociality: Culture, Cognition, and Interaction, ed. N. J. Enfield and
S. C. Levinson (pp. 229–255). Oxford: Berg Press.
Gilbert, M. (1989). On Social Facts. International Library of Philosophy
series. Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Gilby, I. C. 2006. Meat sharing among the Gombe chimpanzees: Harass-
ment and reciprocal exchange. Animal Behaviour, 71(4), 953–963.
Gilby, I. C., Eberly, L. E., Pintea, L., and Pusey, A. E. (2006). Ecological
and social influences on the hunting behaviour of wild chimpanzees,
Pan troglodytes schweinfurthii. Animal Behaviour, 72(1), 169–180.
Givón, T. (1979). On Understanding Grammar. New York: Academic
Press.
Givón, T. (2001). Syntax, volume 2. Amsterdam : John Benjamins.
Goldberg, A. (1995). Constructions: A Construction Grammar Approach to
Argument Structure. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Goldberg, A. (2006). Constructions at Work. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Goldin-Meadow, S. (2003a). Hearing Gesture: How Our Hands Help Us
Think. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.
Goldin-Meadow, S. (2003b). The Resilience of Language: What Gesture
Creation in Deaf Children Can Tell Us about How All Children Learn Lan-
guage. New York: Psychology Press.
Goldin-Meadow, S., and Mylander, C. (1984). Gestural communication
in deaf children: The effects and non-effects of parental input on early
language development. Monographs of the Society for Research in Child
Development, 49, 1–151.
356 References
Golinkoff, R. M. (1986). “I beg your pardon?”: The preverbal negotia-
tion of failed messages. Journal of Child Language, 13, 455–476.
Gómez, J. C. (1990). The emergence of intentional communication as a
problem-solving strategy in the gorilla. In “Language” and Intelligence
in Monkeys and Apes, ed. S. T. Parker and K. R. Gibson (pp. 333–355).
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Gómez, J. C. (2004). Apes, Monkeys, Children, and the Growth of Mind.
Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.
Goodall, J. (1986). The Chimpanzees of Gombe. Patterns of Behavior. Cam-
bridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.
Gouzoules, H., Gouzoules, S., and Ashley, J. (1995). Representational
signalling in nonhuman primate vocal communication. In Current
topics in primate vocal communication, ed. E. Zimmermann, J. Newman,
and U. Jürgens (pp. 235–252). New York: Plenum Press.
Greenberg, J. (1963). Some universals of grammar with particular refer-
ence to the order of meaningful elements. In Universals of Language, ed.
J. Greenberg (pp. 73–113). Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Greenfield, P. M., and Savage-Rumbaugh, E. S. (1990). Grammatical
combination in Pan paniscus: Processes of learning and invention in the
evolution and development of language. In “Language” and Intelligence
in Monkeys and Apes, ed. S. T. Parker and K. R. Gibson (pp. 540–578).
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Greenfield, P. M., and Savage-Rumbaugh, E. S. (1991). Imitation,
grammatical development, and the invention of protogrammar by
an ape. In Biological and Behavioral Determinants of Language Develop-
ment, ed. N. A. Krasnegor, D. M. Rumbaugh, R. L. Schiefelbusch,
and M. Studdert-Kennedy (pp. 235–258). Hillsdale, N.J.: Lawrence
Erlbaum.
Greenfield, P. M., and Smith, I. H. (1976). The Structure of Communication
in Early Language Development. New York: Academic Press.
Grice, H. P. (1957). Meaning. Philosophical Review, 64, 377–388.
Grice, P. (1975). Logic and conversation. In Syntax and Semantics,
volume 3: Speech Acts, ed. P. Cole and J. Morgan (pp. 43–58). New York:
Academic Press.
References 357
Gundel, J., Hedberg, N., and Zacharski, R. (1993). Cognitive status
and the form of referring expressions in discourse. Language, 69, 274–
307.
Habermas, J. (1987). The Theory of Communicative Action. New York:
Beacon Press.
Haith, M., and Benson, J. (1997). Infant cognition. In Handbook of Child
Psychology, volume 2, ed. D. Kuhn and R. Siegler. New York: Wiley.
Hannan, T., and Fogel, A. (1987). A case study assessment of “pointing”
in the first three months of life. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 65,
187–194.
Hare, B., Brown, M., Williamson, C., and Tomasello, M. (2002). The
domestication of social cognition in dogs. Science, 298, 1634–1636.
Hare, B., Call, J., Agnetta, B., and Tomasello, M. (2000). Chimpanzees
know what conspecifics do and do not see. Animal Behaviour, 59,
771–785.
Hare, B., Call, J., and Tomasello, M. (1998). Communication of food
location between human and dog (Canis familiaris). Evolution of Com-
munication, 2, 137–159.
Hare, B., Call, J., and Tomasello, M. (2001). Do chimpanzees know what
conspecifics know? Animal Behaviour, 61(1), 139–151.
Hare, B., Call, J., and Tomasello, M. (2006). Chimpanzees deceive a
human by hiding. Cognition, 101, 495–514.
Hare, B., and Tomasello, M. (2004). Chimpanzees are more skillful in
competitive than in co-operative cognitive tasks. Animal Behaviour, 68,
571–581.
Hare, B., and Tomasello, M. (2005). Human-like social skills in dogs?
Trends in Cognitive Science, 9, 439–444.
Hauser, M. D., Chomsky, N., and Fitch, W. T. (2002). The faculty of
language: What is it, who has it, and how did it evolve? Science, 298,
1569–1579.
Hauser, M. D., and Wrangham, R. W. (1987). Manipulation of food calls
in captive chimpanzees: A preliminary report. Folia Primatologica, 48,
207–210.
358 References
Hawkins, J. (2004). Efficiency and Complexity in Grammars. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Heine, B., and Kuteva, T. (2002). On the evolution of grammatical
forms. In The Transition to Language, ed. A. Wray. Oxford: Oxford Uni-
versity Press.
Henrich, J., Boyd, R., Bowles, S., Gintis, H., Fehr, E., Camerer, C., McEl-
reath, R., Gurven, M., Hill, K., Barr, A., Ensminger, J., Tracer, D.,
Marlow, F., Patton, J., Alvard, M., Gil-White, F., and Henrich, N. (2005).
“Economic Man” in cross-cultural perspective: Ethnography and
experiments from 15 small-scale societies. Behavioral and Brain Sciences,
28, 795–855.
Herman, L. (2005). Intelligence and rational behavior in the bottle-
nosed dolphin. In Rational Animals?, ed. S. Hurley and M. Nudds.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Herrmann, E., and Tomasello, M. (2006). Apes’ and children’s under-
standing of cooperative and competitive motives in a communicative
situation. Developmental Science, 9(5), 518–529.
Hewes, G. W. (1973). Primate communication and the gestural origins
of language. Current Anthropology, 14, 9–10.
Hill, K., and Hurtado, A. M. (1996). Ache Life History: The Ecology and
Demography of a Foraging People. Glenside, Penn.: Aldine Press.
Hirata, S., and Fuwa, K. (2006). Chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) learn to
act with other individuals in a cooperative task. Primates, 48(1), 13–
21.
Iverson, J., Capirci, O., and Caselli, M. C. (1994). From communication
to language in two modalities. Cognitive Development, 9, 23–43.
Iverson, J., and Goldin-Meadow, S. (2005). Gesture paves the way for
language development. Psychological Science, 16, 367–373.
Jensen, K., Hare, B., Call, J., and Tomasello, M. (2006). Chimpanzees
are self-regarding maximizers in a food acquisition task. Proceedings of
the Royal Society, 273, 1013–1021.
Kagan, J. (1981). The Second Year: The Emergence of Self-Awareness. Cam-
bridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.
References 359
Kaminski, J., Call, J., and Tomasello, M. (2004). Body orientation and
face orientation: Two factors controlling apes’ begging behavior from
humans. Animal Cognition, 7, 216–223.
Kegl, J., Senghas, A., and Coppola, M. (1999). Creation through contact:
Sign language emergence and sign language change in Nicaragua. In
Language Creation and Language Change: Creolization, Diachrony, and
Development, ed. M. DeGraff (pp. 179–237). Cambridge, Mass.: MIT
Press.
Keller, R. (1994). On Language Change: The Invisible Hand in Language.
New York: Routledge.
Kendon, A. (2004). Gesture: Visible Action as Utterance. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Kita, S. (ed.) (2003). Pointing: Where Language, Culture, and Cognition
Meet. Mahwah, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Kobayashi, H., and Kohshima, S. (2001). Unique morphology of the
human eye and its adaptive meaning: Comparative studies on external
morphology of the primate eye. Journal of Human Evolution, 40,
419–435.
Kuhlmeier, V., Wynn, K., and Bloom, P. (2003). Attribution of disposi-
tional states by 12-month-olds. Psychological Science, 14(5), 402–
408.
Lambrecht, K. (1994). Information Structure and Sentence Form. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
Langacker, R. (1987). Foundations of Cognitive Grammar, volume 1.
Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press.
Langacker, R. (1991). Foundations of Cognitive Grammar, volume 2.
Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press.
Leavens, D. A., and Hopkins, W. D. (1998). Intentional communication
by chimpanzees: A cross-sectional study of the use of referential ges-
tures. Developmental Psychology, 34, 813–822.
Leavens, D. A., Hopkins, W. D., and Bard, K. A. (2005). Understanding
the point of chimpanzee pointing: Epigenesis and ecological validity.
Current Directions in Psychological Science, 14, 185–189.
360 References
Lederberg, A., and Everhart, V. (1998). Communication between deaf
children and their hearing mothers: The role of language, gesture, and
vocalization. Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research, 41, 887–
899.
Leslie, A. (1987) Pretense and representation: The origins of “theory of
mind.” Psychological Review, 94, 412–426.
Levinson, S. (2006). On the human interactional engine. In Roots of
Human Sociality, ed. N. Enfield and S. Levinson (pp. 39–69). New York:
Berg Publishers.
Levinson, S. C. (1995). Interactional biases in human thinking. In Social
Intelligence and Interaction, ed. E. Goody (pp. 221–260). Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Lewis, D. (1969). Convention. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University
Press.
Liddell, S. K. (2003). Grammar, Gesture, and Meaning in American Sign
Language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Liebal, K., Behne, T., Carpenter, M., and Tomasello, M. (in press).
Infants use shared experience to interpret a pointing gesture. Develop-
mental Science.
Liebal, K., Call, J., and Tomasello, M. (2004). The use of gesture
sequences by chimpanzees. American Journal of Primatology, 64, 377–396.
Liebal, K., Columbi, C., Rogers, S., Warneken, F., and Tomasello, M.
(2008). Cooperative activities in children with autism. Journal of Autism
and Developmental Disorders, 38, 224–238.
Liebal, K., Pika, S., Call, J., and Tomasello, M. (2004). To move or not
to move: How apes adjust to the attentional state of others. Interaction
Studies, 5, 199–219.
Liebal, K., Pika, S., and Tomasello, M. (2006). Gestural communication
in orangutans. Gesture, 6, 1–38.
Liszkowski, U. (2005). Human twelve-month-olds point co-operatively
to share interest with and provide information for a communicative
partner. Gesture, 5, 135–154.
References 361
Lizskowski, U., Albrecht, K., Carpenter, M., and Tomasello, M. (in
press). Infants’ visual and auditory communication when a partner is
or is not visually attending. Infant Behavior and Development.
Liszkowski, U., Carpenter, M., Henning, A., Striano, T., and Tomasello,
M. (2004). 12-month-olds point to share attention and interest. Devel-
opmental Science, 7, 297–307.
Liszkowski, U., Carpenter, M., Striano, T., and Tomasello, M. (2006).
12- and 18-month-olds point to provide information for others. Journal
of Cognition and Development, 7, 173–187.
Liszkowski, U., Carpenter, M., and Tomasello, M. (2007a). Refer-
ence and attitude in infant pointing. Journal of Child Language, 34, 1–
20.
Liszkowski, U., Carpenter, M., and Tomasello, M. (2007b). Pointing out
new news, old news, and absent referents at 12 months of age. Devel-
opmental Science, 10, F1–F7.
Maestripieri, D. (1998). Primate social organization, vocabulary size,
and communication dynamics: A comparative study of macaques. In
The Evolution of Language: Assessing the Evidence from Nonhuman Pri-
mates, ed. B. King. Santa Fe: School of American Research.
Matthews, D., Lieven, E. V., Theakston, A. L., and Tomasello, M. (2006).
The effect of perceptual availability and prior discourse on young
children’s use or referring expressions. Applied Psycholinguistics, 27,
403–422.
Matthews, D., Lieven, E., and Tomasello, M. (2007). How toddlers and
preschoolers learn to uniquely identify referents for others: A training
study. Child Development, 34, 381–409.
Maynard Smith, J., and Harper, D. (2003). Animal Signals. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
McNeill, D. (1992). Hand and Mind: What Gestures Reveal about Thought.
Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
McNeill, D. (2005). Gesture and Thought. Chicago: The University of
Chicago Press.
362 References
McWhorter, J. (2005). Defining Creole. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Melis, A., Call, J., and Tomasello, M. (2006). Chimpanzees conceal
visual and auditory information from others. Journal of Comparative
Psychology, 120, 154–162.
Melis, A., Hare, B., and Tomasello, M. (2006a). Engineering cooperation
in chimpanzees: Tolerance constraints on cooperation. Animal Behav-
iour, 72, 275–286.
Melis, A., Hare, B., and Tomasello, M. (2006b). Chimpanzees recruit the
best collaborators. Science, 31, 1297–1300.
Meltzoff, A. (1995). Understanding the intentions of others: Re-enact-
ment of intended acts by 18-month-old children. Developmental Psychol-
ogy, 31, 1–16.
Menzel, C. (1999). Unprompted recall and reporting of hidden objects
by a chimpanzee after extended delays. Journal of Comparative Psychol-
ogy, 113, 426–434.
Millikan, R. G. (2005). Language: A Biological Model. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Mitani, J. C., and Nishida, T. (1993). Contexts and social correlates of
long-distance calling by male chimpanzees. Animal Behaviour, 45, 735–
746.
Moll, H., Koring, C., Carpenter, M., and Tomasello, M. (2006). Infants
determine others’ focus of attention by pragmatics and exclusion.
Journal of Cognition and Development, 7, 411–430.
Moll, H., Richter, N., Carpenter, M., and Tomasello, M. (2008). 14-
month-olds know what “we” have shared in a special way. Infancy, 13,
90–101.
Moll, H., and Tomasello, M. (2004). 12- and 18-month-olds follow gaze
to hidden locations. Developmental Science, 7, F1–F9.
Moll, H., and Tomasello, M. (2007a). How 14- and 18- month-olds
know what others have experienced. Developmental Psychology, 43,
309–317.
References 363
Moll, H., and Tomasello, M. (2007b). Co-operation and human cogni-
tion: The Vygotskian intelligence hypothesis. Philosophical Transactions
of the Royal Society, 362, 639–648.
Moore, C. (1996). Theories of mind in infancy. British Journal of Devel-
opmental Psychology, 14, 19–40.
Moore, C., and Corkum, V. (1994). Social understanding at the end of
the first year of life. Developmental Review, 14, 349–372.
Moore, C., and D’Entremont, B. (2001). Developmental changes in
pointing as a function of parent’s attentional focus. Journal of Cognition
and Development, 2, 109–129.
Mundy, P., and Burnette, C. (2005). Joint attention and neurodevelop-
ment. In Handbook of Autism and Pervasive Developmental Disorders,
volume 3, ed. F. Volkmar, A. Klin, and R. Paul (pp. 650–681). Hoboken,
N.J.: John Wiley.
Mundy, P., and Sigman, M. (2006). Joint attention, social competence,
and developmental psychopathology. In Developmental Psychopathol-
ogy, volume 1: Theory and Methods, second ed., ed. D. Cicchetti and D.
Cohen. Hoboken, N.J.: John Wiley.
Namy, L. L., Acredolo, L., and Goodwyn, S. (2000). Verbal labels and
gestural routines in parental communication with young children.
Journal of Nonverbal Behavior, 24, 63–79.
Namy, L. L., Campbell, A., and Tomasello, M. (2004). Developmental
change in the role of iconicity in symbol learning. Journal of Cognition
and Development, 5, 37–56.
Namy, L. L., and Waxman, S. R. (1998). Words and gestures: Infants’
interpretations of different forms of symbolic reference. Child Develop-
ment, 69, 295–308.
Namy, L. L., and Waxman, S. R. (2000). Naming and exclaiming:
Infants’ sensitivity to naming contexts. Journal of Cognition and Develop-
ment, 1, 405–428.
Nelson, K. (1985). Making Sense: The Acquisition of Shared Meaning. New
York: Academic Press.
364 References
Nelson, K. (1996). Language in Cognitive Development. New York: Cam-
bridge University Press.
Nowak, M. A., and Sigmund, K. (1998) Evolution of indirect reciprocity
by image scoring. Nature, 393, 573–577.
Okamoto-Barth, S., Call, J., and Tomasello, M. (2007). Great apes’
understanding of others’ line of sight. Psychological Science, 18, 462–468.
Olson, D. (1994). The World on Paper: The Conceptual and Cognitive Impli-
cations of Writing and Reading. New York: Cambridge University
Press.
O’Neill, D. K. (1996). Two-year-old children’s sensitivity to a parent’s
knowledge state when making requests. Child Development, 67, 659–
677.
Onishi, K. H., and Baillargeon, R. (2005). Do 15-month-old infants
understand false beliefs? Science, 308, 255–258.
Orlansky, M., and Bonvillian, J. D. (1984). The role of iconicity in early
sign language acquisition. Journal of Speech and Hearing Disorders, 49,
287–292.
Owings, D. H., and Morton, E. S. (1998). Animal Vocal Communication:
A New Approach. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Owren, M. J., and Rendell, D. (2001). Sound on the rebound: Bringing
form and function back to the forefront in understanding nonhuman
primate vocal signaling. Evolutionary Anthropology, 10, 58–71.
Ozcaliskan, S., and Goldin-Meadow, S. (2005). Gesture is at the cutting
edge of language development. Cognition, 96, B101–113.
Padden, C. A. (1983). Interaction of morphology and syntax in Ameri-
can Sign Language. Doctoral dissertation. University of California, San
Diego.
Panchanathan, S., and Boyd, R. (2003). A tale of two defectors: The
importance of standing for the evolution of indirect reciprocity. Journal
of Theoretical Biology, 224, 115–126.
Pepperberg, I. M. (2000). The Alex Studies: Cognitive and Communicative
Abilities of Grey Parrots. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.
References 365
Perner, J., Brandl, J., and Garnham, A. (2003). What is a perspective
problem? Developmental issues in understanding belief and dual iden-
tity. Facta Philosophica, 5, 355–378.
Pinker, S. (1999). Words and Rules. New York: Morrow Press.
Pollick, A., and de Waal, F. (2007). Ape gestures and language
evolution. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 104, 8184–
9189.
Povinelli, D. J., and Davis, D. R. (1994). Differences between chimpan-
zees (Pan troglodytes) and humans (Homo sapiens) in the resting state of
the index finger: Implications for pointing. Journal of Comparative Psy-
chology, 108, 134–139.
Povinelli, D. J., and Eddy, T. J. (1996). What young chimpanzees know
about seeing. Monographs of the Society for Research in Child Development,
61(3).
Povinelli, D. J., and O’Neill, D. (2000). Do chimpanzees use their ges-
tures to instruct each other? In Understanding Other Minds: Perspectives
from Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience, second ed., ed. S. Baron-
Cohen, H. Tager-Flusberg, and D. Cohen. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Povinelli, D. J., and Vonk, J. (2006). We don’t need a microscope to
explore the chimpanzee’s mind. In Rational Animals, ed. S. Hurley
(pp. 385–412). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Quine, W. V. (1960). Word and oObject. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Ratner, N., and Bruner, J. (1978). Games, social exchange, and the
acquisition of language. Journal of Child Language, 5, 391–401.
Richerson, P., and Boyd, R. (2005). Not by Genes Alone. Chicago: The
University of Chicago Press.
Rivas, E. (2005). Recent use of signs by chimpanzees (Pan Troglodytes)
in interactions with humans. Journal of Comparative Psychology, 119(4),
404–417.
Rochat, P. (2001). The Infant’s World. The Developing Child series. Cam-
bridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.
366 References
Ross, H. S., and Lollis, S. P. (1987). Communication within infant social
games. Developmental Psychology, 23(2), 241–248.
Sandler, W., Meir, I., Padden, C., and Aronoff, M. (2005). The emer-
gence of grammar: Systematic structure in a new language. Proceedings
of the National Academy of Science, 102(7), 2661–2665.
Savage-Rumbaugh, S., McDonald, K., Sevcik, R., Hopkins, W., and
Rupert, E. (1986). Spontaneous symbol acquisition and communicative
use by pygmy chimpanzee (Pan paniscus). Journal of Experimental Psy-
chology, 115, 211–235.
Savage-Rumbaugh, S., Murphy, J., Sevcik, R., Brakke, K., Williams, S.,
and Rumbaugh, D. (1993). Language comprehension in ape and child.
Monographs of the Society for Research in Child Development, 58(3–4).
Savage-Rumbaugh, E. S., Rumbaugh, D. M., and Boysen, S. (1978).
Linguistically mediated tool use and exchange by chimpanzees (Pan
troglodytes). Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 4, 539–554.
Saylor, M. (2004). 12- and 16-month-old infants recognize properties of
mentioned absent things. Developmental Science, 7, 599–611.
Schachter, S. (1959). The Psychology of Affiliation. Stanford, Calif.:
Stanford University Press.
Schelling, T. C. (1960). The Strategy of Conflict. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press.
Schick, B. (2005). Advances in the Sign Language Development of Deaf
Children. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Schwier, C., van Maanen, C., Carpenter, M., and Tomasello, M. (2006).
Rational imitation in 12-month-old infants. Infancy, 10, 303–311.
Searle, J. R. (1969). Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Searle, J. R. (1983). Intentionality. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Searle, J. R. (1990). Collective intentions and actions. In Intentions in
Communication, ed. P. Cohen, J. Morgan, and M. Pollack. Cambridge,
Mass.: MIT Press.
References 367
Searle, J. R. (1995). The Construction of Social Reality. New York: Free
Press.
Searle, J. R. (1999). Mind, Language, and Society: Philosophy in the Real
World. New York: Basic Books.
Senghas, A. (2003). Intergenerational influence and ontogenetic devel-
opment in the emergence of spatial grammar in Nicaraguan Sign Lan-
guage. Cognitive Development, 18, 511–531.
Senghas, A., and Coppola, M. (2001). Children creating language: How
Nicaraguan Sign Language acquired a spatial grammar. Psychological
Science, 12(4), 323–328.
Senghas, A., Kita, S., and Özyürek, A. (2004). Children creating core
properties of language: Evidence from an emerging sign language in
Nicaragua. Science, 305, 5691, 1779–1782.
Seyfarth, R. M., and Cheney, D. L. (2003). Signalers and receivers in
animal communication. Annual Review of Psychology 54, 145–173.
Shatz, M., and O’Reilly, A. (1990). Conversation or communicative
skill? A re-assessment of two-year-olds’ behavior in miscommunica-
tion episodes. Journal of Child Language, 17, 131–146.
Shwe, H. I., and Markman, E. M. (1997). Young children’s appreciation
of the mental impact of their communicative signals. Developmental
Psychology, 33(4), 630–636.
Silk, J. B., Brosnan, S. F., Vonk, J., Henrich, J., Povinelli, D. J., Richard-
son, A. S., Lambeth, S. P., Mascaro, J. and Schapiro, S. J. (2005). Chim-
panzees are indifferent to the welfare of unrelated group members.
Nature 437, 1357–1359.
Spencer, P. (1993). Communication behaviors of infants with hearing
loss and their hearing mothers. Journal of Speech and Hearing Research,
36, 311–321.
Sperber, D. (1994). Understanding verbal understanding. In What Is
Intelligence?, ed. J. Khalfa (pp. 179–198). Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
Sperber, D., and Wilson, D. (1986). Relevance: Communication and Cogni-
tion. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.
368 References
Stanford, C. B. (1998). Chimpanzee and Red Colobus: The Ecology of Preda-
tor and Prey. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.
Stern, D. N. (1985). The Interpersonal World of the Infant: A View from
Psychoanalysis and Developmental Psychology. New York: Basic Books.
Sugiyama, Y. (1981). Observations on the population dynamics and
behavior of wild chimpanzees at Bossou, Guinea, 1979–1980. Primates,
22, 432–444.
Tanner, J. E., and Byrne, R. W. (1993). Concealing facial evidence of
mood: Perspective-taking in a captive gorilla? Primates, 34, 451–457.
Tanner, J. E., and Byrne, R. W. (1996). Representation of action through
iconic gesture in a captive lowland gorilla. Current Anthropology, 37,
162–173.
Tinbergen, N. (1951). The Study of Instinct. New York: Oxford Univer-
sity Press.
Tomasello, M. (1988). The role of joint attentional process in early lan-
guage development. Language Sciences, 10, 69–88.
Tomasello, M. (1992a). First Verbs: A Case Study of Early Grammatical
Development. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Tomasello, M. (1992b). The social bases of language acquisition. Social
Development, 1(1), 67–87.
Tomasello, M. (1995). Joint attention as social cognition. In Joint Atten-
tion: Its Origin and Role in Development, ed. C. Moore and P. J. Dunham
(pp. 103–130). Hillsdale, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Tomasello, M. (1996). Do apes ape? In Social Learning in Animals: The
Roots of Culture, ed. C. M. Heyes and B. G. Galef (pp. 319–346). San
Diego: Academic Press.
Tomasello, M. (1998). Reference: Intending that others jointly attend.
Pragmatics and Cognition, 6, 229–244.
Tomasello, M. (1999). The Cultural Origins of Human Cognition. Cam-
bridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.
Tomasello, M. (2001). Perceiving intentions and learning words in the
second year of life. In Language Acquisition and Conceptual Development,
References 369
ed. M. Bowerman and S. Levinson (pp. 132–158). Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Tomasello, M. (2003). Constructing a Language: A Usage-Based Theory of
Language Acquisition. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.
Tomasello, M. (2004). What kind of evidence could refute the UG
hypothesis? Studies in Language, 28, 642–644.
Tomasello, M., and Call, J. (1997). Primate Cognition. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Tomasello, M., and Call, J. (2006). Do chimpanzees know what others
see—or only what they are looking at? In Rational Animals?, ed. M.
Nudds and S. Huley. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Tomasello, M., and Call, J. (in press). Chimpanzee social cognition. In
Chimpanzee Minds, ed. E. Londsdorf and S. Ross. Chicago: The Univer-
sity of Chicago Press.
Tomasello, M., Call, J., and Gluckman, A. (1997). The comprehension
of novel communicative signs by apes and human children. Child
Development, 68, 1067–1081.
Tomasello, M., Call, J., Nagell, K., Olguin, R., and Carpenter, M. (1994).
The learning and use of gestural signals by young chimpanzees: A
trans-generational study. Primates, 37, 137–154.
Tomasello, M., Call, J., Warren, J., Frost, T., Carpenter, M., and Nagell,
K. (1997). The ontogeny of chimpanzee gestural signals: A comparision
across groups and generations. Evolution of Communication, 1, 223–253.
Tomasello, M., and Carpenter, M. (2005). The emergence of social cog-
nition in three young chimpanzees. Monographs of the Society for Research
in Child Development, 70(279).
Tomasello, M., Carpenter, M., Call, J., Behne, T., and Moll, H. (2005).
Understanding and sharing intentions: The origins of cultural cogni-
tion. Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 28, 675–735.
Tomasello, M., Carpenter, M., and Lizskowski, U. (2007). A new look
at infant pointing. Child Development, 78, 705–722.
Tomasello, M., and Farrar, J. (1986). Object permanence and relational
words: A lexical training study. Journal of Child Language, 13, 495–506.
370 References
Tomasello, M., George, B., Kruger, A., Farrar, J., and Evans, A. (1985).
The development of gestural communication in young chimpanzees.
Journal of Human Evolution, l4, 175–186.
Tomasello, M., Gust, D., and Frost, T. (1989). A longitudinal investiga-
tion of gestural communication in young chimpanzees. Primates, 30,
35–50.
Tomasello, M., and Haberl, K. (2003). Understanding attention: 12- and
18-month-olds know what is new for other persons. Developmental
Psychology, 39(5), 906–912.
Tomasello, M., Hare, B., and Agnetta, B. (1999). Chimpanzees, Pan
troglodytes, follow gaze direction geometrically. Animal Behaviour, 58(4),
769–777.
Tomasello, M., Hare, B., Lehmann, H., and Call, J. (2007). Reliance on
head versus eyes in the gaze following of great apes and human
infants: The cooperative eye hypothesis. Journal of Human Evolution, 52,
314–320.
Tomasello, M., Kruger, A., and Ratner, H. (1993). Cultural learning.
Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 16, 495–552.
Tomasello, M., and Rakoczy, H. (2003). What makes human cognition
unique? From individual to shared to collective intentionality. Mind
and Language, 18(2), 121–147.
Tomasello, M., Striano, T., and Rochat, P. (1999). Do young children use
objects as symbols? British Journal of Developmental Psychology, 17,
563–584.
Tomasello, M., Strosberg, R., and Akhtar, N. (1996). Eighteen-month-
old children learn words in non-ostensive contexts. Journal of Child
Language, 23, 157–176.
Tomasello, M., and Zuberbüler, K. (2002). Primate vocal and gestural
communication. In The Cognitive Animal: Empirical and Theoretical Per-
spectives on Animal Cognition, ed. M. Bekoff, C. Allen, and G. Burghardt.
Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Tomonaga, M., Myowa-Yamakoshi, M., Mizuno, Y., Yamaguchi, M.,
Kosugi, D., Bard, K., Tanaka, M., and Matsuzawa, T. (2004) Develop-
References 371
ment of social cognition in infant chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes): Face
recognition, smiling, gaze and the lack of triadic interactions. Japanese
Psychological Research, 46, 227–235.
Trevarthen, C. (1979). Instincts for human understanding and for cul-
tural cooperation: Their development in infancy. In Human Ethology:
Claims and Limits of a New Discipline, ed. M. von Cranach, K. Foppa, W.
Lepenies, and D. Ploog (pp. 530–571). Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
Uzgiris, I. C. (1981). Two functions of imitation during infancy. Inter-
national Journal of Behavioral Developmental, 4, 1–12.
Vygotsky, L. (1978). Mind in Society: The Development of Higher Psycho-
logical Processes. Ed. M. Cole. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University
Press.
Warneken, F., Chen, F., and Tomasello, M. (2006). Cooperative activities
in young children and chimpanzees. Child Development, 77, 640–
663.
Warneken, F., Hare, B., Melis, A., Hanus, D., and Tomasello, M. (2007).
Roots of human altruism in chimpanzees. PLOS: Biology, 5(7): e184.
Warneken, F., and Tomasello, M. (2006). Altruistic helping in human
infants and young chimpanzees. Science, 31, 1301–1303.
Warneken, F., and Tomasello, M. (2007). Helping and co-operation at
14 months of age. Infancy, 11, 271–294.
Watts, D., and Mitani, J. C. 2002. Hunting behavior of chimpanzees at
Ngogo, Kibale National Park, Uganda. International Journal of Primatol-
ogy, 23, 1–28.
Whiten, A., Horner, V., Litchfield, C., and Marshall-Pescini, S. (2004).
How do apes ape? Learning and Behaviour, 32, 36–52.
Wittek, A., and Tomasello, M. (2005). German-speaking children’s pro-
ductivity with syntactic constructions and case morphology: Local
cues help locally. First Language, 25, 103–125.
Wittgenstein, L. (1953). Philosophical Investigations. Oxford: Basil
Blackwell.
372 References
Wittgenstein, L. (1969). On Certainty. Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
Wittgenstein, L. (2005). The Big Typescript: TS 213. Oxford: Basil
Blackwell.
Woodward, A. (1998). Infants selectively encode the goal object of an
actor’s reach. Cognition, 69, 1–34.
Woodward, A. (1999). Infants’ ability to distinguish between purpose-
ful and non-purposeful behaviors. Infant Behavior and Development,
22(2), 145–160.
Woodward, A. L., and Hoyne, K. L. (1999). Infants’ learning about
words and sounds in relation to objects. Child Development, 70, 65–77.
Wrangham, R. W. (1975). The behavioural ecology of chimpanzees in
Gombe National Park, Tanzania. Doctoral dissertation, University of
Cambridge.
Wray, A. (1998). Protolanguage as a holistic system for social interac-
tion. Language and Communication, 18, 47–67.
Zahavi, A., and Zahavi, A. (1997). The Handicap Principle: A Missing
Piece in Darwin’s Puzzle. New York and Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Zuberbühler, K. (2000). Causal cognition in a non-human primate:
Field playback experiments with Diana monkeys. Cognition, 76, 195–
207.
Zuberbühler, K. (2005). The phylogenetic roots of language: Evidence
from primate communication and cognition. Current Directions in Psy-
chological Science, 14(3), 126–130.
Author Index
Acredolo, L. P., 146, 147, 151
Adamson, L., 141
Agnetta, B., 39, 47
Akhtar, N., 46, 158, 159, 160
Armstrong, D., 60, 328
Ashley, J., 19
Baillargeon, R., 140
Bakeman, R., 141
Baldwin, D., 159
Bard, K., 179
Bard, K. A., 35
Barresi, J., 336
Bates, E., 112, 113, 118, 122,
315, 339
Bateson, P., 194
Behne, T., 7, 40, 45, 129, 130, 139,
189
Bekkering, H., 46, 139
Benson, J., 155
Bergstrom, C. T., 18
Bloom, P., 138, 154
Boesch, C., 16, 173, 182, 185, 331
Boesch, H., 173
Boesch-Achermann, H., 173, 182
Bonvillian, J., 147
Boyd, R., 10, 172, 200, 213
Boysen, S., 175
Braine, M., 266
Brandl, J., 344
Bratman, M., 6, 181
Bräuer, J., 39, 47
Bretherton, I., 151
Brooks, P., 164, 291
Brown, P., 207, 216
Bruner, J., 4, 141, 154, 157, 162,
211, 290
Bühler, K., 233n, 272
Burling, R., 53
Burnette, C., 143
Buttelmann, D., 46
Butterworth, G., 111
Bybee, J., 303, 306
Byrne, R. W., 27, 28
Call, J., 7, 21, 25, 30–32, 35, 39,
41, 42, 45–48, 50, 139, 174, 176,
184, 190, 217, 248, 331
Callanan, M., 160
Camaioni, L., 112, 118, 122,
146
Campbell, A., 147
Campbell, A. L., 164
Capirci, O., 146, 151, 265
Caron, A. J., 47
Carpendale, J. E. M., 334
Carpenter, M., 7, 38, 40, 46,
112, 113, 120, 121, 123, 125,
139, 141, 142, 147, 159–161,
178–180, 189, 209
Caselli, M. C., 146, 151
Chafe, W., 270, 272
Chalmeau, R., 175
Chaucer, G., 298
Chen, F., 141, 177, 184
Cheney, D. L., 16, 18, 19, 174
Chomsky, N., 11, 275, 312
Clark, A. P., 19
Clark, H., 4, 6, 74, 77n, 78, 83,
95, 100, 101, 334, 335
Coppola, M., 278, 279
Corballis, M. C., 53, 328
Corkum, V., 119, 124
Crawford, M. P., 175, 176
Crockford, C., 16
Croft, W., 270, 272, 297, 300,
304, 305, 308, 309, 314
Csibra, G., 130, 139, 201
Dahl, O., 300
Darwin, Charles, 22
Davis, D. R., 136
Dawkins, R., 13
DeLoache, J. S., 150
D’Entremont, B., 113, 119, 124
Desalles, J.-L., 201
De Saussure, F., 103
Deutscher, G., 300
De Waal, F. B. M., 28, 33, 199
Diessel, H., 233, 289
Donald, M., 204
Everhart, V., 134, 165
Farrar, J., 160
Fehr, E., 187
Fillmore, C., 297
Fischbacher, U., 187
Fitch, W. T., 312
Fogel, A., 136
Folven, R., 147
Fuwa, K., 176, 193
Gallo, A., 175
Gardner, B. T., 36
Gardner, R. A., 36
Garnham, A., 344
Gergely, G., 46, 139, 201
Gilbert, M., 6, 72, 181
Gilby, J. C., 182, 199
Givón, T., 301
Gluckman, A., 39
Goldberg, A., 297, 298, 313
Goldin-Meadow, S., 60, 70, 148,
151, 153, 164, 223–224, 228,
230, 257–259, 261, 262, 265,
283
Golinkoff, R. M., 113, 130
Gomez, J. C., 36, 37, 38
Goodall, J., 17, 182
Goodwyn, S. W., 146, 147,
151
Gouzoules, H., 19
Gouzoules, S., 19
Graefenhein, M., 189
Greenberg, J., 312
Greenfield, P. M., 38, 163,
252–253, 257
Grice, H. P., 6, 89
Grice, P., v, 82, 334
Gundel, J., 272
374 Author Index
Haberl, K., 138–141
Habermas, J., 91
Haimerl, F., 36, 150
Haith, M., 155
Hannan, T., 136
Hare, B., 38, 40–42, 47, 48, 175,
176, 183, 193, 194, 200
Harper, D., 13
Hauser, M. D., 16, 312
Hawkins, J., 312
Hedberg, N., 272
Heine, B., 234
Henrich, J., 187
Herman, L., 254
Hewes, G. W., 328
Hill, K., 186
Hirata, S., 176, 193
Hopkins, W. D., 34, 35
Hoyne, K. L., 147
Hurtado, A. M., 186
Iverson, J., 146, 151, 164, 265
Jensen, K., 184, 200
Jipson, J., 160
Kagan, J., 133
Kaminski, J., 31, 47
Kegl, J., 279
Keller, R., 225, 299
Kendon, A., 61, 229, 328
Király, I., 46, 139
Kita, S., 63, 246, 283, 292
Kobayashi, H., 196
Koshima, S., 196
Krebs, J., 13
Kruger, A., 10, 290
Kuhlmeier, V., 138
Kuteva, T., 234
Lachman, M., 18
Lambrecht, K., 163
Langacker, R., 272, 297
Leavens, D. A., 34, 35
Lederberg, A., 134, 165
Leslie, A., 69, 149, 203
Levinson, S., 207, 216
Levinson, S. C., 6, 75, 205,
334
Lewis, C., 334
Lewis, D., 8, 102, 103, 188, 219,
221, 334, 335
Liddell, S. K., 60, 273
Liebal, K., 28, 30, 32, 47, 127,
129, 143, 248
Lieven, E., 164n
Liszkowski, U., 113, 119–121,
124, 125, 130
Lollis, S. P., 141, 189
Lutrell, L. M., 199
Maestripieri, D., 33, 44
Markman, E. M., 123, 131
Marshall, C. R., 77n, 95
Matthews, D., 164, 164n
Maynard-Smith, J., 13
McNeill, D., 60, 153, 230
McWhorter, J., 295
Melis, A., 48, 175, 176, 183,
190, 194, 200, 217
Meltzoff, A., 46
Menzel, C., 35
Mitani, J. C., 19, 174, 200
Moll, H., 7, 47, 128, 130, 133,
139, 141, 180, 344
Moore, C., 113, 119, 124, 336
Morton, E. S., 17
Mundy, P., 143
Mylander, C., 258, 259
Author Index 375
Nagell, K., 112, 123, 141, 160,
161
Namy, L. L., 147, 151
Nelson, K., 154
Nishida, T., 19
Nowak, M. A., 200
Okamoto-Barth, S., 47
Olson, D., 342
O’Neill, D., 176
Onishi, K. H., 140
O’Reilly, A., 113
Orlansky, M., 147
Owings, D. H., 17
Owren, M. J., 18
Ozcaliskan, S., 151, 164, 265
Özyürek, A., 246, 283, 292
Padden, C. A., 262
Panchanathan, S., 200
Pennington, B. F., 143
Pepperberg, I. M., 254
Perner, J., 344
Pika, S., 28, 32, 47
Pinker, S., 275
Pollick, A., 33
Povinelli, D. J., 31, 45, 136, 176,
330
Quine, W. V. O., 59, 155–156
Rakoczy, H., 238, 344
Ratner, H., 10, 290
Ratner, N., 141, 162
Rendell, D., 18
Richerson, P., 10, 172, 213
Rivas, E., 38, 250–251, 253, 259
Rochat, P., 137, 147, 149
Rogers, S. J., 143
Ross, H. S., 141, 189
Rumbaugh, D. M., 175
Sandler, W., 246, 279
Savage-Rumbaugh, E. S., 38,
175, 179, 252–254, 257
Savage-Rumbaugh, S., 36
Saylor, M., 126
Schachter, S., 211
Schelling, T. C., 188
Schick, B., 147, 266
Schwier, C., 139
Searle, J. R., 6, 73, 84n2, 85, 88n,
98–99, 238, 334, 335, 342–343
Senghas, A., 246, 278, 279, 283,
292
Seyfarth, R. M., 16, 18, 19, 174
Shatz, M., 113
Shwe, H. I., 123, 131
Sigman, M., 143
Sigmund, K., 200
Silk, J. B., 184, 200
Smith, A., 299
Smith, I. H., 164
Spencer, P., 134, 165
Sperber, D., 6, 76, 89, 91, 95, 133,
205, 334, 335
Stanford, C. B., 174
Stern, D. N., 137
Stokoe, W., 60
Striano, T., 121, 147, 149, 179, 189
Strosberg, R., 158
Sugiyama, Y., 28
Tanner, J. E., 27, 28
Tinbergen, N., 22
Tomasello, M., 7, 10, 16, 20, 21,
25, 26, 28, 30–32, 35, 38–42, 45–
48, 50, 103, 112, 113, 120, 121,
376 Author Index
123, 125, 133, 138–141, 147,
149, 154, 155, 158–161, 164,
164n, 174–180, 183, 184, 189,
190, 193, 194, 196, 199, 200,
217, 222, 238, 248, 255, 267,
280, 289, 290, 312, 331, 337, 344
Tomonaga, M., 178
Trevarthen, C., 137, 334
Uzgiris, I. C., 209
Vauclair, J., 179
Volterra, V., 112, 118, 122
Vonk, J., 45, 330
Vygotsky, L., 10
Warneken, F., 45, 138, 141, 177,
184, 189, 199
Watts, D., 174, 200
Waxman, S. R., 147, 151
Whiten, A., 208
Wilcox, S., 60, 328
Wilson, D., 6, 76, 89, 91, 95, 205,
334, 335
Wittek, A., 164
Wittgenstein, L., v, 1, 4, 13, 57–
59, 109, 169, 232, 243, 319, 334,
342
Woodward, A., 139, 147
Wrangham, R. W., 16, 19, 182
Wray, A., 224
Wynn, K., 138
Zacharski, R., 272
Zahavi, A., 201
Zuberbühler, K., 16, 19
Author Index 377
Subject Index
Absent entities
infant pointing and, 116–117,
125–126
pantomiming and, 66–67,
69, 82
pretense and, 152
Action, human communication
and, 229–230
Action-based gestures. See
Pantomiming; Pointing
Action signs, 259–260t
Alarm calls, 15–18
Altruism
evolution and, 7–8, 169–
170, 199
in infants, 121
American Sign Language
(ASL), 250
Animals
human communication
with, 1
social behavior of,
237
Apes. See also Chimpanzees;
Primates
attention monitoring by, 31–33
and communication with
humans, 34–41, 43
cooperative communication
lacking in, 37, 52–53
flexible communication of, 43–
44, 329
gestures of, 8–9, 20–30, 49–55,
248–256, 329
and goals of others, 45–47, 176,
180
group activities of, 193–194
home signers compared with,
262–263
human communication
compared to, 62
human communication
derived from, 34, 55,
320–321
human communication with,
249–256
Note: Page numbers followed by f or t indicate figures and tables,
respectively.
380 Subject Index
Apes (cont.)
intentional communication of,
43–53, 331–332
“linguistic,” 255–256, 332
and object choice task, 39–41
and others’ perceptions, 47–48,
176, 180
pointing by, 34–38
rationality recognized by,
46–47
referential intentions of, 29, 37,
51
and requesting, 250–256,
262–263
social imitation and conformity
lacking in, 213
vocal call comprehension by, 16
vocalizations of, 8, 16–17
Apologies, 162n, 207
Arm-raise gesture, 23
Attention, monitoring of, 30–33
Attention-directing gestures. See
Pointing
Attention-getters, 22, 51f
defined, 27
examples of, 24t, 27–28
human communication
compared to, 29
indirectness of, 29
interpretation of, 50–52
learning of, 28–29
pointing and, 62
Autism, 122, 142–143
Bedouin Sign Language, 246, 279
“Bird’s-eye view,” 160, 179, 266
Blame assignment, in
comprehension process, 304–
305, 307
Case marking, 267, 298–299
Chimpanzees. See also Apes;
Primates
collaboration studies on,
177–181
gestural signals of, 23, 24t,
25–28
group activities of, 173–185,
196
helping behavior in, 196,
199–200
hunting behavior of, 173–174,
181–185, 199–200
and sign language, 250
vocal calls of, 19
Clarification, asking for, 83, 307
Cognitive skills, cooperative
communication and, 73–82,
344
Collaboration and cooperation.
See also Cooperation model of
human communication; Social
motivation
animal, 237
ape communication and, 37,
52–53, 332–333
chimpanzees and, 173–185
communication based on,
6–8
cooperative communication
and, 189–191, 324–325,
343–344
emergence of, 172–191
human, 6–8, 169–170, 185–
190, 238
humans vs. apes concerning,
177–181, 193–194
infant, 189
mutualistic, 193–199
Subject Index 381
shared intentionality as basis
of, 6–8, 72–73, 170–171
Comments, 257–258
Common conceptual ground
bases for, 78–79
bottom-up processes and, 78
communication complementary
to, 79–80
for cooperative communication,
73–82
cultural knowledge and, 79
immediate perceptual
environment and, 78
infants and, 126–129, 140–141
language acquisition and,
154–156
language change and, 307–308
for linguistic communication, 5,
57–59, 100
for pantomiming, 203
for pointing, 4–5, 65, 202–203
top-down processes and,
78–79
Communication. See also
Evolution of human
communication; Gestures;
Language; Pantomiming;
Pointing
biological, 13–14
compromise in, 306–307
cooperative infrastructure of, 7
cooperative nature of, 6–8
social motivation for, 5–6
Communicative act, emphasis of,
88–89, 91–92, 130–131
Communicative conventions
characteristics of, 219
“drift to the arbitrary” and,
219–225
emergence of, 218–237,
337–339
grammar and, 275–276,
326–327
for linguistic constructions,
295–315
natural communication vs.,
99–100
origins of, 222–223, 225,
236–237
as shared communication
devices, 102–104
shared intentionality and,
100–102
syntax and, 271–276
vocal modality and, 226–237
Communicative displays, 14
Communicative intention
cooperative communication
and, 88–95, 97
helping and, 204–206
infants and, 130–133, 149
in linguistic communication,
101
pantomiming and, 203–204
social norms governing,
214–216
Communicative signals, 14–15
Competition experiments, 39–41,
47–48
Comprehension
of intentionality, 44–49
language change and, 304–305
of pointing, 38–41
of vocal calls, 15–16, 18
Compromise, communicative,
306–307
Constructions, linguistic,
296–299
382 Subject Index
Content words, 233n, 234
Context. See Common
conceptual ground
Conventions. See
Communicative
conventions; Linguistic
conventions
Cooperation. See Collaboration
and cooperation; Cooperation
model of human
communication
Cooperation model of human
communication, 72–99. See
also Cooperative
communication
cognitive skills underlying,
73–82
evolutionary origins of,
169–170
infant pantomiming and,
145–153
infant pointing and, 111–145
infrastructure for, 165–167,
170–171
language acquisition and,
154–165
mutual assumptions in, 88–96
recursivity in, 94–96
shared intentionality and,
72–73
social motivations underlying,
82–88
summary of, 97–99, 98f,
107–108
Cooperative communication,
57–108. See also Cooperation
model of human
communication
characteristics of, 15
cognitive skills for, 73–82
collaboration and, 189–191,
324–325, 343–344
conventions and, 99–104
cultural group selection and,
208–217
emergence of (see origins of)
evolutionary advantages of,
170
gestures and, 60–62
indirect reciprocity and,
199–207
infant gestural communication
and, 110, 134, 334
infrastructure for, 7, 189–191,
321–322
misuse of, 190, 216–217
model of, 72–99
mutual assumptions in, 88–96
mutualism and, 193–199
origins of, 8, 135, 144f, 150, 166,
170, 191–218, 324–325
pantomiming and, 66–71
pointing and, 62–66
psychological infrastructure of,
105t
shared intentionality as basis
of, 110, 140–142, 145, 191, 321–
322, 330–337
sharing and, 210–212
social motivations for, 82–
88
Cooperative imperatives,
122–123
Cooperative reasoning, 94,
204–205
Creoles, 294–295
Cultural group selection.
See Group selection
Subject Index 383
Cultural learning, 10, 102,
208–209. See also Social
learning
Culture
common conceptual ground
in, 79
evolutionary developments
dependent on, 10, 245, 296,
308, 315, 317
human collaboration and,
186
Dead metaphors, 223
Deaf persons. See also Home
sign; Nicaraguan Sign
Language; Sign language
gestural communication by,
228
infant pointing by, 134, 165
pantomiming by, 70, 148
Deception. See Lying
Declaratives
apes and, 38
infant pointing as, 116–122,
124–125
Deictic center, 233n, 272
Deictic gestures. See Pointing
Demonstratives, 232–233, 233n
Dogs, and object choice task,
42–43
“Drift to the arbitrary”
emergence of conventional
communication and,
219–225
in grammar, 277, 304
Emotions
motivations communicated
through, 83
primate vocalizations and,
17–19
sharing of, 211–212
ET (film), 209
Event-participant organization
in ape communication, 255
in infant language, 266–267,
280
in narrative, 283–290
naturalness of, 270, 270n
in sign language, 261, 278–279,
286
universality in, 310–311
Evolution. See also Evolution of
human communication;
Human evolution
ape gestural communication
and, 33–34
intention-movements and, 22
vocal calls and, 17–18
Evolution of human
communication
contingency of, 341–342
cultural-historical aspects of,
10, 245, 296, 308, 315, 317
genetics and, 235–236
grammar and, 245–246, 293–
295, 294f, 313, 316–317,
338–339
hypotheses about, 11–12, 110–
111, 327–339
language and, 9–10
origins of, 2, 7–12, 238f, 315
overview of, 237–241, 320–327,
339–340
psychological infrastructure for,
105t
Expressives
grammar and, 274, 288–289
384 Subject Index
Expressives (cont.)
group affiliation and, 211–212
infant pointing as, 118–121
social norms lacking for, 213
Eye contact, 36–37
Eye direction, 196–197. See also
Gaze following
Fairness, 187–188
Fancy syntax, 245, 283–290
Forms of life, 4, 342. See also
Common conceptual
ground
Functional reanalysis, 304–305,
305f
Gaze following, 38–39, 62, 230.
See also Eye direction
Genetics, 235–236
Gestures, 20–34. See also
Pantomiming; Pointing
of apes, 8–9, 20–30, 49–55,
248–256, 329
attention monitoring and,
30–31
communicative effectiveness of,
1–2
conventional, 146–147, 150–151
imperative, 34–38
language as originating in, 61,
81–82, 104, 161–162, 218–219,
317, 328–330
obscene, 219
origins of, 9
practical reasoning and, 49
research on, 60
sequence of, 30, 32–33, 248–
256
types of, 22–30, 24t, 61–62
vocalizations vs., 226–229,
231–232, 329–330
weakness of, as
communication, 3
Goals
ape understanding of others’,
45–47, 176, 180
individual vs. collaborative,
177–181
joint, 177–181, 194–195
Gossip, 201
Grammar
absent from primate
communication, 30
in ape communication, 248–249,
251–256, 316
complex constructions in,
286–290
conventions in, 275–277, 295–
315, 326–327
cultural diversity in, 309–
310
defined, 314–315
development of, 276–279
differentiation of, 245
“drift to the arbitrary” in, 277,
304
in early language use,
265–268, 279–280, 338
evolution and, 245–246,
293–295, 294f, 313, 316–317,
338–339
and expression, 274
holophrases and, 225
in home sign, 257–258,
261–264
of informing, 244, 270–282
and language
differentiation, 10
Subject Index 385
of Nicaraguan Sign Language,
276–279
norms in, 291–292
origins of, 267–268, 269t, 316,
326–327
of requesting, 244, 246–270
of sharing, 244–245
of sharing and narrative,
282–295
structure in, 273–274, 278–280,
288
universal, 311–312
Grammaticality, 290–292
Gratitude, 88n, 162n, 207
Great apes. See Apes
Greeting, 88n, 162n
Gricean communicative
intention. See Communicative
intention
Group selection, 208–217,
313–314
Head direction, 196
Helping. See also Informatives
as basic motive, 85–86
chimpanzees and, 196,
199–200
and gratitude, 207
indirect reciprocity and,
200–207
infant pointing as, 121–122
mutualism and, 193–199
Hidden authorship, 90, 132–133,
214–215
Holophrases, 224–225
Home sign, 228, 257–264, 277,
283
Homo stage, 239, 246–247,
268
Human communication.
See also Cooperative
communication; Evolution
of human communication;
Language; Linguistic
communication
action as basis of, 229–230
ape communication compared
to, 62
ape gestures as precursor of, 34,
55, 320–321
common ground
complementary to, 79–80
comprehension aspect
of, norms governing, 92–
93
cooperation model of, 72–99
origins of, 57–59
practical reasoning in, 94
primate communication
compared to, 19–20, 29,
52–53
productive aspect of, norms
governing, 92–93
psychological infrastructure of,
105t
social norms concerning,
92–93, 133–134
uniqueness of, 98
Human evolution. See also
Evolution of human
communication
cooperation in, 7–8, 169–170,
192
Humans
and animals as communicative
partners, 1
and apes as communicative
partners, 249–256
386 Subject Index
Humans (cont.)
collaboration and cooperation
of, 185–190
hunting behavior of, 186–187
Hunting
chimpanzees and, 173–174,
181–185, 199–200
humans and, 186–187
Iconic behaviors, 27
Iconic gestures. See Pantomiming
Identification, of events, objects,
and participants, 271–273,
287–288
Imitation
ape learning not from, 25–26
human skill in, 10, 102–103
role reversal, 103, 221–222
social function of, 209–210,
213
Imperatives. See also Pointing
by apes, 34–38
individualistic vs. cooperative,
122–123
infant pointing as, 117–118,
122–123
meanings of, 84
Indirectness in communication,
29, 34, 52. See also Referential
intentions; Triadic
communication
Indirect reciprocity
chimpanzees and, 200
cooperative communication
and, 171
reputation and, 201
Individual goals, 97
Individual intentionality
apes and, 177, 181, 330–331
infants and, 139, 142
universality in, 311
Individualistic imperatives, 122
Infant pantomiming, 70, 145–153
communicative intention in,
149
conditions necessary for,
148–149
linguistic communication vs.,
151–152, 264
pretense and, 152
use of, 150–151
Infant pointing, 66, 111–145
absent entities and, 116–117,
125–126
common conceptual ground for,
126–129
communicative intention in,
130–133
by deaf persons, 134, 165
as declarative, 116–122, 124–125
as helping, 121–122
as imperative, 117–118, 122–123
interpretations of, 113
linguistic communication and,
163–164, 264
motives for, 112, 117–124
mutual assumptions and,
129–134
onset of, 111, 136
origins of, 112–113, 135–145,
144f
prevalence of, 150–151
referential intentions and, 124–
126, 128–129
as requesting, 115–116, 123
research on, 112, 113
shared intentionality and, 140–
145, 323–324
Subject Index 387
as sharing, 118–121
variety in meanings of,
115–116
Infants. See also Infant
pantomiming; Infant pointing
collaboration by, 189
and common conceptual
ground, 140–141
communication infrastructure
in, 165–167
conventional gestures of, 146–
147, 150–151
and cooperative
communication, 110, 134, 334
and goals of others, 45–47
and linguistic communication,
146–147, 151–152, 264–268,
279–280, 337–338
and others’ perceptions,
47–48
practical reasoning in, 140
and shared intentionality,
140–145, 166, 323–324,
333–334
sharing by, 86–87
value of studying
communication of, 109
Inferences, 42–43
Informatives. See also Helping;
Informing
apes and, 38
home signers and, 263
infant pointing as, 118,
121–122
ontogenetic origins of,
137–138
Informing. See also Helping;
Informatives
as basic motive, 85–86
challenges in communication
involving, 271
grammar of, 244, 270–282
infant linguistic communication
and, 162
sharing vs., 210–211
Intentional communication
of apes, 43–53, 331–332
in biological world, 14–15
defined, 15
gestures, 20–34
and object choice task, 39–40
primate-human, 34–43
Intentionality. See also
Communicative intention;
Individual intentionality;
Shared intentionality
action and, 229
in ape communication, 43–53
comprehension of, 44–49
ontogenetic origins of,
139–143
Intention-movements, 51f
defined, 22
examples of, 23, 24t, 25
interpretation of, 50
learning of, 22–23, 25–26
meaning of, 26, 52
pantomiming and, 62
Intention-reading, 4
Intonation units, 270n
Invisible hand phenomena, 299,
317
Jargon, 295
Joint attention. See also Common
conceptual ground
defined, 74, 78
emergence of, 194–195
388 Subject Index
Joint attention (cont.)
humans vs. apes concerning,
179–181
infant pointing and, 119–120
infants and, 141, 143
language acquisition and, 154,
157–160
perceptual modes and, 195n
significance of, 4
Kanzi, 250, 253–254, 262
Language. See also Human
communication; Linguistic
communication
as activity, not object, 342–343
arbitrariness of, 9
change in, 296, 298–308
conventionalization of, 295–315
differentiation of, 10, 243–245,
298, 299, 309–310, 313–314
mental attunement and,
57–59
normative structure of,
282–283, 291–292
origins of, 9–10, 61, 81–82,
104, 161–162, 218–219, 317,
328–339
as shared intentionality,
342–343
uncoded communication and,
57–59
universals in, 310–315
Language acquisition
convention acquisition and,
154–161
convention use and, 161–164
pantomiming vs., 151–152
pointing and, 163–164
shared intentionality and, 110–
111, 154–165
Language change, 296, 298–308
cognitive dimension of, 300–303
common conceptual ground
and, 307–308
group selection and, 313–314
intergenerational transmission
of, 304–306, 305f
sources of, 299–300, 308
Language universals, 310–315
Leaf-clipping behavior, 28
Learning
ape-human interaction and, 34
of attention-getting gestures,
28–29
by imitation, 25–26
of intention-movements, 22–23,
25–26
ontogenetic, 22–23, 25–26
simple vs. complex, 44
Leave taking, 88n
Linguistic communication. See
also Language
common conceptual ground for,
5, 57–59, 100
communicative intention in,
101
infants and, 146–147, 151–152,
163–164, 264–268, 279–280
motives for, 101, 162
referential intentions of, 102
as social action, 343
Linguistic constructions,
296–299
Linguistic conventions
acquisition of, 154–161
use of, 161–164
Linguistics, 298
Subject Index 389
Lying
basis for, 8, 190, 216
social norms and, 216–217
Macaques, 18
Mental attunement, 57–59
Mindreading, 4. See also
Recursive mindreading
Misunderstandings, 164n2
Monkeys, and vocal calls, 16–17
Motivation. See Social motivation
Mutual assumptions
cooperative communication
and, 88–97
infant pointing and, 129–134
Mutualism, 193–199
Mutual knowledge, 95, 335
Mutual manifestness, 95, 335
Narrative
complex constructions in,
286–290
cultural use of, 283
event-participation organization
in, 283–290
evolutionary value of, 290
grammar of, 282–295
Natural communication
action-based gestures as, 172,
219, 234–235, 237, 241, 248
conventional vs., 172, 219, 241,
275
defined, 274–275
in foreign situations, 236
Nicaraguan Sign Language, 228,
246, 276–279, 281, 283, 292
Norms. See Social norms; Social
norms in communication
Nouns, 234
Novelty
ape reasoning about, 48–49
communication about, 163–164
Object choice task, 39–43,
130–131
Obscene gestures, 219
“Offering” behaviors, 28
Ontogenetic origins of human
communication, 109–167
early language, 154–165
infant pantomiming, 145–153
infant pointing, 111–145, 144f,
323–324
informing, 137–138
intentionality, 139–143, 323–324,
333–334
requesting, 136–137
sharing, 137
Ontogenetic ritualization, 22–23,
25–26
Pantomiming. See also Infant
pantomiming
absent entities and, 66–67, 69,
82
advantages of, 203–204, 220
common conceptual ground for,
203
communication through, 1–2
conventionalization of, 221–
225
function of, 61, 233–234
in home sign, 257–264
intention-movements and, 62
interpretation of, 66
limitations of, 203, 220
naturalness of, 9
objects as referents of, 70
390 Subject Index
Pantomiming (cont.)
as original human
communication, 2
overview of, 66–71
pointing vs., 69–70
as pre-linguistic
communication, 70
social cognition and, 2
social motivation and, 2
as supplementary to linguistic
communication, 153
uses of, 67
Pedagogy, 201
Perceptions, ape understanding
of others’, 47–48, 176, 180
Perceptual co-presence. See Joint
attention
Perspectival cognitive
representations, 344
Phylogenetic origins of human
communication
collaboration, 172–191
conventional communication,
218–237
cooperative communication,
191–218
Pidgins, 294–295
Pivot schemas, 266–267
Pointing. See also Infant pointing
apes and, 34–38
attention-getters and, 62
common conceptual ground for,
4–5, 65, 202–203
communication through, 1–2
complexity of communication
involved in, 3–5, 64
comprehension of, 38–41
declarative, 38
demonstratives and, 232–233
examples of, 63–64
flexibility in, 35
function of, 61
informative, 38
learning of, 35
limitations of, 202–203
mutualism and, 197
naturalness of, 9
as original human
communication, 2
overview of, 62–66
pantomiming vs., 69–70
as prelinguistic communication,
65–66
recognitory, 38
referential intention in,
63–65
social cognition and, 2
social intention in, 63–65
social motivation and, 2
variety of communication
involved in, 64
Politeness, 90, 132–133, 207,
214, 216
Practical reasoning
in apes, 48–49
and gestures, 49
in human communication, 94
infants and, 140
social interaction based on, 49
Pretense, 152
Primate communication,
compared to human
communication, 52–53
Primates. See also Apes;
Chimpanzees; Monkeys
and communication with
humans, 34–41, 43
gestures of, 20–34, 54–55
Subject Index 391
social motivation for
communication lacking in, 5
vocal displays of, 15–20, 53–54
Process of the third kind, 225,
299
Public space
communicative intention as
creating, 214–216
vocalization and, 231
Questions, 84n
Ratchet effect, 290
Rationality, ape understanding
of, 46–47
Reciprocity, indirect. See Indirect
reciprocity
Recognitory gestures, 38
Recursive mindreading, 96, 188–
189, 198, 221, 321, 335–337
Recursivity, in cooperative
communication, 94–96, 103
Reference tracking, 285–286
Referential communication, 28
Referential intentions
of apes, 29, 37, 51
in human communication, 97
infant pointing and, 124–126,
128–129
in linguistic communication,
102
in pointing, 63–65
Regret, 88n
Relative clauses, 287
Reputation, 200–201, 207, 216
Requesting
apes and, 250–256, 262–263
as basic motive, 84–85
grammar of, 244, 246–270
infant linguistic communication
and, 162
infant pointing as, 115–116, 123
mutualism and, 193–199
ontogenetic origins of, 136–137
Ritualization
ontogenetic, 22–23, 25–26
phylogenetic, 22
Role reversal imitation, 103,
221–222
Serious syntax, 244, 279–280
Shared intentionality
apes lacking in, 177, 181, 331
cooperation and, 6–8, 72–73
cooperative communication
and, 110, 140–142, 145, 191,
321–322, 330–337
defined, 72
human evolution and, 7–8
infants and, 140–145, 166, 323–
324, 333–334
language acquisition and, 110–
111, 154–165
language as, 342–343
linguistic communication and,
100–102
psychological conditions of, 73
significance of, 73
universality in, 311
Sharing
as basic motive, 86–87
conventions and, 221
cooperative communication
and, 210–212
grammar of, 244–245, 282–295
group affiliation and, 210–212
by infants, 86–87, 118–121,
162
392 Subject Index
Sharing (cont.)
informing vs., 210–211
ontogenetic origins of, 137
Showing off, 201
Sign language. See also Bedouin
Sign Language; Home sign;
Nicaraguan Sign Language
apes and, 36, 250
complexity of, 60
grammatical development of,
245–246
structure of events in, 273–274,
278–279
unsuitability of, for study of
gesture, 60
Simple syntax, 244, 247, 267–268,
316
Social cognition, 2
Social identification, 171
Social intention
in human communication, 97
infant pointing and, 127–128
in pointing, 63–65
universality in, 311
Social learning, 221. See also
Cultural learning
Social motivation. See also
Cooperation
basic types of, 84–87
for communication, 5–6, 82–88
emotional communication
of, 83
helping as, 85–86
infant pointing and, 117–124
for linguistic communication,
101
pantomiming and, 2
pointing and, 2
requesting as, 84–85
sharing as, 86–87
universality in, 311
Social norms. See also Social
norms in communication
emergence of, 208, 291
grammaticality and, 291–292
group cohesion reinforced by,
210, 212
Social norms in communication
and communicative intention,
214–216
emergence of, 212
expressives not governed by,
213
infants and, 133–134
mutual expectations and, 92–93
Social-pragmatic theory of
language acquisition, 154–156
Space, in Nicaraguan Sign
Language, 277–278
Structure, grammatical, 273–274,
278–280, 288
Syntax
complex, 286–290
conventional devices in,
271–276
fancy, 245, 283–290
serious, 244, 279–280
simple, 244, 247, 267–268, 316
Third kind processes, 225, 299
Touch-back gesture, 23, 25
Triadic communication, 28. See
also Referential intentions
Ultimatum game, 187–188
Verb island constructions, 280
Verbs, 234
Subject Index 393
Vervet monkeys, 15–16, 18–19
Vocalizations
advantages of, 230–231
audience for, 18–19
communicative conventions
and, 226–237
demonstratives as, 232–233
emotions tied to, 17–19
evolutionary selection of,
17–18, 234–236
flexible comprehension of,
15–16, 18
gene related to, 235–236
gestures vs., 226–229, 231–232,
329–330
human communication
compared to, 19–20
lack of flexibility in, 16–18,
53–54, 226
limitations of, 226–227
pantomiming and, 234
public quality of, 231
referential communication and,
226–227
transition to, 230–232, 235–236,
246
Walk-around strategy, 32–33
Washoe, 250, 254
We-intentionality, 335–336
Word order
apes and, 251, 254
in early language use, 267
for event-participant
organization, 298–299
home signers and, 262–263
in sign language, 273–274,
278–280
