R. SAGE
10
IMPLICATION OF JOB CHANGES
Oxford and Yale Universities (Grace et al., 2017) took the views of world AI
researchers, finding that they all predicted that every human job will be automated
within the next 120 years. However, the survey focused on the cognitive aspects
of well-defined activities, but emotional ones go beyond this to question whether
AI will surpass humans at being art and film critics! The Oxford University Martin
Programme on Technology & Employment (Frey & Osbourne, 2013) says that
half of present jobs will be fully automated within 20 years. The report by Reform
(Hitchcock, 2016), a public think-tank, suggests that 90% of Whitehall’s 137,000
Civil servants will be replaced by AI chatbots by 2020, saving £2,6 billion annually.
Public sector workers will be affected, with 90,000 NHS administrators and 30% of
doctors and nurses having duties taken over by smart machines.
Jobs for middle classes, such as banking and insurance, will also be automated,
but new computer simulations could rejuvenate economic planning. Dispensing with
routines allows people to focus on ideas, innovation and suggest higher-value work,
but interpersonal communication (resulting in advanced thinking) is needed for this to
occur. Greater value and attention is required for this, with 50 years of research showing
that specific communication training and support is vital for optimum performances,
giving opportunities to gain a broad skill-range (Sage, 2000). Why are we ignoring
such messages and narrowing opportunities for students once they leave education?
Work-reducing technology, however, must result in everyone benefiting from
gradual work reduction. This could help infrastructure demands and improve stress
and anxiety, now for youngsters at an all-time high (Murphy, 2013; YouGov Survey,
2016). Reports cite 1/3 of students receiving treatment for stress with a 42% increase
in 2016. Figures show that 10,000 under-18s were admitted to hospital for severe
anxiety. Childline says 20,000 children now self-harm annually and a similar number
contemplate suicide. Children (age 6) contact them, complaining they feel invisible,
misunderstood and lonely.
The charity suggests children are suffering badly in the digital world, with busy
parents and social media making many feel ugly and unpopular. Childline statistics
indicate that they adminsistered 4,063 counselling sessions in 2016, with needs rising
rapidly. Turbulent lives, abuse, identity crisis and school pressures are triggers for
ending life, with even those under 10 years of age showing desperation. Mixing and
communicating more effectively with people in the real rather than the virtual world
of social media is needed for improvement and gaining perspective and support, say
experts. Today, psychologists estimate that the average person makes about 35,000
daily choices, requiring inner-language (self-talk), which many do not fully develop.
The pace and stress of life means we often deliver bad descisions for ourselves and
others, carrying a sense of resigned fatalism into all aspects of daily life (Russell,
2016).
A talking solution is supported by the United Nations Children’s (Emergency)
Fund (UNICEF) report (2013) into Child Well-being, finding that the UK was at
THE EDUCATIONAL CONTEXT
11
the bottom of a survey group with the Netherlands at the top. Comparison was
made between Dutch and British life-styles. Dutch children are not just seen but
encouraged to be heard, expressing views and feelings regarding experiences,
so facilitating formal, narrative thinking and language. They have regular family
meals and spend more leisure-time with parents, increasing mental stimulation
and expression. These patterns were much less evident in Britain. Opportunities to
communicate and interact were viewed as vital for developing well-being, support,
communication, self-confidence and coping abilities. Such results take a mirror
to our culture, seeing ourselves more clearly and developing greater awareness of
what is needed for success.
Another study, based on the Programme for International Student Assessment
Tests (PISA), surveyed 540,000 pupils (age 15), showing British teenagers rank
in the bottom 10 nations for life satisfaction (Schleicher, 2015). They spend 188
minutes per school day on-line, as well as using social media at home, with only
Chilean youngsters spending longer on the web. The survey found 72% of UK
youngsters are dissatisfied with life, with 25% regularly bullied. Web reliance
decreases academic attainment, but increases depression and inability to make
real relationships, because of limited opportunities to speak with others. The study
noted that the UK lagged behind other countries in tackling well-being problems.
The Institute of Social and Economic Research (Essex University), in a household
survey, found girls using social networks are more likely to be depressed over
appearance and lifestyles and skip school regularly in comparison with those not
using these sites. On Instagram, glamorous, touched-up pictures are posted, which
are not reality, so users, bombarded by such perfection, are disillusioned about
themselves. Markiewicz and Kaczmarek (2011) outline the challenges faced by
youth today regarding complex issues of globalisation, not least the competing ones
between technology and talk. The 5% in Britain, living in an internet black-hole,
suggest huge advantages to lack of connectivity, as they communicate face-to-
face more and have proper, old-fashioned conversations, leading to mental balance
about ongoing issues and emotional support. For relationships, well-being and
entertainment, they do not need the internet but their businesses require it to compete
in the modern world (Smith, 2016). These issues must be acknowledged, so steps are
taken to minimise such bad effects.
The Prince of Wales, marking 500 years of the Royal Mail, said that texting
and social media put the ‘well-constructed sentence under moral threat’, bringing
misunderstanding (September 2016). CBI surveys show that in the 1980s, 49% of
employees had difficulty with spoken and written communication, but in 2015, 63%
needed workplace training to acquire levels for effective work (www.cbi.org.uk).
A 2014 poll of Dutch civic groups, assessing public attitudes and sympathies, found
immigrant interviewees failed to understand and respond accurately to questions,
showing communication is problematic in new cultures (Charlemagne, 2016).
This was confirmed in a European project (INTERMAR, 2011–2013) on Inter-
comprehension (comparing a first language with another to accelerate learning).
R. SAGE
12
The study looked at the impact of different mother-tongues on education, training
and work. It took place in European Marine and Military Academies, because
disasters at sea, in the air and on land often result from communication failures,
arising from different ethnic groups, language and status differentials. The study
confirmed the importance of a course in intercultural communication for all learners.
This issue was discussed by Flynn and Ledem (2014) as the politicisation of
intelligence, meaning you never deliver bad news to those above you. It results in
distortion and denial of the truth and the higher you rise in rank, the more you are
exposed to this phenomenon. As an ongoing deficiency of human intelligence it
leads to intellectual dishonesty – evident everywhere because of a fear of facing the
uncomfortable truth. The custom forbids us to denounce or criticise, so political and
opinion elites dismiss other ideas out of hand, leading to screw-ups, smokescreens,
reconsideration/ignoring of facts and censored information, in search of convenient,
acceptable answers. Stepping outside restrictions, to observe and reflect from a more
holistic, enlightened perspective requires willingness, determination, an ethical
stance and strong, personal confidence.
FUTURE JOB NEEDS
We should not panic about jobs, because as soon as they become complex and
creative, involving person-to-person communication rather than carrying out
procedures, the reading of and responding to emotions and intentions rather than data
and information means robot usefulness ceases, until they develop such attributes!
The Penrose Institute (London & Oxford) is studying human consciousness, through
physics, to discover basic differences between artificial and human intelligence. It is
hypothesied that the human brain is not just a super computer but may show quantum
effects beyond present imagination. Researchers aim to scan brains and spot eureka
moments to see if the genesis of human insight (intuition) can be identified in the
mind. There are things that computers cannot achieve when compared to human
brains and with quantum effects happening in biology (photosynthesis) there may be
similar happenings in the mind to explain differences. Areas, like creativity, could
demonstrate that computers will never be as good as us and research may have
profound sociological implications, by reassuring people about future directions, as
many are worried by AI job-takeovers with half our graduates not able to attain work
that matches their qualifications (National Office for Statistics, 2017).
Nevertheless, even optimistic estimates suggest millions of people worldwide
will be thrown out of traditional work as change sweeps across national economies.
Popular jobs are heading for the museum, as portrayed in the computer game Job
Simulator! Future work will be more service and people-orientated, requiring
abilities like effective communication and relationships rather than acquisition and
memorisation of facts. Today’s employees need more skills to perform highly in
varying contexts. Evolution means leadership styles must broaden to include those
with across-discipline knowledge. Many competencies, backgrounds and cultures
THE EDUCATIONAL CONTEXT
13
are required to think, interact, approach tasks differently and deal with diversity.
The film, Hunger Games, reveals how the ruthless, repressive style of leadership
is dead. Great leadership comes from the heart, with understanding and value for
others half the battle, alongside ability to trust instincts, communicate clearly, think
and act quickly.
Americans are addressing this, as within 15 years 50% of jobs (over 80
million) will disappear. Indeed Nikolaus Correll (University of Colorado), on
The Conversation Web (www.theconversation.com), says that although the USA
is presently leading the world in robotics, China will soon take over and put all
Americans out of work. Nevertheless, they are emphasising improved talk for new,
higher-value work opportunities. Mastering communication and character abilities
addresses needs. Technology cannot replace all human excellence. (The Week. 18
Feb. 2017: 1113. London: Dennis Pub.).
Professor Cohen (2017), in organisational behaviour research at Carnegie
Mellon University, shows how moral character is vital for developing personal and
professional performance. The PEW studies (2015), on generational attitudes, views
and values, suggest that only 17% of the young generation considers themselves
moral in behaviour. The HEXAGO personality model now adds honesty-humility,
as a character measure, used to identify morally-exceptional future leaders. We lose
billions from workplace deviance, like theft, fraud and sabotage. Integrity, decency,
value and respect depend on communicative interaction, that acknowledges and
responds to issues with right judgements and actions.
Jobs have traditionally justified our right to exist and recently we have invented
them, like inspectors of inspectors of inspectors! Pro-work attitudes are hard-
wired and education must assist youngsters to prepare for huge social changes
and examination of moral practices which differ across cultures. Post-work utopia
calls for imagination, flabby from lack of use, needing openness, exchange of
ideas and freedom to flourish. Educational policy and practice must give personal
development as much focus as knowledge retention and retrieval, to produce flexible,
competent people. This helps them interact and relate appropriately to cope with life
challenges, as well as minimise mental breakdowns. Jo Heywood, a media education
commentator, as well as an experienced head-teacher blogging for Huffington Post,
has alerted colleagues to her experience that children starting school at 5–6 years
have communication abilities of 2–3 year olds. They lack sufficient experience of
listening and talking to cope independently and interact effectively. The result is
increased stress and decreased learning.
Research at University College, London, shows that reliance on technology
to communicate, rather than personal contact, means the nuances of language
(information & opinion gaps in formal narrative talk/text) are not properly
understood (Loo et al., 2013). Researchers found subjects were less able to make
satisfactory relationships, with inappropriate behaviour, in studies at the University
of Nebraska (Garcia-Sierra, Ramirez-Esparza, & Kuhl, 2016). California State and
Baylor universities found students spend 10 hours daily on phones (2014). This
R. SAGE
14
mode eliminates important aspects of non-verbal messages, like facial expressions
and gestures, essential for affective meaning. Children are hurled into cyber-space
before having thinking and language development to interpret and judge information.
Participants on College of Teachers’ courses (2014) reported on students, at all
levels, with digital hangovers, tablet addiction, delays in attention span, motor
skills, dexterity, listening, speaking, socialisation and independence, accompanied
by increased anti-social behaviour, tiredness, obesity and stress. Problems produce
slower learning and lower standards.
We risk a generation of ‘cyber-feral children’ (and later adults) according
to Dr Aitken (2016) and must consider how new communication patterns are
changing behaviour. The medical profession has instituted training in interpersonal
communication and the programme leader, Dr Penny Newman, says it must teach
skills of talking with rather than to patients, as conversation is becoming a lost
‘art’. Training results from patient feedback, showing suffering from ineffective
communications with health workers, who do not listen or know how to glean
relevant information from them (ICTHC, 2016). On Communication Sciences’
courses, speech and language therapy students researched this aspect, finding that the
average doctor interrupts patients every 10 seconds, with ineffective communication
leading to incorrect diagnosis. In all aspects of living, successful performance
depends on appropriate patterns of communication with the transmission style of
talking to rather than with others, learnt from early experiences of teaching styles.
Education as well as medicine must take this lesson seriously.
LOSS OF APPROPRIATE COMMUNICATION
Many say that chivalry, decency and appropriate communication are things of
the past. It is now all about boozing, bingeing, Big Macs and Pokemon. A song
in the musical, Chicago, bemoans the modern world: Whatever happened to fair
dealing, pure ethics and nice manners? Buses and trains are full of discarded food
containers, thudding beats of headphones and shouting on mobiles, with theatre-
goers checking football scores and answering calls, stamping on unwritten rules of
audience conduct. UK Politicians slag each other off in public debate and the media.
Hurling insults does not help solutions. Propriety has been lost, so from a recent
resignation honours list, rewarding political cronies, to Sir Philip Green’s disgraceful
dealings with British Home Stores’ staff, the attitude is carry on until stopped. The
collapse of conscience amongst the rich and powerful does not bode well for the rest
of us. If these people act in this way, why should those with fewer advantages behave
better? Society has slipped and until caught is the spirit of the age. Education must
encourage and engineer change, by focusing on communication, moral thinking and
actions, to improve behaviour and concentrate on solving world problems.
Colvile (2016) quotes research suggesting a staggering rise in narcissism leading
to functional impairment and psycho-social problems. Between 1950–1990, the
proportion of teenagers agreeing with the statement: I am an important person rose
THE EDUCATIONAL CONTEXT
15
from 12 to 80 %, with the trend fostered and focused by social media. People used
to get on in the world by being considerate and communicating effectively with
others, but now do not get practice, as they have less face-to-face interaction to see
that belching, spitting, talking loudly, rudely and inappropriately are habits to curb.
Camilla Long (2016) says Britain has slid into hideous, small-minded, knock-kneed,
black-toothed oblivion, citing an example of crashing standards: ‘a woman (was)
said to have stripped half naked in Primark at Folkstone. Customers were horrified
when she took off her tights and then pants to try on some knickers, before putting
all four pairs back on the shelf and then leaving the shop. “She didn’t find anywhere
discreet to do it; she just stood there, bold as brass”, said a witness’(p. 24). Incidents
were witnessed on a London train when two people removed outer-garments and
changed into sporting gear, probably to save time on the way to the gym!
A British Council Survey: As Others See Us (2014), of 5,000 18–34-year-olds
around the world, on what they thought of Britain, produced startling results. They
concluded that the ‘Brits’ drink too much and are rude, unfriendly, ignorant and
utterly lazy. As a nation we are now as famous for our indolence as we once were for
our impeccable manners. An epidemic of laziness is now demonstrated in the way
we dress and how we appear – waddling around in sweat pants and trainers even at
work. Less professional and prepared may be interpreted as less reliable and less
credible. This trend has escalated over the last 30 years, when we started embracing
fast-food, stopped going to church and mixing with neighbours. It is all part of the
new casual code. We have shed cultural values, which were once deemed essential
to leading a good, healthy life. People today have all the goods and labour-saving
devices they want, but have slipped into affluence and debilitating depression. How
do we encourage our past vigour and vim, along with the joy of simple, sensible
living? Education has an important part to play in cultivating work ethics and
relevant life-skills. At present there is around 1 million unemployed young Britons
age 16–24 but are they willing or even capable of taking available jobs? These are
symptoms of a decadent, decaying society.
Recently, Independent Television (ITV) announced it was coaching managers on
dealing with the ‘millennial’ generation to address concerns that those born from
the 1980s onwards have a greater sense of expectation and entitlement with less
awareness than predecessors. Millennials will constitute 75% of the workforce by
2025, according to Deloitte accountants (2016). Employers believe they are limited
at communicating and difficult to manage. Cascade HR (2016) found 63% of bosses
said millennials (generation Y) require the most guidance and although technically
savvy use rights to make vociferous demands. The Chartered Management Institute
(2014) say they lack decision-making skills, confirming views regarding society’s
and education’s emphasis on academic rather than personal development, to the
detriment of curriculum balance and job needs.
The PEW Survey (2015), on Generations in a Mirror, showed nearly 60% of
millennials agree they are self-absorbed, greedy and wasteful. Only 36% considered
themselves hard-working; 33% tolerant; 29% compassionate; 27% self-reliant;
R. SAGE
16
24% responsible; 17% moral and 15% willing to sacrifice for others. Perhaps
views will change with life-experience, but we are to blame for such responses.
This group have been disadvantaged and not helped to achieve communicative,
collaborative competencies within informal home and formal education. Youngsters
are as enthusiastic and eager as previous generations, but do not wish to kowtow
to traditional management structures, when they see older employees treated liked
disposable assets, so are viewed by bosses as unmanageable.We short-change today’s
generation by not emphasising personal abilities as vital for effective relationships as
well as performances. Experts point out that mobile phone apps bark out instructions
and reminders without ‘please’ or ‘thank-you’ which suggest and model the fact that
previous good manners are not part of today’s society. Medical Research Council
studies show benefits of formal training (Sage, 2000). The Ipsos Mori Report (Duffy
et al., 2017) says the public stereotype of millennials is wide of the mark regarding
trust in public institutions, which does not differ greatly from other generations. The
report warns, however, that technology is leading to a crisis in social trust, which
could lead to higher suicide rates and damage the enconomy.
PROBLEMS WITH SOCIETY POLITICS
How do we interpret ‘society’and does it influence education? Society is an invisible
web binding people together according to students at the College of Teachers.
Society functions on trust, depending on truth in exchanges. A problem is that
politics hides or dismisses truth, implying it moves in one direction and unifies in
pursuit of the common good. Reality is that it comprises competing individuals with
opposing interests, values, attitudes, cultures, customs and goals. There is confusion
of society with the state and people defining well-being by government regulations
and responsibilities, so diminishing individual roles. Margaret Thatcher, a British
Prime Minister, said ‘there is no such thing as society’, attacking ideas that the state
is responsible for everything. True responsibility lies with people caring for others
out of compassion, duty and respect. This justifies attention to ethical development
in education and training, as different cultural values lead to varying moral positions.
State regulations prescribe a narrow curriculum, age-related standards and school
targets, with teachers losing professional judgement on what students need to learn.
These must be considered in relation to stakeholder dissatisfaction on effectiveness
of the learning agenda. It does not account for diversity in classrooms, implying
that everyone values academic above practical goals. Over 3/4s of jobs are mainly
practical, so the curriculum must broaden to include a greater range of intelligences
to reflect life demands.
SUMMARY
This chapter produced stakeholder examples to suggest that present education
has largely a narrow, academic focus, which excludes students with personal and
THE EDUCATIONAL CONTEXT
17
practical intelligencies. Communication and relationships are marginalised, with
changing work patterns requiring them in strong measure for coping with higher-
value work. Now we can produce more food and manufactured products with less
people means we are richer overall, leaving us free to pursue other things, such as
research, performance arts and sport. The concern is thar automation might shift the
balance of power between capital and labour in favour of the former. People could
still work but most would be in low-value jobs not central to the economy and poorly
paid. This means that the distribution of income and wealth would further widen,
with society relying even more on social welfare for the poorer citizens to survive.
Economic forces against the interests of workers will not be the only determinants
of the future. The test will be whether our political and social institutions (such
as education) are up to the challenge. We interact with capitalism in many ways
which are not all economic. This accounts for the conflicting relationship that
most of us have with the system. Whether we like it or not we have to live with
capitalism and how it shapes society in a competitive way, seen in all facets of
life. Competing as individuals, we require sophisticated personal competencies.
Lack of attention to such processes underpinning learning and socialising, with
the ‘politicisation of intelligence’ producing intellectual dishonesty, means we
avoid useful conversations about what is happening and how we might deal with
problems. Those who whistle-blow about unsatisfactory practices often find them
selves scapegoated and removed from jobs. This needs addressing if change is to
occur and progress made.
Task: Try observing talkers and non-talkers in lessons. Some students never talk
and when this task was given to 34 psychology students, they discovered only 6
main talkers in most classes. This is important information as, until around 9 years,
learners must externalise thoughts in talk, in order to develop inner-language (silent
talk in your head). Students needing help to complete tasks have undeveloped inner-
language competence.
MAIN POINTS
•	 The UK prescriptive curriculum has led to a narrow interpretation of intelligence
and success
•	 Rapid use of technology, taking over routine tasks, requires Education to
place more focus on communication, as the basis for higher-level thinking and
confidence to cope with complex problems
•	 Captalist systems, encouraging competition, are part of the global world, but have
led to a greater division between rich and poor, giving rise to populist movements.
There is a need for Education to recognise that children from improverished
environments require greater attention to personal development in order to
compete with those who have support for this at home.
•	 The ‘politicisation of intelligence’ has led to ‘intellectual dishonesty’, so that we
fail to address issues needing effective solutions
R. SAGE
18
NOTES
1
	A system is defined as an interrelated set of elements functioning as an operating unit. It consists
of 5 elements: inputs, transformation process, outputs, feedback and environment. Open systems,
like schools, use 4 kinds of inputs or resources: human (staff); financial (capital); physical (supplies,
facilities, equipment) and information (knowledge). Through technology and administrative functions
(e.g. teaching) input is transformed, as students become educated citizens contributing to society,
bringing energy and further resources into schools. Open systems transport a product to the outside
environment, with feedback acting as a control mechanism.
2
	 Capitalism is an economic system based on private ownership of production and its operation for
profit. Central to this is private property, amassed capital, waged labour, voluntary exchange, a price
system and competition. Decision-making and investment are determined by production owners
in financial and capital markets. Prices and distribution of goods are largely determined by market
competition.
	 Free market, welfare and state capitalism are the recognised forms. They feature varying degrees
of free markets, public ownership, barriers to free competition and state policies. The degree of
market competition, the role of intervention, regulation and state ownership vary across capitalist
models. The extent to which different markets are free, as well as rules defining private property, are
political matters. Most capitalist economies are mixed – combining free market elements with state
intervention and economic planning.
	 Market economies exist under many government types, in different places, cultures and times. Their
development is marked by universal money-based social relations, a large, waged, worker-class with
a capitalist one controlling wealth and political power. This developed in Western Europe, leading
to the Industrial Revolution. Capitalist systems (with varying degrees of government intervention)
dominate the West and continue to spread.
	 Capitalism is criticized for establishing power in the hands of a minority class that exploits the
working majority; for prioritizing profit over social good, natural resources and environments, whilst
creating inequality and economic instability. Supporters believe it provides better products through
competition; creates strong economic growth; yields productivity and prosperity to benefit society, as
well as being efficient for resource allocation.
REFERENCES
Aiken, M. (2016). The cyber effect. London: John Murray.
Bly, C. (2001). Beyond the writer’s workshop. New York, NY: Anchor Books.
British Council Survey. (2014). As others see us. London: British Council Survey. Retrieved September
1, 2017 from www.britishcouncil.org
Cascade HR. (2016). Millennials’ survey. Retrieved February 1, 2017, from www2.cipd.co.uk/PM/
peoplemanagement/b/weblog/archive/2016/01/29/mi
CBI/Pearson. (2017). Education and skills survey: Helping the UK thrive. Retrieved July 1, 2017 from
www.cbi.com
Charlemagne. (2016, June). Politics of alienation. The Economist, 11, 40.
Charter Management Institute (CMI). (2014). The commission on the future of management & leadership.
London: CMI Publications.
Cohen, T. (2017, Jan/Feb). The morality factor. Scientific American MIND, 28(1), 32–38. (Nature
America, Inc.)
Colvile, R. (2016). The great acceleration: How the world is getting faster, faster. London: Bloomsbury.
Confederation of British Industry (CBI). (n.d.). Retrieved November 25, 2016, from
	 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Confederation_of British_Industry
Deloitte. (2016). Survey on Millenials. Retrieved August 12, 2017 from http://deloitte.com/MillenialsSurvey
Digital Learning Research. (2016). The next generation digital learning research symposium. Ireland:
Dublin City University. Retrieved November 25, 2016, from http://www.disymposium.dryfla.com/
THE EDUCATIONAL CONTEXT
19
Duffy,D., Shrimpton, H., & Clemence, M. (2017). Millennial: Myths and realities. London: Ipsos Mori
Survey. Retrieved from www.ipsos-mori.com/millennials
Erikson, E. (1963). Childhood and society. New York, NY: Norton.
Flynn, M., & Ledem, M. (2014). The field of fight: How we can win the global war. New York, NY:
St. Martin’s Press.
Frey, C., & Osborne, M. (2013). The future of employment: How susceptible are jobs to computerisation.
Oxford: University of Oxford. Retrieved November 20, 2016, from http://www.oxfordmartin.ox.ac.uk/
downloads/academic/The_Future_of_Employment
Garcia-Sierra, A., Ramirez-Esparza, N., & Kuhl, P. (2016). Relationship between quantity of language
input & brain responses. International Journal of Psychophysiology, 110, 1–17.
Grace, K., Salvatier, J., Dafoe,A., Zhang, B., & Evans, O. (2017). When will ai exceed human performance.
Heifetz, R., Grashow, A., & Linsky, M. (2009). The practice of adaptive leadership: Tools and tactics for
changing your organization and the world. Boston, MA: Harvard Business Review Press.
Hitchcock, A. (2016). Reform Report. Retrieved November 20, 2016, from www.reform.co.uk/
publications/nhs_reform
Ikeda, D., & Peccei, A. (1984). Before it’s too late. London: Macdonald & Co.
Intensive Communication Training for Healthcare Professionals. Retrieved September 10, 2016 from
http://healthcarecomm.org/training/continuing-education-workshops/intensive-communication-
skills-program/
Kotter, J. (2014). Accelerate building strategic agility for a faster-moving world. Boston, MA: Harvard
Business Review Press.
Long, C. (2016, August 14). News: The Sunday Times. (thesundaytimes.co.uk)
Loo, J., Bamiou, D., & Rosen, S. (2013). The impact of language background and language-related
disorders in auditory processing assessment. Journal of Speech, Language, Hearing Research, 56(1),
1–12.
Markiewicz, K., Kaczmarek, B. L. J., Kostka-Szymańska, M. (2011). Disabled youths in the face of
globalization. Is life in the global village any better? In B. L. J. Kaczmarek, G. E. Kwiatkowska, &
K. Markiewicz (Eds.), Youth facing the challenges of globalization (pp. 55–66). Lublin: UMCS.
McCoy, E. (2013). Lost for words: Poor literacy, the hidden issue in child poverty. London: National
Literacy Trust (NLT).
Murphy, M. (2013). Mental health problems in children and young people. Retrieved August 12, 2014,
from www.gov.uk/government/uploads/..../33571_290104_CWO Chapter10.pdf
PEW Research. (2015). Generations in a mirror: Numbers, facts & trends changing the world. Retrieved
from www.pewresearch.org
PEW Center Research. (2017). Internet, science & technology. Retrieved July 1, 2017 from
www.pewinternet.org
Rees, M. (2003). Our final century. London: Heinemann.
Rittel, H. W., & Melvin, M. W. (1973). Dilemmas in a general theory of planning. Policy Sciences, 4(2),
155–169.
Russell, H. (2016). How to make big decisions, be resilient and change your life for good. London: Two
Roads.
Schleicher, A. (2015). The well-being of students: New insights from PISA. Edu Skills, OECD.
Smith, S.(2016, September 10). The forgotten five percent: Life in an internet Black hole. Telegraph
Campaign (featured in the Daily Telegraph, pp. 22–23).
Spiers, H., Lorelei, R., Howard, R., Javadi, A., Yu, Y., Mill, R., Morrison, Knight, R., Loftus, E., &
Staskute, L. (2014). The hippocampus and entorhinal cortex encode the path and Euclidean distances
to goals during navigation. Journal of Current Biology, 24(12), 1334–1340.
UNESCO. (2013–2014). Education for all. Paris: UNESCO Headquarters.
UNICEF. (2013). Children’s well-being in rich countries. Retrieved 12 August, 2014 from
https://www.unicef-irc.org/Report-Card-11/
Woo, G., & Brandt, M. (2017, July). The brain hackers. The Week.
R. Sage (Ed.), Paradoxes in Education, 21–44.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
ROSEMARY SAGE
2. TEACHER TRAINING ISSUES
ABSTRACT
Research suggests teachers are trained to implement the National Curriculum rather
than understanding how learning occurs and strategies needed to process information
for effective responses. Teaching is challenging, now that many students learn in a
language different from mother-tongue. The UK Department of Education presently
estimates we need 267 new schools to cope with the 20% increased numbers in schools
due to immigration. As non-white families have higher fertility rates this may be an
underestimate. Communication across cultures in teaching and learning is a vital issue
with countries, like Japan, making it a major school focus. It demands knowledge of
student backgrounds, in order to understand their abilities and attitudes to education
and society. Emphasis on human development (particularly people interaction) is seen
in Japanese teacher-training - grasping the home-school communication shift and its
importance for learning. Teachers assess whether conversational moves in informal
(home) talk are established to enable formal (school) language, allowing students to
move from oracy to literacy and numeracy successfully. This emphasis is not seen in
UK education but needs to be considered for higher standards to be achieved.
INEFFECTIVE TEACHER TRAINING
Traditional, transmissive education methods, with teachers mainly talking to
classes, are found to be ineffective for imparting knowledge and assisting personal
development (Teaching the Teachers, Economist, 11 June, 2016). Thomas Kane’s
extensive research suggests teachers invariably lack instructional abilities (Harvard
University, 2013). These develop from understanding narrative thinking and
language structure and its inference, reference and coherence demands, alongside
information processing, production abilities and interpersonal performance. These
are picked up haphazardly, but can be systematically taught and coached for
improved student understanding and expression. A Leicester University survey
found that communication with adults was students’ most difficult problem and
when tackled led to improved performances (Sage, 2000). It is easy to fall into a
pattern of communicating, treating students as recalcitrants and nagging them for
required target standards. We are all messy, multifaceted, mysterious, mixed-up
people, that must be be approached in different ways on different days, when moods
alter according to circumstances:
R. SAGE
22
If this is to change teachers need to know how to impart knowledge and prepare
young minds to receive, retain (and communicate) this. (Economist, 11 June,
2016, p. 16)
Focus on fact-learning means students leave education without effective
communication and abilities dependent on these (higher-level thinking, judgement,
independence,collaboration) with negative impact on performances. Students
have facts but not always understanding to apply them in real situations. Some
employees, with first class degrees, cannot use initiative, communicate effectively
with a range of people and speak/write coherently in appropriate language style,
according to bosses. Time spent on technology (8 hours daily from surveys), rather
than talk, means people have less opportunity to develop literate speaking (narrative
sequences;instructions; topic presentations; re-tellings), necessary for secondary,
representational languages of written words and numbers.
NEW WAYS OF COMMUNICATING & PROBLEMS FOR FORMAL LEARNING
The Ltle Bk of Txt Msgs (2000) is a dictionary with over 1000 abbreviations,
emoticons and meanings, presenting a new grammar and ‘netiquette’, with capital
letters classed as shouting and considered rude! This economical, informal, implicit
way of communicating (6 million emoticons in daily emails) makes it challenging
for students to learn the formal, explicit style required in life. Illustrating this,
Mr Justice Peter Jackson made legal history, by using a smiley-faced emoji to explain
an evidence point in a UK family court case (September, 2016). It was to help a
more comprehensible judgement, as spoken and written words are losing ability to
convey meaning effectively. This reflects Leicester University research, with 63%
of teachers feeling they lacked knowledge and skills to communicate effectively
with diverse students, who were more used to doing this via technology than face-
to-face talk. Students (80%) entered senior school (age 11–12) with thinking and
formal language development at a 5–6 year level, in studies of why they were failing
national standards (Sage & Cwenar, 2005).
Research showed how this changed through intervention with a Communication
Opportunity Group Strategy (COGS), developed at Leicester University and
integrated into whole-class and small-group teaching (Sage, 2000, 2010). COGS
experts (Sue Frost & Mark Frisby) are using this with youngsters lacking
employment skills, in a project at the Phoenix Centre, Melton Mowbray. In this
region, immigrants received daily, additional language help from Home Office
funding, whilst indigenous students, with communication-cognition issues, affecting
learning, had a long wait for assessment and support. This means they were unable
to progress and reach potential, so impacting on employment opportunities. There
is present concern about underachieving white-students, which has remained
unacknowledged by politicians. The 2017 Sutton Trust survey: The State of Social
Mobility in the UK, produces evidence that qualifications are less important than
TEACHER TRAINING ISSUES
23
personal competencies, like fluency, articulacy and self-assurance, in achieving life
and job success. A Leicester teacher, Sera Shortland, has successfully introduced a
communication contest in schools to develop formal talk and personal confidence.
Students present a topic (personally, politically & socially topical) in a knock-out
competition called MP6. The label implies local MPs are involved in the scheme
and 6 is the number of participants in the final round. This is a positive initiative,
assisting students with communicative knowledge and competencies needed for life.
(see Chapter 11).
Evidence suggests that students do not spontaneously improve communicative
levels in education, with studies revealing that 100% of children entering a city
school over 3 years had language-thinking levels at least 2 years below chronological
age, which only reached a 5–6 year level at age 12 when entering senior school
(Sage, 2010). It is a serious issue, as Britain’s greatest economic strength is the
English language, culture and history surrounding it. Experience (as a university
teacher) shows that some foreign students (ERASMUS scholars) have a better grasp
of formal spoken and written English than UK ones, attaining higher assignment
grades, as they come from cultures emphasising communication knowledge and
language competencies for learning. A 2009 project, Write Now, in UK universities,
aimed to improve inadequate student oracy-literacy abilities. English graduates
(teacher trainees) were co-opted to assist students. These trainees had a limited
grasp of English form, content and use, as degrees focus on literature not phonetics,
linguistics and pragmatics. Other arrangements were made for helping students to
speak, read and write at the formal language-level required for courses.
It is time to give attention to the language we speak, listen to, read and write for
improved performances. This is urgent now that amendments to the 2017 UK Higher
Education & Research Bill aim to stop students buying tailor-made essays from on-
line services, which circumvent plagiarism software and enable cheating their way
to a degree. Dr Lancaster (Stafford University) and Dr Clarke (Birmingham City
University) are leading authorities on student-cheating, suggesting at least 50,000
a year do this, even at Russell-group universities. Lord Storey, who tabled Bill
amendments, said in Parliament that rich students buy degrees. If the practice stops,
they must improve formal language to pass courses. Recent Freedom of Information
requests show that cheating, involving technology, increased by 42% in 2016 and
has been rising dramatically year-by-year. The latest versions of exam cheat come
with a speaker smaller than a grain of rice to sit in the ear. This connects wirelessly
to a device, like a phone, playing audio notes. Wires and sensors link tiny speakers
to a student’s feet, allowing them to use subtle toe movements to fast forward and
rewind. Ingenuity knows no bounds but must be morally channelled!
SOLVING THE LANGUAGE PROBLEM
Instilling techniques to remedy problems is easier said than done. Educating, like
any complex skill, is not only theory but guided practice. Do teachers regularly
R. SAGE
24
receive performance feedback and know how to become better communicators to
help students with this skill? Students do best, personally and academically when
teachers observe colleagues; collaborate constantly; receive constructive feedback; are
coached on classroom communication, and supported with knowledge and training
(Japan, Cuba, Finland, Poland, & Singapore). These countries view teaching as
communicative activity and face-to-face talk as technology for learning, with students
taught to express formally in various communicative acts, like giving instructions and
presenting information to others. Sharing knowledge assists independent thinking,
empathy, communication, collaboration, integration and reflection, leading to more
effective, ethical performances. Interactive talk brings deeper understanding from
expressing ideas, discussing and reviewing with others, but teachers must know how
to make this happen amongst those with varying language-thinking abilities.Assessing
14 year-olds in school (as their new English teacher) there was a range of 4–18 years
on psycholinguistic tests, with 3 students not able to write their names at this age.
COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
Teachers, using a communicative approach, introduce a topic but allow students
to decide how to develop thoughts, talk, techniques and further comprehension.
In a Math’s lesson, in Japan, 7 year-olds were introduced to averages and asked
how they might progress the concept. After discussion, they decided to monitor
team goals scored in the World Football tournament (then taking place), collating
and presenting information to compare averages across nations (Japanese girls
are as keen as boys on football). They could make decisions collectively, because
of a school emphasis on helping students shift from informal home (dialogue) to
formal school (monologue) language (assembling, understanding & expressing
quantities of talk/text), which underpins successful interactive performances.
This requires educators to know narrative thinking and language structure levels
and when and how they develop. Teachers need detailed knowledge to facilitate
this for learners, especially in multi-lingual populations. In some countries, they
receive it in initial and continuing education from psycho-linguistic experts. It
is a matter of reflection that the 10 most high-achieving nations (on Educational
league tables) put emphasis on language and thinking growth. A knowledge of
differences between home and school language, with how primary oracy shifts
into secondary, language literacy, is essential.
COMMUNICATION STYLE DIFFERENCES IN TEACHING
The DIAL study (Dialogue, Innovation, Achievement, & Learning: Sage, Rogers,
& Cwenar, 2006) confirmed how different were the controlling, explaining and
questioning roles of Japanese and English teachers, with the former asking more
‘why’ questions to encourage thinking and language. Evidence is shown in the
following table:
TEACHER TRAINING ISSUES
25
Table 1. Comparing teacher questions in 11 English & Japanese schools in 50m maths
lessons (whole class/groups/individuals)
Question Type Mean – England Mean – Japan
Instructional 36 12
Factual 43 10
Exploratory  6 26
Total: 85 48
Classroom communication styles differ greatly. The Japanese describe these as
‘dry’ or ‘wet’ (dorai & uetto) ways of interacting.A‘dry’ manner is rational, logical
and unemotional; a ‘wet’ one is personal, emotional and interpersonally complex.
Observation, in 300 schools, illustrates Japan’s ‘wet’ in contrast to Britain’s ‘dry’
classroom practice, with their teachers explaining more to students, in anecdotes
and stories, to clarify ideas. Japanese students manage and control learning,
because communication with themselves and others takes priority over curriculum
content and seen as vital for success. Needs to feel competent, autonomous,
authentic beings within their community are recognized and met by Japanese
teachers, providing relevant opportunities, as in regularly presenting a topic. In
some schools, students (from age 6) teach what they like, researching content
themselves, receiving peer and teacher feedback and coaching on performances.
A boy (age 7- below) teaches effects of one substance on another (e.g. apple soaked
in red colouring) to 60 others. Students take a class twice monthly, researching
content themselves without teacher help. They are encouraged to glean this from
many sources.
Student skills to manage and communicate information amazes – structuring
lessons to introduce a topic, organising groups to implement activities (10
experiments in above example) with a closing summary and review. Each child gives
a 30-second talk on what was learnt (Hansei – presentation, practice, production,
& reflection). Therefore, they are better equipped than UK students to organize
thinking and expression, shifting oracy into literacy and numeracy more easily.
Japanese educators do not teach reading like British ones, because learners, with
requisite levels of connected speech, will naturally move into secondary language
representational activities of reading, writing and numeracy.
With almost 100% literacy rates their practice works, with comprehension valued
above mechanical fluency. The English DIAL team saw 4 year-olds alone on trains
and able to ask for help. With home, nursery and school activities based on interests,
needs and real experiences, learners apply knowledge with understanding and
independence. UK teachers assume that the Japanese rote learn, but the Leicester
team experienced the reverse, visiting more schools in Japanese prefectures (regions)
than other researchers to date. In the Japanese state-system there are no public exams
or recording of student progress like Britain, although there is fierce competition
R. SAGE
26
for premier universities, with coaching for entrance tests. Parents can afford this,
because differences between rich and poor are not such an issue as in the UK.
Interactive teaching requires understanding of narrative thinking and language
development and ability to evaluate this in students for providing correct input.
This is vital for shifting primary spoken language to secondary, symbolic levels
of reading, writing and numeracy. Japanese teachers have a 6-year training,
emphasising human development (particularly thinking & language) to assess this
in pupils. There are close links to universities, with academics holding principal
roles in schools, although a full-time headteacher presides. They take close
interest in professional development programmes. Sadly, many British students
are hurried into secondary language learning before establishing primary, spoken,
literate thinking and consequently experience problems. This is due to teachers
being unaware of stages of informal (dialogue) and formal (monologue) language
development and its relation to thinking (Medical Research Council Studies, in
Class talk, Sage, 2000).
SHANGHAI MODEL
Recently, the British Government has been impressed with results of Shanghai
students, who have topped the triennial Programme for International Student
Assessment (PISA) for the last two cycles, suggesting that 15-year-olds are
TEACHER TRAINING ISSUES
27
3 years ahead of English peers in Mathematics. The UK recruited Shanghai
teachers to work in primary schools, as part of an £11 million project to boost
performance. Shanghai students study for the Gaokao as the sole criterion for
university entrance. This modern equivalent of the Keju (ancient Imperial exam)
is the world’s first standard educational test. The Gaokao introduced a measure of
meritocracy into China, offering students with few social or economic advantages
places at prestigious institutions.
However, critics suggest it has turned schools into memorisation boot camps,
robbing chances to develop higher-level thinking. Research by Dr Jerrim (2015)
presented cultural factors, like the high value Asians place on education, as the main
contributor to high PISA scores, rather than just classroom methods. Xion Binqui,
Vice President of the 21st Century Education Research Institute, thinks the system
has insidious consequences for society. Since one exam determines life chances,
the Gaokao results in test-oriented education, which is bad for physical and mental
health and individual development and interests.
League tables encourage this approach. Experience of Chinese schools shows
early focus is placed on communication, thinking and language, with students
presenting formally in class, as seen in Japan. Establishing oral competence before
secondary, representational languages of literacy and numeracy is understood by
Chinese teachers as basic to success. Opportunities to orally articulate ideas and
feelings diminishes later, in competitive drives for high academic achievements on
international league.
MERITOCRACY ISSUES
There is a UK drive to support meritocracy, like in China. We want a society where
those good at things have opportunity to develop them well but what happens to
others who struggle? Within the Christian tradition, ‘not weighing our offences but
pardoning them’, is advocated, but will education be merciful with targets to meet?
In an effective society, merits are recognised and valued for fulfilment. In theory this
is true, but we judge merit by comparing one with another, focusing on academic
outcomes in education. Only a few people are outstanding in any study area or skill
and systems based solely on merit are tough. Most people will be useless at many
things, so we must not place unnecessary stress on achieving high standards across
the board. Frederick Temple (a Rugby School headteacher) regarded teaching as:
‘Justice for the stupid’.
He meant it is relatively easy to teach the best learners but the test and reward is
in doing this well for everyone. Students would not be thought ‘stupid’ if curricula
included their particular intelligences. Education is narrowly focussed, rewarding
academic rather than practical gifts. ‘Work hard and live well’ and ‘Use all your
talents’ were mantras found in Japanese schools. This reinforces a need for well-
trained teachers, who make learning relevant for everyone, accepting limitations, as
rarely do we have abilities in equal measure. Practical skills are foremost in work,
R. SAGE
28
play and daily life. All intelligences should have equal value and attention, with
chances to acquire them throughout education.
CULTURALLY RELEVANT TEACHING
Culturally relevant teaching was coined by Gloria Ladson-Billings (1992) to
empower students to excel, by experiencing learning according to language-thinking
levels and life contexts, for coping and confidence. If they do not see themselves,
development stage, culture, values and interests represented in class, or feel they
have to assume other beliefs, it is difficult to fit in and progress. To meet needs,
student mother-tongue language greetings are made into a poster, using a new one to
make contact at each lesson. Students briefly present their language and customs to
others during the course. There are big challenges for teachers, with diverse students
from many cultures, when the language of instruction, as well as underlying values
and attitudes, are different to home.
THREE KINDS OF CULTURE
Margaret Mead (1977), in Culture & Commitment, defines 3 kinds of culture –
post-figurative, in which children learn from forbears; con-figurative, whereby
both children and adults learn from peers and pre-figurative, when adults learn
from children. The latter is the case with technology, as youngsters born to this
instruct older relatives. Post-figurative cultures, in which elders cannot imagine
life differently, so conveying ideas of unchanging continuity, are characteristic of
societies. People moving to other lands, tend to huddle in ghettoes, asserting an
unchanging identity with forbears, in language, communication style, dress, food and
behaviour. If numerous, they have no need or desire to mix with natives, when multi-
cultural policies encourage segregation and mark out people-differences. Martin
and Nakayama (1999) suggest culture is ‘a site of struggle, a place where multiple
interpretations come together, but where there is always a dominant force’ (p. 24). It
is traditional, national attitudes, values and customs, evolving from history that hold
sway. There must be acceptance of this reality, but tolerance and respect for cultural
differences, boosting and energising creativity from many views and skill sets.
Adoption and adaption to new groups is not impossible, but demands commitment.
Society membership, achieved by birth is now often by election, requiring dedication,
but bringing dissonance if values, attitudes and customs differ. Individuals must
absorb part of their cultural identity and strive for a new sense of who they are
in another society. They assign parallel meanings, speaking a new language with
linguistic patterns of the old, making them less intelligible to others. Homes are
decorated as in their native country, as internal integration does not change and
continuity retains identity. How children learn languages and culture from parents
will be how they acquire other systems. They may treat each new one as comparable
TEACHER TRAINING ISSUES
29
as in inter-comprehension and production. However, they might regard their own
language and culture as the correct system, with others considered imperfect
translations, like Americans have done. This influences how they will view and
learn the language and culture of instruction. Children, therefore, are brought up
in linguistically and culturally-evolved ways into which most, but not all, can be
fitted. Lack of questioning and conscious awareness are key for maintaining a post-
figurative culture. In contrast, a co-figurative one is where behaviour models that of
native contemporaries. Access to a new culture involves incorporating the dominant
lifestyle, language and behaviour. This encourages youngsters to behave in sharp
contrast to their own cultural and linguistic norms, bringing distance and alienation
between generations.
In Britain, people mobility ensures huge gaps in education, living and behaviour
amongst residents. Closed communities establish and maintain a preferred way of
life, but result in segration and tension. The Greek historian, Herodotus, was explicit
about this, showing that empires, like Persia, became great because of openness, with
ability to adapt and adopt customs and practices of the people invaded (Godley’s
translation, 1982). He regarded apparel as important for acceptance. If you choose
to dress differently from others, you signal a wish to be apart from them, which may
be interpreted as disregard and dismissal of host conventions and traditions.
DIVISIONS IN SOCIETY
Astudy into Racism, Extremism and Segregation, led by Dame Louise Casey (2016),
has found deep divisions between different sections of British society. These are
worse than the Cantle review (2001) because of rapid, simultaneous migration of
many different groups at the same time since then, with frictions between them.
In leading cities, many wards are predominantly Muslim and schools have few (if
any) native children, so immigrants grow up believing that all of Britain thinks and
behaves like them. English is a major problem, as around 50% of mothers, in some
groups, do not speak or attempt to learn it. Findings argue that only if UK laws,
language, traditions and culture are strongly promoted in every ethnic community
can diverse groups fully integrate, defeating far-right and Islamist extremists trying
to divide us.
An example of a lack of support for British values, attitudes and customs (not
in the report) was an email from Strathclyde University operations management
team to students about toilet habits, after complaints from cleaners. This message
was strongly refuted by University authorities, asserting it contravened their equal
values ethos. Therefore, integration lessons are advocated, that include cultural
and communication differences which conflict with host society conventions (see
Section 2).
Criticising trends (like the huge growth in Muslim Sharia courts disadvantaging
women), Dame Casey says that all citizens must obey the same laws defining how
we live, learn and work together. The report cites discriminatory practices against
R. SAGE
30
women causing them serious harm, denying access to human rights and equal
opportunities. Evidence suggests that Sharia Councils support extremists, condone
wife-beating, female genital mutilation, ignore rape whilst allowing forced marriage
and honour killings. Feminist groups say that 80,000 rapes are recorded annually in
Britain and are the tip of the iceberg with no place in UK society. Sharia influence is
said to be growing and that of moderate Muslims declining, with men marrying back
in their native countries. By living with wives briefly in Europe, they move back,
under free movement rules, which works against integration.
A recent example (not in the report) finds pupils, at an Islamic faith school,
telling Education inspectors they felt gender segregation did not prepare them for
‘life in Britain’. The comment came in an Ofsted report, which school governors
(not named for legal reasons) attempted to squash (September, 2016). One female
said that segregation was ‘dumb’, stating a wish to adapt to host customs. How does
segregation help acceptance into a nation valuing equality and opportunity? Critics
mention problems of ‘white flight’, with people (like London East End pearly kings
& queens) now dispersed to surrounding counties, feeling swamped by foreigners
with no interest in their way of life. Issues on both sides need resolving, as they
perpetuate segregation not integration.
The report calls for elected local and national politicians to swear oaths to serve
all citizens, according them equal respect. Honest discussion about migration,
segregation and the massive life-changes brought to areas of Britain is advocated. It
concerns the indigenous population, feeling traditions and lifestyle are threatened,
with values and attitudes ignored and disrespected. Anger and alienation result from
such a situation and simmers until eruption occurs.
This is now seen in Sweden, regarding itself as the ‘humanitarian superpower’.
It has welcomed refugees, but not fully integrated them because significant numbers
lack education necessary for entry-level jobs and cannot get work. There are now
zones of joblessness and criminality and a shadow society, with its own moral codes
and legal system. Parallel courts deal with underworld crimes, like a failed attempted
murder, with fines equivalent to £50,000. The Swedes have cut refugee welfare to
reduce numbers.
Their social model, created from good intentions, has resulted in a violent
underworld out of police control. The same is seen in America, with an estimated 11
million illegal immigrants; shadow societies, mafia-style courts, gangland killings,
attacks on Sherriffs and conundrums like child-brides. Trouble is buried in data, but
politcians dismiss problems and fail to face up to facts. Populist risings result from
ignoring feelings on issues affecting lives in negative ways.
At the beginning of the century, Pim Fortuyn, a Dutch academic, formed an anti-
Islamic party giving rise to a populist movement. He did not oppose migration on a
racist basis, but said the Muslim religion was too dogmatic to integrate into Western
culture. In 2002, Fortuyn was killed, by a Dutch environmentalist, for spreading
this idea. A liberal proposed an illiberal view and was shot dead by another liberal.
Although illogical, it shows mass immigration is not just about jobs, but identity.
TEACHER TRAINING ISSUES
31
To some, racial or national identity is bigoted, but for others rooted in place and
tradition. Globalisation portrays free movement as removing loyalities to birth-
place values, but this is not how humans react. Identity questions eclipse reason,
producing fear if immigrants, with differing views and lifestyles, swamp existing
populations. This is not to say that incomers cannot integrate, as Rotterdam’s
Moroccan Muslim mayor has done, but not everyone wants this, as orginal identity
is important to preserve.
Wider discussion of such issues is discouraged by the ‘opinion corridor’ into
which public debate is confined. Those stepping outside to talk about immigration
problems risk accusations of bigotry. Some in public life and the media (in spite of
holding other views) see the future as an extension of the past, even though the present
crisis has been attributed to rapid change, family collapse, decay of capitalism,
technology worship, establishment breakdown and increased mobility. The world is
in a continual rumble and tumble, with conflicts, prejudice, poverty, inequality and
limited understanding between nations. We see a rat-race of some people trying to
outwit and beat fellows, to gain power, giving rise to world unrest. We are all equal
and should value diversity’s range of ideas, from which problems can be approached
and solved. Too much liberty leads to facism, so it is wise to control immigration and
prevent countries reshaping to lose their traditional identities.
IDENTITY CRISIS
An identity crisis is faced by some students, who live in democratic Britain but
originate from autocratic nations. UK principles of liberty, equality and fraternity
do not sit comfortably with their heritage norms. They arise from different national
histories, with suppression of women, sexual orientation and majority ideas. Such
students are awash in unfamiliar, torrid seas, without an anchor of knowing who
they are and what they should think and believe in their present community. In
homes, traditional values reign, often conflicting with school and society norms.
Culture clashes are not uncommon amongst people of different origens thinking
they are right and others wrong. European identities are largely built on ancestry and
Christianity. Today, disinterest in Christian principles of respect for others, means
we are not energetic in creating wise, safe, moral pro-social codes. There is no longer
a central code for life based on agreed virtues of love, compassion, forgiveness,
humility, respect, beauty and equality. ‘Do as you would be done by’ is rarely heard
or reinforced.
Faced with diverse newcomers, policy-makers talk of a national identity founded
on liberal, universalistic values, which mean little to those reared with different
attitudes and no concept or experience of what liberalism means. To them, it means
living as you want with freedom to do so, even if conflicting with host norms. There
is a lack of what our historical identity has passed down, like the heroic narrative
that youngsters crave and which today the extremist groups provide with lurid
behaviour, beheadings and bombings. Incomers must be appraised of our past and
R. SAGE
32
why principles and identity have evolved, so that they understand the reasons for the
lifestyles of the indigeneous population.
There was a quote from Chesterton, the author: ‘democracy means government
by the uneducated, whilst aristocracy means government by the badly educated’.
British nobility, as independent citizens, traditionally stood for freedom, restraining
tyranny of rulers and people. They are now superseded by the new wealth of industry,
with commoners given titles because of political party support. In the House of
Lords, aristocrats are greatly reduced and replaced by business folk, media-types,
spin-doctors, political party-hacks and donors with agendas. Who will dampen forces
of excess and extremism now independence of political party or special interest has
diminished? Where will minds be nurtured? Academia should be the answer, as
independence of mind is the point of their existence. However, it also succumbs to
group think1
and behaviour, centred on identity politics, political correctness and
competitive self-interest.
In Furedi’s book: What’s Happened to the University: A Sociological Exploration
of its Infantilisation (2016), the issue is discussed. He suggests that universities have
lost their climate of freedom, tolerance and experimentation and given way to political
correctness and an illiberal, preachy atmosphere. Sussex University ran a workshop:
‘Dealing with Right-wing attitudes and politics in the classroom’ (February, 2017).
It provoked media fury that free speech is being undermined in universities, which
should be ‘intellectualy diverse rather than echo chambers of Left-wing opinion’
(Daily Telegraph, Undermining Free Speech, February, 2017). A radical magazine,
Spiked (February, 2017), found in a survey that 90% of UK universities restrict free
speech, censoring specific ideas, speakers, language and texts and implementing
campus ‘safe spaces’. Implications for a fair society are profoundly disturbing, as
self-censorship curtails freedom. Durham University Islamic Society, at a Discover
Islam Week (summer term, 2017) handed out booklets saying. ‘every Muslim should
be a terrorist’, which upset those involved in the recent killings in Manchester and
London. Critics responded, saying we are happy to support terrorist propaganda,
preying on a largly decent and civilised society, but clamp down on many Christian
views.
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN RICH AND POOR
There has been a growing sense of Britain becoming an ‘us and them’society, where
only a few can hoard wealth and power. Oxfam figures show the average pay of
bosses is 129 times that of employees, with 8 men owning the wealth of half the world
(Davos, 2017, World Economic Forum). Professor Dorling (Oxford University), on
News Night (BBC, 29 September, 2016), suggested that professionals now struggle
to make ends meet. InAmerica, a Chief Executive has reduced his salary to that of the
lowest earners, showing their personal value and economic importance for effective
company performances. Some measurements purport that 1% of the population
owns half the UK wealth, paying only 27% of 2016 income taxes, according to Her
TEACHER TRAINING ISSUES
33
Majesty’s Tax and Customs Office. Although other data suggests that inequality may
not be increasing in the conventional sense of unequal pay, the problem is insufficient
absolute levels of income and wealth amongst those with lower salaries. This is due
to slow GPD growth and cheap, foreign labour, with incomes insufficient for living
standards. In London, the charity, Kitchen Social, provides meals for 500,000 pupils
in 330 centres, when not at school, because parents cannot feed them. An estimated
3 million UK children go hungry each day. Youngsters now earn less, in real terms,
than predecessors and living costs (like housing) have soared. The existing inequality
does not show up in income statistics. Large groups of Westerners suffer from
inadequate education, family and community breakdown as well as cultural poverty.
Others are alienated regarding social, political, ethnic, religious and material factors,
leading to instability, insecurity, dissatisfaction, disaffection and anger, giving rise
to Islamist extremism.
Underperformance of many from UK indigenous, working-class backgrounds
is worrying as they do poorly at school. Lack of employability skills means firms
prefer hiring foreigners. A UK engineering company presently has no British staff,
because they are not considered effective. Spoken and written communication,
initiative and work ethics are mentioned as key factors. Sir James Dyson is
starting an Institute of Technology (2017), as Britain will have a shortage of over
1 million engineers by 2022. His company, producing high-tech cleaners, needs
to double the workforce by then. Education, training and work will combine, as
originally achieved by the Council of National Academic Awards (CNAA) in
Polytechnics. These degrees were abandoned in the 1970s, with courses absorbed
into academic universities. Bringing back this model is a positive move to provide
required skills.
In the Grammar School era, there were more working-class in UK universities
than in other European countries. The fact is that past well-paid manufacturing
jobs have now been taken over by technology, with a collapse in employment rates
amongst this group. Working-class children do not have the formal communication,
personal and academic competencies for higher-level work (Sage, 2010). To
compound this, life expectancy is falling for white, working class Britons, partly
resulting from high suicide rates from alcohol and drug abuse. In Swinden, police
use sniffer dogs to stop pupils stashing drugs in underwear and getting high before
lessons, as bag searches are no deterrent.
Headteachers say drugs are a problem in all schools. Such factors are not
revealed in traditional inequality metrics. One may earn a reasonable wage whilst
suffering cultural impoverishment and declining living standards. In the UK, 47
million (2/3rds of known population) are supported by Churches with food-banks
or other help (from relatives), as well as state benefits. This is not a happy situation
for people. We will need improved, relevant education for both children and
adults; cultural, social renewal, an entrepreneurial rebirth and a pro-growth policy
to alleviate the situation. Will this be sufficent? It is a start to solving entrenched
problems.
R. SAGE
34
THE SOCIAL CONTRACT
The present situation corrodes the social contract that we are all subject to
common rules and equal opportunities. History shows that when the majority
feel they are losing out things can turn ugly (Frankopan, 2015). If present trends
continue, historians will mark the start of the 21st century as a time when free,
open societies faltered, weakened by divisions. Whereever you look, dictators,
autocrats, terrorists and corrupt opportunists show that a taken-for-granted
assumption of Western freedom may be mistaken. How does a liberal society, deal
with illiberalism? By becoming less liberal, as Furedi (2016) suggests? Although
free societies provide chances for all, they need protection, strong leadership,
effective communication and relationships, as well as determined unity.
Consistent approaches to maintaining evolved principles must be followed by all.
Some people insist this erodes individual rights and freedoms but it allows and
supports divisions. In diverse communities agreement seems wellnigh impossible
unless there is acceptance of host history, traditions, values and lifestyles.
There is conflict with people, now part of society, who will not accept equality,
tolerance, respect and disagreement, identifying the British character. According
to the Fawcett Society, 20% of males (25–34 years) believe female equality has
gone too far. A Polish politician, Janusz Koewin-Mikke, has said in the European
Parliament that women are weaker, smaller and less intelligent than men, so must
earn less. How far do we go in abrogating or compromising principles, standards
and laws to extinguish threats to our way of life and loss of identity? There are
laws for the indigenous (1 wife) not enforced in cultures with other customs
(multiple wives). Rules for some and not others create unequal practices and
divisions. Socrates and Plato (Greek philosophers) said democracy brings tyranny.
Giving rights and freedoms guarantee people assert views and confront others with
different values, attitudes and customs. This is happening everywhere? How can it
stop? What part can education play in encouraging acceptance? Honest talk helps
solutions, which must respect host-nation traditions.
Those used to living how and where they wish should realise that these are not
guaranteed rights in today’s world if people in power disrespect freedoms. It is
not possible to understand or uphold European ideas of law, liberty, government,
education, family, morality or culture without tracing relations to Christian roots
and civil peace. Effects of an Islamist presence in the West – attacks on free
speech, segregation of males and females (with more of the latter covering faces),
radicalisation in schools and jihadist violence – demands a firmer idea of what our
civilisation is and how to preserve it by conforming to national principles and laws.
Somehow, education as responsible for teaching society mores, must develop an
identity, value-system, lifestyle and challenges acceptable to all cultures, whilst
retaining national principles and traditions.
People, with shifting identities and social norms, need a steadying anchor if not
to feel outcasts in free societies. The Good Immigrant (Shukla, 2016) assembles
TEACHER TRAINING ISSUES
35
ethnic voices in Britain today, revealing how it feels to be regarded as different
and treated suspiciously, by a country that does not truly accept them. There are
practices, however, in some groups, that are anathema to British values and
traditions. Aceptance is two-way and 21st century illiterates will be those who
cannot learn, unlearn, relearn and reflect on experiences, to evolve flexibility for
surviving changing circumstances. This means committing to communicating and
implementing principles that enable cultural integration.
Most children today are unable to learn from parents and elders they will never
resemble in lifestyle. We are now in a new culture with the child representing the
future and needing imaginative, innovative, dedicated adult-care beyond which we
give today. Love and trust, from nurture and dependency, have made it possible
for those reared in one culture to move to another. They have transformed former
attitudes, values and lifestyles, in line with conventions of a new society. This
recognises ability to learn and teach, retrieving and retaining what others have
developed and implemented. To be accepted in a new group and not intimidating,
differences in language, dress and behaviour are best minimised in public forums to
signal a message of acceptance and respect. Historians have viewed this as important
for integration. In the past, we have relied on dependent learning by children to
continue culture, whilst incorporating necessary changes which (until recently) have
been gradual and more easily assimilated. We must embrace new models for adults,
who can teach not what to learn but how and not what they should be committed to
but the value of this in responding to rapid changes and planning futures.
ATTITUDES TO CHANGE
Across ODBC2
international surveys, 2/3rds of teachers believe schools are hostile
to innovation. Resistance to reform is entrenched by dominance of consumer
interests and determination to prevent anarchy from different parent demands,
labelled ‘inequality’. It may not be divisive to allow some differences to flourish,
with individuals pursuing lives within common agreement of law, policy, practice
and behaviour in a place. In coping with diversity, teachers are crucial for promoting
understanding from discussion, consideration, understanding, respect and tolerance
of other views, but acceptance for national norms and laws. The maxim: ‘When in
Rome do what Rome does’, has been seen as the way to succeed in new societies,
but we presently ignore this view. Will we ever learn from the past? This question
is posed by Frankopan’s world-history studies at the Oxford Centre for Byzantine
Research (Frankopan, 2015). His analysis suggests that the more things change the
more they remain the same!
Those espousing essentialism believe that people are driven by fundamental
characteristics, which makes adoption of new ideas and behaviour problematic.
Are we being naive thinking that this is possible? There are many examples of
attitude change, such as those towards disability and homosexuality, so we must be
hopeful and work towards necessary improvements. Leicester University research
R. SAGE
36
(2000–2007) showed how communication (verbal & non-verbal messages, words,
voice, gestures, manner, & attitude etc.) was the biggest issue for students with
learning, behaviour and relationship problems (Sage, 2010). It is time to talk about
what makes education a barrier for students and think how to solve difficulties. Our
legacy is making this happen.
In the UK, focus in teacher-training has been on implementing a National
Curriculum and standard testing rather than the Art and Science of pedagogy and
integration of multi-cultural students. Robert Coe’s report (Durham University, 2014)
on what makes great teaching, comments that many classroom techniques do not
work, failing to develop critical thinking (linear, logical), from narrative language
processing and expressing sequenced thoughts. They also do not promote creative
thinking (lateral, holistic), which is our primary problem-solving mode, depending
also on literate talk (Sage, 2000). A Leicester University team worked with Japanese
colleagues on a project (2002–2009) to develop the 21st Century citizen (Dialogue,
Innovation, Achievement & Learning-DIAL). Also, the UK College of Teachers,
undertaking European Commission research, examined intercultural communication
and relationships, learning and achievement (Sage, 2011, 2012, 2013). These issues
must be the focus of a new science of pedagogy, that applies lessons from language
thinking (information processing & expression), medical education (physical, mental,
emotional, & social development) and sports training (motivation & self-discipline)
to make learning relevant for plural societies in the global world.
SUMMARY
In a speech, Donald Trump, President of the United States, said that he ‘loved
the poorly educated’ (February, 2016). His popularity is fuelled by fury against
liberal, secular, powerful elites, with the dominant tone – anarchic, counter-
cultural and liberationist. The 18th century promoted global civilisation,
harmonised by rational self-interest, commerce, luxury goods and services as
well as Arts and Sciences, but has reached an angry anti-climax in revolts against
our cosmopolitan, modern life. Jean-Jacques Rousseau, the 18th century Genevan
philosopher, would say ‘I told you so’. Society, built around self-interested
individuals/groups, will lack common morality and civilising, liberating effects,
so leading to new forms of enslavement (tyranny of democracy). Technology,
with social manipulation of users, is an example. In The Origin and Foundation
of the Inequalities of Mankind, he wrote:
In the midst of so much philosophy, humanity and civilisation and of such
sublime codes of morality we have nothing to show for ourselves but a frivolous
and deceitful appearance, honour without virtue, reason without wisdom and
pleasure without happiness. (p. 43)
The ‘Social Contract’ (1762) proposed a new political structure to cure ills of an
unequal, commercial, consumerist society. It depended on elected rulers, subordinate
TEACHER TRAINING ISSUES
37
to sovereign law and popular wishes, displaying ethical behaviour to model integrity.
Entrenched self-interest prevents this being bourne out in practice in our individualist
rather than collegiate culture.
Capitalism functions on dissatisfaction, as acquiring more, improved goods and
goals is a major purpose for living. Aspirations should be to improve ourselves
rather than seek worldly things. Ethics need to be promoted, because varying values,
attitudes, prejudices and interests can discriminate unfairly. Reflection (Japanese
‘Hansei’) must feature in learning for us to become aware for planning effective
development and action. Recent resentment against politicians, technocrats,
businessmen, bankers and the media, reveals how Rousseau’s views still play out
amongst the disaffected, regarding imperfect political, economic, educational and
social arrangements. People, with complex physical and mental wounds, make and
unmake the world, with demands for equality, desires for stability and drives to
negotiate better lives. These produce tensions in communities which are ignored at
our peril.
It is against this background that Education has an important role, emphasising
communication, relationships and holistic development, to acquire flexibility
for coping with rapid changes and challenges. There are excellent teachers, but a
system dedicated to passing regular tests, directs them away from meeting personal,
academic and society needs. A survey of 2,132 sixth formers, at independent schools,
reported at the Headteacher 2016 Autumn conference, in Stratford-Upon-Avon,
found them unprepared for life ahead, with concerns about ability to cope. Similar
views are expressed by State students, with a 2016 poll by the Open University3
finding that over 60% of employees lack confidence to promote and progress
themselves at work. They have partnered with Debenhams Stores offering chances
to win help from a life coach, career adviser and personal stylist.
These examples emerged as evidence showed that those born in the 1980s are half
as wealthy as 1970s children. A 2017 Nationwide survey found that 85% of parents
continue to support their offspring after leaving education. However, research
commissioned by the Independent Schools Council (ISC) discovered that children
at fee-paying schools are more confident, committed, controlled and challenged
than those from the state sector. The study, by AQR International (2017), involved
9,000 pupils of all ages, from 58 schools in England and Scotland, using the MTQ48
test model. It suggests a greater emphasis on personal competencies to encourage
success.
COPING WITH CHANGE
In figuring how to do this, we can study Stoicism, the school of philosophy founded in
the 3rd century BC by Zeno of Citium. The name came from the Stoa Poikile inAthens,
the public square where thinkers met to report, review and refine ideas. They believed
that to live effectively and happily was not about acquiring money, goods, success or
fame, but a sound mental state grounded in reason and virtue. This comes from talk
R. SAGE
38
and discussion with others and understanding of many viewpoints. In doing this, we
find something bigger than ourselves, with perspective on life and appreciation of
personal needs rather than just wants. It is the way to counter self-interest, appreciate
and understand others, enabling us to reflect more deeply on views and actions.
The Greeks were aware of language power both for good and ill. The Sophist,
Gorgias (d. circa 380, BC), discussed the superhuman might of logos (speech), which
could make you feel happy, remove grief and end fear. The orator, Isocrates (d.338,
BC) put persuasion by logos, in reasoned debate, as the driving force behind law and
justice, without which civilisation will not function. Logos could be perverted for
evil ends. Audiences for solo orations cannot test argument by interrogation and may
be wrongly directed to think and act in immoral, unjust ways. Mass manipulation
results from speakers who are plausible and persuasive. Dialogue not monologue
was preferred by Plato in his writings.
While emotions and judgements can be controlled, this is not always possible.
Ways others perceive/behave towards us and certain circumstances in which we find
ourselves cannot be influenced. Stress is caused by thinking we can do what is not
practically or humanly possible. ‘Get what you want’, is a modern mantra with no
guarantee in practice. The corollary of positive thinking is if it does not happen a
person has failed by not committing to its achievement. Self-belief and setting goals
may not ensure they will always be reached. The ancients tried not to control the
impossible, by reducing desires and expectations to achieve harmony between what
you need, want and have. This produces less stress, with more personal well-being
and acceptance of life.
Changes of attitude or behaviour do not happen unless one begins with what is
presently, realistically possible. We need not be confined by what we are good at but
what interests and motivates us. Emphasis on big questions – What are my beliefs and
goals? What sort of person am I? blind us to more rewarding possibilities. Paying
attention to small things around can inspire and invigorate for greater satisfaction. It
is brief incidents, like smiling at a stranger or helping a friend, that creates a ripple
to change the way we feel about ourselves, others and the world.
Thinking and feeling we must be updated constantly through technology, on
details of other lives, leads to dissatisfaction, frustration, anger and jealousy. Deloitte
(2016) in a report, Future for Work, finds we spend a quarter of the day on emails
and check our mobiles 150 times, as well as accessing social media and the Web.
Limiting overload is conducive to ataraxia (used by the Greek, Epicurus, to describe
a tranquil state), reducing stress and worry. The Greeks said people are mainly intent
on how to spend time, but those with talent on how to use it. Finding our interests is
key to satisfaction and a healthy self-concept, so value must be for all aptitudes in
education, as well as what motivates and sustains attention.
Some nations endorse every intelligence, regarding a builder as the same status
as a brain surgeon, respecting varying interests, skills and goals. UK builders
often view themselves as social failures. There is a wind of change in the present
Government’s recent support for apprenticeships alongside university degrees. We
TEACHER TRAINING ISSUES
39
should treat these options with equal respect, because both carry a possibility of
success, although neither guarantees it. Degrees are not the desire and destiny for
everyone and regarding alternative education as equally important and prestigious
must be encouraged and applauded. This is important, as the Director of City and
Guilds suggests we now have more graduates than jobs for them, so alternatives
must be considered seriously. A problem exists as the ‘excess’ graduates apply for
non-graduate level work and with their qualifications usually are taken on. Thus,
such jobs become graduate ones by default and deprive opportunities for those
without degrees to find suitable employment.
Today, children, parents and grandparents are isolated by different life
experiences. No generation has assimilated such rapid changes, witnessing
competing powers, mobile populations, diverse customs, instant communication,
increasing knowledge and puzzling questions of life, suffering and death – all (it
seems) in the blink of an eye. New generations ressemble those born elsewhere,
where events are presented instantly through technology. Distinctions between
war and peace, friend and foe, insiders and outsiders have blurred. Carriers of
different cultural traditions enter the present simutaneously. A global community
is emerging with unprecedented, shared knowledge of one another and different
interpretations of this, the world and its dangers. We need to create open systems,
with communication depending on direct participation of those who presently have
no access to power. The younger generation must lead the older, in building a future
that is different from past revolts, reactions and reverberations and is instrumental
rather than coercive. If this is achieved, change may be possible.
There is much good about present life, with generally better education, health and
living standards for more people. However, we must commit to solving common,
complex issues in a world of huge differences. A vital one is education of plural
societies to reduce conflict and assist integration. This needs understanding of cross-
cultural communication, valuing this, as well as the English language, as the global
means of cultural exchanges. Standard English has not been taught recently, as
deemed elitist, but now people complain because varieties in use make understanding
difficult. In The Art of Speaking, a Sunday Telegraph editor (5 March, 2017, p. 19)
bemoans lack of clear, comprehensible talk today, in response to the article, Actors
aren’t (the) only ones to blame for mumbling, (Furness, p. 12). The BBC regularly
receives complaints about poor speaking with the programme, Jamaica Inn (2014)
having over 2000 ones, because audiences could not understand the Cornish dialect.
We must value standard English again, for public use, whilst supporting local dialects
in situations that are relevant.
Performance metrics dominate policy all areas and are seen in Educational
Standard Assessment Tasks (SATS), administered at various age levels; reflected
in league tables and performance pay for teachers. The model plays to strengths.
In economic terms, Britain’s strong areas are specialised manufacturing, financial
services and higher education (4 universities in the world’s top 10), with pressure
to maintain standards. We must work within policies and our book authors are
R. SAGE
40
experienced in achieving this successfully. Communication, confidence, optimism,
risk-taking, judicious use of resources, change, strong, ethical leadership and
competition need support. We must appreciate the power of people coming together
for common goals to do good in society, caring for the sick, disabled, unemployed,
underprivileged, vulnerable young and old and those with learning difficulties.
PARENT/CARER ROLES
Although education has a major role in cultivating a workable society, parents must
also play a part. They have also been influenced by results that are measured, leading to
trying to shape children into certain kinds of adults. In The Gardener and the Carpenter:
What the New Science of Child Development Tells Us about the Relationship between
Parents and Children (2016), Alison Gopnik (Psychology Professor) describes how
parents must approach child-rearing. Rather than making them conform in certain
ways, like a carpenter might craft a chair, they should think of offspring as plants, free
to grow at will. Children should not be manipulated in ways that gardeners force green-
houses plants. Over-parenting (like prescribed teaching) has led to an over-organised
generation afraid of independance; fearful of the future and easily manipulated
through the internet and group think. Effective communication brings emotional tools
of resilience, fostering mental equilibrium as the real measure of success.
Research, however, demonstrates dilemmas. The Next Generation Digital
Research Conference (Dublin, November, 2016) showed that 44% of parents
wanted children concentrating on learning digital-coding rather than acquiring
languages and 35% thought it more critical than literature study. However, they
all worried about technology influences on behaviour and lifestyles. This differs
from the DIAL study (Sage, Rogers & Cwenar, 2002–2009), with Japanese parents
believing face-to-face communication, to build thinking, was more important than
teaching technologies, which rapidly change and are a tool rather than the learning
focus. Policies have squeezed subjects that help communication and character
development, such as sport, art, dance, drama and music. Transmission teaching-
styles minimise opportunities for students to acquire arts of discussion, persuasion,
negotiation, presentation and performance, which produce confident individuals
who can collaborate and cope well with challenges.
THE STATE OF THE WORLD
We like to complain about the next generation, many of whom (fortunately) have
attributes to do well in spite of systems. The media portrays the worst elements of life,
because they are most newsworthy, dismissing and diminishing many good things
happening around us. Therefore, we tend to take media views on board as reality,
but they are distorted to fit political and social agendas. Nevertheless, our boomer
generation has been arrogant and disregarding of the lessons of history and experience.
Events show that inappropriate, naive decisions have been made affecting quality
TEACHER TRAINING ISSUES
41
of lives. In this text, expertise on coping with change, communication, language
and relationships, motivation and discipline, ethical and reflective practice, special
needs, holistic learning and workplace needs, is presented to reflect on issues that
affect learning, whatever student interests and goals.
In conclusion, working in a paediatric(child development) assessment team
springs to mind. Children referred (over a 10-year period) for problems were all
found to have delays or deviations in communicative and consequently cognitive
development and relationships. I was asked to observe a 7-year-old girl failing
in school. When entering class, the teacher was asking why she had forgotten her
sports kit. The child remained silent and the teacher showed frustration. Assessment
results were discussed, suggesting a cognitive-linguistic age of 2–3 years, so that the
child was incapable of answering a why question, requiring an advanced narrative
explanation. This was a turning point and she began a Communication Opportunity
Group (COGS) and soon showed improved personal and academic performances.
Deficits were made up and progress possible. The school became committed to skill
teachers and students in formal communicative competencies for learning. This is the
basis for effective education for everyone, enabling their inclusion and integration.
A group of chief executives, at a recent careers conference, said: ‘If you have good
communication you can pretty well accomplish anything’.
Also, Bear Grylls, Chief Scout and world-adventurer, told the Global Education and
Skills Forum (2017) that he wished school had taught him ‘how to communicate with
people’. Advocating that education needs to show students how to speak with others
to build confidence, he emphasised the importance of practical skills for life, like
team-working and looking after yourself well. Further sections show how to achieve
this. Now that 46% of graduates cannot find work (UK Office for National Statisitcs,
2017) commensurate with their qualifications, life is indeed competitive. It requires
presentational and performance abilities to give the best impression of oneself.
In Summary, Relevant Teaching Takes Account of
•	 The communicative process of teaching and learning within development:
(physical, mental, emotional & social) evolving from medical, psychological,
linguistic and anthropological knowledge
•	 Intercultural communication issues that influence relationships and engagement
•	 Societal and technological changes that demand a personal skill emphasis
•	 Opportunity and support for teachers and students to continually develop
knowledge and skills
Suggested Classroom Activities to Introduce and Value Multiculturalism
1.	Collect the languages spoken by class participants, making a poster to display.
2.	Use a different language-greeting each lesson, introduced by class speaker/s and
use this yourself to welcome each student at the door as they enter the lesson.
3.	On a world map pinpoint where the different spoken languages of the class originate.
R. SAGE
42
4.	At a relevant time in the course, ask each language speaker to introduce the
customs of their culture.
5.	Ask students to bring in cultural objects, for display and explanation.
MAIN POINTS
•	 Society, built around self-interested individuals/groups, lacks common morality
and civilising, liberating effects, so leading to new forms of enslavement, such as
technology, with social manipulation of users
•	 Capitalism fosters competition and can lead to unethical practices. Ethics need
to be promoted because varying values, attitudes, prejudices and interests can
discriminate unfairly
•	 People, with complex physical,mental and social issues, make and unmake the
world, with demands for equality, desires for stability and drives to negotiate
better lives, producing tensions in communities which are ignored at our peril
•	 Philosophers suggest that to live effectively and happily is not about acquiring
money, goods, success or fame, but a sound mental state grounded in reason and
virtue. This comes from talk and discussion with others and understanding of
many viewpoints
•	 Parents must ensure children develop the personal competencies such as ability
to converse with others so they are able to cope with the formal communication
found in classrooms
•	 A synthesis of research studies show that success skills arise from ability to shift
between home and school talk which are the basis of confidence and coping with
everyday requirements
NOTES
1
	 Groupthink is a psychological phenomenon within a human group in which a wish for harmony or
conformity results in an irrational or dysfunctional outcome. Members minimize conflict and reach
consensus without considering alternative viewpoints. By suppressing opposing views and isolating
themselves from outside influences, loss of creativity, uniqueness and independent thinking results.
The dysfunctional group dynamics produces an illusion of invulnerabiluity and certainty that the right
decision has been made, so under-rating other views and abilities. This may produce dehumanizing
actions against the ‘outgroup’.
	 Groupthink also occurs within natural community groups. It explains the different mindsets of
those with political views (UK conservatives, socialists, liberals) or the solitary nature of introverts.
Conformity of group views does not mainly involve deliberate decision-making and is explained by
the collective confirmation bias of individual members. Initial research on groupthink was conducted
by Janis, at Yale University, using the Bay of Pigs disaster (the 1961 failed invasion of Castro’s Cuba)
and the 1941 Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour, as case studies. It is a social psychology construct,
influencing fields of communication studies, political sciences, management and organizational
theory, as well as deviant religious cult behaviour.
2
	 Janisconser ODBC – an open, standard application programming interface for accessing different
databases.
3
	 Open University Poll – university@lexiagency.com
TEACHER TRAINING ISSUES
43
REFERENCES
Aiken, M. (2016). The cyber effect. London: John Murray.
Cantle, T. (2001). Building cohesive communities: A report of the ministerial group on public order &
community cohesion. London: Home Office.
Casey, L. (2016). A review into opportunity and integration. London: Department for Communities and
Local Government.
Charter Management Institute (CMI). (2014). The commission on the future of management & leadership.
London: CMI Publications.
Chesterton, G. K. (n.d.). Quotes. Retrieved August 15, 2016, from www.crosswalk.com
Coe, R., Aloisi, C., Higgins, S., & Elliot-Major, L. (2014). What makes great teaching. Durham:
University of Durham. (Report for the Sutton Trust.)
Deloitte. (2016). Survey on Millenials. Retrieved July 2, 2017, from http://deloitte.com/MillenialsSurvey
Digital Learning Research. (2016). The next generation digital learning research symposium. Ireland:
Dublin City University. Retrieved November 25, 2016, from http://www.disymposium.dryfla.com/
Erikson, E. (1963). Childhood and society. New York, NY: Norton.
Frankopan, P. (2015). The silk roads: A new history of the world. London: Bloomsbury.
Furedi, F.(2016). What’s happened to the university: A sociological exploration of its infantilisation.
London: Taylor Francis.
Godley, A. (1982). Herodotus: The histories (Ed. & Trans.) (pp. 174–176). Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.
Gopnik, A. (2016). The gardener and the carpenter: What the new science of child development tells us
about the relationship between parents and children. London: Bodley Head.
Heifetz, R., Grashow, A., & Linsky, M. (2009). The practice of adaptive leadership: Tools and tactics for
changing your organization and the world. Boston, MA: Harvard Business Review Press.
Independent Schools Council (1SC). (2017). An analysis of mental toughness at UK independent schools.
Retrieved February 12, 2017, from http://www.isc.co.uk/
Intensive Communication Training for Healthcare Professionals. Retrieved September 10, 2016 from
http://healthcarecomm.org/training/continuing-education-workshops/intensive-communication-
skills-program/
Jerrim, J. (2015). Why do East Asian children perform so well in PISA? An investigation of western-born
children of East Asian descent. Oxford Review of Education, 41(3), 310–333.
Kane, T., McCaffrey, F., Miller, T., & Staiger, D. (2013). Have we identified effective teaching using
random assignment? Seattle, WA: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.
Kotter, J. (2014). Accelerate building strategic agility for a faster-moving world. Harvard Business
Review Press.
Ladson-Billings, G. (1995). Towards a theory of culturally relevant pedagogy. American Education
Research Journal, 35, 465–491.
Martin, J., & Nakayama, T. (1999). Thinking dialectically about culture and communication.
Communication Theory, 9, 1–25.
Mead, M. (1977). Culture and commitment: A study of the generation gap. St. Albans: Panther Books Ltd.
Rittel, H. W., & Melvin, M. W. (1973). Dilemmas in a general theory of planning. Policy Sciences, 4(2),
155–169.
Rousseau, J-J. (1762). Du contract social ou principes du droit politique. Amsterdam: Marc Michel
Rey.
Sage, L. (2013). Motivation attention effects. Nuffield Foundation. Retrieved January 12, 2017, from
http://www.nuffieldfoundation.org/motivation-effects-attention
Sage, R. (1986). A question of language disorder: Studies of assessment, management & parent attitudes
(Thesis for M.Phil. The Open University). Sponsored by the Trent Regional Medical Research
Council, Sheffield.
Sage, R. (2000). Class talk. London: Network Continuum.
Sage, R. (2003). Lend us your ears: Learning to listen. London: Network Continuum.
Sage, R. (2010/2014). Meeting the needs of students with diverse backgrounds. London: Network
Continuum.
R. SAGE
44
Sage, R. (Ed.). (2011). A European study of Inter-competency and dialogue through literature (IDIAL)
investigating the development of transversal abilities in school children. Life Long Learning
Programme: Commenius
Sage, R. (Ed.). (2012/2014). Issues regarding adult literacy (spoken & written) & employment
(INTERMAR). A text regarding philosophy and practices in the EU. Pub. Life Long Learning
Programme: Commenius.
Sage, R. (Ed.). (2013). Policy for educators’ e-portfolios to improve professionalism (PEEP). A text
regarding philosophies and practices in the EU. Pub. Life Long Learning Programme: Commenius
Sage, R., & Cwenar, S. (2005). Base-line assessment of students entering a senior school. Education
Action Zone (EAZ) Study with the University of Leicester, Leicester.
Sage, R., Rogers, J., & Cwenar, S. (2006). Study 1: Dialogue, Innovation, Achievement & Learning
project (DIAL). A UK-Japan initiative to develop the 21st century citizen, Leicester University and
The Women’s University of Nara, Japan.
Shukla, N. (Ed.). (2016). The good immigrant. London: Unbound Publications.
Spiers, H., Lorelei, R., Howard, R., Javadi, A., Yu, Y., Mill, R., Morrison, Knight, R., Loftus, E., &
Staskute, L. (2014). The hippocampus and entorhinal cortex encode the path and euclidean distances
to goals during navigation. Journal of Current Biology, 24(12), 1334–1340.
Sutton Trust, UK. (2017). The state of social mobility in the UK. Retrieved July 16, 2017, from
www.suttontrust.com
R. Sage (Ed.), Paradoxes in Education, 45–67.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
ROSEMARY SAGE AND KIM ORTON
3. THEORIES INFORMING TEACHING OF
SUCCESS ABILITIES
ABSTRACT
This chapter considers theories underpinning the teaching of success abilities.
Some are wary of such explanations, but they are based on research showing
how humans behave. Over time, changes in theoretical focus are in keeping with
advancing knowledge and different cultural views. Theories outlined are grouped
under personality, cognition and communication, showing a recent move towards
more holistic models that account for both mind, body and spiritual Fuinctioning and
acknowledge contextual and cultural attitudes. The history of holism, the idea that
systems and their properties should be viewed as wholes and not just as a collection
of parts, is discussed as a basis for considering changing views.
INTRODUCTION: BACKGROUND TO THE MIND-BODY DEBATE (HOLISM)
Dualism between mind and body has dominated Western thinking from the time of
Plato, the Greek philosopher. Greek and Roman education sought mental and physical
harmony (homeostasis) in human development, demonstrating understanding of
the left-brain analytic and right-brain assembly roles regarding the processing and
production of information through language. The Rhetoric and Grammar Schools
promoted the whole functioning of a person, by focusing on communicative
competence to integrate human activity. This was achieved from spoken language
opportunities like oratory, collaborative drama and cooperative sport.
Schism between mind and body originated in the 17th century, with the emerging
science of medicine regarding disease and illness as merely a mechanical breakdown
in body-machinery. This brought conflict with the Catholic Church. The French
philosopher, Descartes, accommodated tensions by allotting the intangible soul to
care of priests and the measurable body to physicians, leading to component rather
than whole process interventions. The 19th century Church provided educational
opportunities in public schools for those unable to afford personal tutors, so
reinforcing this divide between mind and body. This group learning concentrated on
the acquisition of abstract, arbitrary knowledge, generally remote from student daily
lives and real, physical experiences. Curriculum content was driven by political
rather than learner concerns to meet needs of the new industrial society. Although in
the 1970–1980s, child-centred education was advocated by psychologists, like Susan
R. SAGE & K. ORTON
46
Isaacs, this philosophy did not take permanent hold and the National Curriculum
introduced into the UK (1989) reinforced strict, prescribed programmes to cultivate
consistent standards. Since facts are more easily assessed, this form of assessment
now dominates world league tables.
REVIVAL OF HOLISTIC VIEWS
Experts now question the distinction between mind and body from 20th century
science. Quantum theory, in Physics, describes how individual parts of a system are
integrated to behave as a unified whole. In 1934, Haldane, the biologist, developed
Quantum theories of human consciousness. Bohm (1951) observed an analogy
between human thinking, inner experiences and Quantum processes. Modern
theories look for Quantum coherence in neural structures within a single neuron,
with studies clarifying coherence between many different ones (Zohar & Marshall,
2000). The focus is on how meaning occurs, providing a new perspective within
cognitive science, which previously viewed the mind as a computation machine in
the way the body was considered. Thus, modern theories acknowledge mind, body
and spirit.
HOLISTIC APPROACHES IN ASSESSMENT AND TEACHING
Many students struggle to make meaning of curriculum content and many human
diseases and illnesses are only partially alleviated by conventional medicine. How
feelings, emotions, personalities and relationships affect health and education is now
of central concern. At the heart of science lies the phenomenon supporting holism –
the placebo response – in which an inactive medication, treatment or management has
positive effect, showing power of mind over body. Belief and faith seem at work here.
Professor Benson (Mind/Body Institute, Harvard University, 1996), reported that
the placebo response was as high as 90 percent in alleviating disease, illness and
mental disturbance. The trust-relationship with a practitioner has a large influence on
outcome. Power of belief and expectation may be harnessed through the ‘relaxation
response’, a mental state triggering physiological, measurable changes, such as
reduced stress-hormone levels and muscle tension. Techniques focusing the mind,
like differential relaxation, visualizing, diaphragmatic breathing, biofeedback and
hypnosis induce a relaxed response enabling better function. Such methods improve
learning and well-being. At the North Wales Business and Language School, the
day begins with relaxation, visualization, reflection and review, as experience shows
this accelerates learning. Sport psychologists master these techniques for achieving
optimum client performances.
In holistic approaches, spiritual concerns (inner-self growth) rank with mind
and body. We puzzle about life, with need to understand its purpose and our
potential to undertake expectations. This self-awareness underlies success ability,
by encouraging us to become observant and reflective for reviewing and refining
THEORIES INFORMING TEACHING OF SUCCESS ABILITIES
47
actions. In struggles to make sense of happenings, certain activities create a
supportive framework connecting us to our inner-selves. These are communicative
opportunities such as talk, art, literature, music, dance, drama, sport, communal
events, family, worship and play, which encourage participation and discussion.
Such active, relaxing and mostly enjoyable experiences help self-awareness to
understand our strengths, limitations, vulnerability and dependency. Benson (1996)
found relaxing activities increased spirituality (self-awareness). Antibody levels of
students were higher on days when they felt buoyant and positive and lower on
days when stressed, depressed and unable to cope. The mind-body-spirit relationship
cannot be ignored when considering human optimum performances.
CULTURES WITH A MIND-BODY PHILOSOPHY
Eastern cultures, like Japan, embrace reflection (Hansei) as the core, communicative
process for developing effective mind-body performances. The Japanese word ‘Han’
means to change and ‘Sei’ to look back, review, reflect and examine for the best
result.
Six Hansei Principles:
1.	Reflection on action is essential for effective results, focusing on issues
needing attention
2.	Looking inwards not outwards acknowledges actions, as both intellectual and
emotional events involving communication with oneself and others (intra &
inter communication)
3.	Reflection benefits from communication with others rather than relying on
one’s own response to events
4.	Reflection must be ongoing and not just at the end of an activity to bring
about change for good
5.	Reflection allows events to be seen as part of a larger on-going communicative
process between people
6.	Activity involves problem-solving, requiring a sociological and not a
technological approach, with group decisions more effective for choosing
best-fit solutions
Japanese say that without ongoing reflection, from constant talk with others,
we go blindly on our own way, creating unintended consequences and failing to
achieve anything useful. Reflection, from self-talk and talk with others, is at the
heart of moral development and vital for behaving ethically, encouraging respect for
community values to enable effective actions. The moral curriculum has priority in
Japan, with formal talk encouraged to develop appropriate thinking and behavior,
enabling the shift from oracy into literacy. This focus is attributed to their academic
success and lack of learning and behaviour difficulties, when compared with
R. SAGE & K. ORTON
48
Britain (Sage, Rogers & Cwenar, 2000–2009). In Japan, Hansei is part of learning,
constantly reflecting on and refining behaviour. A comprehensive review takes up
the final third of each lesson, with all students giving a response to guide progress.
This actively makes and shares meanings, producing the most effective long-term
learning (National Training Laboratories, 1996).
THERAPEUTIC MIND-BODY COPING APPROACHES
In therapeutics, the essential aspect of a person is how they think, feel, relate,
communicateandbehave.Supportharnessespowerofthoughts,feelings,imagination,
communication and actions, to influence physical, mental, spiritual emotional and
social growth. The nature of consciousness and how thoughts and feelings are buried
to influence ongoing behaviour are starting points. Relaxation helps express feelings
and ideas; begins self-awareness and promotes problem solutions and limitations
hampering progress. Methods, like Peto,1
Montessori2
and Steiner,3
believe that until
learners understand who and what they are, formal learning is impossible. The 10
top-performing nations do not start this until 7 years, because until then the right-
brain focuses on wholes not parts of things. The left-brain then comes into play,
analyzing how parts combine into wholes. Students attempt activities that assemble
components for meaning (reading) when the brain manages this easily. In Britain,
brain-body development is not reflected in curricula and a reason for those with
educational problems, so needing holistic policies for improvements in learning.
SUCCESS ABILITIES
These are difficult to grasp as many types are identified. Traditionally, they focused
on inter-intra personal communication and social abilities, but now include learning
& study skills, numeracy and technology, self-management and assertion plus
cultural, community awareness. They are also known as life/coping/transversal/
transferable abilities, underpinning all performances. Demands to master these
come from employers, educational validating bodies, governments and the European
Union (EU), pinpointing inter-intra personal communication as core-processes (The
Quality in Higher Education Project, 1993). Teaching, therefore, must focus on
communicative development. A European project (Inter-competency & Dialogue
through Literature-IDIAL) researched success abilities in 7 countries. Theories,
informing teaching, reflected different regional and cultural philosophies (2009–
2013). They include: The Archetype model, Critical and Creative thinking and the
Communicative Approach, each relevant for teaching success abilities.
PERSONALITY THEORY: THE ARCHETYPE MODEL
This is based on ideas that within us are innate dispositions (person attributes). As
inherited potentials they manifest in images, behaviours and interactions – driving
THEORIES INFORMING TEACHING OF SUCCESS ABILITIES
49
personal communicative styles. Originally discussed by Plato (BCE, pp. 427–347)
as ‘ideal forms’, they were later presented by Jung (1875–1961), as ‘subconscious
innate instincts’ and organizing principles for what we see, hear, feel and do.
This led to belief that the image of the ideal human face is an Archetype, helping
us recognize, analyze and respond to others. The mother Archetype is an example
of ability to recognize the ‘mothering’ relationship. Jung’s basic Archetypes are
our:
Shadow – ‘dark side’ deriving from past, pre-human concern for survival
Anima – communicative need to love and be loved
Persona – public image (Latin for mask) as the person we show to others
Self – development of a harmonious personality to fulfill aims
The aim is to understand oneself better for relating to society successfully. Jung
developed the personality typology of introversion (preference for one’s internal
world) and extroversion (preference for external world of people, things & activities).
This thinking underpins the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (2009) employed in career
guidance and job selection, using self-report to indicate preferences in how people
perceive things and make decisions.Archetypes are useful for analyzing myths, fairy
tales and literature, capturing basic self-expression units and referring to the mind’s
deep-structures. Experts say there are only so many world-stories and characters
and we just rearrange details to suit circumstances. From this view, we are born to
see, hear, feel and process information in a specific way, because of nervous system
organization. Jung begins at the highest level (spiritual), deriving lower-levels
(psychology & physiology) from this. Critics feel theories leave little to chance,
accident or actual circumstance, with personality and life over-explained, so out of
touch with reality.
COMMENT
Developing transferable abilities, using literature as a stimulus, helps grasp the
world and how people conduct themselves across time-space (see Section 3).
Story Archetypes enable learners to understand themselves and others; express
views and facilitate social, cultural awareness. The theory:
•	 encourages associations and links with a person’s experience
•	 shows interrelation of everything through the collective unconsciousness
•	 facilitates self-awareness and solution of problems for successful development
It suggests that innumerable, mythical persons reside in our psyche and are
something more than personal or human. There has been increasing certainty about
the physiological basis of Jung’s typology of brain functions in 4 cortex areas:
Speech, as expression of thought in the left frontal lobe and sensation at the back,
with intuition in the right-front and feeling at the back. We appear to have a lead
R. SAGE & K. ORTON
50
function, as one area is more efficient. Over development of others is said to lead
to falsification of type and possible emotional problems. Teaching must recognize
differences, concentrating on strengths not weaknesses.
THE COGNITIVE MODEL: CRITICAL AND CREATIVE THINKING
The thinking concept developed over 2,500 years. The term ‘critical thinking’
originates from studies in Critical Thinking and Education (Glaser, 1941), defining
2 aspects:
1.	A disposition to consider thoughtfully the problems and subjects that come within
experience.
2.	Knowledge of logical inquiry and reasoning methods with skill to apply them.
Glaser emphasized ability to assemble information, comprehend words (from
attitudes&valuesbehindthem),usinglanguageaccurately,clearlyanddiscriminately,
so linking with right-brain thinking. However, language and associated capacities
are normally left-brain situated. Speech and language express thinking and reasoning
and scientists have regarded the left as the major hemisphere for thinking with
the right as the minor one. Sperry’s (1960s) split-brain experiments changed this
view. By cutting the nerve-cable connecting hemispheres (corpus callosum) Sperry
showed their differing functions, seen in brain-injuries.
On the right-side, we have one way of knowing: we ‘see’ imaginary things
(mind’s eye) or recall real ones. Think of your favourite food (colour, shape, taste,
smell) We ‘see’ how things exist spatially, understand metaphors, imagine, fill in
information/opinion gaps in talk/text, combine ideas to make new ones and assemble
meaning (synthesize). If something is too complex to speak about, we gesture. Try
describing ‘ringlets’without hands! Images (‘seeing’within) are idiosyncratic, non-
verbal ways of thinking intuitively, holistically and metaphorically (Edwards, 1979).
We call this the ‘seeing/feeling’ brain, using it to communicate with ourselves and
understand whole things/events from creative, lateral, narrative thinking.
The left-side works oppositely. It analyses, abstracts, counts, marks time, plans in
steps, making logical word- statements. If apples are bigger than plums and plums
bigger than currants, we say apples are therefore bigger than currants. This illustrates
the left-brain’s critical, linear, thinking mode: analytic, sequential, objective,
symbolic and verbal. This ‘saying/listening’ brain communicates conventionally
(Edwards, 1979). Brains are functionally asymmetrical, with the left controlling
the right body-side and vice-versa. This duality of human-nature and thought
preoccupies philosophers, scientists and teachers, dividing thinking and feeling,
intellect and intuition, objective analysis and subjective insight (Edwards, 1979;
Sage, 2000b). People analyse good and bad points, but decide issues from their guts,
showing feelings over-ride facts. Anecdotes abound about figuring out problems,
with answers presented metaphorically in dreams. The 19th century mathematician,
Henri Poincare describes this:
THEORIES INFORMING TEACHING OF SUCCESS ABILITIES
51
One evening I drank black coffee and could not sleep. Ideas rose in crowds.
I felt them collide until pairs interlocked. (Edwards, 1979, p. 35)
An intuitive solution was made to a puzzling problem. We experience this when
words seem plausible, but something tells us not to trust them. It shows both brain-
sides process the same information differently. In right-brain mode, we use intuition
and insight without logic, as in the shout, ‘Eureka’ (I’ve found it!) attributed to
Archimedes when bathing, enabling him to formulate the principle of using the
weight of displaced water to determine that of solid objects. The right-brain mode is
intuitive, subjective, relational, holistic and time-free, assembling message-meaning
from verbal and non-verbal information. It is given short-shrift in learning. Education
cultivates the verbal, rational, left-hemisphere, leaving half of our student brains
virtually neglected (Sperry, 1982). Cognitive differentiation is well-evidenced, with
interest shifting to the connective network influencing activities, supporting critical
and creative learning approaches.
COMMENT
Educators acknowledge intuitive, creative, lateral, narrative thinking in developing
transferable abilities, but schools are structured in left-hemisphere mode. Teaching
is sequenced with learners progressing linearly by age. Mainly verbal and numerical
subjects follow strict time-tables. Students, in rows, give answers judged right or
wrong by teachers. The right-brain (artist, free spirit) is lost in education and mostly
untaught. Art, music and drama have limited roles, but we are unlikely to find
courses in imagination, perception, intuition, creativity or communication. Although
valued, we assume (wrongly) students develop these naturally. Some progress
occurs as survival depends on it, but many cultures reward left-brain performance at
expense of right potential. Jerre Levy (1968) said we could destroy the right-brain
with prescriptive teaching.
We are aware of inadequate verbal abilities (narrowly taught as vocabulary &
grammar) hampering lives. What happens to the non-verbal right-brain (assembling
meaning), which is seldom considered or properly facilitated by developing formal
narrative thinking and language expression. Evidence supports systems facilitating
the whole brain, matched to cognitive-linguistic development levels (Section 3).
Right-brain growth spurts from 4–7 years with the left kicking in later (Sage, 2000a).
Problems arise from a limited right-brain strategy because early left-brain analytic
focus hinders growth, resulting in a grasp of facts but weak meaning (Sage, 2000b,
2003, 2006; Sivyer, 2007). High-achieving nations start formal learning after age 6,
working with brain development to allow right-brain growth, so thinking theory
provides a rationale for balanced teaching.
Critics suggest lateralisation research promotes subjects and products outside its
implications, citing interventions like neuro-linguistic programming. Nevertheless,
hemisphere-specialisation is general to all vertebrates, with the left categorising
R. SAGE & K. ORTON
52
information and controlling routine behaviour and the right responding to novel
events and expressing emotions. Finding ways to involve both brains in learning
makes sense.
THE COMMUNICATIVE APPROACH: INFORMATION PROCESSING AND
PRODUCTION THEORIES
The communicative approach builds on both personality and cognitive theories,
emphasising levels of thinking and context needs. Together with personality, attitudes,
opportunities and the way we present ourselves, this influences how we process,
solve problems and behave. Basic to communication and learning is absorbing,
retaining and retrieving information for various, expressive purposes. How does this
occur? Information processing and production theories include, at input stage, the
memory process, cognitive load, chunking and automaticity and at output, narrative
forms for different communicative events.
PROCESSING THEORY
Jack is learning to read but struggles. Speaking is slow, so when completing a sentence
he cannot remember how it began. Reading, like all learning, stores information in
mind and retrieves this when needed. How does it happen? One theory explains
that information transmits through senses – ears (auditory), eyes (visual), touch
and space position (haptic), smell and taste, before moving from sensory storage to
short- then long-term memory. When Jack reads, he receives sensory information
from the book. Eyes take in each letter-shape and size, grouped to make words on
a page. This is taken into sensory storage and as eyes move across the page Jack
remembers what was just read in short-term (ST), working memory (store of recent
images). If things go well, Jack retains the information in the book longer than a few
seconds. This moves to long-term (LT) memory and is stored for accessing when
required. Looking at information processing-production theories enable teachers to
apply these for students.
COGNITIVE LOAD
WhenJackreads,informationmustmovefromsensorytoSTthenLTmemorytoassemble
meaning. Why? ST memory is limited. Only a few things can be in working memory at
a time, storing just for seconds. This causes problems. If Jack is reading a paragraph, he
cannot remember each word or sentence. He must move information to LT memory –
otherwise when reaching the end, he will have forgotten how the paragraph began, so
unable to grasp meaning. When transferring from ST to LT memory, students can become
overloaded and not remember anything. If Jack listens to chunks of connected speech
(topic presentation) or reads long, complex paragraphs and unable to move information
from ST to LT memory, he will experience cognitive load. 3 things help:
THEORIES INFORMING TEACHING OF SUCCESS ABILITIES
53
1.	Encourage attention and word rehearsal of what is heard/read, so information can
easily move to LT memory.
2.	Present limited information in short sentences and 3-minute chunks (brain
attention limit). Teaching a few things at a time, with breaks, helps retention and
avoids cognitive load.
3.	Chunk material. Recall numbers: 07713411883. Did you remember them all?
Probably not. If you divide into chunks: 077/134/118/83, you are more likely to
retain and recall them. This idea is behind chunking, (grouping information), so if
Jack’s teacher does this it will help memory.
AUTOMATICITY
Jack wants to learn but has problems. When reading, ST memory may get full,
leading to cognitive load. How can he free up working-memory space to learn more?
Automaticity makes a task automatic. Think about driving to school/work. The first
time you attend to details: that tall tree, thatched house, supermarket and roundabout
with 4 roads. The more you repeat the journey, the more automatic it becomes.
Regular, interesting repetition is key.
STUDIES OF INFORMATION PROCESSING CAPACITY
The Medical Research Council was concerned about children not progressing at
school whose processing-production competencies were deficient. Issues emerged
from evaluating 300 children (Sage, 1986) showing:
  1. 
Traditional intelligence tests failed to pinpoint problem areas
  2. 
Speech focus (words & grammar) was not improving progress
  3. 
Reduced attention levels were shown on control schedules
  4. 
Reduced information integration (if playing with toys & given instructions,
play disintegrated)
  5. 
Deficient auditory memory (repeating sounds, words, sentences)
  6. 
Temporal sequencing problems (displayed in responding to complex
commands)
  7. 
Auditory figure problems (unable to differentiate speech in group-talk)
  8. 
Re-auditorisation problems (could not synthesise/analyse words)
 9. 
Limitated symbolisation, abstraction and conceptualisation (problems with
logic)
10. 
Reduction in accuracy and speed for word-labels and associations
11. 
Residual phonetic/phonological difficulties
12. 
Problems in mastering and establishing meaning.
To investigate these, an assessment of Haptic, Auditory and Visual competencies
was devised and piloted before implementation with a group of 80 children from 4–8
R. SAGE & K. ORTON
54
years old (Sage, 1986). Half the sample achieved well at school (N) and the others
showed language deficiencies (LD) and inadequate learning. Overall results are below:
Table 1. Mean scores for normal (N) and language deficient (LD) children, 4–8 years
Haptic Auditory Visual
Mean S D Mean S D Mean S D
N 36.15 6.14 86.60  7.42 57.33  8.98
LD 22.50 5.07 34.95 13.63 35.40 11.28
t 10.84 19.82 11.28
p  0.001  0.001  0.001
Mean = mean score; SD = Standard Deviation; t = correlation; p = significance level
N = normal (those testing on language & cognition tests within the normal range
LD = language deficient/disordered those testing below norm on language cognition tests
Large discrepancies showed in all areas, when comparing N and LD groups,
with overall significant difference p = 0.001. Whereas the N group showed an even
profile on haptic, auditory and visual tasks, the LD one demonstrated a larger dip on
auditory ones, because stimuli were more transient and dependent on ST memory.
There was a clear age-trend in N groups, but not in LD ones. The N participants
used verbal rehearsal on visual memory tasks not demonstrated in the LD group,
indicating less skills employed. LD children showed lower attention levels, taking
longer to complete activities. Visual scanning was less and frequent repetitions
of instructions were needed for task completion. A strategy was devised to build
competencies holistically (Section 3).
PRODUCTION THEORY
Spoken communication is best represented by a transactional model, showing we
send and receive messages simultaneously (listeners respond non-verbally with facial
expressions/gestures), recognising mutual influence on interaction (Adler et al.,
1980). This defines informal (dialogue) and formal (monologue) communicating
styles, with the latter dominant in education, depending on well-developed
narrative thinking and linguistic structures to process and express ideas coherently
for different purposes. Bruner (1965) and Beilin (1975) claimed that narrative
(creative) thinking and language is primary for understanding, assembling and
judging facts, underpinning interactions. Context, characters, actions and reactions
is our in-born schema for comprehending the world and witnessed in child role-
play of events for deepening understanding. Seven stages in narrative development
were identified from Medical Research Council and National Vocational Council
studies (1980–1990) producing the Communication Opportunity Group Strategy:
COGS (Sage, 2000a, 2000b, 2006). This provides holistic assessment and teaching,
THEORIES INFORMING TEACHING OF SUCCESS ABILITIES
55
based on narrative development; considering transactional influences (opportunity;
personality; intelligence; attitude); emphasizing clarity, content, convention and
conduct in performance. The approach is endorsed for its evidence base (Cooper,
2004). In the IDIAL project, the UK team used 3 groups of 10 pupils (age 13) and
3 teaching methods (communicative (active), traditional (passive) or self-directed).
Before 10 teaching-hours there was no significant difference on communicative
competencies (p=0.6) but afterwards the communication group (COGS) showed
large increases compared with others (p = 0.000). Samples were small (10 in each
group) but reflect previous research supporting a communicative approach to
develop thinking in many situations (Sage, 2010).
COMMENT
Communication underpins all transferable competencies as explained below:
Communication and Cultural Awareness
How and what we communicate verbally/non-verbally is defined by context and
culture shaping attitudes, values and knowledge. Verbally is included message
information, using figurative, humorous, inferential speech. Non-verbally is
voice-tone, pitch, pace, pause, power and pronunciation marking meaning, with
body language indicating mood and feelings through physical appearance, gaze,
posture, gestures and facial expressions. Spoken and written communicative
genres have conventions to be learnt and applied appropriately. Dialogue has
equal speaker participation and in monologue one person controls, showing
different role positions and talk patterns. Effective communicators account for
these factors.
Learning How to Learn
This defines the communication strategy. Learning is gaining knowledge, experience,
attitudes and skills over time to achieve the previously impossible. Inter-related
stages include new experiences and behaviours with reflection refining embedding
of new knowledge, understanding and skills. Implementation determines purpose,
identifies procedures to achieve this and practises tasks. Our internal communication
grasps the goal and steps to achieve it. A narrative schema, developed from formal
talk, enables independent learning, providing the internal, mental framework for
assembling and sequencing events.
Mathematical, Digital, Scientific and Technological Abilities
These are secondary language representational activities, acquired from symbolic
processes and narrative structures of primary speech. Tasks depend on gathering
R. SAGE & K. ORTON
56
and interpreting data. Arithmetic operations, using ratios, percentages, indexes and
statistical analyses (tables, graphs, & charts) are based on narrative schema for
data-assembly. Computers and mobile phones use both lateral (creative) and logical
(critical) thinking, following instructions for information processing. Mathematics
requires high-levels of declarative, procedural and conceptual knowledge, acquired
from talk and used in a strategic, context-related way.
Social and Civic Engagement
This refers to social responsibility, requiring awareness and appreciation of
community needs, diversity and inclusion. Knowledge and understanding,
communicating, collaborating and cooperating with others engenders loyalty,
reliability and commitment to common purposes. One must sublimate personal
desires sometimes for common ‘good’, considering others before ‘self’. Sharing
views, feelings and attitudes underpins social dynamics and taught in high-achieving
nations like Japan.
Initiative and Entrepreneurship
This defines leading in situations, with motivation and commitment to see things
through. Skills to promote and ‘sell’ one self, services or products are involved.
Communicative abilities to assert, persuade, negotiate, make effective relationships,
develop suitable administrative arrangements, time manage, present ideas to others
and implement follow-up procedures are required. Narrative, creative thinking
creates the vision and critical thinking structures delivery. Transferable abilities
require self-awareness and reflection for development with recent theories of dual-
process and dual-system providing insight.
DUAL-PROCESS AND DUAL-SYSTEM THEORIES
These theories are mentioned in cognitive and social psychology. The two-process
distinction emerges as a rapid autonomous activity (Type 1) yielding default
responses, unless intervention occurs when higher-order reasoning takes over
(Type 2). The difference is that Type 2 processing supports hypothetical thinking,
depending on working-memory. Theories by Evans (2007a), Kahneman (2011) and
Stanovich (2011) account for wide interests in reasoning, judgment and decision-
making literature. Kahneman (2011) suggests 2 ways to think: one is thinking fast,
working on intuition and association automatically; the other is thinking slow, in a
reasoned, controlled way. Theories originate from Stanovich and West (2011) using
terms System 1 and 2. Kahneman refers to thinking fast and slow (System 1 & 2),
winning the Nobel Prize for his work. He considers people as managers in control
of minds and bodies. The decision-maker, with distinct beliefs, weighs options,
deliberates and chooses with better judgment to govern behaviour. System 1 uses
THEORIES INFORMING TEACHING OF SUCCESS ABILITIES
57
associative memory, working things out automatically, influenced by natural drives
and instincts. This is not deciding but unconscious discerning. System 2 requires
effort, as the control function and supervisor of mind and behaviour. “What I do
and not what happens to me” means struggle.
System 1 mostly works well from practice. When problems occur, we must realise
that intuitions are not always right and have flaws. Awareness of happenings and
acknowledgement that we are ‘prone to error’ is needed. It works through association
(connecting up novel stimuli with known ones sharing characteristics, contiguity in
time & place or causality). The system gives quick impressions, allowing immediate
response, which is important in times of danger or when teaching! To achieve this,
System 1 relies on rules and guidelines (heuristics) to assist. We identify with System
2, the conscious, reasoning-self with beliefs, making choices and deciding what to
think and do. If something important arises, System 1 becomes strained, mobilising
2 to help.
When System 1 runs into difficulty, it calls on System 2 to support more
detailed and specific processing that may solve the problem of the moment…
You can… feel a surge of conscious attention whenever you are surprised.
System 2 is activated when an event is detected that violates the model of the
world that System 1 maintains. (Stanovich & West, 2011)
Do we jump to conclusions from broad, applied principles? ‘Yes’, is the answer, as
they are learned, applied procedures, calculating/recalling some value or shortcutting
reasoning, even though we can think out better results. Kahneman (2011) says we
fail to do this as we are lazy, reflecting Argyris and Schön’s (1970) double-loop
learning, with implications for reflection. System 1 is single- and 2- double-loop
learning. System 2, when effective, is not hood-winked by System 1, but becomes
troublesome knowledge and prone to lethargy.
Argyris and Schön (1978) Double Loop Learning
When issues arise, it is easier to think and drive present objectives, as an error-
correction process that keeps focus (single-loop learning) with goals, values,
frameworks and strategies taken for granted. Single-loop learning (like a thermostat
monitoring hot or cold) receives information for corrective action. Double-loop
learning occurs, when issues are detected and corrected, modified by norms, policies
and objectives.
THRESHOLD CONCEPTS: A TRANSFORMED WAY OF THINKING
Exploring threshold concepts supports Schӧn’s (1983) reflective difficulties. If
teachers are to develop they must accept teaching and learning demands and ways
of thinking and practice. Teaching is not just pedagogy but the growth of thinking,
reflection and action.
R. SAGE & K. ORTON
58
A threshold concept can be considered akin to a portal, opening up a new
and previously inaccessible way of thinking about something. It represents
a transformed way of understanding, or interpreting, or viewing something
without which the learner cannot progress. (Meyer & Land, 2006, p. 3)
[This] means that a lot of disjointed and disconnected facts and ideas can come
together into a coherent way of looking at the world. But when stuff ‘falls into
place’ or ‘makes sense’ often we do not have to make an effort to remember
it—it is just ‘there’, a natural part of a wider whole. (Atherton, 2013)
It is like opening a door, revealing hidden things. Once the threshold is
crossed, you and your understanding changes. Perkins (2008) suggests this may
Figure 1. Double-loop learning
THEORIES INFORMING TEACHING OF SUCCESS ABILITIES
59
become ‘troublesome knowledge’. If you have to change ideas, because you
now think differently about teaching and learning, it becomes more than you
know, affecting beliefs. Once through the door you cannot return! Liminality
(edge/threshold) is uncomfortable. Sorting what are threshold concepts of
being a teacher determines where difficulties lie. If carrying on regardless then
understanding is mimicked or faked. Professional knowledge must compel
development. Recognizing and addressing subject threshold concepts comes
from experience.
EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING AND REFLECTIVE PRACTICE
It is vital to encourage individual involvement in experiential learning and analytic
reflection, to bring understanding of new knowledge and retention (Moon, 2004).
Aristotle said: For things we have to learn before we can do them, we learn
by doing them. Reflective practice is only effective by ‘undertaking it’, with
following discussion, rather than reading and following instructions. Kolb (1984,
2005) popularized this, drawing on Dewey, Lewin and Piaget work. Experiential
learning theory passes on the legacy of 20th century scholars, notably James
(1977), Dewey (1933, 1938), Lewin (1951), Piaget (1970), Wadsworth (2004),
Vygotsky (1978), Jung (1971), Freire (1993) and Rogers (1951). Experience is
central to learning.
Doing and thinking are complimentary. Doing extends thinking in the tests,
moves and probes of experimental action, and reflection feeds on the doing
and its results. Each feeds the other, and each sets boundaries for the other. It
is the surprising result of action that triggers reflection, and it is the production
of a satisfactory move that brings reflection temporarily to a close. (Schon,
1983, p. 280)
Like Dewey (1933), Schӧn (1983) influenced education and related fields
with ideas from Argyris (1982), Polanyi (1966), Ryle (1949), Goodman (1984),
Wittgenstein (1953) and Newman (1991). Schön developed reflection-in-action
for professionals to “think on their feet” (Illeris, 2007, p. 66). We must embed
experiential learning into courses, providing a framework for adapting many
teaching/learning methods. Moon (2004) says most educators understand this.
Emotion and feelings are vital in the process. Reflection develops ownership of
content, relating ideas to previous knowledge more effectively (Rogers, 1969).
Self-directed learning champions independence; supports transformation and
promotes freedom and social action (Merriam, 2001). Facilitators must engage in
critical reflection of attitudes, assumptions, values and practice. Education adapts
to student needs, with experiential learning becoming important. Clark & White
(2010) suggest quality courses must include experiential components, as bosses
want employees to build professionalism (Confederation of British Industry
Website).
R. SAGE & K. ORTON
60
EMBODIED REFLECTIVE MODE
Teachers listen to each other and unearth conscious meanings, demonstrating
integration of mind-body approaches that reflective practice makes possible (Sage,
2003).
Teacher (means) someone who engages learners, who seeks to involve each
person wholly – mind, sense of self, …humour, range of interests, interactions
with other people in learning. (Duckworth, 1987, p. 490)
Components of reflection (Boud et al., 1985a) signpost attending to feelings
for promoting learning clarity Mind and body work together for filtering, storing,
learning,andrememberingkeyelements.Inabilitytocommunicatethoughts,feelings,
imagination and actions, for growth, can lead to these being buried to unconsciously
influence actions. Problems and limitations impede progress, requiring support.
Boulton (2009) suggests that ‘through mirror writing’ learners respond to concerns,
wants, needs and interests. They discover more about themselves, clarify values,
identity and boundaries from recordings. Acquiring diverse perspectives challenges
assumptions about political, social and cultural norms, allowing reflective-
understanding of people-relationships, situations, places, timing, chronology,
causality and connections. It reviews/relives experience to focus it, demonstrating
roles of visualising for understanding (Sage, 2003). Innocent details might prove
key and vital ones irrelevant. Illeris (2001, p. 65) says reflection has been ‘more
concerned with thinking and less with experiences, feelings or interaction’ and
is still an accurate picture in Britain today. We have not embraced the Japanese
philosophy of Hansei-Kaizen (reflection-improvement) – a communicative process
to review, reflect and examine events.
If reflection could stretch its limbs, get in touch with its bodily held feelings,
its discomforts, emotions, intuitions, and imagination, might then awareness
emerge of a more expansive calling in the service of human learning and
development? Might reflection see that it can embrace a wider range of
elements in our learning processes? (Jordi, 2011, p. 184)
Brookfield’s (2005) idea of reflection from different perspectives allows criticism,
giving opportunities for change from collaborative communication, thinking and
analysis. Talking and mentoring stimulates individuals to self-assess, reflect and
become more conscious learners. Teachers and mentors, who apply knowledge of
learning needs and styles to new study areas for development of effective classrooms,
become self-reflective which is a central dynamic to the process. Not only is it crucial
in encouraging open-minded, creative thinkers and effective educators, but also
develops awareness of self as a learner, teacher and mentor. Self-reflectors examine
internal processing mechanisms and this metacognition significantly improves
processing strategies to enhance performance (MacKinnon & Waller, 1985; Hine &
Ismail, 1997). This poses problems but has solutions.
THEORIES INFORMING TEACHING OF SUCCESS ABILITIES
61
FACILITATING COMMUNICATIVE REFLECTIVE PRACTICE:
PROBLEMS & SOLUTIONS
Mobility projects with Japan, Cuba and South America (Sage et al., 2003) reveal
their more holistic education policy, supporting a new direction for our own system.
As much attention is paid to personal development as academic achievements, with
a grasp of the mind-body debate driving practice. Students, in these nations, function
above those in Britain, suggesting their methods should be considered for future
planning. First, the question of habituation, leading to diminished responses, is
discussed, providing awareness of teaching problems.
Problems of Habituation
Habituation describes implicit learning in education. Being habituated into
surroundings presumes one will ‘go with the flow’ and not question, with implications
for reflection. Theories have explained why it occurs (Groves & Thompson, 1970;
Domjan, 2010; Rankin, 2009; Fennell, 2011). Rankin’s single-factor theory of
habituation suggests constant repetition of a stimulus changes its worth. Dual-factor
theory states that underlying neural processes regulate responsiveness to different
stimuli. The process is responsible for decreases in responsiveness to stimuli, with
the sensitization process responsible for increases (Rankin et al., 2009). Therefore,
habituation is a decreased response to a stimulus from repeated presentations.
Teaching has been observed where learners do not give eye contact and show
boredom. The teacher initially draws attention because it is distracting. After a while,
they become used to the reaction, paying less attention to off-task behaviour. This
diminished response reduces reflection and masks thinking about why it is happening.
A trainee-teacher worried about their observation assessment grade for Qualified
Teacher Status (QTS). They prepared their lesson and after observation felt
confident. Following feedback, an ‘unsatisfactory’ grade was anticipated, leading to
distress because a pass was needed. They calmed down and eventually returned to
a normal state. Opponent-process theory explains this (Groves & Thompson, 1970).
An outside stimulus provokes emotional reaction, increasing rapidly until most
intense (realizing unsatisfactory grade). Emotional state becomes abnormally low
but eventually returns to neutral. This pattern coincides with two internal processes
referred to as the a-b-process. The a-process, or affective response to stimulus, is
fast-acting and finishes when the stimulus ends. The initial emotional response can
be pleasant or unpleasant. The b-process is the after reaction, with a lower intensity
than a- and slower returning to baseline. Repeated presentations demonstrate
habituation, when subjects show little to no reaction, which has class consequences.
SOLUTIONS FROM TEACHING AS ‘RESEARCH’
There are now more opportunities to consider ‘teaching as research’, as
programmes like Teach First give graduates chance to gain QTS and study for
R. SAGE & K. ORTON
62
a Master’s Degree in Leadership and Management. Programmes foster ability to
search, select and critically examine information. Participants learn about self:
what are their strengths and areas to develop. They are supported in identifying
ways to use drive and passion for raising school aspirations, challenge educational
inequality and help learners realise potential. This dispels assumptions about the
meaning of ‘research’ and how it relates to practitioners. Teacher-researchers
focus on what is happening to understand classroom events by questioning
assumptions and making sense of student interpretation of set tasks and activities.
Issues become questions to investigate and ways of teaching opportunities for
learning.
Practitioners also need to examine and become more explicit about the kinds
of knowledge they use in their practice and how they apply these to make sense
of events and situations they confront. (Taylor & White, 2000, p. 6)
Reflection needs another person as mentor to ask questions and ensure thinking
goes somewhere and does not drown in self-justification, -indulgence or -pity!
Efficient learners will not always be conscious of knowing what they know.
During QTS observations and feedback, the issue is ‘what is going on’, driving
an interpretive transactional context, with the trainee asked to sort out their own
meaning rather than taking on an observer’s one. Experience is structured so that
the trainee comes to embrace mentor values. However, differences in background
and experience lead to varying values and interpretations. Learner constructions can
be problematic with Wells (1986) emphasising that ‘meaning making’ through talk
should be collaborative, continuous activity.
Where there is a considerable disparity between the participants in their mental
models and their linguistic resources, the more mature participant has to make
adjustments in order to make collaboration possible. (Wells, 1986, p. 89)
SUMMARY
Success abilities involve personalities, thinking and communication styles in
transactional contexts, with models informing teaching. Personality and Cognitive
theories are ‘within’the person approaches, concentrating on individual development.
Communicative theories balance this, focusing on audience and the mutual influences
of interpersonal transactions in contexts. Theories trace the history of conceptual
development about ourselves and the world providing rich insights for practice.
However, any theory is limited by present knowledge and how it is understood and
applied within local and national constraints. Accepting new ideas depends on value
placed on constructs and personal and political agendas that help/hinder this. In
Britain, we consider communication important but not fundamental to learning, in
contrast to high-achieving countries, who value this as a curriculum subject along
with philosophy and rhetoric.
THEORIES INFORMING TEACHING OF SUCCESS ABILITIES
63
Research suggests the communication system for teaching and learning
challenges, because of transactional, simultaneous sending and receiving of messages
(Barnlund, 1970). When a trainee hears: ‘I want to talk about your last lesson’, they
may grimace, so sending a non-verbal response (unconscious reflection on words),
as well as receiving the verbal one. It is difficult to isolate a discrete communication
act from events preceding and following it. Future ones depend on conversation
outcomes, so the relationship part of the process is unfinished business. Professor
Wiio (1978) says that only 25% of face-to-face communication is effective and that
by other means (email/phone) at a 5% level. Things hindering the process (noise
effects) need awareness (Orton, 2003, 2014).
Teacher-educators encourage trainees to view the world from their perspective,
but ways they engage in talk fail to recognize this and cannot be directly transmitted.
It must be constructed by learners, building on what they know and gradually (with
support) extending knowledge and understanding. Dynamic teachers demonstrate
communication that assists learners to express cause and effect and link events
through narrative discourse for understanding and expressing coherent ideas. Learning
problems – listening, understanding, requesting, describing, reporting, discussing,
narrating and negotiating – are well established in literature (Sage, 2000a).
Trainees need to explore contradictions between beliefs underlying actions, to
deal with the discomforts of having to make some changes. Understanding complex
information develops, by making connections between what experts believe and what
we should be trying to do as teachers. How do we create a context supporting what
students need to explore for creating their own meaning, reflecting conventions of
the informed community? Constructive reflection – challenging ideas, realizing why
understanding is gained from how things are done and acknowledging practice –
produces new learning rather than confirming existing positions.
Colleagues, offering guidance, provide positive teaching-learning outcomes
and contribute to personal satisfaction. Effective professional development must
involve more than occasional large-group sessions, to include study-teams and peer-
coaching, so assumptions and practices are continuously examined. Reflection brings
deeper understanding of teaching-styles and greater effectiveness as an educator.
Benefits, noted in literature, include validation of teacher ideals, challenges to
traditions, recognition of teaching as artistry and respect for diversity in applying
theory to practice. Tutor feedback, at the UK College of Teachers, shows reflection
is often weak, as some do not understand the process. In Bulgaria there is no word
for reflection!
Today, teacher education focuses on the administrative rather than the learning
person. We must develop communities and create contexts in which everyone learns
from each other. Modifying the teacher role, to drive communication quality for
learner demands, develops a facilitator, supporting affective development for the
best way forward. Strong foundations are needed for learners, with teachers educated
and not just trained. Reflection, to enhance learning, is problematic as theories
illustrate an array of protective systems in place to guard against uncomfortable,
R. SAGE & K. ORTON
64
troublesome knowledge. Learning and teaching beliefs can only be uncovered by
engaging in self-critical analysis of current practices. Establishments must develop
more flexible, creative models of delivery to support autonomous, lifelong learners,
skilled in reflecting on achievements and planning for development.
Questions that need exploring are:
•	 Is the context in which we work giving greater or lesser opportunities to reflect?
•	 Can we scaffold reflective thinking through a narrative framework (Sage, 2000a)
to give teachers knowledge to understand learner discourse levels?
•	 Can we devise communicative, reflective learning strategies, like Vygotsky’s
zone of proximal learning?
•	 Can we demonstrate differences between what a learner does alone and what can
be achieved with support?
•	 Can a learner be eased into their zone of proximal development by modelling &
coaching on a task slightly more complex than they can manage alone?
•	 What type of repetition enables mastery of new skills for learners to become self-
determining thinkers & reflective practitioners?
MAIN POINTS
•	 Theories, that frame success skills, are grouped under personality, cognition and
communication showing a recent move towards more holistic models that account
for both mind, body and spiritual functioning
•	 Holism, the idea that systems and their properties should be viewed as wholes and
not just as a collection of parts, is important in producing a broad curriculum that
values both academic and personal abilities
•	 The communicative approach builds on personality and cognitive theories,
emphasising levels of thinking and context needs, influencing how we process,
problem-solve and behave to encourage reflection and feedback
•	 Educational concern for administration of learning takes attention away from
the learning process and this situation needs to be addressed urgently for raising
standards of performance
NOTES
1
	 András Pető was born in 1893 in Szombathely, Hungary and studied medicine, coming into contact
with the various psychological schools of Vienna (Freud, Adler, & Frankl). His founded the National
Institute of Motor Therapy in 1952. Although under the Ministry of Health, instead of following the
medical therapy model, Pető created an educational one, in which children with disabilities could
meet their particular physical and intellectual needs. In the early 1960s, his institute moved into the
Ministry of Education. Conductive Education (CE) entered public consciousness in the mid-1980s,
as a result of two television documentaries, Standing Up For Joe (1986), and To Hungary with Love
(1987). In recent years, CE has gained acceptance in education of children with motor disorders.
THEORIES INFORMING TEACHING OF SUCCESS ABILITIES
65
While developed for children with cerebral palsy or brain injury, it is also used with adults having
Parkinson’s disease, Multiple Sclerosis and after-stroke conditions.
2
	 Montessori Education was started by the Italian physician and educator, Maria Montessori (1870–
1952). She developed her ideas, while working with mentally challenged children, finding the
approach produced better results than found with normally functioning ones. Her first school, La casa
dei bambini, was opened to working class children, in the slum of San Lorenzo, Rome. Her method
emphasized independence, freedom within limits and respect for a child’s natural psychological,
physical and social development. Effective communication was core to this philosophy and
encouraged in systematic ways.
3
	 Steiner (Waldorf) education was started by Rudolf Steiner, the founder of anthroposophy. Its
pedagogy emphasizes the role of imagination in learning, striving to integrate holistically, pupil
intellectual, practical and artistic development. Three stages reflect the approach to early childhood
education, focusing on hands-on activities and creative play; to elementary education, developing artistic
expression and social abilities and to secondary education, facilitating critical reasoning and empathy.
The goal is to develop free, morally responsible, integrated individuals, equipped with effective
communicative competencies. Qualitative assessments of student work are absorbed into classroom life,
with quantitative testing playing a minimal role in primary education and standardized testing limited
to that required for college entry. Individual teachers and schools have great autonomy in determining
curricula, teaching methodology and governance. The first school opened in 1919 in Stuttgart, Germany.
At present there are over a thousand schools, about 2,000 kindergartens and 646 special education centres,
located in 60 countries, constituting one of the largest independent school movements internationally.
There are also a number of public, charter and home schools as well as academies.
REFERENCES
Adler, R., Rosenfeld, L., & Towne, N. (1980). Interplay: The process of interpersonal communication.
New York, NY: Harcourt Brace College Publishing.
Argyris, C. (1982). Reasoning, learning, and action: Individual and organizational.San Francisco, CA:
Jossey-Bass.
Argyris, M., & Schön, D. (1974). Theory in practice. Increasing professional effectiveness. San Francisco,
CA: Jossey-Bass.
Argyris, C., & Schön, D. (1978). Organizational learning: A theory of action perspective. Reading, MA:
Addison Wesley.
Atherton, J. (2013). Doceo: Introduction to threshold concepts. Retrieved July 12, 2014, from
http://www.doceo.co.uk/tools/threshol_3.htm
Barnlund, D. (1970). A transactional model of communication. In K. Sereno & C. Mortensen (Eds.),
Foundations of communication theory. New York, NY: Harper Row.
Beilin, H. (1975). Studies in the cognitive basis of language development. New York, NY: Academic
Press.
Benson, H. (1996). The power and biology of belief. New York, NY: Scribner.
Bohm, D. (1951). Quantum theory. London: Constable.
Boud, D., Keogh, R., & Walker, D. (1985). Reflection: Turning experience into learning. London: Kogan
Page.
Boulton, G. (2009). Writing values: Reflective writing for professional development. The Lancet, 373,
20–21.
Boulton, E. (2010). Reflective practice: Writing and professional development. London. Sage Publications
Ltd.
Brockbank, A., & McGill, I. (1998). Facilitating reflective learning in higher education. Buckingham:
SRHE & Open University Press.
Brookfield, S. (1990). Using critical incidents to explore learners’ assumptions. In J. Mezirow (Ed.),
Fostering critical reflection in adulthood: A guide to transformative and emancipatory learning
(pp. 177–193). San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass Publishers.
Bruner, J. (1966). Toward a theory of instruction. New York, NY: Newton.
R. SAGE & K. ORTON
66
Clark, J., & White, G. (2010). Experiential learning: A definitive edge in the job market. American
Journal of Business Education, 3(2), 115–118.
Cooper, P. (2004). Successful approaches with SEBD pupils. London: Barnardos.
Dewey, J. (1933). How we think: A restatement of the relation of reflective thinking to the educative
process. Boston, MA: D. C. Heath & Co Publishers.
Dewey, J. (1938). Experience and education. New York, NY: MacMillan.
Duckworth, E. (1987). Teaching as research. Harvard Educational Review, 56(4), 481–495.
Edwards, B. (1979). Drawing on the right side of the brain. London & Fontana, CA: Harper Collins.
Evans, J. (2007b). On the resolution of conflict in dual process theories of reasoning. Thinking &
Reasoning, 13, 321–329.
Evans, J. & Stanovich, K. (2013). Dual-process theories of higher cognition: Advancing the debate.
Perspectives on Psychological Science, 8(3), 223–241.
Fennel, C. (2011). Habituation procedures. In E. Hoff (Ed.), Research methods in child language: A
practical guide (PDF). Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.
Freire, P. (1993). The pedagogy of the oppressed. New York, NY: Continuum.
Goodman, J. (1984). Reflection and teacher education:Acase study and theoretical analysis. Interchanges,
15, 9–26.
Groves, P. M. & Thompson, R. F. (1970). Habituation: A dual-process theory. Psychological Review,
77(5), 419–450.
Haldane, J. (1934). Fact and faith. London: Watts & Co, Thinker’s Library.
Illeris, k. (2007). How we learn: Learning and non-learning in school and beyond. London: Routledge.
Jung, C. (1934–1954). The archetypes and the collective unconscious, collected works (Vol. 9, 2nd ed.)
Princeton, NJ: Bollingen. (Published 1981)
Jung, C. (1971). Psychological types. London: Routledge.
Kahneman, D. (2011). Thinking, fast and slow. New York, NY: Farrar, Straus & Giroux.
Kolb, D. A. (1984). Experiential learning: Experience as the source of learning and development.
London: Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs.
Kolb, D. A. (2005). The Kolb learning style inventory: Version 3.1. Boston, MA: Hay Resources Direct.
Levey, J. (1968). Differential perceptual capacities in major and minor Hemispheres. Proceedings of
National Academy of Science, 61, 1151.
Liker, J. K. (2004). The toyota way. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill.
Merriam, S. B. (2001). Andragogy and self-directed learning: Pillars of adult learning theory. In
S. B. (Ed.), New directions for adult and continuing education (p. 89). San Francisco, CA: Jossey-
Bass.
Meyer, J., & Land, R. (2003). Threshold concepts and troublesome knowledge: Linkages to ways of
thinking and practising within the disciplines. Edinburgh: Enhancing Teaching-Learning Environments
in Undergraduate Courses Project, Occasional Paper 4 (On-Line, UK). Retrieved July 12, 2014, from
http://www.tia.ed.ac.uk/eti/docs/ETLreport4pdf
Moon, J. (2004). A Handbook of reflective and experiential learning: Theory and practice. London:
Routledge Falmer.
Myers, B. I., McCaulley, M., Quenk, N., Hammer, A. L., & Mitchell, W. (2009). MBTI step 111 manual:
Exploring personality development. London: Consulting Psychologists Press.
National Training Laboratories. (1996). A guide to pre-service training. Bethel, ME: Ameri Corps
National Profiles.
Newman, J. (1991). Interwoven conversations: Learning and teaching through critical reflection.
Toronto: OISE Press.
Orton, K. (2003). To evaluate any measurable benefits of teaching communication skills within a
developmental framework of narrative and paradigmatic thinking with further education students,
(based upon COGS: Sage, 1986). Leicester: University of Leicester.
Orton, K. (2014). Reflective practice: What’s the problem? Education Today, 64(3), 25–30.
Piaget, J. (1970). Intellectual evolution from adolescence to adulthood. In third international convention
& awarding of FONEME prizes (pp. 157–164). Milan: Foneme.
Polanyi, M. (1966). The tacit dimension. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.
THEORIES INFORMING TEACHING OF SUCCESS ABILITIES
67
Rogers, C. (1951). Client-centred therapy: Its current practice, implications and theory. London:
Constable.
Rogers, C. (1969) Freedom to learn: A view of what education might become. Columbus, OH: Charles
Merill.
Rankin, C. H.,Abrams, T., Barry, R. J., Bhatnagar, S., Clayton, D., Colombo, J., Coppola, G., Geyer, M. A.,
Glanzman, D. L., Marsland, S., McSweeney, F. K., Wilson, D. A., Wu, C. F., & Thompson, R. F.
(2009). Habituation revisited: An updated & revised description of the behavioral characteristics of
habituation. Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, 92(2), 135–138.
Ryle, G. (1945). Knowing how and knowing that. Papers from the Aristotelian Society, 46, 1–16.
Sage, R. (1986). A question of language disorder: Report on children failing school. Trent Region:
Medical Research Council.
Sage, R. (2000a). Class talk. London: Network Continuum.
Sage, R. (2000b). The communication opportunity group strategy. Leicester: The University of Leicester.
Sage, R. (2003). Lend us your ears. London: Network Continuum.
Sage, R. (2006). The communication opportunity group strategy: Assessment and teaching. Leicester:
The University of Leicester.
Sage, R. (Ed.). (2010). Meeting the needs of students with diverse backgrounds. London: Continuum.
Sage, R., & Cwenar, S. (2005). An escalate study into teacher and learner competence. Leicester: The
University of Leicester.
Sage, R., Rogers, J., Cwenar, S., & UK Team. (2000–2009). A UK-Japan initiative to develop the
successful 21st century citizen. 3 Research reports, The University of Leicester & Nara Women’s
University, Japan.
Schon, D. (1983). The reflective practitioner: How professionals think in action. New York, NY: Basic
Books, Inc.
Sivyer, A. (2007). Are you using only half your brain? Article Health and Wellness. Retrieved 23 June,
2016 from http://www.associatedcontent.com/articel/19141.htm
Sperry, R. (1968). Hemispheric disconnection and unity in conscious awareness. American Psychologist,
23, 723–733.
Stanovich, K. (2011). Rationality and the reflective mind. New York, NY: Oxford University Press.
Stevens, A. (2006). The archetypes (Chapter 3). In P. Renos (Ed.), The handbook of Jungian psychology.
London: Taylor Francis.
Taylor, W. (2007, March). Chair, Department of Homeopathic Medicine, National College of Natural
Medicine, Portland, OR.
Vygotsky, L. (1978). Mind in society: The development of higher psychological processes. Cambridge,
MA.: Harvard University Press.
Wadsworth, B. (2004). Piaget’s theory of cognitive and affective development. Boston, MA: Pearson.
Wiio, O. (1978). Wiion lait- ja vahan (Wiio’s Laws and some others). Finland: Weilin + Goos, ESPO.
Wittgenstein, L. (1953). Philosophical investigations. Oxford: Blackwell.
Zohar, D., & Marshall, I. (2000). Spiritual intelligence: The ultimate intelligence. London: Bloomsbury.
R. Sage (Ed.), Paradoxes in Education, 69–84.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
LUKE SAGE
4. MOTIVATED ATTENTION IN THE
MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
ABSTRACT
With learning being the prime objective of education, a crucial part of the process
is student attention to stimuli, or information provided for processing. Attention is
a multidimensional concept, influenced by numerous factors. A key linking one,
engulfing the academic literature over the past 30 years, is motivation. Theories
abound and there are recurring literature references to how this study area should be
unified meaningfully, with associated areas like attention. Motivated attention is in
its operational infancy and multicultural aspects of this process have yet to surface
in the literature. The following chapter, therefore, centres on areas of attention
and motivation important to education, with particular consideration to the salient
multi-cultural factors that have been associated with these areas. Understanding
how to elicit attention and encouraging students to be motivated to work is a
teacher’s greatest challenge. Discussion considers research that can guide policy
and practice.
ATTENTION
Attention is a prerequisite for information processing, working memory, storage,
retention and information learning. Effective learning is contingent on efficient
attentional processing of appropriate stimuli, through the integration of adaptive
cognitive, behavioural and emotional strategies. Due to its importance in learning,
attention has been widely studied in pedagogy (Alexander, Entwisle, & Dauber,
1993; Hidi, 1995; McClelland, Morrison, & Holmes, 2000; Risko et al., 2012;
Rudasill, Gallagher, & White, 2010; Yen, Konold, & McDermott, 2004). Work
typically centres on inattention in clinical populations, associated with ADHD
(attention & hyperactivity deficits) and dyslexia. With alarming evidence of mind-
wandering and dwindling attention, in both traditional classrooms and on-line
learning environments (Szpunar, Moulton, & Schacter, 2013), a constant issue for
teachers is to motivate students to sustain attention across a variety of learning
activities (Jang, 2008; Risko et al., 2013). An increasing range of individuals,
cultures, interests, abilities and classroom tasks make this mission tricky, but there
are steps to optimise attention and likelihood of learning. To this end, it is important
to understand the concept.
L. SAGE
70
ATTENTIONAL THEORY
The conceptualisation and study of attention has been considered from behavioural,
cognitive, neuropsychological and evolutionary perspectives, appreciating the many
dimensions that simultaneously contribute to learning experience. Attention has
thus been defined as the complex cognitive process of linked neural networks that
function in selecting, orienting and sustaining focus on certain stimuli (Posner &
Rothbart, 2007).
Focused attention is ability to concentrate on target stimuli;
Selective attention is the process of selecting some stimuli over other competing
ones;
Divided attention, or multi-tasking, is the allocation of attention to two or more
sources;
Switching attention, or orientating, is the movement of attention from one
cognitive task to another;
Sustained attention, or vigilance, is the maintenance of attention over time;
Executive attention is control of all dimensions by processing automatic & higher-
order goal directed thinking.
Dimensions of attention have been categorised into the familiar 3 networks of
attention (Posner & Peterson, 1990).
1.	Activation system,
2.	Selective-spatial-orienting system
3.	Executive system
Broader literature on working memory and executive function, establishes that
capacity of higher-order functioning varies between people, in all aspects of attention
across cultures (Baddeley, 2007).
Research on attentional dimensions or networks has typically been carried out on
children from Western industrial societies and cultures (Bornstein, 2009). Despite
this trend, a few neuropsychological child studies, from non-Western cultures,
have revealed some cultural differences but more similarities. Comparing sustained
attention in Mexican and American students (6–12 years), Mexicans showed more
inattentive, impulsive performance, but there were no cultural differences related to
performance speed (Brewis et al., 2003). Inhibitory control was more pronounced,
developing earlier in children from Asian cultures (China, Korea & Japan) compared
to those from the US and Western Europe (Oh & Lewis, 2008; Sabbagh, Xu, Carlson,
Moses, & Lee, 2006). Comparisons of inhibition, sustained attention and shift strategy
in children (8–12 years) and adults from 5 countries (Canada, Ireland, USA, Ecuador,
& Israel) showed that performance on sustained attention was not affected by country
of origin, with only minimal differences found in inhibitory control (Levav et al.,
1998). Finally, comparisons between German and Syrian children, indicated few
MOTIVATED ATTENTION IN THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
71
differences in basal systems of vigilance and alertness, but differences, as well
as similarities emerged in higher-order systems of spatial orienting and executive
attention (Sobh & Spijkers, 2013).
Interpretation of these limited studies must be cautious. For example, all attention
tests were devised by Westerners and could be biased towards these populations.
Some studies included clinical samples, using a range of tests, with only differences,
rather than similarities, highlighted. Moreover, there is a publication bias towards
significant findings of difference. Summarising this, there are few differences in
attentional systems across cultures and existing ones appear more in the higher-
orders, associated with motivation, instead of automatic, hard-wired ones. These
distinctions are now discussed.
THE DUAL PROCESS PARADIGM OF ATTENTION
Contemporary models of human attention have adopted a Dual Process Theory of
higher cognition (Stanovich, 2011). The first set of processes is termed Type 1 and
are typically fast, intuitive and automatic, placing minimal demands on memory
and so are free from higher levels of control. Type 1 processing leads to default
responses, until they are overridden by higher-order attention processes, or Type 2
processing. Type 2 requires a cognitive decoupling of secondary representations
from the primary representations attended to by Type 1. This decoupling allows
for hypothetical and rational thinking, which places greater loads on working
memory. The two processing types are both important to education, with the
first characteristic of implicit and the second explicit learning and knowledge
(see Chapter 3). However, the current focus is on links between attention and
motivation, with the latter represented by Type 2, higher-order goal-directed
processing.
ATTENTION AND MOTIVATION
Whilst links between attention and motivation have long been made in literature,
empirical support for clear relationships has been slow to emerge. Theoretical
links have been advanced by Cognitive Information Processing (Broadbent, 1958);
Social Cognitive (Bandura, 1986) and specific conceptualisations of ‘motivated
attention’ (Lang, Bradley, & Cuthbert, 1997). Given the conceptual association
between the higher-order, goal-directed regulations of motivation and aspects of
executive attention, it is unclear why this research area is so scant. It is suggested
that a bias towards clinical populations, in attention and education, is rooted in
biological explanations of inattention and attentional deficits. Thus, social cognitive
explanations of attention, applied to improve this in non-clinical populations, have
yet to flourish. Another explanation is that the myriad of motivational theories and
concepts, together with the complexity of attentional processes, has hindered clear,
conceptual links between the two areas. Whatever reasons for lack of research,
L. SAGE
72
linking these key areas of educational interest, there is a need to further understanding
and help practitioners to maximise adaptive motivation and all aspects of attention.
There are few links between concepts of attention and motivation in educational
research, whilst direct effects between dimensions are either unpublished or lie
outside the educational context. High levels of amotivation have been shown to
predict student behavioural disaffection (inattentive & distracted behaviour),
indifference, minimal learning effort and academic dropout (Vallerand, Fortier,
& Guay, 1997). In direct, self-assessments of motivation and attention, one study
identified that mastery-approach motivational goal-orientations mediated the
relationship between task-value, self-efficacy and classroom attentiveness, in
Singaporean students (Lau, Liem, & Nie, 2008). Using objective attention measures,
approach motivational goals have improved class attention (Stanley & Sage; Sage,
Stanley, & Krastev, unpublished data). Findings support earlier non-contextualised
experiments, showing approach motivation to have a positive effect on selective
attention (e.g., Friedman & Förster, 2005; Förster, Friedman, Özelsel, & Denzler,
2006) and attentional orientating (Memmert & Caňal-Bruland, 2009). Memmert
and Caňal-Bruland’s study provides strong support for incorporating motivational
effects in attention models. However, motivation theory has more complex models
than simple distinctions between approach and avoidance states, so that further
research is timely.
Studies mentioned above were a first exploration into motivation effects on
attention in educational settings (Stanley & Sage; under review; Sage, Stanley,
& Krastev, unpublished data). This Nuffield funded research used the 2×2
Achievement Goal Theory of motivation (see below) to manipulate 4 motivational
climates (mastery-approach, mastery-avoidance, performance-approach &
performance-avoidance climates) during a continuous performance attention test.
This was carried out on British primary, secondary and higher education students
with the following key findings:
•	 All 4 motivational goals improved selective, orientation and sustained
attention from base-line.
•	 Students in approach conditions tended to score higher in all measures of
attention & enjoyment than those in avoidance ones.
•	 Students in the mastery-approach condition, emphasising self-improvement,
scored highest in attention, remaining high even in conditions of low-perceived
competence, compared with others
•	 Attention improved significantly from primary-secondary & secondary- higher
education settings.
•	 When comparing ethnic groups, after controlling for base-line, Black British
students responded best to motivational manipulations, in relation to White
British & British Asians.
MOTIVATED ATTENTION IN THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
73
Whilst findings have limited ecological validity, due to the task’s simple nature,
they are an insight into motivation effects on objective measures of classroom
attention. Before returning to interpretations and implications of findings, matters of
motivation are first unpacked.
MAINSTREAM MODELS OF MOTIVATION
Motivation is generally defined as the direction and intensity of effort (Sage,
1978). There are many theories, but the focus here is on 2 models in educational
research. A third model is later offered as an alternative, to frame future studies on
the multicultural nuances of modern classrooms. The two achievement motivation
theories are Achievement Goal Theory (AGT), and Self-Determination Theory (SDT).
Both are social-cognitive theories, embracing the interaction of individual thoughts
with environmental social forces. They also share perceptions of competence as a
central concept. AGT originates from an educational specific context (i.e., Ames,
1984; Dweck, 1986; Nicholls, 1984; Maehr & Nicholls, 1980) but has expanded into
other areas, including sport and exercise, occupational and performance psychology.
In spite of varied applications, its constructs are considered universal. Theory
updates have been made over time. This is in contrast to SDT (Deci & Ryan,
1985; Ryan & Deci, 2000), whose constructs have remained unchanged since
inception at a similar time to AGT. SDT is said to have unlimited application
and its universal characteristic features heavily in literature. It is a macro theory,
embodying 4 smaller ones; Basic Needs, Cognitive Evaluation, Organismic &
Causality Orientations Theories. Recently, AGT & SDT have overlapped in
research, to form a more complete approach to motivation study (Vansteenkiste
& Mouratidis, 2016). Their Universalist perspective, however, fails to embrace
cultural motivation aspects. Alternative frameworks are suggested for integrating
mainstream theories in future multicultural and pan-cultural studies (King &
McInerney, 2014).
AGT centres on how an individual defines competence, i.e. their goal orientation,
within a motivational climate emphasised by significant others. Interaction
between an individual’s goal orientations and motivational climate determines
their involvement and various cognitive, affective and behavioural outcomes
(see Figure 1). Original theoretical conceptions included social-goal orientations
(Maehr & Nicholls, 1980), but these were marginalised by dichotomous models
that included task or mastery and ego or performance goals. The synonymous
terminologyreflectsvarioustheorists.Masteryandperformancegoalsareconsidered
orthogonally related, meaning an individual can be simultaneously high or low
in either orientation. However, situational-goal involvement will only fluctuate
between either a mastery or performance state. Mastery-goals reflect perceptions
of success or competence, based on self-referenced improvement criteria, learning
and task mastery. Mastery-goals typically lead to adaptive motivational patterns,
L. SAGE
74
such as seeking challenging activities, cognitive engagement, deep level learning,
effort and persistence. In mastery involvement, focus is on process rather than
product. Performance goals reflect perceptions of competence, based on normative
or other criteria. Superiority over peers and outperforming others are measures of
success. Activity is a means to an end. When perceptions of competence are high,
performance goals can lead to choosing challenging activities and effort. However,
in contrast to mastery-goals, when competence is low, this can lead to maladaptive
consequences, like avoiding challenging tasks, lack of effort, surface learning and
giving up.
1.	Mastery Approach: a student is motivated to improve mathematical skills
because they value & enjoy the subject, wanting to learn more to reach full
potential.
2.	Mastery Avoidance: a student is motivated by a fear of misunderstanding &
showing incompetence in mathematics, when compared to typical standards
of achievement.
3.	Performance approach: a student is motivated to do well in mathematics, to
demonstrate to teachers and classmates, that they are the best/one of the best
in the subject.
4.	Performance avoidance: a student is motivated by fear and avoidance of being
one of the worst at mathematics in class.
The dichotomous model of AGT was later expanded to include approach and
avoidancevalencesintotrichotomous(Elliot&Harackiewicz,1996)and2×2versions
of the original (Elliot, 1999). The approach avoidance concepts are rooted in pleasure
seeking and pain avoidance explanations of human conduct, prescribed in ancient
Greek ethical hedonism (Democritus, pp. 460–370 BC). In approach motivation,
behaviour is led by a positive or desirable possibility; in avoidance motivation,
behaviour is directed by a negative or undesirable possibility (Elliot, 1999). Goals
have been divided into performance-approach, performance-avoidance, mastery-
approach (trichotomous model) and mastery-avoidance (2×2 framework).
Figure 1. Achievement goal theory
MOTIVATED ATTENTION IN THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
75
Research shows mixed findings, but typically approach goals have led to adaptive
outcomes, with positive effects of the performance dimension being contingent
on high perceptions of competence (Barron & Harackiewicz, 2001). In a recent
extension to the model, a 3×2 framework has been proposed (Elliot, Murayama, &
Pekrun, 2011) where mastery goals have been separated into task and self-goals, with
performance ones termed other-goals. The resultant 6-goal framework includes task-
approach, task-avoidance, self-approach, self-avoidance, other-approach and other-
avoidance goals. Mastery goals were divided to distinguish between two standards
of competence evaluation, relating to mastery of the task and self-improvement.
Research again indicates adaptive cognitive, behavioural and affective outcomes for
approach goals, but only for other-approach goals, when perceptions of competence
are high. The reductionist, simplistic AGT approach has led educational research.
Detractors highlight a need to embrace social goal constructs, consider reasons for
goal pursuit and expand on cultural motivation factors. Shortcomings are addressed
by the following models of motivation.
Self-Determination theory is based on the degree to which an individual feels
free to engage in a task; their perceptions of task competence and how much social
belonging it affords. Needs for autonomy, competence and relatedness are either
supported or thwarted by environmental social factors. The extent to which the
three needs are satisfied, determines the type and level of motivation that regulates
subsequent cognitive, affective and behavioural outcomes. Motivational regulations
vary on a continuum from amotivation, through 4 types of extrinsic and 3 types
of intrinsic motivation (see Figure 2). Thus, in autonomous, supportive conditions,
basic needs are more likely to be satisfied, leading to intrinsic motivation and
adaptive consequences, such as task effort, persistence, enjoyment and enhanced
perceptions of autonomy, competence and relatedness. In contrast, when conditions
are controlling and unsupportive, needs are thwarted, leading to extrinsic motivation
and maladaptive consequences of distress, task withdrawal, and reduced perceptions
of autonomy, competence and relatedness. Like AGT, SDT education research is
Figure 2. Self determination theory
L. SAGE
76
extensive (Niemiec & Ryan, 2009), supporting self-determined forms of motivation
leading to adaptive outcomes.
In attempts to clarify motivational frameworks, AGT & SDT have been
superficially integrated in literature. Although conceptually distinct, links have been
made between mastery goals and intrinsic motivation (Rawsthorne & Elliot, 1999),
as well as with performance goals and intrinsic motivation in specific individuals and
situations (Barron & Harackiewicz, 2001). Mastery-orientated students report more
autonomous or volitional motives for school work, while performance-orientated
ones more controlled or pressured motives (Su, McBride, & Xiang, 2015). To fill
the void in AGT, explaining the reasons for goal pursuit, researchers are exploring
autonomous and controlling reasons underlying mastery and performance approach
goals (Gaudreau & Braaten, 2016). The longevity of multiple theoretical frameworks
remains to be seen, but initial findings are encouraging. To address inadequacies, in
explaining cultural motivation factors, a third theory combines both perspectives.
From inception, Personal Investment theory (PIT) (Maehr & Braskamp, 1986)
was conceived as a cross-cultural model of achievement motivation. In contrast
to others, it is an open-system theory, where the relationship between constructs
changes with the environment. While AGT & SDT take into account proximal
contexts of education (teachers, peers, & parents), they fail to recognise the
distal cultural context. The model is split into universal factors of motivation
(etic) and culture-specific (emic) (see Figure 3). PIT assumes that the degree of
task engagement is determined by the 3 etic dimensions of facilitating conditions
(teacher support), personal goals (mastery, performance, social, & extrinsic
goals) and sense of self (academic self-concept). These etic factors are shaped by
Figure 3. Personal investment theory
MOTIVATED ATTENTION IN THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
77
the emic aspects of the culture. For example, teacher support could be moderated
by cultural respect for elders, collectivist norms or religious values and mastery
goals by cultural differences in family obligations, vertical achievement or social
goals. Academic self-concept could be mode rated by cultural differences in the
collectivist self, relational interdependence and racial ethnic identity. Examples
are an oversimplification of the many constructs and cultural differences present
in reality. However, PIT has been argued as a suitable starting point, on which to
frame complexities of mainstream motivational theories, emerging from research
on non-westernised, educated, industrialised, rich democratic societies (King &
McInerney, 2014).
CULTURAL DIFFERENCES IN MOTIVATIONAL CONSTRUCTS
Adoption of PIT is supported by a research summary highlighting cultural differences
between the limited motivational constructs of mainstream theory. Comparisons are
drawn between Western and Eastern societies or individualistic versus collectivist
cultures, but findings are by no means restricted to these classifications. For
example, Anglo-American children increased motivation towards problem-solving
tasks, when allowed to make personal choices, compared to Asians, who were more
motivated when trusted others made the choice for them (Iyenggar & Lepper, 1999).
Chinese students (engaging with schoolwork to please parents & teachers) were
more likely to be motivated in class, whereas Western ones (valuing social approval)
to exhibit maladaptive outcomes (Cheng & Lam, 2013).
Compared toWesterners, from Belgium (Wuyts, Chen,Vansteenkiste, &Soenens,
2015) and the United States (US) Chinese students typically perceived parents and
teachers to be more controlling (Pomerantz & Wang, 2009). However, the normative
control on Chinese students made no difference to the detrimental effects of these
conditions. Avoidance goals negatively predicted well-being in individuals from
the US individualist culture, but not for the collectivist cultures of South Korea
and Russia (Elliot, Chirkov, Kim, & Sheldon, 2001). In spite of Western theorists
arguing that high self-concept, or perceived ability, predicts academic achievement
(Schunk & Pajares, 2009), East Asian students typically have lower ability beliefs,
yet have considerably higher performances (Stevenson, Lee, Chen, & Lummis,
1990). Furthermore, Western students, with a higher opinion of abilities, usually
do worse in comparative achievement tests compared to Asians (Kaiser, Leung,
Romberg, & Yaschenko, 2002). Some studies show that maladaptive outcomes,
linked to performance avoidance goals, are tempered in some cultures, given that
avoidance goals are more normative in collectivist cultures (Dekker & Fischer,
2008).
Whilst examples are not exhaustive, they indicate Western theory and method
shortcomings, when indiscriminately generalised to non-Western settings. Culture
plays an important role in how basic psychological processes operate in different
contexts (Henrich, Heine, & Norenzayan, 2010; Kitayama, 2002). Caution is needed
L. SAGE
78
when comparing cultures on theories, conceived and tested in Western cultures, using
measures that are then translated and imposed, with little or no consideration for
cross-cultural nuances. Balance between Universalist and Relativistic approaches is
advocated, using PIT as an overarching framework.
Researchers of exclusive Universalist theories, likeAGT and SDT, should recognise
that their constructs and relative relationships will vary according to collective
as well as individual differences. For SDT, the relative need for autonomy and its
effects on adaptive outcomes, varies between cultures. Further, for AGT the mastery
and performance goals are not always the best way to reduce student goals, as more
culturally relevant ones have also been shown to exist (Bernardo, Salanga, & Aguas,
2008; King, 2012; Liem, Nair, Bernardo, & Prasetya, 2008). Favoured methods
for adopting Western etic approaches, in cross-cultural research, are inadequate in
identifying cultural differences and defining constructs. An example is the overuse of
restrictive self-report measures that identify cultural similarities rather than differences
(Chen et al., 2015). Mixed methods, using qualitative techniques, would better tease
out unique cultural contributions to theory. Indeed, these have already begun by PIT
researchers (King, 2012; Tao & Hong, 2014). Although Universalist perspectives
advance motivational theory, adaption and integration, culturally-sensitive study
methods are vital for a multicultural society.
IMPLICATIONS FOR FUTURE RESEARCH AND PRACTICE
Awareness of motivation in attentional processing can aid understanding and
facilitate learning. However, intricacies are complicated by cultural factors that
must be fully appreciated by theory, research and their application. Cultural
differences, in attentional processing, appear to be more apparent with higher-
order information processing, associated with motivational goals. Therefore, to
maximise attention and learning, a key entry point for interventions is in the
appropriate structuring of the motivational climate.
Evidence, from AGT & SDT, suggests certain strategies in optimising adaptive
motivation, but in light of cross-cultural research and confounding findings
from mainstream studies, there are suggestions for consideration. From an AGT
perspective, mastery-approach goals are advocated, in order to maximise task
engagement, persistence and enjoyment. These goals are important when student
perceived competence or ability is low. Teachers, parents and peers should
try to emphasise self-improvement, cooperative learning, and task-mastery,
by structuring tasks accordingly and using timely positive and empathetic
reinforcement. TARGET principles (Ames, 1992) are a starting point for structuring
class activities:
1.	Tasks should be designed and presented as inclusive, incorporating multiple tasks
for variety, progression, skill development and opportunities for self-referenced
improvement.
MOTIVATED ATTENTION IN THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
79
2.	Students should be allowed Authority for some decision-making and choices, such
as the design of the activity, levels of standard and leading their own progression
measures.
3.	Effort and improvement should be Recognised through verbal and non-verbal
encouragement.
4.	Students should be Grouped appropriately into small, mixed ability, mixed culture,
cooperative groups where team work is encouraged through the achievement of
group scores.
5.	Students can be Evaluated by scores based on self-referenced criteria for effort
and improvement. They should be encouraged to evaluate their own improvement.
Timely instruction and feedback (general & individual specific) prevents loss
of confidence, draws attention to key learning instructions and simultaneously
refreshes the specific motivational climate.
6.	Finally, students should be provided with ample Time for tackling the variety of
activities provided, allowing flexibility to progress at individual pace and practice
further if required.
Moreover, motivational climates can be adapted to individual needs for multiple
goal options. AGT, SDT and PIT all highlight the importance of social goals, which
appear to be important for those from collectivist cultures. There is also evidence
that performance approach goals can be adaptive, especially for some cultures,
when confidence is high and when combined with high mastery goals (Barron &
Harackiewicz, 2001; Linnenbrink, 2005). Rather than supressing performance
approach goals, they can be used to reinforce learning and mastery outcomes.
However, long-term effects of performance goals may be considered maladaptive
and their exclusive use, or emphasis, other than to reinforce dominant mastery
approach ones, may be detrimental to achievement over time.
In line with studies combining AGT with SDT’s autonomy supportive conditions,
masteryapproach,performanceapproachandsocialgoalscanallbeoffered,tochoose
which success criteria students wish to adopt. Those students and cultures, who prefer
more controlling conditions, the goals can be assigned according to individual ability
levels and their specific strengths or areas for development. A flexible approach is
advocated, in an autonomous, supportive climate, pursuing predominantly mastery
and social success approach criteria, but accepting performance approach goals, as a
means of reinforcing long-term benefits of more adaptive goal types.
To embrace cultural motivational aspects, PIT provides a broader framework
for including concepts and principles of AGT & SDT. The extended appreciation
of cultural factors, acknowledges both universality (etic) and variability (emic)
aspects across cultures. Practitioners should first gain a clear understanding of all
the relevant social, contextual factors that influence student learning, to inform
on the salient motivational goals. A greater awareness is then required of student
differential sense of self. For example, students using their second language in
the classroom, may not be as competent in group discussions or raise challenging
L. SAGE
80
questions. A low self-concept of language ability can lead to stereotyping the
learner as ‘passive’, which is not conducive to improving motivational outcomes.
Qualitative approaches, like case studies, prototype analysis, semantic differential
techniques and interviews, are better suited to understanding cross-cultural
differences, compared to self-report methods dominating motivation assessment.
A final implication of adopting PIT, is the creation of school cultures that best
motivate students, by harnessing the etic dimensions of AGT and SDT, shown to
facilitate student engagement. Some cultural differences can be marginalised in
classrooms, unless a motivational climate actively identifies and assimilates the
various characters. This assumes that the dominant culture does not dictate the
motivational one. Choices for every student should help attenuate the influence
of the majority (see Chapter 8). There is need to be sensitive to cultural variances,
along with more identifiable ability, age, and sex differences.
Beyond the need to implement the emic aspects of PIT, with the more etic ones
of AGT and SDT, there is still scope for further development and understanding of
motivation theory, as well as acknowledging limitations to the proposed individual
approach. Vansteenkiste and Mouratidis (2016) highlight 4 key areas:
First concerns multiple models of motivation & need to understand the critical
conditions for a more meaningful, complete integration of approaches.
Second is motivational heterogeneity, combining motivational dimensions into
profiles or types. This is complicated by contrasting theories and concepts.
Identifying individual motivation variances is restricted by exclusive use of
quantitative methods.
Third is lack of motivation & requirement for more refined insight into what
prevents engagement in class.
Fourth centres on need for more nuanced understanding of contributions of
universalism (etic) & relativism (emic) on motivation outcomes.
Greater understanding of these areas will inform practitioners on the extent of
cultural differences in the modern classroom. Whilst individual approaches are
clearly paramount, universal ones are less demanding on time and resources. Balance
must be established, regarding use of both perspectives, based on student need and
resources.
Although intervening at the motivational level should be most effective for
improving attention, an integrated model tackling both factors has been proposed.
Three lines of research combine in the model for Optimising Performance Through
Intrinsic Motivation & Attention for Learning (OPTIMAL) (Lewthwaite & Wulf,
2017). Although contextualised for motor learning and performance, the 3 key
components are relevant to the classroom:
MOTIVATED ATTENTION IN THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
81
Factor1: need for competence and self-efficacy- enhanced expectancy of success
for future performance.
Factor2:needforautonomyanditsbeneficialeffectsonlearningandperformance.
Factor 3: use of external focus of attention; directing attention to task goals;
avoiding internal distractions.
Whilst external foci of attention require validation in a passive learning task,
rather than a motor performance one, the use of the OPTIMAL model could prove
fruitful for research and practice.
SUMMARY
This chapter introduces key concepts and theories of attention and motivation, whilst
appreciating cultural factors that play a part in determining adaptive or maladaptive
outcomes in the classroom. Although common trends for practice are suggested,
based on research findings, there is still much to be learned. Integration of theory
and contributions of universal etic factors, compared with variability of emic
factors featuring in the holistic PIT approach to motivation need to be made. More
complete methods of investigation, including qualitative perspectives, longitudinal
intervention studies and cross cultural comparisons, are required to build a fuller
picture of motivated attention in the multicultural classroom. These holistic
approaches were advocated as long ago by Csikszentmihalyi (1978) and present
problems regarding attention and motivation in schools make them a priority.
MAIN POINTS
•	 Attention and motivation are important aspects of teaching
•	 Understanding theoretical models helps teachers to cultivate an environment and
select tasks for individual requirements
•	 Teaching involves many disciplines so that training as well as CPD that recognises
this helps to select the right approaches to engage and motivate students
REFERENCES
Alexander, K., Entwisle, D., & Dauber, S. (1993). First grade classroom behavior: Its short- and long-
term consequences for school performance. Child Development, 64(3), 801–881.
Ames, C. (1984). Competitive, cooperative and individualistic goal structures: A motivational analysis. In
R. Ames & C. Ames (Eds.), Research on motivation in education: Student motivation (pp. 177–207).
New York, NY: Academic Press.
Ames, C. (1992). Classrooms: Goals, structures and student motivation. Journal of Educational
Psychology, 84, 261–271.
Baddeley, A. (2007). Working memory, thought and action. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
L. SAGE
82
Bandura, A. (1986). Social foundations of thought and action: A social cognitive theory. Englewood
Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.
Barron, K., & Harackiewicz, J. (2001). Achievement goals and optimal motivation: Testing multiple goal
models. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 80, 706–722.
Bernardo, A. B. I., Salanga, G. C., & Aguas, K. M. (2008). Filipino adolescent students’ conceptions
of learning goals. In O. Tan, D. M. McInerney, A. D. Liem, & A. G. Tan (Eds.), What the west can
learn from the east: Asian perspectives on the psychology of learning and motivation (pp. 169–190).
Charlotte, NC: Information Age.
Broadbent, D. (1958). Perception and communication. London: Pergamon Press.
Cheng, R., & Lam, S. (2013). The interaction between social goals and self-construal on achievement
motivation. Contemporary Educational Psychology, 38, 136–148.
Chen, B., Vansteenkiste, M., Beyers, W., Boone, L., Deci, E. L., Van der Kaap-Deeder, J., Verstuyf,
J., Mouratidis, A., Ryan., R. M., Sheldon, K. M., Soenens, B., Duriez, B., Lens, W., & Matos, L.
(2015). Basic psychological need satisfaction, need frustration, and need strength across four cultures.
Motivation and Emotion, 39, 216–236.
Csikszentmihalyi, M. (1978). Attention and the wholistic approach to behavior. In K. Pope & J. Singer
(Eds.), The stream of consciousness (pp. 335–358). New York, NY: Plenum.
Deci, E., & Ryan, R. (1985). Intrinsic motivation and self-determination in human behavior. New York,
NY: Plenum.
Dekker, S., & Fischer, R. (2008). Cultural differences in academic motivation goals: A meta-analysis
across 13 societies. Journal of Educational Research, 102, 99–110.
Dweck, C. (1986). Motivational processes affecting learning. American Psychologist, 41, 1040–1048.
Elliot, A. (1999). Approach and avoidance motivation and achievement goals. Educational Psychologist,
34, 169–189.
Elliot, A., Chirkov, V., Kim, Y., & Sheldon, K. (2001). A cross-cultural analysis of avoidance (relative to
approach) personal goals. Psychological Science, 12, 505–510.
Elliot,A., & Harackiewicz, J. (1996).Approach and avoidance achievement goals and intrinsic motivation:
A mediational analysis. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 70, 461–475.
Elliot, A., Murayama, K., & Peckrun, R. (2011). A 3x2 achievement goal model. Journal of Educational
Psychology, 103(3), 632–648.
Förster, J., Friedman, R., Özelsel, A., & Denzler, M. (2006). Enactment of approach and avoidance
behavior influences the scope of perceptual and conceptual attention. Journal of Experimental Social
Psychology, 42(2), 133–146.
Friedman, R., & Förster, J. (2005). The influence of approach and avoidance cues on attentional flexibility.
Motivation and Emotion, 29(2), 69–81.
Gaudreau, P., & Braaten, A. (2016). Achievement goals and their underlying goal motivation: Does it
matter why sport participants pursue their goals? Psychologica Belgica, 56(3), 244–268.
Henrich, J., Heine, S., & Norenzayan, A. (2010). Most people are not WEIRD. Nature, 466(7302), 29.
King, R., & McInerney, D. (2014). Culture’s consequences on student motivation: Capturing cross-
cultural universality and variability through personal investment theory. Educational Psychologist,
49(3), 175–198.
Hidi, S. (1995). A re-examination of the role of attention in learning from text. Educational Psychology
Review, 7(4), 323–350.
Iyenggar, S., & Lepper, M. (1999). Rethinking the value of choice: A cultural perspective on intrinsic
motivation. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 76, 349–366.
Kaiser, G., Leung, F., Romberg, T., & Yaschenko, I. (2002). International comparisons in mathematics
education: An overview. ICM, 1, 631–646.
Kitayama, S. (2002). Culture and basic psychological processes–toward a system view of culture:
Comment on Oyserman et al. (2002). Psychological Bulletin, 128, 89–96.
Lang, P., Bradley, M., & Cuthbert, B. (1997). Motivated attention: Affect, activation and action. In
P. Lang, P. Simons, & R. Balaban (Eds.), Attention and orienting: Sensory and motivational processes
(pp. 97–135). Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.
MOTIVATED ATTENTION IN THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
83
Lau, S., Liem, A., & Nie, Y. (2008). Task- and self-related pathways to deep learning: The mediating role
of achievement goals, classroom attentiveness and group participation. British Journal of Educational
Psychology, 78, 639–662.
Lewthwaite, R., & Wulf, G. (2017). Optimizing motivation and attention for motor performance and
learning. Current Opinion in Psychology, 16, 38–42.
Liem, A., Nair, E., Bernardo, A., & Prasetya, P. (2008). In the students’ own words: Etic and emic
conceptual analyses of the why and how of student learning. In O.Tan, D. McInerney, A. Liem, &
A. Tan (Eds.), What the west can learn from the east: Asian perspectives on the psychology of learning
and motivation (pp. 137–168). Greenwich, CT: Information Age Publishing.
Linnenbrink, E. (2005). The dilemma of performance-approach goals: The use of multiple goal contexts
to promote students motivation and learning. Journal of Educational Psychology, 97, 197–213.
Maehr, M., & Braskamp, L. (1986). The motivation factor: A theory of personal investment. Lexington,
MA: Lexington.
Maehr, M., & Nicholls, J. (1980). Culture and achievement motivation: A second look. In N. Warren
(Ed.), Studies in cross-cultural psychology (Vol. 2, pp. 221–267). New York, NY: Academic Press.
McClelland, M., Morrison, F., & Holmes, D. (2000). Children at risk for early academic problems: The
role of learning-related social skills. Early Childhood Research Quarterly, 15(3), 307–329.
Memmert, D., & Caňal-Bruland, R. (2009). The influence of approach and avoidance behaviour on visual
selective attention. Journal of General Psychology, 136(4), 374–386.
Nicholls, J. (1984). Conceptions of ability and achievement motivation. In R. Ames & C. Ames (Eds.),
Research on motivation in education: Student motivation (Vol. 1, pp. 3973). New York, NY: Academic
Press.
Niemiec, C., & Ryan, R. (2009). Autonomy, competence and relatedness in the classroom: Applying
self-determination theory to educational practice. Theory and Research in Education, 7(2), 133–144.
Pomerantz, E., & Wang, Q. (2009). The role of parental control in children’s development in Western and
East Asian countries. Current Directions in Psychological Science, 18, 285–289.
Posner, M., & Peterson, S. (1990). The attention system of the human brain. Annual Review of
Neuroscience, 13, 25–42.
Posner, M., & Rothbart, M. (2007). Research on attention networks as a model for the integration of
psychological science. Annual Review of Psychology, 58, 1–23.
Rawsthorne, L., & Elliot, A. (1999). Achievement goals and intrinsic motivation: A meta-analytic review.
Personality and Social Psychology Review, 3(4), 326–324.
Risko, E., Anderson, N., Sarwal, A., Engelhardt, M., & Kingstone, A. (2012). Everyday attention:
Variation in mind wandering and memory in lecture. Applied Cognitive Psychology, 26(2), 234–242.
Rudasill, K., Gallagher, K., & White, J. (2010). Temperamental attention and activity, classroom emotional
support, and academic achievement in third grade. Journal of School Psychology, 48(2), 113–134.
Ryan, R., & Deci, E. (2000). Self-determination theory and the facilitation of intrinsic motivation, social
development and well-being. American Psychologist, 55, 68–78.
Sage, G. (1978). Humanistic psychology and psychology. In W. Straub (Ed.), Sport psychology: An
analysis of athlete behaviour (pp. 215–228). Ithaca, NY: Mouvement.
Sage, L., Stanley, D., & Krastev, I. (in press). The effects of classroom motivation, competence, sex, and
level of education on attention.
Schunk, D., & Pajares, F. (2009). Self-efficacy theory. In K. Wentzel & A. Wigfield (Eds.), Handbook of
motivation at school (pp. 35–53). New York, NY: Routledge.
Sobeh, J., & Spijkers, W. (2013). Development of neuropsychological functions of attention in two
cultures: A cross-cultural study of attentional performances of Syrian and German children of pre-
school and school age. European Journal of Developmental Psychology, 10(3), 318–336.
Stanley, D., & Sage, L. (Under review). The Effects of Achievement Goals and Competence on Attention.
Stanovich, K. (2011). Rationality and the reflective mind. New York, NY: Oxford University Press.
Stevenson, H., Lee, S.-Y., Chen, C., & Lummis, M. (1990). Mathematics achievement of children in
China and the United States. Child Development, 61, 1053–1066.
L. SAGE
84
Su, X., McBride, R., & Xiang, P. (2015). College students’achievement goal orientation and motivational
regulations in physical activity classes: A test of gender invariance. Journal of Teaching in Physical
Education, 34, 2–17.
Szpunar, K., Moulton, S., & Schacter, D. (2013). Mind wandering and education: From the classroom to
online learning. Frontiers in Psychology, 4(495), 1–7.
Vallerand, R., Fortier, M., & Guay, F. (1997). Self-determination and persistence in a real-life setting:
Toward a motivational model of high school dropout. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology,
72(5), 1161–1176.
Vansteenkiste, M., & Mouratidis, A. (2016). Emerging trends and future directions for the field of
motivation psychology: A special issue in honor of Prof. Dr. Willy Lens. Psychologica Belgica, 56(3),
317–341.
Wuyts, D., Chen, B., Vansteenkiste, M., & Soenens, B. (2015). Social pressure and unfulfilled dreams
among Chinese and Belgian parents: Two roads to controlling parenting via child-invested contingent
self-esteem. Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology, 46, 1150–1168.
Yen, C., Konold, T., & McDermott, P. (2004). Does learning behavior augment cognitive ability as an
indicator of academic achievement. Journal of School Psychology, 42(2), 157–169.
R. Sage (Ed.), Paradoxes in Education, 85–92.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
MAX COATES
5. COPING WITH RAPID CHANGE
ABSTRACT
The chapter explores the strange paradox of schools/academies preparing young
people for life in a very rapidly changing context and yet seeking solutions in
tradition rather than research. It is viewed using the model of culture developed
by the American theorist, Edgar Schein. Culture is difficult to define, but generally
refers to the complex ‘whole’ including, knowledge, experience, beliefs, morals,
customs, laws and characteristic of humans as members of society. Culture, in the
Schein model, is viewed as using persisting solutions to earlier problems. Not all
culture is positive and this argument is advanced, but certain cultures will support
the psychological needs of students and indeed staff. Others will tend to deflect
individuals from the educational agenda, as they try to meet their own personal
needs. There is a brief exploration of current research being undertaken into Place
and Belonging and how this offers one prism reviewing the culture in our schools
and academies.
INTRODUCTION: THE INFLUENCE OF CULTURE
Afarmer went out to sow his seed.As he was scattering the seed, some fell along
the path, and the birds came and ate it up. Some fell on rocky places, where it
did not have much soil. It sprang up quickly, because the soil was shallow. But
when the sun came up, the plants were scorched, and they withered because
they had no root. Other seed fell among thorns, which grew up and choked the
plants. Still other seed fell on good soil, where it produced a crop—a hundred,
sixty or thirty times what was sown. (Matthew, 2013, pp. 1–8)
Afew years ago my mother died and we decided to plant a white lilac tree in our garden.
For some six or seven years it was a delightful memorial to her memory. Two years ago
our neighbours decided to lay a patio and in the course of doing this the contractors
used a persistent weed killer. There was some seepage of this under our boundary fence
and sadly this killed the lilac. In this, somewhat self-evident anecdote, the point is made
that soil can be viewed as analogous to culture. A good tilth supports healthy growth,
whilst a toxic substrate has an inevitably detrimental effect. The impact of culture, the
organisational substrate, in which strategy, vision and aspirations have to germinate was
well illustrated by the quotation, attributed to Peter Drucker, but for which no formal
reference can be found, is that ‘Culture eats strategy for breakfast’.
M. COATES
86
Pause for a moment and think of the organisation that you work for or lead, e.g. a
school or academy. Think of all the people who contribute to it. It is likely that the 25,
50 or a 100 people will begin to form up in your mind as some organisational chart,
rather like a family tree. The principal is at the top, followed by the senior leadership
team and then the middle or phase leaders and finally the classroom practitioners
and varying grades of assistants. This is a familiar structure and is replicated in staff
handbooks and even in photo displays in the entrances of schools and academies.
It is tidy, structured and appears to evidence an ordered managerial footprint. It is
not, however, the only game in town. When human beings are brought into regular
contact with each other they will form associations, influence groups and even
revolutionary cells. The managerial chart and published job descriptions are often
an overlay on a much less defined social structure, which can have a long history.
Pause again and think of some of the other groupings that you might have
amongst your staff. In a large academy, such groups will almost certainly run into
double figures. Some will be benign and even malleable, others will demonstrate
inertia, whilst some will challenge change and transformation, consuming the all-
day breakfast of your carefully crafted strategy. This complex formal and informal
aggregation with its procedures, rituals and narrative is the culture.
I am sure that you have driven in mist. The latter can be simply defined as a
suspension of water droplets. However, that does not come close to capturing the
experience of disorientation, impeded progress or stress that such driving evokes.
In a similar way, culture can be expressed in a straightforward manner as ‘the way
we do things round here’. Again, that cliché does not come close to capturing the
bewilderment that is often felt when grappling with the complexity of organisational
culture. Of course, the culture in view may well be constructive, but even then there
may be a need to update it or move it in a new direction.
Is culture so ethereal that, like mist, it is hard to define and ultimately impossible to
contain? Paradoxically its formation/transformation is paramount for organisational
development:
The only thing of real importance that leaders do is to create and manage
culture. If you do not manage culture, it manages you, and you may not even
be aware of the extent to which this is happening. (Schein, 2004, p. 11)
CULTURAL MODELS
In considering culture, the starting point is to generate a framework for our thinking
and action. A cursory exploration of culture reveals an extensive hall of fame
including; Margaret Mead, Karl Marx, Matthew Arnold, Jean Jacques Rousseau and
many others. It could even introduce you to introduce you to areas such as terror
management theory (Greenberg, Pyszczynski, & Solomon, 1986).
Returning to Schein (2004), he is a time-served writer on culture and has provided
a model for that could be applied to working with the transformation of culture. It
COPING WITH RAPID CHANGE
87
is accepted that Schein is not ‘the only game in town’ but he does offer a pragmatic
approach to its conceptualization. Schein defines the culture of a group as:
A pattern of shared basic assumptions that the group learned as it solved its
problems of external adaptation and internal integration that has worked well
enough to be considered valid and therefore, to be taught to new members
as the correct way to perceive, think, and feel in relation to those problems.
(Schein, 2004, p. 17)
The quotation indicates that, central to Schein’s view, is that culture is the
accumulation of the outcomes of problem-solving. Consider the example of school
summer holidays in England. These are usually around six weeks in length and run
from late July to early September. The timing and duration of these dictates the whole
cycle of education and particularly the examination system. They were initiated to
allow a juvenile labour force to harvest crops, such as wheat, apples and hops. This
has resulted in school holidays not being taken when there is the best weather, which
is usually late May and June and early July. In terms of pedagogy it has a detrimental
effect, as students have significantly disconnected with school-based work patterns,
inculcated skills and intended content. The argument for changing the pattern of
these holidays is self-evident, but repeated attempts over many years to broker
change have foundered. What was a solution to a Victorian and Edwardian agrarian
staffing shortage has now become embedded deep in the psyche of teachers and is
seen as a prerequisite of teacher wellbeing.
Consider this further example of embedded cultural thinking with regard to
grade retention, applied in Canada and North America. This is the practice of
holding back a child’s chronological advance through the school if the child has
failed to reach a set standard. In most countries, it has been banned or strongly
discouraged. The generally held view is that such practice can demotivate a
student. It remains in use, however, in North America and Canada, where it can be
used from kindergarten through to twelfth grade. The practice was commonplace
in the 19th century in these countries, but was scaled back in the 1930s. Since
the 1980s it has resurfaced. It is difficult to get accurate statistics but figures of
between 10–20% of pupils held back over grades are often cited (National Center
for Education Statistics, 2006).
There was a perception that academic standards were slipping. Grade retention,
usually on the basis of standardized testing, became established practice in many
schools as a means of addressing this underachievement. In terms of Schein’s model
(2004); there has been a problem identified and a solution has been initiated and this
has now become incorporated into practice.
Research on grade retention offers little if any justification for its use. Jackson
(1975) reviewed 44 studies, concluding that promoted students had better academic
outcomes, better levels of personal adjustment and more positive attitudes towards
schools than those who had been retained. Later studies, Jimerson (2001) and
M. COATES
88
Roderick and Nagaoka (2005), continued to find retention had an overall negative
impact on achievement and student retention.
These are useful examples of how culture is formed and then how it can develop
its own momentum. Culture is sometimes expressed as being the way we do things
round here. The subtext is that embedded practice all too readily puts down very
deep roots.
AN ANALYSIS OF CULTURE
Schein (2004) also offers a 3-tiered analysis of culture; artifacts, espoused beliefs and
values and the third tier, basic underlying assumptions. They are often presented in
diagrammatic form as an iceberg. The metaphor being used to reinforce the message,
that much of an organizational culture is below the surface and the deeper you go the
harder it is to articulate, define and arguably change. It is summarized here:
Table 1. Summarizing levels of culture (Schein, 2004)
Levels from Schein’s Model Manifestations
Artifacts
(Evident)
Rituals, timetable, myths and legends, architecture,
uniform, dress code, setting, documents, notices,
assemblies, CPD, parking arrangements, stratifying
pupils/students by age, reporting, assessment, curriculum
structure options
Espoused Beliefs and Values
(Rational and Intention. o)
Views on intelligence, appropriate pedagogy,
accountability, equity, community, academy categorization,
gender
Basic Underlying
Assumptions
(Affective)
Motivation, racism, sexism, limited aspirations, hierachy,
trust, honesty, integrity, respect (by whom for whom),
confidentiality
Adapted from Coates (2017, p. 95)
The argument advanced, so far, is that culture, whether positive or negative, will
enable or disable the success of the school. However, changing culture is challenging
and time-consuming:
In the best of schools, with the best resources and the most skilled leadership,
the timeframe for transforming culture, structure and belief and practice is
years! (Evans, 2001, p. 27)
In 1912, if you asked the question: ‘What it is the most reliable form of road
transport?’ The answer would have to be something that was horse-drawn as the
motor car was viewed as being something of a joke. If you were to change the
question to: ‘What is the likely future of road transport?’ the reply would probably
focus on the emergent internal combustion engine. In many ways education is like
COPING WITH RAPID CHANGE
89
this. Much of what we are doing is refining and developing outdated systems of
education. Just as horse-drawn transport was at its pinnacle around 1912, so it is
likely that in the future we will look at our schools and academies, at the beginning of
the millennium, in the same way before developing an increasingly dissatisfied view
of them. In the face of significant discoveries in neuroscience, we are increasingly
placing the emphasis on teaching methodology, rather than using new discoveries
to accelerate learning. Schools and academies remain rigidly subject-centred, as
burgeoning technologies configure knowledge in a more integrated way, they are
content-focused and about individualised achievement, when knowledge has a short
shelf-life and industry demands teams.
It is almost banal to allude to the rapid changes in our world: globalisation,
competition for resources, loss of national identity, the knowledge explosion, with
its attendant technologies, people migration, changing patterns of our employment
and the need for personal strategies to remain as lifelong learners. This is before
the next big waves break, as we face the implications of the Internet of Things and
Artificial Intelligence. Into this bewildering mix, our education system is tending
to become more rigid and drawing inspiration from the past rather than the future.
As I am writing this, a major response to a world of challenge is to resuscitate
grammar schools (Rayner, 2017).
Sir Daniel Moynihan, the CEO of the Harris Federation, stated in a keynote
speech delivered on the 25th May 2017 that; ‘The Harris Federation was about
pupil achievement and anything else was noise and distraction’. It is appropriate
to note that since 2006 this federation has incorporated 41 schools and many of
these made significant gains in terms of pupil achievement. Underpinning such
achievement is a system-driven model, allied to a continuous interrogation of a
limited range of data, with an intense focus on quantitative results. This kind of
approach generates its own type of culture, which tends to be top-down with a
heavy reliance on performance management set against limited criteria. However,
there are consequences of such approaches and these are beginning to surface
in our society. In educational terms, there is a restriction in creative and flexible
cognition. The emphasis on the performance of the individual is neither healthy,
in terms of well-being, nor does it equip an economy which places collaborative
problem-solving at its centre. We have an educational culture founded on certainty
around content and at a distance from process and ambiguity.
Returning to Schein’s model of culture, we witness many academies/schools
trying to solve their presented problem, namely performance in national league
tables and benchmarking. It is easy in most contexts to identify the artefacts. Many
of academies/schools have a corporate front-end where branding is very evident
and often pupil work is absent. Schein’s next layer espoused beliefs and values as
evidenced through publication, continuing professional development (CPD) and
policy. It is the third layer, the affective, which is more usually in a state of tension.
Workload is excessive, exhaustion not uncommon and adherence to the party line is
evidenced through slogan and not through employee and student belief.
M. COATES
90
MESSAGES FROM EXPERIENCE
Over the last two years, I have coached eight middle and senior school leaders who
have been involved in examination fraud. One example was sending an empty ‘Zip
file’ to an examining board to buy time by creating an administrative delay. Another
involved a head of department being instructed to take her team to another school
within the same federation to re-order assessment portfolios. These were BTEC
science submissions for year 11 pupils. The team went over them, evening after
evening. The term,‘re-order’, was undoubtedly a euphemism for something much
more substantial.
Two strong messages emerged from coaching these clients. Firstly, I had not
stumbled across a conspiracy of evil or a tranche of narcissists with a tenuous grasp of
moral purpose. These people, without exception, were committed professionals and
also thoroughly pleasant individuals. In other circumstances, I would have enjoyed
socialising with them and certainly would have been very happy for them to teach
my own children. The second message to emerge was that they all displayed a sense
of bewilderment. They could not understand how their personal, moral compass had
swung so wildly. In reality, the imposed culture had engulfed them. A culture, which
engenders such a level of tension, must be considered to be dangerous. Certainly,
each of these individuals needed support as they reset their personal professionalism.
Nearly a decade ago, Kathryn Riley (2013, 2017) (Professor of Urban Leadership,
University College London, Institute of Education) began researching Place and
Belonging. I was fortunate in becoming part of the research team over the last few
years: in essence, the exploration of space, place and the overt agency that influences
them. It is very much about exploring culture and its development through a different
lens. The research was significantly engaged with diversity in London’s schools. Our
team worked with 6 schools each looking for solutions in creating a positive culture.
I would like to highlight just two of these initiatives. One was in a school for
girls, in Tower Hamlets, near to another school where a group of pupils had gone off
to Syria to join the so-called Islamic State. In the school, where we were working,
there was a group of girls whose ethnic background was not in step with the values
of the school and who did not identify with the options and possibilities for their
education. The project engaged them as student researchers. It drew them into a
sense of belonging with their school, and at the same time a willingness to engage
with the educational opportunities on offer. The second school was in south London
and we were working with them shortly after the murder of Fusilier Lee Rigby, in
2013. One of the men convicted for the murder was an ex-student of the school and
another was the person who cradled the dying soldier in her arms. The school wanted
to find ways in which children joining them (particularly as a result of people
movement) might connect with the culture at school and not seek their identity with
less constructive groups.
In Schein’s model, it was always going to be the affective part of cultural
transformation that was the challenge. It is possible to generate an emotional
COPING WITH RAPID CHANGE
91
movement, which is neither morally desirable nor healthy (e.g. cults & the Third
Reich). Manipulation of culture always requires a suppression of the views of
individuals and groups and usually demands an unwavering compliance. The
research into place was far from traditional and participant researchers in the
academies/schools created so much of the focus. They were put in a position of
constructively challenging or contributing to the culture of the organisation. As
soon as challenge is allowed, or even better welcomed, then, of course it is difficult
for indoctrination to gain a foothold and equally for an individual to remain at a
distance.
THE ISSUE OF HUMAN NEEDS
The research into place and belonging also started to address foundational human
needs that require addressing if learning is to flourish. Maslow, as early as 1943,
argued that there is an ascending agenda of operation for the brain. At the base of the
pyramid are physiological needs such as warmth, satiation of thirst and finding food.
The hierarchy proceeds through the levels of safety, belonging and esteem needs. At
the apex of the pyramid is self – actualisation, the area that covers personal growth
and fulfilment.
There are more recent analyses of human needs. A contemporary and extended
equivalent has been advanced by Tyrell and Griffin (2003). They have listed 11
primal needs and argue from a therapeutic point of view, that if these are not met the
individual will change the focus of their behaviours to redressing what they feel is
an unacceptable deficit. Tyrrell and Griffin present the same conclusions as Maslow,
in that each human being will prioritise these over the demands being made by an
institutionalised educational system.
SUMMARY
Culture it is not a synonym for having an established behaviour policy, or a rewards
and sanctions approach to attendance and punctuality. It is about creating a context,
designed using everything we now know and drawing in what we will know in order
to create a learning environment which is fit for purpose in a dynamic and often
unstable world. Education has all too often become a procrustean bed, which fits few
and is ill equipped to accommodate individuality and innovation. Its dissociation
from basic psychological needs can render it as being cruel and in sponsoring the
alienation it claims it wants to remedy. There is a need to embrace complexity,
uncertainty and ambiguity in a way that is supported by a scaffold approach (Berk
& Winsler, 1995).
Perhaps the biggest danger in working with culture lies in asking the wrong question.
It is suggested that you should not ask ‘How do you create a culture?’ as your primary
question, but rather ‘Why are you creating this particular culture?’
M. COATES
92
MAIN POINTS
•	 Education looks to past traditions rather than present research for coping with
rapid changes
•	 Culture is hard to define as it is subject to many subtle influences from changing
contexts
•	 It is defined as the complex ‘whole’that includes knowledge, experiences, beliefs,
morals, customs, laws and characteristics of humans as members of a society
•	 In plural societies with many cultural conventions, the transformation of culture
is an issue
•	 Schein’s 3-tiered analysis considers, artefacts, beliefs & assumptions, affecting
culture change
•	 System demands distort moral behaviour regarding the conduct of educational
culture
•	 Support is needed to scaffold behaviour that produces learning that is fit for
purpose
REFERENCES
Berk, L., & Winsler, A. (1995). Scaffolding children’s learning: Vygotsky and early childhood learning
(p. 24). Washington, DC: National Association for Education of Young Children.
Coates, M. (2017). Setting direction: Vision, values and culture. In P. Earley & T. Greany (Eds.), School
leadership and education system reform. London: Bloomsbury.
Evans, R. (2001). The human side of school change: Reform, resistance and the real-life problems of
innovation. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass Education.
Greenberg, J., Pyszczynski, T., & Solomon, S. (1986). The causes and consequences of a need for
self-esteem: A terror management theory. In R. Baumeister (Ed.), Public self and private self
(pp. 189–212). New York, NY: Springer-Verlag.
Griffin, J., & Tyrrell, I. (2003). The human givens: A new approach to emotional health and clear thinking.
Chalvington: Human Givens Publishing Ltd.
Jackson, G. (1975). The research evidence on the effects of grade retention. Review of Education
Research, 45(4), 613–635.
Jimerson, S. (2001). Meta-analysis of grade retention research: Implications for practice in the 21st
century. School Psychology Review, 30(3), 420–437.
Maslow, A. (1943). A theory of human motivation. Psychological Review, 50(4), 370–396.
Moynihan, D. (2017, April 25). Presentation on the Harris Federation Croydon. (unpublished)
National Center for Education Statistics. (2006). The condition of education: Grade retention.Washington,
DC, NCES.
Rayner, G. (2017, March 7). Theresa may unveils plans for new generation of grammar schools. The
Telegraph.
Riley, K. (2013). Leadership of place: Stories for schools in the US, UK and South Africa. London:
Bloomsbury.
Riley, K. (2017). Re-creating schools as places of belonging: The art of possibilities. Professional
Development Today. (forthcoming)
Roderick, M., & Nagaoka, J. (2005). Retention under Chicago’s high-stakes testing program: Helpful,
harmful or harmless? Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis, 27(4), 309–340.
Schein, E. (2004). Organizational culture & leadership. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.
R. Sage (Ed.), Paradoxes in Education, 93–110.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
RICHARD DAVIES
6. ETHICS AND PROFESSIONALISM
Performance and Practice
ABSTRACT
We schoolmasters must temper discretion with deceit.
 (Dr Fagan in ‘Decline and Fall’, by Waugh, 2001)
Do you agree with Dr Fagan? I doubt that many vocationally-orientated teachers
ever would. Why is that? This book concerns the practice of teaching. It describes
the importance of reflection, practised communication and skilled relationship-
building, within and between educational settings and others locally, nationally and
internationally. This chapter suggests that such activities are essentially ethical – that
it is not possible to offer the inspiration and guidance that practitioners expect of
themselves without such engagement. The argument that follows reflects results of
an assessment of five key UK professions (including teaching) carried out in 2015.
If you ask people what they mean by the term ‘ethics’, these are amongst the
common responses.
‘Ethics has to do with what my gut tells me is right or wrong.’
‘Ethics are about my religious beliefs and absolute obligations under God.’
‘Ethics set out how to live, what is good, and what I ought to do.’
‘Ethics is an umbrella word for a moral code, or morality.’
‘Being ethical means doing what the law of the land requires.’
‘Ethics capture the standards of behaviour that a society agrees upon.’
‘I really don’t know what ethics means.’
It is, therefore, a difficult and even volatile concept that has always exerted
passion and fascination. In this chapter, the term is distinguished from morals, rigid
conventions and codes of rule or principle, adopted with or without self-examination.
Ethics represents the activity of achieving proportionate balance, ‘in the moment’
and over time, between impulses implicit in concepts like equality and justice that
are inconsistent within themselves and at odds with other similarly compromised
ones like liberty and tolerance. It involves achieving harmonious or balanced
judgment, drawing from the palette or keyboard of potential values, principles and
virtues. It relates to what it means to be good; do what is right and exercise decent
R. DAVIES
94
human behaviour. Like painting or musical composition, ethical authorship, practice
or performance expresses conscious choice and evolves to meet contextual need.
We all make decisions about what is right or wrong. Do I cheat in an examination
or plagiarise a text? Do I ignore a misapplication of public funds? Do I tell my
friend the truth about his acts or omissions? Do I peer review a colleague’s research
favourably, and regardless of real merit, simply because it supports a predisposition
I applaud? Do I ignore discriminatory conduct? Do I keep quiet about the destructive
actions of others for fear of damaging my own career as an educator? Do I sacrifice
myself for the sake of someone else?
Some decisions will not be too important in terms of their immediate effects (which
does not make them insignificant). Others will have profound consequences, both in
the short and long terms. What follows examines how ethical activity is necessarily
engaged in our practical and personal lives – and considers the implications for
professional development and the civilising obligations of educators.
INTRODUCTION: ETHICAL ACTIVITY AND PROFESSIONALISM
It is axiomatic that growing as a practitioner entails learning as an individual;
contributing to sustaining learning organisations; and helping to develop learning
networks. The purpose of this professional activity for educators is primarily to
enable learners to flourish. It cannot be fulfilled without challenging the scope and
reach of personal practice within and beyond the cultural and organisational settings
comfortably familiar to the practitioner. Testing personal professional responses,
to detect distinctive needs and realities, is a necessary condition for responding to
diversity productively. This testing features ethical activity.
There is, however, a harsh reality to this. For teaching, as for any other leading
profession, reflection and other capabilities must be underpinned by publicly
acceptable and intelligible standards and expectations. These standards must be
capable of being upheld and remediated when shortcomings are identified. That
involves fair adjudication where necessary to sustain the public interest. This
importantconceptiscentraltoprofessionalself-command.Itrequirestheindependent
capacity to protect client interests; to promote proper standards of conduct and
behaviour; and to sustain the reputation of the profession itself, including that of its
regulator. This is not just loosely implied. In the UK, it is a matter of law made by
statute and by the Courts.
The concept of a profession has developed significantly from its origins in
monastic clerking. Over the last century, there has been a shift from a preoccupation
with small professions, serving narrow elites, to larger numbers of statutorily-
registered professionals providing for mass society. In some ways, this is even more
demanding for practitioners. More is expected of more of them and for more people
than was the case in the past. Securing professional cohesion and progressively
improving standards is a much greater challenge than before. If professional activity
does have an ethical dimension (and it does), more is required to ensure that it is
ETHICS AND PROFESSIONALISM
95
cultivated across a broader front, in the face of a vastly more complex landscape of
expectations and assumptions.
The case for this is pressing, given the growing concerns about governance and
ethical crises in society – in organisations as varied as legislatures, on-line social
media, banks, car manufacturers, hospitals, schools, charities and sports bodies.
Failures of collective responsibility have achieved major public notoriety in recent
years. The costs of reputational injury have excited attention quite as much as failings
of professional practice. However, such crises have invariably featured failures of
individual ethical engagement and activity. Personal ‘calling to account’ can be
extremely high-profile. Ethics are not just an optional extra.
At the regulatory level, the response has not been invariably confident. In part,
this has been because of resistance to processes of judgment amongst influential
practitioners and an unwillingness to accept that there are some ideas that deserve
to be preferred over others. Preferences are not reducible to prejudices: they are
not necessarily implicitly or explicitly biased or partial. Yet for many, ethics
represent no more than codified morality – Western dominated, racially skewed,
male orientated, socially donated and market driven. The scope for personal and
collective determination about what is right, or wrong, is treated as slight and even
non-existent. Yet whether this position is lazy or calculated, it is antithetical to
thought and action. Its arrogant cultural relativism and materialistic determinism
requires subservience to the idea that personal and collective responsibility does
not matter – or does not even exist in any authentic way. In this it is inhumane,
meretricious and mendacious. Perversely it takes no account of what drives public
outrage when powerful people fail to account for failings.
It is the principle argument here that rejection or fear of judgment (as opposed to
a distaste for the vapidly ‘judgmental’) represents a disregard for professional rigour,
and for the substance of teaching in particular. It is to acquiesce as a ‘fellow-traveller’
in what is ultimately totalitarian, unkind and corrupt. It is to abandon fundamental
tenets of social openness, pluralism and diversity. It is to surrender to those who
attack freedoms of association, speech, religion and opinion – the cultural essentials
upon which rich relationships, progressive dialogue and mutual learning depend. It is
to be insouciant about values in which it is proper and necessary to take pride.
It is to pervert what deserves to be nourished and celebrated for the transmission
of cultural capital that is critical for peace and well-being. It is also to presume that
behaviour producing fissiparous and destructive social heterogeneity should not be
challenged. It is to ignore the reality that no assertion of ‘faith’, that is obdurate,
unreasoning, irrational, and brutal in effect, can amount to a ‘commitment’deserving
respect. It is to collaborate with censorious authoritarianism. It is to adopt the pretence
of consideration and care – insisting, absurdly, that learners must be protected from
risks that must themselves be confronted to buttress civility and civilisation.
Educators cannot let sloppy arguments, redolent of passively disdainful ‘cultural
criticism’ hold sway. Ethical practice, in teaching and other professions, compels a
constant effort to overcome the paralysis and affectations of analysis, in favour of
R. DAVIES
96
action that is virtuous and draws on the best of what can be thought, known, and
achieved.
CODES OF CONDUCT
There is no doubt that regulators have attached great importance to the production
of Codes of Conduct to help shape intra and extra-professional purpose, dialogue
and adjudication. Examination of these Codes shows that they generally
include requirements relating to honesty, integrity, transparency, accountability,
confidentiality, objectivity, respectfulness, obedience to law, communication and
loyalty. Less in evidence are impartiality, selflessness, leadership, learning to
improve, reciprocity and reflection.
That said, the Codes of leading professions now feature basic tenets relating to:
•	 knowledge, skills, and performance expectations bearing upon effective practice;
•	 standards of safety and quality;
•	 expectations about communication, partnership and teamwork; and
•	 behavioural requirements linked to promoting trust and confidence in the
profession itself.
In the UK, professional Codes have emerged from government guidance, which
permits a substantial measure of independence to those professional regulators
that exhibit sound standards of proportionality, accountability, communication,
responsiveness to citizens, target definition, transparency, commitment to equality,
diversity and accessibility, effectiveness and sustainable performance.
Although Codes are now an established feature of practitioner registration in many
professions, examination of how they are applied suggests that they are weighted to
adjudication rather than development. The preoccupation is with justifying processes
for deciding cases of misconduct; misdemeanour (involving an extra- professional
regulator or criminal conviction in the UK or abroad); incompetence; or practitioner
ill-health. Statutory regulators have been disproportionately preoccupied with
developing or maintaining formal Codes as opposed to enabling practitioners to
develop the ethical sense that is essential to applying them in practice. Leading
professions give minimal attention to ways in which Codes are understood and
applied. They do not consider how formative pre-qualification learning might
promote attachment to them, or assist in developing the personal or professional
ethical sense that is critical to practice. There has been a large emphasis on rules
and principles as opposed to the cultivation of the virtues and ethical activity. The
collective has been favoured over the personal.
What is more, there is little evidence that Codes feature strongly in practitioners’
lives. Lunt (2008) comments that their formality and abstract nature ‘…may not help
the individual professional faced with a complex ethical dilemma.’ She points to
evidence that professionals rarely consult the Codes when considering their ethical
ETHICS AND PROFESSIONALISM
97
position. Experience in fitness-to-practise cases endorses this. Things generally go
wrong because a practitioner makes false assumptions, or is otherwise careless and
incautious about ethical standards. Lunt adds that Guiney (2007) offers evidence that
ethical Codes ‘…in themselves are not sufficient to ensure ethical behaviour’. They
are necessary to shape standards of conduct and behaviour, but are not sufficient to
establish them.
Professions rarely reflect on pedagogies applied in ethical education at any
stage – pre-or post-qualification. They do not consider how continuing professional
development (CPD) and revalidation could help develop ethical practice. Regulators do
not generally consider how to support ethical practice comprehensively across the career
or in any structure of CPD. They do not compare even the limited existing approaches
to sustaining ethical practice amongst themselves. The guardians of guardians (like the
Professional Standards Authority in the UK) take no interest in what regulators are
doing, or are not doing, in the field. Regulators seldom review what prevents ethical
practice. They do not consider why practitioners are found to be ignorant of the Codes,
or of the virtues, when things go wrong. The concepts of ethical sense and practice
are approached incoherently and only occasionally. Cost and convenience drive how
teaching about ethics is offered, and the methods by which ethical understanding might
be developed are not researched or promoted systematically.
ETHICAL PRACTICE AND THE VIRTUES
Ethical activity involves an acceptance that there are immutable virtues intrinsic to
human experience. They are real, and have nothing to do with the power plays of
‘virtue signalling’. Lists of virtues and values are robust survivors – like those of
Aristotle (under ‘virtue as a mean’); the Catholic themes (seven principles of social
teaching); and Ghandi (ten principles of non-violence). Then there are lists like the
Bangalore Principles (for judicial conduct) or the Nolan Principles (seven principles
of public office holders).
Values may be derived from the virtues, but they are not identical. Virtues are
complemented by principles (such as, ‘treat others as you would wish to be treated’
or ‘do what has universal application’); legal definitions of human rights (like the
rights to liberty, happiness, and freedom from discrimination); absolute rules (like
those proscribing solicitors from using client monies); maxims of utility (such as
‘act to achieve the greatest happiness of the greatest number’) and fundamental
professional obligations (like the requirement in medicine to ‘put patients’ ‘interests
first’). These are all elements intrinsic to ethical activity, to be weighed together in
action and balanced judgment. Rights take us to reciprocity, rules to reasons and
principles to proportionality. The process of judgment is accompanied by reflection
– and reflection should properly have a focus. The virtues provide a natural focus for
any leading profession and are vitally important for educators and teaching.
However, ethics cannot be made fixed or absolute. The reality of human existence
is of uncertainty, chance, subtlety, differential experience and risk. Doing the right
R. DAVIES
98
thing is not straightforward, is often a struggle and may involve grave peril. Working
out what is best for a child – for example whether to trigger safeguarding action, or
to report potential extremist influence under the UK government’s ‘Prevent’strategy
– is fraught with dilemmas. Their resolution turns on judgment which a professional
should not evade. To do so would merely make discretion indistinguishable from
Dr Fagan’s deceit.
Though it is impossible to conflate what is with what ought to be, it remains the
case that ‘oughts’ are. Ethical activity is a process of composition, taking concrete
virtues into real-world dialogue, communication and decision – calibrating for
setting and circumstance. At no stage is it acceptable to evade judgment. To presume
that judgment is always inappropriate is an awkward, unacknowledged conceit in
itself. Post-modernists and deconstructionists may treat the difficulties of achieving
valid judgment as insurmountable – seeing the world as an arbitrary collection of
different texts (Nisbett, 2015). Yet opposition to judgment is a judgment too.
This position is that of Aristotle (1970, 2011, editions.). In ‘The Eudemian
Ethics’, he deploys practical descriptions of what are commonly taken to be virtuous
characteristics. Overall, he combines this with a teleological conception that is
aspirational and disciplined. He applies ‘the golden mean’ – the proportionate balance
between extremes of excess or deficiency. Thus, good practice is about cultivating
and acting in accordance with the virtues – constantly balancing deficiencies
against excesses and discriminating fairly. The result is visible in the flourishing of
individuals and in their seeking to flourish. It is evident not merely in happiness or
self-satisfaction, but in attention to virtuous conduct.
Thus, Foot (2001) speaks of a grammar of virtues and of its inescapable
power, hard-wired into language itself. A tree is a good tree when it conforms to
its expected biology. A good practitioner conforms to natural expectations of what
being a virtuous one means. MacIntyre (2011) suggests that ethical conduct entails
autonomous practice coupled with participation in social frameworks capable of
cultivating virtue. Some of religious faith explain that embracing a tradition of this
sort will buttress truth and unappropriated learning – a choice made, rather than a
reality revealed. Again, O’Neill (1996) sees ethical activity as a process of creative
construction, emphasising the institutional context. Though not in opposition to
the metaphor of composition, this is comparatively rigid and concrete. By contrast,
composition has a pulse that is more supple and full of potential.
For Lunt (2008), professional practice involves an ethics of truth-searching,
reflective integrity, humility and humanistic education, in which it is necessary
to accept the provisional, often contested nature of knowledge and competence.
Grounding lifelong professional practice in the mind-set of day-one entry is no
longer adequate.
Barnett (2008) adds that:
The modern professional has to be both a practising epistemologist and a
practising ontologist. On the one hand she has to know things and go on
ETHICS AND PROFESSIONALISM
99
knowing, and to practise what she preaches, and find new things to preach…. On
the other hand…the professional…has to take on the task of making herself in
the world…The idea of a critical professionalism in an age of super-complexity
can be more than an idea.
It has to be more than an idea, so long as it is not adopted in a self-indulgent
or cynical spirit and is purposive and responsible in inspiring a generous, cultural
confidence, capable of being shared by many rather than a few. If professionals
are ethically self-critical and engaged, they are entitled to be confident about their
practice. Indeed, ethically engaged teachers are more likely to insist on what they
know to be humane and civilising – to move from passively detached observation,
vague commentary and learned helplessness to what commands public attention and
respect. That said, ethical composition and performance need systemic rather than
occasional reflective deliberation. It must be woven into working life in ways that
are mentored, coached, supported and researched.
PRACTICAL OBSTACLES TO VIRTUOUS PRACTICE
To adopt and adapt the Confucian maxim relevant to virtuous practice: ‘I see and
remember; I reflect and understand; I act and make meaning; I choose and determine
value’, and this is tough territory. Collective thinking amongst professionals about
ethical practice is limited and for five substantial reasons.
•	 Conceptual. Ethics, as distinct from morality or moral rules, bear on difficult and
contentious matters. Practitioners have incentives to avoid so demanding a field.
It is just easier to avoid self-declarations that may not be acceptable to employers
and other stakeholders, or may have unpredictable outcomes affecting practitioner
interests. In addition, defining ethical practice is subtle. It is often difficult to shape
that practice in ways that are operationally practical or immediately relevant to
the professional setting.
•	 Political. Attitudes towards Codes can be heavily transactional. They are often
positioned as having presentational rather than practical significance. Without a
Code, a profession cannot register its practitioners and regulate. It is a necessary
symbolic demonstration of serious institutional purpose, rather than something
directly linked to inspiring improved standards or ethical engagement. A
legislature expects there to be a Code. It may not be interested in how a regulatory
body reflects on the Code’s effectiveness, or on how best to improve ethical sense
amongst practitioners.
•	 Operational. There are difficulties in thinking holistically about ethics in any
profession. Capturing and evaluating relevant information, and instituting
practical support, is time consuming and expensive whatever the downstream
savings. A regulatory board is always more likely to conclude that it will act
piecemeal – reactively rather than proactively or systematically. Boards are
R. DAVIES
100
inclined to avoid transaction costs and reputational sensitivities about what is,
and what is not, happening within their professions.
•	 Cultural. This is the most complex and problematic issue. To extend the musical
analogy, individuals sing to different tunes. Differences of identity, class, status,
occupation, language, familial upbringing and experience are all in play. Though
not insurmountable, complexities of sociological and demographic factors are
real. That makes it hard for regulators to overcome their diffidence and present a
consistent, compelling rationale, connecting Codes with personal ethical practice.
•	 Personal. There are stubborn difficulties in applying ethical practice as an
individual. Those who take a stand have to accept significant personal risk.
Midgley (2001) rightly emphasises the importance of courage, but costs can be
high. Whistle-blowers know that employers and others are not above smearing
them by falsehood and manipulation. Research evidence, on the degree to
which people have a bias to compliance and conflict-avoidance, remains strong
(Milgram, 1974). It is plain from Gino & Mulginer’s work (2015), that ethical
decision-making can be time consuming and needs time to be successful. Where
money and other incentives can pervert, time encourages people to think – to
cheat less and behave better. It enables them to adopt Kahneman’s (2011) System
2 approach, as opposed to his rapid, intuitive and potentially insecure System I
thinking. However, time may be at a premium or unavailable. People may easily
feel impelled to make sub-optimal choices.
ETHICAL PRACTICE, CHARACTER AND PATTERNS OF MISCONDUCT
Will moral standards, inherited from childhood, influenced and tempered by
autonomous reflection, automatically equip practitioners to deal with hard ethical
professional problems? It is by no means self-evident that they will. Regulators need
to create more space to equip practitioners to face ethical problems throughout their
careers. ‘Character’ deserves to be taken seriously in this, just as the virtues should
be. The two are intertwined. Furthermore, regulators must be on the alert to attend to
existing or emergent patterns of dilemma.
There is evidence that particular professions may be at risk of exhibiting certain
recurrent features of misconduct. The numbers of cases in which practitioners are
found to have acted improperly is proportionately small. It does not follow that
practitioners will all adopt high standards since relatively few are tested. Indeed,
there are pressures in every profession, as is evident from the examples which
follow. These are drawn from a selective examination of public fitness to practice
determinations over the last eight years.
•	 Pharmacists – false claims to the NHS; drug misuse; erroneous dispensing
•	 Osteopaths – breaches of professional boundaries; laxity over obtaining consent
to treatment and protection of patient modesty
•	 Solicitors – misuse of client money; involvement in mortgage fraud.
ETHICS AND PROFESSIONALISM
101
•	 Nurses – failings of compassion; drug administration; poor wound management
•	 Barristers – inattention to instructions; poor personal relationships
•	 Doctors – false assumptions over patient management; venality; failings of
integrity
•	 Surveyors – weaknesses in handling conflicts of interest; false valuations
For education and educators, the recurrent vulnerabilities are these.
•	 Whether or not to ‘game’ SAT or examination entries
•	 Cheating; plagiarism; untruthful CVs; and misleading professional references
•	 Failure to confront grade creep and attainment standards manipulation
•	 Flexing degree threshold boundaries to sustain student numbers
•	 Overlooking conflicts of interest in the appointment of external examiners
•	 Falsifying research data to farm grants, or service ‘sock puppet’ interest groups
•	 Miss-selling degrees as a pathway to a rewarding future
•	 Misleading presentation of information to the public or inspectors
•	 Appropriation of institutional funds
•	 Failure to disclose the remuneration of senior staff publicly
•	 Crossing boundaries, or breaches of trust, between educators and children/young
people
It is sometimes said that these potential problems are evident because education
features as a commodity in the capitalist market place. The presumption is that
external pressures, arise from ‘arbitrary’ targets or curriculum standards. It is said
that these compel teachers to teach to tests, or otherwise face accountability pressures
(carrying risks to future employment) that they simply cannot own.
The purpose of this chapter is not to challenge this directly and unsympathetically.
However, any cultural and economic system generates challenges to ethical
professionalism. These are unlikely to be non-existent in authoritarian regimes, or
eliminated by an ideal non-market environment. When there are scarce resources
(there always is scarcity), pressures to demonstrate outcomes cannot be plaintively
wished away. Markets, including financial ones, take different forms, and are
ultimately inescapable.
Reliable data on outcomes against objectives matter for any profession.
Entitlements to common curricula and humane education are important. Educators
have been and remain involved in shaping them and in determining the nature and
purpose of assessments. These have not become burdensome in the UK because
teachers have been uninvolved in devising them: their involvement has been
profound. Nor are ‘targets’ the main stimuli for misconduct. Most cases, (at least
in Wales, 2011–2014), feature examination and course-work manipulation at the
mid-point in malpractice lists.
In any event, ethical engagement directs us to developing the character attributes
needed to strike against pressing ethical problems. ‘Character’often generates unease
and dispute, especially amongst those associating it with recruitment having less to
R. DAVIES
102
do with ability or competence than with elitism or the protection of closed shops.
However, there is evidence that the concept is gaining a new profile. Cohen (2017)
suggests that employers should question the character of job applicants and avoid
limiting themselves to competence and prior experience. She urges that honesty-
humility and conscientiousness should feature with emotionality, introversion,
agreeableness and openness to experience, in a six-factor personality model. When
evaluating a candidate or future leader ask:
Would this person feel bad about committing a transgression or making a
mistake even if no one knew about what he or she did? Does he or she have
a strong sense of responsibility for others? Would this person feel bad about
letting others down? Is this person truthful, humble and fair? Is he or she hard
working, careful and thorough when completing tasks? If the answer to these
questions is no, then the individual is unlikely to be an ethical worker and will
probably be an ineffective and disreputable leader. Conversely if the answer is
yes, you can bet that he or she will be a good colleague and star performer in
the organisation – a person who will exhibit decency and integrity when called
upon to lead.
This important finding is as relevant for the professions as it is for the public, private
and third sectors.
Whitmarsh and Sykes (2014) stress that an organisation’s reputation is based on
ability to deliver on promises to customers, employers, investors, regulators and the
media. Reputational damage can be catastrophic, resulting in significant revenue
loss and destruction of stakeholder support, something that social media (perhaps
better called unsocial sewerage) can bring about instantly. Commercial companies
increasingly see ethical behaviours as central to success – with 70% of UK and
European businesses increasing investment in ethics programmes, against 50% in
2010. They stress the utility of taking a ‘yesterday, today and tomorrow’ lens to
ensure that business values are sustainably aligned with social values.
A recent Chartered Management Institute (CMI) Cross Party Commission (2014)
indicated that only 20% of UK managers set a good moral example. Indeed, less
than 20% were aware of their organisation’s values at all. A Chartered Institute of
Personnel and Development 2014 study found that less than 40% of employees
trusted senior management. No wonder Stephens (2014) argues that:
We need a change in attitude in the UK whereby management is seen as a
highly professional role, where integrity is seen as a virtue, one where ethics
are valued as highly as profitability. Until attitudes change we’ll continue to
focus on the short, rather than the longer term.
It is significant that the work of Arthur and colleagues, at the Jubilee Centre for
the Virtues & Character (Birmingham University), supports the view that honesty,
self-control, gratitude, fairness and respect are critical to resolving professional
problems. In ‘Virtuous Medical Practice’ (2015), a survey of 549 senior and junior
ETHICS AND PROFESSIONALISM
103
doctors identified agreement that the 6 important characteristics of a good doctor
were fairness, honesty, judgment, kindness, leadership and teamwork. For ‘The
Good Teacher’ (2015), data from 546 respondents showed that fairness, creativity,
love of learning, humour, perseverance and leadership were identified as the 6 key
virtues. In ‘Virtuous Character for the Practice of the Law’ (2014), there were 943
respondents. Judgment, perseverance, perspective, fairness, honesty and ethical
integrity emerged as the central professional attributes.
Naturally there are varying expectations between generations: as between
baby-boomers born post war; those born in the 1960s–1970s (Generation X); and
those born in the 80s–90s (Generation Y). CMI Commission evidence suggests
that the younger cohort looks for ethical employers, with nine in ten wanting to
join an organisation in which they can believe. They are confident, independent,
open-minded, entrepreneurial, and multi-culturally aware. They are collaborative
problem solvers – resisting micro-management; needing feedback and coaching;
learning from social-networking; wanting early leadership exposure; and expecting
to embrace technology and to change roles and employers frequently.
Generation Y, however, can display a strong, unjustified sense of entitlement;
inadequate spoken and written communication, over-confidence, together with weak
decision-making and numeracy. They compare unfavourably with Generation X on
change-management, communication, decision-making, leadership and strategic
skills. This is a real challenge for educators – unlikely to be met by avoiding issues
of character and ethics. It is clear that participants in any organisation or profession
need to be agile, authentic and talented. The CMI data suggests that for the next
10–20 years, leaders and professionals will need the following characteristics.
•	 A clear sense of purpose
•	 Strong values and integrity
•	 Firm commitment to developing others through coaching and mentoring
•	 The capacity to champion diversity
•	 The ability to engage with and to communicate at all levels
•	 Self-awareness and the ability to make time to reflect
•	 A collaborative rather than hierarchical approach
•	 Agility, innovative technologically, curious and savvy
•	 Resilience
•	 The capacity to achieve and deliver
Steare (2014) captures the values applicable to the professions as much as for any
private, public, or third sector institution as follows.
•	 Wisdom – I think through my decisions carefully
•	 Fairness – I treat others with respect
•	 Courage – I stand up for my beliefs & what is right
•	 Self-control – I am patient & self-disciplined
•	 Trust – I encourage others to be positive
R. DAVIES
104
•	 Hope – I encourage others to reasoned confidence
•	 Humility – I am less important than the team
•	 Love – I am empathetic & care about others
•	 Honesty – I speak the truth & encourage others to be open
•	 Excellence – I try to do my best in everything I do
It is unlikely that either list could be regarded as controversial. Indeed, components
amount to touchstones for ethical practice in teaching now and for the future. The
problem lies in translating words into action.
GYMNASIA FOR ETHICAL PRACTICE
To enliven, enrich and expand minds of any age demands energy and enthusiasm
for learning and the possession of tangible knowledge. Learners want to learn from
people whose example they admire and whose assessments they trust. To adapt
longstanding aphorisms, teachers must be ‘sages on the stage as well as guides on
the side’. Great teachers enable learners to distinguish thought, opinion, attitude and
belief. They are not appropriated by exclusive values, nor do they mistake value-
based teaching for indoctrination.
Teaching is a physically and intellectually demanding performance art – but it is
not a form of ‘stand-up’ in which an audience is invited to bathe in the performer’s
own pre-conceptions; or encouraged to sneer at others (especially leaders like
politicians); or prompted to prefer coarseness, envy and cynicism to generous,
critical reflection. It is not about being complicit in ‘post-truth’ analysis, sacrificing
rigour to sophistry. It is not about perverting diversity into exclusive identity traps.
Nor is it about treating ‘evidence’ or ‘the science’ as unimpeachably valid, and as
a proxy for absolute truth. Emphatically, it should not be about becoming absorbed
by the public or social media ‘commentariat’ generating ‘narratives’ that pander to
prevailing addictions to prejudice, myth or meme. Cool, incisive intellectual grip is
more compelling than making a fetish of passions.
Although the challenges confronting practitioners are profound, it is not as though
we are wholly ignorant of what educators need to do to equip learners and our culture,
to address them. Teachers must equip learners and that culture to cope with global
challenges successfully, and their starting point must be based on ethical practice
and the virtues. That also entails the acquisition and application of professional
knowledge, strong partnership-working, and deliberate career mobility. It will not
be achieved without embedding reflection on the disciplines necessary to think well
and interrogate data soundly (Nisbett, 2016). It will not be accomplished without
grasping the significance of ‘big data’ algorithms and team working for prediction.
It will not be accomplished without valuing quantitative information on learning
outcomes; creating a version of epidemiology for learning and pedagogy; linking
practice to research; comprehending brain functioning, psychology and personality;
and appreciating ethical complexity and the implications for practice.
ETHICS AND PROFESSIONALISM
105
Forward-thinking professions realise the importance of these matters. They are
beginning to understand that ethical practice cannot be grounded in a single ‘sheep-
deep’ at any career stage. Nor can it be inspired by ‘weaving ethics through the
formative curriculum’ in the hope of establishing familiarity with the Codes, and
a capacity to handle complexity, by osmosis. Practitioners need secure knowledge
of relevant Codes; an understanding of related enforcement processes; information
on the ethical problems that colleagues are confronting; and evidence on how they
are coping. Opportunities must be given to frame this thinking in pre-qualification
formative learning; induction; and at identified and structured career stages.
Exposure to ethical practice problems may be partly text-based, but should be multi-
media and e-supported; role-played; reflective; case-study grounded; supervised
and mentored. Examples of ways in which colleagues have been tested and fallen
short must feature, because case studies of practical dilemmas are messaging tools.
They should include exercises to demonstrate options for resolution and draw on
public decisions of statutory fitness-to-practise panels. Early thinking about how to
ensure that intelligent robots act ethically has given greater weight to learning from
parables than rules. What is suitable for robots is relevant for human minds too.
It is also likely that a pedagogy cultivating educators’ ethical sense will tackle
the difficult, persistent problems of educational policy. These include expanding
provision for learners with additional needs; improving outcomes for ‘looked after’
children; overcoming perverse incentives in favour of higher education and against
apprenticeships; and transforming deficient pathways for those not in education or
training post-16. This has little to do with educational structures and institutions,
though arguments about them exert an unhealthy grip on debate.
Ethical exercise and contemplation should also familiarise practitioners with
principles and procedures implicit in adjudicating ‘fitness to practise’. It needs to
feature the rigours of legal processes that confront practitioners who fall short of
expected standards – including the requirements to demonstrate insight, remediation
and remorse and why they exist. Understanding regulatory judgment illuminates the
demands of ethical judgment and practice. Progress in grasping ethical practice and
regulation must be identified and established in CPD. It is not to be left to formative
curricula without examination – then ignored during the following years of practice.
Of course, there are challenges to arguments that ethical practice needs to be
systematically supported, stimulated and evaluated with and for practitioners.
First, the concept could be dismissed as no more than an attempt to secure
compliance with organisational systems that only pretend to support individual
progressandnetworks.Thosesystemsmightbecharacterisedasbeingaboutimpelling
values and routines that are institutionally convenient but fundamentally inhumane.
Focusing on ethical practice could threaten to import more time-consuming burdens
and noise. Brinkmann (2017) offers a critique of ‘the self-improvement craze’ –
the vogue for treating the self, personal emotions and naval-gazing as culturally
valuable. He argues that it may be appropriate for individuals to stand firm and
remain faithful to their own sense of self-worth – to reject suggestions that they
R. DAVIES
106
should improve or develop. They might need to recognise that their autonomy of
purpose is at odds with institutional or professional expectations about obligations.
Brinkmann also suggests that it is sometimes right not to embrace empathy –
especially for institutional values that trap individuals into drab compliance with
norms or habits not deserving to be shared or upheld. This is not necessarily a matter
of perverse stubbornness, but rather about upholding principles that should not be
compromised. The argument deserves attention – but encouraging disengagement
risks undermining active professional and ethical practice. Authenticity is not just
about standing firm on unexamined presumptions of comfortable existence. As
Marcel (1949) would say it is about ‘being and not being had’.
Second, challenge is about the utility of Initial Teacher Training (ITT) and CPD.
It is not evident that either are wholly effective, even though they cost substantial
time and money. There is little research into the effectiveness of CPD, and that does
damage the argument for attending to professional ethics throughout a practitioner
career – though not irretrievably. Forward-looking professions are determining how
best to structure practitioner reflection. Creating reflective spaces – gymnasia to
inspire outward-looking responses through mentorship and support, together with
inward-looking challenge – are being trialled (not least for osteopaths). It seems
perverse to withdraw confidence in CPD without assessing the results from these
new approaches. Moreover, CPD is related to growing practitioner understanding
of autonomy, dignity and self-government discussed by Sunstein (2016). This is
important for equipping educators to tackle learner difficulties and encouraging
them to hope. Practitioners operate in a world of ‘enabling’ political states, rather
than ‘directing and providing’ ones, as Elvidge (2012) makes clear. Educators need
to grow their capacities to understand this context, and to demand the space in which
to do it.
Third, there is the idea that different ethical norms arise from rooted attachments
and identities of equivalent weight and value, making it impossible to reach
agreement across cultures. However, there is evidence that this argument is
overblown. There are cross-cultural differences, which are not as great as may be
supposed. The experience of IESC colleagues (2016) in devising ethical principles
for those working in the land, property and construction professions, showed that
agreement on ethical problems need not be blighted by relativism. Given space and
time it is possible to build collective confidence amongst practitioners in favour
of robust, reliable judgment about what is, or is not, ethical – about what beliefs
and attitudes are better than others. In a project to reach accord, involving over
100 property-focused professional organisations worldwide, there was no difficulty
in agreeing that ethical practice should be embedded in CPD, with professional
standards subject to regular reflection across the career. ITT and CPD for educators
must embrace and exemplify this reality. Supported reinforcement, in reflective
gymnasia, is required to tackle any professional demand. Ethical practice is no
exception. ITT and CPD should be shaped and sustained as a seamless, structured
continuum to make this happen.
ETHICS AND PROFESSIONALISM
107
Last, there is the sheer scale of the challenge facing educators. There are questions
about whether the presumed bargain between hard work and learner success can be
sustained. The demise of deference; fading of the career concept; rise of the gig
economy; emergence of robotics and the internet of things; increasingly practical
initiatives to engineer and augment humans – all seem bewildering and threatening.
It is important that teachers have space to work out how to enable learners to face the
world as it is and might become. ITT and CPD have limitations – but as platforms
for change, however indirect and unpredictable in effect, they have no competitors.
ETHICS AND INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
These gymnasia are places of the mind and practice. They should not permit self-
lacerating angst, over-frequent activity and unfocused, self-indulgent reflection.
They are needed for educators to build confidence and capacity to offer ethical
example. Pedagogies of communication and relationship are essential, but the
integrity of vocational practice and commitment makes its own compelling,
complementary contribution. Understanding ethics is also important for intercultural
communication. Western ethics emphasises free choice, honesty and kindness,
derived partly from Christian principles. Broadly, Confucian and Hindu thinking
focuses less on individual candour and more on collaborative harmony. It makes
sense to consider each cultural lineage and how each determines what form of
communication is assumed appropriate, and how it frames perception. Shuter (2003)
speaks of three elements of everyday communication ethics: the communicator
(contributing to well-being of others); the message (defining right and wrong) and
the audience (guidelines for receiving messages).
Thinking about this reconciles different models of social construction and
communication, which may otherwise compete. An approach based upon citizens,
collaboration and community is distinct from one featuring customers, choice and
competition. However, Western societies end up adopting both in different degrees
and simultaneously. How they do it turns on communication, which becomes
ever more complex. Soon, IT platforms will enable neighbours to adopt different
packages of public service and tax; distinct levels of community engagement and
separate options of governmental institution and legal obligation, whilst occupying
the same physical space.
At the same time, respect for the dominant or pre-eminent (but not necessarily
unalterable) culture, is an appropriate and beneficial starting point (see introductory
chapters). It is essential for sustaining the quality of dialogue, relationship and
development that is civilising in effect. Open societies matter. Educators are nothing
if not about cultivating the best of what can be accomplished – if they are unconfident
about bridging differences; if they overestimate difficulties in doing so; and if they
evade opportunities for mutual communication and resolution. The force of this is
evident in the optimistic attention increasingly given to achieving agreement about
R. DAVIES
108
what counts as well-being for people in different political contexts – see Wallace
(2013) and OECD (2012).
SUMMARY
Howwerelatetoothersisultimatelyinfluencedbygenetic,physical,material,cultural
and other contextual factors. It is not determined by any one of these dimensions
alone. It always requires ethical performance and practice. Bellah (1985) suggests
that Britain is rejecting a culture that embraces others, for economic individualism,
focused on narrow ‘employment’benefits and against social capital growth. Educator
obligations are not reducible to developing learners for successful employment, but
it is essential to understand their different perspectives. For the UK, Goodhart (2017)
provides an analysis of the variants of experience for ‘anywhere’ and ‘somewhere’
people. Murray (2017) offers gloomy predictions for coherence and survival of
European culture. Yet pessimism is as corrosive as unworldly optimism. Whatever
is ahead, educators must help learners to face it – to engage in and sustain a plural
world. This is an ethical and moral imperative – an obligation to enable learners to
cope with modern challenges – and respond well to differences in the way people
act and interact.
Evidence from decisions of regulators and elsewhere shows that acute
communication problems recur for teachers – between learners, and within their
communities and cultures. Amongst other things, these include ethical problems.
Given the required range of academic targets and objectives and the many learners
unable to meet their own and others’expectations for achievement, it is not surprising
that professional ethical standards may be compromised – but that is neither desirable
nor acceptable.
If practitioners fail to shape a personal, collective conviction about how young
people and their carers ought to behave, the scope to overcome ethical problems is
likely to evaporate, and with it the benefits of pluralism in society. Confidence to
reinforce robust, vocational commitment and lead by expectation is unlikely to be
found without greater explicitness about what counts as ethical professionalism and
virtuous practice. The more that practitioners challenge their cognitive, affective,
and behavioural adjustments, and cultivate virtue in teaching and learning, the more
successful they will be over securing coherent and common collective culture in
and from diversity – in establishing civility, and inspiring hope. Ethical practice and
intercultural communication remain amongst today’s cardinal professional issues.
MAIN POINTS
•	 Ethics is an activity: it is not about absolutes or about fixed, unmalleable ‘givens’
•	 Ethical practice is founded upon applying the virtues in a process of active,
proportionate judgment
ETHICS AND PROFESSIONALISM
109
•	 Professions commonly have Codes of Conduct, which define expected standards
and behaviours
•	 These Codes are often unacknowledged, save when it comes to statutory ‘fitness
to practise’ proceedings
•	 They are necessary conditions for ethical engagement, but insufficient to sustain
it
•	 Practitioners need structured development, pre-and post-qualification, to support
ethical practice
•	 Ethical professionalism is rooted in dialogue, accepting cultural differences but
confident in bridging them to achieve mutual reconciliation
•	 Educators have obligations to embrace civilising common purpose, to draw upon
and infuse established culture and promote open, plural societies (and their own
roles) with pride
REFERENCES
Aristotle. (Ed.). (2011). The eudemian ethics (Kerry, Trans.). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Aristotle. (Ed.). (1970). The nichomachean ethics (Thompson, Trans.). London: Penguin Books.
Arthur, J., Kristjansson, K., Thomas, H., Holdsworth, M., Confalonieri, L., & Qiu, T. (2014). Virtuous
character for the practice of the law. Birmingham: Jubilee Centre for Character and Virtues.
Arthur, J., Kristjansson, K., Cook, S., Brown, E., & Carr, D. (2015). The good teacher. Birmingham:
Jubilee Centre for Character & Virtues.
Arthur, J., Kristjansson, K., Thomas, H., Kotzee, B., Ignatowicz, A., Pringle, M., & Qiu, T. (2015).
Virtuous medical practice. Birmingham: Jubilee Centre for Character and Virtues.
Bellah, R., Madsen, R., Sullivan, W., Swidler, A., & Tipton, S. (1996). Habits of the heart: Individualism
and commitment. Berkeley: University of California.
Brinkmann, S. (2017) Stand firm. Cambridge & Malden, MA: Polity Press.
Cohen, T. (2015). The morality factor. Scientific American Mind, 1555–2284.
Chartered Management Institute. (2014). Management 2020: The commission on the future of market
management and leadership. London: CMI.
Elvidge, J. (2012). The enabling state: A discussion paper. London: Carnegie (UK) Trust.
Foot, P. (2001). Natural goodness. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Gino, F., & Molinger, C. (2013). Time, money and morality. Harvard Community Share Article for
Psychological Science, 25(2), 414–421.
Goodhart, D. (2017). The road to somewhere. London: Hurst.
Guiney, D. (2007). Educational psychologists’accounts of ethically troubling incidents at a time of rapid
change, quoted in Lunt, I (below).
IESC. (2016). International ethical standards: An ethical framework for the global property market.
International Ethical Standards Coalition.
Kahneman, D. (2011). Thinking, fast and slow. New York, NY: Farrar, Straus & Giroux.
Lunt, I. (2008). Ethical issues in professional life. In B. Cunningham (Ed.), Exploring professionalism.
London: Bedford Way Papers.
Macintyre, A.. (Ed.). (2011). After virtue. London & New York, NY: Bloomsbury.
Marcel, G. (1949). Being and having. London: Dacre.
Midgley, M. (1984). Wickedness: Abingdon & Oxford: Routledge & Kegan Paul.
Milgram, S. (1974). Obedience to authority: London: Harper & Row.
Murray, D. (2017). The strange death of Europe. London: Bloomsbury.
Nisbett, R. (2016). Mind ware: Tools for smart thinking. London: Penguin Books.
OECD. (2012). How’s life measuring well-being. Paris: OECD.
O’Neill, O. (1996). Towards justice and virtue. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
R. DAVIES
110
Shuter, R. (2003). Ethics, culture and communication: An intercultural perspective (Online reading.
COM372). Evanston, IL: School of Communication, Illinois State University.
Stephens, J. (2014). Written evidence to the CMI Commission.
Steare, R., Stamboulides, P., & Neville, L. P. (2014). The moral DNA of performance. London: Chartered
Management Institute.
Sunstein, C. (2016). The ethics of influence. Cambridge & New York, NY: Cambridge University Press.
Wallace, J. (2013). The rise of the enabling state. Dunfermline: Carnegie (UK) Trust.
Waugh, E. (Ed.). (2001). Decline and fall. London: Penguin Books Ltd.
Whitmarsh, F., & Sykes, R. (2014). Reputational ruin’ in responding to global risks: A practical guide for
business leaders. London: Institute of Directors.
SECTION 2
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION ISSUES
This section considers issues when interacting with those from different cultural
and linguistic traditions. It has sections on defining cross-cultural communication,
communication difficulties, culture and language in Chapter 7. Chapter 8 concentrates
on the teaching approaches needed in multi-cultural classrooms and how to cultivate
equal value and opportunities for all. The message is that there needs to be much
more open discussion between resident cultures on their similarities, recognising
and respecting differences, but accepting that people living in a particular country
must abide by the values, customs and laws that have evolved through the history
and traditions of that place.
R. Sage (Ed.), Paradoxes in Education, 113–145.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
ROSEMARY SAGE
7. INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
ABSTRACT
The chapter has 3 sections: Defining Cross-cultural Communication; Communication
Difficulties, concluding with Culture & Language Styles. The aim is to develop
a broad awareness of the many factors involved in teaching with an intercultural
perspective. The text is interspersed with activities which can be used by both
teachers and students to help ease relationships and learning in the classroom. These
tasks have been successfully adapted for a variety of age levels and employed across
subject areas as appropriate. They were devised for a European Union (EU) project
(INTERMAR, 2011–2014) to improve communication across different ethnic,
language and cultural groups. The evaluation suggested that such input should be
part of all student experience.
INTRODUCTION: BACKGROUND CONTEXT
There is a school in Mid-England where 234 different languages are spoken and
the one for instruction is not that of most students at home. Observing students in
recreation, you see them generally grouped into ethnic cultures and speaking their
mother-tongue. The verbal and non-verbal messages are different. For example,
the Spanish are animated in exchanges with explicit facial expressions and strong
gestures; the Arabs are quieter with girls hidden by traditional dress so that body
movements are not noticeable.
Thisisthevisibleculturalcommunicationprocessbutthereismuchthatisinvisible,
referring to underlying beliefs and assumptions, which we are not even aware of
and so never consciously and intellectually examine. Generally communication is
not taught, although addressed in Finland, Japan and Cuba, with a comprehensive
knowledge of communication verbal and non-verbal processes, delivered in teacher-
training, emphasised in their philosophy and implemented in classrooms.
CULTURES VALUING COMMUNICATION
In Cuba, there are Heads of Pedagogical Institutes with a degree in Speech Pathology,
a Masters in Psychology and a PhD in Pedagogy. Teaching is a communicative
process and so necessary to understand how it breaks down or does not develop
normally. The Cuban system produces some of the most successful education results
R. SAGE
114
in the world, as measured by the Unitied Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO) criteria. Teachers commonly have a 6-year training with
50% doing a further 3 years for a Masters qualification. There is a strong emphasis
on human development from a medical perspective, as well as motivation and self-
discipline learnt from sport psychologists.
In Latvian Forest Schools, a curriculum manager was a speech pathologist,
psychologist and teacher, with researchers told this combination of knowledge and
skills was necessary to facilitate a relevant curriculum approach for each learner.
The teaching assistants had a Masters qualification in areas they supported in school.
TEACHING STUDENTS TO COMMUNICATE APPROPRIATELY
In today’s multi-cultural classrooms, students need to be taught awareness of socially
acceptable language and behaviour and when to use this appropriately. Recently, in
a London shop, a £1 bag rather than a 5p one was requested, with the response:
‘Oh, sh… woman’, because it meant a few steps to grab it. The tone was sharp, but
perceived as a cultural style, rather than direct rudeness, as would be interpreted by
a British native. This style of address has been witnessed on London buses from
others of the same cultural background. Students are at risk of alienation by peers,
misunderstanding by teachers, and lost opportunities if they are not aware of the
cultural norms of language and behaviour in their place of residence. They must be
taught to observe politeness routines, social status and language expressions. Teaching
should identify why particular words are used in some situations and not others, so
that learners gain knowledge of communicative differences in daily social acts.
In a project (EDEN), to start an alternative society in the Scottish Highlands,
experts like Professor Dartnell (2014), author of The Knowledge: How to Rebuild
Our World from Scratch, have observed subjects participating in the study, predicting
problems with interpersonal communication and cooperation. The reason is that
adults communicate more with technology than each other and are losing ability to
cope with information and opinion gaps in conversation as well non-verbal nuances.
‘Would they stop squabbling long enough to negotiate roles and get started’, is their
expert view from observing participants in action? One person left, after 3 months,
describing (in the national press) constant communication and relationship problems
amongst the group.
DIFFERENT BEHAVIOUR ACROSS-CULTURES
In some cultures, silence is a form of respect and it is not in order to make eye contact
with elders, which is important in British exchanges.This was disarming when teaching
Indianchildren,whowouldbowtheir heads whenspokentodirectlyandnever lookyou
in the eye. Also, when with post-graduates from Israel, I discovered they are brought
up to criticise teachers, if they feel they are giving incorrect, unhelpful information,
and so would confront me over statistics (collected differently) which shocked English
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
115
peers! Spanish students are accustomed to hugging, kissing and touching authority
figures, which the British are not used to and may find uncomfortable. American ones
are always keen to recount their life-history after lectures.
Although Britain has a shared history with America, stretching back hundreds of
years, there is a world of cultural differences between the two nations. This is an issue
for American tourists and led to Hayley Bloomingdale (a descendant of the famous
store chain) producing a document to help them deal with British peculiarities. She
provides 42 tips, including never wishing anyone a ‘Happy Bank Holiday’, and to open
conversations with comments about the weather. Very bad traffic and lots of drinking is
noted in the information, along with the fact that the British say ‘sorry’for everything!
Students, therefore, must be trained to become people-watchers and recognise
non-verbal cues as well as understanding why certain language expressions and non-
verbal messages are used when others are not. Cultural variables such as gender, age,
status, relations between speaker and listener, as well as location, people-distance
and length of conversation must be understood to establish successful relationships.
An awareness programme is now considered that can be adapted for different
age groups and curriculum needs. This was evaluated by European countries on
the INTERMAR Inter-comprehension project (2011–2014) as vital for today’s
multicultural populations. Participants, in interviews, stated better understanding
was gained by unpacking the visible and invisible communicative process.
Teachers/lecturers found classes easier to manage because students were more
able to interact without conflict.
WARM-UP ACTIVITY
Think about the different people you have spoken to today. What did you observe?
How did you feel about the interactions? Were some more successful than others?
What were effective and ineffective strategies that were employed by you and others?
Introduce this experience to your class and evaluate what was learnt from the exercise
as your modelling will help them think about their own experiences. Ask the class
(pairs/groups) to compile a list of who they have spoken to today and reflect on these
exchanges. Did some work and others fail? (e.g. asking Mum for a sleep-over with a
friend with answer ‘No’!). Make a poster of what makes great talking.
SECTION 1: DEFINING CROSS-CULTURAL COMMUNICATION
INTRODUCTION
Issues arising, when people of differing beliefs, attitudes, values, traditions and
languages live and work together are introduced. Misunderstandings are common
and spoil relations, behaviour and performances of those involved. It is essential to
get to grips with this situation as plural societies are the norm.
R. SAGE
116
WHAT DO YOU UNDERSTAND BY THE TERM ‘COMMUNICATION’?
The root-word communication means sharing or distributing between persons. It
involves words and non-words transmitted and processed to produce meaning within
a specific situation. When words are not understood, voice tone, facial expressions,
gestures, movements, postures, spatial positioning and appearance, as well as other
signs, signals and symbols in the context, produce meaning. When communication
happens across culture (beliefs, values, behaviour of a specific community) messages
are easily misinterpreted. Factors in the communicative process are:
source, channel, destination, code, message and context
There are many inputs into this activity which must be grasped for a message to
be correct.
Speech is accompanied by complex sets of vocal, gestural, spatial and visual
signs, signals and symbols which vary across cultures. Experts take two positions
regarding communication (Dance & Larson, 1976):
1.	The first group think of it as a process where a communicator sends a message
through a medium (channel) to a receiver with an effect (process group).
2.	The second sees communication as a social activity where people in a specific
culture create and exchange meanings in response to what they are presently
experiencing (social group).
The process group recognises that no message can be transmitted without conversion
into an appropriate code for the channel used. Thoughts may be represented through
voice, gestures, pictures, writing etc. depending on available aural or visual channels.
At this point, the process group overlaps with the social one, focusing on the:
•	 Text – which can be words, a picture, painting, photograph, film, dance routine etc.
•	 Signs & codes – which represent things and actions
•	 Persons – who decipher what is communicated
•	 Social reality – in which all aspects of communication exist.
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
117
The study of communication is the study of culture, reflecting the views, values and
behaviour of a specific community. We have evidence in the world of differences in
values and assumptions causing conflict, as well as variations in how verbal and non-
verbal language is used. Everyone agrees that communication is a continuous human
activity. Even asleep, our mind rearranges memories and experiences in dreams.
When awake we absorb and transmit information consciously and unconsciously. We
may say: ‘That house is lovely’, but signify the opposite with an uncontrolled facial
expression of horror! We are more influenced by non-verbal messages than verbal
ones. Whatever we say and how we say it, together with dress, adornments, posture,
gestures, positioning and manner, create an impression on others. We cannot fail to
communicate a message because the signs, signals & symbols we employ emit both
consciously and unconsciously.
Activity 1: In your daily life observe some communication where the non-verbal
and verbal messages do not match. What are your reactions to this? Do you take
more notice of the non-verbal information?
NON-VERBAL ASPECTS OF COMMUNICATING (NVC)
Prosodic sounds (pitch & stress patterns, pauses & timing) affect meaning of what
is said and paralinguistic input/output (emotions through voice tone & accent convey
group membership, personality, manner, appearance, props, context clues etc.) supply
additional information.
NVC manages a social situation, to sustain, support and replace words. Both
verbal and non-verbal communication reflect traditions and norms of one’s cultural
group. They are both essential for grasping affective meaning, which is much reduced
and open to misinterpretation in technical transmission modes like email and phone-
texts. Speech experts can tell what language is spoken, when film sound is turned off,
by subtle changes in non-verbal behaviour. The meaning of gestures varies across
culture so needs care. The thumb joined to the forefinger means ‘OK’, to Americans:
‘you’re worth zero’ in France and Belgium and a ‘vulgar sexual invitation’ in Greece
and Turkey. Given this ambiguity, innocent travellers might end up in serious trouble.
Even within a culture, subgroups can have different non-verbal rules. For example,
teachers tend to use quasi questions, encouraging a response by making an incorrect
statement: ‘100 divided by 4 is 20, right?’ Most native white children recognise this
as testing understanding, but in traditional black cultures they are unlikely to respond
unless asked a direct question. This technique is also a problem for students with
delayed or deviant communication development, who do not understand changes of
adult behaviour between home and school (Sage, 2000).
Rubin (1986) found that communicators became more tolerant when made aware of
cultural differences in non-verbal communication, which justifies training in this area.
This was the case in the EU INTERMAR Project mentioned previously, as evaluation
by students and teachers confirmed this fact and found how it eased relationships
R. SAGE
118
in plural settings. Fortunately, there are many universal signals of positive emotion
and sour expressions conveying displeasure (smiles, laughter, grimaces). Charles
Darwin believed that these expressions result from evolution, allowing humans to
convey emotional states before developing language. However, universal, non-verbal
expressions vary across the world, according to whether the rule is to express or
repress feelings and emotions. Since non-verbal communication is basic to humanity,
existing before brains were developed to deal with word language, this probably
explains its importance in making meaning today. Mehrabian (1971) calculated that,
on average, the total impact of a message owes 7% to words, 38% to voice and 55%
to gestures. Since then others have found a similar balance in studies (Sage, 2000).
Activity 2: (1) Identify 3 differences between non-verbal practices in 2 cultures
or co-cultures (ethnic, age or socio-economic groups) within your society.
(2) Describe potential difficulties that might arise out of varying non-verbal
practices when people interact, with ways on how these might be avoided.
(3) Describe advantages that might come from differing cultural, non-verbal
practices and how people might profit by encountering other customs & norms
DEFINITIONS TO LEARN
Communication: Dance & Larson (1976) collected 126 definitions of 2 kinds:
A process: sender directs a message through a channel (medium) to a receiver with
effect.
Asocial activity: create and exchange meanings in response to reality experienced.
Messages cannot transmit without conversion into an appropriate code for a
channel used.
Thoughts are encoded in gestures, voice, facial expressions, speech, writing,
pictures etc.
Culture refers to traditions within a community.
Signals are physical forms for messages: utterances, writing, gestures, telephone/
radio transmissions
Signs are physical forms referring to something apart from self. E.g. arrow →
(direction)
Icons look like what they stand for as in a passport/driving licence photo
Symbols have no visible connection with their signifier. Example: € and £ for
euro & pound
Indices are unintentional signs like footprints, smoke curls, wall cracks etc.
Encoder is a physiological (brain) or technical (electricity) device transforming a
message from source into a form (code) for transmitting to a receiver for decoding
Decoder is a sense organ/receptor/technical device converting a signal into a
form to understand
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
119
There is close involvement of verbal and non-verbal aspects in human interaction.
Those conveying meaning as ‘symbols’ are considered para-linguistic (alongside
words) and refer to gestures, etc. supporting conversation but not part of its syntactic
and grammatical structure. This is commonly referred to as what is left after
subtracting speech word content. As with verbal communication, much discourse is
not concerned with issues within the immediate context, but refers to ideas outside
this, reflecting continuity and reality of life. These include interactions, which
symbolise dominance and submission, affection or possession as well as rituals such
as a Christian’s hand movement, when crossing themselves, to honour the life and
death of Christ, or the Japanese bowing ritual greetings.
WHY COMMUNICATE?
We must communicate for daily requirements: the need for food and shelter;
cooperation with others for friendship; social and work success; as well as
practical and economic reasons. Also, we continually require to both give and
receive information, to inform and entertain, as well as being artistic, creative and
expressive. Communication links us with a widening, ever-changing network of
people, starting with family, friends, society and the wider-world, through face-to-
face exchanges, mass media and technology. This is not just exchange of facts but
sharing of thoughts, feelings, opinions and experiences. Through this process we
become contributing members of society, communicate with and influence others, so
ensuring survival and development. Communication is the means by which society
operates and grows, so in plural cultures needs more attention to make it successful
as people differences cause confusion.
THE 7 MAIN COMMUNICATING COMPETENCIES (USED IN ASSESSMENTS)
Communication must encode or decode information successfully and effectively.
Encoding requires relating to the audience; taking needs into account and using
appropriate speech and body-language. It may use other codes like writing, drawing,
painting, photography, dance, music drama and mime. Main decoding skills are
listening and reading, interpreting messages accurately for meaning. In face-
to-face communication, the vital skill is explaining needs for learning, working
and socialising. A grasp of formal, narrative thinking and language structures
is necessary for processing and producing quantities of speech/text and research
demonstrates that students may leave education without this communication level,
which is a growing trend in our technology-dominated, visually-mediated world
(Sage, 2000). We evolve strategies to cope with situations that must be met. Greeting
is essential to start communication positively. This is known as phatics, opening
up and maintaining channels for communicating, rather than conveying specific
information. A system of verbal conventions, smiles and gestures, is a ritual varying
across cultures to establish phatic input. If this part of the process is not observed
R. SAGE
120
the communication is likely to be ineffective and ignored. A decline in phatics
has been observed in classrooms, since the introduction of a National Curriculum,
with pressure to teach prescriptive content. Lack of a proper greeting contributes
to inappropriate behaviour of students as they feel cheated of a welcome, which
engenders value, well-being and engagement (Sage, 2000).
Competencies:
1.	Strategies for opening and entering conversations, making suggestions,
objections and excuses (phatics).1
Also, we learn ways to initiate conversations,
interrupt others, change direction of discussions and terminate an exchange of
views. These are learnt by observing others, looking at and listening to them
and imitating the proper convention for an occasion. Training helps us use these
abilities more effectively (Sage, 2003).
2.	Able to present oneself effectively, which often means acting out a part. If late for
work, or forgetting a course assignment, you will probably exaggerate dismay
and denounce your lapse to disarm your boss/teacher and create sympathy.
3.	Perception of others, from observation, objective judgement and awareness of
self as a communicator (meta-communication). In this way we become aware of
the world outside ourselves. By selecting, organising and interpreting stimuli,
received by our senses, we create a mental picture, called ‘reality’. These vary
from person-to-person, because of differences in beliefs, values, feelings, abilities
and experiences, arising from the culture in which they are reared. Try asking a
group what they think of as ‘beautiful’ or ‘expensive’? Differences will surprise
you! The mind does not soak up information passively, but actively searches
for an acceptable interpretation of available data. Each of us constructs our own
reality and those from a similar background will have enough overlap to make
cooperation possible, because of shared experiences, attitudes and norms. Those
from different cultures will struggle to see things in the same light.
4.	Putting ourselves in another’s place and seeing things from their viewpoint, is
known as empathy. It is learnt from formal communication when you have to give
information or instructions, requiring an appreciation of audience needs. Today,
we have less opportunity to talk to others, now that technology has taken over face-
to-face speaking, making this more difficult to achieve effectively (Sage, 2010).
5.	Responding positively to feedback, as it is vital to know how others react to
what you say and do (verbal/non-verbal behaviour). From this, you can revise
messages, steer away talk that upsets others, or explore issues wanted by listeners.
6.	Able to attend to what is communicated, giving signs of encouragement and
approval to keep information flowing, like smiles and head-nods. This links
with listening, which is the vital decoding ability that works on sounds you
hear, listen to and legitimise (accept) before interpreting. Listening is deliberate
and distinguished from hearing, which automatically turns sound-waves into
sensations, then interpreted as meaningful symbols. Unless we legitimise and take
on board the information we hear and interpret, it will be ignored as unimportant.
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
121
7.	Picturing words, actions and experience in our minds, for forming a mental
concept of a situation (visualisation). Those presenting ideas to audiences, like
teachers, are more effective if they can express information in diagrams, cartoons
or symbols, helping others to see and understand, using both left, verbal brain and
right, visual one (Sage, 2003).
This last skill is more difficult to acquire today, as in our visually-mediated world
images are available without brains having to imagine and create. Ability to visualise
is essential to understanding, as we have to picture words that we hear spoken or see
read, to gain meaning. Have you had experience of seeing a film of a book, previously
read, and noted how characters and places differ from your existing concepts of them?
It was necessary to picture them for grasping the story. Speech and language therapists
note that those with limited communication are unable to visualise easily and this is
an important intervention area (Sage, 2003). Teachers can assist this competence, by
asking students to picture in their minds people, places and situations that are under
discussion. (e.g.‘What do you think an astronaut wears for travelling in space?’)
ELEMENTS OF SYMBOLIC CODING ARE:
Body-parts, dress and adornments (tattoos); body posture differences (standing);
position between people; limb movements; pace (fast/slow); face expressions;
voice-tone; nutrients (individual food/drink consumed); body excretions (tears etc.)
Activity 3: Choose a topic from the above list. Note similarities and differences in
this between 2 speakers that you observe.
Activity 4: Look at the presentation on signs, symbols and signals (Appendix). Some
will be familiar but others not. Compare group responses to these.
(Note: The stick alphabet word = SEE, in the enclosed signs, signals and symbols
pictures)
WHAT TO THINK ABOUT!
Whenyoumeetsomeone,howclosewouldyoustandbythem?Forsomepeoplethis
is about 1.5 metres, but others prefer to be closer. What is a comfortable distance for
one may feel threatening to another, showing relative positioning between persons.
Those working with different cultures must be aware of ‘proxemic’ (positional)
differences, so as not to cause offence or make others feel uneasy. Movements
and gestures used by people have different meanings specific to their culture.
Comparing responses amongst friends and colleagues in the picture presentation,
you will find a spread across choices 1, 2 and 3 for the hand position in the picture
below. Interpretation differences are found with other gestures. Some point to their
noses to mean ‘me’ which confuses those who point to their chest.
R. SAGE
122
A temple-screw movement is a common gesture meaning crazy for some but
intelligent for others. These opposite interpretations could easily give offence! A
hitch-hiker’s erect thumb might catch a lift in some places but would result in a
stream of abuse in others where it is regarded as an obscene gesture. It is wise to
observe what is regarded as appropriate behaviour in a particular context.
Activity 5: Consider common gestures that you use when you communicate with
others. Note differences in interpretation amongst colleagues/friends. Present
findings.
Understanding problems that occur from gesture language is vital. A student, on
world travels, gave ‘thumbs-up’ to local lads and was thumped as a result. This
means OK for some but abuse for others.
SUBTLE PROBLEMS
There are problems when speaking the common language of others you are with,
but using a different accent, stress and intonation pattern than them, called ‘mother-
tongue interference’. This can give wrong signals and impressions. Differences
between Asian-English and English-English may lead to difficulties. Indian
languages, like Punjabi and Urdu, have little stress which carries over into the
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
123
English spoken by Asians, where they fail to make the difference clear between ‘last
week’ and ‘this week’. It has implications regarding appointments misunderstood
and missed, as studies by speech and language therapists have found. The issue has
been noted in hospitals where staff use both stress-time (e.g. French) and syllable-
time (e.g. English) languages. Frequently, how something is said determines its
precise meaning. If we decide to place more vocal stress on certain words we can
alter this which may result in misunderstanding.
Once, when advocating that teachers speak in Standard English, to be more readily
understood across a plural audience, colleagues challenged me suggesting that I was
discriminating against those talking with an accent. Later, they agreed with me, after
visiting schools and finding that understanding the teacher was a problem for many
children, if taught in a non-standard form. This fact has been mentioned regularly, by
education inspectors, as an issue in schools. I have often been asked to provide help
with this in order to improve the situation.
Since the 1970s, Standard English has not been taught in schools, because it has
been viewed as elitist. However, in other countries it is deemed essential to be taught
the High Language (for public exchanges) and recognise that the Low Language
(regional dialects) is for informal dealings in local communities that understand this
form of communication.
Activity 6: Consider stress given to words in capital in the following statement
and how this determines the meaning. (E.g. LUKE likes football – meaning Luke
rather than others in a group). Insert the meaning on the line beneath.
1.	HELEN is lending me her hat.
 __________________________________________________________
2.	Helen is LENDING me her hat.
 __________________________________________________________
3.	Helen is lending ME her hat.
 __________________________________________________________
4.	Helen is lending me HER hat.
 __________________________________________________________
5.	Helen is lending me her HAT.
 __________________________________________________________
Some people find the high pitch and stress used by the English, when explaining
something or emphasising a point, is too emotional. It is impolite, in some cultures,
to reveal feelings in the way you speak. When reprimanded for wrongs, it is
important to look in the eye of the person doing this in some communities like
R. SAGE
124
Britain. In others (e.g India), those reprimanded look down at their feet, which may
be considered rude and offensive in a British context. Speech and actions may be
interpreted differently and cause relationship problems. The comparison was made
for a project between Leicester and Nara Universities (2000–2009) and used for
teaching in Japan and England (Sage, Rogers & Cwenar, 2006).
Comparing a Western (England) and Eastern culture (Japan)
Cultural
feature
England Japan
Greeting Shake firmly with right hand Bow from the waist- degree
depends on relationship, status &
context
Entering
house
Wipe shoes on the door mat Remove shoes and use slippers
provided
Taking
bath
Fill a body-length bath with hot
water & wash yourself in the bath
Bath is a waist-high tub. Soap &
rinse beside the bath & soak in
the tub
Diet Bread, vegetables, meat, cheese,
cooked fish, cereals, milk, cakes
Rice, noodles, raw fish, cooked
meat, bean curd
Religion Christianity (likely) Buddhism or Shintoism (likely)
Writing Roman alphabet: 26 letters Ideograms (Chinese) plus extra
syllabic characters
Gardens Flower beds, lawns, shrubs, trees.
Many in formal patterns
Trees, shrubs, rocks, stones, pools,
natural landscapes, few flowers
Activity 7: Use the model to compare your cultural features with someone from a
different background. Add more features if you can. Discuss issues arising from
differences and similarities you find.
Cultural feature Your culture Another culture
Greeting
Entering a house
Taking a bath
Diet
Religion
Writing
Gardens
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
125
Activity 8: Complete the following quiz and comment on your profile This quiz
was devised by 4th year Speech Therapy students at the Royal Central School,
London, for their module on intercultural Communication and modified by them
between 1987–97.
Taboo or not Taboo! Answer Yes/No to the following conventions
ACTION YES NO
Give a soft hand shake
Embrace and kiss on meeting people
Make immediate eye contact whatever a person’s status
Are assertive without arrogance
Ask the age of someone you meet & declare your age
Give a more expensive gift than you are given
Ask about the family in a conversational exchange
Answer your mobile when with others
Bring other people to a meeting to support you
Sit down at a meal before being told your place
Leave something on your plate at mealtimes
Arrange early morning meetings
Do deals outside rather than inside a meeting
Talk about money in social situations
Dress appropriately for informal/formal occasions
Sit down at a drinks party
Stand/sit close to others
Invite unknown people to a meal
Laugh/giggle when in conversation
Blow you nose in company
Spit/burp in front of others
All the above actions are taboo for some people, so if answered ‘YES’, check you
can do this in your situation.
SUMMARY
It is surprising that communication involves so much more than words. In fact, if
we are considering affective understanding, only 7% is attributed to the word form
itself with voice (38%) and gestures (55%) being more important for comprehension
(Mehrabian, 1971). Words are often ambiguous and have many meanings. Take the
word ‘fly’, which has over 60 different interpretations, according to context. Also,
R. SAGE
126
ask a group what they think of when you say ‘a white flower on a dark background’.
The variety of images will amaze. These were responses of psychology students:
a rose in a suit lapel, a lily on a coffin, a clump of snowdrops in the earth, a
bridal bouquet thrown to guests. Images do not reflect the words, as 2 examples
demonstrated flowers in plural rather than singular. Therefore, words are fraught
with transmission problems.
The context of communication is vital for interpreting messages and all signs,
signals and symbols available within situations play a role in clarifying what is meant
by the information. The problem is that different cultures have many communicating
styles which confuse others who cannot ‘read’ the specific signs, signals and
symbols necessary to process meaning. In Section 2, difficulties of cross cultural
communication are presented and in Section 3, aspects of language are examined.
MAIN POINTS
•	 The many world language and communication systems are confusing for the
uninitiated
•	 Awareness of across-cultural confusions assists in effective negotiation of
meaning
•	 Comparing your culture with another on lifestyle is useful in grasping similarities
and differences
•	 The communicative process has source, channel, destination, code, message &
context
•	 Communicative process perspectives target the process of the event and the social
context
•	 Communicationhasverbal& non-verbalelementsdemandingholisticexamination
SECTION 2: COMMUNICATION DIFFICULTIES CULTURE &
LANGUAGE
MEETING ACROSS CULTURES
Today, people commonly live and work with those from other cultures, so failing to
understand and adapt to differences may disrupt relationships. In this scenario, two
teachers from different backgrounds fail to recognise and appreciate each other’s
cultural norms. Rosie, from Britain, is used to a task-oriented approach. Micky,
from Italy, requires personal understanding and trust to develop before anything can
take place. If Rosie and Micky had understood each other’s cultural communication
styles, they would have been better able to adapt to them and less upset by what
seemed to each as inappropriate behaviour. This is based on an actual experience of
a student exchange programme.
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
127
Rosie ………………………(to herself)
Why aren’t we getting on with it? It’s
11 o’clock and I’ve been with Micky
half an hour and we’ve not begun to
talk about the business of a school
exchange. I know that I am new to
Micky and also the idea we have agreed
to talk about but all she does is ask me
questions about myself, background,
interests, family and philosophy. Why
is she so nosy? I don’t talk about
personal stuff to those I don’t know
well. She’s asked me to lunch but I’ve
an appointment at 1.30 that is 20 miles
away and I can’t be late. All I want is a
quick run through the proposal to see if
it might be a goer. However, she wants
to talk about anything but that! Oh well,
I’ve not had much luck with Italians
in the past. Why should this one be
different?
‘Thanks for your lunch invite, Micky,
but I need to press on to my next
appointment. Here’s my card so perhaps
you can call me if you want to pursue
the idea of a school exchange?’
Micky …………………………(to herself)
Why aren’t we getting on with it? It’s 11
o’clock and I’ve been with Rosie half an hour
and we’ve not begun to talk about the business
of a school exchange. How can I know if I
want to go along with the idea unless I find
out about her and the kind of person she is?
It’s like getting blood out of a stone. She’s
not keen to know anything about me. Where I
come from we don’t cooperate with strangers
until we’ve sussed them out. We must know
something about the other person and feel we
can trust them before making plans. It’s too
bad that she’s turned me down for lunch. We
needed that time to get to know one another and
see if we could work together on an exchange.
Sometimes, I think all Brits want to talk about
is work! Oh, well, I’ve not had luck with them
before. Why should it be different this time?
‘That’s OK, Rosie. Perhaps we can lunch
another time. Get in touch as I’d like to know
you better so we can explore the school
exchange idea’.
Based on a real experience of an English-
Italian school exchange scheme (names are not
the real ones).
IS THERE AN IDEAL WAY TO COMMUNICATE?
People agree that effective communication involves achieving goals that maintain
or enhance relationships between those involved. Various communication styles can
be effective. Some successful people are serious and others humorous; some are
gregarious and others retiring; some are straightforward and direct, whereas others
are cautious and diplomatic. Communication that is successful in one situation
might be a mistake in another. Banter with a colleague would be insensitive on a bad
day. Language amongst peers could be offensive to family and flirting out of place
at work. Competent communicators require flexibility and understanding of what
might work best in a situation.
Cultural differences (above example) show there is no single model of competence.
What is acceptable behaviour in one culture might be inept or offensive in another.
Customs like belching after a meal or spitting; appearing scantily dressed or nude
are correct in some places but bad form in others. There are, however, more subtle
R. SAGE
128
differences in regard to competent communication. Self-disclosing and speaking
forthrightly are valued in some societies (America & Britain), but are aggressive and
insensitive in others (Japan & China) where subtlety and indirectness are important.
Even within a society, members of co-cultures (varying traditions alongside one
another) may have different notions of correct behaviour.
Collier’s (1996) study revealed that ideas of how friends should communicate
varied across ethnic groups. Latinos value relational support most, whereas
African-Americans target respect and acceptance. Asian-Americans emphasise
a caring, positive exchange of ideas and Anglo-Americans like friends who
recognise individual needs. Findings suggest there are no rules or tips to guarantee
communication success. Competent people adapt style to suit the individual and
cultural preferences of others and are observers of the social scene around them.
They look and listen before they act.
In the book, Lake Wobegon Days, Garrison Keillor (1987) explains Minnesota
etiquette and shows how unwritten rules vary across cultures/co-cultures.
•	 It is polite to call out ‘Hello’ to a passer-by you know and up to them to stop or
not. It is up to you to invite them in or not. The porch is a room of your house, not
part of the yard. Only peddlers or certain ministers would barge in.
•	 If you say: ‘Why don’t you come up and sit for a bit?’ it is custom for them to
decline politely. If the invite is legitimate it should be repeated.
•	 This is not an invite to the house. Terms are limited to a brief visit on the porch
with no refreshments provided unless occupants have these on hand.
•	 When a host stands, saying: ‘Well’, a visitor should need no further signal that the
exchange has ended. ‘You don’t have to run, do you?’is a pleasantry not a question.
As competent behaviour varies from one place and person to another, we cannot
regard this as a trait that someone possesses or not. Degrees or aspects of competence
are more realistic. We might be skilful with peers but clumsy with younger, older,
wealthier or poorer others. Also, competence with one person may vary across
situations. It is more accurate to say: ‘I didn’t handle that well’ rather than: ‘I’m a
bad communicator.’
Communication is transactional and something we do with rather than to others,
so behaviour that is competent in one relationship may not be in others. Burleson
and Sampter (1994) hypothesized that competent communicators would be better
at maintaining relationships than those with less skills but this was not supported
by studies. Satisfaction arises when style matches those of people with whom we
interact. This shows that competence arises from developing ways of interacting that
work for those involved in a specific exchange.
Fortunately, biology is only one factor that shapes communication as it is a set
of competencies that anyone can learn. Training produces dramatic results (Sage,
2000). We also learn from successes and failures so that communication is likely to
improve with experience. It is an ability to be valued and high-achieving countries,
like Finland and Japan, put priority on communication and relationships within their
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
129
educational systems and understand that effective oral ability to cope with large
chunks of information (formal talk) is prerequisite to all successful personal and
academic performances.
PERCEPTION AND CULTURE
Perceptual differences amongst us make communication challenging enough
for those from the same cultural background. When people come from differing
cultures, possibility of misunderstanding is greater. Our own culture provides us
with a perceptual filter influencing interpretations of everything. Similar events
cause people to react differently. Blinking may be unnoticeable to some, when
another talks, but is impolite in Eastern cultures. A ‘V’sign, made with 2 fingers and
the palm outwards, means ‘victory’ for us in Britain, but for others the sign, with the
palm inwards, means ‘get lost’ and used as a form of abuse. The beckoning gesture
for others to come is insulting in most Middle and Far Eastern countries.
The value of talk varies across culture. We use it in the West to perform tasks and
achievesocialpurposes.Silenceisviewedaslackofinterest,anxiety,hostility,shyness
or incompatibility and makes us feel uncomfortable. We admire straightforward,
honest talk. Indirectness or vagueness is regarded as ‘beating around the bush’ and
undesirable. In contrast, most Asian cultures discourage expression of thoughts and
feelings. Silence is valued with a Japanese saying: ‘one who speaks does not know;
one who knows does not speak’. Remaining silent is regarded correct when there is
nothing to say. A chatty person is a show-off or insincere and to be avoided.
These different views of speech, silence and actions often lead to communication
problems when people from different cultures meet. The talkative Westerner and
silent Easterner are behaving according to cultural conventions but can view each
other with disapproval. Only when different standards of behaviour are recognised
can they adapt to each other or at least understand and respect differences. Perceptual
differences are just as important when members of co-cultures interact at home. For
example, an unaware white teacher or police officer might interpret a foreigner’s
downcast eyes as a sign of avoidance or dishonesty. This is the proper behaviour
for them when addressed by someone in authority. Eye-contact differs in traditional
black and white cultures. White people tend to look away from a conversational
partner when speaking but black persons do the opposite (Rubin & Kelly, 1988).
Activity 9: Ask at least 3 people the communication difficulties for them when
talking to others from a different culture.
Comment on similarities and differences in responses
CULTURE AND SELF-CONCEPT
Challenges and opportunities arising from cultural diversity provide a rationale for
study. The power of culture is more influential that might appear. Although we
R. SAGE
130
probably never give it thought, our whole notion of self is developed and shaped
by the culture in which we are born and reared. The most obvious cultural feature
is the language used by members. When everyone speaks the same language there
will be few problems. However, if your primary language is not the majority
one, or has no status amongst others, a sense of being in the ‘out-group’ is real. A
speaker of a non-dominant language may react, either to feel pressured to speak the
better language or maintain loyalty to their ethnic one and so refuse to assimilate.
Whatever the reaction, there is impact on self-concept: they may not feel as good as
native speakers or insist their own language must be preserved. There are dilemmas
in the latter position as careers may be disadvantaged by not acquiring colloquial,
native speech. UK immigrants speak their mother tongues and are not encouraged
to speak English.
Cultures also affect self-concept in subtle ways. Most Western cultures are
considered highly individualistic whereas those in the East are traditionally more
collective (Servaes, 1989). When asked to identify themselves, Westerners give their
name, place of residence and country but Hindus their caste, place of residence and
name. The Sanskrit convention for identifying begins with lineage, then family and
house, ending with one’s own name (Bharti, 1985).
Conventions for naming reflect a different way of viewing self. In collective
cultures, a person gains identity by belonging to a group. This results in a higher
degree of interdependence amongst members. Feelings of pride and self-worth
are not only shaped by an individual’s contribution but behaviour of others in the
community. This explains the Asian denial of self-importance in contrast to the self-
promotion common in individualistic Western cultures. In the Chinese language, the
pronoun ‘I’ ressembles the word for ‘selfish’ (Sage & Shaffer, 1987). Differences in
individualistic Western cultures and collective Eastern ones are below.
Individualistic culture Collective culture
Self is unique, separate, independent, self-
sufficient & makes their own decisions
People belong to extended families/
groups, making decisions together with a
‘we’perspective
Individuals take care of the self and
immediate family
People expect to take care of the extended
family & support them in all aspects of life
Group memberships & friends based on
shared interests & activities
Belong to few permanent groups which have
a strong influence on all aspects of life
Reward for individual achievement/
initiative-individual credit & blame
assigned
Reward for contribution and cooperation to
group goals. Credit & shared blame
Value for autonomy, individual security,
equality, youth & change
Value for tradition, duty, order, age, group
security, status, hierarchy
Cultural differences show up in the level of ease or anxiety that people feel when
communicating. In societies stressing conformity there is high apprehension. Studies
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
131
suggests that Chinese, Japanese and Koreans demonstrate more speaking anxiety
than those from individualistic cultures, like North Americans and Australians
(Klopf, 1984). Different levels of communication apprehension do not mean that
shyness is a problem in some cultures as the opposite is true. Reticence is valued
and when the goal is to avoid standing out, one feels nervous at drawing attention to
‘self’. A self-concept including assertion makes a Westerner proud but is shameful
for Eastern cultures.
Differences between individualism and collectivism show up in interaction. In
Western cultures a strong ‘I’ orientation exists, so speaking directly is the norm,
whereas collective ones support indirect approaches for harmony. This also
influences levels of self-disclosure, deemed more appropriate in individualistic than
collective societies. Sharing personal information may be exhibitionism to more
collective groups. When communicating with others it is important to consider their
standards for appropriate disclosure and not judge them by yours. Choosing the
appropriate level of self-disclosure is not much different from selecting the right
way to dress or eat when meeting people from a different tradition.
GROUP COMMUNICATION: A CASE STUDY: BASEBALL IN JAPAN
AND NORTH AMERICA
The Scenario:
The idea and implementation of group harmony (wa) was demonstrated in a
baseball game observed by an English research group working at a university in
Nara, Japan (Sage, Rogers & Cwenar, 2006). Japanese students were playing a
visitingAmerican team, who had frequent temper outbursts, along with bickering,
bantering and complaining behaviour when things went wrong. The Japanese
viewed this as invading their collective peace of mind. Such behaviour is seen
as weakness and a ‘small heart.’ In Japan, a ‘real’ person’ keeps emotions to
themself and considers other’s feelings and reactions. Whilst Americans believe
in ‘Do your own thing,’ the Japanese creed is: ‘The nail that sticks up shall be
hammered down.’
Individualistic culture-members view their primary responsibility as themselves
whereas collectivistic ones put group loyalties and obligations first. This might be
family,communityorwork-organisation.Theyarelesscompetitivethanindividualists
and have different communication approaches. Individualistic cultures are more
tolerant of conflicts and use a direct, solution-oriented approach in contrast to the
less direct way of collective ones. The latter produce effective team players and the
former rewards individual stars in their communities. Individualists often need to
control desires to dominate group discussions and win problem-solving situations.
Consensus is not easy. In contrast, collective cultures consider before speaking, in
R. SAGE
132
the group’s interests (even when disagreeing) and take a long-term rather than a
short-term focus, common in individualistic cultures.
ETHNOCENTRISM
Ethnocentrism is belief in the inherent superiority of one’s own ethnic group or
culture and exemplified in school content (Samovar & Porter,1995). All cultures
teach ethnocentrism whether intentionally or not. An example is a world map.
Your own country will be prominent in the centre. History teaching is common
in all cultures but what is taught? It is the national culture and significant past
events that shape the curriculum, reinforcing beliefs, values and prejudices.
Every culture glorifies their historical, scientific, artistic and other achievements
with the native-language emphasised and less attention to teaching others. This
sends a message about world-position. Subtle forms of ethnocentrism are seen in
selection of subjects and materials. In Britain, this has reflected a male-dominated
Western viewpoint. Most books studied will be by Western, white, male authors,
giving impression that the rest of the world produces nothing worthwhile for
study, with the dominant culture the ‘greatest’ of all. Such attitudes influence
relations with other cultures adversely, as they inculcate superiority to hamper
exchanges of views.
SUMMARY
This section focussed on communication difficulties when people of different
cultures encounter each other. The notion of individualistic and collectivist cultures
produce opposite behaviour in members. Research indicates that understanding
this factor makes significant difference to how we deal with it. Awareness helps
understanding and acceptance, whilst providing a rationale for their existence. A
problem is that education promotes superiority of it national culture so influencing
attitudes to others, as of lesser importance. Opportunities to mix with others from
different backgrounds, means we broaden our horizons and see difference as
stimulating, interesting and challenging.
MAIN POINTS
•	 Communicationdifferencesbringdifficultiestobesolvedforpositiverelationships
to develop
•	 Individualistic & collectivist cultures produce different behaviours needing
careful negotiation
•	 Awareness of cultural differences allows understanding of human variations to
solve relationship problems
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
133
•	 Education promotes the culture in which it operates but chances to visit others
helps respect human differences
•	 Examining oneself and understanding personal prejudices lead to more positive
attitudes
SECTION 3: CULTURE AND LANGUAGE STYLES
INTRODUCTION
Those translating ideas of one language into another face a huge challenge.Adler and
Rodman (2003) cited an amusing translation. American producers of a condensed
milk, Pet, introduced it into French-speaking countries without knowing that the
word for them meant ‘to break wind.’ Choosing the right words for translation does
not guarantee that non-native speakers will use an unfamiliar language correctly.
Japanese insurance companies warn policy-holders visiting America to avoid saying
‘excuse me’or ‘I’m sorry’if in an accident. In Japan, apologising expresses goodwill
and maintains social harmony, even if not your fault. In America, an apology is
an admission of guilt and may result in Japanese tourists being apprehended for
something when innocent. Translation is only part of the communication challenges
facing those of different cultures. Differences in the way language is used and the
various views on this make communicating across culture a risky business.
COMMUNICATION STYLES
Using language is more than selecting words to convey ideas. Each has its own
style that marks it out from others. Aspects such as formality/informality, precision/
vagueness, accuracy/inaccuracy and brevity/detail are important for communicating
effectively. When speakers use the verbal style of a culture in a different one,
problems arise.
LOW AND HIGH CONTEXT
A common way in which verbal styles differ is in directness. Edward Hall (1959)
analysed 2 major ones:
Low context cultures use language primarily to express thoughts, feelings and
ideas clearly and coherently. The message-meaning is in words spoken, as seen in
United Kingdom countries. In contrast…
High context cultures value language as the way to maintain social harmony. Rather
than upsetting others by speaking directly, speakers discover meanings from non-
verbal cues and the context of the message. The non-verbal behaviour, relationships
and social rules governing interaction are of prime importance, clarified below:
R. SAGE
134
Most Western cultures are towards the low-context end of the scale, with people
liking straight-talking and impatient with ‘beating around the bush.’ Those from
Eastern cultures fit the high-context mode, as maintaining harmony is valued and
speakers refrain from speaking their minds if it threatens another person’s face. They
are unlikely to respond with a ‘no’ to a request, saying ‘I sympathise but…’ or ‘I
sympathize but…’
Low-context communicators may miss subtleties of high-context messages
but those reared or trained to recognise indirect responses can decode easily.
Research (Sage, Rogers, & Cwenar, 2006) shows Japanese mothers rarely deny
child requests by saying ‘no.’They use other ways, like ignoring the request, using
distractions, suggesting it is considered later, or explaining why they disagree.
Children have not yet learnt society norms and giving into all requests does not
assist development. In Britain, parents often deny requests to assert authority over
a child.
Existence of directness and indirectness has aggravated problems between
straight-talking Arabs and smooth-talking Israelis and led to constant conflicts over
years. Israelis viewArabs as evasive whereas Palestinians perceive them as blunt and
lacking sensitivity. Even within one culture differences exist, as Asian-Americans
are more offended by indirectly racist statements than are Africans (Hamachek,
2003). High-context communicators are adept at interpreting hints and non-verbal
cues and more sensitive to messages, over-looked by cultures that rely on more
ambiguous verbal low-context messages.
Activity 10: Make free observations of people you know from different cultures
and decide whether they are at the low or high context end of the scale. Record
evidence that led to your conclusions.
Low context........................................ High context...........................................
Most information is carried in explicit
word messages with less focus on context.
Important information is carried in context
clues (place, time, situation, relationship) &
less on the explicit verbal message.
Self-expression has high value. Speakers
give opinions, stating needs directly to
persuade others.
Harmony between people is paramount &
maintained by indirect expression of views
& opinions. Speakers avoid saying ‘no’
directly.
Eloquent, clear speech is prized. Word
fluency is cultivated & admired.
Speakers talk around a topic/point, enabling
others to contribute to gaps in the process.
Silence and ambiguity are valued.
Learning focus is on vocabulary, syntax &
grammar.
Words distrusted as ambiguous with focus
on the other signs, signals & symbols in
exchanges.
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
135
CULTURAL DIFFERENCE AND LISTENING
The way different cultures communicate affects listening behaviour (Lennon &
Eisenberg, 1987). Studies show marked differences between young adults in various
countries regarding listening preferences. Germans prefer an action-oriented
approach, engaging speakers directly in a highly inquisitive way. This contrasts with
the indirect approach of Japanese speakers and listeners. Israelis are less vocal than
Germans and focus on analysis of each other’s statements and opinions. Americans
emphasise social aspects of conversation and the time this took.
ELABORATE OR SUCCINCT STYLES
Some people are considered verbose whilst others seem taciturn in comparison.
Arabic speakers use language that is richer and more expressive than we use in
Britain. Exaggerations and strong assertions are expected but sound ‘over the
top’ to the British. A simple ‘no’, to a host’s request to eat and drink more, is not
sufficient. The guest must keep repeating ‘no’ accompanied by oaths such as:
‘I swear by God.’ Arabs often fail to realise that others say exactly what they mean
in a simple, understated manner so a woman’s ‘no’ may be interpreted as indirect,
expressed consent. This can be dangerous! (Almaney & Alwan, 1982). Conciseness
is extreme in cultures valuing silence. The Apache and Navajo Indians remain quiet
in ambiguous social situations. This is in contrast to the talkativeness of mainstream
Americans and leads to tension when meeting.
FORMALITY AND INFORMALITY
Formality is less about correct use of grammar and more about defining social
position. In Korea, language reflects Confucian social positions. (Yum, 1987). It
has special vocabularies for different sexes, social status, degrees of intimacy and
social occasions. There are different degrees of formality for speaking with friends,
acquaintances and strangers. A learned Korean recognises relational distinctions.
When you contrast these distinctions with the breezy, friendly informality of
Americans (even with strangers) it is easy to see how they might be thought boorish
and ignorant by Koreans who will be viewed as stiff, distant and unfriendly by less
formal speakers.
ACCURACY/INACCURACY
In this multi-media generation, numerous facts are constantly available and often
constitute information overload. Much information is gleaned superficially and
open to criticism, leading to distrust between media and other cultures. Scientists
expect accuracy and precision, whilst others are satisfied with a general estimate.
R. SAGE
136
Today, there is suspicion about the way we interpret facts. The expenses scandal, in
which British Members of Parliament interpreted guidelines to include all personal
expenses, demonstrates problems in communicating effectively. Underlying
communication is a sense of ethics, suggesting we say or do nothing to hurt others,
but in media and public forums, people often slag each other off in front of others.
Disrespect causes communication breakdowns.
GENDER DIFFERENCES
A powerful influence on the way men and women speak is their sex role (social
orientation affecting behaviour) rather than biological gender. Researchers define
these as masculine, feminine and androgynous (male/female characteristics).
Linguistic differences are often a function of sex-roles more than biological sex.
Masculine sex-role communicators (male/female) use more dominant language than
either feminine or androgynous speakers. Feminine ones have the most submissive
speaking style with androgynous ones between extremes. When 2 masculine
communicators converse, they often are in a battle for dominance. Feminine sex-
role equivalents are less predictable, using dominance, submission and equivalent
behaviour randomly. Androgynous persons tend to meet another’s bid for
dominance with attempt to control, but moving towards an equivalent relationship.
As opportunities for men and women equalise, differences between their use of
language are likely to be narrower.
Activity 11: Note differences in language use of 3 men and 3 women you know.
Consider the following categories: conversational content and style; reasons for
communicating and use of power/powerless speech.
Activity 12: Using your observations answer the following questions:
1.	How much does gender influence speech?
2.	What role is played by other variables like social/occupational status, cultural
background, social philosophy, competition-cooperative orientation and other
relevant factors.
LINGUISTIC DETERMINISM
Although different linguistic styles are important in people relationships, there
are more basic influences separating speakers. Linguistic determinism, promoted
by theorists over 2 centuries, suggests that a cultural world-view is shaped and
reflected by the language spoken by members. An example is that Eskimos have
numerous words (17–100) for ‘snow.’ Different words describe light snow, a
blizzard, crusty ice etc., illustrating how linguistic determinism operates. Strategies
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
137
for coping with harsh, Arctic conditions, demand distinctions irrelevant in warmer
climes. Once language marks these, speakers perceive the world matching word-
concepts.
Other examples support linguistic determinism (Giles & Franklyn-Stokes,
1989). Bilingual speakers appear to think differently when changing languages.
In a study, French-Americans interpreted a picture series. Whilst speaking
French, descriptions were more romantic and emotional than when using English
to describe them. Similarly, when Hong Kong students were asked to complete
a values test they expressed more Chinese ones when speaking Cantonese than
English. In Israel, both Arab and Jewish students saw bigger distinctions between
their group and outsiders when using native language compared to English. These
demonstrate the power of language to shape thought and cultural identity for good
or ill.
EARLY INFLUENCES
Linguistic influences start early in life. English-speaking parents often label
offspring pranks as ‘bad’, implying something immoral about wild actions! They
admonish children to ‘be good.’In contrast, French parents say: ‘Sois sage’(be wise),
indicating misbehaviour is foolish rather than bad. Swedes correct the same action
with words: ‘Var small’ (friendly & kind), which is also the response of Japanese
parents. Germans, moreover, use the command ‘Sei artig’ (be of your own kind)
meaning get back in step and conform to a child role (Sinclair, 1954).
The best-known explanation of linguistic determinism is the Whorf-Sapir
Hypothesis, formed by Whorf (linguist) and Sapir (anthropologist). They used the
Hopi language to represent a different view of reality. The Hopi make no distinction
between nouns and verbs, so speakers describe the world as a continual process. We
use nouns to represent people or objects as fixed or constant, whilst the Hopi view
them as verbs that are continually changing. Experts say the Hopi see the world as a
motion picture, contrasting to most people’s camera representation.
The Whorf-Sapir hypothesis focused on foreign languages, whereas Postman
(1976) illustrates it with an everyday example. He describes a hypothetical culture
where medics identify patients as ‘doing’arthritis or other diseases instead of ‘having’
them and crooks diagnosed as ‘having’ cases of criminality rather than ‘being’
criminals. The implication of this linguistic difference is profound. We believe a
person’s characteristics are what they ‘have’ or ‘are’ and beyond their control. If
deemed responsible for what they ‘do,’ our attitudes would change. In schools,
tests determine how clever someone is and so cleverness is what they have. So, if a
student scores 100 and another 120, the latter is thought brighter. In reality we all do
intelligent and stupid things, depending on circumstances, so this is not a measurable
quality with meaning. The notion that intelligence is something we possess has led
to labels such as over and under-achievers. All language is metaphorical in subtle
R. SAGE
138
ways and we construct reality along certain lines, so making the world according to
our images.
Although there is some support for an extreme linguistic deterministic view,
that it is impossible for different language speakers to see things identically, the
notion of linguistic relativism – that language has strong influence on perceptions
– is regarded valid. Some languages have words with no English equivalents
(Rheingold, 1988).
•	 Dharma (Sanskrit) a person’s unique, ideal life-path and knowledge of how to
find it
•	 Koyaanisquatsi (Hopi) Nature off balance- a crazy way of life demanding change
•	 Lagniappe (French) Gift in a transaction not expected in terms of the contract
•	 Lao (Mandarin) Respectful term for older people, indicating importance in
family/society
•	 Nemawashi (Japanese) Checking others out before making a decision
Knowing such words helps ideas they represent to be better recognised, but it is
possible to image the concepts behind them. Speakers of a language including the
idea of lao would probably treat elders with respect. Those familiar with lagniappe
are likely to be more generous. Words are not essential to follow these principles.
Language shapes thoughts and behaviour but does not entirely dominate.
LANGUAGE AND PERCEPTION
English speakers attribute shades of distinction to words that are unfamiliar to other
speakers. For example, the French find it difficult to distinguish between house/
home, mind/brain, man/gentleman, ‘I wrote’/‘I have written.’ The Spanish find it
problematic to differentiate between president/chairman. There are no native words
for efficiency, engagement ring, challenge, have fun or take care in Russian (Bryson,
2003). However, other languages have features we lack. French (connaitre) and
German (kennen) distinguish between knowledge resulting from recognition and
that from understanding (savoir & wissen). This is an important distinction, as we
assume knowledge is understanding, but may not be so as we can know something and
not have the grasp to apply it effectively. The UK National Curriculum emphasises
knowledge rather than understanding and application.
Portuguese has words to differentiate between interior & exterior angles. Romance
languages distinguish between something that leaks into and leaks out. Italians have
a word for the mark left on a table by a wet glass (calacino). Scottish Gaelic speakers
have one for the itchy upper lip before a sip of Whisky (sgirob). We have nothing
in English to match the Danish hygge, meaning satisfying & cosy; French sang-
froid; Russian glasnost or Spanish macho, so we incorporate these terms into our
vocabulary.
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
139
LANGUAGE AND CULTURE
The importance of language, representing a world view, is extended to reflect and
shape ways we regard ourselves and others. Workplaces give employees high-
sounding titles to demonstrate importance although, when starting teaching, I was
asked not to use ‘Doctor’ and refer to myself as ‘Mrs/Ms.’ A woman’s choice of
Ms or Mrs is an identity statement. It has been traditional to take a husband’s name
or hyphenate their birth one with it. A study showed that a wife’s choice indicates
the relationship with their husband (Foss & Edson, 1989). Surveys show that
those taking husbands’ names, place most importance on relationships, with social
expectations of how they should behave second, with issues of self last. In contrast,
women who keep birth names put personal concerns ahead of relationships and social
expectations. Those with hyphenated names value self and relationships equally.
Similarly, labels that ethnic-group members choose to define themselves make a
statement about identity. Over time, racial identification labels have gone through
popularity cycles. In America, the first freed slaves preferred to be called Africans.
In late 19th and early 20th centuries, the term coloured was used, with black popular
from the 1960s, used by militants and then adopted by everyone. Research shows
that those preferring the label black choose it as acceptable to the larger culture.
Those who like the label Afro, plus place of residence, like Afro-English or Afro-
American, derive identity from ethnicity and do not wish to assimilate into the larger
culture but only succeed in it (Niven & Zilber, 2000).
CULTURE AND PERSUASION
Language frequently has a persuasive goal and different individuals will view this
according to cultural background. Even ability to recognise logical argument is, to
an extent, culturally determined. Influence of the dominant culture is seen in the
way we talk about argument. When we speak about defending ideas and attacking an
opposite position, we are using male-oriented, militaristic, aggressive terms. Logic
is rooted in information that is checked out by our senses. Western culture displays
a materialist reality, limited to comprehension via the five senses – seeing, hearing,
smelling, tasting & touching/position in space, with Africans adding a spiritual,
emotional dimension to the process. In the West, truth is discovered by active
searching and application of reasoning, whilst those from the East wait patiently for
truth to become apparent if it is to be known. Speech experts always recommend a
blend of logical and emotional evidence to encompass cultural differences.
SUMMARY
Language is humanity’s greatest asset but the cause of many problems that result in
conflict. This section has highlighted the different characteristics of language and
R. SAGE
140
raised awareness of issues that present problems across cultures. Any language is a
collection of symbols, governed by conventions, so that messages can be sent and
received amongst people. The symbolic nature of language means that it is not a
precise mode of communication.
Meaning resides in people rather than the words themselves and so the
Japanese distrust them, putting emphasis on non-verbal communication, which
they consider is a more reliable indicator of the meaning intended. Much of non-
verbal communication is unconscious and an accurate transmission of views and
feelings, which can be hidden in a conscious choice of words. To conduct effective
communication, it is vital to negotiate meanings when information is ambiguous.
Professor Wiio (1978), from Helsinki University, has found from studies that only
25% of face-to-face communication is effective and through other modes, like
technology, at just a 5% level. Non-verbal input is reduced in modes that are not face-
to-face, lessening the possibility of intended meaning. This is shattering evidence,
urging us to make communication more successful.
Language describes people/things, places, actions, feelings and emotions, but also
shapes perception of them in aspects like credibility, integrity, status and attitudes
about gender, age and ethnicity. Together with influencing attitudes, language
reflects affiliation, attraction, interest, power and status. Language styles, spoken
and written, potentially create huge misunderstandings. A colleague once collected
emails that had been misunderstood over one academic term. Looking through
them, I was amazed at how questions asked in emails were ignored in responses.
Once a post-,graduate student doctor (paediatrician) was disturbed that many email
communications were ignored.When analysed, a lack of phatics1
(social niceties like:
‘how are you?’) was noted, and it was suggested these were implemented in future.
It is important that value and interest is shown to those we communicate with and
this is ignored at our peril. When reporting back, six months later, the doctor noted a
huge improvement in responses and was grateful for the tip. Some communications
unintentionally result in snubs or conflicts and all forms should avoid messages
that might appear stark and unfriendly. Honey is more palatable than lemon!
In today’s world, the relationship between gender and language confuses.
Males and females speak differently. Content varies because of different interests
and roles. Reasons for communicating and styles of doing this also differ. Not all
variations can be attributed to gender, as occupation and hierarchical roles, social
philosophy and manner of problem-solving, play a part. Psychological sex-role
can be a greater influence than a biological one. Language takes place to shape
society’s thinking, perception and communication. Low-context cultures, seen in the
West, use language primarily to express feelings and ideas, as directly and clearly as
possible. High-context cultures avoid directness to promote social harmony. Some
cultures value brevity and concise use of language whilst others promote elaborate,
expressive speech. Formality is important for some societies whilst others prefer
informal approaches and styles of talk.Apart from these differences there is evidence
supporting linguistic relativism – the idea that language has a strong influence on the
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
141
world-view of those who speak it. Therefore, it is important to study language and
communication as fundamental to our personal and academic success.
Introducing intercultural communication studies into all levels of education
may not seem important to many people, as they will regard such input as ‘soft
skills’ which can be acquired spontaneously. Research shows that this is not reality
and communicative ability remains haphazard if not correctly taught according to
individual cognitive-linguistic development and present needs (Sage, 2000). There is
no doubt that if we gave this aspect more attention we would increase both personal
and academic performance and the Brigman studies (1999), evaluating over 50 years
of research, provide overwhelmingly evidence for this.
MAIN POINTS
•	 Language is thought to determine thinking and the way we view the world
•	 Cultures have low or high-context- the former relying on words & the latter on
non-words for meaning
•	 Language is the dominant feature of society and how we make it work for
ourselves and others
•	 The way language is used by parents in child-rearing, determines beliefs, values
and attitudes
•	 Particular styles of communicating are favoured by specific cultures, reflecting
language and behaviour
•	 The words and actions we use show our status, power and influence
•	 Differences exist in male & female language, attributed to sex-role rather than biology
•	 Language relativism acknowledges importance of communication, supports its
formal study
Activities for self development
•	 Reflect on 3 activities in the text and consider what you have learnt from these.
•	 Evaluate activities found useful and write a plan for the development of your
own cross-cultural competencies.
•	 Compare 2 approaches used to observe a learner’s communicative behaviour,
evaluating them for effectiveness. Reflect on your own development needs
regarding observation competence.
•	 Select an activity to observe an aspect of cross-cultural communication,
viewing it against ideas in the sections. Write a plan for developing your own
cross-cultural communication abilities, explaining how to implement it.
Much of this content was in a working paper by Dr Rosemary Sage and
Dr Esther Shaffer (USA) to accompany a course on Intercultural Communication taught
to Speech & Language Therapists at the Royal Central School London (1987–1997).
It was updated for an EU Project INTERMAR (2011–2013).
R. SAGE
142
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
143
NOTE
1
	 The term ‘phatics’ (phatic communion) was coined by anthropologist, Bronisław Malinowski, in his
essay ‘The Problem of Meaning in Primitive Languages,’ which appeared in 1923 in The Meaning
of Meaning, by C. Ogden and I. Richards. The term comes from the Greek φατός phatós (spoken,
that may be spoken), from φάναι phánai (to speak, say). Besides speech, in the digital world, phatic
expression can also cover digital interactions. For example, liking someone’s social media post can
communicate social approval and as a consequence build rapport.
	 The utterance of a phatic expression is a kind of speech act. According to Malinowski, even such
apparently purposeless communication as polite small talk, like ‘how are you?’ or ‘have a nice day,’
even though its content may be trivial or irrelevant to the situation, performs the important function of
establishing, maintaining, and managing bonds of sociality between participants.
	 In Roman Jakobson’s work, ‘Phatic’ communication is defined differently, and concerns the channel
of communication, for instance when one says ‘I can’t hear you, you’re breaking up’ in the middle of
a phone conversation. This usage appears in research on online communities and micro-blogging.
	 In speech communication the term means ‘small talk’(conversation for its own sake) and has also been
called ‘grooming talk.’ The phrase,‘You’re welcome,’ is not intended to convey the message that the
R. SAGE
144
hearer is welcome; it is a phatic response to being thanked, which in turn is to acknowledge the receipt
of a benefit. Similarly, the question ‘how are you?’ is usually an automatic component of a social
encounter. Although there are times when it is asked in a sincere, concerned manner, anticipating
a detailed response regarding the respondent’s present state, this needs to be pragmatically inferred
from context and intonation.
REFERENCES
Almaney, A., & Alwan, A. (1982). Communicating with Arabs. Prospect Heights, IL: Waveland.
Bharti, A. (1985). The self in hindu thought and action. In A. J. Marsella, G. DeVos, & F. L. K. Hsu (Eds.),
Culture and self: Asian and western perspective (pp. 185–230). New York, NY: Tavistock.
Bloomingdale, H. (2016). British quirks: Tips on english culture. Retrieved September 9, 2016, from
http://en.ir-q.com/EN=40732
Brigman, G., Lane, D., & Switzer, D. (1999). Teaching children school success skills. Journal of
Educational Research, 92(6), 323–329.
Bryson, B. (1990). Mother tongue. London: William Morrow & Co.
Burleson, B., & Samter, W. (1994). A social skills approach to relationship maintenance. In D. Canary &
L. Stafford (Eds.), Communication and relationship maintenance (p. 12). San Diego, CA: Academic
Press.
Collier, M. (1996). Communication competence problematics in ethnic relationships. Communication
Monographs, 63, 314–336.
Dartnell, L. (2014). The knowledge: How to rebuild our world from scratch. London: Penguin Press.
Duran, R., & Graham, E. (1988). Communication correlates of college success: An exploratory
investigation. Communication Education, 37, 14–17.
Foss, K., & Edson, B. (1989). What’s in a name? Accounts of married women’s name choices. Western
Journal of Speech Communication, 53, 356–373.
Giles, H., & Franklyn-Stokes, A. (1989). Communicator characteristics. In M. Asante & W. Gudykunst
(Eds.), Handbook of international and intercultural communication. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.
Hall, E. (1959). Beyond culture. New York, NY: Doubleday.
Hamachek, D. (1992/2003). Encounters with the self (pp. 24–26). San Diego, CA: Harcourt Brace
Jovanovich.
Keillor, G. (1987). Lake Wobegon days. London: Faber & Faber.
Klopf, D. (1984). Cross-cultural apprehension research: A summary of Pacific basin studies. In J. Daly &
J. McCrosky (Eds.), Avoiding communication: Shyness, reticence and communication apprehension.
Beverley Hills, CA: Sage.
Lennon, R., & Eisenberg, N. (1987). Gender and age differences in empathy and sympathy. In N. Eisenberg
& J. Strayer (Eds.), Empathy and its development. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Mehrabin, A. (1971). Silent messages. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth.
Niven, D., & Zilber, J. (2000). Preference for African American or Black. Howard Journal of
Communication, 11, 267–773.
Postman, N. (1976). Crazy talk, stupid talk. New York, NY: Delta.
Rheingold, H. (1988). They have a word for it. Los Angeles, CA: J. P. Tarcher.
Rubin, D. (1986). Nobody play by the rule he know: Ethnic interference in classroom questioning events.
In Y. Yin (Ed.), Inter-ethnic communication: Recent research. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.
Sage, R. (2000). Class talk. London: Network Continuum. (now Bloomsbury.)
Sage, R. (2003). Lend us your ears. London: Network Continuum. (now Bloomsbury.)
Sage, R. (2004). Dealing with diversity. London: Network Continuum. (now Bloomsbury.)
Sage, R. (2010). Meeting the needs of students with diverse backgrounds. London: Network Continuum.
(now Bloomsbury.)
Sage, R., Rogers, J., & Cwenar, S. (2006). Part 2 of a UK and Japanese initiative to prepare citizens for
the 21st century: Why do the Japanese Out-perform the British? Leicester: University of Leicester.
Sage, R. & Shaffer, E. (1987). Intercultural communication for speech & language therapists (Working
Paper 43). London: Royal Central School of Speech & Drama.
INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION
145
Samovar, L., & Porter, R. (1995). Communication between cultures (2nd ed.). London:Wadsworth.
Servaes, J. (1989). Cultural identity and modes of communication. In J.Anderson (Ed.), Commununication
yearbook. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.
Sinclair, L. (1954). A word in your ear in ways of mankind. Boston, MA: Beacon Press.
Wiio, O. A. (1978). Wiion lait – ja vahan muidenkin (Wiio’s Laws and some others). Finland: Weilin+
Goos, Espo.
Yum, J. (1987). The practice of uye-ri in interpersonal relationships. In D. Kincaid (Ed.), Communication
theory from Eastern and Western perspectives. New York, NY: Academic Press.
R. Sage (Ed.), Paradoxes in Education, 147–168.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
RICCARDA MATTEUCCI
8. COMMUNICATION IN THE MULTICULTURAL
CLASSROOM: A CHALLENGE IN TWENTY-FIRST
CENTURY EDUCATION
Teachers, Students, Families and Administrators
Dedicated to my daughter Martina and all people met in 9, Adams Rd.,
Cambridge, whilst living there as a student and later as a visiting Research
Fellow in Linguistics at the University. This experience has proved fundamental
for personal growth, in terms of accepting and sharing our very many personal
differences.
R. MATTEUCCI
148
ABSTRACT
This chapter describes what happens in a modern classroom, when teachers and
students of different races and cultures meet to engage in the teaching-learning
process. Robinson (2015) considers that schools are complex systems, formed
from different interest groups such as students, educators, parents and politicians.
Others also interact, like health, social, support and inspection services plus
ancillary staff. Services may be public, private, religious or autonomous,
producing a living community of people with unique stories, sensibilities and
relationships. Each school is a bubbling mixture of different personalities with
friends and factions forming a myriad of mythical subcultures, which can make
a positive or negative local difference. As a source of energy, it can help a
community to flourish, or extinguish hopes and expectations. A living system
is subject to changes and adaptation for new circumstances, be they political,
social or technological. The section discusses reasons why immigration, as an
anthropological, increasing phenomenon, plays a vital role in a nation’s education
policy and practice. It considers adjustments to assist integration. When working
in the USA, President George Bush enacted the law, No Child Left Behind, backed
with resources to support student achievements. Results were not as expected as
communication problems led to misunderstandings.
INTRODUCTION: IMMIGRATION/INTEGRATION
Anthropology attributes human migration to different, interconnected reasons.
Motivation to search a better environment and fulfil desires, including climate, food
access, social, economic and political conditions, has been a fact of life through the
ages.Thecurrentnoveltywithmigrationsisduetothemedia(aglobalcommunication
system unknown in the past). For example, television programmes, cell phones and
the Internet enter homes and are readily available, so that we can move and march
with a population escaping war, famine and ethnic or religious persecution. The
media offer wealth and opulent images of a happier, freer life for all that are illusory
and misleading but shared by millions of people. They create virtual situations of
better living not reflecting the lifestyles of ordinary folk. Therefore, the tolerance
and acceptance of host countries, when immigrants arrive is soon replaced when
the cultural gap between the indigenous population and the immigrants is realised.
Immigrants recall a hard past, which added to the harshness of present life, ignites
frustration and discontent, eventually resulting in anger and violence.
MULTICULTURALISM
This phenomenon occurs when many cultures coexist in a society due to immigration.
Harmony is the goal, with both the host population and immigrants willing to
accept each other’s views, values and diverse practices. In reality, the large gap in
COMMUNICATION IN THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
149
conventions makes this problematic, with newcomers mixing only with their own
kind and having no desire to integrate, in order to preserve their identity, heritage
and traditions. People from Kosovo, Magreb, Iran or Syria have different histories
and experiences that shape present lifestyles. What shared culture is possible and
how can differences be resolved? Rosemary Sage suggests previously that we need
open systems, otherwise we will be more isolated, besieged and remote from reality.
There are different, opposing schools of thoughts, with many pros and cons
about multiculturalism. (https://www.quora.com/Society-hat-are-the-arguments-f-
and-against-multiculturalism, accessed, March, 2017). Malik (2013) suggests that
a society living with mass immigration is positive for the host nation. Generally
immigrants are confined together within communities, that are hard to control with a
‘feeble desire to stand up to them’ as David Cameron (then British Prime Minister)
suggested in a speech in February 2011. We need to keep in mind John Buchan’s
(1935) statement, affirming that ‘ethnic groups should retain their individuality and
each make its contribution to the national character…the strongest nations are made
up of different racial elements’.1
This encourages cultural assimilation.
Greek and Egyptian culture had much influence on the development of the
Roman Empire. It was considered a status symbol to have Greeks amidst Romans,
not just as slaves but accepted as preceptors, educators and mentors to teach their
language and philosophy to young people. Together with language came Greek and
Egyptian habits and customs, making Roman society more multicultural and refined.
There were opponents, as Decimus Iūnius Iuvenālis (Juvenal) the ancient Roman
Poet reports, but it cannot be denied that the host culture received benefits from
cohabitation.2
Were Greeks and Romans more progressive than us today? Were their
similarities more conducive to social integration?
Among opinions expressed, Hari (2015) argues that multiculturalism can
lead to oppression, affirming that if people live together they need to share some
characteristics. He suggests liberalism should underpin social living, with a society
allowing individuals reasonable freedom, providing this does not harm others.
Liberalism, however, favours individual rights. Others affirm that presence of
different cultures leads to loss of national identity. Some cultures do not mix and are
intolerant of others, leading to hatred, bigotry and radicalism. Imposing respect for
others is a paradox, implying a lack of this for one’s own customs.
It is a common view that immigrant people fall into 3 main categories:
The first group (majority) are those who mostly adopt values and adapt lifestyles
in their new situation (like the current Muslim London Mayor)
The second group are those who will never adopt new conventions and adapt to
the host country
The third group is termed ‘grey,’ needing support to identify with the host culture.
They are not firmly against the institutions of their new society and have not yet
become fundamentally oppositional.
R. MATTEUCCI
150
THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
Mind is not a vessel to be filled but a fire to be kindled to ignite the taste for
research and love for truth. (Plutarch3
)
A multicultural classroom is where students and teachers accept all races, cultures
and religions. We construct relationships with and within class groups; plan lessons
and how to teach them; deliver tasks and choose books to read, so gaining student
trust. Tolerance and respect underpin daily living, with the classroom supported by
administrators, colleagues and families. Those with other traditions, values, beliefs,
rituals and customs can share another culture in the classroom. Nowadays, classes
are made up of diverse students, so a teacher’s first task is to help them recognise
similarities – the common traits shared alongside differences. Exploring different
cultures allows students to learn that people are unique and accepting differences
removes bias, preconceptions and racism. Awareness assists respect for all cultures
and abilities, including those with learning differences. Once achieved, they will
learn to communicate and cooperate so working better with others. The multicultural
setting encourages students from minorities to develop social competencies. Once
students feel accepted by classmates and the school community, they will show
greater self-esteem and confidence, developed from effective communication, to
benefit everyone.
Rosemary Sage says previously that children, parents and grandparents are
becoming islands within the same family context, all experiencing and assimilating
rapid changes in different ways. Most young immigrants attend school and learn
the host language and can help parents and grandparents to do this also. However, a
lower-standard, less-refined language results, which is a barrier to integration. The
first difficulty, in multicultural classes, is lack of communication between teacher
and students and in the different ethnic groups themselves. Communication is key
if educators want successful teaching and learning. Ineffective verbal contact brings
conflicts when different ethnic groups coexist. Conventions like language, religion,
food, dress, etc. are basic to positive knowledge transmission. Experience shows
that teaching multicultural groups involves learning how to instruct in new ways,
involving many changes, twists and turns, failures and improvements. This presents
a major challenge for teachers today, who need knowledge about intercultural issues
to reduce the stress of transmitting information in ways that are not lost in translation.
WHO ATTENDS CLASSROOMS TODAY?
Multi-racial classrooms are increasingly the norm in Europe and the world. Many
students are second–third generation immigrants and born in the host country but are still
bi-lingual. They use mother tongue at home with family and associates and the language
of their peers outside.As Willer (1991) says, these students do not all come from the same
racial group but from different communities. However, it is now common to find schools
with mostly immigrant students, as they tend to live in the same areas. These children are
COMMUNICATION IN THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
151
educated with little understanding of the culture in which they live, as they only mix with
their own kind.
Latterly, I taught in New York with a policy to close large schools in favour of
small academies offering a wider variety of flexible possibilities to suit students.
Emphasis was on attendance at lessons and improved discipline, with final exams
scores more closely scrutinised. The multiple array of subjects offered in the same
building gave students experiences outside their normal groups. They were exposed
to learning in contexts encouraging them to be more tolerant and respectful of
individual differences.
CLASSROOM COMMUNICATION
Inadequate communication is a barrier teachers have to demolish because of different
linguistic styles. Effective communication patterns convey respect, clarity and
efficiency, paving the way for successful interpersonal relationships. Teachers must
connect with everyone in class and students need to know that they all can make
a difference in assisting the communicative, learning process. Welcome students
individually as they enter class; remember names; show a genuine smile and ask
questions like: ‘How are you?’ Simple strategies, like remembering birthdays,
establishes a trusting, constructive relationship. In a multicultural class, closeness,
meetings, time spent after school, play an important role in getting to know each
other. Limited communication causes problems like demotivation, limited attention
spans, boredom from misunderstanding, so making the situation worse. We live
in a society demonstrating this phenomenon paradoxically. On one hand, we want
children to be independent early: on the other hand, it is hard to help older ones
free themselves from dependence that makes them increasingly insecure (D’Alonzo,
2016).
DIVERSITY IN MULTICULTURAL EDUCATION
Diversity in multicultural education embraces perspectives of people from many
cultural backgrounds, in terms of beliefs, lexicon, values, histories and traditions.
Diversity in a classroom defines and recognises all people as unique with many
differences: language, literacy and numeracy levels, personality, religious belief,
athletic ability and so on. The list can be long, concerning any student and including
customs, food, festivities, cultural dress and body language.Aclassroom is a cultural
community reflecting the disciplines and perspectives studied: authors, students
and teachers. Knefelkamp (1999) states that successful learning depends on an
intercultural approach to understand other perspectives and how they are acquired.
They can learn about different generations, mutual reflection, critiquing, expanding
ideas and concepts which is effectively done cooperatively rather than competitively.
Gupta & Fergusson (1997) state that cultural transformations do not happen
in disjoined places but in strictly interconnected lieux as the world is more
R. MATTEUCCI
152
interdependent nowadays. Schools must encompass people of different colour and
nationalities, genders and those with disabilities etc., ensuring that the curriculum
and its content are accurate and complete for under-represented groups. In most
cases, schools need to reform traditional curricula rather than casually offering
supplementary units scattered throughout the year. Multicultural education goes
beyond the celebration of Cinco De Mayo, Jewish, Caribbean festivities or the annual
‘fun fair.’ Success occurs when schools rethink and implement a curriculum and
organisational structures which respect individual cultural uniqueness. As example,
my Latinos students knew nothing about South-American history and pre-European
colonisation. Their knowledge was stories heard from great-grandparents, as most
textbooks ignored pre-Colombian and pre-European settings.
COMMENT
Teaching multicultural classes and learning how to do this is not easy. We slowly
learn how to proceed; to improve relationships, dealing with changes and failures
on the way. As Garcia (2008) stated when addressing the National Association for
Multicultural Education (NAME), we can see some advantages in..
•	 combating stereotypes & prejudiced behaviour,
•	 allowing multiple perspectives & ways of thinking,
•	 offering equal educational opportunities,
•	 helping develop a positive self-image,
•	 teaching to critique society in the interest of social justice.
In terms of goals, multicultural education includes:
•	 strengthening cultural consciousness & intercultural awareness,
•	 increasing awareness of global issues,
•	 teaching that there are multiple historical perspectives,
•	 encouraging critical thinking,
•	 preventing prejudice & discrimination,
•	 creating a safe, accepted, successful learning environment for all.
TEACHING HOW TO TEACH
Multicultural education requires diverse personnel who are culturally competent.
They must be responsive, embracing different beliefs, perspectives and experiences.
However, many institutions are not ready to enhance and sustain a multicultural
setting. Most teachers have no experience of this teaching, but due to the explosion
of multicultural students, administrators have organized workshops and courses.
Goals aim to develop and improve teaching skills as cultural diversity requires
debunking assumptions about others in terms of values and religion etc. They
have to recognise the many different ways of viewing the world to avoid unhelpful
COMMUNICATION IN THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
153
contrasts and conflicts. Different faiths and religions, as well as food, festivals and
feasts, celebrated in schools, allow everyone to benefit from differences. Teachers
can exploit these opportunities by fostering discussion of acceptance, tolerance
and respect. Students need to communicate, travelling (mentally) across cultures
by reading, watching, speaking, presenting and writing about their origins and
backgrounds. These must be part of the programme, demonstrating respect for
diversity with teachers knowing about student origins.
When first entering a multicultural classroom, I panicked. Course information, at
the start of the school year (New York, 2001), was a briefing rather than preparation
for multi-ethnic student problems. Caravaggio (my favourite Italian painter) and
‘The Conversion of Saint Paul’ came to mind. Paul, dressed as a Roman Centurion
had fallen from his horse, being struck by lightning and sprawled on the ground.
Like him, I was pushed into a situation needing new perspectives: forgetting myself.
I had to refocus teaching from the bottom up (from students) and not from me at the
top. This idea is implemented in the Blue School model.4
It sounds paradoxical, but the 11th September twin-tower attack, at the start of a
school year, helped me. Students had relatives working in the towers and families
rushed to school to support their children. The staff hosted them, talking and offering
first-aid and support. These moments were vital: we met families in the context of
shared horror and got to know them better, helping us to have more effective impact
on students. Students experienced care from more people: relatives, administrators,
teachers and friends. A positive relationship was established amongst diverse groups
that led to trust. No one recipe exists for making education work, but these factors
made a positive difference in this situation.
EDUCATORS MUST KNOW THEIR STUDENTS BETTER
Rousseau (1762), in Emile: A Treatise on Education, urged educators to know
students better. This has never been more relevant than in a time of serious student
problems, linked to family and society insecurities. Teaching, in multicultural
classes, takes more time and energy, requiring experience to respond to bias and
discrimination from the predominant group unfairly targeting others. Firstly, bring
to overt attention, the covert prejudices on race, gender and ethnicity in class and
lesson contents. Start with simple things, such as asking about different festivals,
food and traditions and how students celebrate events. This introduces other cultures,
comparing and contrasting customs without judgment. Teachers guide students to
respect and appreciate others different from them. This practice needs implementing
immediately; the earlier children acquire this, the better they mature, developing
more relevant, life-enhancing social skills to cope with life.
Educators must be aware of the many perspectives to include in class materials,
relevant for diverse students, with plural forms of presentation, assignments,
worksheets and tests to suit various learning styles. Successful teaching depends
on how much teachers know about their diverse classes. They need awareness
R. MATTEUCCI
154
of student knowledge gaps and must show interest in student backgrounds.
Differing values and conventions should be recognised, respected and shared.
Exploring this, Ladson-Billing (1997) suggests that both teacher and students
should keep a journal, to record routines, including food, study habits, TV and
media use. Results reveal the different habits of everyone. This activity is useful
for knowing each other better, underlining the importance of diversity and its
acceptance. Ladson-Billing suggests that effective oral and written feedback
(personally or anonymously) is important to reflect on actions and attitudes and
foster self-evaluation. (This must not be a weapon for firing a teacher or obliging
a student to change school!). At John Adams High School, New York, I often met
colleagues to compare and assess work. Leaders must promote this practice, as
teachers need to share ideas, fears and hopes, discussing their methods to gain
from other experiences.
POSITIVE ATMOSPHERE
To establish a positive class atmosphere means controlling student emotional levels
for educational growth. Under stress, we do not retain anything. Claxton (2001)
says that to help students learn better, it is necessary to build a classroom culture
committed to cultivating habits and behaviours that allow students to face and solve
difficulties with certainty, calmness, self-esteem and creativity. Students who are
communicative and self-confident succeed, concentrate better, reflect more deeply
and enjoy learning. Teachers are hermeneuts, helping students discover abilities
(things they could excel at), to prepare for life after school, developing mental, social
and emotional resources to face difficulty, uncertainty and complexity.
Communication, self-esteem, competence and passion enhance intelligence.
Teachers must help students find goals and keep curiosity alive. Students need
teachers to believe in them. Positivity and cooperation achieve effective relationships
for all. Many believe that the teaching-learning process is based on reciprocal
esteem and trust between teachers and students. Students are rarely motivated if not
in tune with teachers. Efficient class management occurs when an honest link-up
is established: it functions to keep everyone’s welfare in mind. During a speech to
the Unione Cattolica Insegnanti Medi (March, 2015), Pope Francis affirmed that
teachers must establish relationships so students feel accepted and loved for who and
what they are (potential & limits).
NO POKER FACE IN CLASS!
Students must not feel anonymous. An honest smile, a question (‘How are you?’),
remarks on dress (‘I like your shoes!’or ‘What a nice hat!’) makes them feel special.
If you stop to chat, devoting time before a lesson, while they enter class and find
seats, they will feel noticed and valued (known as Phatics). Educators must be
COMMUNICATION IN THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
155
passionate about their job and show this daily. Student mistakes should be corrected
constructively with strategies to solve problems, especially those regarding limited
communication. Teacher behaviour influences student results. Studies by Olson
(2009) and Tomlinson (2010) prove that school experiences make powerful impact
on people’s soul, lasting into later life. Students may lose passion and interest for
learning, thinking they are not capable or brilliant enough, so developing anger
against authority figures. Care and interest for students ease their discomfort, with
positive evaluation of their work (Olson, 2009).
MIRROR NEURON THEORY
Mirror Neuron Theory proves useful in classroom communications, proving
body language is equally important as words and includes voice, tone, pitch and
volume. When teaching diverse students, non-verbal communication reaches them
as this is relied upon if word language is limited. In some cultures, pupils feel
embarrassed if you look them in the eye. A Muslim is insulted if you shake their
left hand. Teachers must make differences clear. The mirror neuron theory gives
a comprehensive way to study language evolution, offering perceptions as to how
and why we acquire empathy for others. Since the 1990’s, when Italian researchers
at Parma University observed this in monkeys, studies have sought to explain
communication and its empathy aspects. Insights provide evidence to explain
the mechanisms through which we learn social competencies and communicate
feelings and intentions to others.5
Rizzolati and Craigero (2004), in the Annual Review of Neuroscience, say there is
a class of brain cells that fire, not only when someone performs an action, but also
when they observe another making the same one. Mirror neurons represent not only
people’s actions, but also the intention and emotions behind them. For example, if
you see someone upset, smiling or laughing, your mirror neurons related to these
functions fire up too, creating a sensation in your own feelings. The mirror neuron
system gives us possibility of receiving and interpreting facial expressions. If we see
somebody pulling a face of disgust, our same brain area is activated. You do not need
to know reasons behind actions to experience the meaning easily. In multicultural
contexts, when communication is lacking due to language problems, empathy helps a
teacher establish a positive relationship with students. Using positive body language
helps reach this goal.
CARING MAKES A DIFFERENCE
I had a Latin class with students from Afro-American, India and South America
heritages. An Afro-American pupil (who generally skipped most lessons) had
a genuine interest in Latin culture and always attended to learn about legendary
Roman leaders, Empire history, usages and customs of the times. He was an example
R. MATTEUCCI
156
of a student showing ‘the need of something missing’ as his home-life was not ideal,
giving little support (https://www.quora.com/Why-do-I-feel-theres-something-
missing, accessed, 20 March, 2017).
This boy was insecure with no self-esteem and little home love or care, not
knowing where or how to belong. He was arrested for drug dealing and the Court
Judge read school reports and was amazed by his only positive results in the Latin
class. He invited him to say something in Latin and the student gave him greetings.
The judge said that someone with sensitivity to appreciate Latin culture should
not go to prison, so he sent him back to school. I wanted to meet his family but
was prevented by the Principal. I was the only one believing in this student with
our connection bringing positive results. However, he did not return to class and I
was told that he had changed school. This shows that whatever the subject, it will
not be successful if students are not accepted. Marginalisation or ostracism brings
frustration, anger, violence and crime.
MANAGEMENT IN A MULTI-CULTURAL CLASSROOM
When I had class management problems, in New York City multi-racial schools, I
always asked students if I showed enough interest in them to recognise my care for
them. I invited them to speak out if I did something wrong and upsetting. Facing
students with their responsibilities and confronting them when a problem arose,
solved difficulties, because I had established a relationship with them and no-one
felt isolated. John Donne said that humans are not islands and only when we connect
and tune in to others do we become ‘a person.’ Paradoxically, society is driving us to
isolation and we must fight this. Schools are the first places youngsters attend outside
home. As previously discussed in the paragraph Positive Atmosphere, teachers need
to be hermeneuts, to bring to light gifts and abilities that learners are not aware they
possess. D’Alonso (2016) states that they must operate on learner intellectual and
emotional levels, discovering their strengths and weaknesses.
COMMENT
Cultural distance plays a vital role in the teaching-learning process. Teachers must
promote acceptance of and respect for other cultures, showing an open mind that
approves and values differences. There are many approaches to life and ways
to achieve goals with people searching for those considered worth achieving.
Reflecting on self, teachers must be aware of their social-identity impact on
students and how differences influence them and be careful not to be offensive
(Obear, 1992). It is not enough to be competent: educators must inspire learners
with content, developing and enhancing their intelligence. A school culture that
maintains correct habits and behaviours must be built, with students learning to
solve problems, using communication, calmness and creativity. In this climate,
students concentrate, reflect and enjoy learning.
COMMUNICATION IN THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
157
ACTIVITIES FOR A MULTI-CULTURAL CLASSROOM
Researchers suggest it is advisable to propose a diverse reading list, illustrating
universal human experience across cultures that go beyond textbooks:
•	 to supplement curricula with current events and new stories apart from textbooks;
•	 grasping different opinions, comparing them and solving problems from different
perspectives;
•	 encourage community participation and social activism;
•	 create multicultural projects, that require students to choose a background that is
not their own.
A MULTI-CULTURAL LESSON PLAN
When engaged in a multicultural setting, we need to acknowledge that each student
bearstheirowndistinctivenessintermsofraceorcolour.Studentsmustbecomeaware
of what culture and its complexity means. Attempts to know student backgrounds,
initiated the lesson plan below. This Gorski model (2004), with changes for class
needs, applies to any school and teacher trainees:
1.	Define ‘multicultural’: the teacher writes this on the blackboard, splitting ‘multi’
& ‘cultural,’ inviting students to explain the concept by word association with
synonyms or dictionary definitions;
2.	Explore the term ‘culture’: invite students to suggest and define cultural
dimensions. Each one answers and makes suggestions; the teacher encourages
more ideas from everyone and lists these. Music, food, dress and other aspects
are mentioned. Students should reflect silently and deeply on their own culture,
like religion, language, family structure, values, to add to the record. This
is time-intensive, due to complexity, but the teacher should collect as many
suggestions as possible to highlight individuality. Also, they need to underline
how simplistic it is to make judgements about somebody based on one thing and
how many aspects interweave and interlock. This is successful if everyone feels
equal and no negative comments are made.
3.	List similarities & differences between the cultures present, asking students which
one(s) they would reject or adopt. If confident and trusting the teacher, students
open up with answers like: colour of skin, hair, social class and district. (To play
this down, I said that I lay in the sun to get my skin darker and set my hair for
curls). The family, as a topic, analyses diversity with contradictions that students
face. Socially, they are in the American/British culture, but in families live a
different model. One noted is family female roles and their cultural uniqueness.
In Muslim countries, girls consider men are too strict, while Southern or Central
American boys want more obedient sisters or other family females. Multicultural
aspects such as race, gender, social class and sexual orientation are considered,
with students reflecting in teams. Invite them to express and exchange opinions.
R. MATTEUCCI
158
Students should produce a drawing or project reflecting changes and describing
their feelings about adopting other cultural characteristics. Results are astonishing:
many students would like to change aspects of their own culture and replace with
others.
WORKSHOP FOR PRE-SERVICE TEACHERS
Prior to introducing multiculturalism to students, teachers must explore their own
multicultural knowledge and sensitivities. Steps are similar to students, unpacking
multiculturalism and diversity. Topics like race, gender, sexual orientation and
social class emerge spontaneously in conversation and pre-service teachers will
relate experiences and how they define themselves. Adults do not open up so easily
and I have not heard them say that they would change the colour of their skin or
hair. They reluctantly express feelings, but are more open if you ask how they
would define their own culture and that of others. Gorski’s suggestions are that the
instructor needs to divide items into categories and indicate group intentions. The
lesson will be modelled according to Hidalgo’s 3 levels of culture theory (1993).
These are:
a.	 Concrete: this is the most visible, tangible level of a culture, referring to superficial
characteristics like clothing, music, food, games etc. Festivals and celebrations
are included in this category;
b.	Behavioural: this focuses on social roles, language and nonverbal communication
approaches. Aspects include language, gender roles, family structures, political
affiliation and other items positioning us in a structured society;
c.	 Symbolic: this includes values and beliefs and is important for how individuals
define and understand themselves. Value systems, customs, spirituality, religion,
worldview, beliefs and so on are included in this category.
Participants can write definitions of the 3 levels and reflect on how they define
themselves within categories. Gorski suggests the next step is conceptualization
consistency: to facilitate discussion about relatedness, importance and consistency
in how individuals define themselves and others. Observing Hidalgo’s (1993)
categories, the instructor asks individuals the category they identify with and why.
The majority select the Symbolic Level because they are choosing peculiarities
representative of that culture. Conversations can question: when you meet
somebody, which of those items (under any category) do you use to understand
them culturally? Is your attempt to understand others culturally consistent with
how you want to be viewed and understood? What forces in your society might
contribute to simplification of other cultures, even though we do not want to be
defined simplistically ourselves? (Hidalgo, 1993).
Conversation turns to education with 4 questions for teachers on the multicultural
nature of classrooms.
COMMUNICATION IN THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
159
1.	Which categories do they place importance on when trying to teach multi-
culturally?
2.	How has education generally tried to be multicultural?
3.	What are aspects of culture are focused on in class when trying to be sensitive
to individual cultures?
4.	Are values consistent/similar with how we know that people want to be defined?
In American schools, the meaning of multiculturalism has been identified with
national heroes, holidays, festivals and fairs. At the end of sessions, instructors
may facilitate discussion on how participants can work to achieve a better
conceptualisation of multiculturalism. They should clarify that it is not punitive to
point out how we are influenced by media and other factors when experiencing
contact with other cultures.
COMMENT
Participant views should be valued and not challenged in whatever category they
register them. The activity could create discomfort, making them feel vulnerable. It
helpspre-serviceteacherstounderstanddiversitybetterandclarifytheirpreconceived
notions of multiculturalism. Most will rethink the simplistic, superficial approaches
of multicultural festivals and their own practices, so introduce a link between critical
pedagogy and multicultural teaching. This means that the important resources in a
multicultural room are the participants and instead of defining what is culturally
important to them, through celebrations or festivals, it is more useful to guide a
conversation and allow them to define themselves.
LATIN IN THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
It seems a paradox, but my Latin course, though removed from student reality, provided
a unique cultural view without individual bias. Latin-class pupils adored reading and
learning about Romans. The subject was taught for 20 years before I replaced a retired
teacher in 2007. Because of student interest, I suggested the class should take the
Latin Regents exam, which had never been attempted before, but there was reluctance
because of the difficult grammar section. To encourage them, I advised on numerous
readings and they did a project, constructing a model of a Roman road (Appian Way)
from specifications. We celebrated a Roman Day when the class dressed as Roman
senatores, dominae or gladiatores. The films, Spartacus and Ben Hur, were shown to
become acquainted with the Latin world. Students were fascinated and did not believe
me when told that Romans, among other technological advances, had hot water in their
homes 2,000 years ago. In a school of 4,000 pupils, we were noticed and the fear of
the Regent exam disappeared. Students felt comfortable and trusted me and so decided
to take it. In May, I was told that the Latin class was to be cancelled next year due
to cutbacks. I wrote a letter to Mr. Klein, the New York School Superintendent, and
R. MATTEUCCI
160
Mr. Bloomberg, the New York Mayor, as newspapers regularly reported his personal
generosity to schools. ‘Dear Mr. Bloomberg… can I count on your generosity…?’
Students took the exam in June, with everyone passing, so the class continued. Later,
I spoke to Mr. Klein who congratulated me for the successful result and I realised that
pressure behind the scenes was the reason for the class being saved.
FAMILY AND SCHOOL
Family commitment for school is important, but positive support is difficult, especially
in multi-ethnic districts. Many do not speak the host language well and first generation
immigrants hardly at all (www.familiesandschools.org/, http://www2.ed.gov/
documents/family-community/partner-education.pdf, accessed, April, 2017).
Parents feel marginalized or ignored by schools, who convey that if you do not speak
the language of instruction you cannot support children effectively. Most parents
have more than one job, so involving them in schools is difficult. If they ask for
help, generally the answer is: ‘learn the language and then we can help.’ Nowadays,
the cultural mediator (adult translator) has improved the situation and the gap in
communication between the family and school is reducing. Communication and
collaboration occur when information flows clearly and everyone can take decisions
knowing the circumstances. Also, shared awareness and reciprocal respect must be
part of the process. The policy: ‘educate family and empower their resources’ needs
to be applied, as it is proved that a cooperative approach gives positive results (Ianes
& Canevaro, 2015). This is a challenge for schools in the third millennium, requiring
social and health service collaboration to make it happen. Family commitment
must be cultivated and achieved, in spite of difficulties. Families are important and
school conditions must change to make parents more welcome, with support for
them, especially in low-income communities. Parents must learn how to help school
staff improve pupil results. Also, school staff must know how to relate to families,
especially immigrants.
Teaching at George Washington High School, New York (a Latinos sector with
drugs & violence), I found few families attended parent-teacher meetings. Most
children lived with a step-mother and father and sometimes did not know their
parents. A few decades before, Henry Kissinger had attended the school, but the
district had changed from a Jewish to South-American immigrant quarter. The
situation improved when we phoned parents regularly, regarding school attendance
and performance. Where-ever they live or what-ever their social-economic status,
parent participation in education brings more chance of achievement.
A RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN SCHOOL AND FAMILY:
BLUE SCHOOL IN NEW YORK
Although family support is fundamental to learning, there are some borders
that families do better not to cross. As reported in Robinson-Aronica’s Creative
COMMUNICATION IN THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
161
school (2016), the President of the National Association of Independent Schools,
describes behaviour of some parents as ‘helicopter mode.’ They constantly
maintained an overview of children from above, zooming in when needs arose.
This control is a paradox in learning as it hampers child growth and impedes
failure, essential for gaining character. In Out of our Mind (2001, 2011), Robinson
describes the rationale underpinning a new learning approach at the Blue School,
Lower Manhattan, New York, based on creativity, innovation & trust in school-
family collaboration.
Parents share tasks, participating in developing the teaching-learning process as
learners themselves. Administrators, teachers, students and parents meet to learn,
play and create relations, as the core school process. Aims are to help parents/carers
participate in the school community; promote positive communication; build strong
relationships with families; consolidate relations between school and families and
support the school mission and goals. The relationship and cooperation between
school and family is at the heart of Blue School success, rethinking teaching-learning
in ways that both school and families want.
Otha Thornton, President of The National Parent-Teachers Association (PTA,
2014) stated that families need to work with national and federal bodies to obtain
necessary resources for a relevant education. They are not only called upon to help
with homework.6
Also, Robinson (2016) reports that the Ministry of Education
issued a document, Partners in Education: A Dual capacity-building Framework
for Family-school partnership, (2013) emphasizing that the 4 Cs: Critical thinking,
Communication, Collaboration & Creativity need to be utilised and exploited for
effective learning. The model offers teachers opportunity to get to know families
and create a culture that welcomes participation. It guides interaction between
school and families for student learning, offering opportunity, regardless of
race, religion, gender, education level or socio-economic status, to participate in
education. Schools need to be trusted and capable of enlisting parental support,
encouraging and protecting children, acknowledging they also need to learn and
grow.
APPROACHES THAT HELP COMMUNICATION IN A
MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
Manytechniques,includingstylesoflearning,Gardener’s8intelligences,cooperative
learning groups and the flipped classroom can be applied in multicultural settings. It
is impossible to list all pedagogy approaches, but examples below give an overview
of some when addressing learning needs of this population.
AN EXAMPLE OF A UNIT BASED ON THE 8 INTELLIGENCES
This project took place in Spanish Classes, in John Adams High School (2004–
2005) with year 2 students.
R. MATTEUCCI
162
Project: Spring
Naturalistic Intelligence: students observe seasonal characteristics in the school
and neighbourhood, recording trees, flowers, grass and bushes. Note differences
in brown, dormant plants and those always green. List typical springtime
occurrences: climate and sky colour changes, meteorological events and flowers
into fruits. Discover how animals react to seasonal changes (hibernation-action).
Monitor how humans react: habit changes (dog-walking in the park, bicycle-
rides, going-out, dress-change).
Mathematical Intelligence: classify trees, flowers and leaves to different criteria:
shape, size and colour. Work on tree sets (one, few & many) from tall to small –
tallest/shortest; near/far.
Visio-spatial Intelligence: observe spring tree colours – leaves, sky, fruits. (It is
difficult to understand seasonal crops like fruits & vegetables because in New York
City a great variety is available all year). Divide colours into cold and warm, using
paintings to illustrate, noticing emotions evoked. Reproduce nature with collages or
drawings.
Interpersonal Intelligence: ability to cooperate in a group, experiencing roles,
respecting turns and helping those who have not understood. Project groups involve
everyone working on different tasks. Respect rules.
Musical Intelligence: Distinguish sound and silence: wind sound (light/strong);
silence in school corridors before the bell and voice noise at class changes. Listen to
‘Primavera’ by (Vivaldi); research spring songs.
Bodily-Kinetically Intelligence: reproduce in the gym a movement session related
to wind and clouds. Draw pictures showing leaf and flower wind movements. Mimic
people walking against the wind.
Existential Intelligence: understanding need to respect nature. From simple
advice not to damage leaves or flowers, to wider discussion of CO2 emissions and
global warming.
Linguistic Intelligence: develop word competencies: What is nature like in
spring? What is the temperature? What sports are played in spring? Write an essay
about what your 5 senses experience in spring.
After activities, students can assemble work in portfolio sections. A list of
activities with guidelines provides support. Display ‘art’ and ‘science’ work in
prime locations (graphs & maps with explanations & essays in another section,
together with research papers). Computer activities and civic values can be
added. To complete the project (linked with Queen’s College Education Faculty)
support and commitment of physical education, music, science and maths
teachers is important, developing work at different times. Not all teachers are
happy to give up ‘chalk & talk.’ A project about ‘summer’ took place in the school
vacation with students enjoying and gaining much from it. Portfolios showed
great improvement!
COMMUNICATION IN THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
163
COOPERATIVE LEARNING
Students from minorities need to feel self-confident, with effective communication
and social skills, if they are to integrate their culture with others, work better with
peers and reflect on diverse learning styles. David Kolb (1983) identifies 4 phases
in learning and students need to recognise experience, reflection and theory with
opportunity for practical application. Teachers must show students how they learn, by
helping them improve and develop the 4 learning styles. Once achieved, they will learn
to cooperate better with others. These 4 steps are based on Galileo’s scientific method:
close observation, reflection on data, theorisation, speculation and application for
reproduction. Everyone is unique with no one recipe for teaching-learning.
COOPERATIVE GROUPS
Hill Collins (1990) adapts Kolb’s method, suggesting that learning styles lead
to effective multicultural teaching if students are divided into cooperative
groups. She suggests they compile a learning styles inventory, comparing
results with others for a class summary. Encourage pupils to question if they
do not understand, as this will show an interest in the other as distinct from the
self. Create relationships fostering cooperation and trust. Pupils know they are
different but realise they can count on one another.
Gagliardini (2008) says cooperative learning improves the sense of belonging in
a context. It promotes integration, increases motivation and curiosity and decreases
problems like aggression, bullyboy attitudes and lack of attention. Students should
be encouraged to reflect on the dominant culture and its influence on minorities; on
similarities and clashes between and within cultures, using multiple learning methods to
achieve understanding of complex problems. Pupils learn that there are forms of speech,
body language, values, preferences and behaviours associated with different cultures.
They are exposed to differences within and across cultural groups to help dismantle
stereotypes. The goal is to make them aware that they all have a unique learning pattern
with subjectivities and sensibilities that interact with people and groups around them.
Also, Hill Collins maintains that with everyone’s effort, classrooms can become
living laboratories, to negotiate individual or group differences and ideas about
content and concepts. The path is not easy, but observing similarities and differences
while listening to different arguments produces effective learning for everyone. The
need to understand your own biases and those of others is important here.
COOPERATIVE LEARNING: A CASE STUDY OF JOHN ADAMS HIGH SCHOOL
In a multicultural class, cooperative learning creates problems and identified ones of
colleagues, at John Adams High School, New York were: hesitance in approaching
students of different cultures; behaviour differences between female and male
students of different cultures; attitudes towards female teacher authority, amongst
R. MATTEUCCI
164
male students from different cultures (perceived as macho behaviour) and use of
mother tongue, as opposed to English, in work groups. Students from different
cultural backgrounds (mainly Indian, Pakistani, & Muslim) feel vulnerable in class
and tend to stick together rather than join other groups.
PROBLEMS
Communication (oral & written) is limited when compared to native students
amongst Afro-American and 2nd-3rd generation Hispanos. Natives are reluctant
to form groups with those from different cultural backgrounds and aggressive
terms are used frequently to refer to one another. The project reported that when
natives were the majority, others felt constantly attacked, with a low tolerance for
criticism. Therefore, they acted defensively and always justified actions, assuming
the role of victims. Females of a different culture often lied to cover mistakes.
Males were too proud to show weakness. There was constant tension between
groups. It took time to reach a point of trust. There was a tendency to create a
sub-group, who spoke their own language (Indi, Pakistani or Arabic) so creating
additional problems and making the majority feel outsiders. In the native opinion,
this was producing problems preventing collaboration. In less than two decades,
the school has changed from an Italian to an Indian and Hispanic area.
COMMENTS
In this situation the goal was to establish and maintain a positive atmosphere,
requiring focused attention and commitment. Activities aimed to develop social
behaviours promoting effective cooperation. The best results followed films
(Freedom Writers, Dangerous Mind, In the Name Sake) and a video of the wedding
of an Indian girl (14 year-old student), who we did not know was married. On work-
sheets students had questions about films, the best characters (male/female) and why
they were important for story development. Also, they had to explain which episode
struck them most forcibly. The film, In the Name Sake, had an episode in which
the main character cut his hair after his father’s death, which impressed the native
students most. Showing films and documentaries helped acceptance of diversity
with different ways to approach and solve problems.
FLIPPED CLASSROOM
Help them (students) to do things by themselves as the essence of independence
is to be able to do something for one’s self. (M. Montessori (Italian Medical
Doctor & Educator))7
Sams & Bergman (2007) used the term flipped classroom to describe a change from
traditional teaching, as students encounter information outside class from technology
(e.g. video). It defines a new way of using time. Conventional class-time is devoted
COMMUNICATION IN THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
165
to transmitting and assimilating knowledge through exercises, strategies, problem
solving, discussion and debates. Historically this has been the way to learn.
Maria Montessori (1870–1952, p. 7) suggested learning takes place when
interested, involved and committed, developing through autonomous action.
She suggested that: ‘Education is a natural process carried out by the child and
is not acquired by listening to words only, but by experiences in the environment
and culture… It is absorbed by the students through individual experiences in an
environment rich in opportunities and work.’ Montessori reflects on traditional
teaching – talking to an audience that may pretend to follow, but minds wander
elsewhere. Her message is to develop student autonomy, at the earliest possible stage.
It is said that there is not a verum until ready to build and develop it into a factum.
Socrates, at the Athens school, taught in dialogic partnerships, with scholars
partaking in both questions and answers. He believed that teacher monologue, to
a student audience, made it difficult for them to clarify, comment and challenge.
Heraclitus, in Anatolia, taught distrust of polymathía, when we know (or believe
we do) things without fully understanding them. The Italian pedagogue, Lombardo
Radice, dreamed of a classroom that was not an auditorium of mutes, but a
laboratorium of people, collaborating with the teacher supporting activities.
There is much literature on the flipped classroom method with studies by Wieman,
Deslauriers and Shelen (2011) as well as Houston and Lin (2012). It is a method
suitable for our times, as students can watch and replay videos or use any technical aid
for learning outside formal classes. This supports curriculum topics, giving freedom
to learn at a pace and with methods suiting the learner. In a multicultural setting, with
difficulties in understanding and expressing, this method proves most effective. Class
time can focus on discussion, to clarify and apply knowledge in practical, meaningful
ways. Maglioni and Biscaro (2016) say that teaching must be transformed into an
active process with students as protagonists in building meanings.
COMMENT
In the teaching-learning process, the flipped classroom is a possible way to achieve
many goals. Students feel responsible for their own learning. Teachers occupy
once more their position as a source of reference to guide individuals learning by
themselves. Educators must be more aware of intercultural communication issues,
using simple language forms, at a pace slower than is their norm, so students can
grasp content. They would be no more custodians of knowledge but ones who
simplify and clarify learning. In an era of mass communication, much information is
available to be exploited through different channels and in many ways.
SUMMARY
Venturi published an article on La Rebubblica: ‘La psicologia spiegata ai bambini’
(Psychology explained to elementary school children) on 4 June, 2017. I was astounded:
R. MATTEUCCI
166
students were taught theories of Freud and Lacan, which I had been proposing for a
long time. In the last 3 years, 250 students at the elementary school ‘Don Marella,’on
the outskirts of Bologna, had received Psychology lessons throughout the academic
year. This experiment mirrors the teaching of Philosophy to young children in
some contexts. Dott. Jaja Pasquini, philosopher, psychology researcher and project
leader, together with Dott. Emilio Rebecchi, psychiatrist and psychotherapist, say
that this is the first time it has happened (to their knowledge) in Italy.
Encounters take place in class with flipped rules: students can sit where they
want (even on the teacher’s desk); they do not need to raise hands to intervene;
there are no right or wrong answers and no marks are given. Student interest has
been astonishing, says Dott. Pasquini, who affirms that they did not enter classes as
therapists,buttointroducefundamentalprinciplesofpsychology,suchasperception,
emotions, feelings and human relations. This is a similar strategy developed in the
Communication Opportunity Group Scheme (COGS & Sage, 2000). COGS gives
an opportunity for group collaboration and encourages aspects of communication
that unpack the psychology of thinking, feeling, acting and expressing. Pasquini
and Rebecchi suggest that they have been interested in transferring knowledge, not
remedies and cures.
One teacher involved says that the experiment can be summed up in a sentence
from a six-year old boy: “Maybe things do not appear as they are.” This statement
is the title of the book that reports on the project experiences. Pasquini relates
that they started with simple concepts and moved on to more difficult ones, such
as mentalisation (what lies behind what we think, do & say in terms of emotions
& experiences). Rebecchi says the goal is to give children tools to express their
affectivity and grow relationships with others in an increasingly homogenised world.
In the researchers’ opinion, school must not aim at standardization but value and
explore the capacity children have to see aspects of life without prejudice. They
work on the perception of the ‘self’ relating to the world, in terms of emotions,
teaching how to recognize differences. Importance is given to the ‘group.’A 5-year
old girl said: “A group is a sky that has the stars in common.”
MAIN POINTS
•	 School is a bubbling container of personalities, behaviours & myths, with friends
& factions forming a myriad of subcultures, which make a positive or negative
local difference
•	 Multicultural classrooms are the norm with culture & communication possible
barriers to learning
•	 Trust is the biggest challenge for teachers with communication the key to this
•	 Management of multi-cultural classes needs flexible approaches which
acknowledge differences
•	 Cooperative group learning benefits from strategies such as the flipped classroom
with students given control over learning
COMMUNICATION IN THE MULTICULTURAL CLASSROOM
167
NOTES
1
	 John Buchan, 1st Baron Tweedsmuir (1875–1940) born in Perth, Scotland, was a Scottish novelist,
(his most famous novel, The Thirty-Nine Steps) was a historian and Unionist politician, appointed
as Governor General of Canada, in 1935. He continued writing during his time, but also travelled
through Canada, including the Artic, to promote Canadian unity. He felt his duty was to know all
Canada and its various types of people. He encouraged a distinct Canadian, national identity and
unity, trying to demolish linguistic barriers. Buchan maintained that ethnic groups should retain their
individuality and make a contribution to national character.
2
	 Decimus Iūnius Iuvenālis, known in English as Juvenal, was born in Aquinum (modern Aquino near
Rome) and a Roman poet, active in the late first and early second century AD. He is the author of the
collection of at least 16 satirical poems, known as the Satires, in the dactylic hexameter verse form.
These poems cover a range of topics. The Satires are a vital source for study of ancient Rome from
many perspectives, although their comic expression makes it problematic to accept the content as
strictly real. The VIth Satire is famous and devoted to Roman women of his period. Biographers agree
in assigning to his life a period of exile, maybe in Egypt, presumibly due to his insulting an actor
ranked highly at Court. The Emperor, who exiled him, could have been Domitian or Trajan.
3
	 Plutarch was a Greek Platonist philosopher and essayist, known as the author of Parallel Lives, in
which he paired Greek and Roman statesmen and military leaders. He spent time travelling through
Egypt and Rome, where he was appointed to several important positions. He enjoyed great fame for
his ideas on education. He was born in Chaeronea, Greece, in 45 AD and died in 120 AD in Delphi.
4
	 Blue School was initially an informal parent-run playgroup, by the founders of the Blue Man Group and
their wives, when their children approached pre-school age. It has developed as an educational model,
combining elements of other approaches with unique ones of its own. It offers a dynamically balanced
education for curious young people from 2–12 years. In April 2012, The New York Times published a
feature on how Blue School integrates scientific research into child development within the classroom,
writing that ‘the school has become a kind of national laboratory for integrating cognitive neuroscience
and cutting-edge educational theory into curriculum, professional development and school design.’
It was also featured on a March 18, 2012 episode of CNN’s: The Next List. https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Blue_School (www.blueschool.org/;www.blueschool.org/founderletter/; https://en.wikipedia.org/
wiki/Blue_School) accessed, 10 April, 2017.
5
	 Mirror neurons are a particular class of visuomotor neurons. They were originally discovered in area
F5 of the monkey premotor cortex. When a particular action takes place and is observed by another
individual (lmonkey or human) the mirror neurons of both are activated. (Di Pellegrino et al., 1992;
Gallese et al., 1996; Rizzolatti et al., 1996a), University of Parma.
6
	 Parents Teachers Association (PTA) is the biggest and oldest American association committed to
protecting and upholding the rights of students in the field of education.
7
	 Montessori Education is an educational approach developed by the Italian physician and
educator Maria Montessori (1870–1952). She developed her ideas while working with mentally
challenged children. Her first school, La casa dei bambini, was opened to working class children, in
the slum of San Lorenzo in Rome. Her approach was characterized by an emphasis on independence,
freedom within limits and respect for a child’s natural psychological, physical, and social development.
Effective communication was core to this philosophy and encouraged in systematic ways in the
approach.
REFERENCES
Claxton, G. (2001). Wise up: Leaning to live the learning life. Stafford: Network Educational Press.
D’Alonzo, L. (2016). La differenziazione didattica per l’inclusione: Metodi, Startegie, Attività. Trento:
Centro Studi Erickson.
Deslauriers, L., Schelew, E., & Wieman. C. (2011, May 13). Improved learning in a large-enrolment
physics class. NCBI Resources, Science, 332(6031), 862–864.
Gagliardini, E. (2008). Abilità cognitive. Trento: Centro Studi Erickson.
R. MATTEUCCI
168
Gorski, P. (2004, December). The poverty of deductivism: A constructive realist model of sociological
explanation. American Sociological Association, 34(1), 1–33.
Gupta, A., & Fergusson, J. (Eds.). (1997). Culture, power, place: Exploration in critical anthropology
(pp. 1–32). Durham, NC: Duke University Press.
Hari, J. (2015). Chasing the scream: The first and the last days of the wars on drugs. London: Bloomsbury.
Hidalgo, N. (1993). Multicultural teacher introspection. In T. Perry & J. Fraser (Eds.), Freedom’s plow:
Teaching in the multicultural classroom. New York, NY: Routledge.
Hill-Collins, P. (1990). Black feminist thought. New York, NY: Routledge.
Houston, M., & Lin, L. (2012). Humanizing the classroom by flipping the homework versus lecture
equation. In P. Resta (Ed.), Proceedings of society for information technology & teacher
educational international conference, 2012 (pp. 1177–1182). Chesapeake, VA: AACE. Rertieved
from http//:www.editlib.org/p/39738
Ianes, D., & Canevaro, A. (2015). Buone prassi di integrazione e inclusion scolastica: 20 realizzazioni
efficaci. Trento: Centro Studi Erickson.
Juvenal. (1998). The sixteen satires (P. Green, Trans.). London: Penguin.
Knefelkamp, L. L. (1999). Introduction. In W.G. Perry, Jr. (Ed.), Forms of ethical and intellectual
development in the college years: A scheme (pp. 11–38). San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.
Kolb, D. (1983). Experimental learning: Experience as the source of learning and development.
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.
Ladson-Billing, J. (1997). The dreamkeepers: Succesfull teaching for African American students. San
Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.
Maglioni, M., & Biscaro, F. (2016). La classe capovolta. Trento: Centro Studi Erickson.
Malik, K. (2013). Multiculturalism. Retrieved 20 March, 2017 from https://www.foreignaffairs.com/
articles/western-europe/March 2015
Olson, K. (2009). Wounded by school: Recapturing the joy in the learning up to old school culture.
New York, NY: Teachers College Press.
Rizzolati, G., & Craigero, L. (2004). The mirrow-neuron system. Annual Review of Neurosci, 27,
169–192.
Robinson, K. (2011). Out of our minds: Learning to be creative (2nd ed.). Chichester: Capstone Publishing
Ltd.
Rousseau, J. (1762). Emile: Treatise on education. Amsterdam: Jean Neaulme Libraire.
Sage, R. (2000). Class talk. London: Network Continuum.
Thornton, O. (2014). President of The National Parent-Teachers Association–PTA (2014), in an article,
Families: An essential ingredient for student success and excellent school (HuffingtonPost.com, 29
April 2014).
Tomlinson, C. (2010). The differentiated classroom: Responding to the needs of all learners. Alexandria,
VA: ASCD.
Venturi, I. (2017, June 4). La psicologia spiegata ai bambini. La Repubblica.
Willer, B., Hofferth, S., Kisker, E., Divine-Hawkis, P., Farquhar, E., & Glantz, F. (1991). The demand and
supply of child care in 1990: Joint findings from the national child care survey (1990) and a profile
of child care settings. Washington, DC: National Association for the Education of Young Children.
SECTION 3
TEACHING SUCCESS ABILITIES
This section focuses on approaches used to develop success abilities for both
learning and life. Research suggests that emphasis on developing formal
communication, which involves selecting, organising, structuring and presenting
quantities of information, in spoken and written forms, is necessary to acquire
higher-level thinking and language forms that enable information processing and
performance. The ability to assemble thinking and the linguistic forms that express
this is known as formal, narrative language and must be developed to allow
literacy and numeracy to advance. Many students leave school today with limited
narrative levels, which affect life chances. The aim is to stress the importance of
understanding formal thinking and language development, so that they can be
promoted in all class teaching. Chapter 9 provides the background and rationale
for communicative teaching. Chapter 10 considers a research study that looks how
communication, between students themselves and with their tutors, still remained a
problem showing that the issue had not been resolved in earlier formal education.
Introduction of formal communication teaching impacted significantly on both
personal and professional practice.
R. Sage (Ed.), Paradoxes in Education, 171–207.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
ELIZABETH NEGUS AND ROSEMARY SAGE
9. RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
To my sons David and Michael Negus, who were a great source of support and
encouragement during my Doctoral studies. Professor Rosemary Sage has been
a tower of strength and a real role model to me. This DFCOT experience has
opened several professional doors and has made a major difference in my life.
 – Elizabeth Negus
ABSTRACT
Developing communicative teaching requires awareness of the process of moving
from the informal ways we converse outside schools and colleges to the formal
ones demanded in group learning. Not only is knowledge of the oracy-literacy shift
vital, but attitudes that value this dimension in education, encouraging language
competencies to develop these within teacher training. This knowledge and skill
in communicating can then transfer to students and be facilitated across curriculum
subjects. The chapter begins with looking at how our history and literature gives us
the context to reflect on how people interact and communicate effectively with each
other in many different circumstances. The chapter continues with an appraisal of
how to teach the communicative approach, developed from research projects that
have aimed to improve this quality in both teachers and learners.
INTRODUCTION
This chapter considers the history of teaching communication from the time of the
Greeks and Romans until the present day. Early approaches were based on philosophy,
while more modern strategies incorporate knowledge from medicine, psychology
and linguistics, based on human mind and body growth and how the brain works to
process and produce information. Such input is important for successful relationships,
education, training and employment.
RESURRECTING THE LOST ART OF ORATORY AND RHETORIC
History teaches us that it is the great speech that moves people to effect change. It
was the Greeks and Romans that brought the Golden Age of Eloquence, with Pericles
(BC, pp. 495–429), the Statesman and General, credited with the first great speech
to be written for the public. The schools of Oratory (public speaking) and Rhetoric
E. NEGUS & R. SAGE
172
(discourse) showed how public (formal) speaking could be learnt and perfected to
engage audiences successfully. Oratory focuses on speaking performance and its
vocal dynamics to command attention and Rhetoric targets the power of words and
their symbolic, verbal presentations to make memorable impact. The written word
maps back on to knowledge of how words are spoken to create meaning and it was
the Greek and Roman belief that effective speaking produced effective learning.
Spoken words can arouse feelings, interests and passions which are fleeting, but
when recorded in writing give time for further, deeper reflection, review and
refinement of ideas.
Rhetoric is defined as the art of discourse, when a speaker/writer tries to
motivate, inform or persuade listeners for specific purposes. As a discipline for
formal study and civic practice, it has played a central role in European tradition.
It was defined by Aristotle, the Greek philosopher, who considered it a counterpart
to logic and politics as ‘the faculty of observing in any given case the available
means of persuasion.’ Rhetoric provides heuristics for comprehending, discovering,
legitimizing and developing arguments, such as Aristotle’s 3 persuasive audience
strategies – logos, pathos and ethos (the 3 discourse arts defined below).
The 5 rhetoric canons, following tasks in selecting and designing a powerful
speech, were codified in classical Rome: invention, arrangement, style, memory and
delivery. These are integrated into Sage’s model (2000a), developing communication
opportunity for all ages. Along with grammar and logic (dialectic) rhetoric
incorporates the 3 ancient arts of discourse (see below).
From Ancient Greece to the late 19th century, Rhetoric was central to Western
education, filling a need to train public speakers/writers to move audiences to
action with well-presented arguments. The word derives from the Greek ῥητορικός
rhētorikós and from the verb ἐρῶ erō, ‘I say, I speak.’From the 20th century onwards,
literacy has had major school focus and we have forgotten its dependency on high
levels of oracy.
Aristotle’s 3 Rhetoric Persuasion Modes of Appeal
Ethos Appeals to audience sense of honesty and/or authority
Pathos Appeals to audience sense of emotions
Logos Appeals to audience sense of logic
ETHOS
Ethos is a Greek word defining an accustomed place, custom or habit, equal to the Latin
mores and rooted in ethikos, meaning moral (showing moral character). To Greeks,
it is a state of being, the inner source, the soul, the mind and original essence shaping
all living creatures. Ethos is an appeal to a speaker’s authority or honesty, convincing
audiences that they are qualified to present a subject. This is done in many ways by:
RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
173
•	 being a notable figure in a study field, such as a university professor or
company executive
•	 having a vested interest, such as a relation to the subject in question
•	 using impressive logos (facts & figures) that show the audience that a speaker
knows the topic
•	 appealing to a person’s ethics or character
PATHOS
Pathos appeals to audience emotions and is not to be confused with ‘bathos,’ which
performs in a serious, dramatic fashion, but fails and so becomes comedy. Pathetic
events should not to be confused with tragic ones. In tragedy, a character brings about
their own downfall, but those invoking pathos often involve innocent folk, invoking
unmerited grief. Emotional appeal can be accomplished in many ways, by a:
•	 metaphor or story – acting as a hook to keep audience listening
•	 passion in delivery with emotional items in the speech/writing text
It is an appeal to an audience’s ethical judgment, in metaphor, simile, passionate
delivery, or even a claim that a matter is unjust. It can be powerful if used well,
but most speeches do not entirely rely on it and it is most effective when a sender
message connects with a value of the receiver.
LOGOS
Logos is important in philosophy, psychology, rhetoric and religion. Heraclitus
(BC, pp. 535–475) defined it in Western philosophy as the cosmos source and
order. The Sophists used it to mean discourse, with Aristotle applying the concept
of rational to the process. The Stoic philosophers identified it with the universe’s
divine, animating principle. When Judaism came under Hellenistic influence, Philo
absorbed it into Jewish philosophy. Logos is logical appeal, with logic derived
from it and describing facts and figures that support a speaker’s topic. Words are
a social matter, informing and persuading. Heidegger (1927) said that language
belongs to society before it does to the individual. The way a speaker or writer
manipulates conventions for a desired effect is a unique, creative act.
In Truth and Method, Gadamer (2013) expounds on how the meaning of literary
work is never exhausted. As it passes from one historical or cultural context to
another, new meanings are culled which were never anticipated by the author or
contemporary audience. Words enable the imagination to flow and are interpreted
within one’s own unique experience and culture.
Almost all Science Nobel Laureates engage in Arts throughout life to cultivate
creativity. They are 25 times more likely than the average scientist to sing, dance or
E. NEGUS & R. SAGE
174
act (17 times to be a visual artist; 12 times to write poetry/stories; 8 times to do wood-
working/other crafts; 4 times to be a musician, Van Thoen, 2014). This endorses
education that embraces both Arts and Sciences in all subjects. For example, stories
about number are popular, in some schools, to teach mathematics. In Japan, teaching
is based on real interests and needs and implemented in artistic ways. Children may
bake biscuits and decide from the batch how many each student can take home, to
make division meaningful. Japanese students perform 4 years above UK ones, so
this must be a successful strategy (Sage, Rogers & Cwenar, 2006)!
HOW LITERATURE HELPS REFLECTION
Literature (fact/fiction) helps us understand our world as it mirrors society concerns.
Studying past literature shows how and why the world has progressed to help us
learn from mistakes. Charles Dickens, a Victorian author, is a prime example. His
journal, Household Words, reflected the state in society, which was revealed in
novels providing a fascinating social history. In Hard Times (1854) Dickens brought
Victorian education to light. He wrote that a good education could be the bulwark
against ignorance, cyclical poverty and illegality. A second-class school bred
criminals, producing unimaginative, unthinking, machine-like pupils, only suitable
for factory work. Dickens cast this school type, in Hard Times, as an institution
that turned out lifeless factory-fodder, consigned to learning facts in a Lancashire
mill town run on utilitarian principles. The character, Thomas Gradgrind, follows
a utilitarian philosophy that reduced children to numbers and education to facts.
Gradgrind was the Coke Town School founder and a ‘man of realities, fact and
calculation.’ The opening passage outlines his philosophy of educating students:
Now what I want is facts. Teach these boys and girls nothing but facts. Facts
alone are wanted in life. Plant nothing else and root out everything else. You
can only form the minds of reasoning animals upon facts: nothing else will
ever be of any service to them. This is the principle on which I bring up these
children. Stick to facts, sir!
John Pounds, (1766–1839) in Old Portsmouth, is credited with initiating the
national Ragged School movement.Almost 200 years later, we see some UK schools,
with their diverse students, underperforming, because of the paradox of a one-size-
fits-all curriculum, regardless of student ability, interests, background, housing,
health and economics. While education is seen as a way to improve social-mobility,
this is rhetoric not reality. The anthropologist, Gillian Evans, in Educational Failure
and Working Class White Children in Britain (2006) shows:
…how the kinds of activities expected of children in schools fit with the way
middle-class parents expect their children to play and interact at home but
clash with the way in which working-class families care for and interact with
their children. To a degree, working-class resist the imposition of education
RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
175
and middle-class values because becoming educated would require them to
give up ways of being that they value. (p. 115)
In Britain, Further Education (FE) has been regarded as a dumping ground for the
working-class, to give them a second chance when they have failed in mainstream
schools. FE study is mainly for practical occupations, such as building, catering and
hairdressing. The Foster report (2005) examined FE political and personal issues.
Although students entering the sector believe that FE could improve job prospects
and security, many lack motivation as well as academic and personal competencies
(especially communication) needed to meet course demands and career prospects.As
the introductory chapters showed, the reduction of routine jobs, due to technology,
has meant that those from working-classes do not achieve necessary abilities to seek
higher education and employment. There is disillusionment today, because figures
suggest that UK immigrants are often better-skilled to achieve available jobs and
able to exist on low wages. The Foster report says the goal of education must help
people reach their potential, which has been deflected under policies, with a strongly
academic focus, not suiting all needs, interests and abilities.
REFLECTIONS ON 21ST CENTURY EDUCATION
Victorian and Modern education principles and practices are similar, with regard
to utilitarian goals and a focus on facts and not the feelings that would result from
creative, imaginative, communicative learning. Experts have commented on issues
dividing people, particularly social class. Bernstein (1971) saw class differences
exhibited in different linguistic codes: the elaborated one of middle-class groups and
the restricted one of the working-classes. An elaborated code is more formal, explicit
and flexible, enabling use in all social situations. It has many structural and vocabulary
options to enable people to use language in precise, concise, clear ways for meaning.
Speakers can differentiate ideas and explain them appropriately for audiences.
As such, it enables abstractive thinking (considering issues outside an immediate
context) and the type of language used in academic tasks, such as giving oral/
written reports. Therefore, it is a universal language that can speak to a general
audience effectively. Bernstein (1971) noted that to speak well an elaborated code
needs a formal education, with the style understood and addressed by teachers.
Many middle-class parents send children to independent schools to be taught formal
communication, as the competence necessary for higher-level work, such as giving
speeches, chairing meetings and leading teams. Sage (2000a) presents research
showing how communication training brings personal rewards.
In Dicken’s Hard Times, the working-classes communicated in a restricted
code. This depends on context and non-verbal input, like facial expressions, voice,
gestures and manner to convey meaning as words were limited. The lower-class had
2 sections: the working-class – labourers factory/farm workers and the poor, who
did not work for health or other reasons. Labouring work in Victorian times included
factory assembly work, cleaning and care-taking, washing and seam-stressing,
E. NEGUS & R. SAGE
176
chimney sweeping, mining and farm working (naming a few), with 85% of the
population involved in such jobs, but owning less than 50% of the land. The working-
classes endured a large tax burden of around £25 annually on average (Negus, 2016).
There was no time for education as they worked long hours to survive. Lives were
limited and so was their communication style, depending on mutual understanding
in context. The 2 styles are presented below:
SOCIAL CLASS IS WORKING-CLASS MIDDLE-CLASS
Spoken language is.. Context bound Less context bound
Meanings are…. Particularistic Universalistic
Principles are… Explicit Implicit
The Code is…. RESTRICTED ELABORATED
Bernstein argues that working-class language is mainly context specific – locked
into specific relationships in social situations and about predictable, mundane
affairs. This restricted code does not employ the sophisticated, extended structures
andidiomsoftheelaboratedcode.Culturesvaluepersonswhoengageandcommand
the attention of others through the quality and style of their language. In UK state
schools, little attention is paid to this formal language use, but it is cultivated in the
private sector, where public speaking exams and diplomas are frequently taken by
students. The College of Teachers’ staff, working on international projects, found
in some European countries that communication, rhetoric and philosophy were
school subjects. Students took a formal role in schools, like hosting and presenting
to visitors. This did not happen in the English schools that were visited.
Speech and language therapists (Sage, 2003) note that students with restricted
language also have restricted thinking and learning potential. The elaborated code
enables talk about events that are outside the immediate context and employs
imagination to picture ideas in words, as well as dealing with abstract concepts.
Teachers of students with restricted language note their limited explication and
specificity when speaking, relying on gesture, meaningful glances and voice-tone
to transmit information. Volume and pace are used more freely (one might say
elaborately).
Such gestures and non-verbal signals are understood by the group, but outsiders
would find it difficult to comprehend events. Bernstein noticed that language was
used to ‘signal social position’- with words used to connect rather than differentiate
people, like ‘you know’ and ‘init.’ These expressions unite people from within and
keep outsiders out. Using group common speech and gestures reaffirms membership.
An example is teenager versions of slang. Sage (2000a, 2003, 2010) gives examples
of students using a restricted code, who are disadvantaged on entering school, where
teachers employ an elaborated, formal style which is like a second-language to them.
Research at Leicester University (Sage, 2000a) showed that understanding teachers
RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
177
was the greatest problem for students, as many of them were learning in their second,
third or fourth language!
LANGUAGE AND SOCIAL COHESION
Language is vital for social cohesion and supported by 4 pillars to assist this process.
Hayneman (2003) says that to operate effectively they must work together and be
consistent. Organisations are:
•	 Educational: holistic policy for teaching and learning in schools, colleges &
universities
•	 Political: honesty & transparency of courts, legislatures and executive
government divisions
•	 Economic: quality of corporate governance, adherence to legal procedures &
ethical practice
•	 Social: share moral principles in the conduct of interest groups and voluntary
associations
Hayneman believed that educational institutions perform the following essential
functions:
First they teach the rules of the game – the interpersonal, political, social and
legal principles underpinning good citizenship, the obligations of political leaders,
the behavior expected of citizens and the consequences;
Second, schools and universities are expected to provide a classroom experience
roughly consistent with those citizenship principles and individuals of different origins;
Third, school systems are supposed to provide an equality of opportunity for all
students;
Fourth, school systems are supposed to incorporate the interests and objectives
of many different groups and at the same time attempt to provide a common
underpinning for citizenship. (pp. 29–30)
This is powerful rhetoric and more difficult to implement in reality now that UK
schools are coping with a range of cultures, who do not speak English at home.
Durkheim (1922/1956), the sociologist, wrote that society ‘can survive only if there
exists among its members a sufficient degree of homogeneity; education perpetuates
and reinforces this homogeneity by fixing in the child, from the beginning, the
essential similarities that collective life demands.’ This is challenging in multi-
cultural settings, as many naturally wish to preserve their national identities and
customs and do not want to adopt the English style of living. Integration is only
possible in a limited way.
When the national culture predominates, these functions are more easily realized.
Foreign people respect that they have less influence and so work for communication,
connection and integration. In multicultural societies, operating with their own
norms (Sharia Law for Muslims) social cohesion is threatened. How education
E. NEGUS & R. SAGE
178
functions for improving this becomes an issue. What is the right choice and solution
to the problem – monism or pluralism? The former assumes we only acknowledge
the national culture and the latter maintains that we must acknowledge all.
There is a case for universalism, with everyone developing their full potential and
specific needs addressed, but accepting and respecting the history, laws and customs
of the resident country. In schools, with students learning in a foreign-tongue,
there is a huge problem as concepts are different across languages and much is lost
in translation. It makes sense to focus on effective levels of informal and formal
communication in the host nation language (English), using a model matching
thinking and language development levels, so that students can progress. These are
success abilities, with research stating they are fundamental to learning. A teaching
strategy is now presented.
TEACHING FORMAL COMMUNICATION
Brigman (1999) reviewed 50 years of research on teaching success abilities,
concluding that effective formal communication was vital for improving education
and behaviour. This study echoed the work of Smith (1984), in the UK, observing
that students were chatty with peers outside class but when inside clammed up,
performing below task expectations. This was because students could not shift
between informal and formal communication, but when given attention there was
significant improvement in engagement, behaviour and achievement. This section
looks at teaching that focuses on communication for learning, researched at London,
Leicester and Liverpool Universities and supported by the Medical Research Council,
The National Council for Vocational Qualifications and Human Communication
International. England, Ireland, Wales, Japan, Cuba, Poland, the Czech Republic,
France, Italy, Australia and Canada are using the strategy in some contexts.
A COMMUNICATION OPPORTUNITY GROUP STRATEGY (COGS)
COGS teaches transferable (success/coping) abilities for all ages, based on a study
(1980–1990) evaluating why 300 students in England were failing in school when
teachers thought they were normally intelligent. These youngsters had adequate
informal communication for daily demands but not the formal, literate level needed
for higher-level thinking, comprehension and expression. This requires assembling
quantities of information from verbal and non-verbal sources for problem solving,
describing, reporting and explaining. Traditional psycho-linguistic assessments
did not tap into these abilities. From this study, the COGS evolved to assess and
teach formal communication, based on a model considering the sender, message,
receiver within a context and acknowledging personality, attitudes, presentation,
performance and opportunities. The National Vocational Research Council observed
work with children and commissioned this for adults (1995–1997). Studies have
proved its effectiveness, expressed by:
RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
179
Participants:
‘I can follow lessons now. I’m not afraid of asking or answering questions.’
(8 year old)
‘I love the COGS style of learning and look forward to the sessions. I talk better
and certainly have speeded up my understanding. The whole experience has been
brilliant.’ (16 year old)
‘COGS was introduced into school by our Head-teacher. Some of the teaching
assistants asked if they could have a group, which I joined. It has totally changed
my thinking. I have more knowledge of what is needed to learn well and feel more
confident about my approaches to others. It is the best thing I have ever done and
improved both my work and home life.’ (teaching-assistant)
Teachers:
‘We ran a COGS group for talented and able students, who were underperforming.
Thirty of them attended a ten hour course over one term and the results having
been astounding. They have suddenly become energised and engaged and in stead of
hitting the B grades are now achieving A+. All thirty students have shown immense
improvements.’ (head of department – senior school)
‘After seeing the benefits of COGS in both behaviour and academic achievements
we now have a policy that all children have this opportunity within their curriculum.’
(head teacher)
‘We have used the COGS model to differentiate lesson tasks and have
taught the class-room approach with quite amazing results. The behaviour and
engagement of the students is better and the teachers using the strategy are
saying their life is now much easier.’ (primary school teacher)
‘We introduced COGS to our TEFEL groups and the framework has really
accelerated their progress. The fact that speaking and writing are linked through
the narrative levels has been a completely new idea and has worked well for our
students. This is a very well-thought-out approach.’ (TEFEL teacher)
Parents:
‘Since my daughter started COGS she has not looked back. Suddenly from school
being a chore and a bore it is something she enjoys. Her behaviour has improved –
she is less disruptive in class and her work is now above average rather than below.’
(father)
‘My son is a slow learner but has really picked up after attending COGS.
Confidence has improved and he talks more and understands things much quicker.
I am so relieved!’(mother)
‘Our first language is Russian and my son has a hearing problem. COGS has given
him the extra opportunities needed for him to access the curriculum. He is a different
boy now after attending the group. He enjoys school rather than hates it.’ (mother)
E. NEGUS & R. SAGE
180
UNDERSTANDING INFORMAL AND FORMAL COMMUNICATION
Consider 2 communication forms:
What Do You Notice about Both Exchanges?
The first is unplanned, informal and reliant on context for understanding. It is
impossible to establish meaning from words alone which derives from place and
props (shopping conventions, bag of flour, shop layout etc.) with communication
implicit, depending on shared understanding.
The second is different, formally reporting events away from their context. It could
be a spoken/written explanation, as at this literate level of thinking and expressing,
the organisation of ideas is key to understanding the idea-sequence. Language is
explicit for picturing the scene – locating context, characters, actions, reactions and
results, called narrative thinking and structure. It is impossible to report all details
so understanding relies on ability to infer, refer and cohere information from many
sources. What are these information and opinion gaps? One must imagine how
bread is made (by hand or machine); ages of characters; sex of assistant (Chris
could be male/ female) and manner of the exchange. We must visualise the scene for
understanding and know who is referred to from words she, both and us. Assembling
information (cohere) provides the story-gist for retention.
Narratives are learnt in formal talk events, like meal-times, when people review
– telling, retelling, reporting, explaining and discussing events. Acquiring literate,
informative talk is the step into secondary language activities of literacy and
numeracy, which depend on conceptual, declarative and procedural knowledge and
their causal connections learnt from speaking. Studies showed that family-eating
1.	Context:Asupermarket.Aconversation between Rosie and the Shop Manager.
Rosie: Excuse me – have you any more of these? This seems the only one left.
Manager: Oh! I’ll just check. Chris, can you see if we have any more? … I’m
so sorry – this is the last one. We’ll have our next order on Thursday.
2.	Context: Report on a visit to the supermarket in order to buy flour for bread-
making.

Having been away for a week, I noticed on return that we had run out of
bread-flour. We make our own bread, so I rushed to the supermarket, in the
next village to buy ingredients. On searching the shelves I could only find one
bread-flour bag, so approached the till and asked the manager whether they
had more stock. She called Chris, an assistant, who went to look but returned
to say that the flour had all gone. Apparently, it is popular and goes as soon
as hitting the shelves. A delivery in 3 days meant stocks would be available on
Thursday morning, so I thanked both staff, paid for the last bag and resolved
to visit the supermarket early on delivery day.
RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
181
is now rare, happening on the hoof or in front of the television. Many reported
that it was only at Christmas that everyone sat at a table and practised extended
conversation. Frenetic lifestyles mean less opportunity for formal talk. We eat fewer
meals together, watch television rather than talk, with visual images dominating, so
we do not gain primary understanding from words. Habits of communicating largely
by email, chat rooms and text messages mean we are not experiencing the nuances of
exchanges, from non-verbal sources, giving words affective meaning. Lack of face-
to-face exchanges not only restrict sharing ideas, reviewing and refining thoughts,
but hamper full understanding of events, leading to poor judgment and decision-
making. Doctors attribute increasing mental problems to a decline in extended talk
and its role in helping us cope with problems by discussing feelings and gaining
fresh perspectives.
Developing Informal Communication
We develop communication from interpersonal dialogue and in order to move
from this context-based activity to de-contextualised, classroom talk and teacher
monologue, the following moves must be in place:
CHECK LIST OF FIVE CONVERSATION MOVES
Can the student:
1.	Answer a closed ‘what, who, where, when’ question demanding a specific
response?
2.	Contribute an idea (even if not entirely appropriate) showing turn-taking
ability?
3.	Listen & demonstrate maintenance moves (such as eye contact for 75% of
time – smiling/nodding)
4.	Answer an open ‘how’ or ‘why’ question demanding an explanation?
5.	Initiate a new idea in conversation that fits with the topic under discussion?
If moves 3–5 are seen, a student can follow a spoken/written narrative event.
Listening attention (move 3), with forward posture and eye-contact, suggests
concentration and cooperation in exchanges. If attention wanders, it shows boredom
or inability to follow the discourse. Answering open questions (move 4) requires
expression of cause and effect and linking events. ‘Esme, why are you wearing
your thick coat? I’m wearing it because it is cold today.’ This schema assembles
connected talk/text. Initiating a new idea (move 5) shows topics can be connected
coherently. It demands an overview and understanding of parts that fit to make the
whole. This ‘top-down’ and ‘bottom-up’ process is vital to complete tasks. Think
of reading. Getting the story gist is the ‘top-down’ process, as is telling/writing a
report. Phonics is a ‘bottom-up’process, focusing on details and synthesizing sounds
E. NEGUS & R. SAGE
182
(phonemes) into words and sentences. This can proceed from concrete to abstract
(reading & retelling a story) or vice-versa, when building sounds into words. It is
analogous to inductive thinking, gathering information until a conclusion is drawn
from accumulated details. ‘Top-down’ processing equates to deductive thinking, with
the pattern sought and details checking the hypothesis. This shows the link between
thinking and language structures. Therefore, observing that conversation moves are
in place is necessary, before attempting formal talk as in the strategy below.
THE COMMUNICATION OPPORTUNITY
GROUP STRATEGY
WHY COGS? A JUSTIFICATION
Communication is misunderstood. Jill asked Jim to: ‘put the ball in the basket,’
which stumped him as the ball was invisible. When told: ‘find the ball in the
box – put it in the basket,’ he responded. Jim had to solve the problem like this:
‘the ball’s to be put in the basket – can’t see it – may be in the kit box. Yes, I’ll
get it and put in the basket.’Understanding and expressing a sequence (narrative)
requires assembling facts and using imagination to fill information/opinion gaps.
Only 25% of face-to-face communication is effective and our success depends
on this.
COMMUNICATION IS MORE THAN
EXCHANGING WORDS!
Speaking and writing reflect language, history, culture, customs and context.
Voice tone, manner and gestures convey meaning, prescribing how relationships
are handled according to personality, intelligence, attitude and opportunity.
Written words map onto knowledge of how they are said for grasping meaning.
Communicating styles vary across places, people and positions. Mr. Sugimine,
from Tokyo, at a London meeting where principles are agreed but details left
to subgroups, thinks this deceives, as everyone should decide. UK performance
targets are insane for Arabs, because only God dictates futures. Actions speak
louder than words and are less distorted than speech. Take appointments: after
RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
183
waiting, you are kept a distance when interviewed, on the other side of a desk,
indicating a lesser position and value. Subtle communication forms converge
in a complex culture of word and action exchanges that make meaning. So,
Mr. Bill, the lawyer, wears smart suits, drives a BMW and lives in a £500,000
house, communicating high education, salary, status and lifestyle, influencing
interactions with people.
MESSAGE SYSTEMS WITHIN COMMUNICATION:
TYPE AND CHARACTERISTICS
Personality Speech, voice, gesture and manner reflecting background, intelligence,
personality and values
Interactions Arrangements in society prescribing roles and status in exchanges
Sexuality Male and female behaviour leading to differences in the way we respond to
one another
Lifestyle Feeding, caring, clothing and housing arrangements conveying who and
what we are
Exploitation Use of context and materials supporting what we say and do
Space Strategies used reflecting needs of a situation such as a louder voice in a
large lecture hall
Defence Techniques to fend off hostile forces and keep our positions in interactions
Time Cycles and rhythms of living that influence patterns of activity
Learning Adaptation to demands reflecting ability to cope effectively in situations
Maturity Balanced approaches to situations showing ability to take on board other
viewpoints
HOW WE COMMUNICATE AND LEARN:
INFORMAL AND FORMAL EXCHANGES
Informal communication is unplanned, equal dialogue between people with
chances to clarify and control information. Formal discourse is planned, unequal
monologue, with one in charge and others more passive, giving less opportunity to
control and clarify what is said. A jump exists between private dialogue and public
monologue – moving from shared, supportive, implicit hom e exchanges to unshared,
independent school/workplace ones. Public talk selects and structures topics for
diverse audiences, projecting voice dynamically over distance with gesture support.
Using conventions, acting appropriately and responding to audience feedback are
vital, needing expert teaching. Life used to be less pressured, with opportunities
to narrate experiences. Today’s busy existence allows no time for talk, so we fail
to develop effective listening and speaking. COGS supports learning/workplace
needs.
E. NEGUS & R. SAGE
184
LEARNING IS COMMUNICATION: INFORMAL, FORMAL AND TECHNICAL
Informal learning uses unconscious imitation from listening and observing how
others make relationships or needs known. A detailed communication system passes
through generations without articulating rules. If imitation is interfered with informal
learning is hindered.
Formal activities are taught by rules, rewards and punishment molding behaviour,
such as: ‘Girls, don’t do that.’ Voice-tone indicates the behaviour is unthinkable.
Formal patterns are learnt when mistakes are made and corrected in a binary yes-no,
right-wrong character generally unquestioned.
Technical learning results from teaching large numbers, depending less on
student aptitude and suitable models, but more on how material is analysed, selected
and presented. Critical factors are ability to process/produce narratives and grasp
whole meanings. Experiences bring awareness to adapt and change for perfect
performances. Complex processes are not reduced to simple, trainable habits, in
the COGs, but focus on systems through which we communicate. Generational
understanding transmits through speech, forming concepts central to mental growth.
Speaking sorts and assembles reality, develops thinking and regulates behaviour.
Perception, attention, memory, imagination, consciousness and action are products
of social, communication experiences.
The COGS arose as we often have to perform at a higher-thinking level in
literacy and numeracy than is possible orally, with resulting problems. Many
struggle to process/express narrative events and so COGS assists narrative thinking,
understanding and expression, over 10 levels, not tied to age but using zones of
potential development. There are 7 levels of idea development (8–10 target
professional requirements), within principles of clarity, content, convention and
conduct, accounting for intelligence, attitude, opportunity and personality. Ideas
progress as follows:
Goal Idea development Description
1 Record Produce a range of ideas
2 Recite Arrange simple ideas coherently
3 Refer Compare ideas
4 Replay Sequence ideas in time
5 Recount Explain ideas – why? How?
6 Report Introduce, discuss describe, evaluate ideas
7 Relate Setting, events, actions, results, reactions
There are 5 tasks for each level: 4 oral and 1 written, at the same narrative level,
reflecting the ratio of these modes in life. If written activities match narrative levels of
spoken ones, learners seldom have difficulties. Specific abilities and core competencies
are targeted in various communication acts. Games relax and support, in circle-format,
RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
185
to aid interaction.Atell, show, do and coach approach includes systematic, sequenced-
teaching with review, demonstration, guided practice and supportive feedback –
proved effective in raising performance. To share talk meanings there is group and
independent activity, based on what we do co-operatively can later be done alone.
The setting is collective, with everyone addressing learning together; reciprocal
as they listen to each other and cumulative, building ideas into coherent enquiries.
The atmosphere is supportive, helping free speaking, without fear or embarrassment.
After a diagnostic session, the narrative level is decided. There are 8 teaching hours
and a final assessment for a certificate. Teaching has been intensive over a day/week
with research showing no differences in implementation. Participants may work on
different narrative levels, as sessions contain contact activities and individual/pair
work on specific tasks, with group feedback. Record sheets, specifying tasks for
each narrative level, may be used. Narrative levels can differentiate subject tasks
in large classes. Large/small groups are successful with learning/social difficulties,
talented & able, ESL & management trainees.
EXAMPLES OF TEACHING TRANSFERABLE COMPETENCIES USING
A COMMUNICATIVE MODEL
Teaching examples demonstrate communicative teaching, within personality,
intelligence, attitude and personality attributes that help/hinder interaction. Tasks
and questions, to elicit the 7 narrative levels, give chance to observe and understand
how ideas develop and are organized for different purposes. The diagram shows a
theoretical model.
Model by Sage (2000)
E. NEGUS & R. SAGE
186
The model aims to include the main aspects of the communication process
(content, convention, conduct, & clarity), judging the relevance of the message for
a particular audience. It takes account of factors influencing the message, such as
personality, intelligence, attitude and opportunity. Since the main use of the model
is to define formal narrative structure and language levels, these are focused on in
the assessment process, using an interview and story re-telling task, regarded as the
best way to evaluate cognitive-linguistic ability levels. Therefore, the model has
been used in research, clinical and educational practice to judge formal language as
adequate for classroom learning. Critics, therefore, would see the COGS approach
as just considering one type of cognitive-linguistic use (formal). It was developed to
assess this particularly, as conventional tests did not provide this knowledge, with a
Medical Research Council project stating this as a reason why intelligent children
failed in school (Sage, 2000b).
Class format for teaching transferable abilities: Target group: 7 year
upwards
(Approach has been used with nursery pupils – a time guide is provided if
needed)
COGS Narrative Levels differentiate Class Tasks with Story/Video
Clips for Stimuli
Lesson aim: Coping with problems by communicating & cooperating with
others
Topic: How to survive & cope with disasters. The Asian Tsunami was chosen
because of available Web resources. (Taught in English & Citizenship classes but
used for any subject)
Justification: Groups have diversity, so narrative levels are effective for
differentiating tasks for different thinking levels. Learners observe (informal
learning) uses of thinking & communication and from presentations develop
judgements on effective performance. Groups have an observer role, reporting
on effectiveness.
Resources: Stories, pictures, video clips are available on
(http://www.uk.peeplo.com/web/the-boxing-day-tsunami/3/). The National
Geographic.co.uk has a Disasters Quiz. Packs for 7 groups (all narrative levels)
include task instructions and support information (stories, pictures, pens, paper,
card, glue, sticky tape) for presentations.
Organisation: Introduce topic by story/video clip of the disaster. Groups of
4 (3 for tasks & 1 observing/reporting) work at 1 narrative level, presenting
outcome to everyone (3 minute limit including observer report). Review learning
and feedback main points for development.
RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
187
Topic: The Asian Tsunami: Transferable competencies: Communicating,
Cooperating, Coping
____________________________________________________________
Using COGS in class
____________________________________________________________
Friendship groups work well, but facilitators may match tasks to learner- ability
with less-able assigned to task 1 and most-able to 7. Distribute task-folders to
tables and allot participants as appropriate.
____________________________________________________________
Timetable for a 1 hour lesson (change this if inappropriate for your setting)
____________________________________________________________
8 min. – Introduction: After greetings, introduce ideas about disasters and how
to cope and survive them by communicating and cooperating with others. Throw
the topic out to the class, asking about disasters faced and solutions. Explain
the Tsunami as a dreadful disaster (Christmas, 2004). Show a story/film clip for
stimulus – from the Web. Ask everyone to close eyes & picture a scene from the
film. In pairs, describe this to one another. (Visualisation is vital – words are
mapped back into a mental picture for understanding)
____________________________________________________________
22 min. Introduce tasks & observer feedback role, stressing time limit & how
groups must decide a schedule for a class presentation. (2 min. introduction + 20
min. for groups to complete task)
____________________________________________________________
21 min. Group presentations (3 min/group including observer comment). Elect a
time-keeper. All must perform in the presentation, even if just holding a picture/
poster/miming (Morse signalling: task 3).
9 min. Review main points from discussion:
To solve problems – need to communicate & cooperate with others, share &
organise ideas as required. Ask for reflections, reinforcing the experience as
teaching themselves by swopping ideas.
____________________________________________________________
Observers: 1. Rank talkers: most>least. 2. Note good points & those for
development. 3. Note leaders/ followers.
____________________________________________________________
E. NEGUS & R. SAGE
188
Note: Groups select part of their task for presentation. E.g. Task 4 – choose 1
component of the ‘Kiss of life’sequence. This gives chance to mime, extending the
communicative repertoire. Time-keeping is vital for concise messages. (Resource
preparation -1 hour. Pictures & task-cards plastic-covered for permanence) Using
narrative levels to differentiate tasks for diverse abilities is effective, using
observation, coaching and formal presentation. Watching others helps learning,
providing good/bad models for critical judgements.
ASSESSING OUTCOMES
Final presentations, when all students participate, indicates individual and group
performance. Feedback is encouraged from everyone, emphasizing positive aspects
and areas for development.
TASKS: Allot tasks to groups. Note: By end of primary school, children should
have achieved all narrative levels but many leave education not reaching above
Replay level.
Record (produce a range of ideas)
1.	List items needed for survival. Decide the 3 most urgent to provide (Make a
poster)
Recite (arrange ideas but not necessarily in time-order)
2.	What are views and feelings about the disaster? (Make a poster)
Refer (compare ideas to judge similarities and differences)
3.	Compare 2 message systems: Morse code & Heliograph. (pictures/explanation
on the Web)
Replay (sequence ideas appropriately in a time sequence)
4.	How do you revive a drowning person with the kiss of life? (pictures on Web/
first aid book)
Recount (explain ideas – How? Why?)
5.	Alicia is trapped on a roof with water still rising. She is injured & needs
carrying to safety. Explain a fireman’s lift. (Give a picture stimulus –
available from Web)
Report (introduce, describe & discuss ideas)
6.	Report on the Tsunami for a news programme. (stories/pictures as stimuli)
Relate (setting, events, actions, results and reactions)
7.	In a picture of the Thai fishing village, Ban-Nam-Khaem, tell the story of the
swimming goggles.
(A Newspaper picture but others available on the Web)
RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
189
Keycompetencies:thinkinglevels;verbal&non-verbalexpression;initiative;learning
how to learn; team cooperation and commitment; social engagement; leadership &
management; numerical and graphical presentation in tasks; culture and citizen issues;
personal coping strategies; presentation and performance issues; awareness of many
systems, when communicating with others.
ASSESSING BASE-LINE COMPETENCIES IN SMALL GROUPS
Aim: A diagnostic session based on COGS Level 1: Developing Ideas: Time: 45
minutes.
Justification: Small groups allow close observation of students, eliciting base-line
information on thinking-speaking and monitoring communication & cooperation.
This can be part of the curriculum or taught in school clubs.
Resources: bean bag/soft ball, an attractive box containing small, interesting objects.
Small Group Format (children/adults – not more than 8 participants)
Everyone completes a personal profile (if relevant). Participants look at these
before forming a circle (appendix 2). They are useful for self-awareness, reflection
and discussion if relevant. A General Attainment Profile (GAP) + questionnaire are
available for use.
1.	Welcome: (5 min) ‘Welcome. We’re meeting for 10 hours (1 each week) to
develop talking abilities. Today we’re thinking about TALKING AND SHARING
IDEAS. There’s a letter in the circle to be read. (If there are no good readers,
ask for it to be given to you). Content: ‘Hello, we’re meeting to talk and share
ideas. Choose a partner to consider what makes good talking.’ Participants
write/draw 1 idea on a ‘post-it’ to stick on a poster headed ‘TALK’. Pairs share
ideas: targets overview-narrative content.
2.	Introductions: (5 min) Throw a bean bag/soft ball to someone, asking them
to say their name clearly for all to hear, using the first sound in a word to
describe themselves (e.g. I’m Rosie & I’m ridiculous) – targets performance
criteria for core competencies – clarity – (Appendix 1).
3.	Object box: (20 min) Provide a box of small objects. Play music (if you like) and
stop at intervals, and the one with the box selects an object to talk about for 2
minutes. Model with a key. Hold it up, saying: Here is a key. It’s gold-coloured
and made of hard metal, feeling cold. Notice the long shaft, serrated end and
round top for holding. (1) It’s used to lock and unlock a door for security. (2) You
insert the serrated end into the door lock, turning it to the left to open or right to
close (3) It fits my house front-door. It is a Mortise key. I had a flat with a Yale
key, which was easy to break in with a credit card, slotting it between the door and
lock. (4) This lock and key type is not as safe as a Mortise one. (5) When I had a
house, Mortise locks were fitted on outside doors. (6) I find keys a bind. They have
a habit of getting lost, so I hope technology invents something more convenient
in the future! (7).
E. NEGUS & R. SAGE
190
	 (Demonstrates narrative levels 1–7 + clarity, content, conventions and conduct.
Narrative levels may not be in development order within the sequence of what is
said/written).
	 People express ideas at their thinking and expressive levels, although nerves may
interfere. Numbers in the model-script refer to narrative levels demonstrated:
range of ideas used (1=Record); organised coherently (2=Recite); comparison
made (3=Refer); sequence shown (4=Replay); explanation evident (5=Recount);
reporting and comment (6=Replay) and full narrative structure shown with
context, events, actions, reactions (7=Relate). After show and tell, participants
write/draw what they have said. Mark each written performance on the check-list
(Appendix 3) according to criteria (Appendix 2).
4.	Recap: (12 min) Participants are in pairs again for 3 minutes, with another
‘post-it’ to talk and represent feelings on the session. Share views, adding to
the poster as a record for review next session. Reinforce purpose – to exchange
ideas, make them clear and interesting (CLARITY); select them for the task
(CONTENT); use rules to organise messages (CONVENTION); and respond
to questions appropriately (CONDUCT).Targets narrative structure (content).
Read a story. Discuss issues: coping, communication, collaboration, diversity,
acceptance etc.
5.	Next session: (3 min) Ask participants to bring an interesting object for the box-
game and a poem/text that demonstrates a number of different ideas.
The next 7 lessons include an introduction game, the box activity and a task to
introduce narrative levels. The stimulus is literature, in this example, but can be
varied according to the subject taught.
1.	Level 1: Record: Range of ideas encouraged playing the box game (as above).
Using a poem brought in by participants – work on a choral presentation, focusing
on performance clarity.
2.	Level 2: Recite: Developing ideas for a story – discussing their arrangement.
Focus on content and how to organise ideas coherently.
3.	Level 3: Refer: Using comparisons by introducing objects/people/stories to
compare. Game: choose a partner. Compare each other. For next time, bring
photos to show different stages of your life. Focus on similarities and differences
and how to organise content in talk/text.
4.	Level 4: Replay: Sequencing ideas using recipe/story/instructions. Game: photo
sequences. Focus on conventions required for different communicative activities.
Develop ideas for a story.
5.	Level 5: Recount: Explaining ideas – explain how something works. Game: from
object box – describe in turns how something works (e.g. scissors, watch). Play
a telephone game in pairs – with one making an apology – focus on conventions
for this.
6.	Level 6: Report: Describing and Discussing using an object (cup) and how it
is used. Ask each to describe a journey made and reflect on this. Put group into
RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
191
pairs with a newspaper and sticky tape/pins to create a fashion object to model
(e.g. hat). Describe to the group. The audience discusses the creations. Focus on
conduct and how to behave in specific communicative situations.
7.	Level 7: Relate: Context, characters, actions, reactions: Look at a story-poem and
pick out context, characters, actions, reactions. Encourage group to perform this.
Focus on conduct and how to use feedback from others to adjust communication.
8.	The final session consists of re-testing students, as in the first diagnostic one, by
selecting an object from the box to talk about for 2 minutes. Results are recorded
on forms. Example for Level 1 in Appendix 3.
Key competencies: thinking levels and verbal/non-verbal expression; initiative;
social engagement; team cooperation and commitment; leadership and
management; numerical and graphical presentation in tasks; culture and citizen
issues (from stories); personal coping strategies; learning how to learn; presentation
and performance issues; awareness of systems involved in communicating with
others.
Note: Participants were encouraged to bring in literature selections. An example
from a group of 13-year-olds, who developed all 7 narrative levels within the
session is in Appendix 4. You might want to work at just one level in a group,
especially with youngsters and so each week concentrate on tasks to develop
either clarity, content, convention, conduct. Participants use content relevant for
them and choose their own activities for final presentation.
EXAMPLE OF A SESSION FOLLOWING A DIAGNOSTIC ONE FOR GROUPS
FOLLOWING A NARRATIVE PROGRAMME
(8 participants in a circle)
The format can be adapted for any age. Games are important for adults, encouraging
a playful mood.
Lesson aim: to develop aspects of CLARITY
1.	 Welcome by the leader.
2.	 Letter in the middle of the circle addressed to participants, giving brief details
about them. Someone opens this and reads contents. Ask everyone to close
eyes and imagine a screen on their forehead, observing what images arise. Ask
everyone to describe these. (Develops visualisation, which is often lacking in
learners but vital for understanding. Tell participants not to worry if no images
arise, but encourage them to observe changes, like colour flashes. This evaluates
mental state from positive/negative images described).
3.	 Introduction: Bean-bag game: Throw it to someone who says their name clearly
and mimes something they like to eat. This focuses on non-verbal aspects.
Continue until all have had a turn.
E. NEGUS & R. SAGE
192
4.	 Show and tell: Play music and hand round a box of objects. When music stops
the one with the box selects an object, saying 3–10 things about it (number
according to age/ability).
5.	 Kim’s game: Use objects from the previous game. Place 6–12 on a tray, with 1
minute to view. Cover – remove 1 object. Reveal objects on the tray again, asking
participants to draw/write the missing one. This helps attention and memory.
6.	 TAKE A CHECK: ‘What have we been doing?’ Ask participants to recall.
7.	 Sending messages: The Persian megaphone activity. Introduce this, saying in
ancient times, before telephones, people in Persia (now Iran) climbed their
outside stairs onto flat roofs at sunset, to call up friends using megaphones.
Select 4 participants, who roll up a square card for a megaphone and take up
position in the 4 room corners. A message is passed round. (e.g. Meet me in the
Tick Tock Club at 6.15). Ask observers to say what they noticed. (e.g. speaker
looks at the listener; voice louder over distance; words slower & clearer). This
focuses on speaking in large spaces – teaching voice projection.
8.	 Clear sounds: Give each participant a sound-name from the plosives: p, b, t,
d, k, g. Call out 2 sounds and the respective ones change places. Make sure
voiceless sounds, p, t, k, are said without the ‘er’vowel on the end, so they learn
that English sounds have a voiced and voiceless equivalent (b/p; d/t; g/k). Build
up to 4 sounds for changing. Vary with an all change instruction.
9.	 Silly sentences: Use a sound from the previous game to make up a silly sentence,
with each word beginning with this. Start with someone’s name (subject), a word
describing them; an action they make, finishing with an object and describing
adjective. (S – Silly Susie sells soggy socks). Select a leader to beat out the
sentence-rhythm on their knee, starting quietly and slowly- each repetition is
louder and quicker. This practises voice dynamics – pitch, pace, pause, power
and pronunciation.
10.	 Musical poems: Pass round a box to music. When it stops, the one with the box
takes out a verse (not longer than 4 lines) and reads it, or chooses someone to do
this with them. Everyone repeats line-by-line until all have had a turn.
11.	 Recap: Can you think of things we must do to make poems clear and interesting
to listen to? (Posture slightly over balls of the feet to fall in the gravity line
and extend lungs fully; head straight to produce voice well; louder, slower
voice for important words; pause before main ideas; open mouth for vibrant
sound).
12.	 End: Recall activities and emphasise importance of clear, interesting messages.
Explain that after 8 lesson-hours everyone will present practised activities for a
certificate. This session focused on performing words for meaning (clarity). Ask
everyone to bring a verse to perform next time. Introduce core competencies
(Appendix 1) and specific ones for saying a poem (Level 1: – accurate recall;
ability to convey the mood). Next time, the goal is message content. Ask
members to bring a photograph/picture to discuss.
RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
193
Note: The sessions introduce 4 communication aspects for practice – clarity,
content, convention and conduct. Sessions=45–60 minutes, but pre-schoolers
have a shorter time with less activities.
RUNNING GROUPS
Learning Principles
Co-operation, empathy, active-learning, learner-centred tasks and message-oriented
communication are fostered in COGS. ‘Message-oriented communication’ was
coined by Black and Butzkamm (1977) referring to verbal and non-verbal language.
This includes not only words but gestures, facial expressions, voice-tone, manner,
appearance and props (pictures/objects), which are involved when exchanging
comments, facilitating knowledge and understanding. COGS contrasts with teaching
geared to skill-getting, which targets specific exercises and responses, focusing on
the product rather than the learning process. Elements of communication (sound,
word/sentence patterns) may need reinforcement. Two devices help communication:
1.	Information-gap experiences help participants exchange information to find
solutions in guessing-games, problem-solving tasks and retelling experiences.
2.	Opinion-gaps are created from controversial ideas, encouraging participants to
share feelings, describe experiences and defend views in discussions.
Learning is effective if participants have relevant, fun activities. COGS meets
learning needs, using information and opinion-gap experiences to develop thinking
and language.
Small Groups
Activities are best carried out with 8–12 members, giving each a chance to speak and
providing for working pairs/threes. Mixed ages can be successful (in an after-school
group, the youngest is 8 & the oldest 17).There are parent and teacher groups, running
alongside student ones, with joint-assessment sessions reinforcing shared learning.
Personalities must gel and all must co-operate with chances to work with others of
similar abilities and interests. It is vital to have good models of group behaviour and
performance, as an aim for everyone. Skilled members can assist (support someone
reading) sharing knowledge and understanding to achieve new skills.
Groups should operate at least once-weekly for an hour. If participants are in
school, consideration must be given to timing of sessions, as distress results if
they miss favourite lessons. COGS is part of the curriculum in English, modern-
languages, psychology and citizenship, in some schools, with all students having
entitlement. In high-achieving countries they take this model seriously, with COGS
translations in German, French and Japanese, as a result of the Silent Children project
(University of Leicester). COGS levels are best taught in a 10 hour programme,
E. NEGUS & R. SAGE
194
working towards a certificate, at a time when tests/examinations do not interfere.
Certificate assessment is essential to the process, as it is the product arising from the
teaching process, creating awareness of aims and feedback. The classroom approach
is effective to differentiate tasks according to cognitive-linguistic levels.
Organising Groups
He drew a circle that shut me out. Heretic, rebel, a thing to flout. But love and I had
the wit to win and we drew a circle that took him in (anon).
A circle encourages easy listening, gives equal status to participants and
encourages everyone to respond and speak. The facilitator encourages patience and
tolerance, modelling acceptance and non-judgement. Plan for:
Physical space, disturbance of others, group size, participant age, interest and
language level, elements for study, resources available, as well as background and
cultural issues that might affect interaction.
Rules should be negotiated: listening when someone speaks; passing a turn if one
wants; not reminding others of what they should do; no put-downs. The group sets
criteria important to them, with leader suggestions when appropriate. It should be
established that all are equal, with the leader joining in activities.
Session format: 3 Sections:
1.	Contact games – to form the group dynamic and bring enjoyment, relaxation
and experimentation. These help lose self-consciousness, stimulating interest and
motivation
2.	Communication activities – practise tasks for appropriate narrative levels.
Participants may work at different levels and divide into sub-groups for specific
task preparation
3.	Closing period – review the session, orienting participants for the next meeting
The goal is spontaneous, creative use of communication & to achieve this:
•	 Focus on specific elements needing development: syntax and sound pronunciation
in fun games
•	 Teach appropriate competencies by modelling, reinforcement and review
•	 Ensure equal participation of everyone
•	 Adjust tasks for age, level and interest
•	 Promote healthy competition, praising efforts
•	 Encourage participants to vary activities by introducing own ideas
Things to note! DO…
•	 not force participants to join in but let them observe and help
•	 not persist with a dud activity, encouraging participants to come up with an
alternative
•	 stop while everyone is still enjoying things
RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
195
•	 allow an interval before reintroducing a popular game or come-up with another
version
•	 keep teams together to build group spirit
Importance of General-knowledge
Dealing with information and opinion gaps is vital for assembling overall meaning
of events, depending on adequate levels of general knowledge to achieve this.
Guidelines for pre-school, primary and senior pupils are useful checks, based on
studies of what they should know, along with assembly of ideas.
Pre-school General-knowledge
1.	How old are you?
2.	What animal barks?
3.	What do you use a spoon for?
4.	When do you go to bed?
5.	What is bigger – a mouse or a cat?
Assembling ideas: What things do you do when you get up in the morning?
Primary School General-knowledge
1.	When is your birthday?
2.	What do you call a baby cat?
3.	What colour is grass?
4.	Where does milk come from?
5.	Write the number just below 30?
Assembling ideas: How do you cross the road?
Senior School General-knowledge
1.	What is the capital of England?
2.	Who is the Prime Minister?
3.	How many countries in the British Isles?
4.	What continent is India in?
5.	What do you call your Mum’s father?
6.	What does Christmas day represent?
7.	Why do we eat fruit and vegetables?
8.	What are the points of a compass?
9.	Write nine thousand and eighty three and a number smaller than this?
10.	 How many colours in the rainbow?
Assembling ideas: Can you retell a funny story?
Training to teach COGS: Contact Rosie Sage (hucomint@aol.com).
E. NEGUS & R. SAGE
196
TEACHING LEVELS: A PLAN
1.	Grasping the 7 Narrative levels
After reading this information (and feeling confused!) you first need to grasp
narrative levels. Try out the show and tell activity, in the diagnostic teaching session,
on some victims! Using the record sheet inAppendix 3, learn to observe the narrative
thinking levels present when you ask someone to talk about an object. Also, use the
general knowledge questions and narrative assembly task, in the last section, on a
pre-school, primary and senior pupil to compare with peers. Use the Communication
and General Attainment Profiles in Appendix 1, to gain ideas of strengths and areas
for development amongst an age range. Were there surprises here?
2.	Principles of Communication: Clarity, Content, Convention, Conduct
These are aspects of form, content and use of communication that are taught, with
one usually focused on in each session. Can you define these terms? We are not used
to thinking about them!
Clarity – refers to voice dynamics of pitch, pace, pause, power and pronunciation
that establish meaning of words. Posture, gestures and facial expressions demonstrate
feelings and attitudes. Evidence shows that if these are taught in poems/reading
aloud, comprehension improves, as awareness of non-verbal aspects giving words
meaning.
Content – the material of the message (topic), depending on knowledge and how
to present it for various audiences.
Convention – refers to language rules, governing how the sounds, words,
sentences and narratives are formed and social rules, governing communication in
different contexts (paying for shopping involves informal, spontaneous exchanges,
whereas a public presentation is informative talk with a formal structure – beginning,
middle & end).
Conduct – refers to your manner, bearing and attitude in an interaction. It is
behaviour, by which others judge you and decide whether what you say will be
accepted as credible. It is an underestimated aspect, ignored at our peril.
3.	Aspects of Communication Behaviour: Personality, Attitude, Intelligence and
Opportunity
Observe a communicative activity, reflecting on how an individual’s personality,
attitude, intelligence and opportunity affect the exchange. These aspects help/hinder
the effectiveness of communication and must be accounted for in interaction. Keep
a journal to note down thoughts about issues.
4.	Implementing the Approach
Principles are soon grasped, when carrying out a programme using narrative
levels. Try Level 1 first – it can be used with children/adults, to give a feel of how
narrative levels build cognitive and linguistic complexities. Use the suggestions
RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
197
and try out one’s own versions as appropriate. If you use narrative levels, to
differentiate tasks for large groups, it is easier to consider these first and plan
tasks for development rather than fitting activities to the 7 cognitive-linguistic
stages. The first lesson taught was with little notice, because of an ill colleague. It
took 1 hour to prepare and worked well. Laminated pictures and instructions are
a resource now borrowed!
5.	Support Structures
There is on-line support for the teaching approach with certificated/leisure
courses building knowledge & understanding. Contact hucomint@aol.com.
Useful books are Class Talk, Lend us Your Ears, Inclusion in Schools & Meeting
the Needs of Students with Diverse Backgrounds (Bloomsbury).
SUMMARY
This chapter has considered issues illuminating thinking and language behaviour.
Models, like the COGS, aim to put the sender, message, receiver transaction
into a context which considers the situation and the characteristics of those in
the communication exchanges. This model is complex and difficult to simplify,
but reminds us that communication is dynamic, with many interacting variables.
Research indicates that the development of communication cannot be left to chance
and specific teaching, that appreciates the shift between informal and formal
exchanges and the move from oracy to literacy, is the key to effective, successful
activities that depend on the quality and level of linguistic transmission.
MAIN POINTS
•	 Modern theories of communication define the contextual as well as the personality
and cognitive aspects of thinking, processing and expressing language
•	 The ability to understand communication and its breakdowns is the key to
effective teaching
•	 Educators need to appraise the conversational moves of learners to evaluate
whether these are sufficient to support formal, narrative speaking, reading,
writing and numeracy
•	 Research shows that formal narrative thinking and language requires teaching to
be fully effective for personal and academic success
•	 Narrative language is best taught, in a developmental model, so that learners do
not have gaps in knowledge and skills
•	 If educators are trained to assess informal and formal language, they can design
tasks and activities that reflect narrative levels and encompass all ability levels.
If students present and share knowledge and skills, this allows those with less
abilities to learn from others, who have achieved the necessary competencies
E. NEGUS & R. SAGE
198
•	 Students fail to learn if the level of linguistic exchanges is above or below their
learning, needs so the study of language and communication must be central to
teaching and learning
REFERENCES
Bernstein, B. (1971). Class, codes and control: Theoretical studies towards a sociology of language
(p. 125). London: Routledge & Kegan Paul.
Black, C., & Butzkamm, W. (1977). Sprachbezogene und mitteilungsbezogene kommunikation im
englishunterricht. Praxis des Neusprachlichen Unterrichts, 24(2), 115–124.
Dickens, C. (1854) Hard times. Oxford: Oxford University Press. (Reprint 1989)
Durkheim, E. (1922/1956). Durkheim, Émile (1974/1953). Sociology & philosophy (D. Pocock, Trans. &
J. Peristiany, Intro.). Toronto: Free Press.
Durkheim, E. (1982). Preface Ed.2. The rules of sociological method and selected texts on sociology and
its method (S. Lukes, Introd. & W. Halls, Trans., pp. 34–47). New York, NY: The Free Press.
Durkheim, E. (1994). Social facts. In M. Martin & L. McIntyre (Eds.), Readings in the philosophy of
social science (pp. 433–40). Boston, MA: MIT Press.
Durkheim, E. (2007). The rules of sociological method (1895). In S. Appelrouth & L. E. Desfor (Eds.),
Classical and contemporary sociological theory: Text and readings (pp. 95–102). Thousand Oaks,
CA: Pine Forge Press.
Durkheim, E. (2009). [1953]. Sociology and philosophy (D. Pocock, Trans. & J. Peristiany, Intro.).
London: Taylor & Francis, & Routledge Revivals.
Eagleton, T. (1983). Literary theory. An introduction. London: Blackwell.
Evans, G. (2006). Education failure and working class White children in Britain. London: Palgrave
Macmillan.
Foster, M. (2005). Realising the potential: A review of the future role of further education colleges.
Nottingham: DfES Pub.
Gadamer, H. (2013). Truth and method. London: Bloomsbury Academic.
Heidegger, M. (1927/1962/1977). Sein und Zeit (Being and time). In F. W. von Hermann (Ed.),
Gesamtausgabe (Vol. 2, J. Macquarrie & E. Robinson, Trans.). London: SCM Press. (Re-Translated
by J. Stambaugh, 1962/1996, Albany, NY: State University of New York Press.)
Heyneman, S. (2003). Education, social cohesion and the future role of international organizations.
Peabody Journal of Education, 78(3), 25–38.
Negus, E. (2016). Submission for the award of Doctoral Fellowship of the College of Teachers (DFCOT).
Section: Comparison of Victorian and Modern UK Education.
Sage, R. (2000a). Class talk. London: Network Continuum.
Sage, R. (2000b). The communication opportunity group scheme. Leicester: University of Leicester.
Sage, R. (2003). Lend us your ears. London: Network Continuum.
Sage, R. (2010). Meeting the needs of students with diverse backgrounds. London: Network Continuum.
Sage, R., & Cwenar, S. (2005). Base-line assessment of students entering a senior school. Leicester:
University of Leicester. (Education Action Zone)
Sage, R., Rogers, J., & Cwenar, S. (2006). Study 1: Dialogue, Innovation, Achievement & Learning
project (DIAL). A UK-Japan initiative to develop the 21st Century Citizen, Leicester University and
The Women’s University of Nara, Japan.
Van Thoen, L. (2014). Great inventors, entrepreneurs and scientists more likely to be artists. Retrieved
December 1, 2014, from http:/blog.freelancersunion.org/2014/01/02greatinventors…
RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
199
APPENDIX 1: CORE SPOKEN & WRITTEN COMPETENCIES
Note: all the assessments were devised for an MRC project 1978–1988 and an
Oxford Evaluation 1997–2007.
Spoken Competencies
•	 Physical awareness: effective use of space and posture control
•	 Effective use of facial expression and body gestures
•	 Effective use of voice: pitch, pace, pause, power and pronunciation
•	 Appropriate syntax and grammar use
•	 Appropriate vocabulary and use of words
•	 Awareness of audience needs and ability to adapt information (relevance/quantity)
•	 Ability to hold audience interest and convey meaning
•	 Confident, pleasant manner
•	 Appropriate time organisation
Written Competencies
•	 Clean, neat appearance
•	 Well formed letters/graphic forms, spaced appropriately
•	 Relevant content, quality and quantity
•	 Accurate punctuation
•	 Appropriate syntax and grammar
•	 Appropriate vocabulary
•	 Clear, concise expression of ideas
•	 Imaginative ideas that convey meaning
•	 Appropriate structure and logical order
•	 Ability to convey personal views
APPENDIX 2: PERSONAL PROFILE
About me! Write name, address, telephone and birthday. Youngsters can copy or
trace these if they are unable to produce them unaided. The rest of the information is
a matter of choice – pictures and/or writing are acceptable.
E.g. Mary Beaton, Scots Corner, Fir Tree Road, East Hampton, EH1 5AE: Tel:
0166 510444
About me! I am grown up, with a husband, son, daughter and four little grandsons!
My home is in a village near Easthampton and our family owns pets. We have a
dog, Basil, and a puppy called Bay. There are two ducks, called Black and White,
because of their colours. Our house is 500 years old with a thatched roof and an
acre of garden. I enjoy travelling and meeting different people.
E. NEGUS & R. SAGE
200
How do you feel about yourself and the way you communicate?
For use with mature participants to increase self-awareness, providing a measure
before and after teaching
Name:				Date of birth:			Date:	
If a statement about life is mostly true write ‘T,’or if false or not usually true (75%)
for you, write ‘F.’Try to answer all statements.
1.	 I am generally satisfied with my life.
2.	 I feel I have many good qualities.
3.	 I am often lonely.
4.	 I am generally upset by criticism.
5.	 I set my hopes low to avoid disappointment.
6.	 I delay things rather than deal with them immediately.
7.	 I am generally patient with other people.
8.	 If someone is rude to me I let it pass by.
9.	 I find it difficult to say ‘NO’ to demands made on me.
10.	 I take charge of things if I have a chance.
11.	 I do not like change and variety in my life.
12.	 I am always well organized and on time for events.
13.	 I find it difficult to finish off things I have started.
14.	 I worry about making a good impression on other people.
15.	 I find it difficult to relax.
16.	 I make decisions regardless of other people’s opinions.
17.	 I like an ordered pattern to life.
18.	 I keep an open mind about things.
19.	 I like activities that involve mixing with other people.
20.	 I do not find it easy to show people I like them.
21.	 I make a positive impression when I talk.
22.	 I do not find it easy to look at my audience while speaking to a group.
23.	 I enjoy giving a talk in public.
24.	 Some words are harder than others for me to say.
25.	 People sometimes seem uncomfortable when I am talking to them.
26.	 I dislike introducing one person to another.
27.	 I often ask questions in group discussions.
28.	 I find it easy to control my voice when speaking.
29.	 I do not talk well enough to do the kind of work I would really like to do.
30.	 I am not embarrassed by the way I talk.
31.	 I talk easily with only a few people.
32.	 I talk better than I write.
33.	 I often feel nervous when talking.
RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
201
34.	 I find it hard to talk when I meet new people.
35.	 I feel confident about my speaking ability.
36.	 I wish I could say things as clearly as other people do.
37.	 Even though I know the answer I fail to give it because I am afraid to speak out.
38.	 I hesitate when asking information from other people.
39.	 I find it easy to talk to people on the telephone.
40.	 I forget about myself soon after I begin to speak. Copyright of Sage 2000
General Achievement Profile (GAP)
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3
Personal
Qualities
Consideration
Motivation
Sometimes
considers/helps
others
Shows some
interest/
persistence
Maintains
courtesy/
consideration
with support
Maintains
interest/
persistence with
support
Behaves
courteously and
considerately
always
Responds with
motivation and
persistence
Social
Qualities
Accepting
responsibility
Working
independently
Working in
groups
Needs support
to accept
responsibility
Needs step-by-
step guidance/
support
Needs support/
guidance in
groups
Accepts
responsibility
when duties
defined
Works
independently
with general
support
Responds but
does not initiate
in groups
Accepts
responsibility
using initiative &
judgement
Works
independently from
instruction
Works
constructively
initiating ideas &
action
Decision
Making
Attaining
information
Planning
Problem solving
Evaluating
results
Needs guidance
to find
information
Needs
prompting
to prepare
activities
Accepts
situations
without
criticism
Relies on others
to assess results
Uses standard
sources
independently
Chooses the
best way to
tackle tasks
Assesses
problems &
seeks own
solutions
Assesses results
with help 
Seeks & gathers
information from
many sources
Shows originality
in creating new
plans
Evaluates & solves
complex problems
Assesses results
& identifies
improvements
E. NEGUS & R. SAGE
202
Communication Listening
Talking
Reading
Writing
Some ability
to listen to
instructions
Makes
appropriate
replies to
questions
Reads &
understands
short, simple
text
Writes clear,
short, simple
text
Listens
and retains
information
Initiates,
questions, uses
maintenance
moves
Reads/
understands
variety of
written forms
Writes
descriptively
and coherently
Listens, retains
& analyse
information
Fluent describing,
explaining,
negotiating with all
Selects/judges
complex written
evidence
Discusses &
evaluates concisely
Performance Following
instructions
Using
equipment
Accuracy/
neatness
Safety
Follows simple
spoken/written
instructions
Uses simple
equipment with
help
Sometimes
does accurate/
neat work
Remembers
safety
instructions
Follows multi-
step spoken/
written forms
Selects &
uses suitable
equipment
alone
Produces
mainly
accurate/neat
work
Recognises
risks
Follows complex
information easily
Uses equipment-
identifying/
rectifying faults
Produces
meticulous work
Acts to reduce risk
Numeracy/
Information
Technology
Using numerals
Using signs/
diagrams
Using a
computer
Uses basic
counting/
number
concepts
Recognises
everyday signs
& symbols
Uses keyboard
& programme
with help
Uses basic
techniques to
solve problems
Uses maps,
simple diagrams
& timetables
Uses word
processing to
create/retain/
retrieve
Calculates
percentages, ratios
& proportions
Uses/interprets
graphs, charts &
tech. drawings
Uses spreadsheets,
internet & stats
packages
APPENDIX 3: DIAGNOSTIC CHECKLIST: PRE & POST COGS INTERVENTION
Name:__________ Date of Birth___________ Dates: ________________
TASK: TALKING ABOUT AN OBJECT (2 minutes time limit)
RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
203
USE A TICK OR CROSS TO INDICATE WHETHER LEVEL IS PRESENT OR NOT
Narrative Level Pre-
Test
Comment Post-
Test
Comment
Record – range of ideas (10 ideas for seniors)
Recite – organisation of ideas – not
random expression (e.g. ideas about colour
together)
Refer – compare with other ideas (e.g. Yale key – is
it compared with another sort like a Mortise?)
Replay – coherent sequence – logical expression
of information
Recount – explanation about object use etc.
Report – introduce, describe, discuss format –
must present opinions/views
Relate – include: setting, characters, events,
actions, results, reactions – full narrative.
Speaking task: CLARITY/CONDUCT/CONVENTIONS: GRADE: 1 = PRESENT; 2
= PARTLY PRESENT; 3 = ABSENT
Pre test Post test
Eye contact – regularly scanning all the audience
Voice-lively, interesting with appropriate pitch, pace, pausing,
power
Posture upright and relaxed; appropriate distance from the audience
Use of face, hands and body language to get over the message
Accurate articulation
Concise information that does not ramble
Clear ideas
Interesting vocabulary
Confidence and manner – relaxed, poised, open, friendly
Obeying social (e.g. formal approach) and language rules (e.g. not
slang)
E. NEGUS & R. SAGE
204
Writing task: GRADE: 1 = PRESENT; 2 = PARTLY PRESENT; 3 = ABSENT
Pre test Post test
Clean, neat appearance
Well formed letters/graphic forms, spaced appropriately
Relevant content, quality and quantity
Accurate punctuation
Appropriate syntax and grammar
Appropriate vocabulary
Clear, concise expression of ideas
Imaginative ideas that convey meaning
Appropriate structure and logical order
Ability to convey personal views
COMMUNICATION ASSESSMENT: LEVEL 1: RECORD (PRODUCING IDEAS):
6 MINUTES
NAME ....................... DATE .................................. ASSESSOR ..............
CLARITY (performance aspects: voice – pitch, pace, pause, power, and
pronunciation) 1 minute
Learn a verse (about 4 lines) using relevant voice pitch, pace, pause, power and
pronunciation making meaning clear
Specific competencies expected: 1. Accurate recall. 2. Ability to convey the mood of
the poem.
REPORT: Core competencies ........... Specific competencies .............. (each out of
10) TOTAL:.............. (20 maximum)
CONTENT (Record level: ideas presented) 2 min.
Express a number of ideas about a topic (example – yourself, family or one of your
interests)
Specific competencies expected: 1. A range of ideas expressed. 2. Fluent delivery
REPORT: Core competencies ........... Specific competencies .............. (each out of
10) TOTAL:.............(20 maximum)
CONVENTION (Rules for organising messages: Request for clarification) 1 min.
The assessor invites you to ask someone in the audience their view of your poem
and talk.
Specific competences expected: 1. Ability to form a polite request. 2. Ability to listen
and accept the views of others.
RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
205
REPORT: Core competencies ........... Specific competencies .............. (each out of
10) TOTAL:...............(20 maximum)
CONDUCT (Personal responses that give an impression of yourself to others) 2 min.
The assessor invites audience questions on your programme. You choose who asks
the questions and give answers.
Specific competencies expected: 1. Ability to form a polite request. 2. Ability to listen
and accept the views of others.
REPORT: Core competencies ........... Specific competencies .............. (each out of
10) TOTAL:............. (20 maximum)
CREATIVE WRITING (recording ideas in hand-writing or word processing – A
Personal Profile)
Design a Personal profile. Include name, address, interests and achievements. Use
illustrations/pictures for interest.
Specific competencies expected: 1. Accurate content. 2. Appropriate range of
information..
REPORT: Core competencies ........... Specific competencies .............. (each out of
10) TOTAL:............. (20 maximum)
FINAL COMMENT: STRENGTHS AND AREAS FOR DEVELOPMENT: Total
Score...............(100 max.)
APPENDIX 4: STORY
Examples of a story developed with students to illustrate transferable abilities
Questions reflect narrative levels suitable for different abilities. (S. Cwenar &
R. Sage)
The Outsider
The remains of the burnt out cigarette coated in pink lipstick still glowed in an ashtray
on the kitchen table; Misba Patel had already gone out to work on the nightshift at
the local chicken factory. Baljit, her son (nicknamed Buzz) would clear up later and
check on his younger sister Mina, who went to bed earlier and was already asleep.
Dressed in green army camouflage pyjamas, he swiftly crept to the back door, to
escape into his other world – granddad’s rickety work shed at the bottom of the
garden. The splintered, wooden door was unlocked. The light was fading as Buzz
slipped in. Carefully grasping the precious binoculars he tilted them through the
peephole at the back of the shed, overlooking a rubbish dump. He traced the battered
sign: DANGER, TRESPASSERS WILL BE PROSECUTED!
Smoke billowed from an old musty mattress. He zoomed in, peering through
the worn glasses, covered in stick fingerprints from his bird watching days with
E. NEGUS & R. SAGE
206
granddad. Through the dying embers, he spotted 3 children, laughing and joking
whilst spinning a rusty, old bicycle wheel. If only he could join in…‘Nearly there
now. Pass us the last wheel,’ Paddy shouted to Tracy. ‘Come and get it yourself,’
she shrieked, covered from head to toe in mud. This was the last straw! She’d spent
a hectic hour fetching and carrying for the boys. She was about to give in. ‘I’ll do
it,’ Imran replied, ’It’s getting late.’ They had been working on ’Build a Buggy’ for
the school’s young entrepreneur award with a plan to give children 20p rides at the
summer fete.
They were just putting the finishing touches to the go-cart when the dark,
menacing silhouette of Basher’s Smash and Grab gang appeared in the distance.
‘Quick, behind that tree, near the back of that shed! Grab the cart!’ They leapt into
hiding, unable to drag the cart with them. ‘What’s this?’ said Basher with a sneer and
a leer. ‘Push me on it and let’s see how it runs!’He jumped on it with his full 15 stone
weight. His mates, flushed with exertion, heaved him forward. Crash, bang, wallop!
The front wheel shot into the air and the whole cart flew apart within seconds. The
threesome shivered and shook with fear as the celebrity bully groaned and moaned,
lying flat as a pancake and white as a sheet amid the debris. Through the binoculars,
Buzz glimpsed a close up of Basher’s finger, which he held up like a trophy, to
maintain ‘street cred.’ Blood spurted everywhere. Next moment, a vehicle with a
blue siren shuddered to a halt and two coppers pounced on the lot of them. Got yer!
You’re all nicked for putting your hands in Joe’s till. Move it!’ They were ushered
into the awaiting car like three meek, innocent lambs.
Saturday arrived. Buzz went to the shed and climbed up the step ladder to reach
a can of scarlet paint and a tool kit. He then clambered down, smartly nipping over
the fence at the back. The go-cart was badly damaged and needed reinforcing and
reconstructing in the middle. He moved into a secluded space and got to work. In
a couple of hours it was as good as new. He found a smooth, wooden plank for the
middle. In the wink of an eye, he had mended the cart and repainted it. As he went
back into his garden, little did he know that he had left a trail of red paint.
There was a click in his ear, then silence. Bang slammed a car door and out fell
3 pairs of small feet and one size 11. It was Paddy, Imran and Tracey with her dad.
They had come back to see if they could salvage the cart. ‘Wow!’ enthused Dad.
‘Have you been having me on, just to get me out of bed?’The three friends stood in
disbelief! Their mangled cart had turned into a magnificent, gleaming chariot! Were
they in the land of Cinderella? It felt like it. Imran said ’Look, here’s a trail of paint
and a tiny hearing aid,’ pointing to the garden shed and over the fence. Tracey joined
in, ‘It’s got to belong to that house. I think it’s the family who don’t speak. Let’s go
round and find out.’The group trooped to the front door and rang a brass bell. There
was a scuffle and then the door opened. A small pale face appeared with a streak
of red paint on his nose. Tracey smiled and looked at the boy’s ears. He wore one
hearing aid in the left ear. She gently held out the other as if it was a precious jewel.
He took it from her hand. A beaming smile lit up his whole face. There was no need
for words. The boy who had saved them was no longer an outsider.
RATIONALE FOR COMMUNICATIVE TEACHING
207
Questions based on the 7 narrative levels and used in discussion
1.	Level 1: What is needed to build a go-cart? If few ideas are listed -indicates
Narrative L1 Record.
2.	Level 2: Can you describe how Buzz was dressed? A range of ideas given,
organised in some way – L2 Recite reached.
3.	Level 3: Compare Buzz and Brasher. Look for differences and similarities – L3
Refer.
4.	Level 4: How would you build a go-cart? Look for a logical sequence of events
– L4 Relay.
5.	Level 5: How would you use a pair of binoculars? Look for an explanation and
personal view – L5 Recount
6.	Level 6: Give a report on the Go-cart competition for TV news. Look for
description + discussion – L6 Report.
7.	Tell the story of a good deed you have done-context, character/s, events, actions,
and reactions – L7 Relate
R. Sage (Ed.), Paradoxes in Education, 209–229.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
KIM ORTON
10. EVALUATING COMMUNICATIVE APPROACHES
IN EDUCATION
ABSTRACT
What is education about? It involves learning about how society functions, alongside
developing potential to cope with and contribute positively to our community, in
line with personal needs. We do this through exchanges with others, but give little
attention to this verbal and non-verbal process, with limited understanding of how
it affects teaching and learning. Most classroom disruptions stem from inability
to process and produce required information, so prioritising this reaps benefits in
higher student personal and academic standards. Examining other education systems
has led to a close scrutiny of British education, in a study evaluating interactions
between FE teachers and students
INTRODUCTION: ASSESSING AND TEACHING COMMUNICATION:
THE EDUCATIONAL CONTEXT
We connect with people through words, supported by voice-tone, gestures and
manner, but give this little thought, assuming the process develops naturally without
formal teaching. Research indicates otherwise, with verbal and non-verbal messages
often in conflict, producing confusion for listeners. It is not unusual for an adult
to say to a child: ‘that’s nice,’ but their facial expressions and voice tone indicate
the opposite! Teaching across-ages in Leicester, a city where immigrants are in the
majority, has clarified the interpersonal communication problems that now exist
today. When teaching in Further Education (FE), it was apparent that students had
issues talking amongst themselves and with teachers, generally unaware of the nature
of their difficulties. This motivated me to look at the situation, to create greater
awareness and assist students with effective personal and professional development.
Despite communication being on the education research-agenda for many years,
findings have not produced a curriculum with student opportunities to develop
language competencies and raise achievements.Teaching approaches are inconsistent
with regard to supporting communication probably because it is such an accepted
part of daily-life, with no need to consider it. The importance of learning through
verbal exchanges and extend thought from opportunities to listen, speak, write and
read ideas has lost significance. Without a good command of words we have no
control over thoughts. Language frees prejudices, from ability to think through
K. ORTON
210
experiences within oneself (self-talk) and through conversation with others, allowing
a speaker to influence situations. Teachers tend to ignore the validity of higher-
level language attainment in predicting long-term success. The independence that
effective communication enables and its positive impact on relationships, education
and careers has been noted by researchers over many years (Barnes, 1976; Newman,
1987; Booth & Thornley-Hall, 1991; Brigman et al., 1999; Sage 2010). Brigman
(1999) presented 50 years of world studies to show how teaching communication
enhanced personal well-being and achievement. Today, the curriculum still does not
give students time to question and talk themselves into improved understanding.
Sage’s research is consistent with this and notes: the fact that children are struggling
to write coherently is strong evidence of limited ability in narrative discourse. More
speaking opportunities would help to remedy this problem (Sage, 2000a, p. 27)
From 1970–1990, the profile of ‘talk’ was heightened and accepted in education,
as vital for the learning curriculum and documented in the Bullock Report, 1975;
National Oracy Project,1987–1991; Chang & Wells, 1988 and the Dearing Report,
1993. However, in recent years there has been a shift from talk to text communication,
resulting from technology and changing communication patterns. Speaking is a
difficult aspect of communicating but given less attention in education. Students
need chances to be question posers, summarisers, explainers and feedback-givers
to become effective communicators. They need communicative competencies for
group participation in speaking and listening and this is relevant for all ages, when
academic success is measured by achievement. Brown (1982) observed students
chatting effectively outside class about literal, mundane affairs not requiring
analysis. When in class, where formal language requires selection and assembly of
ideas for instructing, explaining and discussing, they showed problems in using this
more explicit style.
Phonology, vocabulary, grammar, syntax and pragmatic (use) structures are
considered hall-marks of academic achievement, but these surface-features often
give a false performance picture. Narrative thinking and language are assumed
intact.Although linguistic structures underpin communication competence, narrative
abilities predict success. The Sage Assessment of Language & Thinking (SALT) uses
story re-telling tasks, as the most reliable indicator of thinking and expression levels
(Sage, 2000a).
WIDENING THE CONTEXT – FROM HIGHER/FURTHER
EDUCATION TO THE WORK PLACE
Half of university graduates had limited communication twenty years ago (DFEE,
1997) and 58% of school-leavers exhibited the same problems (CBI, 1998). In 2006,
CBI figures increased, with up to 63% of employees experiencing communication
and relationship problems in some contexts. The recent Education and skills survey
by CBI/Pearson (2017): Helping the UK Thrive, indicates large-scale employer
dissatisfaction with the spoken and written communication standards of workers,
EVALUATING COMMUNICATIVE APPROACHES IN EDUCATION
211
including university graduates. Research confirms that school-leavers have
inadequate spoken/written communication to cope with life demands (Sage, 2010).
FE students also cannot cope with demands of expressing cause and effect by
linking events in narrative structures to enable the most benefit from learning
experiences. Problems, such as listening, understanding, requesting, describing,
reporting, discussing, narrating, negotiating, are established in research literature
and noted throughout the education system (Negus, 2016).
SUPPORT EVIDENCE FOR THE COGS: A STRUCTURED
DEVELOPMENT APPROACH
Wood’s (1999) analysis of how children think and learn has been substantiated by
Sage (2000a), Hunter-Carsch (2001) and Professor Cooper’s (2001) evaluation
of effective learning methods. Experts link coherent talk as indicators of literary
ability. Evidence recommends that students have opportunities to de-centre and
de-contextualise thinking to raise written standards. Sage (2000a) suggests that for
students to comprehend text, they need to have acquired higher-levels of spoken,
narrative language and able to stress words correctly for meaning. Learning poems
to understand how meaning is made has gone out of fashion. Those with inadequate
reading find difficulties with information-giving, needing help to use written skills
of analysis and objectivity gained initially from speech (Wood, 1999).
Sage’s (2000a) hypothesis is that for students to write at the level at which they
speak and think, a structured, developmental approach is needed, from understanding
how right and left brains integrate.
The visualisation (imagery) stimulation may activate one critical aspect of
cognition (perhaps the right cerebral hemisphere) and verbalisation (semantic
coding) stimulation may activate the other critical aspect of cognition (perhaps
the left cerebral hemisphere). Thus stimulating an integration of brain activity.
(Sage, 2000a, p. 30)
Inadequate brain integration limits – language use, ability to follow directions,
cause and effect and a sense of humour. Language, thought and intelligence are related
and the curriculum must concentrate on language command to produce intelligent
adults. Meaningful connections for learners are not complete until there is physical,
personal expression of thought. COGS participants note accelerated learning and
confidence, from knowing how ideas develop and are expressed verbally and non-
verbally in speaking and writing to assist success abilities.
THE BEST APPROACH
Teachers valuing student talk, for putting something of themselves into learning,
give as much thought to interactions as lesson content, which Erikson and Shultz
(1992) found gives back more than expected. There is need to look at the quality of
K. ORTON
212
communication between teachers and students and how dialogue uses observation to
reason and reach conclusions. More student talking is advocated, with emphasis and
awareness of its importance. Teachers must understand class discourse, with ability
to appraise student spoken-language and a plan to extend it to maximise learning.
A school system developing formal language produces students with capacities to
think, reason and express effectively.
COMMUNICATION DIFFICULTIES IN CLASSROOMS
Teachers direct, inform and question, presenting content at a pace, with students
expected to keep up and respond to a specific way of talking – often without being
opportunity to clarify (Michaels, 1985).
Pupils need more opportunities than were observed in most classrooms to …
find their solutions to the problems posed, to follow a sustained argument, and
to discuss it afterwards, and to ask questions as well as answer them. (HMI,
1979, p. 6)
Teachers focus on objectives, correcting student responses rather than encouraging
lateral, creative thinking. Edwards (1979) and Lipman (1991) suggest that school
and its communication is closely structured and devoid of thinking experiences. This
study suggests that schools drain students of initiative, inventiveness and reflection,
so they find learning discouraging and unexciting. When encouraged to discover,
instead of drilled with facts, they respond enthusiastically and inventively so can
teach and think for themselves, which is more effective than receiving passive
knowledge. Students often parrot others but must make judgements, to develop the
person they want to be.
Much older pupils often suffer a sharp decline in orally based lessons…
teachers should therefore take care and act more often as consultants, and less
often as mere transmitters of information, should recognise discussion as a
proper form of real work and should encourage pupils to generate their own
questions to explore alternative answer. (ILEA, 1984, p. 8)
This is also important for FE students and Wright (1998) looked at preparation
of school-leavers for college life; how aware they were of language needs, culture,
curricula demands and their effects on instruction. Results show that students are
generally unaware and unprepared for language demands, so overestimate their
skills. Student needs are not easily catered for: content delivery tends to be pitched at
the mid-ability range, leaving the most-able un-stretched and the least-able confused.
Knowledge is mainly represented in written texts and teacher/student notes. Emphasis
is on writing with students needing practice and guidance in developing competent
narrative, spoken skills before recording. Summarising in talk before translating
information into written text is vital. Differences in the way educators communicate
reveal their roles, social position, culture, views and attitudes and may conflict.
EVALUATING COMMUNICATIVE APPROACHES IN EDUCATION
213
APPARENT DIFFICULTIES
To socialise, learners must share a communication system and norms for appropriate
interaction within a particular context. Brown’s (1984) studies of adolescents,
highlighted differences in language use between academically successful and
unsuccessful students for a range of purposes and settings. Barrow (1993) suggested
that fluent, articulate students show intelligence through expressive language. Those
speaking in a confused, stumbling, incoherent way, demonstrate incapacity to think
effectively.
The communication system of teaching and learning can be problematic. The
teacher is responsible for managing class talk, in either a negative (controlling) or
positive (encouraging) way. Cazden (1988) reveals that class-talk uses a middle-
class, formal, explicit style. The implicit communication of working-class students
is seen as less competent, so giving them a lower-status with teachers. Students with
high-status had more peer interaction to assist learning. Speaking Standard English
is necessary for some careers like Law, but is seen as elitist and not taught since the
1970s. Students need exposure to many communication styles with appreciation that
Standard English is vital for international exchanges as this form is taught in ESL
courses.
Studies show that students are more language-fluent at home than at school or
college. (Tizard & Hughes, 1984; Wells, 1986). When there are problems at home,
they are explored with interest and motivation so the classroom needs the same
approach. Education provides few natural incentives to thinking in the way home
does and can engender decline of student engagement. Dialogue between teacher
and student is effective in direct encounters. Both participants are then involved in a
mutual, talk relationship, with both having the other in mind, similar to that of home.
IMAGERY AND COMMUNICATION
Nancy Bell (1991) challenges an assumption that everyone can communicate
effectively and think accurately about sounds and word order, if they just attend
and try hard. When there is inadequate performance, low motivation or ability is
blamed. Communication involves sensory information and symbolic, linguistic
connections, with sequenced interventions necessary to access auditory judgement
enabling self-correction in speech, spelling, reading and visualisation for word
comprehension. It has been assumed that students can create word images to
produce a whole event. Sage (2000a) says:
Gestalt imagery connects us to incoming oral and written language, links us to
existing knowledge, accesses experience, establishes vocabulary and creates
and stores information in memory. (p. 145)
Many children and adults have problems in creating mental images with resulting
weak oral and reading comprehension, verbal skills and critical thinking.
K. ORTON
214
Language comprehension is the ability to connect to and interpret both oral
and written language. It is the ability to recall facts, get the main idea, make
inferences, draw a conclusion, predict, extend and evaluate. It is the ability
to reason from language that is heard and language that is read….the only
reason to read or listen to language – take in verbal stimuli, is to get meaning,
to comprehend, to interpret, to reason. And the Gestalt is a pre-requisite to
interpretation and reasoning. (Bell, 1991, p. 13)
Researchers studied the relationship of imagery to prior knowledge and thinking
processes, (Paivio, 1971, 1986; Kosslyn, 1983; Denis, 1984; de Groot, 1989; Bower,
1990). They hold that if students are unable to verbalise in speech and writing, they
lack visualisation ability. Clark and Paivio (1991) confirmed the importance of
imagery processes for word meanings with a Dual Coding Theory:
Human behaviour & experiences in terms of dynamic associative processes
that operate a rich network of modality specific verbal & non-verbal
representations. (p. 149)
Collective verbal and non-verbal mental systems are specialised for imagery and
language, linked by referential connections; joining corresponding verbal imaginal
codes and potentially allowing word and picture imaging. Some people use imagery
easily and spontaneously, but others find it difficult. Differences in imagery abilities and
habits have important consequences for education.
In addition to imagery, DCT states that verbal associative processes contribute
substantially to the effectiveness of instruction. Evidence is generally consistent
with this premise. (p. 175)
INTEGRATING A FRAMEWORK
Brigmanetal.(1999),emphasisedstructuredteachingforsuccessabilities,embedding
strategies across the curriculum to significantly increase student performance.
Other studies suggest that if teachers provide outlines and related behaviours that
parallel verbally connecting structures, underlying knowledge and its acquisition,
then effective learning occurs. Clark (1987) and Brown and Atkins (1988) suggest
that imagery and verbal associative processes provide a unifying framework. Effects
of using associative organisation in lessons correlate in non-experimental studies
with measures of student achievement (Frey et al., 1997) and ratings of teacher and
course effectiveness (Murray, 1983).
Swift and Gooding (1983), investigated effects of increasing teacher wait-times
on questioning by up to 3 seconds. This produced more student contributions,
measured by answer length; frequency of voluntary contributions; number of
relevant words and percentages of talk. The study concluded that instructional
materials alone produce little change in teaching. Feedback, modifying wait-time for
both students and teachers, increased interactions and cognitive levels. Structured
EVALUATING COMMUNICATIVE APPROACHES IN EDUCATION
215
training for students to group strategies for forming and maintaining relationships, is
essential for school success. Sage et al. (2006–2009) show how this is implemented
effectively in Japanese schools. Skills are practised across the whole curriculum.
This encourages more articulate, confident children to clarify and review their
understanding of whole topics whilst helping those with learning difficulties grasp
concepts and articulate current knowledge and new learning.
CURRICULAR INNOVATIONS OR PREVAILING PRACTICES
Teachers often find themselves isolated when it comes to innovative practice.
Some feel that research knowledge may assist practice but are suspicious of studies
generalised to all settings. Reflection on practice involves clarifying prevailing
assumptions and criteria as well as consistency between principles and practices.
Lipman (1991) said that it involves challenging matters and not merely clarifying
them. Although there are benefits for enhancing student learning from teacher
professional development, the reality is lack of time, opportunity, confidence,
support and resources.
A flurry of studies on communication importance to learning began with the
Oracle project, led by Professor Galton, at Leicester University, looking at teacher-
student interactions in the 1970s. This heralded the Oracy project in the 1980s with
research on spoken language learning issues. When the National Curriculum was
implemented in the 1990s, the focus on facts for school tests, meant that literacy
overtook oracy, but there are present initiatives regarding communication for
learning. These need teachers who network; take responsibility for communication
planning within developmental frameworks to include group-work, relationships;
challenging status quo and value systems; understanding cognition and imagery,
whilst working towards a whole-school approach. The study below illustrates
how staff and students were made more aware of the importance of highlighting
communication for learning and future professional practice.
RESEARCH METHODOLOGY
Hitchcock and Hughes (1984) say that:
Teacher research refers to the research that the practising teacher is able to
conduct in the context of immediate professional practice. (p. 4)
Encouraging a systematic approach for data gathering, by modifying and utilising
insights and procedures of research, benefits schools directly. Teachers who have
undertaken research within their school note that it has improved analysis and
discussion on school policies. Action research draws individuals into researching
their own practice to improve decisions and actions and has been widely discussed.
(Cope & Gray, 1979; Raven & Parker, 1981; Bell, 1987). Quantitative data clarifies
the ‘what’of situations whilst qualitative information helps to explain the ‘why.’
K. ORTON
216
STUDY PURPOSE
The study translated what is known about helping students develop success abilities,
by implementing a systematic approach to using these across the curriculum,
promoting narrative competencies. The design was based on research by Sage (1986,
onwards) and COGS (Communication Opportunity Group Strategy); a developmental
framework in which speaking and listening match reading and writing abilities. This
has showed success in studies (Sage, 1992, 1998; Sage & Shaw, 1992; Nelson &
Birchell, 1998; Sage & Whittington, 1997; EU IDIAL project, 2011–2014) looking
at how to use communication in a relevant, appropriate, effective manner. Classroom
observations show that narrative explaining and instructing are not bound to occur
naturally, needing learner-centred tasks to free and extend language for expressing
thoughts. The study developed from COGS in-service training, with a manual
and video to support assessment and teaching. It involved post-16 FE students, to
encourage and evaluate effective learning from opportunities to gain narrative
competencies.
The aim was to analyse benefits of teaching communication in FE, within a
developmental framework of narrative and paradigmatic thinking, based on COGS,
developed from a Medical Research Council Project (Sage, 1986). The study involved
females from 18–54 years. All participants were appraised of the aims and objectives
and were willing volunteers.
THE PARTICIPANTS
The 2 groups were selected to the criteria:
•	 Willing to participate at a convenient time
•	 Needing better communication to enhance course presentations
•	 Interest in professional development for careers
•	 Awareness & abilities to transfer and develop communication in workplaces
There were 2 groups: (1) 14 part-time HND students in Early Childhood
Studies (19–54 years) attended for 10 weeks (1 hr/week) during tutorial time
(5 had English as a second language (ESL) & 1 dyslexic). (2) 23 full-time Diploma
students in Nursery Nursing (18–22 years) attended for 2 hours over 5 weeks in
arts sessions (2 had visual impairments). Qualitative data elicited communication
perceptions, from students and tutors, along with quantitative information from pre-/
post-tests.
DATA-COLLECTING METHODS
Data collection cross-matched many view-points as Schostak (2002) suggests,
from quantitative and qualitative responses. COGS guidelines suggest that
EVALUATING COMMUNICATIVE APPROACHES IN EDUCATION
217
student-screening is vital to identify narrative levels, so a story re-telling task and
questionnaire were used. The Sage Assessment of Language and Thinking (SALT)
uses narratives to predict academic success, receiving positive feedback when
piloted in England and Scotland. The assessment developed from observations,
noting that students may respond to factual questions, after hearing a passage read,
but yet miss the overall meaning.
SALT 1 has 10 interview questions, scoring responses for content (number of
ideas expressed); convention (language forms demonstrated) clarity (quality of
speaking); conduct (impression made on listener-self-esteem displayed) (Sage,
1999). These allow the assessor to note responses and analyse them according
to the criteria, in pre- and post-teaching conditions.
SALT 2 identifies narrative ability from story re-telling, which targets the thinking
and communication process (1-simple language; 2- complex forms).
Communication Skills Rating provides information on a range of abilities
regarding effective communication – including general skills, conversation,
formal presentation (speech/writing) and non-verbal communication with
ratings 1–5 (1 high competence & 5 no evidence of skills).
A Profile of Communication was given as a self-assessment tool, consisting of 10
sections; looking at all aspects of communication with ratings 1–5 (1-not good &
5-excellent).
Included were informal assessments (to support participant information) that
have been used in other studies (Sage, 2000b). Attitude statements, to record
what students think about feelings and attitudes towards communication, provide
reflective data to analyse positive and negative views as indicators of performance.
Asking students what they find difficult about college are a way of data-gathering to
see if mature students put high priority on communication difficulties. A survey of
100 secondary school students placed communication as the major issue encountered
in school (Sage, 1998, 2000a, 2010).
Interviews were conducted with lecturers, centred on student communicative
abilities. Questionnaires, based on Flanders Interactional Analysis Categories (of
Talk) (FIAC, 1970) used different question- types to seek views on the importance of
class communication. Subjects were asked to complete a questionnaire at the end of
COGS, to record understanding of the process; its value to them and if they wanted
to implement learning in workplaces.
DEVIATIONS FROM ORIGINAL METHODOLOGY
It was decided not to use a control group. In a report by Sage (2000b), working
with 2 COGS groups, (weekly & intensive) and a control group receiving no specific
communication teaching, the latter had a significant drop in mean scores on post-
testing. Reasons given were end-of-term exhaustion and lack of interest, but this
project time-scale meant controls were not feasible because of student mobility.
K. ORTON
218
RESULTS
Sage (2000b) found that participants failed to make as much progress if they avoided
assessment. The project confirmed that everyone achieved their stated goals.
THE SAGE ASSESSMENT OF LANGUAGE & THINKING
Table 1 summarises data from SALTpre and post-tests with mean totals. In both groups,
all scores increased after completion of COGS teaching and 83% were significant at
the level p = 0.05. Both groups’mean score rises were from 111.66 – 139 (a combined
difference of 27.34). Before teaching, there was little difference between groups and
similarities in test totals. Discrepancy between the extent of the mean score increase
was 7.4 points (19.67-group 1; 13.93-group 2). This suggests implementation method
has little significance, which confirms other studies (Sage, 2000a and b).
SAGE ASSESSMENT FOR LANGUAGE & THINKING (SALT 1)
Table 1. Means total scores from student groups 1 & 2.
Group 1 Results Test
Mean
totals
Mean
differences
T test results
2 tail %
P=<0.05 Chances must
be less than 1 in
20. (numerically
above one in 20)
Total scores
SALT 1
Before
111.66
After
131.33
+19.67 0.7948 0.007948 1in 126
Statistically
significant
Content & convention
scores only
SALT 1
Before
64.66
After
71.33
+6.67 9.2782 0.092782 1 in 11
Not statistically
significant
Clarity and conduct
scores only SALT 1
Before
47
After
59.33
+12.33 0.0733 0.00073 1 in 1364
Statistically
significant
Group 2
Results
Test
Mean
totals
Mean
differences
T test results
2 tail %
P=<0.05 Chances must be
less than 1 in 20.
(above 1 in 20)
Total scores
SALT 1
Before
125.07
After
139
+ 13.93 1.94605 0.0194605 1 in 51
Statistically
significant
EVALUATING COMMUNICATIVE APPROACHES IN EDUCATION
219
Content and
convention
scores only
SALT 1
Before
68.857
After
73.714
+ 4.857 0.000485 0.00000485 1 in 206185
Statistically
significant
Clarity and
conduct
scores only
SALT 1
Before
56.214
After
65.285
+ 9.071 2.9532 0.029532 1 in 34
Statistically
Significant
Content & convention had higher pre- and post-test scores in both groups than for
clarity & conduct which increase two-fold in the former. A description of categories
are presented for evaluation:
Content is the topic of the message and organised in different ways according
to purpose.
Convention is the way words are arranged in sentences for sending/receiving
messages.
Clarity is the quality of the spoken response to engage listener attention &
understanding.
Conduct is the impression made on the listener showing presence/absence of
self-esteem.
Group 1 ratings show the mean overall difference increase is significant, although
not for content and convention. Clarity and conduct scores show significant
improvements, correlating with increased confidence and self-esteem. Group 2 had
significantly higher mean totals both pre-and post-test, including learners with ESL.
Although those with low-scores still had these on post-tests, they made significantly
higher gains. Low-scorers comprised 4/6 ESOL students, but although assessment
stresses correct grammar, syntax and vocabulary, this did not penalise as they were
fluent in English. Assessment questions (from their structure) gave students chance
to create imagery important for comprehension. Those using images when speaking
showed expressive language organisation. They were concise and monitored
language for relevant, sequential, logical thinking expression. Improved clarity and
conduct scores may have helped content and convention, as feeling more confident
frees up thoughts, so that explanations can be made without stumbling to make the
message clear.
COMMUNICATION SKILLS RATING
Skill-ratings were tutor-administered, to judge the range of abilities for effective
communication and any score changes. Mean differences were significantly higher
following COGS teaching, showing improvements in both informal and formal
interactions as well as non-verbal language, providing 93% of affective meaning
(Mehrabian, 1971). Informal student interviews showed they now understood that
K. ORTON
220
communication is not one-way, with listeners passive, and that voice-tone and body-
language are vital for judging meaning. Verbal and non-verbal improvements gave
confidence to present positively from an ‘adult’ ego state (Bernes, 1964). Prior to
COGS, most interactions were from a ‘child’ state, eliciting ‘controlling parent’
responses from others. Tutors confirmed student improvements.
PROFILE OF COMMUNICATION
Table 2 summarises data giving mean totals from tests. All scores increased after
completion of COGS teaching from 5% -36% for both groups. As a self-assessment
exercise, increase in scores suggests that both groups have acknowledged a positive
difference in ability to communicate.
Table 2. Profile of communication summarising data with mean totals
Spoken
communication
Body
language
Conversation
skills
Formal
presentation
(speaking)
Formal
presentation
(writing)
Negotiation
skills
Personal
skills
Group
skills
Thinking
skills
Information
gathering
Group 1 A B C D E F G H I J
Mean
totals
Pre t 10.66 19.66 35.66 22.66 25.66 16 25 19 20.33 15.66
Post t 19.66 21.66 41 25.66 28.66 22.33 28.33 20.33 25 17.66
Mean
difference
9 2 5.34 3 3 6.33 3.33 1.33 4.67 2
as
percentage
increase
36 6.66 9.71 8.57 8.57 21.1 9.51 5.32 13.34 8
The highest 36% increase is for spoken communication, showing students felt
positive about performances. The lowest increase, for group skills, is explained
by less self-beliefs. Self-image develops from experience and group-work was not
previously positive. Often self-image inhibits willingness to believe that certain
things can be achieved. Body language scoring is lower and indicates that 2 of 3
students with visual impairments may not have picked up on cues to give clear eye-
EVALUATING COMMUNICATIVE APPROACHES IN EDUCATION
221
contact with people. Appropriate movements to support meaning may be lost and
reading body language often difficult. However, improvements were acknowledged,
possibly because specific traits were highlighted and discussed. Negotiation showed
a dramatic increase of 21%, along with self-esteem and positive image to join in
group-work. Taking ownership to complete tasks, rather than letting others do this,
has developed more inclusive group behaviour.
Table 3. Profile of communication summary of data with mean totals
Group 2 A B C D E F G H I J
Mean
totals
Pre 14.43 18.43 33.07 19.07 20.57 16.86 20.86 17.86 20.78 16.78
Post 19.43 24.71 43.43 27.86 26.93 24.14 27.78 21.86 26.78 21.07
Mean
difference
5 6.28 10.36 8.79 6.36 7.28 6.92 4 6 4.29
as
percentage
increase
20 20.93 18.84 25.11 18.17 24.27 19.77 16 17.14 17.16
Group 2 has more consistent scoring with an average increase of 20%. Positive
feedback, from the tutor in another module, may have made them more receptive
and open to comments. The process has been valued by the mature students who
have taken responsibility for assessing their own competencies – they are best
placed to look at strengths and weaknesses and find solutions, as long as motivation
to succeed remains high. The COGS gives balanced support, encouraging
those with low self-horizons and keeping the more self-reliant satisfied with
progress. Reflecting on experiences forms the basis of personal and professional
development.
SUMMARY OF COMMUNICATION PROFILE
The profile provides detailed insights into student abilities, acknowledging their strongest
skills, those needing development and ways for this to happen. Group 1 places initiative,
listening, writing and organisational skills as their strongest skills, pre-COGS teaching.
This reflects school experiences where literacy is favoured in assessment and seen as
more important than oracy. Strongest skills post-test include thinking about listeners and
imparting information in interesting ways. Developing skills include confidence-building,
­
body-language, understanding and questioning. Post-teaching saw acknowledgement
of abilities for success and confidence and motivation to achieve this. Group 2 showed
greater awareness of differences pre-and post-teaching, discriminating between social-
chat and language to transmit clear, relevant information. A deeper understanding of
skills needing development was evident, with ways to achieve these more specific, like
K. ORTON
222
‘communicating with people confidently’to ‘asking & answering questions & requesting
clarification if not understanding.’Reflecting gave chances to search for the meaning in
experiences which is the basis of all learning.
HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT YOURSELF AND THE WAY
YOU COMMUNICATE? SELF-RATING
Ratings, post-teaching, showed a strong, positive improvement for both groups. Self-
assessment is based on belief that improvements are likely to happen, when focusing
on a goal, and this is a positive aspect of COGS. Knowledge of self and others comes
from social-interaction and language is the means by which this occurs. Those with
low-esteem are self-conscious, over sensitive to criticism, consistently under-rating
themselves, pre-occupied with problems and underachievement. High-esteem
students are confident about perceptions and judgements; expect to succeed at tasks;
express opinions and influence others. They have a realistic view of themselves and
abilities; are not unduly worried about criticism and enjoy participating in teaching
and learning.
DIFFICULTIES IN COLLEGE
Noting student responses to what they find difficult about college, furthers
understanding of how communication is an issue for FE adults-learners. This
validated a report by Sage (2000a and b), who surveyed 100, 12–15 year-olds who
put communication at the top of their list of problems encountered in school. This
survey reported 46 problems in College, which were all communication based,
such as difficulty making eye-contact; organising content for presentations; giving
instructions; asking and answering questions; speaking in front of others, as
examples. It is evident that when given opportunity to express difficulties, students
do this clearly and with feeling. It highlights an area needing to be placed firmly
within teaching and learning experiences.
FOCUSED INTERVIEW WITH TUTORS
Responsesfromfocusedinterviewswith2colleagues,afterCOGSteaching,indicated
that a change in learning behaviour was noted in all students. Examples include
participants taking on a leading role within sessions outside COGS. Differences
after COGS teaching were substantial enough for them to comment upon and the
collective effect of the process was beneficial to all students and their tutors.
TUTOR QUESTIONNAIRE
All 12 tutors questioned feel that communication competencies for students
are vital. Importance of teaching these has been lost by half of the respondents,
EVALUATING COMMUNICATIVE APPROACHES IN EDUCATION
223
who are unable to devote time to developing them within sessions because of
pressure to meet learning objectives. This equates with results that 7 tutors did not
identify communication ability as most predictive of academic success. They feel
it necessary to schedule their own talk for over 2/3rds of a session. This reflects
Flanders’ 1970s studies, with no change in teaching style. Teachers think they offer
students chances to talk, but this is not supported by evidence. There are limited
language experiences offered to students. Time constraints on teachers mean they
have less time for interaction with each student. Understanding what tutors feel
students expectation should be (eg.‘sit there and not do anything or speak,’ ‘they
want to be entertained’ & ‘dish it out to them.) are disheartening and assumptions
to be challenged. Low or negative expectations from tutors (8 out of 12) does not
stimulate successful interactions for improving learning. Accountability to the
curriculum over-rides notions of developing real learning abilities. The curriculum
does not provide sufficient student speaking experience and feedback on this. It is
evident that tutors do not have information to judge student progress and discover
abilities that are lacking.
RESPONSES FROM STUDENT QUESTIONNAIRES
Without COGS teaching, assessments and evaluations, student needs would
not be identified. Learning styles, teaching methods and tracking domains
have emphasis without considering communication ability and its implications
for success. Encouraging students to examine strengths and weaknesses from
practice, engendered interest and motivation. Students valued understanding the
process of effective communication and benefits were easily achieved within a
comprehensible framework like COGS. Lack of confidence, embarrassment,
awkwardness, hoping not to be asked and feeling nervous to talk to people, were
all removed by the COGs programme. A positive, relaxed attitude to talking
successfully was the result, with communication becoming a pleasure rather than
a pain.
It was encouraging that abilities learnt transferred to workplaces – to help
children’s development. Comments such as ‘It wouldn’t hurt all employees to have
these sessions’and ‘activities create team bonding and building’ show the validity of
training. Suggested improvements were more time to work on particular weaknesses,
such as presentation skills. Everyone found sessions positive ‘the practical tasks
really make you think how other people may feel or respond to situations.’ ‘By
speaking out in sessions & listening to others, I realised it wasn’t only me with
problems’; ‘good confidence-building activities’; ‘I laughed at lots of things but still
learnt a lot.’ There was a sense of achievement from the programme and students
support the view that the design of COGS helped to create a sense of ownership and
trust within groups.
K. ORTON
224
CONCLUSION: IMPLICATIONS FOR CLASSROOM PRACTICE
Gaining communication competencies enhances the learning potential of all students.
Marked effects were noted and a systematic, developmentally structured approach to
thinking and communication is beneficial to learners of any age and subject. Results
are consistent with the work of Brown (1984), Hannaford (1995), Locke (2000),
Sage (2000a and b, 2010, 2014) and many others, highlighting a need to integrate
such provision into all classrooms. A report by Trotman (2002), who surveyed 200
diverse employers, put verbal communication at the top of qualities they most sought,
followed by enthusiasm and written ability. Companies complain about the quality
of graduates and there is a mismatch between what they want and get from recruits.
Graduates acknowledge that their degrees leave them short of skills (THES, 2002,
2017) and students all felt that they lacked 3 of the skills they judge to be the most
useful in the work force – verbal communication, time management and task juggling.
Educators are still not grasping the concept that speaking comprehension and
expression of thinking, needs to be taught prior to writing (Bell, 1991; Sage,
2000a) as it is not automatically learned. Attention must focus on ability to transfer
information clearly through talk, as it is not only relevant for speaking but also for
writing and so central to making sense of everything.
Repeated attempts to boost speaking and listening skills in class have had limited
success and could be explained as teachers feel that allowing time for students to
contribute to discussions is neither productive or valuable, when there is so much to
get through in the curriculum.
A complex thought system requires a great deal of shared experience and
conversation. It is in talking about what we have done and observed and in arguing
about what we make of our experiences, that ideas multiply, become refined and
finally produce new questions and further explanations. (Rowes, 1986, p. 43)
The notion that narratives can exemplify general ideas to aid comprehension may
be unrecognised.
Teacher questions and answers can often be mechanical and contrived. Lipman
(1991) suggests the prescriptive curriculum can paralyse thoughts.Traditional practice
has been for the teacher to transmit knowledge in an authoritative style; the student
absorbs the information and is asked questions. In a community of inquiry, students
are given skills to be thoughtful and reflective, with teacher and students questioning
each other. In standard mode, students are considered to be thinking if they learn what
is taught, but in the reflective one they participate in the search for knowledge and
move into higher-order thinking of coherence, richness and inquisitiveness.
REFLECTIONS
The positive effects of this study cannot be overestimated. Collecting data,
conceptualising issues and problems and generating ideas for future actions has
EVALUATING COMMUNICATIVE APPROACHES IN EDUCATION
225
promoted greater understanding and improved class performance. It highlighted
the importance of developing teachers who are aware of their own communication
and their values, attitudes, prejudice and bias that might affect interactions with
students. A strong emphasis on talk between teachers and students reaps rewards
for both personal and academic progress. For example, reflecting on skills and
concepts needed for later learning has given opportunities to teach these before they
are needed. During the research period and after, it has been possible to structure
learning activities to promote the use of language rather than hoping it would
develop naturally. The curriculum is geared towards linear thinking and needs to
expand laterally. This explains why the COGS teaching model is successful.
At the start of any Teacher Education course and during induction, positive effects
of teaching communication must be encouraged:
•	 Sharing feelings and describing experiences
•	 Using solid images to encourage communication, rather than relying on abstract
words as students with language problems have the information-carrying load of
words reduced
•	 Confidence building
•	 Narrating – describing, explaining and reporting
•	 Using tree diagrams to promote integrative imagery to facilitate cued retrieval,
especially to illustrate a lesson structure (aims & objectives)
•	 Problem solving through talk
•	 Effective induction as an ongoing process in all sessions
•	 Tasks in ascending order of difficulty (narratives before summaries)
•	 Reflection by talking through ideas and experiences as a process that draws
similarities and differences between different communication contexts
•	 Transference of skills
•	 Student achievement
•	 Self esteem
•	 Valuing skills and abilities
•	 Visualising full potential
•	 Negotiation skills
If this communicative model was fully promoted, teachers would feel more
confident in their role and less inclined to leave the profession in high numbers as
at present. Feedback from COGS has shown that teachers find their classes easier
to teach, with students more engaged and exhibiting less low-level disruption,
which happens because they cannot comprehend what goes on and so seek to divert
activities. Research cannot tell how to teach, but it can alert teachers to the subtle,
complex processes of interaction that directly shape and influence learning. Being
involved in this research has given confidence to make recommendations, as they are
based on studies which combine to provide a firm base for action. As an Advanced
Practitioner, there has been opportunity to demonstrate by example, putting into
practice key aspects of this work to allow others to understand the process.
K. ORTON
226
MAIN POINTS
•	 Experience demonstrates that all levels of Education have problems with
communication between students themselves and with their teachers
•	 Using the Sage model of communication, that considers both context and the
message transmission process, it was possible to improve the competencies of
Further Education students
•	 Results suggest the importance of focusing on this aspect of learning for improved
standards
•	 Teacher training must give attention to the communicative processes that operate
in classrooms if academic and personal achievements are to match employment
requirements
REFERENCES
Ainscow, M., & Tweddle, D. (1988). Preventing classroom failure: An objective approach. London:
Fulton Publishers.
Amidon, E. J., & Flanders, N. A. (1967). Interaction analysis as a feedback system. In E. J.  Amidon &
J. B. Hough (Eds.), Interaction analysis: Theory, research & application. London: Addison-Wesley
Publications.
Amidon, E., & Hunter, E. (1967). Improving teaching: The analysis of classroom verbal interaction.
New York, NY: Holt, Rinehart, & Winston.
Anderson, R. (1974). Concretization and sentence learning. Journal of Educational Psychology, 66(2),
179–183.
Anderson, R. (1977). The notion of schema and the educational enterprise: General discussion of the
conference. In R. Anderson, R. Spiro, & W. Montagues (Eds.), Schooling and the acquisition of
knowledge. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Barnes, D. (1976). From communication to curriculum. Harmondsworth: Penguin.
Barrow, R. (1993). Language, intelligence and thought. Hants: Edward Elgar Publishing Company.
Bell, J. (1989). Doing your research project: A guide for first-time researchers in educational and social
science. Milton Keynes: Open University Press.
Bell, N. (1991). Visualizing and verbalizing for language comprehension and thinking. San Luis Obispo,
CA: Gander Educational Publishing.
Bernes, E. (1964). Games people play. London: Penguin Books.
Booth, D., & Thornley Hall, C. (1991). The talk curriculum. Ontario: Pembroke Publishers Ltd.
Brigman, G., Lane, D., Switzer, D., Lane, R., & Lawrence, R. (1999). Teaching children success skills.
The Journal of Educational Research, 92(6), 323–329.
Brooks, W., & Friedrich, G. (1973). Teaching speech communication in the secondary classroom. Boston,
MA: H. Mifflin Co.
Brown, G., & Atkins, M. (1988). Effective teaching in higher education. London: Methuen.
Brown, G., & Yule, G. (1983). Teaching spoken language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Brown, G., Anderson, A., Shillcock, R., & Yule, G. (1984). Teaching talk: Strategies for production and
assessment. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Bruner, J. (1983). Child’s talk. New York, NY: Norton.
Bullock, A. (1975). A language for life. London: HMSO.
Carnegie Foundation. (1992). Ready to learn: A mandate for the nation. New York, NY: Carnegie
Corporation.
CBI/Pearson. (2017). Education and skills survey: Helping the UK thrive. Retrieved June 30, 2017, from
www.cbi.com
Cazden, C. (1988). Classroom discourse: The language of teaching and learning. Portsmouth, NH:
Heinemann Educational Books Inc.
EVALUATING COMMUNICATIVE APPROACHES IN EDUCATION
227
Chang, G., & Wells, G. (1988). The literate potential of collaborative talk. In M. Maclure, T. Phillips, &
A. Wilkinson (Eds.), Oracy matters. Milton Keynes: Open University Press.
Clark, J. M. (1987). Understanding pictures and words: Comments on Potter, Kroll, Yachzel, Carpenter,
& Sherman (1986). Journal of Educational Psychology, 116(3), 307–309.
Clark, J., & Paivio, A. (1991). Dual coding theory and education. Education Psychology Review, 3(3),
149–210.
Cohen, E. (1986). Designing group work strategies for the heterogeneous classroom. New York, NY:
Teachers College Press.
Cohen, L., & Manion, L. (1996). Research methods in education. London: Routledge.
Cooper, P. (2001). What works in Educating pupils with emotional & behaviour difficulties. London:
Barnardos Publishing.
Coopersmith, S. (1967). Antecedents of self-esteem. San Francisco, CA: W. H. Freeman.
Craik, F., & Lockhart, R. (1972). Levels of processing: A framework for memory research. Journal of
Verbal Learning and Verbal Behaviour, 11(6), 671–684.
Dearing, R. (1993). Higher education in the learning society. London: HMSO.
De Cecco, J. (1967). The psychology of language, thought and instruction. New York, NY: Holt, Rinehart
and Winston Inc.
De Groot, A. (1989). Representational aspects of word image-ability and word frequency as assessed
through word association. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition,
15(5), 824–845.
Denis, M. (1984). Imagery and prose: A critical review of research on adults and children. Text, 4,
381–401.
Dyson, A., & Clarke, C. (1995). Innovatory practice in main stream schools. London: HMSO.
Edwards, J. (1979). Language and disadvantage. London: Edward Arnold.
Frey, D., Leonard, D., & Beatty, W. (1975). Student ratings of instruction: Validation research. American
Educational Research Journal, 12(4), 435–447.
Flanders, N. (1970). Analysing teaching behaviour. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.
Goodlad, S., & Hurst, B. (1990). Explorations in real tutoring. London: Blackwell Education.
Grittin, P., & Shuy, R. (1978). Final report to Carnegie corporation of New York: Children’s functional
language and education in the early years. Washington, DC: Centre for Applied Linguistics.
Gross, J. (1993). Special educational needs in the primary school: A practical guide. Buckingham: Open
University Press.
Hicks, D. (1996). Contextual inquiries: A discourse-oriented study of classroom living. In D. Hicks (Ed.),
Discourse, learning, and schooling. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Hunter-Carsch, M., & Herrington, M. (2001). Dyslexia and effective learning. London: Whurr.
Johnson, D. (1994). Research methods in educational management. Essex: Longman Information &
Reference.
Knapp, M. (1998). How shall we study comprehensive collaborative services for children and families?
Educational Researcher, 24(4), 5–16.
Lee, J., & Van Patten, B. (1995). Making communicative language teaching happen. New York, NY: Mc
Graw Hill.
Lewis, A. (1991/1995). Primary special needs and the national curriculum. London: Routledge.
Lipman, M. (1991). Thinking in education. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Locke, A. (2000). Let’s talk project. Sheffield: NHS.
Loughran, J., & Gunstone, R. (1997). Professional development in residence: Developing reflection on
science teaching and learning. Journal of Education for Teaching, 23(2), 159–178.
Maclure, M., Phillips, T., & Wilkinson, A. (Eds.). (1988). Oracy matters: The development of talking and
listening in education. Milton Keynes: Open University Press.
McNamara, S., & Moreton, G. (1993). Teaching special needs. London: David Fulton Publishers.
McNiff, J. (2000). Action research in organisations. London: Routledge.
Mehrabian, A. (1971). Silent messages. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth.
Merrett, F. (1994). Improving reading: A teachers guide to peer tutoring. London: David Fulton
Publishers.
K. ORTON
228
Michaels, S. (1985). Hearing the connections in children’s oral and written discourse. Journal of
Education, 167(1), 36–56.
Murray, H. (1983). Low inference classroom teaching behaviours and student ratings of college teaching
effectiveness. Journal of Educational Psychology, 75(1), 138–149.
Nelson, D., & Burchell, K. (1998). Evaluation of the communication opportunity group scheme. Warwick:
South Warwickshire NHS Trust.
Olson, D., & Torrance, N. (1996). The handbook of education and human development: New models of
learning, teaching, and schooling. Oxford: Blackwell Publishers.
Paivio, A. (1971). Imagery and verbal processes. New York, NY: Holt, Rinehart, & Winston.
Phillips, G., Dunham, R., Brubaker, R., & Butt, B. (1970). The development of oral communication in the
classroom. New York, NY: The Bobbs-Merrill Company Incorporated.
Phillips, E., & Pugh, D. (2000). How to get a PhD. Buckingham: Open University Press.
Phillips, S. (1972). Participant structures and communication competence. In C. Cazden, D. Hymes, &
V. John (Eds.), The functions of language in the classroom (pp. 370–394). New York, NY: Teachers
College Press.
Reynolds, D., & Farrell, S. (1996). Worlds apart? An OFSTED review of internal surveys of educational
achievement involving England. London: HMSO.
Rosen, C., & Rosen, H. (1973). The language of primary school children. London: Penguin Education.
Rowe, M. (1974). Wait times and rewards as instructional variables: Their influence on language, logic
and fate control, i wait time. Journal of Research in Science Teaching, 11(2), 81–94.
Rudder, M. (1999, April/June). Eliciting student talk. English Teaching Forum, 37(2), 24–25.
Sage, R. (1986). A question of language disorder. Sheffield: MRC Trent Research Report.
Sage, R. (1992). Communication in the classroom. PhD Thesis. Leicester: University of Leicester.
Sage, R. (1998). Communication support for students in senior school. Leicester: University of Leicester.
(Report for Leicester Action Zone)
Sage, R. (2000a). Class talk. London: Network Continuum.
Sage, R. (2000b). The communication opportunity group scheme. Leicester: University of Leicester.
Sage, R. (2010). Meeting the needs of students with diverse backgrounds. Network Continuum.
Sage, R. (Ed.). (2011/2014). A European study of Inter-competency and Dialogue through Literature
(IDIAL). Investigating the development of transversal abilities in school children. Life Long Learning
Programme: Commenius.
Sage, R., & Shaw, P. (1992). Collaborative teaching and learning. London: CSSD Publication.
Sage, R., & Whittingham, J. (1997). Using the communication opportunity group scheme in senior
schools: A speech and language therapy and teaching initiative. Warwickshire: LEA/AHA.
SED. (1977a). Assessment for all: A report of the committee to review assessment in the third and fourth
years of secondary education in Scotland (The Dunning Report). Edinburgh: HMSO.
SED. (1977b). The structure of the curriculum in the third and fourth years of the Scottish secondary
school (The Munn Report). Edinburgh: HMSO.
Sharpe, K. (1997). Mr Gradgrind and Miss Beale: Old dichotomies, inexorable choices and what shall
we tell the students about primary teaching methods? Journal for Education for Teaching, 23(1),
69–83.
Swift, J., & Gooding, C. (1983). Interactive wait time, feedback and questioning instruction in middle
school science teaching. Journal of Research in Science Teaching, 20(8), 721–730.
Tizard, B., & Hughes, M. (1984). Young children learning. London: Fontana.
Topping, K. (1988). The peer tutoring handbook. London: Croom Helm.
Van Oers, B., & Hannikainen, M. (2001). Some thoughts about togetherness: An introduction.
International Journal of Early Years Education, 9(2), 101–108.
Vermunt, J., & Verloop, N. (1999). Congruence and friction between learning and teaching. Learning &
Instruction, 9(3), 257–280.
Wallach, G., & Miller, L. (1988). Language intervention and academic success. New York, NY: College-
Hill.
Wang, M., Haertel, G., & Walberg, H. (1994). What helps students learn? Educational Leadership, 51(4),
74–79.
EVALUATING COMMUNICATIVE APPROACHES IN EDUCATION
229
Walkin, L. (1990). Teaching and learning in further and adult education. Cheltenham: Stanley Thornes
Publishers Ltd.
Wardhaugh, R. (1985). How conversation works. Oxford: Basil Blackwell Publishers Ltd.
Wells, G. (1986). The hearing makers. London: Hodder & Stoughton.
Wells, G. (1999). Dialogic inquiry: Towards a sociocultural practice and theory of education. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Westby, C. (1984). Development of narrative language abilities. In G. Wallach & K. Butler (Eds.),
Language learning disabilities in school age children. Baltimore, MD: Williams & Williams.
SECTION 4
HOLISTIC EDUCATION EXAMPLES
This section presents some very different approaches to holistic education. These
aim to broaden the present curriculum and encourage personal as well as academic
development for students.
Chapter 11 presents a speaking competition, MP6, for schools that aims to produce
effective communication, confidence and coping abilities for students. These
competencies are deemed important for life success. Chapter 12 is an innovative
approach to facilitate spirituality in children, in order for them to better understand
themselves and the world that they are living in. Chapter 13 gives an overview of
a new practitioner doctorate in education. This shows how Level 8 study widens
and deepens knowledge, providing the competencies to make informed changes in
workplace policy and practice. Chapter 14 describes a Relational Schools initiative,
which aims to assess the profile of an institution for the purpose of making changes
in how stakeholders relate to each other. Research indicates the positive impact this
has on student achievements. A comment on this approach is provided by the editor,
Rosemary Sage.
Chapter 15 is the epilogue, bringing the information of the book together, in
order to suggest a blueprint for educational changes. The aim has been to review,
reflect on and refine educational policies and practices, from extensive research
evidence and personal experiences.
R. Sage (Ed.), Paradoxes in Education, 233–237.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
SERA SHORTLAND
11. THE MP6 PROJECT
“I want to grow up in a country where the people are more powerful than the
government.” Harry, 16.
“When I read the news all I get are biased views, how can young people get
access to balance?” Brahmpreet, 15.
“I support gay rights and would like to offer another opinion to those who do not
see the whole picture.” Ellis, 15.
“I want to go to university, why would I take the risk if my debt could be sold
to the highest bidder? This just gives those ‘banksters’ another chance to take
money from those who can least afford it.” Luke, 14.
“I would like a public apology from the government. I would like the apology
for decisions which constantly affect my future, a future that I am working hard
towards and battling for, because of people whose futures were secured through
wealth and privilege.” Elsie, 15.
ABSTRACT
A project, called MP6 was designed to develop and give students a voice about
important issues in their lives. It was initiated by Sera Shortland (psychologist) and
Social Sciences’ Lead teacher at Hamilton School, Leicester. This city was Europe’s
first to have an indigenous population in the minority and Leicester University
has promoted communication research to produce understanding of this aspect in
developing effective learning and appreciation of many cultures. MP6 was setup
with the support of local Members of Parliament and Leicester City Council (hence
the acronym, MP) with 6 denoting the number of students reaching the final of an
inter-school and college speaking competition. The project is described to appreciate
the benefits of this to students, in enabling them to have the confidence to tackle life
challenges.
INTRODUCTION
The short, powerful extracts, introducing this chapter, were taken from speeches
delivered by young people. Looking beyond the words, it is not difficult to see why
a political, speaking initiative was developed in a school facing severe levels of social
disadvantage.Communicationispowerandaskillthatwithinemploymentandacademia
S. SHORTLAND
234
often defines a person. The demands placed on having effective communication for
work and further education are substantial. Ability to communicate well will provide
greater access to opportunities. Teaching effective communication should be a key
driver for schools in helping close educational gaps between our richest and poorest
students. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (1989), grants legal
access for young people for free expression; ‘to seek, receive and impart information of
all kinds, regardless of frontiers’ (Article 13) and yet many young people do not have
opportunity and means to authentically access their rights.
Member of Parliament’s 6 (MP6) is a city area-wide, annual, political public-
speaking event open to all 11–16 year olds, that encourages collaboration and
participation in politics and public speaking. The initiative uses a communication
model, The Communication Opportunity Group Strategy (COGS & Sage, 2000) to
help teach young people more formal conventions of speaking, as this competence is
not addressed within the UK curriculum. In collaboration with teachers, politicians
and a communication expert (Professor Rosemary Sage) students can draw from
specialist knowledge to help them build their understanding, language, presentation
and performance abilities. Through the competition process they grasp the idea
that you cannot learn passively, you have to experience, practise and participate.
Students must become active agents in their own learning.
THE MP6 PROCESS
All students that take part in the competition may choose to talk about any issue
they feel is important to them, the only caveat being that it must be a current news
story. Schools that take part have access to resources to help them conduct their own
heats until they have several students that take part in knock-out rounds at Leicester
City Hall. Here, students are judged by local councillors and the Head of Children’s
Services until 6 student finalists are found. The finalists are then coached and face
a panel of distinguished judges at Hamilton College, in Leicester, at the end of the
summer term. All finalists deliver a 90 second speech on current political issues and
face hard-hitting topical questions from the panel, who assess their presentations
according to the COGS model (described in Chapter 9). The topics of speeches
are always diverse and have included British values, LGBT rights, the Prism Spy
Programme, UKIP and GCSE reforms.
REBECCA’S MP6 EXPERIENCE
Mr Cameron claims that British values are “freedom, tolerance, respect for the
law and British institutions – and that he hopes these will be inculcated into the
curriculum”. I did not understand what inculcated meant and looked it up. It means
indoctrination and instil.
Rebecca, a student competition finalist, in one unassuming statement, captures
the essence of what MP6 is aiming to achieve. This is motivating a curiosity for
THE MP6 PROJECT
235
world affairs; a thirst for political literacy and the knowledge and understanding
to communicate effectively in an increasingly global landscape. Rebecca has
creatively taken control of her own learning and is directing where she wants to go
with it. MP6 provides a platform for which students (like Rebecca) can share their
concerns to a wider audience. In an extract from her speech, she demonstrates a
keen interest in a political issue.
This is explored further – asking questions, clarifying ideas, researching and
expanding her understanding. Rebecca has developed confidence and strategies
to enable her to speak her mind in a powerful, elegant manner from participating
in a real, relevant learning experience. Her journey demonstrates one impact for
students who participate in MP6. They undergo a process that helps to broaden
their vocabulary using language and communication competencies that underpin
academic and personal success. Students are coached using the COGS model,
developed by Professor Rosemary Sage at the University of Leicester, receiving
structured sessions from a COGS trained consultant, Sue Frost, who works on
formal presentation and performance techniques with them. Working in small
groups, students are taken through several stages to develop their ideas. For
example, Rebecca knew she wanted to address the issue of David Cameron’s
speech on British values, as she felt that the policy was unhelpful. In her eyes,
schools already work hard to promote this philosophy without need for a formal
and ‘forced’ document. Using the COGS approach allowed her to dig deeper into
the context of this policy, explore her thoughts and assemble the information
she needed to articulate her belief. She produced lists of ideas, arranged them
in order of importance, compared Cameron’s views with others and following
COGS cognitive/linguistic stages to produce a cogent argument which, when
using Cameron’s word ‘inculcated,’ received a raised eyebrow and smile from
the MP listening to her speech. (The document is found at: https://www.gov.uk/
government/news/british-values-article-by-david-cameron)
SUMMARY
Using this communication framework has proved invaluable in helping students
to structure ideas and refine written content, to enable a formal speaking style that
they would not learn elsewhere in the curriculum. Indeed, the results of MP6 on
young people, over time, are encouraging. Students report having greatly enjoyed
the experience, developed more interest in politics, gained confidence in public-
speaking with understanding of how to put across arguments more effectively.
One student, facing communication challenges because of Autism, found MP6
a powerful medium for expressing his ideas. He was given a platform to channel
thoughts and found through setting his speech to the rhythm of background music,
that he could articulate his frustrations with government policy. The creative
strategies used by other young people, to transmit messages to their peers, included
speech-rapping and use of creative modern language to form narratives. Using
S. SHORTLAND
236
language relating to peers is powerful. It is a real student voice that they construct
themselves, rather than them being told what & how to say it.
Brahmpreet took part for 3 consecutive years. From being an unconfident, yet
passionate young person, she has grown into a mature communicator, who has
delivered speeches in parliament, within in her role on Leicester’s Youth Council.
She reports MP6 as ‘giving me the outlet and sense of purpose needed to stand for
election onto the Youth Council.’ She is right – engagement in public-speaking is a
critical outlet for young people to voice opinion and be heard, yet they have little
opportunity within a progressively-collapsed curriculum and one that is relentless
in its pursuit of academic achievement. Students are taught content over substance,
knowledge over how to implement this is real situations in the present UK system.
The curriculum, combined with rapid progress and use of technologies, mean
that many young people simply have little chance to speak about their affiliation
with, or argument against a current or beguiling issue. Personal voice and opinion
can get lost in the vast network of social media. It is exploration of dialogue and the
opportunity to practise speech in different contexts that will enhance communication
competencies. When discussing, we gain an insight into what other people are
thinking and feeling, and this allows the interrogation and challenge of different
ideas. Students are amazing – they have so much to say and are keenly interested in
the world around them. As educators, we must give them time and place to do more
talking. For details and student speeches go to www.politicallyspeaking.co.uk
MAIN POINTS
•	 Students need opportunities to develop their formal speaking abilities, especially
today when talk is reduced by technology
•	 Providing a framework, like COGS, enables students to understand different
communication genres to use appropriately in life situations
•	 The popularity of this competition is because it allows students to have a voice
and is an antidote to the compliance of the National Curriculum
THE MP6 PROJECT
237
•	 This personal development of students has had positive impact on all their
activities and has brought confidence and success
REFERENCE
Sage, R. (2000). The communication opportunity group scheme. Leicester: University of Leicester.
R. Sage (Ed.), Paradoxes in Education, 239–250.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
PAULINE LOVELOCK
12. INVESTIGATING CHILDREN’S
SPIRITUALITY
ABSTRACT
Spirituality is defined as the understanding and awareness of ‘self’and one’s purpose
in the world. It has both religious and secular connotations. An approach is described
to encourage this growth in children for a better understanding of themselves, others
and the world at large. Giving opportunities to examine personal inner feelings,
fears and views, in places that can inspire, brings serenity, security and acceptance
of circumstances, contributing greatly to mental health.
INTRODUCTION
It is such a privilege to sit with a child and let them lead you through the door
of their heart into the secret world within, where they reveal mysteries of the
meaning of life itself, glimpses of their wisdom, breath-taking in its simplicity
and insight. (Lovelock, 2015)
Children live in a secret inner world – a mystical realm where some encounter
imaginary friends or guardian angels, interacting with them and offering protection.
If adults are able to listen and engage with children, they will hear them describe
experiences, which have led to sensations of overwhelming peace and harmony. In
special moments, children may feel safe enough to whisper their fears and worries,
trusting you will hear them and not trample on their experiences, be they light or
dark (Lovelock, 2015). We need to listen to our children as they wish to be heard and
beyond that they yearn to be believed (Adams, 2010).
Children in school are developed in mind and body, but rarely in spirit.
A content-led curriculum does not afford precious moments needed to be spent in
reflection. A time allowing children to ‘simply be’! This sits in the field of children’s
spirituality. It is not necessary to be religious to have spiritual awareness and
development. Spirituality is within us all. For some, ‘spirituality’ is seen as a divine
encounter with God, a sense of the Numinous or ‘Other.’ Alternatively it can be a
secular experience – a sense of personal awareness and being at one with nature –
watching a sunset or experiencing a profoundly moving piece of music. It is often
achieved during times of deep thinking and reflection on events.
P. LOVELOCK
240
RESEARCH INTO SPIRITUALITY
In my Doctoral study topic, ‘Exploring Spirituality and Children’s Divine
Encounters,’ I sought to speak to children and hear what they had to say about
what is really important to them – their hopes and fears that influence responses to
situations. This speaks about their spirituality and what is important in their lives to
enable them to become whole, rounded people who are happy in their own being. In
essence, the aim is to look at the child holistically and not as a target to be met on a
restrictive school curriculum.
Researching into children’s spirituality led me on a journey with 10,000
children. I worked in two International Anglican Shrines, for nearly a decade, with
young people (4–18 years), in the role of Education Officer. The formal research
involved in-depth interviews with 44 children (9–11 years) and a complimentary
study of 650 children (4–11 years), focusing on children’s fears such as death,
bereavement and loss. The children were of mixed gender, and from Christian,
Muslim and Secular backgrounds. Teenagers with special needs were also involved
in the project.
Archbishop Rowan Williams said to me during the project, There is nothing
fluffy about children’s spirituality, they speak of deep and profound things...We
think children need to be entertained, kept excited and often they are longing,
desperately longing for the chance to be absorbed, to be held. (Williams &
DVD, 2014)
This raises questions about children’s spirituality and under what circumstances
they will speak of things not shared with teachers or parents. This research was
approved by the University Ethics Committee on account of the young age of the
children and the sensitivity of the material. In the reported evidence, consent was
also given by the children themselves and their parents and schools.
ENGAGING THE CHILDREN
The children were taken to a sacred place to let them explore the atmosphere and
allow them time to reflect and think deeply about who they are, as a person, whilst
considering what is important for them in life. Talking with the children took place
in 3 stages.
1.	The children were met in school and introduced to Reflective Storytelling similar
to Godly Play (Berryman, 1995). In this model, we sat on the floor together,
involved in the story of Julian of Norwich – moving wooden figures on a felt
background to support the actions. This introduced children to the idea of
sacred space, visions and near-death experiences. As a candle was lit and then
extinguished, we watched the smoke rise. Children then spoke about their
thoughts if they wished.
INVESTIGATING CHILDREN’S SPIRITUALITY
241
2.	A week later, the children were taken to visit either the Julian Shrine or a
nearby church. In the morning, children participated in craft activities, listened
to visualisation stories and were taken back in time in their imaginations. They
played historical, circle games to medieval music – actively running about
with much laughter. A modern rap was created by them all, followed by a feast
of, fruit, biscuits and juice. Lunch was taken outside where they could run and
play.
	 When they returned to the church, in the afternoon, it had been transformed with
lit candles and soft music playing. Children gasped as they entered the dimly lit
atmosphere. They listened to Buddhist Meditation story-tapes and used finger
labyrinths. The group experienced lighting candles and walking with them in a
procession, singingTaize music as they went.When the candles were extinguished,
they drifted into deep silence.
	 Around the sacred space were small activities, enabling them to record their
thoughts as poetry, prayers or just words describing feelings. This was a time of
silence. They could partake in any activity or none and just ‘simply be’ with no
agenda and free, quiet time. It was at this point that children would draw pictures,
leave words in baskets and make memories. They were given free choice and the
only rule was not to disturb the experience of others. Some chose to lie on the
carpeted floor in the sanctuary and just soak up the atmosphere and reflect.
3.	Within a week, I returned to school with visual reminders of the day, such as
coloured candles and pictures, and asked for reflections. This was followed by in-
depth recorded interviews about their feelings and experiences.
WHAT IS CHILDREN’S SPIRITUALITY?
As part of the research adults were interviewed, including teachers and teaching
assistants who knew the children well. Expert professional insight was also sought
from counsellors, psychologists, priests and religious education advisers, as to the
reactions of children and their views on spirituality.
During a research interview (2011), Mary Myatt, religious education adviser
and OFSTED inspector, described spirituality’ as an ‘interior experience,’ saying:
‘spirituality sits in that part of human nature which goes beyond the physical and
also goes beyond the material. It relates to the core of who we are as human beings.’
She continued: ‘If you have been brought up in a faith, or a religious tradition, you
will label that ’God’ and there will be a great deal of thought, scripture, literature
and thinking around that. If you don’t sit in a faith or in a religious tradition, which
talks about ‘God,’then I do not think this is necessarily a label you would put to that.
When the children began to speak, their accounts were of great depth and
spirituality, which exceeded expectation. Not recorded was the non-verbal
body language of the children, ranging from intense animation and excitement
to stillness, mature reflection and a full range of emotions.
P. LOVELOCK
242
RESEARCH FINDINGS
The children identified 15 themes, which were recorded on charts and analysed
along with narrative accounts of spiritual experiences in vignette form. Most
children (97%) said the experience of freely engaging with the sacred space
enhanced their well-being by feeling safe, so protecting and freeing them from
worries. When speaking of feelings, many (82%) reported a calm a sensation,
which they liked as being more relaxed and spiritual in a sacred place. Children
(66%) described spiritual feelings, showing awareness of themselves and the
world around them. They also used ‘God talk,’speaking of belief in heaven, angels
and the soul, which was not strange, considering they were in church. An unusual
response was children reporting fear (32%). Death-talk was high (59%) with
some children reporting that they saw and communicated with deceased relatives
(Adams, 2008).
This prompted a second study with 650 children, discussing death and
bereavement. The stimulus for this was reading the book ‘Tapestry,’ by Bob
Hartman (2011). In the story, Granddad dies and Grandmother makes a collage
of his life using his old jumper. This encouraged children to talk about death,
not only of their pets but also people – grandparents and also brothers and
sisters. Children expressed strong feelings about being allowed to attend funerals
and included in family grief. These findings led to review what children were
specifically saying.
Children Speaking
Frank spoke of an ‘awe and wonder’moment, in which he described seeing a prayer-
flower (he had made) open in water, saying: ‘It is a prayer flowing out to everyone
who can hear it in their minds and see it in their brains.’ It was a spiritual moment
for him. Cath explained (when holding her candle): ‘It (the feeling) just picked me
up making me worry less.’ For Ann, lighting her candle had religious as well as
spiritual impact. She said: ‘I lit a candle and it was like Wow! Oh My God! He’s there
with you and like you can see Him. God is really real.’
A child, with secular beliefs, said: ‘I do not go to church. I do not know who God
is. I do not know who made God. I felt happy and calm. I felt warm. I felt it in my
soul.’ Tammy enjoyed having time to think and wrote: ‘I really loved it, because I
was calm and thinking about stuff I never thought about. Like stuff which could help
you in the future. Like where you could go and do something about people without
food.’ A Muslim child explained that the Mosque and Church were sacred places
and felt the same: ‘They both feel the same because they are both quiet and have a
lot of people there.’
However, children’s reactions are not always quiet, as they are sometimes joyful
with laughter and giggling. The Shrine priest put it: ‘We don’t have a dark God, we
have a God of fun, laughter and joy.’
INVESTIGATING CHILDREN’S SPIRITUALITY
243
Physical Feelings
A phenomenon, identified by children (43%), described physical feelings as
‘special’ or ‘funny’ or having ‘tingly sensations.’ Some of these were linked to them
experiencing a change in temperature, which could not be accounted for in reality.
Wendy described a ‘butterfly feeling,’ when she thought of two uncles who had both
died in their teens. She wrote a prayer on a paper dove, which she took home and
conducted a memorial service for them in her bedroom. She explained: ‘as I wrote
my prayer to God, I felt the world start to spin faster.’
Kate Adams (2008) explains an important element in nurturing spirituality is
ability to appreciate emotion and a sense of feeling. Apart from the 5 senses in the
material world – taste, touch, sight, smell and sound – experienced in concrete ways,
she identifies a myriad of abstract ones, which enable us to engage and interpret the
world around us. Boys mainly described their spiritual experience as ‘a shiver down
their spines.’ For some the feeling was ecstatic but for others uncomfortable. Harry
said: ‘I got a shiver down my spine and I liked it – it just felt like you were going up
to heaven. It made me feel calm.’Mike described the sensation as a ‘jibbery feeling.’
It made him feel ‘weird, different,’ not like the feeling he got playing football. He did
not want others to know what he had experienced.
Over the past decade, working in sacred spaces, children reported a change in
temperature. Poppy described a drop in temperature as she lit a candle, saying: ‘I felt
cold inside, because it made me think of all the people who had died in my family.’
Most say, however, that the temperature rises. Ellie described feeling: ‘really warm
and calm, once the heater was put on.’ There was no heater and the children’s breath
could be seen in the air.
This is referred to as warmth without heat. The 14th Century mystic, Richard
Rolle, (2015) is quoted as saying: ‘I felt my heart begin to warm, as if my heart was
actually on fire…I realised it came entirely from within. This fire of love had no
cause…but was the gift of my maker’ (p. 182). Such feelings have been attributed to
the gifts of the charismatic church.
Of all the physical sensations children describe, it is the ‘glazed eye’ which
is most visible. When left alone in deep thought, children may appear to be in a
trance like state. They are oblivious to what is going on around them. When they
‘emerge,’ children say they have felt spiritual and calm, with some discovering
God. It is an infringement of privacy to question them further about so personal
a moment. However, some children did volunteer information about their
experiences later in the recorded interviews.
Hart (2003) offers insight into this experience, when children report ‘time stood
still.’ He says children are often ‘not in time.’ Time can be absorbed in a moment.
Physicists (Einstein), writers (TS Eliot), philosophers and mystics suggest our linear,
sequential sense of time is only one way of perceiving, as it is both eternal and
immediate. Children’s experience helps us understand that time bends in a multi-
dimensional world.
P. LOVELOCK
244
Fear
Children (32%) spoke of fear, which can be distinguished from worry and often
materialised in the form of bereavement. Having spent time with children in schools
and sacred spaces, encouraging them to ask questions, explore and think deeply,
they all felt comfortable about voicing their inner thoughts. It was possible to
communicate in a deeper way than usual. We do not normally communicate with
the real person, which is essential for well-being. Some conversations became part
of child-disclosure regulations and were handled sensitively, following accepted
guidelines.
There is no doubt a dark side to children’s spirituality and children’s fear is real
and not to be dismissed. By not allowing them to reveal their darker thoughts we
must ask who is being protected – children or the adults who may feel uncomfortable
by what they hear. In recent years, children have feared entering church, because
they believe the weeping angel monsters, based on the Doctor Who programme, are
waiting to send them back in time. Others speak of ‘dark spirits’ and ‘real angels.’
Poppy said: ‘I think most people who have seen an angel were terrified. I don’t want
to see one.’ Some feared evil spirits lurking in the building to whisk them to another
world.
More worrying were children told God is watching their every move, because
they are evil. This prompted several to speak of a fear of going to hell. They
described themselves as unlovable and worthless. Children sometimes spoke of
loneliness, being bullied and not clever enough to get a good job when they were
older. Some children were carers and described hours of looking after sick parents.
For these children there was no childhood. A fear for the future and lack of hope
was voiced.
Bereavement
In the study of 650 children, 56% had experienced the death of a pet and 40% that
of a close relative, such as a grandparent. Only 4% had no experience of death.
Six children spoke of the death of brothers or sisters – one had been a cot death,
but others were of similar age to themselves and died of cancer or in accidents.
One girl explained she went to her brother’s grave every day, on the way home
from school. She talked to her brother, who was believed to be growing up in
heaven while she was doing so on earth. Her parents did not know about this, as
she did not want to worry them. Another child (9 years) was angry and in tears,
because she had not been allowed to go to her grandmother’s funeral and was
locked in the car for safety outside the crematorium. She watched the coffin go
in, drawing her grandmother, dying in hospital, attached to a breathing machine –
saying: ‘I watched her die. I had seen everything and then they would not let me
say goodbye.’ Children know about death and they are asking to be included when
this happens in the family.
INVESTIGATING CHILDREN’S SPIRITUALITY
245
A MULTI-DISCIPLINARY APPROACH TO CHILDREN’S SPIRITUALITY
Several disciplines engage with children’s spirituality and view its importance
in different ways. The main issues are discussed below showing how particular
knowledge affects beliefs and actions.
Religious Studies (RS) and Theological Interpretation
An important area of spiritual development is within Religious Studies, which is a
subject lending itself to discussion and enquiry. Children are encouraged to share life
experiences, in order to gain understanding of the world in which they live. As part
of the RS curriculum, this research enabled children to explore the atmosphere in
sacred places and reflect upon music and silence, so in essence ‘simply be.’At these
times, theological beliefs and themes of God, heaven and angels emerged. What
they described could be traced back to biblical teaching, although given lack of this
knowledge among many children today, further investigation is needed to shed light
on the source of their ideas. Experiences of Christian meditation linked back to the
theology of the Desert Fathers & Mothers. For children of different faiths, or secular
background, they explain ‘spiritual’ as being at one with nature, or exploring the
sacred within their own faith background.
Psychology
Children’s spirituality engages with enchantment but also involves the darker side
of spirituality, when exploring issues of good and evil. Children spoke of seeing
evil spirits and fear of going to hell. Bruno Bettleheim (psychoanalyst) explored
the influence of fairy stories, using religious themes, including fear and evil (1991).
He argued that fear was important in child development, helping to deal with the
reality of life. Likewise, Freud and Jung (psychologists) stressed the importance of
religion for human understanding. Edward Hoffman (1992) (clinical psychologist)
researched areas of spirituality, following work of Abraham Maslow (1954), saying
this demonstrated that childhood harbours experiences and insights generally
unrecognised in our time. He reports in his book, ‘Visions of Innocence,’ child
accounts as a gateway to enter a forgotten world of beauty and order. Tobin Hart
(2003) (professor & psychologist) adds that his research, also from child accounts,
represents a breakthrough in their mystical experiences.
Medicine
Issues of well-being and mental health are linked to spirituality. Over 50% of
children in this study volunteered thoughts about bereavement or death. Elisabeth
Kubler–Ross (1983) (medical doctor, psychiatrist & thantologist), as an expert
in terminally-ill children highlighted the importance of allowing children to
P. LOVELOCK
246
speak openly of death. Likewise, Professor Brian Thorne, therapeutic counsellor
in a research interview, stressed the importance of allowing children to speak
of fear and grief and not afraid to let them cry. This is vital in helping them
come to terms with these aspects of life. NHS doctors and nurses are now being
offered spirituality lessons, in order to provide more compassionate patient care.
They can qualify in the subject with a diploma approved by Government exams
watchdog, Of qual. The training teaches healthcare professionals how to improve
their bedside manner and encourage patients to have more meaningful lives. It is
primarily about showing children and adults how to connect and communicate
with other human beings. Doctors report that the training has helped them enjoy
a better relationship with patients. Hospital chaplains are already accredited, by
the NHS, to provide spiritual guidance to both patients and staff. NHS trusts have
a duty under the Equality Act 2010 to respect someone’s spiritual beliefs and
identity.
EDUCATION
Ann Chadwick (2012), an educator, is concerned about issues of death and
bereavement and believes this should be included in the school curriculum. It is
a necessary part of learning about life and accepting the cycle of birth and death.
Loss is experienced in many forms and needs acknowledgement, understanding
and support. The Education Reform Act (1988) defined education in terms of
spiritual, moral, cultural, mental and physical development which was reinforced
in National Inspections and the Education Schools Act (1992). The National
Curriculum Council (1993) defined what they regarded as aspects of spiritual
development:
•	 Beliefs – development of personal beliefs (including religious); appreciation
that people have individual & shared beliefs to base their lives; a developing
understanding of how beliefs contribute to identity
•	 A sense of awe, wonder & mystery – being inspired by nature, mystery or human
achievement
•	 Experiencing feelings of transcendence – feelings that may give rise to belief in a
divine being, or that one’s inner resources provide ability to rise above everyday
experiences
•	 Search for meaning and purpose – asking ‘why me?’ at times of hardship or
suffering; reflecting on the origins & purpose of life; responding to challenging
experiences such as beauty, suffering & death
•	 Self-knowledge – awareness of oneself in terms of thoughts, feelings, emotions,
responsibilities & experiences; a growing understanding & acceptance of
individual identity; development of self-respect
•	 Relationships – recognising and valuing the worth of each individual; developing
a sense of community; the ability to build up relationships with others
INVESTIGATING CHILDREN’S SPIRITUALITY
247
•	 Creativity – expressing innermost thoughts & feelings through art, music,
literature & crafts; exercising imagination, inspiration, intuition & insight
•	 Feelings and emotions – sense of being moved by beauty or kindness; hurt by
injustice or aggression; awareness of when to control emotions & feelings & how
to learn to use these as a source of growth
Most people relate to these things, but differ in their interpretation and the meaning
given to them. Some attribute experiences and feelings to physical, sociological or
psychological causes. Others find explanations for them in the teachings of their
religion. There is evidence that most British people have some belief in God,
although recent figures suggest this is declining.
Neurology
Neurology has been important in gaining insight into the experiences children report.
The physical phenomena of tingly feelings and a change in temperature, would be
explained, by some, as a divine encounter, but is there a neurological explanation?
Are the symptoms a religious experience or a pathology? This has been addressed by
D’Aquili (1999), David Fenwick (2004) and Mario Beauregard (2012), researching
at the Maudsley as well as Alaister Coles (2014) at Addenbrookes hospitals.
Investigating the Mind-Soul debate, Beauregard (2012) described Materialism,
saying: ‘we experience thoughts, feelings, beliefs and spiritual insight resulting
from electro-mechanical impulses. Anything like an ecstatic experience must be a
hallucination or brain malfunction.’ However, Dr Alaister Coles has noticed the
pathologically-ill decrease rather than increase their faith. The children and adults,
who have spoken about these experiences, were not sick. The debate, therefore,
continues and as we gain further knowledge this will be made clearer.
Communication
Linked to this is the work of Zohar & Marshall (2000), who consider the importance
of spiritual Intelligence in human development. Their work on Spiritual IQ and
the existence of the God Spot makes a valuable contribution. They maintain that
nurturing spiritual intelligence should be part of a school curriculum with less
reliance on technology and more emphasis on activities such as play, walking in the
woods, reading poetry, listening to music, expressing thoughts, deemed as essential
to personal well-being and successful mental and emotional growth.
Rosemary Sage (2006/2009) trained initially in speech therapy and then
educational and cognitive psychology, considers the importance of language
and a child’s ability to relate in extended, narrative forms, in order to express
feelings and ideas for both mental, emotional and social development. Sometimes
children cannot find words to describe the spiritual experiences they have felt.
She considers the functions of the visual right and verbal left side of the brain
P. LOVELOCK
248
and how education must develop both hemispheres in teaching approaches for
effective learning.
Throughout my research, it was argued that children could not become aware of
a spiritual experience, if they did not have the narrative language to describe it and
make it real for them. Berryman (in Ratcliffe, 2004) counteracted this by observing
infants, in the pre-linguistic stage, when they rely upon non-verbal communication
for comprehension and expression. Children often play alone in silence and words
are not needed to make meaning of what they are feeling. During this unique time,
he suggests God is experienced in the relationships made with others. Children are
better than adults in developing relationships without words, because of reliance
on non-verbal communication channels in early years. However, when speech
and language occurs, this takes precedence over non-verbal communication in our
culture for making meaning.
The spirituality work undertaken also involved special needs children and
young adults, some of whom were without speech and communicated thought by
using clicker-boards. They relayed similar feelings to those using conventional
language.
SUMMARY
Evidence, from several years of research into the spiritual aspects of child lives, has
shown the importance of giving opportunities for this development for their well-
being, as well as mental, emotional and social growth. A prescriptive curriculum
has marginalised needs of students in schools and colleges and in summarising the
messages of this research, the following needs to be addressed:
•	 Schools need to adopt a holistic approach to the curriculum for child well-
being
•	 Children are individuals and need time to reflect, ponder and ‘simply be’
•	 Adults will learn much if they listen to what children are saying and give
opportunities for talk
•	 Make time in the day to communicate and engage with children at a deep,
reflective level
•	 Include lessons on bereavement, death and loss, as children are asking for this
input
•	 Science uses ‘plasticity of the brain’ to describe its flexibility. We are not ‘just
what we eat,’ but ‘what we do.’ Denying opportunities to be spiritual – to
paint, listen to music, write poetry and reflect, means children lose ability to
engage with these experiences, so failing to develop spiritual intelligence.
As an experienced teacher, I believe the narrow curriculum, focusing on league
tables and standard targets, is damaging learners’ mental and emotional health.
What I see does not inspire but fills me with concern. More and more children are
INVESTIGATING CHILDREN’S SPIRITUALITY
249
anxious and stressed with their parents worried continually about their academic
progress.
Society has changed, with modern science and technology increasingly relied
upon for daily functioning. Answers to questions about life and ultimate death are
seldom addressed and as secularism increases there seems less time to consider the
idea of a presence greater than ourselves, which some might call ‘God.’ Children
need to be viewed and reared holistically with care for mind, body & spirit, to guide
and support them in becoming rounded, mature adults, who are happy in their own
being and can bring value to the world throughout their lives.
MAIN POINTS
•	 It is generally considered that we have a mind, body and spirit (the essence of
self) but the latter is given little attention in education
•	 Approaches designed to release inner feelings, fears and views help to bring about
awareness of oneself, others and the world
•	 This awareness builds identity and purpose, assisting communication and
confidence
•	 Giving students opportunities to discover their spirituality is important for their
mental health and general well-being
REFERENCES
Adams, K., Hyde, B., & Wooley, R. (2008). The spiritual dimension of childhood. London & Philadelphia,
PA: Jessica Kingsley Publishers.
Adams, K. (2010). Unseen worlds: Looking through the lens of childhood. London & Philadelphia,PA:
Jessica Kingsley Publishers.
Beauregard, M. (2012). Brain wars: The scientific battle over the existence of the mind and the proof that
will change the way we live our lives. New York, NY: Harper Collins Publishers.
Berryman, J. (1995). Godly play. Minneapolis, MN: Augsburg Fortress.
Bettelheim, B. (1991). The uses of enchantment: The meaning and importance of fairy tales. London:
Penguin Books.
Chadwick, A. (2012). Talking about death and bereavement in school: How to help children aged 4 to 11
to feel supported and understood. London: Jessica Kingsley Publishers.
Coles, A. (2014). Senior lecturer in neurology. Cambridge: Cambridge University. (Unpublished Lecture
Ely, 9 October, 2014)
D’Aquili, E., & Newberg, A. (1999). The mystical mind .Minneapolis, MN: Fortress Press.
Fenwick, P. (2012). Science and spirituality. Retrieved December 27, 2015, from http://iands.org/
research/important-researc-articles/42-dr-peter-fenwick
Hart, T. (2003). The secret spiritual world of children. Maui, HI: Inner Ocean.
Hartman, B., & Poole, S. (2011). Tapestry. Milton Keynes: Authentic Media Ltd.
Hoffman, E. (1988). The right to be human: A biography of Abraham Maslow. Los Angeles, CA: Jeremy
P. Tarcher Publishing.
Kubler–Ross, E. (1983–1997). On children and death: How children and their parents can and do cope
with death (1st ed.). New York, NY: Touchstone, Simon, & Schuster.
Lovelock, P. (2015). Exploring spirituality: Children’s divine encounters. (Unpublished Doctorate)
Maslow, A. (1954). Motivation and personality. New York, NY: NY Harper.
P. LOVELOCK
250
National Curriculum Council. (1993). Spiritual and moral development: A discussion document. London:
NCC.
Ratcliff, D. (Ed.). (2004). Children’s spirituality: Christian perspectives, research and applications.
Eugene, OR: Cascade Books, A Division of WIPF & Stock Publishers.
Rolle, R. (2015). The fire of love. London: Aeterna Press.
Sage, R. (2006, December). Narrative problems in early years. Journal of Early Child Development and
Care, 158(1), 1–9.
Sage, R. (2009, November). Education and the brain: Are we using only half our brain? Unravelling
concerns about standards. Education Today, 59(4), 2–12.
Williams, R. (2014). The anti-theology of Julian of Norwich-Reflections panel [DVD Disc 2].
Zohar, D., & Marshall, I. (2000). SQ. Spiritual intelligence, the ultimate intelligence (2001 ed.). London:
Bloomsbury.
R. Sage (Ed.), Paradoxes in Education, 251–257.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
JONATHAN ADENIJI
13. HOLISTIC EDUCATION FOR TEACHERS
ABSTRACT
The opportunity to pursue studies at Level 8, by producing a professional record, is
limited for teachers in the UK. Completing a Practitioner Doctorate makes one aware
of the importance of this level of study if teachers are to move away from traditional
models of pedagogy. These old models focus on delivering facts and testing them to
see if these have been learnt. Now that facts can be gained at the press of a button
andArtificial Intelligence is taking over routine procedures, we need to skill students
to achieve better levels of communication and thinking in order to create solutions to
complex world problems. A Practitioner Doctorate widens and deepens knowledge
and gives the chance to apply this in workplaces. The benefits to oneself and others
are life-changing and enable positive changes to be made for learning and teaching.
INTRODUCTION
I joined the pilot programme for the Practitioner Doctorate to provide a more holistic
view of education and how it might be better promoted with both my students and
colleagues. Teaching is a challenging but rewarding business in our plural societies
and the doctoral programme gave me an opportunity to understand the wide range
of issues that have to be negotiated in order for students to learn effectively.
This section is a narrative of my unique experience as an educational practitioner,
with a background in economics and industry experience in business consulting,
training & development. Obtaining my education, in both Nigeria and the United
Kingdom, has enriched my international and cross-cultural experiences of learning.
It has provided the platform to compare and reflect on practices in both developing
countries and the Western world. The professional doctorate approach, in exploring
how the culmination of one’s formal, informal and non-formal experiences impact
on working approaches, is greatly beneficial to those implementing learning and
management. Academic study is not treated in isolation, but in relation to oneself as
a practitioner. It creates a compelling, revealing self-awareness of one’s professional
role, seeing a career journey in the light of who you are and how you can make greater
impact. Furthermore, it helps to chart a course for future development, indicating
how practice could be improved and ultimately more fulfilling personally. Having
completed the programme, I can understand how important it is for practicing
J. ADENIJI
252
teachers to be reaching this level of education. It provides knowledge and reflective
skills essential for improving teaching and learning.
A HOLISTIC PROFESSIONAL DOCTORATE
Aprofessional doctorate systemises holistic learning by providing a range of different
approaches and variations in practice, applicable for teaching in a global world, in
order to enrich knowledge and its implementation for education professionals. As a
result, the programme has positive impact on practice and one’s career journey (i.e.
where you are coming from & how far you have travelled). As a teacher, it makes you
feel more responsible for student learning and the desire to enrich this is increased
considerably. In effect, you derive greater intrinsic satisfaction and fulfilment
seeing your students demonstrating that the lesson period was time well spent. In
consequence, you and they look forward to the next meeting. Besides, a professional
doctorate provides opportunity to assess and challenge the effectiveness of one’s
practice and that of other colleagues more critically, evaluating the effective aspects
and those than require development as well as support.
The opportunity to compare and contrast experiences improves skills, confidence
and professional competence. It equips one to appraise and critique practice.
It increases capacity to reflect more on experiences and their impact on a career.
A professional doctorate helps to make the learning mode more active by introducing
a needs analysis and integrating it into everyday practice. In a management position,
the experience has improved my flexibility in a mentorship role. This is a testament
to the positive impact of learning at this level for greater workplace impact. The
awareness, provided by this level of learning, opens eyes more widely to observe
more closely.
Providing a means for reflection on a career and professional studies further
enhances the quality of daily work, making one more realistic, practical and pragmatic.
It increases focus on the appropriate application of theories and processes for situations
rather than viewing things strictly from an academic point of view, in isolation from real
events. Concern is more about practice impact and the positive changes it could bring,
by improving knowledge, attitudes and competencies. Since reflection is a genuine
process of self-criticism, a professional doctorate increases a desire for continuous
improvement of practice. One becomes more tolerant of constructive criticisms,
perceiving opinions and suggestions of colleagues as a positive challenge and means
to enhance progress. The experience enhances capacity to view issues as part of a
whole, by looking at these more holistically within the complex external influences
that impact on outcomes in a global, mobile world. This has brought me confidence
and capability, as a senior professional in the college where I work.
In the next section, the concept of narrative is explored. This aspect appeared a
thread that linked all the topics studied by the eight participants following the doctoral
programme. It provides knowledge and understanding about communication that is
neglected in the training of teachers, but is vital when trying to provide information
HOLISTIC EDUCATION FOR TEACHERS
253
to the many students who are learning in English and not their mother-tongue spoken
at home.
NARRATIVE SCHEMA
The more practical approach of a professional doctorate inspires a desire, as a
teacher, to explore how needs of learners can be met more effectively. It encourages
thinking of how to make teaching more learner-centred, considering particularly the
issues around their language development and the limitations that may interfere with
processing new information and making relevant responses. The significance of an
appropriate development and use of narrative schema in the learning process cannot
be over-emphasised. A schema is a cognitive framework that helps organize and
interpret information in a meaningful, efficient way. These are essential, because
they allow us to take shortcuts in interpreting the vast amount of information that
is available in our environment. However, mental frameworks also cause us to
exclude pertinent material, to focus only on things that confirm our pre-existing
beliefs and ideas. They describe both the mental, emotional and physical actions
involved in knowing and understanding. Schemas are categories of knowledge that
help us to interpret and understand the world successfully. This is demonstrated
in the Communication Opportunity Group Strategy (COGS & Sage, 2000), which
attempts to integrate cognitive, cultural, contextual, linguistic & pragmatic factors
in human exchanges. In Piaget’s (1973) view,1
a schema includes both a category
of knowledge and the process of obtaining it. As experiences happen, this new
information is used to modify, add to, or change existing schemas (Cherry, 2015).
This relates to a learner’s ability to talk and interact successfully, both at home and
in the classroom.
CLASSROOM TALK
The quality of classroom talk matters. Language and thought are intimately related,
as ideas are processed and produced primarily through words in formal learning
contexts. The extent and manner of cognitive development depends largely on the
form, content, use and contexts of language encountered in daily life. It is thus
culturally mediated. When children learn language, they are not simply engaging
in one type of learning amongst many – rather, they are acquiring the foundations
of learning itself. Development, therefore, is a socio-cultural as well as a biological
process. Children construct meaning not only from the interplay of what they newly
encounter and what they already know, but also from interaction with others who
add to their knowledge and understanding. In turn, this interaction is critical not just
for understanding the kind of knowledge with which schools deal – Mathematics,
Science etc., but also for the development of their attitudes, values, identity and
sense of self-worth. In the classroom, there is usually talk between teacher and
one or more pupils. There is also talk amongst pupils themselves without teacher
J. ADENIJI
254
interference. Mercer (2012) emphasises that if we invest in classroom talk, we can
improve the quality of education. This is achieved through better understanding
of the process.
Classroom talk mediates not just teaching and learning but also the wider culture.
Views, values, attitudes and knowledge are culturally linked, so it is impossible
to consider communication and culture as separate entities. How and what we
communicate is defined by our background and the opinions of families and friends.
Furthermore, the amount and quality of the dialogue children experience at home
is one of the best predictors of their eventual academic attainment (Hart & Risley,
1995).
On the downside, (which seems resistant to change), is the relative scarcity of
talk, which challenges children to think for themselves, because of the low level
of cognitive demand in many classroom questions. We see a continuing prevalence
of closed questions (despite teacher claims to be interested in fostering more open
enquiry); the habitual use of bland, all-purpose praise rather than feedback which
diagnoses and informs; the paradox of children working everywhere in groups but
rarely as groups; the rarity of autonomous pupil-led discussion and problem-solving
and a classroom tendency to be places of risk and ambiguity rather than security.
Effective teachers use question-and-answer sequences, not just to test knowledge but
guide development of understanding. This is not just about teaching subject content
but how to solve problems and make sense of experience. It treats learning as a
social, communicative process (Rojas-Drummond & Mercer, 2004).
EXPLORATORY AND EXPLANATORY TALK
In a multicultural environment, like the UK, learning should be adequately
differentiated by engaging students in exploratory and explanatory talk to enhance
understanding. The cultural diversity, different learning styles and cognitive-
linguistic levels of students must be taken into account. This will help to meet needs
of diverse learners. (Hence, it should have a student-centred approach.) It will assist
in accommodating students with learning disabilities and stimulate creativity by
helping them to understand ideas rather than rote memorization. Furthermore, it can
raise the bar for all learners and motivate the diffident ones.
The issue in classrooms, regarding information exchange, is the narrative thinking
and language structure levels of students in relation to that of teachers. According
to Sage (2006), we cope with informal chat, when meaning is within situations, but
often fail when faced with formal explanations and instructions in dis-embedded word
narratives, resulting in learning and behaviour problems. Shifting informal dialogue
(chat) into formal monologue (requiring selecting and assembling information for a
purpose) enables us to be coherent and understand how parts make wholes. Bercow
(2008) states that in some UK areas half the students struggle to communicate and
other researchers indicate that many start school with inadequate ability to cope
with formal, literate talk. Corroborating this, Sage (2000) affirms that thinking and
HOLISTIC EDUCATION FOR TEACHERS
255
language competencies of children entering a city school over 3 years were assessed,
finding all were 2+ years behind actual age.
Narrative experience helps us to judge, deduce, decide and appraise words/
actions and high-achieving countries (Cuba, Finland, Japan, Finland, & Poland
et.) emphasize this in their curricula. Teachers’culture-specific, socializing practices
impart to learners ways of talking and thinking about words and numbers called
theory of mind (Premack & Woodruff, 1978). We can only know the existence of
our own mind through introspection and do not have direct access to that of other
people. Others have minds by analogy with one’s own, and the theory is based on
reciprocal, social interaction, as observed in joint attention, the functional use of
language and the understanding of others’ emotions and actions. Having a theory
of mind allows one to attribute thoughts, desires, and intentions to others and to
predict or explain their actions and intentions. As originally defined, it enables one
to understand that mental states can be the cause of and can explain and predict
behaviour. If a person does not have a complete theory of mind it may be a sign of
cognitive or developmental impairment.
Theory of mind appears to be an innate ability in primates, requiring social and
other experiences for development. Empathy is a related concept, recognising and
understanding the mind-states of others, including beliefs, desires and emotions. This is
described as ability to ‘put oneself into another’s shoes.’Meaning evolves from sharing
ideas, reflecting cultural knowledge, conventions and expectations. We interpret events,
forming mental representations of things, people, actions and results. Using talk, in
classrooms, requires assessment of a learner’s cognitive-linguistic level from time-to-
time. This will help the teacher to appraise if learning is actually taking place and if
students can express what they have learnt in their own words (Sage, 2000).
Teachers should be equipped with skills to be able to assess and track learner-levels
of cognitive-linguistic behaviour effectively. Strategies include asking them to talk
about an object, or summarising what they have heard. From responses, teachers (with
training) can assess the ideas expressed and the narrative levels demonstrated. Further
dialogue will ensue to help the teacher stretch and challenge them further, with open
questions to encourage higher-learning levels. However, obstacles affecting teacher
ability to use explanatory and exploratory talk and effectively differentiate this for a
range of student abilities, include lack of staff development, accessible materials and
time to create and implement activities. This issue is of concern for new teachers/
researchers, who often do not have the knowledge and experience to know what type of
materials are needed and how much time must be put into a lesson, in order to effectively
differentiate instructions and explanations for all students. Even experienced teachers
‘need access to training and opportunities to network with colleagues’(Good, 2006).
SUMMARY
My experience of holistic learning, through a practitioner doctorate, has helped
me focus on the core issues of teaching and learning. A fundamental aspect
J. ADENIJI
256
that has emerged from this experience is the knowledge and understanding
of communication in education, which is now complicated by having to teach
students where the language of instruction (English) is different to their home
language.
To sustain a differentiated instruction culture in the classroom, a teacher should
routinely encourage their own personal and student reflections and involve learners
in activities that require engagement in assessment for learning. Talk with students
about using their areas of strength and make them aware of these and those they need
to develop. Challenge students to stretch beyond their comfort zones and experiment
with other ways of learning, when they are working on concepts to be understood.
Along with students, reflect on what helps to engage them and respond by refining
your instructional approaches (Tomlinson, 2001). This process helps to facilitate
more effective learning, through differentiation and attention to narrative schema in
the educational process.
MAIN POINTS
•	 Teaching needs education, at Level 8, to compete with other professions where
this is a common goal
•	 APractitioner Doctorate focuses on the individual professional, their interests that
have emerged in workplaces, providing the background knowledge to progress
these in various initiatives
•	 Such an approach gives direction to the professionals engaged in this level of
study and impacts positively in their work places
•	 Education is presently following traditional models designed to produce compliant
workers for the industrial age. These jobs are now taken over by technology,
requiring the development of high-level language and communication to create
solutions to the complex present problems of a global world.
NOTE
1
	 Piaget’s theory of cognitive development is a comprehensive theory about the nature and development
of human intelligence. It was first created by the Swiss developmental psychologist, Jean Piaget
(1896–1980). The theory deals with the nature of knowledge itself and how humans gradually come
to acquire, construct and use it. The theory is known as a developmental stage theory, but critics point
out that growth is not always linear as the theory purports.
REFERENCES
Bercow Report. (2008). Services for children and young people with speech, language and communication
needs. Retrieved from www. Dcsf.gov.uk: Ref. 00632-2008-DOCEM.
Cherry, K. (2015). What is a schema? About health. Retrieved March 7, 2016, from
	http://psychology.about.com/od/developmentalpsychology/fl/A-Summary-of-Piagets-Stages.htm
Good, M. E. (2006). Differentiated instruction: Principles and techniques for the elementary grades. San
Rafael, CA: School of Business, Education & Leadership, at Dominican University of California.
Retrieved March 8, 2016, http://www.eric.ed.gov/ERICDocs/data/ericdocs2/content_storage
HOLISTIC EDUCATION FOR TEACHERS
257
Hart, B., & Risley, T. (1995). Meaningful differences in the everyday experience of young American
children. Baltimore, MD: Paul H. Brookes Publishing.
Mercer, N. (2012). Exploratory talk. Retrieved 8 March, 2016 from http://www.slideshare.net/
margarubiosoto/explorat
Paiget, J., & Inhelder, B. (1973). Memory and intelligence. London: Routledge & Kagan Paul.
Premack, D., & Woodruff, G. (1978). Does the chimpanzee have a theory of mind? Behaviour, Brain
Science, 4, 515–526.
Rojas-Drummond, S., & Mercer, N. (2004). Scaffolding the development of effective collaboration and
learning. International Journal of Educational Research, 39, 99–111.
Sage, R. (2000). Class talk. Stafford: Network Educational Press.
Sage, R. (2006, December). Narrative problems in early years. Journal of Early Child Development and
Care, 158(1), 1–9.
Tomlinson, C. (2001). How to differentiate instruction in mixed ability classrooms (2nd ed.). Alexandria,
VA: ASCD.
R. Sage (Ed.), Paradoxes in Education, 259–272.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
ROB LOE
14. RELATIONAL SCHOOLS
ABSTRACT
Today, educational institutions are complex systems. These have to engage students
and teachers from many different language and cultural backgrounds. Therefore, the
issue of communication and relationships is paramount to stakeholders and needs to
be addressed. The Relational Schools Foundation has developed an assessment that
provides a profile of an institution, giving assistance to improving communication
and relationships in the workplace. Research, to date, is encouraging. It is showing
that attention to this aspect of stakeholder collaboration pays dividends in increased
student progress and less stressful people relationships.
INTRODUCTION
Relational Schools (RS) is a dynamic, mission-focused ‘research, think & do
tank,’ applying measurement of relationships in schools, and consulting on how
to ‘fix’ them. Through work, from 2014, it has proven its concept: Where positive
relationships are nurtured and developed as part of a values-based relational
strategy, schools improve student outcomes. The relationships played out in schools
are seen later on in society, so the vision is to help overcome social inequality.1
The organisation has a robust plan to scale up operations, with support from
individual donors and philanthropic organisations. Their seed funding, phased over
three years, will help the foundation broaden its impact by:
•	 engaging in more ambitious and far reaching funded research projects with
identified high-profile partners (universities, grant-making trusts, school groups),
•	 developing more traded consultancy business with UK and international schools,
and
•	 building networks of clients, supporters and advocates, influencing policy as well
as practice.
Relational Schools has been integrated from 2017 into the Relationships
Foundation, a charity set up in 1993 to develop relational thinking and engage with
policy makers.As the think-tank for a better connected society, it believes in building
effective relationships with the family, community, public services and businesses.
It also has a strong track record in incubating and spinning off successful charities
R. LOE
260
and social enterprises. http://www.relationshipsfoundation.org provides detailed
information.
THE RATIONALE BEHIND RELATIONAL SCHOOLS
Arationale for the Relational Schools Foundation – is a belief that strong, supportive
relationships between all members of a school are fundamental. Where relationships
are nurtured and developed as part of a values-based strategy, schools can help
overcome social inequality.
Founder and Executive Director of Relational Schools: Dr R. Loe
This is based on the idea that relationships played out at school are seen later in
society, and that developing and nurturing abilities of children from an early age, will
help them repair and build communities in which they will live, work and re-create.
These beliefs are well founded. It has been shown that in schools, classified as
‘relational,’ students not only achieve superior academic outcomes but also enjoy
other benefits, including reduced bullying, improved physical health and fewer
absences.
The vision is to help build ‘relational capital’ in schools, by carrying out
research, consultancy, campaigns, fundraising and engaging people in relational
networks.
The work is informed and guided by the following values and principles:
•	 Widely-accepted values: honesty, justice, respect, care, nurture and fundamental
human freedoms.
RELATIONAL SCHOOLS
261
•	 Human beings gain identity, meaning & wellbeing in the context of their
relationships.
•	 Individuals tend to flourish when relationships are good and societies when
institutions enable relationships which are close, durable and fair to generate
relational assets like trust and loyalty.
•	 Where such ‘relational capital’exists, a society balances liberties with obligations;
competition with cooperation; diversity with unity; privacy with transparency;
rights with responsibilities; innovation with continuity and individuality with
community.
•	 Values that sustain relational capital, include forgiveness, reconciliation and
teaching of relational skills.
•	 Reform based on a realistic view of humanity: not simply individuals, but
dependent on and fulfilled through their relationships.
•	 Relational thinking is inspired by the Judaeo-Christian tradition and provides a
point of agreement on social & economic progress between people of different
faiths and none.
OBJECTIVES
Objectives are aligned with the Relationships Foundation, to carry out applied
research into the organisation and conduct of human relationships in personal and
organisational life in schools by:
•	 Carrying out and commissioning research & consultancy projects
•	 Evaluating results of research projects and applying findings for public benefit,
through recommending changes in the leadership, practice and management of
schools
•	 To communicate findings and outcomes to the schools sector, policy makers
and general public, to encourage improved organisational and personal
relationships.
Achievement of these objectives are through:
•	 Provision of traded consultancy and grant-funded research
•	 Campaigning on relevant issues
•	 Fundraising with organisations and individuals
•	 Engaging networks of supporters and schools
Research demonstrates effectiveness of a relational approach in leadership and
management of schools; practice of teaching – generating evidence to show a
positive impact on young people, communities and society.
Consultancy will improve quality of relationships in schools using the strategy,
leaving them with strengthened relational capital, capability and capacity.
Campaigns will promote the importance of effective relationships in achieving
key educational and social outcomes to the UK and international schools sector.
R. LOE
262
Networks of relational schools, teachers and international partners, will influence
policy and practice.
Fundraising will ensure financial health and sustainability, furthering the mission
achievement.
THE BACKGROUND
The Relational Schools Project (RSP) was set up in 2014 by Rob Loe and Michael
Schluter – with support from the Relationships Foundation – as an education
research & consultancy; a Cambridge-based not-for-profit think tank, developing
ideas and applications in the field of Relational Thinking. The mission was to
address present social, cultural and economic issues which have led to a decline in
interpersonal relations because technology has replaced talk with less face-to-face
dealings amongst people (research presented in Chapters 1 & 2).
The hypothesis was (and remains) that schools are both a space in which decline
is visible and a site for corrective action to be taken, with short and long term
impact. To prove this, RSP carried out a pilot programme in UK schools. Evidence
shows that a focus in schools on relational practice develops relational competence
in young people, enhancing understanding of communication and relationships,
decreasing incidence of bullying, increasing wellbeing and improving academic
performance. Armed with proof, RSP began its consulting and applied research
business, to explore potential for partnerships with universities and other
organisations and develop relationships internationally with the launch of a film
and book – The Relational Teacher – to showcase research and demonstrate a
relational school approach. In 2016, partner organisations in The Netherlands and
Australia delivered relational research and consultancy in their jurisdictions. From
January 2017, the Relational Schools Foundation formally began work as part of
the Relationships Foundation.
THE ASSESSMENT PROCESS
(RELATIONAL PROXIMITY)
Relational Proximity (RP) is a tool to illuminate the strength of relationships, by
assessing core components, which are useful to consider in schools. Developed by
founders of the Relationships Foundation and Relational Research, it is licensed
world-wide through Relational Analytics Ltd, offering:
•	 a non-emotive, reproducible approach which generates actionable information;
•	 an equal voice for both parties;
•	 analysis of relationships between organisations, groups/individual RP has been
derived from relational research. It describes features of relationships, defined
in domains. These and their outcomes are shown in the table below. A multiplex
model enables a more rounded and contextualized understanding of a person,
RELATIONAL SCHOOLS
263
which aids the management of the relationship and helps to describe its nature
in a way that can be grasped by a range of people. There is logic to the linear
format as, for example, in the domain of communication, in which the encounter,
if showing mutual understanding, will produce synergy to produce a positive
outcome.
DOMAINS
of relational
proximity
DRIVERS
of Relational
Proximity
FEATURE
of relationship
EXPERIENCE
In relationships
OUTCOME
For organisation
Those of…
communication
time
knowledge
power
purpose
Greater…
directness
continuity
multiplexity
parity
commonality
creates…
encounter
storyline
knowledge
fairness
alignment
encouraging…
connectedness
belonging
mutual
understanding
mutual respect
shared identity
and producing…
communication
momentum
transparency
participation
synergy
THE EDUCATION DEBATE
In education systems around the world, there is discussion on how to raise academic
standards and improve teaching and learning in austere times.There are debates about
how schools should balance a need for high academic standards with requirements
for students to develop competencies needed for life and work. Occasionally, these
debates are framed around the role schools play in their social context. Rarely,
however, do they consider schools as a site for the creation of society; a place where
children first experience the values and norms which enable human-flourishing
and cultural-harmony. Western societies are having to adapt quickly to increasingly
unpredictable and fast-shifting global trends, but must also seek to better understand
and maintain the values needed for social cohesion. Therefore, we must develop
in young people abilities to relate to one another and to different cultural and
social interests. Problems are created by dysfunctional relationships, which lead to
low-levels of motivation and achievement in schools, playing out later in society
as conflict and/or loneliness in communities, families and individuals. These are
documented in the initial chapters of this book.
Evidence suggests that:
•	 students who develop positive relationships with teachers achieve better
educational outcomes
•	 positive peer relations correlate with student motivation, engagement & academic
outcomes.
•	 parent involvement with education is a strong predictor of academic success
•	 barriers limit capacity and support but not motivation.
R. LOE
264
By helping children:
1.	Maintain and develop deep, engaging relationships with friends and family, they
will be able to negotiate modern technologies, which broaden social networks but
make relationships more shallow & goal-oriented.
2.	Understand the dynamics of relationships, benefits of compromise & negotiation
– issues of social isolation & individualism (low self-esteem, self-harm & suicide)
are addressed.
3.	Develop empathy & tolerance, they will build strong foundations needed for
global societies to thrive.
Children need to learn to be effective parents, neighbours, employees & citizens.
Consequently, focus is on building strong teacher-to-student, student-to-student
& parent-to-school relationships. Evidence demonstrates the crucial role played
by effective relationships in improving outcomes, including wellbeing, happiness,
friendships, security, empathy and, most powerfully, academic performance. Young
people who get on well with their peers and their teachers do better at school.
Moreover, through careful and purposeful planning, relational practices can be
sustained within organisations so that positive changes are maintained.
Relational Schools aim to expand evidence from school research, using it to create
actionable strategies for change and improve the relational ability of children, who
are the next generation of community, social, business and political leaders.
ACHIEVEMENTS TO DATE
Since 2014, 3800 students & teachers have been surveyed, generating 468,000 lines
of data with consultancy projects in nine client schools & other UK organisations,
along with presentations to TEDx Norwich, the Suffolk Festival of Learning,
Wiltshire Pupil Premium conference; TeachMeets; Whole Education’s 2015
annual conference, Character Scotland, the CSA’s National Leadership Retreat in
Broadbeach, Australia; Kenyatta University, Kenya, colleges in Johannesburg &
events in Luiperdskloof. RSF will achieve its mission and objectives through work
in 4 distinctive areas of activity:
RELATIONAL SCHOOLS
265
RELATIONAL SCHOOLS RESEARCH
Analysing the quality of relationships in schools uses surveys based on the Relational
Proximity tool, to identify areas of strength and weakness, relative to benchmarks.
Data, from school consultancies, comprises a substantial body of work with
significant aggregate insight. As more data is added, the potential value of this for
the wider sector will be realised through research partnerships, driving academic
credibility. Research grants will sought, with partners and independently, as well as
work published using open and free licenses, including various media. A new film is
currently in production, following a project with the XP School in Doncaster. Over
time, the intention is to fund and academically support a series of PhD studentships.
RELATIONAL SCHOOLS CONSULTANCY
The Relational Schools model measures relational capability and helps to build it
effectively,fixingproblemsandenablingimproved,sustainablepractice.Consultancy
engagements – often but not exclusively following a survey – help schools evaluate
relational qualities that enable positive change. An important element of consultancy
is training and advocacy, transferring knowledge and theory into practice in schools
and conferences.
NETWORKS & FORUMS
Anetwork of teachers (and others) with interest and commitment to relational practices
in schools is being built. This provides a platform for practice sharing, collaboration
forming and a ‘movement’ to be developed. Forum members are invited to support
through fundraising and using a crowdfunding portal like Just Giving.
Alongside a forum for individuals, a Relational Schools Network, comprising
schools benefitting from engagement and those interested in building relational
capacity is being formed. This will provide opportunities to learn from research and
share best-practice through peer-groups at an annual Conference. Each school will
pay an annual subscription with tiers of membership.
RELATIONAL SCHOOLS INTERNATIONAL
The aim is to build on existing partnerships in The Netherlands and Australia,
developing an international network of Relational Schools research hubs, each an
independent organisation in its own right, transferring revenue from licensed use of
the research tool and consultancy services, but connected through the network. The
impact of work in schools has been profound, suggesting …
One area to address is parental engagement – an important predictor of student
success and something schools find hard to do well. Through helping better
understanding of relationships with parents, improvements will be fostered.
R. LOE
266
Alongside this, an experimental shadow inspection process, to replace Ofsted’s
Parent View, is being trialled as a means of understanding parent attitudes.
Another focus will be work with schools and policy makers to develop new data-
sources for school improvement. The external scrutiny, offered by Ofsted and peer-
reviewers, is not the only means of revealing faults and virtues, or identifying means
for improvement. Important data is available from those working and learning
in a school, or interacting regularly with it. Ways to gather intelligence from all
stakeholders – students, staff, leaders, parents, carers – elicits what is happening
and where opportunities for improvement currently lie hidden. This would help
schools deal with issues before becoming problems, strengthen relationships within
communities and build trust.
THE THEORY OF RELATIONSHIPS
(COMMENTARY BY ROSEMARY SAGE)
Relational schools is a relatively new concept, but very necessary to promote in a
world where technology has taken over and reduced the face-to-face opportunities
for people to make contact with each other and communicate effectively in real,
relevant ways. Research, in Sections 1 and 2 of this book, clearly indicates that
less personal interaction not only affects development of higher-level cognitive
and linguistic abilities, but shows problems people now have in communicating
and behaving appropriately, when negotiating their lives and coping with rapid
changes. A focus on relationships is now vital but cannot be achieved without
looking at the quality of communication and how this is developed in dialogue and
monologue activities in school.
There are 5 theories that support and illuminate relationship theory:
Ethological theory (Bowlby, 1969) emphasizes inborn, instinctive patterns of
interaction. It focuses on patterns of interaction that the child naturally brings into
the world and helps understanding of non-verbal communication activity and how it
influences relationships.
Psychoanalytic 1 theory (Freud, 1960) concentrates on instinctive behaviour of
self-preservation and has become the broad outline on which theories of attachment
are based.
Psychoanalytic 2 theory (Erikson, 1963) focuses on physical, cognitive and
linguisticdevelopmentsandtheeffectsthesehaveoncommunicationandrelationships
RELATIONAL SCHOOLS
267
over time. The 8 stages of emotional and social development propose a pattern
of constructs which slot into other learning (psycholinguistic & communication
behaviour) and show how relationships develop and can be successfully fostered.
This theory clarifies why some people find it difficult to achieve successful relations
with others and how crucial are informal and formal communicative competencies
for effective interactions.
Social Learning theory (Bandura, 1973) concentrates on how interaction is learnt.
The theory looks at responses of participants in exchanges and how these influence
relationships in positive or negative ways.
Cognitive-developmental theory (Kohlberg, 1966) shows how relationships and
behaviour depend on mental and linguistic levels. Changes in relationships are seen
as the result of shifts in thinking and language ability.
Each theory of social and relationship development offers a particular
strength when considering intervention and improvements. The Ethological
theory tells us about early stages of interaction and indicates if this is not
effective there are long-term issues that will need addressing. Social Learning
concepts help us understand what happens over human life development.
Cognitive theory illuminates the influence of communication and language on
interaction. Erikson’s Psychoanalytic theory (PT) combines several threads to
consider participants in relationships and the context in which they operate,
whilst Freud’s PT focuses on survival and is pertinent to the concept of saving
‘face’ in exchanges.
Theories (promoting a specific perspective) help to explain the nature of
relationships (in and outside schools) and the differences in communication patterns
that are evident in informal and formal contexts (discussed by Sage, 2004). Freire
(1972) has been influential in describing ideal school interactions and the Oracle
project (1987), led by Professor Maurice Galton, in the 1970s, at Leicester University,
was the first to focus on teacher-student relationships in classrooms. The review
of these, this century, finds that communication competencies have deteriorated
over 30 years. This makes relationships more difficult in classrooms and behaviour
of students very much worse, so justifying focus on this aspect of school policy
and practice. Therefore, relationship issues are vital to consider in today’s schools,
colleges and universities and must be a priority in developing effective academic and
personal standards. It is excellent that the Relational Schools project is focusing on
this problem.
DOMAIN THEORY
Domain theory, used to develop the assessment used by the Relational Schools,
deals with partially ordered sets. The goal is to interpret elements as pieces of
information where those higher in the order extend information of the ones below
in a consistent way. Domains often do not have a greatest element, since this would
mean one that contains the information of all others. It is useful in focusing on
R. LOE
268
some attributes of relationship interaction and the experience of the project is that a
framework is necessary to discuss issues and their resolutions. Although no model
is perfect this particular one has been found to assist in setting goals for support and
intervention.
An important concept in the theory is that of a directed subset of a domain.
This means that any two pieces of information within this are consistently
extended by some other element. We can view directed subsets as consistent
specifications, with no two elements that are contradictory. This interpretation
compares with the notion of a convergent sequence in analysis, where each
element is more specific than the preceding one. Interest is in the limit of a directed
set. This would be an element that is the most general piece of information that
extends all others of the directed set. Domain theory is a purely qualitative
approach to modelling the structure of information states. One can say that
something contains more information, but the amount of additional information
is not specified. Yet, there are some situations in which one wants to speak about
elements that are in a sense much simpler (or more incomplete) than a given state
of information.
The process allows exploration of how an organisation is functioning
relationally, producing a framework to guide development and decisions. It
provides a tool for considering aspects of the quality of relationships but does
not account for developmental changes that occur over time or what is known
about psycholinguistic, information processing and communication theories
that influence the level, patterns, direction and context of interaction. Lourenco
(2014) advises caution (as with any assessment tool) in using domains, as
it is easy to take variation changes for transformational ones. Relationships
are contextual and variable in and between people, because of specific
circumstances. As an abstract, dynamic concept (although relationships in action
are real), it is resistant to accurate, consistent measurement, but there is benefit
in subjective assessment. It provides a useful profile for discussion and a guide
for development.
Relationships in schools are competitive in capitalist societies. Facilitating
these will improve practice as they have a greater influence on school character,
quality and student success than anything else. If relationships are trusting and
cooperative, then a positive ethos pervades, but if fearful and suspicious then
these qualities will disseminate throughout the community. Chapter 1 discussed
that the ‘politicisation of intelligence’ has led to ‘intellectual dishonesty’ so that
we fail to address issues that need effective solutions and this is seen in schools.
Things often not discussed in schools are the leadership of the head teacher,
underperforming staff, race and cultural attitudes, personal visions for school
and institutional relationships. They command attention but are incendiary, so
we cannot talk about them openly. The main types of relationships in schools is
defined below.
RELATIONAL SCHOOLS
269
RELATIONSHIPS TYPES IN SCHOOLS
School relationships are often analysed in 4 ways: separate, conflicting, effective
and collegiate, defined below:
Separate
The parallel play of 3 year-olds shows primitive engagement, when children are
active alongside each other rather than interactive. This describes how teachers
behave in some establishments and the relationship between one school principal
and another. It was summed up by a teacher: ‘in school, we exist in separate
boxes,’ suggesting a self-contained classroom and an isolated group, barricaded
from others.
Conflicting
Conflicts take many forms, such as a negative comment to a parent or colleague: ‘Mrs
Brown’s class is always late out of school.’ We might with-hold information, which
provides insights and help for others. If educators shared knowledge with one another,
schools could be transformed. Teachers become adversaries through competition for
scarce resources and recognition. The better you are, the worse I am and vice versa is
how we might operate, endorsing the failure of colleagues rather than assisting them
to successful and effective.
Effective
Fortunately, schools also have relationships that are interactive and positive. We see
evidence of congeniality with people offering lifts, sharing resources and bringing
in buns for birthdays!
Collegiate
School reformers talk about collegiality with people acting together. Evidence of this
is educators…
•	 discussing practice with each other
•	 sharing their knowledge and skills
•	 observing one another’s practice
•	 praising one another’s success
CREATING COLLEGIALITY
Discussing Practice
In some schools, a meeting begins with a participant sharing something learned that
would be useful to others. A new teacher might bring up how students were assessed
in a previous workplace. A parent might share in a PTA meeting an idea about
homework. A principal might share with others a new policy about language across
the curriculum. Repeated practice embeds knowledge and skill into a school system.
R. LOE
270
Observation
Making teaching practice mutually visible is uncomfortable, because we are never
fully confident that we are doing something well or how students will behave with
others present. None of us wants to risk being seen as incompetent. However, the
best way of learning and improving is observing others. General observation usually
has modest results and agreed criteria work best when…
•	 visits are reciprocal
•	 what we see and say is confidential
•	 focussing on an aspect for attention (how a student communicates in different
situations)
•	 agreeing on the observation day, time and length
•	 debriefing and sharing perceptions
These criteria increase ownership, reduce fear and facilitate effective learning, but
need sympathetic support.
LEADERSHIP ROLES TO ASSIST EFFECTIVE RELATIONSHIPS
Leadership is defined as ability to foster relationships and activity, which is easy to
say but more difficult to do. To promote collegial school relationships someone has
to remove all possible barriers. What else can a school leader do to promote a culture
of collegiality within school? Warren Little (1981) found that school leaders foster
collegiality when they:
•	 state expectations explicitly: ‘We will work together this year, sharing
knowledge and assisting each other’
•	 model collegiality: giving positive feedback to others
•	 reward those who behave as colleagues: giving release time, recognition,
space & resources to collaborators
•	 protect a collegiate: ‘I observed something effective in Ben’s class so I’ve
asked him to share it with us’
Strengthening practice and improving a school is about a collegial, communicative
culture in which participants talk about experiences, share knowledge, observe and
endorse the success of each another. Without this, no real improvement, staff and
student development, team teaching, parent involvement and sustained change will
happen. Empowerment, satisfaction and work success does not come from going
it alone but from being an active participant within a communicative, cooperative,
collaborative group.
America has been energetic in developing the relational school. A prime example
is The New American Academy in New York, supported by the Mayor, Michael
RELATIONAL SCHOOLS
271
Bloomberg. The school has developed excellent relationships, by emphasising the
quality of talk for everyone. Students are given regular opportunities to practice
public speaking, with a focus on coherent narratives and clear diction. Professor
Matteucci, in Chapter 8 (the multi-cultural context in teaching) mentions a project
in which she involved the New York Mayor, reinforcing the issue of excellent
communication for both staff and students in building positive, trusting relationships
in schools.
This focus in schools is very important today. A Dale Carnegie seminar on
Workplace Performance, in Northampton (July, 2017), was attended by many
different business leaders. They were asked to come up with issues that most affected
their organisation’s performance. They all put communication and relationships at
the top of their list. Discussion revealed the problems of technology reducing face-to-
face exchanges. One Director said: ‘Now we have less talk, we are losing the ability
to use it for establishing positive relationships and effective work performance.’
The low standards of speech and language were also noted, giving rise to continual,
workplace misunderstandings and lack of attention to what is said. It is time to give
these issues greater focus in formal education and skill teachers with the knowledge
and ability to facilitate these in their exchanges with students.
MAIN POINTS
•	 Schools are multi-cultural places with many languages now spoken, so
communication and relationships is a major issue in teaching and learning
•	 The Relational Schools Foundation has designed an assessment to provide a profile
of an institution’s stakeholders as the basis for improvements in cooperation
•	 Research shows that attention to this aspect improves the school climate and
educational standards
•	 This approach is applicable across national boundaries and is operating
internationally
NOTE
1
	 Focus on student-student, student-teacher, teacher-teacher, parent-school and school-school
relationships.
REFERENCES
Bandura, A. (1973). Aggression: A social learning analysis. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.
Bowlby, J. (1969). Attachment and loss,Vol.1 Attachment. New York, NY: Basic Books.
Erikson, E. (1963). Childhood and society. New York, NY: Norton.
Friere, P. (1972). Pedagogy of the oppressed. London: Penguin.
Galton, M. (1987). A decade of classroom research. Teaching & Teacher Education, 3(4), 291–313.
Kohlberg, L. (1966). A Cognitive-developmental analysis of children’s sex-role concepts and attitudes.
In E. Maccoby (Ed.), The development of sex differences. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
R. LOE
272
Lourenco, O. (2014, April). Domain theory: A critical review. New Ideas in Psychology, 32(1), 1–17.
Sage, R. (2004). A world of difference. London: Network Continuum.
Warren, L., J. (1981–1982). School success and staff development in Urban desegregated schools. Norms
of Collegiality and Experimentation: Centre for Action Research, Education Research Journal, 19(3),
325–340.
R. Sage (Ed.), Paradoxes in Education, 273–285.
© 2017 Sense Publishers. All rights reserved.
JONATHAN ADENIJI, MAX COATES, RICHARD DAVIES,
ROB LOE, PAULINE LOVELOCK, RICCARDA MATTEUCCI,
ELIZABETH NEGUS, KIM ORTON, LUKE SAGE,
ROSEMARY SAGE AND SERA SHORTLAND
15. EPILOGUE TO PARADOXES IN EDUCATION
ABSTRACT
The authors of this book have focussed on issues emerging from their many
different educational roles. These include class teaching; prison education; advisory/
specialist functions (national/international); therapeutics; school/college/university
leadership and management; teacher-training; lecturing; researching and education
policy development. The book began with chapters outlining the complex issues
that influence teaching in a global world with constant people mobility and cultural
mixing. There are schools in Midland England where 1/3rd of learners will move
on within an academic year, so teachers are coping with continual influxes of new
students. Constant change and seeming chaos are impressions we have of systems
within which we live and work, but the authors provide some answers to problems
of ethics, motivation; holistic, reflective, supportive practices; change management;
education-workplace mismatches and intercultural communication. This chapter
summarises the main points identified throughout the chapters, suggesting what
education must address to meet the needs of students and support their teachers in
facilitating both personal and academic growth.
VIEWS OF THE WORLD
If you listen to people talking, the word ‘chaos’ pops up frequently. They chat about
political chaos, crowd chaos, classroom chaos, hospital chaos, road chaos and
definitely chaos when picking up children from school! The word chaos refers to
the state in which behaviour and events are not controlled and generally thought
of as confused and disordered. It has been voted as one of the saddest words in the
English dictionary. Billions of years of evolution have maximised complexity to
give us an impression of chaos, but scientists show there is a simple, predictable
life-pattern, operating to a set of identifiable laws. Plot the metabolic rate of any
creature against body mass and everything from an ant to an elephant falls on a
straight line. The bigger the body the slower the metabolism. In the natural-world,
it is small creatures that exist in the fast lane, but in the man-made one the opposite
is true. City metabolic rates increase with size taking humans with them. The bigger
J. ADENIJI ET AL.
274
the city the busier its inhabitants. Per capita, they generate more GDP, spend more
money, produce more rubbish, spread more disease and commit more crimes. Big is
busy now the world population is tripling over the last 100 years to over 11 billion
by the end of this century (World Population Clock), as medical technologies enable
most infants to survive and reproduce for the first time in history. World statistics
show that 4 babies are born each second and 2 people die (Ecology Global Network).
Rapid population growth and constant mass movements are at the root of many
issues in society today, putting pressure on infrastructure and limited resources.
THE DEMOGRAPHIC PREDICAMENT
It was Robert Malthus, the 18th century vicar, who defined our demographic
predicament, by suggesting that human population rises exponentially (2, 4, 8, 16, &
32…), while resources to sustain it can only do so arithmetically (2, 3, 4, 5, & 6…)
Population power is thus greater than power to maintain it. Our post-industrial world
whizzes by at a super-fast rate. An average human life-style requires food calories
at a rate equal to 90 watts but a city-dweller needs a whopping 11,000 ones (West,
2017). Delivering this, while sustaining a swiftly growing population has only been
possible because advances enable us to accomplish things more quickly. As we push
the bounds of the planet’s resources, with faster than exponential growth, we require
more rapid, transformative technologies.
The pace of life thus quickens and we must innovate at an even greater rate.
Professor Hawking (astrophysicist), in a documentary, Expedition New Earth,
claims that time is running out if humanity is to survive climate change, asteroid
strikes, over-population and epidemics spreading from people mobility. He predicts
we will need to leave our present world and explore how we can disperse to live in
outer-space. He claims we have less than 100 years to plot our way out of a possible
demise, advocating a broader, creative education to solve such complex problems.
Not least is the destruction of our present earth to then repeat this on another planet!
Also, an uncontrollable rise in immigration from the Middle East and Africa to
Europe is expected to increase. The population of these areas is predicted to double
in the future, with many millions of people seeking to move. Growing up in nations
with autocratic leadership, inadequate education, limited opportunities and internal
conflicts, it is understandable that many will try to migrate to more stable, liberal,
Western democracies. Huge numbers are entering the UK, both from the East and
Europe. Britain is a small island lacking an adequate infra-structure to sustain large
population influxes at once.
Education, therefore, is particularly challenging, as excessive demands mean many
teachers do not remain long in the profession, with multi-cultural policies ensuring
that catering for diverse languages, customs and individual needs is continually
stressful. This has led to a breakdown in classroom discipline, in a culture where
the ‘rights’ of students are seen as equal or more important than those of teachers,
so trumping everything. The number of students attacking teachers has increased
EPILOGUE TO PARADOXES IN EDUCATION
275
by 75% over the last four years (Depart of Education figures released in July,
2017). The Government’s exclusion data shows that 35 children each day are being
expelled from schools in England for assaults on staff and behaviour out of control.
This pressure is enhanced, as populations have not been made aware, in education
and training, of cross-cultural communication issues and the resulting problems.
Disengaged students that cannot cope with learning and how it is communicated
lead to unacceptable behaviour. Education has to meet changes, with a curriculum
that encompasses a broader range of personal competencies, to cope with present
demands, but ever increasing crowded schools make greater attention to these less
possible.
IS THERE A SOLUTION?
Can we return to a no-growth, stable, less stressful situation? If you look at
demography closely, the exponential phase is slowing. Family sizes are reducing
to reflect new survival rates, with world fertility halved this century to 2.4 children-
per-female, approaching more stable replacement levels. Education has been shown
to help slow population growth by creating new aspirations for people. The peak
child is being reached, so peak population and peak consumption should follow.
We no longer consume more-and-more basic resources each year and pollute the
environment less, although these still remain issues to monitor. Throughout history,
humans have had a stable population followed by a growth burst, when technologies
(steam/electric power/computers) transformed planet capacity to support people.
This suggests ability to manage demographics beyond the Malthus imagination. It
heralds hope rather than havoc for society. The present population bulge may be
merely another blip in history and make less chaotic life more possible in future,
especially if we shoot off to other planets!
The essentialists are cynical about whether we can actually improve ourselves to
meet modern challenges. Espousers of essentialism theory believe that everything
has an essence or form giving identity, constancy and un-alterability. Such a view
emanates from Plato (ancient Greek philosopher) and ideas on realism, giving
rise to an interest in the nature of matter and its stable categories. Recent research
(Harris et al., 2016) into person changes throughout life, tentatively suggests that
some dimensions might alter to challenge ideas of stability.
However, in the 1930s, the theory of essentialism was used to back protests
against falling school standards. It led to promoting a ‘back to basics approach’
from established academic knowledge and experiences of human character,
requiring discipline, structure and systems to reach potential (Oderberg, 2007). This
view is seen today in pleas to return to traditional ways of teaching, demonstrating
how we are influenced by mental models telling us how to think and label our
experiences. We predict, define and make assumptions about what is happening
around us and mental modelling makes it difficult to see the truth in situations and
events that constantly change and require fresh thinking to solve problems. Feldman
J. ADENIJI ET AL.
276
Barrett (2017), a psychology professor, explains the constructionist view of our
feelings and behaviour. We have little or no awareness of why and how we respond
to experiences in the way we do, so this becomes a problem in trying to fathom
reality. Reflective practice enables us to consider the how and why we do things
and the pros and cons of situations. If we are unable to critically understand and
articulate the rationale for applying theory into practice then future development is
stunted. Descartes, the 17th century French rationalist philosopher, suggested that
reflection makes us disembodied and able to think outside ourselves. Unfortunately,
the prescriptive curriculum defines our practice, so we do not think much about
why we are exposing students to certain things, such as 100 word spelling lists for
five-year-olds!
INTEGRATING EAST AND WEST PHILOSOPHY
Eastern, Confucian philosophy believes humans are born good and need freedom to
develop, whilst the Western, Christian view is that they are born to sin (original sin)
and must be controlled. It is these contrasting ideas about child-rearing that have
influenced East and West education. For example, in countries like Japan, teachers
do not discipline students harshly. If they think things might get out of hand, they
saunter up, smile and then ask a question, which instantly changes the mental set
into reflection. In the UK, teachers commonly castigate students with a sharp, loud
voice and even remove them from classrooms if they misbehave. It is time to reflect
on conflicting systems and each other, now that many cultures are merging in time
and space.
Therefore, Harvard academics (De Freitas & Cikara, 2017) have been investigating
person views of each other, putting this to the test. People regard their group more
favourably than those outside it, especially if they seem threatening. After the 2015
Islamic-inspired shootings in California, 1000 white US citizens were surveyed to
assess fear of Arabs. They were presented with stories describing someone changing
for the better – either a white US citizen, Arab in Syria or US Arab immigrant.
Participants saw the moral improvement in the white US citizen as an expression of
their true-self and had the same view of Arab cases.
Despitebeingmembersofathreateninggrouptheywerestillseenasbasicallygood
people. This made respondents less fearful and better disposed towards them. The
boundaries melted away, with neuro-scientists attributing this to activity reduction
in the anterior cingulate cortex, also happening after taking psychedelic substances,
such as LSD or psilocybin. Imbibing such substances is not to be recommended,
but the Harvard research suggests that perceptions and behaviour can change, given
awareness, relevant opportunities and support, with the book authors confirming
such evidence from their own experiences.
Further support comes from the Max Planck Centre for Computational
Psychiatry, at University College, London (UCL) in an allied study (Dolan, 2017).
Participants were asked to make moral judgements about decisions to harm others
EPILOGUE TO PARADOXES IN EDUCATION
277
for profit. When they refused, the brain’s striatum (key to understanding value) was
involved, showing moral rules are visible in neurological signalling. Values that
guide decisions respond flexibly to moral consequences. This is important for future
research that could investigate how the brain circuitry is disturbed in anti-social
behaviour. A further study at UCL discovered, at the physical level, the brain finds
decency more satisfying than deception, when couples, paired anonymously, could
mildly electric-shock each other (Crockett et al., 2017). They were given the option
of receiving money in return for a shock to themselves or their partner. Brain scans
noted the striatum activated more strongly while paining themselves rather than
others. Ill-gotten gains evoke weaker responses which may explain why most people
would rather not profit from hurting their fellows.
This suggests the brain internalises moral judgements of others, simulating how
they might blame us for potential wrongdoing, even if actions are anonymous. Scans
revealed the brain-area, involved in moral judgements, was most active when pain
infliction yielded minimal profit. Previous studies had shown that generosity and
altruism are governed by the subgenual anterior cingulate cortex, working better
in some persons than others. It is possible that with continuing research from
neuroscientists and other disciplines, that can demonstrate how social, emotional,
cognitive and linguistic networks interact, we could modify extreme, unsocial
behaviour in more effective ways for better relationships with one another. This
would help the internal conflict which seems to have increased with population
growth, people mobility and greater strains on society systems.
DEVELOPING THE GOOD IN PEOPLE
We regard experiences within moral criteria – in a good or bad binary mental
schema (Sage, 2004/2007). If someone’s behaviour is seen as good, according with
our values, we deem it acceptable. Deep down we have a strong tendency to see
others as morally good. Knobe (2017) argues that moral considerations figure in
the basic human competencies used to make sense of the world. They result from
ability to talk to ourselves (inner-language thinking/self-talking) and conversations
with others that help adjust unhelpful views. Can these processes be harnessed as a
force for good?
Recent research by the Education Endowment Foundation (EEF, 2017) involved
2,500 primary school children in a trial of dialogic teaching, in which they were
encouraged to discuss and argue with others about their test results. This strategy
showed more general progress than a similar group of pupils who did not take part.
An overall improvement in thinking and learning rather than just subject knowledge
is indicated.
Encouraging within and without the person talk might reduce tension and prejudice
between groups accustomed to eyeing one another with suspicion and hostility. To
achieve this, it is important to be open to experience, which enables us to take in an
exceptional amount of information and combine it in unique ways.
J. ADENIJI ET AL.
278
Antinori (2017) and a University of Melbourne team have studied this activity,
confirming that people with a high-degree of openness are more communicative,
creative and innovative – encouraged from reflecting on experiences together.
Today’s issue is we talk to each other less, with more anger and anguish in people
behaviour. It is necessary to re-learn the art of conversation with one another for
our mental and moral health. This requires an understanding of the competencies of
conversation (informal talk) and whether these are sufficiently established to enable
narrative thinking and speaking (formal talk) required for classroom learning. There
is limited appreciation of this knowledge in UK teacher training opportunities.
Education is a primary agent for change, but needs a stronger vision that
acknowledges present and future world needs. Traditionally, it has prepared students
for jobs, with work-study experts suggesting these comprise around 85% of routine
activity. Artificial Intelligence is taking over mundane procedures with speed,
so learners must be prepared for work, predicted to be more people-oriented and
requiring effective communication and leadership styles for plural engagement.
Surveys show that employees have less-and-less interpersonal skills year-by-year
with the CBI/Pearson study: Helping the UK Thrive, pointing out the fecklessness of
young people entering the workplace. They have been reared in a world of texting
and Facebook, but the way you develop yourself is through social interaction.
Social abilities are being killed off by technology, with studies suggesting people
are choosing unemployment rather than low wages because it is more fun watching
television, surfing the net and internet gaming. Companies deliberately design
devices and apps to capitalise on our basic needs for approval and success, which we
may not be receiving in our personal lives.
The ludic-loops – habit-forming circuits that influence dopamine levels in
the brain – explain at a biological level, at least, why some are obsessed with
technology. These ludic loops drive Instagram users to chase the next stream of
‘likes,’ so encouraging gamers to play for hours and opt out of life and relationships.
Our generous welfare state supports such addictions.
Investigations have compared a working wife and husband plus two children,
on a combined annual income of £30,000, with one having unemployed parents
and eight children, receiving welfare benefits of £130,000. Society values have
been skewed against work for those in low-paid jobs. Bonding over a broadcast,
brooding alone with Netflix and living off welfare payments is a dream come true
for some people today. The 3 million new jobs, created recently in the UK, have
resulted in the majority taken by immigrants, suggesting that our own population
lacks employability.
Broader learning opportunities must remedy this, with educators and employers
committed to providing personal and vocational training for available work roles.
EducationDive.com (May, 2017) says student disaffection stems from teachers lacking
abilities to cope with their diverse needs and prepare them properly for a global
world and changing work cultures. It is the system that is to blame and not individual
teachers, who must adhere to prescriptive curricula or otherwise lose their jobs.
EPILOGUE TO PARADOXES IN EDUCATION
279
The recent Sutton Trust report: The State of Social Mobility in the UK (2017)
has shown clearly that workers are losing jobs to robots and competencies, such as
effective communication and its resulting confidence and coping ability, are needed
to survive. The report confirms that people make their way in life not because of
their degrees and qualifications but because of ability to appear fluent, articulate,
charming, capable and socially assured. These attributes are seldom taught directly
in schools, but in middle class families will be encouraged through speaking
opportunities. It is communication and interaction that inspires others and robots are
unlikely to match humans in this way.
DIFFICULTIES ABOUT CHANGES
Radical changes are crucial, but will decision-makers listen? Powerful people
positions are matched by their high earnings. Our capitalist, consumer society sees
only a few becoming rich, with vested interest in controlling the majority to maintain
this differential and the status quo. They do not want to support more articulate
citizens who can challenge the system and make more demands. The present populist
world-movements are examples of rebellion, by those finding it hard to attain a
decent living. Powerful bureaucracies make change difficult, but we must believe in
the possibility of a fairer deal for everyone. In Power Moves, Schaarschmidt (2017)
discusses studies that have looked at this issue.
We use the term ‘Machiavellian’ to define leaders, who pursue goals without
regard for moral or legal limits, with investigations indicating there are many of
these in workplaces. Such leaders focus on status and always look for their own
advantage, using others to their own end.
Research by Lammers (2010), supported by many similar studies, confirm that
those in power positions apply considerably less stringent criteria to their own
behaviour than to those beneath them. However, this Machiavellian path to power
does not work for everyone, especially women. The Keltner studies (2008) suggested
that those with well-developed communication and social abilities, who had face-to-
face contact, connection and empathy with others, built the greatest influence over
time for overall effective performance of everyone in an organisation. The book:
Why Nations Fail, (Acemoglu & Robinson, 2013) provides historical evidence
from over the world, showing that inclusive institutions (everyone having a say in
decision-making with wealth distributed) are ultimately successful but those where
an elite rules and exploits others do not ultimately prosper.
At present there is no viable economic alternative to capitalism, but with
freedom from mundane tasks through technology, there will be opportunity to
devise better systems of living. It is economics that determines the nature of
present society and we are now on the brink of profound changes from modern
developments. Physical human input into production is being rapidly taken over by
robots powered by computers and artificial intelligence carrying out tedious analytic
work.
J. ADENIJI ET AL.
280
Increasing ability to manipulate our genes will extend our lifespan and enable us to
determine the nature of future generations. Control over ‘software’ information data
and how it is stored, processed, used and manipulated will be more important than
that over physical capital, machines and buildings. The important, defining character
of the economy and society now is how software is produced, owned and used by
the state, corporations and individuals. Such developments could end poverty and
expand intellectual and material horizons, but also lead to growing inequality with
the new economy controlled by a corporate, wealthy elite. Just as it was not market
capitalism that freed slaves or gave women the vote and built the welfare state, it will
be the collective efforts of all of us that enable us to turn economic advances into
meaningful social progress.
Education assists to achieve an inclusive goal, helping learners progress to
improve prospects and social mobility. The paradox is that Britain is a rich country
but education standards are poor compared with similar economies. A narrow,
prescriptive curriculum, which marginalises personal, practical abilities is a reason,
with more holistic approaches, developing the mind, body and spirit, the way forward.
A stronger commitment to improve real learning is vital with an understanding
of the oracy-literacy shift, which indicates that spoken narrative forms must be
developed before written literacy and numeracy are possible. Relevant education;
cultural, social, political renewal; entrepreneurial rebirth and a pro-growth policy
may alleviate present impressions of chaos. Will this be sufficient? It is merely a
modest start to solving entrenched world problems. The authors of this book have
provided evidence that is food for thought and demonstrate initiatives that can assist
both education and integration for a world in which everyone feels their lives are
improving. The following issues need consideration if this is to happen.
AN EDUCATION BLUEPRINT
1.	Know thyself to Establish Priorities: Education must have a clear view of its
strengths and weaknesses. Strengths are teachers educated in a liberal regime,
valuing equality, liberty and fraternity principles, with experience of being reared
within this philosophy to pass on to the next generation. Weaknesses are limited
training in theArts and Sciences of pedagogy and a narrow, government prescribed
curriculum. This does not address personal abilities to the extent that some other
countries do, so disadvantaging our students in the global market. Priority would
be to enhance teacher education, training and professional development and
produce a less restrictive curriculum. Splits in political views on what should be a
relevant education mean a lack of coherence confuses and weakens commitment
to goals.
2.	Understand the Stakeholders: Diverse populations mean that different abilities,
attitudes, values, interests and philosophies prevail, so education providers
must understand the various positions of those involved, while making clear
EPILOGUE TO PARADOXES IN EDUCATION
281
the principles of the British system and the rules that support these. Evidence
suggests that multi-cultural policies may cause confusion in implementing
learning. For example, religious festivals and practices can interfere with
timetables and examination schedules. One author found certain students did
not turn up for examinations during a religious festival, but expected to pass
the academic year in spite of missing the required assessments. Another author
found that it was not possible to time-table for Friday afternoons because of
particular religious obligations in the group. Intercultural communication must
be an educational requirement, so that differences between us are properly
understood and compromises made for the well-being of everyone. What is
lost in translation from mother-tongue to other languages is now an important
teaching issue, along with acknowledging the changing meanings in word usage.
Fifty years ago, ‘grass’ was mown, ‘coke’ was kept in the coalhouse, a ‘joint’
was meat eaten on Sundays, ‘pot’ was something you cooked in and ‘rock music’
a mother’s lullaby. When mixing across ages, language is often misunderstood
because words are used differently, so adjustments must be made. Creating
awareness of communication is important today.
3.	Who calls the Shots? Although schools, colleges and universities are nominally
communities of equals, there are those that call the shots in any group of people.
This is the nature of group dynamics. What starts as equal partnerships between
people often devolves into disagreements and fights, so it is necessary to take
account of the power-politics in work places. People have agendas which are not
always obvious to others, but can subvert goals that have previously, publicly
been agreed. Conversational leadership principles are not always practised in
British institutions, but need to be implemented for consistent, coherent staff
approaches to learning and behaviour. This style of working understands the
transformative power of two-way conversations as an approach to connecting,
relating, learning and working with others. It is promoted in courses at Harvard
University in America.
4.	Dealing with Propaganda: An example of how propaganda messages distort
reality is seen in responses to the question posed, by media and others, regarding
Britain’s low education standards compared with comparable nations. This has
led to a tendency to blame teachers for inadequate performances. The result is
initiatives, such as the Shanghai Project, which brought Chinese educators to
Britain to improve Mathematics teaching, without properly acknowledging the
range of issues that have resulted in our low-score situation on international
league tables. Such an action is merely slapping on a plaster to hide the problem.
Smearing people as inept does not help motivate them to stay in jobs. Around
50% of teachers do not expect to remain in the profession beyond 5 years, which
is an expensive issue for the nation. As education is essential for progress and the
subject of much debate, there is plenty of propaganda that seizes on a single aspect
to explain something wrong, without considering the complexity that surrounds
J. ADENIJI ET AL.
282
the problem. We have to be careful to produce reasoned arguments about issues
in order to produce effective judgements and outcomes.
5.	Reality not Rhetoric: A prescriptive curriculum and standard testing has resulted
in the loss of a moral compass in meeting expectations for both teachers and
students. It is a symptom of the commodification of education, particularly at
the higher level, with students admitted for high fees but ill-equipped to cope
with both the personal and academic demands of courses. Academics frequently
attest to inadequate levels of both spoken and written communication and lack
of awareness of academic norms amongst many students. Cheating has become
a major issue at all educational levels and in the long run leads to a lack of faith
and credibility in the system that demotivates everyone involved. From the 1000+
sites offering assignments for sale, researchers have found you can pay £106 for
a ‘B’grade GCSE essay, but an eye-watering £82,238 for a PhD (Usborne, 2017).
This means some students may receive qualifications which are unjustified, with
the result that employers become confused when recruits do not live up to their
credentials in work performances. These are unpalatable issues but must be taken
on board to acknowledge the reality of situations and understand the reasons for
unsatisfactory practices.
In summary, education must provide:
•	 Understanding of society and its diversity across the world
•	 Commitment to human equality: kindness and respect for everyone
•	 Adherence to national attitudes, values and cultural traditions of the country of
residence
•	 A strong moral code to guide behaviour, noting conflicting cultural differences
that might subvert
•	 Conversational leadership implementing holistic, reflective practice, applying
theory from a rationale
•	 Curricula meeting mind, body and spiritual needs that value equality, self-
awareness & motivation
•	 Communication and creativity for open, flexible responses to experiences
•	 Support for personal and educational needs of both teachers and students
•	 Inter-disciplinary teacher-education for a broader understanding of pedagogy and
underpinning disciplines
•	 Intercultural awareness for effective interpersonal relationships and improved
integration
•	 Career preparation that assesses individual interests and talents in line with
society’s employment possibilities
FINAL COMMENT
In the 1960s, political manifestos talked about the urgent need for an educational
revolution that took account of the responsibilities of the scientific age and the
EPILOGUE TO PARADOXES IN EDUCATION
283
problems of leisure from increasing automation. This theme has been repeated
constantly in the intervening 50 years, which Harold Wilson (Prime Minister) called
the ‘white heat of technology.’ More than 50 years later we are still retrospective
rather than visionary in public debates, and are bogged down by human rights,
stalled incomes and insecure employment. Our education policies have been geared
to encourage more and more students to go to university, at a time when the better
jobs they expect will be taken over by machines. Only half those graduating can
find jobs that are commensurate with their level of qualifications. Just as 50 years
ago, rapid change poses opportunities but threats for the traditional employment
of millions of people. The big difference between automation then and now is the
massive accelerating pace of change. Ability to adapt and re-skill is crucial and
personal competencies of people are what will enable this to happen. The evidence
of the book authors suggests we are some way from becoming open, outward-
looking and confident about our futures. Public policy now must quickly start laying
the foundations for today’s school leavers for 50 years hence, when the state will
clearly be unable to look after them and fund their pensions (unless they start taxing
the robots!). This presents a huge challenge with 2 main choices. We can.
1.	Build a flexible labour market with the personal competencies to survive change,
as well as encouraging enterprise, boosting business and moving towards more
self-reliance
2.	Develop into a stronger social-democratic nation – beholden to the state’s rigid
rules and regulations, which work against flexible, globalist attitudes and effective
progress
There is a necessity to balance social and economic policies. The European Union
was built on the ideal of bringing together former enemies in a single, economic
trading market, but its aims have been social-welfare rather than pro-business. It
has moved towards a single-state with the introduction of common money (euro)
in many member countries. This has had advantages with ease of movements
across Europe, but the Civitas Report (Burrell, 2016) shows how bureaucratic
predominance in the single-market has meant they are less competitive than nations
with free-trade and fewer restrictive regulations. Education has similarly suffered
from bureaucratic systems. These have good intentions to regularise and achieve
consistent UK standards, but have meant they have lowered in comparison to similar
nations and contributed to inequality regarding job prospects.
If we think we have inequality now, we must consider what might be coming
next, with questions about how to underpin incomes of those not in work either
temporarily or permanently. Optimists say we have been here before and alarm is
misplaced, but the speed of change does put a different complexion on issues and
perhaps leads us to reflect on what we mean by progress and success. The 20th
century German theoretical physicist, Albert Einstein’s mantra: ‘Try not to become
a man of success but of value,’ should be our starting point for education policies.
(‘Man’in the 20th century referred to generic mankind/humanity). The 18th century
J. ADENIJI ET AL.
284
German philosopher, Friedrich Shiller’s statement can start reflections as to how
we can attain a fairer future for all citizens. ‘Live with your century, but do not
be its creature. Work for your contemporaries but create what they need not what
they praise’ (translation – 2016). Faced with the enormous changes in the way we
live and work, from technology developments, sitting tight and hoping things will
work out is not an option. There is a famous saying of Napoleon, prominent in the
French Revolution as a military leader and politician: ‘the side that stays within
its fortifications is beaten’ that applies to present circumstances. Breaking out of
present issues requires a change of philosophy and systems, treating the world as an
opportunity to tackle intractable, challenging issues in new ways.
Making ethical decisions may seem impossible. The recent government move
to increase grammar schools shows how every course of action is seen to benefit
one group at the expense of others. In this case, those opposing argued against such
privilege at the expense of students unable to achieve entry requirements. There is no
perfect answer, but decisions must be made to move forward. In making reasonable
judgements it is necessary to be responsible, cautious and communicative. In being
responsible, it is impossible to be really impartial, as we all have moral perspectives,
which differ greatly from each other in our plural societies. It is important to proceed
cautiously in a world of huge uncertainty and to be aware of the complexity of
situations.
This is difficult when we are educated and programmed in narrow ways. Finally,
we must be able to communicate and cooperate with others, so there is a chance for
everyone to participate in debates that affect lives. Recent events, like Brexit, show
that we are some way from being able to discuss issues sensibly, without rigidity of
thinking and rancour for our adversaries. This is a competence that requires attention
and is part of our self-development. We hope that reading this book, there will be
knowledge and ideas to make decision-making more effective for everyone. The
suggestions we make are common sense rather than ground breaking, but the very
opportunity to review the interests and experiences of others causes us to reflect and
hopefully find a way to improve the teaching of a precious future generation.
MAIN POINTS
•	 The complex world seems chaotic but life has a predictable pattern
•	 The population is estimated to have tripled in 100 years, giving rise to resource
issues
•	 Advances in technology could solve problems but are reducing jobs & taking
over routine procedures
•	 A new educational policy is needed to meet the changing requirements of new
life styles
•	 Personal abilities require more focus in education for improved coping abilities
for people
EPILOGUE TO PARADOXES IN EDUCATION
285
REFERENCES
Antinori, A. (2017). Self-improvement. Journal of Research in Personality.
CBI/Pearson. (2017). Education and skills survey: Helping the UK thrive. Retrieved from www.cbi.com
Crockett, M., Kurth-Nelson, Z., Siegel, J., Dayan, P., & Dolan, R. (2017). The value of morality. Nature
Neuroscience, 20(5).
De Freitas, J., & Cikara, M. (2017). People Perception. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Intergroup Neuroscience
Lab.
Ecology Global Network: http//www.ecology.com/birth-death-rates/
Education Endowment Foundation. (2017). Dialogic teaching. Cambridge, MA: Review Trust and York
University. Retrieved from educationendowmentfoundation.org.uk/our-work
Feldman, B. L. (2017). How emotions are made. London: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.
Harris, M., Brett, C., Johnson, W., & Deary, I. (2016). Personality stability from age 14 to 77 years.
Psychology & Aging, 31(8), 862–874.
Keltner, D., Van Kleef, G. A., Chen, S., & Kraus, M. (2008). A reciprocal influence model of social
power: Emerging principles and lines of enquiry. Advances in Experimental Social Psychology, 40,
151–192.
Knobe, J. (2017). Person as scientist, person as moralist. New Haven, CT: Yale University Papers.
Lammers, J. (2010). Power increases hypocrisy: Moralizing in reasoning, immorality, in behavior.
Psychological Science, 21(5), 737–744.
Oderberg, D. (2007). Real essentialism. New York, NY: Routledge.
Sage, R. (2004). The world of difference. London: Network Continuum. (Reprint 2007)
Schaarschmidt, T. (2017, May/June). Power moves. Scientific American: MIND, 28(3). Retrieved from
Scientific American.com
Schiller, F. (2016). On the aesthetic education of man. London: Penguin Education.
Sutton Trust. (2017). The state of social mobility in the UK. London: Sutton Trust. Retrieved from
www.suttontrust.com
Usborne, S. (2017, April 22). The last word. The Week, (11211). Retrieved April 24, 2017, from
www.theweek.co.uk
West, G. (2017). Scale: The universal laws of growth, innovation, sustainability and the pace of life in
organisms and companies. London: Penguin Random House/Orion.
287
ABOUT THE CONTRIBUTORS
TUTORS AND EXAMINERS ON THE DOCTORAL FELLOWSHIP
Riccarda Matteucci is an experienced teacher at senior school and university
levels, having taught in Italy, Africa, America and the United Kingdom. She has held
a Research Fellowship in Linguistics and visiting professorship at the University
of Cambridge. Riccarda also has specialities in across-language teaching, verbal
and non-verbal communication and the language-learning problems of those with
special needs. She has particular expertise in the multi-cultural aspects of students
in teaching and the issues that underpin this factor. She was a Practitioner Doctorate
examiner in the area of communication, at the College of Teachers, based at the
Institute of Education, University College, London. She is presently devising
a teacher training programme for African nations and has a particular interest in
robotics in education.
Luke Sage is a Chartered Psychologist and Senior Lecturer at the University of
Coventry, with a specialisation in motivation and performance. He has experience
of teaching in Romania and Italy, as well as in a UK Sixth Form College and
Brunel, South Bank and Birmingham universities. His work includes training the
Paralympic swimming and sailing teams, league footballers as well as professional
golfers. He was the statistician on the Oxford research into 4 decades of courses for
students with communication difficulties and the independent interviewer on studies
at Leicester University with talented and special needs students. He has just led the
UK Nuffield project into motivation amongst students, at all levels, and is a regular
contributor to Journals and International Conferences.
Rosemary Sage (Editor) is a speech pathologist, psychologist and teacher (English
& Maths); former Dean at the College of Teachers and now Professor at Buckingham
Independent University, responsible for the Doctorate by Professional Record.
She was Director of Speech & Language Services in Leicester/Leicestershire; a
Teacher in Primary and Secondary schools; Senior Language Advisor to an LEA; an
Academic in 4 universities: Head of Department and Professor of Communication
in Liverpool and a visiting Professor in Cuba and Japan. Rosemary is on the Queen’s
panel for Education & Industry Awards and sat on the Lord Chancellor’s Advisory
Committee as a senior magistrate in Northamptonshire. She has been a member of the
Children’s Legal Panel and expert witness in Educational appeals; on Parliamentary
committees for Medicine and Education, the Teaching of Science and Inclusion of
Students with Special Needs. Recently, she led the first group of Education students
at the College of Teachers (TCOT) completing Doctorates by Professional Record
(Doctoral Fellow of the College of Teachers – DFCOT), who received awards from
ABOUT THE CONTRIBUTORS
288
Prince Philip in June 2016. She has published 20 books and over 150 refereed papers
in journals.
Sera Shortland is a psychologist and the lead of Social Science programmes at
Hamilton College, Leicester (school for senior students). She has developed an
initiative called MP6 in her school, which is now implemented in institutions over
the region. In this socially deprived area, the need to develop the communicative
competencies of students is crucial, to give them the confidence to establish
themselves both in school, in their community and later in workplaces. It also is the
process that underpins successful academic and personal performances and Sera’s
initiative has received wide praise for its popularity and outstanding success.
DOCTORAL FELLOWSHIP AUTHORS
JonathanAdeniji is an economist from Nigeria who has extensive experience of the
business world and presently heads up employment initiatives in a UK institution.
He is currently Head of Vocational Business, at Christ the King College and leads the
initiative on employability issues. Jonathan’s professional journey started in Nigeria
and has spanned through every level of education from primary school to university.
Industry experience in recruiting, marketing and business consulting formed an
enriching knowledge base for practice. (Special expertise – employment issues)
Max Coates is an experienced head-teacher and ordained Church of England priest.
He has run a Leadership MA at University College, London (Institute of Education),
and is a researcher and writer in educational leadership areas. He has worked
internationally, in his field, including: Yemen, Saudi Arabia, The Republic of
Colombia, Qatar and the Netherlands. He also contributes as a doctoral supervisor
on the Ed.D/Ph.D programme at the Institute of Education and is the Examination
Officer on the Practitioner Doctorate at Buckingham University. (Special expertise
– coping with change)
Richard Davies led the Government Department responsible for policy, practice
and implementation covering all aspects of education, skills and lifelong learning in
Wales, pre and post devolution. Earlier he gained wide experience as a Senior Civil
Servant, devising and delivering social policy, notably for health, schools, housing,
community development and family support. He is presently a non-executive
director; the Chairman of various tribunals; Board Chairman for global education and
qualification standards at the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and a member
of international fora dealing with ethics and governance. His range of interests as a
trustee includes the Carnegie (UK) Trust and the Nationwide Foundation. Richard is
the Chair of Ethics on the Practitioner Doctorate at the University of Buckingham.
(Special expertise – ethical practice)
ABOUT THE CONTRIBUTORS
289
Robert Loe has been a teacher and senior leader in schools and is now Executive
Director and CRO for the Relational Schools Foundation. This organisation is an
education research and consultancy group, whose aim is to improve relationships
between key stakeholders for better personal and academic success. His work role is
international with consultancies and networks across countries. (Special expertise –
relationships in schools)
Pauline Lovelock has been a senior teacher in schools, with both Secondary and
Primary experience as a Religious Education specialist, with an interest in holistic
human development. As an Education Officer, she developed work with children
in the field of spirituality and silence. Her original social work background led to
her research giving insight into aspects of children’s bereavement and fear. Pauline
has contributed to both national and international conferences. She is a Farmington
Fellow.As a licensed Church Lay Elder, Pauline works with adults as a retreat leader.
Currently, she is employed as both as an independent specialist and with children in
an Anglican Shrine. (Special expertise – the spiritual dimension in learning)
Elizabeth Negus has been the English lead in Further Education colleges and is
presently a Head on 3 sites on the senior policy team. She has taught across the
age range in both St Lucia (her birth place) and England and is a recognised
international expert in Victorian literature. Elizabeth has published text books for the
English Curriculum and contributed papers and presentations at many international
conferences. She is presently on the Commonwealth Committee, invited to
discussions and presentations in Africa and elsewhere. (Special expertise – Victorian
literature)
Kim Orton is unique in having taught across the age range and has been a Deputy
Head Teacher, an Early EducationAdviser to schools, consultant on Prison Education
as well as a Further and Higher Education lecturer, tutor and leader. She has managed
Initial Teacher Education and is now monitoring and examining education students
for their professional qualifications in the UK and Middle East. Kim has worked on
projects within the EU and continues as an Associate at the Institute of Education,
University College London, in leadership and management. She is the Research
Officer for the Practitioner Doctorate at the University of Buckingham. (Special
expertise – communication and reflective practice)
