	 Chapter 2.  Pedagogical grammar in applied linguistics	 19
grammatical forms of the target language in similar orders. For example, for both chil-
dren and adults learning English, the progressive morpheme –ing (I am walking) appears
before the past tense morpheme –ed (I walked). These studies also showed that explicit
error correction, given either by a parent or a teacher, did little to alter the order of ac-
quisition. Correcting a child every time he adds –ed to an irregular verb (e.g., I runned)
does not have a large impact on the overall order of morpheme acquisition in English.
Krashen’s second hypothesis, The Natural Order Hypothesis, is based upon this research.
Taking his argument against grammar instruction a step further, in The Monitor
Hypothesis, Krashen suggested that conscious reflection on grammar rules actually
serves to impede fluent communication. While acquisition in naturalistic contexts
allows learners to produce fluent speech in the target language, the learning of gram-
mar rules allows for little more than monitoring, or the analysis of what one wants to
say or has said. Krashen argued that all language users have a Monitor, which they use
consciously, particularly when they are worried about the grammatical correctness or
acceptability of their utterance. While monitoring sometimes serves a useful purpose
(e.g., when proofreading an academic essay), Krashen argued that, for the most part,
the monitoring process is cumbersome, and mainly serves to interrupt or slow down
fluent speech. Second language classrooms that include explicit grammar instruction
thus can actually interfere with the acquisition process. An ideal language classroom
would foster acquisition and fluent speech; an ineffective one would emphasize the
explicit learning of grammar rules, increasing students’ dependence on an inefficient
and unnatural Monitor.
How then, according to Krashen, could second language classrooms promote ac-
quisition rather than learning? The ideal environment for Krashen was one of rich,
engaging, and meaningful interaction. In The Input Hypothesis, Krashen further
specifies that classroom interaction should use language that students can understand
and engage with. The language input should also be geared approximately one level
above their current competence, or what Krashen called i + 1. Krashen recognized
that i + 1 was a somewhat fuzzy notion (how to calculate this, exactly?) but he argued
that determining every student’s exact level (i) and the next level above (i + 1) was not
necessary. Teachers, like parents, should provide what Krashen called “roughly-tuned”
input, rather than try to create “finely-tuned” input (p. 22). In child-parent interaction,
Krashen explained, it is not the case that parents make careful calculations about which
grammatical features their children are ready to acquire next. Rather, they gradually in-
crease the complexity of their language, based on how their children respond and how
they interact with parents, siblings, and friends at any given age. Language classroom
input should be calibrated in much the same way. If teachers can gage how well students
understand the input and how engaged they are with it, they will be likely to hit upon
the appropriate i + 1 for each student at least part of the time. This should be enough to
foster second language acquisition, just as it is sufficient for first language acquisition.
20	 Pedagogical Grammar
The need for comprehensible input became yet another reason to argue against
grammar instruction in the L2 classroom. In his discussion of The Input Hypothesis,
Krashen outlined four major reasons to abandon grammar-based syllabi and lessons:
1.	 All students may not be at the same stage. The “structure of the day” may not be
i + 1 for many of the students. With natural communicative input, on the other
hand, some i + 1 or other will be provided for everyone.
2.	 With a grammatical syllabus, each structure is presented only once. If a student
misses it, is absent, is not paying attention, or if there simply has not been enough
practice (input), the student may have to wait until next year, when all structures
are reviewed! On the other hand, roughly-tuned comprehensible input allows for
natural review.
3.	 A grammatical syllabus assumes we know the order of acquisition. No such as-
sumption is necessary when we rely on comprehensible input, on roughly-tuned
natural communication.
4.	 Finally, a grammatical syllabus, and the resulting grammatical focus, places serious
constraints on what can be discussed. Too often, it is difficult, if not impossible, to
discuss or read anything of real interest if our underlying motive is to practice a
particular structure. In other words, a grammatical focus will usually prevent real
communication using the second language (pp. 24–25).
Even Krashen’s fifth hypothesis, The Affective Filter Hypothesis, can be said to help
build a case against explicit grammar instruction. According to this hypothesis, non-
linguistic factors, such as stress or anxiety, can impede the acquisition process. Krashen
argued that students with high levels of motivation and self-confidence and low levels
of anxiety would be more likely to benefit from exposure to comprehensible input, as
they would be more willing to engage with it. Classrooms that provided interesting,
comprehensible input were, according to Krashen, much more likely to foster motiva-
tion and confidence. In contrast, repetitive drills and boring grammar lessons could
likely result in unmotivated students, or, worse, students with anxieties about gram-
matical correctness.
Krashen’s theories resonated with many language educators who felt that grammar
charts and drills, still widely used during this time, were failing to help their students
to become fluent speakers of the target language. Krashen’s emphasis on highly engag-
ing, interactive lessons also fit nicely with the current emphasis on communicative
competence. Canale and Swain (1980) had argued that second language classrooms
must, at a minimum, provide numerous opportunities for meaningful interaction;
classrooms that focused on providing comprehensible input would do just that. For
Krashen (1982), and many language teachers around the world, this was not just good
theory, but common sense:
	 Chapter 2.  Pedagogical grammar in applied linguistics	 21
The effective language teacher is someone who can provide input and help make it
comprehensible in a low anxiety situation. Of course, many teachers have felt this way
about their task for years, at least until they were told otherwise by the experts! (p. 32)
Reflection 2.5
– What aspects of Krashen’s Monitor Model do you find most persuasive?
Least persuasive?
– To what extent do you agree with Krashen’s argument that explicit grammar
instruction increases anxiety and results in excessive Monitor use?
Making input comprehensible: The role of interaction
Few argued against Krashen’s claim that comprehensible input was needed for second
language acquisition. What was less clear, however, was how teachers could ensure
that students were receiving a sufficient amount of i + 1 input in the classroom. What,
exactly, did engaging, meaningful, authentic, comprehensible input look like? Intrigued
by some of the many conversations he had witnessed between native English-speaking
teachers and ESL students, Michael Long began to explore how input could be made
comprehensible to L2 learners through a series of negotiations in face-to-face interac-
tion. Long had noticed that native speakers, much like the parents of children, tended
to modify their speech when communicating with language learners. As part of his
doctoral dissertation, Long (1980) transcribed several of these conversations and de-
scribed the types of interactional moves that were made by the participants to ensure
that meaning was communicated successfully.
LONG’S (1980) INTERACTION HYPOTHESIS
Comprehensible input is a necessary component of successful second language acquisition.
Interactionally modified input plays a crucial role in making input comprehensible to second
language learners. Interactionally modified input often occurs as speakers negotiate meaning,
using the following strategies to ensure mutual understanding:
–	
Requestsforclarification: Asking your conversational partner(s) to clarify or further explain
what they mean
–	 Confirmation checks: Making sure you understand what someone has said
–	 Comprehension checks: Making sure someone understands what you have said
–	 Repetitions: Repeating yourself or repeating what your conversational partner has said
–	 Repairs: Correcting an error that you or your conversational partner has made
–	 Paraphrase: Rephrasing what you or conversational partner has said
22	 Pedagogical Grammar
Long found that several strategies used by native speakers helped to make their lan-
guage more comprehensible for the L2 users. Native speakers often performed compre-
hension checks, to make sure the L2 speaker understood. If the native speakers were
not understood, they often paraphrased what they had said in a new way. If the L2
speaker said something they did not understand, then native speakers often asked for
clarification. In his Interaction Hypothesis, Long (1980) argued that what made input
comprehensible was face-to-face interaction. As native and non-native speakers work
to understand one another, they go through a series of negotiations, all of which aim
to increase comprehension. Thus, interaction was crucial to the second language ac-
quisition process, in that it provided L2 learners with input that was accessible to them.
Reflection 2.6
– As an L2 teacher, what strategies do you use to promote meaningful interaction in
the classroom?
– How do you make input comprehensible to your students? In what ways do your
students help to make input comprehensible to one another?
Researching the effectiveness of communicative classrooms
Long’s (1980) Interaction Hypothesis provided yet another rationale to emphasize
meaningful communication in the second language classroom. The question of
whether to explicitly teach grammar, however, was far from resolved. While Krashen
was advocating for naturalistic classroom environments free from grammar instruc-
tion, other applied linguistics researchers were exploring what impact those classroom
environments might have on the development of students’ grammatical competence
over time. Some of the most influential research on communicative language teaching
took place in the French immersion programs in Ontario, Canada. These programs
were designed for children who spoke English as their native language, and the goal
was to develop students’ communicative competence in French, so that they would
eventually be bilingual in both English and French, the national languages of Canada.
Though many classrooms around the world still used grammar-based syllabi to teach
second languages, immersion programs in Canada used a combination of communica-
tive language teaching and content-based instruction. All tasks in the classroom were
done in French, including content lessons in social studies, science, math, and so on.
To investigate whether students in these immersion programs were developing
the communicative competence needed for both academic and professional success,
Merrill Swain (of Canale & Swain, 1980) and her colleagues (see, e.g., Swain & Lapkin,
1982; Lapkin, Hart, & Swain, 1991; Swain, 1997) carried out a series of studies that
	 Chapter 2.  Pedagogical grammar in applied linguistics	 23
described the type of instruction students received in their immersion classrooms, and
then measured the development of students’ communicative competence over time.
Of interest was not only students’ abilities to comprehend French and speak it fluently,
but also their ability to speak and write with grammatical accuracy. Could classrooms
that focused primarily on meaning, rather than form, still promote the development
of students’ grammatical competence?
The findings of these studies suggested that while immersion students, after several
years of study, were quite fluent in their communication and were confident in their
ability to use French in the school setting, analyses of the language produced by these
students identified a number of grammatical forms that had not yet been fully acquired.
The French spoken (and written) by the immersion student is, in many ways, non-na-
tive-like. Although the immersion students seem to have little problem understanding
or reading French, their spoken and written French clearly identifies them as non-
native speakers of the language. (Swain & Lapkin, 1989)
Swain and Lapkin identified a number of possible reasons for this. First, they found
that many of the classrooms they observed were taught by content teachers (e.g., Social
Studies experts), not language teachers, and that these teachers taught their subject
matter in French much like any content teacher would, through the use of assigned
readings, lectures, brief question and answer sessions, and exams. In these classrooms,
the range of communicative situations was limited. Students experienced traditional
classroom genres, but had little exposure to other speech events in the target language.
Though often described, at the time, as “communicative language teaching par excel-
lence,” these classrooms provided input that was “functionally restricted”; that is, it did
not represent the wide range of communicative situations students would encounter
outside of the classroom (Swain & Lapkin, 1989, pp. 153–155).
Not all immersion classrooms were like this, however. Some were more com-
municative in their approach and based the selection of communication tasks on
students’ needs and goals. Other classrooms set aside time for grammar-focused les-
sons. Nevertheless, the general trend was the same. After several years, many students
did not display the same grammatical competence of their native French-speaking
counterparts.
Swain and Lapkin (1989) concluded that the overarching problem observed in all
the immersion settings (whether primarily content-based or communicative; with our
without separate grammar lessons) was that they failed to integrate content instruction
with language instruction. When grammar was taught, it was done so as a separate
lesson, completely unrelated to anything else the students were studying. When class-
room activities centered around content, little effort was made on the part of teachers
to direct students’ attention to form. Error correction was infrequent and inconsistently
24	 Pedagogical Grammar
given. If students made errors in their speech or writing, they were likely unaware of
it. As a result, these errors persisted over a period of many years.
While Krashen would likely argue that the French immersion programs were un-
successful because they did not provide learners with sufficient comprehensible input,
many researchers worried that a total focus on meaning, without any attention to form,
was not sufficient for the development of grammatical competence. While in many
cases, grammatical errors do not impede the flow of communication, educators were
well aware that these errors could act as gatekeepers in academic and professional
contexts. Using the wrong pronoun or article on the playground may not be a problem,
but making these errors in a job interview would be. Many educators felt that a purely
communicative classroom left open the possibility that some student errors would go
unaddressed, and students would continue to make these errors without realizing it.
Reflection 2.7
– As an L2 learner or a teacher, have you ever experienced a content-based,
immersion classroom? If so, in what ways was this context either similar to or
different from the contexts studied by Swain and her colleagues?
– How might immersion and content-based programs approach the teaching
of L2 grammar?
Beyond input: Pushed output and noticing in L2 development
The French immersion studies prompted many to critically evaluate Krashen’s argu-
ment that comprehensible input was the primary determinant in language learning
success. In many French immersion classrooms, students had plenty of input, yet this
was not enough to develop grammatical competence in the target language. Drawing
on her extensive research in these settings, Merrill Swain argued that comprehensible
input alone was not sufficient for successful second language development. Immersion
students in Canada had plenty of input; what they did not have, Swain argued, were
opportunities to speak and receive feedback on the accuracy of their production. The
fact that these students did not fully develop their grammatical accuracy over a pe-
riod of several years suggested that both input and output played a crucial role in the
second language acquisition process. In her Output Hypothesis, Swain (1985) argued
that second language classrooms should include activities that “push” learners “toward
the delivery of a message that is not only conveyed, but that is conveyed precisely,
coherently, and appropriately. Being ‘pushed’ in output… is a concept parallel to that
of the i +1 of comprehensible input. Indeed, one might call this the ‘comprehensible
output’ hypothesis” (p. 248). For Swain, output was not simply language produced by
	 Chapter 2.  Pedagogical grammar in applied linguistics	 25
the learner, but rather was a process in and of itself, a process in which students had
opportunities to analyze and reflect on their own language use.
SWAIN’S (1985) OUTPUT HYPOTHESIS
The meaning of‘negotiating meaning’needs to be extended beyond the usual sense of sim-
ply ‘getting one’s message across.’ Simply getting one’s message across can and does occur
with grammatically deviant forms and sociolinguistically inappropriate language. Negotiating
meaning needs to incorporate the notion of being pushed toward the delivery of a message
that is not only conveyed, but that is conveyed precisely, coherently, and appropriately. Being
‘pushed’in output… is a concept parallel to that of the i +1 of comprehensible input. Indeed,
one might call this the‘comprehensible output’hypothesis. (Swain, 1985, pp. 248–249)
Swain’s Output Hypothesis suggested that language classrooms needed to do more than
simply provide comprehensible input to students. They needed to also provide oppor-
tunities for students to speak and write, to engage more directly with the language they
were learning, through the process of using it. It was also crucial for communicatively-
oriented classrooms to design lessons and tasks that engaged students in both a focus
on content and a focus on language (Swain & Lapkin, 1989). Simply giving students a
chance to speak was not enough; teachers also needed to provide students with care-
fully planned feedback on the comprehensibility and accuracy of their utterances.
Without such feedback, students may never notice the ways in which their language
production differed from the language of native speakers. Like many immersion stu-
dents before them, they may complete several years of language study without fully
developing their grammatical competence.
Concern over second language student’s grammatical competence extended be-
yond the French immersion classroom. At the same time that Swain and colleagues
were investigating the effectiveness of immersion programs in Canada, Richard
Schmidt was exploring how adults acquired second languages in both naturalistic and
instructed contexts. In 1983, Schmidt published the results of a case study he conducted
in Hawaii of a man he called ‘Wes,’ a professional artist who had recently relocated to
Hawaii from Japan. Schmidt describes Wes’ exposure to English during the 3-year
study period in this way:
The past three years have been characterized by steadily increasing demands on Wes’s
ability to communicate in English, and he now lives in an English-speaking world.
An extremely friendly and outgoing person, he has a wide circle of friends and ac-
quaintances who are monolingual English speakers, including an American roommate.
Contacts with other Japanese speakers have shrunk rather than grown…. I would esti-
mate very roughly that something between 75 and 90 percent of all of Wes’s meaningful
interactions at the present time are in English. (Schmidt, 1983, p. 140–141)
26	 Pedagogical Grammar
Schmidt found, however, that despite the fact that Wes was exposed to a considerable
amount of comprehensible input, in a variety of communicative situations, his gram-
matical competence developed very little during the three-year period of the study.
A number of grammatical forms had not been fully acquired by Wes at the start of
the study (e.g., progressive –ing, auxiliary be, plural –s, past –ed); by the end, his use
of these morphemes showed little change. For example, though Wes’ use of irregular
past tense verbs increased over the course of the study, he had not produced any verbs
with the regular –ed ending.
In a second study (Schmidt and Frota, 1986), Schmidt investigated his own lan-
guage learning processes, during a period in which he was studying Portuguese in
Brazil. Schmidt took a language class, but also spent a great deal of time engaged in
meaningful conversations with native Portuguese speakers. To explore what factors
could be said to impact his acquisition process, Schmidt kept a journal of his language
learning experiences. Analysis of the journal entries and his own language production
revealed an important factor in the learning process that Schmidt and Frota had not
anticipated: One of the strongest predictors of Schmidt’s use of particular language
forms was not whether it was available in the input, but rather whether he had noticed,
or paid some kind of attention to, the form. One form of noticing Schmidt and Frota
were able to keep track of was Schmidt’s mentioning of particular forms in his journal
entries. Forms that appeared in the input he received and which were mentioned in
his written journal entries were most likely to appear later in his language production.
These observations provided support for Swain’s argument that input alone was not
sufficient for second language development and that output played a crucial role in di-
recting learners’ attention toward their own language use. It can be said that Schmidt’s
journal writing and his conversations with native speakers pushed him to notice as-
pects of the language he may not have paid attention to otherwise. Schmidt’s study
also suggested that opportunities to produce output were not, in and of themselves,
guarantees that language development would take place. Rather, it was the noticing that
was key. For example, while Wes had plenty of opportunities to engage in meaningful
interaction with native speakers, his grammatical competence changed little over a
period of three years. Perhaps, because Wes was not studying the language formally
and did not feel pressure to achieve grammatical accuracy, he did not direct a great
deal of attention toward specific grammatical forms. His friends and colleagues, for
the most part, could understand him, and his English did not stand in the way of his
success as an artist. Wes, like the French immersion students, did not receive a great
deal of feedback on the accuracy of his utterances. His day-to-day interactions were
focused entirely on meaning; little attention was paid to grammatical form.
All of this work helped to lead Schmidt (1990) to propose a theory of the role of
consciousness in second language learning. Schmidt argued that “attention is required
for all learning” (1995, p. 45), that before a language form can be acquired, it first
	 Chapter 2.  Pedagogical grammar in applied linguistics	 27
must be noticed. When learners notice, or detect, a particular word, morpheme, or
syntactic pattern, this form becomes available for further processing by the language
learner, and thus may eventually be integrated into the learner’s own language system.
If a form is not noticed, it does not have a chance of being processed or integrated; it
cannot be acquired.
NOTICING HYPOTHESIS (Schmidt, 1990; 1995)
What learners notice is constrained by a number of factors, but incidental learning is certainly
possible when task demands focus attention on relevant features of the input…. Paying atten-
tion to language form is hypothesized to be facilitative in all cases, and may be necessary for
adult acquisition of redundant grammatical forms [i.e., forms not crucial to the overall meaning
of the message]. In general, the relation between attention and awareness provides a link to
the study of individual differences in language learning, as well as to consideration of the role
of instruction in making formal features of the target language more salient.
 (Schmidt, 1990, p. 149)
Such a view of the learning process helped to explain why many second language
learners, exposed to authentic language input for many years, still did not fully develop
their grammatical competence. A focus on meaning may lead to the noticing of key vo-
cabulary words or formulaic expressions, but may not prompt learners to notice other,
less salient features of the input, like grammatical morphemes or word order rules.
Though many questions remained about the role of grammar in the L2 classroom,
Schmidt’s Noticing Hypothesis emerged at a time in which applied linguists and second
language educators had much to agree about. Communicative competence was widely
accepted as the primary goal of second language instruction, and grammatical compe-
tence was recognized as a crucial component of overall language ability. It was becom-
ing clear that input alone was not enough to develop communicative competence, and
that opportunities to both participate in meaningful interaction and attend to form
were needed. The persistent question of the time, however, was still unanswered. How
could teachers promote noticing in a primarily meaning-focused classroom? In an
issue celebrating the 25th anniversary of the journal TESOL Quarterly, Cecle-Murcia
(1991) summed up the state of affairs this way:
During the past 25 years we have seen grammar move from a position of central im-
portance in language teaching, to pariah status, and back to a position of renewed
importance, but with some diminution when compared with the primacy it enjoyed 25
years ago and had enjoyed for so long before then. Grammar is now viewed as but one
component in a model of communicative competence (Canale & Swain, 1980; Hymes,
1972), and thus it can no longer be viewed as a central, autonomous system to be taught
and learned independent of meaning, social function, and discourse structure. Nor can
the grammar of adolescent and adult second and foreign language learners be viewed
28	 Pedagogical Grammar
as a system that will simply emerge on its own given sufficient input and practice.
Grammar, along with lexis – and also phonology for spoken discourse – are resources
for creating meaning through text and for negotiating socially motivated communica-
tion. These resources need to be learned and sometimes they also need to be taught;
however, when taught, they must be taught in a manner that is consonant with gram-
mar’s new role. Finding effective ways to do this is the current challenge.
 (pp. 476–477)
Reflection 2.8
– What roles do you feel output and noticing have played in your own L2 development?
– Considering the many perspectives reviewed in this chapter (e.g., Krashen, Long,
Swain, Schmidt), as well as your own experience, what role do you see for grammar
instruction in the L2 classroom?
Focus on form in the second language classroom
Schmidt’s and Swain’s theories helped to spark a new era of research in the area of
second language grammar pedagogy. This research did not focus so much on whether
grammar instruction was good or bad for the L2 learner. Rather, the question of
whether to teach or not teach grammar was phrased in somewhat different terms:
How can teachers prompt students to focus not only on meaning, but also on form, in
the L2 classroom? In his (1995) discussion of attention and noticing in second language
acquisition, Schmidt outlined a number of options available for teachers, including the
use of communication tasks and explicit grammar lessons. What was most important,
he argued, was to find ways of focusing students’ attention on those forms which they
had either not yet noticed or were in the process of developing.
Within the field of applied linguistics, however, not all scholars agreed on how
teachers could most effectively promote the noticing of grammatical forms in the L2
classroom. Long (1985; 1991; Long & Robinson, 1998), for example, cautioned against
a return to explicit instruction, proposing instead a focus on form approach to L2 teach-
ing. In a focus on form approach, teachers make efforts to draw learners’ attention to
form in the course of meaningful interaction, not pre-emptively, but reactively. That
is, teachers shift learners’ attention to word choice or grammar only when difficulties
or communication breakdowns occur. Long also made a point to distinguish focus on
form from what he called a focus on formS. In a focus on formS approach, the syllabus
is organized according to grammatical features, and daily lessons involve the explicit
teaching of a target form followed by structured practice (e.g., fill-in-the-blank or error
correction exercises). Long argued that a focus on form approach is more conducive
to L2 learning because it is designed to respond to the learner’s communicative needs.
	 Chapter 2.  Pedagogical grammar in applied linguistics	 29
Focus on formS approaches, on the other hand, do not take the learner’s needs into
account, as target forms are pre-selected and taught regardless of whether the learner
needs to or is ready to learn them. A focus on form approach, according to Long, also
ensures that attention to form occurs within the context of communication, which
allows learners to make important links between the linguistic form, its meaning, and
its appropriate use.
Other scholars at the time, however, argued that planned, explicit grammar les-
sons also had a place in the L2 classroom (R. Ellis, 1993; DeKeyser, 1995). If noticing
was such a crucial component of the L2 acquisition process, and if learners were
found to focus very little on grammatical form when engaged in meaning-focused
communication, then perhaps explicit instruction was needed to raise learners’
awareness of the grammatical forms they had not yet fully acquired. Fotos (2002)
for example, has recommended a three-staged approach to L2 grammar instruction,
which involves (1) an explicit grammar lesson, (2) a communication task, and (3) a
follow-up discussion of students’ use of grammar during the task. This new debate,
over how explicit focus on form in the L2 classroom should be, motivated a great
deal of SLA research in the years that followed. In Chapters 8 and 9, we review this
research, and its corresponding pedagogical recommendations, in more detail. But
first, before delving into the “how” of L2 grammar acquisition and teaching, we need
to consider the “what.” In other words, what is it, exactly, that we teach when we say
we are teaching grammar?
	 Summary
In just 50 short years, a series of major shifts in theory occurred within the fields of linguistics
and language teaching. The pioneering work of this era has, in large part, shaped our current
understanding grammar use, L2 grammar acquisition, and L2 grammar instruction. Some of the
key developments we will revisit in subsequent chapters include:
Descriptions of grammar use
–	 From the 1940s onward, linguists have taken a primarily descriptive approach to the study of
grammar. Applied linguists are no exception, and as we will see in Chapter 3, the collection
and analysis of spoken and written language data still plays a major role in the development
of L2 teaching materials and methods.
–	Since the seminal work of Hymes (1972) and Canale and Swain (1980), applied linguists have
focused on describing how language is used in a variety of settings: at home, at work, at
school, or even at the coffee shop. Of particular interest is how the characteristics of these
settings impact the linguistic choices we make. Descriptions of grammar use can include
not only rules of morphology and syntax, but also the rules of social interaction.
30	 Pedagogical Grammar
L2 grammar acquisition
–	
Chomsky’s theories of child language acquisition prompted many applied linguists to ex-
plore how the acquisition of a second language later in life might be similar to, or different
from, first language acquisition.
–	One key similarity observed at this time was the phenomenon of developmental sequences.
Both children and adults have been found to experience similar stages of acquisition, regard-
less of whether acquisition occurs in a naturalistic or instructed context. A more extensive
review of this research is provided in Chapter 7.
–	The role of input in second language acquisition was also researched extensively during this
time. Krashen’s hypotheses stressed the importance of comprehensible input, and Long’s
Interaction Hypothesis highlighted the role that the negotiation of meaning might play in
the L2 acquisition process.
–	Studies of French immersion settings suggested, however, that exposure to comprehensible
input through meaningful interaction may not be enough to foster the full development
of L2 grammatical competence. Swain (1985) argued that comprehensible output was also
needed; that when pushed to produce the language, students are more likely to analyze
their own language use.
–	Schmidt would further argue that in addition to input, interaction, and pushed output, notic-
ing was also a necessary condition for successful second language acquisition.
L2 grammar instruction
–	
Theoretical shifts in linguistics and second language acquisition led many to question
whether grammar instruction should continue to play a central role in the L2 classroom.
–	
Many criticized L2 classrooms’ use of structural syllabi, which were organized according to
grammatical features and which relied primarily on explicit rule explanations. Krashen ar-
gued that explicit grammar instruction actually impeded the second language acquisition
process.
–	The focus on communicative competence as the ultimate goal of L2 instruction led many to
propose alternatives to the structural syllabus, such as the notional syllabi of Van Ek (1976)
and Wilkins (1976). Many teachers abandoned grammar instruction altogether, and instead
focused on using authentic, meaning-focused, communicative tasks.
–	Continued research in French immersion settings suggested that L2 classrooms which were
entirely meaning-focused did not provide students with sufficient opportunities to attend
to form.
–	
These concerns helped give rise to focus on form approaches to second language teaching.
Long, who first coined the term, argued that focus on form should always occur in the midst
of meaningful interaction, in response to communication difficulties. He warned against a
return to focus on formS, or teaching approaches which made use of a structural syllabus
and explicit grammar lessons. Other researchers, however, argued that focus on formS ap-
proaches could also be used to draw learners’attention to linguistic forms.
	 Chapter 2.  Pedagogical grammar in applied linguistics	 31
–	
Though the debate continues over what the ideal balance between form and meaning
might be, there is considerable agreement that some focus on form is needed. Precisely how
to draw students’attention to grammar while still developing other areas of communicative
competence has been a central focus of instructed SLA research over the past two decades.
	 Suggestions for further reading
Ellis, R. (2006). Current issues in the teaching of grammar: An SLA perspective. TESOL Quarterly,
40(1), 83–107.
Mitchell, R. (2000). Anniversary article. Applied linguistics and evidence-based classroom prac-
tice: The case of foreign language grammar pedagogy. Applied Linguistics, 21(3), 281–303.
Chapter 3
What is grammar and how can
it be described?
Just as there have been numerous debates over the role that grammar instruction
should play in the classroom, several proposals have been put forth regarding what
grammar is and how it can be described. The most basic definition offered in many
linguistics textbooks is that grammar is a system of rules which governs how words
(and smaller morphemes) can be combined to form sentences. Most linguists would
agree that, at a minimum, grammar description should involve the analysis of indi-
vidual sentences, so that the underlying rules that make these sentences possible can
be identified. A more complicated issue, however, is whether grammar description
should involve more than sentence-level analysis. After all, language users rarely utter a
single sentence that is disconnected from other sentences. We use grammar to express
meaning and to participate in communication. We generate sentences in response to
other sentences that have already been uttered, for a particular purpose, in a specific
situation. If we consider this larger context, then grammar description may involve
more than the study of morphology and syntax.
Debates over whether non-grammatical, contextual factors should be accounted
for in the description of grammar are connected to larger debates over the nature of
language competence. Chomsky’s description of language competence focused on
grammatical competence, and his characterization of grammatical competence focused
primarily on phrase and clause structure rules. In the generative research that followed,
native speakers were typically asked to judge whether individual sentences were either
grammatical (possible) or ungrammatical (not possible) in their language.
Grammaticality judgment tasks have also been used in research on second lan-
guage acquisition. Table 3.1 presents sample items from a grammaticality judgment
task developed by Johnson and Newport (1989, p. 73) for a study of age effects on L2
learning. These sentence pairs contrast a grammatical sentence with an ungrammati-
cal one (denoted with an asterisk). In a grammaticality judgment task, sentences like
these are distributed randomly (rather than in matched pairs), and test-takers are
asked to judge whether a sentence is acceptable or not in the language. While native
speakers of a language typically complete grammaticality judgments quickly and with
few mistakes, L2 performance is often much more variable, particularly if the L2 user
is still in the process of learning the language.
34	 Pedagogical Grammar
Table 3.1  Sample grammaticality judgment items
*Grammatical and ungrammatical sentence pairs
1. *The farmer bought two pigs at the market.
*The farmer bought two pig at the market.
2. *The little boy is speaking to a policeman.
*The little boy is speak to a policemen.
3. *Yesterday the hunter shot a deer.
*Yesterday the hunter shoots a deer.
*Note:  An asterisk denotes an ungrammatical sentence.
In grammaticality judgment tasks, ungrammatical sentences violate rules of morphol-
ogy or syntax. In L2 research, grammaticality judgment tasks are used to assess learn-
ers’ language competence. The Johnson and Newport study, for example, aimed to
investigate whether there was any relationship between the age at which one started
learning English and the degree of success achieved in learning the language. L2 users’
performance on the grammaticality task was used as a measure of their language abil-
ity: participants with lower scores were seen as less ultimately successful than partici-
pants with higher scores.
As we saw in Chapter 2, however, not all linguists define language competence
in terms of morphology and syntax alone. Hymes’ (1972) theory of communicative
competence aimed to emphasize the importance of social factors and included the
ability to judge not only whether a sentence was grammatical, but also whether it was
appropriate in a given context. While word and sentence formation rules help us to
understand how native speakers are able to generate an infinite number of sentences
in their mother tongue, what was more interesting to many linguists was the fact
that they didn’t. Native speakers had, at their disposal, a vast number of grammatical
choices, but with every utterance, they had to choose just one option. How did they
make that choice?
This was not a new question in the field of linguistics. It was a question central to
much of the structural linguistics research that preceded Chomsky, and it was a ques-
tion that many linguists, particularly those interested in language education, continued
to pursue throughout the latter half of the 20th century. One of the most notable lin-
guists who pursued this question was M. A. K. Halliday, who is credited with founding
the field of systemic-functional linguistics. Systemic-functional linguistics (or SFL)
aims to describe how speakers and writers use language as a resource for expressing
meaning in a social context.
We use language to interact with one another, to construct and maintain our interper-
sonal relations and the social order that lies behind them…. Grammar provides us with
the basic resource for expressing these speech functions.(Matthiessen & Halliday, p. 1)
	 Chapter 3.  What is grammar and how can it be described?	 35
In this view of grammar as a resource, grammar description involves more than
the description of morphological and syntactic rules. Halliday (1977) did not intend
for this functional approach to replace Chomsky’s generative approach; rather, he saw
the two theories of language as complementary. Whereas Chomsky was primarily in-
terested in the innate human abilities that made language acquisition possible, Halliday
was more interested in the external, social factors that helped to shape the course of a
person’s language development over time.
Halliday’s theories, like Chomsky’s, were informed by observations of child lan-
guage acquisition. Halliday (1977) observed children interacting with their parents,
from birth into the school-aged years. He noticed that before children developed the
ability to use words and grammar, they learned to use their vocal chords to express
intentions and desires, or what Halliday called “functions.” General functions impor-
tant in the world of children included “satisfying material needs,” “controlling the
behavior of others,” “getting along with other people,” “identifying and expressing the
self,” “exploring the world,” and “communicating new information” (Halliday, 1977,
pp. 19–20). Gradually, Halliday argued, children learn what specialized meanings are
possible within each function. For example, within the general function of “satisfying
material needs,” children can request milk, food, comfort, sleep, and so on. Initially,
children may indicate these meanings through gestures or sounds. Over time, through
interaction with their caregivers, children learn the specific forms (both vocabulary and
grammar) that can be used to express these meanings. They also learn which forms are
more or less appropriate for a given function, in a particular communicative setting.
Halliday (1977) described this process as a process of “learning how to mean”:
If there is anything which the child can be said to be acquiring, it is a range of poten-
tial, which we could refer to as his ‘meaning potential’. This consists in the mastery
of a small number of elementary functions of language, and of a range of choices in
meaning within each one. The choices are very few at first, but they expand rapidly as
the functional potential of the system is reinforced by success. (p. 19)
This mapping of form to function occurs, Halliday argued, through interaction, as it
would be impossible for the child to learn what is or is not appropriate without the
experience of communicating in a real context for a real purpose.
In systemic-functional linguistics, then, the starting point for analysis is not the
individual sentence, but rather the communicative situation, or what is referred to
as register. Register is similar to Hymes’ (1972) concept of a speech event, and can be
defined according to situational factors, such as the institutional setting (the subject
matter, the goals of communication, the roles played by participants); the relationship
between participants (e.g., whether intimate or not, whether equal in terms of power
or not; and the mode (e.g., whether spoken or written). The job of a systemic-func-
tional linguist, according to Matthiessen and Halliday (1997), is to use a knowledge
36	 Pedagogical Grammar
of these contextual factors to explain the grammatical choices made by speakers and
writers: “What is a grammarian doing, in working on the grammar of a language?
Doing grammar means establishing, and explaining, the principles that lie behind
the wordings of a natural language” (n.p.). Matthiessen and Halliday’s concept of
“principles” was much different from Chomsky’s. In Chomsky’s generative tradition,
the “principles that lie behind the wordings of a natural language” would be primar-
ily syntactic in nature. In systemic-functional linguistics, principles are derived by
examining “which kinds of situational factor determine which kinds of selection in
the linguistic system” (Halliday, 1977, p. 32). Identifying important situational factors
involves an analysis of the larger register: the mode of communication, the partici-
pants, and the purpose.
REGISTER
Register is defined by the situations in which we use language, such as:
–	 the mode used to communicate (writing or speech)
–	 the purpose of the communication (e.g., to teach, to complain)
–	 the setting of the communication (e.g., at home, at work, at school)
–	 the relationship between participants (e.g., friends, strangers)
Registers can be general or specific:
Registers can be general or specific:
General Specific
Written Newspapers Editorials NY Times Editorials
Spoken Academic lectures undergraduate Biology lectures
Although individual sentences are analyzed in a systemic-functional approach, they
cannot be analyzed in isolation, as the goal of analysis is to explain how the com-
municative context impacts the wording of the sentence. The unit of analysis is not a
sentence, as it would be in a generative tradition, but a text. Each grammatical feature
observed within a text (e.g., the use of the past tense or personal pronouns) represents
a choice made by the speaker or writer, and each of these choices can be explained
by looking at the type of text in which they occurred, as each individual text (e.g., an
academic essay or an informal conversation) can be linked to a larger register or social
context. Grammar is not so much a collection of sentence-level rules, but rather is a
system that can be exploited by speakers and writers for the purpose of communica-
tion. Mastering a language means mastering the ability to use language forms for par-
ticular purposes in a variety of social contexts, in a way that is not just grammatical,
but appropriate and effective.
	 Chapter 3.  What is grammar and how can it be described?	 37
Reflection 3.1
– What registers are most relevant to your L2 students? Make a list of some specific
registers that you feel deserve attention in your classroom.
– Choose one of these registers to reflect on further. What communicative goals
or functions are associated with this register? What strategies could you use to
raise students’ awareness of the grammatical choices that individuals make when
communicating in this context?
A pedagogic framework for grammar description
Halliday’s systemic-functional approach appealed to many applied linguists working
in the area of second language acquisition and pedagogy. Just as Hymes’ theory of
communicative competence laid the groundwork for communicative language teach-
ing, Halliday’s functional approaches provided applied linguists with important tools
for describing grammar use. Halliday’s and Hymes’ theories of language competence
and language development also suggested that new approaches were needed not only
for linguistic grammars, but for pedagogical grammars as well. If the goal of second
language teaching was to develop communicative competence, then knowing all of
the possible grammatical structures of a language was not enough. Students needed
to know which forms were appropriate and typical in a given situation.
To address this need, Diane Larsen-Freeman (1989; 2003; Celce-Murcia & Larsen-
Freeman, 1999) proposed a framework for a pedagogical grammar, one that could be
used by second language teachers to develop their students’ grammatical competence.
Larsen-Freeman’s framework is made of three major components, which she calls
“The Three Dimensions”: Form, Meaning, and Use (see Figure 3.1). Larsen-Freeman
(2003, pp. 34–35) defines language Form as phonology, graphology (written sym-
bols), semiology (signs), morphology, and syntax. Meaning, or semantics, refers to
the meaning attached to a particular form when it is presented in isolation, such as a
definition of a word, or the concept of “past time” associated with the –ed ending in
English. Use, or pragmatics, refers to a speaker’s or writer’s intentions in a particular
communicative context.
According to Larsen-Freeman, L2 grammar instruction must provide information
about all three of these dimensions. Just as Halliday argued that children learn not just
isolated forms, but how forms are used to express meaning and fulfill communicative
functions, Larsen-Freeman argued that L2 students needed to learn the wide range of
meanings a form can express, within a given function and context.
Embedded within this framework is what Larsen-Freeman (2003, p. 1) calls “the
grammar of choice.” Larsen-Freeman, like Halliday, argues that a good grammar
38	 Pedagogical Grammar
description should include an explanation of why one particular form was chosen
over other forms, even when multiple forms may have the same meaning.
[L2 students] will need to understand that, as speakers or writers, they have choices
to make, and that those choices have consequences, so that they can learn to use the
language in a way that honors their intentions. Besides, students need to be able to
draw inferences about the intentions of others. To the best of our ability, therefore, we
should help students understand the linguistic options available. Thus, an understand-
ing of when or why to use a particular grammatical form should be part of teachers’
understanding of grammar. (p. 61)
To help language teachers provide more functional descriptions of grammar use,
Larsen-Freeman and Marianne Celce-Murcia developed a pedagogical grammar ref-
erence titled The Grammar Book: An ESL/EFL Teacher’s Course. Drawing on individual
studies that had been done on each feature, and, in many cases, drawing on their own
linguistic analyses, Celce-Murcia and Larsen-Freeman provided descriptions of the
form, meaning, and use of a wide range of linguistic features in English. Celce-Murcia
and Larsen-Freeman (1983, 1999, forthcoming) also put forth their recommendations
regarding grammar descriptions in L2 classrooms, which emphasized the importance
of looking at grammar in its discourse context. Grammars for L2 learners, they argued,
should include a discussion of how the features of register and the structure of the text
itself impact the grammar of individual sentences. A pedagogical grammar should not
simply be a collection of rules, but also “reasons,” or explanations for why writers and
speakers might choose one grammar structure over another (Celce-Murcia & Larsen-
Freeman, 1999; Larsen-Freeman, 2003, p. 49).
At the time the first edition of The Grammar Book was published, however, there
were few comprehensive accounts of the grammatical choices made by writers and
speakers in a wide range of communicative contexts. The linguistic research at the time
Meaning
Use
Form
Figure 3.1  Larsen-Freeman’s Three Dimensions (2003)
	 Chapter 3.  What is grammar and how can it be described?	 39
typically involved the analysis of a small number of texts of a particular type (e.g., a
narrative or a formal essay). Analysis took a great deal of time. (Imagine, for example,
trying to look at each instance of the articles a, an, and the, and then attempting to
explain why the writer of an essay chose one over the other). In many cases, observa-
tions about the use of a grammatical feature could not be generalized – was it the case
that a grammatical choice was made because of the nature of the register, or did it have
something to do with the author’s personal writing style?
To address the uneven nature of functional descriptions of grammar in use, Celce-
Murcia (1975; see also 1990, 2000, 2002) developed methods for training teachers to
do their own “contextual analysis” of spoken and written texts. Teachers could select
the grammatical features that they wanted to learn more about and could analyze their
use in texts that were relevant to their students’ needs. Contextual analysis empowered
teachers to do their own research, but this meant that teachers needed to set aside extra
time to carry out their own analyses. As Celce-Murcia explains, once a teacher decided
what she wanted to learn, she would need to analyze
at least 100 tokens of a target form or structure (complete with contextual informa-
tion and context) to begin making useful generalizations about where the target form
occurs (or does not occur), what it means, and why it is used (or not used) by a given
speaker/writer in a given piece of discourse. (Cecle-Murcia, 2002, p. 123)
In addition to time, contextual analysis also requires a great deal of training, the type
of training one might find in a TESOL or applied linguistics graduate program. And
while this type of analysis allows teachers to investigate specific questions that arise
in their classrooms, the findings, like those of the small-scale linguistic studies being
carried out at the time, cannot be used to make general claims about how a feature is
typically used by most speakers of the language.
Larsen-Freeman’s Three Dimensions and Celce-Murcia’s contextual analysis pro-
vided important frameworks and tools for L2 grammar teaching. In the early 1980s,
however, when the first edition of The Grammar Book was published, there was still
much to be done in the area of functional grammar description. What was needed, in
addition to new ways of training teachers to discuss grammar in the classroom, was a
comprehensive account of grammar use across a wide range of text types and registers,
not only for English, but other languages as well. This was no easy task. It required
the analysis of several hundred linguistic features in thousands of texts sampled from
all the major domains of daily life: home, work, school, and so on. If done by hand, it
would take decades, if not centuries. With the help of computers, however, such large-
scale analyses would take place, and, in a few short years, these studies would greatly
enrich our understanding of how grammar is used in spoken and written contexts.
40	 Pedagogical Grammar
Reflection 3.2
– What aspect of grammar – Form, Meaning, or Use – do you feel is most challenging
to learn or to teach? Why?
– What aspects of grammar have received the most attention in the language classes
you have taken? What aspects of grammar do you emphasize most in your own
teaching?
Corpus linguistics and the study of language performance
A description of grammar use in a variety of social contexts required the collection
and analysis of language performance data, something that had fallen out of favor in
the wake of Chomsky’s generative revolution. Chomsky had argued that spoken and
written language data were limited in that they could not tell us what was, or was not,
possible in a language. They only told us what someone had said or written at some
time; they did not shine any light on speakers’ and writers’ underlying competence
(Curzan & Adams, 2012; Fillmore, 1992).
The shift in linguistics away from the study of language performance towards a
study of language competence did, for a short time, lead to decreased activity in the
area of spoken and written text analysis. Two major developments, however, helped
to renew interest in collecting language performance data. The first development was
a growing call from many linguists for more socially-oriented theories of language.
This included Hymes’ theory of communicative competence and Halliday’s functional
approach to grammar description, as well as the study of language variation across
social factors pioneered by William Labov. The research methodologies developed by
these linguists all required the collection and analysis of language performance data.
Second, advances in computer technology had suddenly made it possible not only to
store spoken and written texts electronically, but also to perform some analyses (e.g.,
word counting and retrieval) automatically. This latter development was of particular
interest to lexicographers, who previously had to rely on volumes of handwritten notes
and text excerpts when selecting words and definitions to include in published diction-
aries. But computer technology also showed great promise in the area of functional
grammar description, as it was now possible to collect texts from a variety of registers
and to use automatic methods of text analysis to compare their linguistic features.
It was during this time period that the field of corpus linguistics emerged. The
word “corpus” had been used in linguistics for many years, and simply referred to a
collection of texts. In the 1960s, however, corpus linguistics came to be associated with
the process of storing and analyzing texts electronically, for the purpose of representing
specific domains of language use. The first electronic corpus developed during this time
	 Chapter 3.  What is grammar and how can it be described?	 41
was the Brown Corpus, which was compiled by Nelson Francis and Henry Kucera at
Brown University. As Kennedy (1998, pp. 23–27) explains in his book, An Introduction
to Corpus Linguistics, the corpus was organized to represent a variety of written reg-
isters, and the texts included in the corpus were sampled from texts published in the
United States sometime during the year of 1961. Two major text type categories were
created – Informative Prose and Imaginative Prose – and within these categories, fur-
ther distinctions were made. Text types within Informative prose included newspaper
reporting (which was further divided into topic-related categories like politics and
sports); newspaper editorials; biographies and memoirs; and “learned” publications
(sampled from a variety of academic disciplines: natural sciences, medicine, mathemat-
ics, political science, humanities, and so on). In this way, from the very beginning,
electronic corpus design was principled in nature, in that texts were sampled from pre-
determined register categories, and efforts were made to balance different text types.	
A corpus was designed so that it was representative of a particular domain of use.
This domain could be defined in very general terms, such as “Informative Prose,” but
could also be broken down into smaller categories. Such an approach made it possible
to both describe general patterns of grammar use and compare how specific registers
(e.g., news writing and academic writing) differed in their grammatical choices.
ELECTRONIC CORPORA
The following websites provide comprehensive lists of corpora, many of which can be accessed
for free online.
BYU Corpora
<http://corpus.byu.edu/>
Links to many searchable online corpora, including the Corpus of Contemporary American
English, Corpus del Espanõl, and Corpus do Portugues.
Corpora4Learning
<http://www.corpora4learning.net/resources/corpora.html>
Links to corpora of several varieties of English, including Indian English, Philippine English,
and Singapore English.
Learner Corpora Around the World
<http://www.uclouvain.be/en-cecl-lcworld.html>
Links to collections of L2 learners’spoken and written texts in several target languages.
Non-English Corpora
<http://www.uow.edu.au/~dlee/corpora2.htm>
Links to corpora in several languages, including parallel corpora (i.e., text collections in one
language and their corresponding translations in another language).
42	 Pedagogical Grammar
Several corpus development projects followed, and by the 1990s there were numerous
collections available, which together represented a wide range of dialects and registers
in English and other languages (see Hunston, 2002; Kennedy, 1998; and McEnery &
Hardie, 2011, for comprehensive reviews). The existence of these electronic collections,
together with continued advances in computer technology, made it possible to analyze
language use in ways that had never been done before. Three major methodological
developments in particular would have a major impact on grammar description, in-
cluding the development of pedagogic grammars for second language learners:
1.	 Electronic corpora could be automatically analyzed to generate counts for indi-
vidual words, phrases, or grammatical structures. This made it possible for linguists
to provide more comprehensive descriptions of what was typical or frequent in a
particular communicative situation.
2.	 Electronic corpora could be searched, which allowed linguists to view hundreds
of occurrences of a keyword in the context of a sentence, paragraph, or entire text.
Lines of text could also be automatically sorted to reveal common phrases and
syntactic patterns.
3.	 The distribution of linguistic features within a register could be compared with
that of other registers, which opened the door for large-scale investigations of how
situational factors, such as the mode and purpose of communication, impact the
choices we make as writers and speakers of a language.
Reflection 3.3
– As an L2 learner or teacher, have you had any opportunities to consult corpora or
corpus-based research? If so, what linguistic features did you investigate? What did
you learn?
– What types of resources do you regularly use to investigate questions about language
use (e.g., online dictionaries, Google)? What resources have been most helpful and
why?
Frequency-based descriptions of grammar use
Though it is not possible for computer programs to judge the acceptability or appro-
priateness of a particular grammatical construction, computers do have the amazing
ability to count how many times a particular word or structure occurs in a corpus,
even when a corpus is made up of over 500 million words. The computer program
will not get tired and it will not make a mistake and it can generate results in a matter
of seconds (Biber, Conrad, & Reppen, 1998). This simple technological advancement
was in many ways another revolution in language studies. Patterns of use – what is
	 Chapter 3.  What is grammar and how can it be described?	 43
typically done by writers and speakers in particular contexts – could be described
on a large scale. In contrast to earlier text analysis studies, which focused on a small
number of texts within a single register, corpus-based studies could analyze thousands
of texts sampled from a wide range of registers. It was also possible to describe a much
wider range of linguistic features, as many large corpora developed after the 1970s were
grammatically tagged.
GRAMMATICAL TAGGING
When a text is grammatically tagged by a computer program, each word in the text is an-
notated to indicate its part of speech and other grammatical properties, as shown in the fol-
lowing example, which uses the CLAWS tagger: < http://ucrel.lancs.ac.uk/claws/trial.html >:
This_DT0 sentence_NN1 has_VHZ been_VBN grammatically_AV0 tagged_
VVN._PUN
These tags correspond to the following grammatical categories:
DT0: general determiner
NN1: singular noun
VHZ: -s form of the verb “have”
VBN: past participle of the verb “be”
AV0: adverb
VVN: past participle of a lexical verb
PUN: punctuation
In the generative traditions that dominated linguistics research in the 1960s and
70s, descriptions of the rules of morphology and syntax were based largely on native
speaker intuitions, through the use of grammaticality judgment tasks. In the 1980s
and 90s, however, corpus-based researchers began to highlight the limitations of na-
tive speaker intuition, particularly when it came to judgments about what was typical,
or most frequent, in a language. For example, if you were to ask a native speaker of
English to name the 10 most frequently used verbs in the English language, and the
typical meanings each verb expressed, he or she would likely hesitate – how many of
us really stop to think about questions like that? And even if we were to try to name
some of these verbs, we would likely suggest some verbs and meanings that are not
very frequent at all, and would fail to name other verbs and meanings that are much
more frequent than the ones we had thought of.
For many corpus linguists, this inability of humans to describe the nature of their
language in quantitative terms underscored the importance of corpus-based research.
How could a group of humans, linguists or not, accurately describe the grammar of
a language based solely on their intuitions? This realization motivated many corpus
linguists to expand corpus research to include not just the description of word fre-
quency, but also the description of grammatical frequency. For example, analysis of
44	 Pedagogical Grammar
grammatically tagged texts could generate lists of the most frequent nouns and verbs
in a corpus, which adjectives were typically paired with which nouns, and what types
of clauses typically followed different types of verbs.
One of the first comprehensive, corpus-based grammars of a language, the Collins
COBUILD English Grammar, was developed by John Sinclair and colleagues (see
Francis, 1993; Francis & Sinclair, 1994; Hunston & Francis, 1998). This project aimed
to develop a grammar of English for language learners, one which was different from
traditional grammars in a number of ways. As Francis (1993) explains: (1) the Collins
COBUILD grammar uses only real examples from corpora to illustrate grammatical
patterns, (2) descriptions of grammar use are based on analysis of corpus data, rather
than intuition, and (3) grammar is not described as separate from lexis; lexico-gram-
mar, or the tendency of particular words and grammatical structures to occur together
in spoken and written texts, is the primary focus.
Building on this work, Biber, Johansson, Leech, Conrad, and Finegan (1999) com-
piled the Longman Grammar of Spoken and Written English (LGSWE). The LGSWE
added another important component to corpus-based grammar description: the analy-
sis of variation across registers. The corpus upon which the LGSWE’s findings are based
was designed to represent four major domains of language use: face-to-face conversa-
tion, fiction, news, and academic prose. As with the Brown corpus, further distinctions
within these core registers were made (e.g., academic prose included journal articles
and textbook samples from a variety of disciplines). The LGSWE corpus also included
two dialects of English: British and American. Texts in the corpus were grammatically
tagged so that the frequency with which particular grammatical features are used in
English could be compared across registers and dialects.
The approach to grammar description taken in the LGSWE is very much a func-
tional one. The LGSWE does not provide frequency counts simply for the sake of
counting, but rather aims to provide functional explanations for why some linguistic
features are more or less frequently used in particular contexts. As they make clear
in the first lines of their introduction, Biber et al. (1999), like Hymes, Halliday, and
Larsen-Freeman, are most interested in describing the grammar of choice:
Every time that we write or speak, we are faced with a myriad of choices: not only
choices in what we say but in how we say it. The vocabulary and grammar that we use
to communicate are influenced by a number of factors, such as the reason for the com-
munication, the context, the people with whom we are communicating, and whether
we are speaking or writing. Taken together, these choices give rise to systematic pat-
terns of use. (p. 4)
Biber et al. provided functional accounts of grammar use on a scale that had never been
done before. Their corpus-based methodology helped to establish empirical means for
describing the “myriad of choices” that language users make every day. These choices
	 Chapter 3.  What is grammar and how can it be described?	 45
could be quantified with the aid of computer programs, allowing linguists to describe
“what speakers and writers typically do [versus] what they rarely do” (p. 6). In the
LGSWE, frequency counts for over 30 major grammatical features within the four
core registers are provided.
The findings of Biber and his colleagues had immediate relevance for pedagogic
grammar description. L2 textbook writers are faced with a number of decisions that
(ideally) require some knowledge of frequency: What vocabulary words and gram-
matical forms are students most likely to encounter outside of the classroom? How
are these forms typically used in spoken and written contexts? And yet, as Biber and
Reppen (2002) note, textbook writers traditionally have not had access to this type of
information. “These decisions have usually been based on the author’s gut-level im-
pressions and anecdotal evidence of how speakers and writers use language” (p. 200).
In other words, the authors of grammar resources for L2 students often rely on their
intuitions when describing grammar use. Biber and Reppen admit that “in some cases,
our intuitions as authors have turned out to be correct.” However, in light of the find-
ings of the LGSWE and other corpus-based studies, Biber and Reppen argue that “in
many other cases, we have been wrong” (p. 207).
To illustrate the usefulness of corpus-based findings for pedagogic grammar descrip-
tion, Biber and Reppen (2002) compared the findings of the LGSWE with ESL textbook
treatments of grammatical features. They found that high-frequency linguistic features
were often not included in the L2 grammar textbooks. Take, for example, the question
posed earlier about the 10 most frequently used verbs in English. Ideally, these verbs
would appear frequently in ESL textbooks because L2 students are likely to encounter
these words when communicating with native speakers of English. Biber and Reppen’s
analysis of L2 grammar textbooks found, however, that low-frequency verbs were often
chosen instead of high-frequency ones. Verbs commonly used in ESL textbooks included
“wear, cry, revolve, arrive, touch, travel, read, rain, shine, write, ring, drive, enjoy, study,
build, rise, smoke, close, speak, grow, kiss, stay, own, taste, cause, and boil” (p. 206). These
verbs, however, are not among the most frequently used verbs in English. According to
the LGSWE, the 12 most common lexical verbs (excluding be, have, and do) are: say,
get, go, know, think, see, make, come, take, want, give, and mean (Biber & Reppen, 2002,
p. 205). Of these 12, only 5 appeared in the textbooks’ example sentences. Biber and
Reppen suspect that such omissions are quite common, as native speakers are more
likely to notice what is infrequent and unusual, rather than what is most commonly
done. Several other researchers have noted similar discrepancies between the grammar
described in L2 textbooks and the findings of corpus-based research (e.g., Conrad, 2004;
Jones, 2000; Meunier & Gouverneur, 2009; Mindt, 1997; Römer, 2005).
For corpus linguists, frequency is important for a number of reasons: (1) the ability
to judge what is typically (or most frequently) done in a particular domain of use is a
46	 Pedagogical Grammar
key component of communicative competence, (2) descriptions of grammar should
reflect how grammar is actually used in the real world; example sentences and dia-
logues in L2 textbooks which do not resemble actual language use provide students
with inaccurate information and inauthentic input, and (3) high-frequency items make
up a large proportion of the language that L2 learners are exposed to; if L2 students are
not exposed to these high-frequency items, they will have difficulty comprehending
both spoken and written language.
As Biber and his colleagues (Biber et al., 1999; Biber & Reppen, 2002; Biber &
Conrad, 2001; Conrad, 1998) have argued, however, the goal of corpus-based research
is not simply to provide counts of linguistic features. Rather, corpus linguists aim to
provide a comprehensive description of how these features are used in real-world
contexts. It is not enough, for example, to know that the verb get is the most fre-
quently used verb in LGSWE’s collection of face-to-face conversation. What is equally
important is how the verb get is used in combination with other words to express a
variety of meanings, and for what purpose this verb is used (or sometimes avoided)
in spoken and written contexts. In corpus linguistics, then, frequency counts are
almost always accompanied by contextual analysis and interpretation. This requires
that corpus linguists go back to the texts in the corpus to investigate when, why, and
how writers and speakers use or avoid particular linguistic features. This analysis takes
into account both the immediate discourse context (e.g., Does this feature allow the
speaker to politely take a turn in conversation? Does this feature help the writer to
smoothly transition from one topic to the next?) and the larger situational context,
or register (e.g., What are the goals, values, and expectations of the larger discourse
community?). Such functional interpretations allow linguists to build a more com-
prehensive picture of the many choices that users of a language make each day as they
work to achieve their communicative goals.
Reflection 3.4
– What discrepancies have you and your students noticed between your language
textbooks and actual language use in the real world? How have you addressed these
differences?
– To what extent do you consider frequency when selecting words and grammatical
structures to cover in your classes? What resources do you use to learn about
frequency and how does this knowledge help to inform your lesson design?
	 Chapter 3.  What is grammar and how can it be described?	 47
A corpus-informed revolution in L2 grammar teaching?
In the title of a TESOL Quarterly article published in the year 2000, Susan Conrad
posed a provocative question: “Will corpus linguistics revolutionize grammar teaching
in the 21st century?” (Conrad, 2000, p. 548). Citing recent developments in corpus-
based approaches to the study of grammar, Conrad predicted that corpus linguistics
would have a major impact on how grammar is taught in L2 classrooms:
1.	 Monolithic descriptions of English grammar will be replaced by register-specific
descriptions.
2.	 The teaching of grammar will become more integrated with the teaching of
vocabulary.
3.	 Emphasis will shift from structural accuracy to the appropriate conditions of use
for alternative grammatical constructions. (Conrad, 2000, p. 549)
Conrad’s predictions for L2 grammar teaching emphasize the grammar of choice.
Considering what we now know about grammar use, there can be no one-grammar-
fits-all approach to language description: “Grammatical study needs to take place
within the context of a register or by comparing registers” (p. 552). Conrad illustrates
this point with the example of linking adverbials, or transition words such as however,
therefore, and furthermore, which are commonly taught in ESL grammar and writing
classes. Noting that different registers (e.g., conversation, news, academic prose) exhibit
different patterns of use, Conrad argues that general lists of linking adverbials and rules
for how to use them do little to prepare students for actual use in real-world contexts.
Even discourse-level activities which involve the use of authentic texts can fall short
if register variation is not taken into account: “For instance, having students write a
newspaper or analyze newspaper articles does not necessarily provide practice in the
appropriate use of linking adverbials in academic writing” (p. 552).
Conrad also predicted that future L2 instruction would make a greater effort to
integrate grammar teaching with vocabulary teaching, as a large body of corpus-based
research has demonstrated that particular grammatical features tend to co-occur with
particular lexical items. Take, for example, the high-frequency verb get, highlighted
previously in this chapter. It is useful to know that get is frequently used in conversa-
tion but often avoided in academic prose. It is even more useful, however, to know that
the verb get occurs with particular vocabulary words in particular syntactic patterns.
For example, when get is used in a copular (linking verb) pattern, it is often followed
by negative adjectives (e.g., get angry, get mad, get upset, get worse) (Biber et al., 1999).
Making appropriate linguistic choices involves not only an awareness of register, but
also an awareness of how grammar and vocabulary work together to create meaning.
(A point we return to in Chapter 4.)
48	 Pedagogical Grammar
Finally, Conrad predicted that grammar instruction would emphasize not only ac-
curacy, but also appropriateness. Grammar instruction should aim not only to describe
every grammatical feature available to a user of a language, but also how proficient
speakers and writers make decisions about which grammatical features to use when.
In many ways, Conrad’s predictions for L2 grammar teaching in the 20th century
echo Larsen-Freeman’s recommendations from 15 years earlier: Teaching Form is im-
portant, of course, but Form alone is not enough to build language competence. L2
students also need an understanding of Meaning and Use. By the year 2000, corpus
linguistics was a well-established field of study, with academic journals and annual
conferences devoted to the study of language in use. Surely, this new wealth of infor-
mation regarding frequency, collocation, and register variation would have a profound
impact on grammar description and L2 grammar teaching.
But has it? While Conrad (2000) had argued that corpus linguistics had the po-
tential to revolutionize grammar instruction, there was no guarantee it would. The
impact of corpus linguistics on L2 pedagogy was dependent on a number of factors.
Will L2 teachers have access to corpus-based findings? Will they find corpus-based
research to be useful and relevant for their own teaching context? Will publishers in-
corporate corpus-based findings into their L2 grammar textbooks? Cortes, in a 2013
plenary talk delivered at the American Association for Corpus Linguistics, suggested
that she, as well as many other corpus linguists, are still “waiting for the revolution.”
Similarly, in a comprehensive review of corpus linguistics and language teaching,
Römer (2011) writes:
I would… be hesitant to say that corpora and corpus tools have been fully implemented
in pedagogical contexts and would argue that much work still remains to be done
in bridging the gap between research and practice. The practice of English language
teaching… seems to be only marginally affected by the advances of corpus research,
and comparatively few teachers and learners know about the availability of useful
resources…. In addition, current language-teaching materials still differ considerably
from actual language use as captured in corpora. (p. 206)
Thus, at the present time, we can, at best, say that yes, some L2 teachers and some L2
textbooks have made use of corpus-based research. But many have not. There are
a number of reasons for this. First, accessing corpus-based research requires some
exposure to and training in corpus linguistics, through some amount of coursework,
typically at the graduate level (McCarthy, 2008; O’Keefe & Farr, 2003). A number of
teacher-training programs now offer courses in corpus linguistics, and several scholars
(Aston, 2001; Bennett, 2010; Hunston, 2002; Flowerdew, 2012; O’Keeffe, McCarthy, &
Carter, 2007; Reppen, 2010; Sinclair, 2004) have published books that provide an over-
view of corpus linguistics and its relevance to language teaching, which suggests that
over the next few decades, we will likely see a substantial increase in the numbers of L2
	 Chapter 3.  What is grammar and how can it be described?	 49
teachers who consult corpus-based research as part of their regular teaching practice.
In the case of L2 textbooks, the limited impact of corpus linguistics on textbook design
is likely due to the textbook industry’s strong resistance to change. Several popular
L2 grammar textbooks make no use of corpus-based research; nevertheless, they are
best-sellers. Significantly altering the content and organization of a top-selling textbook
runs the risk of hurting future sales. Change in the grammar textbook industry is likely
to be very slow in coming. (See Chapter 5 for some notable exceptions.)
What this means for L2 grammar teachers is that much of the responsibility falls
on them. As Conrad (2000) notes:
The strongest force for change could be a new generation of [L2] teachers who were
introduced to corpus-based research in their training programs, who appreciate the
scope of the work, and who have practiced conducting their own corpus investigations
and designing materials based on corpus research. (p. 556)
Undoubtedly, as Cortes (2013) points out, corpus linguists must also play a role, as the
speed of the “revolution” depends, in large part, on the ability of corpus linguists to
make their research both relevant and accessible to L2 teachers and learners. With this
in mind, we have included a great deal of discussion of corpus linguistics in this book.
In Chapter 4, we focus on the contributions that corpus linguistics has made to our
understanding of collocation, phraseology, and formulaic language, and in Chapters 5
and 6, we provide detailed descriptions of how L2 teachers can consult corpus-based
resources when designing L2 grammar lessons and materials.
	 Summary
–	 In the fields of applied linguistics and second language teaching, the study of grammar
includes not only a description of morphology and syntax, but also a description of regis-
ter, or the situation of use. In Halliday’s systemic-functional linguistics, register is defined
by a number of contextual factors (e.g., the setting, mode, and purpose for communica-
tion), and these factors impact the grammatical choices made by speakers and writers of
a language.
–	 Drawing on the work of Halliday, Larsen-Freeman proposed a framework for pedagogic
grammar description which emphasizesThree Dimensions: Form (grammatical morphemes
and syntactic patterns), Meaning (the semantic information carried by words, morphemes,
and phrases), and Use (information regarding when and why a particular form is used in a
given situation). Larsen-Freeman (2003) argues that L2 grammar instruction should aim to
address all three Dimensions, so that L2 students have the information they need to use
grammar both accurately and appropriately in a variety of real-world contexts.
50	 Pedagogical Grammar
–	 L2 teachers can build their own knowledge of Form, Meaning, and Use by consulting linguis-
tic resources and carrying out their own contextual analysis of texts that are relevant to their
students’ lives. Corpus linguistics research has provided some of the most comprehensive
descriptions of Form, Meaning, and Use to date, including information about the frequency
of particular grammatical forms, the meanings expressed by particular syntactic patterns,
and variation in grammar use across registers.
–	 As Biber and many others have argued, corpus-based findings often challenge native speak-
er intuitions and reveal the limitations of existing L2 teaching materials.
–	 The extent to which corpus linguistics will revolutionize grammar teaching remains to be
seen.The continued development of corpus linguistics training programs and resources for
L2 teachers will likely play an important role in determining the future course of L2 grammar
pedagogy.
	 Suggestions for further reading
Burns, A. & Knox, J. (2005). Realisation(s): Systemic functional linguistics and the language class-
room. In N. Bartels (Ed.), Applied Linguistics and Language Teacher Education (pp. 235–260).
­Dordrecht: Springer.
Conrad, S. (2004). Corpus linguistics, language variation, and language teaching. In Sinclair, J.
(Ed.), How to Use Corpora in Language Teaching (pp. 67–88). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Larsen-Freeman, D. (2003). From Grammar to Grammaring. Boston, MA: Heinle & Heinle.
McEnery, T., & Hardie, A. (2011). Corpus Linguistics: Method, Theory, and Practice. Cambridge:
­
Cambridge University Press.
Yule, G. (2006). Explaining English Grammar. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Chapter 4
The lexis-grammar interface
Phraseology, collocation, and formulaic sequences
Though corpus-based grammars did not begin to appear until the early 1980s, work
on corpus-based dictionaries began almost immediately after the Brown Corpus was
compiled. While it might seem that this work is within the realm of vocabulary, rather
than grammar, most corpus linguists would argue that lexis and grammar are insepa-
rable; that meaning is not contained within an individual word, but rather is expressed
through word combinations. Consider, for example, another high frequency verb in
the English language: make. If you were to ask a native speaker of English to define
this verb, you might get an answer like “to create something.” If we look at how make
is used in sentences, however, it soon becomes clear that the word itself does not carry
a great deal of meaning. Instead, its meaning is determined by the phrases and clauses
it is a part of. Something can make sense, you can make sure something gets done, you
can make someone mad, and you can make it home on time. In each of these examples,
the word make is used to express very different meanings, and it is not possible to at-
tribute these meanings to the individual word itself. Meaning is expressed at the phrase
or clause level.
As early as the 1960s, John Sinclair began to study meaning expressed at the level
of the phrase, or what is called phraseology. Sinclair was a student of M. A. K. Halliday,
and, like Halliday, was interested in the grammatical choices available to speakers
and writers of a language. For Sinclair, the choices available were not just individual
words and grammatical structures, but chunks of language that expressed particular
meanings. Sinclair refers to this phenomenon as the idiom principle, and he posits that
“a language user has available to him or her a large number of semi-preconstructed
phrases that constitute single choices” (Sinclair, 1991, p. 110). Though a phrase like
make sure can be broken down into grammatical components (noun + adj), Sinclair
would argue that it is not the case that speakers of English choose the noun and then
decide what adjective they’d like to say next. They choose the entire phrase, and in their
minds, this phrase represents one lexical item with one particular meaning.
Even when computer technology was in its infancy, Sinclair believed that com-
puter programs could be used to analyze large collections of texts to identify the most
frequently occurring phraseological patterns. In the 1980s, when analysis of large
electronic corpora became possible, Sinclair began to study phraseology in more
52	 Pedagogical Grammar
detail, through keyword searches and concordance line analysis. In concordance line
analysis, a computer program locates each occurrence of a keyword and displays these
occurrences as lines of text. The keyword is highlighted in the middle of each line,
and lines can be sorted to reveal phraseological patterns. Concordance line analysis
can be used to investigate the multiple meanings associated with a word (e.g., all
of the meanings expressed by make), to distinguish seemingly synonymous words
(e.g., phraseologies used with the verb make versus phraseologies used with the word
­
create), and to describe what Sinclair calls semantic prosody, or the positive or nega-
tive connotation typically associated with a word or phrase. Figures 4.1 and 4.2 show
sample concordance lines, which were generated by doing a KWIC search of the
Corpus of Contemporary American English.
Sinclair also developed a method for describing collocation, or the tendency for
particular words to co-occur with other words. These word associations also help to
demonstrate meaning at the phrase, rather than individual word level, as collocations
tend to express meanings and connotations that are different from the meanings and
connotations of the individual words in isolation.
According to Sinclair, analysis of a word in context, through the use of concordance
lines, was crucial to the description of word meaning. Prior to the 1980s, however,
learner dictionary development rarely involved the consultation of corpus data.
The message of a conventional dictionary is that most of the words in daily use have
several meanings, and any occurrence of the word could signal any one of the mean-
ings. If this were actually the case communication would be virtually impossible…
Every distinct sense of a word is associated with a distinction in form.
 (Sinclair, 1987, p. 89)
EXPLORING THE LEXIS-GRAMMAR INTERFACE
Frequency: the number of times a word (or phrase) appears in a corpus
Phraseology: the tendency of words to occur in particular grammatical patterns
	 make + pronoun + adjective
	make	him	 angry
Collocation: the tendency of words to occur together
	 Make +	angry, mad, upset
Concordancer: software that allows you to search a corpus for a particular word or phrase
–	 Keyword: the item that is searched for
–	 Concordance line: a single line of text that contains a keyword
–	
KeyWordinContext(KWIC):Concordancelinesorganizedsothatthekeywordishighlighted
(typically centered and in bold).
	 Chapter 4.  The lexis-grammar interface	 53
Figure 4.1  Sample concordance lines for the keyword make
Figure 4.2 Sample concordance lines for the keyword create
54	 Pedagogical Grammar
To address the limitations that he saw in dictionaries for English language learn-
ers, Sinclair founded the COBUILD language resource series. Word definitions in
COBUILD were crafted based on careful analysis of corpus data. Each entry for a word
included not only a definition, but also a description of phraseology and collocation.
Examples of the word in use were not written by a lexicographer, but came directly
from the COBUILD corpus. In a few short years, Sinclair’s approach would be adopted
by several prominent dictionary makers, and today, the vast majority of L2 learner
dictionaries make use of corpus data. As Hunston (2002) explains, “Corpora have so
revolutionized the writing of dictionaries… that it is by now virtually unheard of for
a large publishing company to produce a learner’s dictionary… that does not claim to
be based on a corpus” (p. 96).
Attention to phraseological patterns in dictionary development is one example
of the inseparability of lexis and grammar; attention to vocabulary in grammar re-
source development is another. Both the Collins COBUILD English Grammar and the
Longman Grammar of Spoken and Written English aim to describe not just traditional
grammatical structures like verb tenses and clause types, but also the tendency of par-
ticular lexical items to co-occur with these structures. In its introduction, the LGSWE
devotes several paragraphs to the importance of describing lexico-grammar.
Syntax and lexicon are often treated as independent components of English. Analysis
of real texts shows, however, that most syntactic structures tend to have an associated
set of words or phrases that are frequently used with them…. These patterns are not
merely arbitrary associations; rather, particular grammatical structures often occur
with restricted lexical classes because both the structures and the lexical classes serve
the same underlying communicative tasks or functions. (Biber et al., 1999, p. 13)
To illustrate the inseparability of lexis and grammar, Biber et al. compare the types of
dependent clauses that most frequently occur with particular verbs in English. While
mental verbs like think, know, and believe are followed by that-complement clauses
(e.g., I think that you should call him); verbs of desire, such as want and like, occur
with to-clauses (I want to call him soon). As Biber et al. argue, these patterns are often
related to the underlying communicative functions that each construction fulfills. For
example, as Yule (2006) points out in his book Explaining English Grammar, we use
mental verbs to indicate what we think or believe. The clauses that follow these verbs
have a noun-like quality; they are facts and opinions. That-complement clauses allow
us to express these statements in sentence form. On the other hand, verbs of desire
are used to express what we want or like to do; they indicate action, and the speaker
or writer is the agent who carries out that action. To-clauses, by omitting the subject,
put the action in central focus: I want to call, to eat, to run, and so on. Though it is
grammatically possible, we would not typically say, for example, I want that I will call
him soon. We have preferences regarding which words and grammatical structures
	 Chapter 4.  The lexis-grammar interface	 55
go together in a given communicative situation. A descriptive grammar that does not
account for these preferences is, in the eyes of most corpus linguists, an incomplete
account of grammar in use.
Reflection 4.1
– Examine the concordance lines for the verbs make and create in Figures 4.1 and 4.2.
Do these verbs share any collocates? What collocates occur with the verb make but
do not occur with create? Are there any nouns we use with the verb create that we
would not typically use with the verb make?
– A common phraseology for the verb create is create + noun phrase. The verb
make, on the other hand, occurs in many different phraseologies. How many
phraseologies can you identify in the concordance line sample? How does this
difference in phraseology help us to understand the use of these two seemingly
synonymous words?
– In what ways might information about phraseology and collocation be integrated
into the teaching of L2 grammar?
Formulaic language and grammar description
The strong tendency of individual words to occur frequently in particular grammati-
cal patterns suggests that meaning is expressed not one word at a time, but through
word combinations. When communicating with others, language users must not only
select the right word, but also the syntactic patterns and collocations that are most
closely associated with the meaning they wish to express. On the surface, this seems
like a daunting task, a task that involves a great deal of lexical and syntactic analysis.
Recent research suggests, however, that in most cases, language users are able to very
quickly retrieve the most appropriate phraseologies for a given situation. This is pos-
sible because language users have, over time, built up a large repertoire of multiword
expressions. These stored language chunks, often referred to as formulaic sequences,
make efficient, effective, and fluent communication possible. Wray and Perkins (2000)
offer the following definition of a formulaic sequence:
A sequence… of words or other meaning elements, which is, or appears to be, pre-
fabricated: that is, stored and retrieved whole from memory at the time of use, rather
than being subject to generation or analysis by the language grammar. (p. 1)
Formulaic sequences include, but are not limited to, idioms like kick the bucket or it’s
raining cats and dogs. Many non-idiomatic word strings are also used frequently by
speakers and writers to fulfill important communicative functions; for example, we
rely heavily on language chunks to express politeness (e.g., I’m sorry but, I wonder if I
56	 Pedagogical Grammar
could, would you mind if) and to organize discourse (e.g., the next point I want to make
is, another thing to consider is). Sinclair (1991) argued that frequent collocations (e.g.,
make sure, make sense) and syntactic frames (e.g., make + pronoun +action verb +
noun) are also types of formulaic language, as these phraseologies are not typically
analyzed piece by piece by language users, but rather are retrieved from memory in
the form of language chunks. Wray and Perkins (2000) estimate that, if all of these
types of formulaic language are taken into account, “as much as 70% of our adult na-
tive language may be formulaic” (p. 2).
The prevalence of formulaic language in speech and writing raises new questions
about the role that grammar instruction plays in the L2 classroom. If most of the lan-
guage used by native speakers is formulaic, then shouldn’t second language instruction
focus primarily on teaching formulaic sequences? Though few scholars have argued
that the teaching of formulaic sequences replace the teaching of grammar, many have
called for a greater emphasis on formulaic language in the L2 classroom (Biber, Conrad,
& Cortes, 2004; Ellis, Simpson-Vlach, & Maynard, 2008; Nattinger & DeCarrico, 1992;
Lewis, 1993). Formulaic sequences play an important role in the language acquisition
process, as they allow native speakers to both adhere to the norms and expectations
of social interaction and to make efficient use of their cognitive resources (N. Ellis,
2002; Martinez & Schmitt, 2012; Wray & Perkins, 2000). Because so many social situ-
ations repeat themselves throughout our lives (think, for example, how many times
you’ve approached a counter to order a drink), it is inevitable that certain chunks of
language will be used repeatedly over the course of many years. This repetition allows
us to retrieve a formulaic sequence automatically when presented with the particular
social situation it is associated with.
A great challenge facing L2 learners, however, is that there may be limited op-
portunity to encounter formulaic language in meaningful contexts (N. Ellis, 2002;
Wray & Perkins, 2000). As a result, L2 learners may produce language chunks that are
different from the formulaic sequences typically used by native speakers in a given
situation. Formulaic sequences also play an important role in the development of L2
fluency. Speakers who use formulaic language are able to communicate at a faster rate
than those who do not. Similarly, written prose that contains formulaic language is
processed much more quickly by readers than prose without these sequences (Martinez
& Schmitt, 2012). When it comes to our personal, professional, and academic needs,
Wray and Perkins (2000) argue that formulaic language is something that we “cannot
exist without” (p. 12).
It is also true, however, that communication cannot be carried out entirely through
the use of formulaic sequences. As Wray (1998) points out, language which relies only
on formulae “would be limited in repertoire, clichéd… lacking in imagination and
novelty” (p. 64). Wray and Perkins (2000) argue that skilled language users make use
	 Chapter 4.  The lexis-grammar interface	 57
of both “creative” and “holistic” processes. Creative processes involve the analysis and
generation of novel sentences and rely on the language user’s underlying knowledge of
grammar rules. Holistic processes, on the other hand, involve the automatic retrieval
of language chunks and rely on formulaic sequences that have been stored in memory.
Our view is that the best deal in communicative language processing is achieved by the
establishment of a suitable balance between creative and holistic processes. The advan-
tage of the creative system is the freedom to produce or decode the unexpected. The
advantage of the holistic system is economy of effort when dealing with the expected.
 (p. 11)
In response to calls for more emphasis on formulaic language in L2 pedagogy, many
linguists have aimed to describe the ways in which skilled speakers and writers move
in and out of these creative and holistic processes as they work to communicate mean-
ing. Sinclair’s early work on phraseology and collocation laid an important foundation
for the integration of formulaic language into descriptions of lexis and grammar. Over
the past few years, several additional researchers have aimed to describe formulaic
language, resulting in the identification of a number of formulaic sequence types. In
the following section we focus on four formulaic sequence types that have been studied
from an L2 pedagogical perspective: lexical bundles, idioms, phrasal expressions, and
multiword verbs.
Reflection 4.2
– As an L2 learner, did you make a conscious effort to learn idioms and other
formulaic expressions? What challenges did you face? What resources and
strategies did you find helpful?
– As an L2 teacher, do you integrate lessons on formulaic language into your
grammar instruction? If so, how do you do this? What resources do you consult
when deciding which formulaic expressions to cover?
Identifying and describing formulaic sequences
Because formulaic language is so prevalent in everyday communication, it is nearly im-
possible for both teachers and textbook writers to identify all the formulaic sequences
that L2 learners need to know in order to communicate fluently and effectively. With
the help of computers, however, it is possible to identify those multiword phrases that
occur most frequently in a given corpus. One approach to identifying formulaic se-
quences, then, is to simply generate lists of highly frequent multiword combinations.
This approach is taken by Biber and colleagues (Biber et al., 1999; Biber, Conrad, &
Cortes, 2004; Cortes, 2004; Csomay, 2004; Csomay & Cortes, 2009), who have compiled
58	 Pedagogical Grammar
several lists of what they call lexical bundles. Lexical bundles are multiword strings (e.g.,
a three-word sequence, a four-word sequence) which meet frequency criteria set by the
researcher. For example, Biber et al. (1999) count three- and four-word expressions as
lexical bundles only if they occur at least ten times per million words and within at least
5 different texts in one or more registers of the Longman corpus. Because frequency is
the only criteria for identifying lexical bundles, these multiword sequences are typically
not idiomatic, and they often include incomplete phrases or clauses.
LEXICAL BUNDLES
–	 Occur with high frequency in a corpus
–	 Typically do not represent a complete structural unit
	–	 In conversation, the last two words in the bundle often begin a new clause:
		 I want to know	 well that’s what I
	–	 In academic writing, the last words often begin a new phrase:
		 in the case of	 the base of the
–	 Fulfill important communicative functions, for example:
	–	
Stance expressions: I don’t know if, I think that I, I don’t want to, I’m not going to,
oh I don’t know why
	–	
Discourse organizers: if you look at, going to talk about, let’s have a look,
do you know what
	–	
Referential expressions: that’s one of the, and this is a, one of the most,
in the United States (Biber, Conrad, & Cortes, 2004, p. 377 and pp. 384–388)
While the incomplete nature of lexical bundles make them seem like a somewhat un-
natural focus for instruction, Cortes (2004) argues that because these expressions play
important roles in both spoken and written discourse, they deserve the attention of
L2 teachers and learners. For example, Biber, Conrad, and Cortes (2004), in a study of
lexical bundle use in English-speaking, university contexts, were able to classify lexical
bundles into three major communicative functions: stance expressions, which allow a
speaker or writer to express attitudes and desires; discourse organizers, which allow
speakers and writers to indicate the topic or focus of communication; and referential
expressions, which allow speakers and writers to direct others’ attention toward a
specific place, object or idea. Biber, Conrad, and Cortes also found that lexical bundle
use varied across academic registers. For example, the majority of the bundles that
appear on their frequency list for classroom teaching do not appear on their list for
university textbooks. It was also the case that classroom teaching contained the great-
est variety of bundle types. While (non-academic) conversation is primarily made up
of stance bundles and academic prose is primarily made up of referential bundles,
classroom teaching contains roughly equal amounts of both stance and referential
	 Chapter 4.  The lexis-grammar interface	 59
bundles. This is not surprising, considering that classroom teaching combines rela-
tively informal conversational elements (you know what I mean, and stuff like that)
with a heavy load of informational content. Nevertheless, it reveals that students rely
on a vast store of multiword chunks when reading, writing, listening, and speaking
in their university classes.
The high frequency with which these lexical bundles occur suggests that, over time,
speakers and writers commit them to memory and can retrieve them automatically
when needed. It is also possible, however, for formulaic sequences to be committed to
memory even if they are not highly frequent, as is the case for idioms. Idioms, unlike
most lexical bundles, are highly salient. They occur only in very specific communica-
tive situations. We may hear the idiom it’s raining cats and dogs only a few times in
our life; however, the imagery of the idiom, coupled with a violent rain storm, allows
us to remember it and retrieve it in the future. Idioms are also different from lexical
bundles in that they are difficult to identify in spoken and written corpora. While
lexical bundles can be retrieved automatically, based on frequency, human judgment
is required to determine exactly what multiword sequences in a language count as
idiomatic expressions.
IDIOMS
–	 Meaning cannot be determined through an analysis of parts
–	
Widely recognized by a speech community, though not necessarily used
with high frequency
–	
Typically cannot be modified lexically, morphologically, or syntactically;
doing so changes the meaning of the expression:
	 She kicked the bucket 	 =	 She died
	 The bucket was kicked by her 	 ≠ 	 She died
	 She kicked the pail 	 ≠ 	 She died
	 She kicks the bucket	 ≠	 She died (Grant & Bauer, 2004, p. 45)
In a review of several years of research on idioms, Grant and Bauer (2004) highlight
three common criteria used to identify idioms in spoken and written discourse: non-
compositionality, institutionalization, and frozenness. If a multiword expression is
non-compositional, then its meaning cannot be derived through an analysis if each
individual word in the unit. Institutionalization refers to the widespread acceptance of
the multiword expression within a particular speech community. The quality of froze-
ness, or fixedness, means that the multiword expression cannot be altered. If a word is
replaced by another word, if the syntax is modified, or even if a morphological ending
is changed, the meaning of the idiom will be lost. Grant and Bauer argue that non-
compositionality, institutionality, and frozenness work together to make a particular
60	 Pedagogical Grammar
multiword expression idiomatic. Unlike many of the phraseological patterns discussed
by Sinclair (1991) and the lexical bundles identified by Biber et al. (2004), idioms do not
consist of structural frames that allow for word replacements or morpheme changes.
Nevertheless, idioms share an important quality of many multiword expressions:
they are not used randomly, simply to make conversation more colorful or interesting,
but rather are used to achieve important communicative goals. In an investigation of
idiom use in the Michigan Corpus of Academic Spoken Language (MICASE), Simpson
and Mendis (2003) found that the idioms used by university professors and students
fulfilled important discourse functions. Surprisingly, idioms were used with relatively
equal frequency across disciplines and in both monologic speech (e.g., a large class
lecture) and interactive speech (e.g., a small class discussion or study group session).
In face-threatening situations that required the speaker to give an evaluation, speakers
often added an idiom to soften the evaluation. In situations where difficult academic
content was being discussed, professors often followed a technical explanation with a
paraphrase, using idioms to make the content more friendly and accessible to a student
audience. Simpson & Mendis also found that many of the idioms they identified in
MICASE were not addressed in ESL textbooks, and, conversely, many idioms featured
in ESL textbooks did not occur at all in the spoken academic corpus. Echoing Biber and
Reppen (2002), Simpson and Mendis noted: “The selection criteria used by textbook
authors for including idioms are somewhat unprincipled and idiosyncratic; thus it is
not entirely surprising that there was little overlap between these lists and the idioms
found in MICASE” (p. 423).
In Simpson and Mendis’ (2003) study, manual reading and analysis of transcripts
was used to identify idioms in the corpus. Though this allows the researchers to observe
idioms within their discourse context and to evaluate whether a multiword expres-
sion meets the criteria of an idiom or not, it is extremely time-consuming. On the
one hand, automatic identification of highly frequent formulaic sequences tends to
miss less frequent, though still important, idiomatic expressions; on the other hand,
manual searches for low-frequency idioms tend to yield only a small list of expressions
used in a small sample of specialized language. To address these challenges, Martinez
and Schmitt (2012) took an intermediary approach, using, first, automatic means to
retrieve multiword expressions, and second, manual coding schemes to separate lit-
eral or transparent multiword expressions from more opaque, idiomatic ones. The
result of this analysis, carried out using the British National Corpus, was the Phrasal
Expressions List. Though not every item in the list would be classified as an idiom
(using the criteria outlined above), each item is potentially challenging for L2 learn-
ers because its meaning cannot be derived from an analysis of its individual parts.
Martinez and Schmitt (2012) point out that transparency versus opacity is not a black
and white issue, but rather a continuum ranging from more compositional (more
transparent) to less compositional (less transparent). For example, the expression at
	 Chapter 4.  The lexis-grammar interface	 61
all times is more compositional. One striking feature of the list is that it identifies non-
compositional expressions which are not typically thought of as target vocabulary items
(e.g., of course, let alone, no matter), but which are also not addressed in L2 grammar
materials. Martinez and Schmitt argue that Phrasal Expressions should be included in
assessments of vocabulary knowledge and can also be used to gage the difficulty of a
particular text. At this point, the items on the Phrasal Expression List have not been
classified according to discourse function, as has been done in studies of lexical bundles
and idioms. Currently, the list resembles other vocabulary lists, such as the General
Service List (West, 1953) or Coxhead’s (2000) Academic Word List; analyses of the use
of these phrases in spoken and written discourse are sure to follow.
PHRASAL EXPRESSIONS
–	 Occur with high frequency in a corpus
–	 Cannot be decoded through a literal interpretation of parts
–	 Range on a continuum from somewhat opaque to very opaque:
–	
Can also be deceptively transparent, in that, on the surface, the phrase seems to have a
literal translation, or even a cognate in the L1, when in fact the meaning is quite opaque:
		 every so often
		 (can be misread as‘often’)
		 for some time
		 (potentially misunderstood as‘a short amount of time’)
 (Martinez & Schmitt, 2012, p. 5 and p. 11)
Yet another multiword unit that has received attention in corpus-based research on
English is the multiword verb. This unit, more than any other formulaic expression
reviewed thus far, is featured prominently in many grammar textbooks for L2 learners.
Multiword verbs, often referred to as phrasal or prepositional verbs in ESL textbooks,
tend to be taught as vocabulary items with corresponding one-word definitions; how-
ever, multiword verbs can also be inflected to show tense and subject-verb agreement
(e.g., I pick up my kids from school everyday, I picked up my kids yesterday, My mother
picks up the kids if I am busy) and they come with their own grammatical patterns
Transparent
Easily Decoded
Ex: at all times Ex: at all costs
Very opaque
Difficult to Decode
Ex: at all
Somewhat
Opaque
62	 Pedagogical Grammar
(some multiword verbs take no direct object, some take a direct object, and some
may take more than one object). If textbooks do give grammatical information about
multiword verbs, this information tends to focus on whether the verbs are separable
or inseparable. For example, it is possible to say either I pick up my kids from school
everyday or I pick them up. However, in the case of the verb look for, it is not possible
to do this. I looked for the lost dog is possible; I looked it for is not.
MULTIWORD VERBS
–	 Consist of a verb + a preposition or adverb particle
–	 Often have a one-word equivalent in meaning
–	 Can be inflected to show tense and aspect
–	 Can be divided into subtypes based on semantic category and syntactic pattern
Coverage of multiword verbs in L2 teaching materials is plagued by many of the same
problems observed in textbook treatments of idioms and other multiword expres-
sions. Textbooks seem to choose verbs in a haphazard way, without consideration of
frequency of use, grammatical structure, or discourse function. A number of corpus-
based investigations have attempted to address these issues. Biber et al. (1999) organize
phrasal and prepositional verbs according to syntactic structure and semantic category.
Gardner and Davies (2007) have also published a list of phrasal verbs, based on their
frequency of occurrence in the British National Corpus, and Liu (2011) published his
own phrasal verb list, based on both the Corpus of Contemporary American English
and the British National Corpus. Though all of these lists are comprised of frequent
multiword verbs in English, no list is the same, and in many cases, the verbs listed at
the top of one list do not match the other. These discrepancies do not mean that the
lists are invalid; rather, it is important to be aware that what is identified as “most fre-
quent” in English (or any other language) depends on the corpora consulted. Teachers
interested in consulting frequency lists (be it a list of phrasal verbs, a list of idioms, a
list of lexical bundles, etc.) must keep in mind the registers and dialects represented
and the relevance of these registers and dialects for their own L2 students.
Reflection 4.3
– Choose one of the formulaic expressions lists discussed in this chapter (e.g., Biber
et al.’s list of lexical bundles, Gardner & Davies’ phrasal verbs list). Read over the
list with a specific teaching context in mind.
–	
In what ways might you use this list when planning lessons and developing
materials?
–	 Would you share this list (or parts of it) with your students?
–	 Would you modify the list in some way before bringing it into the classroom?
–	 How does this list compare to other lists you’ve seen in L2 textbooks?
	 Chapter 4.  The lexis-grammar interface	 63
Frequency, formulae, and phraseology in second language acquisition
As we saw in Chapter 3, advances in computer technology and corpus linguistics meth-
odology have allowed us to investigate how frequently particular grammatical forms
occur in spoken and written contexts. This information can help teachers to make
decisions about what words, collocations, and phraseologies deserve attention in L2
classrooms. In addition, this information has also helped us to understand the role
that language input plays in the language acquisition process. For example, it is often
the case that frequently encountered forms are acquired earlier than infrequent ones,
and early-learned formulaic expressions can provide a foundation for later grammar
development.
It is important to point out, however, that when we talk about the importance of
frequency in second language acquisition, we are not simply talking about the number
of times a particular word, phrase, or grammatical form occurs in the input. When
we encounter a linguistic form, we encounter it in a particular situation. A speaker
or writer chooses to use the form for a particular purpose, and the form takes on a
particular meaning that is situation-dependent. All of the features of the situation
(the setting, the relationship between interlocutors, and so on) co-conspire to cre-
ate a memorable experience (or not) with this particular form. These situations, or
what Tyler (2010, p. 271) calls usage events, provide learners with opportunities to
make important Form-Meaning-Use connections. Over time, through repeated expe-
riences with similar types of usage events, these connections strengthen, and learners
are eventually able to automatically retrieve the linguistic forms needed for particular
communicative situations.
Usage-based approaches to the study of language acquisition (Bybee, 2008; N. Ellis,
2008; Eskildsen, 2009; Tomasello, 2009; see also Saxton, 2010; and Tyler, 2010, for
reviews) argue that grammar emerges through use in meaningful contexts. Initially,
learners are said to remember whole chunks of language (many of which occur as
formulaic sequences in the input) and to make one-to-one associations between a
particular language chunk and a particular communicative function. For example,
learners may acquire the utterance “Hi, how are you?” (a formulaic expression that
fulfills the function of greeting) long before they learn to create their own wh- ques-
tions. Later in development, learners begin to use previously-learned chunks as syn-
tactic frames. Again, frequency plays an important role in this process. Words that
frequently co-occur with particular grammatical constructions help to pave the way
for future grammar development. In first language acquisition, for example, children
learn early on that the verb give almost always occurs with two other entities: an object
and a person who receives the object. A child’s first uses of the ditransitive pattern (S +
V + O + O) tend to be with the verb give, as this verb frequently occurs in parent-child
and child-child interaction. Later, children extend the use of the ditransitive pattern
64	 Pedagogical Grammar
to other verbs. This suggests that frequent collocations and phraseologies in the input
help to drive the acquisition process. When children use these language chunks as
single utterances with a clear communicative purpose, they make it possible for more
interaction and collaboration to occur, which in turn helps to reinforce previously
learned patterns and introduce new ones.
Studies of L2 grammar acquisition have observed similar phenomena. N. Ellis and
Larsen-Freeman (2009), for example, found that the verbs which emerged first in a
corpus of L2 learner language were those verbs which had been used most frequently
by the native speakers that the learners interacted with on a regular basis. It was also
the case that the L2 learners used these verbs in the constructions they most frequently
occurred in. That is, verbs which were almost always used as intransitive verbs in the
native speaker input were also used as intransitives by the L2 learners. Table 4.1 displays
the verbs and verb-argument constructions which were most frequently used by both
the native speakers and, then, subsequently, by the L2 learners.
Table 4.1  Verb constructions which emerged early in L2 learner language
Verb Verb-Argument construction Examples
go Intransitive verb + location (VL) I go to school.
put Transitive verb + object + location (VOL) She put it on the table.
give Ditransitive verb + object + object (VOO) I gave him the pen.
The verbs in Table 4.1 can be said to be prototypical of each verb-argument con-
struction. The verb put, for example, is almost always used in the VOL pattern
(Verb + Object + Location), and, when used in face-to-face conversation, it is easy to
see that the meaning involves moving an object to a new location. Ellis and Larsen-
Freeman argue that learners first acquire put as part of this VOL construction, and this
opens the door for learners to eventually extend the use of this construction to other
verbs. In this way, the learning that occurs is said to be item-based: the item, put, a verb
that is encountered repeatedly in the input in a particular construction (VOL), drives
the acquisition of the VOL pattern.
So what does all of this mean for L2 grammar teaching? First, it suggests, as Krashen
(1982) and Long (1980; 1996) argued, that comprehensible input and interaction play
a crucial role in the acquisition process. Meaning-focused, goal-oriented interaction
provides the necessary conditions for learners to make important Form-Meaning-Use
connections. What it adds to this argument is the idea that the frequency of particular
words and grammatical constructions greatly influences the emergence of grammar
in learner language. L2 learners have the ability to exploit the statistical regularity
with which particular words occur in particular constructions – if they are exposed
to a sufficient number of examples in meaningful contexts. As N. Ellis (2008) and
	 Chapter 4.  The lexis-grammar interface	 65
Wray and Perkins (2000) have noted, however, for many L2 learners, opportunities to
interact meaningfully in the target language are often limited by practical constraints,
particularly in English as a Foreign Language (EFL) contexts. The amount of input L2
students receive is much, much smaller than what a child receives when learning his or
her native language. This challenge is further complicated by the fact that grammatical
patterns vary across situational contexts; constructions that are highly frequent in L2
classrooms (e.g., in textbooks and teacher talk) may not be highly frequent in situa-
tions outside of the classroom (Lightbown & Spada, 2013). Some effort must be made,
then, to identify grammatical patterns that are important to learners’ educational and
professional goals and to create opportunities for learners to participate in meaningful
usage-based events. As we will see in Chapters 5 and 6, corpus-based resources can
help teachers to investigate the lexico-grammatical patterns that are most frequent in
the registers their students will encounter. And in Chapter 9, we focus more on creat-
ing opportunities for students to comprehend and use language forms in meaningful
contexts, through the design of grammar-focused tasks.
	 Summary
–	 Corpus-based investigations of vocabulary and grammar have demonstrated that these two
linguistic categories are not easily separated. In many cases, meaning is expressed at the
phrase or clause level, rather than the level of the individual word.
–	 This lexis-grammar interface has been explored through the study of phraseology and col-
location. Computer programs, such as concordance line analysis software, allow researchers
and teachers to identify the frequency with which particular words co-occur with other
words and/or syntactic patterns.
–	 Lexico-grammatical patterns are not arbitrary, but rather serve particular communicative
functions. Corpus-based approaches to the study of lexico-grammar aim to provide func-
tional descriptions of collocation and phraseology – answering not only the question of
how often these patterns occur, but also why these patterns occur in particular discourse
contexts.
–	 In addition to studying collocation and phraseology, linguists have also devoted a great deal
of attention to the study of formulaic sequences, or relatively fixed multiword expressions
that are stored in memory as single units of meaning.
–	 Skilled speakers and writers are able to make efficient use of both holistic (formulaic) and
creative (analytical) processes. Fluent, effective communication requires both the ability to
create novel grammatical sentences and the ability to comprehend and retrieve appropriate
formulaic expressions.
66	 Pedagogical Grammar
–	 Corpus-based investigations of formulaic sequences have focused primarily on English. Four
major formulaic sequence types that have received attention are lexical bundles, idioms,
phrasal expressions, and multiword verbs. One important finding of this research is that
formulaic sequences fulfill important discourse functions, allowing speakers and writers to
communicate fluently and effectively.
	 Suggestions for further reading
Huntson, S. (2002). Corpora in Applied Linguistics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Meunier, F., & Granger, S. (2008). Phraseology in Foreign Language Learning and Teaching. Amster-
dam: John Benjamins.
Römer, U. & Schulze, R. (Eds.). (2009). Exploring the Lexis-Grammar Interface. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Sinclair, J. (1991). Corpus, Concordance, Collocation. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Chapter 5
Evaluating and adapting existing materials
Thus far in this book, we have reviewed research in the area of grammar description,
and we have highlighted some of the implications of this research for L2 grammar
pedagogy. In the present chapter, we focus on the evaluation of grammar textbooks
and other resources for L2 learners. The goal of this chapter is to help teachers plan, in
advance, how they will use existing materials in a particular grammar lesson. We ad-
dress several of the recommendations put forth in the literature regarding pedagogical
grammar description, with a particular emphasis on:
–	 Form, Meaning, and Use: As we have seen in previous chapters, learning the gram-
mar of another language involves not only the learning of individual grammar
forms, but also the meanings these forms can convey and how these forms are
used to accomplish particular communicative goals (Larsen-Freeman, 2003; Celce-
Murcia & Larsen-Freeman, 1999).
–	 Discourse Context: If students are to understand how grammar is used in particu-
lar situations, then pedagogical descriptions of grammar must occur not only at
the sentence-level, but also the discourse level (Celce-Murcia, 2000; 2002; Celce-
Murcia & Larsen-Freeman, 1999).
–	 Frequency, Lexico-grammar, and Register Variation: Over the past few decades,
corpus linguistics research has greatly enriched our understanding of how fre-
quently particular grammar structures are used, how grammar and lexis work
together to create meaning, and how the use of grammar varies across registers.
Grammar descriptions for L2 learners should also strive to include this informa-
tion (Biber & Reppen, 2002; Hunston & Francis, 2000; Sinclair, 1991; 2004).
Teachers have a number of decisions to make regarding (1) what grammatical features
they plan to target in a given instructional lesson, (2) what meanings and uses of these
features they plan to cover, and (3) what materials they will use to convey this informa-
tion (e.g., a textbook chapter, an authentic text sample, a handout they design them-
selves). In many cases, teachers must use a required textbook; in other cases, they are
encouraged to consult multiple textbooks as part of the lesson planning process. This
chapter is designed to help teachers make the most effective use of existing L2 gram-
mar materials, through a process of evaluation and adaptation. Because L2 grammar
textbooks and websites are designed with a somewhat generic audience in mind, it is
68	 Pedagogical Grammar
likely that the content and style of a given resource will not precisely meet the needs
of your own students. Each time you visit a website or open up a grammar textbook
to a chapter that covers a topic you hope to teach, you are likely to see aspects of the
chapter that you will need to modify – explanations may be too dense or not detailed
enough, examples may not represent the registers and dialects your students hope to
use, and activities may not reflect the types of tasks your students need to complete
outside of the classroom. In this chapter, we encourage you to keep both the needs of
your students and the recommendation of L2 grammar scholars in mind as you make
decisions about how to use L2 grammar materials in your own classrooms.
Choosing a focus for your lesson
Before a formal evaluation of a website or textbook lesson can begin, it is important
for teachers to identify what grammatical form(s) they hope to target and what mean-
ings and uses of those forms they plan to teach. As we will see in Chapter 7, individual
grammar forms (e.g., past tense –ed, progressive –ing) are part of larger grammatical
systems (e.g., tense and aspect); acquisition of these forms involves several phases of
development. It would be unwise to design a lesson that attempts to teach, for example,
the entire tense/aspect system (though some L2 grammar textbooks attempt to do just
this!). Instead, teachers (often in consultation with a mandated syllabus or textbook)
must select the particular forms within the system they hope to target in a particular
lesson, and, ideally, over time, individual lessons build on one another and gradually
help students to master entire grammatical systems.
When choosing grammar forms, teachers must also consider the meanings and
uses of those forms they plan to target, as one form typically can be used to com-
municate a variety of meanings, depending on the larger context. One could say, for
example, that she is planning to teach her students the simple present tense in English.
If our focus were only on form, we might interpret this to mean that the teacher was
going to show her students how to conjugate several verbs into simple present tense.
However, if we consider meaning in addition to form, then more decisions are in order.
Will the focus be on the use of the present tense to express states (e.g., I am happy, I
am a student, I feel nervous) or habitual actions (e.g., I eat breakfast every morning, I
run three times a week)? In addition to this, we can also consider use: Is the goal to
help students to introduce themselves to new friends? To state opinions in an academic
essay? Though it may not be necessary to address all three grammar dimensions in a
single class period, identifying target forms, meanings, and uses to be covered within
a given time frame can help to facilitate the textbook evaluation and lesson planning
process (Larsen-Freeman, 2003).
	 Chapter 5.  Evaluating and adapting existing materials	 69
CHOOSING A FOCUS FOR YOUR LESSON
–	 What grammatical forms do you plan to focus on for this lesson?
–	 What meanings and uses do you plan to target?
–	 In what contexts do your learners need to use these forms?
–	
What successes and challenges have your learners experienced when trying to use
these forms?
–	
Based on your knowledge of the forms and your learners’ needs (e.g., proficiency level,
professional goals), what would you like your learners to know and be able to do with
these grammatical forms?
Reflection 5.1
– As you read through this chapter, we encourage you to try your own textbook
evaluation. The first step is choosing a focus for your lesson. Using the guiding
questions provided here, identify a target grammatical form, meaning, and/or use
you would like to focus on.
– Next, find an L2 grammar textbook or online resource which includes a lesson on
the target form you have chosen. The remaining sections of this chapter will guide
you through evaluating and adapting this resource.
Evaluating the quality of textbook and website of explanations
The primary goal of most L2 grammar materials is to explain how the grammar of the
language works. Grammar materials vary widely, however, in the clarity, complete-
ness, and accuracy of these explanations. Thus, an important first step in evaluating
a website or textbook lesson is to examine the quality of explanations provided. Are
they written in such a way that my students will understand them? Do they provide all
of the essential information I plan to teach? Do they include explanations of not only
form but also meaning and use?
Figure 5.1 displays a grammar lesson provided on the British Council’s English
Grammar website. (We found this resource by googling “present tense English gram-
mar.” It was the first hit to appear.) As can be seen in Figure 5.1, the explanations
provided are fairly concise, as is common for many online resources. And yet, at the
same time, the explanation is complex, covering not just simple present tense, but also
present continuous (i.e., progressive), present perfect, and present perfect continuous.
In addition, the explanation covers several meanings: “to talk about the present,” “to
talk about the future,” and “to talk about the past.” At this point, our students may be
wondering why we call it “present” tense!
70	 Pedagogical Grammar
present tense
There are two tenses in English – past and present.
The present tenses in English are used:
− to talk about the present
− to talk about the future
− to talk about the past when we are telling a story in spoken English or when
we are summarising a book, film, play etc.
There are four present tense forms in English:
Present simple: I work
Present continuous: I am working
Present perfect: I have worked
Present perfect continuous: I have been working
We use these forms:
− to talk about the present:
He works at McDonald’s.
He has worked there for three months now.
He is working at McDonald’s.
He has been working there for three months now.
London is the capital of Britain.
− to talk about the future:
The next train leaves this evening at 1700 hours.
I’ll phone you when I get home.
He’s meeting Peter in town this afternoon.
I’ll come home as soon as I have finished work.
You will be tired out after you have been working all night.
Figure 5.1  Present tense lesson retrieved from: <http://learnenglish.britishcouncil.org/
en/english-grammar/verbs/present-tense>
This example helps to highlight not only the issue of clarity, but focus. Lessons which
attempt to cover several forms, meanings, and uses at once can quickly become over-
whelming and frustrating for L2 learners. Figures 5.2 and 5.3 display textbook excerpts
from Books 1 and 2 of the Grammar Dimensions textbook series, which is edited by
Diane Larsen-Freeman. Not surprisingly, this series organizes grammar explanations
according to the Three Dimensions of grammar: Form, Meaning, and Use. The lessons
featured in Figures 5.2 and 5.3 also aim to provide a manageable focus for L2 learners,
rather than cover all meanings and uses of the simple present tense at once. In Book 1
(Badalamenti & Henner-Stanchina, 2000), for example, the primary focus for the first
present tense lesson is using the present tense to tell facts about yourself, for the pur-
pose of introducing yourself to your classmates. In Book 2 (Riggenbach & Samuda,
2000), another meaning of the present tense is introduced, the meaning of habitual
	 Chapter 5.  Evaluating and adapting existing materials	 71
action. Here, explanations focus on helping students to see how simple present can
be used to describe what you typically do, including study strategies (I ask questions
when I do not understand.) and daily routines (Daniela goes to school five days a week.)
Be: Affirmative statements
SUBJECT VERB Be
Monique
She
Paris
The city of Paris
is
single
from Paris.
in France.
beautiful.
singular (one)
Fernando and Isabel
They
The people in Colombia
are
Colombian.
married.
friendly. Plural (more than one)
I am single.
You are married.
He
She
It
is Brazilian.
We
You
they
are from Korea.
Figure 5.2  Grammar Dimensions 1: Lesson on Simple Present Tense (pp. 2–4)
EXAMPLES
Verbs in the Simple Present Tense
Habits and Routines
EXPLANATIONS
(a) I ask questions when I do not
understand.
(b) Elzbieta uses English as much
as possible.
Ask, do not understand, and uses are
simple present verbs.
Use the simple present to talk about
habits (things you do again and again)
(c) Our classes start at 9:00 A.M.
(d) Daniela goes to school five days
a week.
Use the simple present to talk about
everyday routines (things you do
regularly).
Figure 5.3  Grammar Dimensions 2: Lesson on Simple Present Tense (p. 2)
72	 Pedagogical Grammar
As we will see in Chapter 7, the sequencing of Book 1 and Book 2 also reflects the
order of acquisition observed in Bardovi-Harlig’s (2000) research on tense and aspect
in English: Learners first use simple present with the verb be and other verbs expressing
states of being, and later learn to use simple present with dynamic verbs (e.g., work,
go). The lesson in Book 2 also includes a focus on adverbs of frequency (e.g., always,
sometimes), which are acquired early by learners and used to express habitual mean-
ings, even before learners start using activity verbs in the simple present tense. Thus,
the pairing of these adverbs with activity verbs in the Meaning portion of the grammar
explanation helps students to connect a new concept (activity verbs in simple present
tense) to a known concept (commonly used adverbs of frequency).
EVALUATING COVERAGE OF FORM, MEANING, AND USE
–	
To what extent does the textbook address the Form, Meaning,
and Use of the target feature?
–	 Is one Dimension (e.g., Form) emphasized over others?
–	
Does the textbook provide a manageable focus for the lesson, or are too many forms,
meanings, and uses covered at once?
–	
Are there any explanations that might be confusing to learners? In what ways would you
need to modify or supplement the information provided?
In addition to evaluating clarity and focus, teachers can also evaluate L2 grammar ma-
terials to determine whether they provide sufficient information about how the target
grammatical forms are used in discourse. Many books give examples at the sentence
level and save discourse for the practice activities. In her book Discourse and Context in
Language Teaching: A Guide for Language Teachers, Celce-Murcia (2000) explains how
discourse analysis activities might be used to explain grammar use, using a sample text
excerpt that contains many instances of the passive voice in English (see Figure 5.4).
Celce-Murcia (2000, p. 65) suggests playing this passage as a radio news report or
making copies and distributing to students. Students can first be asked to focus on com-
prehension (e.g., How many people were surveyed and where? Which three films were the
favorites? What other films were mentioned more than five times? Did men and women
like the same films?). Even though these questions are primarily meaning-focused,
they also serve to provide multiple exposures to the target form. After a discussion of
content, Celce-Murcia suggests that students move on to an analysis of how and why
the passive voice is used in this discourse context:
1.	 Why is the passive voice so frequent in this text?
2.	 Who is/are the agent(s) in sentences that have no expressed, explicit agent?
3.	 Could the passage have been written or spoken using only the active voice? If so,
	 a.	 Would the tone of the reporter be the same?
	 b.	 Would there be the same focus on the films (p. 65)?
	 Chapter 5.  Evaluating and adapting existing materials	 73
As can be seen in these questions, discourse analysis in the classroom requires a certain
level of metalanguage. Teachers using this technique may want to first provide training
sessions to students using texts that they can easily understand and providing keywords
that can be used to label target forms and their functions. In this way, students learn
that a knowledge of grammar can be obtained not only through textbook explanations
and charts, but also through their own active engagement with authentic texts. For
Celce-Murcia (2000), grammar explanation without discourse context fails to provide
students with sufficient information about grammar meaning and use:
The study of grammar… tends to be restricted to the sentence level…. The problem
with this perspective is that there are few grammar choices made by speakers or writers
that are strictly sentence level and completely context-free. (p. 52)
.
EVALUATING COVERAGE AT THE DISCOURSE LEVEL
–	
Do explanations include descriptions of the important functions that the grammatical
forms fulfill in discourse?
–	 Are examples provided at the phrase, sentence, and/or discourse level?
–	
To what extent would you be required to provide additional examples of use
in a discourse context?
This view of grammar as context-dependent is also shared by corpus linguists, who
feel that information about the frequency of use in particular registers should also
be included in L2 grammar materials. An increasing number of resources are mak-
ing attempts to integrate these findings into L2 grammar textbook design (see the
Recommended Resources at the end of this chapter). McCarthy (2008) makes a distinc-
tion between corpus-based textbooks and corpus-informed textbooks. A corpus-based
American Film Classics: A survey of 100 People
By Harold Smithers
One hundred Americans (fifty in New York and fifty in Los Angeles)
were asked to identify their three faviorite classic films. Casablanca
was mentioned most frequently, then Citizen Kane, and the third
choice was Gone with the Wind. Only four other movies were
named more than five times each. These were Ben Hur, The Birth
of a Nation, Sunset Boulevard, and The Ten Commandments. It is
interesting to note that while both the male and female respondents
mentioned Casablanca as a favorite classic, Gone withthe Wind
was suggested mainly by women and Citizen Kane mainly by men.
Figure 5.4  Sample discourse analysis activity from Celce-Murcia (2000, p. 65)
74	 Pedagogical Grammar
textbook uses a corpus as the basis for deciding what grammatical forms, meanings,
and uses to include in the textbook. More frequently used forms, as well as their col-
locations and phraseologies, receive more attention than infrequent forms; example
sentences are selected from the corpus (not invented by the author); and compari-
sons of frequency across register are provided. “Corpus-based materials are materials
that try to be absolutely faithful to what the computer tells you about language use”
(McCarthy, 2008, p. 566). Corpus-informed textbooks, on the other hand, may or may
not make explicit reference to a corpus, frequency counts, or the distribution of forms
across registers, though the textbook designers do consult corpus linguistics research
as part of the textbook development process.
Corpus Informed is a more nuanced approach. It is a way of saying that one is going
to do what is useful, what one’s students want, what is needed, what is feasible, what
is practicable, what is going to be most usable for the students. In this case one takes
from the corpus what one believes will fulfill those ambitions, those needs, and the
teacher’s or material writer’s task is essentially to mediate corpus information, filtering
it for pedagogical purposes. The ‘filters’ might include what we know about the learning
process, what the constraints of the curriculum are, what the local educational condi-
tions, culture and traditions are, and so on. (McCarthy, 2008, p. 556)
Though we find this distinction useful, we would also say that corpus-based versus
corpus-informed is more of a continuum, rather than a dichotomy. Towards the cor-
pus-based end would be books that base the selection and sequencing of grammatical
items on the in-depth analysis of a corpus or corpora and which use sample sentences
taken directly from these corpora. Towards the corpus-informed end of the continuum
would be books which consult corpus-based grammars and research studies, but which
do not necessarily base selection and sequencing on these findings and which prefer
to create their own example sentences. Somewhere in the middle would be books that
make many (but not all) major decisions about selection and sequencing based on
corpus research and which often (but not always) use sample sentences from corpora.
Figure 5.5 displays an excerpt from a corpus-based textbook, Conrad and Biber’s
(2009) Real Grammar: A Corpus-Based Approach to English. This grammar lesson fo-
cuses on linking verbs (often referred to as copular verbs in linguistic resources), such
as be, become, look, and feel. As can be seen in Figure 5.5, the explanation begins by
asking “What have you learned from your grammar book?” In the book’s introduc-
tion, Biber and Conrad explain that their book is not necessarily designed to replace
traditional L2 grammar materials, but rather can be used as a supplement. This allows
students to access corpus-based information about a particular grammatical feature
that may not be provided in other L2 grammar textbooks.
	 Chapter 5.  Evaluating and adapting existing materials	 75
Figure 5.5  Sample lesson from Conrad & Biber’s Real Grammar (2009, p. 22)
76	 Pedagogical Grammar
Figure 5.5 illustrates what a corpus-based grammar explanation for L2 students
might look like. First, the explanation highlights frequently used linking verbs, provid-
ing two separate lists: one for conversation and one for writing. The explanation then
highlights frequent meanings and collocates for each linking verb, noting that it is the
combination of the verb with the adjective that gives rise to specific meanings. For
example, by itself, the verb get does not indicate a change to a negative state, but rather
the phraseology get + negative adjective does. Corpus-based textbooks also prefer to
use sample sentences from the corpus, as opposed to author-created examples. As can
be seen in Figure 5.5, the sentences provided in the grammar charts have not been
created to sustain a particular theme, but rather have been selected from a corpus to
demonstrate a lexico-grammatical pattern. To compensate for a lack of a sustained
theme, corpus linguists often select sentences that many people can relate to (e.g.,
feeling stupid in a particular situation or needing to get ready to go somewhere) and
they avoid highly specialized content.
Figures 5.6 and 5.7 display two excerpts from another textbook series, Grammar
and Beyond, published by Cambridge University Press <http://www.cambridge.org/
grammarandbeyond/>. According to the book series website, Grammar and Beyond is
corpus-based because “The grammar presentations are based on a careful analysis of
the billion-word Cambridge English Corpus, so students and teachers can be confident
that the information represents real-world use.” It is also the case, however, that the
textbook series contains features of what McCarthy (2008) would call corpus-informed,
as it takes into account the learning needs and context of many students studying
English for academic purposes, and “filters” corpus findings through its own discourse-
and sentence-level examples. Most likely the opening text sample in Figure 5.6 and
the sentences in the grammar charts in Figure 5.7 were not taken directly from the
corpus, but rather were created with the aim of illustrating important grammatical
patterns which were observed by researchers through their corpus analysis. At the
same time, Grammar and Beyond highlights “data from the real world” through the
use of frequency lists.
When evaluating traditional grammar textbooks for their coverage of frequency
and lexico-grammar, it is likely that teachers will find that the information provided is
based on intuition rather than corpus-based research on collocation and phraseology.
Take, for example, the stative verbs lesson provided in Betty Azar’s popular grammar
textbook, Understanding and Using English Grammar (1999, p. 15). In this lesson, sen-
sory linking verbs such as look, feel, smell, taste, and sound are highlighted, but more
frequent linking verbs are not addressed.. As Biber and Reppen (2002) have pointed
out, this exclusion of high frequency verbs is common in traditional L2 grammar ma-
terials. While less frequent verbs like smell and taste are important in certain contexts,
verbs like get and go play a vital role in everyday conversation. Thus, while popular
	 Chapter 5.  Evaluating and adapting existing materials	 77
textbooks like Azar are often strong in the areas of clarity (many students love Azar’s
well-organized charts and illustrations), they may be lacking in the area of Use, as these
books are typically not informed by linguistic research.
EVALUATING COVERAGE OF FREQUENCY, LEXICO-GRAMMAR, AND REGISTER VARIATION
–	
Do explanations include information about frequency, collocation, phraseology,
and/or use across registers?
–	
Have the examples been invented by the textbook authors and/or do they come
from authentic texts?
–	
What registers do these examples represent (e.g., informal conversation,
academic language)?
–	In what ways would you modify or supplement the examples provided, so that they were
more representative of the registers that are most relevant to your students?
1 Grammar in the Real World
Do you know how to give a presentation? What do you do to prepare? Read the article.
How many of your ideas are in the web article?
How to Be a Successful Presenter
For many people, giving a presentation can be a scary experience. If you feel nervous
about giving presentations, here are some helpful tips.
– On the day of the presentation, arrive at the room early. Think positive thoughts
and remember that you can do this.
– Before you start, breathe deeply and smile confidently at your audience. Speak
slowly and clearly. Make eye contact with people in different parts of the room.
Look at your notes quickly when you need to. Your audience wants you to do well.
Then relax and do your best.
– Prepare your presentation carefully. Careful preparation will give you confidence,
and this will impress your audience. A confident presenter always makes a
good impression.
– Organize your ideas. Think about what you want to say. Then list your three or
four main points on note cards.
– Practice giving your presentation aloud by yourself and with friends, too. Tell
your friends to give you honest feedback, but make sure they tell you first what
you did well.
– After your presentation, ask people for feedback and advice. Use the ideas in your
next presentation. With practice, you will learn to give good presentations, and you
may even enjoy giving them.
Figure 5.6  Grammar and Beyond, Level 1, Adjectives and Adverbs: Opening text sample
78	 Pedagogical Grammar
Reflection 5.2
– Using the guiding questions provided here, evaluate the explanations provided
in your chosen L2 grammar resource (see Reflection 5.1). How well do the
explanations address Form, Meaning, and Use? Discourse Context? Frequency,
Phraseology, and Register Variation?
– What modifications would you need to make to these explanations before using
them in your classroom?
Evaluating the quality of textbook and website practice activities
Included in almost any L2 grammar textbook, in addition to explanations of form,
meaning, and use, are follow-up practice activities. These activities can include limited
production exercises such as fill-in-the-blank, error correction, and sentence construc-
tion; as well as free-production exercises, such as role plays or essays. Larsen-Freeman
(2003) argues that these activities, above all, should be meaningful, engaging, and fo-
cused. She explains:
Figure 5.7  Grammar and Beyond, Level 1: Sample Adjectives and Adverbs lesson
	 Chapter 5.  Evaluating and adapting existing materials	 79
Students will best acquire the structures or patterns when they are put into situations
that require them to use structures and patterns for some meaningful purpose other
than decontextualized or mechanistic practice. Indeed, a neurological perspective sug-
gests that the kind of language practice in meaningless drills is unavailable for use
beyond the classroom…. If [students] are not engaged, then they are probably not
attending, and their attention is important. Thus any practice activities have to be
independently motivating, seen by learners as worth doing. (p. 117)
To engage learners, it is necessary to take into account learner needs, interests, and
goals, and to evaluate whether the practice activity has relevance to learners’ lives.
Equally important, according to Larsen-Freemen, is ensuring that grammar practice
activities are focused. This relates back to our earlier discussion, in which we encour-
aged teachers to choose a manageable focus for their lesson prior to evaluating the
suitability of L2 materials. Similarly, when evaluating practice activities, it is important
to identify what aspect of grammar the activity is focused on. It may be that the activ-
ity has a primary focus on form (e.g., practice with forming the present progressive),
or meaning (e.g., illustrations of actions in progress), or use (e.g., choosing whether
present progressive or simple present is most appropriate). This is not to say that Form,
Meaning, and Use are easily separated; however, it is possible to choose or design an
activity that emphasizes one dimension more than others.
According to Larsen-Freeman (2003), while Form-focused exercises may strive
for repetition and the building of automatic recognition and retrieval skills, Meaning-
focused activities (such as a game of charades to demonstrate the present progressive)
strive to create memorable scenarios that help students make important form-meaning
connections. Activities which emphasize Use should provide students with opportu-
nities to make important grammatical choices in a particular context (e.g., Is simple
present or present progressive more appropriate here? Is this phrasal verb more ap-
propriate in conversation or academic writing?)
Figure  5.8 provides an example of a grammar practice activity, taken from
Riggenbach and Samuda’s (2000) Book 2 lesson on simple present tense. This activ-
ity can be said to primarily emphasize form and meaning, as it provides a great deal
of repetition (students must use simple present with activity verbs each time they
interview a classmate, as well as when they report results) and it helps to make an
important form-meaning connection (all but one of the questions deal with habits
and routines). To emphasize Use, teachers could create supplemental activities which
involve the reading of actual survey data, as this would help students to see that the
textbook activity has relevance to the real world and that researchers in social sciences
and public health also make this grammatical choice when reporting on the behavior
of the people they study.
80	 Pedagogical Grammar
Activity 1: Speaking/Listening
The purpose of this activity is to prove or disprove the following statements about
your classmates. Stand up, walk around the room, and ask your classmates
questions to see if the following are true (T) or false (F).
1. Most of the people in this room do not eat breakfast.
2. Women drink more coffee than men.
3. Fifty percent of the people in this room watch TV at night.
4. Somebody in this room wears contact lenses.
5. More than three people read a newspaper in English every day.
6. More than 50% of the people in this room drive a car.
7. Nobody likes opera.
8. More than two people here come to school by bike.
9. Everybody gets more than six hours of sleep a night.
10. Most of the people in this room have a sister.
T F
T F
T F
T F
T F
T F
T F
T F
T F
T F
Figure 5.8  Grammar Dimensions, Book 2: Sample practice activity (p. 13)
Figure 5.9 (taken from Benz & Roemer’s 1997 Book 2 Workbook, p. 7) is an example
of an activity designed to provide practice with making choices among seemingly syn-
onymous grammatical forms. This activity focuses on the choice between present pro-
gressive and simple present tense. More specifically, it is intended to highlight the fact
that simple present is preferred when a situation is true most of the time (He’s usually
very outgoing) or is a habit or routine (e.g., He talks and laughs with the other students),
whereas progressive is preferred when an action is temporary in nature (e.g., [he]’s living
in Toronto, he isn’t smiling much). Students are asked to look at the use of these verbs in
a discourse context and to explain why simple present is preferred in some cases and
present progressive is preferred in others. This type of activity helps students to think
through their grammatical choices (and thus can be said to emphasize Use).
Mohammed is an exchange student from Kuwait who’s living in Toronto this academic
year. His teachers and classmates are worried about him because he looks tired and is
acting differently from the way he usually acts. He’s usually very outgoing, and he talks
and laughs with the other students, inside the classroom and out. But these days he isn’t
smiling much. Normally Mohammed has lunch in the cafeteria, but today he isn’t there
eating. He often goes outside to smoke a cigarette, but he’s not there smoking today.
Figure 5.9  Grammar Dimensions, Book 2, Workbook: Sample practice activity (p. 7)
	 Chapter 5.  Evaluating and adapting existing materials	 81
EVALUATING PRACTICE ACTIVITIES: FORM, MEANING, AND USE
–	
Do the activities provide students with repeated opportunities to comprehend or use
the target feature?
–	
Do the activities provide opportunities for learners to make important form-meaning
connections?
–	
Do the activities push learners to make choices about which grammatical forms would
be most appropriate in a given situation?
The activity in Figure 5.9 also illustrates the importance of discourse context. To make
the appropriate grammatical choices in this situation, we need to know that Mohammed
usually behaves one way but recently has been behaving another. In other words, we
need a context that goes beyond the sentence level. All too often, however, as Celce-
Murcia (2000) notes, L2 grammar practice is provided at the sentence level only. This
not only deprives students of a chance to use the grammar in a meaningful situation,
but it also makes it more difficult for students to make appropriate grammatical choices.
One area of grammar that is often practiced at the sentence level is article use in
English. When explaining to students how to make choices between the articles a, an,
and the, many textbooks present students with sentence-level fill-in-the-blank exer-
cises, like that displayed in Figure 5.10, an exercises featured on the Purdue Online
Writing Lab (OWL) < https://owl.english.purdue.edu/exercises/2/1/12 >.
As can be seen in this exercise, the appropriate choice of article depends largely on
the discourse context. In number 1, for example, I want ___ apple from that basket, the
correct answer depends on how many apples are in the basket. If there are 2 or more
apples, then the a person would likely say “I want an apple from that basket.” However,
if there is only one apple in the basket, and both the speaker and the listener know what
apple is being discussed, a person would likely say “I want the apple from that basket.”
This ambiguity can be extremely frustrating for students. What is worse, the exercise
does not allow students to practice the skill they really need: making article choices
based on context.
Another complication of many sentence-level exercises is that they mix up the
types of decisions that students have to make when choosing appropriate forms. Article
choice in English, for example, involves consideration of numerous issues: Is the noun
singular or plural? Countable or non-countable? Generic or specific? Known or un-
known to the listener? First mention or subsequent mention in the discourse? Though
an eventual goal is for learners to quickly assess a situation and make choices based on
all of these considerations, initially, learners will need to practice one type of decision
at a time. Thus, as we have seen with other examples in this chapter, explanations and
activities which attempt to tackle entire grammatical systems are not ideal, especially
for beginning and intermediate students.
82	 Pedagogical Grammar
Examples of more focused practice activities for articles are shown in Figure 5.11. The
first activity (from Master, 1997, p. 231) focuses on helping students make a distinction
between countable and non-countable nouns (e.g., furniture versus a chair), and the
second (also from Master, 1997, p. 231) targets the singular/plural distinction (e.g., a
hospital versus people). As students make choices and discuss their choices with the
class, they can focus on these distinctions, rather than worrying about other issues
(e.g., first versus second mention).
EVALUATING PRACTICE ACTIVITIES: DISCOURSE CONTEXT
–	
Do the activities require the comprehension and/or use of the target forms at the
phrase, sentence, or discourse level?
–	 To what extent do the activities promote the use of the forms in a meaningful context?
–	
Is this context authentic? In other words, is it likely that learners will need to use
the forms outside the classroom in ways that are similar to the tasks included in the
textbook activities?
Figure 5.10  Purdue On-line Writing Lab (OWL): Articles practice exercise
	 Chapter 5.  Evaluating and adapting existing materials	 83
Last, but certainly not least, it is important to evaluate the extent to which L2 grammar
activities deepen students’ understanding of how target forms are used in combination
with other lexical words (collocation and phraseology), as well as how the use of the
target forms varies across registers. If you have found that the grammar textbook you
are using does not include this type of information in its explanations, then it is likely
that its practice exercises also do not address these areas of grammar use. In this situa-
tion, teachers may need to consult corpus-based resources for relevant frequency lists,
phraseologies, and register information. This information can then be incorporated
Figure 5.11  Sample practice activities for English articles (Master, 1997, p. 231)
84	 Pedagogical Grammar
into the design of the practice activity. For example, if a practice activity in a textbook
does not include high frequency vocabulary (e.g., most frequent linking verbs), it
could be modified to do so. Or, if an activity focuses on word order without mention
of collocation (e.g., linking verb + adjective pattern without information about which
verbs co-occur with which adjectives), then activities could be designed which allow
students to notice or use these lexico-grammatical patterns. Activities that fail to ad-
dress register variation can be modified to highlight basic register distinctions (e.g., use
of the feature in informal conversation versus use of the feature in academic writing).
Ideas for activity modification can also be found by looking at the types of ac-
tivities provided in corpus-based textbooks. These books often use discourse analysis
activities to raise student awareness of important lexical, grammatical and discourse
patterns. Books that are closer to the corpus-based end of the design continuum pre-
fer sample texts taken directly from a corpus. The advantage here is that students are
given a chance to interact with a text that was produced by a speaker or writer in an
authentic context for a specific purpose. Many students enjoy these examples because
they provide snapshots of how speakers and writers use grammar to communicate in
a variety of settings.
EVALUATING PRACTICE ACTIVITIES: PHRASEOLOGY & REGISTER VARIATION
–	
To what extent are learners given opportunities to use the target grammatical forms in
combination with their frequent collocations and phraseologies?
–	
Do the scenarios provided for the activities represent the types of registers the forms
are typically used in?
–	 Do the activities help to highlight important differences across registers?
At the same time, however, text samples taken directly from corpora for in-class analy-
sis can present teachers and students with challenges. First, although the sample itself
was originally spoken or written in a real context for a real purpose, when taken from
a corpus and displayed in a grammar textbook, much of the original context and
purpose is lost. Corpus samples that are not accompanied by information about the
original discourse context may serve to confuse students, rather than help them learn
about the language (Widdowson, 2002). We should note, however, that this is a concern
not only for corpus samples, but for any example sentence or paragraph included in a
grammar textbook. The less context given (about the speakers/writers and their rela-
tionships with listeners/speakers, the setting, the purpose for the communication, and
so on), the more difficult it will be for students to understand how and why the target
form is being used in the text sample. Thus, teachers may want to consider using text
samples that both illustrate important patterns of use and have relevance to students’
own lives. For example, a lesson on reported speech may include an analysis of a news
	 Chapter 5.  Evaluating and adapting existing materials	 85
article published in a local paper. Features of conversation can be illustrated through
the analysis of popular TV shows (see, e.g., Quaglio, 2009), or even through an analysis
of conversations that students record themselves.
In addition to developing corpus-based textbooks for language learners, corpus
linguists have also devoted a great deal of attention to the use of corpora in the class-
room. Many researchers have explored the use of data-driven learning, where teachers
and students work together to identify important lexico-grammatical patterns in a set
of data retrieved from a corpus. In Chapter 6, we highlight the many resources now
available to teachers who are interested in using corpora in their own classrooms.
Reflection 5.3
– Using the guiding questions provided here, evaluate the practice activities provided
in your chosen L2 grammar resource. How well do these activities address Form,
Meaning, and Use? Discourse Context? Frequency, Phraseology, and Register
Variation?
– What modifications would you need to make to these activities before using them
in your classroom?
	 Summary
When evaluating and adapting L2 grammar materials, teachers can consider the extent to which
the materials:
–	 Provide a manageable focus for the lesson.
–	 Address Form, Meaning, and Use in grammar explanations and practice exercises.
–	 Explain grammatical concepts clearly and accurately.
–	 Provide examples and activities at both the sentence and discourse level.
–	 Provide information about frequency of use, lexico-grammar, and register variation.
–	 Cover situations of use that are relevant to students’needs and goals.
	 Suggestions for further reading
Lesikin, J. (2000). Complex text in ESL grammar textbooks: Barriers or gateways? Reading in a
Foreign Language, 13, 431–447.
Kong, K. (2009). A comparison of the linguistic and interactional features of language learning
websites and textbooks. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 22, 31–55.
Shin, J., Eslami, Z., & Chen, W-C. (2011). Presentation of local and international culture in current
international English-language teaching textbooks. Language, Culture and Curriculum, 24,
253–268.
86	 Pedagogical Grammar
	 Recommended resources
English grammar textbooks
Cambridge University Press – Grammar and Beyond
<http://www.cambridge.org/grammarandbeyond/>
Cambridge University Press – Touchstone
<http://www.cambridge.org/us/esl/touchstone/sb.htm>
Cengage Learning – Grammar Connection
<http://ngl.cengage.com/search/programOverview.do?N=4294918395+&Ntk=P_EPI&Ntt=
2066819369465842652835948058270150917>
Cengage Learning – Grammar Dimensions
<http://ngl.cengage.com/search/programOverview.do?N=4294918395+&Ntk=P_EPI&N
tt=107462084366547239116328786131716040203>
Collins – COBUILD Grammar
<http://www.collins.co.uk/category/English+Language+Teaching/COBUILD+Reference/
Collins+COBUILD+Grammar>
Pearson Longman – Real Grammar
<http://www.pearsonlongman.com/ae/emac/newsletters/may-2010-grammar.html>
Pearson Longman – Focus on Grammar
<http://longmanhomeusa.com/blog/the-role-of-corpus-linguistics-in-focus-on-grammar/>
Materials development resources for other languages
Center for Language Education and Research
<http://store.clear.msu.edu/>
Heritage Languages in America (Center for Applied Linguistics)
<http://www.cal.org/heritage/index.html>
Language Acquisition Resource Center
<http://larc.sdsu.edu/materials/>
Less Commonly Taught Languages Project (The Center for the Advanced Research
on Language Acquisition)
<http://www.carla.umn.edu/lctl/index.html>
National Foreign Language Resource Center Publications
<http://nflrc.hawaii.edu/publications.cfm>
Chapter 6
Investigating grammar use
through online corpora
As we saw in Chapter 5, corpus-based resources can play an important role in the L2
grammar lesson planning process, as these resources allow us to evaluate the extent to
which existing L2 materials present students with accurate information regarding the
use of particular grammatical features in spoken and written registers. In this chapter,
we describe the wide array of corpus-based resources available to L2 teachers online,
and we provide detailed examples of how teachers might use these tools when design-
ing grammar lessons and activities.
Drawing on recommendations put forth in a number of recent discussions of
corpus linguistics in language teaching (Bennett, 2011; Flowerdew, 2009; 2012; Keck,
2013; O’Keefe, McCarthy, & Carter, 2007; Reppen, 2010; Römer, 2011), we present
three major options available to language teachers who are interested in the use of
corpora in the classroom: (1) the behind the scenes approach, in which teachers consult
corpus-based resources when planning lessons and creating materials, (2) the corpora
as a classroom resource approach, in which teachers use online corpus tools to investi-
gate questions as they arise in the midst of instruction, and (3) the student as researcher
approach, in which teachers regularly engage students in the analysis of corpus data.
Of course, it is not necessary for teachers to choose one option over others in a given
course; rather, it is likely that teachers will want to explore a variety of approaches as
they learn more about corpus linguistics and its relevance to their own classrooms.
However, teachers who are new to corpus linguistics may feel most comfortable begin-
ning with option one (consulting corpus-based resources) before they move to using
corpus data in the classroom.
The behind the scenes approach
A quick tour of many online corpora available to teachers today will show that a con-
siderable amount of training is needed before teachers and students can effectively
use these tools to investigate questions about grammar use. In many cases, it is not
feasible or appropriate for teachers to engage their students in explorations of online
corpora. At the very least, teachers will want some time to explore these corpora on
88	 Pedagogical Grammar
their own, so they can develop effective search strategies that can later be shared with
students. In these cases, teachers may wish to take a more behind the scenes approach
to using corpus resources, developing their own corpus-informed grammar lessons
(when needed or when possible) without even mentioning the phrase corpus linguistics
to their students. As discussed in Chapter 5, teachers can check L2 textbook grammar
explanations against corpus-based findings and can modify corpus-based textbook
lessons developed by other scholars. In this chapter, we take this approach one step
further, and demonstrate how teachers might consult corpora directly when developing
L2 grammar lessons and materials.
CONSULTING CORPORA BEHIND THE SCENES
–	
Teachers consult corpus-based grammars, textbooks, and online resources when
planning lessons, designing handouts and tasks, or developing courses and curricula.
–	
Teachers integrate information about frequency, collocation, phraseology, and register
variation into their L2 grammar lessons.
To illustrate the types of exploration that online corpora make possible, we return here
to the linking verb example presented in Chapter 5. In this example, we demonstrated
how corpus-based resources could be used to modify and supplement ESL textbook
lessons that attempt to explain the use of these verbs. In this section, we’ll explore how
teachers can also utilize online corpora to further investigate how these verbs are used
in spoken and written discourse.
Though it is not possible to directly search the Longman Corpus (the source for
Conrad & Biber’s 2009 Real Grammar), teachers can consult English language corpora
through Brigham Young University’s website: < http://corpus.byu.edu/ >. Here, one can
find a variety of corpora, including the Corpus of Contemporary American English
(COCA), the British National Corpus (BNC), the Corpus del Espanol, and the Corpus
de Portuguese. These corpora are particularly suitable for L2 grammar teaching because
they allow users to search not only keywords, but also grammatical categories. In this
chapter, our examples come from COCA; however, a knowledge of COCA can easily be
transferred to the other corpora because the search interface for all of the BYU corpora
is the same. (At the end of this chapter, we provide a list of additional online corpora
with user-friendly interfaces, including corpora of languages other than English.)
To use COCA, it is first necessary to register. (You will be prompted to do this
by COCA after 15 search queries.) This process is free and relatively painless, and it
allows BYU to keep track of the number of teachers, researchers, and students who
consult their corpora on a regular basis. Once you are registered, it is possible to take
a number of tutorials which explain and illustrate the many search techniques that can
	 Chapter 6.  Investigating grammar use through online corpora	 89
be used to explore the corpus. (See also Reppen, 2010, for a beginner’s tutorial.) In this
chapter, we will introduce you to a few basic search techniques that relate specifically
to the design of L2 grammar lessons and materials.
Because the number and types of searches that can be done with COCA are seem-
ingly limitless, before diving into an exploration, it is important to first consider what
questions we have about the keyword or grammatical feature we are interested in. What
do we hope to gain from our corpus searches? Do we want to compare the frequency
of use across registers? To identify important collocates? The nature of our language-
related questions will determine the types of search techniques we use.
If an important part of our lesson on linking verbs is to emphasize that these
verbs are often followed by adjectives, then one question we might start with would
be: What types of adjectives typically follow the linking verbs I plan to teach? Imagine,
for example, that we want to start by investigating the use of the verb look, which is
one of the most frequently used linking verbs in English. If we were using COCA
to learn more about the use of this linking verb in context, we might first begin by
simply typing look into the Word(s) box, clicking “Search,” and seeing what happens.
However, there are a few grammatical issues we need to consider before taking this
step. If we simply type the word look into the Word box and click “Search,” we will
only retrieve exact matches of this word. Other forms (e.g., looks, looked, looking) will
not be counted. Also, we will end up counting some instances of “look” that we don’t
want, mainly, the use of look as a noun. So, as a first step, we need to specify that we
want all forms of the verb look, but not any noun instances. This can be done by using
the following syntax: [look].[v*].
To ensure that you are retrieving the right kind of information in your search, it is
helpful to use the List option, just above the Word box, as shown in Figure 6.1.
Figure 6.1  Choosing the“List”option in COCA
If we now click Search, we will see a list of all of the forms of look that will be retrieved
by this syntax (see Figure 6.2).
90	 Pedagogical Grammar
Figure 6.2  “List”search results for the verb look
From these results, we can quickly see that look, the base form, is the most frequent
form that occurs in COCA, followed by the past tense, progressive aspect, and third
person singular. We can also click on each verb form to view the concordance line
results (see Figure 6.3).
Figure 6.3  Concordance line results for the verb look
Concordance lines can also give us a sense as to whether we are retrieving the uses of
look that we want. Notice, in Figure 6.3, that many of the instances of look that we have
retrieved are in fact not what we were looking for! In these cases, look is most often
not being used as a linking verb, but rather as a multiword verb (look forward to, look
at, look for). This means that we need to refine our search syntax so that we retrieve
linking verb examples, and not these other uses.
To do this, we can specify what kind of word we want to follow the verb look. For
example, we can say that we want to see only adjectives that come directly after this
verb, as shown in Figure 6.4. This would ensure that the uses of look retrieved through
our search are indeed linking verb examples.
As shown in Figure 6.4, we can specify adjective forms by using the syntax [j*].
We can then use the Collocate box to indicate where we want the adjective to occur. If
we want to see what adjectives come immediately to the right of the verb look, then we
would set the left context at zero, and the right context at 1. Another feature to note in
Figure 6.4 is at the bottom of the screen shot. Here, we have Sorting and Limits. This al-
lows you to choose whether you want to sort search results by frequency (most frequent
	 Chapter 6.  Investigating grammar use through online corpora	 91
to least frequent) or by Mutual Information score. A Mutual Information (MI) score
is a statistical measure of how strong a particular collocation is. If the keyword occurs
together with another word in the corpus more frequently than would be expected by
chance, then the mutual information score for the keyword plus this collocate would
be high. Typically, an MI score of 3 or more is considered strong. When you use the
Collocates box in COCA, COCA will automatically set an MI requirement of 3. This
allows COCA to filter out highly frequent words that co-occur with just about anything
(e.g., articles, prepositions, high frequency lexical words). If you are new to COCA,
we recommend you not worry about this feature too much (at least initially). As you
become more proficient, you may want to experiment with changing the MI settings.
Once we type our keyword in the Word box and our desired collocate (adjectives) in
the Collocates box, we can click Search. Figure 6.5 displays some of the results of this query.
	
Figure 6.5  Look + adjective search results
Figure 6.4  Searching for the verb look followed by adjectives
92	 Pedagogical Grammar
One pattern we notice immediately when looking at the collocate list is that the adjec-
tives good and great make up a large proportion of all of the adjective collocates. We can
also see that many of the adjectives can roughly be divided into two categories, posi-
tive (good, great, beautiful, fabulous, gorgeous, fantastic) and negative (tired, confused,
sad, pale, awful). When providing L2 students with collocational information about a
particular keyword or grammatical feature, it is helpful to come up with meaningful
collocate categories, rather than simply creating a long list of collocates. At this point
in your search process, you might make a quick list of these positive and negative
adjectives, or any other meaningful categories you observe. You can also click on any
collocate to observe its use in the context of concordance lines.
It is also possible to look at the frequency of these verbs across COCA’s five main
registers: Spoken, Fiction, Magazine, News, and Academic. This can be done by using
the “Chart” option provided just above the keyword search box, as shown in Figure 6.6.
Figure 6.6  Choosing the“Chart”option in COCA
This search query will generate a chart that shows the frequency of look + adjective in
each register in COCA, as shown in Figure 6.7.
Figure 6.7  “Chart”search results (comparison across registers)
In Figure 6.7, we can see that look + adjective occurs in Fiction much more often than
it does in the other registers. This use of look as a linking verb is also much more fre-
quent in the Spoken register than in the Academic register, which is consistent with
the findings of the Longman Grammar of Spoken and Written English. There are two
	 Chapter 6.  Investigating grammar use through online corpora	 93
separate frequency counts provided in COCA: a raw count (labeled as FREQ) and
a normed count (labeled as PER MIL), which indicates the frequency per 1 million
words. If we want to see examples of how look is used with adjectives in each register,
we can click on a bar to see the concordance line results. Figure 6.8 displays some of
the concordance line data for the Academic register.
Figure 6.8  Concordance line results for look + adjective in the Academic register
In Figure 6.8, we can see that often, look + adjective occurs within a direct quotation,
which shows that this combination is even less frequent in academic written prose than
the frequency counts indicate.
As these sample searches demonstrate, there are many possible investigations that
can be done with just one word – imaging trying to do an in-depth analysis of each
linking verb you plan to teach! If we are not careful, behind the scenes investigations
can quickly become impractical. At the same time, these investigations have the po-
tential to greatly enrich our L2 grammar teaching.
How then, can teachers make use of online corpora without spending countless
hours analyzing frequency counts, concordance lines, and collocate lists? The key, we
believe, is focus. Before carrying out an investigation, it is crucial for teachers to ar-
ticulate their questions and to define a manageable scope for their investigation. These
initial parameters can help teachers to refine their search queries and to stay focused
throughout the search process. In Table 6.1, we provide an example of a focused, man-
ageable corpus exploration goal.
The next step is to define some parameters for your exploration. Will you be doing
general searches of the entire corpus? Will you focus only on one register? Will you be
comparing use across 2 or more registers? In terms of collocates, are you interested in
only adjective collocates, or do you also want to see what nouns occur after these link-
ing verbs? What about left collocates? The answers to these questions should depend
both on your learning goals for the class session and the amount of time you have
available for the exploration.
94	 Pedagogical Grammar
Table 6.1  Steps in the behind the scenes corpus exploration process
Step 1: Articulate a manageable focus and goal for the exploration
I am planning a lesson for my Intermediate ESL grammar class on sensory link-
ing verbs. In this lesson, we will focus on the linking verb + adjective pattern and
contrast this with the transitive verb pattern (e.g., “you look sad” versus “he is
looking for his book”). One key focus of the lesson is that sensory linking verbs
are typically used in the simple present tense, while their transitive counterparts
(activity verbs) are frequently used in the progressive. I hope to be able to provide
my students with many examples of when they’d choose to use a sensory verb in
the simple present tense. My primary goal for the corpus exploration is to high-
light important collocates and typical uses of five frequently used sensory linking
verbs: look, feel, sound, smell, taste.
Step 2: Set parameters for the corpus exploration
Example:
In terms of register, I am mainly interested in use within the Spoken component
of COCA because my lesson on linking verbs will focus on comprehending and us-
ing them effectively in oral communication. It is also the case that sensory verb
+ adjective is a pattern that occurs more frequently in speaking than in formal
writing. In terms of collocates, I will focus on adjective collocates to the im-
mediate right of the keyword, as adjectives more frequently occur with these
linking verbs than do nouns. I will take note of who does the looking and feeling in
most of the concordance lines that I view (e.g., Is it typically a pronoun?), but I
will not do any formal investigation of frequent left collocates.
Step 3: Determine appropriate search techniques
Example:
My search techniques:
–	 Select the Spoken register from the list of possible registers to search
–	 Type [look].[v*] into the Word box
–	 Type [j*] into the Collocate box.
–	 Select 0 for the left context and 1 for the right context.
–	 Repeat these steps for each sensory verb.
Step 4: Determine appropriate analysis techniques
Example:
My analysis techniques:
–	
Scan down the collocate list for each verb. Note any general semantic catego-
ries that can be used to characterize the types of collocates associated with
each verb (e.g., positive versus negative, adjectives related to appearance, adjec-
tives related to age)
–	 Identify 5 good examples of each major category
–	
Click on these adjectives and scan through the concordance lines. Can I get a
sense of important communicative functions that are fulfilled by these verb +
adjective combinations?
Step 5: Identify a possible outcome of the investigation
Example:
Once I finish my analysis, I plan to create a handout that provides a list of key
collocates and example sentences for each sensory linking verb.
	 Chapter 6.  Investigating grammar use through online corpora	 95
Once you define your corpus exploration focus, it is important to decide what
search techniques you will use to investigate your questions. If you have time to explore
a variety of search approaches, that’s great; however, if time is limited, it is best to limit
the number of search techniques used.
After you generate search results, you will need to decide how to analyze the corpus
data. Again, the possibilities here are almost endless. You could, if time were not a fac-
tor, click on each adjective in each collocate list, read each concordance line, and write
down a brief description of the meaning expressed in these lines. Time, of course, is a
factor, so we recommend setting, in advance, some limits on how much time you will
spend exploring the search results. It is also helpful to have an end product in mind as
you work. Your ideas about this may change as you do the investigation, but if you can
formulate some tentative plans for how you will share your findings with your students,
this will help you to take good notes as you do the exploration.
To summarize, behind the scenes corpus explorations allow teachers to investigate
their own questions about language use, questions that may not be addressed in exist-
ing teaching materials. Online resources like COCA also help to draw our attention
to lexico-grammatical patterns we might not otherwise notice, thus allowing language
teachers to offer fuller (and more accurate) explanations of how the target language is
used in a variety of contexts.
Reflection 6.1
– Try out your own behind the scenes investigation. Identify a question you or your
students have about the use of a particular word or grammatical structure. Follow
the steps provided in Table 6.1.
– What did you learn through your investigation? To what extent were you able to
answer your question? How might you present this information to your students?
The corpora as a classroom resource approach
As L2 teachers become more comfortable with online corpus resources, they may wish
to introduce their students to these resources and make them a more integral part of
the L2 classroom. In the corpora as a classroom resource approach, students consult not
only textbooks and dictionaries when they have language-related questions, but also
online corpora and other corpus-based tools.
Integrating corpus consultation into the L2 classroom certainly comes with its
challenges. As Chambers (2005) notes, large corpora (like COCA) present learners
with many samples of language from a variety of contexts, contexts with which they
may or may not be familiar. While traditional resources like grammar textbooks and
dictionaries carefully craft explanations and examples that are accessible to language
96	 Pedagogical Grammar
learners, the language collected in online corpora was not originally intended for an
L2 student audience. Rather, it was intended for an audience (a television audience,
a reader of fiction, a biologist, a best friend) that is far removed from the classroom
context. It is likely that concordance line data will contain language that is unfamiliar
to students, which may make it difficult for them to find the “answers” they are look-
ing for.
Nevertheless, studies of corpus consultation in the classroom have found that
many L2 students respond positively to the use of corpora in the classroom. Chambers
(2005), for example, trained 14 L2 learners studying a variety of languages (English,
French, German, Irish, and Spanish) to consult corpora when checking their written
work. In a reflective essay at the end of the semester, her students reported that they
appreciated the opportunity to work directly with authentic texts:
As one student wrote, “the French used in these articles is authentic, up to date, and
relevant.” The word “real” is also used to describe the corpus, in contrast to the invented
examples in course books and grammars, which are described by one student as “unreal
and sometimes stupid.” The up-to-date nature of the contents, relating to news from
just a few months previously, was appreciated by many students…. The rich learning
environment created by a large number of examples was also appreciated, in contrast
to the limited number of examples given in course books, dictionaries, and grammars.
As one student wrote, “The sheer amount of entries given by the software was impres-
sive, and it made learning about the choice made [when using demonstrative pronouns
in French] much quicker and easier when there were numerous examples to look at.
 (Chambers, 2005, p. 120)
The L2 students in Yoon’s (2008) study also expressed positive attitudes towards the
use of corpora as a resource. These students, who were pursuing graduate degrees
at English-speaking universities, were trained to consult a large general corpus (the
Collins COBUILD corpus) as part of their composing process. When students were not
sure how to use a particular word, they were encouraged to do a keyword search for
this word in the corpus, and they were asked to keep track of their keyword searches
in a corpus search log. Yoon found that for many of the L2 students in her study, the
USING CORPORA AS A CLASSROOM RESOURCE
–	
Teachers consult corpus-based resources when students ask questions that cannot be
answered through traditional resources, and they share these findings with students.
–	
Teachers recommend and model the use of corpus-based tools to address specific
language questions.
–	
Teachers discuss how corpus-based tools might be used in conjunction with other
language resources (e.g., dictionaries).
	 Chapter 6.  Investigating grammar use through online corpora	 97
corpus consultations helped to raise their awareness of the ways in which lexis and
grammar work together to create meaning. As one L2 student explained:
Learning a language is to learn how the people of that language use the language.
Basically, what we learned as grammar is all related to collocation. For example, we
just learned “make use of” as a chunk, but the fact that it is not “make use in” or “make
usage of” is based on collocation…. Actually, we have to learn words focusing on ex-
pressions…. In the past, we taught words and grammar separately. But we can teach
them both. (Yoon, 2008, p. 41)
Yoon argues that this increased awareness not only helped her students to improve
their writing, but also helped them to develop new approaches to their own language
learning: “Developing the awareness that collocations exist or that they are important
in language learning/writing is an educational process in itself” (p. 42).
It should be noted that both Chambers (2005) and Yoon (2008) investigated the
use of corpora with advanced language learners who were enrolled in credit-bearing
university courses, either as undergraduate or graduate students. Indeed, much of the
literature to date has focused on the use of corpora with advanced L2 students, and
some have questioned whether corpora are an appropriate resource for beginning and
intermediate learners. To address this concern, Ishikura (2011) explored the use of
corpus-based resources with an L2 student enrolled in an Intensive English Program
(IEP). As part of this case study, Ishikura spent a total of 6 hours in one-on-one train-
ing sessions with her student, Michelle, introducing her to three corpus-based tools:
the Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English <http://www.ldoceonline.com>, Just
The Word <http://www.just-the-word.com>, and COCA. Ishikura, like Yoon (2008),
found that the use of these resources helped to increase her student’s awareness of the
importance of both lexis and grammar and sparked her student’s interest in colloca-
tion and phraseology. Ishikura cautions, however, that students in IEP programs may
initially feel intimidated by large, general corpora like COCA:
Michelle had a perception that she did not have enough vocabulary in order to benefit
from corpus tools. She seemed to think that she was not ready for the corpus resources,
and one of the corpus tools, the COCA corpus, was not quite “ready” for her. (p. 85)
In other words, at this point, COCA is primarily designed for researchers and teachers
who already have some amount of corpus training. L2 students who are new to corpora
will need a great deal of guidance and support if they are to feel comfortable consult-
ing these resources on a regular basis. To address this challenge, Ishikura recommends
gradually introducing learners to corpus-based tools, starting first with tools that use
formats they are familiar with (e.g., corpus-based dictionaries) and then gradually
moving towards more complicated search interfaces.
98	 Pedagogical Grammar
To illustrate how L2 teachers might take this approach in the L2 grammar class-
room, we will now work through three sample keyword searches in each of the re-
sources Ishikura explored. Figure 6.9 displays an example of a corpus log, which we
adapted from the log format used by Ishikura. In this log, students can keep track of
each keyword or phrase they decided to look up, why they chose to look it up, and
which resources proved to be most useful for the question they posed. The example
search included in Figure 6.9, for the word “suggest,” is an actual search carried out by
Michelle in Ishikura’s study.
Date Keyword Purpose My searches
Searches to try:
– Longman Learner Dictionary
– Just the Word
– Keyword search in COCA
Which resources were most useful?
What did you learn about this
word?
Figure 6.9  A sample search log, adapted from Ishikura (2011)
The first resource recommended by Ishikura, the Longman Dictionary of Contemporary
English (LDCE), allows students to type a keyword and to retrieve a list of definitions,
collocations, and example sentences. The definitions and collocations highlighted in
each entry are chosen based on the frequency with which they are used in the Longman
Corpus. More frequent uses are listed first, followed by less frequent uses. If a student
were to type the word suggest in the search box, he would be presented with the entry
shown in Figure 6.10.
As Figure 6.10 shows, the student’s question about the use of suggest is directly
answered in the GRAMMAR box displayed at the end of the entry. Prior to this, sev-
eral possible collocational patterns are listed (e.g., suggest that, suggest –ing, suggest
how). Although students need not work with raw data when consulting the Longman
Dictionary, there is still quite a bit of information presented, and students will still
need training.
	 Chapter 6.  Investigating grammar use through online corpora	 99
Figure 6.10  Entry in the Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English
100	 Pedagogical Grammar
Figure 6.10  (continued)
Based on recommendations put forth by Flowerdew (2009), Ishikura also trained her
students to use Just the Word, a resource which provides feedback to students on
multiword combinations, based on the frequency with which these phrases occur in
the British National Corpus. As shown in Figure 6.11, if a student is unsure of a word
combination they plan to use in writing or speaking, she can type this combination into
Just the Word and click on the “Alternatives” button. Selecting “Learner Errors” further
tailors feedback to common questions that L2 students have; selecting “Thesaurus”
widens the range of suggested alternatives.
PREPARING STUDENTS TO CONSULT CORPUS-BASED DICTIONARIES
Before asking students to conduct their own searches, we recommend:
1.	 Explaining what a corpus is and how corpora are used to develop dictionaries.
2.	
Talking through a sample word entry, showing students where to find definitions,
information about collocation, and example sentences.
3.	
Modeling a keyword search, starting with a general question and ending with a
tentative answer to the question, based on what was learned from the search.
4.	
Developing a few guided keyword search activities, so students can practice using the
resource in class, with the help of peers.
	 Chapter 6.  Investigating grammar use through online corpora	 101
Figure 6.11  Checking a word combination using Just the Word
Once students submit their query, they will then see their phrase and several other
suggested phrases, each followed by either a green or a red bar. A green bar indicates
a “good” or frequent combination; the longer the bar, the stronger the collocation. A
red bar indicates a “bad” or very infrequent combination. Figure 6.12 displays results
for the phrase suggested us.
Figure 6.12  Just the Word results for the query suggested us
Notice in Figure 6.12 that Just the Word displays verbs in their base form only, and
function words are omitted. If students want to see the actual use of these phrases in
sentences, they can click on the phrase to view a sample of concordance lines.
Students can also type a single keyword and ask Just the Word to display a list
of important collocations. For example, if the student who searched for suggested
us still wants to know how to use the verb suggest (rather than the alternatives pro-
vided), she can go back to the home page and do a “Combinations” search, as shown
in Figure 6.13. We should warn you, however, that this type of search generates a lot
of data, which may be difficult for students to wade through. L2 teachers, however,
may find this tool useful, as it quickly highlights frequent syntactic patterns associ-
ated with a word.
102	 Pedagogical Grammar
Figure 6.13  The“Combinations”option in Just the Word
Figure 6.14  Results for suggest using the“Combination”option
As shown in Figure 6.14, a Combinations search in Just the Word will generate a list of
collocates organized by syntactic pattern. Each major syntactic pattern associated with
the keyword will be listed in the upper right-hand corner of the page, and users can
click on each of these patterns to be taken to the appropriate collocate list. Collocate lists
are also organized by semantic domain (e.g., approach and way; answer and solution;
alternative and possibility). Again, as with the Longman Dictionary, there is a potential
for students to be overwhelmed by the amount of information they are being presented
with. In-class training prior to at-home use is crucial. If students have already been
introduced to the Longman Dictionary, then Just the Word could be used to build on
their knowledge of corpus-based resources. Teachers can point out, for example, that
	 Chapter 6.  Investigating grammar use through online corpora	 103
corpora are designed to represent different dialects and domains of use. The Longman
Corpus used by the Longman Dictionary is a corpus of American English, while the
corpus used by Just the Word is the British National Corpus. Teachers will also need
to introduce students to frequency lists. While the Longman Dictionary lists defini-
tions, Just the Word provides only lists of collocates and syntactic patterns. Because
this format will be very different from formats used in dictionaries and L2 textbooks,
teachers will need to spend time in class talking through sample keyword searches and
explaining how to use the red and green bars, the collocate lists, the syntactic jargon,
and the concordance line samples.
The third resource used by Ishikura in her case study was COCA. As we have seen
in this chapter, COCA allows uses to conduct a wide range of lexical and grammatical
searches, and the amount of data displayed can be overwhelming – even to experienced
corpus linguists! Nevertheless, there are a few search techniques that can yield relatively
quick answers to some types of language use questions.
If we return to the question about suggest and whether one can say Namioka sug-
gested us to make a good decision, it is possible for students to check this syntactic pat-
tern in COCA. The question of “Is it ok to say this?” can be answered by looking at the
frequency with which this pattern occurs. For example, a student could type “suggested
us to” into the Word box in COCA, as shown in Figure 6.15.
Figure 6.15  Searching for suggested us to in COCA
COCA will then display the number of times this word combination occurs in the
corpus. Though the corpus is comprised of over 40 million words, suggested us to oc-
curs only once.
This is a strong indication that this combination is not typically done in American
English. To see what words can follow the verb suggested, a student could type sug-
gested * into the Word box, as shown in Figure 6.16. This search will generate a list of
two-word phrases that all begin with the word suggested.
104	 Pedagogical Grammar
Figure 6.16  Searching for words that follow the word suggest in COCA
Figure 6.17  Search results for suggest *
As we can see in Figure 6.17, suggested is followed by that much more frequently than
any other collocate. Figure 6.17 also shows that when a pronoun is used, it is a subject
pronoun (he, they, we), not an object pronoun like us. To see the fuller phraseology
of suggested that, a student could click on this collocation to see concordance line
examples.
As the sample searches presented here demonstrate, bringing corpora into the
classroom requires a considerable time investment. Teachers must first learn what
resources are available, how each search interface works, and what search strategies
are most effective for investigating students’ questions. From there, teachers need
to develop classroom lessons which train students in the use of online corpus tools.
Nevertheless, it is also clear that when students are given the chance to consult corpora
first-hand, they respond quite positively and they develop a deeper understanding
	 Chapter 6.  Investigating grammar use through online corpora	 105
of how lexis and grammar work together to create meaning. These tools also allow
students and teachers to take a more active role in the language learning process, by
providing them with direct access to language data. In the following section, we build
on this idea of corpora as a resource and describe how teachers might integrate corpus
analysis directly into their L2 grammar lessons. The use of corpora in L2 grammar
teaching need not always be reactive, or a last resort when other more traditional
resources fail. Corpus analysis can also be planned in advance, for the purpose of
enriching, supplementing, or challenging grammar textbook explanations.
Reflection 6.2
– Using Ishikura’s search log, identify a keyword or set of keywords you want to
investigate. Define a purpose for your investigation, through the creation of a
research question. Focus your question on collocation, phraseology, or register
variation.
– Carry out an investigation of your research question using the three types of
resources highlighted here:
–	 An online, corpus-based dictionary
–	 Just the Word (or a similar resource)
–	 A searchable, online corpus
– Which resources were most helpful in your investigation? What did you learn
about the use of your keyword(s)? What challenges did you face as you conducted
your research?
The student as researcher approach
As we have seen thus far, corpus tools not only allow students to check the accuracy
or acceptability of their grammar use, but they also have the potential to change the
ways in which L2 students approach their grammar learning. A student as researcher
approach aims to captitalize on this potential, through the routine use of corpus
analysis tasks in the classroom. As a number of corpus linguists have argued, when
put in the position of language researcher, rather than language student, L2 learners
feel in charge of their own learning, and thus motivation is increased (Aston, 2001);
learners feel empowered to challenge textbook explanations and native-speaker in-
tuitions (Lorenz, 2000; Mair, 2000); and learners make “serendipitous” discoveries
about language use that, without the use of corpora, would not have been possible
(Bernardini, 2000).
In addition to stimulating learners’ curiosity about the target language, corpus
analysis tasks may also provide learners with important opportunities to ‘notice the gap’
between their own interlanguage and the target (Aston, 2001; Meunier, 2002; Gavioli,
106	 Pedagogical Grammar
2001). Drawing on theories of second language acquisition that emphasize the role
of input, noticing, and output in the language learning process (e.g., Schmidt, 1990;
Swain, 2000), corpus linguists have pointed out that corpus-based tasks allow learn-
ers to test their hypotheses about language use against the data that they observe, and
this noticing, in turn, may help learners to modify their output so that it more closely
approximates target language norms, or the conventions of particular disciplines or
genres (Aston, 2001; Gavioli, 2001; Meunier, 2002; Zanettin, 2001).
THE STUDENT AS LANGUAGE RESEARCHER
Teacher-directed research
–	
Teachers develop L2 grammar lessons that make use of corpus data (e.g., frequency
lists, concordance line results)
–	
Teachers engage students in guided analysis tasks which help them to notice particular
patterns of language use
Student-directed research
–	 Teachers train students in corpus search and analysis techniques
–	
Teachers allow students to generate research questions, conduct searches, analyze
results, and draw conclusions about language use
One of the earliest proponents of bringing corpus data into the classroom was Tim
Johns (1991), who coined the term data-driven learning (DDL). In John’s conception
of DDL, which we refer to as teacher-led DDL, learners engage in the analysis of con-
cordance lines that have been selected, arranged, and possibly edited by the teacher in
order to draw learners’ attention to patterns of language use. Johns advocates both an
inductive and deductive approach to concordance line analysis. In an inductive ap-
proach, learners may be asked to notice important collocations, words, grammatical
forms, or semantic categories that immediately precede or follow the keyword. In a
deductive approach, learners might fill in missing elements of concordance lines based
on patterns they have already studied.
As in the behind the scenes approach, teachers using Johns’ DDL approach conduct
their own analyses outside of class, make decisions regarding which findings to share
with students, and design classroom materials that present these findings in an under-
standable way. Unlike teachers using the behind the scenes approach, however, teachers
using DDL make explicit reference to corpora and they include corpus data (e.g., word
frequency lists, concordance lines) in their instructional materials.
Johns (1991) argues that teacher-led DDL can be an effective way of introducing
students to corpus analysis. As both Chambers (2005) and Ishikura (2011) note, large,
general corpora can be intimidating and overwhelming for learners. If learners are
viewing concordance lines for the very first time, then teachers may want to present
	 Chapter 6.  Investigating grammar use through online corpora	 107
those concordance lines in such a way as to minimize cognitive overload. For example,
teachers can delete lines that contain too many unfamiliar vocabulary words and sort
concordance lines so that patterns of use are more apparent.
In a study of teacher-led data-driven learning, Boulton (2010) explored the use
of prepared DDL handouts with low-intermediate L2 learners and compared the ef-
fectiveness of these materials with more traditional, dictionary-based materials. To
identify challenging areas of grammar shared by many French learners of English,
Boulton collected argumentative essays from 79 French university students writing in
English. Based on errors made in the essays and input from other English teachers at
the university, Boutlon selected 15 language items (e.g., use of good versus right, say
versus tell) to focus on in the DDL and traditional materials. Participants in the study
then received instruction on 10 of these items. Five items were taught using tradi-
tional materials (see Figure 6.18) and five items were taught using DDL materials (see
Figure 6.19). The remaining five items were not taught to participants, so these items
could serve as a control.
Prior to the instructional treatment, participants took a pretest which targeted
the 15 language items. After the instructional treatment, participants took another
test. Boulton found that participants improved their scores on items that were taught
using DDL and items taught using traditional methods. Items that were not taught (the
control) showed no improvement. Boulton argues that these findings show that even
low-intermediate students “are capable of detecting at least some patterns and applying
them to new contexts” (p. 557), suggesting that not just advanced, but also beginning
and intermediate students may benefit from DDL activities. Boulton further argues
that paper-based, teacher-prepared DDL activities play an important role in training
L2 students to eventually consult corpora themselves.
Designing DDL materials, like consulting corpora-based tools, can take a consider-
able amount of time. Studies like Boulton (2010) suggest, however, that this time invest-
ment may be worth it. Many of the steps involved in creating DDL materials are similar
to those outlined in Table 6.1 for behind the scenes investigations. An added step, how-
ever, is selecting samples of corpus data to share with students in class. Concordance
lines should use language that students are familiar with and should be arranged in
such a way as to highlight important collocational and phraseological patterns.
Collections of graded readers provide an excellent resource for gathering con-
cordance line data that is accessible to beginner and intermediate students. One use-
ful resource for English is Tom Cobb’s website, The Compleat Lexical Tutor, which
provides access to an English Graded Reader Corpus. Graded readers are designed to
target a particular reading level (e.g., elementary school grade levels, different levels
of English proficiency). Vocabulary is carefully controlled so that readers at each level
are not overwhelmed by too many unfamiliar words.
108	 Pedagogical Grammar
Figure 6.18  Sample DDL lesson used by Boulton (2010, p. 567)
	 Chapter 6.  Investigating grammar use through online corpora	 109
Figure 6.19  Sample traditional lesson used by Boulton (2010, p. 568)
110	 Pedagogical Grammar
To access graded reader material through Tom Cobb’s website, teachers can first
go to the websites main page: <http://www.lextutor.ca/>. From the website’s main
page, users can click on Concordance, as shown in Figure 6.20. From here, users can
choose to generate concordances in English, French, German, and Spanish, as shown
in Figure 6.21.
Figure 6.20  Choosing the“Concordance”option in the Compleat Lexical Tutor
Figure 6.21  Choosing a language to work with
Once users choose a language, they will be presented with a number of search options
for generating concordance lines. Tom Cobb’s search interface differs from COCA’s in
a number of ways. First, the corpora available through the Compleat Lexical Tutor are
not grammatically tagged, so you will not be able to search for specific grammatical
categories. However, you can sort concordance lines so that collocates are listed in al-
phabetical order. This means that concordance lines will be organized so that instances
of make a will all come first, and later, you will be able to clearly see all instances of
make the. We recommend experimenting with different settings and clicking Submit,
to learn how each parameter impacts the concordance line display.
Here, we will demonstrate a sample search using the keywords make and do, two
seemingly synonymous words that ESL students often have questions about. To begin
our search, we can type make into the Keyword box and Sort By 1 word to the right. We
can also choose a corpus of simplified language. For example, the 1k Graded Corpus
shown in Figure 6.22 is a corpus of graded readers which use only the first 1,000 words
of English.
	 Chapter 6.  Investigating grammar use through online corpora	 111
Figure 6.22  Choosing to search a corpus of graded readers
The search query displayed in Figure 6.22 generates over 1,000 hits. When you scroll
down these concordance lines, you will notice that many important collocates of make
(e.g., difference, mistake, money). To generate a smaller sample of concordance lines
which highlight the patterns you want to present to your students, you can search
for specific collocates that occur near the keyword. Figure 6.23 shows how to gener-
ate concordance lines which contain the verb make and the collocate decisions, and
Figure 6.24 displays the results.
Figure 6.23  Searching for make + decisions
Figure 6.24  Concordance lines for make + decisions
112	 Pedagogical Grammar
Once you identify the concordance lines you want to share with your students, you
will also need to decide how to display them. First, you will want to clean up the lines
to eliminate examples that are not appropriate and to take out any distracting symbols.
You may also consider arranging concordance lines so that they do not contain any
incomplete sentences. Finally, you want to think about how to structure the language
analysis activity. It is important to provide students with clear instructions about what
you want them to do with the data you have presented them. Figures 6.25 and 6.26
present a staged language analysis task that could be used to raise students’ awareness
of subtle differences between make and do.
Note that the sample language analysis tasks do not attempt to cover all of the noun
collocates observed in the corpus searches. Instead, these activities focus exclusively
on collocates that relate to types of mental or academic work. As with the behind the
scenes approach, it is important for a DDL activity to have a manageable focus. For ex-
ample, you may decide that your students are already familiar with concrete nouns used
with make, but are less familiar with idiomatic expressions like make sense. Students
can always ask follow-up questions about other collocates – what you want to avoid
is overwhelming students with too much data. If this happens, it will be difficult for
students to identify and describe patterns of use.
Reflection 6.3
– Building on one of your previous investigations (from Reflection 6.1 or 6.2),
develop a guided DDL activity that could be used in an L2 classroom.
–	 Identify a manageable focus and goal for the in-class investigation.
–	 Select, edit, and arrange concordance lines to highlight important patterns of use.
–	
Develop a corresponding activity (or set of activities) that engages students in
the analysis of the corpus data.
In addition to presenting students with pre-arranged corpus data, teachers also have
the option of engaging students directly in their own corpus explorations. One type
of student-led DDL activity that can be particularly motivating is an activity which
asks students to compare textbook information against actual corpus data. Students
can investigate, for example, whether the phrasal verbs, idioms, or useful expressions
provided in a textbook chapter are indeed frequently used in spoken or written com-
munication. This type of task also serves as a useful first step in developing corpus
analysis skills – students can learn the basics of a particular online corpus interface
(e.g., where to type in the keyword, how to generate a frequency list) without the added
pressure of analyzing phraseological patterns.
	
Chapter
6. 
Investigating
grammar
use
through online
corpora	
113
Figure 6.25  Sample DDL concordance line analysis task
114	 Pedagogical Grammar
One corpus that is particularly suitable for word frequency investigations is the
Michigan Corpus of Upper-Division Student Papers (MICUSP). This corpus is a col-
lection of A student papers written by university seniors and graduate students. When
users type in a keyword, they can immediately see how frequently this word is used in
student writing across academic disciplines. Figure 6.27 displays the search MICUSP
interface. When users first access the MICUSP website, they will see a summary of
the student papers included in the corpus. The bar chart indicates how many papers
were collected for each discipline, and the pie chart indicates what types of academic
papers (e.g., argumentative papers, lab reports) are included in the corpus. Users can
perform searches of the entire corpus or can limit searches to a specific discipline or
paper type.
Figure 6.26  Sample DDL application task (images retrieved from morgufile.com)
	 Chapter 6.  Investigating grammar use through online corpora	 115
One linguistic feature that lends itself to frequency-based searches is linking
adverbials such as however, therefore, and furthermore. These words, often referred
to in textbooks as “transition words,” are typically taught to students in the form
of a long list, and students often have questions about which transition words are
preferred over others and how many transitions words they should use in a given
essay. While corpus-based resources do provide some information on frequency of
use (see, e.g., Conrad, 1999), this information is based on published writing. Students
are likely to also be interested in how skilled student writers use these transitions in
their academic assignments.
To explore frequency of use in MICUSP, students can simply type the keyword
into the search box at the top of the page. After they click search, students will see the
bar chart change to show the number of times this word was used in each academic
discipline. By clicking on the “per 10,000 words” option above the bar chart, students
can see the normed counts, which allows them to compare frequency of use across
the disciplines. (A 10,000 word paper would be about a 35-page paper, so a normed
count of 10 would indicate the word was used, on average, about 10 times in a long
research paper.) Students can also see the total frequency count for the keyword just
below the search box. As can be seen in Figure 6.28, the word however occurs 3242
times in 698 papers, which means that in most of the papers using however, the word
appears multiple times.
The keyword can also be viewed in context below the bar chart. The MICUSP
interface does not arrange keywords in concordance lines, but rather displays them
within several lines of text. As students scroll down these text excerpts, they can see
where the word appears in each paper, and can click on the link to that paper to read
Figure 6.27  The MICUSP search interface
116	 Pedagogical Grammar
it in its entirety. It is also possible for students to focus on the use of the keyword in
a particular academic discipline by clicking on the bar of that discipline, as shown in
Figure 6.29. For example, if most of your students plan to take an English course as
part of their academic study, you could ask students to look at the use of the word in
this discipline specifically. Alternatively, if you have students who represent a variety
of majors, you could allow each individual student to choose the discipline that is most
relevant to them.
It is also possible to use MICUSP to identify linking adverbials that are used much
less frequently. Take, for example, the word besides, which is often listed in ESL text-
books as a suitable substitute for furthermore. An investigation of this keyword shows
that while it does occur in MICUSP, it is much less frequent than however, and it is
not typically used to link two sentences together. Scanning through the paper samples
indicates that most often besides is used as a preposition and is followed by either a
noun phrase or an –ing clause, as in Examples 6.1 through 6.4.
	(6.1)	 Besides neighborhood conditions, which Hector points to as a factor in the
choices he has been forced to make, other formative forces include race, eth-
nicity, socioeconomic status, and instability in the home (Education).
	(6.2)	 Besides trying to influence policy in environmentally beneficial ways, these
groups are also interested in maintaining their organizations (Natural Resources
& Environment).
Figure 6.28  MICUSP search results for the keyword however
	 Chapter 6.  Investigating grammar use through online corpora	 117
	 (6.3)	 There is one major space vehicle producer besides Boeing and Lockheed Martin,
and no launch service providers besides Boeing and Lockheed Martin (Economics).
	 (6.4)	 Their ability to connect the personal to the social explains not only why they were
so popular, but also offers another forum besides literature and traditional public
speaking through which black women expounded on current events and their lives
(History).
Although the purpose of student-led DDL is to allow students to take on the role of
language researcher, this approach still requires a great deal of planning prior to the
in-class exploration. We do not recommend asking students to carry out an investiga-
tion before you have had a chance to try it yourself, particularly if students are new
to corpus analysis. In the case of linking adverbials, for example, you might carry out
your own searches at home, observe important patterns, and then use this information
to design an in-class exploration activity.
Reflection 6.4
– Building on a previous investigation (Reflection 6.1, 6.2, or 6.3), design an in-class,
student-led DDL activity. Outline steps in the research process that students can
complete independently, as a class, or in small groups.
– Now, try out the investigation yourself (before asking your students to do it). What
challenges did you encounter? In light of these challenges, how might you modify
your original instructions and/or support students as they carry out their own
investigations?
Figure 6.29  Narrowing a search to a specific discipline
118	 Pedagogical Grammar
Exploring World Englishes and corpora of other languages
The examples provided in this chapter have all been explorations of English language
corpora, and most of these corpora represent standard varieties of English spoken in
the U.S. and the U.K. However, we also want to highlight the fact that an increasing
number of online corpora in other varieties of English and other languages have re-
cently become available to L2 teachers. A corpus that may be of particular interest to
teachers who are preparing L2 students for international communication in English is
the Vienna-Oxford International Corpus of English (VOICE). This corpus is designed
to represent what Seidlhofer (2001) calls English as a lingua franca, or English used for
the purpose of professional communication in contexts where one’s native language
is not known by those he is communicating with. As the VOICE website points out:
The majority of the world’s English users are not native speakers of the language,
but use it as an additional language, as a convenient means for communicative in-
teractions that cannot be conducted in their mother tongues…. These speakers use
English successfully on a daily basis all over the world, in their personal, professional
or academic lives. (VOICE, n.d., p. 1)
On its website, VOICE provides free access to 1 million words of spoken, face-to-face
interactions between speakers of English as a Lingual Franca (ELF). Registers repre-
sented in the corpus include interviews, press conferences, and professional meetings.
Users can download the corpus text files, or they perform keyword searches using the
website’s interface.
Many corpus linguists are also working to make corpora of other languages avail-
able to researchers and teachers. As Lee (2010) notes on his Bookmarks for Corpus-
based Linguists website, “Monolingual corpora for languages other than English form
the fastest-growing group of corpora” (2010, n.p.). Lee (2010) lists well over 100 corpus
building projects currently in development, and searchable online corpora are now
available for Arabic, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese, and Russian. (See also the
resources listed at the end of this chapter.) Complimentary search interfaces and L2
teaching resources in a variety of languages are sure to follow.
	 Summary
Teachers who are interested in using corpora and corpus-based resources for pedagogical pur-
poses have a number of options available to them:
–	A behindthescenes approach, where teachers consult corpus-based resources when design-
ing lessons, materials, and tasks.
	 Chapter 6.  Investigating grammar use through online corpora	 119
–	A corpora as a classroom resource approach, where teachers model the use of corpus-based
resources in the classroom and train students in how to use a small set of tools (e.g., corpus-
based dictionaries) to investigate their own language questions.
–	A studentasresearcherapproach, where teachers (1) engage students in guided corpus anal-
ysis tasks, using data that has been selected and arranged by the teacher and/or (2) train
students to carry out their own investigations of language corpora.
	 Suggestions for further reading
Bennett, G. (2010). UsingCorporaintheLanguageLearningClassroom:CorpusLinguisticsforTeach-
ers. Ann Arbor, MI: University of Michigan Press.
Flowerdew, L. (2009). Applying corpus linguistics to pedagogy: A critical evaluation. International
Journal of Corpus Linguistics, 14, 393–417.
Gavioli, L. (2001). The learner as researcher: Introducing corpus concordancing in the classroom.
In G. Aston (Ed.), Learning with Corpora (pp. 108–137). Houston, TX: Athelstan.
Reppen, R. (2010). Using Corpora in the Language Classroom. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
	 Recommended resources
Corpus-based and corpus-informed English dictionaries
Cambridge Dictionaries Online
<http://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/>
Collins COBUILD English for Learners
<http://www.collinsdictionary.com/dictionary/english-cobuild-learners>
Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English
<http://www.ldoceonline.com/>
Macmillan Dictionary
<http://www.macmillandictionary.com/learn/>
English language corpora (user-friendly and searchable online)
Corpus of Contemporary American English
<http://corpus.byu.edu/coca/>
Corpus of Global Web-Based English
<http://corpus2.byu.edu/glowbe/>
TIME Magazine Corpus
<http://corpus.byu.edu/time/>
120	 Pedagogical Grammar
MICASE: Michigan Corpus of Academic Spoken English
<http://quod.lib.umich.edu/m/micase/>
MICUSP: Michigan Corpus of Upper-Level Student Papers
<http://micusp.elicorpora.info/>
ELISA (English Language Interview Corpus as a Second Language Application)
<http://www.uni-tuebingen.de/elisa/html/elisa_index.html>
HKCSE: Hong Kong Corpus of Spoken English
<http://rcpce.engl.polyu.edu.hk/HKCSE/>
VOICE: Vienna-Oxford International Corpus of English
<http://www.univie.ac.at/voice/>
Corpora in other languages
Arabicorpus
<http://arabicorpus.byu.edu/>
Corpus del Espanol
<http://www.corpusdelespanol.org/>
Corpus do Portugues
<http://www.corpusdoportugues.org/>
German, French, and Spanish Concordancers (Compleat Lexical Tutor)
<http://www.lextutor.ca/concordancers/>
Russian National Corpus
<http://www.ruscorpora.ru/en/index.html>
Non-English, Parallel, and Multilingual Corpora
<http://www.uow.edu.au/~dlee/corpora2.htm>
WebCorp
<http://www.webcorp.org.uk/live/index.jsp>
Corpuseye
<http://corp.hum.sdu.dk/>
Chapter 7
The dynamic nature of L2 learner language
As we discussed in the Introduction to this book, understanding how to teach the
grammar of a language involves more than just an understanding of how grammar is
used by speakers and writers in particular contexts. It also requires an understanding of
the process of second language acquisition. How do learners integrate new grammatical
systems into their existing linguistic repertoires, and in what ways can L2 instruction
facilitate this process? In the next two chapters, we turn our attention to these ques-
tions. Chapter 7 provides an overview of the study of learner language, which has
played a crucial role in our understanding of the L2 acquisition processes. In Chapter 8,
we explore the ways in which learner interaction with the linguistic environment (e.g.,
conversations with native speakers and peers, classroom instruction) can facilitate
L2 learning. We begin with a review of some of the earliest attempts to study and
characterize learner language and then describe some of the major features of learner
language that have been identified in more recent empirical research. Throughout our
discussion, we highlight ways in which the study of learner language might help to
inform the teaching of grammar in second language classrooms.
Early studies of learner language: L1–L2 comparisons
As we saw in Chapter 2, the field of linguistics in the 1940s and 1950s took a primarily
structuralist approach to the study of language. Detailed descriptions of individual
languages were provided, and languages were compared against one another to identify
key differences. In the world of L2 teaching, the Audiolingual Method made use of
these descriptions, through the creation of dialogues which were intended to model
how the language was actually spoken. The Audiolingual Method was also influenced
by behaviorist theories of language learning, and thus emphasized the importance of
repetition and habit formation. L2 learners were charged with the responsibility of
unlearning old habits (their L1) so that new habits could be adopted (the L2). This view
of L2 learning greatly influenced early approaches to the study of learner language.
One of the first theories to be proposed, in the 1950s, was the Contrastive Analysis
Hypothesis (CAH), which drew on Lado’s (1957) assertion that “those elements that are
similar to [a learner’s] native language will be simple for him, and those elements that
are different will be difficult” (cited in Larsen-Freeman & Long, 1991, p. 53). According
122	 Pedagogical Grammar
to the CAH, differences between the L1 and L2 would result in learner errors, or what
is often referred to as negative transfer. Learner errors were perceived as unfavorable
learning outcomes, and a primary goal of instruction was to eliminate these errors from
learner production. Research during this time focused on comparisons of the L1 and
L2 grammars and typically did not involve the collection of learner data.
It soon became apparent, however, that differences between the L1 and L2 could
not always predict the type of errors that L2 learners would make (Lightbown & Spada,
2013; Mitchell, Myles & Marsdon, 2013; Ortega, 2009). These limitations suggested that
if researchers were to achieve a fuller understanding of second language acquisition,
they would need to collect and study samples of learner language. A weaker version
of the CAH emerged, which posited that L1–L2 comparisons could help to shed light
on learner error, but would not always predict the type of errors that learners would
make. In a seminal paper, Corder (1967) argued for a more systematic approach to
the study of learner errors, one which examined errors in the context of learner pro-
duction and which attempted to explain why these errors were being made. Errors,
Corder argued, were not simply “annoying, distracting… by-products of the process of
learning” (p. 162), but rather could serve as an important window into L2 development:
A learner’s errors, then, provide evidence of the System of the language that he is using
(i.e. has learned) at a particular point in the course (and it must be repeated that he is
using some System, although it is not yet the right System). They are significant in three
different ways. First to the teacher, in that they tell him, if he undertakes a systematic
analysis, how far towards the goal the learner has progressed and, consequently, what
remains for him to learn. Second, they provide to the researcher evidence of how lan-
guage is learned or acquired, what strategies or procedures the learner is employing
in his discovery of the language. Thirdly (and in a sense this is their most important
aspect) they are indispensible to the learner himself, because we can regard the mak-
ing of errors as a device the learner uses in order to learn. It is a way the learner has of
testing his hypotheses about the nature of the language he is learning. (p. 167)
Corder, influenced by the Chomskyan revolution taking place during this time, further
argued that L2 learner errors played a role in second language development that was
similar to the role that errors played in child language development:
When a two year old child produces an utterance such as “This mummy chair” we
do not normally call this deviant, ill-formed, faulty, incorrect or whatever. We do not
regard it as an error in any sense at all, but rather as a normal childlike communication
which provides evidence of the state of his linguistic development at that moment.
 (p. 165)
This view of learner errors and learner language development would have a profound
effect on the study of learner language in the years to come. First, it would help to
establish the collection and analysis of learner production data as a primary research
	 Chapter 7.  The dynamic nature of L2 learner language	 123
method within the field of second language acquisition. Second, it would help to shift
researchers’ focus away from predicting and eradicating errors towards a focus on
explaining why learner errors occur. Most important, the “why” behind learner errors
was now thought to reveal important information about the underlying competence
of the L2 learner, or what Corder referred to as “the System.” In other words, learner
language was not seen as simply a deficient version of the L2, but rather as a variety of
language in its own right, with its own grammatical rules and phases of development.
Reflection 7.1
– As an L2 learner, how do you feel about making errors in the target language?
Do you view errors as important learning opportunities? What conditions need to
be present in order for you to benefit from the errors you make?
– As an L2 teacher, what have you learned from your students’ errors? Can you think
of times when students’ errors were “annoying” or “distracting”? Other times when
your students’ errors were encouraging or exciting? What contributed to your
positive or negative feelings in these situations?
Naming“the System”: Selinker’s concept of interlanguage
The term most frequently used today to refer to this learner language system is inter-
language, which Selinker (1972) describes as derived from both a learners’ native lan-
guage and the target language input she receives from the environment. Interlanguage,
according to Selinker, was in constant flux, changing as learners received more input
and made more connections and comparisons between the native language and the
target. Ideally, interlanguage would gradually evolve into a variety that more closely
resembled the target language, and perhaps (though Selinker thought this was rare)
could even become indistinguishable from the target.
INTERLANGUAGE (Selinker, 1972)
Native language (L1) Target language (L2)
Interlanguage
Selinker argued that the process of second language acquisition could not be under-
stood without consideration of three observable phenomena: the native language
system, the target language system, and the interlanguage system. While linguistic
124	 Pedagogical Grammar
research at this time had devoted a considerable amount of attention to the native
language (L1) and the target language (L2), little had been done at this point to define
or describe a learner’s interlanguage. And yet, for Selinker, it was the surface structure
of interlanguage (the phonology, morphology, and syntax of learner production) that
held the key to understanding the underlying psychological processes taking place
within the learners’ mind.
To support his characterization of interlanguage as a system, Selinker (1972) de-
votes a great deal of discussion to what he calls fossilization:
Fossilizable linguistic phenomena are linguistic items, rules, and subsytems which
speakers of a particular NL [native language] will tend to keep in their IL [interlan-
guage] relative to a particular TL [target language], no matter what the age of the
learner or amount of explanation or instruction he receives. (p. 215)
According to Selinker, fossilized items (e.g., a students’ frequent omission of the third
person singular –s in spite of a great deal of instruction on third person agreement
rules) provide evidence that interlanguage is a system with its own rules, rules that do
not always correspond to those of the native or target language. As students learn more
about the target language, they may still retain features of their interlanguage, or, after
mastering particular target language features, may revert back to interlanguage forms,
particularly “when the learner’s attention is focused upon new and difficult intellectual
subject matter or when he is in a state of anxiety or other excitement” (p. 215). This
kind of variability in learner performance suggested that learners were continually
working to reorganize the interlanguage system so that it more closely approximated
native speaker norms.
Two crucial points that Selinker (1972) makes in this seminal article are: (1) in-
terlanguage is a system which is influenced by, and yet differs from, both the native
and target language, and (2) efforts to describe the nature of interlanguage (its pho-
nology, morphology, and syntax) will play a crucial role in our efforts to understand
how psychological processes and environmental factors interact with one another
as learners move towards a greater understanding of and ability to use the L2. In the
decades that followed, a great deal of research would indeed focus on interlanguage
development, through the collection and analysis of learner data produced in mean-
ingful contexts. (See Han & Tarone, 2014, for recent reflections on interlanguage and
its importance to SLA research over the past 40 years.) These studies would help to
provide substantial support for Corder’s (1967) and Selinker’s (1972) contention that
learner language is systematic and rule-governed.
	 Chapter 7.  The dynamic nature of L2 learner language	 125
Investigating systematicity in learner language:The morpheme order studies
During this time, three major approaches to the study of learner language began to
emerge. The first of these, Error Analysis, addressed Corder’s (1967) call for more fo-
cused study of learner errors. The goal of many error analysis studies was to identify,
classify, and explain particular L2 errors. A second area of research to emerge was what
is typically referred to as UG research in SLA, or research which seeks to understand
to what extent L2 learners might have access to the innate ability to acquire grammar
that they were born with, or what Chomsky refers to as Universal Grammar (see, e.g.,
Cook, 1993; White, 1989; 2003; Whong, Gil, & Marsden, 2013). This area of research
continues today, though makes up only a small proportion of the total body of con-
temporary SLA research. Much more influential in L2 studies, particularly in the area
of L2 pedagogy, is the third strand of research which emerged during this time, one
which was concerned with the larger picture of learner language, or the development
of the interlanguage system over time. This research answered Selinker’s call for the
collection and analysis of learner production in meaningful contexts, for the purpose
of understanding the complex relationships among the native language, the target lan-
guage, and the interlanguage system. This area of research also sought to broaden the
scope of early Error Analysis studies, to include analysis not just of learner error, but
also of learner progress towards target language norms. That is, the central question
was no longer “What kind of errors do L2 learners make?” but rather “How and when
do learners become capable of producing the correct L2 forms?”
One of the first major foci of this area of research was the order in which particu-
lar grammatical forms were acquired by L2 learners. This focus was due, in part, to
recent developments in the study of child language acquisition. Studies of children
learning English as a native language had found that grammatical morphemes (e.g.,
the progressive –ing, the plural –s, the past tense –ed) were acquired by children in
predictable orders. The first and most famous study of this nature was Brown (1972),
a longitudinal study of three children, Adam, Sarah, and Eve. In this study, Brown
audiorecorded interactions between the children and their parents over several years.
He then analyzed this data to determine at what point particular grammatical mor-
phemes were acquired by each child. Acquisition was defined as the suppliance of a
morpheme in an obligatory context (e.g., using plural –s when talking about more
than one object) more than 90% of the time. Despite differences in the types of con-
versations each child had with his or her parents, Brown found that all three children
mastered the grammatical morphemes in a similar order, with –ing being mastered
first and the third person irregular form coming last. Table 7.1 displays the order of
acquisition observed, using examples provided in Lightbown & Spada (2006, pp. 7–8)
and Hudson (2000, p. 127).
126	 Pedagogical Grammar
Table 7.1  Order of morpheme acquisition observed by Brown (1973)
Age of
emergence
Grammatical morpheme Frequency rank in English
(if one of top 10 most
frequently used forms)
2 years
2.5 years
3 years
3.5 years
Present progressive –ing (Mommy running)
Prepositions in and on
Plural –s (two books)
Irregular past forms (baby went)
Possessive ‘s (Daddy’s hat)
Copula in questions (Is Kitty here?)
Articles the and a
Regular past tense –ed (she walked)
Third person singular simple present –s (She runs)
2
4
3
5
1
6
7
Brown’s findings were replicated in other child language studies, which led second
language researchers to wonder whether similar orders of acquisition existed for L2
learners of English. Building on the L1 morpheme order studies, Dulay and Burt (1973)
carried out a cross-sectional study with 151 Spanish-speaking children learning English
as an L2. To elicit samples of child L2 speech, they used the Bilingual Syntax Measure
(BSM), which uses engaging picture and question prompts that young L2 children can
understand. In a follow-up study, Dulay and Burt (1974a) found that the vast majority
of errors made by the L2 learners were what they considered to be “developmental” in
nature, in that they were the same types of errors made by children learning English as
an L1 and were not a result of L1 transfer. (Roughly 5% of the errors observed could be
traced to L1 influences.) These initial studies suggested that children learning English
as an L2 undergo common phases of development which are only minimally influenced
by L1 background.
Morpheme order studies were conducted with adult L2 learners as well. The first
of these was Bailey, Madden, and Krashen (1974), which found that adult L2 learners
experienced an order of morpheme acquisition that was similar to that observed by
Dulay and Burt (1973) in their study of child L2 learners. Several studies followed (see
Larsen-Freeman & Long, 1991, for a review), and the results suggested that, generally
speaking, the order of morpheme acquisition for adult L2 learners was similar across
L1 backgrounds. These findings prompted many scholars to explore why some mor-
phemes were typically acquired earlier than others. For example, what makes the –ing
morpheme easier to master than the –ed morpheme? Why might plural –s be acquired
much earlier than third person singular –s?
To address questions like these, Goldschneider and DeKeyser (2001) carried out
a research synthesis of 12 morpheme acquisition order studies and investigated the
extent to which five “determinants” accounted for the orders of acquisition observed.
	 Chapter 7.  The dynamic nature of L2 learner language	 127
These determinants were perceptual salience (“how easy it is to perceive or hear a given
structure” p. 22), semantic complexity (“how many meanings are expressed by a par-
ticular form” p. 24), morphophonological regularity (whether the form is pronounced
differently in different phonological environments; e.g., past tense –ed is pronounced as
/εd/, /d/ or /t/, depending on the sound it follows), syntactic category (whether it is a
free or bound morpheme, whether lexical or functional), and frequency (“the num-
ber of times the given structure appears in speech addressed to the learner” p. 30).
Goldschneider and DeKeyser found these 5 factors, taken together, explained a large
proportion of the variance in the acquisition orders reported in each study. At the same
time, Goldscheider and DeKeyser point out that these 5 factors did not account for all
of the variation observed, leaving open the possibility that other factors, like L1, play
a role in determining the order of L2 morpheme acquisition.
Reflection 7.2
– Keeping Goldschneider and DeKeyser’s 5 “determinants” in mind (perceptual
salience, semantic complexity, morphophonological regularity, syntactic category, and
frequency) examine the order of morpheme acquisition presented in Figure 7.1.
How do these factors help to explain the order of acquisition observed?
– In what ways might an understanding of orders of acquisition help to inform the
teaching of grammatical morphemes in L2 classrooms?
Developmental sequences in L2 acquisition
Another outcome of the morpheme order studies was the realization that L2 learners
(as well as children learning an L1) did not suddenly acquire a grammatical form,
going from 0% accuracy to 100% in a matter of days. Rather, learners experienced
what is often referred to as the U-shaped curve of development (McLaughlin, 1990). In
a U-shaped curve, learners begin using a new grammatical form with relatively high
accuracy. Then, for a period of time, accuracy drops, until gradually learners begin
using the form with high accuracy again (see Figure 7.1). In the case of the English past
tense, for example, learners typically go through a U-shaped curve as they figure out
how to use irregular verb forms. Initially, learners use high-frequency irregular past
tense forms (e.g., went, came) with high accuracy. Eventually, however, learners begin
to make errors with past tense forms, using the –ed morpheme with irregular verbs
(e.g., goed, camed). Over time, learners’ use of past tense irregular verbs returns to its
original rate of accuracy. This process suggests that, as Selinker (1972) had argued,
some type of restructuring is taking place within the interlanguage system. Learners’
acquisition of grammatical forms does not follow a linear path.
128	 Pedagogical Grammar
U-SHAPED CURVE OF DEVELOPMENT
Accuracy
Time
Figure 7.1  U-shaped curve of development
The U-shaped curve helped to focus researchers’ attention on not only accuracy of
use, but also emergence and attempted use. That is, studies of learner language began to
document when a form was first used by an L2 learner (i.e., emergence), and this use
included not only accurate forms but also non-target-like forms (e.g., He running). As
Bardovi-Harlig (2000) explains, “The chief flaw of morpheme studies…. [is that they]
focus on the endpoint of acquisition and not the arguably more interesting process
of acquisition…. Focusing on the endpoint of acquisition ignores most of a learner’s
developmental history” (p. 5).
To better understand the process of L2 acquisition, researchers began to analyze
learners’ use of particular grammatical forms over time and to investigate the extent to
which learners of various L1 backgrounds experienced similar developmental stages.
As was found with the morpheme order studies, it is not the case that all learners go
through the exact same stages at the exact same time for every grammatical system
of a language. However, a number of stages have been identified, stages which are
indeed experienced by many L2 learner groups, regardless of L1 and regardless of
whether they are learning the L2 in a naturalistic or instructed context. In the follow-
ing sections we examine why this might be the case, with a focus on three of the most
widely-researched grammatical systems: tense and aspect, question formation, and
relative clauses.
Tense, aspect, and the lexis-grammar interface
Considering the amount of time L2 teachers devote to teaching verb tenses to L2 learn-
ers, it is no surprise that the development of tense and aspect has received consider-
able attention in the SLA literature. Research on the acquisition of tense and aspect
	 Chapter 7.  The dynamic nature of L2 learner language	 129
has found that learners pass through predictable phases of development. In English,
for example, simple present (I am a student) and present progressive (He is running)
emerge first, followed by simple past (He left yesterday). Later in development, learners
begin to use present perfect (I have already eaten), followed by the tense aspect combi-
nations of present perfect progressive (He has been running since 5:00), past perfect (By
the time you got there, he had already left), and past perfect progressive (Before moving
to the US, I had been studying in Japan) (Bardovi-Harlig, 2000).
Research on why tense and aspect might emerge in a particular sequence has
focused a great deal on both frequency in the input and the inherent semantic prop-
erties of particular verbs. That is, many verbs in a language tend to occur with a high
frequency in particular tenses and aspects, and this frequency of occurrence is due, in
large part, to the meaning the verb typically conveys. This inherent meaning is often
referred to as lexical aspect. Lexical aspect can be divided into four main categories:
states, activities, accomplishments, and achievements (Vendler, 1967, cited in Bardovi-
Harlig & Reynolds, 1995). These lexical categories can be distinguished from one an-
other by considering whether they are punctual (occur at a single point in time), telic
(with a distinct end point), and/or dynamic (with action). Andersen (1991) provides a
useful visual display of these categories and the relationships among them, as shown in
Table 7.2 (adapted from Andersen, 1991; and Bardovi-Harlig & Reynolds, 1995, p. 107).
Table 7.2  Lexical Aspect with examples from English
States Activities Accomplishments Achievements
Characteristics −Dynamic
−Telic
−Punctual
+Dynamic
−Telic
−Punctual
+Dynamic
+Telic
−Punctual
+Dynamic
+Telic
+Punctual
Sample verbs know, believe,
think
rain, write,
read, play
make a chair, build
a house
arrive, leave, notice
As can be seen in Table 7.2, states (e.g., be, have, think, know, want, like) are verbs
which tend to remain constant over time. They express states of being, as well as
mental and emotional states. As Yule (2006) explains, no action is being performed
by the agent, and these verbs could not be used to answer the question “What do you
do?” Activities (e.g., eat, run, swim, walk, work, write) are dynamic verbs that come
with a sense of continual action and no clear end point. Accomplishments (e.g., build
a house, write a book, run a mile) share the same dynamic and durative properties
of Activities, but also come with a clear end point that is expressed in the predicate.
Achievements (e.g., hit, kick, drop, arrive, leave, notice) are the only lexical category
with all three properties (punctual, telic, dynamic). These verbs express an action that
occurs in one instant.
130	 Pedagogical Grammar
In his Lexical Aspect Hypothesis, Andersen (1991) argues that the lexical aspect
of a verb influences the order in which particular tenses and aspects emerge in learner
language. Punctual verbs, for example, are likely to be the first verbs to appear in
learner language in the past tense, as these actions end immediately after they begin;
by the time we are ready to comment on them, they are in the past. For example, we
often say things like, “I dropped my pen,” but rarely, “I am dropping my pen.” The next
verb type that would be likely to emerge in past tense would be Accomplishments, as
these verb phrases express a clear end point. Verbs which might take much longer to
be used in the past tense would be Activities and States. While it is possible to say “I
ran” or “I loved it” in particular situations, we much more frequently use these verbs
in the present progressive (I am running) and the simple present (I love it). Thus, it
may take learners longer to notice and understand how to use these verbs with past
tense meanings.
In response to Andersen’s proposal, a number of researchers have investigated L2
learners’ acquisition of verbal morphology in English and a number of other languages,
including Catalan, Dutch, French, Italian, Japanese, Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish
(see Bardovi-Harlig, 2000, pp. 206–211 for a comprehensive list). These studies sug-
gest that there is a general order of L2 acquisition of tense and grammatical aspect and
that this order is indeed influenced by lexical aspect. Figure 7.2 summarizes some of
Kathleen Bardovi-Harlig’s findings regarding English.
As shown in Figure 7.2, much of the research on the Lexical Aspect Hypothesis
has focused on simple present, present progressive, simple past, and past progressive.
In the earliest stage of acquisition, learners use the base form of the verb to express
all tense and aspect meanings. The first morpheme to appear in L2 English is the –ing
progressive marker. This morpheme is strongly associated with Activity verbs because
it expresses a meaning of duration over time. Thus, the first verbs to be inflected with
–ing in learner language are Activity verbs. The second verb morpheme to appear in
learner language is the –ed ending (irregular past tense verbs are also used during this
time). Learners first use –ed with Achievements, then Accomplishments, both of which
have distinct end points. In contexts that require the use of an Activity verb in the past
tense, learners may still use simple present or present progressive. Activity verbs have
no clear end point and thus have a much stronger association with progressive aspect
than they do with past tense. States, which most frequently are used to express states
of being and emotion that are true at the present time, are not inflected by learners
with the past tense until later in the acquisition process.
In English, perfect aspect does not begin to emerge until after learners have been
using simple present, progressive aspect, and past tense for some time. Perfect aspect is
late-acquired for many of the reasons we reviewed in our discussion of the morpheme
order studies. Perfect aspect is not as frequent in the input as the simple tenses, and it
has a great deal of semantic complexity. When learners first begin using the present
	
Chapter
7. 
The
dynamic
nature
of
L2
learner
language	
131
Simple present
First used with states
(Base form is also used
for all verb types in the
earliest stage of
acquisition)
Simple past
First used with
Achievements and
Accomplishments, then
Activities and States
Present perfect Present perfect
progressive
Past perfect Past perfect
progressive
Present progressive
First used with
Activities, then
Accomplishments, then
Achievements and States
Past progressive
First used with
Activities, then
Accomplishments, then
Achievements and States
Figure 7.2  Observed orders of acquisition for tense and aspect in English (Bardovi-Harlig, 2000)
132	 Pedagogical Grammar
perfect, they tend to associate it with one meaning only, typically, an action completed
in the past (Bardovi-Harlig, 1997). At this stage, learners may use present perfect in
contexts where simple past is more appropriate (e.g., In response to the question “What
did you do last night?” a learner might respond, “I have stayed home.”) Though it
may appear on the surface that the learner is backsliding or forgetting what has been
learned, she is really in the process of restructuring her tense-aspect system. “In spite of
the fact that the tense/aspect system as a whole is developing, the rate of appropriate use
of individual tense/aspect forms may appear to decline” (Bardovi-Harlig, 1997, p. 415).
It is important to keep in mind that the stages of acquisition displayed in Figure 7.2
are not a linear, lockstep progression from one stage to the next. Rather, learners may
move forward, revisit earlier stages, and then move forward again, as they sort out the
many new meanings and uses associated with each grammatical form.
Reflection 7.3
– As an L2 teacher, how much attention have you paid to lexical aspect? In what ways
might teachers integrate lexical aspect into their teaching of verb tense and aspect?
– How might Bardovi-Harlig’s (and others’) research on tense and aspect help to
inform teaching of tense and aspect in L2 classrooms?
Question formation and the Teachability Hypothesis
Research on developmental sequences has important implications for how we approach
the teaching of grammar in L2 classrooms. In his Teachability Hypothesis, Pienemann
(1984; 1998) posits that learners pass through a set sequence of stages when acquir-
ing grammatical structures and that each stage, starting with stage 1, is a prerequisite
for the following stage. He argues further that it is not possible for learners to skip
stages, even when they are given instruction which aims to help them do just that. As
Pienemann (2013) writes in a recent summary of his Teachability Hypothesis:
In a number of experiments Pienemann (1984, 1989) tested if the natural order of acqui-
sition “can be beaten” by formal instruction. This test was operationalized by selecting
L2 learners on the basis of their current level of L2 acquisition. Two groups were formed
(a) with learners at level x and (b) with learners at level x + 1. Both groups were exposed
to the same classroom input which focused on level x + 2. It was found that learners at
level x + 1 progressed to level x + 2 and that learners at level x did not progress at all.
 (p. 5)
Pienemann (1998; 2005) argues that learners’ processing abilities constrain their move-
ment from one stage to the next. Early stages involve processing at the individual word
level (e.g., asking one-word questions with rising intonation), and later stages involve
processing at the phrase and then clause level (e.g., inverting an auxiliary verb and a
subject). This progression can be seen in the developmental sequences for question
formation in English, as shown in Table 7.3. Stage 1 involves individual words and short
	 Chapter 7.  The dynamic nature of L2 learner language	 133
phrases, marked with rising intonation. In Stage 2, learners use complete sentences,
but have not yet begun to change the word order of the sentence. Later stages involve
more complex syntax, with Do- and Wh- fronting, auxiliary verbs, and tags.
Table 7.3  Question formation stages (Kim, 2012)
Developmental stage Examples
Stage 1:	
Single words, formulae, or sentence
fragments with rising intonation
Your major?
Stage 2:	
Declarative word order, no inversion,
no fronting
You have blue jeans?
Your cell phone what color?
Stage 3:	
Fronting (do-fronting, wh-fronting,
no inversion)
Do you have other experience?
How much you watch tv show?
Stage 4:	
wh+copular, yes/no questions with other
auxiliaries, yes/no copula
What’s your favorite movie star?
Can you give a hint?
Have you ever been to the concert?
Stage 5: 	
Inversion in wh-questions with both an
auxiliary and a main verb
What’s the boy doing?
What degree do you have?
How long did you go here?
Stage 6:	
Complex questions: tag questions,
negative questions, embedded questions
It’s better, isn’t it?
Don’t you have pet?
Can you tell me where she stays?
To date, a large body of research has demonstrated that learners follow a series of
stages that are in line with Pienemann’s predictions (Adams, 2007; Loewen & Nabei,
2007; Mackey, 1999, 2006; Mackey & Philp, 1998; McDonough, 2005; McDonough, &
Mackey, 2006; Philp, 2003). And many of these studies (e.g., Mackey, 1999; McDonough
& Mackey, 2008; Kim, 2012) have found that when learners participate in tasks which
target questions that are one stage higher than the learners’ current level, learners are
able to produce questions at the next developmental stage in subsequent tasks. Just as
Pienemann predicted, however, it has not been observed that instruction can result in
learners skipping stages and moving to a stage that is two or more levels above their
own. A noteworthy implication of this research is the concept of developmental readi-
ness (Han, 2002; Iwashita, 2003; Lightbown, 2013; Mackey & Philp, 1998). In other
words, when L2 instruction targets a particular question stage, those learners who
are developmentally ready for that stage are the most likely to move to the next level.
Reflection 7.4
– What implications does Teachability Hypothesis have for your own L2 grammar
teaching? To what extent do you attempt to evaluate the developmental readiness
of your own students?
– How might the concept of Teachability also be applied to the teaching of tense and
aspect in L2 classrooms?
134	 Pedagogical Grammar
Can learners ever skip stages? The case of relative clause acquisition
Though studies of question formation have focused primarily on English, Pienemann
(2013) argues that the processing constraints placed on learners are universal, shared
by learners of any L2, as well as by children learning their native language. The idea
that human language and processing mechanisms share universal properties has also
influenced research on relative clauses, as acquisition of this grammatical system ap-
pears to involve typological universals, or linguistic phenomena that are common across
many languages. Many languages have multiple relative clause types and some relative
clause types are more structurally complex than others. The Noun Phrase Accessiblity
Hierarchy, or NPAH (Keenan & Comrie, 1977) posits that there is a hierarchy of rela-
tive clause types, starting from the least complex (and most frequently observed across
languages) to the most complex (and least frequently observed across languages). If a
language has the most complex type of relative clause, it can be assumed that it also has
all other relative clause types. If a language has the second structure on the hierarchy, it
can be assumed that it also has the first relative clause type, but not relative clause types
three, four, and five. The hierarchy of relative clause types is based upon the grammati-
cal function fulfilled by the relative pronoun in the relative clause. For example, in the
sentence That’s the man who ran away, the relative pronoun is who and it is the subject
of the relative clause. This is the simplest type of relative clause and is posited to be
present in all languages. Relative clause types further down the hierarchy may or may
not be present in a given language. Figure 7.3 displays the Noun Phrase Accessibility
Hierarchy, moving from least complex and most common across languages (SU) to
most complex and less common across languages (OCOMP). (See also Table 7.4.)
SU > DO > IO > OBL/OPREP > GEN > OCOMP
subject direct
object
indirect
object
oblique genitive comparative
Figure 7.3  Noun Phrase Accessibility Hierarchy (adapted from Gass, 2013, p. 230)
From an interlanguage development perspective, although this hierarchy was not
meant to predict acquisition order, it was hypothesized (Eckman, 1977) that unmarked
items (more frequent, less complex) are acquired earlier than marked items (less fre-
quent, more complex). Moreover, the difficulty of acquiring relative clauses is expected
to follow the NPAH. That is, subject relative clauses should be easier to acquire than any
other relative clause type, and they can be expected to emerge earliest in learner lan-
guage. Early support for the NPAH was found by Gass (1979), who examined produc-
tion data from L2 learners of various L1s. The results showed that with the exception
	 Chapter 7.  The dynamic nature of L2 learner language	 135
of genitive relative clauses, the frequency and accuracy with which learners produced
each relative clause type was as predicted by the hierarchy.
Several studies followed (Doughty, 1988; 1991; Eckman, Bell, & Nelson, 1988; Gass,
1982; Pavesi, 1986; Zobl, 1983), all finding at least partial support for the NPAH. This
partial, rather than full, support has generated some debate over whether the NPAH
does indeed predict the order of L2 acquisition of relative clauses. Izumi (2003) sug-
gests that the NPAH and one other theory of relative clause acquisition, the Perceptual
Difficulty Hypothesis (PDH), may together help to explain L2 relative clause acquisi-
tion. The PDH posits that relative clauses which come at the end of a sentence (and
which modify a sentence object) are easier to process than relative clauses which are
embedded in the middle of a sentence (and which modify a sentence subject). Four
main relative clause types receive focus in the PDH: OS (the relative clause modifies
the Object of the sentence and contains a Subject relative pronoun), OO (the relative
clause modifies the Object of the sentence and contains an Object relative pronoun), SS
(the relative clause modifies the Subject of the sentence and contains a Subject relative
pronoun), and SO (the relative clause modifies the Subject of the sentence and contains
an Object relative pronoun). The PDH predicts the order of acquisition in the following
manner: OS > OO > SS > SO. Table 7.4 displays example sentences for both the NPAH
and the PDH, in order from easiest (less marked) to most difficult (more marked).
Other scholars have argued that while the NPAH is supported by many studies
of the acquisition of English and other European languages, there is less support for
the NPAH in studies of East Asian language acquisition. Ozeki and Shirai (2007), for
example, analyzed an oral interview corpus from 90 Japanese language learners and
found that object relative clause types (direct object, indirect object, object of the
preposition) were used more frequently than subject relative clause types, which would
seem to go against NPAH predictions. However, as Izumi (2007) points out, several
studies of East Asian languages have provided at least partial support for the NPAH.
It seems to me, therefore, that the issue here is not all or nothing or simply European
languages supporting the NPAH versus East Asian languages not supporting the
NPAH, but, rather, it is in identifying what factors in addition to the NPAH are in-
volved in creating ease or difficulty in the acquisition of different types of RCs in world
languages. (p. 352)
One important factor to examine in L2 relative clause acquisition is classroom instruc-
tion. If the NPAH serves as a kind of order of acquisition for relative clauses, then
Pienemann’s Teachability Hypothesis would predict that learners must first master
SU relative clauses before they can move on to DO relative clauses, that they must
master DO relative clauses before they can move on to IO relative clauses, and so on.
However, because the NPAH also suggests that if a language has IO relative clauses it
also has DO and SU relative clauses, then it may follow that teaching learners a more
136	 Pedagogical Grammar
complex relative clause could allow them to, at the same time, acquire the less complex
relative clauses on the hierarchy. Research in the 1980s and early 90s (Doughty, 1988;
1991; Eckman, Bell, & Nelson, 1988; Gass, 1982; Pavesi, 1986; Zobl, 1983) did find that
when learners mastered a more complex relative clause structure, they could generalize
what they had learned to less complex structures that had not been explicitly taught.
Doughty (1991) and Izumi (2007) suggest that perhaps, because relative clauses all
follow the same general structure (where a relative pronoun fills a gap and is moved
to the front of the clause) there is a first stage in which learners figure out how to do
this. After this point, a second (and perhaps final) stage involves applying this opera-
tion to all of the various relative clause types in the language. If learners first learn the
most complex structure as part of their stage one, then it may be fairly easy for them
to comprehend and produce all of the other less complex variations.
Table 7.4  Relative clause order of difficulty
4 general types identified for order of difficulty Corresponding types in
NP Accessibility Hierarchy
Least difficult /
acquired
sooner
OS (noun phrase=object; relative pronoun=subject)
The teacher liked the girl [who passed the exam.]
	 O	S
Subject NP (relative
pronoun = subject)
OO (noun phrase=object; relative pronoun=object)
I like the coat [that Mary is wearing.]
	 O	O
Mary likes the man [that I gave the book to.]
	 O	O
She is the woman [that Tom wants to live with.]
	 O	O
Direct Object NP
(relative pronoun = DO)
Indirect Object NP
(relative pronoun = IO)
Prepositional Object NP
(relative pronoun = object
of prep)
SS (noun phrase=subject; relative pronoun=subject)
The woman [who speaks Russian] is my aunt.
	S	 S
Subject NP (relative
pronoun = subject)
Most difficult /
acquired
later
SO (noun phrase=subject; relative pronoun=object)
The car [that the man drove] was very fast.
	 S	O
The man [that I gave the book to] is my colleague.
	S	 O
The woman [that Bill is looking for] is beautiful.
	S	 O
Direct Object NP
(relative pronoun = DO)
Indirect Object NP
(relative pronoun = IO)
Prepositional Object NP
(relative pronoun = object
of prep)
Adapted from Izumi (2003, pp. 285–323). Note: Izumi does not include COMP relative clauses in her
hierarchy because they are used in some English dialects but not others.
	 Chapter 7.  The dynamic nature of L2 learner language	 137
Reflection 7.5
– As an L2 teacher, how do you typically approach the teaching of relative clauses?
What clause types do you highlight when teaching beginner or intermediate
learners? What clause types do you typically teach to more advanced students?
What clause types seem to be more difficult for your students to master?
– Does research on the Noun Phrase Accessibility Hierarchy give you any new
insights into the teaching of relative clauses in L2 classrooms?
Explaining systematicity and variability in learner language
As we have seen in the research reviewed here, learner language has been found to
be both systematic and dynamic. Though general orders of acquisition have been ob-
served, so too have many exceptions. Even within one individual learner, we can see
signs of a system and deviations from that system. How then might we explain the
co-existence of these two phenomena in L2 interlanguage?
One source of variability within the interlanguage system is the process of reorga-
nization or restructuring. In Bardovi-Harlig’s (1997; 2000) description of the process
of tense/aspect acquisition, for example, learners go through a process of restructur-
ing as they encounter new tense/aspect forms and uses. Linguistic choices that once
seemed easy (e.g., use past tense to describe past events) become more complicated as
learners realize there is not always a simple one-to-one relationship between form and
meaning. These types of realizations help to explain the non-linear, U-shaped curve of
development (see Figure 7.1). As learners work to reorganize their interlanguage sys-
tem, accuracy suffers. As learners begin to sort out the new forms and meanings they
have encountered, accuracy improves. Thus, when it comes to L2 grammar pedagogy,
it is very important for teachers to understand that variability is a natural part of the
acquisition process and that errors do not always mean a failure to learn. In fact, these
errors may suggest that a learner is undergoing an important restructuring phase, one
which will help them move to a new, more advanced developmental level.
In addition to restructuring, another major explanation for variability in learner
language is register, or the situation of use. Just as the grammatical choices of native
speakers vary across communicative contexts, so too does the performance of L2
learners. One of the first scholars to focus attention on situational variability was
Tarone (1979; 1985; Tarone & Parrish, 1988). Tarone found that some learners were
more accurate in their English article use (a, an, the) than they were in detecting ar-
ticle errors on a grammaticality judgment task. This finding ran counter to Tarone’s
(1985) original prediction that the grammaticality judgment task would elicit more
accurate forms because this type of task includes a more explicit focus on accuracy
than does an oral interview or narrative. Tarone & Parrish (1988) concluded that
138	 Pedagogical Grammar
leaners’ greater accuracy in the story-telling tasks could be explained by the charac-
teristics of narrative register.
Effective story-telling requires that the narrator keep track over time of persons and
objects important to the story-line; frequent subsequent mention of such persons and
objects must demand the use of [second mention noun phrases], and the marking of
such [noun phrases] as referring to “previous” rather than “new” mentions is crucial
to the listener’s understanding of the story. (Tarone & Parrish, 1988, p. 34)
In other words, learners may focus more attention on grammatical accuracy if they feel
that accurate use is necessary to convey meaning effectively. Accurate use is not only
about getting 100% on a grammar test, but also about constructing coherent discourse
and achieving communicative goals.
It soon became clear, however, that task demands were just one of many variables
which could impact learner performance. In a seminal article which proposes a new
framework for the study of learner language, Larsen-Freeman (1997) writes:
There are many interacting factors at play which determine the trajectory of the de-
veloping IL [interlanguage]: the source language, the target language, the markedness
of the LI, the markedness of the L2, the amount and type of input, the amount and
type of interaction, the amount and type of feedback received, whether it is acquired
in untutored or tutored contexts, etc. Then, too, there is a multitude of interacting fac-
tors that have been proposed to determine the degree to which the SLA process will
be successful: age, aptitude, sociopsychological factors such as motivation and attitude,
personality factors, cognitive style… Perhaps no one of these by itself is a determining
factor; the interaction of them, however, has a very profound effect. (p. 151)
Because so many factors are involved in the acquisition and use of language, Larsen-
Freeman (1997) proposed that SLA scholars move away from studying variables in iso-
lation and instead move towards viewing both language (in general) and interlanguage
(in particular) as a dynamic, complex system. A dynamic system is one that changes
over time; a complex system is one in which components continuously interact with
one another. The behavior of the system is a result of these interactions, and yet, when
studied in isolation, the behavior of each individual component cannot predict the
behavior of the whole. To illustrate this, Larsen-Freeman (1997) uses the example of a
single pebble causing an avalanche, the “camel’s back” phenomenon (p. 143). Typically,
the movement of a single pebble will not cause an avalanche, but sometimes, it does.
Exactly when an avalanche will occur cannot be predicted though an analysis of each
individual pebble in the pile. Rather, the cause of the avalanche can only be understood
if the numerous interactions between pebbles over a period of time are taken into ac-
count. In complex systems (think of the weather as another example), it is possible for
unpredictable, seemingly chaotic events to occur.
	 Chapter 7.  The dynamic nature of L2 learner language	 139
LANGUAGE AS A DYNAMIC, COMPLEX SYSTEM
–	 Language changes over time.
	 “
It is common knowledge that the language and grammar of today are not the same as
the language and grammar of several centuries ago.” (Larsen-Freeman, 2003, p. 25)
–	 Language changes in real-time.
	 “
Language users must constantly scan the environment… consider their interlocutors/
readers, and interpret what they are hearing/seeing in order to make decisions about
how to respond in accurate, meaningful, and appropriate ways and then carry out their
decisions in real time.” (p. 26)
–	 Language change is organic.
	 “Language does not change of its own accord. On the other hand, changes in a language
are not usually the product of willful attempts on the part of users to alter the code….
Individuals may not intentionally seek to change language, but they do so by their day-
to-day interactions in using it…. The behavior of the system as a whole is the result of
the aggregate of local interactions.” (p. 30)
When it comes to interlanguage development and the acquisition of second language
grammar, a dynamic systems view of language suggests that learner language, like all
of language, is in a constant state of change. Learner language changes over time, of
course, but also in real-time, through use. It is the day-by-day, minute-by-minute in-
teraction of variables (the L1, the type of input received, the student’s motivation, the
classroom environment, and so on) which gives rise to the system. Though we cannot
predict how the interlanguage system will behave based on the analysis of a single
variable (e.g., the learner’s L1), we may be able to make more accurate predictions if
we take into account the system as a whole.
It is also important to recognize that at times, learner language development may
appear chaotic and unpredictable. Though many studies aim to identify clear patterns
in development that emerge through the aggregation of learner data (e.g., mean scores
on a language assessment), when data is disaggregated, the patterns are often less clear.
In an exploratory study which aimed to provide a “dynamical description” of learner
performance over time, Larsen-Freeman (2006) collected samples of spoken and writ-
ten language from five learners studying English in China. In addition to recording
group means for accuracy (error rates), fluency (number of words per independent
clause), and complexity (number of clauses embedded within an independent clause),
Larsen-Freeman also created individual profiles for each learner, to investigate the
extent to which each individual learner exhibited patterns that were similar to the
patterns of the group. Not surprisingly, Larsen-Freeman found that, although clear
patterns could often be identified when group means were calculated, these patterns
140	 Pedagogical Grammar
were not always present in individual learner performance. For example, although the
group as a whole improved in their grammatical accuracy over time, some learners
actually showed a decrease in accuracy.
Does this mean that the patterns identified in previous research (including stud-
ies reviewed earlier in this chapter) no longer mean anything? We would say it is not
necessary to disregard previous interlanguage research and start anew. When sample
sizes are large enough, mean scores do tell us something about general trends in be-
havior. However, as qualitative researchers have long pointed out, general trends can
never account for the behavior of every individual in the group. There are always ex-
ceptions and outliers. Larsen-Freeman’s (2006) point is that these exceptions should
not be ignored because they muddy the waters a bit. Rather, they should be studied as
interesting in their own right. If interlanguage is truly dynamic and complex, then it
would follow that for each individual learner, there is a unique set of variables which
interact to give rise to his or her interlanguage system. In our own L2 classrooms, we
can see that this is clearly the case. Each student brings with them their own set of
experiences and attributes (motivations, learning strategies, opportunities to use the
L2, feelings about the L2); no set of interacting variables is the same. How then, can
we expect each learner’s process and outcome to also be the same, even considering
our best efforts to teach the language?
More important, perhaps, is for L2 teachers to be aware that several variables are at
play, and no single variable (e.g., how well the teacher explained a particular concept, how
many hours the student studied that week) is likely to explain a student’s performance
at any given time. But if we make more efforts to understand how numerous variables
interact with one another in the lives of our students and within the confines of our
classroom, we may also move one step closer to understanding the nature of L2 grammar
development and the role that instruction might play in facilitating this process.
Reflection 7.6
– In what ways does Larsen-Freeman’s description of language as a dynamic, complex
system relate to the teaching of L2 grammar?
– How might this perspective inform how you approach the design of grammar
lessons and the assessment of learner progress?
Revisiting the“target language”and the goal of near-nativeness
The view of interlanguage as a dynamic, complex system also challenges the notion
of a “target language” and the assumption that interlanguage development moves in
a linear fashion from zero knowledge of the L2 towards “complete” or “native-like”
knowledge of the L2. “It has been assumed that successful SLA is accomplished through
	 Chapter 7.  The dynamic nature of L2 learner language	 141
the acquisition of the rules that bring the learner’s performance into greater confor-
mity with the target language” (Larsen-Freeman, 2003, p. 32). This view, according to
Larsen-Freeman, represents an “acquisition metaphor” of L2 learning, one that as-
sumes that learning is essentially a process of acquiring something (e.g., grammar rules)
so that it can be applied to a given task (e.g., taking a test, writing an essay, translating
a document). A “participation metaphor,” on the other hand, emphasizes language
acquisition as an act of “doing,” rather than a state of “having,” a “process of becoming
a member of a certain community” (Larsen-Freeman, p. 33).
While the acquisition metaphor stresses the individual mind and what goes “into it”
the participation metaphor shifts the focus to the evolving bond between the individual
and others. (Sfard, 1998, cited in Larsen-Freeman, 2003, p. 33)
This metaphor of participation has particular relevance to L2 grammar pedagogy, espe-
cially when one considers the acquisition-oriented approach taken in many grammar
textbooks for L2 learners. The design of many of these textbooks seems to suggest to
learners and teachers that language learning is primarily a process of acquiring rules
and applying these rules to grammar exercises. What is more, these textbooks assume
that there is one grammar to be learned, the “target language,” an idealized, somewhat
generic, native speaker norm. As we have seen in previous chapters, however, there
is no “monolithic” grammar of a language (Conrad, 2000). Different situations of use
call for different linguistic choices, and an important goal of L2 grammar instruction
is to help learners understand how and why these choices are made.
Thus, if we look at language as a dynamic complex system, then real-time, mean-
ingful, goal-oriented interaction becomes much more important – not only because
the ability to communicate meaningfully in particular contexts is a learning goal, but
also because learning itself takes place through the act of using language. In Chapters 8
and 9, we look more closely at the role of interaction and collaboration in the L2 gram-
mar acquisition process and examine how carefully designed communication tasks
might promote the type of learning-in-action that is so central to a dynamic view of
language learning.
If it is not possible to identify one, stable, idealized “target” – or, as Larsen-Freeman
puts it, “The target is always moving” (1997, p. 151) – then it is also important to think
critically about the concepts of near-nativeness or native-like competence. These terms
are often used to refer to the end-point of acquisition, with the assumption that the
interlanguage system will never completely mirror the target language system. But if
the goal of L2 acquisition is to participate in a variety of L2 communities and contexts
(having dinner with friends who speak the L2, pursuing a graduate degree in the L2,
using the L2 when traveling), then mirroring a somewhat vague native speaker target
may not be desirable. And, considering the diversity of styles, dialects, and registers
used by native speakers of a language, this may not even be possible.
142	 Pedagogical Grammar
Though numerous scholars have called the idealized native speaker target into
question (e.g., Canagarajah, 2004; Cook, 1999; Firth & Wagner, 1997; Jenkins, 2006;
Seidlhofer, 2001; Shuck, 2006), Ortega (2010, 2013) argues that the field of second
language acquisition still suffers from what she calls a monolingual bias, where native
speakership is defined by birth and monolingualism is assumed to be the norm. This
is evidenced in the standard research practices of the field, where study participants
are given the default label of “non-native speaker” and are described only in terms of
their L2 performance on particular tasks, not what they can do as multilinguals func-
tioning in the real world. At the same time, the native speakers of the target language
are viewed as superior to those learning the language, even in cases where the native
speakers are monolingual (as is often the case with English) and thus have a smaller
linguistic repertoire than bi- and multilingual users.
Language exposure from birth and primary language socialization is seen to confer the
linguistic right of legitimate ownership of a language and the advantage of possessing
the “purest” form of (monolingual) linguistic competence, one that cannot be altered
by later experiences in life. Conversely, the ideology of linguistic birthrights also makes
any form of language ownership and linguistic competence that may be developed later
in life into less legitimate and less pure. (Ortega, 2013, p. 36)
In a recent corpus-based, critical discourse analysis of the applied linguistics literature,
Keck and Ortega (2013) provide empirical evidence for the monolingual bias in L2
research, through the identification of three deficit metaphors which occurred with
high frequency across a corpus of over 900 published journal articles: (1) the charac-
terization of learners as generally deficient in some way, through the use of negative
statements with primary verbs (are not, do not), the modal cannot, or an affirmative
statement with negative prosody (have difficulty, need); (2) the characterization of
learner success as partial or possible only under certain conditions, through the use of
conditional and concessive clauses (if, when, although); and (3) the characterization of
learners as passive beneficiaries of particular external forces (e.g., teaching techniques,
task conditions) which can bring about learning gains. Examples 7.1 through 7.3, taken
from the corpus of applied linguistics literature compiled by Keck and Ortega, illustrate
each of these deficit metaphors.
	(7.1)	 Learners do not develop the full spectrum of sociolinguistic registers or the level of
cognitive and academic literacy commanded by monolingual native speakers.
	(7.2)	 Even though learners can successfully interpret a sentence, the representations that
are created lack complex hierarchical structure.
	(7.3)	 The teacher either provides a recasts or forces learners to establish the correct form
through elicitation techniques.
What is particularly troubling about these findings is that these pervasive deficit meta-
phors within the applied linguistics community could serve to reinforce deficit views
	 Chapter 7.  The dynamic nature of L2 learner language	 143
of language learners that exist outside of the research community. For example, when
teachers-in-training read the applied linguistics literature, they seek out answers to
their questions about how students learn and how second languages should be taught.
Discourse that ignores the rich linguistic resources that many language learners bring
to the classroom paints an incomplete picture of language acquisition, one which
can (unintentionally) result in language teaching practices that make students feel
ashamed, rather than proud, of their bilingualism.
Put this way, the consequences of the monolingual bias became painfully clear.
All too often, L2 users are made to feel that they are “less rather than more” (Ortega,
2010), that their L2 grammar errors are signs of some inherent deficiency, a deficiency
they will always have simply because of where they were born and what language(s)
they happened to learn first.
Within our own classrooms, we can also work to move beyond a monolingual bias,
towards an emphasis on multilingualism and multicompetence (Cook, 1999). There is
no reason why our students, many of whom already speak multiple languages, should
feel inferior to those who speak only one. When we encounter learner language, either
as L2 researchers or L2 grammar teachers, it is important to keep this bias in mind and
to avoid the tendency to focus on what learners cannot do, rather than what they can
do. Seeing errors as important signs of progress, as evidence of restructuring and devel-
opment, is one way we can work against our deficit-oriented tendencies. Recognizing
the rich linguistic repertoires our students bring to our classrooms is another. And
investigating the ways in which our students use multiple languages to navigate their
complex lives is yet another way we can work to recognize and value the unique,
talented individuals who come through our classrooms (Canagarajah, 2011; Creese
& Blackledge, 2010; Taylor, Bernhard, Garg, & Cummins, 2008). Although much of
the L2 literature still uses adjectives like “ungrammatical,” “ill-formed,” “non-target-
like,” and “deviant” when describing learner language, we encourage you to consider
some more positive alternatives – creative, amazing, resourceful (to borrow from the
child language acquisition literature) – and, in keeping with the current theme of this
chapter: dynamic and complex.
Reflection 7.7
– As an L2 learner, have you ever felt inferior to native speakers of the language?
To what extent do you compare your own abilities against theirs? In what ways
have these comparisons been useful? In what ways have they been potentially
detrimental to the learning process?
– As an L2 teacher, have you encountered deficit views of L2 learners, either in your
school or in your community? How do you respond to this? To what extent do you
focus on what your students cannot do, in comparison to what they can do?
– How might L2 teachers and L2 learners work together to combat deficit views of
multilingual students?
144	 Pedagogical Grammar
	 Summary
–	 First coined by Selinker, the term interlanguage refers to the learner’s developing language
system, one which is influenced by both the native language(s) and the target language.
–	 Studies of interlanguage have identified orders of acquisition for grammatical morphemes,
as well as developmental sequences for the acquisition of particular grammatical systems.
These phases of development are largely influenced features of the input, such as frequency
of use, salience, and semantic complexity. Similar orders of acquisition and developmental
sequences have been observed in both children learning their native language and adults
learning a second language; in both naturalistic and instructed L2 learning contexts; and
across a wide range of L1 backgrounds.
–	 Learner language can be described as a dynamic, complex system which changes not only
over time, but in real time, as learners adjust to the demands of a particular communicative
situation.
–	 Approaches to the study of learner language which compare learners against an idealized,
monolingual norm run the risk of perpetuating deficit views of L2 learners. A more appropri-
ate comparison may be groups of highly successful, multicompetent, multilingual users.
	 Suggestions for further reading
Bardovi-Harlig, K. (2000). Tense and aspect in second language acquisition: Form, meaning, and
use. A Supplement to Language Learning, 50, 1–491.
Han, Z. & Tarone, E. (Eds.). (2014). Interlanguage: Forty Years Later. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Larsen-Freeman, D., & Cameron, L. (2008). ComplexSystemsandAppliedLinguistics.Oxford: Oxford
University Press. 
May, S. (Ed.) (2013). TheMultilingualTurn:ImplicationsforSLA,TESOL,andBilingualEducation. New
York, NY: Routledge.
Tarone, E., & Swierzbin, B. (2009). Exploring Learner Language. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Chapter 8
Instructed L2 grammar acquisition
Six key theory-practice links
In addition to describing the nature of learner language and the phases that L2 learn-
ers pass through as they acquire particular grammatical features, SLA research has
also focused extensively on L2 instruction and the ways in which features of the L2
classroom interact with the L2 learning process. A central focus of early research
in this area (often referred to as instructed SLA) was the language teacher and the
important role that he or she played in providing necessary input to L2 learners. As
we saw in Chapter 2, many early theories of second language acquisition described
the type of teacher input that would be most facilitative to L2 development: propo-
nents of the Audiolingual Method stressed the importance of authentic input, with
opportunities for repetition and practice; Krashen’s Monitor Model stressed the im-
portance of meaningful, comprehensible input in the L2 classroom; and Long (1980)
highlighted the importance of interactionally modified input, or input that is carefully
tailored to the needs of the L2 learner through native speaker (or teacher) feedback
(e.g., confirmation checks, requests for clarification, and repetitions or paraphrases
of learner utterances).
Over the past few decades, however, instructed SLA research has broadened con-
siderably in scope and has achieved what Ortega (2012) refers to as “epistemological
diversity” (p. 206). In other words, while instructed SLA research in the 1980s was
primarily dominated by a focus on input, interaction, and output, several additional
orientations have emerged, all of which offer their own (sometimes competing) theo-
ries about how L2 learning works and how L2 instruction can facilitate the learning
process. Though published overviews of SLA research differ in their estimates of the
precise number of orientations that currently exist, many (e.g., Ellis, 2008; Lightbown &
Spada, 2013; Mitchell & Myles, 2013; Ortega, 2009; Skehan, 2003) commonly highlight
three major perspectives that have made substantial contributions to our understand-
ing of instructed SLA: interactionist, sociocultural, and cognitive.
The interactionist orientation to SLA examines how the linguistic environment
(the input the learner receives) interacts with learners’ internal cognitive processes
(e.g., noticing, hypothesis testing). This research domain emerged in direct response
to Long’s Interaction Hypothesis. Key questions explored in this domain which relate
directly to L2 grammar pedagogy include: How can teachers promote meaningful
146	 Pedagogical Grammar
interaction in the target language in their own classrooms? To what extent does this
interaction promote the acquisition of particular grammatical forms?
The sociocultural orientation to SLA examines L2 learning as it takes place through
participation in social interaction (with family members, friends, co-workers, class-
mates) in particular contexts (local, regional, national, global, historical). Key questions
explored in this research domain include: How can teachers encourage learner-learner
and learner-teacher collaboration in the classroom? In what ways does students’
participation in social interaction contribute to their development of grammatical
competence?
The cognitive orientation to SLA examines the role of cognition in second lan-
guage acquisition. This is not to say that interactionist and sociocultural domains do
not account for cognition; both do. However, while interactionist research looks at the
interaction between cognition and the environment (e.g., how negative feedback from
the environment might prompt noticing) and sociocultural research examines how
cognition is developed through social interaction (e.g., how language is first learned
through interaction and is then used to mediate thought), cognitive orientations focus
primarily on the inner workings of cognition: attention, awareness, information pro-
cessing, memory storage and retrieval. Key questions explored in this domain include:
What role might instruction and practice play in the development of automatic pro-
cessing and retrieval skills? In what ways do the cognitive demands of a task impact
the accuracy, fluency, and complexity of learner language?
Drawing on all three of these research domains, in this chapter, we highlight six
key findings which we feel are particularly relevant to the teaching of L2 grammar.
Explicit versus implicit instruction does not have to be
an either-or proposition
Over the years, the pendulum has swung away from a structural syllabus, towards
entirely meaning-focused Communicative Language Teaching, and back again to at
least some focus on grammatical form. While there has been much debate over whether
implicit or explicit instruction is superior, the research to date suggests that both ap-
proaches have the potential to promote L2 grammar acquisition (Nassaji & Fotos, 2011;
Norris & Ortega, 2000). Thus, we feel it is most useful to view explicit and implicit
instruction as a continuum, rather than as a dichotomy. On one end of this continuum,
we have a focus on meaning, or versions of Communicative Language Teaching which
involve entirely meaning-focused interaction and no effort on the part of the teacher
to shift students’ attention to form. On the opposite end, we have what Long (Long,
1996; Long & Robinson, 1998) calls focus on formS – a structural syllabus, explicit
grammar lessons, rote practice, and no opportunities to interact meaningfully. While
	
Chapter
8. 
Instructed
L2
grammar
acquisition	
147
Form-focused instruction
Focus on formS  Focus on meaning
Structural syllabus
organized around
discreet grammatical
items
Decontextualized,
rote practice
Explicit instruction
+ communication
about grammar in
collaborative tasks
(e.g., Ellis & Fotos,
1994)
Communicative task
+ explicit instruction
before or after the task
(e.g., Fotos, 1993,
2002; Muranoi, 2000)
Implicit Focus on
Form through planned
feedback in oral
communication tasks
(e.g., Doughty & Varela,
1998; Mackey & Philp,
1998; Mackey, 1999)
Implicit Focus
on Form through
unplanned, reactive
feedback in the
midst of meaningful
communication
(e.g., Long &
Robinson, 1998)
“Pure” or “strong”
versions of
Communicative
Language Teaching
No explicit grammar
instruction or corrective
feedback
Figure 8.1  Form-Focused Instruction continuum
148	 Pedagogical Grammar
few scholars would advocate for either of these extremes, there are many promising
approaches in between. These pedagogical options fall under the umbrella term of
form-focused instruction (Ellis, 2001; Fotos & Nassaji, 2007; Spada, 1997; Spada &
Lightbown, 2008), or instruction which aims to draw learners’ attention to linguistic
form in meaningful contexts.
Just one step to the left of a Focus on Meaning approach, we have Long’s focus on
form (without the –S), where teachers make efforts to draw students’ attention to lin-
guistic form in the midst of meaningful communication. Teachers do not plan which
forms will be focused on in advance, but rather they observe students in the act of
communication and intervene when communication breakdowns occur. This allows
for classroom interaction to be primarily meaning-focused, with occasional shifts in
attention to vocabulary or grammar forms. Long’s focus on form approach is intended
for a task-based syllabus, one which is not organized around pre-selected grammatical
structures, but rather around “the hundred and one things people do in everyday life,
at work, at play, and in between” (Long, 1985, p. 89). In other words, each instructional
unit focuses on a particular situation of use and the real-world tasks associated with
this context.
For teachers who would like to have some control over what grammatical forms
are focused on when, but who also prefer communication tasks over teacher-fronted
grammar lessons, planned implicit focus on form is a viable option. In this approach,
teachers decide in advance what grammatical forms to target and then design commu-
nication tasks that will encourage (or require) the use of those forms. To increase the
likelihood that students will attend to the target grammatical forms (without explicitly
telling them to do so), teachers can incorporate corrective feedback into the task. For
example, Doughty and Varela (1998) designed an instructional intervention in which
ESL students in a middle school science class worked collaboratively in groups to carry
out and report on science experiments. In their focus on form intervention, Doughty
and Varela decided in advance to focus their corrective feedback on students’ use of the
past tense, a grammatical form that is very important to science reporting. As students
discussed the results of the experiments with one another, the teacher (Varela) gave
feedback not only on the content of their discussion, but also their use of verb tenses.
No explicit explanations of past tense use were provided; rather, Varela used implicit
recasts to respond to students’ verb tense use. For example, if a student described a
past tense event using simple present, the teacher would first repeat the utterance with
rising intonation (to get the students’ attention) and then would go on to recast the
utterance (using the correct past tense form).
Closer to the Focus on FormS end of the continuum would be approaches which
attempt to use both meaning-focused communicative tasks and explicit techniques.
Sandra Fotos’ approach to teaching grammar in English as a Foreign Language (EFL)
settings is one example of this. Arguing that Long’s focus on form approach is not
	 Chapter 8.  Instructed L2 grammar acquisition	 149
feasible in many EFL contexts, Fotos (2002) has proposed a three-part grammar les-
son in which the teacher introduces the target form to students, engages students in
communicative practice, and then reviews the feature with students, responding to
any challenges they faced while doing the task. This approach integrates some focus
on formS (pre-selected grammar features and explicit lessons) with some elements of
focus on form (meaning-focused communicative tasks that involve some shift in at-
tention to grammar forms).
A Form-Focused continuum allows teachers a good deal of flexibility when it
comes to addressing grammar in the L2 classroom. Teachers under pressure to pre-
pare students for grammar-focused exams may find Fotos’ approach a practical way
to develop both students’ declarative knowledge of grammar rules and their com-
municative competence. Teachers working to help students carry out daily tasks in
the L2 with confidence and fluency may favor approaches that shift attention to form
through feedback in the midst of communicative activities. And many teachers may
find that their approach varies over the course of a semester – that different gram-
matical features and communication needs call for differing types and amounts of
attention to form.
Reflection 8.1
– As an L2 learner, how would you characterize the approaches you have experienced
in your second or foreign language classes? Did some classes take a Focus on
FormS approach? Did others focus primarily on meaning? Have you experienced
classes that fell somewhere in the middle of these two extremes?
– As an L2 teacher, where would you plot your own approach to teaching grammar
on the Form-Focused Instruction continuum? What factors (e.g., student needs,
instructional context, curricular requirements) influence the choices you make
regarding focus on form in the L2 classroom?
Meaning-focused communication tasks can promote
the acquisition of L2 grammar
Although the term “Form-Focused Instruction” puts the word “Form” at the fore, the
approaches that fall within this middle area of the implicit-explicit continuum typically
do not emphasize form over meaning. Rather, these approaches make use of carefully
designed communication tasks which place a primary focus on meaning and a second-
ary focus on grammatical form. As learners work together to understand one another
and accomplish a goal, they can, at the same time, be encouraged to use particular
grammatical forms or to attend to their own grammatical errors, in ways that do not
impede the flow of communication.
150	 Pedagogical Grammar
This approach to promoting grammar acquisition through communication tasks
is often called task-based interaction. Since Long’s Interaction Hypothesis (1980, 1996),
numerous studies have examined the benefits of task-based interaction. Two meta-
analyses (Keck, Iberri-Shea, Tracy-Ventura, & Wa-Mbaleka, 2006; Macky & Goo,
2007) have synthesized, quantitatively, the findings of this research, concluding that
task-based interaction does indeed promote the acquisition of particular grammati-
cal features which were elicited during task performance. Learners who participate
in task-based interaction demonstrate larger gains in L2 grammar acquisition than
control groups (learners who received no instruction at all) and comparison groups
(learners who received an alternative form of instruction).
Through all of this research, three task features have emerged as particularly im-
portant to promoting the acquisition of L2 grammar. First, successful communication
tasks often strive to create what Pica, Kanagy, and Falodun (1993) call an information
gap. That is, each participant in the task has a real need to exchange information with
other task participants – if participants do not share this information, they cannot
complete the task successfully. Although many alternative task designs exist, Pica et al.
argue that an information gap is needed to maximize interaction, as students must ask
each other questions and negotiate meaning in order to obtain the information they
need. An ideal information gap design is a two-way information gap, or jigsaw task.
In this design, all task participants have information they must share with the other
members of their group. This encourages the participation of all group members and
requires group members to work together towards a shared goal.
TASK-BASED INTERACTION & L2 GRAMMAR ACQUISITION
Communication tasks are more likely to promote grammar acquisition if they:
–	
Create an information gap, or a situation in which each student in a group holds a piece
of information that other group members need to know
–	
Strive for task-essentialness by creating obligatory contexts for the target grammatical
form(s)
–	 Provide opportunities for corrective feedback in response to student errors
Many successful communication tasks also aim for what Loschky and Bley-Vroman
(1993) call task-essentialness. That is, the task is designed to create obligatory contexts
for particular grammatical (or lexical) forms and requires participants to use these
forms in order to complete the task successfully. Mackey (1999), for example, used a
spot-the-difference task to create a need to use targeted question forms. A participant
could not identify the differences between her own picture and her partner’s picture
(hidden from view) without attempting to use and comprehend questions. Loschky
	 Chapter 8.  Instructed L2 grammar acquisition	 151
and Bley-Vroman place task-essential forms (forms needed to carry out a task) on a
continuum with task-useful forms (learners can more easily complete the task by using
the target forms, but are not required to do so) and task-natural forms (learners may
use the target forms, but it is also possible for them to easily complete the task without
these forms). As R. Ellis (2003) points out, task-essentialness is not always possible to
achieve (we can’t force our students to use the forms we want them to!). We believe,
however, that it is a worthy goal. An important finding of the Keck et al. (2006) meta-
analysis was that task-essential designs resulted in greater acquisitional gains over
time than task-useful or task-natural designs. That is, learners who participated in
communication tasks which required the use of the target feature demonstrated greater
improvement on delayed post-tests (30–60 days after the treatment) than did learners
who did not experience task-essential designs.
A third key feature of successful communication tasks is that they often create
opportunities for learners to receive feedback on their use of L2 grammar, includ-
ing corrective feedback, or feedback in response to learners’ grammatical errors. As
we will see in the next section, there are a variety of feedback strategies available to
teachers. Feedback can be explicit in nature (e.g., an overt correction of an error) or
implicit (e.g., a recast), and it can be planned (e.g., to target past tense errors only) or
incidental (e.g., in response to errors as they arise, regardless of error type). An im-
portant function of feedback during communication tasks is to promote awareness of
and reflection on L2 grammar. Though communication tasks are primarily meaning-
focused, feedback during the course of interaction can be used to temporarily shift
learners’ attention away from meaning towards form (Long, 1996; Long & Robinson,
1998), thus increasing the likelihood that the communication task will promote L2
grammar acquisition.
Reflection 8.2
– This section highlights features of communication tasks which have been found
to promote L2 grammar acquisition: an information gap, task-essentialness, and
corrective feedback. In what ways have you, as a teacher (or researcher) aimed to
integrate these features into your own instructional task design? What benefits have
you observed? What challenges have you encountered?
– Considering your own experiences as a teacher and a learner, what other task
design features do you feel play an important role in promoting L2 grammar
acquisition?
152	 Pedagogical Grammar
Corrective feedback – in many forms – can make a difference
In addition to deciding whether instruction should be primarily implicit or explicit
in nature, teachers are also faced with decisions regarding when and how to correct
students’ grammatical errors. Should I correct every error a student makes? Should I
explain the error to the student or just make the correction? Should I simply restate the
students’ utterance in the correct form and move on? And does any of this feedback
make a difference? Does it help my students to improve their grammatical competence?
The answer to the last two questions in the above paragraph should be encour-
aging – yes, your feedback does make a difference. Numerous studies of corrective
feedback have found that this feedback can lead to subsequent acquisition of target
grammatical forms (see Bitchener & Ferris, 2012; Mackey, 2012; Nassaji & Fotos, 2011;
Russell & Spada, 2006 for reviews). Though there has been some debate over which
feedback strategies are better than others, few scholars would argue that teachers use
only one type of corrective feedback. Rather, teachers have available to them a reper-
toire of feedback strategies, all of which can work together to promote noticing and
L2 grammar acquisition. For example, Mackey (1999) examined the impact of what
she called interactional feedback on L2 question development, finding a combination
of requests for clarification and recasts to be effective. Muranoi (2000) used a carefully
planned sequence of feedback delivery involving requests for repetition, repetitions
of the learners’ modified feedback, and recasting; all of which he included under the
heading of interaction enhancement.
One key finding of the research on oral corrective feedback (whether it be a re-
cast, a request for clarification, or an elicitation) is that communication tasks which
incorporate frequent feedback into their design lead to greater learning gains than
communication tasks with little or no feedback (Li, 2010; Mackey, 2006; Mackey &
Goo, 2007; Russell & Spada, 2006). In other words, when learners are focused primar-
ily on meaning as they work to complete information gap tasks, they may not attend
to grammatical form unless they receive some kind of feedback in direct response to
grammatical errors.
One implicit method of providing feedback that has received considerable atten-
tion in SLA research is the recast, a conversational strategy in which a person repeats
and slightly modifies an utterance made by the person they are in conversation with,
for the purpose of either clarifying what was said or highlighting an error. Numerous
studies of child-directed speech have found recasts to be the preferred corrective feed-
back method used by the parents of young children (Saxton, 2010) and, not surpris-
ingly, this has also been found to be the case in studies of teachers interacting with L2
students (Lyster & Ranta, 1997; Mackey et al., 2000; Panova & Lyster, 2002; Moroishi,
2002; Sheen, 2004; Farrokhi, 2007; Yoshida, 2009).
	 Chapter 8.  Instructed L2 grammar acquisition	 153
In the following conversational excerpt, taken from Mackey and Philp (1998, p. 344),
a native speaker recasts an L2 learner in the midst of a communication task:
		 NNS: 	 Oh [pause] she go to the zoo and she is she fun?
		 NS: 	 is she –
		 NNS: 	 fun
		 NS: 	 is she having fun?
		 NNS: 	 having fun
		 NS: 	 yeah yeah
CORRECTIVE FEEDBACK STRATEGIES
Clarification request
Indicating to a student that you did not
understand by asking questions such as
“Excuse me?”“What did you say?” and “I’m
sorry?”
Example*
S: I want practice today, today.
T: I’m sorry?
Repetition
Repeating an error back to a student, usually
with rising intonation or emphasis
Example
S: 
Oh my god, it is too expensive, I pay only 10
dollars
T: I pay? [Repetition with rising intonation]
Recast
Reformulating what a student has said to
model and draw attention to a particular
form without interrupting the flow of
communication
Example
S:Andtheyfoundouttheonewomanrunaway.
T: Ok, the woman was running away.
S: Running away.
Elicitation
Inviting self-repair by repeating part, but not
all of what a student has said, usually with
rising intonation
Example
S: Andwhentheyounggirlarrive,ah,besidethe
old woman.
T: When the young girl…?
Metalinguistic feedback
Explaininganaspectofgrammarinresponse
to an error, without explicitly providing the
correct answer
Example
S: I see him in the office yesterday.
T: You need a past tense.
Direct correction
Providing explicit signals to the student that
there is an error in the previous utterance
Example
S: He has catch a cold.
T: Not catch, caught.
S: Oh, ok.
 *Examples taken from Nassji & Fotos (2011, pp. 73–78)
154	 Pedagogical Grammar
In this exchange, the native speaker and the L2 student (labeled NNS, or non-native
speaker) are participating in a spot-the-difference task, in which one person is holding
a picture that is slightly different from her partner. Each partner must ask the other
partner questions to find out how their pictures differ. The L2 learner asks the question
“she is she fun?” The native speaker recasts this question by changing its grammatical
structure: “Is she having fun?” The learner then repeats part of this recast: “having fun.”
This can be seen as a type of implicit corrective feedback (also called implicit negative
feedback) in that the recast responds to a grammatical error without explicitly stating
that an error has been made. The recast has the potential to draw the L2 learners’ at-
tention to the grammatical form of her question without interrupting the flow of the
conversation.
Proponents of recasts (Goo & Mackey, 2013; Long, 1996; 2007; Mackey & Philp,
1998; Mackey, 2006) argue that recasts are beneficial for L2 learning because they are
unobtrusive, and they provide learners with not only negative evidence (a cue that a
grammatical error has been made) but also positive evidence (through the modeling of
the correct grammatical form). A number of studies have investigated the impact that
recasts might have on the subsequent learning of L2 grammar (e.g., Ammar & Spada,
2006; Nicholas, Lightbown, & Spada, 2001; Nassaji, 2009; Sheen, 2008) and have found
recasts to be an effective means for promoting grammar acquisition through task-
based interaction. Nevertheless, recasts have been the focus of some intense debate
(Goo & Mackey, 2013; Lyster & Ranta, 2013), as some scholars question whether the
findings of controlled laboratory studies have relevance to the classroom. It is unlikely
that teachers would be able to (or even want to) provide a recast in response to every
error made by every student, as is often done in research studies. Because a classroom
setting is quite different from a laboratory setting, it is likely that learners’ responses
to recasts in these two settings might also be different. This was found to be the case
in Lyster and Ranta’s (1997) oft-cited study of negative feedback in Canadian French
immersion settings. Lyster and Ranta found that while recasts were by far the most
preferred form of corrective feedback, when compared to other, more explicit feedback
types, recasts were found to be least likely to promote an immediate response from
the learner. In many cases, there was no evidence that a teacher’s recast was noticed or
processed by the learner, as the learner did not repeat or modify his utterance after the
recast was given. Evidence that a learner has noticed a recast or another form of implicit
feedback is often called uptake, defined by Lyster & Ranta as “a student’s utterance that
immediately follows the teacher’s feedback and that constitutes a reaction in some way
to the teacher’s intention to draw attention to some aspect of the participant’s initial
utterance” (p. 49). While uptake does not guarantee subsequent L2 acquisition, it is
seen as an indication that the feedback provided has been noticed, and this noticing,
in turn, may facilitate the acquisition process (Ellis, Basturkmen, & Loewen, 2002;
Lightbown, 1998; Loewen, 2005).
	 Chapter 8.  Instructed L2 grammar acquisition	 155
It is important to note however, that Lyster and Ranta focused on incidental feed-
back, or feedback that arises spontaneously in the course of classroom interaction.
Incidental feedback, unlike planned feedback, is not designed to address particular
aspects of the L2. Incidental feedback also differs from planned feedback in that inci-
dental feedback may not always address errors in form, but may be used to confirm
comprehension or clarify the learner’s intended meaning. Lyster (1998) argues that
when students receive recasts incidentally, they may not perceive them as a type of
corrective feedback. The planned recasts used in controlled studies, on the other hand,
are delivered in a systematic way, in direct response to particular kinds of L2 gram-
matical errors. They are also used within communication tasks that create obligatory
contexts for the target feature and engage learners in collaboration towards a shared
goal. Thus, it may be that recasts delivered within these particular task conditions are
more effective than unplanned recasts delivered in the course of whole class activities.
Ellis et al. (2002) and Loewen (2005) argue, however, that both incidental and
planned feedback can facilitate the L2 acquisition process. “Planned focus on form has
the advantage of providing intensive coverage of one specific linguistic item, whereas
incidental focus on form provides extensive coverage, targeting many different linguis-
tic items” (Loewen, 2005, p. 362). In his investigation of incidental feedback provided
by teachers in 12 different ESL classes, Loewen was able to link episodes in which learn-
ers had received form-focused feedback in the midst of meaningful communication in
the classroom (e.g., a recast in response to a grammatical error) to subsequent correct
use of the linguistic form on a language test. Loewen found that students were more
likely to successfully answer test items if there was some evidence of uptake after the
teacher feedback, particularly if that uptake was successful, in that the learner correctly
used the linguistic item immediately after the teacher feedback was given. Thus, it can
be said that whether planned or incidental, implicit or explicit, corrective feedback has
the potential to facilitate the L2 grammar acquisition process. It is important, then, for
teachers to develop a repertoire of feedback strategies and to consider how and when
these strategies might be used during classroom activities. In Chapter 9, we highlight
ways in which teachers might incorporate corrective feedback into grammar-focused
communication tasks.
Reflection 8.3
– As an L2 learner, what types of corrective feedback have you experienced? What
types do you feel have been most helpful for learning grammar? Least helpful?
Why might this be the case?
– As an L2 teacher, do you have a repertoire of feedback strategies that you use in
the classroom? If so, what strategies are included, and how do you make decisions
about what types of feedback to give when?
156	 Pedagogical Grammar
Our pedagogical choices are not always determined in advance,
but in the moment and in collaboration with L2 learners
While it is important to develop a repertoire of L2 grammar teaching strategies,
whether they be approaches to providing feedback on errors or designing informa-
tion gap tasks, many of the decisions we make as teachers are not planned in advance,
but rather are made in response to what we see happening in our classrooms. Learning
is not simply something that takes place after instruction has been given, but rather
is “a dynamic social activity that is situated in physical and social contexts” (Johnson,
2006, p. 237). Teachers participate in the learning process not simply by delivering
knowledge to learners, but by collaborating with them to achieve particular learning
goals. This realization has prompted what many refer to as a “social turn” in second
language research and teaching (Johnson, 2006; Lantolf & Thorne, 2007; Ortega, 2010).
Sociocultural approaches to SLA are informed by Vygotskian sociocultural theory,
which posits that, aside from the most basic, involuntary processes, human cognition
develops through interaction with the social environment. We are not born with the
fully-functioning capacity to use language to organize our thoughts and experiences,
but rather develop this skill through a process of socialization within a particular com-
munity (Lantolf & Thorne, 2007).
Central to Vygotsky’s sociocultural theory of mind is the Zone of Proximal Devel­
opment (ZPD). The most oft-cited definition of the ZPD comes from Vygotsky (1978):
The distance between the actual developmental level as determined by independent
problem solving and the level of potential development as determined through prob-
lem solving under adult guidance or in collaboration with more capable peers.
 (cited in Lantolf and Thorne, 2007, p. 206)
In this conception, a learner, when working with teachers or more advanced speakers
of the language, is able to accomplish tasks that he or she would otherwise not be able
to accomplish individually. This is possible because the more advanced adult or peer
offers assistance to the learner when needed. This assistance (often called scaffolding)
can come in the form of explicit instructions or implicit feedback, including many
of the strategies highlighted in task-based interaction research. However, within the
sociocultural framework, the emphasis is not so much on whether learners notice a
particular grammatical form, but rather on the amount of assistance needed to com-
plete the task successfully. If learners are given the opportunity to carry out multiple
collaborative tasks over a period of time, they are likely to need less and less assistance
from their collaborators. Changes in the amount of assistance needed can be seen as
signs of development.
This approach to describing and assessing development is exemplified in Aljaafreh
and Lantolf (1994), who investigated the collaborative process that takes place in one-
on-one tutoring. Aljaafreh and Lantolf recorded the interactions between adult learners
	 Chapter 8.  Instructed L2 grammar acquisition	 157
and their ESL writing tutor over the course of eight weeks. The tutoring sessions fo-
cused on accurate use of four grammatical structures: articles, tense, prepositions, and
modal verbs. Aljaafreh and Lantolf documented the accuracy with which the learners
used these forms over the course of the study, and they also documented the amount
and types of assistance offered by the tutor over time.
During the tutoring session, the tutor asked the student to read the essay draft
one sentence at a time. After each sentence, the student would pause and the tutor
would ask a general question related to grammatical accuracy (e.g., Is there anything
wrong in this sentence?). If the student identified and corrected an error right away,
the tutor and the student would move on to the next sentence. If the student was not
able to identify an error that was present, the tutor would ask more questions, gradu-
ally becoming more and more explicit in their feedback. To characterize the level of
explicitness used at different points in the tutoring sessions, Aljaafreh and Lantolf
developed a Regulatory Scale, ranging from implicit to explicit, as shown in Figure 8.1.
Regulatory Scale – Implicit (strategic) to Explicit
0. Tutor asks the learner to read, find the errors, and correct them independently,
prior to the tutorial.
1. Construction of a “collaborative frame” prompted by the presence of the tutor as a
potential dialogic partner.
2. Prompted or focused reading of the sentence that contains the error by the learner
or the tutor.
3. Tutor indicates that something may be wrong in a segment (e.g., sentence, clause,
line) – “Is there anything wrong in this sentence?”
4. Tutor rejects unsuccessful attempts at recognizing the error.
5. Tutor narrows down the location of the error (e.g., tutor repeats or points to the
specific segment which contains the error).
6. Tutor indicates the nature of the error, but does not identify the error (e.g., “There
is something wrong with the tense marking here”).
7. Tutor identifies the error (“You can’t use an auxiliary here”).
8. Tutor rejects learner’s unsuccessful attempts at correcting the error.
9. Tutor provides clues to help the learner arrive at the correct form (e.g., “It is not
really past but some thing that is still going on”).
10. Tutor provides the correct form.
11. Tutor provides some explanation for use of the correct form.
12. Tutor provides examples of the correct pattern when other forms of help fail to
produce an appropriate responsive action.
Figure 8.2  Aljaafreh & Lantolf’s Regulatory Scale (1994, p. 471)
158	 Pedagogical Grammar
In the Regulatory Scale, 0 represents a phase of development where no help from
the tutor is needed. As we move down the scale, more help is needed, and thus the
tutor’s feedback becomes more and more explicit. At the end of the scale, the tutor
exerts a great deal of control over the situation, providing the correct grammatical
form, explaining how this form is used, and providing additional examples. In this
approach, the choice of implicit versus explicit strategy is based on the amount of as-
sistance needed. Most sociocultural scholars do not ascribe to either an explicit or im-
plicit approach to grammar instruction, but rather see a role for both approaches. (Yet
another reason why implicit versus explicit does not have to be an either-or choice.)
As Adair-Hauck and Donato (1994) explain:
A Vygotskain approach to formal explanation belies the simplistic dichotomy of ex-
plicit and implicit teaching. While explicit teaching views the teacher as a depositor of
knowledge and implicit teaching reduces the teacher’s role to provider of linguistic input,
a Vygotskian approach views the teacher as a reflective problem-solver and mediator.
 (p. 535)
Aljaafreh and Lantolf’s (1994) analysis of the recorded tutor-student interactions in-
dicated that, over time, learners needed less explicit feedback, and the locus of control
in the tutoring session moved gradually from the tutor to the student. In other words,
students were able to internalize the knowledge of grammar that they had initially co-
constructed with the tutor, and they were able to arrive at a point at which they could
self-regulate their participation in the essay proofreading task. This gradual movement
toward self-regulation also roughly paralleled their improvement in written grammati-
cal accuracy over time.
Studies of grammar development within the ZPD have not been limited to stu-
dent-tutor interaction. Research on the development that takes place through col-
laboration has also been carried out in L2 grammar classrooms, through observation
of both teacher-student and student-student interaction. Anton (1999), for example,
investigated the types of instructional strategies that were most conducive to both the
negotiation of meaning and the provision of expert assistance within the ZPD. Anton
found that learner-centered activities (in which learners took primary responsibil-
ity for explaining grammatical rules and constructing grammatical sentences) were
more conducive to interaction and collaboration than were teacher-centered activities.
Further, inductive lessons, in which learners were asked to look at example sentences
and make hypotheses about grammar rules, promoted more collaboration than did
deductive lessons, in which the teacher provided extensive explanations of the gram-
mar structures in focus.
Figure 8.2 displays excerpts from two language classes (a college L2 French class
and a college L2 Italian class), recorded as part of Anton’s study. The excerpt on the
left is an example of a collaborative, inductive grammar lesson, while the example on
	
Chapter
8. 
Instructed
L2
grammar
acquisition	
159
1. T: So, alors, qu ‘est-ce qui se passe ici ? Quelle est la difference ici?
Quelle difference est-ce que vous pouvez remarquer ici dans les trois
exemples ? (So, what’s happening here? What’s the difference? What
difference can you see in these three examples?)
2. S1: etre. (to be.)
3. T: etre, oui, on utilise le verbe etre, n’est-ce pas? Pour former
le passe composse, n ‘est-ce pas? Est-ce qu’il y a d’autres differences
que vous pouvez remarquer? (To be, yes, we use the verb to be, right?
In order to form the past, right? Any other difference that you can see?)
4. S2: new verbs
5. T: oui, rentrer c’est nouveau, n’est-ce pas? Rentrer for the verb to
return, right? Ren-trer D’autres, il y a d’autres differences que vous
pouvez remarquer? . . . Si non, c’est pas un probleme. On va essayer la
reponse d ces questions.... (Yes, rentrer is new, right? Rentrer for the
verb to return, right? Any other, is there any other difference that you
can see? . . . If not, no problem. We are going to practice the answer to
these questions. (Focus on form interrupted by oral practice with some
questions that include etre in the past, then focus on form resumes)
6. S3: There is something new in the third form, they add an s.
7. T: That’s good, that’s good, the third one [reading] Paul et Karine . ..
8. S3: because, because it’s plural.
9. T: that’s good.
10. S3: that’s new.
11. T: good, so, she is seeing here Paul et Karine, right? Good, so
sortis notice, there is an s at the end of sortis, so they are showing
agreement now. The end of your, right? Your past participle, now they
show agreement, there is an s because she knows it’s Paul et Karine,
so it’s plural, so we add an s, that’s good, that’s what’s happening.
1. T: In this lesson you are doing two important things primarily. We are
learning possessive adjectives and another past tense. The Imperfect tense.
You’ve already had the Passato Prossimo. They are both past tenses but
they have different uses in Italian. Intricate for the speaker of English, not
so intricate for speakers of other Romance languages. Let’s talk about
possessives first. What’s the word for book?
2. Ss: Libro.
3. T: What’s the word for house?
4. Ss: Casa.
5. T: OK. Let’s get a masculine and singular. The book?
6. Ss: Il libro.
7. T: The house?
8. Ss: La casa.
9. T: That’s correct. Now we have a masculine and a feminine. Masculine
article il feminine la. We’ve also learnt that adjectives agree with the
nouns they agree with the noun they modify [louder]. An adjective agrees
with the noun it modifies.That was important until now, but it becomes
more important now in this lesson, so, the . . . the beautiful book il bel
libro, the beautiful house la bella casa. Now we are going to adjectives,
possessive adjectives, possessive adjectives. Adjectives are words which
describe other words, other nouns, pronouns or other adjectives. The
beautiful book, beautiful is an adjective, the red book, red is an adjective
modifying book. Possessives in English and Italian are also adjectives,
possessive adjectives. My house, my is a possessive in Italian, it’s next to
the noun, it is also an adjective. Now, what did we just say? Adjectives
agree with the thing modified. My book, il mio libro. This book is red,
il mio libro e rosso. My house is white, la mia casa, adjectives agree with
the noun they modify [louder]. So, when you are saying my book, and
my house, adjective agree with nouns they modify .
Figure 8.3  Examples of collaborative and non-collaborative grammar explanations (Anton, 1999, pp. 307–309)
160	 Pedagogical Grammar
the right is an example of a deductive grammar explanation. Anton notes that in the
excerpt on the left, the teacher piques students’ interest by using open-ended questions
(So what’s happening here? What’s the difference?) Students are invited to give their own
explanations. Eventually, a student notices the –s at the end of the word and offers a
hypothesis: because it’s plural. The teacher offers her own confirmation, and in this
way, both the students and the teacher co-construct the grammar explanation. In the
excerpt on the right, on the other hand, the teacher is primarily in control of the gram-
mar explanation. When the teacher does ask the class a question, only one answer is
possible (or in some cases, the question is simply rhetorical). Students are not given
the opportunity to offer their own explanations of the grammar they are studying.
Though it is the case that in the early phases of development, explicit explanation
of rules may be needed (as indicated on Aljaafreh & Lantolf’s Regulatory Scale), socio-
cultural researchers would argue that these explanations should be given only when it is
clear that the students cannot come up with the explanations on their own. As Lantolf
and Thorne (2007) explain: “Assistance should be graduated – with no more help pro-
vided than is necessary because the assumption is that over-assistance decreases the
student’s ability to become fully self-regulated” (p. 211). In other words, when teachers
insist on always giving explicit grammar explanations up-front, students are not given
the chance to regulate their own learning, but rather must rely on other (teacher) regula-
tion. Collaborative grammar lessons, on the other hand, help to create an environment
in which students build community and gradually move towards self-regulation, a state
in which they are fully capable of explaining and using L2 grammar on their own.
Reflection 8.4
– As an L2 teacher, in what ways do you try to create a zone of proximal development
in your classroom? What strategies do you use to give graduated assistance to L2
learners?
– When explaining grammar rules in class, to what extent do you collaborate
with your students? Are there times when you feel you need to take a deductive
approach, explaining for students how the rules work? Are there other times where
you prefer to take an inductive approach, letting students figure out the rules for
themselves? How do you make these decisions?
L2 learners play an important role in the L2 grammar acquisition of their peers
While Vygotsky’s original conception of the ZPD involved a novice working with an
expert, sociocultural theories of second language acquisition have expanded this to
include L2 learners working with other L2 learners. As Ohta (2000) notes, “Differential
competence among peers allows a ZPD to emerge… when no true ‘expert’ is present”
	 Chapter 8.  Instructed L2 grammar acquisition	 161
(p. 55). In recent years Swain and colleagues (e.g., Swain & Lapkin, 1998; 2001; 2002)
have focused a great deal of their research on peer collaboration and the important role
this collaboration plays in the L2 acquisition process. As we saw in Chapter 2, Swain’s
research in French immersion settings suggested that input-oriented, content-based,
and communicative approaches may not be enough to promote grammar acquisition if
students were not given sufficient opportunity to produce output and receive feedback
on their utterances. Swain argued that in addition to comprehensible input, output
plays a crucial role in the second language acquisition process. Comprehension, Swain
explained, is primarily meaning-focused. Learners do not necessarily have to attend
to grammatical form in order to grasp the gist of what is being said. Production, or
output, on the other hand:
pushes learners to process language more deeply – with more mental effort – than
does input. With output, the learner is in control. In speaking or writing, learners can
‘stretch’ their interlanguage to meet communicative goals.  (Swain, 2000, p. 99)
Over time, Swain (2000, 2006) has revised her Output Hypothesis, situating it within
a sociocultural framework. Second language acquisition, Swain argues, is not simply
a process through which a learner receives input, performs cognitive operations, and
then produces output. Though the word “output” itself is a noun, for Swain, it is re-
ally a verb, as it represents a process in which “the speaker is cognitively engaged in
making meaning” (p. 102). In communication, the speaker is not merely a cognitive
machine, but a social being. The input-output dichotomy over-emphasizes internal
cognitive functions, thus de-emphasizing the important role that collaboration plays
in the meaning-making process. When learners are asked to work together to com-
plete a task, they engage in what Swain (2006) calls languaging, a process through
which learners use language to solve problems, to reflect on what they know and do
not know, and to co-construct knowledge about the target language. In other words,
language is not simply what learners produce as an object, but is a tool that learners
use to mediate the learning process (Lantolf & Thorne, 2007; Swain, 2000). Learners
talk to themselves, ask questions, take written notes, correct their own mistakes and
the mistakes of others. Through this verbalization, language becomes an object of
study (a symbolic artifact), which allows learners to reflect on and perhaps even plan
future language use.
To capture the extent to which learners talk about language during collabora-
tive tasks, Swain and Lapkin (1998) developed an analytical tool called the Language
Related Episode (LRE). LREs refer to “any part of a dialogue where the students talk
about the language they are producing, question their language use, or correct them-
selves or others” (Swain & Lapkin, 1998, p. 326). Example 8.1 (taken from Kim, 2012,
p. 642) displays a grammar-focused LRE in which two learners try to come up with a
correct question form.
162	 Pedagogical Grammar
	 (8.1)	 1	 Learner 1: 	
Does he read… how long? 얼마나가 (ulmanaga) how long 이야
(yiya)?
				 when asking for time length, do we use “how long”?
		 2	 Learner 2: 	 어(uh)
				 yes
		 3	 Learner 1: 	 How long read?
		 4	 Learner 2: 	 How long does he read?
		 5	 Learner 1: 	 How long does he read?
		 6	 Learner 2: 	 read book?
		 7	 Learner 1: 	 yes. How long does he read book?
		 8	 Learner 2: 	 He reads books for two hours.
In this example, Learner 1 and 2 are exchanging teacher-provided information re-
garding a person’s life during an information gap task. Learner 1 initiates the LRE by
asking in Korean how to form a question using the words “how long.” Notice, here,
that after the learners figured out meaning of the wh- question marker in lines 1 and 2
(i.e., how long), they also negotiated form, specifically, the syntax required for a “how
long” question.
Many studies (e.g., McDonough & Sunitham, 2009; Kim, 2013; Swain, 1998;
Swain & Lapkin, 1998, 2001; Tocalli-Beller & Swain, 2007; Watanabe & Swain, 2007;
Williams, 2001) have documented the amount and types of LREs that occur during
peer interaction and the extent to which these LREs lead to subsequent L2 gram-
mar acquisition. These studies have found that learners frequently shift their atten-
tion to language form when in the midst of meaningful communication, sometimes
as many as 23 LREs in a 23-minute task (e.g., Swain & Lapkin, 1998). As learners’
proficiency levels advance, the number of LREs that occur during peer interaction
also tends to increase (Kim & McDonough, 2008; Leeser, 2004; Watanabe & Swain,
2007). At the same time, both matched proficiency pairs and mixed proficiency pairs
have been able to successfully resolve grammar-related questions as they arise dur-
ing collaborative tasks (Watanabe & Swain, 2007). Through the use of tailor-made
language tests, researchers have also been able to link LREs to subsequent grammar
acquisition (McDonough & Sunitham, 2009; Payant & Kim, in press; Swain & Lapkin,
1998). In many cases, when students negotiate form in an LRE (as in the “How long
read?” example), they are able to correctly use this form in a subsequent language test.
Thus, although early task-based interaction research and research on collaboration
focused on learners interacting with or collaborating with teachers or tutors – thus
raising questions as to whether peer group work would be as effective – the past two
decades of SLA research have provided considerable support for the contention that
L2 learners are able to provide one another with feedback that promotes L2 learn-
ing (see Philp, Adamns & Iwashita, 2014 for the synthesis of research on the role of
learner-learner interaction in SLA).
	 Chapter 8.  Instructed L2 grammar acquisition	 163
Reflection 8.5
– As an L2 learner, you have likely been asked to collaborate with your peers in the
language classroom. What types of collaboration did you engage in and what role
do you think this played in your acquisition of L2 grammar?
– As an L2 teacher, what strategies have you observed your students using when they
collaborate with one another in the classroom? In what ways do their feedback and
assistance strategies differ from yours? What advantages might peer collaboration
have over student-teacher collaboration? What might be some limitations or
challenges of peer collaboration?
Our ability to use and acquire language is constrained
by limited attentional resources
Thus far in this chapter, we have addressed a number of pedagogical concerns: How
to promote both the negotiation of meaning and the noticing of grammatical form in
communication tasks, how to provide learners with feedback on the grammaticality
of their utterances, how to provide graduated assistance within a zone of proximal
development, and how to create opportunities for peer collaboration. We now turn
to pedagogical concerns which relate to the inner-workings of cognition: attention,
awareness, information processing, memory storage and retrieval. A key concern in
this area of L2 research (often referred to as cognitive SLA) is learners’ attentional
resources. For example, is it possible for learners to attend to grammatical form
and meaning at the same time? If the complexity of an instructional task increases,
will learners spend too much time thinking about how to complete the task and not
enough time on language?
These concerns stem from the fact that, when we are learning a new language, our
cognitive resources are often strained, and we must devote a great deal of attention to
recalling and retrieving the words and phrases needed to communicate meaning. In
our native languages, this does not take a great deal of conscious attention – we can
retrieve most of the language we need automatically. In a new language, however, re-
trieval does not come so quickly. In other words, communicating in a language we are
in the process of learning often involves controlled processing, while communicating
in a language we know well typically involves automatic processing.
The contrast between these two processes becomes clear when we compare a set
of knowledge and skills at two different points in time: when we are first introduced to
them and when we have fully mastered them. When we first begin to learn how to drive
a car, for example, we need to pay a great deal of conscious attention to the knowledge
and behaviors needed to drive the car successfully. We need to remember where the
164	 Pedagogical Grammar
break and the gas pedal are (and if driving a manual car, where the clutch is and how
to work the gears), what the rules of the road are (content we have likely studied in a
drivers manual), and what actions are required to stop, go, turn, and so on.
Automatic processing, on the other hand, takes very little mental effort. If you
are by now an experienced driver, think about the driving you do each and every day.
How much conscious reflection is needed? Not much at all. In fact, there may be days
where you arrive at work without actually remembering how you got there. You also
likely talked on the phone or to passengers, listened to the radio, ate your breakfast,
and planned out what you needed to accomplish that day. Multitasking under auto-
matic processing conditions is quite easy, because the knowledge and skills needed to
complete the task have been mastered, and no longer require conscious reflection. In
automatic processing, our brain responds to stimuli without the need for conscious
reflection. In controlled processing, however, the stimulus alone is not enough to trig-
ger the needed action. We must make a conscious decision to retrieve the necessary
information. As new drivers, for example, we think about (and even talk out loud
about) what needs to happen before every turn.
The concepts of automatic versus controlled processing have important implica-
tions for L2 grammar teaching. First, as the car example demonstrates, a task that once
required controlled processing can become, through practice, a task that is completed
automatically. It is important to remember, however, that the effects of practice are
skill-specific (DeKeyser, 1997, 2007). That is, if learners are given repeated practice
filling in the blank with the appropriate verb form, over time, they will likely get very
good at completing this type of exercise. This skill, however, may not transfer over to
situations where the student needs to use multiple verb tenses in a face-to-face conver-
sation or academic essay. Practice and repetition are critical, but equally important are
the decisions a teacher makes regarding which skills and tasks are repeated throughout
a course. What is practiced in class should have some connection to the real-world
tasks that students hope to carry out in the target language.
A second implication of this research is that when learners have limited cognitive
resources to devote to language processing, they are more likely to attend to meaning
over form, as understanding others and being understood are the primary goals of
communication. To address this challenge, VanPatten (1996; 2004) recommends that
L2 teachers provide learners with input processing instruction, or instruction which
aims to help learners develop new processing strategies before they are asked to produce
output using target grammatical forms. In input processing instruction, practice and
feedback are given during input processing, through comprehension-based activities.
An example of this is a comprehension task developed by VanPatten and Cadierno
(1993), which asks students to listen to sentences in Spanish (the language they are
learning) and to match these sentences to a picture that depicts the meaning. To match
the pictures and the sentences correctly, students must attend to grammatical form
	 Chapter 8.  Instructed L2 grammar acquisition	 165
(e.g., pronouns, grammatical morphemes). The goal of instruction is to change learn-
ers’ default method of processing input, increasing the likelihood that they will attend
to and process form.
Research on automatic and controlled processing also has important implications
for how teachers design oral communication tasks (which require both comprehension
and production). In many cases, learners will need to carry out these tasks using con-
trolled processing. Attentional resources are limited, and choices must be made about
how to allocate these resources. Thus, the features of the task (e.g., whether planning
time is given, the number of resources learners are asked to consult, the types of deci-
sions learners are asked to make) are likely to impact the amount of attention learners
are able to devote to form and meaning during task performance.
Two competing views of learners’ attentional resources are presented in Skehan’s
LImited Capacity Hypothesis (1998) and Robinson’s Cognition Hypothesis (2001a;
2001b; 2003; 2005). In his limited capacity hypothesis, Skehan (1998) and Skehan and
Foster (1999, 2001) argue that a trade-off exists between attention to form and attention
to meaning. When task procedures are complex, learners will focus more on content
and less on language form. Furthermore, in Skehan’s (1998) view, due to limitations in
attentional resources, learners cannot attend to all aspects of language production at
the same time. If attention is focused primarily on complexity of language, accuracy
is likely to suffer. If attention is focused on accuracy, complexity is likely to suffer. A
focus on accuracy is also said to lead to a decrease in the fluency of language produced,
as learners may use more time and mental effort to produce more accurate language.
Robinson’s Cognition Hypothesis (2001a, 2001b, 2003, 2005, 2011a), however,
does not see cognitive capacity as a single resource, but instead argues that learners
are able to access multiple and noncompetitive pools of attention. Fluency, accuracy,
and complexity may not always be in competition with one another. Robinson fur-
ther distinguishes between two cognitive dimensions of task complexity, as shown
in Table 8.1. First, the complexity of an instructional task can be described in terms
of (1) the types of reasoning demands the task places on learners, (2) the number of
elements learners must attend to when carrying out the task, and (3) the location of
these elements in time and space. Robinson calls this dimension of task complexity the
cognitive-conceptual dimension, and he argues that these elements of task complexity
are resource-directing, in that they can be manipulated in such a way as to direct learn-
ers’ attention on making accurate, complex, and appropriate linguistic choices. For
example, if learners are asked to make decisions and give reasons for these decisions
(+intentional reasoning), to consider multiple sources of information (−few elements),
and to narrate events which are displaced in time and space (−here and now), they
may be more likely to produce more complex clauses (e.g., with subordinators like
*because* and *since*) and to attend to their choice of verb tense and aspect (leading
to more accurate language).
166	 Pedagogical Grammar
Table 8.1  Robinson’s cognitive dimensions of task complexity
Cognitive-conceptual
(Resource-directing)
Performative-procedural
(Resource-dispersing)
+/−few elements
+/−here-and-now
+/−spatial reasoning
+/−causal reasoning
+/−intentional reasoning
+/−perspective-taking
+/−planning
+/−single task
+/−task structure
+/−few steps
+/−independency of steps
+/−prior knowledge
On the contrary, the performative-procedural dimension of task complexity is said to be
resource-dispersing. These elements of the task make increased demands on participants’
attentional and memory resources but do not direct them to any element of the linguistic
system (Robinson, 2001b, 2005, 2011a). Making tasks more complex along resource-
dispersing dimensions – for instance, by requiring learners to perform more than one
task simultaneously [−single task] or by providing no prior knowledge support [−prior
knowledge] or planning time [−planning time] – leads learners to disperse attention
over many nonlinguistic areas during task performance. Thus, while resource-directing
elements of a task (reasoning demands, multiple sources of information, multiple time
frames) can promote more accurate and complex language use, resource-dispersing ele-
ments may take attentional resources away from language, towards other features of the
task. When learners are asked to complete multiple task procedures at once, and/or must
work with concepts or themes they are unfamiliar with, and/or must perform the task
immediately, without time for planning, their language performance may suffer.
Whereas Skehan’s limited capacity hypothesis (1998) predicts that tasks can lead
either to increased complexity or accuracy but not to both, Robinson’s cognition hy-
pothesis claims that making tasks more complex in the resource-directing dimen-
sions can increase both accuracy and complexity (e.g., Robinson, 2001b, 2005, 2007b).
Robinson also predicts that increasing task complexity would encourage learners to
look for more assistance in the input and attend to linguistic codes that are required
for task completion (Robinson, 2001a; Robinson & Gilabert, 2007). This, in turn, has
the potential to direct learners’ attentional and memory resources to specific L2 struc-
tures, providing learning opportunities and thus ultimately leading to interlanguage
development, particularly with more developmentally advanced forms (Robinson,
2007a; Robinson, 2007b; Robinson & N. Ellis, 2008).
Robinson’s cognition hypothesis has led to a flurry of research on task complex-
ity (see Jackson and Suethanapornkul, 2013 for a recent meta-analysis; as well as
Robinson, 2007b, 2011b). Previous studies (e.g., Baralt, 2013; Kim, 2009, 2012; Révész,
2011; Révész, Sachs, & Mackey, 2011; Robinson, 2007b) have examined the role of task
complexity in students’ language performance in terms of complexity, accuracy, and
fluency, as well as in the amount of learners’ attention to linguistic features and the
	 Chapter 8.  Instructed L2 grammar acquisition	 167
subsequent language development. Additionally, researchers (e.g., Kim, 2009; Michel,
Kuiken & Vedder, 2007) have also examined how task complexity features might in-
teract with other variables, such as type of task (e.g., information gap or narrative),
task condition (monologic vs. dialogic), the grammatical features in focus, and the
proficiency levels of the learners. In her 2012 study, Kim designed 4 instructional tasks
which differed only in terms of their level of complexity: (a) finding a part-time job,
(b) working as a matchmaker, (c) discussing promotion opportunities, and (d) hiring
employees. While all of the tasks created a two-way information gap and asked learners
to work toward a single solution, the tasks differed in terms of the amount of reason-
ing required and the number of elements to be considered when making a decision.
Table 8.2 summarizes the features of one of the tasks entitled “Finding a part-time job,”
which had three different task complexity levels. The target grammatical form chosen
for the task was question formation, and Kim investigated whether the more complex
tasks would promote a greater use of more advanced question forms.
Table 8.2  Kim’s (2012) simple and complex tasks
Simple
[−reasoning]
+Complex
[+reasoning]
++Complex
[++reasoning]
Task input Profile cards and
students’ part-time job
descriptions
Profile cards and
available part-time job
descriptions
Profile cards and
available part-time job
descriptions
Task outcome Prepare for a report on
university students’ ­
part-time job
Decide appropriate part-
time jobs for students
Decide appropriate part-
time jobs for students
Procedure 1.	 Both learners had
profiles of four different
university students
including their
part-time jobs
2.	 Both learners were
missing some information
about each student’s
background.
1.	 Both learners had
profiles of four different
university students
including their
part-time jobs
2.	 Both learners were
missing some information
about each student’s
background.
1.	 Both learners had
profiles of four different
university students
including their
part-time jobs
2.	 Both learners
were missing some
information about each
student’s background.
3.	 In order to complete
a report of university
students’ part-time jobs,
both learners collected
information from their
partners.
3.	 Based on each
learner’s background,
learners were asked to
suggest appropriate
part-time jobs for each
student.
	 [+few elements]
Two considerations
should be met for their
decision.
3. Based on each learner’s
background, learners
were asked to suggest
appropriate part-time
jobs for each student.
	 [−few elements]
Four considerations
should be met for their
decision.
168	 Pedagogical Grammar
Kim (2012) found that, during the instructional tasks, the ++complex group produced
a greater number of developmentally advanced questions (Stages 4 and 5) than did
the simple and +complex groups. It was also the case that a larger proportion of the
++complex group (82%) advanced a Stage in their question development after par-
ticipating in their instructional tasks than did the +complex (72%) and simple (64%)
groups. What is more, Kim found that most of the students who were not members
of the complex or simple groups, but who were taught the same content without the
use of task-based interaction, did not advanced in their question development over
the same period of time. These findings suggest that, in addition to considering task
design features and techniques like interactional demands, task-essentialness, and cor-
rective feedback, teachers may also want to explore the use of more complex, resource-
directing tasks in their own L2 classrooms. The key issue here is to provide necessary
assistance when learners engage in more complexity tasks which would push them to
process and use more advanced forms (see Chapter 9 for suggestions).
Reflection 8.6
– Based on your experience as both an L2 learner and an L2 teacher, which
characterization of attentional resources do you find most persuasive: Skehan’s
limited capacity hypothesis (i.e., fluency, accuracy, and complexity are in
competition with one another) or Robinson’s cognition hypothesis (i.e., learners
are able to access multiple pools of attention)?
– As an L2 teacher, in what ways have you attempted to increase the cognitive
complexity of classroom tasks? In what ways have you attempted to decrease task
complexity? What relationships do you see between the complexity of the task and
the nature of your students’ L2 performance (e.g., its complexity, accuracy
and fluency)?
– In what ways might VanPatten’s input processing instruction help to inform your
own design of comprehension and production tasks? Have you ever asked students
to attend to grammatical form while processing input, without requiring them to
produce any output? If so, how did you do this? In what ways did your students
benefit from this task?
	 Summary
Drawing on the instructed SLA literature, this chapter has highlighted six important theory-
practice links which have particular relevance to L2 grammar pedagogy.
–	 Both implicit and explicit approaches to grammar teaching have a place in the L2 classroom.
Though few scholars would advocate for a total Focus on Meaning or a total Focus on FormS,
manyoptionsareavailabletoteachersalongtheForm-FocusedInstructioncontinuum,including:
	 Chapter 8.  Instructed L2 grammar acquisition	 169
	–	
Implicit focus on form through either reactive or planned feedback.
	 –	
Explicit grammar instruction in combination with communication tasks and/or struc-
ture-focused collaborative tasks.
–	 Research on task-based interaction has found that meaning-focused tasks can promote
L2 grammar acquisition, particularly when these tasks aim to create an information gap, a
convergent goal orientation, obligatory contexts for the target feature, and opportunities
for corrective feedback.
–	 At the same time, not all features of a task can (or should) be determined in advance – learn-
ers also benefit when teachers adjust task demands and feedback strategies in the midst of
collaboration with L2 learners. Lessons and tasks which aim to provide learners with gradu-
ated assistance – no more or less than is needed – have been found to promote L2 grammar
acquisition over time.
–	 Not only teachers, but also learners, play an important role in the L2 acquisition of their
peers. Analysis of learner-learner interaction has found that when learners collaborate with
one another to complete a task, they focus not only on meaning but also form, they provide
one another with useful feedback, and they accomplish goals in the target language that
they otherwise could not accomplish alone.
–	 Communicating in a language that one is in the process of learning can put a strain on
cognitive resources. Task designs which allow for planning time and rehearsal and which
use content that students are familiar with can help to ease this cognitive load.Teachers can
also direct learners’attention to language by asking them to consult resources and make a
decision based on the information they have shared with one another. As learners discuss
the reasons for their choices, they may be more likely to focus on accuracy and to use more
complex sentence structures.
	 Suggestions for further reading
Ellis, R. & Shintani, N. (2014). Exploring Language Pedagogy through Second Language Acquisition
Research. London: Routledge.
Lantolf, J. & Poehner, M. (2014). Sociocultural Theory and the Pedagogical Imperative in L2 Educa-
tion. New York, NY: Routledge.
Loewen,S.(2014).IntroductiontoInstructedSecondLanguageAcquisition.NewYork,NY:­Routledge.
Mackey, A. (2012). Input, Interaction and Corrective Feedback in L2 Learning. Oxford: Oxford
­University Press.
Chapter 9
Designing grammar-focused
communication tasks
As we saw in Chapter 8, communication tasks have played a central role in instructed
second language research over the past few decades. Researchers have used these tasks
to investigate how interaction might make input more comprehensible, how oral feed-
back in response to learner errors might facilitate the noticing of particular linguistic
forms, and how students learn from one another as they talk about language. This
research has led many scholars to advocate for task-based approaches to L2 instruction
and to explore how researcher-designed tasks might be modified to accommodate the
dynamic nature of L2 classrooms.
Over time, these efforts to investigate the use of tasks in L2 classrooms have
helped to establish the research domain of Task-Based Language Teaching, or TBLT
(Ellis, 2003; 2012; Nunan, 2004; Robinson, 2011; Samuda & Bygate, 2008; Shehadeh &
Coombe, 2012; Van den Branden, Bygate, & Norris, 2009). Drawing on both general
educational theory and second language acquisition theory in particular, TBLT aims
to inform the design and use of tasks in the classroom and emphasizes the importance
of “what learners are able to do with the language” (Norris, 2009, p. 578).
At its most basic, task-based instruction rejects the notion that knowledge can be
learned independently of its application and embraces instead the value of learning
by doing, or “experiential learning” (Dewey, 1933). In Dewey’s terms, principal ele-
ments around which instruction should be built are “activities worthwhile for their
own sake” (p. 87), and it is by engaging learners in doing valued activities that relevant
declarative and procedural knowledge is developed, learners are motivated to engage
with instructional content, and learners develop deep linkages between what they learn
and how that learning can be put to use beyond the classroom.(Norris, pp. 578–579)
Norris goes on to explain that classroom tasks function as important “holistic activity
structures” which allow students to make connections among linguistic forms, the
meanings they express, and the situations in which they are used. If these linkages
can be experienced in the classroom, then students may be more likely to make these
linkages outside of the classroom, when confronted with real-world communicative
situations. A task, then, is not simply any classroom activity, but rather must be de-
signed in such a way as to create opportunities for students to experience important
form-meaning-use connections.
172	 Pedagogical Grammar
Several definitions for the TBLT concept of task have been put forth, and most
of these definitions involve a set of criteria for determining whether a classroom
activity can be labeled as a task or not. As we saw in Chapter 6, Long’s (1985) initial
definition of a task (“the hundred and one things people do in everyday life,” p. 89)
emphasized the importance of making classroom tasks correspond in some way to
real-world tasks. Though many researchers would argue that classroom tasks need
not exactly mirror real-world tasks, most accept Long’s argument that classroom tasks
be selected and designed in such a way as to directly address the needs, interests,
and goals of the language learners. Thus, in TBLT, needs analysis plays a central role
in syllabus design (Long, 2005). Efforts are made on the part of the teacher and the
language program to identify the real world tasks that students are likely to complete
outside of the classroom.
Building on Long’s initial proposals (as well as those of Nunan, 1989; and Fotos &
Ellis, 1991), Skehan (1998) describes a task as an activity in which:
1.	 Meaning is primary.
2.	 There is a communication problem of some type to solve.
3.	 The activity has some relationship to real-world activities.
4.	 Task completion is usually required.
5.	 Task performance can be assessed in terms of the outcome (p. 95).
Skehan’s definition does not require that classroom tasks replicate real-world tasks, but
that they at least have “some relationship to” what students might experience outside
of the classroom. More important for Skehan is that classroom tasks engage learners in
meaningful communication, by encouraging them to work together toward a common
goal. When these criteria are met, classroom activities are more likely to foster the type
of holistic, experiential learning that Norris (2009) emphasizes.
Research in TBLT has also explored how carefully designed tasks can be used in the
classroom to create many of the optimal conditions associated with successful second
language acquisition. Early recommendations regarding the use of tasks in L2 instruc-
tion emphasized the important role that communication tasks can play in making input
more comprehensible to language learners, through the negotiation of meaning. In
response to Schmidt’s (1990) noticing hypothesis, however, new questions emerged.
For example, if communication tasks were primarily meaning-focused, would learn-
ers pay attention to the accuracy of their utterances? These concerns prompted many
researchers to explore how task characteristics (e.g., the roles of the participants, the
amount of time provided for planning and rehearsal, the types of feedback provided)
might impact the extent to which students attend to grammatical form.
Skehan (2003), in an effort to help teachers navigate the vast TBLT landscape,
divides TBLT research into the three major areas of SLA we highlighted in Chapter 8:
interactionist, sociocultural, and cognitivist. Within the interactionist domain, TBLT
	 Chapter 9.  Designing grammar-focused communication tasks	 173
research aims to explore how classroom tasks might be used to create a real need to
communicate, to promote a focus on form, to provide opportunities for learners to
receive feedback and modify output, and to prepare learners for participation in real-
world tasks outside of the L2 classroom. Sociocultural approaches to TBLT, according
to Skehan, emphasize slightly different considerations. These researchers emphasize
the important role that classroom tasks can play in helping learners to build meaning
together, to scaffold one another, and to use language for their own purposes. Tasks also
provide teachers with opportunities to learn more about what their students know, the
strategies they use to help and learn from one another, and the ways in which learners
modify classroom tasks to better meet their needs and goals.
The cognitivist orientation to TBLT emphasizes yet another set of important task
design considerations. Scholars within this orientation often investigate the extent to
which task design features impact learners’ task performance, or the complexity, ac-
curacy, and fluency of their language production. Some task design features that have
received considerable attention in cognitivist TBLT research are task planning (op-
portunities for learners to plan out what they want to say or do before carrying out the
task), task repetition (opportunities to perform the same task multiple times or repeat
some aspects of tasks several times), and task complexity (opportunities for learners
to engage in high levels of processing, such as decision-making).
Taken together, these TBLT orientations offer many options for second language
teachers. Though these orientations represent somewhat separate research domains
within applied linguistics, teachers need not choose one orientation over another.
Rather, it is important to examine how research in all of these areas can help to inform
the decisions that teachers make regarding the use of tasks in their classroom and the
role that these tasks might play in promoting L2 grammar acquisition.
Considerations in L2 grammar task design
When integrating communication tasks into L2 grammar instruction, teachers have
a number of decisions to make. One of the first considerations is the purpose of the
communication task. In an L2 grammar class where target forms are pre-selected (e.g.,
determined in advance by the teacher and taught using a grammar textbook), commu-
nication tasks may be selected based on the extent to which they promote the use of a
particular grammatical feature. Task design in this setting involves a consideration of
the target form’s primary communicative functions: In what contexts will my students
be most likely to encounter and/or use these forms? What types of in-class activities
might help to prepare students for out-of-class language use? In classrooms organized
according to communicative functions, themes, or content, teachers may approach
task design from the other way around, starting first with the communicative situation
174	 Pedagogical Grammar
(e.g., writing a narrative essay, ordering food at a restaurant) and moving next to a
consideration of form: What grammatical and lexical forms will my students need in
order to carry out this task successfully?
Once teachers decide on the purpose of the task and the grammatical features
in focus, there are still many decisions to be made. As we will see in this chapter, the
three TBLT perspectives on task design highlighted by Skehan (2003) – interactionist,
sociocultural, cognitivist – present teachers with many task design considerations. It is
unlikely that, for every task a teacher creates, he or she will take into account all three of
these perspectives. We do not expect (or even encourage!) teachers to do this for every
instructional lesson. What we do expect, is that, for a given classroom task, a teacher
will likely prioritize some concerns over others, just as L2 scholars do in their own
research. At times, task essentialness and planned feedback may be a central concern,
particularly in cases where teachers want to promote the noticing of target grammati-
cal forms. At other times, when teachers are concerned with promoting fluency, they
may focus more on task planning, rehearsal, and repetition. It may also be the case
that teachers will develop their own personal orientations towards task design, which
in turn inform their practice. For example, some teachers may align themselves with
sociocultural perspectives on language learning and thus may choose to prioritize col-
laboration and assistance within the ZPD over other task design concerns.
In the following sections, we explore these task design issues further, providing
examples of classroom tasks that emphasize some considerations over others. We begin
with the interactionist perspective and considerations related to learner participa-
tion, the negotiation of meaning, task-essentialness, corrective feedback, and degree
of explicitness. From here, we move to the sociocultural perspective and look at tasks
designed to promote collaboration within the ZPD and knowledge co-construction.
Finally, we provide examples of tasks designed to address cognitivist concerns, such
as task planning, task repetition, and task complexity.
Reflection 9.1
– As you read through this chapter, we encourage you to think about how you might
design your own grammar-focused task for a particular classroom context. You can
work with a classroom task you have used in the past, or you can think of a new
task you’d like to try with your students. Identify the learning objectives for this
task, as well as the target grammatical form (or forms).
	 Chapter 9.  Designing grammar-focused communication tasks	 175
Promoting interaction through information gap tasks
Within the interactionist domain of TBLT, one of the most important considerations
in task design is, not surprisingly, the interaction of participants. In other words, it is
crucial that the task provides opportunities for all students to interact and negotiate
meaning with their peers. Most scholars agree that one effective way to promote this
participation is, as Pica (Pica et al., 1993; Pica, 2005) long argued, through the creation
of a two-way information gap. In a two-way information gap task, also called a jigsaw
task, each participant in the task holds a piece of information, and each participant
must share this information with the members of his group. Jigsaw tasks are convergent
in their goal orientation (everyone in the group is working towards the same goal) and
there is only one task outcome option. A classic example of a two-way information gap
task is the spot-the-difference task, a task that has been used in many interactionist
research studies. In a spot-the-difference task, students work in pairs. Each partner
holds a picture of an everyday scene (e.g., a park, a living room). The scenes are almost
identical, with a few exceptions. The goal of the task is for the students to identify how
many differences exist between their pictures. Figure 9.1 displays a spot-the-difference
task used in Mackey’s (1999) study of L2 question development.
In a task like this, participation of both partners is required, and both learners
must respond to their partners’ questions as well as initiate questions. If one partner
does not participate, it will be impossible for the students to successfully complete the
task. It is also important for students to understand one another. If communication
breakdowns occur, students will need to negotiate meaning (through requests for clari-
fication, confirmation checks, modified output, and so on). The need to work together
towards a shared goal increases the likelihood that these interactional moves will be
made, which in turn leads to greater opportunities for language learning than could
be achieved through tasks with no interactional requirements and no shared goals.
Picture-based spot-the-difference tasks can be particularly engaging for younger
learners, but some older learners may feel that these tasks have little connection to
the tasks they need to complete outside of the classroom. It is possible, however, to
design spot-the-difference tasks that involve more mature and cognitively demand-
ing comparisons. Pica (2005), for example, describes a series of jigsaw tasks designed
for a high school literature class for multilingual students. The tasks were created in
response to students’ inaccurate use of determiners (e.g., this, these, some, a/an, the)
in their speech and writing. In these tasks, each partner was given a copy of a typed
excerpt of a movie review, as shown in Figure 9.2. The excerpts were almost exactly
the same, except for their choice of determiners. Students were asked to compare
their versions of the movie review and to discuss which determiner choices were
most appropriate.
176	 Pedagogical Grammar
Though spot-the-difference tasks are one of the most popular jigsaw tasks used in L2
research, they are certainly not the only way to promote the participation of all learners.
It is also possible to design tasks in which students contribute their own information
to the task, rather than receive teacher-provided information. For example, Nguyen
(2009) designed a jigsaw task that asked students to offer advice to a newly arrived
international student. Each student in the class received a student profile of an inter-
national student who was soon to begin coursework at their university, as shown in
Figure 9.3 (adapted from Nguyen, 2009, p. 8). Students were then asked to compose,
individually, 5–6 sentences of advice, using modals like must, should, and might.
Figure 9.1  Spot-the-difference task (Mackey, 1999)
Retrieved from http://www.iris-database.org/iris/app/home/about
	 Chapter 9.  Designing grammar-focused communication tasks	 177
An international student is coming to study at Kenya University! What does
she need to know about living in the dormitory in order to have a successful and
fun semester here?
Think of some suggestions and write each suggestion on a strip of paper
that will be given to you.
– Name: Laura Hinsley
– School, city, country: Boston University, Boston, United States
– Arrival date: August 15, 2009
– Length of stay: Fall semester 2009
– Level, major: Junior, comparative literature
– Accommodation: Dormitory
– Interests: Socializing, reading, going to rock concerts, swimming, singing
Figure 9.3  Example of student-generated material for a jigsaw task
After this individual composing phase, the students formed groups and each student
shared the advice they had written. In the final phase of the task, students worked
together to compose an email that synthesized the advice of all group members. Thus,
through an individual composing phase, Nguyen was able to create a jigsaw task that
made use of student-generated material. Each student was required to share their ad-
vice, and students worked together to achieve a shared goal.	Nguyen’s task, like many
Jigsaw Passage Versions for Articles and Determiners
Version to Student C Version to Student D
Sentence #___ Escalate motivates them by
getting attention.
Sentence # ___Students are undisciplined,
unmotivated and rebellious.
Sentence #___ He is asked to teach a class
of losers and potential
dropouts.
Sentence # ___Escalante faces an enormous
challenge on the first day of
school.
Sentence # ___Escalante motivates them
by getting their attention.
Sentence # ___The students are
undisciplined, unmotivated
and rebellious.
Sentence #___ He is asked to teach a
class of some losers and
potential dropouts.
Sentence #___ Escalante faces his
enormous challenge on the
first day of school.
Sentence #1 Stand and Deliver
tells the story of a high
school mathematics teacher
named Jaime Escalante.
Sentence#1 Stand and Deliver tells the
study of a high school
mathematics teacher
named Jaime Escalante.
Figure 9.2  Spot-the-difference task for an academic setting (Pica, 2005, p. 352)
178	 Pedagogical Grammar
classroom tasks, also included task design features emphasized in several different
TBLT orientations: students had opportunities to compose language collaboratively,
and students were given time to plan their language use before producing a final prod-
uct. Thus, it is often the case that when addressing one particular task design concern
(e.g., interaction requirements), teachers are also addressing other, closely related con-
cerns (e.g., opportunities for collaboration and language rehearsal).
TASK DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS: INPUT & INTERACTION
Interaction of participants
–	 To what extent will you ensure that all group members participate in the task?
–	
Will you assign particular roles to particular students? In what ways will students need
to work together to achieve a shared goal?
Task-essentialness
–	
How will you try to promote the noticing and/or use of the target feature
in your task design?
–	
To what extent do you think the task participants will need to comprehend and/or
produce the grammatical feature in order to complete the task successfully?
Corrective feedback
–	
To what extent will you try to provide form-focused feedback to students as they work
to complete the task?
–	
Will you plan a systematic approach to feedback in advance (e.g., respond to every
student error in a certain way) or will you take a more reactive approach (e.g., offer
feedback only during a communication breakdown)?
Degree of explicitness
–	
Will the task make use of explicit or implicit instructional techniques for introducing
target structures (or some combination of the two)? For example, will you tell students
what grammatical feature you would like them to focus on during the task?
–	 Will you provide grammar instruction prior to and/or after the task?
–	
When offering feedback, will you use implicit techniques (e.g., recasts) or explicit
techniques (e.g., correction plus explanation)?
Focus on form through task-essential design and corrective feedback
In addition to ensuring that all students participate in the classroom task, teachers
may also want to increase the chances that, as students interact with one another and
negotiate meaning, they also at some point turn their attention to particular grammati-
cal forms. One way to encourage the noticing and use of particular grammar forms is
to design the task in such a way as to create obligatory contexts for the target feature.
Mackey (1999), for example, chose a spot-the-difference task not only because it created
	 Chapter 9.  Designing grammar-focused communication tasks	 179
a two-way information gap, but also because it required the use of question forms. In
this way, the target forms can be said to be task-essential. Students must at the very
least attempt to form a question if they are to find out what is in their partner’s picture.
In his study of article use and development among Japanese EFL learners, Muranoi
(2000) used a picture-description task to create obligatory contexts for the articles a/
an and the. As shown in Figure 9.4, the students are prompted by keywords to form
sentences that describe what is happening in the pictures.
Figure 9.4  Picture description task (Muranoi, 2000, p. 671)
If native speakers of English were to complete this task, they would likely use articles
with many of the nouns in the prompts (e.g., girl, boy, picture, park). In this sense,
articles are required for grammatical accuracy, though not necessarily to communicate
meaning. Muranoi used this task as a pre-test in his study, to assess learners’ use of
articles prior to his instructional treatment.
180	 Pedagogical Grammar
In cases like that of articles, where task-essentialness is harder to achieve, teachers
may want to use supplemental strategies to draw learners’ attention to form during
the course of meaningful interaction. This can be done through explicit instruction
(e.g., asking students to focus on their use of articles when they complete a task) and/
or through interactional feedback during the task (e.g., the use of recasts in response
to learner errors). Muranoi explored the use of both explicit instruction and implicit
feedback in his study of L2 article acquisition. His main treatment task was a decision-
making task in which students were asked to discuss how profits earned by a company
could be spent. To promote a focus on articles in the midst of meaningful communica-
tion, Muranoi incorporated planned feedback into his task design. After rehearsing
the decision-making task with a peer (with a primary focus on meaning), students had
an opportunity to carry out the task with the teacher. When a student made an article
error during this phase of the task, the teacher provided the student with a request
for repetition, as in Example 9.1. If the student corrected her error, the teacher would
repeat the student’s correct response back to them. If the student did not correct her
error, the teacher responded with another request for repetition, and if the error still
persisted, a recast was used to provide the correct form.
	 (9.1)	 Student: 	 I saw rat.
		 Teacher: 	 You saw what?
		 Student: 	 A rat.
		 Teacher: 	 Uh-huh.Yousawaratinyourroom.That’sterrible.(Muranoi,2000,p. 634)
Though it may not be feasible for teachers to carry out a communication task with
every individual student in the class during one class period, it is possible for teachers
to select a handful of students in each class to perform a teacher-student role play in
front of the class, so that, by the end of the instructional unit, each student has had a
chance to receive planned feedback from the teacher.
Another element of task design that is closely related to task-essentialness and
planned feedback is developmental readiness. That is, when selecting target forms,
teachers may want to consider the developmental levels of students in the class. In the
case of question formation, for example, teachers may want to design tasks that target
a specific developmental stage, rather than questions in general. This approach can be
seen in several of Alison Mackey’s studies (e.g., Mackey & Philp, 1998; Mackey, 1999;
Mackey & Sachs, 2012). Before students participate in instructional interventions, their
developmental level is assessed through diagnostic communication tasks. If learners
produce Stage 3 questions, but no Stage 4 questions, or if learners’ Stage 4 questions are
non-target-like, then interactional feedback may be focused more intensively on Stage
4 questions. As discussed in Chapter 5 in regards to grammar materials development, it
is important to keep in mind that classroom tasks need not cover an entire grammatical
system, but rather should have a manageable focus, targeting specific meanings, uses,
and areas of development.
	 Chapter 9.  Designing grammar-focused communication tasks	 181
Options along the implicit-explicit continuum
Creating obligatory contexts for target forms and providing interactional feedback
during the course of interaction represent approaches to task design that fall closer
to the implicit end of the form-focused instruction continuum. When the focus
is primarily on meaning and fluent communication, teachers may wish to engage
learners in communication tasks without explicitly instructing them to focus on
particular language forms. They may also prefer implicit feedback types, such as
recasts, so that the flow of communication is minimally interrupted. In some cases,
however, teachers may worry that an entirely implicit approach is not enough to
prompt learners to focus on form, and in many cases the students themselves may
prefer more explicit strategies.
One approach to increasing the likelihood that learners will attend to target fea-
tures is to make interactional feedback more explicit. Options include overt correction
(telling a student they made an error and then correcting it) and metalinguistic expla-
nation (explaining the relevant grammatical rule). Another approach is to incorporate
explicit instruction into the task design. Muranoi, for example, explored how explicit
discussions of the target form following a communication task might enhance L2 ar-
ticle acquisition. After task performance, each student participated in a debriefing
session. For some students, this debriefing phase was meaning-focused, for others,
it was form-focused. In the form-focused debriefing session, the teacher explained:
why Japanese learners of English tend to make errors with articles…. the teacher also
pointed out the important role that the indefinite article plays in communication….
[as well as] the function of the indefinite article in classifying nouns.
 (Muranoi, 2000, p. 638)
In other words, each student received his own personal grammar lesson after their task
performance! Muranoi found that the students who participated in the form-focused
debriefing session demonstrated a greater mastery of article use both immediately
and 5 weeks after the treatment tasks than did the students who participated in the
meaning-focused debriefing.
Another approach to explicit grammar task design is Ellis and Fotos’ grammar
consciousness-raising tasks (Fotos, 1993, 1998, 2002; Fotos & Ellis, 1991; 1994). In this
type of task, learners are still required to communicate with one another to achieve
a shared goal, but unlike many of the information gap tasks we have discussed so far,
the content of the task is the grammar feature itself: Learners must work together to
develop grammar rules based on their analysis of sample sentences in the target lan-
guage. Figure 9.5 displays an example of a grammar consciousness-raising task used by
Ellis and Fotos (1994) in a study of the L2 acquisition of ditransitive verbs in English.
In this task, students worked in pairs or groups of four, and each student was given a
task card that contained four example sentences.
182	 Pedagogical Grammar
Students in groups of 4 – one different card to each member
Students in pairs – two different cards to each member
1. Correct: I asked my friend a question.
1. Incorrect: She asked a question to her mother.
2. Correct: Kimiko reviewed the lesson for John.
2. Incorrect: Kimiko reviewed John the lesson.
3. Correct: The teacher calculated the answers for the students.
3. Incorrect: The teacher calculated the students the answers.
4. Correct: The secretary reported the problem to her boss.
4. Incorrect: The student reported the teacher thematter.
5. Correct: I offered her a cup of tea.
5. Correct: I offered a cup of tea to the president.
6. Correct: The teacher pronounced the difficult word for the class.
7. Correct: I bought many presents for my family.
8. Correct: She cooked a delicious dinner for us.
Figure 9.5  Consciousness-raising task cards (Ellis & Fotos, 1994, p. 626)
Each student took a turn reading aloud the sentences on her card. After this, students
were given a list of ditransitive verbs and were asked to collaboratively write down
possible correct word order rules for each verb.
Ellis and Fotos found that this task did help Japanese learners of English (students
at a community college) to develop explicit knowledge of how these verbs work in
English, and they recommend the use of this task type in intermediate and advanced
level classes where students are motivated to talk about grammar, such as in cases
where high-stakes grammar tests are a part of the curriculum.
Reflection 9.2
– Which interactionist task design considerations are most important to you as an L2
teacher? Why?
– Are there any interactionist task design issues that you typically do not consider
when planning lessons, but would like to attend to more in the future?
– Now, think specifically about the grammar-focused task you are working on
(see Reflection 9.1). Which interactionist concerns are more important than others
for this particular task? How will you address these concerns in your task design?
	 Chapter 9.  Designing grammar-focused communication tasks	 183
Promoting collaboration and the co-construction of language knowledge
The task design features described thus far in this chapter – participation require-
ments, information gaps, planned feedback, and explicit instruction – emphasize the
important role that the teacher can play in classroom second language acquisition.
Through carefully designed communication tasks, teachers can create opportunities
for learners to attend to grammatical form during the course of meaningful interaction,
thus increasing the likelihood that learners will make important connections among
the target grammatical feature, its meaning, and its appropriate use. In this section,
we turn our attention to the L2 learner and explore how collaborative tasks might be
used to promote the co-construction of linguistic knowledge.
TASK DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS: COLLABORATIVE LEARNING WITHIN THE ZPD
Pushed output/languaging
–	
To what extent will students need to produce language (in speaking or in writing)
to complete the task successfully?
–	
To what extent does the task encourage students to talk about and reflect on the
language they are producing?
Collaboration
–	
In what ways does the task encourage learners to collaborate with other learners
and/or the teacher?
–	
To what extent does the task provide opportunities for learners to accomplish more
together than they could alone?
Assistance in the zone of proximal development
–	
To what extent does the task provide opportunities for assistance that is carefully tuned
to the each learner’s developmental needs?
–	 What feedback strategies will be used to provide this assistance?
Two scholars who have played a prominent role in the design of grammar-focused
collaborative classroom tasks are Merrill Swain and Sharon Lapkin. One of the most
frequently used tasks in Swain and Lapkin’s research (e.g., 1998, 2001, 2002) is the dic-
togloss task, in which learners listen to an oral dictation at least two times, take notes,
and then work in pairs to reconstruct the text they heard using their notes. The primary
purpose of this task is to promote collaborative writing, metalinguistic reflection, and
the co-construction of linguistic knowledge. When learners are asked to write a text
together, they must discuss and negotiate linguistic choices at several levels: morphol-
ogy, lexis, syntax, and discourse. Inevitably, this discussion leads to a focus on form,
as students ask one another questions about which word in the L2 is most appropri-
ate, what verb tense is needed, and so on. It is also likely that students, when working
together, are able to produce a text that is developmentally more advanced than what
they would produce if working alone (Swain, 2000).
184	 Pedagogical Grammar
A dictogloss is certainly not the only way to promote collaborative dialogue, how-
ever. For example, Swain and Lapkin (1998, 2001, 2002) have also used a jigsaw task
in which learners work together to narrate a story told in pictures (see Figure 9.6). In
the jigsaw task, one partner holds pictures 1, 3, 5, and 7, and the other partner holds
pictures 2, 4, 6, and 8. Each partner takes turns narrating each picture orally; then, the
partners work together to write a complete story. This task design creates an informa-
tion gap (each partner must share what is in her picture) and also pushes learners to
co-construct a text both orally and in writing.
Figure 9.6  Jigsaw task used in Swain & Lapkin (2002, p. 300)
	 Chapter 9.  Designing grammar-focused communication tasks	 185
Providing assistance in the zone of proximal development
In addition to promoting metalinguistic reflection through collaborative writing tasks,
teachers can sequence tasks in such a way as to create opportunities for developmen-
tally appropriate assistance in the zone of proximal development. Ohta (2005) reviews
two classroom lessons (in Samuda, 2001 and Yoshimi, 2001) which she feels success-
fully create a ZPD, without necessarily intending to do so. One important feature of
task design that Ohta observed in both of these studies was an instructional phase in
which learners had an opportunity to carry out a collaborative task using their own
language resources and strategies, without any explicit instruction in the target forms
or assistance from the teacher. During this phase, the teacher was able to observe what
students were capable of doing without help. Then, in subsequent phases of the task, the
teacher provided explicit instruction and interactional feedback that directly addressed
the needs she had observed in students’ prior task performance.
We can see how this task sequencing might work by looking more closely at
Samuda’s (2001) study. The focus of Samuda’s instructional intervention was four
English modal auxiliaries used to express probability and possibility: must, might, may,
and could. In the first phase of the instructional intervention, students were asked to
complete a decision-making task. Students were given a bag of objects and were told
that the bag contained items found in an individual’s pocket. Students were asked to use
the items to make inferences about the person’s personal characteristics (name, age, sex,
marital status) and to guess their identity. Samuda also provided students with a task
sheet which asked them to assess how certain they were about their guesses, as shown
in Figure 9.7. Students were not, however, given a list of target forms to use. Rather,
Samuda designed the first task “to attract initial attention to probability and possibility
areas of meaning.” (p. 126). In other words, Samuda created a meaningful context for
the use of modal forms, but left the task open enough so that the teacher could observe
to what extent students would actually use these forms when carrying out the task.
How certain are you?
Less than 50%
certain
(it’s possible)
90% certain
(it’s probable)
100% certain
(it’s certain)
Name
Sex
Age
Marital status
Figure 9.7  Task sheet used in Samuda (2001, p. 127)
186	 Pedagogical Grammar
As students worked together during this initial phase of the instructional treat-
ment, the teacher participated in some of the students’ collaborative dialogue, provid-
ing meaning-focused, rather than form-focused feedback. The teacher did, however,
attempt to set the stage for subsequent modal use, by using what Samuda calls precasts,
or proactive (rather than reactive) teacher moves that are designed to begin the pro-
cess of building form-meaning-use connections. In this case, the precasts used by the
teacher provided a semantic category (probability) and then coupled this category with
a target form (might). Samuda (p. 129) offers the following example:
	 (9.2)	 S1: 	 Habits?
		 Y: 	 Well first he smokes
		 C: 	 But we think uh 50% we think just 50%
		 N: 	 Yes just maybe. We’re not sure
		 T: 	 Oh Yeah? Only 50% What’s that?
		 S2: 	 Yes, give proof (laughter)
		 N: 	 Because here (showing matchbox). A matchbox
		 T: 	 Hmmm, but you’re not certain if he smokes, huh? (Looking at matchbox)
		 A: 	Look (opens matchbox). Many matches so maybe he just keep for friend, not
for him (laughter)
		 T: 	 Mmmm I- I guess it’s possible he might smoke. It’s hard to tell just from this
		 A: 	 Yeah, not sure
		 S2: 	 You have more proof?
In the second phase of Samuda’s instructional intervention, the teacher provides ex-
plicit instruction on how modals can be used to express the meanings of “it’s possible,”
“90% certain,” and so on. She does this by first eliciting the students’ rating of their own
certainty, as shown in Example 9.3 (Samuda, p. 131).
	 (9.3)	 T: 	 So lots of interesting ideas here. Paula, letters, uh schedule, opera, a busy man
		 C: 	 Japanese classes
		 T: 	 Yeah right, I forgot he’s learning Japanese too (laughter)
		 N: 	 And golf
		 T: 	
Oh yes very busy (laughter). Hmmm let’s – why don’t we look at how the
language works here? Just for a minute uhh (looking at objects). Let’s see
now. Did you have anything here you thought was ‘probable’? Like 90%?
		 Y: 	 Businessman
		 T: 	Businessman? 90%? Ok. So you’re 90% certain he’s a businessman, right?
Here’s another way to say this. You think it’s 90% certain, so you think he
must be a businessman. He must be a businessman (writes it on board). So
this (point to must be on board) is showing how CERTAIN how SURE you
are. Not 100%, but almost 100%. 90%
		A:	 So 100% is ‘be’ or ‘must’?
	 Chapter 9.  Designing grammar-focused communication tasks	 187
		 T: 	
100? 100%? Then you can say he IS a businessman (writes on board). When
you when you’re NOT 100% certain, you can use must. OK? Not he is a
businessman, but he must be a businessman. So ‘be’ here (pointing to must
be on board) is from this verb (pointing to is). Let’s uh what other things do
you have for probably?
In this approach to task design, Samuda moved from meaning-focused interaction
toward a focus on form. This allowed her to establish a need for the target form, without
actually pushing learners to use the target form from the start.
In addition to this, Ohta (2005) argues that Samuda’s task design created an effec-
tive zone of proximal development. That is, the initial task phase, in which learners
discussed the identity of the person in question, allowed the teacher to observe to what
extent learners were already capable of using modals to express how certain they were
about their conclusions. Ohta writes:
The instructional design presented here allowed the teacher to assess the current level
of functioning of students and provide support for students to move to a higher level
of functioning. With assistance provided through the teacher’s implicit and explicit
focus on the target forms, learners began using them in their discussion and writ-
ing. The teacher’s intervention shows expert use of scaffolding as she built on what
learners already knew and did with confidence, interweaving new forms and then
providing explicit instruction on appropriate use of those forms. This instructional
design also exploits the ZPD in providing assistance to students after their need for
such assistance was established in the pre-focus phase. In this phase, the students relied
on language “mined” from the task worksheet, using lexical expressions of probability
rather than modal auxiliaries. It was clear to the teacher that students were unlikely
to use the forms without assistance; this exemplifies the ZPD, what a person can do
with assistance that they could not have done unaided. The salience of the new forms
was also increased because the teacher provided them at the point where they were
needed. Using the modals helped students to communicate more effectively, a factor
which may make the instructional experience even more powerful in moving students
toward retention of the target forms. (pp. 510–511)
We should point out that Samuda did indeed observe a marked improvement in stu-
dents’ use of modal auxiliaries after they participated in the instructional intervention.
In a follow-up task, students were asked to present their final conclusions to the class
using a poster to display their decisions. In the first task (filling out the task sheet in
Figure 9.7), students had used a total of 73 expressions of probability and possibility
(e.g, maybe, I’m not sure); however, none of these forms were modal auxiliaries. In the
final task (poster presentation), students used roughly the same number of probability/
possibilitiy expressions (76), but the breakdown of forms used was much different:
Over 38% of the forms use were the modals must, may, might, and could.
188	 Pedagogical Grammar
Reflection 9.3
– As an L2 teacher, have you ever designed activities that allow you to simply observe
what students can do without your assistance? If so, what did this task look like and
what linguistic forms were targeted?
– What advantages do you see in providing target forms and explanations after
students have completed a meaning-focused task? What challenges might come
with this approach?
– Now, return to the grammar-focused task you are working on (Reflections 9.1 and
9.2). What opportunities do you see in this task for promoting collaboration and
assistance within the zone of proximal development?
Preparing students for the task at hand:
Task modeling and task planning options
When implementing instructional tasks in the classroom, teachers are well-aware that
clear task instructions play a crucial role in the degree to which students will be able
to complete the task successfully. Confusion over task procedures can quickly derail a
classroom activity, leaving both teachers and students feeling frustrated over missed
learning opportunities. In fact, one reason why teachers might feel reluctant to imple-
ment a new type of task is students’ lack of familiarity with it and the fear that too much
class time will be spent explaining task procedures.
From a cognitive perspective, task instructions play a crucial role in determining
the extent to which students will have sufficient cognitive resources during the task to
devote to language processing and production. Poor instructions prior to a task can re-
sult in students devoting most of their attention to figuring out task procedures, rather
than expressing meaning fluently and accurately in the target language. Two lines of
task-based SLA research, task modeling and task planning, provide useful insights
into addressing this pedagogical concern. The first technique, task modeling, involves
a demonstration of task procedures prior to student engagement in the task, and this
can be provided as a technique during pre-task planning time. Such task modeling
can not only help to clarify what students are expected to do during the task, but may
also promote a greater focus on language form during the task itself. For example,
Kim and McDonough (2011) and Kim (2013) both found that students who watched
a pre-task modeling video tended to produce more LREs during task performance, and
they paid more attention to linguistic forms while planning their task performance.
The pre-task modeling video lasted about 2 minutes and demonstrated to students
	 Chapter 9.  Designing grammar-focused communication tasks	 189
how to collaborate with one another and how to pay attention to language forms while
carrying out tasks collaboratively. Kim and McDonough (2011) found that watching
task modeling video also facilitated collaborative pair dynamics.
It is important to note that the purpose of task modeling is not to show or dictate
to students what they need to say during the task, but rather is to model how one might
engage in the task – how to interact with a partner, how to use task materials, how to
talk through language-related questions and challenges. When learners are not accus-
tomed to participating in learner-centered collaborative tasks, task modeling can be
particularly useful and is likely more accessible and engaging than lengthy directions
on a task worksheet.
To ensure that students have a clear understanding of task procedures and goals, L2
teachers can also provide students with a guided planning phase prior to task perfor-
mance. The purpose of task planning is to allow students to reflect on and prepare for
task demands: What is my role in the task? What are my communicative goals? What
language forms will I need to use to achieve these goals? As with task modeling, task
TASK DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS: ATTENTIONAL RESOURCES
Task modeling
–	
Will students have a chance to observe a model of task performance before they
have a chance to do it themselves?
–	 What will be the primary purpose of this modeling phase?
Task planning
–	
Will students have an opportunity to plan and rehearse their language use before
carrying out the task?
–	
Will you offer guided planning with specific techniques (e.g., providing explicit
information about grammar or vocabulary)?
–	 How much planning time will you provide?
Task sequencing/ repetition
–	
Is this task part of a larger sequence of tasks that are designed to promote a particular
area of language use?
–	
Will students have an opportunity to repeat the task (or a similar type of task)
in future classes?
Task complexity
–	
What types of reasoning demands will the task place on students? Will the task be
situated in the“here and now,”or will students need to consider multiple time frames?
–	 How many sources of information will students need to consult to complete the task?
190	 Pedagogical Grammar
planning not only helps students understand task requirements, but impacts student
task performance. Studies of task planning (see Ellis, 2005, for a collection of task
planning studies) have found that when students have an opportunity to plan their
language use, they are more accurate in their production during the task itself, and yet,
at the same time, more able to focus their attention on meaning.
In a study of relative clause use in oral task performance, Mochizuki and Ortega
(2008) investigated whether Japanese L2 learners of English would produce a greater
number of accurate relative clauses if given time to plan for their performance.
Mochizuki and Ortega divided their 56 participants into three groups: a no planning
condition, an unguided planning condition, and a guided planning condition. In all
three conditions, students first listened to a story as they looked at pictures representing
the major story scenes. The story itself contained many examples of the target feature,
relative clauses using the relative pronoun which (e.g., I like the dog which has long
ears). After this phase of the task, the no planning group was simply asked to retell
the story orally. The unguided planning group was given 5 minutes “to prepare for the
retelling carefully during their five minutes so that they could convey as many details
of the story as possible to the partner” (p. 19). No supporting instructional materials
were provided to the students in the unguided group. The guided planning group, on
the other hand, was told that relative clauses “may be helpful for their storytelling” and
were given a handout that briefly explained in Japanese how to construct a sentence
using a relative clause.
Mochizuki and Ortega found that guided planning with explicit information about
the target structure resulted in more frequent and more accurate relative clause use
than the no planning time or unguided planning time conditions. These findings sug-
gest that task planning may also be a useful tool in promoting learners focus on form.
As Ellis (2003) has argued, it is difficult to ensure that learners will use a target feature
in a communication task even if the task creates obligatory contexts for that feature.
Mochizuki and Ortega were able to address this challenge through guided task plan-
ning materials that encouraged learners to use the target form.
	 Chapter 9.  Designing grammar-focused communication tasks	 191
Considering the cognitive dimensions of task complexity
Another important consideration when designing tasks is task complexity or difficulty.
The appropriate task complexity level can be determined based on several factors, in-
cluding learners’ familiarity with the task content and procedures, learners’ proficiency
levels, whether learners must produce language under time pressure, and whether
learners are required to agree upon a single task solution (Ellis, 2003; Robinson, 2001b;
Skehan, 1996).
Robinson (2001b) also makes a distinction between task complexity and task dif-
ficulty. As we saw in Chapter 8, task complexity involves cognitive factors, or the at-
tentional resources learners must devote to various features of the task. These include
resource-directing factors (e.g., +/− new elements, +/− here and now, +/− intentional
reasoning) and resource dispersing factors (e.g., +/− planning, +/− single task, +/− prior
knowledge). Task difficulty, on the other hand, involves learner factors, including both
affective variables (e.g., motivation, anxiety, confidence) and ability variables (e.g., ap-
titude, working memory, intelligence). Though teachers should consider both task
complexity and task difficulty when planning lessons, Robinson (2011) argues that
teachers should focus on features of task complexity if they wish to mediate the learn-
ing process and draw learner’s attention to linguistic form. Manipulation of resource-
directing variables, in particular, have been found to encourage more frequent use
of target grammatical forms during task performance, as well as more syntactically
complex sentences.
Kim and Tracy-Ventura’s study (2011) helps to illustrate how teachers might use
Robinson’s framework to inform their own classroom task design. The purpose of the
study was to investigate the effects of task complexity on the development of simple
past tense morphology. The study was conducted in Korean university English classes
which followed task-based syllabi. The instructional unit used in the study focused on
past events. Because Robinson (Robinson & N. Ellis, 2008) claimed that carrying out
more complex tasks would facilitate the learning of developmentally more advanced
forms, Kim and Tracy-Ventura analyzed learners’ use of simple past morphology with
activity and stative verbs only, as these are typically used in the past tense later in
development (see Chapter 7). Three different versions of the instructional tasks were
created: Simple, +Complex and ++Complex. Kim and Tracy-Ventura operationalized
task complexity based on reasoning demands and the number of elements that students
must consider when making a decision. For example, in a task which focused on an
upcoming mayoral election, learners in all three groups were provided with the same
task input (see Figure 9.8). Each student held information that their partner did not
have, thus creating an information gap.
192	 Pedagogical Grammar
Candidate 1 (Taejin Jang)
1. December 01, 1952
parents, two older sisters, Seoul,
are, have, live, books, pictures,
read, tell, story, mother
is, fly, America, middle school,
business, English, leave, study,
move, family
Africa, patient, volunteer, hospital
help, feel, go, finish, want, build,
enjoy, happy
reporter, work, interview, people,
meet, like, stay, start, enjoy,
social issues, husband, travel
Candidate 2 (Youngsook Lee)
5. March 23, 1958
3. February 1985 7. June 1995
Figure 9.8  An example of Kim & Tracy-Ventura’s task input
Top/Left: 
http://blog.joins.com/media/folderListSlide.asp?uid=fabiano&folder=6&list_id=10037899
Top/Right: http://www.inews365.com/news/article.html?no=236851
Bottom/Left: http://www.egn.kr/news/articleView.html?idxno=4975
Bottom/Right: http://www.chosun.com/culture/news/200504/200504110351.html
For simple tasks, students were required to generate a timeline of life events for two
mayoral candidates while exchanging information about the mayoral candidates’
previous experiences. For +complex tasks and ++complex tasks, learners also made
timelines, but in addition to this, they were asked to make a decision about whom they
would vote for. In +complex tasks, students were asked to consider two key factors
when deciding how to vote (i.e., amount of leadership experience, knowledge of eco-
nomics), and in ++complex tasks, students were asked to consider four (i.e., volunteer
	 Chapter 9.  Designing grammar-focused communication tasks	 193
experience, educational background, amount of leadership experience, knowledge
of economics). Figure 9.9 displays the task prompt given to the ++Complex group.
The Simple and +Complex groups received the same prompt with the exception of
the following:
1.	 Simple groups did not vote on a candidate and thus were not asked to do item (4).
2.	 +Complex groups did vote, but they were asked to only consider two of the criteria
listed under item (4).
Scenario: Your city will elect a new mayor soon. You and your partner both have
four pictures illustrating the life stories of the two candidates, Taejin Jang and
Youngsook Lee. You and your partner are organizing a public presentation for the
election and will make a brief presentation about the two candidates’ previous
experiences. Then, decide who should become the mayor of your city and discuss
the reasons for your decision with your partner.
Directions:
(1) Between you and your partner, one person has four odd numbered picture
cards, and the other has four even numbered picture cards with some
key words related to the pictures. Following the numbers, create an overall
timeline of the two candidates’ life experiences as shown below.
(2) Based on the timeline, develop a detailed life story about the two candidates.
(3) For each picture, describe specific information. For instance, explain what
happened at that time in their lives, and elaborate on the story such as
including the candidates’ feelings at a given time.
(4) Based on the four qualifications provided below, make a decision about who
should become the mayor of your city and discuss the reasons for your
decision with your partner.
– Volunteer experience, educational background, amount of leadership
experience, knowledge of economics
*Note: These instructions were provided to the students in Korean.
Figure 9.9  Kim & Tracy-Ventura’s ++complex task prompt
Learners’ gains in simple past morphology were measured using picture description
tests one week and two weeks after completing the 4 tasks. The results suggested that
more complex tasks facilitate the learning of simple past morphology (i.e., higher
scores on posttests), especially involving developmentally advanced forms (i.e., activity
and stative verbs), as predicted by the Cognition Hypothesis (Robinson, 2001a, 2001b,
2003, 2005). The two complex groups outperformed the simple group, though no sig-
nificant differences between the +complex and ++complex conditions were found.
During the process of evaluating and comparing information, students were pushed
194	 Pedagogical Grammar
to use more advanced and developmentally challenging forms. It appears that the
requirement to make decisions (rather than simply exchange information) based on
a set of criteria helps learners to focus their attention on target forms, as they need to
use these forms when providing a rationale for their decisions. Because more complex
tasks are cognitively more demanding, we encourage teachers to also use some of the
supportive techniques discussed in this chapter, such as task modeling and guided
task planning, so that students understand how they are expected to carry out the task.
Translating task instructions into the students’ L1 (when possible) can also facilitate
this process. When it comes to task complexity, it is important for teachers to remem-
ber that as they increase cognitive complexity along the resource-directing dimension
(i.e., number of resources to consult, amount of reasoning involved, number of time
frames to consider), they should also consider decreasing other areas of complexity,
for example, by using topics that are familiar to students and providing adequate time
for students to plan for and carry out the task.
Reflection 9.4
– As an L2 teacher, what types of modeling and/or task planning do you typically
provide for students before asking them to perform a task on their own? In what
ways do you feel these pre-task activities benefit students? More specifically, what
role might they play in students’ L2 grammar development?
– Have you repeated particular tasks types over the course of an instructional unit
or semester? What differences did you observe in task performance when students
had a chance to carry out the same task more than once?
– Now, return to the grammar-focused task you are working on (Reflections 9.1, 9.2,
9.3). Can you think of ways you might increase the cognitive complexity of the task,
through a manipulation of resource-directing factors (+/− new elements, +/− here
and now, +/− reasoning demands)? Are there ways you might make the task less
complex, in terms of its resource dispersing factors (+/− planning, +/− single task,
+/− prior knowledge)?
	 Summary
In this chapter, we have highlighted several grammar task design considerations, drawing on
three major areas of TBLT research:
Interactionist
–	 Promoting interaction and the negotiation of meaning through information gaps and con-
vergent goal orientations.
–	 Promoting focus on form through task-essentialness, corrective feedback, and explicit in-
struction
	 Chapter 9.  Designing grammar-focused communication tasks	 195
Sociocultural
–	 Promoting talk about and reflection on language through teacher-learner and learner-
learner­ collaboration
–	 Withholding explicit instruction until it is clear that learners are not able to use or explain
target grammar forms without assistance
Cognitivist
–	 Reducing cognitive load through task modeling, planning, and repetition
–	 Directing learners’cognitive resources towards language use through complex task designs
(e.g., decision-making based on multiple criteria, consideration of multiple time frames,
evaluation of several pieces of information).
	 Suggestions for further reading
East, M. (2012). Task-Based Language Teaching from the Teacher’s Perspective. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Ellis, R. (2003). Task-Based Language Learning and Teaching. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Long, M. (2015). Second Language Acquisition and Task-Based Language Teaching. Malden, MA:
Wiley Blackwell
Nassaji, H. & Fotos, S. (2010). TeachingGrammarinSecondLanguageClassrooms:IntegratingForm-
Focused Instruction in Communicative Context. New York NY: Routledge.
Nunan, D. (2004). Task-based Language Teaching. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Willis, D., & Willis, J. (2007). Doing Task-based Teaching. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
	 Recommended resources
Task-Based Language Teaching: A Demonstration Module
<http://scholarspace.manoa.hawaii.edu/handle/10125/10623>
Willis-ELT
<http://www.willis-elt.co.uk/index.html>
Instruments for Research into Second Language Learning and Teaching
<http://www.iris-database.org/iris/app/home/index>
Chapter 10
Assessing grammar within a framework
of communicative competence
As we saw in Chapter 3, grammatical competence is viewed as one component of com-
municative competence; it is a resource that speakers and writers draw upon to express
meaning and to achieve communicative goals in a wide range of settings. In materials
development and teaching, it is important to describe grammar within this framework,
and to consider how one might develop lessons and tasks which help students to make
important form-meaning-use connections. In this chapter, we explore how such a view
of grammar might inform the assessment of L2 grammatical ability. We begin with a
discussion of how grammar has been defined for the purpose of assessment, and we
provide a general introduction to important assessment concepts. We then explore how
grammar ability can be distinguished from other areas of language ability, and highlight
important steps in the assessment development process. Finally, we turn our attention
to two alternatives to traditional grammar tests: task-based performance assessment
and dynamic assessment. We discuss how these approaches might help to inform our
understanding of students’ abilities to use grammar accurately and appropriately when
performing tasks both independently and in collaboration with others.
Defining grammar for the purpose of assessment
When communicative competence became a primary goal of L2 instruction, this im-
pacted not only materials development and teaching methodology, but also L2 as-
sessment. Language tests which focused solely on grammatical accuracy and which
consisted largely of multiple choice and fill-in-the-blank items no longer made sense –
how could these assessments help us to understand students’ abilities to use language
meaningfully in a variety of contexts? It soon became clear that designers of L2 assess-
ments would need to consider how grammar knowledge fits into the larger picture of
overall language ability
To address this challenge, Bachman and Palmer (1996) proposed a model of com-
municative language ability. Within this model, Bachman and Palmer identified sev-
eral subcomponents of Language Knowledge, beginning with two major categories:
Organizational Knowledge and Pragmatic Knowledge (see Figure 10.1). Organizational
198	 Pedagogical Grammar
Knowledge consists of Grammatical Knowledge (knowledge of how language forms
are organized to create grammatically correct utterances at the phrase, clause, and
sentence level) and Textual Knowledge (knowledge of how utterances are organized to
create discourse). Pragmatic Knowledge consists of Functional Knowledge (knowledge
of how utterances are used to express intentions and fulfill communicative functions)
and Sociolinguistic Knowledge (knowledge of how context impacts the organization
of language forms at both the utterance and discourse level).
Language
knowledge
Pragmatic
knowledge
Grammatical Textual Functional Sociolinguistic
Organizational
knowledge
Figure 10.1  Components of language knowledge (Bachman & Palmer, 1996)
Inthismodel,PragmaticKnowledgeisnotincludedasapartofGrammaticalKnowledge;
rather, Organizational Knowledge (phonemes, morphemes, words, and sentences, texts)
is presented as a component that is separate from Pragmatic Knowledge. This con-
ception of grammatical knowledge is different from Larsen-Freeman’s (2003) Three
Dimensions, where Use (pragmatics) is included as a component of grammar. However,
it is important to keep in mind that Larsen-Freeman’s model was not developed for the
purpose of assessment, but rather is intended to inform L2 teaching. In other words, if
the goal of L2 instruction is to foster the development of communicative competence,
then grammar instruction should be integrated with pragmatics instruction, so that
students understand not only how to form grammatically correct sentences, but how
to use them effectively in particular contexts.
Purpura (2004) agrees that test developers should aim to distinguish grammatical
ability from other components of communicative competence, as it is possible for stu-
dents to have greater control over some areas of language and less control over others.
For example, some students are able to produce perfectly grammatical sentences but
have great difficulty choosing the most appropriate and accepted forms for a given
situation. Other students have high levels of sociolinguistic and strategic competence,
but have still not acquired some of the most basic grammatical morphemes in the
language (as was the case of Wes in Schmidt’s 1986 study). These examples suggest that
L2 teachers should have some means of assessing the components of communicative
competence separately, so that students’ strengths and weaknesses can be identified.
	 Chapter 10.  Assessing grammar within a framework of communicative competence	 199
In his model of grammatical knowledge, Purpura (2004, 2013) draws on Larsen-
Freeman’s dimensions of Form, Meaning, and Use. However, rather than representing
these components as parts of a whole (i.e., the whole of grammatical knowledge),
Purpura treats Form and Meaning as the two main components of grammatical knowl-
edge, and moves Use (Pragmatic Knowledge) to a separate area of language ability (see
Figure 10.2). In this model, speakers and writers draw on both grammatical knowledge
and pragmatic knowledge to accomplish communicative goals.
Grammatical knowledge
Forms Semantic
Use
Pragmatic
meanings
Structural
knowledge
Logical
representation of
literal and intended
meaning conveyed by
linguistic structures
Inferences related to
power, distance,
politeness, identity,
culture, irony, stance,
affect, metaphor &
other implicatures.
Figure 10.2  Purpura’s (2013, p. 5) model of grammatical knowledge
Despite his paring down of what is included within a definition of grammar, Purpura
(2004, 2013) still offers a conception of grammatical knowledge that goes far beyond
morphology and syntax. Grammatical Form includes graphology and phonology,
lexical co-occurrence patterns, and discourse-level forms such as cohesive devices
(i.e., forms that hold a text together, showing clear relationships among ideas).
Grammatical Meaning consists of both literal meaning (“meaning associated with an
utterance as the sum of its parts and how these parts are arranged in syntax” p. 62)
and intended meaning (“meaning associated with the propositional intention that
the speaker has in mind while conveying a message” p. 62). Though the inclusion of
intended meaning within grammatical meaning suggests some overlap between the
grammatical and pragmatic, Purpura suggests that the line between the two be drawn
based on the amount of context needed to interpret a speaker’s or writer’s underlying
intention. In other words, within the realm of grammatical meaning, meaning can
be inferred based primarily on the inherent semantics of the lexis, morphology, and
syntax used. Pragmatic meaning, on the other hand, is inferred primarily based on
one’s knowledge of context.
200	 Pedagogical Grammar
Pragmatics refers to…. the relative appropriateness of the utterance within a given
context (Why did you say it that way in this context?), to the relative acceptability
of the utterance within the general norms of interaction (Is it OK to say that?), or to
the naturalness of the utterance in terms of how native speakers might say it (Does
this sound like something native speakers would say?)… [and] to the conventionality
of the utterance in terms of how speakers from a certain regional or social language
variety might express it (Does it sound like something that someone from my social
or regional dialect would say?)  (Purpura, 2004, pp. 76–77)
Figure 10.3 provides a more detailed account of Purpura’s model, with examples of the
types of forms that might fall under each category. As can be seen in Figure 10.3, once
we get beyond the initial distinction between Grammatical Knowledge and Pragmatic
Knowledge, there are many more subcomponents to consider, and for each subcompo-
nent, we could create a taxonomy of all of the forms and meanings an L2 learner would
need to know and be able to use to communicate in a variety of contexts. (Purpura,
2013, p. 4, offers an example of what such a taxonomy might look like). How then, are
L2 teachers to decide what to focus on in any given grammar assessment? Should we
aim to assess form, meaning, and use all at the same time? In some cases might we
focus only on grammatical form? In others, only pragmatic knowledge?
The focus and scope of an assessment depends largely on its purpose (see
Table 10.1). Assessments used for the purpose of placement, for example, are typically
broad in scope, and aim to answer questions like: How much grammar does the stu-
dent know? Would this student be considered to have a beginning level of grammatical
knowledge? Intermediate? Advanced? Such questions require test developers to con-
sider what constitutes the whole of grammatical knowledge, as well as various levels
of partial knowledge. Classroom-based assessments, on the other hand, are closely
linked to course curricula and learning objectives, and thus are much more narrow in
scope. A teacher may select areas of grammatical knowledge to be assessed based on
state standards, curricular requirements, and topics and tasks covered in a particular
instructional unit (Purpura, 2004). Classroom-based assessments can be further di-
vided into formative, summative, and diagnostic assessments. Formative assessments
aim to “evaluate students in the process of forming their competencies and skills with
the goal of helping them to continue that growth process” (Brown & Abeywickrama,
2010, p. 7), and thus may cover only a small set of grammatical concepts that were re-
cently addressed in class. Summative assessments measure what students have learned
at the conclusion of an instructional unit or at the end of a course (e.g., a final exam),
and thus are broader in scope than formative assessments (though still much narrower
in scope than placement exams).
Diagnostic assessments can be used at the beginning of a course to identify areas
of language knowledge or use that students have already mastered, as well as the areas
	 Chapter 10.  Assessing grammar within a framework of communicative competence	 201
Grammatical Form
(accuracy)
SENTENTIAL LEVEL
Phonological/
graphological forms
– Segmental forms
– Prosodic forms
– Sound-spelling
correspondences
– Writing systems
Lexical forms
– Orthographic
forms
– Word formation
– Countability and
gender
restrictions
– Co-occurrence
restrictions
– Formulaic forms
Morphosyntactic
forms
– Inflectional
affixes
– Derivational
affixes
– Syntactic
structures
– Simple,
compound and
complex
sentences
Grammatical
Meaning
(meaningfulness)
SENTENTIAL LEVEL
Phonological/
graphological
meanings
– Minimal pairs
– Interrogatives
– Emphasis
Lexical meanings
–
– Denotation
and
connotation
–
Meanings of
formulaic
expressions
–
Semantic fields
Collocation
Morphosyntactic
meanings
– Time/duration
– Passivization
– Cause-effect
– Factual/counter
factual
Pragmatic Meaning
(appropriateness/
conventionality/
naturalness/
acceptability)
SENTENTIAL OR
DISCOURSE LEVEL
Contextual meanings
– Interpersonal
Sociolinguistic
meanings
– Social identity
markers
– Cultural identity
markers
– Register variation
– Social norms,
preferences,
expectations
Sociocultural
meanings
– Cultural meanings
– Cultural norms,
preferences,
expectations
Psychological
meanings
– Affective stance
(sarcasm,
deference, anger,
impatience, irony,
humor)
Figure 10.3  Purpura’s (2004, p. 91) components of grammatical and pragmatic knowledge
202	 Pedagogical Grammar
in need of development. Diagnostic assessments may also be administered during the
course of a student’s study in a language program if the student is having persistent
learning difficulties (Linn & Gronlund, 2000). In this case, the purpose would be to
identify potential causes of these difficulties and to develop a plan for supporting the
student during his or her time in the language program.
Table 10.1  Purposes of assessment in instructional contexts
Placement Diagnostic Formative Summative
Purpose Place students into
levels of a language
program
Identify learners’
strengths and
weakness
Assess and
provide feedback
on learning
progress
Determine to what
extent learners have
learned what was
taught
Example
scenario
Prior to each
term, the intensive
English program
administers a
placement test to
incoming students
to identify what
level in a program
they should enter.
On the first day
of the new term,
teachers administer
a diagnostic test
to determine what
areas of grammar
their students know
well and what areas
of grammar require
more instruction.
Part-way through
an instructional
unit, teachers
administer a quiz
to assess how
well students
understand the
concepts covered
thus far.
At the end of each
textbook chapter,
teachers administer
a test to assess the
extent to which
students have
learned the concepts
covered in the
instructional unit.
In the remainder of this chapter, we focus on classroom assessment, as L2 teachers
are most likely to design and administer these assessments on a regular basis. For
more information on the design of grammar-focused placement tests, we recom-
mend Green and Weir (2004), Purpura (2004), and Chapelle, Chung, Hegelheimer,
and Pendar (2010).
Reflection 10.1
– Definitions of grammar for the purpose of assessment (like Purpura’s model)
typically treat grammatical knowledge as separate from pragmatic knowledge.
To what extent do you feel this distinction is useful? How might it impact your
approach to assessing your students’ L2 grammatical ability?
– Think about the grammar assessments you have used in your own classroom, or
grammar assessments you have taken as an L2 student. What aspect of grammatical
ability was emphasized most: form or meaning? Why do you think this was
the case? To what extent did you or your students need to draw on pragmatic
knowledge when carrying out these assessment tasks?
	 Chapter 10.  Assessing grammar within a framework of communicative competence	 203
Classroom-based assessment: Important terminology
Before we survey the many assessment options available to L2 teachers, it is first impor-
tant to define a few key assessment concepts. Thus far in this chapter, we have discussed
grammatical knowledge as it relates to overall communicative competence, and we have
also discussed the importance of helping students develop their ability to use grammar
in meaningful contexts. In assessment, a distinction is drawn between knowledge and
ability, and both of these concepts relate to language performance. Purpura (2004) defines
knowledge as “a set of informational structures available for use in long-term memory”
(p. 86). Language ability, then, is the “capacity to utilize mental representations of lan-
guage knowledge built up through practice or experience in order to convey meaning”
(p. 86). Both knowledge and ability are theoretical constructs which cannot be directly
measured. Instead, we must observe language performance (e.g., student performance
on a grammar test, student performance in a communication task) and use this as a
basis for making inferences about underlying knowledge and ability. When discussing
knowledge and ability in the context of L2 grammar assessment, Purpura (2004) draws a
distinction between grammatical knowledge and metalinguistic knowledge. Grammatical
knowledge is a set of language structures (phonemes, graphemes, lexis, morphemes,
syntax, discourse organizers) that can be retrieved and used during communication.
Metalinguistic knowledge, on the other hand, is a set of “informational structures that
relate to linguistic terminology” (p. 88). While grammatical knowledge is a necessary
component of grammatical ability (i.e., it is the resource that makes communication
possible), metalinguistic knowledge is not. While knowing about language is certainly
helpful, students must also have a store of grammatical structures in long-term memory
to draw upon when communicating. In many cases, language users possess grammatical
knowledge and the ability to use it, but not the corresponding metalanguage to describe
whattheyknow.Thus,assessmentsofunderlyinggrammarabilitycannotsimplyfocuson
metalanguage, but rather must include some kind of meaningful language performance.
GRAMMATICAL KNOWLEDGE, ABILITY, AND PERFORMANCE
Grammatical knowledge A set of language forms (phonological, graphological,
lexical, morphological, syntactic, discourse) and their
associated meanings, stored in long-term memory
Grammatical ability The capacity to realize grammatical knowledge accurately
and meaningfully in testing or other language-use
situations
Grammatical performance The observable manifestation of grammatical ability in
language use
Metalinguistic knowledge A set of informational structures related to linguistic
terminology (Purpura, 2004, pp. 85–91)
204	 Pedagogical Grammar
Two other key concepts that are easily confused are the terms assessment and test. Thus
far in this chapter we have used the word assessment, but for many of us, assessment
conjures up images of our own stressful experiences taking high-stakes exams. Brown
and Abeywickrama (2010) define assessment as “an ongoing process that encompasses
a wide range of methodological techniques,” (p. 3) including informal techniques such
as classroom observation and practice worksheets, as well as more formal techniques,
like grammar tests. A test, then, is a type of assessment with particular characteristics.
As Linn and Gronlund (2000) explain, a test “typically consists of a set of questions
administered during a fixed period of time under reasonably comparable conditions
for all students” (p. 31). Additionally, a test measures a test-taker’s performance based
on explicit procedures or rules, such as a scoring rubric (Bachman, 1990). Because test
design procedures and basic principles of assessment (e.g., reliability, validity, wash-
back) are covered extensively elsewhere (see, e.g., Bachman & Palmer, 1996; 2010;
Brown & Abeywickrama, 2010; Purpura, 2004; Linn & Gronlund, 2000), we will not
provide those details here. Instead, we aim to provide general guidelines for identifying
an assessment’s purpose and evaluating the ways in which assessment tasks connect to
language use in the real world.
Designing classroom-based assessments of L2 grammar ability
In the L2 classroom, teachers may design assessments for both formative and summa-
tive purposes, or to diagnose student strengths and weaknesses at the start of a course
or instructional unit. In all of these cases, there are important steps that teachers should
follow in order to design an assessment that measures what it intends to measure in a
fair, practical, and meaningful way.
STEPS IN CLASROOM-BASED GRAMMAR ASSESSMENT
1.	 Identify a purpose and focus for the assessment
2.	
Define the constructs to be assessed (i.e., specific areas of grammatical form and
meaning) and the target language use domain (i.e., the real-world context in which
students would need to use these forms and meanings)
3.	
Develop assessment tasks that (a) correspond to tasks within the target language use
domain and (b) require the use of target grammatical forms and meanings
 (adapated from Purpura, 2004, pp. 102–109)
Identifying a purpose and focus for the assessment. The first step in development is
identifying a purpose and focus for the assessment. Is the assessment for diagnostic,
formative, or summative purposes? What general areas of grammatical ability will be
	 Chapter 10.  Assessing grammar within a framework of communicative competence	 205
assessed? In what contexts do you hope students will be able to use the grammar they
are learning? Table 10.2 provides an example statement of purpose for a classroom-
based diagnostic assessment.
Table 10.2  Defining a purpose and focus for an assessment
Assessment scenario Example statements of purpose and focus
I would like to
administer a diagnostic
assessment before I
begin an instructional
unit on the use of tense
and aspect in personal
introductions
–	
To measure students’ ability to use tense/ aspect forms and meanings
accurately and appropriately when providing a brief personal introduction
(e.g., where I am from, where I have lived, where I live now).
–	
To identify tense/aspect forms and meanings that students
demonstrate full control over
–	
To identify tense/aspect forms and meanings that students have not
yet mastered and/or avoid using
Defining the constructs and the target language use (TLU) domain. The next steps in-
volve providing a more detailed description of the grammatical forms and meanings to
be assessed and the context in which students will need to use these forms and mean-
ings. The former is typically referred to as the constructs to be assessed, and the latter
is what Bachman and Palmer (1996) call the target language use (TLU) domain, or the
relevant real-world context for language use. In the diagnostic assessment featured
in Table 10.2, for example, we identify an area of grammar (tense and aspect) and a
situation of use (personal introductions). But within these broad categories, many
grammatical forms and meanings are possible, and many TLU domains are relevant
(e.g., a language class, a dinner party, a job interview). Thus, it is important for teach-
ers to define the parameters for the assessment. In some cases, teachers may begin
with a TLU domain in mind, and from there work to identify important grammatical
forms and meanings. Conversely, teachers may begin with a set of target grammati-
cal forms (e.g., those listed in a textbook chapter), and from there identify a relevant
TLU domain. Selection of the TLU domain and target forms can be informed by the
theme and learning objectives of the instructional unit, curricular requirements, and
learners’ needs and goals.
Another important step in this process is to identify target language use (TLU)
tasks (Bachman & Palmer, 1996) that exist within the TLU domain. In Table 10.2,
the teacher has already taken a step toward identifying a TLU task by specifying the
purpose for which students may shift from one tense or aspect to another in dis-
course. If we focus on the TLU domain of a language class, then a relevant TLU task
within this domain would be introducing oneself to classmates during the first week
of the semester. This process of defining the relevant assessment constructs, the TLU
domain, and TLU tasks helps teachers to understand what types of information their
206	 Pedagogical Grammar
assessment can provide and what information it cannot. As Purpura (2004) reminds
us, “every grammar-test development project begins with a desire to obtain (and often
provide) information about how well a student knows grammar in order to convey
meaning in some situation where the target language is used” (p. 103). If we clearly
define the constructs and the TLU domain, then we can use our assessments to make
inferences about the abilities that our students have to use grammar in particular
communicative contexts.
Table 10.3 provides example definitions of assessment constructs, a TLU domain,
and a TLU task for a diagnostic assessment of students’ ability to use tense and aspect
in personal introductions.
Table 10.3  Defining constructions, TLU Domain, and TLU tasks
Example descriptions
Constructs (grammatical
forms and meanings to be
assessed)
–	
Past tense (both regular and irregular) to express actions that
were completed at a specific point in time in the past (e.g., I
graduated from high school in May, 2008)
–	
Present perfect to express states which began in the past and
are still true now (e.g., I have lived in Boise for 3 years)
–	
Simple present to express facts about me (e.g., I speak Arabic,
Somali, and English)
Target Language Use Domain –	 A language class in an Intensive English Program
Target Language Use Task –	 Introducing oneself to classmates at the start of a semester
An essential part of defining the constructs and the TLU domain is what Purpura
(2004) calls needs analysis, or the collection and analysis of language samples from the
target language use domain. For example, if we have decided that our TLU domain
is the professional workplace and the TLU task is explaining to others what you did
before you decided on your career and what you do now, then it would be helpful to
collect sample conversations of the same nature from fluent speakers of the target
language. (Fortunately, for this career-oriented TLU task, a collection of interviews
already exists, as part of the ELISA corpus: <http://www.uni-tuebingen.de/elisa/html/
elisa_index.html>). If easy access to language samples is not available, then it is also
helpful for teachers to think through how they would carry out the task themselves.
For example, if you want your students to be able to introduce themselves to their
classmates both in speaking and in writing, then, as a teacher, you might take the first
step of completing these tasks yourself. This not only helps you to create useful models
of the language you expect, but also allows you to analyze your own choice of gram-
matical forms and meanings.
Developing assessment tasks. Once a TLU domain and TLU task(s) have been iden-
tified, it is now time to develop an assessment task which corresponds to the TLU
	 Chapter 10.  Assessing grammar within a framework of communicative competence	 207
task(s) (Bachman & Palmer, 1996; 2010; Purpura, 2004). As we saw in Chapter 9, in
the Task-Based Language Teaching literature, tasks are typically viewed as activities
in which the focus is on meaning (not form) and learners use language to solve prob-
lems and/or accomplish goals (Skehan, 1998). Similarly, for the purpose of assessment,
Bachman and Palmer (1996) define a language use task as “an activity that involves
individuals in using language for the purpose of achieving a particular goal or objec-
tives in a particular situation” (p. 44). Two key task design features are emphasized in
both the TBLT literature and the L2 grammar assessment literature:
–	 Tasks should correspond in some way to real-world (or TLU domain) tasks
–	 Tasks should create obligatory contexts for target grammatical forms and meaning
(i.e., should strive for task essentialness).
To help teachers address authenticity in their task design, Bachman and Palmer (1996;
2010) have developed a framework for comparing features of a selected assessment task
with features of an existing TLU task. Table 10.4 displays these features, along with
question prompts that teachers can use to reflect on their own assessments.
As Bachman and Palmer (1996) and Bachman (2002) point out, an exact match
between the TLU task and the assessment task is highly unlikely and may even be
undesirable.
First, not all TLU tasks will engage the areas of ability we want to assess. Second, some
TLU tasks may not be practical to administer in an assessment in their entirety. Thirdly,
some TLU tasks may not be appropriate or fair for all test-takers if they presuppose
prior knowledge or experience that some test-takers may not possess.
 (Bachman, 2002, p. 460)
Thus, we encourage teachers to consider what features of the TLU task are feasible
to include in the assessment task, and which features are not, and how differences
between the TLU task and the assessment task might impact the inferences they make
regarding students’ L2 ability.
Purpura (2004) further argues that classroom contexts themselves can be con-
sidered relevant TLU domains. That is, if students are planning to use the target
language in formal instructional contexts, then assessment tasks that correspond to
typical instructional tasks (including high-stakes language tests) can be considered
to be authentic in much the same way that real-world tasks are. He encourages L2
teachers to consider both real-life domains (domains that exist outside the walls of the
classroom) and language-instruction domains (domains that exist within a classroom
or school setting).
In the assessment literature, then, assessment tasks include not only communica-
tion tasks that attempt to mirror real-world tasks, but also more traditional test tasks,
like fill-in the blank and multiple choice. Though these less interactive methods of
208	 Pedagogical Grammar
assessment may feel inauthentic as compared to the communication tasks featured in
Chapter 9, it is possible to design these test items in such a way as to establish a cor-
respondence between the assessment and the target language use task. To illustrate
how this might work, Purpura (2004) provides example test items developed for an
assessment of students’ ability to use target grammatical forms and meanings in the
context of a university chemistry lab. The target language use domain identified for
the test was an English for Engineering course, which included a focus on chemical
Table 10.4  Comparing the assessment task and the TLU task*
Characteristics of TLU task Characteristics of assessment
task
Setting: In what ways will the setting for the assessment task and the TLU
task differ?
–	 Physical characteristics
–	Participants
–	 Time of task
Input: In what ways will the assessment task and TLU task differ in terms of
the linguistic characteristics and content of the input?
–	Format
–	 Language characteristics
	 –	 Organizational
	 –	 Pragmatic
–	 Topical content
Expected response: In what ways will the assessment task and TLU task differ in terms of
the linguistic characteristics and content of the student’s output?
–	Format
–	 Language characteristics
	 –	 Organizational
	 –	 Pragmatic
–	 Topical content
Relationship between
input and response:
In what ways will the assessment task differ from the TLU task in
terms of (a) the level of interaction involved (One-way communica-
tion? Two-way communication?), (b) how much input is provided
(Short sentences? Long texts?), and (c) to what extent students need
information not included in the input (e.g., knowledge of social
norms) to make decisions about the appropriate response?
–	Interactiveness
–	Scope
–	Directness
* Note: Adapted from Bachman (April, 2010, p. 9).
	 Chapter 10.  Assessing grammar within a framework of communicative competence	 209
engineering. Selected target language use tasks included: “Write a lab report based on
an experiment” and “Describe lab materials, procedures and cause effect relationships”
(p. 106). The grammatical constructs to be measured included passive voice and caus-
ative verbs in the past tense. To assess students’ abilities to use these grammatical forms
both accurately and meaningfully in the TLU domain, the test developers constructed
test items that corresponded to sentences that one might find in a written lab report,
as shown in Examples 10.1 and 10.2.
	(10.1)	 Water is then ____ to the solution.
		 ___1. add		 ___3. added
		 ___2. adds		 ___4. adding
	(10.2)	 This ___ the litmus paper blue.
		 ___1. turned	 ___3. changed
		 ___2. makes		 ___4. produces
While this type of assessment task differs from the TLU task of writing a lab report in
a number of ways (e.g., in the format of the expected response and the time on task),
the assessment task and TLU task share organizational features – both require the use
of passives and causative verbs to describe what happened in an experiment. Purpura
(2004) emphasizes the importance of task-essentialness for grammar test design, argu-
ing that a grammatical test task should be “designed to elicit scoreable grammatical
performance within a TLU domain, where without the requisite knowledge or ability
the test-taker would not be able to complete the task successfully” (p. 112). One ad-
vantage that these items have over more open-ended items (e.g., an assessment that
asks students to write a mock lab report) is that they allow teachers to control the areas
of grammar they want to assess – with open-ended responses, there is a chance that
students will not use all of the target grammatical forms, thus making it more difficult
to make inferences about their underlying grammatical knowledge.
Reflection 10.2
– Using Table 10.2 as a guide, identify a focus and purpose for an L2 grammar
assessment you would like to develop for your students.
– Next, using Table 10.3 as a guide, define the areas of grammar to be assessed, the
target language use domain, and the relevant target language use task(s).
– Finally, sketch out a plan for an assessment that (a) will allow you to observe
students’ use of target grammatical forms and meanings, and (b) has some
connection to the target language use task(s). Using Table 10.4 as a guide, compare
your assessment tasks to the TLU tasks. In what ways are they similar? In what
ways are they different?
210	 Pedagogical Grammar
Task-based performance assessment
In addition to assessing grammatical ability as separate from (but related to) other
components of communicative competence, teachers may also want to assess students’
ability to successfully perform particular language tasks, such as ordering a drink at a
coffee shop, making a doctor’s appointment, or (continuing with Purpura’s example)
writing a lab report. In this situation, the ability to use grammar accurately and ap-
propriately plays an important role in task performance, but it is not the whole of task
performance. Other areas of language ability, such as pragmatic competence, also play a
role, and thus an overall assessment of students’ task performance will need to include
an assessment of these multiple ability components.
Task-based performance assessment refers to an approach in which the goal of as-
sessment is to make inferences about a student’s ability to perform a real-world task.
As Long and Norris (2000) explain:
Task-based language assessment takes the task itself as the fundamental unit of analysis
motivating item selection, test instrument construction, and the rating of task perfor-
mance. Task-based assessment does not simply utilize the real-world task as a means
for eliciting particular components of the language system, which are then measured
or evaluated; instead, the construct of interest is performance of the task itself.
 (cited in Norris, Hudson, and Bonk, 2002, p. 395)
Task-based performance assessments differ from assessments of L2 grammar tests in a
number of important ways. First, L2 grammar assessments aim to elicit the production
of particular forms and meanings, so that inferences can be made about underlying
grammatical ability. L2 grammar assessment tasks should have some correspondence
to a TLU task, but they need not replicate a real-world task. Other considerations, such
as the need to create obligatory contexts for the grammatical forms to be assessed, may
outweigh authenticity concerns. Task-based performance assessments, on the other
hand, are designed to maximize authenticity and typically correspond to a task-based
syllabus. That is, if teachers have identified a set of tasks that their students need to be
able to do in the target language, and they have organized instruction around these
tasks, then task-based performance assessments can be used to evaluate to what extent
students have learned to perform these target tasks. Figure 10.4 displays sample as-
sessment tasks developed for Korean language courses at the University of Hawaii at
Manoa (Brown, Hudson, & Kim, 2001, pp. 103–119).
TASK-BASED PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
In task-based performance assessment, Long’s (1985) notion of task guides assessment
development. Assessment tasks are selected and developed based on a needs analysis of what
studentsdo(orhopetodo)inthetargetlanguage“ineverydaylife,atwork,atplay,andinbetween”
(p. 89). Information gathered during a student’s performance on a classroom assessment task is
used to make inferences about the student’s ability to accomplish similar tasks in the real world.
	 Chapter 10.  Assessing grammar within a framework of communicative competence	 211
Area: Illness, Injury, and Medicine
Theme: At the hospital
Task: Describing your symptoms to a doctor
Prompt: You have become ill and go to a hospital. You go to the reception desk
and listen to the receptionist’s instructions as to how to fill out a medial treatment
application form. After completing this form and waiting for your turn, you
finally see a doctor in her office. Describe your symptoms and answer any
questions your doctor may have concerning your illness.
Realia/Materials: Medical treatment application form
Area: At school
Theme: Registration
Task: Calling your academic supervisor regarding course selection
Prompt: It is toward the end of the semester. You have to see your academic
supervisor regarding course selection for next semester. When you call her at
her office to make an appointment, her answering machine is on. While listening
to her greeting message, you learn that she asks students who call her for
course selection consultation to leave a course selection-related message and
she will get back to them with her feedback on students’ course selection. You
call her and this time write down what she wants you to say in your message.
When you call her again, you have to politely leave a message that is loud
enough, clear, and to the point.
Realia/Materials: Telephone with answering machine; your academic
supervisor’s greeting message prerecorded on tape, which asks you to tell her your
name, the reason for calling, courses you want to take next semester and your
phone number; list of courses you want to take next semester; your phone number.
Area: Transportation
Theme: Getting a driver’s license
Task: Gathering information on getting a driver’s license
Prompt: You are going to get a driver’s license. You find a driver’s license test
center nearest to where you currently live and its phone number in an information
booklet on getting a driver’s license. Only a phone number for the automated
audio response system (ARS) is available, but you would like to talk to the
person at the information desk in person. So when calling this ARS number, you
have to first listen to the menu options and then press the number that allows you
to talk to the person. While talking to him, you ask questions, e.g., the test due date,
test time and cost, and write down the necessary information.
Realia/Materials: Booklet on getting a driver’s license, including map with your
place and nearest driver’s license test center marked; telephone, ARS messages
prerecorded on tape and cassette tape player.
Figure 10.4  Sample performance tasks (Brown, Hudson, & Kim, 2001, pp. 103–119)
212	 Pedagogical Grammar
In task-based performance assessment, grammatical constructs to be measured may
not be defined in the early stages of assessment development. Rather, teachers begin
by conducting a formal needs analysis of what students do or hope to do in the target
language. From here, teachers select target real-world tasks and describe their char-
acteristics. This process is similar to Bachman and Palmer’s (1996) framework for
describing TLU tasks, in that the mode, the interaction between input and response,
and the types of organizational and pragmatic knowledge needed to complete the task
are considered.
Byrnes, Crane, Maxim, and Sprang (2006) describe how members of a German
foreign language program in the U.S. worked to revise their curriculum so that tasks
played a central role in both instruction and assessment. Byrnes et al. offer their own
conception of task, one that is informed by systemic-functional approaches to the study
of language use: “We imagine task not primarily, much less exclusively, as transactional,
interactive, oral communicative exchanges of daily life, but as oriented toward textual-
ity and literacy in a range of areas of public language use” (p. 86). As the goal of the
German program is to prepare students to use German in professional and academic
life – contexts which require high levels of literacy – Byrnes et al. focused on the
development of genre-based tasks. In genre-based tasks, a genre is viewed as a goal-
oriented activity which takes the form of a text (either spoken or written). In this text,
lexis, grammar, and discourse structures are used in conventionalized ways to express
meaning within a particular discourse community. Example genres within the German
curriculum include personal narratives, journal entries, short stories, film reviews,
service encounters, newspaper articles, and political speeches (p. 94). A genre-based
task, then, is a task in which students interact with, respond to, and/or create particular
genres. “Textual genres used in instructional units serve as models or as topical bases
for students’ performance” (Byrnes et al., p. 94).
In the German program that Byrnes et al. describe, this notion of genre also in-
forms the design of task-based performance assessment. Figure 10.5 displays a perfor-
mance assessment used in the program’s Level III. As can be seen from the prompt, the
expectations for task performance are clearly outlined, and they include information
about the task’s communicative purpose, its genre conventions, required rhetorical
moves, and the grammatical forms and meanings that are essential to composing a
successful appeal. In this example, then, we can see that assessment of grammatical
ability still plays a role in task-based performance assessment, and it is possible to score
lexis, grammar, and discourse (i.e., components Purpura’s construct of grammatical
ability) as separate from other aspects of task performance.
In sum, task-based performance assessments allow teachers to evaluate the extent
to which students are able to perform the types of tasks they are likely to encounter
in personal, professional, and academic contexts. As Norris et al. (2002) argue, this
addresses an important need within language education:
	 Chapter 10.  Assessing grammar within a framework of communicative competence	 213
Level III: German Stories, German Histories
Political Appeal
Task: Public appeal
As an engaged student and citizen, you are well informed about hot topics and problems
at Georgetown University as well as around the world. At this point, you are actively
involved with a particular topic/problem. To address this problem, you will write a public
appeal, or manifesto, which you will want to present publicly and publish. Your appeal
should have the following parts:
– An engaging title,
– A description of the problem,
– One or more suggestions for solving the problem, and
– An appeal for concrete action.
The goal of your appeal is to motivate the audience to act. The style of your appeal
(formal, informal) depends on the particular audience that you want to read.
Content
The political appeals that we have worked on in class (“For our Country” and the appeal
by Stefan Heym) serve as the basis for this assignment. Particuarly relevant are
organizational structure and rhetorical means employed by the model texts.
The following points need to be present in your appeal:
– You define the topic of the appeal: it can pertain to either (world) politics or life
at Georgetown University
– Your audience and your relationship to this group must be clearly identifiable
– Place and date of your public presentation of the appeal
– Description of the problem, including background information regarding and
consequences of the problem
– Suggestion(s) for solving the problem, e.g., via presenting alternatives or
contrasts
– Appeal for concrete action – What should the readers/listeners do?
– Signature(s): individual or as a fictive group
Language Focus
At the discourse level: Describing, justifying, persuading, calling for action
At the sentence level: Complex syntax (focus on the correct verb position):
– Relatative clauses for describing
– Temporal clauses for defining time periods
– Dependent clauses for justifying (e.g., “because”)
Use of adjectives to describe (focus on correct adjective
endings)
Imperative sentences addressed to the audience to call for action
At the word level: Vocabulary relevant for the chosen topic
Use of rhetorical devices typical of a public appeal
Writing process: Preparation worksheet, essay, and revision; first version
due; final version due
Length: 1.5–2 pages; double-spaced, with typed Umlauts
Assessment criteria:
The three categories of task, content, and language focus are weighted equally. The
overall grade is an average of the three grades for these categories.
Figure 10.5  Sample genre-based performance assessment task (Byrnes et al., 2006, p. 103)
214	 Pedagogical Grammar
Language teachers, subject matter teachers, language learners, potential employers and
others frequently want to know whether or not, or the degree to which, a learner can
utilize language in order to accomplish specific target communication tasks, ranging
from the survival-related to the job-specific or academic. (p. 396)
Focusing on the pedagogic value of performance assessment in L2 classrooms,
Shohamy and Inbar (2006) list several additional benefits:
Performance tasks require learners to engage in problem solving activities that require
utilizing high level cognitive strategies such as analyzing, comparing and general-
izing. In addition, since tasks do not presume a single correct answer they generate
a variety of outcomes. Performance tasks are related to “real world” experiences and
therefore necessitate the activation of prior knowledge, and encourage the authentic
use of the target language as a means for accessing information in various subject
areas. Performance tasks also provide opportunities for peer interaction, such as pair
and group work, as well as provide learners with opportunities for reflection, self-
evaluation and peer assessment. (Shohamy & Inbar, 2006, p. 2)
In terms of grammar assessment specifically, task-based performance assessments allow
teachers to examine how students use grammar as a resource for accomplishing task
goals and to what extent students have control over the forms and meanings needed to
carry out the task successfully. In this regard, the information gained from task-based
performance assessments can provide a useful supplement to the types of information
obtained through more traditional and form-focused grammar tests.
Reflection 10.3
– As an L2 teacher, have you used task-based performance assessments in your
classroom? If so, in what ways did these assessments help you to learn more about
your students’ L2 grammar ability?
– As an L2 learner, have you ever experienced task-based performance assessment?
If so, what was this experience like? How did it compare to more traditional
language tests?
– How might task-based performance assessments be used to assess L2 grammar
ability? Should they be used in conjunction with more traditional tests? In place
of grammar tests? What are some advantages and disadvantages of traditional and
task-based approaches?
	 Chapter 10.  Assessing grammar within a framework of communicative competence	 215
Dynamic assessment
Task-based performance assessment has its roots in Task-Based Language Teaching
and is informed by interactionst approaches to the study of second language acquisi-
tion. Similarly, sociocultural approaches to second language research have also led
to new innovations, particularly in the area of L2 dynamic assessment. Dynamic as-
sessment (DA) is an approach informed by Vygotsky’s concept of the zone of proxi-
mal development, or the distance between what a learner can do alone and what she
can do with assistance (see Chapter 8). Proponents of dynamic assessment argue that
“important information about a person’s ability can be learned by offering assistance
during the assessment itself” (Lantolf & Poehner, 2004, p. 2). Such assessment has
the potential to offer a more nuanced picture of a student’s language ability. Whereas
an accuracy score on an L2 grammar assessment may suggest that a student has not
mastered particular forms and meanings, a dynamic assessment can help teachers to
gauge whether students need a great deal of assistance when carrying out a task, or
whether students need a minimal amount of prompting, and thus may soon be ready
to perform the task without assistance. A key aim of dynamic assessment is to make
inferences about the future. As Minick (1987) writes, dynamic assessment can be:
a means of gaining insight into the kinds of psychological processes that the child
might be capable of in the next or proximal phase of development and a means of
identifying the kinds of instruction, or assistance that will be required if the child is to
realize these potentials. (cited in Poehner & Lantolf, 2005, p. 240)
DYNAMIC ASSESSMENT
In dynamic assessment, Vygotsky’s concept of the zone of proximal development guides
assessment development. Though assistance from a teacher or test administrator in the
assessment process is typically prohibited, as it may give some students an unfair advantage,
in dynamic assessment, assistance during the task is used to gather more detailed information
about the learner’s developmental level, to create learning opportunities, and to identify
potential areas of focus for future instruction. (Poehner, 2005)
Two major approaches have gained attention in the L2 literature recently: interventionist
DA and interactionist DA (Poehner & Lantolf, 2005). In an interventionist approach,
researchers ask students to carry out a performance assessment task without assistance
(as a pre-test), to carry out the same task again (perhaps 3–5 times) with assistance, and
to then carry out the task one last time without assistance (as a post-test). Prior to assess-
ment, the researcher develops a standardized approach to providing assistance during
the task. Then, during the assistance phase, the researcher uses this instrument to note
how often assistance is given (e.g., the number of hints or prompts) and how explicit the
216	 Pedagogical Grammar
assistance is (as done in Aljaafreh & Lantolf’s Regulatory Scale), and this information is
converted into a numeric score indicating learning potential (Poehner, 2005).
In interactionist DA, qualitative techniques, rather than quantitative ones, are used
to assess learning potential. Scales for characterizing assistance are not developed in
advance of assessment, but rather during the process of assessment, and rich descrip-
tions of interactions between the student and the task mediator are provided. The aim
here is to explore how DA might (a) offer teachers new insights into students’ language
abilities that could not otherwise be obtained through more traditional assessment
techniques, (b) facilitate language development, (c) identify areas of language ability
that could benefit from future instructional interventions, and (d) develop learners’
abilities to perform similar tasks in other contexts (Poehner, 2005).
DA is often characterized as a form of formative assessment because it is adminis-
tered multiple times throughout the course of an instructional unit and provides learners
with developmentally appropriate feedback on their performance (Poehner & Lantolf,
2005). Anton (2009), however, also found DA to be useful for placement purposes. She
argues that both traditional test scores and analyses of dynamic assessment interactions
were needed to make decisions about how to place individual students into a Spanish
language program. For example, in an oral story-retelling task, Anton noted that some
students switched into the simple present tense, even though they were recounting past
tense events. When learners had a chance to do the task again with assistance, they
differed in the number of prompts and hints needed to notice and correct their tense
shifting. One student, for example, needed only brief prompting to remind him that
he was recounting past events and he was able to switch back to past tense with ease.
Another student needed much more explicit feedback, including prompts that asked her
to choose between two verb forms provided by the mediator. Although both of these
students would have received similar accuracy scores on the unassisted oral re-telling
task, the use of dynamic assessment allowed the researcher to make distinctions between
the two students’ ability levels that she otherwise would not have made.
Reflection 10.4
– As an L2 teacher, have you used dynamic assessments in your own classroom? If so,
in what ways did these assessments help you to learn more about your students’ L2
grammar ability?
– As an L2 learner, have you ever experienced dynamic assessment? If so, what was
this experience like? How did it compare to more traditional language tests?
– How might dynamic assessment be used to assess L2 grammar ability? Could you
envision, for example, having students complete a grammar test individually, and
then again with assistance? Or, could you ask students to carry out a task-based
performance assessment alone, and then again in collaboration with you?
Practically speaking, how might this be done, and what types of information would
you want to collect throughout the process?
	 Chapter 10.  Assessing grammar within a framework of communicative competence	 217
Evaluating student performance
In addition to making decisions about what types of assessments to use in the L2
classroom, teachers also must develop methods for evaluating student performance
on these assessments. Purpura (2004) provides a comprehensive overview of scor-
ing methods that can be used for L2 grammar tests, including right/wrong scoring
and partial credit scoring (e.g., assigning some credit for accurate form and some
credit for accurate meaning) as well as rating scales for test tasks that require more
extended responses. Because our main interest in this chapter is alternatives (or
complements) to traditional grammar tests, we will focus our attention on rubrics
and scoring schemes that have been developed for both task-based performance and
dynamic assessments.
Rubrics for scoring task-based performance assessment. Because task-based perfor-
mance assessment has become a central component of many L2 language programs,
The American Council on Teaching Foreign Languages (ACTFL, 2012) recently devel-
oped Performance Descriptors for Language Learners, which can be used both to carry
out formative and summative assessments of students’ abilities to perform tasks that
have been practiced in class, as well as to assess overall proficiency or place students
in levels of a language program. ACTFL has developed performance descriptors for
three major modes of performance:
–	 Interpersonal: Active negotiation of meaning among individuals (e.g., conversation,
reading and writing via text messages or social media)
–	 Interpretive: Interpretation of what the author, speaker, or producer wants the re-
ceiver of the message to understand (e.g., reading websites, stories, articles; listen-
ing to speeches, messages, songs; viewing video clips of authentic materials)
–	 Presentational: Creation of messages (e.g., writing messages, articles, reports; tell-
ing a story, giving a speech, describing a poster; visually representing [through]
video or PowerPoint) (ACTFL p. 7).
Each performance task used in a classroom can be classified into one of these three
categories. Then, within each mode, performance descriptors can be used by teachers
to answer two fundamental questions: (1) What are the parameters for the language
learner’s performance? and (2) How well is the language learner able to be understood
and to understand (ACTFL, 2012, pp. 8–9)?. The first question concerns the range of
learner performance. In other words, can the student perform at a particular level
(novice, intermediate, advanced) within a small range of task types (i.e., a limited
number of communicative functions, contexts, and content areas) or a broad range
(i.e., a wide variety of communicative functions, contexts, and content areas)? The
second question concerns what ACTFL refers to as Language Control, Vocabulary,
Communication Strategies, and Cultural Awareness, which can be said to represent
components of language ability.
218	 Pedagogical Grammar
To assist teachers in using the ACTFL performance descriptors in classroom task-
based assessment, the Consortium for Assessing Performance Standards (Foreign
Language Educators of New Jersey, 2013) has compiled a set of performance assess-
ment tasks and corresponding rubrics (see Thematically Organized Assessment Tasks
in the Recommended Resources at the end of this chapter). These tasks are organized
by theme (e.g., Art Appreciation, Work and Career) and ACTFL proficiency levels.
Figure 10.6 displays a sample task and Figure 10.7 displays a scoring rubric for the task
developed by Franco (2013). As can be seen in Figure 10.7, this rubric allows teachers
to give specific feedback to students on their L2 grammar use, in the context of their
overall task performance.
TOA Title: Stress in der Schule: was kann man tun?
Task Title: Schlafen inder Schule: was hältst du davon?
Theme: Health
Level: Pre-Advanced
Age Group: 15 -18 years
National Standards Goals: CommunicationCultures Comparisons
Communicative Mode: Interpersonal
Time Frame: Depends on class size; per pair of students about 10 minutes, plus
self-evaluation and peer evaluation
Description of Task:
After reading the article “Trend-Sport Schlafen” you wonder if the idea of taking a nap to
increase performance during the day should be adapted in American schools.To find out
more about the possible advantages and disadvantages of sleeping to fight stress at school,
you turn to the German exchange student at your school. In your conversation, ask each
other questions about different measures to fight stress used in the US and Germany and
discuss whether short naps during the school day might be a solution to stress.
Make sure to ask and respond to questions and elaborate as much as you can, based on the
reading as well as your previous knowledge. Use different time frames to describe what has
been going on in other countries and what could be done in the US.
Materials Needed: Tape recorder or video camera to record student performance
Teacher Notes: Students will work in pairs with one student taking over the role of the
German exchange student and the other playing an American student at his or her school.
This is an oral assessment, and students should not use notes or read off a prepared text.
Figure 10.6  Sample performance assessment task (Franco, 2013, p. 6)
	
Chapter
10. 
Assessing
grammar
within
a
framework
of communicative
competence	
219
EXCEEDS EXPECTATIONS MEETS EXPECATIONS DOES NOT MEET
EXPECTATIONS
Language Function
Communication
Strategies
Comprehensibility
Vocabulary
Cultural Awareness
Is very accurate in present, past
and future.
Describes in past, present and
future with detail most of the time.
Sustains and/or redirects conversation
and is able to clarify in many
different ways.
Involves partners all the time.
Is able to circumlocute and
self-correct.
Speaks with fluency.
Is easily understood by native
speakers, even those unaccustomed
to interacting with language learners.
Consistently uses an extensive and
topic-related vocabulary to complete
the task.
Compares and contrasts many
different cultural practices.
Narrates and describes some of the
time in past, present and future.
Is most accurate in present tense and
is less accurate when speaking in
past and future.
Sustains conversation and sometimes
is able to clarify.
Involves partner most of the time.
Is able to circumlocute and self-correct
at times.
Unnatural pauses may disrupt
the flow.
There may be some confusion about
the message but generally understood
by those unaccustomed to
working with language learners.
Uses an adequate vocabulary to
complete the task.
Compares and contrasts some
cultural practices.
Is most accurate in the
present tense.
Accuracy decreases significantly
when speaking in past and future.
Shows limited ability to sustain
conversation and/or clarify.
Is not able to involve partner
in conversation.
Is not able to circumlocute
successfully.
Repeated unnatural pauses disrupt
the flow.
Generally understood by those
used to interacting
with language learners.
Uses vocabulary insufficient to
complete the task, little or
no-topic –related vocabulary
and/or English.
Compares and contrasts few or no
cultural differences.
Pre-Advanced Interpersonal Rubric: Stress in der Schule: was kann man tun?
Figure 10.7  Sample performance assessment rubric (Franco, 2013, p. 7)
220	 Pedagogical Grammar
Techniques for dynamic assessment. With any task-based performance assessment (or
grammar test for that matter), it is also possible to integrate dynamic assessment tech-
niques, so that students have an opportunity to perform the task both individually and
with assistance. It is also possible to record information about the amount and type of
assistance given along with numeric scores or ratings obtained through grammar tests
and performance assessments. This allows teachers to see what levels of performance
a student can reach:
–	 individually, prior to any assistance: this helps teachers to diagnose strengths and
areas of difficulty and to plan future instructional interventions;
–	 with assistance: this helps teachers to assess how much and what types of assis-
tance the student needs and to make inferences about the learner’s next phase of
development; and
–	 individually, after assistance has been given: this allows teachers to assess in
what ways the process of dynamic assessment may have facilitated language
development.
Fahmy (2013) developed a method for assessing the performance of L2 learners of
Arabic on the Department of Defense’s Oral Proficiency Interview (OPI), using both
a standardized rating scale and a coding scheme for graduated assistance within the
zone of proximal development. Students completed the Oral Proficiency Interview
individually, with trained OPI testers, and then participated in several dynamic assess-
ment sessions in which they carried out the OPI interview with assistance from the
researcher (who was also the teacher of the students’ Arabic course). Fahmy recorded
what grammatical forms students needed assistance with during the task and what
level of explicitness was needed to help students self-correct:
1.	 [Implicit] hint that reflected that the teacher-researcher did not accept the answer
2.	 Repeating broadly the erroneous utterance
3.	 Repeat[ing] the specific erroneous utterance
4.	 Naming the syntactical deficiency
5.	 Providing the student with the answer along with its explanation.
 (Fahmy, 2013, p. 79)
These notes were taken down on a scoring sheet that also included performance in-
dicators for the OPI. Notes about the grammatical forms and meanings that students
needed the most assistance with can serve as a useful complement to descriptors of
independent task performance, thus providing yet another source of information for
making inferences about students’ underlying grammatical ability.
	 Chapter 10.  Assessing grammar within a framework of communicative competence	 221
Reflection 10.5
– Return to your notes from Reflection 10.2. In this Reflection, you sketched out
ideas for an L2 grammar assessment task. Now that you have read more about
task-based performance assessment and dynamic assessment, do you have new
ideas about how you might design this task?
– What approaches could you use to score students’ performance on this assessment
task? Will you develop a rubric with several components? Devise a scoring scheme
that awards points for both form and meaning? Will your feedback be focused only
on grammar, or also on other areas of language ability?
– If using dynamic assessment, how might you describe the amount and types of
assistance needed by your students during the assessment task?
	 Summary
–	 For the purpose of assessment, grammatical knowledge is typically defined as a knowledge
of language forms (phonological, graphological, lexical, morphological, syntactical, dis-
course) and their inherent meanings. Grammatical ability is the capacity to retrieve and use
these forms in communication. Grammatical knowledge and ability cannot be observed
directly; we make inferences about students’knowledge and ability based on their language
performance.
–	 A number of steps are involved in the development of L2 grammar assessments:
	–	
Defining the purpose and focus for the assessment
	–	
Identifying the areas of grammatical knowledge and meaning to be assessed
	–	
Identifying a target language use (TLU) domain
	–	
Selecting relevant target language use (TLU) tasks within this domain
	–	
Designing assessment tasks that correspond in some way to TLU tasks
–	 Task-based performance assessment is an approach to assessment which aims to maximize
authenticity – assessment tasks are designed in such a way as to mirror, as much as possible,
real-world tasks. This approach allows teachers to examine how students use grammar as
a resource for accomplishing task goals and to what extent students have control over the
forms and meanings needed to carry out the task successfully.
–	 Dynamic assessment is an approach to assessment in which teachers provide graduated
assistance to students during the assessment task. Dynamic assessment allows teachers
to observe how much and what types of grammar-focused assistance students need to ac-
complish task goals, which in turn can help to inform future instruction.
222	 Pedagogical Grammar
	 Suggestions for further reading
Bachman, L. & Palmer, A. (2010). Language Assessment in Practice: Developing Language Assess-
ments and Justifying their Use in the Real World. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Brown, D. & Abeywickrama, P. (2010). Language Assessment: Principles and Classroom Practices.
White Plains, NY: Pearson Longman.
Poehner, M. (2008). Dynamic Assessment: A Vygotskian Approach to Understanding and Promoting
L2 Development. New York: Springer.
Purpura, J. (2004). Assessing Grammar. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Shohamy, E. & Inbar, O. (2006). Assessment of Advanced Language Proficiency:Why Performance-
Based Tasks? (CALPER Professional Development Document 0605). University Park, PA: The
Pennsylvania State University, CALPER.
	 Recommended resources
ACTFL Performance Descriptors
<http://www.actfl.org/publications/guidelines-and-manuals/actfl-performance-descriptors-
language-learners>
Equipped for the Future Assessment Resource Collection
<http://eff.cls.utk.edu/assessment/default.htm>
NCSSFL-ACTFL Can-Do Statements
<http://www.actfl.org/publications/guidelines-and-manuals/ncssfl-actfl-can-do-statements>
Thematically Organized Assessment Tasks
<http://flenj.org/CAPS/toas.shtml>
Virtual Assessment Center (Center for Advanced Research on Language Acquisition)
<http://www.carla.umn.edu/assessment/vac/index.html>
Chapter 11
Reflections and suggestions
for further study
In the introduction to this book, we proposed a framework for pedagogical grammar
which highlights three major areas of research and teaching: Grammar Description,
L2 Grammar Acquisition, and L2 Grammar Instruction (see Figures 1.1 and 1.2). We
also provided a set of question prompts designed to help teachers reflect on their own
pedagogical approaches within these three areas. Now, in our conclusion, we would
like to return to these questions.
Table 11.1 displays the three major areas of pedagogical grammar, along with the
question prompts provided in Figure 1.2. Before reading further, please take some time
to respond to these prompts and to reflect on how your responses have (or have not)
changed since beginning this book.
In Chapter 1, we also identified aspects of L2 teaching which can be informed by
pedagogical grammar research:
–	 Development of classroom materials
–	 Analysis of the language my students produce
–	 Lesson and task design
–	 Assessment of student learning
In Chapters 3 through 10, we explored how research in the areas of Grammar De­
scription, L2 Grammar Acquisition, and L2 Grammar Instruction might inform the
decisions that teachers make in their own classrooms. We focused, in particular, on
evaluating and adapting existing materials, using online corpora, designing grammar-
focused tasks, and assessing L2 grammar ability. Though these chapters cover several
aspects of instruction and several research domains, we feel that it is possible to identify
themes that run across these domains.
1.	 The importance of making Form-Meaning-Use connections. In much of the
pedagogical grammar research, grammar is viewed as a resource for expressing
meaning and accomplishing communicative goals in particular contexts. L2 gram-
mar instruction should address all three of these dimensions and should aim to
help students develop both a knowledge of and an ability to use grammar.
2.	 The importance of authenticity. Descriptions of grammar should be based on
empirical investigations of actual language use, instruction should address the
registers and tasks that are most relevant to students’ lives, and assessments should
have some connection to real-world contexts.
224	 Pedagogical Grammar
Table 11.1  Reflections on the three major areas of pedagogical grammar
Grammar Description
–	 What is grammar?
–	 How does grammar interact with other linguistic systems?
–	 How can it best be described to L2 students?
L2 Grammar Acquisition
–	 What does it mean to “acquire” the grammar of a language?
–	 How and when does this acquisition take place?
–	 What role does instruction play in this process?
L2 Grammar Instruction
–	 What relevance does pedagogical grammar research have for my own classroom context?
–	 In what ways can it inform my grammar teaching?
	 Chapter 11.  Reflections and suggestions for further study	 225
3.	 Theimportanceofaddressingnotjustgrammar,butlexicogrammar.Investigations
of language use and language acquisition have shown that grammar and lexis do
not operate independently of one another; rather, language users often retrieve
and process multiword strings as single units of meaning. Phenomena such as col-
location, phraseology, and formulaic sequences deserve attention in L2 grammar
instruction.
4.	 The importance of developmentally appropriate instruction. Learner language is
not simply a deficient version of the L2, but a variety of language in its own right, with
its own grammatical rules and phases of development. Instruction that is tailored to
students’ developmental levels can facilitate the L2 grammar acquisition process.
5.	 The importance of communication tasks in the L2 classroom. Research on the
relative effectiveness of different instructional approaches, whether informed by
interactionist, sociocultural, or cognitivist orientations, clearly demonstrates that
carefully designed, meaning-focused communication tasks can promote the acqui-
sition of L2 grammar. Interaction and collaboration play a crucial role in develop-
ment, as they provide learners with opportunities to receive comprehensible input,
to test hypotheses about grammar, to receive corrective feedback and graduated
assistance, and to notice grammatical forms they have not yet fully acquired. These
tasks, whether used as classroom activities or for the purpose of assessment, also
provide teachers with important information regarding what their students know
and are able to do in the target language.
Table 11.2 provides space for you to identify three pedagogical grammar themes that
are most important to you as an L2 teacher. You can choose from themes we have
listed here, or identify additional themes that you feel that run across the domains
of Grammar Description, L2 Grammar Acquisition, and L2 Grammar Instruction.
For each theme, you can list related concepts, research findings, and/or resources (as
a way to review the content covered in this book), and you can reflect on how each
theme connects to your own teaching practices (e.g., the way you approach materials
development, task design, or grammar assessment).
In conclusion, we would like to draw attention to areas of research which do not
receive coverage in this book but which nevertheless have relevance to pedagogical
grammar. As with any published work, space limitations require authors to make dif-
ficult decisions about what can and cannot be included. Thus, we would like to offer
several suggestions for further study.
The first major area with particular relevance to L2 grammar teaching is research
on the role of corrective feedback in second language writing development. In this
book, we focus our discussion of corrective feedback and its use in oral communica-
tion tasks, primarily because this research has sought to investigate empirical links
between such feedback and subsequent grammar acquisition. However, we also rec-
ognize the important role that grammar-focused feedback on written compositions
can play in grammar development. For study in this area, we recommend Dana Ferris’
226	 Pedagogical Grammar
Table 11.2
Theme #1:
Relevant concepts/research findings/resources:
Connections to my own teaching practices:
Theme #2:
Relevant concepts/research findings/resources:
Connections to my own teaching practices:
Theme #3:
Relevant concepts/research findings/resources:
Connections to my own teaching practices:
	 Chapter 11.  Reflections and suggestions for further study	 227
work (e.g., Bitchener & Ferris, 2012; Ferris, 2011), as well as the plethora of articles
published in the Journal of Second Language Writing on this topic.
Another area we regret not covering more fully is the use of learner corpora for L2
research and teaching. Sylviane Granger (e.g., Granger, 2014; Granger, Hung, & Petch-
Tyson, 2002) has done a substantial amount of work in this area. Learner corpora has
been used to investigate patterns in learner error, to inform materials development,
and to develop engaging data-driven learning activities for the classroom. We would
also be remiss if we did not mention the increasingly important role that technol-
ogy plays in the teaching and learning process. Several researchers (e.g., Blake, 2000;
Darhower, 2002; Salaberry, 2000; Sauro, 2009) have explored how computer-mediated
communication (CMC) tasks might help to facilitate L2 development, including the
acquisition of grammar. These studies help to expand our understanding of interaction
and collaboration in L2 learning, as some (e.g., Baralt, 2013) have found that the role
of task design and the provision of corrective feedback differ significantly in face-to-
face interaction and CMC environments. Gonzalez-Lloret and Ortega (2014) offer a
comprehensive review of research in this area.
Another area to consider is Aptitude-Treatment Interaction (ATI) research, which
aims to explore the interactions among individual differences (e.g., age, motivation,
language aptitude), instructional approaches, and the acquisition of particular gram-
matical structures. Research on language aptitude has found, for example, that a higher
language aptitude is beneficial when students are asked to discover grammar rules for
themselves, but may not provide an advantage when the rules are presented explic-
itly; and that higher language aptitude may also explain why some adults who begin
learning a language late in life reach high levels of success, while many others do not
(DeKeyser, 2012). For a recent review of research in this area, we recommend Vatz,
Tare, Jackson, and Doughty (2013).
Finally, we feel it is important to highlight that much of the research on second
language teaching and learning to date has focused on literate language users with
a substantial amount of educational experience, particularly at the university level.
Recently, however, some researchers have worked to expand the domain of inquiry,
by examining non-traditional L2 students, such as recently relocated refugees and
pre- and emerging-literate learners (Tarone & Bigelow, 2005; 2007; Tarone, Bigelow,
& Hansen, 2009). Continued investigation of these learner populations will no doubt
play a crucial role in informing L2 grammar pedagogy in the years to come.
Reflection 11.1
– Compare your reflections in this chapter with those of your classmates or
colleagues. What themes received the most attention in your reflections?
Why do you think this was the case?
– What do you feel are the most important things you have learned from this book?
What areas of pedagogical grammar do you hope to pursue further in the future?
References
Adair-Hauck, B., & Donato, R. (1994). Foreign language explanations within the zone of proximal
development. The Canadian Modern Language Review, 50, 532–557.
ACTFL. (2012). Performance Descriptors for Language Learners. Alexandria, VA: American Council
on the Teaching of Foreign Languages.
Adams, R. (2007). Do second language learners benefit from interacting with each other? In
A. Mackey (Ed.), Conversational Interaction in Second Language Acquisition (pp. 29–51). ­Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Aljaafreh, A., & Lantolf, J. P. (1994). Negative feedback as regulation and second language learning
in the zone of Proximal development. Modern Language Journal, 78, 465–483.
	 DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-4781.1994.tb02064.x
Ammar, A., & Spada, N. (2006). One size fits all? Recasts, prompts and L2 learning. Studies in Second
Language Acquisition, 28, 543–574. DOI: 10.1017/S0272263106060268
Andersen, R. W. (1991). Developmental sequences: The emergence of aspect marking in second
language acquisition. In T. Huebner & C. A. Ferguson (Eds.), Crosscurrents in Second Language
Acquisition Theories. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Antón, M. (1999). The discourse of a learner-centered classroom: Sociocultural perspectives on
teacher-learner interaction in the second language classroom. The Modern Language Journal,
83, 303–318. DOI: 10.1111/0026-7902.00024
Antón, M. (2009). Dynamic assessment of advanced second language learners. Foreign Language
Annals, 42, 576–598. DOI: 10.1111/j.1944-9720.2009.01030.x
Aston, G. (Ed.). (2001). Learning with Corpora. Houston, TX: Athelstan.
Bachman, L. (April, 2010). Developing Language Assessments and Justifying their Use. Workshop
presented at The 5th UC Language Consortium Conference on Theoretical & Pedagogical Perspec-
tives. San Diego, CA. Retrieved from <http://uccllt.ucdavis.edu/events/fifth_conf/pres_files/
lbachman/workshop_handout.pdf>
Bachman, L. & Palmer, A. (1996). Language Testing in Practice: Designing and Developing Useful
Language Tests. Oxford: Oxford University Press. DOI: 10.1177/026553229601300201
Bachman, L. & Palmer, A. (2010). Language Assessment in Practice: Developing Language Assessments
and Justifying their Use in the Real World. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Bailey, N., Madden, C., & Krashen, S. D. (1974). Is there a “natural sequence” in adult second language
learning? Language Learning, 24, 235–243. DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-1770.1974.tb00505.x
Baralt, M. (2013). The impact of cognitive complexity on feedback efficacy during online versus face-
to-face interactive tasks. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 35, 689–725.
	 DOI: 10.1017/S0272263113000429
Bardovi-Harlig, K. (1997). Another piece of the puzzle: The emergence of the present perfect. Lan-
guage Learning, 47, 375–422. DOI: 10.1111/0023-8333.00015
Bardovi-Harlig, K. (2000). Tense and Aspect in Second Language Acquisition: Form, Meaning, and
Use. Oxford: Blackwell.
230	 Pedagogical Grammar
Bardovi-Harlig, K., & Reynolds, D. W. (1995). The role of lexical aspect in the acquisition of tense
and aspect. TESOL Quarterly, 29, 107–131. DOI: 10.2307/3587807
Bennett, G. R. (2010). Using Corpora in the Language Learning Classroom: Corpus Linguistics for
Teachers. Ann Arbor MI: University of Michigan Press.
Biber, D., Johansson, S., Leech, G., Conrad, S., Finegan, E. (1999). Longman Grammar of Spoken and
Written English. London: Longman.
Biber, D., & Conrad, S. (2001). Quantitative corpus-based research: Much more than bean counting.
TESOL Quarterly, 35, 331–336. DOI: 10.2307/3587653
Biber, D., Conrad, S., & Cortes, V. (2004). ‘‘If you look at…’’: Lexical bundles in university teaching
and textbooks. Applied Linguistics 25, 371–405. DOI: 10.1093/applin/25.3.371
Biber, D., Conrad, S., & Reppen, R. (1998). Corpus Linguistics: Investigating Language Structure and
Use. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511804489
Biber, D., Johansson, S., Leech, G., Conrad, S., & Finegan, E. (1999). The Longman Grammar of Spoken
and Written English. London: Longman.
Biber, D., & Reppen, R. (2002). What does frequency have to do with grammar teaching? Studies in
Second Language Acquisition, 24, 199–208. DOI: 10.1017/S0272263102002048
Bitchener, J., & Ferris, D. R. (2012). Written Corrective Feedback in Second Language Acquisition and
Writing. New York, NY: Routledge.
Blake, R. (2000). Computer mediated communication: A window on L2 Spanish interlanguage. Lan-
guage Learning & Technology, 4, 120–136.
Brown (1973). A First Language: The Early Stages. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Brown, D. (2007). Teaching by Principles: An Interactive Approach to Language Pedagogy. (3rd ed.).
White Plains, NY: Pearson Longman.
Brown, D., & Abeywickrama, P. (2010). Language Assessment: Principles and Classroom Practices.
White Plains, NY: Pearson Longman.
Brown, J. D., Hudson, T., & Kim, Y. (2001). Developing Korean Language Performance Assessments
(Research Note #27). Honolulu HI: University of Hawai‘i, Second Language Teaching &
­Curriculum Center.
Bybee, J. (2008). Usage-based grammar and second language acquisition. In Robinson, P., & Ellis,
N. (Eds.), Handbook of Cognitive Linguistics and Second Language Acquisition (pp. 216–236).
New York, NY: Routledge.
Byrnes, H., Crane, C., Maxim, H. H., & Sprang, K. (2006). Taking text to task: Issues and choices in
curriculum construction. Special issue on task-based learning in the ITL International Journal
of Applied Linguistics, 152, 85–110.
Canagarajah, S. (2004). Subversive identities, pedagogical safe houses, and critical learning. In
B. ­
Norton & K. Toohey (Eds.), Critical Pedagogies and Language Learning (pp. 116–137).
­
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9781139524834.007
Canagarajah, S. (2011). Codemeshing in academic writing: Identifying teachable strategies of trans-
languaging. The Modern Language Journal, 95, 401–417. DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-4781.2011.01207.x
Canale, M., & Swain, M. (1980). Theoretical bases of communicative approaches to second language
teaching and testing. Applied Linguistics, 1, 1–47. DOI: 10.1093/applin/1.1.1
Celce-Murcia, M. (1975). English Structure in Context: An Area of Research for ESL Specialists.
Workpapers in Teaching English as a Second Language, Vol. 9. University of California, Los An-
geles. ERIC document 121100: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED121100.pdf
Celce-Murcia, M. (1990). Discourse analysis and grammar instruction. Annual Review of Applied
Linguistics, 11, 135–151. DOI: 10.1017/S0267190500002002
	References	
231
Celce-Murcia, M. (1991). Grammar pedagogy in second and foreign language teaching. TESOL
Quarterly, 25(3), 459–480. DOI: 10.2307/3586980
Celce-Murcia, M. (2002). Why it makes sense to teach grammar in context and through discourse.
In E. Hinkel & S. Fotos (Eds.), New Perspectives on Grammar Teaching in Second Language
Classrooms (pp. 119–133). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Celce-Murcia, M., & Larsen-Freeman, D. (1999). The Grammar Book: An ESL/EFL Teacher’s Course.
(2nd ed.). Boston, MA: Heinle & Heinle.
Chapelle, C. A., Chung, Y. R., Hegelheimer, V., Pendar, N., & Xu, J. (2010). Towards a computer-
delivered test of productive grammatical ability. Language Testing, 27, 443–469.
	 DOI: 10.1177/0265532210367633
Chomsky, N. (1959). Review of Verbal Behavior by B. F. Skinner. Language, 35, 26–58.
	 DOI: 10.2307/411334
Chomsky, N. (1975). Reflections on Language. London: Temple Smith.
Conrad, S. (1999). The importance of corpus-based research for language teachers. System, 27, 1–18.
DOI: 10.1016/S0346-251X(98)00046-3
Conrad, S. (2000). Will corpus linguistics revolutionize grammar teaching in the 21st century? TESOL
Quarterly, 34, 548–60. DOI: 10.2307/3587743
Conrad, S. (2001). Variation among disciplinary texts: A comparison of textbooks and journal articles
in biology and history. In S. Conrad & D. Biber (Eds.) Multi-dimensional Studies of Register
Variation in English (pp. 94–107). Harlow, UK: Pearson Education.
Conrad, S., & Biber, D. (2002). Real Grammar: A Corpus-Based Approach to English. White Plains,
NY: Pearson Longman.
Conrad, S. (2004). Corpus linguistics, language variation, and language teaching. In J. Sinclair (Ed.),
How to Use Corpora in Language Teaching (pp. 67–85). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
	 DOI: 10.1075/scl.12.08con
Cook, V. J. (1993). Linguistics and Second Language Acquisition. London: Macmillan.
Cook, V. (1999). Going beyond the native speaker in language teaching. TESOL Quarterly, 33, 185–
209. DOI: 10.2307/3587717
Corder, S. P. (1967). The significance of learner’s errors. International Review of Applied Linguistics in
Language Teaching, 4, 161–170. Retrieved from <http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED019903.pdf>
Cortes, V. (2004). Lexical bundles in published and student disciplinary writing: Examples from
history and biology. English for Specific Purposes, 23, 397–423. DOI: 10.1016/j.esp.2003.12.001
Cortes, V. (January, 2013). Waiting for the revolution. Plenary talk presented at the American As-
sociation for Corpus Linguistics. San Diego, CA.
Coxhead, A. (2000). A new academic word list. TESOL Quarterly, 34, 213–238. DOI: 10.2307/3587951
Crease, A., & Blackledge, A. (2010). Translanguaging in the bilingual classroom: A pedagogy for
learning and teaching? The Modern Language Journal, 94, 103–115.
	 DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-4781.2009.00986.x
Csomay, E. (2004). Linguistic variation within university classroom talk: A corpus-based perspective.
Linguistics and Education, 15, 243–274. DOI: 10.1016/j.linged.2005.03.001
Csomay, E., & Cortes, V. (2009). Lexical bundle distribution in university classroom talk. Language
and Computers, 71(1), 153–168.
Cummins, J. (2008). Teaching for transfer: Challenging the two solitudes assumption in bilingual
education. In N. Hornberger (Ed.), Encyclopedia of Language and Education (pp. 1528–1538).
Dordrecht: Springer. DOI: 10.1007/978-0-387-30424-3_116
232	 Pedagogical Grammar
Curzan, A., & Adams, M. (2012). How English Works: A Linguistic Introduction. (3rd ed.). Boston,
MA: Longman.
Darhower, M. (2002). Interactional features of synchronous computer-mediated communication in
the intermediate L2 class: A sociocultural case study. CALICO Journal, 19, 249–277.
DeKeyser, R. (1997). Beyond explicit rule learning: Automatizing second language morphosyntax.
Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 19, 195–221. DOI: 10.1017/S0272263197002040
DeKeyser, R. (2007). Situating the concept of practice. In R. DeKeyser (Ed.), Practicing in a Second
Language: Perspectives from Applied Linguistics and Cognitive Psychology (pp. 1–18). Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
DeKeyser, R. (2012). Interactions between individual differences, treatments, and structures in SLA.
Language Learning, 62, 189–200. DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9922.2012.00712.x
Doughty, C. (1991). Second language instruction does make a difference. Studies in Second Language
Acquisition, 13, 431–469. DOI: 10.1017/S0272263100010287
Doughty, C. The Effect of Instruction on the Acquisition of Relativization in English as a Second Lan-
guage. (January 1, 1988). Dissertations available from ProQuest. Paper AAI8816121. Retrieved
from <http://repository.upenn.edu/dissertations/AAI8816121>
Doughty, C., & Varela, E. (1998). Communicative focus on form. In C. Doughty & J. Williams (Eds.),
Focus on Form in Classroom Second Language Acquisition (pp. 114–138). Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Dulay, H. C., & Burt, M. K. (1973). Should we teach children syntax? Language Learning, 23, 245–258.
DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-1770.1973.tb00659.x
Dulay, H. C., & Burt, M. K. (1974a). Errors and strategies in child second language acquisition. TESOL
Quarterly, 8, 129–136. DOI: 10.2307/3585536
Dulay, H. C., & Burt, M. K. (1974b). Natural sequences in child second language acquisition. Language
Learning, 24, 37–53. DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-1770.1974.tb00234.x
Eckman, F. R. (1977). Markedness and the contrastive analysis hypothesis. Language learning, 27,
315–330. DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-1770.1977.tb00124.x
Eckman, F., Bell, L., & Nelson, D. (1988). On the generalization of relative clause instruction in the ac-
quisition of English as a second language. Applied Linguistics, 9, 1–20. DOI: 10.1093/applin/9.1.1
Ellis, N. C. (2002). Frequency effects in language processing. Studies in Second Language Acquisition,
24, 143–188.
Ellis, N. C. (2008). The dynamics of second language emergence: Cycles of language use, language
change, and language acquisition. The Modern Language Journal, 92, 232–249.
	 DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-4781.2008.00716.x
Ellis, N. C., Simpson-Vlach, R., & Maynard, C. (2008). Formulaic language in native and second lan-
guage speakers: Psycholinguistics, corpus linguistics, and TESOL. Tesol Quarterly, 42, 375–396.
Ellis, R. (1993). The structural syllabus and second language acquisition. Tesol Quarterly, 27, 91–113.
DOI: 10.2307/3586953
Ellis, R. (1998). Teaching and research: Options in grammar teaching. TESOL Quarterly, 32, 39–60.
DOI: 10.2307/3587901
Ellis, R. (2001). Introduction: Investigating form focused instruction. Language Learning, 51(s1),
1–46. DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-1770.2001.tb00013.x
Ellis, R. (2003). Task-based Language Learning and Teaching. Oxford: Oxford University Press
Ellis, R. (Ed.). (2005). Planning and Task Performance in a Second Language. Amsterdam: John
­
Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/lllt.11
Ellis, R. (2006). Current issues in the teaching of grammar: An SLA perspective. TESOL Quarterly,
40, 83–107. DOI: 10.2307/40264512
	References	
233
Ellis, R. (2008). Explicit form-focused instruction and second language acquisition. In B. Spolsky &
F. M. Hult, The Handbook of Educational Linguistics. Malden MA: Blackwell.
Ellis, R., Basturkmen, H., & Loewen, S. (2002). Doing focus-on-form. System, 30, 419–432.
	 DOI: 10.1016/S0346-251X(02)00047-7
Eskildsen, S. W. (2009). Constructing another language – Usage-based linguistics in second language
acquisition. Applied Linguistics, 30(3), 335–357. DOI: 10.1093/applin/amn037
Fahmy, M. M. (2013). The Effect of Dynamic Assessment on Adult Learners of Arabic: A Mixed-Method
Study at the Defense Language Institute Foreign Language Center. Unpublished Doctoral Dis-
sertation, University of San Francisco.
Farrokhi, F. (2007). Teachers’ stated beliefs about corrective feedback in relation to their practices in EFL
classes. Research on Foreign Languages journal of Faculty of Letters and Humanities, 49, 91–131.
Ferris, D. (2011). Treatment of Error in Second Language Student Writing. Ann Arbor, MI: University
of Michigan Press.
Fillmore, C. J. (1992). Corpus linguistics or computer-aided armchair linguistics. In J. Svartvik (Ed.),
Directions in Corpus Linguistics. Proceedings of Nobel Symposium (Vol. 82, pp. 35–60). Berlin:
De Gruyter.
Firth, A., & Wagner, J. (1997). On discourse, communication, and (some) fundamental concepts in
SLA research. The Modern Language Journal, 81, 285–300.
	 DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-4781.1997.tb05480.x
Flowerdew, L. (2012). Corpora in Language Education. New York, NY: Palgrave Macmillan.
Foreign Language Educators of New Jersey. (2013). Thematically Organized Assessment Tasks.
­
Retrieved from <http://flenj.org/CAPS/toas.shtml>
Fotos, S. (1993). Consciousness raising and noticing through focus on form: Grammar task perfor-
mance versus formal instruction. Applied Linguistics, 14, 385–407. DOI: 10.1093/applin/14.4.385
Fotos, S. (1994). Integrating grammar instruction and communicative language use through grammar
consciousness‐raising tasks. TESOL Quarterly, 28(2), 323–351. DOI: 10.2307/3587436
Fotos, S. (2002). Structure-based interactive tasks for the EFL grammar learner. In E. Hinkel &
S. Fotos (Eds.), New Perspectives on Grammar Teaching in Second Language Classrooms (pp.135–
154). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Fotos, S., & Ellis, R. (1991). Communicating about grammar: A task‐based approach. TESOL Quar-
terly, 25(4), 605–628. DOI: 10.2307/3587079
Fotos, S. & Nassaji, H. (Eds.) (2007). Form-Focused Instruction and Teacher Education: Studies in
Honour of Rod Ellis. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Francis, G. (1993). A corpus-driven approach to grammar: Principles, methods and examples. In
M. Baker, G. Francis, & E. Tognini-Bonelli (Eds.), Text and Technology: In Honour of John Sinclair
(pp. 137–156). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Francis, G., & Sinclair, J. (1994). ‘I bet he drinks Carling Black Label’: A riposte to Owen on corpus
grammar. Applied Linguistics, 15(2), 190–202. DOI: 10.1093/applin/15.2.190
Franco, S. (2013). Thematically Organized Assessment: German. In Foreign Language Educators of
New Jersey, Thematically Organized Assessment Tasks. Retrieved from <http://flenj.org/CAPS/
toas.shtml>
Fries, C. (1940a). American English Grammar. New York, NY: Appleton Century Crofts.
Fries, C. (1940b). English Word Lists: A Study of Their Adaptability for Instruction. Washington, DC:
American Council on Education.
Fries, C. (1955). American linguistics and the teaching of English. Language Learning, 6, 1–22.
	 DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-1770.1955.tb00828.x
Fries, P. (2010). Charles C. Fries, linguistics and corpus linguistics. ICAME Journal, 34, 89–119.
234	 Pedagogical Grammar
Gardner, D., & Davies, M. (2007). Pointing out frequent phrasal verbs: A corpus-based analysis.
TESOL Quarterly, 41, 339–359.
Gas, S. (1979). Language transfer and universal grammatical relations. Language Learning, 29, 327–
344. DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-1770.1979.tb01073.x
Gass, S. (1982). From theory to practice. In M. Hines & W. Rutherford (Eds.), On TESOL ’81: Selected
Papers of the Fifteenth Annual Conference of Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages
(pp. 129–139). Washington, DC: TESOL.
Goldschneider, J. M., & DeKeyser, R. M. (2001). Explaining the “natural order of L2 morpheme ac-
quisition” in English: A meta-analysis of multiple determinants. Language Learning, 51, 1–50.
DOI: 10.1111/1467-9922.00147
Goo, J., & Mackey, A. (2013). The case against the case against recasts. Studies in Second Language
Acquisition. 35, 127–165. DOI: 10.1017/S0272263112000708
Granger, S. (2012). How to use foreign and second language learner corpora. In A. Mackey &
S. Gass (Eds.), Research Methods in Second Language Acquisition: A Practical Guide. Oxford:
Wiley-Blackwell.
Granger, S. (Ed.). (2014). Learner English on Computer. New York, NY: Routledge.
Granger, S., Hung, J., & Petch-Tyson, S. (Eds.). (2002). Computer Learner Corpora, Second Language
Acquisition and Foreign Language Teaching. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/lllt.6
Grant, L., & Bauer, L. (2004). Criteria for re-defining idioms: Are we barking up the wrong tree?
Applied Linguistics, 25, 38–61. DOI: 10.1093/applin/25.1.38
Green, A. B., & Weir, C. J. (2004). Can placement tests inform instructional decisions? Language
Testing, 21, 467–494. DOI: 10.1191/0265532204lt293oa
Halliday, M. A. K. (1977). Language as Social Semiotic: The Social Interpretation of Language and
Meaning. Baltimore, MD: University Park Press.
Han, Z. (2002). A study of the impact of recasts on tense consistency in L2 output. TESOL Quarterly,
36(4), 543–72. DOI: 10.2307/3588240
Han, Z. & Tarone, E. (Eds.). (2014). Interlanguage: Forty Years Later. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Harris, T. (2001). Linguistics in applied linguistics: A historical overview. Journal of English Studies,
3(2), 99–114.
Hudson, G. (2000). Essential Introductory Linguistics. Malden, MA: Blackwell.
Hulstijn, J., & Schmidt, R. (Organizers) (March, 2013). Cognitive and Social Approaches in Applied
Linguistics. Colloquium presented at the American Association of Applied Linguistics, Dallas, TX.
Hunston, S. (2002). Corpora in Applied Linguistics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
	 DOI: 10.1017/CBO9781139524773
Hunston, S., & Francis, G. (1998). Verbs observed: A corpus-driven pedagogic grammar. Applied
Linguistics, 19(1), 45–72. DOI: 10.1093/applin/19.1.45
Hymes, D. H. (1972). On communicative competence. In J. B. Pride & J. Holmes (Eds.), Sociolinguistics
(pp. 269–293). New York, NY: Penguin Books.
Iwashita, N. (2003). Negative feedback and positive evidence in task-based interaction. Studies in
Second Language Acquisition, 25, 1–36. DOI: 10.1017/S0272263103000019
Izumi, S. (2003). Comprehension and production processes in second language learning: In search
of the psycholinguistic rationale of the output hypothesis. Applied Linguistics, 24, 168–96.
	 DOI: 10.1093/applin/24.2.168
Izumi, S. (2007). Universals, methodology, and instructional intervention on relative clauses. Studies
in Second Language Acquisition, 29, 351–359. DOI: 10.1017/S0272263107070210
Jenkins, J. (2006). Points of view and blind spots: ELF and SLA. International Journal of Applied
Linguistics, 16, 137–162. DOI: 10.1111/j.1473-4192.2006.00111.x
	References	
235
Johnson, K. E. (2006). The sociocultural turn and its challenges for second language teacher educa-
tion. TESOL Quarterly, 40, 235–257. DOI: 10.2307/40264518
Johnson, J. S., & Newport, E. L. (1989). Critical period effects in second Language: The influence of
maturational state on the acquisition of English as a second language, Cognitive Psychology, 21,
60–99. DOI: 10.1016/0010-0285(89)90003-0
Keck, C. (2013). Corpus Linguistics in Language Teaching. In Chapelle (Ed.), The Encyclopedia of
Applied Linguistics. Blackwell Publishing. DOI: 10.1002/9781405198431.wbeal0256
Keck, C., & Ortega, L. (October, 2013). Deficit views of language learners in applied linguistics
discourse: A corpus-based critical discourse analysis. Paper presented at the Second Language
Research Forum, Provo, UT.
Keck, C., Iberri-Shea, G., Tracy-Ventura, N., & Wa-Mbaleka, S. (2006). Investigating the empirical
link between task-based interaction and acquisition: A quantitative meta-analysis. In J. M. Norris­
& L. Ortega (Eds.), Synthesizing Research on Language Learning and Teaching (pp. 91–131).
Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/lllt.13.08kec
Keenan, E. L., & Comrie, B. (1977). Noun phrase accessibility and universal grammar. Linguistic
inquiry, 8(1), 63–99.
Kennedy, G. (1998). An Introduction to Corpus Linguistics. New York, NY: Longman.
Kim, Y. (2012). Task complexity, learning opportunities and Korean EFL learners’ question develop-
ment. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 34, 627–658. DOI: 10.1017/S0272263112000368
Kim, Y. (2013). Effects of pretask modelling on attention to form and question development. TESOL
Quarterly, 47, 8–35. DOI: 10.1002/tesq.52
Kim, Y., & McDonough, K. (2011). Using pretask modeling to encourage collaborative learning op-
portunities, Language Teaching Research,15(2), 1–17. DOI: 10.1177/1362168810388711
Kim, Y., & Tracy-Ventura, N. (2011). Task complexity, language anxiety and the development of past
tense. In P. Robinson (Ed.), Task Complexity: Researching the Cognition Hypothesis of Language
Learning and Performance (pp. 287–306). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
	 DOI: 10.1075/tblt.2.18ch11
Kramsch, C. (2000). Second language acquisition, applied linguistics and the teaching of foreign
languages. The Modern Language Journal, 84(3), 311–326.
Krashen, S. (1982). Principles and Practice in Second language Acquisition. Oxford: Pergamon. Re-
trieved from <http://www.sdkrashen.com/>
Lantolf, J., & Poehner, M. (2004). Dynamic Assessment in the Language Classroom. (CALPER Pro-
fessional Development Document CPDD-0411). University Park, PA: The Pennsylvania State
University, Center for Advanced Language Proficiency Education and Research.
Lantolf, J., & Thorne, S. (2007). Sociocultural theory and second language learning. In B. VanPatten
& J. Williams (Eds.), Theories in Second Language Acquisition: An Introduction (pp. 197–220).
New York, NY: Routledge.
Larsen-Freeman, D. (1997). Chaos/complexity science and second language acquisition. Applied
Linguistics, 18, 141–165. DOI: 10.1093/applin/18.2.141
Larsen-Freeman, D. (2003). Teaching Language: From Grammar to Grammaring. Boston, MA: Heinle.
Larsen-Freeman, D. (2006). The emergence of complexity, fluency, and accuracy in the oral and writ-
ten production of five Chinese learners of English. Applied Linguistics, 27, 590–619.
	 DOI: 10.1093/applin/aml029
Larsen-Freeman, D., & Long, M. (1991). An Introduction to Second Language Acquisition Research.
London: Longman.
Lewis, M. (1993). The Lexical Approach. Hove, UK: Language Teaching Publications.
236	 Pedagogical Grammar
Li, S. (2010). The effectiveness of corrective feedback in SLA: A meta-analysis. Language Learning,
60, 309–365. DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9922.2010.00561.x
Lightbown, P. M. (2013). Learner readiness. In C. Chapelle (Ed.), The Encyclopedia of Applied Lin-
guistics. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley-Blackwell.
Lightbown, P. 
M., & Spada, N. (2013). How Languages are Learned (4th ed.). Oxford: Oxford
­University Press.
Linn, R. & Gronlund, N. (2000). Measurement and Assessment in Teaching. (8th ed.). London: ­Prentice
Hall.
Liu, D. (2011). The most frequently used English phrasal verbs in American and British English:
A multicorpus examination. TESOL Quarterly, 45, 661–688. DOI: 10.5054/tq.2011.247707
Loewen, S. (2005). Incidental focus on form and second language learning. Studies in Second Lan-
guage Acquisition, 27, 361–386. DOI: 10.1017/S0272263105050163
Loewen, S., & Nabei, T. (2007). Measuring the effects of oral corrective feedback on L2 knowledge.
In A. Mackey (Ed.), Conversational Interaction in Second Language Acquisition: A Collection of
Empirical Studies (pp. 361–377). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Long, M. H. (1980). Input, interaction, and second language acquisition. Unpublished doctoral dis-
sertation. University of California, Los Angeles.
Long, M. H. (1985). Input and second language acquisition theory. In S. M. Gass & C. G. Madden
(Eds.), Input in Second Language Acquisition (pp. 377–393). Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Long, M. H. (1991). Focus on form: A design feature in language teaching methodology. Foreign
Language Research in Cross-cultural Perspective, 2, 39–52. DOI: 10.1075/sibil.2.07lon
Long, M. H. (1996). The role of the linguistic environment in second language acquisition. In W. C.
Ritchie & T. K. Bhatia (Eds.), Handbook of Second Language Acquisition (pp. 413–468). New
York, NY: Academic Press.
Long, M. H. (Ed.) (2005). Second Language Needs Analysis. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Long, M. H. (2007). Problems in SLA. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Long, M. (2015). Second language acquisition and task-based language teaching. Malden, MA: Wiley
Blackwell.
Long, M. & Robinson, P. (1998). Focus on form: Theory, research, and practice. In C. Doughty
& J. Williams (Eds.), Focus on Form in Classroom Second Language Acquisition (pp. 15–41).
­
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Loschky, L. & Bley-Vroman, R. (1993). Grammar and task-based methodology. In G. Crookes &
S. Gass (Eds.), Tasks and Language Learning (pp. 123–167). Clevedon, UK: Multilingual Matters.
Lyster, R. (1998a). Recasts, repetition, and ambiguity in L2 classroom discourse. Studies in Second
Language Discourse, 20, 51–81. DOI: 10.1017/S027226319800103X
Lyster, R. (1998b). Negotiation of form, recasts, and explicit correction in relation to error types and
learner repair in immersion classrooms. Language Learning, 48, 183–218.
	 DOI: 10.1111/1467-9922.00039
Lyster, R., & Ranta, L. (1997). Corrective feedback and learner uptake: Negotiation of form in com-
municative classrooms. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 20, 37–66.
Lyster, R., & Ranta, L. (2013). Counterpoint piece: The case for variety in corrective feedback research.
Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 35, 167–184. DOI: 10.1017/S027226311200071X
Mackey, A. (1999). Input, interaction, and second language development: An empirical study of
question formation in ESL. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 21, 557–587.
	 DOI: 10.1017/S0272263199004027
	References	
237
Mackey, A. (2006). Feedback, noticing and second language development: An empirical study of L2
classroom interaction. Applied Linguistics, 27, 405–430. DOI: 10.1093/applin/ami051
Mackey, A. (2012). Input, interaction and corrective feedback in L2 classrooms. Oxford: Oxford Uni-
versity Press.
Mackey, A., Gass, S., & McDonough, K. (2000). How do learners perceive interactional feedback?
Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 22, 471–497. DOI: 10.1017/S0272263100004022
Mackey, A., & Goo, J. (2007). Interaction research in SLA: A meta-analysis and research synthesis. In
A. Mackey (Ed.), Conversational Interaction in Second Language Acquisition: A Series of Empirical
Studies (pp. 407–453). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Mackey, A., & Philp, J. (1998). Conversational interaction and second language development: Recasts,
responses, and red herrings? The Modern Language Journal, 82, 338–356.
	 DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-4781.1998.tb01211.x
Martinez, R., & Schmitt, N. (2012). A phrasal expressions list. Applied Linguistics, 33, 299–320. DOI:
10.1093/applin/ams010
Matthiessen, Christian M. I. M., & Halliday, M. A. K. (1997). Systemic Functional Grammar: A first
Step into the Theory. Macquarie University. Retrieved from <http://web.uam.es/departamentos/
filoyletras/filoinglesa/Courses/LFC-SFL/FirstStep.html>
McCarthy, M. (2008). Accessing and interpreting corpus information in the teacher education con-
text. Language Teaching, 41, 563–574. DOI: 10.1017/S0261444808005247
McDonough, K. (2005). Identifying the impact of negative feedback and learners’ responses on ESL
question development. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 27, 79–103.
	 DOI: 10.1017/S0272263105050047
McDonough, K., & Mackey, A. (2006). Responses to recasts: Repetitions, primed production, and lin-
guistic development. Language Learning, 56, 693–720. DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9922.2006.00393.x
McDonough, K., & Mackey, A. (2008). Syntactic priming and ESL question development. Studies in
Second Language Acquisition, 30, 31–47 DOI: 10.1017/S0272263108080029
Meunier, F., & Gouverneur, C. (2009). New types of corpora for new educational challenges. In
K. Aijmer (Ed.), Corpora and Language Teaching (pp. 179–201). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
DOI: 10.1075/scl.33.16meu
McLaughlin, B. (1990). Restructuring. Applied linguistics, 11(2), 113–128.
Mindt, D. (1997). Complementary distribution, gradience and overlap in corpora and in ELT: Analys-
ing and teaching the progressive. Language and Computers, 19, 227–238.
Mitchell, R., Myles, F., & Marsden, E. (2013). Second Language Learning Theories. (3rd ed.). New
York, NY: Routledge.
Mochizuki, N., & Ortega, L. (2008). Balancing communication and grammar in beginning-level
foreign language classrooms: A study of guided planning and relativization. Language Teaching
Research, 12, 11–37. DOI: 10.1177/1362168807084492
Muranoi, H. (2000). Focus on form through interaction enhancement: Integrating formal instruction
into a communicative task in EFL classrooms. Language Learning, 50, 617–673.
	 DOI: 10.1111/0023-8333.00142
Nassaji, H. (2009). The effects of recasts and elicitations in dyadic interaction and the role of feedback
explicitness. Language Learning, 59, 411–452. DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9922.2009.00511.x
Nassaji, H., & Fotos, S. (2004). Current developments in research on the teaching of grammar. Annual
Review of Applied Linguistics, 24, 126–145. DOI: 10.1017/S0267190504000066
Nassaji, H., & Fotos, S. (2011). Teaching Grammar in Second Language Classrooms: Integrating Form-
Focused Instruction in Communicative Context. London: Routledge.
238	 Pedagogical Grammar
Nattinger, J. R., & DeCarrico, J. S. (1992). Lexical Phrases and Language Teaching. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Nguyen, X. (2009). Form-Focused Task. Unpublished manuscript submitted for ENG 653, San Fran-
cisco State University.
Nicholas, H., Lightbown, P. M., & Spada, N. (2001). Recasts as feedback to language learners. Lan-
guage Learning, 51, 719–758. DOI: 10.1111/0023-8333.00172
Norris, J. M. (2009). Task-based teaching and testing. In M. Long & C. Doughty (Eds.), Handbook of
Language Teaching (pp. 578–594). Malden, MA: Blackwell. DOI: 10.1002/9781444315783.ch30
Norris, J. M., Brown, J. D., Hudson, T. D., & Bonk, W. (2002). Examinee abilities and task difficulty in
task-based second language performance assessment. Language Testing, 19, 395–418.
	 DOI: 10.1191/0265532202lt237oa
Norris, J. M., & Ortega, L. (2000). Effectiveness of L2 instruction: A research synthesis and quantita-
tive meta-analysis. Language Learning, 50, 417–528. DOI: 10.1111/0023-8333.00136
Odlin, T. (Ed.). (1994). Perspectives on Pedagogical Grammar. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9781139524605
O’Keeffe, A., & Farr, F. (2003). Using language corpora in initial teacher education: Pedagogic issues
and practical applications. TESOL Quarterly, 37, 389–418. DOI: 10.2307/3588397
O’Keeffe, A., McCarthy, M., & Carter, R. (2007). From Corpus to Classroom: Language Use and Lan-
guage Teaching. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511497650
Ohta, A. S. (2000). Rethinking interaction in SLA: Developmentally appropriate assistance in the zone
of proximal development and the acquisition of L2 grammar. In J. P. Lantolf (Ed.), Sociocultural
Theory and Second Language Learning (pp. 51–78). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Ohta, A. S. (2005). Interlanguage pragmatics in the zone of proximal development. System, 33(3),
503–517. DOI: 10.1016/j.system.2005.06.001
Ortega, L. (2003). Doctoral Seminar in SLA: Innovative Research On Pedagogical Grammar. Course
syllabus. Course syllabus for ENG 703, English Department, Northern Arizona University.
Ortega, L. (2009). Understanding Second Language Acquisition. London: Hodder Education.
Ortega, L. (March, 2010). The bilingual turn in SLA. Plenary talk presented at the American Associa-
tion of Applied Linguistics, Atlanta, GA.
Ortega, L. (2013). Ways forward for a bi/multilingual turn for SLA. In S. May (Ed.), The Multilingual
Turn: Implications for SLA, TESOL, and Bilingual Education (pp. 32–52). London: Routledge.
Ozeki, H., & Shirai, Y. (2007). Does the noun phrase accessibility hierarchy predict the difficulty
order in the acquisition of Japanese relative clauses? Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 29,
169–196. DOI: 10.1017/S0272263107070106
Panova, I., & Lyster, R. (2002). Patterns of corrective feedback and uptake in an adult ESL classroom.
TESOL Quarterly, 36, 573–595. DOI: 10.2307/3588241
Pavesi, M. (1986). Markedness, discoursal modes, and relative clause formation in a formal and an
informal context. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 8, 38–55.
	 DOI: 10.1017/S0272263100005829
Philp, J. (2003). Constraints on “noticing the gap”: Nonnative speakers’ noticing of recasts in NS-NNS
interaction. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 25, 99–126.
	 DOI: 10.1017/S0272263103000044
Pica, T. (2005). Classroom learning, teaching, and research: A task-based perspective. Modern Lan-
guage Journal, 89, 339–352. DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-4781.2005.00309.x
Pica, T., Kanagy, R., & Falodun, J. (1993). Choosing and using communication tasks for second lan-
guage instruction and research. In G. Crookes & S. Gass (Eds.), Tasks and Language Learning:
Integrating Theory and Practice (pp. 9–34). Clevedon, UK: Multilingual Matters.
	References	
239
Pienemann, M. (1984). Psychological constraints on the teachability of languages. Studies in Second
Language Acquisition, 6, 186–214. DOI: 10.1017/S0272263100005015
Pienemann, M. (1998). Language Processing and Second Language Development: Processability Theory.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/sibil.15
Pienemann, M. (Ed.). (2005). Cross-linguistic Aspects of Processability Theory. Amsterdam: John
­
Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/sibil.30
Pienemann, M. (2013). Processability theory and teachability. In C. Chapelle (Ed.), Encyclopedia of
Applied Linguistics. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley-Blackwell.
Poehner, M. E. (2005). Dynamic Assessment of Oral Proficiency among Advanced L2 Learners of French.
Unpublished Doctoral dissertation, The Pennsylvania State University.
Poehner, M. E., & Lantolf, J. P. (2005). Dynamic assessment in the language classroom. Language
Teaching Research, 9, 233–265. DOI: 10.1191/1362168805lr166oa
Purpura, J. (2004). Assessing Grammar. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
	 DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511733086
Reppen, R. (2010). Using Corpora in the Language Classroom. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Rivers, W. M. (1981). Teaching Foreign-language Skills. Chicago IL: University of Chicago Press.
Robinson, P. (2001a). Task complexity, cognitive resources, and syllabus design: A triadic framework
for examining task influences on SLA. In P. Robinson (Ed.), Cognition and Second Language
Instruction (pp. 287–318). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
	 DOI: 10.1017/CBO9781139524780.012
Robinson, P. (2001b). Task complexity, task difficulty, and task production: Exploring interactions
in a componential framework. Applied Linguistics, 22(1), 27–57. DOI: 10.1093/applin/22.1.27
Robinson, P. (2003). The cognition hypothesis, task design, and adult task-based language learning.
Second Language Studies, 21(2), 45–105.
Robinson, P. (2005). Cognitive complexity and task sequencing: Studies in a componential framework
for second language task design. International Review of Applied Linguistics in Language Teach-
ing, 43, 1–32. DOI: 10.1515/iral.2005.43.1.1
Robinson, P. (2007a). Criteria for classifying and sequencing pedagogic tasks. In M. 
Del Pilar
­
García Mayo (Ed.), Investigating Tasks in Formal Language Learning (pp. 7–26). Clevedon, UK:
­Multilingual Matters.
Robinson, P. (2007b). Task complexity, theory of mind, and intentional reasoning: Effects on L2
speech production, interaction, uptake and perceptions of task difficulty. International Review
of Applied Linguistics in Language Teaching, 45, 193–213.
Robinson, P. (2011a). Task‐based language learning: A review of issues. Language Learning, 61, 1–36.
DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9922.2011.00641.x
Robinson, P. (2011b). Second language task complexity, the cognition hypothesis, language learn-
ing, and performance. In P. Robinson (Ed.), Second Language Task Complexity: Researching
the Cognition Hypothesis of Language Learning and Performance (pp. 3–38). Amsterdam: John
Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/tblt.2.05ch1
Robinson, P., & Ellis, N. C. (2008). An introduction to cognitive linguistics, second language ac-
quisition, and language instruction. In P. Robinson & N. C. Ellis (Eds.), Handbook of Cognitive
Linguistics and Second Language Acquisition (pp. 2–24). New York, NY: Routledge.
Robinson, P., & Gilabert, R. (2007). Task complexity, the cognition hypothesis and second language
learning and performance. International Review of Applied Linguistics, 45, 161–176.
Römer, U. (2005). Progressives, Patterns, Pedagogy: A Corpus-driven Approach to English Progressive
Forms, Functions, Contexts and Didactics. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/scl.18
240	 Pedagogical Grammar
Römer, U. (2011). Corpus research applications in second language teaching. Annual Review of Ap-
plied Linguistics, 31, 205–225. DOI: 10.1017/S0267190511000055
Russell, J., & Spada, N. (2006). The effectiveness of corrective feedback for the acquisition of L2 gram-
mar: A meta-analysis of the research. In J. Norris, & L. Ortega (Eds.), Synthesizing Research on
Language Learning and Teaching (pp. 133–164). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Salaberry, M. R. (2000). Pedagogical design of computer mediated communication tasks: Learning
objectives and technological capabilities. The Modern Language Journal, 84, 28–37.
	 DOI: 10.1111/0026-7902.00050
Samuda, V. (2001). Guiding relationships between form and meaning during task performance. In
M. Bygate, P. Skehan, & M. Swain (Eds.), Researching Pedagogic Tasks: Second Language Learning,
Teaching, and Testing. New York, NY: Pearson Longman.
Savignon, S. J. (1972). Communicative Competence: An Experiment in Foreign-language Teaching.
Philadelphia, PA: Center for Curriculum Development.
Sauro, S. (2009). Computer-mediated corrective feedback and the development of L2 grammar. Lan-
guage Learning & Technology, 13, 96–120.
Saxton, M. (2010). Child Language: Acquisition and Development. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
Schmidt, R. (1983). Interaction, acculturation and the acquisition of communicative competence. In
N. Wolfson & E. Judd (Eds.), Sociolinguistics and Language Acquisition (pp. 137–174). Rowley,
MA: Newbury House.
Schmidt, R. (1995). Consciousness and foreign language learning: A tutorial on attention and aware-
ness in learning. In R. Schmidt (Ed.), Attention and Awareness in Foreign Language Learning
(pp. 1–63). Honolulu, HI: University of Hawai`i, National Foreign Language Resource Center.
Schmidt, R. W. (1990). The role of consciousness in second language learning. Applied linguistics, 11,
129–158. DOI: 10.1093/applin/11.2.129
Schmidt, R., & Frota, S. (1986). Developing basic conversational ability in a second language: A case
study of an adult learner of Portuguese. In R. R. Day (Ed.), Talking to Learn: Conversation in
Second Language Acquisition (pp. 237–326). Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Searle, J. (June, 29, 1972). Chomsky’s revolution in linguistics. The New York Times. Retrieved
from: <http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/1972/jun/29/a-special-supplement-
chomskys-revolution-in-lingui/>
Seidlhofer, B. (2001). Closing a conceptual gap: The case for a description of English as a lingua
franca. International Journal of Applied Linguistics, 1, 133–158. DOI: 10.1111/1473-4192.00011
Selinker, L. (1972). Interlanguage. International Review of Applied Linguistics in Language Teaching,
10, 209–231. DOI: 10.1515/iral.1972.10.1-4.209
Sheen, Y. (2004). Corrective feedback and learner uptake in communicative classrooms across in-
structional settings. Language Teaching Research, 8, 263–300. DOI: 10.1191/1362168804lr146oa
Sheen, Y. (2008). Recasts, language anxiety, modified output and L2 learning. Language Learning,
58, 835–874.
Shohamy, E., & Inbar, O. (2006). Assessment of Advanced Language Proficiency: Why Performance-
Based Tasks? (CALPER Professional Development Document 0605). University Park, PA: The
Pennsylvania State University, CALPER.
Shuck, G. (2006). Racializing the nonnative English speaker. Journal of Language, Identity, & Educa-
tion, 5, 259–276. DOI: 10.1207/s15327701jlie0504_1
Simpson, R., & Mendis, D. (2003). A corpus-based study of idioms in academic speech. TESOL
Quarterly, 37, 419–441. DOI: 10.2307/3588398
	References	
241
Sinclair, J. M. (Ed.). (1987). Looking Up: An Account of the COBUILD Project in Lexical Computing.
London: Collins.
Sinclair, J. M. (1991). Corpus, Concordance, Collocation. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Sinclair, J. M. (Ed.). (2004). How to Use Corpora in Language Teaching. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
DOI: 10.1075/scl.12
Skehan, P. (1998). A Cognitive Approach to Language Learning. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Skehan, P., & Foster, P. (2001). Cognition and tasks. In P. Robinson (Ed.), Cognition and Second
Language Instruction (pp. 183–205). Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
	 DOI: 10.1017/CBO9781139524780.009
Skehan, P. (2003). Task-based instruction. Language Teaching, 36, 1–14.
	 DOI: 10.1017/S026144480200188X
Skehan, P., & Foster, P. (1999). The influence of task structure and processing conditions on narrative
retellings. Language Learning, 49, 93–120. DOI: 10.1111/1467-9922.00071
Spada, N. (1997). Second language classroom research: Some answers…. more questions. TESL On-
tario Newsletter, Fall, 1997.
Spada, N., & Lightbown, P. M. (2008). Form focused instruction: Isolated or integrated? TESOL
Quarterly, 42, 181–207.
Swain, M. (1985). Communicative competence: Some roles of comprehensible input and comprehen-
sible output in its development. Input in Second Language Acquisition, 15, 165–179.
Swain, M. (2000). The output hypothesis and beyond: Mediating acquisition through collaborative
dialogue. In J. P. Lantolf (Ed.), Sociocultural Theory and Second Language Learning (pp. 97–114).
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Swain, M., & Lapkin, S. (1989). Canadian immersion and adult second language teaching: What’s the
connection? The Modern Language Journal, 73, 150–159.
	 DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-4781.1989.tb02537.x
Swain, M., & Lapkin, S. (1998). Interaction and second language learning: Two adolescent French
immersion students working together. The Modern Language Journal, 82, 320–337.
	 DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-4781.1998.tb01209.x
Swain, M., & Lapkin, S. (2001). Focus on form through collaborative dialogue: Exploring task ef-
fects. In M. Bygate, P. Skehan & M. Swain (Eds.), Researching Pedagogic Tasks: Second Language
Learning, Teaching and Testing. Harlow, UK: Longman.
Tarone, E. (1979). Interlanguage as chameleon, Language Learning, 29, 181–191.
	 DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-1770.1979.tb01058.x
Tarone, E. (1985). Variability in interlanguage use: A study of style-shifting in morphology and syntax.
Language Learning, 35, 373–403. DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-1770.1985.tb01083.x
Tarone, E., & Bigelow, M. (2005). Impact of literacy on oral language processing: Implications for
second language acquisition research. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 25, 77–97.
	 DOI: 10.1017/S0267190505000048
Tarone, E., & Bigelow, M. (2007). Alphabetic print literacy and processing of oral corrective feedback
in L2 interaction. In A. Mackey (Ed.), Conversational Interaction in Second Language Acquisition:
A Series of Empirical Studies (pp. 101–121). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Tarone, E., Bigelow, M. & Hansen, K. (2009). Literacy and Second Language Oracy. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Tarone, E., & Parrish, B. (1988). Task-related variation in interlanguage: The case of articles. Language
Learning, 35, 373–403. DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-1770.1985.tb01083.x
242	 Pedagogical Grammar
Taylor, L. K., Bernhard, J. K., Garg, S., & Cummins, J. (2008). Affirming plural belonging: Building on
students’ family-based cultural and linguistic capital through multiliteracies pedagogy. Journal
of Early Childhood Literacy, 8, 269–294. DOI: 10.1177/1468798408096481
Tomasello, M., (2009). Constructing a Language: A Usage-based Theory of Language Acquisition.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Tyler, A. (2010). Usage-based approaches to language and their applications to second language
learning. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 30, 270–291. DOI: 10.1017/S0267190510000140
Van Ek, J. A. (1976). Significance of the threshold level in the early teaching of modern languages.
Bulletin of the Council of Europe. <http://www.eric.ed.gov/contentdelivery/servlet/ERICServle
t?accno=ED131700>
Vatz, K., Tare, M., Jackson, S. R., & Doughty, C. I. (2013). Aptitude-treatment interaction studies
in second language acquisition. In G. Granena, & M. Long (Eds.), Sensitive Periods, Language
Aptitude, and Ultimate L2 Attainment (pp. 273–291). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
	 DOI: 10.1075/lllt.35.11vat
Vygotsky, L. S. (1978). Mind in Society: The Development of Higher Psychological Processes. Cambridge,
MA: Harvard University Press.
Wang, W. (2003). How is pedagogical grammar defined in current TESOL training practice? TESL
Canada Journal, 21, 64–78.
West, M., & West, M. P. (Eds.). (1953). A General Service List of English Words: With Semantic Frequen-
cies and a Supplementary Word-list for the Writing of Popular Science and Technology. London:
Addison-Wesley Longman.
White, L. (1989). Universal Grammar and Second Language Acquisition. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
DOI: 10.1075/lald.1
White, L. (2003). Second Language Acquisition and Universal Grammar. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511815065
Whong, M., Gil, K. H., & Marsden, H. (Eds.). (2013). Universal Grammar and the Second Language
Classroom. Dordrecht: Springer. DOI: 10.1007/978-94-007-6362-3
Wilkins, D. A. (1976). Notional Syllabuses. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Wray, A. (1998). Protolanguage as a holistic system for social interaction. Language & Communication
18, 47–67. DOI: 10.1016/S0271-5309(97)00033-5
Wray, A., & Perkins, M. R. (2000). The functions of formulaic language: An integrated model. Lan-
guage & Communication, 20, 1–28. DOI: 10.1016/S0271-5309(99)00015-4
Wulff, S., Ellis, N. C., Römer, U., Bardovi-Harlig, K., & Leblanc, C. J. (2009). The acquisition of tense–
aspect: Converging evidence from corpora and telicity ratings. The Modern Language Journal,
93, 354–369. DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-4781.2009.00895.x
Yoshimi, D. R. (2001). Explicit instruction and JFL learners’ use of interactional discourse markers.
In K. R. Rose & G. Kasper (Eds.), Pragmatics in Language Teaching (pp. 223–244). Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9781139524797.016
Yule, G. (2006). Explaining English Grammar. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Zobl, H. (1983). Markedness and the projection problem. Language Learning, 33, 293–313.
	 DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-1770.1983.tb00543.x
Index
A
accuracy  23–26, 47–48, 69,
105, 127–128, 135, 137–140, 146,
157–158, 165–166, 168–169,
172–173, 179, 197, 215–216
ACTFL  217–218, 222
applied linguistics  ix, 1, 4, 6–8,
14, 16–17, 22, 28, 31, 39, 49–50,
66, 86, 142–144, 173
appropriateness  42, 48, 200
aptitude  138, 191, 227
articles  39, 81–83, 91, 126, 142,
157, 179–181
assessment  5, 139–140, 197–198,
200, 202–210, 212–223, 225
diagnostic 205–206
dynamic  5, 197, 215–216,
220–221
task  206–210, 213, 215, 218,
221
task-based performance 
197, 210, 212, 214–217,
220–221
attention  5, 7, 14, 20, 23–24,
26–31, 37, 40, 54, 58, 61, 63,
65–66, 74, 79, 85, 95, 106, 121,
124, 128, 132, 137–138, 146,
148–149, 151–154, 162–163,
165–166, 168–169, 172–173, 178,
180, 183, 185, 188–189, 191, 193,
197, 215, 217, 225, 227
Audiolingual method  8–14, 18,
121, 145
authenticity  207, 210, 221, 223
automatic processing 
146, 163–164
B
British National Corpus  60, 62,
88, 100, 103
C
child language acquisition  9, 11,
18, 30, 35, 125
classroom instruction  9, 14,
121, 135
classroom materials  5, 106, 223
cognition hypothesis  166, 168,
193
cognitive demands  146
collaboration  5, 64, 141, 146,
155–156, 158, 161–163, 169, 174,
178, 183, 188, 194, 197, 216, 225,
227
collaborative tasks  147, 156,
161–162, 168, 183, 189
Collins COBUILD  44, 54, 96,
119
collocation  48–49, 51–52, 54–55,
57, 65–66, 76–77, 83–84, 88, 91,
97, 100–101, 104–105, 225
communication tasks  5, 15, 17,
23, 28, 141, 147–152, 155, 163,
165, 168, 171–173, 180–181, 183,
207–208, 214, 225
see also tasks
communicative competence 
13–18, 20, 22–23, 27, 30–31, 34,
37, 40, 46, 149, 197–198, 203, 210
communicative language teaching
14, 22–23, 37, 146–147
comprehensible input  18, 20–21,
24–26, 30, 64, 145, 161, 225
concordance lines  52–53, 55, 90,
92–94, 101, 106–107, 110–112, 115
controlled processing  163–165
corpus linguistics  5, 40–41,
46–50, 63, 67, 74, 87–88, 119
Corpus of Contemporary
American English  41, 62,
88, 119
corpus-based  6, 42–43, 44,
45–49, 51, 61, 65, 74, 76, 83,
87–88, 95–97, 102, 115, 118–119
grammars  44, 51, 74, 88
research  42–43, 45–49, 61, 76
resources  49, 65, 83, 87–88,
96–97, 102, 115, 118–119
tools  6, 95–97
corpus-informed  47, 73–74, 76,
88, 119
corrective feedback  147–148,
150–155, 168–169, 174, 178, 194,
225, 227
	 see also feedback
D
data-driven learning  85, 106–107,
227
deficit 142–144
developmental readiness  133, 180
developmental sequences  18, 30,
127, 132, 144
diagnostic assessment  205–206
dictionaries  40, 42, 51, 54, 95–97,
100, 103, 119
dictogloss 183–184
discourse  16, 27–28, 38–39, 46–47,
56, 58–62, 65–67, 72–73, 76, 78,
80–82, 84–85, 88, 138, 142–143,
183, 198–199, 203, 205, 212, 221
dynamic assessment  5, 197,
215–216, 220–221
dynamic complex system  141
E
electronic corpora  41–42, 51
emergence  64, 126, 128
errors  2, 24, 100, 107, 122–123,
125–127, 137, 143, 149–152,
155–156, 171, 180–181
244	 Pedagogical Grammar
explicit grammar instruction 
6, 19–21, 30, 147, 168
F
feedback  ix, 9, 24–26, 100, 138,
145–158, 161–164, 168–169,
171–174, 178, 180–181, 183,
185–186, 194, 202, 216, 218, 221,
225, 227
see also corrective feedback
form-focused  155, 178, 186
implicit  154, 156, 180–181
incidental 155
planned  25, 147, 155, 168, 174,
180, 183
first language acquisition  12, 14,
19, 30, 63
fluency  9, 56, 139, 146, 149, 165,
168, 173–174
focus on form  28–31, 79, 147–
149, 155, 168, 173, 178, 181, 183,
187, 190, 194
focus on formS  28–30, 146–149,
168
form-focused instruction 
147–149, 168, 181, 195
formulaic sequences  51, 55–57,
59–60, 63, 65–66, 225
frequency  5, 42–48, 50–52,
58–65, 67, 72–74, 76–78, 83–85,
88–89, 91–93, 98, 100, 103, 106,
112, 114–115, 126–127, 129, 135,
142, 144
G
genre 212–213
graduated assistance  160, 163,
169, 220–221, 225
grammar explanation  72–73,
76, 160
grammar lessons  2, 20, 23,
28–30, 49, 87–89, 105–106, 140,
146, 148, 160
grammar materials  3, 61, 67–69,
72–74, 76, 85, 180
grammar rules  7–8, 10, 19, 57,
141, 149, 158, 160, 181, 227
grammar textbooks  45, 48–49,
61, 67–68, 74, 76, 85–86, 95, 141
Grammar Translation  8, 18
grammar-focused task  174, 182,
188, 194
grammatical ability  5, 197–198,
202–204, 210, 212, 220–221
grammatical accuracy  23–24, 26,
138, 140, 157–158, 179, 197
grammatical competence  12–16,
18, 22–27, 30, 33, 37, 146, 152, 197
grammatical knowledge  12–14,
198–200, 202–203, 209, 221
grammatical morphemes  27, 49,
125, 127, 144, 165, 198
grammatical syllabus  20
grammaticality judgment  33–34,
43, 137
grammatically tagged  43–44, 110
I
idioms  10, 55, 57, 59–62, 66, 112
immersion  22–26, 30, 154, 161
information gap  150–152, 156,
162, 166–167, 169, 175, 179, 181,
184, 191
input  6, 9, 11, 18–28, 30, 46,
63–65, 106–107, 123, 129–130,
132, 138–139, 144–145, 158, 161,
164–169, 171–172, 178, 191–192,
208, 212, 225
input processing  164, 168
interaction  12–13, 17–22, 26–30,
35, 56, 63–64, 121, 138–139, 141,
145–146, 148, 150–152, 154–156,
158, 162, 168–169, 171, 175, 178,
180–181, 183, 187, 194, 200, 208,
212, 214, 225, 227
interaction hypothesis  21–22, 30,
145, 150
interactionist  5, 145–146, 172,
174–175, 182, 194, 215–216, 225
interlanguage  105, 123–125, 127,
134, 137–141, 144, 161, 166
J
Just the Word  97, 100–103, 105
L
language ability  15, 27, 34, 197,
199, 203, 210, 215–217, 221
language competence  10, 12–14,
16, 33–34, 37, 40, 48
language performance  12, 40,
166, 203, 221
languaging  161, 183
learner corpora  6, 41, 227
lesson planning  67–68, 87
lexical bundles  57–62, 66
lexicogrammar 225
lexis  5, 28, 44, 51–52, 54, 57, 65–67,
97, 105, 128, 183, 199, 203, 212, 225
Longman Dictionary of
Contemporary English 
97–99, 119
Longman Grammar of Spoken and
Written English  44, 54, 93
M
materials development  5, 86,
180, 197, 225, 227
meaning-focused communication
29, 149, 225
meta-analysis  151, 166
metalanguage  73, 203
Michigan Corpus of Academic
Spoken English  120
Michigan Corpus of Upper-
Division Student Papers  114
modal auxiliaries  185, 187
Monitor Model  18, 21, 145
monolingual bias  142–143
morpheme  19, 27, 60, 125–128, 130
morphemeacquisition  19,126–127
morphology  16, 29, 33–34, 37, 43,
49, 124, 130, 183, 191, 193, 199
multilingual  120, 142–144, 175
corpora 120
multiword expressions  55, 60,
62, 65
N
needs analysis  172, 206, 210, 212
negative feedback  9, 146, 154
negotiation of meaning  30, 158,
163, 172, 174, 194, 217
noticing  24, 26–30, 106, 145–146,
152, 154, 163, 171–172, 174, 178
noticing hypothesis  27, 172
O
obligatory contexts  150, 155,
178–179, 181, 190, 207, 210
	Index	
245
online corpora  5, 41, 87–88, 93,
95–96, 118, 223
orders of acquisition  126–127,
131, 137, 144
output hypothesis  24–25, 161
P
passive voice  72, 209
phonology  16, 28, 37, 124, 199
phrasal expressions  57, 60–61, 66
phrasal verbs  57, 61–62, 66, 112
phraseology  49, 51–52, 54–55, 57,
63, 65–66, 76–78, 83–85, 88, 97,
104–105, 225
placement  200, 202, 216
planning time  165–166, 169, 180,
188–190
practice  4, 6–8, 10, 14, 18, 20,
28, 31, 47–50, 72, 78–85, 100,
145–147, 149, 153, 164, 168, 174,
203–204, 222
pragmatic competence  210
pragmatic knowledge  197–202,
212
pragmatic meaning  199
pragmatics  37, 198, 200
prescriptive 9
Presentation, Practice, Production
approaches  8, 85, 187
processing instruction  164, 168
proficiency  8, 69, 107, 162, 167,
191, 217–218, 220, 222
pushed output  24, 30, 183
Q
question formation  128, 132–134,
167, 180
R
recasts  142, 148, 152–155, 178,
180–181
register  35–39, 41–43, 46–49, 67,
74, 77–78, 83–85, 88, 92–94,
105, 137–138
variation  47–48, 67, 77–78,
84–85, 88, 105
relative clauses  128, 134–137, 190
rubric  204, 218–219, 221
rules  7–10, 12–13, 16, 19, 27, 29,
33–36, 38, 43, 47, 57, 123–124,
141, 149, 158, 160, 164, 181–182,
204, 225, 227
S
salience  127, 144, 187
scaffolding  156, 187
semantic complexity  127, 130, 144
semantic prosody  52
sociocultural  146, 156, 169,
173–174, 215
approaches  156, 173, 215
theory  156, 169
spot-the-difference  150, 154,
175–176, 178
suppliance 125
syntax  16, 29, 33–34, 37, 43, 49,
54, 59, 89–90, 124, 126, 133, 162,
183, 199, 203
systematicity  125, 137
systemic-functional linguistics
34–36, 49
T
target language  2, 6–7, 15,
17, 19–20, 23–24, 27, 65, 95,
105–106, 123–125, 138, 140–142,
144, 146, 161, 164, 169, 181, 188,
204–210, 212, 214, 221, 225
target language use domain 
204, 206, 208–209
task  5, 21, 27, 29, 33–34, 39, 55, 74,
112–114, 137–138, 141–142, 146–
151, 153–156, 158, 161–169, 171–185,
187–195, 197, 203, 205–210,
212–218, 220–221, 223, 225, 227
assessment  206–210, 213, 215,
218, 221
complexity  165–166, 168,
173–174, 189, 191, 194
design  5, 151, 168–169, 173–
175, 178, 180–185, 187, 189,
191, 194, 207, 223, 225, 227
difficulty 191
jigsaw  150, 175–177, 184
modeling  188–189, 194–195
planning  173–174, 180,
188–190, 194
TLU 205–210
task-based interaction  150, 154,
156, 162, 169
task-based language teaching
171, 195, 207, 215
task-based performance
assessment  197, 210, 212,
214–217, 220–221
task-essentialness 150–151,
168–169, 174, 178, 180, 194, 209
tasks  ix, 5, 7, 15, 17, 22–23, 25,
28, 30, 33–34, 43, 54, 65, 68, 82,
88, 105–106, 112, 118–119, 133,
138, 141–142, 147–152, 155–156,
161–169, 171–176, 178, 180–181,
183, 185, 188–189, 191–194, 197,
200, 202, 204–212, 214, 216–218,
221–223, 225, 227
Teachability Hypothesis  132–133,
135
tense and aspect  62, 68, 72,
128–133, 144, 165, 205–206
test  33, 106–107, 132, 138, 141, 155,
162, 179, 198, 200, 202–204,
206–210, 215–217, 220, 225
textbooks  17, 33, 45–46, 48–49, 58,
60–62, 65, 67–68, 73–74, 76–77,
81, 84–86, 88, 95, 103, 115–116, 141
Three Dimensions  37–39, 49,
70, 198
TLU domain  205–207, 209
TLU task  205–210
U
U-shaped curve of development
127–128, 137
Universal Grammar  11–12, 14, 125
uptake 154–155
V
variability  124, 137
verbs  10, 26, 43–45, 54–55, 57,
61–62, 64, 66, 68, 70, 72, 74,
76–77, 79–80, 84, 88–89, 92–94,
101, 112, 127, 129–130, 133, 142,
157, 181–182, 191, 193, 209
W
writing  10, 26, 36, 39, 41, 47, 56,
58–59, 76, 79, 81–82, 84, 94, 97,
100, 107, 114–115, 141, 157, 161,
174–175, 183–185, 187, 209–210,
217, 225, 227
