Perception as Inference  17
view that discussing what data are and their relation to hypothesis should be
relegated to metaphysics. The second part deals with the contents of James’s
book. Peirce focuses on a section of the book that he must have regarded
as containing the heart of the matter: the brief section in Chapter 19 where
James discusses the view according to which perception is an unconscious
inference. The interpretation of the perceptual process as a form of inference
was a fundamental thesis in the psycho-physiology of Helmholtz and his
school, whose work was well known to both James and Peirce.
James’s aim was to prove that perception and inference are forms of asso-
ciation of ideas that differ from each other in important respects (WWJ
9:755–756). Now, if perception is defined as a kind of reasoning in a broad
sense, it could be a form of inference, but no step of the process would be
unconscious since the object and our perception of the object are “above
board,” unconcealed to the perceiving mind. But the authors criticized by
James hold that perception is a form of inference in the proper sense in
which the middle term is unconscious. As we have seen, only two elements
are required in perceiving according to James, namely, the sensation and
the object associated to it. An intermediary unconscious step would be an
ungrounded assumption; both the sensation or present sign and the thing
it suggests in virtue of the association are contiguous to each other. If the
intermediate step involved a recall of past sensations, the image from the
past would be connected to the sensation in terms of their similarity. But
association by contiguity does not require a previous association by similar-
ity. Moreover, contiguity is the most elementary form of association because
it can be grounded in neural pathways.
Peirce, on the other hand, holds that James’s argument is circular or
self-refuting. In the first place, James must provide a correct elucidation of
unconscious inference, but in order to do so it is necessary to make explicit
the features characterizing inference more generally. To be precise, what
distinguishes this latter is its reference to a class of arguments. In this way,
association of ideas and any other form of producing cognitive beliefs may
be seen as having the form of hypothetical inference, where the first premise
is in the mind as a habit and the conclusion is equivalent to a judgment of
the form “S is of the kind M.” The advantage of assimilating the associa-
tive process to an inference lies in its intelligibility, but, according to Peirce,
James is opposed to the logical approach. For example, here is James in the
Principles (as quoted by Peirce) describing inference as a form of associa-
tion in which something present to the mind suggests something else that
is not present to the mind, namely, the conclusion: “If, every time a present
sign suggests an absent reality to our mind, we make an inference; and if
every time we make an inference, we reason; then perception is indubitably
reasoning” (W 8:236, quoted from WWJ 9:755).11
In contrast, Peirce main-
tains that perception is more akin to inference than to mere association since
perception has two characteristics that are similar to inference but cannot
be found in association, namely: (i) perception subsumes something under
18  Evelyn Vargas
a general class, that is, it is a virtual judgment and (ii) perception implies
assent.
James’s omission of these fundamental features of perception should not
lead us to neglect the fact that in perception, according to James, a present
sign suggests something that is not present, and, in this regard, perception
can be qualified as an inference in a broad sense. But, James adds, there is no
reason to think that inference in this sense cannot be conscious: “Only one
sees no room in it for any unconscious part. Both associates, the present sign
and the contiguous things that it suggests, are above board, and no interme-
diary ideas are required” (W 8:236, quoted from WWJ 9:755). According to
James, in association, and, therefore, in perception, both the sign and what
is suggested by the sign are present to the conscious mind and no interme-
diaries between them are required. For Peirce, James’s account is wrong for
two reasons: The unconscious part of the process is not the middle term of a
syllogistic reasoning but, rather, the belief that the proposition is accepted as
a conclusion based on a type of inference, that is, the thought that it will be
valid in similar cases. Thus, association may be regarded as a modus ponens
whose first premise is a conditional proposition expressing the association
(so “A suggests B” can be rewritten as “If A, then B”) and is in the mind as
a habit. Moreover, according to Peirce, those who hold that perception is a
kind of unconscious inference do not assume that it is a mediated inference
in which we are not aware of the middle term.
James ascribes this syllogistic doctrine to the German writers.12
But hav-
ing accused them of unnecessarily smuggling an unconscious middle term
into their model of perception, his rejection of the theory goes further: James
goes on to suggest that their argument involves an infinite regress, since the
first premise is a perception, and therefore an inference whose first premise
is also a perception:
When the sensation which I have called ‘this’ is felt, they think that
some process like the following runs through the mind:
‘This’ is M;
but M is A;
therefore ‘this’ is A. . . .
The classification of ‘this’ as M is itself an act of perception, and
should, if all perception were inference, require a still earlier syllogism
for its performance, and so backwards ad infinitum.
(quoted at W 8:237–238, quoted from WWJ 9:755–756)
Peirce replies that this apparent difficulty is actually an advantage: While no
one has heretofore regarded sensation as an inference, doing so is a necessary
assumption in order to generate the regress. The advantage of this approach
is that perception may, in fact, involve infinite intellectual processes in a
Perception as Inference  19
finite interval. So, if James had actually been able to prove that perception
involves a regressus, he would have refuted himself since he would have
drawn a new consequence from the theory that all perception is inference.
In sum, Peirce argues against James’s view that perception as a form of
inference may be rejected. James had assumed that perception is a simple case
of the association of ideas in which the perceiver is aware of the sensation and
the sensible object or quality associated with it. On this view, no implicit habit
concerning the inferential form is involved. In contrast, Peirce emphasizes that
both perception and reasoning subsume something under a general class. It is
time to see the nature of the judgments involved in each case.
Perception as Inference
As we know, Peirce conceived of perception as some kind of inference; for
him, perception is an extreme case of abductive inference since it involves
an interpretive hypothesis concerning the perceived object.13
In his review of
the Principles of Psychology, not only does Peirce criticize James’s interpre-
tation of the German psycho-physiology of perception, he also makes some
remarks that may reflect his own view of the problem.
Peirce recognizes that perception may be regarded as a kind of inference
only in a broad sense. In an inference in the strict sense, a belief is accepted
in a controlled and reflective way. When a conclusion is drawn, it involves
the thought that every inference of the same form will be valid; otherwise,
the conclusion would be merely an idea suggested to the mind.14
He writes,
a person who draws a rational conclusion not only thinks it to be true, but
thinks that similar reasoning would be just in every analogous case. If he
fails to think this, the inference is not to be called reasoning. It is merely
an idea suggested to his mind and which he cannot resist thinking is true.
(EP 2:249)
Logical correctness refers to the property of preserving the truth that dis-
tinguishes reasoning from other combinations of beliefs, and this relation
between the premises and the conclusion is to be observed in the icon that
represents it. So, the element of observation that is involved in reasoning is
not simply a convenient device to facilitate reasoning but a constitutive part
of it: “Reasoning consists in the observation that where certain relations
subsist certain others are found, and it accordingly requires the exhibition of
the relations reasoned within an icon” (CP 3.363). The ground of reasoning
is a “complete analogy” between the subject matter of the reasoning and the
icon; that is, the relations between the parts of the object are represented in
the icon or diagram:
all deductive reasoning, even simple syllogism, involves an element
of observation; namely, deduction consists in constructing an icon or
20  Evelyn Vargas
diagram the relations of whose parts shall present a complete analogy
with those of the parts of the object of reasoning, of experimenting
upon this image in the imagination, and of observing the result so as to
discover unnoticed and hidden relations among the parts.
For instance, take the syllogistic formula,
All M is P
S is M
.·. S is P.
This is really a diagram of the relations of S, M, and P. The fact that
the middle term occurs in the two premisses is actually exhibited, and
this must be done or the notation will be of no value.
(CP 3.363)
What is important to notice for our present purpose is that, when choos-
ing a diagram representing certain relations, other relations are also deter-
mined, and these relations will also be found in the object. It is in this sense
that the analogy is complete. The structural relations between the parts of
a reasoning constitute an inferential pattern or norm; so, the prescriptive
force is actually represented. Its diagrammatic representation portrays the
relation between the premises and exhibits the conclusion. This dependence
that is observed in the diagram is of a general nature since it applies to all
the similar cases:
Hence the mind is not only led from believing the premises to judge the
conclusion true, but it further attaches to this judgment another that
every proposition like the premise, that is having an icon like it, would
involve, and compel acceptance, of a proposition related to it as the
conclusion then drawn is related to that premise. [This is the third step
of inference.] Thus we see, what is most important, that every infer-
ence is thought, at the time of drawing it, as one of a possible class of
inferences. In the case of a rational inference, we see, in an icon which
represents the dependence of the icon of the conclusion upon the icon
of the premise, about what that class of inference is, although, as the
outlines of icons are always more or less vague, there is always more or
less of vagueness in our conception of that class of inferences.
(EP 2:24)
Judging that an inference is correct implies the acknowledgment that it is
possible to extend its use to new cases. But the rule guiding the inference is
conceived with some degree of vagueness; it can be progressively determined
in the future. For Peirce, then, similarity is not an arbitrary association,
since the icon, the element of observation, constrains the relations to be
found and represents the prescriptive force.
Perception as Inference  21
In perception, the accompanying thought that is characteristic of infer-
ences is missing, so it is not an inference properly speaking. But the similari-
ties between the two processes are equally important in order to understand
their cognitive role. Among them, Peirce points out that two features of
inferences in a broad sense can be found in perception. First, perceptual
processes involve judicative content, since something is subsumed under a
general kind; second, the perceiver assents to this content.
In principle, it is necessary to distinguish between the sensory image,
which Peirce prefers to call the “percept” in order to prevent us from assign-
ing it a representative function, and the perceptual judgment. The percept
is not under rational control but it is imposed on the perceiver without
representing anything (see CP 7.619). Ordinarily, the perceptual judgment
representing the percept is also called “perception.” However, the percep-
tual judgment does not represent the percept in a logical sense but as an
index (CP 7.628), for example, “this is blue,” where blue is a general term.
And insofar as the judgment represents something, it involves an element
of Thirdness or mediation. Now, what distinguishes a perception from a
hallucination is its connection to other perceptions, since it is assumed that
predictions based on the perception will not be refuted (for example, the pre-
diction that another perceiver will see that this is blue as well). In this sense,
a perceptual judgment is interpretive and may be regarded as an abductive
judgment that consists in accepting a predictive hypothesis (EP 2:229).
By considering the nature of perceptual judgments, we may be in a better
position to understand how generality is already in experience. The percept
that is interpreted in the perceptual judgment (or percipuum) should not be
conceived as an isolated event since it involves memory as well as expecta-
tion concerning the future (CP 7.675). We can say that we know the future
by generalization (CP 7.649) or that temporality is of a general nature (CP
7.673). In any case, by acknowledging the continuous nature of the percep-
tual flux, Peirce rejects the atomistic conception of empirical awareness, a
doctrine that both classical empiricism and Kant accepted.15
But this rejec-
tion is actually a point of agreement with James. Now, perception as the
recognition of an object contains a general element. For James this recog-
nition can be accounted for by appealing to association by contiguity. But
contiguity is only an accidental Thirdness (see CP 1.383). Association by
resemblance, on the other hand, is a necessary condition of general ideas
and cannot be reduced to association by contiguity.16
Resemblance in form
is the most important type of resemblance (see CP 7.499). So, if there is a
sense according to which inference may be regarded as a kind of association,
it would be of the resemblance kind.17
Conclusion
James’s associationism cannot account for those aspects that Peirce considers
essential regarding the cognitive value of perception. Perceiving and reasoning
22  Evelyn Vargas
are forms of subsuming an experienced element under something general.
Perception qua perception of an external object is a partly unconscious, non-
syllogistic process from which a perceptual judgment results, and perceptual
judgments contain general elements. Only by combining percepts and general
terms, that is, indexicality and Thirdness, can perceptual objects be known by
us. Although both James and Peirce seek to overcome the difficulties inherited
from classical empiricism, for Peirce, it is only by analyzing perceptual judg-
ment in terms of an extreme case of abduction that we can ascertain that we
know the real objects directly. At the same time, the judgment by which a
reasoning is classified as logically valid is grounded on the observation of the
relations between the parts of an icon; a universal rule is actually seen. The
demarcation between reasoning and perceiving are redefined.
Notes
	 1	I wish to thank the participants of the Peirce Centennial Congress for a very
stimulating discussion, and the editors of this volume for providing further valu-
able comment.
	2	EP 2:398–433 (R 318). Peirce composed five versions of the article but was
unable to find a publisher. The manuscript expresses his special brand of prag-
matism and offers a proof of it.
	 3	 As Sandra Rosenthal writes, “the percept is that sensory element which is pre-
sented in perceptual awareness. It in turn instigates the formation of the per-
ceptual judgment, which involves a creative interpretation placed upon the
percept or presented sense content or, in other terms, an abduction which yields
a hypothesis as to what the content is (CP 5.115)” (2004, 194–195).
	 4	 “I do not deny that a concept, or general mental sign, may be a logical interpre-
tant; only, it cannot be the ultimate logical interpretant, precisely because, being
a sign, it has itself a logical interpretant” (NEM 3:493–494). For the develop-
ment of the theory of the ultimate logical interpretant in Peirce’s later thought,
see Short (2007, esp. Chapter 2).
	 5	 “The habit alone, though it may be a sign in some other way, is not a sign in that
way in which the sign of which it is the logical interpretant is a sign” (EP 2:418).
Also: “It is evident that a definition, even if it be imperfect owing to vagueness,
is an intellectual interpretant of the term it defines. But it is equally evident that
it cannot be the ultimate intellectual interpretant, inasmuch as it is itself a sign,
and a sign of the kind that has itself an intellectual interpretant, which is thereby
an intellectual interpretant of the term defined” (EP 2:430). Peirce is using “intel-
lectual” as a synonym for “logical” (see EP 2:431).
	 6	 I am using “percept” to refer to the sensory element involved in human percep-
tion insofar as it does not profess anything (CP 7.629). When it is understood in
this way, the percept only involves Firstness and Secondness:
I promised to show that a perceptual judgment is entirely unlike a percept.
If it be true, as my analysis makes it to be, that a percept contains only two
kinds of elements, those of firstness and those of secondness, then the great
overshadowing point of difference is that the perceptual judgment professes
to represent something, and thereby does represent something, whether truly
or falsely. This is a very important difference, since the idea of representa-
tion is essentially what may be termed an element of “Thirdness,” that is,
involves the idea of determining one thing to refer to another. The element
Perception as Inference  23
of secondness in the percept consists in one part being relative to another.
But the percept presents itself ready made, and contains no idea of any state
of things being brought about. There is a rigid mathematical demonstration
(which I cannot give here) that the idea of Firstness, or that of a positive such-
ness, and the idea of Secondness, or that of one thing’s referring to another,
can in no way be combined so as to produce the idea of one thing A, refer-
ring to a second, B, in the very act of referring to a third, C. This is the ele-
ment of Thirdness, or mediation, which the conception of the representation
of something to somebody obviously involves. In a perceptual judgment the
mind professes to tell the mind’s future self what the character of the present
percept is. The percept, on the contrary, stands on its own legs and makes no
professions of any kind (CP 7.630).
		Unfortunately, Peirce also uses “percept” in reference to what is “immediately
interpreted in the perceptual judgment (CP 7.642). The perceptual judgment
represents the percept as an index that constitutes the subject of the perceptual
judgment (CP 7.628 and 635).
	7	At the beginning of the article, Peirce paraphrases James’s definition of prag-
matism for the Baldwin Dictionary: “The most prominent of all our school and
the most respected, William James, defines pragmatism as the doctrine that the
whole ‘meaning’ of a concept expresses itself either in the shape of conduct to be
recommended or of experience to be expected” (EP 2:401). Naturally, an experi-
ence to be expected is not a percept but a “would-be.”
	 8	 See Houser (1998, xxxvvi) and Short (2007, 56–59 and 168–174).
	 9	 See EP 2:62, 191, and 228–229; 155. For this important Peircean view, see Berg-
man (2007) and Rosenthal (2004).
	
10	 For a discussion of whether James knew Peirce’s authorship, see the introduction
to W 8. Whereas Houser considers it unlikely that James would not have recog-
nized it (2010:li), Guirel holds the opposite view (2003, 174 and 195n58).
	
11	 Different versions within James’s original text may be found in W 8:624–626.
	
12	 James attributes the “perception as unconscious inference” opinion to Schopen-
hauer, Spencer, Hartmann, Wundt, Helmholtz, and M. Binet.
	
13	 So it is the perceptual judgment that constitutes a hypothesis that adds a general
predicate to explain what the perceived object is: “Suffice it to say that the per-
ceiver is aware of being compelled to perceive what he perceives. Now existence
means precisely the exercise of compulsion. Consequently, whatever feature of
the percept is brought into relief by some association and thus attains a logical
position like that of the observational premiss of an explaining Abduction the
attribution of Existence to it in the Perceptual Judgment is virtually and in an
extended sense, a logical Abductive Inference nearly approximating to necessary
inference” (CP 4.541). In a footnote to CP 4.541, he defines abduction as fol-
lows: “Abduction, in the sense I give the word, is any reasoning of a large class
of which the provisional adoption of an explanatory hypothesis is the type.”
	
14	 Recall that in Jamesian associations a sign suggests something else.
	
15	 In an alternative version of the beginning of the fifth chapter of A Guess at the
Riddle Peirce writes, “ideas are thought as directly connected, when one is dis-
charged into the other, that is to say, when one is present just before a movement
of nervous energy and the other just after it. But Kant gives the erroneous view
that ideas are presented separated and then thought together by the mind. This is
his doctrine that a mental synthesis precedes every analysis. What really happens
is that something is presented which in itself has no parts, but which nevertheless
is analyzed by the mind, that is to say, its having parts consists in this that the
mind afterward recognizes those parts in it. Those partial ideas are really not in
the first idea, in itself, though they are separated out from it” (W 6:449).
24  Evelyn Vargas
	
16	“Some psychologists deny the existence of association by resemblance, or say
that it is at bottom merely a special case of association by contiguity. To the argu-
ments in defence of its fundamental character which are to be found in common
books, I will add three. . . . The second argument is that without association by
resemblance there could be no general ideas and no resemblances” (CP 7.498).
	
17	However, this psychological approach cannot replace the logical perspective
concerning validity.
In his Harvard Lectures on Pragmatism of 1903, Peirce presents three
cotary—so named because they put the edge on pragmatism, as a whetstone
(cōtis) does a blade—propositions concerning the relationship of perceptual
judgments to intellection (whether the formation of concepts or inferences).
They are:
1	 There is nothing in the intellect that was not previously in the senses,
and by “in the senses” Peirce specifically means perceptual judgment
(EP 2:226).
2	 “Perceptual judgments contain general elements” (EP 2:227).
3	 “Abductive inference shades into perceptual judgment without any
sharp line of demarcation between them” (EP 2:227).
But after delivering these lectures, Peirce added a fourth cotary proposition.
It is that the process that results in a perceptual judgment, and the steps that
constitute that process, if subjected to logical analysis, would all be found
to have the form of an abductive inference:
On its side, the perceptive judgment is the result of a process, although
of a process not sufficiently conscious to be controlled, or, to state it
more truly, not controllable and therefore not fully conscious. If we
were to subject this subconscious process to logical analysis, we should
find that it terminated in what that analysis would represent as an
abductive inference, resting on the result of a similar process which a
similar logical analysis would represent to be terminated by a similar
abductive inference, and so on ad infinitum.
(EP 2:227)
Notice that Peirce’s fourth cotary proposition is remarkably different from
the first three. Whereas the first three cotary propositions concern the rela-
tionship of perceptual judgments to intellection (conception or abductive
inference), the fourth cotary proposition is about our sensorimotor coupling
with objects and how that relates to the formation of perceptual judgments.
3	 Inferential Modeling of
Percept Formation
Peirce’s Fourth Cotary Proposition
Richard Kenneth Atkins
26  Richard Kenneth Atkins
Peirce’s claim is that the process that results in a perceptual judgment may
be represented to have the form of an abductive inference. We may schema-
tize the process that results in a perceptual judgment as follows:
(1)	 (sensorimotor coupling + intervening uncontrolled, unconscious pro-
cess) → perceptual judgment
Peirce’s claim is that if we were to analyze this process by regarding it as
having a logical form, then we should find that it has the form of an abduc-
tive inference.
Peirce also maintains that if we were to divide the process represented in
(1) into parts then we should find that each part would also have the form of
an abductive inference.1
Moreover, Peirce holds that the process represented
in (1) can be divided into two parts (see CP 7.615–635). The first part yields
a percept, which we may schematize like so:
(2a)	 (sensorimotor coupling + intervening uncontrolled process) → percept
And the second part yields a perceptual judgment, which we may schema-
tize like so:
(2b)	 (percept + intervening uncontrolled process) → perceptual judgment
I have argued elsewhere (2016, Chapter 3) that (2b) has the form of an abduc-
tive inference. What I shall contend here is that contemporary research in
cognitive science lends support to Peirce’s claim that (2a) also has the form
of an abductive inference. I shall make my case by appealing to research into
geometrical optical illusions, synesthesia, and cognitive penetration. I must
first, though, explain what Peirce means by the form of an abductive infer-
ence. After doing so, I shall turn to the research just mentioned and show
that it supports Peirce’s claim that the process schematized in (2a) has the
form of an abductive inference. Finally, I shall respond to three objections
that might be made against Peirce’s claim.
The Form of Abductive Inference
Peirce’s claim is that the process involved in (2a) can be represented to have
the form of an abductive inference. It is not in fact an abductive inference
because, on Peirce’s view, all inference is self-controlled reasoning (see EP
2:463, 1913). Obviously, the process by which we form a percept is not
self-controlled.
Peirce identifies three different forms of inference. Deductive inference
is familiar to all of us: The conclusion necessarily follows from the prem-
ises. Induction, in contrast, is probable reasoning. The aim of induction
is to establish a conclusion, and when one performs an induction, she
Inferential Modeling  27
predesignates that she shall study some object—the ductility of gold, for
instance—and then goes about testing samples of gold for their ductility.
Peirce also calls induction probation because it involves discerning—or
probing—the truth of a theory through predesignation and sampling.
The third form of inference is abduction, but here we come up against an
interpretative issue. For Peirce sometimes seems to characterize abduction
as the process whereby we come to suspect that some hypothesis is true and
at other times characterizes it as the process whereby we generate hypoth-
eses. These are importantly different because we might generate some hypo-­
thesis without suspecting that it is true, as when we generate a set of hypotheses
to explain some phenomena but may not suspect that all or even any is true.
This conflation is quite evident in a passage from 1903, when Peirce writes:
Long before I first classed abduction as an inference it was recognized
by logicians as the operation of adopting an explanatory hypothesis,—
which is just what abduction is,—was subject to certain conditions.
Namely, the hypothesis cannot be admitted, even as a hypothesis, unless
it be supposed it would account for the facts or some of them. The form
of inference therefore is this:
The surprising fact, C, is observed;
But if A were true, C would be a matter of course.
Hence, there is reason to suspect that A is true.
Thus, A cannot be abductively inferred, or if you prefer the expres-
sion, cannot be abductively conjectured, until its entire contents [sic] is
already present in the premise “if A were true, C would be a matter of
course.
(EP 2:231)
But to infer A as a possible explanation for some phenomena is different
from conjecturing that A may be the correct explanation for some phe-
nomena. Whence, moreover, the hypothesis A in the second premise? It had
to have been formed somehow, and presumably Peirce would hold it was
formed by an unconscious process of abductive inference, for in his early
papers he maintains that all cognition is inferential and that the formation
of concepts and hypotheses is a consequence of abductive inference (see W
2:223–226, 1868, and R 403:22). Also, as we saw above, although in his
later work he thinks these processes are not inferences, he does think that
they can be modeled inferentially.
The tension is also evident in the secondary literature. Daniel J. ­
McKaughan
(2008) has argued that abduction is inference with respect to which
hypotheses are pursuitworthy. This would be consistent with the view that
abduction concerns suspecting some hypothesis to be the correct explana-
tion of the phenomena. On the other hand, Peirce clearly claims that the
28  Richard Kenneth Atkins
formation of new conceptions and theories is a consequence of abductive
inference and claims that sometimes the best hypothesis to try is not even
the most probable one (see CWJ 8:244). Consistent with this view, Daniel
Campos (2011) and Douglas Niño (2009) have argued that abduction as a
guess at the best explanation is to be distinguished from inference as a dis-
cernment of the best explanation.
Fortunately, we can do an end run around these worries in the case of
modeling the formation of percepts on abductive inference. For the distinc-
tion between these two ways of conceiving of abduction arises only when we
have multiple hypotheses that we might regard as possible explanations of
the phenomena. In perception, however, we are not presented with multiple
percepts among which we might choose.2
As the formation of the percept is
not a self-controlled operation, our perceptual systems automatically generate
an “image” (see CP 7.619) of the objects or events we experience and pres-
ent it as “pursuitworthy” or as a “hypothesis” of the way the world really is.
Abductions, then, generate hypotheses that, in at least the perceptual case,
we conjecture to be true or accurate. The hypothesis interprets some input,
the data or premises, and in so doing offers an explanation of that input or
an account of them. In the case of percepts, the percept interprets our senso-
rimotor inputs. In interpreting and explaining those sensorimotor inputs, it
generalizes over them and, as Peirce expresses it in his early papers, reduces
them to a unity (here, in the percept) in an act of synthesis (see W 2:49).
Moreover, as Campos (2011) and Niño (2009) stress, abductions dif-
fer from inductive inferences that discern the best explanation in that
abduction involves neither predesignation nor sampling. Abduction gives
us hypotheses to test. Deduction clarifies those hypotheses and ascertains
what follows from them. Induction puts those hypotheses to the test (see EP
2:440–445 and see Pietarinen and Bellucci 2014). Accordingly, the conclu-
sions of abductive inferences are not assertions of the way the world is. They
only suggest the way the world may be. This is important for what follows
because by looking at cases when the processes represented in (2a) fail to
accurately depict the world—as in cases of illusion, synesthesia, and cogni-
tive penetration—we will find that what the percept really is is a fallible
insight—a guess—into the way the world is (see EP 2:217–218) and not a
discernment that it is in fact that way.
A final comment on the form of an abductive inference: There are, obvi-
ously, grammatical challenges in representing (2a) as an argument, since a
percept is not a sentence or any other sort of grammatical representation.
But that is consistent with what was said before: (2a) is not an inference
but may be represented as having the form of an abductive inference. The
sense in which it has the form of an abductive inference is not the sense of it
having the grammatical form of abductive inference but the characteristics
of an abductive inference as explained above, namely, that it supplies a pur-
suitworthy guess of the way the world is but does not in fact assert that the
world is that way and does not involve predesignation or sampling.
Inferential Modeling  29
Geometrical Optical Illusions, Synesthesia, and
Cognitive Penetration
Geometrical Optical Illusions
Research into geometrical optical illusions shows that visual percepts are
guesses or fallible insights into the way the world is, and so such research
supports the claim that the process of (2a), if subjected to logical analy-
sis, would be found to have the form of an abductive inference. Such illu-
sions reveal this because they are instances when the visual system fails to
guess correctly, when its fallibility comes to the fore. In particular, they
are instances when the visual system fails to guess correctly either because
(a) there are insufficient visual cues, (b) the visual system itself is limited, or
(c) the subject is not in forward motion. After examining why each of these
scenarios results in an illusion, I shall argue that they show that (2a) has the
form of an abductive inference.
Insufficient Visual Cues: The traditional inference theory is that illusions
are a consequence of the visual system “inferring” how the world in fact
is. This theory has its origins in the work of Helmholtz, and it surely is
the theory with which Peirce would have been familiar. According to the
traditional inference theory, some visual illusions are a consequence of the
perceiver having insufficient visual cues as to how the world is. To illus-
trate why such illusions arise, Peirce uses the famous example of Schröder’s
Stair.3
Schröder’s Stair may be viewed either as ascending from left to right
(a staircase) or as suspended and descending from right to left (a cornice).
Note that the question here is not simply one of conceptual application,
of perceiving-as. To see why, consider another reversible image, a cube
with respect to which we can switch between seeing one face forward and
another behind. When we switch between seeing which face is forward, we
do not simply see one face as forward but actually see the forward face. This
is true also if we switch to seeing the other forward face; we do not merely
see the face as forward. Similarly, with respect to Schröder’s Stair, we see the
staircase or the cornice, not simply the image as a staircase or as a cornice.
What visual cues are missing from Schröder’s Stair? In all likelihood,
there is no single visual cue that is missing. Rather, the figure might be dis-
ambiguated if luminance contrasts were added to it (see Williams, McCoy,
and Purves 1998). It might also be disambiguated if more information were
added to the scene, such as a person ascending the staircase (as is done in the
works of M.C. Escher, for example). Nonetheless, the key point is the same:
The illusion occurs because the visual system does not have sufficient infor-
mation to guess correctly as to how the staircase is in fact oriented. Accord-
ing to the traditional inference theory, the lack of visual cues makes it such
that the visual stimuli may be interpreted by the visual system in either way.
Limitations of the Visual System: Cornelia Fermüller, with others, has
argued that geometrical optical illusions are also caused by limitations of
30  Richard Kenneth Atkins
the visual system itself. The early visual system extracts measurements as to
the value intensity, edges, and motion of images. However, it can do so with
only limited accuracy. Its accuracy is limited for a variety of reasons, among
them blurring caused by the lenses of the eyes, the movement of the eyes
themselves, and images received at different times needing to be combined.
Whereas those limitations are insignificant for most practical affairs, they
become exaggerated with respect to geometrical optical illusions.
One example of such an illusion is the café wall illusion. In this illusion,
the thin horizontal lines of medium luminance (the mortar) of the image are
parallel even though they do not appear so. On the account of such illusions
by Fermüller et al., this occurs because the visual system tries to smooth the
two edges of the black and white tiles (of low and high luminance respec-
tively) into one edge, thus drawing the edges of the black and white tiles
over the mortar, so to speak, and distorting the line.
Forward Motion: The perceiving-the-present theory of visual illusions is
a refinement of the traditional inference theory.4
According to it, the visual
system “infers” not merely how the world is but how the world will be. The
perceiving-the-present theory of visual illusions developed by Changizi et al.
is that some visual illusions are a consequence of the visual system com-
pensating for neural delay involved in processing visual information. One
hundred milliseconds elapse between the time a visual stimulus is received
and a visual percept occurs. However, if one is moving forward at a rate of
approximately 2 miles per hour (1 meter per second) when visually perceiv-
ing, one’s own body in relation to one’s surroundings has changed approxi-
mately 10 centimeters during that time. Accordingly, the visual system must
compensate for that neural delay in order to avoid possible harms (e.g.,
collision) or gain benefits (e.g., capturing prey). Moreover, as the costs are
less severe for latency compensation to be elicited when not in motion than
for latency compensation to fail to be elicited when in motion, some visual
illusions are simply by-products of latency compensation being made when
not in motion. For evolutionary processes would select for visual systems
that do make such compensation, as one is less likely to suffer harms (such
as collision) and more likely to gain benefits (such a captured prey) as a
consequence of such compensation.
Changizi et. al. have argued that this theory explains a number of illu-
sions, including illusions of size, speed, luminance, and distance. As one
example, it explains the Ponzo illusion, where the more distant line in the
perceiver’s presumed direction of motion (straight ahead) appears longer
because of its expected expansion as the perceiver moves forward along the
path of sloping vertical lines.5
Geometrical Optical Illusions and Abduction: According to the inference
theory, geometrical optical illusions are the result of failures of the visual
system to correctly “infer” the way the world is or the way it will be. But
why think that the “inference” in question is an abductive inference rather
than a deductive or inductive inference?
Inferential Modeling  31
We begin by assuming that the process can be represented to have some
inference form. Such an assumption is fundamental to the cognitive sciences
and computational, operational, and functionalist theories of mind. It is
also plausible to treat the process as an inference insofar as the percept is
akin to an interpretation of the sensorimotor input, much as the conclusion
of an inference is an interpretation of the premises.
Next, if Peirce is correct, there are three possible argument forms, viz.,
deduction, induction, and abduction. However, the percept cannot be an
interpretation of the visual input in the same way that the conclusions of
deductions are interpretations of their premises. For the percept is not necessi-
tated by the visual input itself. We can see the staircase or the cornice (though
not both at once). However, in each case, the sensorimotor input is identi-
cal.6
In like manner, there is no reason to think that the visual system must
present the mortar lines of the café wall illusion as non-parallel or the upper
horizontal line as longer in the Ponzo illusion. To the contrary, there is some
indication that persons raised in non-carpentered environments are less prone
to certain of the visual geometrical illusions (see Gregory 1997, 150–151).
Perhaps, then, the inference is inductive. As the work of Campos and
Niño has shown, however, it is important to disentangle “inference to the
best explanation” as inductive or as abductive. Granting that the percept
is an interpretation of the visual input, the question thus becomes whether
percepts test hypotheses and warrant an “assertion” of how the world is, so
to speak. If the answer is affirmative, then the process should be represented
as an induction. If not, then it must be represented to be an abduction.
However, it is clear that the percept does not test hypotheses and the per-
cept does not alone merit the assertion that the world is in fact the way it is
presented. As to the former, there is no hypothesis being tested when we see
the staircase. Rather, we would test it if we decided to see whether some-
thing could ascend the staircase, for example. Seeing the staircase is some-
thing that happens to us; testing is something that we do.7
This is especially
evident if we consider the other two illusions. We have no direct, immediate,
and voluntary control over whether we see the mortar lines as parallel or
not. Also, we have no such control over whether we see the upper horizontal
line as longer or not. It is only after suffering the illusion that we may test
whether the mortar lines are indeed parallel or whether the upper line of
the Ponzo illusion is indeed longer. As to the latter, Schröder’s Stair does not
warrant the assertion that it is a staircase for it could as easily be asserted
that it is a cornice. The same is true of the café wall illusion and the Ponzo
illusion. I know that the café tile mortar lines are parallel, and yet I can do
little to alter the illusion. Similarly, I know that the two lines of the Ponzo
illusion are equal, but I can do nothing to make them appear so.
It follows that the process that results in a percept must not be an induc-
tion. As we have seen, neither is it a deduction. Granting that there are only
three inference forms, it follows that the process must have the form of an
abductive inference, if it can be represented to have any inference form at all.
32  Richard Kenneth Atkins
Synesthesia
Let us turn now to research into synesthesia. When one has synesthesia, a
perceptual inducer triggers a concurrent sensation in a different modality of
perception or with respect to a different aspect of the same modality. For
instance, an auditory inducer, such as a high-pitched sound, might auto-
matically trigger color concurrents, such as a light color. In this case, the
inducer works across modalities (auditory to visual). As another example,
reading a text printed in black ink on white paper might trigger concurrent
color sensations. In this case, the inducer works within the modality (graph-
eme to color).
The Neonatal Hypothesis: A leading theory about the origins of synes-
thesia is the neonatal synesthesia hypothesis (see Maurer et al. 2013 for a
good defense of the hypothesis). According to this theory, all persons are
born synesthetic. As a consequence of experience in childhood develop-
ment, some synaptic connections are trimmed or pruned in most persons
and other connections are strengthened. Adult synesthesia, then, is a conse-
quence of synesthetic synaptic connections not being pruned as they are in
typical development.
Peirce was familiar with the process of synaptic pruning and the strength-
ening of neural pathways. In 1887’s “A Guess at the Riddle,” he writes that
the process of learning has its physiological basis in the fact that cells have
the power of taking on habits. He explains this by way of five principles (see
W 6:190–191):
1	 That when a “stimulus or irritation” excites a cell for a period of time,
the cell affects those other cells that are connected to it.
2	 Cells become “fatigued,” and when they do so they cease discharging
on one path and begin discharging on another where there has been no
discharge.
3	 When the cause of stimulation is removed, the “excitation subsides.”
4	 If the same cell is excited again, it is likely to discharge along the same
path as before.
5	 When a discharge pathway has not been used, there “comes in a princi-
ple of forgetfulness” such that the cell will not automatically discharge
along that pathway.
The consequence of these principles is as follows. If a cell is excited, it will
discharge along some pathway. If doing so successfully removes the “irrita-
tion,” then it will continue to discharge along that pathway. The more it
does so, the tendency to discharge along that pathway will become stron-
ger. If it does not successfully remove the stimulus, the cell will fatigue and
begin discharging along different pathways until the stimulus is removed. If
discharging along some pathway does not remove the stimulus, then the cell
will cease discharging along that pathway.
Inferential Modeling  33
Peirce illustrates this (I emphasize “illustrates” because he is not using this
in support of his claim) with a card trick (W 6:192–193). Take a standard
deck of 52 playing cards with four suits. Suppose that each suit represents
four “modes in which a cell may react” (W 6:192). Now lay all the cards
face up on a table in front of you, sorted into four stacks, one stack for each
suit. Take two cards from each stack into your hand and shuffle them “to
represent the original disposition of the nerve cell” (W 6:192). Turn over
those eight cards one by one until you turn up a spade. Pick up the cards
dealt off the stack in your hand and (1) add to the stack in your hand one
from each of the suits dealt off (strengthening the pathway) and (2) remove
from the stack in your hand one from each of the suits not dealt off (forget-
ting the pathway). Reshuffle the stack and continue the process. Continue
until there are no spades left and it “will then generally be found that you
hold nothing but spades in your hand” (W 6:193).8
Here is the parallelism:
1	 A cell receives a stimulus (a painful one, let us suppose). That is like you
flipping the cards over.
2	 The cell can discharge in more ways than one. That is just as you might
flip over a heart, spade, diamond, or club.
3	 Only one path of discharge will remove the painful stimulus. That is
just as you will stop flipping through the cards only when you get to a
spade.
4	 The cell will “remember” which paths of discharge it followed. That
is just as you will pick up a card from the stacks for each suit that you
passed through until you got to a spade.
5	 The cell will “forget” which paths of discharge it did not follow. That is
just as you will remove a card for each suit that you did not pass through.
6	 Through successive stimulus-response/remembering-forgetting events,
the cell will eventually tend to discharge on the path that actually re-
moves the painful stimulus. This is just as you will be left only with
spades.
There is, though, one crucial way in which the card illustration is disanalo-
gous to a cell. Cells do not have pre-established procedures that they fol-
low. Or, to put it another way, there is no algorithm imposed on a cell
for how it discharges. Yet they still establish habits through a process of
“remembering” and “forgetting.” In contrast, the “remembering” and “for-
getting” in the deck of cards is just a consequence of an algorithm you fol-
low or “impose” on the deck of cards. Nonetheless, it is through this sort
of process that synaptic connections are typically pruned such that adults
do not have synesthetic associations—or, at least, not as strong synesthetic
­associations9
as children. Yet, as Peirce himself notes, this is only generally
true. Synesthesia may well result if those synesthetic associations are not
pruned in the manner they typically are.10
34  Richard Kenneth Atkins
An objection to the neonatal hypothesis is that some varieties of synes-
thesia must be acquired as a consequence of development. Grapheme to
color synesthesia is a good example, since letters and numbers are learned.
Maurer et al. (2013) propose an evolutionary explanation for this fact. As
reading and writing are evolutionarily recent cultural phenomena, they
must make use of pre-existing cortical structures, and the existing corti-
cal structures associated with letter processing is next to the portion of the
brain responsible for color processing. There is, though, more to the story
and it is that these neural connections are strengthened through repeated use
and habit-taking, for such synesthetes make stronger connections between
letters and colors as they age (see Mauer et al. 2013, 55).
Assuming the truth of the neonatal hypothesis, such research into synes-
thesia supports Peirce’s contention that the process represented in (2a) may
be represented to have the form of an abductive inference. For in infancy
neurons are establishing pathways of discharge. As they do so, the cells
establish habits for discharging along certain pathways and areas of the
brain become specialized to perform certain processing tasks. Neurons,
however, are initially indifferent with respect to along which pathway they
discharge. They must, in a word, “guess” which pathway is the best path-
way along which to discharge.11
Their “guess” is “confirmed” only with
the removal of the source of irritation. In synesthetes, the “guess” follows
a different neural pathway from those of non-synesthetes but one that is
nonetheless “confirmed” in removing the source of irritation.12
The result
is that their percepts, qua conclusions of these “abductions,” present them
with guesses of how various features of the experience are associated. I shall
say more about this momentarily.
This is patently a metaphorical way of talking. Cells—much less complexes
of cells—do not guess, and their guesses are not confirmed in any rational
or logical senses of those terms. This is fully consistent with Peirce’s remark
that we may represent the process as having an inference form. Likening
such processes to inference is a way of modeling them. Notably, Peirce’s
theory of inference can be used not only to model the original “guess” that
yields the percept but also to explain why synesthetic associations become
stronger as one ages. As the guess is confirmed through repeated experience,
the percept presents us not only with a guess at the best explanation of how
features of experience are related but with a discernment of the best expla-
nation as to how features of experience are related.
Rules of Synesthesia: Furthermore, I have argued (2013) that Peirce’s
descriptive phenomenological vocabulary can give us a way to identify
points of structural isomorphism between inducers and their concurrent
sensations. For example, high-pitched sounds are associated with brighter
colors as well as with higher luminance. On this account, more intense qual-
ities of qualities (e.g., the pitch of a sound is a quality of quality as sound
qualities are composed of more basic qualities, such as timbre, loudness,
and pitch) are triggers for other highly intense qualities of qualities (such as
Inferential Modeling  35
a brighter color, since colors are composed of more basic qualities, such as
hue and luminance). When I wrote that essay, I was unaware of a small but
growing body of research supporting precisely the sorts of isomorphisms
I noted there—some of which was published prior to my writing of that
essay in 2010 and some of which after—on the grounds that synesthetic
associations follow rules and that those rules are not always idiosyncratic
to individuals (see Simner 2013 for a statement of some of that research).13
Other research has identified isomorphisms with respect to, for example,
the frequency of letters and the frequency of color terms, for example, the
“high-frequency letter A, tends to be paired with the highest frequency chro-
matic color (red)” (Simner 2013, 154).
If these isomorphisms generally hold across synesthetic experiences, it is a
good indication that synesthesia is a consequence of the generalizing power
of the mind to subsume different experiences according to a rule, though the
synesthete is not conscious of that rule. The rule in such cases would be to
associate features of experience with higher intensities with other features
of experience having higher intensities and similarly for lower with lower.
If that is correct, it lends further support to Peirce’s claim that (2a) should
be represented to have the form of an abductive inference since, on Peirce’s
view, the formation of conceptions or rules to unify features of experience
is abductive in nature, as explained previously. Synesthetic experiences, on
this view, are a consequence of the mind performing an unconscious abduc-
tion to create a concept or a rule by which it may subsume diverse experi-
ences. The employment of that concept or rule is evident in the synesthetic
experience itself.14
Cognitive Penetration
Cognitive penetration occurs when one’s thoughts, beliefs, moods, etc. affect
the sensory aspects of one’s experiences. A good example of cognitive pen-
etration is described in Thorsten Hansen et al. (2006). They showed pictures
of fruit to observers and asked them to adjust the colors of the pictures
of fruits until they appeared achromatic. The observers, though, adjusted
the color beyond the point at which the picture would appear gray. They
overcompensated for the color of the fruit. Hansen et al. explain this by
theorizing that the observers’ memories of the colors of the fruits pictured
influenced their perceptual experience of the pictures themselves.
Although other examples of cognitive penetration have been proposed
and studied, Fiona Macpherson (2012) has persuasively argued that these
sorts of cases are the strongest in favor of cognitive penetration. She has
proposed a two-step mechanism to explain how cognitive penetration
occurs. In the first step, some patently nonperceptual experiences with phe-
nomenal character are caused by one’s beliefs or thoughts. For example,
one may be asked to imagine a Christmas tree and, upon being so asked,
conjure up the image of a Christmas tree. This is patently not a perception
36  Richard Kenneth Atkins
of a Christmas tree, but it is a case when one’s beliefs or past experiences
bear on the phenomenal character of experience, viz., what is imagined. In
the second step, the phenomenal character of these nonperceptual experi-
ences interacts with the phenomenal character of the perceptual experience.
To explain the results from the experiment of Hansen et al., Macpherson
may then hold that seeing a banana, for example, causes one to imagine a
banana. The phenomenal content of this imagining then affects the phenom-
enal content of one’s perception.
If Macpherson is correct, how might this two-step process be modeled
inferentially? Patently, it cannot be modeled deductively, for our nonper-
ceptual experiences with phenomenal character when combined with sen-
sorimotor input do not necessitate that our percepts should be cognitively
penetrated. If they did, we should find it impossible to simultaneously imag-
ine something and have noncognitively penetrated perceptions. The fact that
recalled past perceptual experiences penetrate the percept might suggest in
favor of modeling the process inductively. Certainly, one’s association of the
color yellow with bananas, for example, may be modeled inductively. That,
though, concerns the association of a color with a type of object. Cognitive
penetration presents us with a specific object. Moreover, one is not probing
that object for its color. Rather, it would seem as though cognitive penetra-
tion occurs when nonperceptual experiences with phenomenal content com-
bine with perceptual experiences so as to present one with a best guess as to
how the world is. For there can be little doubt that our perceptual systems
must compensate for suboptimal conditions for perception, as indicated
previously in the discussion of geometrical optical illusions and as phenom-
ena such as color constancy show, and to do so it must yield a guess as to
how the object of perception is. But how can it generate such a guess when
the conditions for perception are suboptimal? Only by drawing on previous
experience. If this is true of cognitive penetration as well, as Macpherson’s
view would suggest, it supports the conclusion that the process must be
modeled abductively as a best guess at how the object of perception is.
Objections and Replies
I have been arguing that contemporary research into geometrical optical
illusions, synesthesia, and cognitive penetration lends support to Peirce’s
claim that (2a) may be represented to have the form of abductive inference,
assuming that the process may be represented to have an inference form at
all. I do not claim that the research decisively concludes in favor of Peirce’s
view because much of the research is still in its infancy. The research does,
though, favor Peirce’s position. Nonetheless, there are three objections to
the claim that must be addressed.
The first objection is that the visual system guesses rightly too often for
us to regard the process that results in percepts as having the form of an
abductive inference. This objection is a mistake. There is nothing intrinsic to
Inferential Modeling  37
abduction that requires our guess to be wrong with any high degree of fre-
quency. Indeed, perception’s capacity to guess rightly so often is why Peirce
states that “the abductive faculty . . . is . . . a gradation of that which in its
highest perfection we call perception” (EP 2:224, 1903).
A second line of objection is that contemporary research into visual illu-
sions, for instance, is modeled on Bayesian probability theory. So, it would
seem that what our visual system is doing is inferring the way the world is
based on past experience, not making guesses.
This objection is mistaken in three ways. First, it conflates the way in
which we model the visual system with what the visual system actually does.
By analogy, even if we can model human thought using computer programs,
it does not follow that the computer program is actually thinking. In like
manner, just because we can model the processes of the visual system using
Bayesian probability theory, it does not follow that the visual system actu-
ally does draw Bayesian inferences.
Second, the appeal to past experience is irrelevant to whether the pro-
cess of the visual system is abductive or inductive in form. Past experiences
can certainly inform our abductions. If the account of cognitive penetration
given above is correct, then our perceptual system will often draw on past
experience to yield a percept. Indeed, it would be hard to imagine how any-
one could draw any abductive inferences without appealing to past experi-
ences. What does matter with respect to modeling such processes is whether
the visual system tests hypotheses, thereby engaging in predesignation and
sampling, and whether percepts warrant the assertion that the world is the
way it is presented. The answers, as argued previously, are no.
Third, it is important not to conflate the formation of the percept with
the establishment of habits of perceptual presentation. As indicated above
in the discussion of synesthesia, neural pathways that are initially “guesses”
but are “confirmed” in experience will be strengthened and pathways that
are “bad guesses” will be pruned. Accordingly, we may well model the
confirmed cognitive processes inductively using Bayesian inference. This,
however, does not impugn the claim that the establishment of those cogni-
tive processes—those that caused the development of a certain manner of
perceptual presentation in the first place—should be represented to have the
form of an abductive inference. What such Bayesian modeling shows is that
the solution that was hit upon was the best solution; in our cognitive devel-
opment we made a “guess” as to the best solution for perceptual presenta-
tion and our continued experiences “discerned” that that was the best guess.
A third objection comes along the lines of the theory of evolution. For
it might be supposed that the appropriate argument form to represent the
process in (2a) is inductive insofar as evolution has selected for perceptual
systems that perceive the world as it is or will be. Thus, there is a sense in
which it might be said that evolutionary processes have “tested” our visual
systems and “asserted” (by way of natural selection) that only the ones that
veridically present the world shall survive.
38  Richard Kenneth Atkins
However, even if we grant this line of argument, it does not show that
(2a) does not have the form of an abductive inference. It shows only that
evolution has favored visual systems that guess rightly about the world most
of the time. In other words, the argument does not tell us anything about
the inference form of (2a). It tells us something only about the inference
forms of evolutionary processes. For his part, Peirce certainly thought that
nature—in some abused sense of the term—“reasons” (see RLT 161), and
so he would allow that nature tests its own hypotheses in some sense. But,
again, it does not follow from this that the processes sensory systems them-
selves employ in developing a way of perceptually presenting the world have
the form of an induction.
Notes
	 1	 Peirce even claims that this would be true if we divided it ad infinitum, a claim
that I think is patently too strong.
	2	Which is not to deny that we might switch between percepts with respect to
ambiguous figures, such as the duck-rabbit.
	 3	 Peirce uses the example to support his second cotary proposition that perceptual
judgments contain general elements, but he also states that the “percept itself
seem[s] to keep shifting from one general aspect to the other and back again”
(EP 2:228, 1903).
	 4	 See Changizi (2001), though in his later work he is coyer about this fact.
	 5	I should note that Fermüller and Changizi take themselves to have explained
some of the same illusions. Ascertaining whose explanation is correct is not a
concern of this paper. Both theories support the claim that (2a) has the form an
abductive inference.
	6	Keep in mind that the intervening uncontrollable process just is what we are
representing as an inference form.
	 7	 Of course, we might test whether and how we are able to switch between seeing
the stairs or the cornice, but then we are testing something about ourselves and
not about the figure.
	8	Here is a simpler version of his illustration—with only two modes of cell
­
discharge—for those of us not patient enough to perform Peirce’s whole experi-
ment. Take a heart and a spade in your right hand. Put four spades and four
hearts in separate stacks face-up on the table (the quantity of four doesn’t really
matter—what matters is that the proportion of the stack to the number of cards
in your hand is sufficiently large, at least about double the number of cards in
your hand). Shuffle the heart and spade in your right hand. Now, turn up the top
card. There are two possibilities:
		  First, it has a 50% chance of being a spade. If it is a spade, you are to remove
the heart from your hand and pick up a spade. Now, you will only have spades in
your hand. So, if you shuffle the cards in your hand, you have a 100% chance of
laying down a spade on your next shuffle and now you will only pick up spades.
		  Second, it has a 50% chance of being a heart. If it is a heart, you will turn the
next card, which will be the spade. From the stack, you will pick up both a heart
and spade. You will shuffle the four cards in your hand and turn one up. Once
again, you have a 50% chance of turning up a spade. (a) If it is a spade, you
will remove a heart from your hand and pick up a spade from the stack. Now,
on your next shuffle, you will have a 75% chance of putting down a spade first.
(b) If it is a heart, you will keep going through your cards until you get to spade.
Inferential Modeling  39
You may go through two hearts, but in whichever case you will pick up one heart
and one spade from the stacks. That means you once again have a 50% chance
of turning up a spade first on the next shuffle.
		  As you can see, you will never have less than a 50% chance of turning up a
spade first. However, you very well may end up having less than a 50% chance
of turning up a heart first. So, if you repeat this procedure a sufficiently large
number of times (and you will, since the stacks have at least double the number
of cards in your hand), you will generally (as Peirce states) end up with only
spades in your hands.
	 9	 I add this qualification because there do seem to be common associations even
among adults without synesthesia, such as associating higher-pitched sounds
with lightness and lower-pitched sounds with darkness. One explanation for the
commonality of such associations is that they are holdovers from neonatal or
infantile synesthetic associations.
	
10	I do not mean to suggest that this is the only contributing factor to synesthe-
sia, as there are likely genetic underpinnings as well (see Asher and Carmichael
2013).
	
11	 These considerations may lend some further support to Peirce’s claim that if we
divide the process ad infinitum it will have the form of an abductive inference;
Peirce might be right that if we divide the process down to the cellular level it will
have such a form.
	
12	Synesthetes typically—not universally—regard their synesthetic associations as
neutral or pleasant.
	
13	 Regrettably, it is clear that some of that research is enervated by an inadequate
phenomenological analysis of experience, e.g., between the saturation of a color
and the vividness of an experience.
	
14	Following his early analysis of thought-signs, Peirce might say that the syn-
esthetic experience is the material quality of the abductive conclusion (see W
2:228, 1868).
4	 Idealism Operationalized
How Peirce’s Pragmatism Can
Help Explicate and Motivate the
Possibly Surprising Idea of Reality
as Representational1
Catherine Legg
This paper departs from a profound challenge currently posed by Paul Red-
ding (2014 and see also Redding 2010, 79–84) and others (for instance,
McDowell 1997, Levine 2012, and see also Koopman 2007) to a certain
lineage within contemporary pragmatism sometimes referred to as analytic
pragmatism. The challenge concerns perception. Redding argues that Rob-
ert Brandom, in his flight from discussing experience, which he famously
described as “not one of my words” (Brandom 2000, 205n7),2
fails to do
justice to the way in which we form beliefs de re as well as de dicto (Red-
ding 2014, 664–665). Thus, we might say that perceiving a yellow chair (for
example) is something more than perceiving that the proposition that the
chair in question is yellow is true. As Redding puts it, “let us say I am wear-
ing a blue tie . . . experience will show the tie to be some particular shade of
blue” (Redding 2014, 668). Any real-world perceptual encounter seems to
possess an informative richness that is not fully translatable into any swathe
of propositions, however numerous. To put the same point another way,
perception seems to be a belief-forming mechanism characterized by a kind
of direct confrontation between mind and world that differs from “merely
thinking,” or communicating with other minds in a space of reasons.
Perception has been thought to differ from purely propositional traffic in
the space of reasons in at least two ways: (i) its significantly greater determi-
nacy (e.g., Redding’s tie’s particular shade of blue), although it is acknowl-
edged that not all of the detail offered up in a given perceptual experience
will (or can) make it into the space of reasons and (ii) its role as a ground for
indexical utterances which also enable us to traffic in content which outruns
what we could articulate in explicit propositional form, through ostensive
definition (e.g., “That man’s personality is amazing.”). Redding diagnoses
Brandom’s apparent lack of recognition of this phenomenological dimen-
sion of our knowledge-gathering as forced by his strong inferentialism—an
important plank of his pragmatism. Redding acknowledges that Brandom
does attempt to reconstruct the de re from the de dicto anaphorically within
the space of reasons (“as when we infer from Ralph believes that the short-
est spy is such and such, to ‘Ralph believes of the shortest spy that he is such
Idealism Operationalized  41
and such’ ”) (2014, 666), but he argues that this does not do justice to the de
re of perceptual belief, since “Ralph’s actually having a proper de re belief
directed towards some particular person would necessitate his being able to
use demonstratives such as ‘this man,’ in saying something like ‘This man is
a spy’ ” (2014, 666).
As a solution, Redding recommends the more fully conceptual inferen-
tialism of Hegel, which explicates the logic of perceptual and reflective or
inferential judgments differently: the former as judgments of the inherence
of a specific individual in a kind (“This chair is yellow”) and the latter as
judgments of subsumption between two kinds (“Yellow is a warm colour”)
(2014, 672). Whereas the latter kind of judgment is true or false in some
overall sense, the former’s truth-value is “context specific” (2014, 674), as it
depends on the nature of the specific individual (such as a chair) that one is
interacting with perceptually, that kind of openness being what constitutes
perception. In a subtle and interesting argument, Redding suggests that,
whereas Brandom essentially reduces the de re to the de dicto by simply
denying that there is such a thing as nonconceptual content, for Hegel the de
re is aufgehoben in (“preserved within, integrated into”) the de dicto (2014,
675). This means that, whereas Kant demanded a unified space of reasons
in his transcendental unity of apperception, in which “logical structure must
reflect the logical relations among diverse judgements that apply to different
aspects of a single world” (2014, 676), Hegel considers it more appropri-
ate to admit some unreconstructed perspectivalism (in more contemporary
terminology one might well say “essential indexicality”) into Thought. In
a way, this means that, although Kant and Hegel both imported Aristotle’s
categories from ontology into epistemology, rendering them forms of judg-
ment, Hegel’s “idealist understanding of logical form” (2014, 676) is more
complete than Kant’s, because in his demand for a single world through
transcendental unity of apperception, Kant essentially retains the notion of
a God’s-eye view—a realist holdover. One is truer to Mind when one recog-
nizes, with Hegel, that it is essentially embodied and located.
I have previously argued (Legg 2008a) that many (though not all) of the
views Brandom puts forward under the banner of inferentialism may also be
found in Charles Peirce, particularly in his critique of intuitions in his early
“Cognition” papers. I have suggested that, whereas Brandom stops short
at a merely “strong” inferentialism, which allows for some non-inferential
mental content in the form of reliable dispositions to respond to certain
apparently primitive concepts, such as “red” (although Brandom claims
that such content can only be “inferentially articulated”), Peirce embraces a
total or “hyper-” inferentialism. This might seem to expose Peirce equally—
or even more—to this “experience problem for pragmatism.”
In this essay, I turn to Peirce’s theory of perception (which I did not dis-
cuss in 2008), in order to inquire whether his pragmatism is so vulnerable.
I shall argue that Peirce’s account of perception does do justice to the phe-
nomenology of perception as de re. But I shall also argue that Peirce realized
42  Catherine Legg
something that Brandom has not (yet), viz., that in order to be consistent
with pragmatism, our naïve conception of perception as some kind of direct
confrontation between mind and world (in Brandom’s terms: “reliable
dispositions to respond differentially to stimuli” [2000, 48]) needs to be
revised. The result will be an idealism operationalized—a very pragmatist
process for this venerable position within the history of Western philosophy
to undergo.
Peirce paid significant attention to perception later in his career, develop-
ing a rich and subtle theory of it around 1902–1903. Interestingly, although
I have just positioned Peirce as an inferentialist, his theory of perception
also postulates a direct, de re apprehension of objects, in the form of what
he calls the percept, which is so integrated, definite, and perfectly explicit
that it cannot be put into words. At the same time, though, he layers onto
the percept a perceptual judgment that has propositional form. The relation
between these two aspects of perception will be explored.
The clearest and most influential foil for inferentialist arguments, as Bran-
dom notes, is the British Empiricist legacy, which is still a pervasive back-
ground within contemporary mainstream analytic philosophy. According to
Hume, for instance, every idea is decomposable into ultimate simple parts,
registered by the mind as impressions in a purely causal process. Every
Humean idea is also a particular consisting of entirely determinate qualities,
to the point that Hume will not admit any such thing as an abstract idea. We
shall see that, according to Peirce, on the other hand, a perception is general—
both with respect to its content and also temporally—in that it constitutes a
moving window of awareness embracing immediate past (memory), fused to
present experience, fused to immediate future (anticipation). This temporal
extension means that perception is, as Hookway remarks, “not entirely free
from characters that are proper to interpretations” (2012, 17).
This paper’s guiding hope is to suggest some ways in which, in contem-
porary debates between inferentialism and representationalism, rationalism
and empiricism, “concepts and intuitions” may be transmuted from warring
opposites to mutually supportive categories within a richer overall philosophy.
The Experience-Truth Gap
A significant problem for any philosophy of perception is how to reconcile
two aspects of the mind’s encounter with the world in which it finds itself
that seem rather different and opposed. On the one hand, my perceptions
are suffused with immediately felt experience (for instance, the juicy, sweet
“cherryness” of a cherry I am biting into), which it seems that in some
important sense “no one can take away from me.” Thus, the nature of our
sensory feels appears to enjoy some degree of infallibility. (“Even if that
cherry was a total hallucination, I can’t be wrong about how it tasted to
me.”) On the other hand, much of the point of perception seems to be to
enable us to endorse new propositions about the world that are truth-apt.
Idealism Operationalized  43
(“This cherry is delicious! But is it really a cherry, or rather a small plum?”)
In this regard, our perceptions seem perfectly fallible.
This is all rather confusing. We might dub this issue The Experience-
Truth Gap in perception. In order to address it, in philosophy of percep-
tion, one traditionally encounters talk of seemings, sense-data, and other
like entities, which are postulated as further objects of perception over and
above the real-world objects allegedly being perceived.3
What is said about
the intermediary objects is then treated as bearing the full weight of percep-
tion’s apparent infallibility, while what is said about the real-world objects is
treated as bearing the full weight of perception’s apparent fallibility.
However, postulating these intermediary objects arguably does not solve
the problem at hand. If the role of representing sensory feels is given over
entirely to the intermediary objects (which is what has tended to happen),
delicate issues emerge concerning which of the qualities of those objects
are “primary” (had by both intermediary and real-world objects) and
which merely “secondary” (had by the intermediary objects alone), ulti-
mately leading to skepticism about whether there are any primary qualities
at all, or any that can be known—a skepticism that has its logical con-
clusion in Kant’s entirely unknowable noumena. Meanwhile, if the role of
logical assessability is given over entirely to statements about the putative
real-world objects, we seem to be deprived of sufficient contact with them
in order to assess them properly. (Of course these issues have been more
than well rehearsed in the literature.) A related dilemma, expressed in more
modern terminology, turns on whether the intermediary objects should be
thought of as possessing “nonconceptual content.” On the one hand, the
objects’ apparent infallibility seems to speak for their content being non-
conceptual. On the other hand, as McDowell has argued (see 1994a and
1994b), if this is conceded, how on earth is perception informative? Surely
it must have conceptual content in order to deliver truth-apt belief? Such
issues were influentially explored by Sellars in his discussion of the Myth of
the Given (Sellars 1997 and see also Forman 2007).
British Empiricism sought to paper over this breach by designing its key
concept of an idea to play the dual role of both representing sensory feels
and being logically assessable. It is sometimes remarked, particularly in the
Lockean tradition, that ideas in their role as representing sensory feels are
viewed as caused by the world, whilst they are logically assessable by vir-
tue of resembling the world. (Understanding ideas as copies of impressions
is meant to ensure this second role of ideas as resembling the world.) It
has been probed to what degree these two roles of being caused by and
resembling the world are compatible, or guaranteed to deliver the same
results. We might also ask whether resemblance is able to “do all the world-­
representing work” that might be required in our perceptual contact with
our surroundings—more on this later.
Understanding how Hume thinks about perception is important for
understanding his epistemology, in particular, since he claims that, in an
44  Catherine Legg
important sense, all functions of the mind reduce to it: “To hate, to love,
to think, to feel, to see; all this is nothing but to perceive” (Treatise 1739–
40/1978, 1, I, ii, 67 and see also Enquiry 1784/1975, 152). Impressions may
enter from “outside the mind” (impressions of sensation) or be generated
“inside the mind” (impressions of reflection), but the latter must consist
in some combination of impressions that have previously entered by the
senses, which are the building blocks of all thought.4
It is by this kind of
mental passivity that Hume imagines that he ensures empiricism. Crucially,
Hume holds that ideas and impressions are all essentially distinct. By this he
means wholly separable in the imagination, if not in reality.
Peirce’s Theory of Perception: “Nothing at all . . .
Is Absolutely Confrontitional”
I will now discuss the detailed theory of perception Peirce developed around
1902–1903, in the still largely unpublished Minute Logic and a piece which
the Collected Papers entitles “Telepathy and Perception.” By contrast to the
British Empiricists’ use of ideas to model both immediate experience and
truth-apt propositions derived from it, Peirce suggests that we need sepa-
rate, though interlocking, accounts of these two things. The first becomes his
account of the percept, the second his account of the perceptual judgment.
The Percept
The percept comprises a felt quality and the vividness with which it is pre-
sented. Neither of these is what nowadays would be called “cognitive.”
Peirce notes that one might call the percept an “image,” except that an
image is often taken to represent something other than itself, and the per-
cept does not do that (CP 7.619, 1903). Nevertheless it has insistency: it
makes a real impact on my consciousness.
Peirce explicates the insistency of the percept along three dimensions. The
first is that the percept contributes something positive to my thinking. If, for
instance, I have a percept of a cat, I do not just perceive some abstract state
of affairs, such as the absence of any dog in that spatiotemporal region. I per-
ceive something that possesses qualities of its own, such as colors, shapes,
sounds. Secondly, the percept compels my thinking insofar as I cannot pre-
tend that it is not present in my consciousness. Thirdly, the percept is not
reasonable. By this, Peirce does not mean that the percept is ir—so much as
a-rational. He states, “it does not address the reason, nor appeal to anything
for support” (CP 7.622, 1903). For one thing, the percept does not have
sufficient structure to be rationally evaluable, or for itself to be a rational
evaluation. It does not have any parts, or more strictly, “it has parts, in the
sense that in thought it can be separated, but it does not represent itself to
have parts” (CP 7.625, 1903). Attentive Peirce scholars will recognize that
in this explication he is making use of his three fundamental philosophical
Idealism Operationalized  45
categories. He is affirming that Firstness and Secondness—and denying that
Thirdness—pertain to the percept.
The percept in its directness bears some similarity to a Humean impres-
sion, but it cannot be a Humean idea insofar as it cannot be used to make
truth claims, nor is it the subject of belief or disbelief (CP 7.626, 1903).
Peirce writes that the percept “does not stand for anything. It obtrudes itself
upon my gaze; but not as a deputy for anything else, not ‘as’ anything. It
simply knocks at the portal of my soul and stands there in the doorway”
(CP 7.619, 1903).5
If the percept is really so mute, we might ask: What is the point of posit-
ing it, epistemologically? Here we might look to the two roles that (it was
noted) ideas have been said to play in British Empiricism: resembling and
being caused by the world. We might ask whether the role of Peirce’s percept
is to resemble the world in the positive qualities that we have noted that it
possesses. This is not the case, however. In Locke, the claim that our ideas
resemble objects entirely external to those ideas was a hypothesis empty of
the very empirical consequences so beloved by empiricists—an insight deci-
sively seized upon by Berkeley—and Peirce does not make it.
Perhaps, then, the percept might play a causal role in philosophy of mind
and related epistemology—perhaps analogous to the causal role Hume gives
to impressions in producing ideas? There is some truth to this, insofar as
Peirce claims that percepts are related to perceptual judgments by “forceful
connections.” But this forcefulness should not be understood as the cause
of a copy, where that copy is a particular. Rather, it is a trigger for (general)
habits. This claim will be explained further below.
The Perceptual Judgment
The perceptual judgment cannot be a copy of the percept, as they are too
unlike one another. Peirce describes them to be “as unlike . . . as the printed
letters in a book, where a Madonna of Murillo is described, are unlike the
picture itself” (PPM 160, 1903). Why is this? First of all, the percept has
an integration that cannot be possessed by the perceptual judgment, which
qua judgment requires subject and predicate. Peirce offers as an example
his perceiving a yellow chair: “The judgement, ‘This chair appears yellow,’
separates the color from the chair, making the one predicate and the other
subject. The percept, on the other hand, presents the chair in its entirety and
makes no analysis whatever” (CP 7.631, 1903).
The percept also has a definiteness that conflicts with the general predica-
tion that a judgment must contain. Peirce analyzes this definiteness into two
dimensions. The first is that it is individual: The percept pertains to some
particular chair and no other. The second is that the percept is perfectly
explicit: All of its determinables are determinate (CP 7.625, 1903). Thus,
the yellowness of the chair-percept will be some perfectly specific color, such
as a dark lemon yellow, whereas our predicate “yellow,” due to its wide
46  Catherine Legg
usage, must perforce be more general. It is worth noting that the generality
of the yellow predicate is a kind of specifically sensory generality, which
Peirce refers to a number of times using the metaphor of a “composite pho-
tograph,” a technology popular in his time that involved exposing the same
negative to different objects in order to achieve a kind of “visual average”:6
“Let us consider, first, the predicate ‘yellow’ in the judgment that ‘this chair
appears yellow.’ This predicate is not the sensation involved in the percept,
because it is general. It does not even refer particularly to this percept but
to a sort of composite photograph of all the yellows that have been seen”
(CP 7.634, 1903). A further dimension of the perfect explicitness of the per-
cept is that, whereas the perceptual judgment with its chosen color-predicate
makes no comment on other “chair-determinables,” such as shape, these
will be discernible in the percept too.
Since the perceptual judgment is composed of subject and general predi-
cate, thereby expressing a truth-apt proposition, its interpretation opens out
to the community of inquiry. As Forster puts it, “while the content of a
percept is inherent in it apart from everything else, the content of a sign is
not” (2011, 114). Rather, the perceptual judgment takes its (logical) place
in “an endless series of judgments, each member of which is logically related
to prior members” (2011, 120). Thus, in our example above, inquirers may
develop the meaning of yellow and chair in unanticipated ways: for exam-
ple, by determining the wavelength of light which typically produces yellow
experiences in humans or by inventing a chair that lacks some feature previ-
ously thought essential, such as legs.
Despite its pathways into public discourse, however, the perceptual judg-
ment compels assent as much as the percept. It is equally insistent. As much
as if I open my eyes in front of a yellow chair I cannot avoid having certain
sensory experiences, neither can I avoid judging “This is a yellow chair,” if
I have the appropriate concepts. But how is it possible that the perceptual
judgment produces such compulsive belief? Does not this endow it with a
form of de facto infallibility? We have just noted that the perceptual judg-
ment opens out logically into the community of inquiry, for which it is well
known that Peirce makes thorough fallibilism the guiding principle. Surely
it cannot be both fallible and infallible at the same time?
This is an important objection. A superficial initial answer might point
out a temporal dimension to the belief-forming process and note that the
perceptual judgment’s apparent infallibility holds at the time, but it might be
corrected subsequently in the light of further perceptions. (“For an instant
I saw a yellow chair in the corner. But when I blinked and looked again
I only saw floorboards. Therefore, I infer that what previously appeared
to me as a perception of a yellow chair was in fact a hallucination, and
I choose to ignore it.”) But shortly we will see that in Peirce’s philosophy the
temporal mediation of what we perceive applies on a yet profounder level.
Finally, despite the fundamental differences between the perceptual
judgment and the percept that have been noted, the former nevertheless
Idealism Operationalized  47
“professes to represent” the latter. In this representing function, it embodies
the Thirdness that is missing from the percept (CP 7.630, 1903). But one
might wonder: How on earth is it possible for the perceptual judgment to
represent the percept, if they are so different? We have just made clear that
the perceptual judgment is not a copy of the percept. Peirce adds that nei-
ther does it represent the percept logically, since this would require that the
percept serve as some kind of premise from which the perceptual judgment
is inferred. As the percept is not itself in propositional form, it cannot serve
as a premise for the perceptual judgment, nor can it be described in such a
way that it could so serve, without recapitulating the perceptual judgment
and begging the question (CP 7.628, 1903). The issue of the true relation-
ship between percept and perceptual judgment will be resolved in the next
section.
The Relationship between Percept and Perceptual
Judgment: The Percipuum
Now it might seem that Peirce has so convincingly separated the Firstness/
Secondness of the percept from the Thirdness of the perceptual judgment
that one might wonder: How are we to bridge the two? In particular, how
are we to bridge the uncontrollable in perception to the controllable in
thought? Do not we now have a great mystery at the heart of perception? Is
not Peirce deeply entrenching the Experience-Truth Gap, rather than giving
us any theoretical means to resolve it?
The answer is that the British Empiricists (and their downstream fol-
lowers) are too unimaginative in assuming that the only possible relation
between percept and perceptual judgment (or in Humean terms: impression
and idea) is that the latter copies the former. But how can the idea convey the
same information as the impression, other than by copying it? Otherwise,
surely we would be engaged in some mere blind, causal transaction between
our minds and the world? Peirce claims, “there is no relation between the
predicate of the perceptual judgment and the sensational element of the per-
cept, except forceful connections” (CP 7.634, 1903). The previously unan-
ticipated third possibility for the relation between perceptual judgment and
percept is that the former is an index of the latter—a “true symptom, just
as a weather-cock indicates the direction of the wind or a thermometer the
temperature” (CP 7.628, 1903).
How does this work? The human mind is organized such that each per-
cept produces “direct and uncontrollable interpretations” (CP 7.648, 1903)
that lead the mind to form various perceptual judgments. These interpreta-
tions are sometimes referred to by Peirce via a third term: the percipuum.
Insofar as the percipuum consists in an interpretative welding of percept to
perceptual judgment, it may be understood to manifest full-blooded Third-
ness. So we may ask: With the percipuum, have we finally bridged per-
ception into the controllable in thought? Alas, no—Peirce notes that the
48  Catherine Legg
percipuum is equally insistent! He writes, “the percipuum . . . is what forces
itself upon your acknowledgment, without any why or wherefore, so that if
anybody asks you why you should regard it as appearing so and so, all you
can say is, ‘I can’t help it. That is how I see it’ ” (CP 7.643, 1903).
However, although this interpretative process cannot be willed, it can be
(indeed must be) trained and perfected by cultivating appropriate mental
habits.7
For example, parents spend considerable time training children
to correctly apply predicates that are useful in their daily lives (“food,”
“bath,” “red,” “one,” “two,” “three”). Over time, those children learn how
to produce appropriate judgments about the objects around them with the
help of whatever perceptual experiences they notice reliably correlate with
those judgments. But the exact nature of the experiences themselves—in
Wittgenstein’s famous phrase—may be “divided through” as irrelevant.
This process is broadly known as “education.”
The Experience-Truth Gap Mediated
The answer to the Experience-Truth Gap in our philosophical understand-
ing of perception is not to split the object of perception in two, postulating
one object that is unreal but is the one that is actually perceived and a second
object that is real but “lies behind” the first and is only inferred (the manifest
problems of which for British Empiricism soon emerged). Rather than two
objects, the answer is time. The percipuum is not a temporal particular. It
occurs across a timespan that has at its “back end” a memory of the imme-
diate past (which Peirce calls the ponecipuum) and at its “front end” an
expectation of the immediate future (which he calls the antecipuum). This
timespan—which is of effectively infinitesimal duration—forms a “moving
window” in which each new perception enters the mind at the “front end”
in the form of anticipation just as the most recent falls back into memory.
The ponecipuum is a kind of sediment of past perceptions, interpreted
such as to trigger us to view current percepts in the categories required
for us to make perceptual judgments. In the case of the yellow chair, this
will involve a synthesis of previous perceptions that have been judged to
“involve chairs.” At the heart of the ponecipuum lies a pure sensory pone-
cept, which, in the case of our example, will consist in some kind of general-
ization of all our past “chair-like” and “yellow-like” experiences, although
once again it is strictly unable to be put into words (again, the specifically
iconic metaphor of a composite photograph is appropriate).
The antecipuum is our present experience interpreted in terms of its most
immediate predictive implications (e.g., “This object is good to sit on, and
unlikely to change color at random.”). Under pragmatism, such hypotheti-
cal conditionals constitute the meaning of concepts and propositions. The
antecipuum also rests on a kernel of pure experience—an antecept. Rosen-
thal describes the antecept as an “element of vague, not fully conscious
anticipation of future experience” (2001, 3) and notes that it (and indeed
Idealism Operationalized  49
all these rather alarmingly proliferating entities in Peirce’s theory of per-
ception) is not a literal or consciously experienced stage in perception but
“the abstraction of a ‘stopping point’ 
” in its logical analysis. In a more
epistemological register, they are “not the building blocks of perception but
a verification level brought about by a change of focus when a problem
arises” (2001, 4).
In order to explicate this last claim, we may now examine the deeper
analysis of the fallibility of perceptual judgments that was promised in the
last section. It is presented by Rosenthal in an acute analysis of this difficult
passage by Peirce:
Now let us take up the perceptual judgment “This wafer looks red.” It
takes some time to write this sentence, to utter it, or even to think it. It
must refer to the state of the percept at the time that it, the judgment,
began to be made. But the judgment does not exist until it is completely
made. It thus only refers to a memory of the past; and all memory is
possibly fallible and subject to criticism and control. The judgment,
then, can only mean that so far as the character of the percept can ever
be ascertained, it will be ascertained that the wafer looked red.
(CP 5.544, 1903)
Rosenthal interprets this as saying that the perceptual judgment is indu-
bitable not in the sense that doubts about it can be answered with certain
knowledge, but in the “pragmatic” sense that doubts about it cannot coher-
ently be formulated:
To doubt it is to put into question something for which there is no tool
for getting “behind” it to compare it with anything more fundamental.
For us it must itself be the final court of appeal. The apprehension of
an appearance is not certainly true as opposed to possibly false. It is
“certain” in the sense that neither truth nor falsity is applicable to it . . .
for what the percipuum is is determined only in its recognition and can
be determined in no other way. It becomes a “repetition” of previous
contents only by being assimilated to those contents in the perceptual
judgment.
(2001, 4)
To explore this further, let us return to the case of the disappearing yellow
chair percept. Our initial analysis of this scenario held that we have two dis-
tinct percepts: the first percept “yellow-chair-like” and the second percept
judged to represent only floorboards. On the basis of such a mismatch, so
close together in time, I infer that the first percept is a hallucination and so
I both remember and disregard it. But what if a similar sensory event were
to happen all the time, with yellow chair images momentarily appearing and
disappearing without a trace? Would I continue to perceive and disregard
50  Catherine Legg
them? Peirce suggests, in an interesting discussion of the action of optical
illusions on the mind over time, that insofar as the yellow chair percepts
were regularly recognized as illusory, they would become much less vivid
and possibly even disappear altogether:
It is one of the recognized difficulties of all psycho-physical measure-
ment that the faculties rapidly become educated to an extraordinary
degree. Thus, contrast-colors, when properly exhibited, are incredibly
vivid. One is not easily persuaded that they are not real. Yet the experi-
menter becomes in time almost incapable of perceiving them. This is
a case in which the same educational course which gives control over
appearances which sometimes do and sometimes do not accord with the
mass of experiences, only serves to strengthen the forcefulness of those
appearances which always do so accord.
(CP 7.647, 1903)
The contrast-color illusion involves staring at a bright patch of color (e.g.,
red) then looking at a white surface, which will initially appear to be the
opposite color to the one stared at (e.g., green), but over time, as the mind
learns that the white surface is not really green, the perceived greenness
literally fades. The obviousness of these illusions enables the training of the
percept-to-perceptual judgment relation, which it was noted above largely
takes place unconsciously in childhood, to be resuscitated and studied
within an observable time period.8
The most important thing to note is that this training of perception is a
rational process. Its guiding force is the mind making the best overall sense
it can of ponecipuum, percipuum, and antecipuum as a total package. If that
involves imperceptibly reinterpreting something just apparently seen as in
fact illusory, then so be it. Hookway puts this point well:
What we experience is not just a clash between our beliefs and our
experience; we often experience incoherence within the experience itself,
which simultaneously involves anticipations and thwarts those very
anticipations. The fact that, in these cases, “the perceptual judgment,
and the percept itself, seems to keep shifting from one general aspect
to another and back again” (CP 5.183) shows that the percept is not
“entirely free from . . . characters that are proper to interpretations.”
(CP 5.184) (2012, 17)
Thus future experience can, at least in part, literally determine previous
experience. Although it might seem an obvious homily that “experience just
shows us what is right in front of us,” in Peirce’s understanding of per-
ception, remarkably, “nothing at all . . . is absolutely confrontitional”—
although he does us the favor of adding, “although it is quite true that the
confrontitional is continually flowing in upon us” (CP 7.653, 1903).
Idealism Operationalized  51
Idealism Operationalized
The title of this paper promised an “idealism operationalized”—an account
of how pragmatism (far from its original popular picture as a slapdash philos-
ophy dismissive of anything but immediate practical concerns, and tangible
material objects—see Misak 2013, 99–105) might motivate the idea that real-
ity is in some sense representational. This “identity between mind and world”
is one of idealism’s defining ideas, and the idea scares many philosophers.
Redding well describes how part of the creation myth of analytic philosophy
consists in founding fathers Russell and Moore staking a claim (against Brit-
ish Hegelians) that “fact is independent of experience” (2010, 2).
We might perhaps soothe some of the fear by viewing the idea of reality
as representational in a metaphysical key, as meaning merely that predi-
cates have some role to play in charting ontological commitment, not just
Quine’s bound variables. Thus, the world contains yellowness as well as
yellow things. (Surely if the world contains yellow things it must also con-
tain yellowness? This is an old, old story.) Peirce’s labeling of his scholastic
realism as Objective Idealism has been noted. For instance, Robert Stern
(2011 and 2013) has explored ways in which Peirce and Hegel share an
Aristotelian moderate realism about universals, which assumes that world
and mind share a common structure.
But whether it be Subjective or Objective, idealism and its fellow-­
travelling rationalism have always seemed to have as their Achilles heel a
failure to acknowledge that some primal confrontation between the mind
and the world’s objects is what perception actually consists in.9
The need
to acknowledge this would seem to be one major reason Kant felt obliged
to adjoin a separate faculty of sensible intuition to the understanding, in
order to avoid what McDowell nicely describes as “a frictionless spinning
in a void” (McDowell 1994b, 11). Redding also builds the primal confron-
tation into his philosophy through his account of perception de re as an
encounter with a (pre-given) specific individual, and he embeds an intuition-
concept dualism in his Hegelian distinction between perceptual judgments
understood as judgments of inherence, as opposed to reflective judgments
understood as judgments of subsumption. Peirce mediates this dualism into
a unitary account of judgment by noting that although percept and per-
ceptual judgment share no content, nevertheless the perceptual judgment
serves as an index or true symptom of the percept, which unifies the two in
a percipuum constituting a single signifier which has both sensory feel and
logical purport (as all Peircean signs do).
What makes this an idealism operationalized, though—what makes this
a distinctive contribution from pragmatism to idealism—is the role played
in Peirce’s theory of perception by habit.10
It is habit (continually refined
and corrected) that laces the perceptual judgment to the percept over time,
enabling the former to stably index—and then even correct—the latter.
Habit is the ur-ingredient of mental life for the pragmatist, as idea is for
52  Catherine Legg
the British Empiricist. In the form of a habit we are able to experience a
universal “from the inside,” not as metaphysical theory but as lived expe-
rience. Within this lived experience, the rational fluidity of the perceptual
judgment-percept nexus (and the fact that the fluidity is two-way, percepts
modifying perceptual judgments and vice versa) can even be exposed and
studied in certain optical illusions. The revisable nature of the percept itself
means that on this theory of perception “nothing at all . . . is absolutely con-
frontitional.” In this regard, then, it still seems appropriate to call Peirce a
hyper-inferentialist (as our perceptions do not “bottom out” in any ultimate
set of represented objects). At the same time, frictionless spinning in the void
is avoided because the indexical nature of the process of perception (as the
percipuum is continually formed and reshaped) ensures that “the confron-
titional is continually flowing in upon us” (CP 7.653, 1903). In this way a
representational function is recapitulated within perception and it seems
inappropriate to call Peirce a hyper-inferentialist if that term is understood
not merely to claim that mental content involves “inferences all the way
down,” but to ban any representational function from it. But the latter is an
extreme position which, although it is in fact claimed by Brandom, seems
an overreaction to the arguments which he cites in its support, as has been
astutely pointed out by McDowell.11
Redding argued that Hegel’s “idealist understanding of logical form” ran
deeper than Kant’s in recognizing that Mind is essentially embodied and
located, and therefore perspectival. Peirce’s understanding arguably dives
deeper still in distributing across the space of reasons (and thus Being) not
just Mind’s characteristic features of embodiedness and locatedness, but
also its infinite corrigibility.
Notes
	 1	 The two middle sections of this paper are taken from a longer paper with a differ-
ent focus—on perceiving mathematical truth: “ 
‘Things Unreasonably Compul-
sory’: A Peircean Challenge to a Humean Theory of Perception: Particularly with
Respect to Perceiving Necessary Truths.” Cognitio, 15:1, 89–112. I am grateful
to Cognitio and its editor Professor Ivo Ibri for kind permission to reprint these
sections here. This version of those sections has some minor typographic and
clarificatory changes. Material from this paper was presented (in two different
forms) at both the 2014 Peirce Congress and the Bridging Traditions: Ideal-
ism and Pragmatism Conference, Goethe University, Frankfurt, Germany. I am
grateful to participants at both conferences for helping me clarify and develop
my ideas, in particular: Gary Richmond, Robert Stern, Christopher Hookway,
Gabriele Gava, Jean-Marie Chevalier, Neil Williams, and Joshua Black. For stim-
ulating discussions at a colloquium at University of Nevada at Las Vegas, I am
grateful to David Beisecker, James Woodbridge, and David Forman. For recent
interesting conversations about Peirce’s theory of perception, I am grateful to
André Sant’Anna.
	 2	 Levine has noted that although Brandom obviously clearly understands a notion
of experience as “not best thought of as the possession of items of knowledge,
but as . . . a kind of adaptive attunement to the environment,” he does not accept
it (Levine 2012, p. 129).
Idealism Operationalized  53
	 3	 For classic texts, see Russell (1912) and Ayer (1956). For a particularly nuanced
account, see Sellars (1982).
	 4	In (Treatise 1739–40/1978, 1, I, ii, 67) Hume also mentions the formation of
“secondary ideas, which are images of the primary,” but assures the reader that
these, too, derive ultimately from impressions.
	 5	 In this way, Peirce’s concept of the percept seems close to Charles Travis’s account
of “The Silence of the Senses” (2004).
	 6	 For a nice, clear explication of this idea, and tracing of it through Peirce’s phi-
losophy, see Hookway (2002). One aspect Hookway does not highlight is that
the composite photograph might be understood as capturing a distinctively
iconic kind of generality which corresponds to Peirce’s category of Firstness, as
opposed to a more conceptual understanding of generality as “extension of an
idea” that might correspond to Peirce’s category of Thirdness.
	 7	 In appreciating this point, I have benefitted from extended philosophical conver-
sations with Joshua Black.
	 8	 At this point it might be protested that, if it is possible for the yellow chair per-
cept to disappear, what did it consist in when it was present? Consistently with
the searching integrity of Rosenthal’s pragmatic analysis of perception’s truth-
conditions, one must concede that this question will have to be answered by the
perceiver in their particular context over time. I hope to address this question
more fully in a future publication which places Peirce’s theory of perception in its
lineage of Reidian direct realism. I am grateful to James Woodbridge for pressing
me on this point.
	9	For the influence of this idea at the birth of analytic philosophy, see Hylton
(1990, 105–166).
	
10	 How best to understand the concept of habit in the pragmatist tradition is wor-
thy of a paper in itself. The interested reader is referred to Shapiro (1973) and
Miller (1996) in the first instance.
	
11	 “Inferentialism is nothing if not a general thesis. That semantic insights can be
achieved in this or that particular area by focusing on inferences does not vindi-
cate inferentialism. It is compatible with the view that semantic concepts come in
a package, each intelligible partly in terms of the others, rather than conforming
to the foundational structure that inferentialism envisages” (McDowell 2005,
138, and see also McDowell 1997).
The word ‘gesture’ can be derived from the Latin gerere, agere—to bring
forth, to execute, to show, to behave. The gesture is the pragmatic unity par
excellence: It produces a practical behavior and it triggers a social response.
There is a well-known story about Piero Sraffa using a gesture that caused
Wittgenstein to overturn totally his own representative theory about lan-
guage (Monk 1990, Chapter 11). Wittgenstein had written in the Tractatus
that a proposition and what it describes must have the same “logical form”
(1922, §2.18). But, as Malcolm relates, Sraffa—the well-known Italian
economist linked to Marxism and to Gramsci, in particular1
—once “made
a gesture, familiar to Neapolitans as meaning something like disregard or
contempt, by brushing the underneath of his chin with an outward sweep
of the finger-tips of one hand. And he asked: ‘What is the logical form of
that?’ 
” (2001, 83). Later, in the introduction to Philosophical Investiga-
tions, Wittgenstein mentions discussions he had had with Sraffa many years
prior and says, “I am indebted to this stimulus for the most consequential
ideas in this book” (1953, Preface). When Sraffa put forward the question
of the expressive gesture and of its presumed iconicity, “I felt like a tree from
which all branches have been cut. Yet, ready to blossom again,” Wittgen-
stein added (as reported by Sen 2009, 187).
In this paper I will then face up to a double question: First, what does the
pragmatic force of gestures consist in, a force that is at the basis of the sig-
nificance of symbolic and conventional order (rather than being a derivate
of it)? And second, how can we define the semiotic horizon that makes us
understand gestures as if they were iconic figures? Gestures have a strong
iconic resonance, that Peirce can very well help us to explicate; yet this
iconism takes its roots in a practice of mimicry that is not at all an analogi-
cal and natural correspondence to the facts of the world.
Let us recall that Aristotle considers the process of mimicry as funda-
mental in the construction of human expressiveness. In Chapter four of his
Poetics, he writes that man is the most imitative of all animals and that he
learns his first lessons through mimicry. Likely, Peirce was referring to this
when he writes that “in the earliest form of speech, there probably was a
large element of mimicry. But in all languages known, such representations
5	 The Iconic Ground of Gestures
Peirce, Wittgenstein, and Foucault
Rossella Fabbrichesi
The Iconic Ground of Gestures  55
have been replaced by conventional auditory signs. These, however, are such
that they can only be explained by icons” (CP 2.280).2
To introduce the theme of gesture, I wish to refer to George Herbert
Mead, a writer within the pragmatist tradition, who was involved in the
most thematic way in this issue and who defined “vocal gesture” (1934,
61) as the phonetic element of language, or verbal icon, consistent with the
above Peircean definition.
Starting from the early years of his lecturing activity, George Herbert
Mead3
firmly believed that each and every behavior stems from a gesture,
which is to be considered as the germinative nucleus of the act. We might
start from here in order to explain every anthropological form of structur-
ing: from the social act, which is not willed, intentioned, or decided, but
which simply gets made. The crucial datum in psychology, as Mead noticed,
is the act, not the individual trait, and the act is a complex “organic” pro-
cess, socially rooted (1934, 8). It is never exerted singularly but demands
a shared and publicly recognized practice. The gesture, then, is initially the
simple incentive that triggers a social response. It is the gesture that enables
the reciprocal adjustments between different individual organisms and
“pro-vokes” an appropriate response, such that every organism performs
its own part and contributes to the constitution of the act in its wholeness
and by producing a behavioral analogy. No gesture is given as exterioriza-
tion of a process of thought: Simply, the act is the whole, and it is also the
primum from which one must start.
If read under a philosophical perspective, Mead’s path leads us to say,
along with Carlo Sini,4
that the gesture works as a true world-openness,
inasmuch as it inscribes a primeval nucleus of in fieri praxis. The gesture is
an emergence that changes the surrounding horizon, by tracing in it the fur-
row of a path: “The gesture is the happening of that border, of that thresh-
old, so that there is something to do, that is, there is something to respond
and correspond to what happens” (Sini 1996, 20). It is the pragmatic unity
par excellence, in that it is a “grapheme,” a writing of the body and, all
together, of the world (Sini 1996, 20), or, better, the birthplace of these two
polarities that are going to subsequently depart from each other. As Sini
writes, “The gesture is not ‘someone’s gesture’; to the contrary, each and
everyone is entrusted to the event of the gesture which articulates it and puts
it into being in the oscillation of the distance: provenance from an openness
which is direction towards an object” (Sini 1996, 21). In its opening itself
up, the gesture calls for an answer: It lays out the harmonic threshold of the
responding and of the co(r)responding, so allowing the syntony, the iconic-
ity, the shared resonance of living beings.
According to Mead, in this pragmatist tradition the gesture is not the
expression of emotional states, or of consciousness, as Darwin had believed:
Contrary to Darwin, however, we find no evidence for the prior exis-
tence of consciousness as something which brings about behavior on the
56  Rossella Fabbrichesi
part of one organism that is of such a sort as to call forth an adjustive
response on the part of another organism, without itself being dependent
on such behavior. We are rather forced to conclude that consciousness is
an emergent from such behavior; that so far from being a precondition of
the social act, the social act is a precondition of it. The mechanism of the
social act can be traced out without introducing into it the conception of
consciousness as a separable element within that act.
(1934, 17–18)
The gesture simply means “what you are going to do about it. It does not
mean what [you are] thinking about or even [your] emotion” (1934, 49).
The same thing happens—although with a stronger reciprocity—when we
silently answer a glance cast in our direction: Enticed into a “common
place,” we find ourselves somehow compelled to respond, to do something,
that is, to take part in the act, to meet in a certain practice, as when we
instinctively catch a ball that has been thrown at us. We are attuned to the
gestural openness of the other—even if only by lowering our eyes—and it is
just this mutual co(r)respondence that determines the subsequent relation,
with its symbolic and mediated practice.
With phenomenological subtlety, Mead analyzes these steps of progres-
sive reciprocal adjustment and suggests that consciousness comes “ex
post,” so to speak, that it rises up as an outcome of these adjustments,
as a specialization designed to achieve a better syntony. Gestures do not
presuppose consciousness. Rather, consciousness is the product of the acts
becoming more and more symbolical, complex and reciprocal, a real prod-
uct of con-science (etymologically: “to know together”).5
Mind itself arises
through communication by a “conversation of gestures” (1934, II.7) in a
social ­
process—not communication through mind. The pragmatic act is
then the outright “real fact,” a fact straightforwardly social and surely not
given as a bare datum.
Let us come to Peirce: Mead had no doubt started from some of Peirce’s
semiotic and pragmatic suggestions. Peirce’s analysis of signs offers, in fact,
many elements to treat the theme of gestures in human cultures, although
he rarely directly dealt with the subject. It can be easily shown that there
is an iconic and metaphoric root in any kind of gesture—that the nature of
gesture is not only indexical and symbolic. Gestures are to be considered
as pure tones (or Firstnesses), but tones that are highly qualified: “A tone
or gesture is often the most definite part of what is said” (CP 3.568). Or
they are to be considered as indexes (Secondnesses): “the index is not of
the nature of a noun. It may be, as we have seen, a mere look or gesture”
(CP 2.338). And, of course, gestures can be read as symbolic signs—as we
learn from Sraffra’s example. In any case, gestures represent a synthesis of
a larger semiotic process, and a pragmatic tool of great relevance. Besides,
Peirce would have agreed with Mead on the priority of sign-gestures over
the constitution of consciousness and mind.
The Iconic Ground of Gestures  57
But what exactly does their representative power consist in? When Peirce
refers to mimicry, what does he refer to? Let us remember that in Peirce the
icon is not trivially the image but a “pure possibility,” a Firstness that is an
Icon purely by its quality (CP 2.276) and that refers to an object considered
as a pure Firstness.6
Let us then pause briefly over the iconism of signs, particularly of the ges-
tural sign. According to Peirce, what is given, in a sense phenomenologically
primary, is always a sign relation. But the first relation is above all an inter-
nal relation, as we read in On a New List of Categories (CP 1.545–567),
namely the relation of likeness: It defines a ground that allows an other
(a correlate, an object) to emerge as the same (a sign for likeness). As a
pure possibility of reference, iconicity is given as a relation that is neither
comparative (namely, Secondness) nor interpretative (Thirdness); it does not
specify concrete objects but paves the way for their individuation and con-
stitution. Hence, icons are analyzed by Peirce as First, “Original” signs (CP
2.90–91). In icons he attempts to trace the source of the process of significa-
tion. Iconism is, therefore, more a transcendental and constitutive feature
than a particular aspect of the working of the sign. To use Eco’s words, “the
icon is a phenomenon that founds all possible judgment of likeness, but it
cannot be founded on likeness itself” (2000, 103). This can be outlined by
speaking of a “protosemiotic disposition” towards encounter (2000, 109)
or, even, in a new sense, of adaequatio (2000, 106–109).7
But what, exactly, does a gesture like Sraffa’s represent? What is it simi-
lar to, or adequate to? Here is where Wittgenstein’s question re-emerges,
a question that, as is well known, he solved in this way: At the bottom of
our knowledge there are not logical abstract forms that picture facts. There
is no knowing but as knowing how to do, inside a certain kind of form of
life. This is the primary ground, the one in which the practice (the praxis, in
Sraffa’s Gramscian words) has to speak for itself (Wittgenstein 1974, §139).
The gestures we make in our most immediate practices represent nothing
but our capacity to be part of our world. They are not iconic of the facts (or
expressions of the propositional forms) but of the habits and life’s forms in
which we are involved. With them they establish internal relations: “Giving
grounds, however, justifying the evidence, comes to an end;—but the end
is not certain propositions striking us immediately as true, i.e. it is not a
kind of seeing on our part; it is our acting, which lies at the bottom of the
language-game” (Wittgenstein 1974, §204).8
In the beginning was the deed
(Im Anfang war die Tat, quoting from Goethe’s Faust). The act, the gesture:
that is, the first icon, the first possibility of world-openness, the first inscrip-
tion of the world.9
Here pragmatics meets semiotics.
On this level, I think that the considerations by the great infant psy-
chologist Daniel Stern (1985) could be useful, too. According to him, an
affective resonance between mother and infant is produced through “attun-
ement,” that is, through the ability of the caretaker to match the rhythm
and cadence of the infant’s cries in a continuous connection performed
58  Rossella Fabbrichesi
during daily care practices. For example, an infinite number of times the
mother may propose rhythmic “themes” in her games with the newborn,
and an infinite number of times the child will vary them with his crossed
glances, lallations, and cries. The reciprocal discovery of each other will be
produced in the syntony between a glance and a gesture, a gesture and a
movement, a movement and a vocal reply. Children are masters at finding
“the internal relation of depiction” (Wittgenstein 1922, §4.014) existing
between a gesture and a shared world. Here it is not really here a matter
of imitation but of an “affect contagion,” writes Stern, of a gestural prag-
matics, a conversation of gestures (as Mead has already noticed) which
has little to do with the cognitive involvement. It is about the ability to
echo and to be the mirror of a sympathetic “ethos.” It is an “affect attun-
ement.” This does not mean representing or building icons of the world,
but rather “being” an icon: “The great mirror of the world” (Wittgenstein
1922, §5.511). Peirce uses the same term—attunement—in a cosmologi-
cal sense that does nothing but widen Stern’s same considerations: “Man’s
mind must have been attuned to the truth of things in order to discover
what he has discovered. It is the very bedrock of logical truth” (CP 6.476).
This is the plane of certainty, as Wittgenstein thought. This is the plane of
a well-grounded pragmatics that is first of all revealed in the gestures by
which we inscribe our route in the world.
This “tropism for the truth” (Rescher 1978, 47) is iconically grounded,
in Peirce’s opinion: There is an “affinity of the human soul to the soul of
the universe” (CP 5.47). Peirce writes, “it is somehow more than a mere
figure of speech to say that nature fecundates the mind of man with ideas
which, when those ideas grow up, will resemble their father, Nature” (CP
5.591). This position is not an endorsement of “naturalism,” or adaequatio,
in my opinion, but, more properly, of the belief in a fundamental tuning,
in a resonance between man’s practices and the world in which he lives,
or, better, between life and its forms. In this sense, any signification has an
iconic-mimetic foundation. Any gesture has an iconic ground: It contains
something that can be experienced only in mimetic re-enactment.
Finally, we can say that in our gestures we disclose truth. Michel Foucault
firmly believed this at the end of his life, expressed in his last course at the
Collège de France in 1984, under the title The Courage of Truth (2011).
There, he resumed his discussion of Socratic and Cynical thought and talked
about parrhesia, the will to profess the truth and to speak freely. In this
sense, the gesture is mostly a parrhesiastic sign, a sign that does not lie. It
is in its basic form proto-semiotic, Eco would say; it is before the possibil-
ity of doubting, of posing true and false, Wittgenstein would say. In fact,
it belongs to the order of praxis, not of logic. It is not by chance that the
gesture, to Peirce, has mostly iconic and indexical characters rather than
symbolical ones. Gestures give tone and figure to the meaning of ideas.
Parrhesia, as Foucault outlines it, has no doubt a pragmatistic imprint.
The philosopher who serves to find truth, who is a mime of truth, as Plato
The Iconic Ground of Gestures  59
wrote, must manifest in his way of life a congruence, an iconism, a tun-
ing among gestures and meanings, between the body, with its bearings and
manners, and the truth conveyed. There must be homophonia between what
we say and the way we live, between thought and behavior, because we
teach and pass on what we are in our living existence and makings, not what
we know or present in verbal argument. Gestures are the visible theater of
truth (Foucault 2011, 330), and the philosopher must be, in his form of
life, a living statue of that truth. Socrates is mousikos aner, a musician who
makes the harmony between bios (life) and logos (discourse) resonate. The
test of the truth expressed is the life of the one who speaks, together with
his attuned gestures and acts. The real correspondence is not between words
and facts but between words and actions. It is not, then, sufficient that truth
be expressed by words. It must be acted. It must transform into habits, take
form in a corporeal life, in an existence, in a praxis. This is the teaching not
only of the pragmatistic school, but also of the hermeneutical one starting
from Nietzsche and extending to the later Foucault. Philosophy must return
to being a form of life, and to witness in practice its ideas.
Foucault indicates the fundamental problem of philosophy’s obsession
with the world of ideas: “There can be truth only in the form of the other
world and the other life” (Foucault 2011, 323). He actually reads it in an
inverted formulation: There can be truth only in the form of a life of truth.
The iconic ground of gestures points us in the direction of a truth that does
not necessarily rely on discourse but coincides with the practices of truth-
making that we exercise in our being-in-the-world, as the Cynics taught.
After the linguistic turn, a part of contemporary philosophy seems, then, to
have proceeded towards a pragmatistic turn: a philosophy of (or in) practice.
Notes
	1	A volume recently appeared in Italy that shows very well the link between
Gramsci’s notion of praxis and “practice” in Wittgensteinian texts (see F. Lo
Piparo, Il Professor Gramsci e Wittgenstein. Il linguaggio e il potere, 2014).
Lo Piparo makes reference to the thesis of Amartya Sen (Sen 2009), for whom
Gramsci, the Marxist thinker incarcerated by the Fascists, was the real inspirer
of the Philosophical Investigations. Sraffa, who lived and taught in Cambridge,
visited Gramsci in jail and reported to Wittgenstein his thought about language,
grammar, and praxis. In fact, praxis, and not practice, was the German word
used by Wittgenstein in relation to the linguistic games in their concrete use in
the forms of life.
	 2	 Here is the complete quotation: “That icons of the algebraic kind, though usu-
ally very simple ones, exist in all ordinary grammatical propositions is one of the
philosophic truths that the Boolean logic brings to light. In all primitive writing,
such as the Egyptian hieroglyphics, there are icons of a non-logical kind, the
ideographs. In the earliest form of speech, there probably was a large element of
mimicry. But in all languages known, such representations have been replaced
by conventional auditory signs. These, however, are such that they can only be
explained by icons. But in the syntax of every language there are logical icons of
the kind that are aided by conventional rules” (CP 2.280–282).
60  Rossella Fabbrichesi
	 3	 Mead worked between 1891 and 1931, the year of his untimely death, almost
entirely at University of Chicago, where, together with Dewey, he set up a famous
school inspired by the principles of Pragmatism and social psychology. Active in
social and political affairs, he wrote just a few articles in specialized journals,
still without managing to produce any monograph. His most interesting produc-
tion has been posthumously collected by his pupils: from Mind, Self and Society,
a transcription of his most relevant academic lectures to The Philosophy of the
Present and further to the important and not yet well-known Philosophy of the
Act. See especially, among others, Hans Joas, G. H. Mead. A Contemporary Re-
examination of his Thought (1997).
	 4	 My reading follows the path proposed by C. Sini, mainly in his Gli abiti, le prat-
iche, i saperi (1996). See also, by this author in an English translation, Ethics of
Writing (2009).
	 5	 I remind the reader that the etymological root of the word is cum-scientia or, as
Tertullian used to put it, communis complurium scientia.
	6	“An Icon is a Representamen whose Representative Quality is a Firstness of
it as a First. That is, a quality that it has qua thing renders it fit to be a repre-
sentamen. Thus, anything is fit to be a Substitute for anything that it is like. . . .
A sign by Firstness is an image of its object and, more strictly speaking, can only
be an idea. . . . But, most strictly speaking, even an idea except in the sense of a
possibility, or Firstness, cannot be an Icon. A possibility alone is an icon purely
by virtue of its quality; and its object can only be a Firstness. But a sign may be
iconic, that is, may represent its object mainly by its similarity, no matter what
is its mode of being. If a substantive be wanted, an iconic representamen may be
termed an hypoicon. Any material image, as a painting, is largely conventional in
its mode of representation; but in itself, without legend or label, it may be called
a hypoicon” (CP 2.276). This long passage contains Peirce’s mature theory of the
icon. It would be necessary to summarize many references to it, but it seems to
me immediately clear that in his view iconicity is manifested at three levels: (1) as
a pure relational Firstness, pure possibility or quality, considered as a category in
the Peircean sense; (2) as an idea or object of vision (that is, in the exact Greek
sense of eidos); (3) only in the final sense as an hypoicon, a conventionally rep-
resentative iconic sign. Among the latter Peirce includes diagrams, and then adds
images and metaphors. On this point, see also Fabbrichesi (2012).
	7	Adaequatio intellectus et rei (correspondence between mind and reality) is the
definition of truth, enlightened by Thomas Aquinas and other Medieval thinkers.
	 8	 “Why do I not satisfy myself that I have two feet when I want to get up from a
chair? There is no why. I simply don’t. This is how I act” (Wittgenstein 1974,
§148). “Now I would like to regard this certainty, not as something akin to
hastiness or superficiality, but as a form of life. (That is very badly expressed and
probably badly thought as well)” (Wittgenstein 1974, §358).
	 9	 It is the certain immediacy of any pragmatic habit: “If I say ‘Of course I know
that that’s a towel’ I am making an utterance (Äusserung). I have no thought of
a verification. For me it is an immediate utterance: I don’t think of past or future
(And of course it’s the same for Moore, too). It is just like directly taking hold
of something, as I take hold of my towel without having doubts” (Wittgenstein
1974, §510).
Mimesis, usually understood as the artistic imitation or copying of nature,
was the central concept of Western aesthetic theory from antiquity until
the invention of photography and the rise of modern art in the nineteenth
century. Modern theories of aesthetics, however, have found the concept of
little use in comprehending the near-perfect visual mimesis of photography,
at one extreme, and the avowedly non-representational character of much
modern art, at the other. At the same time, it is notable how many non-
mimetic modern theories of art have been proposed (formalism, expression-
ism, the institutional theory, and so on) with no consensus that any of them
ultimately provides an adequate understanding of the modern arts.
In his 1964 article “The Artworld,” Arthur Danto observes that the simple
definition of art as mimesis flourished, in spite of Plato’s apparently harsh
rejection of it, until the mid-nineteenth century. He speculates that “because
artists were engaged in imitation, in Socrates’ time and after, the insufficiency
of the theory was not noticed until the invention of photography. Once
rejected as a sufficient condition, mimesis was quickly discarded as even a
necessary one” (417).1
Danto’s account oversimplifies the history of mimesis
(Halliwell 2002, 369–370), but his basic point is right. That art has some-
thing fundamentally to do with mimesis (i.e., accurately imitating, copying,
enacting, or otherwise representing something outside the artwork) for a
long time seemed so obvious that it took the invention of ­
photography—with
its apparent perfect visual representation of visible objects—to throw this
assumption into question.2
Once it was thrown into question, however, and
after absorbing artists’ varied efforts to come to grips with the high-fidelity
mimesis of mechanical reproduction, we are now in a position to consider
just how subtle the original idea of mimesis had been all along.3
Peircean semeiotics provides a framework within which we can under-
stand mimesis as literally fundamental to artistic representation (and hence
a necessary condition, recalling Danto) but not definitive of the artist’s
work. Mimesis, as traditionally understood, is a name for various kinds of
iconicity. Examining it as such allows us to understand the various conflict-
ing accounts of mimesis, as aspects of one kind of sign-action, and indeed
the most fundamental kind. Moreover, when we understand mimesis as
6	 Foundations for
Semeiotic Aesthetics
Mimesis and Iconicity
Kelly A. Parker
62  Kelly A. Parker
iconicity, we discover the formal indication of a kind of art that was not
conceived in traditional mimetic theory but that any modern aesthetics must
take into consideration. Conceiving mimesis as a form of iconicity suggests
an aesthetic theory in which abstract, non-representational art is situated in
relation to more traditional kinds of work.
The Problem of Mimesis: More than the
“Imitation of Nature”
Two ancient texts dominate the history of thought about mimesis. The first
is from Book 10 of Plato’s Republic, where Socrates rather sarcastically dis-
misses the idea that imitative visual art has any worth whatsoever: “You could
do it most quickly if you should choose to take a mirror and carry it about
everywhere. You will speedily produce the sun and all the things in the sky,
and speedily the earth and yourself and the other animals and implements and
plants and all [other] objects” (1961, 596d–e). The second is the story, related
by Pliny the Elder, of a great painting competition. The first master, Zeuxis,
created a picture of grapes that, when it was hung up for display, proved so
realistic that birds flew up to it hoping to feed. His opponent, Parrhasius, then
displayed a painting of curtains. Zeuxis, impatient with what he thought to
be a dramatic flourish and eager to claim his victory, called for the curtains to
be pulled aside so that the painting beneath might be judged. Astonished at
his error, Zeuxis declared Parrhasius the winner on the basis that “whereas he
had deceived birds, Parrhasius had deceived him, an artist” (Potolsky 2006,
92). As engaging as these two accounts of mimesis are, they both present
mimesis as a very simple dualistic affair: an image, on one side, that accurately
represents a separate external reality on the other. This dualism leads us into
a deep muddle that Peircean semeiotics can solve.
Recent work on classical concepts of mimesis, particularly those of Plato
and Aristotle, actually suggests a more nuanced, though still dualistic,
notion of mimesis that extends well beyond simple imitation or copying of
reality. On these readings, mimesis is better understood as a sophisticated
representation of form—whether of actual form already embodied in an
existent object or of an ideal or fictional form that transcends particular
existents. Stephen Halliwell provides the following list of ten main uses of
mimesis cognates as they appear in Plato’s dialogues:
(a)	 Linguistic: language reflects the essence of things.
(b)	 Philosophical: the philosopher’s thought aspires to provide a copy of
truth—the mimesis of an external model.
(c)	 Cosmic: the material world may in various ways stand in a mimetic
relation to eternal models.
(d)	 Visual: the painter’s mimesis pictures the appearances of things.
(e)	 Mimicry: the voice and the body can be used to reproduce certain prop-
erties of the animal and natural world.
Mimesis and Iconicity  63
(f)	 Behavioural: ordinary imitation or emulation.
(g)	 Impersonatory: the (non-artistic) acting out of a role.
(h)	 Poetic: apart from unspecified references to poetic mimesis, Plato usu-
ally treats poetry either as an art of verbal image-making, comparable
to the painter’s, or (in some of its forms) as a special case of (g) above,
i.e. dramatic impersonation.
(i)	 Musical: musical modes and structures can give expression to certain
human actions and experiences (It is sometimes impossible to disen-
tangle music from poetry in Plato’s references to mousikê.)
(j)	 Choreographic: dancers can act out representations of human life.
(Halliwell 1998, 121).
All of these might be considered as various techniques of mirroring or copy-
ing, of course. Halliwell goes further, however, to identify two main views
of how mimesis functions in traditional accounts. On the first view, which is
Plato’s own ostensibly favored notion, mimesis is a matter of “depicting and
illuminating a world that is (partly) accessible and knowable outside art,
and by whose norms art can therefore, within limits, be tested and judged.”
On the second view, championed by Aristotle, mimesis is “the creator of an
independent artistic heterocosm, a world of its own, though one that . . .
may still purport to contain some kind of ‘truth’ about, or grasp of, reality
as a whole” (2002, 5).
These two kinds of mimesis are distinguished by their implicit connection
to different views of the purpose of art. The first view holds that art depicts
and illuminates the world as it actually is. It is crucial to note that, for Plato,
the world “as it actually is” is a world of intelligible forms that lies beyond
the grasp of the senses and their unstable material objects; the linguistic,
philosophical, and cosmic versions of mimesis in Plato—the first three on
Halliwell’s list—are especially important here. Thus, Plato’s facile apparent
rejection of visual art as mere mirroring in Republic 10 is far from the whole
story (again following Halliwell 2002, Chapter 4). As Halliwell notes, even
the literal use of a mirror to reflect an image of the existent world involves
selection, framing, and attention—so much so that such champions of visual
realism as Leon Battista Alberti and Leonardo da Vinci actually recom-
mended that painters use mirrors as an aid to seeing the world (Halliwell
2002, 144–146). The same principles are at work in many contemporary
artists’ use of photographs in their creative process. The second view holds
that art presents an imagined world, one that connects to and extends our
understanding of the experienced world in significant ways. As Aristotle
explains in differentiating history from poetry,
the distinction between historian and poet is not in the one writing
prose and the other verse—you might put the work of Herodotus into
verse, and it would still be a species of history; it consists really in this,
that the one describes the thing that has been, and the other a kind
64  Kelly A. Parker
of thing that might be. Hence poetry is something more philosophic
and of graver import than history, since its statements are rather of the
nature of universals, whereas those of history are singulars. By a uni-
versal statement I mean one as to what such or such a kind of man will
probably or necessarily say or do.
(1984, Poetics 1451b 1–9)
This attempt of the Aristotelian artist to portray what is probable or neces-
sary thus takes mimetic representation away from the actual world (Peircean
Secondness) and into the realm of habit and law (Thirdness). The goal here
is not perfect fidelity to a carefully selected slice of reality but verisimilitude.
Both views of mimesis have been continually influential throughout the
history of thought about art, and of course they have not always lived a
peaceful coexistence. Halliwell observes,
the romantic challenge to neoclassicism sharpened this divergence into
apparently unmanageable polarization. Yet through and beyond this
polarization mimesis has tenaciously remained a focus for a number
of key issues in aesthetics and criticism, as well as in broader perspec-
tives on culture. The main reason for this situation, I believe, is that to
think about mimesis, as the concept has been developed . . . is to come
up against hard, foundational, and permanently worthwhile questions
about artistic meaning, and, ultimately perhaps, about the status of
meaning tout court.
(2002, 371)
Indeed, mimesis lies in wait at the bottom of any inquiry into the meaning of
an artwork. Every work presents, represents, references, or otherwise signi-
fies something, some object other than itself; whether the object is actual or
ideal, whether it is referenced positively via resemblance or negatively via
différance or erasure, mimesis is involved. When we come down to the core
question of mimesis, though—when we ask what it means for one thing
to be “like” another—we find ourselves desperately reasserting a series of
circular, question-begging relational terms. The work resembles its object
in shape, or color, or size—but what is it for one shape/color/size to be like
another shape/color/size? They have the same proportions, or reflect similar
wavelengths of light, or have the same extension in space . . . but now what
does it mean for proportion or wavelength or extension to be similar? The
first seasons of “Sons of Anarchy” have the same plot as Hamlet4
—but
what is it for a plot to be the same in two otherwise very different stories?
Surely plot elements are even less objectively measureable than extension,
after all. The flute player replicates the sound of a bird, the dancer portrays
the spirit of joy—and so on. At bottom, we run into an unanalyzable rela-
tion of “a is like b.” Logic has its primitive relations, of which identity, “a
is a,” is fundamental. Here, I suggest, we have a similar primitive. Rather
Mimesis and Iconicity  65
than logical identity, though, we are dealing with something more supple,
something that Danto called “the is of artistic identification” (1964, 420).
This is is what allows us to say of an image of a man on screen in heavy
makeup and a strange costume, “that is King Lear”—a well-known but of
course entirely fictional character.
Mimesis as Iconicity
Charles S. Peirce’s account of iconicity provides the means for us to bet-
ter understand this primitive notion of mimesis as representation of form.
This approach allows several significant moves toward a more satisfac-
tory aesthetic theory. First, the processive and triadic nature of all Peircean
semeiotic representation (including iconicity) establishes the basis for a non-
dualistic, non-hypostasizing account of mimesis and of art. The represen-
tation relation is not reduced to the simple but problematic “a is like b,”
and neither the work nor the object it represents is regarded as a static,
irreducible given.5
Second, it allows us to explain why mimesis was long
considered central to aesthetics, and why it was (mistakenly) dismissed as
irrelevant with the invention of photography. Articulating mimesis as the
iconic representation of form suggests a way to reintroduce the concept to
aesthetic theory. An advantage of this reintroduction is that mimesis high-
lights an objectively discernible relation between the artwork and what it
represents—a connection that is usually downplayed or altogether repudi-
ated in modern aesthetic theories—and makes this connection central to
aesthetic analysis. The reintroduction of mimesis thus affords some conti-
nuity between a contemporary aesthetics and the old mimetic theories that
preceded it. Finally, understanding mimesis in terms of iconicity allows us
to unify the two sides of classical mimesis—as copying the existent or as
envisioning the ideal—under a comprehensive account of iconic representa-
tion of form. Into the bargain, we find a place for non-representational art,
which relies upon a third type of mimesis that in turn relies on a third kind
of iconic representation.
In examining Aristotle’s notion that music actually incorporates feel-
ings that can move or change the soul, Halliwell suggests that the mimesis
involved here is the work of an iconic sign in precisely Peirce’s sense. He
goes on to observe, “it is no necessary part of a Peircean conception of
iconicity that iconic signs . . . should register in this way” (2002, 160–161).
Icons can have this effect; that they do in particular cases is a matter of their
connections to other signs at work in the interpretive process, and especially
to those signs that define the interpretive purpose driving a semeiotic pro-
cess. Iconicity is the foundation of artistic meaning, but it is not the whole
structure.
In a discussion of Susanne Langer’s similar account of the emotional
effect of music—which rests upon the premise that “the tonal structures we
call ‘music’ bear a close logical similarity to the forms of human feeling”
66  Kelly A. Parker
(Langer, quoted in Reichling 2004, 25)—Mary J. Reichling suggests that
this logical similarity be understood as “isomorphism”:
Music has structure, a framework, an organization of notes, rhythms,
harmonies, tempos, instruments, dynamics, and so forth, that span
over time creating patterns, tensions, rising and falling lines, and all
the various techniques of a musical work. These moving structures or
patterns resemble the movements, tensions, and releases of subjective
life—­
sadness, exuberance, and so forth.
(Reichling 2004, 25)
The music, in short, is isomorphic to our feelings. But this is ultimately
still an inadequate, dualistic explanation. We might as well just say with
Langer that there is a “similarity” or, as in Reichler’s own gloss, that musical
patterns “resemble” feelings. What we need to know is what it means for
something to present, represent, reference, or otherwise signify some object
other than itself by means of its similarity or resemblance or isomorphism.
A little further on in her exploration of musical meaning Reichling strikes
the bottom of this problem, and in doing so (nearly) strikes iconic gold: “My
position is that the feeling inheres in the music and refers to actual feeling”
(Reichling 2004, 26). In other words, music does not isomorphically repre-
sent the feeling; the music embodies the feeling in question and communicates
this feeling directly to the listener. And this feeling—let us go ahead and call it
a form—is itself the same form in both the music and the hearer.
In his phenomenology of drawing and painting, Maurice Merleau-Ponty
likewise discovers form intrinsically present in the work. He goes further,
however, to describe how form comes into the work after having first
been taken up from the world in the artist’s own act of vision. Note how
­
Merleau-Ponty references form (carnal formula or essence) and iconicity in
the following passage, which describes the genesis of the mimetic drawing:
Things have an internal equivalent in me; they arouse in me a carnal for-
mula of their presence. Why shouldn’t these correspondences in turn give
rise to some tracing rendered visible again, in which the eyes of others
could find an underlying motif to sustain their inspection of the world?
Thus there appears a “visible” to the second power, a carnal essence or
icon of the first. It is not a faded copy, a trompe l’oeil, or another thing.
(1993, 126)
With this understanding of the act of mimetic representation as a much
deeper process than mere copying, Merleau-Ponty hints that it is time to
reconsider the importance of mimesis to art more generally:
The word “image” is in bad repute because we have thoughtlessly
believed that it was a tracing, a copy, a second thing, and that the
Mimesis and Iconicity  67
mental image was such a drawing, belonging among our private bric-
a-brac. But if in fact it is nothing of the kind, then neither the drawing
nor the painting belongs to the in-itself any more than the image does.
They are the inside of the outside and the outside of the inside.
(1993, 126)
The artist’s vision is not a mere copy of the world, and neither is the drawing
or painting that is produced by that vision. The artwork does not belong
to the “in-itself”: it is not a mindless object like a buried stone. Rather, it is
more properly understood as belonging to the realm of the “for-itself”—it
partakes in and carries out into the world the consciousness of the minded,
self-aware artist who produced it. It is a dynamic sign-entity. It extends the
artist’s mind into the public realm of the visible, where it can engage and
transform the minds of others.
While neither Reichling nor Langer mentions Peircean icons, and while
Merleau-Ponty characterizes a drawing only in passing as a “carnal essence
or icon” of its object, the process they and Aristotle are all trying to explain
is clearly the work of an iconic sign. Peirce’s account of the icon from the
c. 1894 manuscript “What Is a Sign?” will serve as a starting point for
understanding icons, the signs that embody and convey form in such a
powerful and immediate way: “There are likenesses, or icons, which serve
to convey ideas of the things they represent simply by imitating them”
(EP 2:5). Elsewhere he uses the term resemblance, explaining that, “the
association of ideas is said to proceed according to three principles—those
of resemblance, of contiguity, and of causality” (EP 1:50). Resemblance
here is of course the principle of iconic representation. We now need to
bridge the explanatory gap that exists between our two assertions about
how mimesis and iconicity actually work to convey meaning. On the one
hand, icons rather mysteriously “resemble” or “imitate” their objects; on
the other hand, they do so in virtue of having,6
intrinsically, the very same
form as their object.
The explanation is that the “simple” quality of the image is just that—it
is a complete, distinctive form.7
While we can certainly separate out the
smaller constituent parts of any image—such as the lines and curves in
a graph of a mathematical function—to do so would mean destroying
the form of the graph, and creating images of several other complete and
distinctive forms (of lines and curves). The form presented in the image is
a “First Firstness,” a self-sufficient idea. As Joseph Ransdell has pointed
out, this means that “there is no distinction between an icon and its object
just insofar as the icon is truly iconic with it” (2005, §5). Peirce writes,
“A sign by Firstness is an image of its object and, more strictly speaking,
can only be an idea. For it must produce an Interpretant idea; and an
external object excites an idea by a reaction upon the brain” (CP 2.276).
To say that I “get” (perceive, apprehend, know) the image is to say that I
“get” its simple form or idea, immediately and directly. Peirce provides the
68  Kelly A. Parker
following examples of the immediate apprehension of icons in mathemat-
ics and painting:
Icons are so completely substituted for their objects as hardly to be dis-
tinguished from them. Such are the diagrams of geometry. A diagram,
indeed, so far as it has a general signification, is not a pure icon; but in
the middle part of our reasonings we forget that abstractness in great
measure, and the diagram is for us the very thing. So in contemplating
a painting, there is a moment when we lose the consciousness that it is
not the thing, the distinction of the real and the copy disappears, and it
is for the moment a pure dream,—not any particular existence, and yet
not general. At that moment we are contemplating an icon.
(EP 1:226)8
The form or idea is not extracted from the icon; the icon is identical with the
form or idea. It becomes my thought when there is an appropriate existen-
tial, physical encounter with the material image in the world.9
Crucially, this encounter—if it generates any meaning at all—is a process
of interpretation involving not only the iconic sign and its object but also
my perceiving and interpreting mind. Our previous dead-end, circular talk
of one thing resembling, imitating, or being isomorphic to another is a result
of our thinking of the iconic relation dualistically. As Peirce explains about
the relation of resemblance, though, “any two objects in nature resemble
each other, and indeed in themselves just as much as any other two; it is
only with reference to our senses and needs that one resemblance counts for
more than another” (EP 1:253–254). The resemblance is not in the sign or
its object but in my mind’s bringing them together in thought, in respect of
their inherent properties, and in the context of how those properties can be
accessed by my mind (senses) and turned toward a purpose (need). Peirce
writes, “Resemblance is an identity of characters; and this is the same as to
say that the mind gathers the resembling ideas together into one conception”
(EP 1:254). The particular characters of the object and icon that are gath-
ered together are not the totality of either, but rather “in reference to a sort
of idea, which I have sometimes called the ground of the representation”
(CP 2.228). This ground, as an idea, is the form referred to earlier. Mimesis
conceived as iconicity is thus an irreducibly triadic process of iconic rep-
resentation, undertaken in a context and for a purpose.10
The represented
form is in the object, sign vehicle, and interpretant simultaneously—but it is
there because of the emergence of this particular interpretant. As Eduardo
Neiva says, “images are not subservient copies; they are additions succeed-
ing from a fundamentally creative agency” (1999, 89). Here at last we have
an account of “the is of artistic identification” as a creative, interpretive,
semeiotic action grounded in some aspect of the world outside myself. The
analysis of mimesis as iconicity suggests that in perceiving a mimetic art-
work, we should focus not on the technical prowess required to produce
Mimesis and Iconicity  69
it—the artist’s skill and toil to produce a visually accurate copy of the object
is something, but it does not necessarily contribute much to the work’s artis-
tic value. Rather, we should attend to the artist’s broader vision and com-
munication of form.11
Conclusion
We can now begin to understand why mimesis was so long considered
essential to art and why, when photography made an astonishing degree
of mimetic fidelity readily achievable by nearly anyone, it fell out of fash-
ion as a theory and as an unquestioned artistic value. Photography easily
achieved the particular kind of visual mimesis—a two-dimensional image
that replicates a certain kind of visual appearance of reality—that had been
long admired due to the technical difficulty of achieving it in painting and
drawing. It did not take long, however, for even non-artistic photographers
to realize that there is a great deal of choice involved in the use of a camera:
The creative, interpreting mind must establish the ground of any mimetic
representation. Reintroducing mimesis, now understood as iconicity, into
aesthetics allows us to connect our understanding of art across the osten-
sibly non-mimetic rupture introduced by romanticism and photography.
Artistic objects were indeed always “replacements” for, rather than “imita-
tions” of their objects, as Danto suggests—though Aristotle and his heirs
knew this all along.
An additional advantage of this account of mimesis as iconicity is that it
allows us to understand how the Platonic “mirroring” view of mimesis and
the Aristotelian “imaginative presentation” view relate to one another as
emphasizing different types of iconicity. Simple “mirroring” presents the dis-
tinctive qualities of parts of the existent world and hence is grounded in the
Secondness of the object. Such paintings, statues, or songs, which represent
“the relations . . . of one thing by analogous relations in their own parts,”
are in semeiotic terms diagrams (CP 2.277). “Imaginative presentation”
according to what is necessary or probable is grounded in the Thirdness of
its object.12
Peirce says that icons that “represent the representative char-
acter of a representamen [i.e., its generality] by representing a parallelism
in something else” are metaphors (CP 2.277). In a concise figure-of-speech
metaphor like “stormy love affair,” the iconic idea of a storm represents a
combination of general characteristics that include strife, energy, beauty,
unpredictability, and danger; this “representative character” of the idea of a
storm is in turn transferred to the love affair by the metaphoric phrase. The
same semeiotic process occurs in complex works of art. Consider Antigone,
the whole play, taken as a metaphor, an icon of Thirdness: when read or
performed, the play (cf. the concise figure-of-speech) represents a fictional
series of events (cf. the idea of a storm) that in turn represents a set of gen-
eral ideas about duty, honor, loyalty, and power (cf. general characteristics
of strife, energy, beauty, unpredictability, and danger). Whereas diagrams
70  Kelly A. Parker
“mirror” a definite reality, metaphors “imaginatively present” a general,
universalizable one.
This account also shows that mimesis is fundamental to any theory of
meaning or communications, not just aesthetics.13
This is a point that Plato
had made: “All statements made by any of us are, of course, bound to be an
affair of imagery and picturing” (1961, Critias 107b). As Peirce explains it,
“the only way of directly communicating an idea is by means of an icon; and
every indirect method of communicating an idea must depend for its estab-
lishment upon the use of an icon” (CP 2.278). Words and other discursive
sign-systems that may be used to construct arguments possess extraordinary
power for facilitating thought. Peirce insists, however, that all such systems
rely upon the workings of metaphor, broadly understood. ­
Metaphor—itself
a kind of icon, as we have just seen—is fundamental to language and thought.
As George Lakoff and Mark Johnson put it, “metaphor is conceptual and
everyday thought is largely metaphorical” (1999, 118). Metaphorical think-
ing, in turn, presupposes diagram- and image-based thinking: Metaphors
incorporate and rely upon a more basic kind of icon, the diagram, which in
turn relies on the most basic kind of icon, the image (CP 2.277).
Since iconicity is the simplest kind of semeiotic representation—in the
sense that it is logically primitive, and underwrites all other forms of repre-
sentation, including rational thought and critical analysis themselves—the
analysis of mimesis as iconicity provides the first theoretical concept needed
for a more comprehensive semeiotic aesthetics. This leads us to perhaps
the most interesting implication of understanding mimesis as iconicity: it
provides a formal semeiotic account of creative, non-representational art
and its relation to the two long-recognized kinds of mimetic art. If the two
familiar kinds of classical mimesis present the forms of their objects in terms
of their Secondness and Thirdness, respectively, then there is another obvi-
ous artistic option for mimesis: iconic representation of an object in respect
of its Firstness, its purely possible qualities. This would not be a diagram
representing an existent form, nor a metaphor representing a general law-
governed form, but rather an image representing a possible new form. This
accords with Danto’s account of what the early non-representational artists
were doing: they “were to be understood not as unsuccessfully imitating
real forms, but as successfully creating new ones, quite as real as the forms
which the older art had been thought, in its best examples, to be creditably
imitating” (1964, 419). Here, then, we have the means to understand the
function of modern, non-representational art within the same theoretical
framework as realistic portraits and plays.
Notes
	1	In Danto’s narrative, the mimesis-based Imitation Theory gave way to the
Replacement Theory. For an object to serve as a replacement for a real object
requires more than the qualities intrinsic to the object—it requires a system of
meanings provided by a community of interpreters. “To see something as art
Mimesis and Iconicity  71
requires something the eye cannot decry—an atmosphere of artistic theory, a
knowledge of the history of art: an artworld” (1964, 422). It will be no surprise
that the Replacement Theory, for all its merits, also ultimately fails to provide a
set of necessary and sufficient conditions for the definition of art. The inclusion
of the artworld as interpreting community, however, is indispensable to a semei-
otic aesthetic.
	 2	 The romantic movement severely challenged merely mimetic representation well
before the invention of photography, of course, and in The Aesthetics of Mimesis
Halliwell manages to recount the history of mimetic theory without any mention
of photography. I would suggest that mimetic conservatives could, and did—
however awkwardly—simply regard romantic art and its relatives as inferior or
inadequate attempts at art. Once photography became a ubiquitous part of the
culture, though, the technical virtuosity of mimesis that they valued so highly
was rendered inessential for many of the purposes it had once served (e.g., docu-
mentary portraiture).
	 3	 Plato never really made a convincing case to reduce visual art or poetry to the
merely accurate copying of visual appearances—in my reading, he never sin-
cerely meant to do so (see note 12). This puts him much closer to Aristotle than
is usually understood: Both believed imitation of the real, or at least of the real-
istic, to be a key feature, but not the crucial function, of art.
	 4	 The television series “Sons of Anarchy” (FX Networks, 2008–2014) portrayed
the emotional and social struggles of a young man whose father—the president
of a small kingdom-like motorcycle club—was murdered some years earlier by
his closest friend. The murderer then married the president’s widow (an ambi-
tious and ruthless woman who may or may not have been involved in the murder
plot) and took over leadership of the club. The son, now second in command
and its presumptive next leader, set forth on a twisting path toward vengeance
for the murder. This whole series of events was set in motion by an encounter
with his father’s own hints at foul play, delivered from beyond the grave in an
autobiographical manuscript.
	 5	 The relation is actually at least as complex as “a is like b in respect of c for p,”
where c is some character common to a and b, and p is an interpreter with some
reason (we could add “because of r”) to be interested in a, b, and c.
	 6	The relation between an icon and its form is particularly hard to characterize
with conventional relational terms. To say that the icon “has” the same form as
its object is perhaps the least misleading approach in English. The word “con-
tains” is also tempting, and in introducing this relation in previous paragraphs
we used the words “embodies” and “incorporates.” Whatever term we use, it
is crucial to avoid thinking of the form as a separate part of the icon—the icon
does not have its form in the same way that you may have a coin in your hand or
pocket. Consider the semeiotic limit-case of regarding anything as a perfect icon
of itself. What is shared in this identity case is precisely everything, but the cru-
cial thing is the form that grounds it as this icon rather than some other. The icon
has this form, which makes it what it is. The relation of an icon having a form
is something like what is meant if one says “The sky has a blue color today” or
“I have an embodied mind.”
	 7	 Much of this paragraph is borrowed from my essay “Peirce’s Graph of ‘a Sort of
Equilateral Hyperbola’.”
	 8	 This passage from “On the Algebra of Logic: A Contribution to the Philosophy
of Notation” (1885) was brought to my attention by Nicholas Lee Guardiano,
for which I thank him.
		  Compare Peirce’s description of losing oneself in the icon to the following
passage from Merleau-Ponty, which appears in the phenomenology of painting
cited earlier: “I would be hard pressed to say where the painting is I am looking
72  Kelly A. Parker
at. For I do not look at it as one looks at a thing, fixing it in its place. My gaze
wanders within it as in the halos of Being. Rather than seeing it, I see according
to, or with it” (1993, 126).
	 9	 One very important implication of the direct apprehension of iconic form is that
this most basic phenomenon is what allows different minds to share the same
idea. The novelist Steven Hall explores this situation in The Raw Shark Texts:
Imagine you’re rowing a boat on a lake.
It’s summer, early morning. That time when the sun hasn’t quite broken
free of the landscape and long, projected shadows tigerstripe the light. The
rays are warm on your skin as you drift through them, but in the shadows the
air is still cold, greyness holding onto undersides and edges wherever it can.
A low clinging breeze comes and goes, racing ripples across the water and
gently rocking you and your boat as you float in yin-yang slices of morning.
Birds are singing. It’s a sharp, clear sound, clean without the humming back-
ing track of a day well underway. There’s the occasional sound of wind in
leaves and the occasional slap-splash of a larger wavelet breaking on the side
of your boat, but nothing else.
You reach over the side and feel the shock of the water, the steady bob of
the lake’s movement plating up and down your knuckles in a rhythm of cold.
You pull your arm back; you enjoy the after-ache in your fingers. Holding out
your hand, you close your eyes and feel the tiny physics of gravity and resis-
tance as the liquid finds routes across your skin, builds itself into droplets of
the required weight, then falls, each drop ending with an audible tap.
Now, right on that tap—stop. Stop imagining. Here’s the real game. Here’s
what’s obvious and wonderful and terrible all at the same time: The lake in
my head, the lake I was imagining, has just become the lake in your head.
It doesn’t matter if you never know me, or never know anything about me.
I could be dead, I could have been dead a hundred years before you were even
born and still—think about this carefully, think past the obvious sense of it to
the huge and amazing miracle hiding inside—the lake in my head has become
the lake in your head. (2007, 54–55)
		 After establishing this fundamental identity of the ideas in the two minds, Hall
then introduces the concept of a semeiotic flow, or the stream of signs (which
is crucial to his story about the terrifying “conceptual sharks” that swim in this
flow):
Behind or inside or through the two hundred and eighteen words that made
up my description, behind or inside or through those nine hundred and sixty-
nine letters, there is some kind of flow. A purely conceptual stream with no
mass or weight or matter and no ties to gravity or time, a stream that can only
be seen if you choose to look at it from the precise angle we are looking from
now, but there, nevertheless, a stream flowing directly from my imaginary
lake into yours.
(2007, 55)
		This stream flowing directly among minds is a stream of forms or ideas, a
transpersonal “stream of thought” in William James’s famous phrase (see The
Principles of Psychology, Chapter 9, WWJ 8:219–278). The stream consists
always of icons, though other kinds of signs—indices or symbols—may be built
upon them.
	
10	 Beyond this semeiotic explanation, one might seek a physiological account of the
mechanism involved. Mark Johnson suggests that humans, including newborns,
Mimesis and Iconicity  73
have a kind of “body scheme” that unifies multiple senses, and in which another
person’s actions can be mimicked or reproduced; in a search for a more empiri-
cally confirmable basis for this crucial ability, he also suggests that the intriguing
“mirror-neuron” system underlies the imitative behavior (2007, 38–39). Such an
approach would support belief in a hard-wired capacity and disposition toward
mimesis. Halliwell discusses the history of the idea of a “mimetic instinct” in The
Aesthetics of Mimesis (2002, 371n64).
	
11	 This realization of the creative element in icon production also forces a reconsid-
eration of the significance of mass-produced artworks. Walter Benjamin (2008)
noted, and seemed to lament, the loss of the “aura” that attaches to unique
original artworks, even while recognizing the potential democratizing power of
mass-produced images. Andy Warhol repudiated any such sentimentalism for
the aura with his “Factory,” where “workers” (who themselves became minor
art celebrities) mass-produced silk-screened prints of his images. In spite of the
technical simplicity and low cost of their production, and in spite of their wide
distribution, these works nonetheless conveyed the artist’s vision of form, pre-
sented distinct relational realities, and even achieved a representation of general
ideas. Collectors sought them out; they routinely sell at auction just like any
unique original and for comparable prices. Warhol and others opened a path
by which we might come to grips with the rise of nearly infinite, nearly free
digital reproductions of every kind of work—from museums’ databases of high-
resolution images of the masterpieces in their collections, to the proliferation of
throwaway internet memes.
	12	 In The Aesthetics of Mimesis, Chapter 4, Halliwell notes that the “mirroring”
argument in Republic 10 is suspiciously facile and even sarcastic. Halliwell sug-
gests that Plato leaves the path open to develop the argument in parallel with
his subsequent argument about the possibility for virtuous poetry. Plato seems
to be suggesting, albeit cryptically, that visual art can provide significant insights
about life, but in order to apprehend this we would need to move beyond the
idea that visual art is primarily, or even necessarily, about the merely accurate
imitation of an object. On this reading, Plato’s actual view of art would be much
more favorable than the passage in Republic 10 suggests. Plato might, like Aris-
totle, have recognized the power of visual art for imaginative presentation and
hence its capacity to show us the qualities of forms and not just of things. Of
course the differences between Plato’s and Aristotle’s views of form imply that
there would still be considerable differences between them concerning the role of
art.
		  The Neoplatonic philosopher Plotinus is much more clearly open to this view
of the edifying value of human-created artworks. Though he is no fan of the
material world and urges his followers to seek the form of transcendent Beauty
itself, there is in his account of the hierarchy of metaphysical emanation a pos-
sible path that starts from apprehending the beauty of base physical beings. If
they indeed reflect beauty at all, it is because they have a real likeness or connec-
tion to transcendental Beauty—and hence we can move from them toward the
Form of Beauty (2008, Ennead I, vi).
	
13	 Much of this paragraph is borrowed from “Peirce’s Graph of ‘a Sort of Equilat-
eral Hyperbola’.”
Around 1885, Peirce claims (i) that the greatest fault of Kant’s philosophy
lies in “his sharp discrimination of the intuitive and the discursive processes
of the mind,” (ii) that Kant drew “too hard a line between the operations of
observation and of ratiocination,” and (iii) that the doctrine of schematism
must have been an afterthought, “for if the schemata had been considered
early enough, they would have overgrown his whole work” (CP 1.35).
Umberto Eco (1997, 65–66) has remarked that this quotation seems like “a
research program,” “the identification of a breach” through which it should
be possible to arrive at a new form of Kantism.
In this paper, I will argue that Peirce’s semiotics is exactly this new form of
Kantism, as it inherits and reformulates Kant’s schematism and that a Peircean
sign is precisely akin to a Kantian schema, that is, to that element capable of
keeping together aesthetic and logic, intuition and concept, observation and
reasoning. I will do this by considering the transformation of Kant’s Vorstel-
lung into Peirce’s representamen. I will further show that in the late Peirce’s
philosophy it is the notion of diagram that will play this role of schematism.
I will end up by showing how this original Peircean transformation of the
Kantian schema has a perfect embodiment in his theory of existential graphs.
Diagrams and Icons
I would like to start by asking the question: What is a diagram if, according
to Peirce, a diagram is a Kantian schema? In his extraordinary attempt to
construct “a System of diagrammatization by means of which any course of
thought can be represented with exactitude” (CP. 4.530), Peirce gives us a
delightful example:
“But why do that [build a System of diagrammatization], when the
thought itself is present to us?” Such, substantially, has been the inter-
rogative objection raised by more than one or two superior intelligences,
among whom I single out an eminent and glorious General.
“General, you make use of maps during a campaign, I believe. But
why should you do so, when the country they represent is right there?”
7	 Semiotics, Schemata,
Diagrams, and Graphs
A New Form of Diagrammatic
Kantism by Peirce1
Claudio Paolucci
A New Form of Diagrammatic Kantism  75
Thereupon, had he replied that he found details in the maps that were
so far from being “right there,” that they were within the enemy’s lines,
I ought to have pressed the question, “Am I right, then, in understanding
that, if you were thoroughly and perfectly familiar with the ­
country . . .,
no map of it would then be of the smallest use to you in laying out your
detailed plans?” To that he could only have rejoined, “No, I do not say
that, since I might probably desire the maps to stick pins into, so as to
mark each anticipated day’s change in the situations of the two armies.”
To that again, my sur-rejoinder should have been, “Well, General, that
precisely corresponds to the advantages of a diagram of the course of a
discussion. Indeed, just there, where you have so clearly pointed it out,
lies the advantage of diagrams in general.”
(CP 4.530)
As we see here, a diagram is a sign that displays features that remain only
virtual in the object before the intervention of the sign and that only the sign
is able to manifest. This is why a diagram, which has for Peirce a constitu-
tive indexical component that connects it to its object and a constitutive
symbolic component that connects it to a habit of reading, is essentially a
hypoicon (see NEM 4:316–317):
A great distinguishing property of the icon is that by the direct obser-
vation of it other truths concerning its object can be discovered than
those which suffice to determine its construction. . . . Given a conven-
tional or other general sign of an object, to deduce any other truth than
that which it explicitly signifies, it is necessary, in all cases, to replace
that sign by an icon. This capacity of revealing unexpected truth is
­
precisely . . . the iconic character.
(CP 2.279)
According to Peirce, an icon is not a sign constructed through properties
common or similar to the ones that are proper to its object: It is exactly the
opposite. It is precisely the properties of the object, and more specifically
those properties of the object that did not determine the construction of the
iconic sign, that are unveiled through experimentation on the iconic sign.
Iconicity has opposite features to the ones that have been attributed to it for
a long time in the semiotic tradition.2
It is not the iconic sign to be similar to
the object, but it is the object to reveal through the sign new properties that
were not involved in the construction of its sign. The test for the iconicity
of a sign rests in whether it is possible to manipulate the sign so that new
information as to its object appears. For all that, iconicity consists of those
properties that we are able to perceive in the object only through the simu-
lacrality of its sign. Exclusively through this relation it is possible to speak
of similarity between sign and object and to say that a sign is the icon of its
object. “To be the icon of” and for that “to be similar to” that object means
76  Claudio Paolucci
to display some properties not immediately knowable through the object
itself (see CP 4.447).
In Peirce, there is something in the object that can be perceived and
acknowledged only through the sign, indeed, something that in the iconic
sign is directly perceivable. This “something” is the iconicity of that sign,
the similar properties that it has in common with its object:
An icon is characterized by containing implicit information which in
order to appear must be made explicit by some more or less complicated
procedure accompanied by observation. The prototypical icon deduc-
tion is the manipulation of a geometrical figure in order to observe a
theorem, but the idea is quite general.
(Stjernfelt 2007, 91)
Summing up, the iconic sign is a filter through which it is possible to per-
ceive otherwise unnoticeable properties of the object. In the case of the dia-
gram, this filter is essentially cognitive, since the diagram is a logical image
or “schematic image,” as Peirce says, using an expression that we will come
to understand better through the course of this essay (see NEM 4:238).
The diagram embodies prototypically that operational feature that is the
epistemologically crucial property of the icon. According to Peirce, to exper-
iment on a diagram is to make virtual properties not immediately perceiv-
able in its object, but nevertheless present, emerge (see NEM 4:318–320).
That is why, according to Peirce, diagrams form the second subcategory of
hypoicons, representing their objects through a skeleton-like sketch of rela-
tions that make new proprieties emerge (see CP 2.277). According to Peirce,
this iconic diagrammaticity is present almost anywhere, even where we lack
the habit to find it:
I suppose it would be the general opinion of logicians, as it certainly
was mine, that the Syllogism is a Symbol, because of its Generality. But
there is an inaccurate analysis and confusion of thought at the bottom
of that view; for so understood it would fail to furnish Evidence. Now
necessary reasoning makes its conclusion evident. . . . What sort of a
Sign can communicate this Evidence? . . . It is true that ordinary Icons
merely suggest the possibility of that which they represent, being per-
cepts minus the insistency and percussivity of percepts. It is, therefore,
a very extraordinary feature of Diagrams that they show . . . that a
consequence does follow, and more marvellous yet, that it would follow
under all varieties of circumstances accompanying the premises.
(NEM 4:318)
Even simple syllogism, involves an element of observation; namely,
deduction consists in constructing an icon or diagram of the relations
of whose parts shall present a complete analogy with those of the parts
A New Form of Diagrammatic Kantism  77
of the object of reasoning, of experimenting upon this image in the
imagination, and of observing the result so as to discover unnoticed and
hidden relations among the parts.
(CP 3.363)
We are starting to see that, for Peirce, “iconicity” and “diagrammaticity”
are two “ingredients” that we can find in every cognition and that they are
connected with a theory of knowledge grounded on the impossibility of
separating “reasoning” and “observation,” on the one side, and “knowl-
edge” and “action,” on the other side. Indeed, “evidence” is what takes
place when the experimentation reveals new aspects of the object (see, for
example, Stjernfelt 2007, 87), and it is something that is observed. On this
account, a diagram is a sensory and perceivable object that acts as a trig-
ger for a series of inferences. If a general uses maps in order to study the
battlefield, it is because he develops at the same time strategies of action by
following the different possibilities of movement sketched out on the map: If
we move from point x to y, then this specific relative position of the armies
will happen, and it will be proper to do z or go to w. Through these new
intelligible relations made perceivable by the diagram, it is possible to dis-
cover new possibilities and new relations that were only virtual in its object
and that became visible only through the sign. Peirce writes,
a Diagram, in my sense, is in the first place a Token, or singular Object
used as a Sign; for it is essential that it should be capable of being per-
ceived and observed. It is, however, what is called a General sign; that
is, it denotes a general Object. . . . The Diagram represents a definite
Form of Relation. This Relation is usually one which actually exists, as
in a map, or is intended to exist, as in a Plan. . . . The pure Diagram
is designed to represent and to render intelligible, the Form of Rela-
tion merely. Consequently, Diagrams are restricted to the representation
of a certain class of relations; namely, those that are intelligible. We
may make a diagram of the Battle of Gettysburgh, because in a certain
[sense], it may thus be rendered comprehensible.
(NEM 4:315–316)
Thus, the expression “logical image” means that a diagram is a sensory,
observable, and manipulable token that embodies in itself purely logical
(intelligible) relations. This is the reason why Peirce says that it is a “sche-
matic image,” in the sense in which according to Kant, the schematism of
imagination does not consist in an image, but in aesthetic relations (time-
space ones) that embody or realize purely logical (conceptual) relations:3
“A Diagram is an icon or schematic image embodying the meaning of a
general predicate; and from the observation of this icon we are supposed
to construct a new general predicate” (NEM 4:238). Since “a Diagram is
mainly . . . an Icon of intelligible relations” (CP 4.531), Peirce suggests, a
78  Claudio Paolucci
diagram unites logical features (the relations that it displays are intelligible)
and aesthesic features (the diagram is a sensory token that can be perceived
and manipulated). Therefore, Peirce can assign to the diagram the role car-
ried by the schematism in Kant (see CP 1.35). But what is the big gap that
schematism was meant to cross in Kant? In other words, what is the original
epistemological problem surrounding schematism?
Schemata
As is well known, in Kantian gnoseology there is a problem of commensu-
rability between the two sources needed to gain our knowledge of objects.
Intuitions, which are sensory (aesthesic), and concepts, which are intellec-
tual (logical), do not share the same nature. In order to enable concepts to
determine intuitions a mediating representation is needed. This mediating
representation would ensure a possible commensurability between these
two heterogeneous systems differing in nature. The schematism of imagi-
nation is exactly this mediating representation that makes heterogeneous
worlds communicate. In the Critique of Pure Reason, Kant writes,
Now it is clear that there must be a third thing, which must stand in
homogeneity with the category on the one hand and the appearance on
the other, and makes possible the application of the former to the latter.
This mediating representation must be pure (without anything empiri-
cal) and intellectual on the one hand and sensible on the other. Such a
representation is the transcendental schema.
(CPR A138/ B177)
Michael Pendlebury (1995, 781) notes that Kant does not require that there
be any intrinsic resemblance between the intuition and the concept, or that
either of these two representations should possess a property in common.
Rather, all that is necessary is that both represent it. Schematism seems to
be a semiotic problem. For sure, that is the way Peirce sees it and tries to
interpret it. In order to solve it, we thus need a semiotic object—a medi-
ating representation—that must be intellectual and sensible, homogeneous
with categories and appearances, making the application of the former to
the latter possible, as Kant stated in the quotation above. But is this not a
description of the mediating role of the Peircean diagram? Let us examine
Peirce’s lens example:
let f1
and f2
be the two distances of the two foci. Then,
1/f1
+ 1/f2
 = 1/f0
This equation is a diagram of the form of the relation between the two
focal distances and the principal focal distance; and the conventions of
A New Form of Diagrammatic Kantism  79
algebra . . . in conjunction with the writing of the equation, establish a
relation between the very letters f1
, f2
, f0
regardless of their significance,
the form of which relation is the Very Same as the form of the relation
between the three focal distances that these letters denote. This is a truth
quite beyond dispute. Thus, this algebraic Diagram presents to our obser-
vation the very, identical object of mathematical research, that is, the
Form of the harmonic mean, which the equation aids one to study.
(CP 4.530)
Through this example, Peirce shows that the physical object, the letters of
the algebraic equation, and the corresponding graph all embody the same
form of relation, i.e., the one found between the two focal distances. Every
single element embodies the same ratio, the one that prescribes, for instance,
that to have a zoom it is necessary to preserve a certain distance between
the eye and the lens and the lens and the observed object. Thus, the diagram
displays sensibly (in a perceptual way in the graph, in a physical way in the
lens) the same logical relations that are in its object, making them observ-
able and experimentally manipulable. This is the way in which Peirce can
say that a diagram is a schema in a Kantian sense.
In Kant and the Platypus, Umberto Eco (1997) compares Peircean dia-
grams and Kantian schemata, and he gives us a precious piece of advice. He
notices that the schema in Kant is an “image” only in the sense of the Bild
by Wittgenstein,4
according to which a proposition shares a common form
of relation with the fact that it represents, but that, at the same time, it dif-
fers from it in nature. This is the idea at the root of the Peircean conception
of the diagram and Eco seems to notice this, since at the end of the discus-
sion on schematism, he inserts the Peircean diagram of the sentence “Every
mother loves some child of hers” (see Figure 7.1).
Here is a logical image, a Bild, a schema in which aesthesic elements
embody or realize purely logical relations in observable and manipulable
tokens that share the same form of relation. A logical image of this kind is
then completely neutral to the opposition between arbitrary and motivated,
since the relations between the parts of the diagram are motivated by the
form of relation expressed in the proposition, but it is only thanks to the
conventional rules of the graph that they are expressed.
As Peirce suggests, according to the rule of transformation that allows
manipulating the diagram while experimenting on it, the transformed dia-
gram is the image of the original diagram and both are images of the object
that they “show,” thus making purely virtual properties visible. In this abso-
lutely specific and not banal sense, there exists an image of something only
when there is something that is able to make us pass from one “universe” to
another, guaranteeing a possible commensurability between the two systems
and operating as a translation, although just a partial one.
But it is exactly this translation, this possibility of movement from a form
of relation embodied in a sign to another form of relation embodied in
80  Claudio Paolucci
Figure 7.1 
another interpretant sign which in Peirce is the essence itself of his inter-
pretative semiotics. In fact, what is an interpretant if not a mediating repre-
sentation that constructs commensurability between sign and object? “Such
a mediating representation may be termed an interpretant, because it ful-
fils the office of an interpreter, who says that a foreigner says the same
thing which he himself says” (CP 1.553). Here we find the construction
of a local commensurability between heterogeneous systems (two different
languages), which the interpretant is able to bridge through maintaining a
common form of relation (“it says the same thing which the other says”).
Diagrams and Signs: Representamina
To cast adequate light on the relation between semiotics and diagrammatic-
ity, let us return to the critique that Peirce directed at the Kantian Doctrine,
A New Form of Diagrammatic Kantism  81
that kept together a presentative-observational moment linked to a repre-
sentation immediately connected with its object (aesthetic intuition), and a
representative-discursive moment linked to a representation mediately con-
nected with the same object (logical concept). Peirce writes,
Kant’s whole philosophy turns upon his logic. He gives the name of
logic to the greater part of his Critic of the Pure Reason, and it is a
result of the great fault of his logical theory that he does not extend that
name to the whole work. This greatest fault was at the same [time] [to
his eyes] the greatest merit of his doctrine: it lay in his sharp discrimina-
tion of the intuitive and the discursive processes of the mind. . . . But
he drew too hard a line between the operations of observation and of
ratiocination. He allows himself to fall into the habit of thinking that
the latter only begins after the former is complete. . . . His doctrine of
the schemata can only have been an afterthought, an addition to his
system after it was substantially complete. For if the schemata had been
considered early enough, they would have overgrown his whole work.
(CP 1.35)
Kant is famous for having said that intuitions without concepts are blind
and concepts without intuitions are empty, but, as Peirce states above, he
still distinguishes intuitive from discursive processes and observational from
ratiocinative operations. Only in the schema do these elements communi-
cate, and a “schema” is a theoretical object that unites features that are
proper to the aesthetics and the logic. Peirce does not hesitate to state that, if
a theoretical object like the schema had not been a sort of late afterthought,
it would have without any doubt created a crisis in the real core of the Kan-
tian doctrine, that is, in the difference of nature established between “aes-
thetic” and “logic,” between “observational” and “discursive.” Peirce has
always been considered the father of this representation, which is also the
constitutive element of his conception of logic as formal semiotics. What,
then, is the big mistake that stopped Kant from calling the entire Critique of
Pure Reason “logic”?
In Kant, there are two kinds of representations (Vorstellung) that dif-
fer by nature: intuitions (representations immediately connected with their
objects and representing them in a direct way) and concepts (representations
mediately connected to their objects and representing them only through the
mediation of another representation, be it another concept or an intuition).
In Kant, immediate representations are aesthetic ones (perceptive-sensory),
and mediate representations are logical ones (discursive, as Kant himself
said). Further, Kant states, the union of at least one immediate representa-
tion with a mediate representation gives birth to the phenomenon; in other
words, it presents the empirical object in its coming to manifestation. This
“empirical object” in its “coming to manifestation” is indeed defined by
Kant as “that in the concept of which the manifold of a given intuition is
82  Claudio Paolucci
united” (CPR B137). It is clear that, according to Kant, there are represen-
tations that are not logical: the aesthetic ones, intuitions. The aesthetic, the
sensory, and the perceptive are for Kant elements that are constitutively not
logical, but intuitive, and so directly connected with their own objects.
Now, in his anti-Cartesian essays,5
Peirce argued that intuitions do not
exist and that every representation is a mediate representation not imme-
diately connected to its objects, and he argued that every representation,
including the aesthetic ones (perceptions, emotions, feelings), has a logical
form, a mediated form in which something is presented through something
else.6
In Peirce, any representation is always “representation of representa-
tion,” that is, a mediate representation, no matter its sensory or nonsensory
nature. But what is the name that Peirce attributes to these mediate repre-
sentations, which are the only existing ones?
In the first place I do not use the word Representation as a translation
of the German Vorstellung which is the general term for any product of
the cognitive power. Representation, indeed, is not a perfect translation
of that term, because it seems necessarily to imply a mediate reference
to its object, which Vorstellung does not. I however would limit the
term neither to that which is mediated, nor to that which is mental, but
would use it in its broad, usual, and etymological sense for anything
which is supposed to stand for another.
(W 1:257)
A representation is a representamen, and representamina are always medi-
ated representations, in other words, discursive, no matter their logical or
aesthetic nature. Obviously representamina are also semiotic representations,
since they are nothing but signs. This is how Peirce can conciliate a conti-
nuity between the observational and discursive, between the aesthetic and
logical, without renouncing the semiotic structure constituting them both.
For this reason, if Kant had not continually distinguished between observa-
tional and discursive moments, if he had not continued thinking that there
are sensory phenomena that are not logical (intuitions), he could have with-
out any doubt called the totality of his Critique of Pure Reason “logic.” Or
even better, he could have called it Semiotics,7
if he had realized not just that
signs are exactly schemata—that is, representations that possess both obser-
vational (aesthetic) and discursive (logical) properties—but, more deeply,
that if every reasoning proceeds through signs, every reasoning through signs
always involves an observational and aesthesic moment as well, inextricably
co-implied with the discursive and inferential one. Peirce writes,
All reasoning depends directly or indirectly upon diagrams. . . . Now
necessary reasoning makes its conclusion evident. What is this “Evi-
dence”? It consists in the fact that the truth of the conclusion is per-
ceived, in all its generality, and in the generality the how and the why
A New Form of Diagrammatic Kantism  83
of the truth is perceived. What sort of a Sign can communicate this
Evidence? . . . It is a very extraordinary feature of Diagrams that they
show,—as literally show as a Percept shows the Perceptual Judgement
to be true,—that a consequence does follow, and more marvellous yet,
that it would follow under all varieties of circumstances accompany-
ing the premises. . . . And so the Iconic Diagram and its Initial Sym-
bolic Interpretant taken together constitute what we shall not too much
wrench Kant’s term in calling a Schema, which is on the one side an
object capable of being observed while on the other side it is General.
(NEM 4:314–318)
In the most mature phases of Peirce’s thought, the schematicity of the rep-
resentamen, originally derived from the radical anti-intuitionism of the
anti-Cartesian essays, is assumed by the concept of a diagram. Indeed, it is
thanks to the iconic diagrammaticity that is proper to any sign as a sign that
every representamen ends up embodying in itself both a perceptive moment
and a logical one, becoming a “logical image.”
Signs are needed to increase our knowledge, but it is their constitutive
iconicity, even where they are prominently indexical or symbolical, that
guarantees this capacity. An icon is always a perceptibly observable sign,
and even the most abstract logical procedures ground their heuristic effec-
tiveness in the ability to manipulate a diagram in the imagination, in order
to make evident forms of relations which are different from those which
contributed to the initial construction of the iconic sign. Through this logi-
cal image, the sign is able to display relations that were only virtual in its
object and that only the sign is able to manifest. It is only in this way, that
is, through a constitutive commensurability between aesthetic and logical,
between perceptive and discursive, that knowledge is increased, and differ-
ent domains—even irreducibly heterogeneous—can communicate.
Every addition or improvement to our knowledge, of whatsoever kind,
comes from an exercise of our powers of perception. In necessary infer-
ence my observation is directed to a creation of my own imagination, a
sort of diagram or image in which are portrayed the facts given in the
premises; and the observation consists in recognizing relations between
the parts of this diagram which were not noticed in constructing it.
(NEM 4:105)
The observability of general logical relations embodied sensibly in the dia-
gram is the crux of the schematic role played by diagrams in Peirce’s refor-
mulation of Kantism. This observability improves our knowledge through
perception8
because the relations perceived in diagrams are not the ones
noticed in constructing it. That is why diagrams are essentially hypoicons:
They pass the test for the iconicity of a sign, which rests in whether it is
possible to manipulate it so that new information as to its object appears.
84  Claudio Paolucci
From Diagrams to Graphs
Even if this mechanism fits every kind of semiotic cognition (for instance,
syllogism or algebra which for Peirce are both iconic and diagrammatic), it
has a perfect embodiment in Peirce’s theory of existential graphs. Existential
graphs are a particular kind of diagram that are widely studied today by sev-
eral scholars for their extremely original formal and notational proprieties
(see, for example, Shin 2002, Zalamea 2003 and 2012a, Pietarinen 2006
and 2011, Burch 2011, Leclercq 2011 and 2013, Anellis 2014 and Stjernfelt
2014,). As Christopher Hookway points out,
when the new system was available, it was clear that he [Peirce] saw it
as of great philosophical significance. His graphs, he announced, would
provide “moving pictures of thought,” and would thus illuminate the
structure of cognition and understanding.
(1994, 55)
The graphs express sensibly, through distribution laws on paper and dia-
grammatical transformation between the relations on paper, the whole logi-
cal range of algebra (Alpha graphs), the relative logic (Beta graphs) and
the “modal calculi” (Gamma graphs). In the theory of existential graphs of
1906, which follows and improves the already fundamental results obtained
in 1885 and 1896, a graph is a relation between cognitions (a relation among
signs). “Scribing” existential graphs on the sheet amounts to their conjunc-
tion (asserting them on the sheet), drawing an “oval” around them amounts
to their negation (detaching them from the sheet), and connecting them with
“identity lines” amounts to their existential instantiation. Zalamea notes,
Nice diagrammatic rules—on allowed topological maneuverings
of the graphs, crossings between “ovals” and “lines,” and analytic
­
continuations—provide then diverse combinatorics between conjunc-
tion, negation and existence, paving the way to the construction of
amazing logical systems, in which topological permissions correspond
to logical deductions.
(2003, 123)
Existential graphs keep together aesthetic and logic and allow for relations
between cognitions to be mapped on a sheet of paper. They literally show in
a schema the way we move from thought to thought, from cognition to cog-
nition, from sign to sign. They build up a sort of “parity principle” of cogni-
tion that anticipates what Andy Clark (2008) has called the loop between
the “thinking on paper” and “thinking inside the mind.” Indeed, just as
any mental cognition can be erased, replaced by other cognitions, iterated,
conjoined, denied, and connected with other cognitions or simply cut away,
so can those processes be represented through the diagrammatic system of
existential graphs. With his system of graphs, Peirce is able to build a perfect
A New Form of Diagrammatic Kantism  85
identity between thought (logic) and space (aesthetic) that extends the mind
outside of the boundaries within which it is usually conceived:9
The purpose of a Diagram is to represent certain relations in such a
form that it can be transformed into another form representing other
relations involved in those first represented and this transformation can
be interpreted in a symbolic statement. . . . The Diagram is an Interpre-
tant of a Symbol in which the signification of the Symbol becomes a
part of the object of the Icon.
(R 339:286r, Sept. 5, 1906)
As a matter of fact, it is exactly the iconic character constitutive of diagrams
that makes their fortune today. Ironically, Quine’s failure to appreciate this
iconic character of Peirce’s logic led him, in his 1934 review of the Col-
lected Papers, to describe the system of existential graphs as merely “good
entertainment” (see Zalamea 2003). I hope to have shown here that there is
really much more to it than that—and to have assisted in rescuing Peirce’s
iconic logic from an absurd oblivion in the history of philosophy.
Notes
	 1	
I would like to say a big thanks to Kathleen Hull for help in making this paper
better than it originally was.
	2	
Consider, for example, this quotation from Greimas and Courtés, who argue
that the definition of an icon by Peirce is that of a sign “defined by its relation of
resemblance to the ‘reality” of the exterior world’ (1979). This idea is completely
out of the Peircean horizon.
	 3	 Cf. Kant’s Critique of Pure Reason; Deleuze (1963); Eco (1997).
	 4	 On this topic, see also Fabbrichesi (2014).
	 5	
Giovanni Maddalena (2011) noticed that these essays are anti-Kantian in the
same measure as they are anti-Cartesian. While it seems to me that Peirce’s theo-
retical framework is still radically Kantian, we certainly have to agree with Mad-
dalena concerning how the theory of representation (Vorstellung) gives rise to
Semiotics.
	 6	
This is an essential meaning of “logical” according to Peirce: Indeed, syllogism
presents exactly this mediated form of relation in which you go from one prem-
ise to a conclusion only through the mediation of another premise (and never
in a direct way). The same thing happens in the Logic of Relatives, where the
mediation of the triad is first compared to the relations of Firstness and Second-
ness, from which it cannot be derived.
	 7	 I have worked on this topic in Paolucci (2010).
	8	
Frederik Stjernfelt (2007) observes, “Husserl had an analogous insight in his
theory of categorial intuition in the sixth of the Logische Untersuchungen where
he claims that in order for categories to be understood there must exist a kind
of perception allowing us to grasp them.” Obviously, according to Peirce, this
categorical perception cannot be intuitive: It has to be semiotic; that is, it has to
be grounded on a mechanism in which it is possible to observe generality in dia-
grams through evidence. This is a huge difference between Peirce and Husserl.
	 9	 I have worked extensively on this topic in Paolucci (2011).
One can make exact experiments upon uniform diagrams; and when one
does so, one must keep a bright lookout for unintended and unexpected
changes thereby brought about in the relations of different significant parts
of the diagram to one another. Such operations upon diagrams, whether
external or imaginary, take the place of the experiments upon real things
that one performs in Chemical and Physical research. Chemists have, ere
now, I need not say, described experimentation as the putting of questions to
Nature. Just so, experiments upon diagrams are questions put to the Nature
of the Relations concerned.
(CP 4.530, c.1906)
In Prolegomena to an Apology of Pragmatism (c. 1906), Peirce describes
the process of experimenting with diagrams through an intriguing compari-
son between chemistry and logic. Just as chemical experimentation, Peirce
maintains, consists in “the putting of questions to Nature,” so experimenta-
tion with diagrams consists in asking questions “to the Nature of the Rela-
tions concerned.” Peirce scholars are relatively familiar with the meaning of
“experimentation” that Peirce attributes to diagrams in this context. The
idea that experimentation upon diagrams involves processes of visualization
and thought manipulation analogous to the performance of an experiment
in practice has been variously explored in recent studies of Peirce’s system
of Existential Graphs (Shin 2002, Pietarinen 2006, Stjernfelt 2007), as well
as studies addressing the relations between abduction and diagrammatic
reasoning (Hoffman 2007, Paavola 2011). More generally, scholars tend to
agree that the quote is in line with the relationship that Peirce established
between diagrams and Pragmaticism: “Experimenting” in this particular
context amounts to considering the conceivable practical effects that would
follow from the adoption of the particular states of affairs (or hypotheses)
represented in the diagram. Most of these studies have privileged the logical
implications of diagrammatic reasoning—and rightly so, especially in light
of the renewed attention that Peirce’s system of Existential Graphs and its
relation to Peirce’s Pragmaticism have received in recent years.
8	 The Chemistry of Relations
Peirce, Perspicuous Representations,
and Experiments with Diagrams
Chiara Ambrosio and Chris Campbell
The Chemistry of Relations  87
Our contribution aims to offer a slightly different perspective on Peirce’s
general claim that experimenting with diagrams “take[s] the place of the
experiments upon real things that one performs in Chemical and Physical
research.” We take Peirce’s comparison with chemistry in particular very
seriously, not merely as a pedagogical or descriptive device to lend con-
creteness to his otherwise rather abstract description of logical operations
on diagrams, but rather as one of the material sources that informed and
directed his thinking about the epistemic and logical value of diagrams and
diagrammatic reasoning. Our work takes its cue from Kenneth Ketner’s
(1982) systematization of what “ought to be called Eisele’s Law” (Ketner
1982, 328): the idea, to which Carolyn Eisele devoted most of her schol-
arly work, that Peirce’s philosophy cannot be properly understood indepen-
dently of his mathematics and science. Eisele herself, however, privileged
the mathematical and physical applications of her own law, leaving the
connections between Peirce’s scientific work beyond physics as a possibility
open to her legacy for further investigation. In the introduction of her His-
torical Perspectives on Peirce’s Logic of Science, for example, she appeals
specifically to Peirce’s regular references to diagrammatic reasoning in her
account of how his version of the doctrine of exact philosophy differed from
contemporary positivistic accounts of the relations between mathematics,
philosophy, and science. Peirce’s effort to bring mathematical exactitude at
the core of his philosophy, Eisele argues, revolves around an inherently dia-
grammatic conception of mathematical reasoning:
If one stops to examine the operation of this procedural mechanism in
the “proof” of a theorem from high school geometry, one would:
1	 Construct an icon, the relation of whose parts is determined by
the premises;
2	 Experiment upon the effects of modifying this diagram. The
probable modification is a construction;
3	 Observe in this experiment certain relations between parts of the
enlarged diagram over and above those which sufficed to deter-
mine its construction;
4	 Satisfy oneself by inductive reasoning that these new relation-
ships would always subsist where those in the premises existed.
(HP 1:11)
Peirce’s general ability to think diagrammatically is often related exclusively
to such a diagrammatic conception of mathematical reasoning, which occu-
pied a very central place, of course, in his work. What we would like to
suggest, however, is that a similar conception of diagrammatic thinking can
be fleshed out from his early research, and lifelong interest, in chemistry.
Thus, without underplaying the importance of logic and mathematics in
88  Chiara Ambrosio and Chris Campbell
the development of Peirce’s account of diagrammatic reasoning, we suggest
that chemistry played an equally important role—one that has been so far
neglected in the literature. For one thing, the very text of the Prolegomena
to an Apology of Pragmatism seems to substantiate this conjecture. After
drawing the comparison between chemistry as a way of putting questions
to nature and diagrams as ways of putting questions “to the Nature of the
Relations involved,” Peirce moves on to consider a possible objection to this
claim. One could argue, Peirce acknowledges, that there may be “a good
deal of difference between experiments like the Chemist’s, which are trials
made upon the very substance whose behavior is in question, and experi-
ments made upon diagrams, these latter having no physical connection with
the things they represent” (CP 4.530). Thinking of chemical experimenta-
tion merely in terms of manipulation of particular samples of a certain sub-
stance, however, for Peirce, would miss the point, resulting in a rather crude
form of nominalism. The chemist’s quest, instead, is for Peirce a quest for
generality: “For it was not the particular sample that the chemist was inves-
tigating; it was the molecular structure” (CP 4.530). Diagrammatic reason-
ing is ultimately a way of making visible “the Form of a Relation” (CP
4.530). In the same way, chemical experimentation makes visible the rela-
tions holding between elements in the molecular structure of a substance,
independently of the individual characteristics of the particular sample a
chemist is working with.
Our claim is that this comparison is not accidental. In what follows, we
advance a conjecture on where it might have come from, and how, more
broadly, chemical reasoning and chemical practice might have directed and
informed Peirce’s work with and on diagrams. Our hope is to open a new
conceptual possibility in the study of Peirce’s account of diagrams: That
along with mathematics, chemistry contributed substantially to Peirce’s way
of thinking diagrammatically and in terms of relations, as well as in terms
of conceivable consequences. Indeed, we hope to show that the combina-
tion of mathematical and chemical thinking in particular, as evidenced by
Peirce’s chemical training at Harvard, formed a solid conceptual basis for
his account of diagrams. We will conclude with some suggestions for further
investigation into the role of chemistry in Peirce’s philosophical system more
broadly and the potential this new avenue of inquiry might have for the
direction of Peirce scholarship.
Chemistry Teaching at Harvard
Two pieces of biographical information concerning Peirce and chemistry are
well known among scholars: that in 1850, aged only eleven, Peirce bravely
attempted to write a (now lost) “History of Chemistry” (W 1:2) and that
Peirce’s degree at Lawrence Scientific School, awarded summa cum laude in
1863, was in chemistry. These have been treated quite superficially by Peirce
scholars, as mere biographical curiosities. In the introduction to the first
The Chemistry of Relations  89
volume of the Writings of Charles Peirce, for example, Max Fisch clearly
accounts for Peirce’s chemical training as a mere stepping stone toward
his subsequent achievements in science and logic: “Chemistry at that time
offered the best entry into experimental science in general, and was therefore
the best field in which to do one’s postgraduate work, even if one intended
to move on to other sciences and, by way of the sciences, to the logic of sci-
ence and to logic as a whole” (W 1:xxi).
A completely different picture emerges if one pays greater attention to the
nature of the chemistry curriculum in Harvard at the time, and in particu-
lar to the pedagogical innovations introduced by Peirce’s chemistry teacher,
Josiah Parsons Cooke.1
Before plunging into the details of Cooke’s teach-
ing, it is worthwhile to give a brief overview of the roots of the pedagogical
model that informed the teaching of chemistry in Harvard around Peirce’s
time more broadly.
Peirce’s father, Benjamin, had been instrumental in reforming the science
curriculum at Harvard. Part of his proposal resulted in the establishment
of the Lawrence Scientific School in 1847. The school’s primary aim was
to provide training specifically in practical science, and indeed its teach-
ing provision revolved around the Rumford Professorship for the Appli-
cation of Science to the Practical Arts (James 1992, 68). In 1847, Eben
Horsford was appointed Rumford professor, having previously graduated in
civil engineering from the Rensselaer Institute at Troy, New York. This was
also one of America’s earliest colleges of science and civil engineering. After
graduating, Horsford travelled to Europe and studied chemistry at Justus
Liebig’s laboratory in Giessen for the two years between 1844 and 1846.
In an early account of the beginnings of laboratory teaching in America,
Frank Whitman explains that it was indeed Horsford and “a favourite pupil
of Liebig [who] brought to Cambridge the methods and ideas of the Gies-
sen laboratory” (1898, 203). Similarly, commenting on Horsford’s studies
under Liebig, H.S. Van Klooster records him as stating that “the methods
pursued under the guidance of that great teacher, were in many respects the
methods I had been familiar with in the Rensselaer Institute” (1949, 11).
The connection between the Lawrence school and the chemical tradition
established by Liebig in Giessen is of crucial importance to understand the
context of Peirce’s own chemistry training. The foundation of the Lawrence
Scientific School is part of a larger transition toward the establishment of
institutional laboratories that would fulfill the precise aim of transferring a
model of “division of labor” to science and replace the traditionally theo-
retical and conceptual model of training offered by universities at the time.
Historians of science have investigated the rise of institutional scientific
laboratories from a range of perspectives and have unanimously highlighted
how the rise of laboratories paralleled the rise of disciplinary specialization,
particularly in the natural sciences. An exhaustive account of this history
is well beyond the scope of this chapter, but three landmark works on the
subject deserve to be mentioned: David Cahan’s (1985) study leading to
90  Chiara Ambrosio and Chris Campbell
the very concept of “institutional revolution” in physics; Graeme Gooday’s
(1990) work on the priority of training over pure research in the context of
the institutional revolution; and Simon Schaffer’s (1992) study of the role of
the Cavendish laboratory in Cambridge (which Peirce himself visited dur-
ing his travels in Europe) on the establishment of Victorian metrology in
England and in setting the standards for laboratory training in physics more
broadly. In contrast with these studies, which concentrate exclusively on the
establishment of physical laboratories, Catherine Jackson has insightfully
demonstrated that chemical laboratories, through a tradition established by
Liebig himself, were well ahead of the physicists’ game. “If the institution-
alisation of physics (or any other discipline) appears to have been driven
primarily by scholarly ideals,” Jackson contends, “this is because chemistry
had paved the way. Its ‘craft tradition,’ far from characterising a merely
empirical, mathematically unsophisticated science, not only drove the insti-
tutionalisation of chemistry but also enabled the institutional revolution in
physics” (2011, 62).
Why was Liebig’s laboratory so important in driving this transition? Part
of the answer lies precisely in the relation between teaching and research
that Liebig himself helped establish. His idea of laboratory was a space
where students and assistants could work side-by-side and learn by doing
rather than through mere rote learning. Historians of chemistry have repeat-
edly underlined this distinctive feature of Liebig’s teaching more broadly,
stressing how group research was a vital component of the experiential ped-
agogy of the Giessen laboratory model (Fruton 1988; Holmes 1989). The
importance and extent of Liebig’s pedagogical innovations is best under-
stood in contrast to previous traditions. In the first half of the nineteenth
century, chemistry teaching was divided over the very relation between
theory and practice that Liebig himself tried to reconcile. On one hand, the
“applied” aspect of chemistry was dismissed precisely because of its too
practical nature, which assimilated it to a craft rather than an exact science
like physics and mathematics. On the other hand, the status of the discipline
was being reasserted, especially in Europe, by moving chemical professor-
ships from medical faculties (where chemistry was primarily at the service of
pharmaceutical applications) to philosophy faculties. As Alan Rocke points
out, Liebig’s primary aim was to resolve this tension: “Liebig and others who
were powerfully influenced by the Romantic and neo-humanist movements
were at great pains to stress that chemistry was a true Wissenschaft, inde-
pendent but complementary to other sciences such as physics, mathemat-
ics and even philology and history” (2003, 108). Even more importantly,
Rocke stresses how a key peculiarity of Liebig’s model was to turn chemistry
into a whole mindset that would allow students to think differently: “Those
who learned about both empirical phenomena and theory by active learning
in the laboratory had learned how to think, not simply how to mix drugs”
(2003, 108). Among the crucial factors that contributed to the success of
Liebig’s pedagogy, Rocke identifies the discovery of isomers, the use of a
The Chemistry of Relations  91
particular kind of apparatus (the Kalliapparat) for the effective synthesis of
organic compounds and the systematic use of chemical formulas as “paper
tools.”2
As we will show later on, the idea of chemical notation as “paper
tools” has particular semiotic connotations, and is conceptually and histo-
riographically relevant in relation to Peirce.
Horsford’s direct relationship with Liebig was one of the factors that
contributed to persuading the manufacturer Abbot Lawrence to donate
$50,000—a record amount at the time—for the foundation of the Lawrence
Scientific School. As Keith Sheppard argues, “Eben Horsford was most
influential in transplanting Liebig’s methodology to the United States,” with
the new School being “modelled along Liebig’s lines” (2006, 567). In 1847
Horsford’s first laboratory course in chemistry had a total of twelve stu-
dents. Nine years after his appointment Horsford founded the Rumford
Chemical Works (1856) and divided his time between his commercial inter-
ests and his academic post. This certainly had an adverse impact on Hors-
ford’s teaching, along with further impediments that were both financial
and related to the cultural difficulties of adapting a German model to the
teaching of chemistry in America. Indeed, Horsford (and Peirce’s teacher
Cooke after him) embarked on the ambitious project of establishing a
“Giessen on the Charles,” as the historians Alan Rocke and Margaret Ros-
siter described it (Rocke 2003, 112). Lawrence’s initial gift of 50,000 dollars
was eventually divided, and only half of the initial amount went to support
Horsford’s laboratory. When Peirce entered the Lawrence Scientific School,
Horsford and Cooke were engaged in keeping the Giessen tradition alive in
spite of the financial constraints, but their attempt eventually proved unsuc-
cessful. Horsford resigned from Harvard in 1863, the very year of Peirce’s
graduation.
Alan Rocke explains the failure of the Giessen experiment in Harvard
as primarily determined by a dramatic lack of funds. “There can be little
doubt,” he claims, “that the endeavor would have succeeded . . . had the
initial amount remained undivided” (2003, 113). This suggests that Liebig’s
methodology did take root in Harvard in Peirce’s time and that, indeed,
Peirce would have been trained in a research spirit very much modeled on
the combination of theory and practice that was so distinctive of Liebig’s
pedagogical methodology. Moreover, while Horsford initially brought
Liebig’s laboratory method of teaching to Harvard, it was Peirce’s teacher
Cooke who, motivated by his contact with the French chemists Jean-­
Baptiste Dumas and Henri Regnault (themselves involved in building a simi-
lar laboratory tradition in France), resurrected the laboratory program after
its subsequent decline during Horsford’s tenure. Stephen Weininger (2013)
captures the twin effects of Horsford and Cooke on chemistry at Harvard
by stating that, while Horsford was “a prominent conduit to the US for the
Liebig program,” nevertheless Harvard undergraduates “had to wait half a
decade longer before a select few had the opportunity to undertake labora-
tory work in a cramped room without gas and running water under the new
92  Chiara Ambrosio and Chris Campbell
Erving Professor, Josiah Parsons Cooke Jr.” (2013, 97). One of the students
in that cramped room was very probably Peirce.
Cooke and Peirce on Chemistry and Mathematics
Having originally been appointed as a tutor in mathematics, Cooke was
soon assigned a chemistry position and eventually advanced to the Erv-
ing Professorship of Chemistry and Mineralogy in 1850. The reason for
this promotion was precisely to revive the chemistry curriculum in Har-
vard (Rosen 1982, 525), and for this purpose Cooke travelled to Europe
in search of apparatuses for his newly assigned Boylston Hall laboratory in
Harvard. The trip allowed him to make contact with institutions that had
already adopted Liebig’s model and to establish particularly close relation-
ships with the Parisian chemists Henri Regnault and Jean-Baptiste Dumas,
both engaged in introducing Liebig’s ideas and pedagogical innovations in
France.
The way in which Cooke revived the chemistry program in Harvard reso-
nates well with the mathematical mindset often attributed by scholars to
Peirce. Indeed, mathematics was the primary route through which Cooke
arrived at the teaching of chemistry, and this had an interesting effect on
his application and adaptation of a Liebig-inspired pedagogy. On one hand,
Cooke used mathematics as a way of lending rigor to the discipline of
chemistry—a move that seems to suggest he embraced the rhetoric, typi-
cal of his time, that the mathematization of chemistry would allow chem-
ists to present it as an exact science on equal footing with physics. On the
other hand, however, Cooke’s own approach to mathematics seems to sug-
gest a more subtle position,3
which shares many important features with
the views Peirce himself would develop on the subject later on in life. In a
late apologia entitled Religion and Chemistry, the Credentials of Science:
Warrant of Faith, which also sums up his broader views on the relation-
ship between science and natural theology, Cooke explains that, for the
application of the deductive method to science, “mathematics is the most
important tool” (1888, 94). More importantly, mathematics offers more
than a tool to perform valid deductions, for Cooke: Instead, he describes it
as a means to visualize relations. “Mathematics,” he states, “is the science
of quantitative relations wholly independent of their material expression”
(1888, 101). This explains why, despite the emphasis on quantification, the
actual mathematics in Cooke’s lectures was ultimately not advanced and
relatively manageable. Rather than a complex machinery (mastered by rote,
mechanical learning) to achieve exactitude in chemistry, Cooke regarded
mathematics as a way of grasping, through logic and thinking, relations
between quantities. Even twenty-five years after his first intake of students,
Cooke comments, “mathematical studies are peculiarly well adapted to
train the logical faculties” (1875, 528). Nonetheless, because of the wide-
spread practice of rote learning found in many American schools, Cooke
The Chemistry of Relations  93
follows up with the observation that students arriving on his course “will
solve an involved equation of algebra readily enough so long as they can do
it by turning their mental crank, when they will break down on the simplest
practical problem of arithmetic which requires of them only thought enough
to decide whether they shall multiply or divide” (1875, 530). The changes
Cooke had made to the curriculum were in part an attempt to compensate
for this perceived weakness in the American educational system, and in part
were heading in the direction of developing a system of quantification that
would also serve as a broader mode of chemical reasoning for the purpose
of chemical research.
An example of how Cooke incorporated mathematics in his curriculum
comes from one of the very textbooks he wrote specifically for his courses at
Harvard. The book, published in 1857, has an interesting (albeit indirect)
connection with the Peirce family. Titled Chemical Problems and Reactions
to Accompany Stöckhardt’s Elements of Chemistry, it was produced by
Cooke specifically to support Julius Stöckhardt’s Principles of Chemistry
textbook,4
which he adopted, mobilizing the entire Harvard Council for a
formal endorsement, shortly after his appointment in 1850 (Jackson et al.
1894, 532). Before showing how this contributed to the mathematization
of chemistry, it is first worth considering Stöckhardt’s original book a little
more in detail. The preface to the 1857 edition of Stöckhardt’s Principles
of Chemistry states that the work was recommended for translation by
Eben Horsford. The translation was carried out by Peirce’s uncle, Charles
Henry Peirce, assisted by Peirce’s aunt Charlotte Peirce—who, as Max
Fisch suggests, did most of the actual work (W 1:xviii). It was from his
uncle and aunt that Peirce inherited his first chemistry laboratory, and the
very completion of their translation of Stöckhardt coincided with the writ-
ing of Peirce’s (never found) “History of Chemistry.” It is therefore quite
reasonable to assume that, either via his own family or via Cooke’s teach-
ing, Peirce had access to both Stöckhardt’s book and Cooke’s companion
to Stöckhardt.
The purpose of Cooke’s book as an accompaniment to Stöckhardt’s
original text can be illustrated by comparing the two pages in Figure 8.1
and Figure 8.2. Cooke’s book mirrors Stöckhardt’s by setting problems to
accompany the practical exercises, but an interesting process of transla-
tion takes place across the two. Cooke operationalizes chemistry specifi-
cally to bring it in line with the Liebig-inspired combination of teaching and
research, theory and practice, he was trying to recreate in Harvard.
In Figure 8.1, Stöckhardt describes an experiment to produce nitric acid,
whilst Cooke, in Figure 8.2, sets his students problems based on this prac-
tical situation—for example, to determine the mass of nitric acid that can
be made from a known mass of potash nitre (sodium nitrate) and sulph-
uric acid.5
The content of Cooke’s Chemical Problems included what today
would be described as stoichiometric calculations, as well as problems
using the gas laws, solubilities, specific gravities, and converting quantities
94  Chiara Ambrosio and Chris Campbell
Figure 8.1 
Page 152 of Julius Stöckhardt’s Principles of Chemistry (1854 edition).
Reproduction from a copy held in the Boston Medical Library, provided
by the Francis A. Countway Library of Medicine.
from one system to another. The mathematical demand is limited to an
understanding of the four rules of arithmetic and an appreciation of pro-
portionality. Whilst Stöckhardt’s text was a course of practical chemistry,
The Chemistry of Relations  95
Figure 8.2 
Page 63 of Josiah Cooke’s Chemical Problems and Reactions to Accom-
pany Stöckhardt’s Elements of Chemistry (1857). Reproduction from a
copy held in the Boston Medical Library, provided by the Francis A.
Countway Library of Medicine.
Cooke realized, “it did this at the sacrifice of all that is distinctive and
peculiarly valuable in the study of an experimental science” (Jackson 1894,
516)—a laboratory based problem-solving approach involving quantita-
tive methods. By establishing his laboratory method Cooke also empha-
sized a number of skills essential to experimental chemistry. These included
the need for accurate work when making and recording observations and
the ability to process numerical data and to draw deductions from experi-
mental results.
Cooke’s operationalization of chemical practice partly relies on the sys-
tematic use of chemical symbols and chemical formulae as “paper tools”:
not mere shorthand labels for elements and compounds (H for hydrogen, O
96  Chiara Ambrosio and Chris Campbell
for oxygen, H2
O for water) but generative tools that participate in the very
justification and modeling of chemical reactions. As Ursula Klein states,
The notion of paper tools implies the assertion that scientists often apply
representations or sign systems in general for the same epistemic pur-
pose and in a similar way to laboratory instruments in the strict sense:
to produce new representations of invisible objects or processes. . . .
Paper tools are visible marks which can be manipulated on paper to
create representations of a scientific object.
(2001a, 97)
Klein’s definition seems to suggest a distinctively pragmatic and semiotic
function for paper tools in chemical practice, and it is indeed strange that
her account does not capitalize on, or at least refer to, Peirce’s semiotics.
Applied to the case of Cooke’s textbook, the inclusion of paper tools in
operationalizing Stöckhardt’s practical experiments has the double function
of providing a shared common language for the quantitative aspects of labo-
ratory practice and a powerful mechanism to visualize relations between
chemical phenomena. Cooke’s problem-based approach demanded students
to treat chemical formulas diagrammatically, and, in this particular respect,
his application of simple mathematical operations to the study of chemistry
went well beyond “mere mathematization.”
It may be useful, at this stage, to start outlining how even the simplest and
most basic pedagogical assumptions developed by Cooke in the course of
his teaching career at Harvard resonated with Peirce, and how they might
have informed his treatment of diagrams in analogy with chemistry. The
text of the Prolegomena is again a good place to start drawing this com-
parison, as it is there that Peirce very explicitly fleshes out the analogies
among chemical, mathematical, and logical diagrams. After insisting that
a general quest for molecular structure informs even the chemist’s isolated
experiments on individual substances, and in substantiating his view that,
along similar lines, the Object of Investigation of a diagram is “the Form of
a Relation,” Peirce switches back to a mathematical example:
Now this Form of Relation is the very form of the relation between the
two corresponding parts of the diagram. For example, let f1 and f2 be
the two distances of the two foci of a lens from the lens. Then,
1/f1 + 1/f2 = 1/f0
This equation is a diagram of the form of the relation between the two
focal distances and the principal focal distance; and the conventions of
algebra (and all diagrams, nay all pictures, depend upon conventions)
in conjunction with the writing of the equation, establish a relation
between the very letters f1, f2, f0 regardless of their significance, the
The Chemistry of Relations  97
form of which relation is the Very Same as the form of the relation
between the three focal distances that these letters denote.
(CP 4.530)
Just like Cooke, Peirce is here pursuing the line of reflecting on the (dia-
grammatic) characteristics of mathematical reasoning broadly construed.
It is in this particular sense that an equation can indeed function as a dia-
grammatic representation: Cooke’s idea of mathematics as “the science of
quantitative relations wholly independent of their material expression”
(1888, 101) finds a resonance in Peirce’s statement that an equation exhib-
its a relation between quantities (in the case above the three focal distances
expressed in the equation) regardless of the accidental significance of the
very letters involved in its material notation. At the same time, Peirce tells us
that the form of the relation thus obtained is “is the Very Same as the form
of the relation between the three focal distances that these letters denote”:
Experimenting with diagrams amounts to performing operations on the
very objects of investigation that the diagram is supposed to represent. Inci-
dentally, this is a further opportunity to think about how Peirce’s account
of diagrams could interestingly complement Klein’s account of paper tools.
In Klein’s view, the literature on paper tools should be extended to dia-
grammatic representations as a case in point: “We may also think of other
sign systems in modern physics, such as Feynman diagrams, as paper tools”
(2001b, 296). But what Peirce seems to suggest in his Prolegomena example
is in fact the opposite: that a distinguishing characteristic of what counts as
a “paper tool” (in chemistry, mathematics, physics, or logic) is in fact their
inherently diagrammatic nature.
An important aspect of Peirce’s idea that diagrams make relations visible
is inevitably related to his qualification of diagrams as iconic representa-
tions par excellence. Indeed, in reference to his own system of Existential
Graphs, and in a manuscript (R 293, c.1906) that probably served as a
draft for what would become his Prolegomena, Peirce defines a diagram
as “an Icon of a set of rationally related objects.” By “rationally related,”
Peirce means “that there is between them, not merely one of those relations
which we know by experience, but know not how to comprehend, but
one of those relations which anybody who reasons must have an inward
acquaintance with” (R 293:10–11). This is in line with Peirce’s dictum
that all necessary reasoning is ultimately diagrammatic (R 293:6), and in
particular with his idea that necessary reasoning makes (or should make)
its conclusions evident. Reasoning upon a diagram, Peirce explains, allows
for the truth of the conclusion to be “perceived, in all its generality; and in
the generality the how and why of the truth is perceived” (R 293:11). His
claim here is that only iconic representations such as diagrams can provide
just this kind of evidence: “It is, therefore, a very extraordinary feature of
diagrams that they show,—as literally show as a Percept shows the Per-
ceptual Judgment to be true,—that a consequence does follow, and more
98  Chiara Ambrosio and Chris Campbell
marvellous yet, that it would follow under all varieties of circumstances
accompanying the premises” (R 293:13).
This seems in line with the diagrammatic exemplification of mathematical
reasoning that, as we showed in the first section, Carolyn Eisele placed at
the core of Peirce’s philosophy more broadly. It is also, however, very close
to the role of mathematics as “peculiarly well adapted to train the logical
faculties” (Cooke 1875, 528) envisioned by Cooke as central to his chemical
training. It is important to note, at this stage, that we are not claiming any
direct lineage between Cooke’s and Peirce’s ideas of mathematics. Nor are
we claiming that Peirce inherited his diagrammatic approach to mathemati-
cal reasoning directly from Cooke. After all, Cooke was only one of Peirce’s
teachers, and he certainly was not primarily responsible for Peirce’s math-
ematical education. We claim, however, that at least part of the justifica-
tion for Peirce’s treatment of relations lies beyond the scope of mathematics
alone. Thus, the emphasis on Peirce’s chemical training might substantiate
a more modest, but still fruitful, line of argumentation: The combination
of chemistry and mathematics had on Peirce the effects that Liebig (and
Cooke) desired and aspired to in crafting their pedagogical innovations. In
combining theory (the “form” of relations) with practice (actual research-
driven experimental work), chemical thinking became part and parcel of
Peirce’s philosophy.
Chemical and Logical Diagrams
So far, we tried to prove that the combination of chemistry and mathematics
developed by Peirce’s teacher Josiah Cooke was well aligned with Peirce’s
own treatment of diagrams as ways of visualizing relations, so much so
that it offers reasonable evidence to look for alternative sources, other than
mathematics and logic alone, for his treatment of diagrams. It is our con-
tention, a contention that we set out to substantiate further in this section,
that there was more in Cooke’s teaching that might have directed the young
Peirce’s attention toward the advantages of thinking in terms of relations
and through diagrams. The very approach to chemical diagrams developed
by Cooke for his lectures at Harvard might offer additional evidence that
diagrammatic reasoning was part and parcel of Peirce’s scientific training
from the outset.
Harvard’s Catalogue of the Officers and Students of Harvard University
for the Academic Year 1861–62 includes Cooke’s newly published book
Chemical Physics (1860) as one of the texts Peirce would have used as a
student. Chapter three of Cooke’s Chemical Physics deals with the three
states of matter and has an extensive section on crystallography. What is
of particular note is the approach Cooke takes as he initiates young chem-
ists, such as Peirce, into the various crystallographic systems. For one thing,
Cooke’s use of diagrams fulfills a distinctively “semiotic” function. With a
somewhat transversal historiographical move, one could use Peirce’s own
The Chemistry of Relations  99
semiotic categories to analyze his teacher’s use of crystallographic represen-
tations as diagrams, and observe that the images fulfilled more than a mere
illustrative purpose in the textbook. Cooke’s crystallographic diagrams are
intended to generate interpretive thoughts, and in the process the diagrams
become indistinguishable from the crystal forms with which they share
a number of significant characteristics. In what follows, we discuss how
Cooke accomplished this.
The section on crystallography begins with Cooke advising his students
to produce their own representations by “prepar[ing] models of the more
important forms” (1860, 132). Interestingly, his discussion of the geom-
etry of crystals is shaped in analogy with material models, which he advises
students may purchase “from dealers in philosophical instruments” (1860,
132).6
Cooke even points out that models of various materials are available
for the purpose; however, “by far the most instructive models are made
with glass faces fastened together by strips of colored paper pasted on the
edges” (1860, 132), which would facilitate the geometric understanding of
the structure of the crystals thus modeled. He then considers the principal
crystal systems, starting with holohedral forms of the monometric system.
An example of his approach can then be seen in the way Cooke extracts
geometric knowledge working directly with the diagrams (Figure 8.3).
Three solids among the seven shown on the page (the octahedron, the
rhombic dodecahedron and the hexahedron), Cooke explains, have invari-
able parameters and do not admit any variation in the relative position of
their planes. The remaining four, however, have variable parameters and
the position of their planes depends on the values assigned to m (a simple
rational number, giving the parameter value for a particular crystal axis).
So, Cooke explains, in the case of the tetrakis-hexahedron (solid no. 6 in
Figure 8.3), which is an intermediate form between the dodecahedron and
the cube, “when m=1 the pair of faces meeting at m coincide, and we have
the dodecahedron. As the value of m increases, the solid angle at A becomes
more and more obtuse, until, when m=∞ the four planes meeting at A coin-
cide and we have a cube” (1860, 134). Cooke then invites students to try
analogous operations on other solids in the series represented in the figure,
such as the hexakis-octahedron (solid no. 4 in Figure 8.3), but in doing so he
points out that he will not spoon-feed the necessary information: “To trace
out these relations, both in the symbols and the forms, is left for an exercise
to the student” (1860, 134).
There are two points of importance here that have crucial relevance for
Peirce’s subsequent treatment of diagrams. First, Cooke singles out the fea-
tures (the four planes meeting at A, m and the values assigned to it, etc.)
that serve as pointers to perform relevant operations on the figures. This is
analogous to what Peirce, later on, would define as the indexical compo-
nent of diagrams. Secondly, the student is encouraged to experiment on the
representation in order to fully engage with these relations—to consider, for
instance, the geometric consequences of increasing the value of m until it
Figure 8.3  
“Simple Holohedral Forms,” in Cooke’s Chemical Physics (1860),
page 133. Reproduction from a copy held in the Boston Medical Library,
provided by the Francis A. Countway Library of Medicine.
The Chemistry of Relations  101
approaches infinity. This approach, where Cooke presents crystallography
in the language of relations between mathematical symbols and forms, is
repeated many times throughout the chapter, as is the instruction for the
student to comprehend these crystallographic relations by experimenting on
the representations. Not all the crystal systems are set out in detail, for as
Cooke asserts somewhat confidently, “since, after the details already given,
the relations of these forms can easily be traced by the student, we need not
dwell upon the subject [of the remaining systems]” (1860, 134, 140).
In using geometric diagrams in this way, Cooke offers a conceptual image
that seems to encourage the student to merge the representation as printed
in the textbook with its object, the crystalline form found in nature. The
result is that Cooke’s geometric diagram is, for the student, the thing itself—
the natural crystalline form under investigation. Cooke’s approach enables
the student to discover the relations between the natural crystalline form
and its geometric representation, which captures the “form” of that relation
independently of its material configuration. At the same time, the student
comes to know the object—the crystalline form—by interacting with its rep-
resentation. By viewing the representation through the lens of practice—the
practice of crystallography, productively merged with geometry—the stu-
dent synthesizes a sense of meaning and understanding through the many
relations at play.
We showed that Cooke’s Chemical Physics was one of the textbooks
used in Peirce’s chemistry course at Harvard. It is easy to see how Cooke’s
pedagogical methods would have resonated with Peirce—and of course this
judgment is far too easy to make in hindsight, with the knowledge we
have today of Peirce’s strong preference for visual thinking. Late in life,
Peirce himself would acknowledge, “I do not think I ever reflect in words:
I employ visual diagrams, firstly, because this way of thinking is my lan-
guage of self-communion, and secondly because I am convinced that it is
the best system for the purpose” (R 619:8). Far too often Peirce’s scholars
have treated this ability as one of the many marvelous products of Peirce’s
unique mind, but visual thinking, as all other modes of knowing, is an
ability that needs to be fostered and cultivated. In light of the historical
evidence we presented so far, there is reason to believe that Cooke at least
contributed to nourish Peirce’s preferred mode of learning, and that his
teaching of crystallography through diagrams could have been one of the
many factors that allowed his inclination toward diagrammatic thinking to
flourish. By approaching crystallography through Cooke’s diagrammatic
methods, Peirce experienced the iconic nature of diagrams in a way he
would later describe in one of his most evocative passages on the subject:
“Icons are so completely substituted for their objects as hardly to be distin-
guished from them. Such are the diagrams of geometry. A diagram, indeed,
so far as it has a general signification, is not a pure icon; but in the middle
part of our reasoning we forget that abstractness in great measure, and the
diagram is for us the very thing” (CP 3.362, 1885).
102  Chiara Ambrosio and Chris Campbell
Peirce scholars know that this is a passage from Peirce’s 1885 Algebra of
Logic, which considerably precedes his diagrammatic system of Existential
Graphs (formally put forward only in 1896), and is especially known as his
formal introduction of quantifiers in logic. But, as Ahti-Veikko Pietarinen
(2006, 109ff.) notes, Peirce’s diagrammatic system of Existential Graphs
was ultimately rooted in Peirce’s previous investigations in logical algebra,
and, as Shin and Hammer (2013) point out, “Peirce’s mission for a new
logic started with the question of how to represent relations” (Shin and
Hammer 2013, n.p.), a question that partly marks the continuity between
his discovery of logical quantifiers and his subsequent diagrammatic system
of logic. It is therefore not too surprising that one of Peirce’s most forceful
discussions of the iconic nature of diagrams appears in a logical context
such as the Algebra of Logic, and it is even less surprising that diagrams,
having been such a crucial part of Peirce’s scientific way of thinking even
before the beginning of his formal career as a scientist, constituted a recur-
rent concern in his writings.
Later in life, and as we showed previously, Peirce used diagrams as an
opportunity to reflect on the evidential status of logical relations. On the
one hand, he claims, relations are discovered through the very process of
constructing and inspecting a diagram. This process requires the diagram to
be built in relation to an Interpretant—which for Peirce is the interpreting
sign that a sign itself triggers in an interpreter’s mind (or quasi-mind). Once
a diagram has incorporated an intention to appeal to an Interpretant, its
necessary conclusions become universally communicable and thus evident—
that is, appealing to “those relations which anybody who reasons must have
an inward acquaintance with” (R 293:10–11). This is very much in line with
the pedagogical approach to diagrams developed and pursued by Cooke in
his teaching. Peirce was trained in a chemical tradition that placed diagram-
matic reasoning at the core of experimental practice, and through Cooke’s
teaching he became acquainted with the process of discovering the relations
governing chemical structure (through chemical formulas, stoichiometry,
and the application of geometry to crystallography, all used in a distinctively
“diagrammatic” way). But Cooke’s textbooks also emphasized that, once
communicated or shared within a community, relations become evident and
can be comprehended beyond what is merely experienced through singular
observations.
Peirce’s quote from the Algebra of Logic referred to above also reveals an
apparent tension which would characterize his approach to diagrams more
broadly, and which reappears in the passage from the Prolegomena that
opened our chapter. On one hand, experimenting on a diagram is different
from handling a pure icon because diagrams possess generality. They obey
particular conventions, for example, and function through the indispensable
aid of indices as pointers for relevant features to be manipulated and experi-
mented upon. At the same time, Peirce explains, reasoning on a diagram
is a way of coming into contact with the particular object of inquiry that
The Chemistry of Relations  103
the diagram is supposed to investigate. In transferring the discussion in the
Algebra of Logic from diagrams to the iconic function of other kinds of rep-
resentations, such as paintings, Peirce continues, “the distinction of the real
and the copy disappears, and it is for the moment a pure dream—not any
particular existence and yet not general” (CP 3.362). Once again, Peirce’s
quest for relations here offers the key: diagrams are ways of discovering
relations (between the parts of the representation itself, independently of its
material components), and at the same time extend those relations to par-
ticular, still uninvestigated instances. In this, Peirce’s treatment of diagrams
appears once again in line with the teachings of his teacher, Josiah Cooke,
and particularly with his pedagogical use of diagrams to relate geometric
and chemical structure.
The apparent tension between the generality of diagrams and their ability
to place us into contact with the direct object of inquiry is smoothed even
further by a passage from R 293, in which Peirce draws an illuminating
analogy between diagrams and Kantian Schemata: “Meantime, the Diagram
remains in the field of perception or imagination; and so the Iconic Diagram
and its Initial Symbolic Interpretant taken together constitute what we shall
not too much wrench Kant’s term in calling a Schema, which is on the one
side an object capable of being observed, while on the other side it is a gen-
eral” (R 293:13). While this is not the appropriate place for a long exegetic
discussion of the relations between Kant and Peirce,7
a few remarks are here
in place. Just like Schemata, Peirce states, diagrams have a twofold nature:
On the one hand, they are objects “capable of being observed,” while, on
the other, they also possess generality. The most effective way of making
sense of this statement is through Hookway’s (2002) perceptive investiga-
tion of the relations between Schematism and iconicity, which can easily be
extended to diagrammatic representations. As Hookway points out, Peirce
drew on Kantian Schematism to advance a broader point on the generality
of ideas. In this context, Hookway argues, Schemata appear to be “ 
‘tem-
plates’ or stereotypes in applying concepts—or at least in applying some
concepts” (32). There is much that this characterization has in common
with Peirce’s treatment of diagrams. Diagrammatic representations appear
to be somehow a materialization of Hookway’s account of ideas on paper.
Just as Kantian Schemata mediate between the faculty of understanding and
experience, so diagrams mediate between the “inward acquaintance” that
every reasoner has with the (general) nature of relations and the concrete
phenomena the diagram is supposed to relate. Even more importantly, the
parallel with Schemata allows us to account for the generative character
of diagrams more broadly. Schemata, in Kant and Peirce, are indeed rules,
methods, or procedures produced by the faculty of imagination that allow
us to anticipate experience (and in doing so, to make sense of it conceptu-
ally). Similarly diagrams, by virtue of their iconic character, allow both the
synthesis of a manifold of experienced ideas into a unified representation
and the discovery of relations not necessarily involved in the construction
104  Chiara Ambrosio and Chris Campbell
of the representation itself. With this in mind, it may also be productive to
revisit the recent literature on Existential Graphs, which emphasizes how
Peirce constructed his system of diagrammatic logic as “moving pictures of
thought” (CP 4.8, c.1905; Pietarinen 2006, 103ff.). Peirce’s quote on dia-
grams as Schemata adds a further tile in the mosaic of the logical system he
developed in the 1890s. Schematism explains the generative and dynamic,
general and observational nature of diagrams. As materializations on paper
of the faculty of imagination, diagrams offer a “moving picture of the action
of the mind in thought” (R 296:6) and, in doing so, they serve as key media-
tors between understanding and experience.
Once again, a caveat is here appropriate. We are not arguing that Peirce
inherited his philosophical application of Schematism to diagrams from
Cooke. It is well established in the literature that Peirce’s Kantian training
began in 1855 (W 1:2) and continued in parallel with his scientific training.
What we are arguing for, however, is that Peirce experienced the particular
functions and properties he attributed to diagrams through the pedagogical
innovations Cooke tried to introduce in his lectures at Harvard. In a Kan-
tian spirit, Cooke acknowledged in his Chemical Physics textbook that we
can have no knowledge of the essential nature of chemical substances. But
in an equally Kantian spirit, Cooke also acknowledged that this limitation
is the condition of possibility for chemical knowledge: “In regard to the
essential nature of matter, or the elements of which it consists, we have no
knowledge, but we have observed the properties of almost all known sub-
stances as well elements as compounds, have studied their mutual relations
and their action on each other, and have discovered many of the laws which
they obey” (1860, 3).
It is this relational view of chemical knowledge, pursued diagrammati-
cally, that we claim Peirce to have inherited, in part, from Cooke and turned
into one of the bedrocks of his philosophical system.
Conclusion
Much remains to be investigated when it comes to understanding the impact
of Peirce’s chemical training on his philosophical ideas. Peirce scholars often
tend to neglect even the most basic results of Peirce’s chemical training—for
example, the fact that Peirce’s first published paper, “The Chemical Theory
of Interpenetration” (W1:95–100, 1863), was in fact a chemical paper, of
a distinctively Kantian flavor. Throughout his life, Peirce frequently drew
on Dmitri Mendeleev’s periodic table as an exemplary instance of inductive
reasoning and, in 1869, he published his own contribution to the history of
the periodic table. Peirce’s paper, titled “The Pairing of the Elements” and
published in the American edition of Chemical News, was praised by the
American Association for the Advancement of Science as having “greatly
added to the illustration of the fact of pairing by representing in a dia-
gram the elements in positions determined by ordinates representing atomic
The Chemistry of Relations  105
numbers” (W 1:xx). Several years later, reporting on the discovery of the
Periodic Law for the The Nation in 1892, Peirce makes what is possibly
his most powerful claim in support of his old tutor as the foremost her-
ald of Mendeleev: “The principal precursor of Mendeléef was, as it seems
to us, that penetrating intellect, Josiah P. Cooke, who first proved that all
the elements were arranged in natural series” (W 8:284). Only a few lines
later, a cryptic comment suggests that Peirce inscribed himself in the very
tradition Cooke and, subsequently, Mendeleev pursued in chemistry: “No
doubt, many a chemist in those days drew up a table more or less like this,
but refrained from publishing it, feeling that a great discovery was immi-
nent. An obscure American chemist actually assigned this as a reason for
not attaching his name to such a table” (W 8:285). The “obscure American
chemist” in this case is Peirce himself, and the table he refers to is the very
diagrammatic illustration of the pairing of elements praised by the Ameri-
can Association for the Advancement of Science in 1869.
Before concluding, we would like to trace some of the broader impli-
cations that the study of Peirce’s work on chemistry can have on Peirce’s
scholarship. In a recent article, Richard Atkins (2010) traces an important
difference between Peirce’s formal, Cenopytagorean categories (Firstness,
Secondness, and Thirdness) and his material categories, not reducible to
their formal counterpart. In drawing this distinction, Atkins insightfully
appeals to the relations between Peirce and Mendeleev, so much so that he
redefines Peirce’s c. 1908 re-systematization of his categories as his “Men-
deleevian period” (Atkins 2010, 101). We believe that more of this work
is needed in Peircean scholarship and that a historical study of the chemi-
cal context surrounding, directing, and informing Peirce’s philosophy is an
essential complement to the philosophical understanding of Peirce’s chemi-
cal metaphors. Peirce’s references to chemistry need to be taken seriously.
Far from being a mere stepping stone toward his greater accomplishments
in science, logic, and philosophy, chemistry was for Peirce a whole mindset
and a way of thinking that complemented epistemically, visually, materially,
and even metaphysically the development of his philosophy.
Notes
	1	The Catalogue of the Officers and Students of Harvard University for the Aca-
demic Year 1861–62 lists Peirce’s father, a founding force behind the Lawrence
Scientific School, as “Benjamin Peirce, LL.D., Parkman Professor of Astronomy
and Mathematics” (6). His son’s chemistry tutor, Josiah P. Cooke, is listed as
Erving Professor of Chemistry and Mineralogy. There are fifty-seven “scientific
students” (71–73), including “Peirce, Charles S., A.B,” studying chemistry. The
catalogue outlines the curriculum for each subject. The entry under chemistry
states that the course of instruction will include “recitations in Experimental
Chemistry, Qualitative Analysis, Chemical Physics, and the Applications of
Chemistry to the Arts” (75). The academic lectures available included chemistry,
physics, botany, and anatomy as well as laboratory sessions to do with chemi-
cal analysis, manufacturing chemistry, metallurgy, and pharmacy. Of particular
106  Chiara Ambrosio and Chris Campbell
interest are the textbooks that were used as these give some insight into the
content of the chemistry curriculum. Students were expected to have an acquain-
tance with Stöckhardt’s Principles of Chemistry (1854), in addition to Cooke’s
Chemical Physics (1860) and Regnault’s Elements of Chemistry (1853). As we
will show later on, these textbooks provide a glimpse into Cooke’s pedagogical
innovations at Harvard.
	 2	 The idea of Berzelian formulae (a modification of which is still in use in contem-
porary chemistry) as “paper tools” has been proposed by Ursula Klein (2001a,
2001b, and 2003) and will be discussed later on.
	 3	 This is partly related to Cooke’s Unitarian views, which developed in a sophis-
ticated epistemological framework aimed at reconciling science and religion.
Cooke worked at the very time in which the reception of Darwin’s Origin of Spe-
cies in America prompted either the complete abandonment of traditional natural
theologies or, as in the case of Peirce’s own mentor Louis Agassiz, the production
of explicit criticisms of Darwin’s ideas. As shown by Contakes and Kyle (2011),
Cooke saw science and religion as complementary epistemologies, and math-
ematics, in his account, offered an indispensable key to this complementarity.
	 4	It is not quite clear why Cooke’s title refers to “Elements” rather than “Prin-
ciples” of chemistry, as in Stöckhardt’s original. The examples and citations he
gives from Stöckhardt confirm that the text he is referring to is the Principles of
Chemistry.
	 5	Notice, too, in passing that Cooke represents chemical change as an equation
with an “equals” sign (=) separating the reactants from the products. The intro-
duction of arrows to show the direction of change was not made until 1884
by the Dutch chemist Jacobus van’t Hoff in his book on chemical equilibrium
Étude de Dynamique Chemique (Studies in Chemical Dynamics), where dou-
ble reversed arrows were used to indicate reversible reactions and the dynamic
nature of chemical equilibrium.
	 6	 Three-dimensional models of the kind Cooke suggests to his students were ubiq-
uitous in nineteenth century teaching and research. For a historical overview
of the various uses of these kinds of models across scientific disciplines, see De
Chadarevian and Hopwood (2004).
	 7	 The literature on Kant and Peirce is vast, and here we limit ourselves to point the
reader to Gava (2014) as an excellent and up-to-date source on the subject.
One of the great discoveries of Charles S. Peirce was the central role of
diagrammatic reasoning in scientific reasoning, as well as the role of rep-
resentational forms as uncovered in his attempts to classify different types
of signs. Around the time of his Lowell Lectures of 1903, Peirce revised
his early classification of signs as icons, indexes, and symbols into a more
complex conception, where these types are seen as aspects that can be com-
bined in concrete representations. This is why Peirce begins to consider the
classification of signs as a problem to be analyzed within a “speculative
grammar” (EP 2:260), i.e., a part of semiotic treating the properties of signs
in themselves independent of what they might represent. From this perspec-
tive the iconic is no longer primarily to be understood as a class of “iconic
signs” (or “hypoicons” in Peirce’s new terminology) but as that aspect of a
sign relation by which it can indicate a similarity with an object of the sign.
In contrast, the indexical aspect concerns the causal anchoring of a sign to
its object in some context, and the symbolic aspect concerns the law-like or
conventional regularity that might be expressed in the sign and its interpre-
tation. One of Peirce’s own examples in the Harvard lectures (EP 2:163) is
the hygrometer, a scientific instrument measuring the humidity of the air.
Peirce uses the hygrometer to illustrate the role of the index. The instru-
ment is constructed to have a “real relation” to its object and it will react to
changes in local humidity. As a reactive mechanism, it works independent
of any observation and interpretation, but in order for it to actually convey
any information the instrument must also embody “an involved icon” (EP
2:163). In a modern hygrometer, this is the function of the pointer and the
scale of the instrument interface. Reading the relative humidity (the ratio of
water vapor in the air at a given temperature) on a hygrometer requires the
scale to represent changes in humidity (measured indirectly through some
other property such as electrical resistance) as corresponding changes in the
displayed measurement, and this analogical relation is iconic even though
points and distances on a scale do not “look like” relative humidity. It is
important for our topic here to recognize that iconicity can be abstract, and
the similarity implied should not be confused with a subjective judgment
of “resemblance.” To complete the hygrometer example, it can be added
9	 Graphs as Images vs.
Graphs as Diagrams
A Problem at the Intersection of
Semiotics and Didactics
Michael May
108  Michael May
that any law-like or conventional regularity of humidity to other phenom-
ena (e.g., temperature) expressed by the instrument or our interpretation of
it would count as a symbolic aspect. A scientific instrument will generally
involve all aspects (iconic, indexical, and symbolic) of the relation of signs
to their objects. In the following we will, however, not pursue the derivation
of Peirce’s extended classification of signs but focus on his proposed subcat-
egorization of hypoicons into images, diagrams, and metaphors (EP 2:274).
The subcategorization of iconic signs (“hypoicons”) is important in the con-
text of higher education in mathematics, science, and engineering because of
the multi-representational requirements of communication and research prac-
tices in science (see our instrument example). Specifically, we will analyze a few
examples associated with the representational form (“sign type”) of graphs
and the models they represent. Graphs are basically diagrams, but importantly
so are algebraic expressions, and this points to an operational conception of
diagrammatic signs beyond their descriptive foundation in similarity relations
(see Stjernfelt 2007). Graphs and algebra are iconic forms associated with
“necessary reasoning” (see CP 4.227–323). Peirce maintained the proposition
of his father Benjamin Peirce (who was one of the founding fathers of linear
algebra) that mathematics is “the science which draws necessary conclusions”
but with the modification that mathematics deals with “hypothetical state
of things” (CP 4.229 and CP 4.233). For Peirce, diagrammatic reasoning is
inherently mathematical in this sense of necessary reasoning.
In the later part of the twentieth century, diagrammatic reasoning was
“rediscovered” by cognitive science, and reasoning with diagrams and exter-
nal representations became a key issue in cognitive science starting from the
AAAI symposium at Stanford in 1992 (Glasgow, Narayanan, and Chan-
drasekaran 1995). However, Peirce’s contribution was largely disregarded
at the time (see CP 4.418–4.529 and CP 4.530–4.572). The motivation for
this focus on the topic was primarily the importance of logic and knowledge
representation for artificial intelligence research and secondarily a growing
interest within cognitive science in non-linguistic forms of thought and rea-
soning. Peirce was implicated because of his contribution to logic in a nar-
row sense, i.e., disregarding his conception of semiotics. The focus was on,
for example, demonstrating the soundness of Venn diagrams or Existential
Graphs as diagrammatic forms of logical reasoning, but the semiotic aspects
of diagrammatic reasoning were later reintroduced (Pietarinen 2006, Stjern-
felt 2007). The focus on mathematical logic points to a problem that para-
doxically can be seen as inherited from Peirce himself: the tension between
logical and discursive approaches to sign relations and signification. Peirce
struggled all his life with this tension between semiotics as a logic of reason-
ing and semiotics as a construction of meaning within different genres and
domains of discourse (Freadman 2004). The ambiguity that arises for the
Existential Graphs between an operational iconic logic versus a diagram-
matic reasoning with ontological implications (Stjernfelt 2011) can be seen
as an instance of this general tension.
Graphs as Images vs. Graphs as Diagrams  109
The focus here will be on diagrammatic reasoning in the sciences with
respect to problems of graph and model comprehension in science educa-
tion. Educational semiotics can be developed as a general philosophy of
education (Semetsky 2010), but it is argued here that we should exploit
the opportunity provided by cognitive semiotics (Zlatev 2012) to empiri-
cally investigate meaning construction and reasoning in educational settings
within specific scientific domains.
A Phenomenographic Example from
Chemical Engineering Education
A strange phenomenon has been observed in science learning: Students who
adopt a “surface approach” to learning attempt to remember graphs inde-
pendent of the models they represent. For example, when Cartesian graphs
are detached from conceptual models and symbolic equations, students may
attend to shape-features of graphs as if they were images rather than rela-
tional structures (diagrams). As we shall see in the examples below, this is a
problem because different versions of the graph-as-image misconception all
tend to short-circuit model comprehension.
Between 1995 and 1997, the author participated in a large-scale investi-
gation of problems of conceptual understanding in engineering education
courses at the Technical University of Denmark. The focus was on prob-
lems of assessment associated with the use of computational exercises and
examinations that did not evaluate students’ conceptual understanding. In
the project, students were exposed to concept tests and later interviewed
to document their reasoning. Concept tests often involved free graph-
sketching questions rather than computational exercises (May 1997). In
an advanced course on Transport Processes (mathematical models of the
transport of mass, energy, and momentum in fluid flows), we tested stu-
dents’ understanding of concepts and models that should be familiar to
students on entering the course. One question targeted Fourier’s law for
heat conduction for a cylinder with a core heated to the temperature T1
,
with radius R1
and a flow of heat to the surface with radius R2
and a
lower temperature T2
. Students were asked to sketch the graph T(r) of the
temperature against the radius without doing any numerical computation.
Phenomenographic studies often document a limited number of recurrent
prototypical misconceptions within a given knowledge domain. A para-
digmatic example was the analysis of conceptions of the Mole concept in
chemistry (Lybeck, Marton, Strömdahl, and Tullberg 1988). In the heat
conduction question, we found a similar simple distribution: Even though
forty-nine students sketched their own graphs, we only found three types
of graphical answers (a, b, and c below). In interviews we discovered
that answers could be motivated in different ways. The correct answer
is the hyperbolic curve (c) in Figure 9.1. This could reflect an adequate
model understanding, but it could also arise from vague reasoning or rote
110  Michael May
Figure 9.1 
Concept question testing the adaptation of Fourier’s law for (steady-
state) heat conduction to the special case of a heated cylinder (cross
section left) and graph sketching answers of students in chemical engi-
neering (right).
learning, where students were not able to reconstruct how they came up
with the correct answer.
Fourier’s law for heat conduction can be understood as a law-schema
(Kuhn 1970) for heat flow that has to be specified for each geometry under
consideration. Heat flow will be proportional to the product of an area and
a heat flux through it, i.e., the rate of heat transfer per unit surface area. The
heat flux will generally have the form—k dT/dx where the constant k is the
thermal conductivity of the specific material and dT/dx is the temperature
gradient. Heat is conducted in the direction of decreasing temperature and
the flux is therefore negative in the positive direction of the x-axis. The lin-
ear answer (a) to the question will be appealing to some students, because
they remember (correctly) that the heat flow through a metal wire can be
considered as proportional to the temperature gradient over some distance
from a heat source (Figure 9.2). This is, however, the case for heat flow in
one dimension (along the length L), i.e., not considering the area of the wire.
This is how students are often introduced to heat conduction in high school
physics.
As stated above, Fourier’s law should be understood as a law-schema,
i.e., a law that has to be specified for any given problem situation in order
to be applied (Kuhn 1970), i.e., it has to be specified to fit the geometry of
each case. In the case of a cylinder with radius r the area is 2πrL and this
will affect the temperature curve from T1
. In the cylinder the temperature
gradient will depend on 1/r (Figure 9.3) and the graph will be a hyperbolic
curve ((c) in Figure 9.1). A model-based understanding of the law-schema
Graphs as Images vs. Graphs as Diagrams  111
Figure 9.3 
The law-schema of Fourier’s law for heat conduction and its specification
in two cases.
Figure 9.2 
The simple case of heat conduction in a thin metal wire, where the linear
answer is correct, is typically the way students have been introduced to
Fourier’s law for heat conduction.
will imply that the graph for T will always have to depend on the geometry.
Without doing any computations, students should be able to reconstruct
the qualitative graphs for prototypical cases like cuboid (“boxes”), cylin-
drical, and spherical objects. This is in itself an example of iconic varia-
tion regulated by symbolic constraints and as such a form of diagrammatic
reasoning, but our focus here is on the nature of the second misconception
((b) in Figure 9.1). This answer is different by not having a foundation in
the model.
In interviews, we discovered that students answering (b) did not attempt
to argue with reference to the conceptual model or the equations of heat
conduction but rather with a direct reference to what particular graphs
112  Michael May
“looked like” in textbooks. A short interview fragment can illustrate this.
The student had originally drawn the correct graph (c) but had changed it
to (b):
INTERVIEWER:  Can you remember the kind of reasoning that was behind
your correction of one answer to the other?
STUDENT:  The first, uh, . . . There was a drawing in the foundational text-
books, the one called McCabe [Unit Operations of Chemical Engi-
neering] of two heat exchangers . . . uh, or it is one heat exchanger,
where that temperature difference. . . . There are some bended curves
displayed. And that was, so to speak, the immediate [idea] . . . if it is
something with temperature differences, then there are bended curves.
INTERVIEWER:  Hm. . . . (May 1998, translated from Danish)
The “immediate idea” that the student forms has no foundation in model
comprehension but attempts to recall a mental image of graphs of tempera-
ture difference as recalled from textbooks or lectures. The student further-
more generates his own heuristic rule: “If it is something with temperature
differences, then there are bended curves.” This is inadequate in several
ways. First of all, it is an overgeneralization since the graph will depend on
the geometry, as we have seen, but it is also inadequate by being underspeci-
fied (vague), since curves can “bend” in many ways. To explore this type
of graph comprehension problem in more detail, we will go back briefly to
the first reporting of this phenomena in cognitive science and educational
research.
From Phenomenography to Semiotics
Under the influence of cognitive science, Claude Janvier and John Clement
pioneered studies of graph comprehension problems in science and math-
ematics education in the 1980s, and they identified a “graph-as-picture”
misconception in secondary school students (Janvier 1981, Clement 1985,
Leinhardt, Zaslavsky, and Stein 1990). An example is shown in Figure 9.4:
Students were asked to sketch the graph of speed as a function of time for
a problem situation where a bicycle runs down a hill. Some students would
draw a graph depicting the problem situation visually (Figure 9.4), rather
than the actual graph of speed over time.
Clement described this as a mathematical literacy problem, where stu-
dents apparently created a figurative correspondence between visual charac-
teristics of the problem situation (e.g., the slope of the hill) and the shape of
the graph. Clement reports two versions of the graph-as-picture misconcep-
tion. In the bicycle example, there is a global correspondence error associ-
ated with the shape of the graph. In other cases, a local visual feature of the
sketch of a problem situation is seen as corresponding to specific features of
a graph. This is called a feature correspondence error. In one study, students
Graphs as Images vs. Graphs as Diagrams  113
were presented with graphs plotting car speed against distance along dif-
ferent racing tracks, and in this case some students established a false cor-
respondence between peaks of the graphs and bends of the tracks when
asked to infer how many bends they could “see in” (infer from) the graphs
(Janvier 1981).
Graph comprehension will always involve these two levels: (1) a reading
of the graph seeing and recognizing it as a particular type of representation
and (2) seeing the conceptual model and its possible iconic variation in the
graph. These levels have been described in aesthetic philosophy of pictures
as “seeing as” and “seeing in” (Wollheim 1980, May 1999).
The focus on the erroneous “dyadic” correspondence between sketches
of problem situations (as semiotic objects) and graphs (as external represen-
tations) will, however, tend to hide the triadic nature of the sign relations
involved. Correspondence errors are linked to the interpretation of graphs,
and we need to focus on the conceptual structures acting as interpretants.
In our example, there is no correspondence error in associating the heat
flow graphs with the problem situations. University students do not make
the mistake of seeing the graphs as directly depicting heat flow. The linear
answer (a) will usually be a motivated model-based mistake in disregarding
the geometry. It is motivated in the sense that it is based in a correct refer-
ence to Fourier’s law (for the linear case), although they forget to modify
the law-schema according to the geometry, whereas the (b) answer seems to
result from failed attempts to remember graph features independent of the
model or law-schema.
Figure 9.4 
A graph-as-picture misconception in school physics redrawn after (Clem-
ent 1985).
114  Michael May
Graphical objects interpreted as graphs will represent relational struc-
tures, but what happens in answer (b) is that textbook graphs are treated by
the perceptual cognitive system as images to remember. This is the signifi-
cant aspect that is overlooked, if we disregard the role of triadic sign rela-
tions, i.e., the “graph-as-picture” misconception is not generally based in
direct correspondence errors but in the cognitive consequences of a desym-
bolization of diagrams to images. It is, in other words, a typological error of
a semiotic nature: When a graph is seen as an image, students cannot exam-
ine the graph and its possible variations in diagrammatic reasoning. Thus,
the seeing in is lost (seeing the model in the graph). Instead, the graph-image
is exposed to cognitive operations valid for images such as mental rotation
and mirror image formation. These operations make sense for images but
not for diagrams here, since they should be interpreted as graphs represent-
ing a model. We can, of course, perform image-based layout operations on
diagrams as graphical objects but only insofar as they do not distort the
intended interpretation (see the infamous examples of misleading 3-D per-
spective rendering of bar graphs [Kosslyn 1993]).
Diagrammatic operations on relational structures in the form of param-
eter variation is involved in the thought experiments essential to model-
based comprehension. For example, students will change selected terms of
an equation to see “what happens if . . .” Such mental experimentation is
a core aspect of Peirce’s notion of diagrammatic reasoning, and it is neces-
sary for the individual construction of mental models leading eventually to
the conceptual understanding “behind” the equations and graphs. Diagram-
matic reasoning is necessary for the accomplishment of intended learning
outcomes in higher education. In the attempt to remember graphs based
on their graphical features, students risk violating significant differences
between representational forms within “iconic signs.” C. 
S. Peirce under-
stood algebraic equations as well as their graphical expressions as diagram-
matic representations resting not only on icons of relations but relations
aided and regulated by habits of law or convention (i.e., symbols) within
consistent representational systems (CP 4.418). The desymbolization pro-
cess proposed here (Figure 9.5) takes place between different types of iconic
Figure 9.5 
Desymbolization of graphs to graph-images within types of iconicity.
Other processes of symbolization and desymbolization between iconic
signs are possible but not our focus here.
Graphs as Images vs. Graphs as Diagrams  115
signs, i.e., the images, diagrams, and metaphors indicated in the speculative
grammar (see EP 2:272–288). In exemplifying iconic signs, we have to take
into account that Peirce’s second classification of signs operates on aspects
that are combined in concrete signs. For example, we can consider X-ray
images to be good examples of the image type of iconic signs, but this is
only an aspect since X-ray images are also indexical traces of the objects
(e.g., organs, tissues) exposed in the imaging process. Furthermore, modern
X-ray images are digitally manipulated to enhance desired features based on
relevant medical and biophysical knowledge, and as such they embody con-
ventional as well as natural regularities and will have to be considered as the
diagrammatic result of symbolization as well. X-ray images are not simply
“images.” They rely on indexical, iconic image-like, and iconic diagram-like
(or even symbolic) features for their intended interpretation.
Treating graphs as images degrades an intended inquiry about similar-
ity of relations (at the level of graphs and their underlying models) into an
inquiry about similarity of qualities (e.g., graphical features of images).1
When Cartesian graphs are handled as images, the operations allowed will
no longer be constrained symbolically and limited to what is meaningful
in the model (e.g., Fourier’s law-schema). If the mere shape of the graphs
is what is recalled, then the spatial orientation of graph-images and their
symbolic interpretation relative to a coordinate system tend to be ignored.
Although mental imagery of 3-D objects was an issue in early percep-
tual psychology since the work of Hermann von Helmholtz, the experimen-
tal study of mental rotation was first introduced by Shepard and Metzler
(1971), and mental rotation of spatial molecular structures is now recog-
nized as an important representational competence in domains such as
organic chemistry (such as the subdomain of stereochemistry). For exam-
ple, spatial manipulation of 3-D molecular models is necessary for grasping
many spatial problems in chemistry from simple isomers (molecules with
similar composition but different structure) to complex protein structures,
but it is significant from a semiotic point of view that some of these dia-
grammatic tasks in chemistry can be performed by alternative symbolic and
heuristic means (Stieff 2007). Less attention has been paid to the inadver-
tent effects of 2-D mental rotation of Cartesian graphs. Recent educational
studies in mathematics stress the constructive role of image schemas, meta-
phorical projection, and visualization for teaching and learning Cartesian
graphs (Font, Bolite, and Acevedo 2010), but we should also recognize that
“mental imagery” can disturb mathematical reasoning (Aspinwall, Shaw,
and Presmeg 1997).
It is well known that a graph or diagram in general is never a “direct
image of a certain reality,” but rather a “figural expression of an already
elaborated conceptual structure, like any other symbolic system” (Fisch-
bein 1987, 157). However, Peirce’s concept of diagrammatic reasoning
lifts up an important didactic issue, namely, that to understand the model
expressed by graphs and equations students need to perform thought
116  Michael May
experiments and work through the possible iconic variation of the graphical
forms as expressions of relations in the model (May 1999). The confusion
of ­
graphs-as-images can also appear in cases where graph representations
really do “look alike” as graphical objects but where their intended inter-
pretations differ because the represented dimensions and units are different.
A brief example from physical chemistry is given below to show the general-
ity of the phenomenon.
An Example from Physical Chemistry
In chemical reaction kinetics, students will learn about the rate of chemical
reactions and their classification as zero-, first-, or second-order reactions.
Reaction orders refer to the exponential character of the rate by which
chemical reactions depend on substance concentrations. For a chemical
reaction schematically written2
as aA → bB + cC, and where v is the rate
at which the substance A is consumed in the process, the rate is given by
v = K[A]n
where k is a rate constant for the specific process and n is an
exponent which in simple cases is 0, 1, or 2. For a zero-order reaction the
reaction rate only depends on the rate constant k and not on the substance
concentration ([A]0
 = 1). In this case the graph of [A] plotted against time t
will be a straight line expressing the relation: [A] = –kt + [A]0
, where [A]0
is
the initial concentration of A.
Problems can arise for students because they are often trained in the
computation of reaction rates before they have a sufficient background in
thermodynamics to understand the causal mechanisms involved in chemical
reactions.
This can lead to attempts to remember features of graphs in reaction kinet-
ics detached from the underlying models. If students reason with graphs
as being simply “linear” or “curved,” as we saw in the previous example,
this will lead to misinterpretations because the symbolic constraints on the
graph interpretation in the form of variables and units can be overlooked.
Figure 9.6 shows prototypical graphs of zero- and first-order chemical reac-
tions plotting substance concentrations [A] against time, reaction rates
against time,3
and the natural logarithm of the concentration, ln[A], against
time (for the first order reaction). The purpose of the logarithmic plot is that
it will show a linear relation if a reaction is a first-order reaction but not if
the reaction is a second-order reaction. The logarithmic plot is a cognitive
artifact in the sense that it imposes a purely symbolic transformation on
the data that students might obtain in experiments to determine reaction
rates of a chemical process: The transformation does not produce anything
“new” but it makes certain properties of the data visually salient. If the
plots, however, are treated in memory as graph-images rather than symboli-
cally regulated graph-diagrams, the logarithmic plot for ln[A] will exhibit
a misleading visual similarity with the plot of [A] for a zero-order reaction,
and they can accordingly sometimes be confused.
Graphs as Images vs. Graphs as Diagrams  117
Conclusion
Educational research in science should not focus entirely on pedagogical
issues or on the disciplinary knowledge itself but should move into the
domain of the discursive forms of knowledge as expressed in the multiple
representational forms utilized in science and their different affordances
for learning and understanding. Students often have literacy problems in
working with graphs in science, and graph and model comprehension have
to be supported and trained explicitly in the form of external representa-
tions corresponding to the different (valid) cognitive operations on graphs
(Vogen, Girwidz, and Engel 2007). Thought experiments and working
through variations of graphs and models (e.g., parameter variation) within
a domain is necessary for students’ conceptual understanding. It is also nec-
essary to support and train the multiple perspectives implied by scientific
theories and models as well as the complex transformations (conceptual
and mathematical) imposed on scientific representations in order to modify
their affordances for reasoning (Ainsworth 2006; Giere 2006). In modern
science, the complexity of these representational forms, transformations,
and perspective is considerable, but nevertheless we do not pay much atten-
tion in university teaching to the “language of science” and to the literacy
problems associated with these mathematical, philosophical, and semiotic
aspects of learning scientific domains.
Figure 9.6  Prototypical plots for zero-order and first-order chemical reactions.
118  Michael May
Looking back at the examples mentioned here, it is clear that we intend
high school students to be competent in using Cartesian graphs and associ-
ated simple models in, for example, physics and chemistry, but in teaching
science at a university level we tend to expose students to a multitude of rep-
resentational forms, mathematical transformations, and different perspec-
tives on theories and models without explicitly addressing this as a literacy
issue. Digital and web-based technologies seem to provide a foundation for
external support of diagrammatic reasoning, but we need a cognitive semi-
otics and didactics of science for the careful analysis of how external repre-
sentations can actually support conceptual understanding.
Some difficulties in learning science seem to be associated with literacy
issues rather than real difficulties of the scientific content. The graph-as-
image issue exemplifies this. In schools some pupils will fail to separate a
graph representation of relations from a depiction of the problem situation
(see the bicycle example in Figure 9.4), and even if science students at the
university should be competent in graph reading, they can still be confused
about visual similarities between graphs that “look alike” although they
represent different things (see the reaction order graphs in Figure 9.6). Even
students at an advanced level can fall back into learning strategies where
they rely on mental images of graphs rather than model comprehension
(see the heat conduction example in Figure 9.1). The didactic conclusion is
that we underestimate the importance of representational competences and
the need to train students not just in “learning the content” of their subject
domains but also in the multiple representational forms, transformations,
and perspectives appearing at this intersection of didactics, mathematics,
and semiotics.
Notes
	 1	 In the extended sign classification (with ten classes of signs), we might describe
this transformation as going from genuine graphs as rhematic iconic legisigns to
desymbolized graph-images handled as rhematic iconic qualisigns (see Houser’s
[1991] classification of models based on types of iconicity).
	 2	 Here the small letters a, b, and c are the “stoichiometric” coefficients indicating
the number of molecules of a substance taking part in a chemical reaction. Large
letters A, B, and C indicate the substances (reactants and products) involved.
Chemical notation allows abstraction from a specific chemical process just as a
mathematical equation can abstract from specific numerical values.
	 3	 This will be a negative differential expression for the substance being consumed,
here A, i.e., the concentration of A will gradually be reduced by the chemical
reaction in which it is used.
Much has been made in contemporary educational circles about a proposed
alliance uniting the Arts with academic and practical disciplines like Science,
Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics, turning STEM into STEAM.
While many find the idea of such a union appealing, consideration of pos-
sible pedagogical implications cause proponents of both sides to worry that
the integrity and rigor of their preferred domain may be compromised as a
result of being forced to consort with, or serve the needs of, another (see,
for example, Hetland, Winner, Veenema, and Sheridan 2007). No such con-
cerns are needed, however, when it comes to drawing, which, throughout
history, has been an essential tool for artists and STEM specialists alike
(McKim 1972). Charles Sanders Peirce went still further, applying drawing
to the several STEM disciplines as well as to philosophy and logic. This
chapter reviews the forms and functions of drawing in the work of C. 
S.
Peirce, then considers implications of Peirce’s work for teaching drawing at
the university level and in general education, K–12.
In so doing, the chapter contributes to a growing body of research about
the relationship between drawing and thinking from fields like cognitive sci-
ence, developmental psychology, and neurobiology (Kantrowitz, Brew, and
Fava 2012). Pedagogically, such research in turn supports arguments for
“graphicacy” as a necessary complement to literacy (thinking in words) and
numeracy (thinking in numbers) at the core of the curriculum. Coined in
the context of geography education (Balchin 1972), the term “graphicacy”
initially focused on the ability to convey or interpret spatial information
not easily communicated in words or numbers (e.g., through maps). How-
ever, the concept has now been expanded to address the general ability to
think in, about, and through images (Garner 2011). As such, “graphicacy”
applies to drawings of all types (sketches, renderings, illustrations, charts,
diagrams, graphs, architectural plans, etc.) and also to other forms of visual
imagery such as computer graphics and photography. Peirce’s use of draw-
ing reinforces educational arguments for “graphicacy” in several ways.
In fact, Peirce represents a “triple threat” when it comes to assert-
ing drawing’s cognitive contributions, its significance for the STEM to
STEAM conversion, and its place, as central to “graphicacy,” within the
10	 C. S. Peirce and the Teaching
of Drawing
Seymour Simmons III
120  Seymour Simmons III
core curriculum. First, as a world-class philosopher, scientist, and math-
ematician who drew as part of his work in each area, Peirce exemplifies
the use of drawing as a cognitive tool. Second, Peirce’s research on bistable
images provides evidence of critical cognitive functions involved in inter-
preting drawings. Third, Peirce’s pragmatism and semeiotics offer theoreti-
cal frameworks to help explain how drawing serves cognition. These three
topics are discussed below.
Exemplification: Peirce as Draftsman
In his essay, “Peirce, Visuality, and the Semiotics of Pictures,” Michael Leja
tells us that “Peirce himself noted that he drew ‘incessantly,’ although, as
he quickly added, ‘I have never drawn a prize’ 
” (2012, 139). Like Leon-
ardo da Vinci, Peirce peppered his voluminous notebooks and worksheets
with drawings of every kind: “diagrams and texts mingled with repetitive
doodles, obsessive scribbles, pictographs, and most commonly, caricatures
of heads and figures” (2012, 140). These latter images, awkward at best,
may be what Peirce was referring to when saying he never drew a prize, but
what Peirce lacked in representational skills he made up for in his diversity
of approaches to and applications of drawing.
There were, moreover, some aspects of drawing in which Peirce was par-
ticularly strong, among those: experimental mark-making, abstract design,
and diagramming. The first skill appeared in his doodles, scribbles, and
caricatures where he would try out different kinds of marks, apparently
testing their affects while perhaps striving to develop his range of graphic
techniques. Leja points out, for example, how Peirce’s profile drawings of
heads “delight in differences of character type and expression that can result
from simple variations in lines—the way a slight change in the angle of an
eyebrow can turn a face from bemused to angry” (2012, 140). Such exer-
cises focus not so much on drawings of quality, ones that might just “draw
a prize,” but drawings of qualities, differences among drawn marks and the
different qualities of feeling they evoke in the viewer.
Such interest in qualities should not be surprising since they were also
a matter of primary concern in Peirce’s semeiotics. This is evident in the
fact that the first facet of the first of three “trichotomies” in which he
claimed signs can be divided, are “qualisigns.” In Peirce’s words, “[a]
Qualisign is a quality which is a sign” (EP 2:291). What he is refer-
ring to here is not, however, a quality as experienced in a particular
instance. Rather, qualisigns are attributes abstractable from any number
of instances, for example, the qualities of roughness, or depth, which
can occur in different forms and contexts. Actual instances (objects or
events) in which qualities such as these can occur are called “sinsigns,”
the “sin” referring to “single” or “simple,” or, as Peirce puts it, “being
only once.” A drawing representing a roughhewn wooden object, like
C. S. Peirce and the Teaching of Drawing  121
the handle of an old plow, would be a sinsign embodying the qualisign of
roughness. The third facet of this trichotomy is called a “legisign,” which
is “a law that is a sign.” Such laws are generally conventions established
by human beings, consisting not of single objects but of general types
agreed upon as being significant in a particular way. In drawing, linear
perspective may be an example of a legisign: a conventional system that
is widely (though not universally) agreed upon systematically to signify
the qualisign of depth.
In fact, as Leja goes on to explain, Peirce’s graphical work explored a
wide range of possibilities related to his semeiotic system, particularly to
its second, and most well-known trichotomy, that of icon, index, and sym-
bol. These refer to relationships between signs and their objects. An icon
relates to its object by sharing a common quality or characteristic, such as
a visual resemblance. Examples among Peirce’s drawings would include
his representations (including caricatures) of people, animals, and objects.
An index relates to its object by an actual, or “existential” relationship
to it. The term ‘index’ thus relates to the more common term, ‘indicate.’
Indexical relationships in drawing take on several forms. One example is
a schematic drawing of an arrow pointing toward (i.e., indicating) an exit.
A second, and quite different example of an indexical relationship, are
the actual marks made by the artist, indicating her or his physical move-
ments as well as the kind of implement used and the surface upon which
it was used. Indexical drawings by Peirce include his scribbles and doodles
as experiments in mark-making. Finally, symbols relate to their object, as
Peirce puts it, “by virtue of a law, usually an association of general ideas”
(EP 2:292). In the case of drawings, symbols are obvious and everywhere,
including, today, “happy faces,” made up of two dots lined up horizontally
above an inverted arc inside a circle. Peirce himself was not above occa-
sionally drawing conventional images such as hearts and moons. Yet other
of Peirce’s pictographs turn out to “test and subvert the boundaries of his
own categories . . . [vacillating] between iconic resemblance, symbolic con-
vention, and indexical markings.” (Leja 2012, 144). One striking example
of this melding is a drawing of a tiny minotaur (iconic resemblance) in a
convoluted maze (indexical markings, and perhaps symbolic convention),
as seen here in Figure 10.1.
The point is, Leja explains, citing Umberto Eco, that “Peirce never treated
his categories as rigid and exclusive containers for signs; most signs are cat-
egorically hybrid. The categories better describe strategies of signification
than types of sign” (Leja 2012, 145).
Relationships between signs should also have been evident in compar-
ing qualisigns and icons, sinsigns and indexes, and legisigns and symbols,
which reflect, respectively, Peirce’s general categories of Firstness, Sec-
ondness, and Thirdness. According to Jappy these overarching catego-
ries “represent collectively Peirce’s way of indexing ‘what appears in the
122  Seymour Simmons III
Figure 10.1  “Labyrinth,” Houghton Library, Harvard University (R 1537).
world, that is what can be present to the mind’ 
” (2013, 66). As Jappy,
simplifying, explains,
Firstness, which he likened to freedom and independence, covers quali-
ties, properties, feelings; Secondness, which he likened to effort and
resistance, covers the phenomena of individuality, fact, existence and
brute action; Thirdness, which he assimilated to generality, mediation
C. S. Peirce and the Teaching of Drawing  123
and continuity, covers the complex phenomena of system, intelligence,
thought, and, of course, signs.
(2013)
This hierarchical relationship continues into Peirce’s third trichotomy of
signs, which defines the relationship of a sign to its interpretant, with ‘inter-
pretant’ meaning, not the person who interprets the sign, but, more broadly,
the effect of the sign on the receiver.
The first in Peirce’s third trichotomy is a Rheme, “a sign of qualitative
possibility.” The second, a Dicent Sign or Dicisign, “is [for its interpretant,]
a sign of actual existence.” And the third, an Argument, is “a sign which,
for its Interpretant, is a sign of law” (EP 2:292). Here, relevance to drawing
is far less obvious than in the previous trichotomies, but one example, sug-
gested by the editors of this volume, would be a portrait with the name of
the sitter recorded on a label or other signage. The portrait alone would be
an icon of a person. The proper name on the label alone would be an index,
a pointer toward a particular person. The combination of portrait and label
would be a “quasi-proposition” or dicisign. The proposition, implied by
the label linked to the portrait, would be that this picture of a person does
indeed represent the person named.
Besides the semiotic experiments with qualities mentioned earlier, Peirce
used drawing for several other reasons: to record experiences while traveling;
to communicate his ideas to others; and perhaps most of all to facilitate his
own thinking in discipline-specific ways relating to scientific, mathematical,
and philosophical problems. Serving so wide a range of purposes, Peirce’s
drawings inevitably were done in different styles, including an immense vari-
ety of diagrams, some of which demonstrate a sophisticated sense of abstract
design. This skill is especially evident in 98 small drawings arranged in rows
and columns on four pages done around 1870, images that bring to mind the
work of abstract artist Wassily Kandinsky (see Figure 10.2).
Unlike many of Peirce’s other diagrams, this series was not annotated
with explanatory text, so they might have been merely matters of inven-
tive, but relatively absent-minded, doodling, a pastime which does show
up in the margins of some of Peirce’s notebooks. According to Stjernfelt,
however, this series was evidently associated with a set of circle diagrams
done just before the “Kandinskys,” which Peirce did annotate, indicating
their role in his study of “natural classes” (2012, 103). So, aesthetically
appealing though these images may be, their purpose was probably cogni-
tive. This was certainly the case with Peirce’s most famous pictorial experi-
ments, his Existential Graphs, combinations of words and visual elements,
circles, ellipses, lines, etc., a new form of representation that Peirce needed
to develop in order to represent forms of relations, and to “show what a
relation is” (Shin 2012, 221). In the process, as Jappy explains, “Peirce was
developing a complex diagrammatic, that is non-symbolic, representation
124  Seymour Simmons III
Figure 10.2  “Kandinskys,” Houghton Library, Harvard University (R 725).
of the successive stages of human reasoning” (2013, 155) or, in Peirce’s own
words, a “moving picture of thought” (EP 2:xxxvii).
Evidence: Observation and Interpretation
In addition to drawing’s role in facilitating visualization and conceptualiza-
tion, another reason Peirce found drawing such an important cognitive tool
was the prominence he attributed to perception in general and visual percep-
tion in particular. This prominence, as Viola (2012) explains, was reflected in
C. S. Peirce and the Teaching of Drawing  125
his claim that science, mathematics, and even philosophy are essentially obser-
vational enterprises. Regarding the latter, Viola says that Peirce conceived of
philosophy as an “observational enterprise [that dealt] with cenoscopy (a
word he borrowed from Bentham); that is, one dealing with ‘observations
such as come within the range of every man’s normal experience.’ Philosophy
may, in this sense, be described as no less than a training of the eye” (Viola
2012, 118). Viola then goes on to note that the first branch of philosophy for
Peirce, phenomenology, “is itself characterized by means of a visual meta-
phor: it ‘just contemplates phenomena as they are, simply opens its eyes and
describes what it sees’ (EP 2:143)” (Viola 2012, 119). Similarly, semiotics for
Peirce starts, not with concepts, but with percepts and feelings, which are then
“represented” by signs, including drawings. In fact, Peirce initially referred to
signs themselves as “representations” (see Short 2007).
Peirce’s interest in perception and the role of drawing in helping to make
sense of what one perceives manifested itself both early and late in his career.
Early on, as Viola recounts, Peirce worked with his former student at Johns
Hopkins University, the psychologist Joseph Jastrow, doing experimental
research on a type of drawing known as bistable images, pictures like the
famous duck-rabbit and Schröder’s stairs, “which can be read in two differ-
ent and mutually exclusive ways” (2012, 116). Experientially, these images
appear one way at one moment, another the next, and so transform almost
before our very eyes.
In seeming contradiction to what was just said about phenomenology,
Peirce’s interest in such images lay ultimately in the evidence they provide
against seeing as a passive process, a matter of just opening one’s eye and
taking things in. Rather, bistable images support the claim, essential both to
Peirce’s semeiotics and his pragmatism, that perception requires interpreta-
tion, as we shall see in what follows.
Explanation: Peirce’s Pragmatism and Semeiotics
Late in life, in his 1903 Harvard Lectures on Pragmatism, Peirce revisited
his earlier interest in bistable imagery and the role of drawing in communi-
cating philosophical ideas. The notes for these lectures, which, Viola claims,
“may well be regarded as a key-text in Peirce’s mature philosophy” (2012,
116), were also ones where “he employs drawings of different kinds most
extensively, and in a manner that is tightly related to the argument’s devel-
opment. What is more, this is often done with a manifest care for their
formal qualities, draftsmanship and visual incisiveness” (2012, 117). One
example, both of the importance of drawing to the philosophical exposi-
tion and of Peirce’s attention to the effectiveness of the drawn image, was
a seemingly simple drawing consisting of a single “serpentine” line that,
winding ever back on itself, ended up resembling a stone wall (Figure 10.3).
As evidenced by the illustration, Peirce practiced making this image many
times before the actual lecture where he reproduced the drawing in front of
126  Seymour Simmons III
Figure 10.3 
“Serpentine Line/Stone Wall,” Houghton Library, Harvard University
(R 315).
his audience. His purpose was to demonstrate the epistemological difference
between pragmatism and empiricism. Both philosophies, Peirce explained,
assume cognition begins with sensory perception. However, for empiricism,
knowledge is acquired through passive intake of sensory data imprinted on
the “blank slate” of the mind, while pragmatism holds that sensory data is
taken in actively and is actively interpreted through forming hypotheses,
which must then be tested out. The process was demonstrated as his audi-
ence watched Peirce draw, wondering what he was trying to represent. Con-
sciously or not, they formed hypotheses about the answer and compared
these hypotheses to previous encounters with drawings and objects. Then,
C. S. Peirce and the Teaching of Drawing  127
at some point, they reached a conclusion, interpreting the line as represent-
ing a stone wall.
Peirce called the logical process of thinking through hypothesizing
“abduction,” distinguishing it from the more common forms of reasoning,
deduction and induction. Compared to the necessary conclusions drawn
from deduction, and even the probable conclusions drawn from induc-
tion, abductive conclusions are inevitably fallible and tentative and must
be tested out, revised, and retested, often for quite some time. In drawing,
we see the working out of abductive hypotheses in pentimenti, traces of
previously drawn ideas that underlie more finished drawings. This is, admit-
tedly, a messy and uncertain process. However, Peirce actually celebrated
abduction’s fallibilism and tentative nature, claiming abduction was the
only system of reasoning that yields new knowledge and creative solutions.
Examples include the happy accidents that lead to unplanned but fruit-
ful directions in art making. Abduction is also evident in the preliminary
sketches that precede a final work.
Actually, the drawing demonstration used to distinguish pragmatism
from empiricism could also have been used to distinguish Peirce’s semeiot-
ics from other semiotic systems in which symbolization involves a two-part
composite entity consisting of the sign and its object, generally an arbitrary
or conventional relationship typified by the relationship of words to their
objects (Jappy 2013, 70–71). By contrast, Peirce had a tripartite conception
of symbolization integrating the sign, its object, and an interpretant. Nor
did Peirce view the relationship as a “complexus” of dyadic relations, but
rather insisted that it was a true triadic relationship in which none of the
parts—the sign, the object, and the interpretant—would have its role except
by virtue of its relationship to the other two (see Short 2007, 18). Further,
by admitting other forms of signification like resemblance (icons) and cau-
sality (indexes), Peirce was able to extend semiotics well beyond culture-
based signs like words and numbers to include natural signs, such as smoke
signaling a possible fire, as well as nonconventional human signification as
often found in the visual arts.
Moreover, where bipartite signs are generally interpreted conceptually,
with widespread agreement about what each sign means, Peirce’s interpre-
tants could equally take the form of a feeling or an action, which means
that his semeiotics was applicable to non-humans as well as to humans,
while interpretation could vary from individual to individual, and with the
same individual from moment to moment. Finally, while bipartite semiotics
addresses primarily conventional drawings, Peirce’s system accommodates
a full range of drawings, from conventional to highly individualized, from
representational to abstract.
Yet, even as Peirce opens the door to a rich variety of visual imagery such
as he himself often playfully explored and even as he invites a diversity of
interpretations for any given drawing, sometimes allowing more than one
“correct” answer, his is far from an “anything goes” vision of drawing as
128  Seymour Simmons III
is often the case in art schools today.1
Reflecting the unprecedented plu-
ralism of postmodern culture as well as its abandonment of agreed-upon
artistic styles and aesthetic standards, contemporary art instruction often
allows students freedoms never before imagined, so that, even within the
same class, students’ drawings may range from super-realistic renderings to
seemingly random non-representational mark-making, from tiny and crude
cartoon-like figures to graffiti-inspired wall works. Such diversity certainly
encourages individuality, but where almost anything can count as art, it
becomes difficult to determine what counts as good.
Bringing Peirce’s semeiotics into the art room, particularly at the second-
ary and post-secondary levels, might help teachers address this assessment
conundrum. For example, the trichotomy of qualisigns, sinsigns, and legi-
signs may be helpful in focusing on the qualities within the work and the
principles (laws) they may instantiate, while the trichotomy of icon, index,
and symbol, can help differentiate the aims of one drawing from another as
well as sorting out different aspects within the same drawing. Perhaps most
importantly, the concept of an interpretant might help focus attention on
the effect of the drawing on the viewer in relation to the intention its creator
had in mind, allowing the work to be more objectively evaluated as to its
success in achieving the intended end. These last claims derive from Peirce’s
discussion of different types of interpretants (words in quotations for the
first three Interpretants are from Peirce as cited in Jappy 2013, 17):
•	 Immediate Interpretant: This is “the fact that each Sign must have its
particular Interpretability before it gets any Interpreter” (Jappy 2013,
17), e.g., simply the capacity of a drawing to be read and understood.
•	 Dynamic Interpretant: “that which is experienced in each act of inter-
pretation and is different in each from that of any other [effect on the
mind]” (Jappy 2013, 17), e.g., how different people interpret a drawing
differently.
•	 Final Interpretant: “the one Interpretive result to which every Interpreter
is destined to come if the Sign is sufficiently considered” (Jappy 2013,
17), i.e., the convergence of expert opinion about a drawing’s meaning.
•	 Ultimate Interpretant: “The deliberately formed, self analyzing habit,”
(EP 2:418), e.g., self-directed, self-reflective drawing, built upon learn-
ing derived from previous efforts.
The last two interpretants recall the connection between semiotics and prag-
matism, notably the Peircean conception of truth and reality, and his view
of the relation of thought to habit. In the first case, Peirce held that “the
opinion which is fated to be ultimately agreed to by all who investigate is
what we mean by the truth, and the object represented in this opinion is the
real” (quoted in Scheffler 1974, 79). In the second, as Scheffler explains,
“the function of thought is, after all, as Peirce has told us, to produce habits
of action” (Scheffler 1974, 79).
C. S. Peirce and the Teaching of Drawing  129
As indicated above, Peirce confounds the usual stereotypes: a scientist,
mathematician, and philosopher fully conversant with so-called “left-brain”
symbol systems such as words and numbers who nonetheless feels obliged
to do much of his thinking in drawings, assumed to rely primarily on visual-
spatial functions localized in the right side of the brain (see Edwards 1979).
One reason Peirce might cross the corpus callosum between the two cerebral
hemispheres is suggested by Peirce himself and recorded by Leja, his “ ‘intel-
lectual lefthandedness’ which separated him from most of his associates”
(2012, 139). Leja goes further, explaining,
Peirce felt a strong orientation in his natural patterns of thought and
reasoning toward graphic representation and visual symbols. . . . As
he put it, “I do not think I ever reflect in words: I employ visual dia-
grams, firstly, because this way of thinking is my natural language of
self-communication, and secondly, because I am convinced that it is the
best system for the purpose” (R 619, 1909).
(2012, 139)
Let us conclude by considering what Peirce can teach us about teaching
drawing.
Implications for Teaching Drawing
As was hopefully evident from the discussion of possible applications of
Peircean semeiotics to art assessment, Peirce, although not an artist himself,
has much to say to those who teach drawing, do research on drawing and
cognition, and/or support STEAM and graphicacy initiatives. In this conclu-
sion, I address these issues together.
First, Peirce’s own use of drawing reminds us that drawing is a cognitive
matter, involving the full range of thinking skills while integrating thought
with perception and feeling—in short a whole-brain, holistic experience
with applications across the full range of disciplines.
Second, Peirce’s experimentation with perception and interpreta-
tion urges teachers to focus students’ attention on the way drawings
are read and the mechanisms in which they are accurately, inaccurately,
and diversely understood. Along with helping students, even at the ele-
mentary level, become more astute analysts and critics of others’ work,
such processes support the students’ own reflective art-making and self-­
evaluation. This argues against an “anything goes” approach to art mak-
ing, encouraging students instead to seek objective standards upon which
to base their efforts, for example, by responding to what others see in and
understand by their work and by themselves learning to self-evaluate by
analyzing their work in terms of its relevant qualities rather than hastily
making value judgments (all too often negative ones) about its overall
quality.
130  Seymour Simmons III
Third, Peirce’s pragmatism and the logic of abduction encourage experi-
mentation and learning by trial and error while indicating similarities among
creative problem-solving strategies found in art and STEM subjects, particu-
larly, experimental science. Again, this approach has implications for arts
integration at all levels, K—12 and beyond. Likewise, Peirce’s semeiotics
provides a theory that illuminates the many ways drawings convey meaning
while aligning drawing with, as well as differentiating it from, other sym-
bolic systems like language and mathematics, thereby supporting arguments
for graphicacy in the core curriculum.
There are three additional implications underlying the points above.
First, drawing instructors, especially at the post-secondary level, should find
appropriate ways to talk about the points just listed with their students,
complementing the discussion with visual examples to illustrate each con-
cept. Second, to meet the first criterion, instructors obviously will have to
study Peirce’s theories and figure out for themselves in what ways his ideas
might apply to drawing as they teach it. Third, to facilitate and advance such
study, drawing teachers should open up, or at least be open to, dialogues
with those outside the arts about drawing as a cross-disciplinary cognitive
vehicle. In so doing, they will need evidence of drawing’s practical applica-
tions in diverse domains, along with theoretical arguments from philosophy,
psychology, cognitive science, etc., to explain how drawing works, engaging
and integrating in various ways perception, intellect, feeling, and body.
Admittedly, these tasks will not be easy, requiring teachers clearly to con-
nect theory and practice, left brain and right, just as Peirce himself did.
Moreover, reading Peirce is hard for almost everyone, at least at first, and
understanding can be still more challenging for those lacking a background
in philosophy. There is, however, good reason why drawing teachers should
make such efforts: to help restore drawing to its former place at the center
of professional preparation in schools of art and design and K–12 art educa-
tion, as well as to re-establish its role, as an essential aspect of graphicacy,
in general education. The place of drawing in these contexts, as art teachers
know only too well, has steadily been undermined over the past 100 years,
initially by the modernist revolt against academic teaching methods (see
Pevsner 1973 and Goldstein 1996) and more recently by the digital revo-
lution. Based on such pressures, drawing instruction in schools of art and
design has declined to such an extent that a recent symposium at the Yale
School of Architecture raised the ultimate question: “Is Drawing Dead?”
(Yale 2012).
This chapter argues that the restoration of drawing depends on getting
art teachers and others to recognize drawing’s contribution to cognition.
It further claims that C. S. Peirce, particularly in his semeiotics and his the-
ory of abduction, offers invaluable philosophical perspectives on drawing
that complement those provided by the scientific research previously men-
tioned. Finally, it urges drawing teachers to introduce these philosophical
­
frameworks—especially semeiotics—to their students. In this regard, we
C. S. Peirce and the Teaching of Drawing  131
are not forcing an intellectual agenda upon an intuitive action but simply
encouraging students to be more aware of what they are already doing.
For, as Carl Goldstein says, “the artist [with his or her first mark] is already
operating in a semiological field” (1996, 160).
Note
	 1	 The statement that, in some art schools today, anything goes, was recently exem-
plified in the annual exhibition of student work at the renowned École Nationale
Supérieure de Beaux-Arts de Paris. The 2015 show, entitled, “TRANSMISSION
recréation et repetition,” juxtaposed artifacts from traditional visual art train-
ing, some going back centuries, against the work of current students and con-
temporary artists. As an example of differences then and now, the press release
for the exhibition (Beaux-Arts de Paris 2015) placed a photograph of a cast
made from a famous sculpture by Houdon, Écorché au bras levé (1776), next to
a “figurative” art piece by twentieth-century artist Robert Filliou, L’être humain
est multiple, (c. 1970). The cast, a scrupulously detailed and proportionally
accurate representation of the human body, flayed to expose its musculature,
was one of thousands like it used by art students around the world to study
muscular anatomy. Filliou’s piece, besides being one of a kind, differs from the
cast in many other ways. It consists of the top and bottom of a cardboard box
hung side by side on a wall. The left-hand box is mostly empty, except for a few
pieces of masking tape with symbols drawn on them, and a small white piece
of paper taped toward the bottom with a roughly drawn stick figure next to the
scrawled words, “L’être humain est.” The right-hand box completes the title
via a 3” x 5” card with the word, “MULTIPLE,” written on it, and another
piece of paper below it, again with the word, “multiple.” This evidently con-
ceptual piece was, of course, not intended to be used by art students literally to
“draw from,” as was the cast. Rather, as part of the exhibition, it may represent
the kind of art current students see and from which some may “draw inspira-
tion.” Other features in the historical displays were illustrations of anatomical
drawings, perspective drawings, and other aspects of visual art instruction from
the sixteenth to mid-twentieth centuries when the école delivered a traditional
“academic” curriculum (Pevsner 1973). A related historical display documented
the Modernist tradition of art instruction with examples of abstract geomet-
ric drawing exercises taught by Bauhaus-trained artist and teacher Josef Albers
in the United States at Black Mountain College and Yale University (Goldstein
1996). Although the work of Albers and his students was itself a stark contrast
to what was done in previous centuries, both parts of the historic display clearly
demonstrated the rigor, relative uniformity, and explicit standards that were the
hallmark of earlier art instruction. By contrast, the contemporary work reflected
a vast diversity in aesthetics and media, including drawings, but also photos,
videos, installations, performance art, etc. From a pedagogical perspective, the
exhibition suggests the difficulty art teachers face today in determining what to
teach, how to teach it, and how to assess student work.
One of the central issues that has, from time to time, engaged the interest
of philosophers and thinkers is the question of how scientists come to for-
mulate new hypotheses, or what is behind the formulation of hypotheses
as possible explanatory factors. In this paper, I shall be discussing the less
clearly defined and rather mysterious process of the creation of new hypoth-
eses, focusing on Charles S. Peirce’s idea of abduction, in which imagination
appears to play a fertile, heuristic role, and Aristotle’s analysis of the logical
aspect of φαντασία (imagination) in the third book of his De Anima. Within
this context, I shall attempt to point out the logical process behind the con-
ception of new ideas in science, which does not have the characteristics of
a strict, formal logical method. My aim is to show that both Peirce and
Aristotle emphasize the rational origin of imagination and, furthermore, its
creative and fruitful contribution to scientific thought.
Abduction
Peirce, particularly in the work of his mature period (from 1890 onward),
conceives of abduction as a significant logical means for bringing to light
new ideas through hypotheses that we construct as we explore the natural
world. It is precisely here that concepts such as imagination, insight, and
instinct enter his work, ideas that Peirce connects closely to abduction.2
In Peirce’s view, abduction is a reasoning process leading from the data
available to us to a hypothesis that will explain these data in the fullest and
most satisfactory manner. The reasoning process starts with the data and
advances towards hypotheses and theories, not the reverse. Peirce gives the
basic formula of abduction as follows:
The surprising fact, C, is observed;
But if A were true, C would be a matter of course,
Hence, there is reason to suspect that A is true. (CP 5.189, 1903)
So abduction, from a methodological point of view, is the first step of sci-
entific inquiry by which we generate causal hypotheses to be tested with
11	 What Is Behind the Logic of
Scientific Discovery?
Aristotle and Charles S. Peirce
on Imagination1
Christos A. Pechlivanidis
Aristotle and Charles S. Peirce  133
deduction and induction.3
As Ernan McMullin points out, “abduction is
the move from evidence to hypothesis”; this move can lead us to “the pro-
visional adoption of a hypothesis” (1992, 85 and see CP 1.68, 1896; CP
4.541, 1906; and CP 7.117, 1903). Peirce clarifies that “abduction makes
its start from the facts, without, at the outset, having any particular theory
in view, though it is motived by the feeling that a theory is needed to explain
the surprising facts” (CP 7.218, 1901, quoted by McMullin 1992, 88).
In analyzing the positions of the founder of pragmatism, William Davis
relates abduction to the insightful capacity of the mind to seek unity in the
features manifested by phenomena (1972, 45). The motivation for abduc-
tion lies precisely in this insightful capacity of the mind, which, in Davis’s
view, reflects its evident thirst for unity and coherence in all the characteris-
tics and singularities manifested by the phenomena we observe.
But is this really what Peirce had in mind when he was elaborating the
idea of abduction and its individual component parts? Davis refers to the
search for unity as an unending philosophical quest, an investigation that
springs not only from the deep roots of philosophical thought, but also from
the inquiries conducted by scientists. According to Davis, Peirce’s writings
imply this “innate” tendency of the mind to unify in order to understand.
The key phrase he points to is “the law of mind”:
Now, it is a known law of mind, that when phenomena of an extreme
complexity are presented, which yet would be reduced to order or medi-
ate simplicity by the application of a certain conception, that concep-
tion sooner or later arises in application of those phenomena.
(CP 5.223, 1868)
What we have here is a “creative leap of inference,” according to Davis,
which is much more constructive and susceptible to error than an induction
arising from the simple enumeration of things or events. Davis notes, “at
the heart of the matter lies the unity which the mind discovers in a good
hypothesis.” And all this can be ascribed to the human longing for a uni-
fied view of things, a longing as real as any other natural human desire (CP
5.223, 1868, 46).4
Abduction, then, is that process whose purpose is to formulate a hypoth-
esis that will unify observed phenomena on the basis of a satisfactory expla-
nation of the conduct they display, or even of their very existence. For Peirce,
the genesis of hypotheses, and, by extension, of new ideas in science, results
from the operation not of induction, nor of deduction, but of abduction.
Subsequently, Peirce is led to the well-known distinction between the three
methods: “Deduction proves that something must be; Induction shows that
something actually is operative; Abduction merely suggests that something
may be” (CP 5.171, 1903). Abduction is neither certain, nor necessary (see
NEM 4:320, 1906). On the other hand, “induction can never make a first
suggestion. All that induction can do is to infer the value of a ratio, and that
134  Christos A. Pechlivanidis
only approximately” (NEM 4:182). So, he regards abduction as the method
par excellence of scientific discovery. Abduction as a kind of reasoning is
founded on the formulation of an explanatory hypothesis, not only cover-
ing observed phenomena but also all those events in the natural world of
which we can have only indirect knowledge. The explanatory hypothesis
is not limited to what is perceived via our senses. Its basic role consists in
explaining the mechanisms underlying phenomena and responsible for their
individual features and for action in general. But how does the process of
abduction originate?
Abduction and Instinct
There has been much discussion in recent decades about the role of instinct
in the operation of adopting an explanatory hypothesis. Instinct seems to
be the most puzzling feature of abduction and at the same time the core of
its functioning. In his later writings, Peirce refers to the guessing instinct, or
il lume naturale,5
which characterizes abduction and distinguishes it from
deduction and induction. He stresses that “the only hope of retroductive
reasoning ever reaching the truth is that there may be some natural ten-
dency toward an agreement between the ideas which suggest themselves to
the human mind and those which are concerned in the laws of nature” (CP
1.81, 1896). As he puts it elsewhere,
it is a primary hypothesis underlying all abduction that the human mind
is akin to the truth in the sense that in a finite number of guesses it will
light upon the correct hypothesis. Now inductive experience supports
that hypothesis in a remarkable measure. For if there were no tendency
of that kind, if when a surprising phenomenon presented itself in our
laboratory, we had to make random shots at the determining condi-
tions, trying such hypotheses as that the aspect of the planets had some-
thing to do with it, or what the dowager empress had been doing just
five hours previously, if such hypotheses had as good a chance of being
true as those which seem marked by good sense, then we never could
have made any progress in science at all.
(CP 7.220, 1901 and see also CP 5.591, 1903)
This natural tendency ascribes to abduction an original heuristic and
explanatory power that is crucial to understanding its character. Further-
more, Peirce talks about “instinctive judgments” (CP 1.80, 1896; CP 6.522,
1901; CP 2.174, 1902), “instinctive considerations” (CP 7.220, 1901), and
our “instinctive sense of logicality” (NEM 4:261)6
that participate actively
in the process of abductive inference.7
Certainly, abduction is a weak mode
of inference compared to deduction and induction. However, Peirce makes it
clear that abduction is a logical operation. This operation is generative and
innovative: “Abduction is the process of forming an explanatory hypothesis.
Aristotle and Charles S. Peirce  135
It is the only logical operation which introduces any new idea; for induc-
tion does nothing but determine a value, and deduction merely evolves the
necessary consequences of a pure hypothesis” (CP 5.171, 1903, see also
Pechlivanidis [2013a, 118]). He then goes on to argue that abduction is
inferential, a logical mode of drawing conclusions to be further tested: “It
must be remembered that abduction, although it is very little hampered by
logical rules, nevertheless is logical inference, asserting its conclusion only
problematically or conjecturally, it is true, but nevertheless having a per-
fectly definite logical form” (CP 5.188, 1903, and see also CP 7.202, 1901).
It is true that there is a great controversy among Peirce scholars con-
cerning the instinctive and the inferential character of abduction. It is also
true that Peirce’s own writings cannot support explicitly whether or not
abduction should be understood as an unconscious reasoning process or
an inferential mode of reasoning controlled by logical rules. Sami Paavola
quotes Timothy Shanahan, who distinguishes “three distinct but interwoven
grounds for justifying abductive instinct: (1) naturalistic, (2) idealistic (or
metaphysical), and (3) theistic justification.” Paavola puts emphasis on the
“varieties of the naturalistic abductive instinct: the adaptive instinct (CP
5.591, 1903; CP 6.531, 1901; CP 7.39–7.40, 1907), the perceptual insight
(CP 5.173, 1903; CP 5.181, 1903; CP 5.191, 1903), and the guessing with
non-conscious clues (CP 7.39, 1907, CP 7.46, 1907)” (2005, 134–136).8
In
his elaboration, Paavola stresses that the third kind has close affinities to the
perceptual insight, which takes perception as a precondition for abductive
inference (2005, 138 and 140). Additionally, Tomis Kapitan argues that
“instinctive doings or sudden moments of insight are typically contrasted
with voluntary acts under self-control, in which case Peirce’s descriptions
would seem to undermine the conception of abductive guessing as inferen-
tial” (1990, 504).
However, Douglas R. Anderson’s view that insight and inference cannot
be decoupled in abduction seems to be closer to how Peirce intended for
its very character to be understood. Anderson argues, “Peirce did not hold
the ideas of insight and inference to be mutually exclusive with respect to
abduction . . . [he] quite explicitly stated that abduction is both an insight
and an inference. This is a fact to be explained, not to be explained away”
(1987, 33).9
Indeed, Peirce underlines both the purely instinctive and the
reasoned considerations for adopting a good hypothesis (see CP 7.220,
1901). On the one hand, the abductive process cannot be solely instinctive.
On the other hand, it is not a purely conscious and logically controlled rea-
soning (CP 7.220, 1901).10
For Peirce, instinct (or insight) and inference are
two sides of the same coin:
the perceptive judgment is the result of a process, although of a process
not sufficiently conscious to be controlled, or, to state it more truly,
not controllable and therefore not fully conscious. If we were to sub-
ject this subconscious process to logical analysis, we should find that it
136  Christos A. Pechlivanidis
terminated in what that analysis would represent as an abductive infer-
ence, resting on the result of a similar process which a similar logical
analysis would represent to be terminated by a similar abductive infer-
ence, and so on ad infinitum.
(CP 5.181, 1903)
There are several interpretations of how Peirce tried to combine the instinc-
tive and inferential grounds of abduction. As McMullin notes, “Peirce gave
more stress to the inventive side of abduction, raising the further question as
to why this should be regarded as inference” (1992, 86). However, what is
important for our purpose here is Peirce’s view that abduction springs from
a mind’s flash:
The abductive suggestion comes to us like a flash. It is an act of insight,
although of extremely fallible insight. It is true that the different ele-
ments of the hypothesis were in our minds before; but it is the idea of
putting together what we had never before dreamed of putting together
which flashes the new suggestion before our contemplation.
(CP 5.181, 1903)
Abduction and Scientific Imagination
Akin to the concept of instinct is the idea of imagination mentioned by
Peirce at numerous points in his writings. Imagination is an essential part of
the process of scientific inquiry, a necessary link in the chain of generating
new hypotheses. This fruitful and productive power of the human mind pos-
sesses a dominant position in the framework of pragmatism:
If pragmatism is the doctrine that every conception is a conception of
conceivable practical effects, it makes conception reach far beyond the
practical. It allows any flight of imagination, provided this imagina-
tion ultimately alights upon a possible practical effect; and thus many
hypotheses may seem at first glance to be excluded by the pragmatical
maxim that are not really so excluded.
(CP 5.196, 1903, and see also EP 2:xxxi and Barrena 2013, 13)
Accordingly, Peirce, describing the method of pragmatism, argues that this
method “is to trace out in the imagination the conceivable practical con-
sequences,—that is, the consequences for deliberate, self-controlled con-
duct,—of the affirmation or denial of the concept” (CP 8.191, 1904). But
more than that, in Peirce’s thought instinct is connected with imagination:
There is a continuum from animal instinct to human instinct. The latter,
Peirce claims, “is always partially controlled by the deliberate exercise of
imagination and reflexion” (CP 7.381n19, 1902).11
So, abduction involves imagination. The scientist uses her creative imagi-
nation, makes assumptions or suppositions, exercises thought experiments,
Aristotle and Charles S. Peirce  137
tries alternative solutions to imaginary problems, and through all these
increases the sum of all knowledge and information already known (CP
2.430, 1893). Peirce argues that there are two kinds of reasoning: the imagi-
nary and the experiential, or as he explains, “reasoning by diagrams and
reasoning by experiments” (CP 4.74, 1893).
Certainly, scientific reasoning, which embraces all types of method
(deduction, induction, and abduction) including their variations, involves
both kinds. Nobody can deny the fact that physical experience plays an
important role in scientific inquiry. But observation, perception, and experi-
ence are not enough. The process of scientific reasoning involves the work-
ing imagination and, therefore, the development of science cannot be merely
a matter of observing and perceiving facts. Peirce acknowledges that there
is a continuum from perception to imagination, or, as he has it, we cannot
“draw a hard and fast line of demarcation between perception and imagina-
tion . . . in regard to their relation to knowledge and belief, the percipuum is
nothing but an extreme case of the fancy” (CP 7.646, 1903).
Kathleen Hull stresses that “mathematical reasoning and abduction are
species of perception in Peirce’s philosophy.” This contention “brings us
closer to understanding how it is that the good mathematician almost always
reasons correctly, and the good scientist very often comes up with the ‘true’
hypothesis after only a few guesses.” In the line of connecting mathemati-
cal imagination and abduction with perception, she maintains that “in our
mathematical musings and in our abductive leaps we perceive, however fal-
libly, new connections among old data and new ways of diagramming old
ideas. We dream of new explanations and laws” (1994, 287–288).
Accordingly, Daniel Campos in his elaboration of mathematical imagina-
tion makes the point,
the mathematical imagination, in particular, consists first in the ability
to create original mathematical diagrams in order to represent an inno-
vative hypothetical world, and to do this “distinctly” in the epistemo-
logical sense of being able to determine its properties with exactitude.
The imagination is the primary necessary epistemic condition for the
possibility of innovative mathematical reasoning because without its
creative work the inquirer would have no world to explore, no determi-
nate hypothetical state of affairs to investigate with the rigor of neces-
sary reasoning.
(2010, 110)12
For Peirce, this kind of creativity is distinctly manifested in pure mathe-
matics: “In the logical process the imagination takes far wider flights, pro-
portioned to the generality of the field of inquiry, being bounded in pure
mathematics solely by the limits of its own powers” (CP 5.440, 1905).
Science is a complex activity and its progress can be attributed to a vari-
ety of factors, including imagination. Peirce is more radical on this point:
“Finally, my long investigation of the logical process of scientific reasoning
138  Christos A. Pechlivanidis
led me many years ago to the conclusion that science is nothing but a devel-
opment of our natural instincts” (CP 6.604, 1891).13
Bearing in mind that,
for Peirce, science is a “living historic entity” (CP 1.44, 1896), “a living
and growing body of truth” (CP 6.428, 1893), Peirce goes on to argue that
man’s mind imagines aiming at, seeking, and finding out the truth. And that,
Peirce affirms, is a natural adaptation that human beings possess:
If you carefully consider with an unbiased mind all the circumstances
of the early history of science and all the other facts bearing on the
question, which are far too various to be specifically alluded to in this
lecture, I am quite sure that you must be brought to acknowledge that
man’s mind has a natural adaptation to imagining correct theories of
some kinds.
(CP 5.591, 1903)
Hence, this imagination is inventive and suggestive, an ingenious faculty of
the human mind and at the same time the stimulating element of the abduc-
tive process that can lead from the “surprising facts” to theories: “All the
ideas of science come to it by the way of Abduction. Abduction consists in
studying facts and devising a theory to explain them. Its only justification is
that if we are ever to understand things at all, it must be in that way” (CP
5.145, 1903). And elsewhere he notes, “Abduction consists in examining a
mass of facts and in allowing these facts to suggest a theory. In this way we
gain new ideas” (CP 8.209, 1905).14
According to Norwood Hanson, the abductive operation of the mind
consists in the step it takes, “from the original observation of a fact and
then professing to say what it was that gave rise to that fact” (1965, 89–90).
It is of particular importance here to stress that, in Peirce’s view, the link
between the ostensibly different events observed is the essence of abduction:
“It [retroduction] begins always with colligation, of course, of a variety
of separately observed facts about the subject of a hypothesis” (CP 5.581,
1898). Peirce regards this colligation as a fundamental rung in the ladder of
reasoning. The question that now arises is how the scientist comes to link
the factors she is examining. It is at this point that the concept of imagina-
tion enters the field. At the point where Peirce refers to the idea of “scientific
imagination,” one realizes immediately the logical character he ascribes to
this concept and its essential role, not only in the construction of an explan-
atory hypothesis, but more generally in scientific progress:
When a man desires already to know the truth, his first effort will be to
imagine what that truth can be. . . . It remains true that there is, after
all, nothing but imagination that can ever supply him an inkling of the
truth. He can stare stupidly at phenomena, but, in the absence of imagi-
nation they will not connect themselves together in any rational way.
(CP 1.46, 1896)
Aristotle and Charles S. Peirce  139
Indeed, in his reference to the “Methods for Attaining Truth,” he goes even
further, speaking of some natural light, or light of nature, or instinctive
insight, or genius. It is this genius of man that leads to the construction of
hypotheses designed to seek explanations, and finally to the approach to
truth, or the attaining of a true explanation of phenomena. According to
Peirce, the human mind and, by extension, the scientific imagination “dreams
of explanations and laws” (CP 1.48, 1896, and see Pechlivanidis 2011, 130).
In an interesting article on the logic of scientific discovery, Deme-
tra ­
Sfendoni-Mentzou, moving in the same line with Hanson, attempts a
“­
pragmatic-realist” reconstruction of Peirce’s theory of abduction, main-
taining that it might provide a satisfactory solution to the contemporary
problem of the logic of scientific discovery. She points out that, alongside
a rudimentary logical reasoning, there are also imagination and instinct,
faculties that are inextricably linked with the cognitive structure of the
human mind (1992, 247).15
Abduction, moreover, is in Peirce’s view the
only method that can lead us to discovery, to what the philosopher calls
“new truth,” and which in the final analysis is nothing but guessing (see HP
2:878–879, 1900; CP 7.219, 1901; and NEM 4:320, 1906). The human
mind is capable, through theoretically innumerable guesses (CP 5.172,
1903), of concluding with one sole true explanation of them all.
These ideas, as elaborated by Peirce, bring us to the concepts of φαντασία
(imagination) and φάντασμα (mental image) developed by Aristotle in his
treatise De Anima.
Φαντασία as a Mental Faculty in Aristotle’s De Anima, III 3
Starting from the contrast between thinking and perceiving, Aristotle intro-
duces, in the third book of his De Anima (III 3, 427b), the concepts of
φαντασία and ὑπόληψις (judgment) as components of νοεῖν (the thinking
process):
Περὶ δὲ τοῦ νοεῖν, ἐπεὶ ἕτερον τοῦ αἰσθάνεσθαι, τούτου δὲ τὸ μὲν φαντασία
δοκεῖ εἶναι τὸ δὲ ὑπόληψις [. . .]
As for thought, since it is distinct from perception, and is held to
comprise φαντασία (imagination) and judgement [. . .]16
(1975, DA, III 3, 427b 27–29)
Aristotle holds that φαντασία, although a component of the thinking pro-
cess, is not identical with νόησις (the process of thought) or διάνοια (intel-
lect). Also, it is not identical with αἴσθησις (perception), despite the fact that
it always implies perception:
φαντασία γὰρ ἕτερον καὶ αἰσθήσεως καὶ διανοίας˙αὐτή τε οὐ γίγνεται ἄνευ
αἰσθήσεως, καὶ ἄνευ ταύτης οὐκ ἔστιν ὑπόληψις. ὅτι δ’ οὐκ ἔστιν ἡ αὐτὴ
νόησις καὶ ὑπόληψις, φανερόν. τοῦτο μὲν γὰρ τὸ πάθος ἐφ’ ἡμῖν ἐστίν, ὅταν
140  Christos A. Pechlivanidis
βουλώμεθα (πρὸ ὀμμάτων γὰρ ἔστι ποιήσασθαι, ὥσπερ οἱ ἐν τοῖς μνημονικοῖς
τιθέμενοι καὶ εἰδωλοποιοῦντες), δοξάζειν δ’ οὐκ ἐφ’ ἡμῖν˙. ἀνάγκη γὰρ ἢ
ψεύδεσθαι ἢ ἀληθεύειν.
For φαντασία (imagination) is different from both perception and
thought; imagination always implies perception, and is itself implied by
judgement. But clearly imagination and judgement are different modes
of thought. For the former is an affection which lies in our power when-
ever we choose (for it is possible to call up mental pictures, as those do
who employ images in arranging their ideas under a mnemonic system),
but it is not in our power to form opinions as we will; for we must either
hold a false opinion or a true one.
(1975, DA, III 3, 427b 14–21)
He goes on to define φαντασία more generally as a δύναμις (power) or ἕξις
(habit), through which we are able to know truth and falsity, to reason in
other words, and to arrive at judgments:
εἰ δή ἐστιν ἡ φαντασία καθ’ ἣν λέγομεν φάντασμά τι ἡμῖν γίγνεσθαι καὶ μὴ
εἴ τι κατὰ μεταφορὰν λέγομεν, μία τίς ἐστι τούτων δύναμις ἢ ἕξις καθ’ ἃς
κρίνομεν καὶ ἀληθεύομεν ἢ ψευδόμεθα. τοιαῦται δ’ εἰσὶν αἴσθησις, δόξα,
ἐπιστήμη, νοῦς.
If φαντασία is (apart from any metaphorical sense of the word) the pro-
cess by which we say that a φάντασμα (mental image) is presented to us, it
is one of those faculties or states of mind by which we judge and are either
right or wrong. Such are sensation, opinion, knowledge and intelligence.
(1975, DA, III 3, 428a 1–5)
For Aristotle, φαντασία is a faculty that contributes to reasoning, because by
virtue of its functioning, a mental image/ picture/ representation is created
in our mind. The image is the product of the imaginative process and it also
represents the basis for the working or activity of the mind: «οὐδέποτε νοεῖ
ἄνευ φαντάσματος ἡ ψυχή», “the soul never thinks without a mental image”
(1975, DA, III 7, 431a 16–17).17
Φαντασία and φάντασμα
Aristotle’s analysis of the different kinds of φαντασία sheds light on the ques-
tion of the logical aspect of φαντασία and the generation of mental images. It
seems that Aristotle distinguishes three kinds of φαντασία:
a)	 ἀόριστος (indeterminate):
Σκεπτέον δὲ καὶ περὶ τῶν ἀτελῶν, τί τὸ κινοῦν ἐστιν . . . φαντασία δὲ πῶς
ἂν ἐνείη; ἢ ὥσπερ καὶ κινεῖται ἀορίστως, καὶ ταῦτ’ ἔνεστι μέν, ἀορίστως δ’
ἔνεστιν.
Aristotle and Charles S. Peirce  141
  We must now consider what the moving principle is in the case of
those imperfect animals. . . . But in what sense could they have imagina-
tion? Perhaps, just as their movements are indeterminate, so they also
have imagination and desire, but only indeterminately (1975, DA, III
11, 433b 31–434a 5).18
b)	 αἰσθητικὴ (φαντασία in the form of sense):
ἡ μὲν οὖν αἰσθητικὴ φαντασία, ὥσπερ εἴρηται, καὶ ἐν τοῖς ἄλλοις ζῴοις
ὑπάρχει
  Φαντασία (imagination) in the form of sense is found, as we have said,
in all animals (1975, DA, III 11, 434a 5–7)
c)	 λογιστικὴ/ βουλευτικὴ (calculative/ deliberative). It is calculative/ delib-
erative φαντασία which is possessed only by rational creatures:
ἡ δὲ βουλευτικὴ ἐν τοῖς λογιστικοῖς˙ πότερον γὰρ πράξει τόδε ἢ τόδε,
λογισμοῦ ἤδη ἐστὶν ἔργον˙ καὶ ἀνάγκη ἑνὶ μετρεῖν˙ τὸ μεῖζον γὰρ διώκει.
ὥστε δύναται ἓν ἐκ πλειόνων φαντασμάτων ποιεῖν.
  deliberative imagination [is found] only in the calculative; for to de-
cide whether one shall do this or that calls at once for calculation, and
one must measure by a single standard; for one pursues the greater
good. This implies the ability to combine several φαντάσματα (mental
images) into one (1975, DA, III 11, 434a 7–10).
What is particularly interesting here is the fact that Aristotle connects
φαντασία with reasoning, the process of thought. Even more so, he attributes
to rational beings, through φαντασία, the capacity to judge, to abstract, in
other words to operate inductively, organizing many and varied mental
images into one single mental image.
Dorothea Frede holds that mental images are essential in the making
of decisions, “in which Aristotle, indeed, observes a type of synenosis, a
combination of different mental images into one single mental image.”
According to Frede, “induction would not be possible without these men-
tal images. There must exist a ‘collection’ of sensory impressions, which
feed the mind with the phenomena that are to be explained and preserved”
(1992, 291–292).
The point on which we are interested in dwelling, however, is Aristo-
tle’s assertions that «οὐδέποτε νοεῖ ἄνευ φαντάσματος ἡ ψυχή», “the soul
never thinks without a mental image” (1975, DA, III 7, 431a 16–17) and
that «τὰ μὲν οὖν εἴδη τὸ νοητικὸν ἐν τοῖς φαντάσμασι νοεῖ», “the think-
ing faculty thinks the forms in mental images” (1975, DA, III 7, 431b
2). The mind, then, acts through the medium of mental images; in fact,
it cannot function without them. We cannot reason, therefore, without
the assistance of φαντασία, and without the aid of the products of its
operation.
142  Christos A. Pechlivanidis
Φαντασία and νοεῖν (Thinking)
Regarding these last ideas, of particular interest is Aristotle’s view that
τῇ δὲ διανοητικῇ ψυχῇ τὰ φαντάσματα οἷον αἰσθήματα ὑπάρχει. ὅταν δὲ
ἀγαθὸν ἢ κακὸν φήσῃ ἢ ἀποφήσῃ, φεύγει ἢ διώκει. διὸ οὐδέποτε νοεῖ ἄνευ
φαντάσματος ἡ ψυχή
Now for the thinking soul φαντάσματα (mental images) take the place
of direct perceptions; and when it asserts or denies that they are good
or bad, it avoids or pursues them. Hence the soul never thinks without
a φάντασμα.
(1975, DA, ΙΙΙ 7, 431a 14–17)
According to David Hamlyn (Aristotle 1968, 146), the dependence of
thought on mental images rests on the Aristotelian idea of the dependence of
the higher functions on the lower—φαντασία and the mental image depending
on the object sensed and the sensation (see also Pechlivanidis 2013a, 189 and
2013b, 196). This is the reason why Aristotle likens mental images to sensa-
tions. The mental image, then, or the product of φαντασία, leads the mind to
the pursuit of good or the avoidance of evil. In other words, the mind does its
thinking through the medium of mental images and is guided by them, since it
is mental images which show the mind what to seek and what to avoid.
At this point we arrive at a subtle point in Aristotle’s thought, which, in
my view, represents the critical point in the triptych ἐπαγωγὴ-νοῦς-φαντασία
(epagoge-mind-imagination). Through the generation of φαντάσματα,
φαντασία assists in the reasoning processes of the mind, or—to adopt a more
radical position—φαντασία itself contributes actively as a faculty of the mind
in the inductive movement towards conception of the καθόλου (universal).
In the De Anima Aristotle undertakes to explain in detail the way in
which the mind relates to φαντασία and φάντασμα. He attributes to rational
creatures a capacity of the mind to operate inductively, organizing the
φαντάσματα generated by φαντασία into one single φάντασμα. Moreover, the
process of ἐπαγωγὴ (induction), which advances from perception of the indi-
vidual and the sensible to the conception of the universal, is fed by the pro-
cess of φαντασία.
Imagination, φαντασία, and Reasoning
I believe that this idea is closely akin to Peirce’s concept of imagination.
A conclusion enriched with the components of imagination, insight, and
instinct is one element in logical reasoning that Peirce soon saw lay closer
to the varied manifestations of natural processes. This is because nature
is not confined to simple, observable events. A large part of the natu-
ral world contains within it forces and processes of which we can have
only indirect knowledge. According to Peirce, hypothetical reasoning and
Aristotle and Charles S. Peirce  143
imagination—and often a combination of the two—are methods through
which we can obtain such knowledge. Is it possible, however, for the logic
of scientific discovery to get to grips with such issues as imagination, insight,
instinct or, as Hanson puts it, “with the reasons for the initial formulation
of a hypothesis”? I believe it is important to note here that it is not pos-
sible to remove from our discussion all that part that incorporates the logic
underlying the prompting of explanatory hypotheses, or, in Peirce’s words,
“the idea . . . which flashes the new suggestion before our contemplation.”
As we saw in the De Anima (ΙΙΙ 11, 434a 7–11), Aristotle ascribes to
rational beings the mental capacity to operate inductively, organizing the
mental images generated by φαντασία into one, single idea (the process
Frede describes as synenosis). Like Aristotle, Peirce maintains that we blend
together various images in order to form a “composite image,” a single
idea of them all: “Any image is a ‘composite photograph’ of innumerable
particulars” (CP 2.441, 1893). Peirce also notes that a predicate expression
“only fulfils its signification by exciting in the mind some image, or, as it
were, a composite photograph of images” (CP 2.317, 1902).19
According to
Aristotle, this is the work of the deliberative imagination: “ἡ δὲ βουλευτικὴ
[φαντασία] . . . δύναται ἓν ἐκ πλειόνων φαντασμάτων ποιεῖν;” and this opera-
tion is an inductive one.
Moreover, the process of epagoge, which starts with the simple, indi-
vidual objects of sensation and proceeds to a conception of the universal,
contains within itself the character of a “mental march,” the leap required
in the process of generalization if we are to pass from the individual to
a direct knowledge of the universal. Aristotle is particularly clear on this
point, when he describes epagoge in his Topics: “ἐπαγωγὴ δὲ ἡ ἀπὸ τῶν καθ’
ἕκαστον ἐπὶ τὰ καθόλου ἔφοδος,” epagoge is the ‘ἔφοδος’ from particulars to
universals (1966, Top, Ι 12, 105a 13–14). The important point here is that
Aristotle defines epagoge as an ἔφοδος, a mental assault or march from the
particular to the universal (See Pechlivanidis 2013a, 153–154).20
This is not
the logical continuity we encounter in pure reasoning but the enumeration
of individuals. Yet this is not to be understood as a mere accumulation or
aggregation of individual cases, which can, in a mechanical manner, lead us
to the knowledge of the universal. It is the operation of the mind that leads
us to conceive the universal, a mental faculty that is seen by Aristotle as “the
assault from particulars to universals.”
I believe that the understanding of this creative cognitive process can be
enriched and further illuminated if we bear in mind what Aristotle main-
tains concerning the working of φαντασία as one of the faculties of the mind.
The idea brings us to what Peirce calls an “act of insight,” when he analyzes
the cognitive character not of induction or of some version of induction but
of the abductive proposition. Like Aristotle, Peirce makes a point of empha-
sizing the role of imagination in science, noting, “in absence of imagina-
tion phenomena will not connect themselves together in any rational way”
(CP 1.46, 1896). Peirce links the faculty of imagination to the concept of
144  Christos A. Pechlivanidis
rationality. Developing this thought even farther, he speaks of the active role
of instinct and insight in the conceiving of a hypothesis (CP 5.181, 1903),
placing their function at the first stage of the abductive process, in which
they are automatically involved.
The explanation he offers is that “the human intellect is akin to truth” (CP
7.220, 1901), by which he means that, through imagination and intellect, the
scientist can choose, from a variety of hypotheses, the one which offers a true
explanation of phenomena. At all events, Peirce does not hesitate to accept
the tentative character of abduction. This is combined with his view that the
conclusion of an abductive process can be accepted only “on probation” (see
CP 2.780, 1902; CP 6.533, 1901; CP 7.202, 1901; CP 7.231, 1901). The
adoption of a hypothesis, then, is of a tentative, provisional nature, whereas
what will confirm its soundness is further investigation and testing.
It would appear that abduction is a rudimentary form of logical process,
and thus in terms of formal logical characteristics it lags behind the two
other forms of reasoning (deduction and induction). However, the central
role of imagination—as Peirce himself has recognized (CP 1.46, 1896)—is
that element that differentiates it from the formal methods of reasoning.
Conclusion
Various aspects of Peirce’s theory of abduction can be analyzed and discussed
further. What I have tried to show is that it is precisely the instinctive and
imaginative character of the abductive process, seen by others as its weakness,
that makes it so heuristic and fruitful. This is the creative facet of the logic of
scientific discovery, which constitutes the strength of Peirce’s theory of abduc-
tion. But in this process there are no hypotheses with certainty. Hypotheses
are conceived by scientists, and many factors play their part in the process,
including imagination. Both Peirce and Aristotle, each from his own philo-
sophical perspective, suggested ways that expand our view of observable real-
ity. They realized the fertile role of imagination in the ladder of thought and,
by extension, in the field of scientific inquiry, offering new methodological
paths that can drive us to novel ontologies far and beyond our known world.
Notes
	 1	 An abbreviated version of this essay was presented to the Charles S. Peirce Inter-
national Centennial Congress, held on July 16–19, 2014, at the University of
Massachusetts Lowell under the general theme “Invigorating Philosophy for the
21st Century” and to the Greek Philosophical Society’s lecture series on April 4,
2013, in Athens. I would like to thank especially the participants of the Charles
S. Peirce Centennial Congress, Peirceans and Aristotelians, for their critical com-
ments and particularly Demetra Sfendoni-Mentzou, Lorenzo Magnani, James R.
Wible, and Jorge Alejandro Flόrez. I also want to thank Kathleen Hull and Rich-
ard Kenneth Atkins for their insightful comments and suggestions on this paper.
		  This essay is part of the research that has been co-financed by the European
Union (European Social Fund—ESF) and Greek national funds through the
Aristotle and Charles S. Peirce  145
Operational Program “Education and Lifelong Learning” of the National Strate-
gic Reference Framework (NSRF) Research Funding Program: THALIS—UOA
“Aspects and Prospects of Realism in the Philosophy of Science and Mathemat-
ics” (APRePoSMa).
	2	Abduction, retroduction, hypothesis, hypothetic inference, presumption are
the terms used by Peirce for ‘abduction’ (see Pechlivanidis 2011, 128–131 and
2013a, 111). As Ilkka Niiniluoto notes, “Peirce himself stated in 1883 that the
scientific task of ‘discovering laws’ is accomplished by induction, and ‘discover-
ing causes’ by hypothetic inference (CP 2.713). The idea of an inference from
effects to their causes is in fact a part of Aristotle’s doctrine in Analytica Pos-
teriora (see I, 13, 34). Medieval and Renaissance followers of Aristotle called
it resolutio, in contrast to compositio which proceeds from causes to effects”
(1999, S439). For this issue, see also McMullin (1987 and 2000) and Pechlivani-
dis (2013a, 26–36 and 208).
	 3	 See Paavola (2005, 132) and McKaughan (2008, 449).
	 4	 This is discussed in more detail in Pechlivanidis (2013a, 113–114).
	 5	 Peirce borrows the expression from Galileo (see CP 1.80, 1896; CP 1.630, 1898;
CP 5.589, 1898; CP 6.10, 1891; and CP 6.567, 1905).
	6	Also instinctive logica utens, instinctive logic, and natural instinctive reasoning
(NEM 4:33). In particular, Kathleen Hull suggests, “the functioning of logica
utens may be observed in creative mathematical thinking” (1994, 292n13).
	 7	 These ideas are very close to Aristotle’s concept of ἀγχίνοια, which we can trace
in his Posterior Analytics and Nicomachean Ethics. Very briefly, Aristotle identi-
fies ἀγχίνοια (usually translated in English as acumen or sagacity) with the readi-
ness of mind, the “talent for hitting upon the middle term [of a syllogism] in an
imperceptible time” (Ἡ δ’ ἀγχίνοιά ἐστιν εὐστοχία τις ἐν ἀσκέπτῳ χρόνῳ τοῦ µέσου)
(1966, APo, I 34, 89b10–12 and 1990, EN, VI 9, 1142b 5–6). See Pechlivanidis
(2013a, 144) and Flórez (2014, 275–276).
	8	According to Peirce, “the three essential characters of instinctive conduct are
that it is conscious, is determined to a quasi-purpose, and that in definite respects
it escapes all control” (CP 7.381n19, 1902).
	 9	 To support his view, Anderson quotes Peirce in CP 5.181 and 5.188, 1903. See
also Hull (1994, 272).
	
10	 Also CP 2.442, 1893 where Peirce refers to “the conscious and controlled adop-
tion of a belief as a consequence of other knowledge.” See Kapitan (2000),
quoted by McKaughan (2008, 466n4).
	
11	 I am in full agreement with Paavola’s observation that “there is some sort of a
continuum from animal instinct that is determinate and well adapted for certain
purposes, to human instinct that is more flexible but at the same time more
fallible (EP 2:467–468, 1913) and finally to reasoning that is fallible but more
amenable to novel situations (CP 6.497, 1906)” (2005, 144).
	
12	On mathematical imagination, see also Campos (2009) and Barrena (2013,
15–16).
	
13	Peirce makes here a special reference to Whewell: “Whewell, the only man of
philosophical power conjoined with scientific training who had made a compre-
hensive survey of the whole course of science, that progress in science depends
upon the observation of the right facts by minds furnished with appropriate
ideas” (CP 6.604, 1891).
	
14	 Peirce also notes that “a man must be downright crazy to deny that science has
made many true discoveries. But every single item of scientific theory which
stands established today has been due to Abduction” (CP 5.172, 1903).
	
15	See also Pechlivanidis (2014, 71). In a more recent work, Sfendoni-Mentzou
develops Peirce’s Aristotelian-Scholastic realism, which consists mainly in “the
resemblance between the Aristotelian concept of potentiality (δυνάμει) and
146  Christos A. Pechlivanidis
Peirce’s ontological categories of Firstness and Thirdness. This aspect of Peircean
philosophical thought helps us, according to the author, not only to understand
the realist character of Peirce’s ontology, but also to further investigate in partic-
ular his theories of Meaning, Truth and Scientific Inquiry of his mature period”
(Pechlivanidis 2013c, 487–488, and see Sfendoni-Mentzou 2012, 133–144).
	
16	The English translations of the ancient Greek passages are based upon those
used in the Loeb Classical Library.
	17	 «καὶ νοεῖν οὐκ ἔστιν ἄνευ φαντάσματος», it is not possible to think without an
image (1975, DM, I, 449b 30–450a 1). On this subject, see Papachristou (2008,
131–140) and Pechlivanidis (2013a, 179–186, and 2013b, 193–194).
	
18	Aristotle’s word at this point is aporetic. For the “indeterminate” kind of
φαντασία, see Sophonias (1883, 144, 37), Guthrie (1981, 312), Roark (2011,
164), and Papachristou (2008, 154–155 and 2013, 32–34). See also Pechlivani-
dis (2013a, 184 and 2013b, 194–195).
	
19	Christopher Hookway explains that “there is some interesting variety in the
things that are identified with composite photographs. As well as ideas, we
encounter: images (CP 2.441, 1893), and qualities, which are ‘composite photo-
graphs of ideas of feeling’ (CP 4.257, c1897).” Moreover, he notes that “Peirce
applies the metaphor to ideas that are not primarily sensory: as well as math-
ematical examples, he suggests that a ‘moral ideal’ can be ‘a sort of composite
photograph’ (CP 1.573, cross reference)” (2002, 35). Furthermore, from some
of his earliest writings, Peirce noted that the formation of a conception—such
as what the genius does when forming a scientific concept—is itself a hypo-
thetical inference (W 2:225–226). Moreover, he treats attention (the power of
abstraction) as an act of induction (W 2:231–232). Additionally, by 1904, Peirce
distinguishes between prescissive abstraction and hypostatic (also called subjec-
tual) abstraction, where the former forms predicates and the latter treats these
as substantives. He notes that this is the heart of scientific investigation: there is,
for example, some thing (dormitive virtue) in the opium that we can study (NEM
3:917, CP 4.332, 1904, and CP 4.463, 1903). Peirce’s analysis of abstraction and
generalization is itself quite complex. As Richard Kenneth Atkins has noted to
me in personal correspondence, very roughly, taken together, all the above points
give us an account very much like Aristotle’s: We attend to various features of
what we experience (e.g., the yellows of various objects), we blend them together
into a single idea (e.g., yellow), we form a predicate that generalizes over the
composite image (e.g., being yellow), we treat that predicate as a thing capable
of scientific investigation (e.g., yellowness, which scientific investigation finds is
a specific sort of surface reflectance property of objects).
	20	 Peirce comments οn Aristotle’s ἐπαγωγὴ: “The word inductio is Cicero’s imita-
tion of Aristotle’s term ἐπαγωγἡ. It fails to convey the full significance of the
Greek word, which implies that the examples are arrayed and brought forward
in a mass. Aristotle in one place calls the reasoning ἡ ἀπὸ τῶν καθ’ ἕκαστον ἐπὶ
τὰ καθόλου ἔφοδος the assault upon the generals by the singulars” (NEM 4:182).
Elsewhere he notes that “induction has been defined by Aristotle as the inference
of the major premise of a syllogism from its minor premise and conclusion. The
function of an induction is to substitute for a series of many subjects, a single
one that embraces them and an indefinite number of others. Thus it is a species
of ‘reduction of the manifold to unity’ ” (W 2:217).
The trajectory of this paper is two-fold: (1) to articulate a theory about the
role of topology in the development of Peirce’s philosophy and (2) to explore
Peirce’s views on phenomenal aspects of vision in mathematical reasoning.
The perception of icons and diagrams in mathematics is found to be linked
with human spatial reasoning more generally. I argue here that Peirce’s con-
ception of a diagram is fundamentally and inseparably both conceptual and
spatial insofar as reasoning by diagrams engages the continuum of spatial
extension in the reasoning process. Topology becomes the bridge across the
Kantian ravine between observation and deductive inference.
The importance of mathematics to Charles Peirce’s later philosophy has
been well established, beginning with the early scholarship of Carolyn
Eisele1
and Murray Murphey. In 1961, Murphey wrote that “the hypotheses
which underlie geometry are the hypotheses which underlie Peirce’s philoso-
phy” (1961/1993, 218). With this sweeping statement, Murphey concluded
his argument: that, for Peirce, topology is the science of spatial connec-
tions (synectics), that is, the science of connections of parts of true continua;
that topology is classified by Peirce as the foundation of all geometry; and
that topology is closely related to a number of Peirce’s basic philosophical
doctrines.
Nicknamed “rubber sheet geometry,” topology may be described as the
study of properties of geometric objects that do not change when continu-
ous stretching and bending of the object into a new space is performed.
Topology was recognized as a distinct branch of mathematics only around
1850; it was in 1858, for example, that the now famous Moebius strip was
discovered (see Murphey 1961/1993, 194). While all of modern mathemat-
ics today may be said to have its foundation in set theory (using analytic
methods), topology offers an alternative. In modern analytic topology, the
objects of study are sets (e.g., a space is defined to be a set of points); but,
in modern synthetic topology, the objects of study are spaces themselves
rather than sets (see Shulman 2015). These spaces are not viewed as built
analytically out of sets, nor fully defined a priori, though each is associated
with an axiomatic theory that determines the properties or behaviors of the
given space. Modern synthetic topology appears close to Peirce’s view of
12	
The Iconic Peirce
Geometry, Spatial Intuition,
and Visual Imagination
Kathleen A. Hull
148  Kathleen A. Hull
topology (“Topics”), according to which “we suppose [non-rigid] objects to
move about in space” and we study “only those properties which those bod-
ies share with space itself.” For Peirce, then, topology concerns topological
objects but is also related to the intrinsic properties of space. By “space”
Peirce means, he says, hypothetical space, “not caring at all whether it agrees
with physical space or not” (NEM 2:652, 1904).2
We find here his recogni-
tion that there are many geometries, differentiated in content according to
their assumptions, namely, by their chosen axioms.
For Peirce, mathematical objects are objects of the signs to which mathe-
matical reasonings refer. What makes mathematical signs special in the pan-
theon of Peircean signs is that they always and everywhere are iconic: the
form of the icon is as much the object of reasoning as the form of the object
to which it refers. This formal isomorphism is key to understanding why the
icon (unlike the index or symbol) is especially appropriate for mathematical
reasoning. It does not stand for the particular object but “displays before
the mind’s gaze” that which is logically possible for the general object (CP
4.531, 1906). As an “Icon of intelligible relations,” the mathematical sign is
open to our observation, mental manipulation, and experimentation—and
new implications can emerge through our interactions with the sign.
What is Peirce going after, by gravitating toward topology as fundamen-
tal to his philosophy? In 1898, he suggests that philosophy needs to study
topology in order to learn about continuity (RLT 246). My speculation here
is that Peirce has fathomed an analogical relationship between empirical
3-D spatial perception and conceptual information as expressed in topologi-
cal iconic signs or diagrams or images. This relationship is discovered and
interpreted through, as he says, actively “observing by contemplation of the
image that the conclusion [deductive inference] is true” (NEM 3(2):968,
Sept. 18, 1908). So, Peirce does not accept Kant’s sharp distinction between
observation and deductive inference. Peirce views topology as a means of
exploring the logical and phenomenological aspects of 3-D imagery using a
dynamic account of the perception of diagrams.3
Peirce’s concept of a dia-
gram is fundamentally and inseparably both a cognitive and spatial notion.
Beverley Kent has already suggested that Peirce incorporates the third
dimension into (1) his classification of the sciences, which may be exhibited as
a series of ladders related in a 3-D array and (2) the Gamma part of his Exis-
tential Graphs, where he extended his logical diagrams to include modality
and introduces a book of ‘phemic sheets’ to display logical possibility (1997,
447–455). But here I will focus on the challenges presented by a topology of
3-D spaces to Peirce’s developing ideas about the nature of reasoning. Basing
his philosophy on topology, Peirce will have to rethink our best practices for
reasoning with diagrams. It may be that those aspects of Peirce’s writings that
focus on visual imagination (especially in the third dimension) are interrelated
in ways that shed light on other aspects of his work.
According to Kant’s philosophy of geometry, our general geometric con-
cepts are made sensible, via schemata, in the imagination. Schemata are
The Iconic Peirce  149
procedural rules of synthesis (in thought) regarding the construction of con-
cepts, by which an image can be supplied for a concept (CPR A140–142B/
B179–181). For example, the schema of the concept ‘triangle’ says: “Take
three lines (such that two together are greater than the third) and conjoin
them, creating a planar space.” The new image may then serve as a sub-
stitute for the given concept, and the resulting image is visual. While the
Kantian schema (akin to Peirce’s diagram), as “rule,” is not itself visual, the
Kantian mathematician performs the definition synthetically, producing an
image (Panza 1997, 309; see CPR A730/B758). Michael Friedman argues
that the proof procedures of Euclid’s Elements are paradigmatic of Kant’s
“construction of concepts in pure intuition” as found in Kant’s discussion of
mathematics in the First Critique, including the use of compass and straight-
edge for constructing lines, circles, triangles, etc. The performative construc-
tion of a circle, for example, is what Kant means by the schema of the circle
(Friedman n.d., 3).
Assume, for the moment, that Peirce initially accepts that ordinary geo-
metric reasoning is modeled on Euclid’s proof procedures. One problem for
Peirce is that topology does not utilize Euclidean constructions. And so, Peirce
wonders what method of reasoning it uses. He returns to “observation,”
along with the suggestion that “something must be done” to the icon or
diagram, in order to unpack the implications of a topological space. Without
“observation,” one loses the spatial aspect of the deal, and without recogni-
tion of the spatial aspect of Peirce’s project, one loses touch with the value
of the perceptual in Peirce’s philosophy. A mathematical icon depicts spatial
arrangements of objects and relations among its parts; and the mathematical
icon is “bearer of certain properties,” for example, properties of continuity,
which are essential properties of the topological object itself (Panza 1997,
313). Spatial relations within a mathematical object have non-­
arbitrary spa-
tial meaning. Rather than merely positing cognitive or inferential processes
to generate spatial relations internal to images, Peirce introduces experimen-
tation as well. The study of topology tells us something about peculiar math-
ematical objects, but it might also tell us something about the structure of the
mind and how mind and these objects interact.
Peirce was clearly interested in the method of reasoning appropriate to
topology and was concerned that “there is no recognized method of reason-
ing about it”:
The greatest mathematicians when confronted with topical problems
apparently very simple have shown themselves to be quite at sea with-
out chart, compass, chronometer, sextant, or rudder. For that reason,
I thought there must be precious lessons in logic to be drawn from the
study of this subject, and though I have no natural gift in this direction,
I have of late years devoted considerable time to it with advantage to
myself.
(NEM 2:652, 1904)
150  Kathleen A. Hull
The notion that visual images may be brought to bear in mathematics
and logic in an heuristic manner is familiar: Some people simply prefer to
use images for reasoning rather than using sentential representations such
as words, symbols, and propositions, and some people display enhanced
skills for observing pictures, lines, surfaces, curves, rotating images, thick-
ening boundaries, graphs, set relations, etc., in the imagination. However,
Peirce carried the value of visual perception a step further. He argued
that perception is a result of unconscious inference and that mathematics,
as a “science of the eye,” involves visually perceiving nonpropositional,
iconic images in order to infer deductive conclusions. Peirce’s position
challenges a number of traditional views. Must inference, by definition,
involve transitions from proposition to proposition? Is all necessary rea-
soning self-controlled, conscious reasoning? Can we articulate a visual-
spatial logic, as against the dominant discursive logic? Is discursive logic,
which is embedded in language, always the better logic? Do we, humans,
best understand ourselves as uniquely discursive beings? Or, more broadly,
as semiotic beings who, along with the rest of nature, may interpret signs
deductively?4
Using Peirce’s distinction between logica utens and logica docens, I sug-
gest that mathematical reasoning may be viewed as a largely reliable rea-
soning practice, in contradistinction to formal logic, which offers a theory
of reasoning and a reflection on reasoning practices. In other words, iconic
mathematical thought functions as logica utens, while symbolic logic codi-
fies our mathematical reasoning experiences into a proper logica docens (see
also Hull 1994, 1996, and 2005). This is one way of characterizing Peirce’s
“reverse logicism,”5
according to which logic depends on mathematics:
principles of validity rest upon, correct, and refine our largely reliable infer-
ential perceptions in the inner and outer world.6
By focusing on the prac-
tice of mathematics, and the primacy of the visual therein, we avoid what
Zalamea has called “the reduction of mathematical thought to a deductive
grammar” (2012b, 34–35).7
And, as Hintikka has shown, for Peirce, dis-
cussion of “formal rules” of logic is secondary to “a more fundamental
interpretation of inferences,” and thus, “formalism was a servant, not the
master” (Hintikka 1997, 22, quoted in Hoffmann 1999, 276).
The remainder of this paper will examine Peirce’s interest in geometry’s
methods of reasoning, including the use of visual perception and visual
imagination. Peirce was strongly influenced by his father Benjamin Peirce’s
mathematical philosophy and by Kant’s critical philosophy of mathematics,
especially regarding their views on the role of the imagination in geometric
reasoning. These two influences came together during the year Peirce spent
revising his father’s geometry textbook and led him to view geometrical
construction and geometric intuition as fundamental tools for investigating
topological problems and other phenomena. Peirce’s ideas about the role of
images and diagrams in mathematical reasoning indicate that words are not,
in his view, required for sharp thinking.
The Iconic Peirce  151
Thinking in Diagrams: Visual Imagination
and 3-D Geometry
Researchers today in cognitive science, neuroscience, and other fields are
actively exploring “picture thinking” as a way of perceiving, experiencing,
and understanding the world. In the Netherlands, where this kind of think-
ing is called beelddenken, researcher Maria J. Krabbe Stichting finds that
picture thinkers reason without the use of language and “see” the answers
to problems in an intuitive way. They also tend to manipulate logical/graph-
ical symbols in a nonlinear fashion. Some have called picture thinking a
nonlinguistic thinking; these thinkers often have difficulty explaining the
concepts they have invented or the pathways they have traversed in arriving
at their conclusions (see www.stichingbeelddenken.nl). It is widely reported
that verbal/sequential thinkers process, on average, six to seven words per
second, while picture thinkers subliminally process thirty-two images per
second. Of course, the question of whether nonlinguistic mental processes
ought to be considered an aspect of formal reasoning has been a moot point
in the history of philosophy.
To take one example, Dr. Temple Grandin, animal behavior scientist,
savant, and arguably the most well-known person with autism in the world
today, describes herself as a picture thinker who readily works with detailed,
picture-like icons. Here, she describes how she tackles a design project for a
livestock handling facility (her area of genius):
During my thinking process I have no words in my head at all, just
pictures. . . . If I’m thinking about a structure I’m working on, all of
my judgments and decisions about it happen in pictures. I see images
of my design going together smoothly, images of problems and sticking
points, or images of the whole thing collapsing if there’s a major design
flaw. . . . Then I’ll say something like, “That won’t work because it will
collapse.” If you think about a judge and jury, all my deliberations are
in pictures, and only my final verdict is in words.
(Grandin and Johnson 2005, 17)
Grandin says that her “final verdict” is verbal, but she describes a thought
process that seems to operate solely on wordless visual models that she con-
structs for herself, followed by mentally tracing out the physical implica-
tions of the model at hand. In support of this kind of claim, Peirce remarks,
“there is no necessity for supposing that the process of thought, as it takes
place in the mind, is always cut up into distinct arguments. A man goes
through a process of thought. Who shall say what the nature of that process
was” (CP 2.27, 1902)? If he tries to state what the process of this thought
has been, after it has come to an end, he typically tries to construct a verbal
sentence that seems to him to resemble the end of his thought (his logical
conclusion). Peirce assumes that the process of thought in the mind is not
152  Kathleen A. Hull
“composed of distinct parts corresponding to the argument of the logical
representation of it, each requiring a distinct effort of thought.” Thought,
he argues, is continuous and begins at percepts, which cannot be fully rep-
resented in words. Language cannot represent the movements of thought
(CP 2.27, 1902). Grandin’s description of thinking in pictures, though inad-
equate from the standpoint of formal logical analysis, challenges rationalist
theories of reasoning that presuppose reasoning only unfolds discursively
via concepts, language, and words.
Peirce was profoundly interested in the role of visual images in our rea-
soning processes. In his “Sketch of a New Philosophy,” he writes,
[R]easoning of much power has, as a historical fact, never been per-
formed by means of words, or other sounds, nor even to any great extent
by means of pure retinal sensations, but by means of muscular sensations
and visual images which have in the imagination been put in motion,
so that a sort of imaginary experiment is made; and the result has been
observed inwardly, as that of a physical experiment is outwardly.
(NEM 4:378, n.d.)8
One benefit of reasoning via the visual imagination is its reliance on our
familiar experience of seeing. For example, when a spatial figure is imag-
ined, “It is imagined as seen . . . and thus the properties of light, as far as
they are perfectly familiar, are used and, as it were, taken for granted by our
imagination” (NEM 2:353, n.d.).
Visual thinking has been popularly associated with the hemispheric asym-
metry model of the brain, according to which each hemisphere of the brain
is specialized for certain mental operations. On this simplistic model, which
is becoming more complex as cognitive neuroscience advances with new
research, visual thinking is associated with the right hemisphere of the brain.
The “right brain” is said to synthesize our perceptions, to perceive the whole,
and to apprehend movement in space—and is dominant for music, face rec-
ognition, and anything to do with spatial relationships. The “left brain,”
in contrast, is associated with sequential, analytical thinking and language
(including some mathematics), and is oriented toward the perception of the
passage of time (see Springer and Deutsch 2001 and Hellige 1993/2001).
Visual thinkers display a strong tendency to change almost everything
into pictures in the mind. Their greatest strengths are found in their ability
to perform spatial-perceptual tasks and to create, recall, manipulate, trans-
late, and associate images. Such images may be visual representations of
material objects or they may be abstract concepts manipulated as visual
forms (West 1991, 7–43).
Peirce often notes that the action of the mind in thought is best cap-
tured by iconic images and diagrams, and not by words. In a 1909 letter to
William James, Peirce wrote that every Deduction involves the observation
of a diagram (whether Optical, Tactical, or Acoustic) and that he himself
The Iconic Peirce  153
always worked with Optical Diagrams (NEM 3(2):869, 1909).9
In an auto-
biographical fragment also dated 1909, Peirce expressed the belief that “he
suffered from an incapacity for linguistic expression because he thought not
in words, but in diagrams” (Eisele 1979, 154 (note), and see MS 632:6). In
1911, Peirce drafted a letter to J.H. Kehler in which he remarked that he
used to think in algebraic symbols until, “at great pains, I learned to think
in diagrams, which is a much superior method” (NEM 3(1):191).
Beyond a general proclivity for the visual and the diagrammatic, Peirce
also admitted to “a predisposition to think in geometric terms” (Eisele 1979,
246). In his obituary for the English mathematician J. 
J. Sylvester (with
whom he had worked at the Johns Hopkins University in the 1870s), Peirce
remarks, “many great analysts . . . have accomplished great things by turning
problems into geometrical shape” (NEM 3(2):1016, 1897).10
It is not neces-
sary to answer the psychological question whether or not Peirce was “natu-
rally” a visual-spatial thinker.11
Rather, I suggest that he came to understand,
appreciate, and, finally, to exploit the riches of visual perceptions as used in
geometry for the sake of a deeper understanding of all human reasoning,
including its non-algorithmic elements. The use of images in the imagination
(internally) and “on paper” (externally) is an essential part of mathematical
practice, and especially of geometry. In particular, visualization of images
assists in developing “geometric intuitions,” involving the use of perceptual
inferences to solve problems in geometry. The products of these inferences
serve as hypotheses for the geometer as she explores the image.
In Peirce’s theory of signs, pure icons are “degenerate” signs that refer to
their objects by virtue of similarity.12
A photograph, a portrait, or a scale
model are examples of signs that resemble what they represent; if they are
not accompanied by labels or legends that indicate that to which they refer,
we may still call them iconic, though impurely so. In mathematics, a geo-
metrical circle drawn on paper is an icon of the geometrical form, and the
icon is “very perfect in respect to signification, bringing its interpreter face
to face with the very character signified. For this reason, it is the mathemati-
cal sign par excellence” (NEM 4:242, 1904). Graphs (“that is, diagrams
consisting of spots connected with lines”) are another example of an icon, as
are other connective diagrams such as algebraical arrays: “Even non-visual
connective forms are useful, as in speech. But the visual sort of thinking is
by far the most perspicuous, and powerful. That is to say it gives us facile
mastery of far more complicated forms of connection” (NEM 4:xx, 1911).
Stjernfelt has argued that Peirce offers an operational account of similar-
ity such that icons in Peirce’s taxonomy of signs are not merely vehicles for
“thinking in signs,” but offer frameworks for cognitive reasoning, as well.
He writes:
The icon is not only the only kind of sign involving a direct presentation
of qualities pertaining to its object; it is also . . . the only sign by the con-
templation of which more can be learnt than lies in the directions for
154  Kathleen A. Hull
its construction. . . . The decisive test for its iconicity rests in whether
it is possible to manipulate the sign so that new information regarding
its object appears. This definition separates the icon from any psycholo-
gism. . . . This definition is non-trivial because it avoids the circularity
threat in most definitions of similarity.
(2000, 358–359)
Stjernfelt offers the example of a landscape painting. The painting is an
icon of the natural landscape. As you start to consider the qualities, colors,
and forms within the painting, you are vaguely considering the relations
between its parts. And if you imagine yourself moving into the landscape,
say, walking down the pathway depicted, you are now fully operating on
the icon-as-diagram. Implicit in the diagram are “rules” which restrict the
way you may follow the imaginary path (e.g., laws of perspective, of grav-
ity) due to common sense and the organization of the apparatus of human
perception.13
Our visual apparatus is our means for accessing these rules.
One does not need to know these rules explicitly in order to imagine, for
example, what would happen if a log were to fall across the path. One
“scrutinizes” the diagram, says Peirce:
The mind is led to suspect that the sort of information sought may be
discovered by modifying the diagram in a certain way. This experiment
is tried. The results of the experiment are carefully observed. This is
genuine experiential observation, even though the diagram exists only
in the imagination. . . . It is just, therefore, as real an object as if drawn
on paper. . . . What is so observed is a new relation between the parts of
the diagram not mentioned in the precept by which it was constructed.
(NEM 4:275–76, 1895)
Another way of approaching this example is to say that the viewer is seek-
ing to understand a visual 2-D scene more deeply. Merely naming the objects
present in the landscape (trees, pond, rowboats), and perhaps locating and
counting them, is a relatively primitive way of understanding the scene. But
by further exploring it visually and topologically, that is, by imaginatively
entering into the landscape, one can probe the underlying structure of the
scene and, eventually, reason about the physical constraints within the imag-
ined 3-D scene, such as the volume and mass of its structures or the behavior
of forces such as gravity.14
I call this topological exploration because the
visual method engages the geometer’s assumption of true continuity, using
imagery, and treats of qualitative spatial relations, rather than precise numer-
ical values or quantitative relations. Human use of perceptual apparatus in
the imagination to decode and reason about scenes, graphs, topological
spaces, etc., is a natural capacity that computers and robots can only weakly
imitate at this time, though they are getting better nearly every day.
Peirce writes, “The space of which geometry treats is merely the geom-
eter’s image of space; but that image is a visual image; its figures are figures
The Iconic Peirce  155
we imagine as seen. Consequently, some optical assumption is necessarily
involved in the idea” (NEM 4:262, 1904). The geometer need not claim
(and should not) that his visual image of continuous space is precisely true
or that he offers a postulate concerning pure space, but the geometer’s con-
vention of visualizing images as an aid in drawing conclusions just happens
to ape visual reasoning processes found in nature, including the assumption
of continuity. For example, Peirce suggests that the knowledge of true con-
tinuity has been “bestowed upon babes and sucklings and has been almost
denied to those who reflect and analyze,” yet, “as soon as we undertake
precisely to define our meaning [of a true continuum] in general terms, we
flounder from quagmire into quicksand” (NEM 2:481–482, 1904).
The connection between visual reasoning and our experiential interaction
with continuous space in the mathematical imagination speaks to Peirce’s
remark that “it therefore becomes a delicate matter to draw a just line
between the subject of reasoning and the machinery of reasoning” (NEM
4:286, c.1903). There is danger that this is a psychological rather than a
logical connection, but Peirce here is taking on Kant, “the faithful nominal-
ist,” who held that the continuity of time and space are “merely subjec-
tive.” Peirce, in contrast, advocates for a hypothesis of reality that assumes
continuity of space as objective and claims that there is a natural affinity
between the reality of space-as-continuous and our native ability to imagine
its continuity. This imaginative ability would seem to have developed over
the course of evolution and is linked to our visual-spatial capacities. Thus,
continuity is linked to perception. But Peirce acknowledges that the ques-
tion of whether space is continuous is ultimately a question for physics,
not philosophy. After all, many consider the theory of continuity to be an
important and beautiful mathematical fiction (see Newman 1956, 2410).
To return to our visual 2-D scene: What else does the visual imagination
bring to our engagement with the scene? Imaginative representation of a
scene via diagrams provides powerful ways of understanding and interpret-
ing the image, even though the visual information is not precise and the rela-
tions within the visual scene may be vague. Our reasoning about the physical
implications embedded within the scene is not confined to inferences from
definitions of concepts (conceptual analysis). Indeed, the diagram provides
“a direct (preconceptual, unmediated) connection between elements of a
visual representation and certain elements of the world [that] allows entities
to be referred to without being categorized or conceptualized” (Pylyshyn
2001, 142). Even if it were possible to define all things in the scene such
that all their essential properties would flow analytically from definitions
(and perhaps a computer could be programmed to do this), we are still left
with the problem of classifying things that have properties that refuse to fit
neatly into only a single class. We are also left with the problem of process-
ing all that data in real time. Further, a static, analytical approach makes it
difficult or impossible for us to reason about continuities. As noted above,
the space that the geometer chooses to imagine or suppose (his purely ideal
or hypothetical space) is already taken as continuous, Peirce maintains (see
156  Kathleen A. Hull
NEM 2:169, c.1895). And so our visual imagination allows us actively to
analyze the scene informally, including consideration of the vague continu-
ities. Perhaps most important, the mental diagram within the imagination
is a hypothesis that represents the probable course of experience—thus its
consistency with pragmatism. The expectations of the given diagram are
tested by carrying out experiments on the diagram within the visual imagi-
nation. The value of the hypothesis is increased if its expectations are met.
As Peirce notes, “my whole motive in reasoning” is “solely to avoid disap-
pointment and surprise” (CP 1.273, 1902)—whether in the world of facts
or in the world of the imagination.
To bring this example more directly to topology, consider a 2-D image of
a Moebius strip. As you visually explore the icon, you may begin to wonder
how many sides it has (just one) and how many boundaries (just one). And
if you imagine yourself walking on the Moebius strip,15
you will be inter-
acting, in the imagination, with a diagram—and you will discover, in this
way, that according to the “rules” (properties, or axiomatic assumptions) of
the surface, you are able to traverse the entire strip (on both sides) without
ever crossing an edge. Or, as Peirce writes, “Give a long paper-ribbon a half
twist, and so paste the ends together, and then mark a line along the ribbon:
of course, you will come round on the other side of the paper” (NEM 2:507,
1904). In both cases, either in imagination or through a physical model,
you are learning new properties about the surface’s structure through active
exploration and experimentation in a nondiscursive manner. Later, those
discoveries may be redescribed through algebraic equations.
Both of these examples (imaginatively entering a scene and imaginatively
walking along a Moebius strip) involve spatial imagination as a means of
gaining a new point of view and setting the stage for experimentation and
new discovery. In 2-D plane geometry, the geometer’s image of space involves
an optical assumption, Peirce notes. In 3-D topology, I suggest, it involves
an assumption that we ourselves are part of the mathematics. Mathemati-
cal icons in the imagination are not causally inert but affect us in a manner
similar to how familiar material objects affect us, and we learn their proper-
ties through this interaction. As Michael Otte, too, has noted, mathematics
is a cognitive activity like any other cognitive activity in which object and
means of cognition are linked—they stand in opposition to one another
(1997, 360). These objects are resistant to cognition: thus the Secondness or
“up-againstness” of mathematical reasoning. Peirce takes a generally realist
view of abstract mathematical signs and, more important, their relations.
Interlude: Kant and Spatialization
Following Bellucci (2013b), Stjernfelt reminds us that Peirce was deeply
influenced by F. 
A. Lange’s 1877 Logische Studien which contributed to
Peirce’s post-1900 “overall spatialization-of-logic hypothesis” (2014, 108).
In Lange’s view, “the depiction of conceptual relations in spatial imagery
The Iconic Peirce  157
forms the basis of all logical technique” (Lange 1877, 74, 134, 137, 139;
passages trans. Stjernfelt 2014, 109), expressed in his dramatic slogan
“überall Raumbilder” (spatial imagery everywhere!), according to which
the presentation of space is the origin of all syntheses. Lange took Kant’s
notion that mathematics presupposes the pure intuition of space and gen-
eralized it to apply to logic as well. If the presentation of space is the origin
of all syntheses, then “spatial syntheses are the root of all understanding,
including subjective self-understanding,” Stjernfelt suggests. Lange reinter-
preted Kant’s idea of the schematism such that, as a product of imagination,
it produces series of images incarnating conceptual rules (Stjernfelt 2014,
109). These images are both sensory, in Kant’s sense of the term and shot
through with formal constraints. I would add another way of looking at
this: For Kant, of the forms of intuition, time is the form of all intuitable
objects (including Kant’s “inner sense”) while space is the form of intuit-
able objects outside of us. By declaring “spatial imagery everywhere” Lange
extends space as form of intuition to apply to intuitable objects inside of
us, that is, in the imagination, as well. We might express this by saying that
we exist fully in the mathematical realm and the mathematical realm exists
fully in us. To say that “space is the origin of all syntheses” suggests that our
syntheses are “brought about by the intrinsic properties of space itself” (see
Otte 1997, 335). This is best exemplified in our operations on topological
entities, which are concerned with the intrinsic properties of space. Since
Peirce accepts geometric space as a continuum, and mind, itself, as an aspect
of that individual continuum, then Kant’s notion that “the real object is
determined by the mind” falls away. Instead, for Peirce, the real mathemati-
cal object and the mind are in direct, contiguous relation, each affecting the
other, via the mental manipulation of its iconic sign in the mathematical
imagination.
In his 1902 “Minute Logic,” Peirce writes, “I will merely state here that
my conclusion agrees substantially with Lange’s, that mathematical truth
is derived from observation of creations of our own visual imagination,
which we may set down on paper in the form of diagrams” (CP 2.77). These
observations and creations are not merely psychological conveniences, but
are viewed by Peirce as essential to mathematical (and logical) practice.
The process of attaining mathematical truth is an experience analogous to
sensory perception: The thinker perceives a world of abstract mathemati-
cal objects in a way similar to how he perceives concrete material objects,
and both assume spatiality. Peirce’s philosophy of space (as against Kant’s)
would seem to play an important role in his taking up Lange’s position that
observation in space underlies our capacity to derive mathematical truths.
In 1904, Peirce objected to Kant’s position that three-dimensional Euclidean
space is “merely an affair of the mind. On the contrary, the proper assump-
tion would be that, in view of the unity of the universe, if such space is
native to the mind, probably it is native to the outer world of reality also”
(NEM 3(2):1044). While these are late developments in his thought, they
158  Kathleen A. Hull
may be tied to earlier views. As early as 1870, Peirce mused that the prin-
ciples of geometry may result “from the conditions of cognition in general,”
that space may be a priori, and that the general properties of space may be
a priori. The philosophy of space, he suggests, is “a logical question” (CP
3.134n1, 1870). Peirce continues, “if space is a priori, I believe it is in some
recondite way involved in the logic of relatives.”
Finally, following Kant-Lange-Peirce, I suggest that geometric intuition
involves spatial syntheses performed either (a) in perception or (b) in the
imagination. The nature of geometric intuition as a means of attaining
mathematical truth may be characterized as (1) iconic, insofar as it involves
diagrams in the imagination or on paper, (2) constructive, insofar as the
imagination actively operates on particular sensible geometric images or
spaces, (3) visual as is evidenced by increased activity in the visual cortex of
the brain (part of the cerebral cortex, where all somatosensory processing
takes place),16
and (4) following Helmholtz (and Peirce), a kind of uncon-
scious inference,17
for the process is spontaneous and automatic and we are
often unable to account for how we arrive at the judgments we make in
response to nonverbal cues. As our example of the Moebius strip shows,
geometric intuition is an excellent means of reasoning for topology. Geo-
metric intuitions result in abductive inferences, producing hypotheses for
further deductive analysis according to the conscious application of logic.
Benjamin Peirce and the Geometries
Peirce’s extensive work in the mid-1890s revising his father’s geometry text-
book,18
along with his “discovery” of the geometric continuum in 1896,19
may have influenced his strengthening conviction that reasoning involves
the imaginative observation of and experimentation on iconic signs. He
seemed most intent to distinguish productive thinking—the question of
how new ideas could enter mathematics—from questions of pure deductive
proof. Writing to his brother James about how to teach geometry, Peirce
says, “I want to get into their vacant, wandering minds some sort of an idea
of what geometry is.” He wants to “awaken the geometrical imagination,”
to open students’ minds to mathematical ideas, and to get them to see that
mathematics is the “art of exact generalization.” Peirce claims that he does
not care if they get a definite idea of the proofs or remember the definitions:
“I don’t teach that geometrical ‘demonstrations’ prove anything. Having
made an initial hypothesis, they merely serve to keep the hypothesis consis-
tent” (Eisele 1979, 180–181, Nov. 18, 1894).
How much did Père Peirce’s ideas impact his son Charles? In Peirce and
Pragmatism, Gallie suggests, “[t]he main lines of Peirce’s intellectual devel-
opment were laid out by his father’s teaching” and “his real education he
owed to his father [Benjamin Peirce], who encouraged him with his preco-
cious laboratory experiments, and more important, taught him mathemat-
ics” (1952, 34).20
The Iconic Peirce  159
Peirce wrote, long after his father’s death, that “it was next to impossible
to induce him to take a logical view of any subject,” and that his father’s
“broad philosophy” was not well expressed by the father but rather was “a
mere habit of feeling” (quoted in Archibald 1925/1980).21
Despite his criti-
cisms, it is clear that Peirce initially embraced his father’s influential defini-
tion of mathematics as the science which draws necessary conclusions and
not as the science of quantity (Benjamin Peirce 1870, reprinted in Cohen
1980, n.p.). Benjamin maintained a clear distinction between the two disci-
plines of mathematics and logic. Alison Walsh argues, convincingly, that his
distinction (that mathematics draws conclusions while logic theorizes about
mathematical reasoning) was due to the influence of his son Charles, rather
than the other way around.22
Additional aspects of his father’s mathematical views and philosophy may
have influenced Charles, but, for our purposes here, one notion stands out
and it concerns metaphysics. Benjamin Peirce maintained that every logi-
cally consistent mathematical system necessarily has its expression some-
where in Nature, even if human beings have not yet discovered or perceived
it. As Peterson explains, in Benjamin’s view, “if an intellectual system were
internally consistent and possible, God, whose power to think all possible
things could not be denied, must already have actualized that system.” He
continues, “[Benjamin] Peirce’s favorite illustration was that of the Greeks
studying the properties of conic sections as pure geometry, only to have
Kepler, centuries later, find those same conic sections reproduced in the vari-
ous orbits of the solar system” (Peterson 1955/1980, 106).
In Benjamin’s words, the human mind constructs “pictures on the imagi-
nation” which, if internally consistent, physically possible, and consistent
with the stability of the material world, eventually will be discovered to be
facts, in the way, for example, that the mathematical proof of the existence
of a not-yet-observed planet may precede the empirical discovery of the
planet (Peterson 1955/1980, 105). In line with this philosophy, in his Linear
Associative Algebra, Benjamin sketched out well over a hundred possible
algebraic systems, though only two or three had practical applications at
that time (Peterson 1955/1980, 107). Thus, Benjamin held the view that
each and every one of those algebraic systems was actualized (existed) some-
where in Nature, though not yet discovered. In Charles Peirce’s systematic
philosophy, this insight was transformed to a different metaphysical view,
namely, that possibility intrinsically outruns actuality (see Putnam 1992,
77).23
Here, he seems to be “correcting” his father: “Let me repeat that in
Topics we are in the domain of pure mathematics, whose business it is to
study whatever definite hypotheses it may find interesting, without assuming
the least responsibility for their accordance with fact” (NEM 2:482, 1904).24
This frees mathematics from the physical and material world and allows
for the creative production of any number of non-Euclidean geometries,
algebraic systems, quaternions, n-dimensional figures, etc. Charles directs
our attention to “the manner in which ideas spring up in mathematics, and
160  Kathleen A. Hull
grow, and put forth flowers. To watch this process is the most interesting
part of the study of algebra and of geometry.” Making experiments upon
diagrams and observing the results is “the very life of mathematical think-
ing” (NEM 2:346, n.d.).
Charles Peirce went on to define mathematics as “the art of exact gen-
eralization” and also as “the art which traces out the consequences of
hypotheses”—following his father’s definition, but altering it in significant
ways. Mathematics has become an art, not a science, and its subject matter
includes the framing of hypotheses, not merely the drawing of conclusions
about them. The mathematician does not concern herself with actualized
systems existing in the world, whether discovered or undiscovered: “Math-
ematics . . . frames and studies the consequences of hypotheses without
concerning itself about whether there is anything in nature analogous to its
hypotheses or not” (NEM 4:228, 1905).
Mathematicians, unlike logicians and physicists, do not need to know what
they are talking about. They need not have knowledge of the meaning of their
hypotheses (beyond its expression in iconic signs or diagrams in the imagina-
tion) or their connections to the world. One way of characterizing this new
view of mathematics, positively, is to say that mathematics concerns itself with
reality and not with existence, for Peirce two strongly contrasting metaphysi-
cal notions. Every mathematical hypothesis is real, and its implications can
be traced through the “language of images,” where relations between images
are real, too, and display Peirce’s Secondness in the mathematical imagination
(See Hull 1994 and 2005 and Dipert 1997). He writes,
Now mathematical phenomena are just as unexpected as any results of
chemical experiments. They do not startle the senses, but they involve
new ideas. Although mathematics deals with ideas and not with the
world of sensible experience, its discoveries are not arbitrary dreams but
something to which our minds are forced and which were unforeseen.
(NEM 2:346, n.d.)
Perhaps the clearest description of the hypothetical nature of mathemat-
ics, divorced from considerations of physical space, comes from Peirce’s
discussion of the various branches of Geometry. Metric Geometry, he sug-
gests, is concerned with spatial quantity. Graphic Geometry is concerned
with intersections and tangencies of rays and lines. But Topical Geometry is
the only Pure Geometry, concerned with connections of the parts of space.
Peirce leaves open, by omission, that Topical Geometry is concerned with
spatial quality. Though confined to the study of three-dimensional space,
Topics studies many kinds of 3-D spaces, “many of them having proper-
ties highly suggestive of the Arabian Nights’ Entertainments” (NEM 2:652,
1904).25
By comparing Topics to a collection of fantastical tales, riddles,
and songs told by Scheherazade, it appears that Peirce viewed 3-D spaces as
equally imaginative and creative.
The Iconic Peirce  161
Topics requires us to conceive of space as “truly continuous,” and, as
noted above, Peirce suggests that there is no recognized method of reason-
ing about it, even among the greatest mathematicians. He sometimes points
to the possible limitations of the use of visual modes of reasoning in geom-
etry: If Topics studies the properties of bodies “which those bodies share
with space itself,” then visualizing and manipulating the objects of inquiry
as objects outside us may not suffice. Sometimes, one must imaginatively
become the object and imagine oneself as the body, or one must imagina-
tively enter into the mathematical object or its iconic sign. So, Peirce says,
he imagines himself “blind and swimming about in a [continuous] fluid,”
experiencing “muscular resistances” (NEM 2:653, 1904), a kind of proprio-
ception of movement and spatial orientation arising from within the body
itself. What a strange way of doing mathematics! The challenge of topology
for reasoning concerns the spatial meaning of its mathematical icons. These
icons carry no spatial meaning until they are rotated, manipulated, or put
in bodily motion either physically (via a concrete model) or in imagination
(via a diagram).
Peirce extended his father’s definition in other ways. Benjamin Peirce’s
“pictures on the imagination” become, in the context of Charles’s later semi-
otics, icons, geometric images, and diagrams in the imagination. Further,
such images and diagrams display forms of relation depicted in iconic struc-
tures. These structures can be altered and experimented upon in order to (1)
trace out implications and consequences and (2) discover new structures, or
what he called “new elements” of mathematics. For Charles Peirce, visual-
izing lines, surfaces, moving bodies, curves, and strange topologies in the
imagination is an integral aspect of mathematical method. From a Peircean
perspective, then, the discovery of non-Euclidean geometries need not be
considered a “crisis” in the foundations of mathematics because mathemat-
ics concerns inexhaustible and creative possibility. When we manipulate
icons in the mathematical imagination, we are working with degenerate
signs that give no assurance that any such object as it presents really exists.
Interlude: Blind Man in a Hotel Room
While we have focused here on the role of the visual in mathematical imagi-
nation, Peirce suggests, as above, that for the field of Topics, he imagines
himself blind “swimming about in a fluid, experiencing muscular resis-
tances.” The visual has been abandoned. Peirce even says, “topical geom-
etry may not be visual geometry” (NEM 2:653, 1904). There is something
very different about exploring 3-D topological spaces in order to discover
the properties of the space, as opposed to working with plane geometry
figures, and it is something that Kant could not have conceived since, dur-
ing his lifetime, topology had not yet been recognized as a separate branch
of mathematics. For Kant, space is the form of intuitable objects outside of
us; and this model of space works well for manipulating rays, lines, and the
162  Kathleen A. Hull
kinds of mathematical objects encountered in metric and graphic geometry.
But in order to understand a topological space, in some cases one must enter
into it, using 3-D geometric intuition in the imagination. On Peirce’s model
of mathematical thinking, we seek to gain information about the immediate
environment of the topological space through experience and experimen-
tation. In our observations of the space we have something like sensory
perceptions, with the attendant reactions that something is being forced
upon us, what Peirce called Secondness. The essence of topical geometry is
the interrelationship between ourselves and our mathematical entities. The
practice of mathematics directs our attention to these interrelationships.
The following story about a blind man in a hotel room offers an analogy
of how we might imagine exploring a mathematical icon in the mathemati-
cal imagination, involving experience, experimentation, and new discovery.
This autobiographical story was told by Ryan Knighton in a 2012 National
Public Radio interview with Ira Glass (Knighton and Glass 2012).
A blind man is on a business trip to Chicago and checks into a hotel. He
arrives at his room. His habit is to call his wife before retiring to say good-
night. However, on this occasion, he cannot find the telephone in the room.
He “doesn’t know where anything begins or ends,” so he really “mauls” the
room, shuffling around on his hands and knees in order to orient himself.
He gropes the end tables on each side of the bed: no phone. He discovers
a couch and a coffee table: no phone. He finds a desk: no phone. He says
that he does not exactly draw a map in his head; it is more like wandering
around in a video game where nothing is “visible” until he touches it. Not
finding a phone, he circles the edges of the room, “like Marcel Morceau,”
wiping the walls, circling the room one direction and then back around. No
phone. He goes to bed.
Early the next morning, the phone rings. It is his wife calling. He stumbles
out of bed and instinctively goes toward the sound. “Why didn’t you call me
last night?” “Because there was no phone here yesterday, but now there is,
right on the table.” After the call, he heads back to bed—but instead runs
into a wall. He tries different directions and is again thwarted. Now he is
totally disoriented, “a grown man lost in a hotel room.” As Knighton tells
the story, “when you’re a blind man you can’t assume anything” about your
new surroundings. After circling the room again, he discovers that there is an
alcove in the room—that’s where the phone was, on an additional table. He
had not gone far enough around the room the previous night to discover it.
The moral of the story is that if you get a picture in your head, and if the
picture is wrong, you will find out. As Peirce said, “experience is our only
teacher” (CP 5.50, 1903). This is as true for a blind man in a hotel room
as it is for a mathematician who is exploring an iconic diagram. There are
wrong turns, dead ends. The “picture” is a hypothesis about the space based
on abductive inferences derived from data you have gathered. Similarly,
when a humanoid robot manipulates an object in a workspace by “nudging
it around,” additional aspects of the object’s shape become known in the
The Iconic Peirce  163
form of new hypotheses about the nature of the object and expectations for
its future behavior (see Shanahan and Randell 2004, 68). This is adaptive
learning, in contrast to rigidly maintaining a single “picture” hypothesis.
The difference between the blind man in the hotel room and the mathemati-
cian is that when you make inferences about mathematical reality, abstract
subject matter is present to the abstract mind; when you make inferences
about your physical environment, concrete matter is present to your vision
or to your body. Peirce’s point is that we should have as much confidence in
our geometric intuitions as we do in our sense perceptions: It does not mat-
ter whether the perception is in the imagination or is literally of the senses.
In either case, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. Further experi-
mentation will uncover the properties of the space, to confirm or deny the
expectations of the hypothesis under consideration. For Peirce, the formal
constraints of the mathematical object are real, just as the walls and furni-
ture of the blind man’s hotel are real. Kant had suggested that mathematical
objects are dependent on our minds, that the constraints of the object are
introduced by how we can imagine things via the forms of intuition (time
and space). In contrast, for Peirce, the mathematical object is independent of
our minds (ontologically speaking), and the mathematical sign we manipu-
late in the imagination is isomorphic in form to that “real” mathematical
object. We and the sign interact in a rich mathematical relationship.
Geometric Intuition
Peirce’s defense of intuition in mathematics may come as a surprise in light of
his early papers where he famously claims that “we have no power of Intu-
ition” (W 2:193–242, 1868) as against Descartes and other philosophers
who had viewed intuition as innate and as leading us to reality. Clearly,
Peirce’s critique of Intuition in his early papers is far afield of his support of
a different notion of intuition in mathematics towards the end of his life—
the latter involving the use of iconic signs, the construction of concepts, the
visualization of images and, often, unconscious inference.
In order to understand Peirce’s direction of thought regarding geomet-
ric intuition, we recall the historical context of late nineteenth- and early
­
twentieth-century work in the foundations of mathematics. Peirce followed
these developments closely. When Bolyar, Lobackevski, Reimann, and others
first formulated the non-Euclidean geometries, traditional Euclidean geom-
etry could no longer be viewed as the only a priori, valid geometry. Much
progress made in the foundations of mathematics during this period was a
result of rejecting, wholesale, geometric intuition and seeking foundations
that did not rely on our naïve ability to visualize or conceive spatial relations.
Gӧdel formulated his theorems using the formal machinery of arithmetiza-
tion; Russell and Whitehead sought to show that the modes of inference
used in geometric reasoning could be reduced to a mathematical logic;
Weierstrass argued that our mathematics need not be based on so-called
164  Kathleen A. Hull
“immediately obvious” properties and relations. The role of intuition—
and the role of visualization in the generation of such intuitions—in geo-
metrical understanding was delegated to the dustbin. As Mandelbrot, the
father of fractal geometry said regarding the crisis of intuition, “the eye had
been banished out of science. The eye had been excommunicated” (quoted
in Nielson 2010, n.p.).
Peirce, however, railed against approaches to mathematics that sought
to eliminate intuition, remarking in 1908 that “the whole Weierstrassian
mathematics is characterized by a distrust of intuition. Therein it betrays
ignorance of a principle of logic of the utmost practical importance; namely
that every deductive inference is performed, and can only be performed, by
imagining an instance in which the premises are true and observing by con-
templation of the image that the conclusion is true” (NEM 3(2):968, Sept.
18, 1908).26
Naïve intuition is important to mathematics because it is not exact: it
allows us to picture in our mind a concrete substitute for, say, an abstract
mathematical point. As Felix Klein explains, “in imagining a line, we do not
picture a length without breadth, but a strip of a certain width. [Abstrac-
tions] in this case are regarded as holding only approximately, or as far as
may be necessary” (quoted in Mandelbrot 1982). This intuitive picturing
in the mind—imagining and observing an image or diagram or other form
of iconic representation—is, in Peirce’s view, at the heart of all necessary
reasoning. He sometimes simply calls this activity “imaging” (see CP 3.609–
610).27
Generalization (“the soul of mathematical thinking”) involves the
mind’s power to compare an element of one system with a corresponding
element of another, corresponding system—and it cannot be exercised with-
out an image. It may be contrasted with deriving conclusions purely by
logical reasoning from exact definitions without images, viz., the complete
formalization of mathematics. For Peirce, the growth of knowledge through
generalization depends on the use of geometric intuition, images, and exact
axioms, which is not to say that intuition never leads us astray. But this
philosophical position put him at odds with the nineteenth-century pro-
gram for the rigorous foundation of analysis and its arithmetization, i.e.,
for “the triumph of number over geometry” (see Feferman “Mathematical
Intuition,” n.d.).
As Nielson suggests, though the first formulations of the non-Euclidean
geometries in the nineteenth century were interpreted as a deathblow to geo-
metric intuition, as these discoveries were integrated into our mathematical
knowledge, it became clear that the non-Euclidean geometries had not fal-
sified geometric intuition. Rather, he says, the value of geometric intuition
was eventually extended through new examples. Contemporary geometry
makes room for all these discoveries (2010, n.p.). It is possible that geo-
metric intuition as a method of reasoning (including unconscious inference)
helps us to expand and extrapolate our mathematical systems. Though
Peirce did not restrict such “intuition” to the visual (per our remarks about
The Iconic Peirce  165
Topical Geometry, above), our visual system is perhaps our most obvious
generator of hypotheses. Cellucci notes that our whole perceptual system is
“a hypothesis generator”: “Built into our brain circuitry there are complex
inference rules which enable the brain to make hypotheses about the world
by means of inferences from the data” (2013, 271).28
Choose any perceptual system, and Peirce’s general insight applies. For
example, as Peirce noted in “Questions Concerning Certain Faculties
Claimed for Man,” we do not normally perceive the physiological “blind
spot” in our visual field: The space we immediately see has been filled in
through “the work of the intellect,” thus creating a continuous view of the
world around us (W 2:197, 1868). So, too, do our other perceptions form as
the result of abductive inferences. Thus Peirce suggests that our very senses
are “reasoning machines” (see NEM 3(2), 1114–1115, n.d.).
Peirce scholars have long noted that Peirce brings considerations from
Euclid’s geometry to bear on his philosophical work, and many have focused
on the constructive aspect of geometry and its role in Peirce’s distinction
between corollarial and theorematic deductive arguments.29
However, the
role of iconic, visual, and unconscious aspects of geometric intuition in
the discovery of logical implications has been rejected or undeveloped. For
example, Hintikka maintains that when “new individuals” are introduced
into a theorematic deductive argument, they need not be visualized. He
acknowledges that quantificational reasoning may not capture all of the
modes of reasoning actually used, but says, “it comes close enough,” such
that a geometric argument can be converted to an argument using modern
symbolic logic.30
In other words, the construction is indispensable in some
arguments, but visualization is unnecessary. Further, though he refers sev-
eral times to the “iconic” elements of logical inference in Peirce’s work and
distinguishes them from the symbolic, the “new individuals” need only be
“considered” in the argument via adding new layers of quantifiers. It is hard
to see how this viewpoint does not collapse, in fact, to the reductivist notion
that observation of, and experimentation upon, iconic, picture-like signs is
redundant and merely a heuristic device in our reasoning. The latter was not
Peirce’s view. Rather, he writes, “the first emergence of this new element in
consciousness must be regarded as a perceptive judgment. We are irresistibly
led to judge that we are conscious of it. But the connection of this perception
with other elements [in the argument] must be an ordinary logical inference,
subject to error like all inference” (CP 5.192, 1903). Thus, the perceptive
judgment is the ground of the premises of the argument. The hypothetical
new element emerges as a result of an inferential perceptive or imaginative
process, and then formal logic via explicit rules follows. Hoffman points
out that this model leads to a paradoxical conception of a logical inference.
It is conceivable without logical rules (1999, 279). It might be more help-
ful to describe the whole logical inference as involving both implicit and
explicit rules of reasoning, some of which are embedded in our perceptual
apparatus.
166  Kathleen A. Hull
Few Peirce scholars have considered the spatial aspect of diagrams. An
exception is Christopher Hookway, who denies that the spatial character of
an icon is essential to its functioning. We may have the feeling that a map
looks like the terrain, but Hookway suggests that “a verbal description of
a terrain is just as much an iconic representation of it” (1985, 190). For
Hookway, the mathematical diagram on which the mathematician experi-
ments may be pictorial (like a map or geometric figure) or something more
abstract. But the bottom line, according to Hookway, is that the object of
mathematical reasoning is a form of relation—that is, the diagram specifies
“the relations that hold between indices occurring in the diagram” (1985,
190). While Hookway is certainly correct that the images being used are
representations of logical relationships, he fails to recognize any value of the
spatial form itself to our reasoning process. With the use of a diagram, the
logical aspect of the problem is changed into a form that allows the thinker
to view the whole, continuous structure of the problem at hand, and this
viewing of the structure involves spatiality.31
Ketner and Putnam once suggested that Peirce’s 1898 Harvard lectures
“Reasoning and the Logic of Things” should have been named “The Con-
sequences of Mathematics” (1992, 1). Putnam also noted that the role of
geometric intuition is “far from sufficiently explored at the present time”
(1992, 72). Research has yet to get to the bottom of it. Most contempo-
rary literature views mathematical intuition as a phenomenon that occurs
through largely unconscious, non-analyzable processes (see Ben-Zeev and
Star 1999). While mathematicians have traditionally seen intuition as a pos-
itive means of conceptualizing problems and understanding proofs (cf. Had-
amard 1954/1996), philosophers tend to contrast intuition negatively with
formal reason, logic, and analytical thinking. Under the classical theories of
intuition, such as we find in Spinoza or Bergson, intuition is a special mech-
anism for accessing reality. It is antithetical to formal reasoning—­
reason
plays no role in it—and it is a priori and independent of prior knowledge
or experience.
However, under an inferential intuitionism, intuition is a form of reason-
ing guided by our interactions with the environment and is a product of
prior experience and reason (see Ben-Zeev and Star 1999, 6–7). An example
of the latter view may be found in Fischbein, whose work in mathematics
education has been extremely influential. Exploring interactions between the
formal and the intuitive components in mathematical activities, he formu-
lated an inferentialist theory about the essential role of intuition in students’
mathematical and scientific processes. Fischbein defines an intuition as an
immediate cognition that exceeds the given facts, implying “an extrapola-
tion beyond the directly accessible information” (1987, 13). Such intuitions
are characterized by self-evidence and intrinsic certainty. The intuition per-
severes (it is stable), it is “coercive,” and it seems to the reasoner to be
implicit, though actually occurring as a result of previous experience, selec-
tion, and inference. The immediacy of apprehension of an intuition is only
The Iconic Peirce  167
an illusion, on this model, actually resulting from a series of rapid inferences
unavailable to consciousness (see Ben-Zeev and Star 1999, 8). According
to Fischbein, visualization is “the main factor contributing to the produc-
tion of the effect of immediacy.” Nonetheless, though the processes which
give rise to intuitions may operate without conscious awareness, they may
be the same processes that support more explicit mathematical reasoning;
thus, Fischbein argues, individuals can be trained to be better at developing
mathematical intuitions (1973, 230).
Conclusion
What can mathematical practice show us about the value of the intuitive
in our reasoning? The tendency in the sciences, mathematics, and logic is
towards abstraction, which seeks to crystallize logical relations. However,
as Hilbert noted in Geometry and Imagination, there is also another ten-
dency: “The intuitive understanding fosters a more immediate grasp of the
objects one studies, a live rapport with them, so to speak, which stresses the
concrete meaning of their relations” (Hilbert and Cohn-Vossen 1932/1952,
1). Peirce’s way of talking about these two tendencies in mathematics is
in terms of two languages found in the mathematician’s internal dialogue,
“a language of abstractions, necessary for the generalizations” and “a lan-
guage of images, necessary for tracing out results” (NEM 4:210, 1904).
While generalization (concept formation) is, to Peirce, the most important
human mental capacity, it is also a mental action that takes us away from
our original perceptions and thus away from the continuum and from Truth
itself. The language of abstractions, constituted by words and symbols, is of
course powerful, and, Peirce notes that “words . . . have a great power of
which the degenerate signs [icons and indices] are quite destitute.” None-
theless, words and symbols cannot “exhibit the very characters signified
as icons do” (NEM 4:243, 1904), and thus the language of images has an
important role to play in mathematics and other forms of exact reasoning.32
Accordingly, in mathematical practice, we need a “dialectical yin-yang,” to
use a phrase from Fernando Zalamea. Hilbert’s suggestion of a rapport with
one’s mathematical objects and their relations is not far afield from Peirce’s
claims that the mathematician carries on an active dialogue with his images
and their relations in the imagination, primarily using visual perception.
Among visual thinkers, spatial, as opposed to linguistic, intelligence
seems to involve a, “sensitivity to patterns, forms and the whole” (West
1991, 29). The use of an iconic diagram may capture structural features
of a problem situation that elude our verbal cognitive skills. The diagram
provides a simultaneous view of all the elements of an argument, and holds
them together; that is to say, it synthesizes them.33
According to Peirce’s ver-
sion of intuitionism, what is “found out by diagrams” is due, in part, to our
inner experience. We have introspective experiences of iconic images, which
direct us towards fallible hypotheses of mathematics. Additionally, we may
168  Kathleen A. Hull
examine a diagram (internally, on paper, as a 3-D model, on a computer
screen, etc.) in order to trace out its necessary consequences.
By adopting aspects of Kant’s philosophy of mathematics (especially the
role of construction in mathematics), but carrying it further through his
explorations of perceptual and intuitive aspects of topology, Peirce breaks
out of Kant’s view that human conceptual thinking must be discursive,
rejecting the Kantian model of a chain of syllogisms known as ratiocinatio
polysyllogistica. Reasoning need not be a successive performance of one con-
scious mental operation after another; such a view is the result of the preju-
diced assumption that reasoning must be verbal by nature and that logic is a
matter of language.34
Instead, Peirce’s reliance on the iconic shows a recog-
nition that mathematical reasoning involves the nonverbal and includes the
nonlinguistic. If a problem is represented as a spatial model or diagram, we
can use our normal powers of visual processing to see relationships, gaps,
and possible pathways we might otherwise miss (see Boden 1991). Then we
may conduct experiments and explore potential facets of the diagram. This
allows us to explore the problem more easily and fruitfully.
Through rewriting his father’s geometry textbook, Peirce discovered that
Topology is the most pure of the geometries and underlies the others; it
was to be taught first. His goal, in this exercise, was to train the student’s
imagination, to form and encourage the student’s geometric intuition, as a
way of interpreting mathematical forms and structures, in sharp contrast to
teaching proofs or demonstrations. Mathematics is more than the science of
necessary conclusions but also includes the creation of new elements. It is
the changing, growing science of perceiving abstract structures.
While Peirce was concerned with productive thinking, with the emergence
of new mathematical elements and with the growth of mathematical sys-
tems though discoveries conducted in the human imagination, logicists such
as Russell and Whitehead were not able to adequately answer the question
of how new ideas enter mathematics. The logistic program was bankrupt
here. Mathematics does not advance by means of demonstration but by
observation and generalization; these are its “chief engines,” Peirce tells
us (CN 2:102, 1895). “Mathematical reasoning consists is thinking how
things already remarked may be conceived as making a part of a hitherto
unremarked system” (CN 2:85, 1894). As mathematicians seek the greatest
generality, they are engaged in an activity directed toward continuity (Otte
1997, 346) and, Peirce writes, continuity is “nothing but a higher type of
that which we know as generality. It is relational generality” (CP 6.190,
1898). Michael Otte beautifully explains that continuity makes space and
time an individual whole and introduces a “new type of metaphysics, the
universe being conceived of as a system of interrelated systems rather than a
set of isolated things” (Otte 1997, 327). This view of mathematics depends
on an assumption about mathematical realism that, as Peirce says, “the
world of ideas is a real world that can be observed and reasoned about and
not a world of whimsies” (CN 2:85, 1894). We may shortchange Peirce’s
The Iconic Peirce  169
philosophy by ignoring its metaphysical elements. The ultimate system the
mathematician approaches is the system of continuity in which everything
is connected.
Peirce seems to have recognized that conventional logic—that is to say,
idealizations of verbal reasoning—was inadequate as a description of how
mathematicians really think and also inadequate to prescribe, normatively,
how they ought to think: “Language and all abstracted thinking, such as
belongs to minds who think in words, [are] of the symbolic nature. . . . Sym-
bols are particularly remote from the Truth itself” (NEM 4:243, 1904).
We need to use both verbal and nonverbal reasoning. Visual images, iconic
signs, and diagrams allow the nonverbal, perceptual, and bodily aspects of
our thinking processes to be integrated into a theory of reasoning. As R. W.
Sperry has noted, representing mathematical ideas in iconic form allows
for a “visual” intuition involving concrete perceptual insight in addition
to symbolic, sequential reasoning (Davis and Hersh 1999, 347–348). The
visual thinker Dr. Temple Grandin, along with numerous other scientists,
mathematicians, and engineers, has described her utilization of visual spa-
tial skills to design new equipment and entire engineering systems in her
imagination. But the more important aspect of seeing the world in pictures
may be the way nonsymbolic visualization is used to “test-run” the new
system. As Grandin tells it, she visualizes every possible implication of the
system through every possible problem situation, viewing the problem visu-
ally from all angles, above or below, and rotating the visual image at the
same time (1995, 5). In other words, she produces a 3-D design simulation
quickly in her head, as she says, and this is the core of the argument, that
is, the implications of the design are shown visually, not in words. Later,
the design is constructed utilizing traditional tools from mathematics and
physics.
In his “Prolegomena to an Apology for Pragmatism”, Peirce rejects the
“traditional view” that an argument must be composed of propositions:
In any case, when an Argument is brought before us, there is brought
to our notice (what appears so clearly in the Illative Transformations
of Graphs) a process whereby the Premisses bring forth the Conclu-
sion, not informing the Interpreter of its Truth, but appealing to him to
assent thereto. This process of Transformation, which is evidently the
kernel of the matter, is no more built out of Propositions than a motion
is built out of positions.
(CP 4.572, 1906)
Peirce makes the analogy here between the continuity of the reasoning process
as expressed in the transformation of diagrams and the geometric continuity
of the line underlying all motion. The unfolding of an argument is a con-
tinuous process that cannot be cut up into distinct propositions, just as the
movement of Achilles and the Tortoise is not made of distinct “steps” along
170  Kathleen A. Hull
discrete points on a line continuum, just as our visual system delivers a con-
tinuous image and, in the case of the picture-thinking genius, a continuous
series of images depicting all implications of the premises of the argument.
If we restrict necessary reasoning to symbols and rules and their manipu-
lation, without the inclusion of spatial, visual, nonverbal, bodily aspects of
thought, we miss out on an essential source of productive thinking. Indeed,
a “deductivist orthodoxy” insists on symbols instead of pictures or dia-
grams for mathematical discourse (West 1991, 213). Instead, as a “teacher
of teachers” of geometry, Peirce introduced topology early on in his text-
book in order to appeal to students’ visually oriented intuitions and common
sense and to direct them away from reductionist approaches to thinking. In
contrast to the surrounding mathematical culture of his time, Peirce held on
to the importance of geometrical consciousness and geometric intuitions.
Geometric intuition, here, has been described as a spatial intuition involv-
ing interpretation of iconic images and structures. Such intuitions ape the
activity of our natural visual perceptions in three dimensions, allowing the
geometer to explore the fundamental properties of the space/object while
leaving open the possibility that she will discover new properties and behav-
iors. Topology, then, is marked by its synthetic method: the study of flexible
objects moving in 3-D space, space perception, and, as in Euclid’s Elements,
the manipulation of the object, but involving bodily interaction in the math-
ematical imagination. There is more work to be done on unraveling the spa-
tial aspects of the diagram in Peirce’s logic and the role of spatiality, overall,
in Peirce’s pragmatic philosophy.
Notes
	1	Eisele suggested in 1971 that mathematics is “indispensable” for any proper
understanding of Peirce’s thought (see Dauben 1982, 314). Dauben’s thesis is that
Peirce was led to explore infinite sets, the continuum, infinitesimals, etc., not by
the internal concerns of the mathematics of his time, but by his researches in logic.
	 2	 I leave aside for the moment Peirce’s robust sense of Space (contra Kant), accord-
ing to which Space is real and exists independent of mind.
	 3	 This may have relevance for research on humanoid robot perception as well as
human vision and associated learning strategies (see, e.g., Shanahan and Randell
2004).
	 4	 The last question emerged from discussions with Susan Haack and Robert Innis
at the Charles S. Peirce International Centennial Congress in Lowell, MA in
July 2014.
	 5	 A label coined by Dipert (2004, 318). Quoting Peirce, “Logic can be of no avail
to mathematics; but mathematics lays the foundation on which logic builds” (CP
2.197, 1902).
	 6	 See CP 3.429, 1896: “Then, exact logic will be that doctrine of the conditions
of establishment of stable belief which rests upon perfectly undoubted observa-
tions, and upon mathematical, that is, upon diagrammatical, or iconic, thought.”
	 7	 This approach is consistent with Zalamea’s desire for opening the way for further
study of a nonreductive, living mathematics, including “the blooming and genesis
of mathematical structures, hidden from a static analytic approach” (2012b, 33).
The Iconic Peirce  171
	 8	 Peirce continues, “the main proposition of this chapter depends mainly on the
analysis of historical facts about the great reasonings in science, mathematics,
etc. aided by results of modern psychology.”
	 9	 William James said that a favorite topic of conversation with his Harvard col-
leagues was the question, “Is thought possible without words?” James believed so
and claimed that different thinkers think in different ways (Ferguson 1992/1994,
45). I have not yet been able to find the original quotation ascribed to James,
reportedly written in the early part of the twentieth century.
	
10	However, I did find one passage in which Peirce denies being a skilled visual
thinker: “I am one of the persons with the least power of visualization, never
while in health dreaming anything connected, and only convinced with difficulty
that anybody ever imagines in a way that has the smallest resemblance to seeing”
(NEM 2:653, 1904). My interpretation of this passage is that Peirce was being
sarcastic to his audience, as this goes against so many other opposite claims
throughout his writings.
	
11	 Kent (1997, 446) suggests that Peirce had a “spatially specialized hemisphere”
and mentions Peirce’s left-handedness as a positive impetus for his diagrammatic
thinking. For an extended discussion of Peirce’s left-handedness, see Kiryush-
chenko (2012).
	
12	There are two degenerate forms of signs: icons and indexes. (Only the symbol
is a genuine sign.) The pure icon is more degenerate than the index, Peirce says,
because it is independent of any purpose and it asserts nothing. It is a degenerate
sign that “serves as a sign solely and simply by exhibiting the quality it serves to
signify.” The icon may convey information, however, in the sense that the object
that is used to represent it may be said to carry information (NEM 4:242, 1904).
In this passage, Peirce gives two examples of near (impure) icons: a geometric fig-
ure drawn on paper (an icon of the geometric form) and imitative human sounds
and gestures in the context of meeting a man whose language one does not know
(an icon of intelligible communication). These are impure icons because they
both involve an emphasis on purpose.
	
13	See Stjernfelt (2000, 360–363). In Natural Propositions, Stjernfelt adds, “gen-
eral structures and shapes of reality are present already in the perceptual stream,
and it is no wonder that we, as biological beings, have become adapted to focus
upon such features in perceptual structures” (2014, 265).
	
14	See Gupta, Efros, and Hebert, “Blocks World Revisited” (n.d.) for a robotics
analysis of scene understanding of 2-D images.
	
15	 See M. C. Escher’s red ants as depicted on the familiar woodcut Moebius Strip II
(1963).
	
16	While all sensory information must reach the cerebral cortex to be perceived,
the visual system is unique because much of visual processing occurs outside the
brain within the retina of the eye. See Dragoi, “Visual Processing” (n.d.).
	
17	A term of perceptual psychology coined by Helmholtz to describe an involun-
tary, prerational and reflex-like mechanism, which is part of the formation of
visual impressions. The formation of visual impressions, Helmholtz discovered,
is achieved primarily by unconscious judgments that “lack the purifying and
scrutinizing work of conscious thinking” (see Helmholtz 1867).
	
18	 Ginn and Company in 1894 asked Peirce (and his brother James) to update Ben-
jamin Peirce’s (1837) Elementary Treatise on Plane and Solid Geometry. Peirce
called the updated book “New Elements of Mathematics” and devoted a year
to it. However, the book was never accepted by any publisher. Peirce claims
the reason was that he “put perspective before metrical geometry, and topical
geometry before either” (NEM 4:235, 1904). The texts themselves and relevant
correspondence may be found in The New Elements of Mathematics. Charles
172  Kathleen A. Hull
Peirce had previously published a new edition of his father’s Linear Associative
Algebra (with addenda and notes) in 1881.
	
19	 Dated by Murphey (1961/1993, 395).
	
20	Benjamin Peirce (1809–1880) had been University Professor of Mathematics
and Natural Philosophy at Harvard. Though little known today, he was consid-
ered during his lifetime to be American’s greatest mathematician. He is credited
with starting mathematical research in American universities and was one of
the first Americans to acquire an international reputation in applied mathemat-
ics (see Archibald 1925/1980, 8ff and Peterson 1955/1980, 89). A sign of how
celebrated B. Peirce was during the nineteenth century may be found today at
the Boston Public Library (built in 1895) on Copley Square in Boston. Upon
entering, you will find Benjamin Peirce’s name prominently displayed in tile on
the ceiling to your right, along with the names of other leading lights of Boston’s
heritage, including Benjamin Franklin, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Nathaniel Haw-
thorne, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, and Samuel Adams.
	
21	The document quoted by Archibald is dated June 28, 1910, and was found in
C. S. Peirce’s personal copy of Jordan’s Traité des Substitutions et des Equations
Algebriques.
	
22	 Walsh quotes Charles Peirce as saying that he dissuaded his father from the view
then held by Dedekind that mathematics is a branch of logic (1999, 266–267
and 279).
	
23	 Inexhaustible and creative possibility is identified by Peirce with ideal ­
continuity—
and the latter metaphysical notion is another “consequence of mathematics,”
according to Ketner and Putnam (1992, 37).
	
24	 Charles adds here, “If God has not put the idea of true continuity into His World
of Nature, it is, at any rate, to be found in the World of Ideas, which is equally
His.”
	
25	 The fictional tales woven by Scheherazade include sorcerers, magicians, legend-
ary places, poems, erotica, history, love, comedy, tragedy, the real and unreal, the
rational and the irrational.
	
26	Dauben mentions this passage from Peirce’s correspondence and remarks, “he
had always held that his intuitive understanding of the continuum, of the conti-
nuity of space and time, was the ultimate guide in his analysis of continuity. . . .
For Peirce, such ideas justified themselves as a matter of instinct, of common
sense” (1982, 323).
	
27	 “Image” is the term Peirce proposes as a translation of the German word Abbil-
dung (depiction, portrayal, illustration, diagram), usually translated in English
as “representation.” In his definition of ‘imaging’ written for the Dictionary of
Philosophy and Psychology, Peirce claims to have received the term from the
mathematician Dedekind. Peirce then quotes Dedekind’s definition of imaging as
a substitution and Dedekind’s claim that no thought would be possible without
this power of the mind.
	
28	While Cellucci only occasionally references Peirce, it seems that much of his
argument is fundamentally indebted to Peirce’s views.
	
29	 For example, “Peirce takes a fundamental principle from geometry and general-
izes it to all deductive reasoning; those arguments that require constructions are
called, by Peirce, ‘theorematic’ ” (Hintikka 1980, 108).
	
30	“A valid deductive step is theorematic if it increases the number of layers of
quantifiers in the proposition in question” (Hintikka 1980, 110).
	
31	 Technically, Hookway is correct that the visual image is not required. Analogical
representation could be by models using our other senses, e.g., our sense of time,
hearing, etc. But many analogical representations are spatial, perhaps because
vision is so important to human beings. Peirce notes, “it is a remarkable fact
The Iconic Peirce  173
that all known mathematics deals with visual images. An auditory mathemat-
ics,—unless we call ‘mental arithmetic’ mathematics, or a tactual mathematics
does not exist. Yet after all, this is but an accident. Persons born blind can some-
times master geometry” (NEM 2:595, n.d.). However, it is difficult to get around
Peirce’s constant reference to observation of icons, despite disclaimers by Hook-
way or by Peirce himself.
	
32	 Peirce often makes the distinction between mathematical proof and mathemati-
cal perception (the method of observation of diagrams) as the way to mathemati-
cal truth. Mathematical Truth “derive[s] from observation of creations of our
own visual imagination in diagrams” (CP 2.77, 1902).
	
33	 This is the way that Hadamard describes it, as quoted in West (1991, 209).
	
34	See Wertheimer (1945, 88). Wertheimer’s analysis of this territory is still rele-
vant to contemporary discussions and is still cited in recent literature in artificial
intelligence.
In Peirce studies and beyond, including contemporary philosophy of logic
and mathematics, there have been two dominant ideas in the mainstream
and recent research on diagrammatic reasoning and representation. The first
is that diagrams, especially logical diagrams, are visual in senses in which
symbolic notations are not. The second idea is that logical diagrams are
iconic in senses in which symbolic notations are not. In this paper we submit
both of these claims to critical scrutiny. We use Peirce’s system of Existential
Graphs, which is the mainstay of diagrammatic reasoning in both historical
and systematical senses, as the testing ground. We show that neither of these
claims is free from difficulties.
Critique of Visuality
Ever since Aristotle, the doctrine that there must be a sense-perceptual,
and mostly visual, element in all thinking has become commonplace: “It is
impossible ever to think without a mental picture (φαντάσματος). The same
affection is involved in thinking as in drawing a diagram (διαγράφειν)” (De
sensu et de memoria, 450a 1–3, trans. in Hintikka 1987, 206). For Leibniz
(1903, 98–99), the purpose of the characteristica universalis was to oblige
reasoning to leave “visible traces,” in order to “spare the imagination”1
—a
claim Peirce later echoed in recalling Gauss’s declaration that mathematics
is a “science of the eye” (CP 1.34). In Peirce’s own terms, mathematics is an
observational, or diagrammatic, science (R 1292, 1899).2
John Venn, a notable late nineteenth-century promoter of diagrammatic
reasoning, took diagrams to be instruments that provide sensible represen-
tations of relations: “The majority of modern logical treatises make at any
rate occasional appeal to diagrammatic aid, in order to give sensible illus-
tration of the relations of terms and propositions to one another” (1894,
110). A diagram, Venn says, makes the combination between class terms,
“sensible to the eye by a suitable diagrammatic construction” (1894, 118).
In its ordinary usage, to be “sensible to the eye” accords with our com-
monsense conception of a diagram. And some such appeal to the “visual”
status of diagrams, contrasted to non-diagrammatic forms, is routinely met
13	 Two Dogmas of Diagrammatic
Reasoning
A View from Existential Graphs
Ahti-Veikko Pietarinen and
Francesco Bellucci
Two Dogmas of Diagrammatic Reasoning  175
in the recent research on visual logics and languages (Hammer 1995, Shin
2002), visual thinking in mathematics (Mancosu, Jorgensen, and Pedersen
2005, Giaquinto 2007), and in general, in the all-pervading “visual turn”
professed to have been taking place across the sciences of cognition, com-
puting, communication, and culture.3
But is visuality per se an essential feature of diagrams? Peirce certainly did
not think so. He repeatedly mentions nonvisual yet diagrammatic aspects of
logic and reasoning:
Such a diagram has got to be either auditory or visual, the parts being
separated in the one case in time, in the other in space.
(CP 3.418, 1892)
Every Deduction involves the observation of a Diagram (whether Opti-
cal, Tactical, or Acoustic).
(NEM 3:2), 869–870)
The essential feature in diagrams is that they represent “forms of relation,”
as Peirce puts it in the Prolegomena (CP 4.530, 1906). He occasionally does
use the word “visual” in relation to the character of diagrams, for example
where he says that “the best way to think clearly is to think in visual dia-
grams” (R S-25). But purely textually speaking, “visuality” never appears
as a token of his corpus. Even the term “iconicity” is a near hapax. He
rather prefers “observation” in the 1880s (W 4:166, 1884, W 5:331, 1886,
W 6:187, 1886), “intuition” in the 1890s (R 16:7, R 17:8–10, c.1895) and
“imagination” in the 1900s (R 293, R 616, c.1906).4
Of course, visuality may well be the prevailing mode for diagrams as
far as average human cognition is concerned. But the visual character
gains prominence only as an accidental human characteristic of thought.
Human characteristics are hardly the hallmarks of what the real reason-
ing consists of. As every topologist knows, it is often infinitely better, as
vividly illustrated in Peirce’s terms, to “imagine how things would feel,
not how they would look. You must imagine that you move yourself. It
is well to imagine oneself free from gravity and swimming about in air
or in a liquid” (R S-25). We know that there are oral or speech-related
diagrams: Spoken/oral signs may certainly share features of written/visual
signs; there also are tactile (such as Braille), and gestural (such as sign
languages) diagrams. Congenitally blind persons demonstrably do rea-
son iconically. Peirce at one point remarked how important olfactory
data is in dogs’ reasoning and imagination (CP 1.313). Snakes can taste
diagrams and infer directions of prey, and birds and beetles sense the
magnetic fields for navigation. Vision may well remain the predominant
medium for “ordinary persons” (CP 2.778), but purely logically speaking
nothing precludes us from taking any sensory process to stand on equal
right to be considered capable of displaying forms of relation in their own
176  Ahti-Veikko Pietarinen and Francesco Bellucci
diagrammatic structures, notational systems, and modes of representing
the logical material.5
As it is not predominantly the human characteristics that are the hall-
marks of real reasoning, when presenting his Existential Graphs (hereafter,
EGs) Peirce is clear that it is not necessary to conceive the sheet of assertion
as a visual image spread over two dimensions:
As to the manner in which this information is conveyed, we are to imag-
ine that there is before the mind of the interpreter a certain field of
consciousness—and for facility of imagination we will call it the sheet
of assertion and suppose it to have a vague analogy with a sheet with-
out definitely supposing it to be confined to two dimensions or to be a
visual image, and we are to suppose that the graphist exercises a power
of “scribing” upon that surface; that is, of causing a sign to appear there
which conforms to general rules of expression established in the habits
of graphist and interpreter.
(R S-28, Lowell Lectures, Sept. 15 1903)
Nor is being visual or having two dimensions a universal property of the
graphs:
[T]his peculiarity [two-dimensionality] of the System of Graphs is plainly
due to a certain property of vision taken in connection with the fact that
the diagrams that the System is designed to furnish are Visual Diagrams.
In all reasoning in which the Diagram is prominent it is necessary to
use this precaution, and to make sure that the property inferred comes
from the diagram as diagram, and not from any accidental peculiarity.
(R 499(s), 1906, “First Scheme for Monist 1907 Jan.,” added emphasis)
As a third example of what distinguishes two-dimensional, visual diagrams
from the genus of all diagrams we find the following remarkable passage:
There is no reason but the convenience of writing why the graphs should
be constructed upon a surface rather than have three dimensions. This
limitation is not founded in their nature. In three dimensions, any num-
ber of regions can all touch one another, and any two graphs could be
directly connected, without extending beyond their common enclosure,
however complicated might be the connections of the different graphs.
But owing to the graphs being drawn in two dimensions, from this
utterly extrinsic circumstance arises an
(R 482, 1896, the manuscript page breaks off at this point)
These theorems require proof, but the philosophical point is that the two-
dimensionality falls from the accidental human disposition to perceive
forms of relational concepts. That disposition is limitative, since to be
Two Dogmas of Diagrammatic Reasoning  177
expressive enough, logical diagrams need three or more dimensions (Pietar-
inen 2004). On the whole, Peirce’s remarks testify that he is downplaying
the character of the visual as soon as he is downplaying those features such
as two-dimensionality that typically go hand-in-hand with customary rep-
resentational media of visual diagrams. “Being visual” is not an invariant
in all diagrams, just as there is no privileged dimensionality of spaces in
which forms of relations may be logically represented. “Being visual” lacks
the explicative power that would help us better understand which charac-
teristics the real power of diagrammatic reasoning consists of. The vague
notions of “visuality” and “iconicity” are not peculiar to diagrammatic rea-
soning autonomous from how average human beings happen to reason with
logical diagrams.
Here is an example that compares Peirce’s EGs, often classified as a
“visual” logic, to what is commonly taken to be the standard language of
first-order symbolic logic. Look at the following two sentences given in stan-
dard symbolic
language (1a—2a) and in Peirce’s EGs (1b—2b):
(1a)	 ∃x∀yL(x,y)
(2a)	 ∀y∃xL(x,y)
(1b)
	
(2b)
	
The ordinary language of classical first-order logic forces quantifiers to be
read and interpreted in a linear order from left-to-right. Thus the infor-
mation concerning the values of quantifiers propagates from the formula
to its subformulas: In (1a) and (2a) the relative scope of the quantifiers
is represented in a linear fashion. This is, according to Peirce, the easiest
way to syntactically mimic the semantic order of selection of those values.
By contrast, EGs are interpreted by what Peirce termed the “endopeuretic
method.” The parity of the lines of identity (the thick lines in 1b and 2b)
is determined by their outermost extremities, no matter what their position
on the two-dimensional plane may be. The direction of interpretation is
outside-in: “The rule of interpretation which necessarily follows from the
diagrammatization is that the interpretation is ‘endoporeutic’ (or proceeds
inwardly)” (R 514:16). The endoporeutic method dispenses with linearity,
yet it expresses the logical ordering and scope of quantifiers just as accu-
rately as the standard symbolic notation does. The endoporeutic method
discriminates (1b) from (2b) as follows: In (1b) the outermost portion of
the line on the left is less enclosed within cuts than the outermost portion
178  Ahti-Veikko Pietarinen and Francesco Bellucci
of the line on the right, and thus the scope of the former line is greater than
the scope of the latter (∀ is in the scope of ∃). In (2b) the outermost portion
of the line on the right is less enclosed within cuts than the outermost por-
tion of the line on the left, and thus the scope of the former line is greater
than the scope of the latter (∃ is in the scope of ∀). One of Peirce’s meta-
phors was that these graphs are like “sponges” that “absorb water” from
their environment (R 650:18). While abandoning linearity, the endoporeutic
interpretation perfectly determines the order in which the logical elements
are interpreted.
Shin (2002) claims that the endoporeutic reading is the crucially “visual”
aspect of the logic of EGs:
Visual clarity in representing identity is more easily obtained in the Beta
system than in symbolic languages, thanks to this iconic representation
with lines of identity. . . . Peirce solves this problem in the Beta system
by appealing to a visual feature about where the outermost part of a line
is written. . . . If the outermost part of line l1
is less enclosed than the
outermost part of line l2
, then the reading of the LI l1
has larger scope
than l2
.
(2002, 58)
Now, if the “visual grasping” of the priority of lines is the distinctive feature
that renders Beta graphs diagrammatic, then symbolic languages must not
manifest such a possibility. Take the symbolic formulas (1a) and (2a). To
render the endoporeutic, outside-in reading explicit in that one-dimensional
notation, we might introduce what Peirce terms “signs of aggregation,”
such as parentheses and brackets. Thus we would have (1c) and (2c):
(1c)	 ∃x[∀y L(x,y)]
(2c)	 ∀y[∃x L(x,y)]
The rule of interpretation now is that if one quantifier is less enclosed within
parentheses than the other, then the former has wider scope than the lat-
ter. Why should the endoporeutic reading of (1b) and (2b) be counted as
a visual fact while the equally endoporeutic reading of (1a) and (2a) as
(1c) and (2c) should not? Suppose one wants to argue that EGs represent
dependent quantification by the following “visual feature”: If a line is less
enclosed than another line, then the former has a larger scope than the lat-
ter. Then one should also explain why we could not in the same sense “read
off” that ∀y occurs in the scope of ∃x in “∃x∀y L(x,y).” Could not we just
exploit the “visual feature” that ∀y appears at the right of ∃x?
The point of course is that logical order is a visual fact only in a shallow
sense. This sense is well captured by Wittgenstein’s remark that the proposi-
tional sign is a fact and not a complex of words, that is, that only facts can
represent facts:
Two Dogmas of Diagrammatic Reasoning  179
The propositional sign consists in the fact that its elements, the words,
are combined in it in a definite way. The propositional sign is a fact.
(1922, Tr. 3.14)
We must not say, “The complex sign ‘aRb’ says ‘a stands in relation R
to b’ ”; but we must say, “That ‘a’ stands in a certain relation to ‘b’ says
that ‘aRb.’ ”
(1922, Tr. 3.1432)
That which allows “aRb” to say that a stands in the relation R to b and not
that b stands in the relation R to a is such a fact about order. As explained
by Evans, “we must not say that the group says that, but that the grouping
says that, the way the elements of the complex sign are ordered” (1955,
160). It is a fact of order concerning ∃x and ∀y in (1a) and (2a) that distin-
guish them as two different facts (that is, as having different logical scope).
This fact of order has to be “seen” exactly in the sense in which in (1b) and
(2b) the fact that the outermost part of one line is less enclosed than another
has to be seen. If the fact of order is apprehended visually in the one case,
it is likewise apprehended visually in the other. An algebraic formula is a
fact concerning certain symbolic configurations just as a diagram is a fact
concerning certain other configurations. As emphasized by Macbeth, both
in supposedly diagrammatic reasoning and in reasoning with algebraic sym-
bols the reasoning is “put before the eyes. In a demonstration in Euclid, in
an algebraic proof in the symbolic language of arithmetic, and in a deductive
proof in Frege’s Begriffsschrift, one sees how it goes” (2012, 83). The point
cannot be that EGs represent facts concerning the ordering of logical con-
stants visually while symbolic languages represent similar facts non-visually.
This point is so obvious that it is hard to understand why contempo-
rary writers have insisted on visuality as characterizing diagrammatic rep-
resentations when it comes to one of the most important features of logic,
namely the theory of quantification. Peirce, in contrast, did not miss the
logical lesson. In fact, he made it very clear that questions concerning quan-
tifier orderings, viz., questions concerning the all-important logical priority
scopes from which logic draws its expressive power, are questions of the
philosophy of notation:
The liberty of choosing and naming of each individual instance is a
fact which ought to be expressed like any other fact by the ordinary
resources of logical algebra; and the order in which the selections of
instances are to be made is another fact which ought to be expressed in
the same way . . . . If the question be simply what is the easiest way to
take account of the order of succession of the selection of the different
indices, then undoubtedly the best way is simply to set them down in
that order.
(R 530, 1902, added emphases)
180  Ahti-Veikko Pietarinen and Francesco Bellucci
Logical algebra represents facts of order by its “ordinary resources” (linear
arrangement) while the logical graphs represent facts of order by the endo-
poreutic structure of quantificational expression. But it is odd to conclude
that the latter method is visual while the former is non-visual.6
A different misjudgment concerning EGs, related to the overemphasis on
their “visual features,” affects Shin’s interpretation of the Alpha part:
I demonstrate a fundamentally different way that sentences and graphs
are read off. In the case of sentences, unique readability should be
observed to prevent ambiguity in a system, but graphs can be read off
in many different ways without causing ambiguity.
(Shin 2011, 335)
Is Shin’s point valid? Take the Alpha graph (3), where the parentheses
represent cuts:
(3) ((A) (B))
This graph can be multiply “read off” in a quasi-natural language as:
(3a) not (not A and not B)
(3b) A or B
(3c) if not A, then B,
or, in the notation of standard propositional calculus as:
(3d) ¬(¬A ˄¬B)
(3e) A ˅ B
(3f) ¬A → B
In contrast, however, Shin argues that none of (3a–f) can be multiply read off
in the same sense as (3) can. According to her, this is the crucial feature that
distinguishes Alpha graphs from their symbolic cousins and, more generally,
is the general feature that separates diagrammatic from non-­
diagrammatic
systems of logical representation. From Shin’s remarks, one is tempted to
conclude that diagrammatic notations are precisely those that are capable
of multiple readings.
Shin’s multiple-readings suggestion concerning propositional logic has
intrinsic difficulties which ultimately must lead to the rejection of her pro-
posal and which we have pointed out in Bellucci and Pietarinen (2016). The
crux of the matter, in brief, is that Shin confuses the conventions of EGs
with the possible translations of EGs into formulas of a language richer in
logical connectives and quantifiers. It is one thing to add to a system a primi-
tive sign for the conditional relation (this would change the conventions)
and quite another, and quite trivial, to “read off” a formula of a language
Two Dogmas of Diagrammatic Reasoning  181
that uses only negation and conjunction as a conditional formula (this does
not change the conventions). Rather than capturing some essential feature
of a specific notation, the fact that a notation allows “multiple readings” in
Shin’s sense only points to the existence of a certain difference in the number
of primitives between notations. Thus the phenomenon of “multiple read-
ings” only differentiates between classes of notations according to the set of
their primitive operations.
A point of view that is only apparently similar to Shin’s is taken by Mac-
beth, who distinguishes between symbolic and graphic readings of Peirce’s
Alpha graphs. A symbolic reading is one in which “each primitive sign in the
system has its meaning independent of any context of use” while a graphi-
cal reading is one in which, “it is only in the context of use and relative to
some particular way of regarding the collection of signs that the signs, or
collections of them, have any designation” (2012, 67). Macbeth’s symbolic
reading is what Shin mistakenly calls the “endoporeutic reading”—a notion
that has nothing to do with Peirce’s endoporeutic method (see above and
Pietarinen 2006 and 2011)—namely the method of reading the ovals as
negation and juxtaposition as conjunction. The graph in (3), read Shin-
endoporeutically and Macbeth-symbolically is (3d): ¬(¬A ˄¬B). But graphs
can, Macbeth maintains, also be read graphically (or in Shin’s sense, read
multiply) according to some specified pattern of configuration. Macbeth
suggests the following two principles: “1. A sentential sign is negated if it is
enclosed within an odd number of cuts; it is left unnegated otherwise. 2. The
juxtaposition of two sentential signs, whether simple or complex, is a dis-
junction if both are enclosed within a single cut, as conjunction otherwise”
(Macbeth 2012, 68).7
This algorithm gives readings (3b–c and 3e–f), which
are, according to Macbeth’s proposal, graphical readings.
Macbeth’s distinction has the merit of highlighting the fact that real and
significant distinctions may be found not by considering various pieces of
notations as such but from analyzing how the reading and interpretation of
the notation works. That is, rather than separately talking about symbolic
and iconic notations, what she argues for is that we have symbolic and
iconic readings of notations. But how well does this attempt of hers fare in
the light of Peirce’s philosophy of notation? The first to point to the pos-
sibility of “graphical readings” in Macbeth’s sense was Peirce himself. This
happens in his 1885 masterpiece “On the Algebra of Logic.” His remarks at
once also explain why the paper bears the enigmatic subtitle, “A Contribu-
tion to the Philosophy of Notation.” (See Figure 13.1.)
Peirce’s “claw” , called “copula of inclusion” and “sign of illation,”
upon which he bases his algebras, has considerable technical importance
and philosophical significance, some of which have been pointed out in
Anellis (2012 and 2014). The notationally interesting point is that Peirce
introduces the convention of enclosing the antecedent of the conditional
formula represented by the claw so as to have (a) b instead of a
b. He then observes that, if one changes the mere external appearance of the
182  Ahti-Veikko Pietarinen and Francesco Bellucci
signs and uses the vinculum for the parenthesis and + for , one would
have the corresponding Boolean notation with negation (the vinculum) and
disjunction (+). His subsequent writings are loaded with notational experi-
ments concerning what he later terms “the sign of consequence” (W 5:341–
343 and 361–378, 1886; R 411:559, c.1894). This notation is obtained by
joining the vinculum and the cross:
Figure 13.1  From “On the Algebra of Logic,” Am. J. of Math. 7, 1885, 192.
Figure 13.2 
(4a)	¬a ˅ b
(4b)	a b
The formula in (Figure 13.2) means the material conditional “if a, then b,”
and can be “read off” as a Boolean disjunction (4a) or a Peircean material
implication (4b). Now, which one is the Macbeth-graphical and which the
Macbeth-symbolic? (4b) should count as Macbeth-graphical because it is
only according to a particular way of regarding the collection of signs that
compose it (the vinculum and the cross) that it has the signification that
it has, while in (4a) each sign retains its signification independently of the
signification of the others (the vinculum signifies negation and the cross
signifies disjunction). Thus, (4a) is Macbeth-symbolic. But this only con-
firms, once again, that the distinction between symbolic and iconic nota-
tions is ill-placed, for both Shin-symbolic and Shin-diagrammatic notations
are capable of Macbeth-graphical readings. In other words, if Macbeth is
Two Dogmas of Diagrammatic Reasoning  183
right in claiming that notations are capable of symbolic and of graphical
readings, Shin must be wrong in claiming that notations are either symbolic
or graphical.
Critique of Iconicity
An equally problematic notion is involved in claims that take diagrams to be
iconic representations, in the sense in which it is “iconicity” that would distin-
guish diagrams from whatever other, “non-iconic” notations and languages
there may be. But what counts as “iconic” may be taken in quite different
senses, which are often not discriminated from one another. In this section,
we disentangle two principal meanings of the term “iconic,” which as will be
shown are both present in Peirce’s philosophy of logic and notation.
In the first sense, “iconic” means “capable of extracting information.” It
is in this sense that Peirce speaks of icons in the 1880s and 1890s:
I call a sign which stands for something merely because it resembles it,
an icon. Icons are so completely substituted for their objects as hardly to
be distinguished from them. Such are the diagrams of geometry. A dia-
gram, indeed, so far as it has a general signification, is not a pure icon;
but in the middle part of our reasonings we forget that abstractness in
great measure, and the diagram is for us the very thing.
(CP 3.362, 1885)
A “pure” icon is one devoid of “general signification,” or devoid of its
“symbolicity.” In the middle part of our reasoning we abstract from the
meaning of the diagram, and operate upon it as if it were that very meaning.
In the middle part of our reasoning we abstract from the symbol embodied
in the diagram and take the latter as a pure icon, as if it were the object
itself. This is the great distinguishing feature of iconic signs, namely that
they provide a surplus of information:
All deductive reasoning, even simple syllogism, involves an element of
observation; namely, deduction consists in constructing an icon or dia-
gram the relations of whose parts shall present a complete analogy with
those of the parts of the object of reasoning, of experimenting upon this
image in the imagination, and of observing the result so as to discover
unnoticed and hidden relations among the parts.
(CP 3.363, 1885)
Peirce would later explain this feature of icons as a dialectic between the
symbolic and iconic moments of deduction. In the first place, Peirce advises
us to consider the notion of a diagram in a relatively broad sense:
In order to expound the truth of my philosopheme that all clearly
necessary reasoning is diagrammatic, it will be further requisite that
184  Ahti-Veikko Pietarinen and Francesco Bellucci
I explain exactly what I mean by a diagram. For I take this word in an
extended sense. A Diagram, in my sense, is an Object, whether of sense-
perception (more appropriately of vision, but possibly of touch), or of
imagination (as ordinarily represented as patched up of pieces of former
perception), or of something like inchoate intention. I add this third
possibility because I think it must be admitted that a diagram may be
of the nature of a Type; that is to say, may be more or less general. For
example, a theorem of geometry may be proved by reference to a figure.
This figure will generally consist of black lines on a white ground; and
if an imagination, as usually represented, is determinate in all respects,
it must be of some particular color itself and lie on a ground of a given
color. But in the reasoning we pay no attention to the color. We prescind
the form from the color; and if images are only reproduced perceptions,
we must work with a generalized image, or schema. But I do not know
how an image can be generalized and still remain an image, unless, as
I say, it be an inchoate intention. Intentions and desires are essentially
general, as perceptions and their reproductions are essentially concrete.
(R 293, 1906)
A diagram is an object either of perception (sense perception, vision, touch,
hearing etc.) or of imagination. As a material token, the diagram is a singu-
lar object and thereby determined in all respects. The formation of a con-
crete, sensible image is always necessary in even the most abstract forms of
reasoning:
Now a Diagram is essentially a Sign that is both definite (or not vague)
and Determinate (or concrete, in the sense of not being general;) so
that something more than vague abstract thought is indispensable in
genuine reasoning; and thought that is not brought down to earth by
a present sensuous object is, almost if not quite inevitably, both vague
and general.
(R 633:8, Sept. 1909)
The concrete, empirical image is neither vague nor general: It has a determi-
nate shape, size, color, etc. It is present (i.e., not simply virtual) and sensu-
ous (i.e., given in sense perception). In all reasoning, there is an ineliminable
element of direct contact with the object of reasoning, for something (be it
a chemical sample or a mathematical formula) must first be given to per-
ceptual senses.
However, the intention with which the diagram is constructed furnishes
generality to the empirical representation. The image is to be understood as
embodying a general concept, an “inchoate intention.” An image has a pur-
pose, a goal, and is constructed with intention. The general and formal fea-
tures of the diagram are those that, as far as the purposes of reasoning are
concerned, consist of goal-driven modes of inferring, while the individual
Two Dogmas of Diagrammatic Reasoning  185
and material properties are those that are independent of such purpose.
Peirce’s solution is at bottom a Kantian one: The object of investigation in
both formal and non-formal reasoning is a generalized image or schema: a
concept translated into an “intuitional form” or “intuitional diagram” (R
17:8, 1895), that is, into a general symbol that is schematized or diagram-
matized (R 293, 1907). The diagram has, like Kantian schemata, a “bastard
generality” (CP 5.531):
The purpose of a Diagram is to represent certain relations in such a
form that it can be transformed into another form representing other
relations involved in those first represented and this transformation can
be interpreted in a symbolic statement.
It is necessary that the Diagram should be an Icon in which the
inferred relation should be perceived. And it is necessary that it should
be in so far General that one sees that accompaniments are no part of
the Object.
The Diagram is an Interpretant of a Symbol in which the signification
of the Symbol becomes a part of the object of the Icon.
No other kind of sign can make a truth evident. For the evident is that
which is presented in an image, leaving for the work of the understand-
ing merely the Interpretation of the Image in a Symbol.
(R 339:286r, Sept. 5, 1906)
That a diagram occurs when “the signification of the symbol becomes the
object of the icon” is revealing. A symbol is a sign that carries information.
Any proposition does so, any term or predicate does so, at least virtually,
and so does any argument, in a peculiar way (namely, it carries information
that in its turn will become a source of further information). An icon, on the
contrary, is a sign “from which information can be derived” (R 478:51–57,
1903). An icon represents the information contained in the symbol in such a
way as to render further information derivable from it. In traditional terms,
the Icon denotes what the Symbol connotes.8
Take the symbol or concept
of triangle. It connotes or implies certain characters (those contained in its
definition). By making these characters the object of an icon, that is, in rep-
resenting them in an image instead of simply thinking of them, we are forced
to express other characters not implied in the definition (e.g., that certain
relations between the angles subsist). This is why the denotation of the icon
is not exhausted by the connotation of the symbol. The icon denotes more
than the symbol connotes. In representing the signification of the symbol,
the icon automatically represents other information not explicitly contained
in that signification: The remaining “part” of the object of the icon becomes
the information derived from the former part. An icon, one could state,
makes explicit what in the symbol was only implicit. This, in semiotic terms,
is the reason why deduction is informative or, in Kantian terms, synthetic.
Deduction is synthetic because it constructs its objects, or schematizes its
186  Ahti-Veikko Pietarinen and Francesco Bellucci
concepts. Peirce also explains this by saying that the “Iconic Diagram” and
its “Initial Symbolic Interpretant” “taken together constitute what we shall
not too much wrench Kant’s term in calling a Schema, which is on the one
side an object capable of being observed while on the other side it is Gen-
eral” (R 293, 1906).
Stjernfelt (2000 and 2014, 205–231) has argued that the epistemologi-
cally interesting definition of the icon is that “by the direct observation of
[an icon] other truths concerning its object can be discovered than those
which suffice to determine its construction” (CP 2.279, 1896). Stjernfelt
calls this the “operational” definition or criterion of the “icon.” And it
is a fact that this notion captures well a feature of many representations
that in common parlance are called “diagrams.” In any such diagram there
exists a set of operational constraints that may or may not intervene in
the process of encoding and extracting information (Shimojima 1996a and
1996b). Under certain conditions, some operational constraints give rise to
free rides, where according to Shimojima, “a reasoner attains a semantically
significant fact in a diagram site, while the instructions of operations that
the reasoner has followed do not entail the realization of it. . . . The reasoner
has attained the fact without taking any step specifically designed for it”
(Shimojima 1996a, 32). Under different conditions, operational constraints
produce over-determined alternatives, that is, are open to display informa-
tion that does not follow from the diagram of the premises.
Concerning logical diagrams, such operational constraints are nothing
new. J. 
H. Lambert, in the eighteenth century, argued that his linear dia-
grams (Lambert 1764, I, §§ 173–194) were wissenschaftliche, scientific,
that is, “operationally iconic” in Stjernfelt’s sense: The very geometrical
construction of the premises forces us to recognize the logical following or
not following of the conclusion. Lambert worked with syllogistic, and the
main aim of syllogistic is to determine which forms among the possible are
valid. Take two negative premises “No M is P” and “No S is M.” Lambert
begins by drawing the middle term M (Figure 13.3). Then he draws the
major term P (Figure 13.4) outside M so as to express that no M is P. Now
Lambert has to represent that “No S is M,” that is, to represent the minor
term S so as to exclude it from M. Lambert notices that he cannot: There are
at least two geometrical possibilities here, for we can draw S either below
P or not (Figure 13.5), and we are entitled to neither. Therefore, no conclu-
sion follows from these two premises. This is what Shimojima calls the phe-
nomenon of over-determined alternatives. If, on the other hand, one of the
premises were either a universal affirmative or a particular, things would be
different: The second premise “All S are M” can be represented, for there is
just one possible place to draw the line of S (Figure 13.6). This gives us the
valid conclusion that “No S is P,” and the valid syllogistic form Celarent.
We obtain the conclusion from the simple diagram of the premise, and this
is what Shimojima calls a free ride. In Lambert’s terms, in algebraic symbol-
ism it is often on the basis of “external” information (i.e., syllogistic rules)
Two Dogmas of Diagrammatic Reasoning  187
that something or nothing follows from a given formula, while it would be
better (i.e., more scientific) if this “not following” could be shown by the
diagram itself (1782, 192–193).
Lambert’s “scientificity” and Shimojima’s content specificity correspond
to the Peirce-Stjernfelt operational definition: An icon is something that
displays a surplus of information by means of certain constraints on the
system. Of course, free rides can appear either as encoding of logical con-
sequences (as in our syllogistic examples) or of logical equivalences (as in
the equivalence between the sentences “No A is B” and “No B is A” when
represented by Euler circles). This distinction is a point of detail that need
not be pursued here. The important thing is that in this first sense, “iconic”
means “content specific,” or capable of providing a surplus of information.
There is, however, a second sense in which Peirce uses the term “iconic.”
A representation is more iconic than another if it is somehow more “natu-
ral” or “similar” to what it represents. Now besides the operational criterion,
Stjernfelt has proposed the optimal criterion of iconicity: Different systems of
notation may be iconic under the operational definition but differ under the
Figure 13.4 
Figure 13.5 
Figure 13.6 
Figure 13.3 
188  Ahti-Veikko Pietarinen and Francesco Bellucci
optimal definition. Stjernfelt’s distinction thus involves the idea of a scale of
diagrammaticity. Likewise, according to Legg (2012), we, “do not have sym-
bolic logic and iconic logic, strictly speaking. We have logical systems whose
iconicity is more or less perspicuous” (2012, 15). The suggestion of a scale
of diagrammaticity seems in fact reasonable and close to the spirit of Peirce’s
philosophy of logic to which both Stjernfelt and Legg appeal. Existential
Graphs are for Peirce diagrams that are “as iconic as possible” (R 492, 1903),
and they are more iconic than, for instance, Entitative Graphs (EntGs). The
logical graphs in general are more iconic than the algebras, and the algebras
are more iconic than linguistic expressions (see R 1147, 1901).
For example, the shift from Entitative to Existential Graphs is a shift
from a less iconic to a more iconic, that is, more natural, system of logical
representation. In both EntGs and EGs the scribing of a graph on the sheet
of assertion amounts to asserting the graph:
pluit
The juxtaposition of two graphs,
pluit
grandinat
amounts to their disjunction in EntGs (pluit vel grandinat) and to their con-
junction in EGs (pluit et grandinat). According to Peirce, the juxtaposition
on the sheet is the natural (iconic) counterpart of logical conjunction, and
it is in fact unnatural (aniconic) to have juxtaposition represent disjunction:
No convention of representation could possess this merit in a higher
degree than the plan of writing both of two assertions in order to express
the truth of both. It is so very natural, that all who have ever used let-
ters or almost any method of graphic communication have resorted to
it. It seems almost unavoidable, although in my first invented system of
graphs, which I call entitative graphs, propositions written on the sheet
together were not understood to be independently asserted but to be
alternatively asserted. The consequence was that a blank sheet instead
of expressing only what was taken for granted had to be interpreted as
an absurdity. One system seems to be about as good as the other, except
that unnaturalness and aniconicity haunt every part of the system of
entitative graphs, which is a curious example of how late a development
simplicity is. These two reasons will suffice to make every reader very
willing to accede to the following convention, which is hereby adopted.
(CP 4.434, 1903, added boldface)
It is important to note that iconicity as naturalness is not prima facie reduc-
ible to resemblance, if by resemblance we intend structural isomorphism
Two Dogmas of Diagrammatic Reasoning  189
or other structure-preserving mappings. For juxtaposition is isomorphic to
both disjunction and conjunction, that is, to the meaning of these operations
or their truth-table, in an equal measure:
Any difference between how juxtaposition represents either of these logi-
cal operations must be relocated at another level: If juxtaposition is “simi-
lar” to conjunction and “dissimilar” to disjunction, these similarities cannot
consist in any structural correspondence but can only consist in the one
being “a more natural representation” of its meaning than the other.9
In a seemingly similar sense, Legg speaks of perspicuity: While all systems
are diagrammatic, some are more perspicuous than others:
The difference between arguments written in English, in standard quan-
tificational logic, and in Peirce’s or Frege’s graphs, is merely a matter of
how perspicuous the icons are, in other words, how much of the use of
these notations is “forced” via the constraints of their structure.
(2008b, 223)
However, when it comes to determining what such constraints are in the
case of Peirce’s Alpha graphs, waters get muddy. The convention of having
juxtaposition represent conjunction is, according to Legg “forced” by the
system, and the choice to use juxtaposition to signify conjunction is a choice
for something “purely iconic.” In this way, Legg states, it is the “necessity
concerning the use of signs” which is “our criterion of their being iconic
rather than symbolic” (2008b, 219).
To support this claim, Legg appeals to Shin who believes it is possible to
represent conjunction by juxtaposition but that no juxtaposition can repre-
sent disjunction: “We will never get a picture of the situation in which the
disjunctive fact . . . is displayed” (Shin 2002, 52). What Shin claims is that
we will never get a picture of a disjunctive fact without representing the
copresence or coexistence of the two disjuncts.10
Likewise, one might argue
that we cannot get a picture of a succession in time without representing
the simultaneous presence of the elements of the succession. Even if natural
numbers were naturally represented in space and time, their successor func-
tion is not.
But as a matter of fact, we can represent disjunction by juxtaposition, as
in Peirce’s Entitative Graphs, and we can represent succession, for example,
190  Ahti-Veikko Pietarinen and Francesco Bellucci
by juxtaposition on a straight line (provided certain conventions of order
are adopted). What Shin’s claim amounts to, therefore, is simply that juxta-
position is the natural representation of logical conjunction and the unnatu-
ral representation of logical disjunction. But the fact that it is unnatural
to represent disjunction by juxtaposition is no constraint of the system of
representation. A structural constraint is a feature of the system that allows
us to derive from it a surplus of information. The constraint concerns the
relation between a sign and what can be inferred from it, namely its inter-
pretants. But the syntactical conventions or definitions of the system are not
such kinds of constraints. Syntactical conventions concern the relationships
between a sign and that which it represents (its objects). If Legg’s “perspi-
cuity” coincides, as her example suggests, with “iconicity as naturalness,”
then there is no need for constraints other than those that underlie certain
conventions. If, on the contrary, “perspicuity” is to be understood as the
Peirce-Stjernfelt operational definition or as Shimojima’s content specific-
ity, then the case in point of representing conjunctions and disjunctions in
Entitative and Existential Graphs is misleading, because these systems are
operationally equivalent (they are duals of each other), although they differ
in the iconicity (intended this time as naturalness) of the representation.
There nevertheless is a charitable interpretation of Shin’s claim that we
never represent disjunction without juxtaposing the disjuncts. What is actu-
ally “forced” by the system is not the convention of having juxtaposition
represent conjunction instead of disjunction. What is “forced” is the conser-
vativeness of the representation of the connective operator once the conven-
tion has been adopted. Take the following Peircean graph (the actual order
and placement of subgraphs on the sheet of assertion unenclosed in any
ovals does not matter):
It rains
It thunders
We can interpret this graph according to different systematic conventions.
We can interpret it as a disjunction (“it either rains or thunders”), as a con-
junction (“it both rains and thunders”), as an equivalence (“it rains if and
only if it thunders”), and so on. None of these interpretations is forced upon
us any more than the others, if nothing else is assumed. But once a conven-
tion has been fixed, the system forces us to represent any juxtaposed graph
bearing the same logical relation to all other juxtaposed graphs.
To wit, let us agree for now that juxtaposition means disjunction. Then,
there is no way in such a system by which we could add a third subgraph,
likewise unenclosed in any ovals, to the above, thus:
It rains
It thunders
It snows
Two Dogmas of Diagrammatic Reasoning  191
Peirce argues that the notation with lines is “more iconic” than the one
with the selectives. Here is his argument:
The line of identity which may be substituted for the selectives very
explicitly represents Identity to belong to the genus Continuity and to
the species Linear Continuity. But of what variety of Linear Continuity
is the heavy line more especially the Icon in the System of Existential
Graphs? . . . the heavy line is generated by the continuity of the differ-
ent places of a heavy dot, which is the appropriate icon of an individual
object in a Universe of continuous co-being; and therefore the continu-
ity of the line is, best, the Icon of the continuity in attentive observation
of an individual object. . . . “Identity” means a continuity, not necessar-
ily in Place, nor in Date, but in what I may call aspect, i.e. a variety of
presentation or representation.
(R 300, 1908)
A dot is the perfect icon of a perfectly definite individual, i.e., a dot is the
“natural” representation of an individual. The line is constituted by a dot
moving about on the sheet of assertion and therefore by dots that are in
continuous connection. The line denotes the numerical identity of the
without having it connected to the previously juxtaposed subgraphs by the
same connective as the previous ones were connected to each other (that is,
“it either rains, or thunders, or snows”). What is forced upon us is not the
particular convention that may be adopted for whatever other reasons there
may be but the inevitable consequences of that convention: Any juxtaposed
graph on the sheet must bear the same connection to each other as any other
of those juxtaposed graphs do.
Coming to quantification theory, Peirce often says that lines of identity
and ligatures are “more iconic” than any other notation for the logic of
relatives.11
Stjernfelt (2014) mentions this in connection to the idea of an
optimal criterion of iconicity which, according to Stjernfelt, emerges most
clearly in Peirce’s treatment of Beta graphs. It is well known that, besides the
lines of identity and the ligatures, Peirce introduces an alternative means for
the representation of individuals: the selectives, namely letters used to des-
ignate individuals and considered by Peirce as an abbreviation (CP 4.460).
The proposition “All men are mortal” is expressed with lines of identity in
Figure 13.7 and with selectives (S) in Figure 13.8:
Figure 13.7  Figure 13.8 
	
	
	
	
192  Ahti-Veikko Pietarinen and Francesco Bellucci
individuals denoted by the dots. The continuity of the line is thus the con-
tinuity of the identity of the individuals denoted by the dots that constitute
that line. But what does it mean that identity is continuous? Peirce offers a
“phenomenological” explanation that is related to re-identification: When
we say that some individual met on Monday is the same as the individual
met on Tuesday, what we say is that there is a continuity under the two
appearances of the individual on two different days and that we are entitled
to speak of the same individual only on the ground of such continuity of
appearances.
But identity is continuous also in a related but distinct sense. According
to Peirce, some logical relations are “continuous,” that is, they can only be
analyzed into parts that are homogeneous with the whole. To express this
peculiar notion of unanalyzability (or elementarity, see R 300, 1908), Peirce
uses the analogy with continuity: Like a Peircean continuum and the Kan-
tian forms of intuition (space and time), these predicates are homogeneous
in themselves, for each of their parts has the same properties as the whole
has. Among logical concepts, “to be,” “to be in relation to,” “to imply,” “to
coexist with,” are continuous: “to be in relation to” can be analyzed only
as “to be in relation to a relation to,” and this in turn can only be analyzed
in like manner as “to be in relation to a relation to a relation to,” and so on
ad infinitum. Although we may “fancy” to analyze a continuous predicate,
it nonetheless enters intact into the components into which we believe we
have analyzed it. In other words, continuous predicates exemplify a reflec-
tion principle of an early sort.
Of the different continuous predicates that Peirce succeeded in isolating,
two in particular gained prominence in the logical graphs:
Among Existential Graphs there are two that are remarkable for being
truly continuous both in their Matter and in their corresponding Signifi-
cation. There would be nothing remarkable in their being continuous in
either, or in both respects; but that the continuity of the Matter should
correspond to that of the Signification is sufficiently remarkable to limit
these Graphs to two; the Graph of Identity represented by the Line of
Identity, and the Graph of coëxistence, represented by the Blank.
(R 293, 1907, NEM 4:324)
Coexistence is continuous: “By saying that this relation is truly continuous
I mean that if A is coexistent with B, I mean that A is coexistent with some-
thing coexistent with something coexistent with something coexistent with
B, and that in short intermediaries each coexistent with the next are capable
of being inserted up to any multitude whatsoever” (R 530, 1902). Identity
is likewise continuous because to say that two individuals are numerically
identical amounts to saying that there is something which is identical to
both. In EGs, both of these graphs are represented by continuous graphs (by
the sheet and by the line),12
and thus their material constitution reflects their
Two Dogmas of Diagrammatic Reasoning  193
logical constitution. Identity and coexistence are not only continuous signs
formaliter, they are that also materialiter (R 492). Peirce’s emphasis on the
sufficiently remarkable “correspondence” between the material and the for-
mal (or logical) continuity of coexistence and identity is sufficiently remark-
able in itself. The “correspondence” is nothing more than a match between
mathematical properties of the notation (in brief, of topological spaces) and
the logical properties of the relation represented. The sheet is continuous
because space is continuous, and this acts as a structural constraint that
produces a surplus of information. As we argued, what is “forced” by the
continuity of the sheet is the conservativeness of the representation of logi-
cal conjunction. What is forced by the continuity of the line is the conserva-
tiveness of the representation of numerical identity:
Ligatures are far more iconic than Selectives. For . . . a Selective can
only serve its purpose through a special habit of interpretation that is
otherwise needless in the system, and that makes the Selective a Symbol
and not an Icon; while a Ligature expresses the same thing as a neces-
sary consequence of regarding each sizeable dot as an Icon of what
we call an “individual object”; and it must be such an Icon, if we are
to regard an invisible mathematical point as an Icon of the strict indi-
vidual, absolutely determinate in all respects, which imagination cannot
realize.
(R 300, 1908)
Selectives do exactly the same job as quantification with bound variables
does, albeit remaining “an offensive, anti-iconic representation when one
and the same bound variable is no longer represented by one entity only
(the line of identity) . . . but only by the series of xs or ys, identified only
by their merely symbolical identity” (Stjernfelt 2014, 218). But the iconic-
ity we are talking about here is, pace Stjernfelt, the operational, not the
optimal notion. What Peirce is saying is that the representation of numeri-
cal identity is a necessary consequence of the representation of individual
identity, just as the representation of coexistence is a necessary consequence
of the representation of existence. Thus, it is not only that from the optimal
point of view lines of identity are more iconic (in the sense of more natural)
than selectives. It is also that lines are more iconic (from the operational
point of view) because the representation of the identity of individuals is
a consequence of the representation of individuals, and the sheet is more
iconic (from the operational point of view) than any equivalent means of
representing coexistence because the representation of coexistence is a con-
sequence of the representation of existence. The point is that the “corre-
spondence” between material continuity and logical continuity acts as a
structural constraint and enables the notation to “take care of itself.” This
is independent of the conventions adopted: The same consequences would
occur whether the continuity of the sheet were made to correspond to the
194  Ahti-Veikko Pietarinen and Francesco Bellucci
continuity of logical disjunction or the continuity of the line were made
to correspond to the continuity of disjunctive identity (as in the Entitative
Graphs), because like conjunction, disjunction is symmetric, associative, etc.
Even in that case, the sheet would act as a structural constraint and produce
free rides just the same. This gives us a further reason to distinguish iconic-
ity as naturalness and iconicity as content specificity. This was indeed our
aim in this section, namely to disentangle two principal meanings of the
term “iconic,” which as we have documented are both present in Peirce’s
philosophy of logic and notation.
Conclusion
Neither the claim that diagrammatic languages are visual nor the claim that
they are iconic forms of representation is free from difficulties. Visuality is
by no means sufficient to delimit the class of diagrammatic languages against
nondiagrammatic, as, on the one hand, any written language is visual in the
trivial sense that one needs to see its signs and formulas to interpret it, and,
on the other hand, languages exist that are not visual but, for example, oral
or tactile, which nonetheless embody diagrammatic structures and forms of
relation. Iconicity is spoken of in many ways, of which we have addressed
two: naturalness of representation and content specificity. Peirce used the
terms “icon” and “iconic” in both of these senses, and in his writings it is
sometimes difficult to distinguish the one from the other. Notwithstanding
the polysemy of the term, “iconicity” has often been attempted to be used
as a key notion capable of separating the class of diagrammatic from that of
nondiagrammatic languages. We have discussed some of these attempts and
have shown that none of them is free from difficulties (both exegetical and
theoretical), unless the two senses we have detected are clearly distinguished
the one from the other.
Acknowledgments
Research supported by the Estonian Research Council, Project PUT267, the
Academy of Finland, Project 1270335: “Diagrammatic Mind: Logical and
Communicative Aspects of Iconicity” (2013–2017), and the 2014–2015
High-End Foreign Experts Program of P. R. China, Xiamen University.
Principal Investigator Prof. Ahti-Veikko Pietarinen.
Notes
	 1	 “It is the main purpose of this grand science which I have been accustomed to
call Characteristics, of which that which we call Algebra, or Analysis, is noth-
ing but a little branch: it gives words to languages, letters to words, numbers to
arithmetic, notes to music; it teaches us the secret of fixing the reasoning, and
obliging it to leave visible traces on the paper in small amount, to be examined
at will; last, it is the one which makes our reasoning cheaper, with characters
Two Dogmas of Diagrammatic Reasoning  195
instead of things, in order to spare the imagination” (Leibniz 1903, 98–99, our
translation and emphasis).
	 2	 See, e.g., R 1292, “How Did Science Originate?” c.1899: “Mathematics mainly
consists in constructing diagrams (continuous in geometry, arrays of signs in
algebra) according to general precepts and then observing in the parts of these
diagrams relations not explicitly required in the precepts.”
	 3	 Professional journals devoted to such studies have become increasingly numer-
ous, including: Journal of Visual Languages and Computing; Journal of Visual
Communication and Image Representation; Visual Cognition; Visual Commu-
nication; Journal of Visualized Experiments; Journal of Visual Culture; Visual
Studies; Computing and Visualization in Science, just to name a few.
	 4	 What Peirce means by intuition in the 1890s is far from what he meant by that
term in the 1860s, namely “that which is not determined by previous cogni-
tions.” On Peirce’s notion of imagination, see Pietarinen and Bellucci (2016).
On his later ideas on deduction, theorematic reasoning, and logical analysis see
Pietarinen and Bellucci (2014).
	 5	 See, e.g., Pietarinen (2010) and Champagne (2015) for current developments of
acoustic logic.
	 6	A further point contained in Peirce’s remarks is that linearity is by no means
a necessary property of logical notations. It is only for the sake of conve-
nience of notation to express dependencies in the way that came to dominate
the ­
twentieth-century logic. Even the two-dimensional notations, as remarked
above, may not suffice at the end (see Pietarinen 2004 and 2015).
	 7	 Notice, however, that neither of these principles can be a correct characterization
of the facts of EGs, since (1) a graph placed inside the inloop of a scroll is neither
negated nor unnegated, but is only asserted—conditionally or hypothetically in
the context of the antecedent and supposing what the antecedent asserts—on
what Peirce terms the “spread” rather than the “absolute” “sheet of assertion”
(R 481) and (2) two juxtaposed graphs enclosed in an oval each is not a disjunc-
tion of those graphs.
	8	It is then by hypostatic abstraction that we convert a term that connotes (a
predicate) into one that denotes (a subject). By hypostatic abstraction we trans-
form “Socrates is wise” into “Socrates possesses wisdom.” In mathematics, it is
by hypostatic abstraction that we make some operation (3 + 4) subject of other
operations [(3 + 4) × 5]. (see CP 4.549, 1906). In hypostatic abstraction we
transfer matter from the signification to the denotation or, as Peirce sometimes
states, from the interpretant to the object. But hypostatic abstraction is not just
the principal engine of mathematical reasoning. Hypostatic abstraction is a very
primordial ingredient of every form of thinking whatsoever.
	 9	 On the difficulties of Peirce’s notion of resemblance, see Chevalier (2015).
	
10	 On problems of representing disjunction pictorially, see Pietarinen (2014).
	
11	 On lines of identity and ligatures, see Roberts (1973), Burch (2011) and Pietar-
inen (2011).
	
12	The line of identity is really the sign of “potential teridentity,” or the “graph
of indefinitely multiple identity” (R 490). Teridentity is essential to understand
Peirce’s graphs, but we cannot discuss it here. See Pietarinen 2015.
References
Ainsworth, Shaaron. 2006. “DeFT: A Conceptual Framework for Considering Learn-
ing with Multiple Representations.” Learning and Instruction, 16:3, 183–198.
Anderson, Douglas R. 1987. Creativity and the Philosophy of C. S. Peirce. Dor-
drecht: Martinus Nijhoff Publishers.
Anellis, Irving. 2012. “How Peircean Was the ‘Fregean’ Revolution in Logic?”
arXiv:1201.0353.
———. 2014. “La logique et la theorie de la notation (semiotique) de Peirce.” In La
pointure du symbole. Ed. J.Y. Beziau. Paris: Petra, 35–85.
Archibald, Raymond Clare. 1925/1980. “Biographical Sketch.” In Benjamin Peirce:
“Father of Pure Mathematics” in America. Ed. I. Bernard Cohen. New York:
Arno Press, 8–20.
———. 1925/1980. “Benjamin Peirce’s ‘Linear Associative Algebra’ and C. 
S.
Peirce.” American Mathematical Monthly, 34, 525–527. In Benjamin Peirce:
“Father of Pure Mathematics” in America. Ed. I. Bernard Cohen. New York:
Arno Press.
Aristotle. 1966a. Posterior Analytics. Trans. H. Tredennick. Loeb Classical Library.
London: W. Heinemann Ltd/Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
———. 1966b. Topica. Ed. and Trans. E.S. Foster. Loeb Classical Library. London:
W. Heinemann Ltd/ Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
———. 1968. De Anima. Books II & III. Trans. D.W. Hamlyn. Clarendon Aristotle
Series. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
———. 1975a. On Memory and Recollection. Trans. W.S. Hett. Loeb Classical Li-
brary. London: W. Heinemann Ltd/Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
———. 1975b. On the Soul. Trans. W.S. Hett. Loeb Classical Library. London: W.
Heinemann Ltd/Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
———. 1984. The Complete Works of Aristotle. The Revised Oxford Translation. 2
vols. Ed. Jonathan Barnes. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
———. 1990. Nicomachean Ethics. Trans. H. Rackham. Loeb Classical Library.
London: W. Heinemann Ltd/Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Asher, Julian E. and Duncan A. Carmichael. 2013. “The Genetics and Inheritance
of Synesthesia.” In The Oxford Handbook of Synesthesia. Eds. Julia Simner and
Edward Hubbard. Oxford: Oxford University Press., 23–45.
Aspinwall, Leslie, Kenneth L. Shaw, and Norma C. Presmeg. 1997. “Uncontrollable
Mental Imagery: Graphical Connections between a Function and Its Derivative.”
Educational Studies in Mathematics, 33:3, 301–317.
198 References
Atkins, Richard Kenneth. 2010. “An ‘Entirely Different Series of Categories’:
Peirce’s Material Categories.” Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society, 46:1,
94–110.
———. 2013. “Toward an Objective Phenomenological Vocabulary: How Seeing a
Scarlet Red Is Like Hearing a Trumpet’s Blare.” Phenomenology and the Cogni-
tive Sciences, 12:4, 837–858.
———. 2016. Peirce and the Conduct of Life: Sentiment and Instinct in Ethics and
Religion. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Ayer, A.J. 1956. The Problem of Knowledge. London: Macmillan.
Balchin, W.G.V. 1972. “Graphicacy.” Geography, 57:3, 185–195.
Barrena, Sara. 2013. “Reason and Imagination in Charles S. Peirce.” European
Journal of Pragmatism and American Philosophy, 5:1, 9–22.
Beaux-Arts de Paris. 2015. TRANSMISSION recréation et repetition. Communiqué
de press. <http://www.beauxartsparis.com/en/exhibitions/last-exhibitions>.
Bellucci, Francesco. 2013a. “Peirce’s Continuous Predicates.” Transactions of the
Charles S. Peirce Society, 49:2, 178–202.
———. 2013b. “Diagrammatic Reasoning: Some Notes on Charles S. Peirce and
Friedrich A. Lange.” History and Philosophy of Logic, 34:4, 293–305.
Bellucci, Francesco and Ahti-Veikko Pietarinen. 2016. “Peirce’s Existential Graphs
as an Instrument of Logical Analysis. Part I: Alpha.” The Review of Symbolic
Logic, 9:2, 209–237.
Benjamin, Walter. 1936/2008. “The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Repro-
duction.” Reprinted in Aesthetics: A Comprehensive Anthology. Eds. Steve M.
Cahn and Aaron Meskin. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing, 327–343.
Ben-Zeev, Talia and Jon Star. 1999. Intuitive Mathematics: Theoretical and Educa-
tional Implications. Revised 2002. <http://www.gseacademic.harvard.edu>
Bergman, Mats. 2007. “Representationism and Presentationism.” Transactions of
the Charles S. Peirce Society, 43:1, 53–89.
Boden, Margaret. 1991. The Creative Mind: Myths and Mechanisms. New York:
Basic Books.
Brandom, Robert B. 2000. Articulating Reasons: An Introduction to Inferentialism.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Burch, Robert. 2011. “The Fine Structure of Peircean Ligatures and Lines of Iden-
tity.” Semiotica, 186, 21–68.
Cahan, David. 1985. “The Institutional Revolution in German Physics, 1865–
1914.” Historical Studies in the Physical Sciences, 15, 1–65.
Cambridge. 1861. Catalogue of the Officers and Students of Harvard University for
the Academic Year 1861–62. Cambridge: Sever and Francis.
Campos, Daniel G. 2009. “Imagination, Concentration and Generalization: Peirce
on the Reasoning Abilities of the Mathematician.” Transactions of the Charles S.
Peirce Society, 45:2, 135–156.
———. 2010. “Imagination and Hypothesis Making in Mathematics: A Peircean
Account.” New Essays on Peirce’s Mathematical Philosophy. Ed. Matthew
Moore. Chicago, IL: Open Court, 105–128.
———. 2011. “On the Distinction between Peirce’s Abduction and Lipton’s Infer-
ence to the Best Explanation.” Synthese, 180, 419–442.
Cellucci, Carlo. 2013. Rethinking Logic: Logic in Relation to Mathematics, Evolu-
tion, and Method. Dordrecht: Springer.
Champagne, Marc. 2015. “Sound Reasoning (Literally): Prospects and Challenging
of Current Acoustic Logic.” Logica Universalis, 9:3, 331–343.
References  199
Changizi, Mark A. 2001. “ 
‘Perceiving the Present’ as a Framework for Ecological
Explanations of the Misperception of Projected Angle and Angular Sizes.” Per-
ception, 30, 195–208.
Changizi, Mark A., Andrew Hsieh, Romi Nijhawan, Ryota Kanai, and Shinsuke
Shimojo. 2008. “Perceiving the Present and a Systematization of Illusions.” Cog-
nitive Science, 32, 459–503.
Chevalier, Jean Marie. 2015. “The Problem of Resemblance in Peirce’s Semiotics and
Philosophy.” Versus, 120, 45–59.
Clark, Andy. 2008. Supersizing the Mind: Embodiment, Action, and Cognitive Ex-
tension. New York: Basic Books.
Clement, John. 1985. “Misconceptions in Graphing.” In Proceedings of the Ninth
Conference of the International Group for the Psychology of Mathematics Edu-
cation, Vol. 1. Noordwijkerhout, The Netherlands: IGPME, 269–375.
Cohen, I. Bernard, Ed. 1980. Benjamin Peirce: “Father of Pure Mathematics” in
America. New York: Arno Press.
Contakes, Stephen and Christopher Kyle. 2011. “Josiah Parsons Cooke Jr: Epis-
temology in the Service of Science, Pedagogy, and Natural Theology.” HYLE,
International Journal for Philosophy of Chemistry, 17:1, 1–23.
Cooke, Josiah Parsons. 1857. Chemical Problems and Reactions to Accompany
Stöckhardt’s Elements of Chemistry. Cambridge: John Bartlett.
———. 1860. Elements of Chemical Physics. Boston, MA: Little, Brown and Company.
———. 1875. “Scientific Culture.” Popular Science Monthly, 7, 513–531.
———. 1888. Science and Religion, the Credentials of Science: The Warrant of
Faith. New York: Robert Carter and Brothers.
Danto, Arthur. 1964. “The Artworld.” Journal of Philosophy, 61:19, 571–584. Re-
printed in Aesthetics: A Comprehensive Anthology. Eds. Steven M. Cahn and
Aaron Meskin. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing, 417–425.
Dauben, Joseph W. 1982. “Peirce’s Place in Mathematics.” Historia Mathematica,
9, 311–325.
Davis, Philip and Reuben Hersh. 1999. The Mathematical Experience. New York:
Mariner Books.
Davis, William H. 1972. Peirce’s Epistemology. The Hague: Martinus Nijhoff.
De Chadarevian, Soraya and Nick Hopwood, Eds. 2004. Models: The Third Dimen-
sion of Science. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Deleuze, Gilles. 1963. La philosophie critique de Kant. Paris: Presses Universitaires
de France.
Dipert, Randall. 1997. “The Mathematical Structure of the World: The World as
Graph.” Journal of Philosophy, 94, 329–358.
———. 2004. “Peirce’s Deductive Logic: Its Development, Influence, and Philosoph-
ical Significance.” In The Cambridge Companion to Peirce. Ed. Cheryl Misak.
New York: Cambridge University Press, 287–324.
Dragoi, Valentin. n.d. “Visual Processing: Cortical Pathways, Sec. 2: Sensory Sys-
tems.” In Neuroscience Online: The Open-Access Neuroscience Electronic Text-
book of The Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy at The University of
Texas Medical School at Houston. <http://www.nba.uth.tmc.edu>
Eco, Umberto. 1997. Kant e l’ornitorinco. Milan: Bompiani.
———. 2000. Kant and the Platypus: Essays on Language and Cognition. Trans.
Alastair McEwen. London: Vintage.
Edwards, Betty. 1979. Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain. Los Angeles, CA:
Tarcher.
200 References
Eisele, Carolyn. 1979. Studies in the Scientific and Mathematical Philosophy of
Charles S. Peirce: Essays by Carolyn Eisele. Ed. Richard M. Martin. The Hague:
Mouton.
Evans, Ellis. 1955. “ ‘Tractatus’ 3.1432.” Mind, 64:254, 259–260.
Fabbrichesi, Rossella. 2012. “Peirce’s Phenomenology of Similarity.” Intellectica,
58/2, 285–293.
———. 2014. Peirce e Wittgenstein: un incontro. Immagine, prassi, credenza.
Milan: Mimesis.
Feferman, Solomon. n.d. “Mathematical Intuition vs. Mathematical Monsters.”
<http://www.math.stanford.edu>
Ferguson, Eugene S. 1992/1994. Engineering and the Mind’s Eye. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Fermüller, Cornelia. 2004. “Uncertainty in Visual Processes Predicts Geometrical
Optical Illusions.” Vision Science, 44, 727–749.
Fischbein, Efraim. 1973. “Intuition, Structure, and Heuristic Methods in the Teach-
ing of Mathematics.” In Developments in Mathematics Education. Ed. A.G.
Howson. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 222–232.
———. 1987. Intuition in Science and Mathematics: An Educational Approach.
New York: Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Flórez, Jorge Alejandro. 2014. “Peirce’s Theory of the Origin of Abduction in Aris-
totle.” Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society, 50:2, 265–280.
Font, Vicenç, Janete Bolite, and Jorge Acevedo. 2010. “Metaphors in Mathematics
Classrooms: Analyzing the Dynamic Process of Teaching and Learning of Graph
Functions.” Educational Studies in Mathematics, 75:2, 131–152.
Forman, David. 2007. “Learning and the Necessity of Non-Conceptual Content in
Sellars’s ‘Empiricism and the Philosophy of Mind.’ 
” In The Self-Correcting En-
terprise: Essays on Wilfred Sellars. Eds. Michael P. Wolf and Mark Norris Lance.
Poznan Studies in the Philosophy of the Sciences and the Humanities. Vol. 92.
New York: Rodopi, 115–145.
Forster, Paul. 2011. Peirce and the Threat of Nominalism. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Foucault, Michel. 2011. The Courage of Truth: Lectures at the Collège de France
Series. Ed. Arnold I. Davidson. Trans. Graham Burchell. London: Palgrave
Macmillan.
Freadman, Anne. 2004. The Machinery of Talk—Charles Peirce and the Sign Hy-
pothesis. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Frede, Dorthea. 1992. “The Cognitive Role of Phantasia in Aristotle.” In Essays on
Aristotle’s De Anima. Eds. Martha C. Nussbaum and Amelie Oksenberg Rorty.
Oxford: Clarendon Press, 279–295.
Friedman, Michael. n.d. “Kant on Geometry and Spatial Intuition.” <http://www.
tau.ac.il>
Fruton, Joseph S. 1988. “The Liebig Research Group—A Reappraisal.” Proceedings
of the American Philosophical Society, 132:1, 1–66.
Gallie, W.B. 1952. Peirce and Pragmatism. New York: Pelican.
Garner, Steve. 2011. “Understanding Graphicacy.” In Idator Online Conference:
Graphicacy and Modeling. Eds. Eddie Norman and Niall Seery. Loughborough:
Design Education Research Group, 3–5.
Gava, Gabriele. 2014. Peirce’s Account of Purposefulness: A Kantian Perspective.
London: Routledge.
References  201
Giaquinto, Marcus. 2007. Visual Thinking in Mathematics. Oxford: Oxford Uni-
versity Press.
Giere, Ronald N. 2006. Scientific Perspectivism. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago
Press.
Girel, Mathias. 2003. “The Metaphysics and Logic of Psychology: Peirce’s Read-
ing of James’s Principles.” Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society, 39:2,
163–203.
Glasgow, Janice, N. Hari Narayanan, and B. Chandrasekaran. 1995. Diagrammatic
Reasoning: Cognitive and Computational Perspectives. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Goldstein, Carl. 1996. Teaching Art: Academies and Schools from Vasari to Albers.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Gooday, Graeme. 1990. “Precision Measurement and the Genesis of Physics Teach-
ing Laboratories in Victorian Britain.” British Journal of the History of Science,
23:1, 25–51.
Grandin, Temple. 1995. Thinking in Pictures and Other Reports from My Life with
Autism. New York: Vintage Books.
Grandin, Temple and Catherine Johnson. 2005. Animals in Translation: Using the
Mysteries of Autism to Decode Animal Behavior. New York: Harcourt.
Gregory, Richard L. 1997. Eye and Brain: The Psychology of Seeing. 5th ed. Prince­
ton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Greimas, Algirdas Julien and Joseph Courtés, Eds. 1979. Sémiotique: dictionnaire
raisonné de la théorie du langage. Paris: Hachette.
Gupta, Abhinav, Alexei A. Efros, and Martial Hebert. n.d. “Block Worlds Revis-
ited: Image Understanding Using Qualitative Geometry and Mechanics.” <http://
www.cs.cmu.edu>
Guthrie, W.K.C. 1981. A History of Greek Philosophy. Vol. 6: Aristotle: An En-
counter. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Hadamard, Jacques. 1954/1996. The Mathematician’s Mind: The Psychology of
Invention in the Mathematical Field. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Hall, Steven. 2007. The Raw Shark Texts. Edinburgh: Canongate.
Halliwell, Stephen. 1998. Aristotle’s Poetics. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago
Press.
———. 2002. The Aesthetics of Mimesis: Ancient Texts and Modern Problems.
Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Hammer, Eric M. 1995. Logic and Visual Information. Stanford, CA: Center for the
Study of Language and Information.
Hansen, Thorsten, Maria Olkkonen, Sebastian Walter, and Karl R. Gegenfurt-
ner. 2006. “Memory Modulates Color Appearance.” Nature Neuroscience, 9,
1367–1368.
Hanson, Norwood Russell. 1965. Patterns of Discovery. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Hellige, Joseph B. 1993/2001. Hemispheric Asymmetry: What’s Right and What’s
Left. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Helmholtz, Hermann von. 1867. Handbuch der physiologischen Optik 3. 3 vols.
Voss: Leipzig. Translated as Helmholtz’s Treatise on Physiological Optics Vol. 3.
Trans. James P.C. Southall. New York: Dover, 1962.
Hetland, Lois, Ellen Winner, Shirley Veenema, and Kimberly M. Sheridan. 2007.
Studio Thinking: The Real Benefits of Visual Arts Education. New York: Teach-
ers College Press.
202 References
Hilbert, David and S. Cohn-Vossen. 1932/1952. Geometry and Imagination. Trans.
P. Nemenyi. New York: Chelsea.
Hintikka, Jaako. 1980. “C. S. Peirce’s ‘First Real Discovery’ and Its Contemporary
Relevance.” The Monist, 63, 304–315.
———. 1987. “Mental Models, Semantical Games and Varieties of Intelligence.”
In Matters of Intelligence: Conceptual Structures in Cognitive Neuroscience. Ed.
Lucia M. Vaina. Dordrecht: D. Reidel, 197–215.
———. 1997. “The Place of C. S. Peirce in the History of Logical Theory.” In The
Rule of Reason: The Philosophy of Charles Sanders Peirce. Eds. Jacqueline Brun-
ning and Paul Forster. Toronto, ON: University of Toronto Press., 13–33.
Hoffman, Michael H.G. 1999. “Problems with Peirce’s Concept of Abduction.”
Foundations of Science, 4:3, 271–305.
———. 2007. “Seeing Problems, Seeing Solutions. Abduction and Diagrammatic
Reasoning in a Theory of Scientific Discovery.” In Abduction and the Process of
Scientific Discovery. Eds. Olga Pombo and Alexander Gerner. Lisbon: Centro de
Filosofia das Ciências da Universidade de Lisboa, 213–236.
Holmes, Frederic L. 1989. “The Complementarity of Teaching and Research in Lie­
big’s Laboratory.” OSIRIS, 5, 121–164.
Hookway, Christopher. 1985. Peirce. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul.
———. 1994. “Iconicity and Logical Forms.” Histoire Épistémologie Langage,
16:1, 53–64.
———. 2002. “ ‘. . . A Sort of Composite Photograph’: Pragmatism, Ideas and Sche-
matism.” Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society, 38:1/2, 29–45.
———. 2012. The Pragmatic Maxim: Essays on Peirce and Pragmatism. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Houser, Nathan. 1991. “A Peircean Classification of Models.” In On Semiotic Mod-
eling. Eds. Myrdene Anderson and Floyd Merrell. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter,
431–439.
———. 1998. “Introduction.” In The Essential Peirce: Selected Philosophical Writ-
ings. Vol. 2. Ed. Peirce Edition Project. Bloomington, IN: Indiana University
Press, xxi–xlviii.
———. 2010. “Introduction.” In Writings of Charles S. Peirce: A Chronological
Edition. Vol. 8. Ed. Peirce Edition Project. Bloomington, IN: Indiana University
Press, xxv–xcvii.
Hull, Kathleen. 1994. “Why Hanker After Logic? Mathematical Imagination, Cre-
ativity and Perception in Peirce’s Systematic Philosophy.” Transactions of the
Charles S. Peirce Society, 30:2, 271–295.
———. 1996. Peircean Imagination: The Role of Mathematical Reasoning in
C. 
S. Peirce’s Philosophy of Religion. Ph.D. dissertation. Madison, NJ: Drew
University.
———. 2005. “The Inner Chambers of His Mind: Peirce’s ‘Neglected Argument’
for God as Related to Mathematical Experience.” Transactions of the Charles S.
Peirce Society, 41:4, 485–513.
Hume, David. 1739–40/1978. A Treatise of Human Nature. Ed. L.A. Selby-Bigge.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
———. 1748/1975. Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Hylton, Peter. 1990. Russell, Idealism, and the Emergence of Analytic Philosophy.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
References  203
Jackson, Catherine M. 2011. “Chemistry as the Defining Science: Discipline and
Training in Nineteenth-Century Chemical Laboratories.” Endeavour, 35, 55–62.
Jackson, Charles Loring, Henry Barker Hill, Augustus Lowell, Francis Humphreys
Storer, and Charles William Eliot. 1894. “Proceedings [with a Commemoration
of Josiah Parsons Cooke].” Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences, 30, 503–552.
James, Mary Ann. 1992. “Engineering an Environment for Change: Bigelow, Peirce
and Early Nineteenth-Century Practical Education at Harvard.” In Science at
Harvard University: Historical Perspectives. Eds. Clark A. Elliott and Margaret
W. Rossiter. Bethlehem, PA: Lehigh University Press, 55–75.
Janvier, Claude. 1981. “Use of Situations in Mathematics Education.” Educational
Studies in Mathematics, 12:1, 113–122.
Jappy, Tony. 2013. Introduction to Peircean Visual Semiotics. London: Bloomsbury.
Joas, Hans. 1997. G.H. Mead: A Contemporary Re-examination of His Thought.
Trans. Raymond Meyer. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Johnson, Mark. 2007. The Meaning of the Body: Aesthetics of Human Understand-
ing. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.
Kantrowitz, Andrea, Angela Brew, and Michelle Fava, Eds. 2012. Thinking through
Drawing: Practice into Knowledge: Proceedings of an Interdisciplinary Sympo-
sium on Drawing, Cognition, and Education. New York: Teachers College.
Kapitan, Tomis. 1990. “In What Way Is Abductive Inference Creative?” Transac-
tions of the Charles S. Peirce Society, 26:4, 499–512.
———. 2000. “Abduction as Practical Inference.” In Digital Encyclopedia of C. S.
Peirce. <http://www.digitalpeirce.fee.unicamp.br/home.htm>
Kent, Beverley. 1997. “The Interconnectedness of Peirce’s Diagrammatic Thought.”
In Studies in the Logic of Charles Sanders Peirce. Eds. Nathan Houser, Don
D. Roberts, and James Van Evra. Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press,
445–459.
Ketner, Kenneth Laine. 1982. “Carolyn Eisele’s Place in Peirce Studies.” Historia
Mathematica, 9, 326–332.
Ketner, Kenneth Laine and Hilary Putnam. 1992. “Introduction.” In Reasoning and
the Logic of Things: The Cambridge Conferences Lectures of 1898. Eds. K. L.
Ketner and H. Putman. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1–54.
Kiryushchenko, Vitaly. 2012. “The Visual and the Virtual in Theory, Life and Sci-
entific Practice: The Case of Peirce’s Quincuncial Map Projection.” In Cognitive
Science and Interdisciplinary Approaches to Mathematical Cognition. Eds. M.
Bockarova, M. Danesi, and R. Nunez. Munich: Lincom Europa, 61–70.
Klein, Ursula. 2001a. “The Creative Power of Paper Tools in Early Nineteenth-
Century Chemistry.” In Tools and Modes of Representation in the Laboratory
Sciences. Ed. Ursula Klein. Boston, MA: Kluwer, 13–34.
———. 2001b. “Paper Tools in Experimental Cultures.” Studies in History and
Philosophy of Science, 32:2, 265–302.
———. 2003. Experiments, Models, Paper Tools: Cultures of Organic Chemistry in
the Nineteenth Century. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Knighton, Ryan and Ira Glass. 2012. “Invisible Made Visible, Prologue.” This Ameri-
can Life. National Public Radio, May 18, 2012. <www.thisamericanlife.org>
Koopman, Colin. 2007. “Language Is a Form of Experience: Reconciling Classical
Pragmatism and Neopragmatism.” Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society,
43:4, 694–727.
204 References
Kosslyn, Stephen Michael. 1993. Elements of Graph Design. New York: W. H. Free-
man & Company.
Kuhn, Thomas S. 1970. The Structure of Scientific Revolutions. 2nd ed. Chicago, IL:
University of Chicago Press.
Lakoff, George and Mark Johnson. 1999. Philosophy in the Flesh: The Embodied
Mind and Its Challenge to Western Thought. New York: Basic Books.
Lambert, Johann Heinrich. 1764. Neues Organon. Leipsig: Wendler.
———. 1782. Deutscher Gelehrter Briefwechsel. Ed. Johann Bernoulli III. Berlin:
Selbstverlag.
Lange, Friedrich Albert. 1877. Logische Studien. Ein Beitrag zur Neubegrundung
der formalin Logik und der Erkenntnistheorie. Iserlohn: Verlag von J. Baedeker.
Leclercq, Bruno. 2011. “Rhetorique de l’ideographie.” Nouveaux Actes Sémio-
tiques, 114, 1–18.
———. 2013. “Intuitions Ideographiques.” Visible, 10, 165–188.
Legg, Catherine. 2008a. “Making It Explicit and Clear: From ‘Strong’ to ‘Hyper-’
Inferentialism in Brandom and Peirce.” Metaphilosophy, 39:1, 105–123.
———. 2008b. “The Problem of the Essential Icon.” American Philosophical Quar-
terly, 45:3, 207–232.
———. 2012. “The Hardness of the Iconic Must: Can Peirce’s Existential Graphs
Assist Modal Epistemology?” Philosophia Mathematica, 20:1, 1–24.
———. 2014. “ ‘Things Unreasonably Compulsory’: A Peircean Challenge to a Hu-
mean Theory of Perception: Particularly with Respect to Perceiving Necessary
Truths.” Cognitio, 15:1, 89–112.
Leibniz, Gottfried Wilhelm. 1903. Opuscules et fragments inédits de Leibniz: extrait
des mauscrits de la Bibliothéque royale de Hanovre. Ed. Louis Couturat. Paris:
F. Alcan.
Leinhardt, Gaea, Orit Zaslavsky, and Mary Kay Stein. 1990. “Functions, Graphs,
and Graphing: Tasks, Learning, and Teaching.” Review of Educational Research,
60:1, 1–64.
Leja, Michael. 2012. “Peirce, Visuality, and the Semiotics of Pictures.” In Das bild-
nerische Denken: Charles S. Peirce. Eds. Franz Engel, Moritz Queisner, and Tul-
lio Viola. Berlin: Akademie Verlag, 139–149.
Levine, Steven. 2012. “Brandom’s Pragmatism.” Transactions of the Charles S.
Peirce Society, 48:2, 125–140.
Lo Piparo, Franco. 2014. Il Professor Gramsci e Wittgenstein: Il linguaggio e il
potere. Rome: Donzelli.
Lybeck, Leif, Ference Marton, Helge Stromdahl, and Aine Tullberg. 1988. “The
phenomenography of the ‘mole concept’ in chemistry.” In Improving Learning:
New Perspectives. Ed. Paul Ramsden. London: Kogan Page, 81–108.
Macbeth, Danielle. 2012. “Seeing How It Goes: Paper and Pencil Reasoning in
Mathematical Practice.” Philosophia Mathematica, 20, 58–85.
Macpherson, Fiona. 2012. “Cognitive Penetration of Colour Experience: Rethink-
ing the Issue in Light of an Indirect Mechanism.” Philosophy and Phenomeno-
logical Research, 84:1, 24–62.
Maddalena, Giovanni. 2011. “Vague/Synthetic/Analytic: Peirce versus Kant.” In
Pragmatist Epistemologies. Ed. Roberto Frega. Lanham, MD: Lexington, 23–40.
Malcolm, Norman. 2001. Ludwig Wittgenstein: A Memoir. Oxford: Clarendon
Press.
References  205
Mancosu, Paolo, Klaus Jorgensen, and Stig Andur Pedersen, Eds. 2005. Visualiza-
tion, Explanation and Reasoning Styles in Mathematics. Dordrecht: Springer.
Mandelbrot, Benoît B. 1982. The Fractal Geometry of Nature. New York: W. 
H.
Freeman.
Maurer, Daphne, Laura C. Gibson, and Ferrine Spector. 2013. “Synesthesia in In-
fants and Very Young Children.” In The Oxford Handbook of Synesthesia. Eds.
Julia Simner and Edward Hubbard. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 46–63.
May, Michael. 1997. “Conceptual Understanding of Engineering Courses: Cognitive
and Didactic Aspects.” EARLI’97, The 7th European Conference for Research
on Learning and Instruction. Athens, August 26–30, 1997.
———. 1998. Transportprocesser. Evalueringsrapport. [Evaluation report for a
course in Transport Processes, in Danish]. Kongens Lyngby: Technical University
of Denmark.
———. 1999. “Diagrammatic Reasoning and Levels of Schematization.” In Iconic-
ity: A Fundamental Problem in Semiotics. Eds. T.D. Johansson, M. Skov, and B.
Brogaard. Aarhus: NSU Press, 175–193.
McDowell, John. 1994a. “The Content of Perceptual Experience.” The Philosophi-
cal Quarterly, 44:175, 190–205.
———. 1994b. Mind and World. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
———. 1997. “Brandom on Representation and Inference.” Philosophy and Phe-
nomenological Research, 57:1, 157–162.
———. 2005. “Motivating Inferentialism: Comments on Making It Explicit (Ch.
2).” Pragmatics and Cognition, 13:1, 121–140.
McKaughan, Daniel. J. 2008. “From Ugly Duckling to Swan: C.S. Peirce, Abduc-
tion, and the Pursuit of Scientific Theories.” Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce
Society, 44:3, 446–468.
McKim, Robert H. 1972. Experiences in Visual Thinking. Belmont, CA: Brooks/
Cole.
McMullin, Ernan. 1987. “Explanatory Success and the Truth of Theory.” In Sci-
entific Inquiry in Philosophical Perspective. Ed. Nicholas Rescher. New York:
University Press of America, 51–73.
———. 1992. The Inference that Makes Science. Milwaukee, WI: Marquette Uni-
versity Press.
———. 2000. “Truth and Explanatory Success in Aristotle.” In Aristotle and Con-
temporary Science. Vol. 1. Ed. Demetra Sfendoni-Mentzou. New York: Peter
Lang, 60–71.
Mead, George Herbert. 1934. Mind, Self and Society. Chicago, IL: University of
Chicago Press.
Merleau-Ponty, Maurice. 1961/1993. “Eye and Mind.” In The Merleau-Ponty Aes-
thetics Reader: Philosophy and Painting. Eds. Galen A. Johnson and Michael B.
Smith. Evanston, IL: Northwestern University Press, 121–149.
Michotte, Albert. 1945/1963. The Perception of Causality. New York: Basic Books.
Miller, Marjorie C. 1996. “Peirce’s Conception of Habit.” In Peirce’s Doctrine
of Signs: Theory, Applications, and Connections. Eds. Vincent Colapietro and
Thomas Olshewsky. Berlin: De Gruyter, 71–79.
Misak, Cheryl. 2013. The American Pragmatists. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Monk, Ray. 1990. Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty of Genius. London: Jonathan
Cape.
206 References
Murphey, Murray G. 1961/1993. The Development of Peirce’s Philosophy. Cam-
bridge, MA: Harvard University Press (1961) and Indianapolis, IN: Hackett
(1993).
Neiva, Eduardo. 1999. “Redefining the Image: Mimesis, Convention, and Semiot-
ics.” Communication Theory, 9:1, 75–91.
Newman, James R. 1956. The World of Mathematics. 4 vols. New York: Simon and
Schuster.
Nielson, J.N. 2010. “Benoît Mandelbrot, R.I.P.” Grand Strategy: The View from
Oregon blog. October 17. <http://www.geopoliticicraticus.wordpress.com>.
Niiniluoto, Ilkka. 1999. “Defending Abduction.” Philosophy of Science, 66:3,
S436–S451.
Niño, Douglas. 2009. “Peircean Pragmatism and Inference to the Best Explanation.”
<http://www.academia.edu/2046722/Peircean_Pragmatism_and_Inference_to_
the_Best_Explanation_first_draft_>
Otte, Michael. 1997. “Analysis and Synthesis in Mathematics from the Perspective
of Charles S. Peirce’s Philosophy.” In Analysis and Synthesis in Mathematics: His-
tory and Philosophy. Eds. Michael Otto and Marco Panza. Dordrecht: Kluwer,
327–362.
Paavola, Sami. 2005. “Peircean Abduction: Instinct or Inference?” Semiotica, 153:1–4,
131–154.
———. 2011. “Diagrams, Iconicity and Abductive Discovery.” Semiotica, 186,
297–314.
Panza, Marco. 1997. “Mathematical Acts of Reasoning as Synthetic a priori.” In
Analysis and Synthesis in Mathematics: History and Philosophy. Eds. Michael
Otte and Marco Panza. Dordrecht: Kluwer, 273–326.
Paolucci, Claudio. 2010. Strutturalismo e interpretazione. Milan: Bompiani.
———. 2011. “The ‘External Mind’: Semiotics, Pragmatism, Extended Mind and
Distributed Cognition.” VS-Versus, 112:3, 69–96.
Papachristou, Christina S. 2008. The Cognitive Process in the Aristotelian Phi-
losophy: Aἴσθησις (Sense), Αἴσθημα (Sensation), Φαντασία (Phantasia), Φάντασμα
(Phantasma), Μνήμη (Memory), Μνημόνευμα (Mnemonic Image), Νοῦς (Mind),
Νόημα (Noêma). Ph.D. Dissertation (in Greek). Thessaloniki: Aristotle University
of Thessaloniki.
———. 2013. “Three Kinds or Grades of Phantasia in Aristotle’s De Anima.” Jour-
nal of Ancient Philosophy, 7:1, 19–48.
Parker, Kelly A. 2014. “Peirce’s Graph of ‘a Sort of Equilateral Hyperbola’.” In
Charles S. Peirce in His Own Words: 100 Years of Semiotics, Communication
and Cognition. Eds. Torkild Thellefsen and Bent Sørensen. Boston, MA: Walter
de Gruyter, Inc., 164–167.
Pechlivanidis, Christos A. 2011. “The Abductive Character of Science and the
Dynamics of Discovery: Aristotle, Charles S. Peirce and Ernan McMullin.” In
History, Philosophy and Didactics of Science. Eds. K. Skordoulis et al. Athens:
Nissos (in Greek), 127–137.
———. 2013a. Aristotle and Ernan McMullin: Tracking the Roots of Contempo-
rary Scientific Realism. Thessaloniki: Ziti Editions (in Greek).
———. 2013b. “Aristotle’s Calculative/Deliberative Imagination and Ernan Mc-
Mullin’s Second Imagination: Exploring Interactions among Versions of Real-
ism.” In Interactions in the History of Philosophy. Eds. Efe Duyan and Ayşe
Güngӧr. Istanbul: Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University, 193–202.
References  207
———. 2013c. “Review of Demetra Sfendoni-Mentzou’s Pragmatism-Rationalism
Empiricism. Theories of Knowledge.” Philosophia, 43, 487–488.
———. 2014. “The History of Reception of Charles S. Peirce in Greece.” European
Journal of Pragmatism and American Philosophy, 6:1, 70–74.
Peirce, Benjamin. 1837. Elementary Treatise on Plane and Solid Geometry. Boston,
MA: James Munroe.
———. 1870. Linear Associative Algebra. In Benjamin Peirce: “Father of Pure
Mathematics” in America. Ed. I. Bernard Cohen. New York: Arno Press.
Pendlerbury, Michael. 1995. “Making Sense of Kant’s Schematism.” Philosophy and
Phenomenological Research, 55:4, 777–797.
Peterson, Sven R. 1955/1980. “Benjamin Peirce: Mathematician and Philosopher.”
In Benjamin Peirce: “Father of Pure Mathematics” in America. Ed. I. Bernard
Cohen. New York: Arno Press.
Pevsner, Nikolaus. 1940/1973. Academies of Art, Past and Present. New York: De
Capo.
Pietarinen, Ahti-Veikko. 2004. “Peirce’s Diagrammatic Logic in IF Perspective.” In
Diagrammatic Representation and Inference: Third International Conference,
Diagrams. Eds. Alan Blackwell, Kim Marriott and Atsushi Shimojima. Berlin:
Springer, 97–111.
———. 2006. Signs of Logic. Dordrecht: Springer.
———. 2010. “Is Non-Visual Diagrammatic Logic Possible?” In Studies in Dia-
grammatology and Diagram Praxis. Eds. Olga Pombo and Alexander Gerner.
London: College Publications, 73–81.
———. 2011. “Existential Graphs: What a Diagrammatic Logic of Cognition Might
Look Like.” History and Philosophy of Logic, 32:3, 265–281.
———. 2014. “A Road to the Philosophy of Iconic Communication.” In Visual
Learning, Vol. 4: Emotion, Expression, Explanation. Eds. András Benedek and
Kristóf Nyíri. Frankfurt: Peter Lang, 47–60.
———. 2015. “Exploring the Beta Quadrant.” Synthese, 192, 941–970.
Pietarinen, Ahti-Veikko and Francesco Bellucci. 2014. “New Light on Peirce’s Con-
ceptions of Retroduction, Deduction, and Scientific Reasoning.” International
Studies in the Philosophy of Science, 28:4, 353–373.
———. 2016. “The Iconic Moment. Towards a Peircean Theory of Diagrammatic
Imagination.” In Epistemology, Knowledge, and the Impact of Interaction. Eds.
Juan Redmond, Olga Pomba Martins, and Ángel Nepomuceno Fernández. Dor-
drecht: Springer, 463–481.
Plato. 1961. The Collected Dialogues of Plato. Eds. Edith Hamilton and Huntington
Cairns. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Plotinus. 2008. “Ennead I, vi.” Reprinted in Aesthetics: A Comprehensive Anthology.
Eds. Steve M. Cahn and Aaron Meskin. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing, 57–63.
Potolsky, Matthew. 2006. Mimesis. New York: Routledge.
Prinz, Jesse. 2006. “Beyond Appearances: The Content of Sensation and Percep-
tion.” In Perceptual Experience. Eds. Tamar S. Gendler and John Hawthorne.
New York: Oxford University Press, 434–460.
Putnam, Hilary. 1992. “Comments on the Lectures.” In Reasoning and the Logic of
Things: The Cambridge Conferences Lectures of 1898. Eds. K.L. Ketner and H.
Putnam. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 55–104.
Pylyshyn, Z.W. 2001. “Visual Indexes, Preconceptual Objects, and Situated Vision.”
Cognition, 80, 127–158.
208 References
Ransdell, Joseph. 2005. “The Epistemic Function of Iconicity in Perception.” Version
2.0. <http://www.iupui.edu/~arisbe/menu/library/aboutcsp/ransdell/EPISTEMIC.
htm>
Redding, Paul. 2010. Analytic Philosophy and the Return of Hegelian Thought.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
———. 2014. “An Hegelian Solution to a Tangle of Problems Facing Brandom’s
Analytic Pragmatism.” British Journal for the History of Philosophy, 23:4,
657–680.
Regnault, Henri Victor. 1853. Elements of Chemistry. Trans. T. Forrest Betton. Eds.
James C. Booth and William Faber. 2 vols. Philadelphia: Clark and Hesser.
Reichling, Mary J. 2004. “Intersections: Form, Feeling, and Isomorphism.” Philoso-
phy of Music Education Review, 12:1, 17–29.
Reid, Thomas. 2002. Essays on the Intellectual Powers of Man. Ed. Derek Brookes.
State College, PA: Pennsylvania State University Press.
Rescher, Nicholas. 1978. Peirce’s Philosophy of Science. Notre Dame, IN: University
of Notre Dame Press.
Roark, Tony. 2011. Aristotle on Time: A Study of the Physics. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
Roberts, Don. D. 1973. The Existential Graphs of Charles S. Peirce. The Hague:
Mouton.
Rocke, Alan J. 2003. “Origins and Spread of the Giessen Model in University Sci-
ence, 1826–1876.” Ambix, 50:1, 90–115.
Rosen, Sydney. 1982. “Josiah Parsons Cooke of Harvard.” Journal of Chemical
Education, 59:6, 525.
Rosenthal, Sandra. 2001. “The Percipuum and the Issue of Foundations.” <http://
www.digitalpeirce.fee.unicamp.br/perros.htm>
———. 2004. “Peirce’s Pragmatic Account of Perception: Issues and Implications.”
In The Cambridge Companion to Peirce. Ed. Cheryl Misak. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press, 193–240.
Russell, Bertrand. 1912. The Problems of Philosophy. New York: Oxford University
Press.
Schaffer, Simon. 1992. “Late Victorian Metrology and Its Instrumentation: A Man-
ufactory of Ohms.” In Invisible Connections: Instruments, Institutions, and Sci-
ence. Eds. Robert Bud and Susan E. Cozzens. Bellingham, WA: SPIE Optical
Engineering Press, 23–56.
Scheffler, Israel. 1974. Four Pragmatists: A Critical Introduction to Peirce, James,
Mead, and Dewey. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul.
Schulman, Michael. 2015. “Introduction to Synthetic Mathematics (Part 1).” The
n-Category Café: A Group Blog on Math, Physics and Philosophy. February 26.
<http://www.golem.ph.utexas.edu>
Sellars, Wilfrid. 1982. “Sensa or Sensings: Reflections on the Ontology of Percep-
tion.” Philosophical Studies, 41:1, 83–111.
———. 1997. Empiricism and the Philosophy of Mind. With an Introduction by
Richard Rorty and a Study Guide by Robert Brandom. Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.
Semetsky, Inna, Ed. 2010. Semiotics Education Experience. Rotterdam: Sense
Publishers.
Sen, Amartya. 2009. The Idea of Justice. London: Penguin Books.
Sfendoni-Mentzou, Demetra. 1992. “Is There a Logic of Scientific Discovery?
A Pragmatic-Realist Account of Rationality in Physical Theory.” In Historical
References  209
Types of Rationality: Proceedings of the First Greek-Soviet Symposium on Sci-
ence and Society. Eds. Michalis Assimakopoulos, Kōstas Gavroglou, and Pantelis
Nikolakopoulos. Athens: National Technical University of Athens, 239–250.
———. 2012. Pragmatism-Rationalism-Empiricism: Theories of Knowledge. 3rd
ed. Thessaloniki: Ziti editions (in Greek).
Shanahan, Murray and David Randell. 2004. “A Logic-Based Formulation of Ac-
tive Visual Perception.” American Association for Artificial Intelligence. <http://
www.aaai.org>
Shapiro, Gary. 1973. “Habit and Meaning in Peirce’s Pragmatism.” Transactions of
the Charles S. Peirce Society, 9:1, 24–40.
Shepard, Roger N. and Jacqueline Metzler. 1971. “Mental Rotation of Three-­
Dimensional Objects.” Science, 171:3972, 701–703.
Sheppard, Keith. 2006. “From Justus von Liebig to Charles W. Eliot: The Establish-
ment of Laboratory Work in U.S. High Schools and Colleges.” Journal of Chemi-
cal Education, 83:4, 566–570.
Shimojima, Atsushi. 1996a. On the Efficacy of Representation. Ph.D. Dissertation.
Indiana University.
———. 1996b. “Operational Constraints in Diagrammatic Reasoning.” In Logical
Reasoning with Diagrams. Eds. Gerard Allwein and J. Barwise. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 27–48.
Shin, Sun-Joo. 2002. The Iconic Logic of Peirce’s Graphs. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
———. 2011. “Peirce’s Alpha Graphs and Propositional Languages.” Semiotica,
186:1–4, 333–346.
———. 2012. “How Do Existential Graphs Show What They Show?” In Das Bild-
nerische Denken: Charles S. Peirce. Eds. Franz Engel, Moritz Queisner, and Tul-
lio Viola. Berlin: Akademie Verlag, 219–234.
Shin, Sun-Joo and Eric Hammer. 2013. “Peirce’s Deductive Logic.” In The Stanford
Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Ed. Edward N. Zalta. <http://plato.stanford.edu/
archives/fall2014/entries/peirce-logic/>
Short, T.L. 2007. Peirce’s Theory of Signs. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Siegel, Susanna. 2006. “Which Properties Are Represented in Perception?” In Per-
ceptual Experience. Eds. Tamar S. Gendler and John Hawthorne. New York:
Oxford University Press, 481–503.
———. 2010. The Contents of Visual Experience. New York: Oxford University
Press.
Simner, Julia. 2013. “The ‘Rules’ of Synesthesia.” In The Oxford Handbook of
Synesthesia. Eds. Julia Simner and Edward Hubbard. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 149–164.
Sini, Carlo. 1996. Gli abiti, le pratiche, i saperi. Milan: Jaca Book.
———. 2009. Ethics of Writing. Trans. Silvia Benso and Brian Schroeder. Albany,
NY: State University of New York Press.
Sophonias. 1883. Sophoniae in Libros Aristotelis De Anima Paraphrasis. Commen-
taria in Aristotelem Graeca (CAG). 23:1. Ed. Michael Hayduck. Berlin: Berolini.
Springer, Sally P. and Georg Deutsch. 2001. Left Brain, Right Brain: Perspectives
from Cognitive Neuroscience. 5th ed. New York: W. H. Freeman/Times Books/
Henry Holt and Co.
Stern, Daniel. 1985. The Interpersonal World of the Infant: A View from Psycho-
analysis and Developmental Psychology. London: Karnac Books.
Stern, Robert. 2011. “Hegel and Pragmatism.” In A Companion to Hegel. Eds. Ste-
phen Houlgate and Michael Baur. Oxford: Blackwell, 556–575.
210 References
———. 2013. “An Hegelian in Strange Costume? On Peirce’s Relation to Hegel I.”
Philosophy Compass, 8:1, 53–62.
Stieff, Mike. 2007. “Mental Rotation and Diagrammatic Reasoning in Science.”
Learning and Instruction, 17:2, 219–234.
Stjernfelt, Frederik. 2000. “Diagrams as Centerpiece for a Peircean Epistemology.”
Transaction of the Charles S. Peirce Society, 36:3, 357–384.
———. 2007. Diagrammatology: An Investigation on the Borderlines of Phenom-
enology, Ontology and Semiotics. Dordrecht: Springer.
———. 2011. “On Operational and Optimal Iconicity in Peirce’s Diagrammatol-
ogy.” Semiotica, 186:1–4, 395–419.
———. 2012. “Cows, Red Cows, and Red Herrings: A Graphical Experiment Ad-
dressing Natural Classes in the Young Peirce.” In Das Bildnerische Denken:
Charles S. Peirce. Eds. Franz Engel, Moritz Queisner, and Tullio Viola. Berlin:
Akademie Verlag, 95–114.
———. 2014. Natural Propositions: The Actuality of Peirce’s Doctrine of Dicisigns.
Boston, MA: Docent Press.
Stöckhardt, Julius Adolph. 1854. The Principles of Chemistry. Trans. C. 
H. Peirce.
Cambridge: John Bartlett.
Sutter, Kurt (Creator). 2008–14. Sons of Anarchy [Television series]. Los Angeles,
CA: SutterInk and Linson Entertainment.
Travis, Charles S. 2004. “The Silence of the Senses.” Mind, 113:449, 57–94.
Trowbridge, John. 1903. “Telepathy.” The Nation, 76, 308–309.
Van Cleve, James. 2004. “Reid’s Theory of Perception.” In The Cambridge Com-
panion to Reid. Eds. Terence Cuneo and René van Woudenberg. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 101–133.
Van Klooster, Henry Sjoerd. 1949. “The Beginning of Laboratory Instruction in
Chemistry in the U.S.A.,” Chymia, 2, 1–15.
Venn, John. 1894. Symbolic Logic. 2nd ed. London: Macmillan.
Viola, Tullio. 2012. “Pragmatism, Bistable Images, and the Serpentine Line. A Chap-
ter in the Prehistory of the Duck-Rabbit.” In Das Bildnerische Denken: Charles
S. Peirce. Eds. Franz Engel, Moritz Queisner, and Tullio Viola. Berlin: Akademie
Verlag, 115–138.
Vogel, Markus, Raimund Girwidz, and Joachim Engel. 2007. “Supplantation of
Mental Operations on Graphs.” Computers & Education, 49:4, 1287–1298.
Walsh, Alison. 1999. Relations between Logic and Mathematics in the Work of
Benjamin and Charles S. Peirce. Boston, MA: Docent Press.
Weininger, Stephen. 2013. “Chemistry for the ‘Industrial Classes’: Laboratory In-
struction, Mass Education and Women’s Experience in Mid-Western Land-Grant
Colleges.” Bulletin of the History of Chemistry, 38:2, 97–108.
Wertheimer, Max. 1945. Productive Thinking. New York: Harper & Brothers.
West, Thomas G. 1991. In the Mind’s Eye: Visual Thinkers, Gifted People with
Learning Disabilities, Computer Images and the Ironies of Creativity. Buffalo,
NY: Prometheus Books.
Whitman, Frank P. 1898. “The Beginnings of Laboratory Teaching in America.”
Science (American Association for the Advancement of Science), 8:190, 201–206.
Williams, S. Mark, Allison N. McCoy, and Dale Purves. 1998. “An Empirical Expla-
nation of Brightness.” Proceedings of the National Academy of Science, 95:22,
13301–13306.
Wilson, Aaron. 2012. “The Perception of Generals.” Transactions of the Charles S.
Peirce Society, 48:2, 169–190.
References  211
Wittgenstein, Ludwig. 1922. Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus. Trans. C.K. Ogden
and F.P. Ramsey. London: Routledge and Kegan Paul.
———. 1953. Philosophical Investigations. Trans. G.E.M. Anscombe. Oxford: Basil
Blackwell.
———. 1974. On Certainty. Reprinted with Corrections and Indices. Eds. G.E.M.
Anscombe and G.H. von Wright. Trans. Denis Paul and G.E.M. Anscombe. Ox-
ford: Basil Blackwell.
Wollheim, Richard. 1980. Art and Its Objects. 2nd ed. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
Yale. 2012. “Is Drawing Dead?” Yale School of Architecture Symposium. <http://
www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL79A5264A0ADED746>
Zalamea, Fernando. 2003. “Peirce’s Logic of Continuity: Existential Graphs and
Non-Cantorian Continuum.” The Review of Modern Logic, 9:1–2, 115–162.
———. 2012a. Peirce’s Logic of Continuity. Boston, MA: Docent Press.
———. 2012b. Synthetic Philosophy of Contemporary Mathematics. Trans. Zach-
ary Luke Fraser. Falmouth: Urbanomic.
Zlatev, J. 2012. “Cognitive Semiotics: An Emerging Field for the Transdisciplinary
Study of Meaning.” The Public Journal of Semiotics, 4:1, 2–24.
Contributors
Chiara Ambrosio is Lecturer in History and Philosophy of Science at the
Department of Science and Technology Studies, University College Lon-
don. Her research focuses on visual culture in science and the arts in
the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, American pragmatism, and
the philosophy of Charles S. Peirce. Her publications have explored in
particular Peirce’s notion of iconicity and its relevance to contemporary
debates in history, historiography, and philosophy of science. She is cur-
rently working on a monograph project on Peirce’s history of science.
Richard Kenneth Atkins is Assistant Professor of Philosophy at Boston Col-
lege. He is the author of Peirce and the Conduct of Life: Sentiment and
Instinct in Ethics and Religion (2016) and Puzzled?! An Introduction
to Philosophizing (2015), as well as numerous essays related to Peirce’s
philosophy. His articles have been published in British Journal for the
History of Philosophy, European Journal of Philosophy, History of Phi-
losophy Quarterly, and Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society,
among other venues. He formerly taught at New York University, Ford-
ham University, and Iona College. In 2010, he won the Charles S. Peirce
Essay Contest for “This Proposition Is Not True: C.S. Peirce and the Liar
Paradox.”
Francesco Bellucci received his Ph.D. from the University of Siena (2012)
and has been a research fellow at the Tallinn University of Technology
and at the University of Bologna. His areas of research include Peirce’s
logical thought, theory and history of semiotics, philosophy of language,
and the history and philosophy of logic. He has published in journals
such as Versus, History and Philosophy of Logic, British Journal for the
History of Philosophy, Journal of the History of Ideas, Review of Sym-
bolic Logic, and Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society. In 2016,
he was awarded the Charles S. Peirce Essay Contest for “Inferences from
Signs: Peirce and the Recovery of the σημεῖον.”
Chris Campbell originally trained as a chemist and worked as a chemistry
teacher and deputy head in a leading independent day school in England.
Contributors  213
He sought to encourage his students both to appreciate that science has a
history as well as to engage with the philosophical issues around scientific
inquiry. He is currently completing his Ph.D. at the Department of Sci-
ence and Technology Studies, University College London, on the work of
Charles Peirce and Dmitri Mendeleev, at the Department of Science and
Technology Studies, University College London. His research explores
the fruitful relations between the works of these two philosopher-­
chemists who are bonded by, among other things, their common work
on the periodic table.
Rossella Fabbrichesi is Professor of Hermeneutics at the State University of
Milan. She began studying Peirce while earning her Ph.D. in philosophy
and has published four monographs on semiotics and pragmatism: La
polemica sull’iconismo (1983); Sulle tracce del segno (1986); Il conc-
etto di relazione in Peirce (1992); and Introduzione a Peirce (1993). She
has also worked on links between Peirce and Wittgenstein and between
hermeneutics and pragmatism. She served as co-editor (with Susanna
Marietti) of Semiotics and Philosophy in Charles Sanders Peirce (2006),
is general co-editor (with Carlo Sini) of two Italian book series (ETS
publications and Mimesis), currently serves as president of Associazi-
one Pragma, and is on the scientific boards of the journals Noema and
European Journal of Pragmatism and American Philosophy. She is also a
member of the Advisory Committee of the Charles S. Peirce Society. The
forthcoming Umberto Eco volume in the Library of Living Philosophers
(2016) includes her work.
Kathleen A. Hull lives in Boston and taught for over a decade at New York
University. She also taught American Philosophy at Rutgers University,
where she was founding director of the Byrne Seminars and Project Civil-
ity at Rutgers. A graduate of McGill University (B.A., History and Phi-
losophy of Science), Johns Hopkins University (M.A., Philosophy) and
Drew University (Ph.D., Theological and Religious Studies), she has
published articles focusing on the philosophy of Charles Peirce and on
pedagogy in higher education. She has won awards for teaching excel-
lence and inspiring college students with a love of learning. In 1992, she
won the Charles S. Peirce Essay Contest for “Why Hanker After Logic?
Mathematical Imagination, Creativity and Perception in Peirce’s System-
atic Philosophy.” Her doctoral dissertation, The Role of Mathematical
Reasoning in C.S. Peirce’s Philosophy of Religion, was awarded a prize
in 1996 for creative thought and excellent prose style.
Catherine Legg holds a B.A. (Honors) from University of Melbourne, an
M.A. from Monash University and a Ph.D. from Australian National
University. Initially trained in analytical philosophy, she developed a
strong interest in American pragmatism, particularly the work of Charles
Peirce. Her 1999 Ph.D. thesis (Modes of Being) concerns Peirce’s three
214 Contributors
fundamental philosophical categories and contemporary debates in real-
ism. Cathy taught at University of Melbourne, then moved to Texas and
engaged in a spell of “ontological engineering”—attempting to capture
human common sense in computer code. She now lectures in philosophy
at University of Waikato, New Zealand, also engaging in research col-
laborations with computer science. Her current research bridges ontol-
ogy, philosophy of language, semiotics, logic, and artificial intelligence.
Peirce’s notion of iconicity has been a particular focus, with key papers
“The Problem of the Essential Icon” (American Philosophical Quarterly,
2008) and “The Hardness of the Iconic Must” (Philosophia Mathemat-
ica, 2012).
Michael May is a researcher in semiotics, cognitive science, didactics of sci-
ence and engineering education, and human-machine interaction design.
He was educated as a research psychologist at the University of Copenha-
gen (1985) and also has a B.A. in Cultural Sociology (1985). He received
his Ph.D. (1994) for a study of the semiotics of Charles S. Peirce in rela-
tion to cognitive semantics and naïve physics. He has worked in a Centre
for Cognitive Science (1991–1994) and a Centre for Human-Machine
Interaction (1998–2003), and otherwise worked with pedagogical train-
ing and educational reforms in engineering at the Technical University
of Denmark (1994–1997 and 2003–2011) and with science education at
the Department of Science Education at the University of Copenhagen
(2011–2016). He is presently a part-time teacher at the University of
Southern Denmark and is preparing a book on the semiotic foundations
of science and engineering.
Claudio Paolucci is Associate Professor at the Department of Philosophy
and Communication, University of Bologna, where he teaches semiotics.
Since 2005, he has served on the board of the Ph.D. program in Philoso-
phy, Science, Cognition, and Semiotics, University of Bologna. Since 2012,
he has been secretary of the Italian Society of Philosophy of Language.
Since 2014, he is the scientific coordinator of the School of Advanced
Studies in the Humanities, founded by Umberto Eco, who was president
of the school until his death in 2016. Paolucci is also assistant director of
the international journal of semiotics Versus. After completing his Ph.D.
thesis on interpretative semiotics (directed by Professor Eco), he taught
seminars and classes at universities in Paris (CREA, EHESS, Sorbonne),
São Paulo (PUC), Sofia, Palermo, Toulouse, Messina, Limoges, Teramo,
Liège, Milan, Prague, Urbino, Boston, and Memphis. He is editor of the
Journals Nouvaux Actes Sémiotiques and Italian Journal of Cognitive
Sciences. He has published more than fifty papers in international jour-
nals. His main work is Structuralism and Interpretation (2010).
Kelly A. Parker is Professor of Philosophy, Environmental Studies, and Lib-
eral Studies, and Director of Environmental Studies at Grand Valley State
Contributors  215
University in Allendale, Michigan. He earned a B.A. (English and Phi-
losophy) at Texas A&M University and an M.A. and Ph.D. (Philosophy)
at Vanderbilt University. In 1991, he won the Charles S. Peirce Society
Essay Contest for “Peirce’s Semeiotic and Ontology.” His publications
include The Continuity of Peirce’s Thought (1998), edited collections
on the philosophy of Josiah Royce and on sustainability, and numerous
articles and book chapters on American philosophy and environmental
philosophy. His current work concerns the development of community-
engaged pedagogy and the semiotics of art.
Christos A. Pechlivanidis was born in Thessaloniki, Greece. He studied phi-
losophy at Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and University of Marc
Bloch, Strasbourg II, France. Under scholarships awarded by the Alexan-
der S. Onassis Public Benefit Foundation and the Research Committee of
Aristotle University, he received his Ph.D., specializing in ancient philoso-
phy (Aristotle’s logic and epistemology) and the history and philosophy
of science. He maintains a special research interest in Charles S. Peirce’s
pragmatism and Ernan McMullin’s scientific realism. His postdoctoral
research, funded by the European Research Program THALES, is on
Aristotle’s philosophy of science and scientific realism. He is currently
a scientific fellow and postdoctoral researcher at the Interdisciplinary
Centre for Aristotle Studies at Aristotle University. He has given papers
at conferences and has published in journals and collected volumes. In
2015, his book Aristotle and Ernan McMullin: Tracking the Roots of
Contemporary Scientific Realism (in Greek) was awarded the Kautantzo-
gleio Prize of the School of Philosophy of the University of Athens.
Ahti-Veikko Pietarinen is Professor of Philosophy and Head of Chair, Tal-
linn University of Technology, Estonia, and Research Director, University
of Helsinki. The focus of his work is the history and philosophy of logic,
language and cognition, and pragmatist philosophy of science and tech-
nology. In 2003, he won the Charles S. Peirce Society Essay Contest for
“Peirce’s Magic Lantern: Moving Pictures of Thought.” Recent publica-
tions include “Special Issues on Peirce’s Logic and Language” (Synthese,
2015) and “Theory of Signs” (Sign Systems Studies, 2015). Forthcoming
publications include The Second Metaphysical Club (edited with Ami-
rouche Moktefi and Jean Marie Chevalier) and a selection of Charles
Peirce’s unpublished manuscripts entitled Logic of the Future: Peirce’s
Writings on Existential Graphs.
Seymour Simmons III is a Professor of Fine Arts at Winthrop University,
Rock Hill, South Carolina, USA, where he teaches art education and stu-
dio art, primarily drawing. Prior to moving to South Carolina, he taught
at Massachusetts College of Art and did research on the arts in education
at Harvard Project Zero. He holds a B.F.A. in printmaking from Colo-
rado State University as well as M.Ed. and Ed.D. degrees from Harvard,
216 Contributors
where his concentration was philosophy of education. His dissertation
traced the theory and practice of drawing instruction from ancient times
to the present. Current research and publications on drawing instruction
address its relation to semiotics, multiple intelligence theory, cognitive
development, learning across the curriculum, and the development and
assessment of imagination. His other topics of interest include holistic art
education and creativity theory. As an artist, he works primarily on the
figure and landscape in drawing and watercolor.
Evelyn Vargas is Professor of Philosophy at the University of La Plata,
Argentina, and Researcher for the National Council of Scientific and
Technological Research (CONICET). She obtained her Ph.D. (summa
cum laude) at University of La Plata; her dissertation was on the topic
of reason and experience in Leibniz’s Dynamics. She has published on
contemporary epistemology, American pragmatism, and seventeenth cen-
tury rationalists, especially Leibniz. Recent publications include “Prag-
matism in Orbis Tertius: J.L. Borges’ Reading of James” (Inter-American
Journal of Philosophy, 2011), “Perceiving Machines: Leibniz’s Teleo-
logical Approach to Perception” (in Machines of Nature and Corporeal
Substances in Leibniz, ed. J.E.H. Smith and O. Nachtomy, 2011), and
“Leibniz and Bayle: Two Versions of Pyrrhonism” (Studia Leibnitiana,
Sonderhefte, 2015). Her current research centers on epistemic normativ-
ity and the nature of inference.
Aaron Bruce Wilson is a permanent instructor in philosophy at South Texas
College. He received his Ph.D. from University from Miami in 2014,
where, under the direction of Professor Susan Haack, he defended his
dissertation on the philosophical architectonic of Charles S. Peirce. He
is the author of a number of articles on Peirce, including “Peirce and
the A Priori,” which won the 2015 Charles S. Peirce Essay Contest, as
well as articles on John Locke and Thomas Reid. His research focuses
on several intersecting epistemological and metaphysical questions, par-
ticularly in Locke, Hume, Reid and especially Peirce. The connections
between Peirce’s thought and the thought of the Early Modern empiri-
cists is explored in his book Peirce’s Empiricism: Its Roots and Its Origi-
nality (2016).
Index
abduction 23, 132 
– 
4; form of 27, 132;
as generating vs. suspecting truth of
a hypothesis 27 
– 
8; and imagination
136 
– 
7; as instinct 134 
– 
6; shades into
perceptual judgment 9; vs. induction/
inference to the best explanation
28, 145
abstraction: as crystallizing logical
relations 167; hypostatic 146, 195;
senses as mechanisms of 4
Anderson, Douglas R. 135 
– 
6
a-rationality 7, 44
Aristotle 41, 54, 62 
– 
9, 139, 143, 174
awareness: atomistic conception
rejected by Peirce and James 21
beliefs: de dicto vs. de re 40
Changizi, Mark 30
cognitive penetration 35 – 6
composite photograph 46, 143, 146
conservativeness 190, 193
Cooke, Josiah 92 – 5, 99 – 101
cotary propositions 25
critical common-sensism 13
crystallography 98 – 9, 101
Danto, Arthur 61, 69 
– 
70
Davis, William 133
definite 45
determinate 3, 45
diagram 75; and deduction 152; and
existential graphs 84 
– 
5, 97, 188; as
general sign/ possessing generality 77,
102; as hypoicon 83; as iconic 97,
101 
– 
2, 154; as indexical 99, 102; as
logical/schematic image 76; object of
perception or imagination 184; and
pragmatism 86; purpose of 185; rules
restricting transformation 79, 154;
as triggering inferences/ generating
interpretative thoughts 77, 99; see
also icon
Eco, Umberto 79
Eisele’s Law 87
empiricism: British 42 
– 
3, 47; radical 1;
vs. pragmatism 126 – 7
endopeuretic method 177 – 8
entitative graphs 188 – 90
evidence 76 
– 
7, 82 
– 
3, 85, 97, 102
Fermüller, Cornelia 29 – 30
Form of relation 77, 79 
– 
80, 85, 96 
– 
8,
161, 166, 175
Foucault, Michel 58 – 9
Fourier’s Law 109 – 10
generality 146, 184 
– 
5; iconic 53;
observable in diagrams 85; perceived
1 
– 
2, 4, 12; sought by mathematicians
168; vs. singular 4
Geographic Information System: ix
geometric intuition 158, 163 
– 
6
geometry: diagrams in 68, 87; of
crystals 99 
– 
100; Kant’s philosophy of
148; Peirce’s classification of 160 
– 
1
gesture 54, 56; as iconic of habits and
life’s forms 57
Grandin, Temple 151 – 2
graph 108, 153; as image vs. diagram
109, 114 
– 
16, 118; as picture 112;
represents relational structure 114
graphicacy 119, 130
habit 11, 22; and cells 32 
– 
4; by
education 6, 48; as interpretant
14 
– 
15, 128; and perception 51; as
praxis 59
Halliwell, Stephen 62 – 3
218 Index
Helmholtz, Hermann von 17, 29,
115, 171
Hintikka, Jaako 150, 165, 172
Hookway, Christopher 42, 50, 53, 84,
103, 146, 166
Hume, David 3, 42 
– 
7
hygrometer 107
hypoicon 75, 107
icon 57; as bearer of properties 149;
common structure/ sameness of form
with object ix, 67; and form 71; in
mathematical reasoning 148; and
mimicry 54 
– 
5, 59; not resemblance
of/ distinct from its object 67, 85;
as object revealing properties 75;
operational definition of 186; optimal
criterion of 187; pure 153, 171, 183;
represents relations between parts of
object 19; see also diagram
idealism 51 – 2
il lume naturale 134, 139
image: as Abbildung 172; bistable 120,
125; in chemistry 86; conceptual
101; empirical vs. generalized 184 
– 
5;
logical 76, 77, 79, 83; mental 67,
112, 118, 139 
– 
42; not a copy 68; as
pure possibility 57; schematic 76 
– 
7;
visual 127, 154, 169, 173
imagination 142 
– 
4; diagrams in 83,
104, 184; experimentation and 20,
77, 156; and Kantian schemata
77 
– 
8, 103, 148; not precise 3; and
pragmatism 156; visual 154 
– 
5; vs.
perception 6, 137, 140
inference: forms of 26 
– 
7; as self-
controlled 26; unconscious 17 
– 
18,
150, 158, 164
inferential intuitionism 166
inferentialism: of Hegel 41; hyper 41,
52; strong 40
interpretant 80, 102, 127 
– 
8
introspection 12
James, William 14 
– 
21, 72, 152
Jappy, Tony 121 – 3
Kandinsky, Wassily 123 – 4
Kant, Immanuel vii, 23, 74, 78, 81, 155
knowledge 142 
– 
3; chemical 104;
grounded 77; how 57; improvements
to/ growth of 83, 164; perceptual 10
Lambert, J.H. 186 – 7
Lange, F.A. 156 – 7
Legg, Catherine 188 – 9
Leja, Michael 120 – 1
Liebig, Justus 89 – 90
likeness: as a primitive 64
logicism 150, 168
Macbeth, Danielle 179, 181 
– 
2
MacPherson, Fiona 35 – 6
mathematics 160; as form of reasoning
87, 92 
– 
3, 97 
– 
8, 108, 148, 150, 156,
159, 195; as perceiving abstract
structures 168
Mead, G.H. 55 – 6
Mendeleev, Dmitri 104 – 5
metaphors 69
mimesis 61; as iconicity 61, 65 
– 
9; two
conceptions of 63, 69
mimicry 54
mind 56
Moebius strip 147, 156
moving pictures of thought viii, 84,
104, 124
nominalism: dichotomy of abstract and
concrete 12; see also realism
non-ego 6
optical illusions 26, 29 
– 
31, 36, 50, 52
paper tools 95 
– 
6, 97, 106
parrhesia 58 – 9
Peirce, Benjamin 89, 108, 158 
– 
9, 172
Peirce’s claw 181 – 2
percept 2, 44 
– 
5; as absent
conceptualization 5; as index 21; as
ultimate logical interpretant 14; as
uncontrolled 28; involves Firstness
and Secondness 22, 45; James’s
conception of 15 
– 
16; vs. axiom
6 
– 
7; vs. Humean impression 45; vs.
perceptual judgment 5, 21
perception: causal and rational
contribution to knowledge viii;
doctrine of immediate 10; fallibilism
of vs. infallibility of sensory feels
42 
– 
3, 46; as inference in a broad
sense 19; as interpretative 15,
125; as general 2, 42; original vs.
acquired 13; requires secondness
12; as unconscious inference 17,
150; uncontrollable 6, 47; vs.
hallucination 21
perceptual judgment 2, 45 
– 
7; as
comprising our initial data 9;
as conceptualization 5; as first
Index  219
premises of reasoning 10; four
features of 7; index of percept 47; as
uncontrollable 7, 25
percipuum 5, 47 
– 
8; and temporality
48 – 9
phantasia 139 – 42
pragmatism 48, 136; Peirce’s vs.
Brandom’s 41 
– 
2; vs. empiricism
126 – 7
Plato 61 – 3, 69 – 70
ratiocinatio polysyllogistica: 168
realism: about generals 2; mathematical
156, 168; about possibilities 11;
scholastic 51, 145; vs. nominalism
2 – 3
reasoning: diagrammatic x, 87, 88, 102,
174, 177; mathematical 92, 97, 166;
visual 151 – 2, 155; see also abduction
and inference
Redding, Paul 40 – 1
representation: vs. Vorstellung 82
Rosenthal, Sandra 48 – 9
schema(-tism) ix, 74, 78 
– 
9, 83, 103 
– 
4,
148 – 9, 157, 185
selectives 191, 193
semiotics: as logic of reason vs.
construction of meanings 108; as new
form Kantism 74
Shin, Sun-Joo 178, 180 
– 
1
signs: classifications of 107, 120 
– 
1,
123, 128, 171
similarity 20, 60, 75, 107 
– 
8, 153 
– 
4;
logical 65 
– 
6; of relations 115; visual
116; vs. contiguity 17
Sini, Carlo 55
space 148, 170; continuity of 154 
– 
5,
161, 168, 172; and diagrams 175 
– 
7;
see also topology
Sraffa, Piero 54
Stern, Daniel 57
Stjernfelt, Frederik 76, 85, 123, 153 
– 
4,
171, 186 – 8, 190 – 1
synenosis 141, 143
synesthesia 32 – 3
tetrachromacy 4
topology: bridges observation and
deduction 147; and space 147 
– 
9,
160, 162, 193; synthetic vs. analytic
147
truth 10, 60, 140
unanalyzability 192
van Cleve, James 8
viniculum 182
verisimilitude 64
Wittgenstein, Ludwig 48, 54, 57 – 9,
79, 178
