part i
Africa
Map 1.  Africa
chapter 2
A phonological study of French spoken
by multilingual speakers from Bangui,
the capital of the Central African Republic*
Guri Bordal
University of Oslo / Université Paris Ouest Nanterre La Défense
1.	 Introduction
This chapter presents the main phonological features of the French spoken in Ban-
gui, the capital of the Central African Republic (CAR), henceforth Central Afri-
can French (CAF). As in other French speaking countries of Africa (e.g., Boutin
et al.; Lyche & Skattum, this volume), the essential characteristic of the linguistic
situation in the CAR is multilingualism. Whereas different African languages are
the speakers’ first languages (L1), French is generally acquired as a second lan-
guage (L2) through formal education. The L1 of the speakers (or the dominant L1
for bi- and multilinguals) of the PFC Bangui corpus is Sango (a Ngbandi-based
language – see Section 2.2), which is also the vehicular language in the CAR.
The aim of the present study is to provide a general description of the phono-
logical system of CAF, concentrating on the following aspects: phonemic inven-
tories, schwa, liaison and prosody. Moreover, the study aims to contribute to the
discussion on contact phenomena in phonological variation. In the description
of the phonemic inventories and prosodic system, special attention will be paid
to the impact of possible transfers from the speakers’ L1 on their phonological
system of French. We will thus bring a few elements to the debate on whether
transfers from L1 actually constitute an important source of linguistic variation
in multilingual contexts. An argument against postulating such transfers is that
*	 I would like to express my gratitude to Chantal Lyche for detailed and helpful comments
on this text. I would also like to acknowledge the help of Robert Beyom who assisted me during
the fieldwork and made this study possible. Finally I should like to thank all of the speakers who
agreed to participate in the study.
24	 Guri Bordal
identical variation phenomena are found in contexts where both linguistic situa-
tion and languages are different (cf. Gadet & Jones 2008). This is also the case for
the phenomena that will be described in this study; in fact, nearly all of the par-
ticularities of CAF are also attested in other colloquial varieties of French (Bordal
2009b). However, a comparison of the particularities of CAF with the phonologi-
cal system of Sango shows that the transfer hypothesis cannot be excluded. The
observed particularities correspond largely with the system of Sango or to parts
of the French system that constitute obvious problems for L2 learners. The overall
picture of the data therefore indicates that the influence of Sango is an important
factor in the phonology of CAF.
2.	 The languages of the CAR
Only French and the vehicular African language Sango have official status in the
CAR, but between 50 and 100 different languages are spoken in the country. Most
Central African speakers know several languages and use more than one language
in their everyday conversations. Both usage and knowledge of the different lan-
guages depend on different factors such as level of education, ethnic origin, and
whether the speakers live in an urban or rural area. Only a minority of the coun-
try’s population speaks French, which is confined to the formal sphere. Sango is
spoken by the large majority of Central Africans and is used as a lingua franca
between people with different L1s. It is also the most widely spoken language in
Bangui. The use of other languages is restricted to specific regions and will hence-
forth be referred to as regional languages.
2.1	 The regional languages
Several ethnic groups live in the different regions of the geographical area that
today constitutes the CAR, and each of these traditionally has its own language
or dialect. The languages of the CAR mainly belong to the Niger-Congo or the
Nilo-Saharan families of African languages (Queffélec, Déchamps-Wenezoui &
Daloba 1997). Niger-Congo is most heavily represented; a majority of the lan-
guages in the CAR belong to the Adamawa-Ubangi branch of the Niger-Congo
family (Boyd 1989), for instance Gbaya and Banda, the two most important re-
gional languages.
In rural areas, use of the regional languages is widespread; most children ac-
quire one or more regional languages as an L1 and they are used in everyday
communication between people from the same region. In Bangui, however, the
situation is different. The capital is a melting pot, where several ethnic groups
	 A phonological study of French spoken by multilingual speakers from Bangui	 25
are represented and interethnic marriages are common. As a consequence of this
situation, the vehicular language, Sango, is adopted by an increasing percentage
of the urban population.
2.2	 Sango
Sango is an Adamawa-Ubangi language and has its roots in the language spoken
by the Ngbandis, the ethnic group who traditionally lived by the Ubangi River
(Boyeldieu & Diki-Kidiri 1982). Today’s Sango is probably the result of several
changes in the Ngbandi language, and some researchers (cf. Pasch 1993; Samarin
2000) classify it as a creole language. The arguments for this analysis stem from
the context of emergence of Sango and from its linguistic structure. The changes
in the Ngbandi language took place because it expanded as a trade language in
the region around the Ubangi River and was therefore acquired by people with
different L1s. This resulted in a pidginization of the language. The pidginized
Ngbandi was then acquired as an L1 and became a creole language – today’s San-
go. Furthermore, Sango exhibits several structural similarities with creoles, such
as reduced derivational morphology and lost grammatical tone (Pasch 1993).
This theory, however, is contested by other scholars, who argue that the evolution
of the Ngbandi language does not differ from other kinds of diachronic change
(cf. Diki-Kidiri 1981).
In Bangui, Sango is replacing the regional languages in everyday commu-
nication (Déchamps-Wenezoui 1981; Thornell 1997). It is the most widely used
language, independent of its speakers’ ethnic origins, and children born in Bangui
tend to acquire it as their L1. Even though the regional languages are disappearing
from the linguistic scene in the capital, language is still an identity marker. For in-
stance, there are phonological differences between the Sango used by the different
ethnic groups (Boyeldieu & Diki-Kidiri 1982).
Since 1991, Sango shares the status of official language with French and is
today widely used in official contexts such as radio, television, the President’s
speeches, as well as in religious ceremonies. Sango also has an official orthogra-
phy (Diki-Kidiri 1977) and certain texts, e.g., in advertising, are written in Sango.
However, despite the increased usage of Sango in official contexts, French remains
to this date the language of social promotion.
2.3	 French
French was introduced in the CAR by the French colonists who governed the
country from the beginning of the 20th century up until 1960. It has kept its
26	 Guri Bordal
official status after independence and is still the main language of education and
administration. It is also frequently used in other formal contexts but, as seen
above, not exclusively. Nevertheless, French is dominant in written communica-
tion; newspapers, school materials and official documents are almost exclusively
written in French.
Some families tend to speak French to their children before they start school,
but in most cases Central Africans learn it at school, and only people with a cer-
tain level of formal education master the language fully; this is estimated to be
about 8% of the population (Queffélec, Déchamps-Wenezoui & Daloba 1997: 52).
Nevertheless, most Central Africans have some – at least passive – knowledge of
French, and it has been pointed out that it should not be considered as a “foreign
language” (Queffélec, Déchamps-Wenezoui & Daloba 1997); most speakers in
Bangui are in contact with French on a daily basis and people working in public
administration use it actively in their everyday life.
3.	 The Bangui corpus
The data in the PFC CAR corpus were collected during fieldwork conducted in
Bangui from January to March, 2008 in cooperation with the University of Ban-
gui. Thirty speakers were recorded according to the PFC research protocol and 12
of the recordings were transcribed and coded.
In the process of selecting informants, the combination of languages spoken
was the most important variable; the objective was to focus on French-Sango bi-
linguals in order to enable the study of transfers. However, in a context where
Table 1.  Speakers in the PFC Bangui corpus
Code PFC Age Sex Education level
rcayn1 28 F Licence
rcaat1 28 M Licence
rcadt1 28 F Licence
rcatp1 31 M 5ème
rcakn1 32 M Première
rcark1 33 M Bac
rcamp1 39 F Première
rcarn1 41 F Seconde
rcamy1 44 F Première
rcamk1 46 F Première
rcaiy1 58 M Bac
rcascm1 59 M 5ème
	 A phonological study of French spoken by multilingual speakers from Bangui	 27
multilingualism is the rule, one could not exclude the possibility that the speakers
had knowledge of other languages. The essential criteria were therefore that the
speakers used French on a daily basis and that Sango was the language that they
used most often in everyday communication. Three age groups (20–30, 30–40,
and 40+) and different levels of education are also represented (see Table 1).
4.	 Phonemic inventories and realizations
In this section, the main characteristics of the phonemic inventories and their
realizations in CAF will be presented. As pointed out above, many of the
particularities in segmental realizations in CAF also exist in the phonological sys-
tem of Sango; the similarities of the systems will be the focus of the discussion. In
order to compare CAF with Sango, a short overview of the phonological charac-
teristics of Sango will first be presented.
4.1	 Phonological characteristics of Sango
The phonemic inventory of Sango consists of the following phonemes:
Table 2.  The phonemes of Sango (Diki-Kidiri 1977)
Vowels Consonants
i u (ĩ) (ũ) b p f v t d s z k ɡ k͡p ɡ͡b
e o m͡b m͡v n͡d n͡z n͡ɡ nɡ͡b
ɛ ɔ ɛ̃ ɔ̃ m n n͡y
a ã l ɥ h w
r
Some differences between the phonemic inventories of Sango (Diki-Kidiri 1977;
Pasch 1993; Walker & Samarin 1997) and français de réference (Morin 2000)
(henceforth FR – see Chapter 1) are evident from this table. Sango has two more
nasal vowels than FR and several co-articulated consonants that do not occur in
.	 The Central African school system is identical to the French school system. U.S. equiva-
lents: 5ème = not completed Middle School, Second = first year of High School, Première = sec-
ond year of High school, Bac = High School Exam, Licence = Bachelor’s Degree.
.	 Phonemes in parentheses are disappearing and are not necessarily present in all speakers’
inventories.
28	 Guri Bordal
French, but it lacks the French front rounded vowels (/y/, /ø/, /œ/) and the post-
alveolar fricatives (/ʃ/, /ʒ/). Another important difference is the realization of the
rhotic consonant, which is realized as an alveolar trill [r] in Sango, in contrast with
most varieties of French where it is a uvular fricative [ʁ]. The pronunciation of the
rhotic consonant is discussed in detail in 4.3.1. Given its high degree of variability,
for consistency and ease of exposition it is transcribed throughout this chapter as
/R/, unless one of the variants is the object of focus. Other characteristics of the
segmental realizations in Sango, such as vowel harmony and palatalization, are
discussed in more detail below.
The prosodic systems of Sango and FR also differ considerably. Whereas FR
is said not to have any word-level prosodic system, Sango is a tone language with
distinctive lexical tones. It has three register tones (L, M and H) and three contour
tones (HL, LH, ML) with maximal tonal density, i.e., every syllable is specified for
tone (Diki-Kidiri p.c.).
Regarding syllabic structures, Sango has almost exclusively CV-syllables
(Pasch 1993) with only a few exceptions: syllables without onsets (V) can occur
as monosyllables or in word-initial position and syllables with codas (CVC) are
attested in word-internal positions (Diki-Kidiri 1977).
4.2	 Vowels
The inventory of oral vowels in CAF consists of the phonemes described in Ta-
ble 3. As in many other varieties of French, the behavior of mid vowels is complex,
and the symbols /ø/ and /o/ in Table 3 are provisory, used to refer to both the
mid-high and mid-low variants, since this distinction is not phonemic. The dif-
ferent constraints that seem to operate in the distribution of these vowels will be
discussed in detail below, in 4.2.1. Another factor affecting the realization of oral
vowels that deserves special attention is regressive harmony, discussed in 4.2.2.
As regards nasal vowels, there is some inter-speaker variation in the inven-
tories. Most speakers have an inventory of three nasal vowels /ɛ̃, ɔ̃, ɑ̃̃/, as in most
European varieties. However, one speaker (rcamp1) systematically made the op-
position between the rounded and unrounded nasal vowels, /œ̃, ɛ̃/. For instance,
Table 3.  Vowel inventory
Oral vowels Nasal vowels
i y u
e ø o
ɛ ɛ̃ (œ̃) ɔ̃
a (ɑ) ɑ̃
	 A phonological study of French spoken by multilingual speakers from Bangui	 29
she realized the word brun with a rounded nasal vowel both when reading the
word list and in spontaneous conversation. Apart from this particular case, the
inventory is stable.
4.2.1	 The mid vowels
A constraint on the distribution of French mid vowels is the loi de position (LdP –
see Chapter 1), favoring mid-high vowels /e, ø, o/ in open syllables (CV) and
mid-low ones /ɛ, œ, ɔ/ in closed syllables (CVC). This constraint seems to play a
role in the distribution of the mid vowels in the Bangui corpus. The choice of the
vowels /o, ɔ/ is always determined by the LdP. For example, both rauque and roc
are realized with a mid-low vowel, [ʁɔk] as is gauche, [ɡɔʃ]. The realization of the
other vowels follows the LdP in certain contexts: only the mid-high vowel /ø/ is
found in open syllables (CV) independent of their position in the word, whereas
the distribution of the vowels /e ɛ/ follows the LdP in non word-final syllables for
instance, the first vowel in pêcheur is mid-high [peʃœʁ] (compare with [pɛʃœʁ] in
certain varieties of French, contrasting with [peʃœʁ] pécheur).
However, there are two contexts where the LdP is not respected: as in FR,
both the mid-high and the mid-low vowels /e/ and /ɛ/ are found in open final
syllables (CV#), whereas closed final syllables (CVC#) can contain both the mid-
low /œ/ and the mid-high /ø/. Table 4 gives an overview of the inventory of mid
vowels in word-final syllables.
Table 4.  Distribution of mid vowels in final syllables
Final syllable –coda .(C)V Final syllable +coda .(C)VC
Mid-high e ø o ø
Mid-low ɛ ɛ œ ɔ
4.2.1.1	 /e/ and /ɛ/. The phonemic opposition between /e/ and /ɛ/ in open fi-
nal syllables is being neutralized in many varieties of French in Europe (Lyche &
Østby 2009; Pustka 2009) but is stable in Bangui. For instance, the speakers make
the distinction between different grammatical forms such as the infinitive parler,
realized as [paʁle], and the imperfect past parlait, pronounced [paʁlɛ]. Words
such as jamais, après and intérêt are systematically pronounced with a mid-low
final vowel. The fact that Sango also distinguishes mid-low and mid-high front
vowels (see Table 2) probably contributes to keeping this opposition stable in CAF
compared to many other varieties.
4.2.1.2	 /ø/ and /œ/. The distribution of /ø/ and /œ/ seems to be allophonic. Some
conditioned realizations are attested, though, such as those influenced by the
30	 Guri Bordal
presence of the coda consonant /R/. Whether it is realized or not (see 4.3.1), /R/
in a coda position lowers the vowel as in the pronoun leur, systematically realized
with the mid-low vowel [lœʁ]. The realizations of the front rounded mid vowels
show, however, a high degree of variation. Words as creuse, jeune, veulent can, for
example, be pronounced both with a mid-high and a mid-low vowel, and consid-
erable inter- and intraspeaker variations are attested.
Rounded front vowels are rare from a typological point of view and the acqui-
sition of these vowels is challenging for speakers who do not posses them in their
L1. As illustrated in Table 2, front rounded vowels do not exist in Sango. However,
all of the Bangui speakers are able to produce them. The instabilities of realiza-
tions can still be attributed to acquisition problems; nuances of vocalic quality can
be difficult to capture and consequently, difficult to produce. Another observation
strengthens this claim. The word sérieux is systematically pronounced [søʁjø]
with a rounded first vowel. This realization has in former work been analyzed as
vowel harmony (Bordal 2009b). However, a closer look at the data reveals several
examples of the unexpected rounding of front vowels in contexts where it cannot
be analyzed as harmony, as in the word-initial syllables of [pʁøfeʁe] (préfèrer),
[døfewa] (des fois) and [ʁøste] (rester). The opposite is also attested. For instance,
there are a couple of occurrences of besoin realized with an unrounded vowel
[bezwã]. Thus, it seems as though the vowel /ø/ is generally subject to confusion.
4.2.2	 Vowel harmony
Regressive vowel harmony affecting the height of the mid vowels is widely docu-
mented in French phonology and is found in many varieties, including European
French (Nguyen & Fagyal 2008). In the Bangui corpus, vowel harmony seems to
be particularly frequent. It occurs only within the lexical domain and affects the
height of vowels. In several examples, the height of mid vowels is the result of
vowel harmony, for example in realizations such as [ɛtɛ] (était) and [ɛpɛ] (épais).
In contrast to European French, vowel harmony does not only affect mid vowels,
but also /i/, and can be triggered by both word-final and word-internal vowels, as
in indésiré, pronounced [ɛ̃dezeʁe], or intelligent, realized as [ɛ̃tiliʒɑ̃].
Vowel harmony is one of the phenomena that CAF shares with the Adamawa-
Ubangi languages, where this is very common (Boyd 1989). For instance, in San-
go the height of the mid vowels is in most cases determined by the height of the
immediately adjacent vowels. Vowel harmony can be bidirectional, but it is not
clear from the existing descriptions of Sango phonology what the mechanisms are
that trigger harmony in one direction or the other.
	 A phonological study of French spoken by multilingual speakers from Bangui	 31
4.3	 Consonants and glides
The inventories of glides and consonants do not present any particularities, which
is probably related to the fact that the large majority of the French phonemes is
also found in Sango, with the exception of the post-alveolar fricatives, but these
do not present any problems for the speakers. However, the realizations of some
of the phonemes deserve to be mentioned, such as the variable realizations of /R/,
the palatalization of /t/ and /d/, and the devoicing of word-final fricatives. These
appear to be the most striking characteristics of the pronunciation of consonants
in CAF and will be presented in this section.
4.3.1	 The rhotic
Among the consonants, the /R/ is of particular interest for two reasons. Firstly, it
is almost systematically deleted in given contexts. Secondly, when it is not deleted
its quality is highly variable.
The deletion of postvocalic rhotics is cross-linguistically common, found for
instance in other varieties of French (Bordal & Ledegen 2009; Boutin & Turcsan
2009). A tendency attested in many languages is that of avoiding similar adjacent
segments. The rhotic is an extremely sonorous consonant and thus shares features
with the vowels, which can explain the tendency of postvocalic deletion. In the
Bangui corpus, postvocalic /R/ (VRC, VR.) is almost systematically absent in all
word positions. There are also examples of prevocalic deletion when the /R/ con-
stitutes the last element of an onset consonant cluster (CRV). Deletions of /R/ in
coda position can be illustrated by realizations such as [salɛː] (salaire) or [ɛ̃pɔːt]
(importe) and [puːkwa] (pourquoi). In most cases, the vowel preceding the deleted
/R/ is lengthened. In contrast, when the /R/ is deleted in complex onsets (CRV), it
does not leave any trace. This type of deletion is also less frequent and seems to be
restricted to the consonant cluster /fR/ as illustrated in [afik] (Afrique), [fekɑ̃te]
(fréquenter) and [fɑ̃s] (France).
When the /R/ is realized, three main allophones occur: the uvular fricative
[ʁ], the trill [r] and the palatal retroflex [ɽ]. There is important inter-speaker vari-
ation. Three speakers only realize the uvular fricative, two speakers systemati-
cally pronounce the alveolar trill, five speakers alternate between [ʁ] and [r], and
two speakers realize all three variants. No pattern emerges when considering the
speakers who realize several variants; alternations are found in all phonological
contexts, in onset as well as in coda position, and independent of the quality of
the vowels. These three different variants appear for example in initial position,
[ʁɔk] (roc), [ra] (ras) and [ɽølje] (relier), realized by the same speaker (rcaat1).
However, the influence of Sango can be one of the factors contributing to the
32	 Guri Bordal
variations in /R/ realizations; the rhotic is an alveolar trill in Sango (cf. Table 2)
and this can explain why some speakers keep that variant in French.
4.3.2	 Palatalization
Another characteristic of the consonantal realizations in CAF is palatalization.
The consonants /t/ and /d/ are palatalized before the high front vowels /i/ and
/y/, and sometimes before the high back vowel /u/. Palatalization is generalized;
it is attested in all phonological contexts, in all registers and with all the speak-
ers. These examples illustrate the phenomenon: [pøtʲi] (petit), [abitʲyd] (habitude)
and [tʲu] (tout).
Palatalization represents another similarity between Sango and French in
Bangui; in Sango, /t/ and /d/ are systematically palatalized before front vowels
(Diki-Kidiri 1977). It should also be mentioned that palatalization, or assibilation
of /t/ and /d/ before front vowels, is not exclusive to CAF. This phenomenon also
occurs in other varieties of French, more specifically in contact situations, as in
Mauritius (Ledegen 2007), Reunion Island (Bordal & Ledegen 2009) and Canada
(Poiré 2009). However, CAF is the only variety where not only front vowels, but
also the back vowel [u], trigger palatalization.
4.3.3	 Devoicing
A final characteristic of the consonantal realizations worth mentioning is the
devoicing of alveolar and post-alveolar fricatives in word-final position. [ɛɡlis]
(église), [aʃ] (âge) and [ʃɔs] (chose) are examples of words in the corpus that are al-
most systematically realized with a final unvoiced consonant, also when followed
by a vowel-initial word. In contrast with the other particularities identified above,
there is no direct correlation between devoicing and the phonology of Sango,
which, like the other Adamawa-Ubangi languages, possesses voiced fricatives.
Devoicing of final consonants is, however, attested in many languages, and is
also found in other African varieties of French, such as in the Ivory Coast (Boutin
& Turcsan 2009) and Senegal (Boutin et al., this volume). There is some contro-
versy about the nature of final devoicing in the phonological literature; it has been
analyzed both as a strengthening and a weakening process (cf. Harris 2009). As
shown in Section 4.4, there are strong arguments for claiming that the avoidance
of codas, especially in word-final syllables, is a highly ranked constraint in the pho-
nology of CAF, and that this is related to the fact the Sango does not have word-
final consonants. In CAF there is evidence that devoicing is a weakening process
since word-final consonants are almost systematically deleted in this variety and
it can therefore be related to a general tendency to reduce the force of articula-
tion in word-final positions. However, the devoicing process is confined to fixed
final consonants and does not affect the liaison consonant [z] which is probably
	 A phonological study of French spoken by multilingual speakers from Bangui	 33
not part of the representation of word-1 but inserted before word-2 (Côté 2005).
In that case, it could be explained as a way of distinguishing word-final fricatives
from the voiced liaison consonant /z/, whose morphological character as a plural
marker seems particularly important in CAF (cf. 6).
4.4	 Consonant deletions and vowel epenthesis
An important phonotactic constraint of the French in Bangui seems to be the
avoidance of complex syllable structures. Different processes such as conso-
nant deletion and vowel epenthesis operate in order to avoid complex syllable
structures.
As seen in Section 4.3.1, /R/-deletion is considered as a particular case of
consonant deletion since it is related to the acoustic properties of the consonant.
There is also a tendency for deletion of other sonorous segments when they are
adjacent to a vowel, such as the glide /j/ being frequently deleted in pre-nucleus
position in complex onsets (CJV) as in [kuʁozite] (curiosité) and [ameloʁasjɔ̃]
(amélioration), and /l/ being absent in postvocalic positions, as in [kam] (calme).
Another segment that is frequently deleted is the dorsal /k/; deletion of this con-
sonant is attested pre-consonantally in different word positions, such as in word-
internal simple codas as in [atjyɛlmɑ̃] (actuellement) as well as in word-final
complex codas, [ɛ̃tat] (intact).
The other examples of consonant deletion in the corpus are more sporadic
than the deletion of /R/, /j/, /l/ and /k/. In word-final syllables, simple codas are al-
most always deleted regardless of the nature of the segment, as /b/ in [ara] (arabe),
/t/ in [syi] (suite), /d/ in [dømɑ̃] (demande), /s/ in [opɛʁatʁi] (opératrice) or /n/ in
[nadi] (Nadine). Complex codas are simplified or fully deleted as in [pɔs] (poste)
or [minis] (ministre).
There are also examples of vowel prothesis and epenthesis in the corpus, other
processes that contribute to avoiding complex syllable structures. Word-initially,
the consonant cluster /sp/ is avoided and realization of a prothetic [ɛ] is frequent,
as in [ɛstabl] (stable) or [ɛslip] (slip). Word-internally, the insertion of /i/ avoids a
coda in [difikylite] (difficulté).
Simplifications of complex codas at the ends of words, and particularly the
deletion of liquids after plosives, are attested in all varieties of French. The avoid-
ance of complex syllable structures seems particularly important in Bangui, since
the deletions are very frequent and epenthesis is also attested, and can be related
to the contact with Sango, which has almost exclusively CV syllables. Moreover,
it appears that the avoidance of codas is most prominent in word-final syllables;
in contrast with other word positions, all kinds of consonants might be absent in
34	 Guri Bordal
this context. The strong tendency to avoid word-final codas can also be attributed
to the influence from Sango, which only allows coda-less syllables in word-final
position (Diki-Kidiri 1977).
5.	 Schwa
A high degree of regularity seems to be the essential characteristic of the behavior
of the vowels coded as schwas. The absence or presence of schwas depends essen-
tially on the context of the syllables within the word, as indicated in Table 5.
Table 5.  Realizations of schwas
Context Realized schwas Total Percentage
Initial syllable of polysyllabic words   181   182 99.5%
Internal syllables of polysyllabic words    99   217 45.6%
Final syllables of polysyllabic words   484  3772 12.8%
Monosyllabic words 1,634 1,719 95.0%
Some generalizations can be made on the basis of this table: schwas are realized
in the initial syllables of polysyllabic words, are variable in internal syllables of
polysyllabic words, are not realized at the ends of polysyllabic words, and are
realized in monosyllabic words. There are, however, exceptions in all contexts
and the scope of this section will be to identify the other factors that influence
the behavior of the schwa, such as left and right context, lexicalization, register or
individual variation. The reality of a schwa per se in the French spoken in Bangui
will be discussed at the end of this section.
5.1	 Initial syllables of polysyllabic words
The context with the highest rate of realization (99.5%) is the initial syllable of
polysyllabic words (such as revenir, demander). The presence of vowels is almost
systematic and one cannot talk about a schwa, conceived as a vowel that alternates
with zero, in this context. In other words, only full vowels seem to be allowed in
initial syllables of polysyllabic words (Durand 2009).
5.2	 Internal syllables of polysyllabic words
The behavior of schwa in word-internal syllables varies. A first look at the
data indicates that schwa is mostly absent in this context, but a more detailed
	 A phonological study of French spoken by multilingual speakers from Bangui	 35
examination gives indications of the opposite. In fact, more than half of the de-
leted schwas (54.2%) are attested in lexicalized expressions such as parce que, in
most cases realized as [pask], and maintenant, pronounced [mɛ̃tnɑ̃]. With the
exception of these expressions, a majority of the schwas are realized in internal
syllables (61.8%). Schwas are systematically pronounced when the left context
contains two consonants (CCə), as in exactement or correctement. When the
schwa syllable is preceded by a vowel (VCə), the realizations are variable; for in-
stance, words such as bêtement, effectivement and tellement can be realized both
with and without schwas by the same speakers.
5.3	 Final syllables of polysyllabic words
As in the varieties of French in Northern France, there is a clear tendency for
absence of final schwa: only 12.8% of the 3,772 potential final schwas are realized.
All the same, 12.8% is a relatively high realization rate compared to other varieties
where final schwas are rare; for example, only 3% are present in Parisian French
(Lyche & Østby 2009). There are no significant differences between the realiza-
tion rates of the different speakers and no lexicalizations are attested, nor can any
correlation between the behavior of the schwa and register be made; the realiza-
tion rates in the texts and the conversations are quite similar: 13.9% and 12.1%
respectively. It is therefore necessary to take a closer look at the data in order to
determine other factors that may possibly influence the behavior of the schwa.
A challenge in analyzing realized schwas in word-final position is that of de-
termining whether the observed vocalic element is a hesitation phenomenon or
a schwa, since the acoustic quality of the filled pause (euh) and that of the schwa
are close. However, the word preceding the schwa can give an indication in this
matter; 21% of the realized schwas in the conversations occur after the word donc,
frequently used by the speakers to fill gaps in the conversations. Thus, these are
arguments for claiming that part of the final vocalic elements are not schwas,
but rather hesitations. This claim is also supported by the fact that French is the
speakers’ L2 and more hesitations can be expected than would be the case for
L1 users.
However, not all of the final vocalic elements seem to be hesitations. As seen
in Section 4.4, a high-ranked constraint in the phonology of CAF is the avoid-
ance of complex syllable structures and particularly codas in word-final syllables.
Thus, there are reasons to hypothesize that the realization of word-final schwas is
another strategy to avoid final codas. A look at the realized schwas according to
their phonological environment can clarify this (Table 6).
36	 Guri Bordal
The numbers in Table 6 allow some postulations: the right context does not
seem to have any influence on the realization of the word-final schwa – there are
no significant differences in the realization rates in terms of whether it precedes
a consonant, a vowel or a pause. In contrast, the left context appears to influence
the presence of the schwa. A considerable portion (62.6%) of the schwas in the
context CCə# is realized (as in être, Ministre). This finding supports the hypoth-
esis that schwa is inserted in order to avoid codas in word-final positions (cf.
Section 4.4).
5.4	 Monosyllabic words
A large majority of potential schwas are realized in monosyllabic words (95%). An
examination of the contexts of absent schwas shows that most deletions take place
in particular contexts. In fact, a considerable number of the unrealized vowels are
in lexicalized expressions as in qu’est-ce or est-ce. The pronoun je in common ex-
pressions such as je sais pas and je suis is also realized without schwa in quite a few
examples. Apart from these frequent chunks, vowels are systematically realized in
personal pronouns. Other examples of absent vowels are some sporadic deletions
in the negation ne or the preposition de.
5.5	 Is there a schwa in CAF?
As seen above, with the exception of the internal syllables of polysyllabic words,
the behavior of the schwa vowels is quite homogenous in the different word con-
texts. Thus, the crucial question that arises is whether there really exists a schwa,
in the sense of a particular vowel that alternates with zero, in the French spoken
in Bangui. A similar study of French in the Ivory Coast, where the behavior of
schwa is similar to CAF, came to the conclusion that the existence of an underly-
ing schwa in that variety was uncertain (Boutin & Turcsan 2009).
As for CAF, there is strong evidence to claim that there is no schwa in ini-
tial syllables of polysyllabic words, since the presence of a vowel is systematic.
Table 6.  Distribution of realized word-final schwas according to phonological context
Context Realized schwas Total Percentage
Left VCә_ 213 2,967   7.2%
CCә_ 267   426 62.6%
Right ә_C 310 2,170 14.3%
ә_V   96   838 11.5%
ә_#   55   765   7.2%
	 A phonological study of French spoken by multilingual speakers from Bangui	 37
The same postulation can be made concerning monosyllabic words. Although
there are some sporadic deletions, these are rare and mainly limited to particular
expressions. The case of the final schwas of polysyllabic words is, as seen, more
complex. The low percentage of realizations may indicate that there is no un-
derlying schwa in this context, but rather that an epenthetic vocalic element is
inserted due to phonotactic constraints (cf. Côté 2007). The only context where
real variation is attested is the internal syllables of polysyllabic words where the
schwa is realized in slightly more than half of the cases. In contrast with the other
contexts, the data strongly indicate the existence of an underlying schwa in inter-
nal syllables.
6.	 Liaison
A study of liaison consonants in four African surveys (Ouagadougou, Bamako,
Abidjan and Bangui) compared to the European varieties in the PFC corpus
(Durand & Lyche 2008) revealed some tendencies in liaison behavior in Africa
(Bordal & Lyche 2008): The contexts of categorical liaisons were generally the
same as in the other surveys in the PFC database, but the contexts of variable liai-
sons were fewer and the realization rates lower, particularly in the text. Further-
more, the percentage of liaison with the consonant /z/ was higher in the African
varieties than in the rest of the database. Table 7 gives an overview of realizations
of liaisons in the Bangui corpus according to the main contexts of the liaison
consonants.
This table allows some observations on liaison behavior in CAF and confirms
what is indicated above. Firstly, liaison is rare after polysyllabic words; only 31
examples were found in the whole corpus. Secondly, the consonant /z/ is the most
frequent liaison consonant; 58% of all liaison consonants are /z/ compared to 46%
in the European PFC surveys (Durand & Lyche 2008). This finding suggests that
Table 7.  General data on liaison
Realized liaisons Percentage
Total amount:	 1,761 846 48.0%
Liaison word Monosyllabic 815 60.6%
Polysyllabic   31   7.4%
Liaison consonants /z/ 490 58.0%
/t/ 222 26.2%
/n/ 134 15.8%
Register Text 178 46.8%
Conversations 668 48.4%
38	 Guri Bordal
the morphological character of liaison as a plural marker is more important in
CAF (and in African varieties in general) than in the other surveys. Thirdly, there
is no significant difference between the realization rates in the text and the con-
versations, in contrast to Paris, for instance, where there are important variations
according to register (Lyche & Østby 2009). The majority of the Parisian speakers
(75%) produce a liaison in circuits_habituels whereas none of the Bangui speak-
ers realize the liaison consonant in this context (Bordal & Lyche 2008). This may
indicate that liaison is regular and not affected by register even in contexts where
it has the function of a plural marker. In the following the liaison consonants at-
tested in monosyllabic and polysyllabic words will be described for the purpose
of establishing contexts of categorical and variable liaisons.
6.1	 Monosyllabic words
In three contexts, liaison is realized almost without exception:
–	 Determiner + noun (les_enfants)
–	 Clitics + verb (nous_allons)
–	 Prepositions dans and en + noun (dans_une concession) (en Afrique,
en_Europe).
Liaisons are not categorical after prepositions other than dans and en. There are
two examples of the monosyllabic preposition chez in the corpus, but the liaison
is not realized (chez#une dame).
Variable liaisons are attested in two other contexts: after two forms of the verb
être (est and sont) and after the adverb très. Only 50% of the potential liaisons after
est are realized in the text and 11% in the conversations. As for très, 50% are real-
ized in the text. In the conversations, there are three occurrences of the adverb in
liaison context and the liaison is realized in two examples and absent in one.
6.2	 Polysyllabic words
As seen above, few liaisons are attested after polysyllabic words. However, one
context of categorical and two of variable liaisons do occur.
Liaisons are variable between polysyllabic determiners and nouns. Two ex-
amples of the words certain and aucun are found in the corpus and the liaison
is realized in both cases: certains_hommes and aucun_effort. Since there are so
few examples, it is difficult to determine whether these are contexts of categori-
cal liaisons. A comparison with quelques, however, indicates that this is not a
context where liaison is obligatory; both in the text and in the conversations, the
	 A phonological study of French spoken by multilingual speakers from Bangui	 39
liaison is variable after quelques; for example, 50% of the speakers make a liaison
in quelques_articles in the text.
In the conversations, some inter-speaker variations are revealed. One of the
speakers, rcayn1, is responsible for four liaisons between a plural noun and a post-
nominal adjective: pays_africains, produits_agricoles (the latter is repeated three
times). Another speaker, rcamp1, realizes the liaison after a prenominal adjective:
différentes_écoles. These are the only examples of liaisons with polysyllabic adjec-
tives, so generally speaking this should not be considered as a context of variable
liaisons.
A particularly interesting phenomenon is that of liaisons in the context aux-
iliary + the verb aller. As seen above, few liaisons are made after est. However,
before the verb aller, the liaison is systematically realized after est by all the speak-
ers except one (rcamp1). Liaisons are also realized between other forms of the
auxiliary être and the verb aller as in: je suis_allée, ils sont_allés, j’étais_allée. This
is a context where liaisons are rare in other varieties, especially after polysyllabic
auxiliaries (such as étais). In fact, the liaison in the expression j’étais_allé presents
38.7% (12/31) of all the liaisons in polysyllabic words in the entire Bangui corpus.
Since there are no other examples of liaisons between auxiliary and verb, it seems
as if these particular examples are lexicalized; with the exception of the third per-
son singular est, the other forms of être are almost never followed by liaisons in
contexts other than before the verb aller.
6.3	 Categorical and variable liaisons
Liaison is categorical in the contexts determiner + noun and clitic + verb, after
the monosyllabic prepositions dans and en and between the auxiliary être and
the verb aller. Variable liaisons occur after the monosyllabic words est and très as
well as after polysyllabic function words. These observations confirm what was
initially indicated: the behavior of liaison consonants in CAF appears to be quite
regular and there are few contexts of variable liaisons.
7.	 Schwa, liaison and prosodic units
The smallest prosodic unit in FR, the Accentual Phrase (AP), can consist of one or
more content words and dependent function words, and is the domain of primary
stress, sandhi rules and resyllabification (cf. Jun & Fougeron 2002). For instance,
in the sentence cette famille a trois beaux enfants, the phrase trois beaux enfants,
consisting of three content words, forms only one AP (Nespor & Vogel 1986). In
40	 Guri Bordal
CAF, there is evidence that the smallest prosodic unit is smaller than in FR, and
is restricted to a single content word and one or more function words. Different
factors seem to substantiate this claim.
Firstly, phonological rules in CAF apply almost exclusively between function
words and content words and, with a few exceptions, never between two content
words. This can be illustrated by examples from the behavior of schwa and liaison
(see Sections 5 and 6). In FR, the realization rates of schwas depend on the left
(or right context) within the domain of the accentual unit, independent of the
borders of content words. For instance, final schwas are not realized when they
are followed by a word beginning with a vowel. In contrast, in CAF, the behavior
of the schwa is not influenced by adjacent words; for instance, the realization
rates of word-final schwas are almost the same before consonants and vowels (cf.
Section 5.3), which may indicate that resyllabification does not take place across
lexical words. As for liaisons, these are almost exclusively found between func-
tion words and content words, with a few exceptions of lexicalized expressions.
Liaisons between content words are rare, including in contexts where they are
extremely common in FR, such as between monosyllabic adverbs and adjectives
(très#accueillante).
Secondly, the results of perception tests and automatic detection of promi-
nences with the aim of determining prosodic units and accentual patterns in CAF
also support this hypothesis (Bordal 2009a, 2010). In the perception test, ten min-
utes of conversation per speaker were presented to three “naïve” subjects who had
no linguistic training. One of the subjects does not speak French but Norwegian,
a pitch accent language, the second is a native speaker of French from Northern
France, and the third is Central African. They were asked to point out the syllables
they perceived as prominent. The same data were then analyzed by ANALOR
(Avanzi, Lacheret-Dujour & Victorri 2008), a computer program developed for
automatic detection of syllabic prominence based on acoustic cues such as varia-
tions in F0, glissandos, length and pauses. The results of the perception test and
the automatic detection were compared and the syllables perceived as prominent
by at least one human annotator and ANALOR or at least two human annotators
were classified as prominent. The tests gave interesting results. Prominences oc-
curred on almost every content word and also some clitics. For instance, in the
sentence J’ai commencé à aller loin, the final syllables of commencé aller and loin
were perceived as equally prominent. Likewise, in il faut que Doyen dise un mot
sur lui, prominences were attested on the syllables il, faut, Doyen, dise, un, mot.
This indicates that all content words as well as some function words constitute in-
dependent prosodic units in contrast with FR. Furthermore, the acoustic cues of
	 A phonological study of French spoken by multilingual speakers from Bangui	 41
prominences were generally high or rising pitch whereas the non-prominent syl-
lables were pronounced with low pitch. Thus, tonal patterns seem to be constant;
function words are generally realized with low tone, except some heavy syllables
such as un and il which have high tone, monosyllabic content words with high
tone, and polysyllabic content words with low tones on all the first syllable(s) and
low tones on the second. Rhythmic constraints or the position of words within
an utterance do not influence tonal realizations. The regularities in tonal patterns
suggest that CAF has lexical tones and that the tonal specification of each syllable
of Sango is transferred to French (Bordal 2010).
Thus, both segmental rules and prosodic observations indicate that the min-
imal prosodic unit in CAF may only include one content word in addition to
function words.
8.	 Conclusion
In this study, the main characteristics of the phonology of CAF have been de-
scribed. Compared to FR, CAF represents particularities in each of the inves-
tigated aspects. Firstly, there is evidence that the only context of an underlying
schwa in CAF is in internal syllables of polysyllabic words. In initial syllables of
polysyllabic words and monosyllables, only full vowels are allowed and the vocal-
ic elements observed at the end of polysyllabic words are most likely epenthetic.
Secondly, the essential characteristic of the behavior of liaison is regularity; com-
pared to FR, there are few contexts of variable liaisons.
As regards the phonemic inventories, the comparison between CAF and the
speakers’ L1, Sango, allows the following observations: Some of the attested phe-
nomena, such as vowel harmony, palatalization and phonemic opposition between
/e/ and /ɛ/ are also found in Sango. Other phenomena, such as the instability of
/R/ and /ø/, do not directly correspond to phenomena in Sango but to parts of
the system where FR and Sango contrast. This is also the case for the phonotactic
constraints; complex syllable structures are avoided, which can be seen in rela-
tion to the syllable structures of Sango. Finally, the prosodic structure seems to be
influenced by Sango; content words form independent prosodic units and have
fixed tonal patterns. The overall picture of these data therefore provides strong
evidence in favor of the claim that the phonology of French spoken in Bangui is
to a great extent a product of the speakers’ multilingualism.
42	 Guri Bordal
References
Avanzi, Mathieu, Anne Lacheret-Dujour, and Bernard Victorri. 2008. ANALOR: A tool for
semi-automatic annotation of French prosodic structure. Paper presented at the 4th Con-
ference on Speech Prosody, May 9–6, Campinas, Brazil.
Bordal, Guri. 2010. Prosodic phrasing and language contact: A study of primary stress in cen-
tral African French. Paper presented at the 6th International Contrastive Linguistics Con-
ference (ICLC6), September 30 – October 2, Freie Universität, Berlin.
Bordal, Guri. 2009a. La variation prosodique en contexte multilingue: le cas du Centrafrique.
Paper presented at Phonologie du français contemporain: 10 ans de PFC. Bilan et perspecti-
ves, December 10–12, FMSH, Paris.
Bordal, Guri. 2009b. Phonologie, variation et contact de langues: quelques aspects de la pro-
nonciation du français parlé à Bangui en République centrafricaine. Le français en Afrique
25: 375–388.
Bordal, Guri, and Gudrun Ledegen. 2009. La prononciation du français à l’île de la Réunion:
évolution des variations et de la norme. In Phonologie, variation et accents du français, eds.
Jacques Durand, Bernard Laks and Chantal Lyche, 175–200. Paris: Hermès Lavoisier.
Bordal, Guri, and Chantal Lyche. 2008. La liaison en terre africaine. Paper presented at Phono-
logie du français contemporain: variation, interfaces, cognition, December 11–13, FMSH,
Paris.
Boutin, Béatice A., and Gabor Turcsan. 2009. La prononciation du français en Afrique: la Côté
d’Ivoire. In Phonologie, variation et accents du français, eds. Jacques Durand, Bernard Laks
and Chantal Lyche, 131–152. Paris: Hermès Lavoisier.
Boyd, Raymond. 1989. Adamawa-Ubangi. In The Niger Congo languages, ed. John Bendor-
Samuel, 178–215. Lanham: University Press of America.
Boyeldieu, Pascal, and Marcel Diki-Kidiri. 1982. Domaine ngbandi. Paris: SELAF.
Côté, Marie-Hélène. 2005. Le statut lexical des consonnes de liaison. Languages 39 (158):
66–78.
Côté, Marie-Hélène. 2007. Le rôle des représentations sous-jacentes et des contraintes de sur-
face dans la distribution de différentes catégories de schwa en français. Paper presented at
Schwa(s). 5e Journées d’études linguistiques de Nantes, June 27–28, Université de Nantes.
Déchamps-Wenezoui, Martine. 1981. Le français, le sango et les autres langues centrafricaines:
enquête sociolinguistique au quartier Boy-Rabe (Bangui,Centrafrique). Paris: SELAF.
Diki-Kidiri, Marcel. 1977. Le sango s’écrit aussi: esquisse linguistique du sango, langue natio-
nale de l’Empire centrafricain. Paris: Société d’études linguistiques et anthropologiques de
France.
Diki-Kidiri, Marcel. 1981. L’expension du sango en centrafrique. In L’expansion des langues
africaines: Peul, sango, kikongo, ciluba, swahili, ed. Jean-Pierre Caprielle, 29–42. LACITO-
Documents, Afrique 8. Paris: SELAF.
Durand, Jacques. 2009. Essai de panorama phonologique: les accents du midi. In Le français
d’un continent à l’autre. Mélanges offerts à Yves-Charles Morin, eds. Luc Baronian and
France Martineau, 123–170. Québec: Presses de l’Université Laval.
Durand, Jacques, and Chantal Lyche. 2008. French liaison in the light of corpus data. Journal of
French Language Studies 18: 33–66.
Gadet, Françoise, and Mari C. Jones. 2008. Variation, contact and convergence in French spo-
ken outside France. Journal of Language Contact THEMA 2: 238–248.
	 A phonological study of French spoken by multilingual speakers from Bangui	 43
Harris, John. 2009. Why final obstruent devoicing is weakening. In Strength relations in pho-
nology, eds. Kuniya Nasukawa and Phillip Backley, 9–46. Berlin, New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Jun, Sun-Ah, and Cécile Fougeron. 2002. Realizations of accentual phrase in French intonation.
Probus 14: 147–172.
Ledegen, Gudrun. 2007. Morpho-syntaxe du français ‘ordinaire’ de la Réunion: résonance in-
tra- et interlinguistique et éclairage phonétique. Le français en Afrique 22: 319–329.
Lyche, Chantal, and Kathrine Asla Østby. 2009. Le français de la haute bourgeoisie parisienne:
une variété conservatrice? In Phonologie, variation et accents du français, eds. Jacques Du-
rand, Bernard Laks and Chantal Lyche, 203–230. Paris: Hermès Lavoisier.
Nespor, Marina, and Irene Vogel. 1986. Prosodic phonology. Dordrecht/Riverton: Foris
Publications.
Nguyen, Noël, and Zsuzsanna Fagyal. 2008. Acoustic aspects of vowel harmony in French. Jour-
nal of Phonetics 36: 1–27.
Morin, Yves-Charles. 2000. Le français de référence et les normes de prononciation. Le Cahier
de l’Institut de linguistique de Louvain 26 (1): 91–135.
Pasch, Helma. 1993. Phonological similarities between Sango and its base language: Is Sango
a pidgin/creole or a koiné? In Topics in African linguistics, eds. Salikoko S. Mufwene and
Lioba J. Moshi, 279–292. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Poiré, François. 2009. Le français canadien en milieu minoritaire: le cas du Sud-Ouest ontarien.
In Phonologie, variation et accents du français, eds. Jacques Durand, Bernard Laks and
Chantal Lyche, 153–171. Paris: Hermès Lavoisier.
Pustka, Elissa. 2009. PFC et la phonologie du français en Vendée. In Phonologie, variation et
accents du français, eds. Jacques Durand, Bernard Laks and Chantal Lyche, 307–335. Paris:
Hermès Lavoisier.
Queffélec, Ambroise, Martine Déchamps-Wenezoui, and Jean Daloba. 1997. Le Français en
Centrafrique: lexique et société. Vanves: EDICEF.
Samarin, William. 2000. The status of Sango in facts and fiction. In Language change and lan-
guage contact in Pidgins and Creoles, ed. John H. McWhorter, 301–334. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Thornell, Christina. 1997. The Sango language and its Lexicon (Sêndâ-yângâ tî sängö). Lund:
Lund University Press.
Walker, James A., and William Samarin. 1997. Sango phonology. In Phonologies of Africa and
Asia, ed. Alan S. Kayes, 861–868. Winona Lake: Eisenbrauns.
chapter 3
French in Senegal after three centuries
A phonological study of Wolof speakers’ French*
Béatrice Akissi Boutin, Randall Gess and Gabriel Marie Guèye
Université Toulouse 2 and Université Cocody Abidjan /
Carleton University / Université Cheikh Anta Diop de Dakar
1.	 Introduction
French has been spoken in Senegal for three centuries. Little by little in the 17th
century, it started to replace Dutch, English, and Portuguese, and it began to be
heard in the trading posts of Saint-Louis, Gorée Island and the Cap-Vert peninsu-
la. Several centuries earlier, Moorish or Hassaniyya was the first foreign language
in contact with the local languages, all belonging to the Niger-Congo family and
to the Senegalo-Guinean (or Western Atlantic) branch.
In 1902, Dakar became the seat of the General Government of French West
Africa, which was created in 1895. It then became a major seaport important for
war and commerce, colonial administration, and for the colony’s principle edu-
cational and professional establishments. Dakar has thus brought together, from
the beginning of the 20th century, personnel from the French colonial adminis-
tration, sometimes with their families, a highly diverse collection of traders and
colonial operators (French, Lebanese, Syrians, etc.), and the young elite of all the
future countries resulting from French colonization.
During the colonial era, French was the only official language, the local
languages being highly devalued, and forbidden within the walls of scholarly
*	 We are grateful to Chantal Lyche, Guri Bordal and Trudel Meisenburg for reviewing previ-
ous versions and providing their suggestions, as well as to Philippe Boula de Mareüil for con-
tributing phonetic calculations for comparison from this and other survey points. As always,
the authors assume full responsibility for any errors.
.	 France founded the Saint-Louis trading post in 1638 and occupied Gorée Island in 1677. It
took possession of Dakar (the Cap-Vert peninsula) in 1857.
46	 Béatrice Akissi Boutin, Randall Gess and Gabriel Marie Guèye
establishments. Following independence in 1960, the personality of Léopold
Sédar Senghor, the first President and also a renowned poet, essayist, and acade-
mician, greatly influenced the new Republic of Senegal’s relationship with French.
Senegal has thus participated in the history of French for three centuries, and
has witnessed various features in the language that are no longer present, such as
vowel length and other vowel contrasts. It continues to occupy an important place
in the francophone community with its participation in international activity (lit-
erary, cultural, (socio‑)economic and commercial, etc.) in French.
These elements of the history of French in Senegal help to explain all at once
features shared with other francophone countries of Africa, and attachment to
the norm, but also the variation of individual speakers sharing the same native
language and language of everyday use (see Sections 3 to 6).
The PFC project allows for an examination of spoken French by way of a pro-
tocol involving the reading of a word list and a written text, as well as formal and
informal interviews. Two types of competencies are therefore required: reading
and speaking in French. In Senegal, there are no speakers of French who do not
read it. Because the use of French is restricted to institutional settings (see Sec-
tion 2), French is rarely learned outside of school and one’s level of education gen-
erally correlates with degree of approximation toward French linguistic norms.
It would be premature, without having first studied the French spoken by
the Wolofs, the Seereers, the Joolas, the Pulaars, and the speakers of minority
languages, to claim to account for French in Senegal. It would also be hasty to
approach the French in Senegal on the basis of a dozen speakers representing
a sampling of Senegal’s ethnicities. Moreover, it is impossible in the important
capital city of Dakar to find French speakers not “contaminated” by Wolof. There-
fore, the first PFC survey in Senegal focuses on wolophone speakers in Dakar. A
description of the linguistic situation of Senegal will allow us to justify our choice
of the Wolofs.
2.	 The situation of French and Wolof in Senegal
We will touch here on three principle aspects of the linguistic situation in Senegal:
the coexistence of French and the local languages, the functions of Wolof and
French, and the lack of any explicit local French norm.
French, like the local languages, has diverse statuses and functions. French
is the official language of Senegal. It is therefore, by law, the language of formal
education (the object and the medium of education), of the administration, and
of the (especially written) media. This status makes it the language of social pro-
motion even though only about 25% of the Senegalese population have any real
	 French in Senegal after three centuries	 47
competence in the language. The indigenous languages (the great majority from
the Atlantic branch) are called national when they have been codified. By decree
number 71-566 from May 21, 1971, six languages enjoyed this status between 1971
and 1995: Wolof, Pulaar, Seereer, Mandinka, Joola and Soninke. Hassaniyya was
added to the list in 1995. Under the new Constitution of January, 2001, which cre-
ated the possibility for all languages in use in the country to become national lan-
guages, 12 other languages were eventually codified: Balanta-Ganja, Mankanya,
Noon, Mandjak, Bedik, Oniyan, Saafi-Saafi, Gunyuño, Laalaa, Badyara, Jalunga,
and Ndút, which brings the number of national languages to 19.
Among these languages, Wolof, which is a national language like the others,
enjoys special situation. Historically, the Wolofs were situated in the regions of
Djolof, Cayor, Baol, Waalo, Fouta, and Saloum, and did not constitute an ethnic
majority in Senegal. Nevertheless, today Wolof speakers are very numerous in
Dakar and in all the other cities and towns. Senegalese who use Wolof as their first
language represent almost half (45%) of the population of 12 million inhabitants
and a large majority of Senegalese (80%) speak or understand it. A number of
Senegalese who call themselves Wolof are actually not so by origin, but feel Wolof
by language and culture.
Wolofization began before colonization, in a peaceful way, and afterwards
spread to all ethnicities. Colonization probably favored, by reaction to assimila-
tion, the expansion of the muslim religion and related Wolofization. Today, Wolof
is tending more and more to reinforce its role as a vehicular language, notably
with the development of private media (radio and television). The rapid increase
in non-governmental radio constitutes a dynamic and efficient oral basis for the
exceptional diffusion of Wolof first in urban areas and then nationwide. But the
written language, including notes written by journalists and news presenters, is
edited in French. Even if French is in practice the only medium of writing, Wolof
has today positioned itself well before French on the linguistic landscape. For
oral communication, it cannot be ignored in urban settings, while French is not
indispensable.
If French finds itself today confined primarily to written use, to roles reserved
for administrative language, even these formal roles are threatened since the oral
practices that they claim to represent do not really exist other than in the form
of French/Wolof code alternation (Ndao 1986, 2002) or as the “francénégalais”
of intellectuals (Cissé 2005). Senegalese francophones who have French as a first
.	 The last report of High Council on Francophonie provided numbers of francophones
in Senegal from 1990: 10% real francophones, and 14% occasional francophones. We invite
the reader to consult the very complete analysis of the linguistic situation in Senegal in Cissé
(2005).
48	 Béatrice Akissi Boutin, Randall Gess and Gabriel Marie Guèye
language are rare, and French is spoken little in family settings. To summarize, us-
ing the notions of Chaudenson, without however proceeding to measures related
to the associated model (Chaudenson 2000), French has an elevated status and a
restrained corpus, while Wolof has an elevated corpus and a restrained status, and
the other languages have a slightly elevated corpus and a highly restrained status.
Yet the attitude of the Senegalese speaker with respect to the French language
presents some ambiguities. He does not defend an endogenous i.e., Senegalese
norm – his model of the language is French from metropolitan France, with refer-
ences like Léopold Sédar Senghor or Abdou Diouf. At the same time, he claims a
variety reflective of his own identity, as well as the right to reject certain hexagonal
features, be they segments like [ʁ], phonological contractions like [ʃepa] (je sais
pas), or lexical items like vachement. Indeed, while the perception of differences
rests on just a few linguistic facts, it is at the same time highly ideologized, as
Ndao (2000) shows. The language’s mode of diffusion, as well as its functions re-
lated to institutions and to esthetic values, creates a conservative representation
of the language, dependent on purism and schooling. N’Diaye-Corréard (2006)
demonstrates, however, the existence of local lexical creativity.
Linguistic insecurity is an intense problem in Senegal, and it is generally tied
to a homogenous representation of the language and the desire to master the vari-
ety of reference, with mastery perceived as unmet. The feeling of cultural identity
in Senegal cannot weaken the feeling of linguistic insecurity tied to French, be-
cause belonging to Senegalese culture is symbolized by Wolof and not by French.
3.	 The first PFC survey in Senegal: PFC-SNA
The PFC-SNA survey took place at the Université Cheikh Anta Diop (UCAD) at
the beginning of November 2008. The investigators were three in number, two
instructors in the phonetics laboratory (Gabriel Marie Guèye and Mame Thierno
Cissé) and one from outside the university (Béatrice Akissi Boutin). Subjects
were recruited from acquaintances and from the family of one of the investiga-
tors. The scientific goal of the survey was known to the subjects, who came out
of friendship, with their participation considered as a part of their social life. 18
.	 The abbreviation follows the convention called for in Delais-Roussarie, Durand, Lyche,
Meqqori & Tarrier (2002), where SN stands for Senegal, and A for the first survey in that
country.
.	 The survey and its management were carried out thanks to assistance from the University of
Oslo (Département de littérature, études régionales et langues européennes), and CLLE – UMR
5263, Université Toulouse 2.
	 French in Senegal after three centuries	 49
subjects were interviewed, recruited according to the criteria of age, sex, level
of education, and profession. Age groups were chosen with the help of sociolin-
guistic data from Senegal: 18 to 35 is the first age group, for whom the phonemic
system can be considered at the same time consolidated and yet susceptible to
further creativity; those in the 51 and over group are at the end of their profes-
sional careers and learned French just after independence; the 35 to 50 group
represents an intermediate category.
Levels of education were first established on the basis of diplomas marking
stages along the school curriculum: the CFEE (six years of school), the BFEM
(four years of secondary education) and the baccalaureate degree. Nevertheless,
no potential subjects at the CFEE level could carry on a conversation in French,
which required us to limit our analysis to those subjects with at least the BFEM.
Furthermore, given the intrinsic correlation between level of education and use of
French, it seemed appropriate to us to make a distinction between those speakers
in the first two years of university and those with three or more years of univer-
sity. In effect, right after the baccalaureate, students are studying in a language
that is still foreign to them and have little inclination to use French outside of
university.
.	 We are grateful to the 12 speakers who were willing, out of friendship, to be recorded and
who have thus enabled us to more precisely describe the French spoken by the wolophones of
Dakar.
Table 1.  Distribution of subjects from the first PFC survey in Senegal5
Category/Descriptor #
Sex
	 Men 6
	 Women 6
Age
	 21 to 35 4
	 36 to 50 4
	 51 and older 4
Education
	 BFEM 3
	 Bac to Bac + 2 4
	 Bac + 3 and more 5
Professional status
	 Student 2
	 Worker (security guard, administrator, temporary secretary, social worker) 4
	 Mid-level professional (reporter, manager, midwife, attendance officer) 4
	 High-level professional (insurance agent, professor of philosophy) 2
50	 Béatrice Akissi Boutin, Randall Gess and Gabriel Marie Guèye
The final number of speakers retained for the study was 12, which represents
four hours of formal interviews, conducted by the least familiar interviewer, and
three hours of free interviews, more informal and conducted by the most familiar
interviewer. All of the read texts and five minutes from each interview were tran-
scribed in standard orthographic transcription and coded for analysis.
4.	 French phonological inventory of wolophone speakers
Existing practical work on wolophone French phonology, such as the professional
experience of teachers of orthoepy, reveals a certain influence of Wolof on French.
The questions that we raise here relate to the reality of transfer of constraints from
the Wolof system to French, and to the integration of specific French phonemes
into the phonological competence of speakers. We use the term ‘native language’
for Wolof, because it is a fact, but we do not wish, by implied contrast, to idealize
the notion of ‘native francophone speaker’ in the sense of ‘proper use’. In a num-
ber of linguistic communities in which French is the first language, it has char-
acteristics that distinguish it from FR (français de référence – see Chapter 1), and
the vernacularization of French in African countries does not necessarily entail a
closer approximization to FR (see e.g., Boutin & Turcsan 2009).
4.1	 French vocalic system of wolophone speakers
The French vocalic system of speakers of Wolof presents few differences from that
of FR. With respect to realization, one notes a difference in quality for certain oral
and nasal vowels. With respect to constraints, one notes, for the mid vowels, the
dominance of ATR vowel harmony over the LdP (loi de position – see Chapter 1).
In fact Wolof vowel harmony (see Ka 1994), has an important influence on the
French phonological system of wolophones.
4.1.1	 The high vowels [i, y, u] and the feature ATR
The vowel system of Wolof, the native language of our subjects, possesses the
feature ATR (Advanced Tongue Root). The vowels in this language fall into two
harmony classes: +ATR vowels [i, iː, e, eː, ɘ, u, uː, o, oː] realized with the root
of the tongue advanced and characterized as tense; and –ATR vowels [ɛ, ɛː, a, aː,
.	 This vowel is typically transcribed as [ə] in work focusing on Wolof. Our slightly differ-
ent transcription, as [ɘ], is still compatible with McLaughlin’s (2009) description of “a central
schwa-like vowel”. As this chapter is not about Wolof, we make no claims regarding the precise
phonetic properties of its “schwa-like vowel”. Our transcription here is chosen for consistency
	 French in Senegal after three centuries	 51
ɔ, ɔː] realized with the root of the tongue retracted and characterized as lax. One
remarks right away the absence in the latter class of the –ATR, lax vowels [ɪ, ɪː, ʊ,
ʊː] corresponding to the +ATR, tense vowels [i, iː, u, uː].
All of the Wolof vowels are present in the French vowel system and one pre-
dicts that, with the exception of [y] (not found in Wolof, as discussed separately
below), all of the French vowels will enter into the competence of Wolof speakers.
The question of vowel tension arises as well, since the vowels [i, y, u] of FR can
be realized as lax [ɪ, ʏ, ʊ] in closed syllables in certain varieties of French such as
those in North America (see, among others, the contributions from that continent
in this volume). We therefore examined the realizations of the French vowels pro-
duced by wolophone speakers to verify this prediction. We looked at the vowels
[i, y, u] in open and closed syllables, as well as in stressed and unstressed ones,
in order to determine the realization of the tenseness feature. In all contexts,
the vowels [i, y, u] were realized without exception as tense, conforming to FR
(examples with [y]: open stressed syllable, prévue [pre.vy]; open unstressed syl-
lable, usine [y.zin]; closed stressed syllable, commune [kɔ.myn]; closed unstressed
syllable, multiplier [myl.ti.pli.je].
We specifically checked the realization of [i, y, u] in words with surrounding
–ATR vowels, where they are realized as tense and are not influenced by their
neighbors. It is exceptional to hear the lax (–ATR) vowels [ɪ, ʏ, ʊ] that are observed
in North American varieties (examples: extraordinaire [ɛkstraɔrdinɛr]; manifesta-
tions [manifɛstasjɔ̃]; préfecture [prefɛktyr]; gouvernement [ɡuvɛrnɘmɑ̃]).
One might assume that since the vowel [y] does not exist in the vowel system
of Wolof, it would be perceived and realized by Wolof speakers as [i] or [u], the
only high vowels in the source vowel system. Borrowings from Wolof into French
support this hypothesis – in borrowings containing the vowel [y], it is integrated
most often as [i], but there are words in which it is integrated as [u] and, in these
cases, in a stable fashion. It is not possible at this time to establish with certainty
what factors determine the preference for one vowel over the other, but assimila-
tion with a nearby vowel undoubtedly plays a role in some cases, as the second
and third examples in Table 2 show.
As we saw earlier, all instances of [y] were realized in our corpus, but the ar-
ticulatory habits of speakers slightly affect the quality of this phoneme. In effect,
vowels carrying the [–back] feature in Wolof also carry the feature [–round], and
those carrying the [+back] feature also carry the feature [+round]. This results in
the less rounded realization of [y] that we observe, since [+round] is not associated
only, to match the wolophone French vowel, described in detail below, which is based on acous-
tic analysis (albeit preliminary in nature) showing an F1 lower than is typical for IPA [ə].
52	 Béatrice Akissi Boutin, Randall Gess and Gabriel Marie Guèye
with the feature [–back] in the native language of our speakers. This phenomenon
is more pronounced when [y] and [i] are in adjacent syllables.
Since the proximity of the two vowels in a sequence [y]–[i] or [i]–[y] can give
rise to particular realizations, we focused our attention on the following words
from the text: usine [yzin] and circuler [siʁkyle]. Speakers did realize a vowel [y]
in these contexts. Only one speaker pronounced the word circuler as [syrkyle], a
phenomenon similar to the pronunciation [myltyplije] for [myltiplije] observed
elsewhere. Both cases result from assimilation, albeit of opposite directionality.
We do not reject the possibility that this phenomenon stems also from the partic-
ipant’s preoccupation with the foreign vowel [y], to the point that it is realized ear-
lier than planned. This situation is also reflected in written language, where one
sees spelling errors of the type *<unitile> for inutile and *<fugure> for figure.
4.1.2	 Mid vowels
The mid vowels will be examined in light of distributional constraints operating
in FR, so as to highlight the unique characteristics of the French of wolophone
speakers (henceforth FW).
Concerning the vowels [e, ɛ], it is without doubt in closed syllables that the
difference from FR is most visible. Speakers of FR obey a distributional constraint
according to which the vowel [ɛ] and not [e] is realized in a closed syllable. Thus,
liège is pronounced [ljɛʒ], miette is pronounced [mjɛt] and extraordinaire is pro-
nounced [ɛkstraɔrdinɛr]. In fact these three words were always pronounced by
our speakers in accordance with the FR constraint. Nevertheless, we also found
the realization of the mid-high vowel [e] in closed syllables in the following
words: quatrième [katrijem] (12/12, 100% in the read text); quatrième [katrijem]
(9/12, 75% in the word list); cinquième [sɛ̃ŋkjem] (9/12, 75% in the word list);
treize [trez] (6/12, 50% in the word list); seize realized as [sez] (6/12, 50% in the
word list).
.	 Other words like même, thèse, chaise, not all of which appear in our corpus, can be realized
with a mid-high [e], i.e., [mem], [tez], [ʃez].
Table 2.  Integration of [y] in Wolof
Borrowed French word Integration in Wolof as [i] Integration in Wolof as [u]
pur [pyʁ] [piːr]
minute [minyt] [minit]
usine [yzin] [isin]
sucre [sykʁ] [suːkɘr]
ceinture [sɛ̃tyʁ] [sɛntuːr]
	 French in Senegal after three centuries	 53
At this time we cannot provide an explanation for the pronunciation prefer-
ences, and the choices therefore seem rather arbitrary. It is difficult to attribute
the cause to an influence of the written form, since in the ordinal numbers the
pronunciation contradicts the spelling with <è>. Furthermore, while vowel har-
mony could possibly explain the raising of the vowel in the ordinal numbers,
this explanation would not hold for the cardinal numbers. It is possible that the
first linguistic models, a very mixed assortment because of the varied origins of
the colony’s francophones, did not allow the first learners to perceive uniform
boundaries for the mid vowels, nor to pinpoint a stable target for the realization
of [ɛ] in closed syllables. In all cases, the realizations show that in a closed syllable,
unlike in FR, one can find either the lower, more open vowel [ɛ] or the higher,
more closed vowel [e]. The competence of the wolophone speaker obviously al-
lows for either of the mid vowels in a closed syllable, which is not the case in most
current varieties of hexagonal French. This is almost certainly due to the opposi-
tion of the two vowels in closed syllables in Wolof.
In open syllables, one finds the mid-high vowel [e] as well as the mid-low
vowel [ɛ], but the behavior of these vowels in FW is particularly interesting inas-
much there is vowel harmony with respect to the feature +/–ATR within words.
Basically, in a word with a +ATR vowel, the mid vowel will be realized as [e] and
in a word with a –ATR vowel, the mid vowel will be realized as [ɛ]. This is shown,
for stressed and unstressed open syllables, in Table 3.
The examples in Table 3 show that the process of harmony can be either left-
to-right or right-to-left. This is an interesting fact given that ATR vowel harmony
in Wolof proceeds only in a left-to-right direction.
Examples with competing triggers on either side of a mid front unrounded
vowel do not suggest a default directionality. Examples from our corpus include
libération [libɛrasjɔ̃], with apparent right-to-left harmony alongside j’apprécie
[ʒaprɛsi], with apparent left-to-right harmony, and highly similar l’apprécier
[lapresje] with the opposite outcome. This is an intriguing situation, and the un-
expected right-to-left directionality (not attributable to L1) may suggest at least
the possibility of an interaction between French final accentuation and direction-
ality of harmony (as discussed later, any accentuation that there is in Wolof is
initial). Other factors may also intervene, including word length and even speaker
attitudes toward the norm, which does not have ATR harmony. This is a question
.	 Recent research on southern French tends to show that the LdP might be, in this variety,
a 20th century response to contact with the pronunciation of FR, and that some instances of
[e] in closed syllables existed in varieties of Occitan (personal communication with Jacques
Durand).
54	 Béatrice Akissi Boutin, Randall Gess and Gabriel Marie Guèye
that is certainly worthy of future scrutiny, but one which we are not able to ad-
dress here.
In words containing more than one mid vowel, one observes variations in
pronunciation, although vowel harmony is always maintained. Thus, épée and
épais are both pronounced as either [epe] or [ɛpɛ]. An opposition between these
two words can be made or not, but the quality of the first and second vowels will
match. When an opposition is maintained we have [epe] versus [ɛpɛ] and when
it is not maintained, we have either [epe] for both, or [ɛpɛ] for both. The words
côté and fêter illustrate this phenomenon well. The realization of the <ô> of côté
as [o] or [ɔ], goes hand in hand with the pronunciation of the final vowel as [e] or
[ɛ], respectively, and likewise the realization of the <ê> of fêter as [e] or [ɛ], and
the pronunciation of the final vowel, will match each other (examples: côté [kote]
(7/12) vs. [kɔtɛ] (5/12); fêter [fete] (4/12) vs. [fɛtɛ] (8/12).
If we compare these results with the pronunciation of fêtard, realized by all
speakers as [fɛtar] (see Table 3), we can already establish that the rule of vowel
harmony takes priority over faithfulness to the root. It is true that it is difficult for
a wolophone, whose language does not have variable roots, to incorporate the FR
system of variable roots, which gives here either [fet‑] or [fɛt‑]. Nevertheless, we
can ascertain that a +ATR vowel in an adjacent syllable entails a pronunciation [e]
no matter what the spelling is and no matter what the syllabic configuration is.
The front rounded FR vowels [ø, œ], like [y], do not exist in the vowel system
of our speakers’ first language. For these two vowels, speakers who have not mas-
tered the FR targets tend to realize a single central mid to mid-high, unrounded
vowel which, because of the missing feature specification for rounding, is neither
Table 3.  ATR vowel harmony with mid front unrounded vowels
Written form Phonetic transcription
[e] in a +ATR environment
Stressed open syllable piquet [pike]
piquais [pike]
beauté [bote]
Unstressed open syllable découvrir [dekuvrir]
église [eɡliz]
[ɛ] in a –ATR environment
Stressed open syllable escarpée [ɛskarpɛ]
botté [bɔtɛ]
Unstressed open syllable étape [ɛtap]
protéger [prɔtɛʒɛ]
fêtard [fɛtar]
	 French in Senegal after three centuries	 55
[œ] nor [ø]. Given this situation, we have chosen to transcribe this vowel with
the IPA symbol for a mid-high, central unrounded vowel: [ɘ]. We wish to insist,
however, on the highly variable realization of this vowel, which can even be
perceived in some instances as [e] and, especially for speakers with more target-
like pronunciation, as the prescribed rounded mid front vowels of FR. This vow-
el, highly characteristic of FW speech, is opposed to the schwa, an underspecified
vowel, underlyingly void of features which has, however, surface realizations that
may fall in the same phonetic space as [ɘ]. Of course the distinguishing charac-
teristic of the schwa is that it can be left unrealized in certain contexts. Table 4
summarizes the distribution of [ø, œ] in FR versus specified [ɘ] in FW in stressed
and unstressed open syllables, and in stressed closed syllables.
As a result of FW having a single vowel for the FR [ø-œ] opposition, there is
no quality distinction between jeune and jeûne. A speaker may however effect a
differentiation by means of increased duration for the realization of the mid-high
vowel: jeune [ʒɘn] versus jeûne [ʒɘːn].
Assuming a straighforward transfer from Wolof, the FW vowel /ɘ/ will have
a positive value for the feature ATR, and this is supported by several harmony
forms. Among these are [peʃɘr] for both pécheur and pêcheur, and [profesɘr] for
professeur (for the normally expected quality of the first vowel of this last form,
see the following paragraphs).
Realization of the vowels [o, ɔ] is, to a large extent, sensitive to the written
form, contrary to the situation with [e, ɛ]. Etymology (by way of orthography)
seems therefore to take precedence over ATR harmony, which is not, however,
entirely neutralized. As in FR, FW allows for both vowels in open as well as closed
syllables.
.	 Our preliminary acoustic analysis reveals a lower F1 than for FR [ø] and [œ], suggesting a
higher vowel, a higher F2 indicative of the lack of rounding, and a relatively high F3, correlated
to the centralized articulation.
Table 4.  Generalizations on the distribution of specified [ɘ] in FW
Syllable type Orthography FR FW
Stressed open syllable creux [kʁø] [krɘ]
milieu [miljø] [miljɘ]
Unstressed open syllable des jeunets [deʒønɛ] [deʒɘne]
déjeuner [deʒœne] [deʒɘne]
Stressed closed syllable creuse [kʁøz] [krɘz]
feutre [føtʁ] [fɘtr]
jeûne [ʒøn] [ʒɘn]
jeune [ʒœn] [ʒɘn]
56	 Béatrice Akissi Boutin, Randall Gess and Gabriel Marie Guèye
In a stressed open syllable, as in agneau or un gros, all speakers realized the
vowel [o], so ATR harmony is without doubt responsible for radio being pro-
nounced [raɟɔ] in the interview corpus, conforming to current usage. In an un-
stressed open syllable speakers realized [ɔ] except for with the spellings <au>,
<eau>, <ô>. In these instances, they produce [o]. In a closed syllable, stressed or
unstressed, all speakers produce the vowel [ɔ], unless the spelling is <au>. Other
than for the spelling <ô>, for which, as we will see, there is no regular pronuncia-
tion in closed syllables, pronunciations are stable. These pronunciations are sum-
marized in Table 5.
The difference in quality of the higher vowel is sometimes accompanied by
a difference in length, giving [oː]. In open syllables, all speakers produce a clear
distinction between botté [bɔtɛ] and beauté [boːte]. In closed syllables, speakers
distinguish the minimal pairs roc [rɔk] / rauque [roːk] and pomme [pɔm] / paume
[poːm] with the length difference [ɔ]/[oː], pertinent also in their native language
(although not for marking accent, as seen in Section 6), as well as in most vari-
eties of FR. In Wolof, the long higher vowel is also much more frequent than the
corresponding short one.
The regularity in pronunciation observed for the spellings <au> and <eau>
does not hold for the spelling <ô>. It is true that originally the circumflex ac-
cent in French indicated nothing with respect to degree of aperture, but marked
a lengthening resulting from the loss of a following syllable-final consonant. The
following numbers are representative of the distribution of [o ɔ] for the spelling
Table 5.  The vowels [o ɔ]
Syllable type Orthography FR FW
Stressed open syllable agneau [aɲo] [aɲo]
un gros [ɡʁo] [ɡro]
Unstressed open syllable botté [bɔte] [bɔtɛ]
côté [kote] [kote]
beauté [bote] [boːte]
Stressed closed syllable roc [ʁɔk] [rɔk]
pomme [pɔm] [pɔm]
rauque [ʁoːk] [roːk]
paume [poːm] [poːm]
Unstressed closed syllable extraordinaire [ɛkstʁaɔʁdinɛʁ] [ɛkstraɔrdinɛr]
comme [kɔm] [kɔm]
notre* [nɔtʁ] [nɔtr]
Observateur [ɔbsɛʁvatœʁ] [ɔbsɛrvatɘr]
autre* [otʁ] [otr]
* This word is in unstressed position when followed by a complement.
	 French in Senegal after three centuries	 57
<ô>: côte [kot] (9/12) vs. [kɔt] (3/12); cote [kot] (7/12) vs. [kɔt] (5/12); gnôle [ɲɔl]
(10/12) vs. [ɲol] (2/12).
4.1.3	 The vowel [a]
The /a-ɑ/ opposition does not really exist in FW. In stressed and unstressed sylla-
bles, and in open and closed ones, speakers produce an [a] that is neither anterior
nor posterior, but rather central. Nine speakers out of 12 pronounced mal, malle
and mâle in the same way, as [mal]. The same holds for the pair patte/pâte. This
neutralization is therefore identical to the one we find today in FR, the distinction
holding only for certain older speakers, as in that variety. We noted two cases in
which a distinction was made by way of lengthening of the vowel [aː], with qual-
ity remaining constant, and one case in which a distinction was made using both
quality and duration [ɑː], this by the oldest subject.
4.1.4	 Nasal vowels
Despite the fact that nasal vowels do not exist in Wolof, speakers do make a dis-
tinction between the four nasal vowels of FR. We must note the difference in
pronunciation for the FR [œ̃] and [ɑ̃] realized respectively as [ɘ̃] and [ã] in FW,
by simple nasalization of the oral vowels [ɘ] and [a]. The opposition brun/brin,
reported to be in on the verge of disappearing in numerous “northern” hexagonal
dialects, is well maintained: brin [brɛ̃] ~ brun [brə̃].
4.1.5	 Glides [j ɥ w]
The three glides are well established in the phonemic inventory of our speakers
even though we should note on the one hand some allophonic phenomena, on the
other hand reduction versus dieresis (see 5.2).
The glide [ɥ] is realized in FW: huit is normally pronounced [ɥit], and juin is
pronounced [ʒɥɛ̃]. The peculiarity with [ɥ] in our corpus is that it substitutes for
[w] in Louis (Garret) [lɥi] (11/12) in the reading, and in Saint Louis [sɛ̃lɥi] (10/10)
in the interview. The explanation is certainly related to the fact that Wolof has
only two phonological glides, /w/ and /j/, with [ɥ] occurring as an allophone of
/w/ before front vowels. [ɥ] tends to remain an allophone of /w/ in FW.
Other instances of lexical confusion are probably due to adjacent vowels.
One speaker realizes miette and muette as [mjɛt], and another realizes muette and
mouette as [mwɛt].
These phenomena are related to those concerning the corresponding vowels
[i, y, u] (see 4.1.1).
58	 Béatrice Akissi Boutin, Randall Gess and Gabriel Marie Guèye
4.1.6	 Vowel inventory of FW
Table 6.  Oral vowels and glides
Oral Front Central Back
unrounded rounded
high i / j y / ɥ u / w
mid-high e ɘ o
mid-low ɛ ɔ
low a
Table 7.  Nasal vowels
Nasal Front Central Back
unrounded rounded
high
mid-high ɘ̃ o
mid-low ɛ̃ ɔ̃
low ã
To summarize, FW differs very little from FR with respect to its vowel inventory,
including for those phonemes specific to French. The particularities that there are
in the system stem from the distributional constraints operative in Wolof.
4.2	 Consonants
Discussion of the consonants of FW will benefit from a bipartite division between
stops on the one hand and continuants on the other. Stops have the peculiarity of
being realized as unreleased in final position. Moreover, their inventory includes
three more phonemes than that of FR.
4.2.1	 Stop consonants
We will first examine the behavior of stops common to French and the native lan-
guage of our speakers, before turning to the three additional consonants of FW.
4.2.1.1	 Stops common to FR and FW. The voiceless, voiced, and nasal stops of
French [p, b, m, t, d, n, ɲ, k, ɡ, ŋ] appear in all positions in FW, word-initial
(except for [ŋ]), word-internal and word-final. In word-final position, they are
pronounced in FR with a clear release. Inside words, when an underlyingly voiced
stop closes a syllable, it is often devoiced. In Wolof, syllable structure is generally
	 French in Senegal after three centuries	 59
of the form CVC and the same stop consonants exist in the same positions. In ab-
solute final position, consonants are realized as unreleased and the voicing oppo-
sition is neutralized (Cissé 2006). In FW, the release burst of voiceless consonants
is absent in word-final position and this peculiarity has certain consequences for
the lexicon. In effect, with the final consonant becoming less audible, the opposi-
tion between (tu me) mens and (tu me) manques for example, is less distinct, or
even altogether missing.
The lack of release of final consonants presents certain peculiarities according
to the type of consonant. Final oral voiceless stops are realized by speakers with
or without release. For example, slip (FR [slip]) is pronounced [sliph] or [slip̚];
patte (FR [pat]) is pronounced [path] or [pat̚]; and roc (FR [ʁɔk]) is pronounced
[rɔkh] or [rɔk̚]. Voiced stops can be realized as unreleased and even voiceless (but
released and unaspirated) in final position and this phenomenon can be linked
to their pronunciation in the same position in Wolof, so that club (FR [klœb]) is
pronounced [klɘb̚] or [kləp]; arabe (FR [aʁab]) is pronounced [arab̚] or [arap];
habitude (FR [abityd]) is pronounced [abityd̚] or [abityt]; and fatigue (FR [fatiɡ])
is pronounced [fatiɡ̚] or [fatik]. Nasal stops can also be realized as unreleased by
wolophone speakers: pomme (FR [pɔm]) is pronounced [pɔm̚] or [pɔmɘ]; jeune
(FR [ʒœn]) is pronounced [ʒɘn̚] or [ʒɘnɘ]; and compagne (FR [kɔ̃paɲ]) is pro-
nounced [kɔ̃paɲ̚] or [kɔ̃paɲɘ].
The devoicing of voiced stops also occurs inside words when the stop closes
a syllable. Thus, subjonctif (FR [sybʒɔ̃ktif]) is pronounced [sypʒɔ̃ktif]; adjectif
(FR [adʒɛktif]) is pronounced [atʒɛktif]; examen (FR [ɛɡzamɛ̃]) is pronounced
[ɛkzamɛ̃].
4.2.1.2	 Stops specific to FW. There are three additional consonants in the stop
inventory of FW. These are transfers from Wolof and are included in the inventory
shown in Table 8: two stops [c, ɟ] that fill out the inventory of dorso-palatals, and
the glottal stop.
Speakers produce vowel-initial words with the glottal stop [ʔ], which is not
simply an occasional or contextually triggered realization, but one which reflects
a requirement, respected across the board, that word-initial onsets be filled. This
has consequences for vowel sequences, and for the linking of liaison consonants.
Only speakers with the most frequent use of French, which corresponds in Sen-
egal to a high level of education, are likely to realize liaison consonants. For these
reasons, and given its status in Wolof, we have chosen to include the glottal stop
in the FW inventory of stops shown below in Table 8. The examples in (1) illus-
trate the high proportion of realizations with [ʔ] as well as the absence of linking
phenomena that goes with it.
60	 Béatrice Akissi Boutin, Randall Gess and Gabriel Marie Guèye
	 (1)	 The glottal stop [ʔ]
		 agneau							 [ʔa.ɲo] 							 (12/12)
		 fou à lier						 [fu.ʔa.lje]						 (9/12)
		 une explosion			 [yn.ʔɛks.plɔ.zjɔ̃]		 (8/12)
		 une impasse				 [yn.ʔɛ̃.pas]	 				 (8/12)
		 une étape					 [yn.ʔɛ.tap̚]					 (7/12)
		 il appelle				 		 [il.ʔa.pɛl]						 (7/12)
		 très inquiet				 [trɛ.ʔɛ̃kje]						 (3/12)
		 grand émoi				 [ɡrã.ʔe.mwa]				 (2/12)
		 grand honneur		 [ɡrã.ʔo.nɘr]					 (2/12)
The two dorso-palatal stops [c, ɟ] occur in Wolof proper nouns and in certain
French words. The voiced dorso-palatal stop occurs in our corpus in radio, pro-
nounced [raɟɔ] (see 4.1.2), and étudiant [etyɟã], but not in dialecte [djalɛkt], and
dialogue [djalɔɡ]. The voiceless dorso-palatal stop appears in our corpus in entier,
soutien, tien(s/t), maintien, all with [ce] or [cɛ̃], but not in métier or chrétien, with
[tje] and [tjɛ̃] respectively, where the apico-alveolar [t] is nevertheless followed
by the same vowels. Further study should be conducted to determine what factors
impinge on the distribution of [tj/c] and [dj/ɟ], but we are inclined here to include
these two stops in the inventory of FW.
4.2.2	 Continuants
4.2.2.1	 Fricatives [f, v, s, z, ʃ, ʒ]. The FR fricatives [f, v, s, z, ʃ, ʒ] are all mostly
realized by our speakers. We should emphasize that the consonants [v, z, ʃ, ʒ]
do not exist in Wolof, which possesses only the three voiceless fricatives [f, s, x].
Nevertheless, fricatives are the source of few errors: [v] can sometimes be realized
as [w] or [f], and [z, ʃ, ʒ] can be realized as [s]. The glottal fricative [h] can begin
certain words beginning with orthographic, so-called aspirate h, as in hasard, but
one cannot consider [h] as phonologically pertinent. This pronunciation for these
words is without doubt more frequent in other African countries of the subcon-
tinent like Mali, Burkina Faso or the Ivory Coast. We do not advocate for the
inclusion of [h] in the consonant inventory of FW, contrary to the case for [ʔ] (see
4.2.1.2). Examples showing the weak but variable production of [h] are le hasard
(from the reading) realized as [lɘʔazar] (6/12), [lɘhazar] (3/12) and [lɘazaʁ]
(3/12); and par hasard (in spontaneous conversation) realized as [parazaː] (1).
Table 8.  Stop inventory
Bilabial (Apico-) alveolar Palatal Velar Glottal
stops p / b t / d c / ɟ k / ɡ ʔ
nasals m n ɲ ŋ
	 French in Senegal after three centuries	 61
4.2.2.2	 Liquids. The rhotic has several variants: an apico-alveolar trill [r], a
dorso-uvular trill [ʀ], and an untrilled dorso-uvular approximant. There exists,
however, a default realization [r] in the sense of a most representative allophone,
with the widest distribution. Gorée Island is an exception, with the uvular (called
Gorean) variant [ʀ], generalized there. The presence of the uvular consonant in
discourse is emblematic of linguistic imitation: those who realize it are considered
assimilated.
The phoneme /l/ is attested in all positions. Here we will simply point out its
devoicing, or deletion, when preceded by a voiceless consonant in a consonant
group. Thus peuple is realized as [pɘpl̥] or [pɘp].
5.	 Phonotactics and syllabification
The French syllable can have pre- or post-nuclear margins made up of several
consonants. This already poses certain acquisition problems for many monolin-
gual speakers of French and the simplification of consonant groups is a frequent
phenomenon, the full scope of which is demonstrated by the PFC corpus. Added
to the markedness issues internal to French are, for wolophone speakers of French
as a second language, those stemming from their native speech habits.10 For the
most part, Wolof syllables have a CVC structure, the language allowing only one
onset consonant and one coda consonant, with the onset position being obligato-
rily filled by a consonant.
In FW, three types of sequences in particular must be weighed against the
Wolof constraints. These are groups of consonants at the beginning and ending of
words, or sequences of three or more consonants inside words; groups consisting
of a glide plus one or two vowels; and groups resulting from the non-realization of
schwa or other vowels. All of these affect prosody because of the resyllabification
10.	 The coding of schwa allows us to deal indirectly with all the final consonant groups and
internal groups followed by schwa, in spontaneous speech and in read speech. The additional
systematic observation of words in the read speech corpus allows us to effectively represent the
full range of consonant groups produced by our speakers.
Table 9.  Continuant inventory
Labio-dental (Apico-)
alveolar
(Pre-dorso-)
alveolar
(Apico-)
alveo-palatal
fricatives f / v s / z ʃ / ʒ
lateral l
rhotic (trilled) r
62	 Béatrice Akissi Boutin, Randall Gess and Gabriel Marie Guèye
that results from them. Moreover, how these sequences are produced depends
on the level of education and linguistic profile of the speaker: closer to FR versus
closer to Wolof.
5.1	 Consonant groups
In our FW corpus, consonant groups are mostly maintained, even though initial
and final clusters do not occur in Wolof. Their production is relatively unaffected
by the types of general reductions seen in other varieties (Boutin & Turcsan 2009;
Côté 2004). We observe a certain range in the treatment of sequences depending
on the type of consonants involved and according to their syllabic position, initial
or final: epentheses, reductions and assimilation in voicing and nasality. In ad-
dition, certain behaviors can be attributed more to a generalization of the norm
than to phonological factors.
5.1.1	 Epenthetic vowels
In the realization of consonant groups in initial, or strong position, a vowel can be
introduced before the first consonant, thus protecting the articulation of each by
making of one complex margin two simple ones. This is done by one speaker in
the realization of stupide as [ɛstypid]. Widely observed also in FW is the insertion
of a vowel between two onset consonants. Thus place is pronounced [palas], and
pneu is pronounced [pɘnɘ] by certain speakers. In both cases, epenthesis results
in a change in syllable structure.
5.1.2	 Consonant deletion
Certain initial consonant groups, notably [ps], undergo deletion of one of the con-
sonants, as at the beginning of the word psychologique, pronounced as [sikoloʒik]
(2), or as [psikoloʒik] (1).
Inside words, [k] can be lost in initial consonant groups of the shape [ɛks]+C
(expliquer, exprès, excuser…) but no more than in numerous other varieties of
French (1/15 occurrences in the interview portions of our corpus).
In final, or weak position, we see a scale of reduction according to the type of
consonant involved. It is the stop + stop type that shows the most reductions, with
the second stop being present or absent in similar proportions. In stop + liquid se-
quences, the liquid is usually realized, but may also be lost. Sibilant + stop groups
are usually the most resistant to reduction and the final stop is clearly realized.
This is illustrated in Table 10.
	 French in Senegal after three centuries	 63
Quite a different story is the loss of [t] inside words with <‑tion> as in ques-
tion [kɛsjɔ̃] (7/7), and gestion [ʒɛsjɔ̃] (2/2), present in the corpus, or combustion
[kɔ̃mbysjɔ̃]. In these cases, we cannot dismiss the hypothesis of a possible gen-
eralization of the standard pronunciation [sjɔ̃] of the spelling <‑tion>, here even
after an orthographic <s>. This brings about a change in the syllable structure of
these words.
All these realizations, and their relative frequencies of occurrence, diverge
little from what we observe in hexagonal varieties of French. While we cannot
attribute all of the observed phenomena to the influence of the first language, it
is certain that wolophone speakers’ reticence with respect to linking words and
pronouncing final schwas is in part responsible for their treatment of initial con-
sonant groups.
5.1.3	 Assimilations
Consonant groups are also the locus of assimilations, notably with respect to voic-
ing and nasality, but also palatalization.
Regressive voicing assimilation, observed inside words in FW as in FR, does
not occur at word boundaries for the groups [pd, td, kb, kv, sd, ʃd, sl] in FW.
Inside words, it is worth pointing out that 10/12 speakers realize socialisme
[sɔsjalizm], with complete voicing assimilation of [s] to the consonant [m]. If in
the word observateur [ɔpsɛrvatɘr], we note a total devoicing of [b], realized with
the force of a [p], the word médecin [mɛd̥sɛ̃] is pronounced with a [d̥] that is
clearly, but not entirely, devoiced.
Nasal assimilations are, without doubt, more specific to FW. Wolof has four
prenasalized stops: [mb, nd, ɲɟ, ŋɡ]. It is unsurprising then, that a FR voiced oral
stop may be realized as prenasalized in FW when it is preceded by a nasal vowel
or by one of the nasal consonants.11 Insertion of the prenasalization can provoke
a partial denasalization of the nasal vowel. Examples of prenasalized stops are
given in (2).
11.	 We have chosen not to list prenasalized consonants in the inventory of stops in Table 8
since, besides never constituting the sole point of discrimination between two words, they al-
ways result from assimilation.
Table 10.  Scale of simplifications in final consonant groups
Stop + stop Stop + liquid Sibilant + stop
intact [ɛ̃tak] (6/12) peuple [pɘp] (2/12) manifestent [manifɛs] (1/12)
contact [kɔ̃tak] (6/12) articles [artik] (1/12) activistes [aktivis] (1/12)
infect [ɛ̃fɛk] (3/12) membre [mãb] (6/12) risquent [ris] (1/12)
64	 Béatrice Akissi Boutin, Randall Gess and Gabriel Marie Guèye
	 (2)	 Prenasalized stops in FW
		 en bas						 [ã.mba]
		 tendance					 [tã.ndãs]
		 répondons				 [rɛ.pɔ̃.ndɔ̃]
		 indiqueraient		 [ɛ̃.ndi.kɘ.re]
		 lundi							 [lɘ̃.ndi]
		 langue						 [lãŋɡ]
These examples are based on the auditory impressions of the two authors (first
and last listed) who are accustomed to hearing prenasalized stops in Wolof.
Acoustic justification for prenasalized stops (here, for their syllabification as on-
sets in all but the last example) is notoriously difficult, and Maddieson (1989)
has argued that phonological behavior may be a more important diagnostic than
phonetic profile. But in an L2 situation, these phonetically transferred segments
are trapped in a phonological system in which they do not properly belong, rend­
ering such a diagnostic rather difficult. Nevertheless, the partial denasalization of
the preceding vowel referred to above, absent in nasal vowel + voiceless stop se-
quences, does provide one behavioral indicator for a syllabification that excludes
the nasal murmur from the rhyme constituent. Consulting speakers’ intuitions
regarding syllabification would likely provide misleading results as they are surely
aware that French does not have prenasalized stops.
Although a full phonetic justification for prenasalized stops syllabified as on-
sets would lead us too far afield, we did measure some perceived prenasalized
stops taken from the reading of the text by snarg1: tendance, répondons, profonde,
and indiqueraient. These were compared to final nasals from the same reading:
commune (+ pause), usine (+ pause), même villes, and qui mène (+ pause). For
each token, the nasal portion of the signal was measured along with the preceding
vowel and then as a portion of that vowel + nasal sequence (the would-be rhyme
in case of syllabification as a coda). The final (coda) nasals constituted between
47% and 61% of the vowel + nasal sequences (i.e., in these cases, rhymes), whereas
the nasal portion of perceived prenasalized stops constituted only between 41%
and 44% of the vowel + nasal sequences. Although these few measurements can-
not be considered as definitive proof for prenasalized stops syllabified as onsets,
the difference in relative length of the nasal segment with respect to the preceding
vowel is certainly compatible with our claim.
A second phenomenon of denasalization affects certain nasal vowels preced-
ed or followed by nasal consonants in very frequent words like comment [kɔma],
grand-mère [ɡramɛr], and quand même [kamɛm].
Another phenomenon that is attributable to assimilation is the palatalization
of [s] to [ʃ] when it is preceded by the palatal glide [j]. We see this in vérifications
	 French in Senegal after three centuries	 65
[verifikaʃjɔ̃] (6/12); réaction [rɛakʃjɔ̃] (5/12); élections [elɛkʃjɔ̃] (3/12); and mani-
festations [manifɛstaʃjɔ̃] (3/12).
5.2	 Vocalic sequences with glides
We saw in 4.2.1.2 that in FW, words have a tendency to begin with [ʔ] if no con-
sonant is present in the corresponding lexical entry in FR. Another particularity,
also tied to the onset constraint in Wolof, happens inside words with sequences
formed by a glide and one or more vowels.
Phenomena concerning the loss of glides are without a doubt related to dif-
ficulties in the phonological treatment of these segments, seen in 4.1.5. Speakers
sometimes fail to realize [ɥ], especially when it is followed by the vowel [i].
Depuis is pronounced as [dɘpi], and ensuite as [ãsit]. Sometimes the glide [w]
undergoes the same deletion and is not realized, for example, in voyager [vɔjaʒɛ],
and soixante [sɔsãt].
Cases of dieresis are also relevant to the present discussion, where the glides
[j] and [w] are inserted depending on whether the preceding vowel is anterior
or posterior, and an additional glide-initial syllable is formed. Relevant exam-
ples are: nier [nije] (6/12); reliure [rɘlijyr] (6/12); influence [ɛ̃flyjãs] (2/12); vouer
[vuwe] (9/12) and trouer [truwe] (5/12).
Two vowels in contact in FW gives rise to the production of a supporting
segment, either [w] (for back vowels) or [j] (for front vowels), or [ʔ] or [h] if an
orthographic <h> is present, as we saw earlier (4.2.2.1) with hasard. The syllable
structure of Wolof explains these phenomena, as it does not permit vowels in
hiatus. Also relevant is the orthography of French, to which phonological repre-
sentations are tied. These linguistic behaviors are perceived as flawed with respect
to the model of French in Senegal.
5.3	 Treatment of schwa and unstressed vowels
5.3.1	 Schwa
The treatment of schwa is of sociolinguistic import in the sense that it is an indica-
tor of mastery of FR. Indeed, the variation with respect to schwa that we observe
in the corpus differs from that observed in FR, in terms of the relevance of word
position and, in the case of internal schwa, word-dependent lexical specification.
Our study of schwa rests on the coding of 5,518 potential occurrences of schwa,
2,312 from the reading text and 3,206 from spontaneous speech.
Final schwa is pronounced at a rate of only 5.5%, with no significant differ-
ence between reading and spontaneous speech. In monosyllables, we see a slight
66	 Béatrice Akissi Boutin, Randall Gess and Gabriel Marie Guèye
decrease in spontaneous speech compared to reading, with rates of 99.5%
(497/499) and 86.3% (635/736) respectively.
In initial syllables, schwa is realized at 100% in reading (50/50) and at 95.5%
(101/106) in spontaneous speech. However, out of the five occurrences of unre-
alized schwa, four concern the word petit (absent from the reading text), which
demonstrates the importance of lexical frequency.
In internal syllables, we see few variations for a given word, but rather a varia-
tion between words. Thus, in the reading, of the four words containing an internal
schwa, it is always realized in indiquerait and gouvernement and it never is in dé-
tachement. Only bêtement is (slightly) variable: it is realized by two speakers out
of 12. Analysis of the interviews confirms these regularities, apparently related to
lexical representations. Out of 112 occurrences (not including the words parce
que, est-ce que), 41% of internal schwas were realized. Out of 44 occurrences of
unrealized internal schwa, 37 are followed by ‑ment (adverbs and nouns), such
as certainement, vêtement, etc. Out of 31 occurrences of internal schwas that are
realized, ten involved verbs such as devenir, recevons, donnerai, and revenir. More-
over, no internal schwa in a verb is omitted in our corpus, no matter the preceding
or following context.
Our findings suggest that schwa may not be listed as a variable phoneme in
the lexicon, except in certain cases far less numerous than in FR. It is most often
the fully specified vowel [ɘ] that we saw in 4.1.2. Positional factors are relevant,
but for internal schwas, lexical ones as well. Thus monosyllables with [ɘ], and
initial and internal syllables with [ɘ] in certain polysyllabic words may consist
of a syllable nucleus, while other polysyllabic words might not have an underly-
ing vowel. We do not have sufficient data to explain the difference between these
types of words. As for word-final position, we can consider that it is one that is
basically consonantal.
5.3.2	 Reduction and loss of [i] in polysyllabic words
In the realization of a polysyllabic word, we see a shortening in the duration of
the vowel [i] when it is in the second or third syllable in the word, and when
the initial stress pattern characteristic of Wolof is implemented in production.
We do not have representative measurements at this time, but the phenomenon
is a well known and salient aspect of Wolof: syllables following the tonic initial
syllable can undergo reduction or even syncope (as one might expect, this phe-
nomenon also affects schwa in this position, as well as, to a lesser extent, the
other high vowel [u]). Examples illustrating variable reduction and deletion of [i]
after a stressed syllable are: officielles [ɔ.fi.ˈsjɛl] (9/12) vs. [ˈɔf.sjɛl] (3/12); politique
[pɔ.li.ˈtik] (7/12) vs. [ˈpɔ.lĭ.tik] (5/12); manifestations [ma.ni.fɛs.ta.ˈsjɔ̃] (5/12) vs.
	 French in Senegal after three centuries	 67
[ˈma.nĭ.fɛs.ta.sjɔ̃]12 (7/12); vérifications [ve.ri.fi.ka.ˈsjɔ̃] (5/12) vs. [ˈve.rĭ.fi.ka.sjɔ̃]
(4/12) and [ˈver.fi.ka.sjɔ̃] (3/12).
We are lacking sufficient data to determine the relevance of the consonant
that follows [i]. More study on this question is called for, along the lines of re-
search on the same phenomenon in Wolof (Cissé 2006). When [i] is deleted, this
brings about a reduction in the number of syllables in the word and a process of
resyllabification. Speakers’ ease in pronouncing words with the resulting syllable
structure is explained by the predominant CVC syllable structure of Wolof.
5.4	 Liaison
With respect to liaison, other than in cases in which liaison is not realized and
glottal stop appears (4.2.1.2), the French spoken in Senegal presents few pecu-
liarities compared with the general situation in contemporary French (Durand &
Lyche 2008; Bordal & Lyche 2008). We coded 417 potential liaisons in reading and
721 in spontaneous speech, for a total of 1138.
Liaison is most often realized in monosyllables: 73.75% (208/282) in read-
ing and 63.71% (381/598) in spontaneous speech. Liaison after a verbal clitic or
a determiner (en, on, un, des, les, vous, etc.) is always realized. Liaison with the
prepositions dans and chez is realized at 100% in our corpus (22/22). With re-
spect to verbs, the most relevant monosyllable is est: the liaison consonant [t]
is pronounced 50% of the time (13/25) in reading, but only 10.6% of the time
(8/75) in spontaneous speech. The sequence suis allé is used by three speakers in
conversation. Two of those make a liaison (6 occurrences) and the third does not
(2 occurrences). Bordal & Lyche (2008) have already observed a certain fixed be-
havior of this form in other African countries, although a clear pattern of liaison
production in être – aller has yet to be discerned. We have no occurrence of other
forms of aller in a compound tense. No liaison is produced with sont (6 occur-
rences, in other liaison contexts). Examples demonstrating variable liaison with
être in spontaneous discourse are shown in (3)
	 (3)	 Variable liaison with être in spontaneous discourse
		 si on est en train de recruter								 [siɔ̃neʔãtʁɛ̃dɘʁɘkʁyte]
		 waw13 mon père il est en vie								 [wawmɔ̃pɛrilɛãvi]
		 cette annulation est [t]à l’origine						 [sɛtanylaʃɔ̃ɛtalɔrʒin]
		 waw je suis [z]allé aussi à la Mecque 		 [wawʒɘsɥizaleosialamɛk]
12.	 We are not concerned here with the type of variation shown in 5.1.3, just as we were not
concerned there with the realization or not of /i/.
13.	 Waw (Wolof): ‘oui’.
68	 Béatrice Akissi Boutin, Randall Gess and Gabriel Marie Guèye
		 bon je suis allée faire une formation 			 [bɔ̃ʒɘsɥialefɛʁʔynfɔʁmasjɔ̃]
		 Mes parents sont originaires de Mekhé		 [meparãsɔ̃oriʒinɛrdɘmeke]
		 C’était en soixante douze 										 [seteãsɔsãtduz]
In polysyllables, liaison is normally made after the determiners quelques
([z]expressions, [z]années), certain ([n]âge, [n]état), aucun ([n]impact, [n]investis­
sement), which in this variety are the only words to reliably trigger liaison, in
spontaneous speech as in reading. Liaison is variable between a noun and a fol-
lowing adjective in reading (pâtes [z]italiennes (2/10 occurrences), circuits habi-
tuels (8/12 occurrences) and visites [z]officielles (8/12 occurrences)).
We have seven occurrences of the environment plural noun + adjective in
spontaneous production, five with liaison with [z] (matières ([z]orales/écrites)
(three from the same speaker), différentes [z]explosions, dernières [z]élections, and
two without liaison (femmes enceintes and étudiants étrangers).
Liaison is never made after an imperfect or conditional verbal ending ‑ais
(0/10 occurrences), ‑ait (0/20 occurrences), or ‑aient (0/4 occurrences).
For most speakers, when liaison is not realized, a vowel-initial word begins
with a glottal stop, as we saw in 4.2.1.2. Enchaînement is realized only by certain
speakers with a higher level of education and/or immersed in an international
French linguistic environment.
These results from FW confirm tendencies observed in FR. Inside the pro-
sodic word (determiner – noun and clitic – verb), whether Word 1 is mono- or
polysyllabic, liaison is categorical. Liaison is variable between two words (auxil-
iary – verb and adjective – noun) and depends mostly on extralinguistic factors.
These aspects of liaison, characteristic of speakers of Wolof, correspond to what
we would have expected given attitudes toward French in Senegal: liaison tends
to be realized according to the model of standard French, which reflects the ideal
of conformity to the current norm, yet a great deal of variation across speakers is
observed.
6.	 Accentuation
The Senegalese accent in French, and particularly the Wolof one, is recognizable
in Africa (Bauvois 1997; Boula & Boutin 2011). Suprasegmental features especial-
ly allow for this identification but segmental features are also responsible, notably
the quality of [ɘ] (4.1.2) and the nasal vowels (4.1.4).
As before, we will consider the hypothesis that certain accentual phenomena
can be explained by a transfer of prosodic patterns from Wolof. With respect to
intonation, a range of productions in Senegal can be heard, from having all of
	 French in Senegal after three centuries	 69
the “reference book” accentual features of French, as found in corrective prosody
manuals, to having all of the Wolof ones carried into French. Besides level of edu-
cation, profession is also a major factor. The international access that it offers (if
it does), in particular, is key. Among the 12 participants in the survey, two female
speakers possess a French (FR) intonation, one of them retaining a prosodic com-
petence in FW according to the situation. One is a professor of philosophy often
called to international events, and the other is a manager in an international call
center, where a “perfect” French is demanded.
French, in turn, influences Wolof, which adopts French intonation contours
when pronounced, for example, by certain television presenters. The fact that
Wolof is not a tone language no doubt facilitates implementation of the “French”
final intonation described in work like Di Cristo (1999) and Astésano (2001).
The principal distinction between FR and FW is the domain for stress as-
signment. While in FR the relevant domain is the accentual group, in FW it is the
word. In addition, the features relevant to accentuation are not the same in FR and
FW. In FR, final stress is marked principally by an increase in duration, intensity
being relatively unaffected. This increase in duration, accompanied by a rising or
falling glissando with a sharp slope, falls on the last syllable of the rhythmic unit,
which usually corresponds to a syntagmatic unit.
In Wolof, stress is marked essentially by intensity and it is defined at the word
level, with the increase in intensity affecting the first syllable of the prosodic word.
While intonational contours are generally relatively flat, a peak can sometimes be
found on the first or second syllable in interrogatives and certain simple declara-
tives, giving a HL pattern (Rialland & Robert 2001) that is basically the opposite
of the FR pattern (the fewer semitones in Wolof aside). Duration has a distinctive
lexical function in Wolof, as opposed to the purely prosodic function it has in FR.
Given the hierarchical principal according to which a lexical function has priority
over a prosodic one, the Wolof speaker has a certain reticence to use duration in
the same way as the FR speaker, to mark the French final accent. In FW, duration
can also vary according to other factors. Thus, vowels can be very short (like /i/
and /ɘ/, see 5.3), short or long depending on lengthening consonants (as in nu-
merous languages), or depending on an overriding opposition /o-ɔ/ (see 4.1.2).
Rhythm specific to FW results, then, from these two factors: a dynamic ac-
cent that falls on the first syllable of the word, and its realization through a peak
in intensity, sometimes accompanied by an intonational peak. A pattern specific
to FW was brought to light by Boula & Boutin (2011) who measured the differ-
ence in fundamental frequency between initial and final syllable nuclei in the
four words in the sequences “inconnue et tranquille” et “bataille politique” read
by four speakers. While speakers from other African countries read these words
with a rising melody, Senegalese (Wolof) speakers have a falling melody, with an
70	 Béatrice Akissi Boutin, Randall Gess and Gabriel Marie Guèye
average difference in these four words of 1.7 semitones. Further study is required
to verify the scope of this melodic pattern, but it is likely that it is determined by
rule, and that it represents a partial transfer from Wolof.
Rhythm also depends on several phenomena already discussed: the treat-
ment of initial vowels (4.2.1.2), final consonants (4.2.1.1) and consonant groups
(5.1.3).
7.	 Conclusion
We have seen in this chapter that FW, the most important variety of French spo-
ken in Senegal, is distinct from FR in several important ways, most attributable to
the speakers’ L1, Wolof. Salient differences include, in the vocalic system, the re-
alization of the series of front rounded vowels, absent in Wolof; and the distribu-
tion and realization of mid vowels. In the consonant system, differences from FR
concern the stop inventory (including palatal and glottal stops, present in Wolof)
and the phonetic implementation of final stops; as well as the realization of the
rhotic, as in so many varieties of French. Salient differences exist in terms of pho-
notactics and syllable structure as well, including epenthesis and deletion to avoid
consonant clusters and assimilation in consonant sequences (the latter producing
interesting surface structures like pre-nasalized stops); glide deletion and glide
insertion to avoid surface CGV and vowel sequences, respectively; and variable
deletion of [i] as well as schwa, with identity of the lexical item a seemingly over-
riding factor with respect to the latter. In terms of liaison, salient differences with
FR include the use of glottal stop when liaison is not realized, and the existence of
only a handful of prenominal adjectives that reliably trigger the process. In other
respects, the general patterning of liaison is not remarkably distinct. Finally, in
terms of accentuation, the principle distinctions between the two varieties are the
domain and location of stress assignment, which are, in FW, the word and the ini-
tial syllable, respectively; and the predominance in this variety of intensity, rather
than duration, as the marker of stress. A follow-up to our study could compare
FW with the French of other, non-wolophone Senegalese speakers in order to
verify those characteristics of FW attributable to Wolof as a native language, and
those possibly contributing to the formation of a “Senegalese” accent.
References
Astésano, Corine. 2001. Rythme et accentuation en français. Invariance et variabilité stylistique.
Paris: L’Harmattan.
	 French in Senegal after three centuries	 71
Bauvois, Cécile. 1997. Parle-moi et je te dirai peut-être d’où tu viens. Revue de phonétique ap-
pliquée 121: 291–309.
Bordal, Guri, and Chantal Lyche. 2008. La liaison en terre africaine. Journées PFC décembre
2008: Phonologie du français contemporain: Variation, interfaces, cognition. 11–13 Decem-
ber, 2008, Paris. http://www.projet-pfc.net/bulletins-et-colloques/cat_view/921-colloques-
pfc/938-2008/942-journees-pfc-decembre-2008?start=10
Boula de Mareüil, Philippe, and Béatrice Akissi Boutin. 2011. Évaluation et identification
perceptives d’accents ouest-africains en français. Journal of French Language Studies 21:
361–379.
Boutin, Béatrice Akissi, and Gabor Turcsan. 2009. La prononciation du français en Afrique: La
Côte d’Ivoire. In Phonologie, variation et accents du français, eds. Jacques Durand, Bernard
Laks and Chantal Lyche. Paris: Hermès.
Chaudenson, Robert. 2000. Mondialisation: La langue française a-t-elle encore un avenir? Paris:
Didier Érudition.
Cissé, Mamadou. 2005. Langues, Etat et société au Sénégal. SudLangues 5: 99–133. http://www.
sudlangues.sn/sites/www.sudlangues.sn/IMG/pdf/doc-109.pdf
Cissé, Mame Thierno. 2006. Problèmes de phonétique et de phonologie en wolof. SudLangues
6: 23–62. http://www.sudlangues.sn/sites/www.sudlangues.sn/IMG/pdf/doc-134.pdf
Côté, Marie-Hélène. 2004. Consonant cluster simplifcation in Québec French. Probus 16:
151–201.
Di Cristo, Albert. 1999. Le cadre accentuel du français contemporain: Essai de modélisation.
Première partie. Langues 3: 184–205.
Delais-Roussarie, Elisabeth, Jacques Durand, Chantal Lyche, Aberrahim Meqqori, and Jean-
Michel Tarrier. 2002. Transcription des données: Outil et conventions. Bulletin PFC 1:
21–34.
Durand, Jacques, and Chantal Lyche. 2008. French liaison in the light of corpus data. Journal of
French Language Studies 18: 33–66.
Guèye, Gabriel Marie, and Pierre-Marie Sambou. 1991. Perception et réalisation de [b]/[[d]/[g]
français par des locuteurs wolof. Annales de la Faculté des Lettres et Sciences Humaines de
Dakar 21: 189–198.
Ka, Omar. 1994. Wolof phonology and morphology. Lanham, MD: University Press of America.
Maddieson, Ian. 1989. Prenasalized stops and speech timing. Journal of the International Pho-
netic Association 19: 57–66.
Makhtar, Diouf. 1994. Sénégal: Les ethnies et la nation. Paris: L’Harmattan.
McLaughlin, Fiona. 2009. “Wolof and Atlantic Languages” Encyclopedia of Linguistics, Volume
2. http://www.bookrags.com/tandf/wolof-and-atlantic-languages-tf/
N’Diaye-Corréard, Geneviève, ed. 2006. Les Mots du patrimoine: Le Sénégal. Paris: Éditions des
Archives Contemporaines/AUF.
Ndao, Papa Alioune. 2002. Le français au Sénégal une approche polynomique. SudLangues 1:
51–64. http://www.sudlangues.sn/IMG/pdf/doc-23.pdf
Rialland, Annie, and Stéphane Robert. 2001. The intonational system of Wolof. Linguistics 39:
893–939.
chapter 4
The phonological characteristics
of French in Bamako, Mali
A sociolinguistic approach
Chantal Lyche and Ingse Skattum
University of Oslo
1.	 Introduction
In this chapter we will examine the variety of French spoken in Mali’s capital
Bamako. Though French in Mali is no-one’s first language (L1), it is the country’s
official language and main language of instruction. This status as second language
(L2) (in the sense Cuq 1991 gives this term), distinguishes it from other for-
eign languages (cf. the dichotomy français langue seconde (FLS) / français langue
étrangère (FLE)). Bamako is, like most African capitals, an ethnic and linguistic
melting pot (Calvet 1994), where the official language coexists with a number of
regional and local languages. Our corpus reflects this multilingualism, with five
L1s represented. An examination of the phonological characteristics of French
in Bamako must therefore take into consideration the possible impact of L1 on
our informants’ French pronunciation. Certain extralinguistic factors, which are
particularly important given the sociolinguistic context of our study (see Skattum
2012), will be taken into account as well. Special attention will be given to
.	 We are grateful to Guri Bordal and Doug Walker for their comments on an earlier version
of the paper.
.	 “Le français langue seconde […] se distingue des autres langues étrangères éventuellement
présentes sur ces aires par ses valeurs statutaires, soit juridiquement soit socialement, soit les
deux et par le degré d’appropriation que la communauté qui l’utilise s’est octroyé ou revendique.
Cette communauté est bi-ou plurilingue. La plupart de ses membres le sont aussi et le français
joue dans leur développement psychologique, cognitif et informatif, conjointement avec une ou
plusieurs autres langues, un rôle privilégié” (Cuq 1991: 139).
74	 Chantal Lyche and Ingse Skattum
deviations from le français de référence (FR) (see Chapter 1) that correspond to
regional or pan African tendencies.
We will first give a brief description of the country (Section 2), followed by an
outline of the sociolinguistic situation (Section 3) and the methods of data col-
lection (Section 4). The phonemic inventory is studied in Section 5, followed in
Sections 6 and 7 by an analysis of schwa and liaison respectively. Our conclusion
(Section 8) will return to some of the issues sketched above.
2.	 Mali
Mali is a landlocked country bordering the Ivory Coast and Guinea to the south,
Senegal to the west, Mauritania and Algeria to the north, and Niger and Burkina
Faso to the east. It is one of Africa’s largest countries, but with only 3.76% of ar-
able land, the Sahara desert occupying the north and the semi-desert Sahel the
center. Most of the approximately 15.4 million inhabitants live in the Sudanese
savannah in the south and along the two main rivers, the Niger and the Senegal.
The urban population (48.2%) mainly lives in the capital Bamako, in the southern
part of the country, but also in regional cities like Segu, Sikasso and Koutiala in
the south, Kayes in the west, Mopti and Djenne in the center, and Timbuktu and
Gao in the north.
The country was colonized by France between 1880–1895 and was proclaimed
an independent republic on September 22, 1960. It changed its name from Sou-
dan français (given by the French in 1892) to Mali (West Africa’s most prestigious
medieval empire). From the 1992 elections until the coup d’état in 2010, it was
considered one of the most democratic states south of the Sahara.
Mali is also one of the poorest countries in the world, coming 182nd of 187
countries in the Human Development Indicator (HDI) of the United Nations De-
velopment Program (UNDP), which takes into account standard of living, life
expectancy and literacy. Statistics show that the Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
per capita is $258, life expectancy 56.8 years and the literacy rate 59.1% (figures
drawn from L’état de l’Afrique 2012).
3.	 French, Bambara and national languages in Mali
Like most former French and Belgian colonies, Mali kept the colonial language
as its official language after independence. However, because of its landlocked
situation, Mali’s contact with the French colonizers and their language was later
(end of the 19th century) than in the coastal states (from the mid 17th century).
	 The phonological characteristics of French in Bamako, Mali	 75
The French were also less numerous in the hinterland than on the coast. Mali is,
in fact, the least “francophone” state south of the Sahara according to Rossillon
(1995). In his Atlas de la langue française, he estimates that Mali has 5% of “real”
and 5% of “potential” speakers, the total (10%) placing Mali as the very last of the
17 francophone African countries. Even this low figure may be too optimistic,
based as it is on education statistics (the level of competence being hard to ascer-
tain otherwise): six years of schooling or more gives a “real” speaker while a mini-
mum of two years gives a “potential” speaker. It is clear, however, that six years is
no guarantee of “real” competence (see Skattum 2004; Boutin, Gess & Gueye this
vol.). It is also well known that this competence is easily lost for lack of practice
(Dumestre 1994b: 3).
An important reason for the modest use of French in Mali is the existence of
an indigenous lingua franca (Bambara), confining French to the formal sphere.
This is a characteristic Mali shares with a handful of other African states (Skattum
1997: 79–80), inter alia the two represented in this volume, Senegal (Wolof) and
the Central African Republic (Sango). In Mali, Bambara is the L1 of around 40%
and an interethnic means of communication of another 40% of the population.
Mali has a multiethnic and multilingual past that further motivates the low
corpus and high status of the French language (in Chaudenson’s sense of the
term). The medieval empires Ghana, Mali and Gao, uniting different ethnic
groups from the eighth to the sixteenth centuries, fostered pride in traditional cul-
ture and laid the ground for a general acceptance of multilingualism (reflected in
the 1992 Constitution, giving all indigenous languages equal rights) (see Skattum
2008). This may explain the reluctance to recognize the majority language as the
official language alongside French: Bambara is given no official privilege, though
in real life it is steadily progressing in terms of geographical extension and usage
domains, at the expense of the other indigenous languages (Dumestre 2003).
The positive attitude towards multilingualism is also expressed through the
prominence given to bilingual education (Skattum 1997, 2000). Mali is a pioneer
in this field among the francophone sub-Saharan countries, having introduced
11 indigenous languages as means of instruction alongside French in primary
.	 “‘[S]tatus’ (et non ‘statut’) désigne le ‘statut’ (langue officielle, unique ou non, nationale,
etc.), les emplois (officiel, administratif, juridique, etc.) et les fonctions du français. Sous la ru-
brique ‘corpus’ sont regroupés quatre ensembles : les modes d’appropriation, la véhicularisation
et/ou vernacularisation, les types de compétences, les productions et consommation langagiè-
res” (Chaudenson 1991, cited in Chaudenson et al. 1993: 19).
.	 African language literacy is much more developed in the “anglophone” African countries,
as mother tongue education in the first years of primary school was introduced already under
colonial rule (see Brock-Utne & Skattum 2009).
76	 Chantal Lyche and Ingse Skattum
school. However, this education seems lately to be regressing: introduced in 32.6%
of primary schools in 2005–2006 and programmed to develop further, only 21.1%
of the total number of primary schools were bilingual French / a national lan-
guage in 2008–2009 (see Skattum 2010b). French thus continues to dominate as
the language of instruction, indicating that it may hold its position as the language
of prestige and social promotion despite its limited use among the population.
However, a look at some figures illustrates the problems facing Mali in ef-
forts to raise the level of literacy and thus French language proficiency among its
inhabitants. In 1990 the GER (Gross Enrollment Rate) for primary school was
the lowest in francophone West Africa, and it remained the lowest in 2003–2004
(Banque Mondiale 2007: 26–27). In 2008–2009 it had improved (82% according
to the Cellule de Planification et de Statistiques) but as the GER includes repeating
students but does not count dropouts (both high), the real picture is better shown
by the retention rates (enrollment at the superior level) from primary to higher
education. In 2003–2004, these rates dropped from 69.0% (7–12 years), to 35%
(13–15 years), to 10% (16–18 years, including technical and professional educa-
tion plus teachers’ colleges). In higher education (where age varies so that the
GER is calculated relative to 100,000 inhabitants), there were only 286 students
per 100,000 inhabitants (Banque Mondiale 2007: 26).
Besides Bambara, there are about 20 indigenous languages in Mali (Canut
& Dumestre 1993: 220), a moderate number in the African context. 13 of these
have been given the status of “national language”, ten of them as early as 1967:
Bambara (bamanankan), Bomu (bwamu, bobo), Bozo, Dogon, Fulfulde (peul),
Mamara (minyanka), Syenara (sénoufo), Songhay, Soninke and Tamachek, to
which were added in 1996, nearly 30 years later, Hassaniyya (maure), Maninka
.	 The World Bank defines GER as “Les effectifs scolarisés par rapport aux effectifs scolari-
sables pour chaque niveau d’enseignement, calculé sur l’âge (7–12 ans; 13–15 ans; 16–18 ans)”
(Banque Mondiale 2007: 26).
.	 Personal communication, 02/17/2010, from Youssouf Haïdara of the Direction nationale de
l’Education de base.
.	 The Summer Institute of Linguistics (SIL) counts 50 indigenous languages in Mali
(Raymond & Grimes 2005: 141). The difference is due to diverging methods of distinguishing
language from dialect.
.	 The Ivory Coast, for example, is a “medium” case with around 60 languages, while Came­
roon has around 185, and the Democratic Republic of Congo around 220 indigenous languages
(Skattum 1997: 79; see also Brock-Utne & Skattum 2009).
.	 Names and spelling vary; we use the most common English designations and give French
or local names in parentheses where there may be doubt whether we are speaking of the same
language.
	 The phonological characteristics of French in Bamako, Mali	 77
(malinké) and Xassonke. This status implies their codification (officially recog-
nized alphabet and orthography) as well as a certain role in the public sphere,
particularly in the media and the educational sector.
These 13 languages belong to three language families: the Niger-Congo, the
Nilo-Saharan and the Afroasiatic.10 The Niger-Congo family is the most impor-
tant in Mali as well as on the continent. In Mali, it is represented by the Mande,
Atlantic and Gur groups. The Manding cluster (Bambara, Maninka, Diula and
Xassonke) dominates within the Mande group, which also includes two West
Mande languages: Soninke and Bozo. The Atlantic group is represented by Ful-
fulde, and the Gur group includes Syenara, Mamara and Bomu (dialectal varia-
tion is important in this group and internal classification varies, cf. Dombrowsky
1994: 21; see also Section 5.1, Note 14 below). Songhay (whose classification is
still debated (cf. e.g., Nicolaï 1989)) is the only Nilo-Saharan language, while the
Afroasiatic family is represented by the Berber language Tamachek of the Tuareg
people and the Semitic language Hassaniyya of the Moores. The Dogon language
is still unclassified (for details, see Skattum 2008).
The position of the local languages varies greatly according to their vehicu-
larity and their demographic, social and political weight. While Bambara is the
national lingua franca, there are three vehicular languages at the regional level:
Fulfulde (center), Soninke (west) and Songhay (north). Tamachek was, for politi-
cal reasons, one of the first four languages to be codified and to be introduced
as a language of instruction, though it has fewer speakers than e.g., Soninke.
Some languages, like Syenara, Mamara, Xassonke and Maninka, are “invaded”
(through language mixing), and progressively supplanted by Bambara (Dumestre
1994b: 8).
4.	 PFC in Mali
The PFC survey in Mali was carried out in collaboration with the CFA (Contem-
porary French in Africa and the Indian Ocean: usage, varieties and structures) pro­
ject.11 CFA adapted the PFC protocol (Durand & Lyche 2003) to the multilingual
context (Boutin, Lyche & Prignitz 2007) and to the wider CFA goals, including syn-
tactic and sociolinguistic analysis (Dister et al. 2008; Lyche & Skattum 2010b). 47
informants were recorded. They were chosen according to four parameters, in the
10.	 For a historical overview and discussion of the classification, see e.g. Heine & Nurse (2004).
11.	 http://www.hf.uio.no/ikos/english/research/projects/cfa/index.html
78	 Chantal Lyche and Ingse Skattum
following order of importance: (1) level of instruction; (2) age; (3) L1; (4) gender –
age and gender being standard PFC parameters, but showing no impact here.
The level of instruction is the most important of these criteria, since French
in “francophone” Africa is mainly – and in Mali nearly exclusively – learned at
school. We have defined this level according to the diplomas delivered, which in
Mali are: (1) CEP (Certificat d’études primaires) = six years of schooling; (2) DEF
(Diplôme d’études fondamental) = nine years; (3) Bac / Bac+ = 12 years / + even-
tually higher education. Levels of education not corresponding to these catego-
ries (interrupted schooling, professional education, diplomas no longer in use…)
have been standardized to fit into these three categories.
Multilingual competence is particularly relevant in Africa, where on the
one hand people frequently speak three or more languages (see Table 1 below),
and on the other hand claim that they can detect a person’s L1 through their
French. We therefore recorded informants speaking L1 from five typologically
distinct groups: Bambara (Mande group), Fulfulde(Atlantic group), Syenara (Gur
group), all from the Niger-Congo family, and Songhay (Nilo-Saharan family) and
Tamachek (Afroasian family). This enables us to test the influence of L1 on FLS.
In addition to these parameters, two extralinguistic factors turned out to have
an impact on the pronunciation and general language competence of our infor-
mants: their exposure to French (in family and at work) and their mobility (place
of origin, journeys inside Mali or abroad, length of stay in Bamako). These fac-
tors were brought out through a perception test in 2008, where 6 Malian subjects
listened to a one-minute extract from the semi-directed interview of 14 Malian
speakers, in order to identify their L1 (Lyche & Skattum 2010a). Though not in-
cluded among the original parameters, this information could be retrieved from
the interviews, which inter alia bore on the informants’ life story.
Table 1 shows the profile of the 13 informants chosen for the PFC database:
age, gender (F/M), languages spoken (the order corresponding to declared mas-
tery), level of education, exposure to French (as expressed by their profession)
and mobility (place of origin, moves within Mali, stays abroad and time spent in
Bamako). They are presented in alphabetical order following the individual part
of their PFC code (maaaw1, maabd1, etc.).
We shall see that the most striking phenomenon in the pronunciation of
French among these informants is the great variation. This is due to the socio-
demographic variables defined above. But we have also been able to identify the
influence of L1 in some areas. This is doubly interesting, as very little has been
	 The phonological characteristics of French in Bamako, Mali	 79
Table 1.  Profile of the 13 informants
PFC code
(age)
gender
L1 (in
bold),
L2, L3…
Level of
education
Profession Mobility
maaaw1
(53) F
TA, FR,
BA
CEP Housewife Born in Kidal region (north), nomad
family, 4 moves in Mali, 26 years in
Bamako, frequent visits to Kidal
maabd1
(46) M
BA, FR CEP (+2, no
diploma)
Office boy Born in Bamako, always lived in
Bamako
maabh1
(24) M
SO, TA,
FR, BA,
RU, EN
Bac+ (+1, socio-
anthropology)
Student Born in Gao region (north), 6 months
in Bamako
maabm1
(30) F
TA, FR,
BA, SO
DEF (CEP+4,
dressmaking)
Dressmaker Born in Gao region (north), 4 years
refugee in Burkina Faso, many years
in Bamako
maafc1
(50) F
FU / FR,
BA, SO,
EN
Bac+ (DEA +
2 years, French
studies)
NGO senior
executive
Born in Djenne city (center) of Fulani
family, 2 years in Bamako age 7–9
(French spoken in family), France 10
years, 14 years in Bamako
maaic1
(26) M
FU, BA,
FR, EN,
AR
Bac+ (master I,
linguistics)
Student Born in Mopti region (center), senior
high school in Bamako, master (4
years) in Algeria, master I in France/
Netherlands
maajs1
(51) F
SY, BA, FR Bac (DEF+4,
accounting)
Accountant Born in Sikasso region (south), DEF
in French boarding school in Sikasso
city, 8 moves in Mali, many years in
Bamako
maant1
(57) F
SY, BA, FR DEF (+2,
kindergar-
ten teacher
diploma)
Kinder-
garten
teacher
Born in Sikasso region (south), 5
moves in Mali, 26 years in Bamako
maasd1
(68) M
BA, FU,
FR, EN,
MO, SO
Bac Executive,
retired
Born in Djenne region (center) of Fu-
lani family, 6 moves in Mali, one year
in USA, 44 years in Bamako, consid-
ers he has several L1s but mastery of
Bambara is best
maash1
(22) M
SO, FR,
BA
Bac+ (+2,
French studies)
Student Born in Gao region (north), one year
in Bamako
maass1
(62) F
BA, FR,
EN, SP
Bac+ (+2 medi-
cal secretary
+3 special
secretary)
Medical
secretary
Born in Burkina Faso (at that time a
province of the Ivory Coast), 5 years in
France, 30 years in Bamako
80	 Chantal Lyche and Ingse Skattum
done on accents in FLS (Lyche & Skattum 2010a), while interference12 is a central
issue in studies of language contact. Today, the impact of extralinguistic factors is
generally accepted, but there is debate as to the respective roles of intra- and in-
terlinguistic motivations in language variation (see Skattum 2010a). While some
favor intrasystemic rather than intersystemic motivations for language change in
French (Chaudenson et al. 1993; Gadet & Jones 2008), others point to the influ-
ence of local languages, like A. Queffélec (2008: 73): “Les normes locales, relative-
ment permissives, subissent l’influence des langues en contact et des véhiculaires
africains dominants”. Intersystemic variation in French is well documented in
Africa at the lexical level, but less at the syntactic (Skattum 2010c)13, and very
little at the phonological level (Woehrling & Boula de Mareüil 2006). It is, how-
ever, well established that the phonological level is even more “permissive” to lo-
cal influence than the two others (see Sankoff 2002).
We have also found common features in French pronunciation for some of
the informants having different L1s, pointing to the existence of regional varieties
of French – which is natural, since neighboring languages may well influence one
another. And finally, some characteristics are shared by other varieties of French
in Africa, thus sustaining the hypothesis of a pan African French (Chaudenson
et al. 1993).
12.	 We use the term in the sense of a learner’s unconscious transfer of features from L1 to L2,
and not in the sense of a learner’s strategy, which can be positive if the mother tongue structure
matches that of the target language, but negative if it does not (Hamers 1997).
13.	 Though Ploog (2008: 251) refers to some studies that focus on different aspects of interfer-
ence in syntax.
PFC code
(age)
gender
L1 (in
bold),
L2, L3…
Level of
education
Profession Mobility
maatc1
(62) M
BA, FR CEP Bus driver,
retired
Born in Kati near Bamako, always
lived in Bamako
maazw1
(36) F
TA, SO,
FR, BA
DEF (9 years,
without di-
ploma)
Musician Born in Timbuktu region (north),
nomad family, many years in Bamako,
international career, extensive travel-
ling
Languages: AR = Arabic, BA = Bambara, DO = Dogon, EN = English, FR = French, FU = Fulfulde, MO =
Mossi, RU = Russian, SO = Songhay, SP = Spanish, SY = Syenara, TA = Tamachek
Table 1.  (continued)
	 The phonological characteristics of French in Bamako, Mali	 81
Though we look here at French in one country, Mali (more specifically the
capital Bamako), we agree with Gadet & Jones (2008: 238) that “the very act of
considering languages at a ‘national’ level could be criticized as something of
an over-simplification”. In Africa, the national level is particularly ill-suited as
a frame, since the colonial powers did not consider ethnic or linguistic commu-
nities when tracing the borders. Whether national or regional, these languages
nonetheless have an impact when coming into contact with French, which is why
the description of our informants’ phonemic inventories will be preceded by a
presentation of the inventories of the five languages chosen for study.
5.	 The phonemic inventory
Taking into consideration all the different factors potentially influencing the
French spoken by our speakers, we do not expect to arrive at a single phonemic
inventory for all our speakers. Notwithstanding, this section will show the emer-
gence of common features, mostly shared by other varieties of French in Africa.
In a context where French is always an L2 (in the sense defined above), and there-
fore systematically in contact with a plurality of L1s, a brief description of the five
L1s is called for.
5.1	 Five local L1s
As stated in Section 4, among 20 or so possible L1s, we retained five major lan-
guages for their geographical coverage and their linguistic diversity: Bambara,
Syenara, Fulfulde, Songhay and Tamachek. Bambara and Syenara, both present
in the South of Mali, share the property of being tone languages, which is not the
case for the three others. Fulfulde is spoken in the center of Mali while Songhay
and Tamachek are northern languages. The first difficulty in attempting a gen-
eral presentation lies in the large number of dialects co-existing in some of the
languages, dialects which may be highly diverse typologically. As a detailed pres­
entation of the five languages lies beyond the scope of this chapter, we will limit
ourselves to some general information while focusing on the segments which the
native languages lack in comparison to French, and which might therefore im-
pede a standard acquisition of French phonemes. At this point, it might be useful
to present what Clements (2004: 151) proposes as the African prototypical pho-
nological system based on 451 phonological inventories (see Tables 2 and 3).
Bambara is a CV language with the prototypical seven oral vowel system: /i,
u, e, o, ɛ, ɔ, a/, enriched by seven nasal vowels /ĩ, ũ, ẽ, õ, ɛ̃, ɔ̃, ã/ (Dumestre
82	 Chantal Lyche and Ingse Skattum
2003) and by phonemic length. All seven oral vowels can be long, mostly in non-
final syllables, vowel length usually stemming from vowel coalescence caused by
intervocalic consonant deletion. Its consonant inventory matches that of Table 2
without the fricatives */ʃ, z/ which, however, may appear as allophones of /s/.
Plosives /p, t, c, k, d, ɟ/ are restricted to word-initial position unless the syllable is
reduplicated. Bambara is a strict CV language, CV accounting for over 99% of the
syllables, with less than 1% of V and VC syllables. The strict CV structure may be
broken up by complex onsets due to interconsonantal vowel elision (Cissé 2009).
Fulfulde, which shows certain linguistic similarities with Bambara, has long
been in contact with that language, resulting primarily in numerous lexical bor-
rowings. The consonant system of Fulfulde includes the same nasal, plosive and
fricative series as Bambara with additional implosives and prenasal plosives
(Cissé 2009). It has a five-vowel system /i, u, e, o, a/ with phonemic vowel length,
long vowels being allowed anywhere within the word. Although it is a five-vow-
el system, mid-low vowels appear when the following syllable contains an open
vowel. In its syllabic structure, Fulfulde, a CV language, tolerates a larger number
of (C)VC syllables (30%) than Bambara, but it does not allow complex onsets.
The two languages differ essentially in their prosody, Bambara being a two-tone
language system and Fulfulde having lexical stress.
Syenara, like Bambara and Fulfulde, belongs to the Niger-Congo language
family. Its phonemic system14 matches Table 2 with a full set of voiced fricatives
14.	 We refer here to the Supyire dialect spoken in Sikasso, as described by Carlson (1994).
Bendor-Samuel (1971, cited in Dombrowsky 1994: 21) classifies Supyire with Mamara and con-
siders this the main group of Syenara (85%), both belonging to the northern branch of Syenara.
Table 2.  African prototypical phonological system (consonants)
Bilabial Labio-
dental
Dental /
alveolar
(Alveo-)
palatal
Velar Laryngeal
stops p / b t / d c / ɟ k / ɡ
fricatives f s / z ʃ h
nasals m n ɲ ŋ
Table 3.  African prototypical phonological system (vowels)
Front Back
high i u
mid-high e o
mid-low ɛ ɔ
low a
	 The phonological characteristics of French in Bamako, Mali	 83
and additional nasal vowels /ĩ, ũ, ɛ̃, ɔ̃, ã/ (Carlson 1994); all vowels may be short
or long, length deriving nearly exclusively from the elision of an intervocalic con-
sonant. Its syllabic structure is overwhelmingly CV, but like Fulfulde, it may allow
simple codas word-finally (Roulon 1968). Prosodically, it is classified as a tone
language, the number of tones varying from two to four depending on the dialect
and the linguistic description (Carlson 1994; Roulon 1968).
Songhay and Tamachek share the property of being spoken in the northern
part of Mali. Songhay can be subdivided into a number of varieties (Nicolaï 1981).
We will concentrate here on the variety spoken in the Gao region where our two
informants are from. In that variety, Songhay is a five-vowel system with phone-
mic length. The consonantal system matches the prototypical consonant system
given in Table 2 for occlusives and nasals, with additional prenasalized stops, and
includes in the Gao region the three voiceless fricatives /f, s, ʃ/ and two voiced
ones /z, ʒ/ (Nicolaï 1981). The syllabic structure of the language is CVC, where
the coda is usually a sonorant or the voiced bilabial. In varieties of Songhay in
close contact with Tamachek, any consonant may constitute a coda. Although
some varieties of Songhay may distinguish up to four distinct tones, the Gao va-
riety has fixed stress falling usually on the last syllable or on the penult of a word.
When Songhay is in close contact with Tamachek, it tends to adopt a very strong
word stress (Nicolaï 1981).15
Tamachek, a southern Berber language, exhibits a standard five vowel pat-
tern /i, u, e, o, ɑ/ with, in addition, two short vowels /æ, ə/. From the description
provided by Heath (2005), we assume that the so-called ‘full’ vowels are bimoraic
and the short vowels monomoraic. A lowering rule applies in certain environ-
ments, and Heath (2005: 35) gives a few examples where /e/ is lowered to [ɛ] and
/o/ to [ɔ]. The full series of voiceless and voiced fricatives (excluding /v/) are pres-
ent in the consonantal system, which includes uvular, pharyngeal and laryngeal
consonants. Tamachek possesses a CVC syllabic structure and allows complex
constituents. Stress, which is always assigned at the word-level, is either lexical or
rule-determined in the case of an unaccented stem.
The five languages share a number of linguistic features: the absence of front
rounded vowels and of the voiced fricative /v/; the presence of an apical trill /r/;
In official Malian documents, Syenara and Mamara are often grouped together, Syenara desig-
nating the Sikasso dialect (ibid.). Our two Syenara speakers are both from the Sikasso region.
15.	 “A la différence de ce qui se passe en songhay oriental les formes du songhay septentrional
du groupe nomade sont affectées d’un fort accent d’intensité, qualitativement identique à celui
de la (sic) tamacheq” (Nicolaï 1981: 234).
84	 Chantal Lyche and Ingse Skattum
vowel lowering triggered by a rhotic in coda position.16 The languages do differ,
however, in their prosodic structures and within their vocalic systems. Songhay
and Tamachek are strict five vowel systems with few mid-low vowels and we can
expect their speakers to struggle with the opposition mid-low vs. mid-high in L2
acquisition. Songhay and Tamachek are both CVC languages in contradistinction
with the other three and they are both characterized by lexical stress.
5.2	 The vocalic system
When the native speakers of these different African languages learn French, they
are faced with the difficulty that the target language possesses a larger number of
vowel categories than their own. One can assume that they will easily perceive the
categories of their native language, but that they will need to ‘learn’ to perceive
the categories that they lack, and in particular /y/ and /ø, œ/. We observe that
while most speakers show a reasonable mastery of /y/ in their production, very
few, if any, reach a FR native-like proficiency when it comes to /ø, œ/. How can
we account for this discrepancy in production? Recall that when a language uses
three vowels only, these vowels are /i, u, a/, which fill up the extreme periphery of
the vowel space, thus exhibiting a maximum of contrast and minimizing percep-
tual confusion. Boersma & Hamann (2008: 221) describe this phenomenon as a
“primary auditory dispersion effect: categories tend to be located within the audi-
tory space in such a way that they are perceptually maximally distinct”. In all the
African languages under consideration, the vocalic space is already fairly crowd-
ed in its center with aperture distinctions between [o] and [ɔ], [e] and [ɛ], even
though these distinctions are not systematically categorical, but rather allophonic
in all but Bambara. Therefore, introducing [ø, œ] renders the space even more
crowded, hindering both perception and acquisition. In addition, a markedness
factor no doubt intervenes in the deviant production of front rounded vowels
(assuming that they represent the intended target). Vowel inventories including
front rounded vowels are rare among the world’s languages, and /ø, œ/ are the last
vowels to be acquired by children, who replace them either by their unrounded
mid counterparts /e, ɛ/ or choose to give precedence to the feature [+ round] and
produce back rounded vowels (/o, ɔ/) (Andreassen forthc. for Swiss French chil-
dren). None of our speakers chooses the latter scenario, thus confirming that L2
acquisition activates specific strategies.
16.	 Vowel lowering before a rhotic is part of a general vowel lowering process in at least Syenara
and Tamachek (Carlson 1994; Heath 2005).
	 The phonological characteristics of French in Bamako, Mali	 85
Regarding high vowels on the other hand, we observe that the upper part of
the vowel space is less crowded than for mid vowels, the dispersion between /i/
and /u/ being extreme. FR includes only one series of high vowels and when /y/
is introduced into the system, it competes with /i/ and /u/ but not, for instance,
with a lax vowel. We thus expect that /y/ will be easier to acquire as a category
than /ø, œ/. In case of confusion, once again, the feature [round] proves to be
the culprit, and the speakers opt systematically for the front unrounded vowel /i/
and never for the back round /u/.17 Thus, both mid and high vowels confirm that
the combination of features that our speakers struggle with is [+front, +round]
and that they always resolve the problematic cooccurrence in favor of the form­
er over the latter. Although L2 acquisition triggers different strategies from L1
acquisition, this particular observation comes as no surprise when we consider
Jakobson’s (1971) developmental hierarchy for vowel sounds: first low /a/, then
high /i/, then either back /u/ or mid /e/, then mid-back /o/. The speakers give pri-
ority to [+front], not [+back, +round] in the acquisition process. Note moreover
that if /y/ may be realized as [u] in certain varieties (as in sucre [sukr], Boutin,
Gess & Gueye this vol.), /ø/ is never realized as [o], but may be realized as [e], thus
conforming to what is predicted by the hierarchy.
The degree of production competence varies from one speaker to the next,
but we would like to claim that /y/ and /ø/ are part of all speakers’ inventory even
though the distribution of these phonemes might be different from FR.18 In our
perception test (Lyche & Skattum 2010a), the subjects regularly refer to the dif-
ficulties encountered by the speakers of Songhay and Tamachek in articulating
front rounded vowels. These comments only partially reflect a linguistic reality
as basically all speakers at some point merge /e, ø, œ/ while only one (maabh1)
shows a strong tendency for using /i/ for /y/: dans la rue ([ri]), étude and all its
derived words are realized with an /i/ ([etid]). This informant is indeed a young
(age 24) speaker of Songhay (a student, very recently arrived in Bamako who
was raised by his grandfather, himself a speaker of Songhay and of Tamachek).
Speaker maabh1 alternates between the two vowels according to lexical items: j’ai
eu [ʒey], nourriture [nurityr] vs. étudier [etidje].
17.	 We do not find any such instance in our data, which does not mean that those realizations
do not occur. See Boutin, Gess & Gueye (this vol.) for Senegal, where both strategies are used.
It seems, however, that there exists a strong tendency to preserve the frontness of the vowels
rather than their roundness, as the deviant realizations of /ø, œ/ confirm (see below).
18.	 The PFC word list does not specifically test the pronunciation of /y/. The PFC text, on
the other hand, allows a comparison of the different realizations among speakers with words
like commune, usine, plus, s’assure, paru and shows that certain items are always pronounced
with /y/.
86	 Chantal Lyche and Ingse Skattum
The mid vowels behave differently from their FR counterparts, with all our in-
formants exhibiting a certain degree of confusion between /ø, œ, ə/ and /e/. Let us
stress that FR /ø, œ, ə/ are only exceptionally realized as open /ɛ/19 even though
the category /ɛ/ is present in the vowel inventory, as in Bambara. One informant
only, maafc1, performs like a native FR speaker in this respect: maafc1 is a speaker
of Fulfulde, a highly educated 50 year-old woman, leader of a non-governmental
organization, who resided in France for 10 years. Close to FR too,20 we find a
bambarophone, maasd1, an educated 68 year-old male, originally fulaphone. As
none of our speakers of Songhay and Tamachek but one (maabm1, a 30 year old
female with 10 years of schooling) makes clear aperture distinctions between the
front rounded vowels (which they readily replace by unrounded vowels), there
appears to be a certain link between the L1 and the robustness of the rounded
mid-vowel category in the speakers’ phonemic systems. Recall that both Songhay
and Tamachek are five-vowel systems with few open mid allophones. One should
keep in mind, however, that Songhay and Tamachek informants either have a
maximum of 10 years of schooling, or they moved recently to Bamako and have
had reduced exposure to French. It thus seems possible that the higher rate of
confusion observed among them can be attributed to factors other than the L1.
Tamachek includes in its inventory a schwa whose presence does not however
facilitate the realization of mid front rounded vowels. It is then obvious that the
speakers, when constructing a new vowel inventory, favor phonemic distinctions
even though they could make use of a phonetically closer sound, thus following
the category proximity principle as defined by LaCharité & Paradis (2005: 226) for
loanword adaptation:
Category proximity principle
If a given L2 phonological category (phoneme) does not exist in L1, this L2 cat-
egory will be replaced by the closest phonological category in L1, even if the L1
inventory contains acoustically closer sounds.
Even though we are here dealing with the acquisition of an L2, we see the same
principle at work: the speakers choose the phoneme /e/ over the phonetically
closer schwa [ə].
In the word list, all speakers but two (maafc1 and maasd1) pronounce chemise
and petit with an unrounded vowel ([ʃemiz] and [peti] respectively). Similarly,
when the verb venir in any of its possible forms occurs in the two conversations,
19.	 We noted a pair of such realizations for meurtre (maabm1 and maabh1).
20.	As in our perception test, subjects commented on vowel articulation (for ex. “Tamachek
speakers have problems with /y, ø/”), we assume that they regard the pronunciation of /y/ as [i]
and /ø/ as [e] as deviant from FR.
	 The phonological characteristics of French in Bamako, Mali	 87
it is systematically realized [venir]. As will be developed in Section 6, we have
grounds to claim that schwa is restricted to final syllables (clitics and polysyl-
lables) as vowels are stable in all other positions. This implies that most speakers
store in their lexicons chemise, petit, venir, etc., with an unrounded mid vowel in
the initial syllable of the words. On the other hand, all speakers round the vowel
in jeune or jeûne. In our data, schwa alone (and not FR /ø/ or /œ/) is realized as
the front unrounded vowel [e]: parce que [parske], beaucoup de [bokude], pas
de temps [padetɑ̃]. The lack of prosodic salience could be at play here, since a
schwa syllable in French rarely carries stress. In an unstressed context, the de-
mands for auditory contrast are reduced, favoring articulatory economy, which,
in our case, implies producing an unrounded vowel. In addition, certain speakers
show a strong tendency for associating a graphic <e> with /e/, while <eu> usually
corresponds to a front rounded vowel. maajs1 for example (whose L1 is Syenara)
rounds the vowel in des jeunets [deʒønɛ] and déjeuner [deʒøne] while she realizes
des genêts as [deʒenɛ]. The same speaker of Songhay who experiences difficul-
ties with the /y/-/i/ distinction, maabh1, pronounces rauque (FR [ʁoːk]) with a
final [e]: [roke]. He singles himself out as well by producing a mid-low vowel in
meurtre [mɛrtr], although the rest of his performance rates as average. It is there-
fore possible to consider that schwa is realized as [e, ø], a tendency due to a
combination of prosodic and orthographic factors, while the phoneme /ø/ is ap-
propriately acquired, barring a few individual idiosyncrasies,21 which sets it apart
from its FR equivalent.
The distribution of the unrounded mid vowels /e, ɛ/ follows the classical
norm: */e/ in closed syllables where /ɛ/ is required, but a standard contrast in
open syllables, épée in opposition with épais (/epe/ vs. /epɛ/) for all speakers. One
item exhibits a high degree of variation: piquet is pronounced with a mid-low
vowel by eight of the 13 speakers. We see here the influence of the orthography as
piquais on the other hand shows a mid-high vowel in accordance with the ortho-
epic rule associating a mid-low vowel with the ending ‑ais.
In final closed syllables, the mid vowel /O/22 tends to follow the pattern de-
scribed for /E/, often being open in opposition to the preferred norm. From the
PFC word list, we have: rauque, FR [ʁoːk], pronounced [rɔk] by seven speakers;
paume, FR [poːm], pronounced [pɔm] by five speakers; and gnôle, FR [njoːl], pro-
nounced [njɔl] by ten speakers. Orthography, and in particular the association
in schools of the circumflex accent with an open mid vowel, probably explains
21.	 Among various idiosyncrasies, let us mention isolated instances of hypercorrection: piquet
[pikɛ] pronounced [pikø] and fêtard [fɛtar] pronounced [føtar].
22.	 Capital letters are given for underspecified segments.
88	 Chantal Lyche and Ingse Skattum
the large consensus in the pronunciation of gnôle (‘brandy’), a rather rarely used
word. The same phenomenon is observed for jeûne which is pronounced [ʒœn] by
four speakers in isolation, while most speakers show a high insecurity level in the
minimal pairs: either the two words jeune and jeûne are pronounced alike, prefer-
ably with a mid-high vowel, or they are inverted. This fact stresses the problems
that all speakers face regarding the realization of /ø, œ/ and their distributions.
From our observations, we conclude that the phonemic inventory contains the
phoneme /ø/, but that the distribution between the two allophones [ø, œ] remains
subject to individual variation in spite of a number of (pan) African tendencies,
with peuple, creuse for example, always showing a mid-high vowel (Boutin &
Turcsan 2009).23 The low functional load and the low frequency rate of the vowel
ensure that the phoneme /ø/ remains endangered in most speakers’ inventories.
Similar to other African varieties, the French spoken by our Mali informants
does not oppose a front and a back /A/, the only low vowel being [a]. The situation
for the nasal vowels proves more complex: bambarophones differentiate easily /œ̃/
and /ɛ̃/, as expected, considering the rich nasal vowel inventory of their L1, while
the situation varies for the other speakers. We observe here a clear link between
the use of the two phonemes and extralinguistic factors like education, mobility,
exposure to French, the speakers of Songhay and Tamachek tending to one pho-
neme only, the preferred vowel being rounded /œ̃/.
Generalizingsomewhatacrossspeakers,weproposeavowelsystemcomposed
of nine oral vowels /i, y, u, e, ø, o, ɛ, ɔ, a/ and three nasal vowels /œ̃, ɔ̃, ɑ̃/.
5.3	 The consonantal system
The French consonant system is well assimilated by our speakers, differing essen-
tially from FR in the articulation of the rhotic which is either an apical trill or a
tap. Apart from the rhotic, we observe minimal interference from the consonantal
system of the different L1s. Such interference, when it exists, concerns individual
speakers and cannot be generalized to all speakers of the same L1. We mentioned
in Section 5.1 that Bambara and Fulfulde do not include in their inventories
voiced fricatives and the voiceless alveo-palatal fricative /ʃ/24. We then expect
speakers to show a certain degree of confusion in the production of these sounds.
In fact, only one of our speakers, maabd1, a bambarophone, does not possess the
alveo-palatal fricatives: benjamin [bɛ̃zamɛ̃] for [bɛ̃ʒamɛ̃], chaussures [sosyr] for
23.	 According to Boutin & Turcsan (2009: 146), in Ivory Coast French, the mid-low vowel oc-
curs in a syllable closed by /r/ or when the graphic vowel bears a circumflex accent.
24.	Although both [ʃ] and [z] are quite common as allophones of /s/.
	 The phonological characteristics of French in Bamako, Mali	 89
[ʃosyr] among other examples. Another bambarophone, maasd1, shows a ten-
dency to use the velar glide [w] instead of the fricative [v] (pouvait [puwɛ]). We
could attribute those pronunciations to reduced schooling and lack of exposure to
French, but we need more data to test this hypothesis. While the two fulaphones,
who display excellent FR proficiency, have indeed completed higher university
education, thereby supporting our hypothesis, the profile of these two Bambara
speakers invalidates it: maabd1 completed six years of school (CEP) only, but on
the other hand, his work environment (the University of Bamako) requires regu-
lar use of French; maasd1 finished his high school education (baccalauréat), but
he is much older without current exposure to French.
We underlined in Section 5.1 that Bambara, Fulfulde and Syenara are all more
or less strict CV languages in opposition to Songhay and Tamachek. The CV pref-
erence triggers for example, the insertion of a vowel to break up a cluster as in trop
usually pronounced [toro] by basilectal25 speakers of French with a CV language
as L1. Our speakers on the other hand, do not show difficulties in the articulation
of complex onsets. We searched for a CV preference word-finally among speakers
of Bambara, which is a strict CV language. Our data show subtle distinctions that
we will exemplify with intact and infect taken from the word list: intact is realized
[ɛ̃tak] by two speakers of Syenara and two speakers of Bambara, and as [ɛ̃tat] by
one speaker of Songhay; infect is realized [ɛ̃fɛk] by one speaker of Syenara, one
speaker of Bambara and three speakers of Tamachek. Out of seven speakers whose
L1 is a CV language, two speakers only (Bambara and Syenara) drop the final plo-
sive in both words. Different tendencies emerge when we consider the clusters
in explosion, extraordinaire, ex-mari. The clusters are maintained by all northern
speakers except maazw1 (Tamachek, an artist who travels extensively) who sim-
plifies the cluster in extraordinaire [ɛstraɔrdinɛr], while five of the CV language
speakers simplify the cluster in one or several words: maajs1 (Syenara) simpli-
fies all clusters and drops final consonants, but her behavior singles her out. We
can conclude that there is a certain amount of interference from the speaker’s L1
counterbalanced by extralinguistic factors. All speakers, however, tend to devoice
stops and fricatives word-finally, regardless of their L1. In the text for example, all
speakers maintain a voiced fricative in chemises en soie ([ʃəmizɑ̃swa]) when the
final consonant is resyllabified as an onset of the following word within the same
prosodic unit, but village, barrage, chaudes, all show devoiced segments. This fea-
ture appears to be common to several varieties of African French (see Boutin &
Turcsan 2009; Bordal this vol.; Boutin, Gess & Gueye this vol.). Final stops tend to
be unreleased (see Boutin, Gess & Gueye this vol.), but the picture here is blurred
25.	 In a linguistic continuum of varieties, the basilect is the furthest removed from the superior
pole, called acrolect, with intermediate varieties making up the mesolect (Chaudenson 1997).
90	 Chantal Lyche and Ingse Skattum
by the interference of the L1 and by the amount of exposure to French: maafc1 for
example, who practices French daily and who lived in France for 10 years, clearly
releases all final stops while devoicing the final fricatives (des barrages, where the
final expected [ʒ] does not show any voicing bars in the spectrogram).
Searching for distinctions between the speakers due to interference from the
different L1s leads us to consider the behavior of the rhotic. It is well known that
French Creoles, all CV languages, eliminate /R/ in coda position (Nikiema 2002),
and this particularity carries over to bilingual (Creole-French) speakers when
they speak French. Bordal (2006) conclusively shows that in the variety of French
spoken in Reunion Island, /R/ exhibits a high degree of instability especially in
coda position. /R/ may drop in both unstressed and stressed syllables, which may
induce a compensatory lengthening effect on the preceding vowel, or it may re-
duce to a vocalic appendix of a schwa-like quality. Different varieties of French in
Africa behave similarly (Boutin & Turcsan 2009; Bordal this vol.) when the speak-
ers’ L1 is a CV language. Given the divergent syllabic structures of the L1s under
consideration in this study, we expected distinct speaker behaviors and in particu-
lar, we hypothesized that speakers of Songhay and Tamachek would articulate /R/
in coda position in opposition to speakers of Bambara, Syenara and Fulfulde. This
prediction was verified throughout the data although the /R/-less pronunciation
of a few items is generalized: all speakers produce parler, peut-être and parce que
without the rhotic ([pale], [pøtɛt], [paskø] respectively). The pronunciation of the
last two items corresponds to a FR realization where obstruent + liquid clusters
simplify readily in conversations (Laks 1977; Wachs 1997), and where [paskø] is
the most common realization of the conjunction. The verb parler then constitutes
the only exception, one that we attribute to frequency of usage. The /R/-less form
is widely used in Reunion French as well as in the Central African Republic, and
we suspect that it is stored as such in most speakers’ lexicons.
Songhay and Tamachek speakers massively maintain the rhotic in all envi-
ronments, including those where it is highly susceptible to deletion in FR. Final
obstruent + liquid clusters are regularly simplified in FR. Stigmatized at first, and
more advanced in North American varieties of French, this phenomenon proves
remarkably active in all registers of FR. The PFC text, read by all our subjects,
contains a number of candidates for final cluster simplification with words like
ministre, centre, etc., which the coding system allows us to retrieve. We searched
the database for cluster simplification among upper-class Parisian speakers who
can be characterized as representing a conservative variety of French (Lyche &
Østby 2009) and found 18 such occurrences. We performed the same search for
Bamako, which gave us (for our 13 speakers) 38 instances of simplification with
only two emanating from a Tamachek speaker and none from a Songhay speaker:
maazw1 (an international artist much exposed to French) produces ministre twice
	 The phonological characteristics of French in Bamako, Mali	 91
without the /R/.26 maaaw1, another Tamachek speaker (a housewife with only
CEP and not much exposure to FR), is typical in this respect. In her semi-formal
conversation, she regularly used the verb partir, and unlike Syenara, Bambara or
Fulfulde speakers, who frequently delete both /R/s, she articulates them distinctly.
The word théâtre happens to be recurrent in the same conversation, and she never
simplifies the final cluster. In comparison, maant1, a Syenara speaker, deletes most
of the rhotics in coda position: garçon [ɡaːsõ], jardinière [ʒaːdinɛə] or [ʒaːdinɛr].
The rate of /R/ presence clearly differentiates Songhay and Tamachek speak-
ers from their Bambara, Syenara or Fulfulde compatriots. In the perception test
carried out by Lyche & Skattum (2010a), the subjects performed better at identi-
fying northern speakers, and among the discriminating factors they pointed to a
different articulation of the rhotic. According to the literature at hand (Carlson
1994; Cissé 2009; Dumestre 2003; Heath 2005; Nicolaï 1981), all the languages
under scrutiny realize the rhotic consonant as a dento-alveolar trill. This particu-
lar articulation seems to be the only one used in Songhay and Tamachek, while
the other three languages alternate between a dento-alveolar trill, a flap and a
uvular approximant. We concur with the subjects in perceiving a more distinct
articulation of /r/ in Tamachek and Songhay, a distinction which could arise from
a larger number of vibrations. We propose, however, a divergent explanation, par-
tially independent of articulation. We contend that the overwhelming presence
of rhotics in the discourse of Tamachek and Songhay speakers singles them out
and contributes to their identification (Lyche & Skattum 2010a). In addition, but
probably of less consequence, the distinct articulation of the consonant combined
with its stability reinforces positive identification of the speakers’ origins. Further
tests and further research are required in order to fully understand the factors
at play, but there is no doubt that the behavior of the rhotic constitutes a strong
discriminating element among the different L1s.
6.	 Schwa
The stability of schwa characterizes a number of varieties of French spoken in
Africa, for example in Senegal or Central African Republic (Boutin, Gess & Gueye,
Bordal this vol.). In this regard, our speakers’ behavior confirms previous observa-
tions: schwa is restricted to word-final position (clitics and polysyllables) and to
word-internal position, but excluded from word-initial position. Let us first under-
line that by schwa we understand a vowel alternating between a full vowel ([ø, œ,
26.	She is also the only Tamachek speaker to simplify internal clusters in the word list as al-
ready mentioned above.
92	 Chantal Lyche and Ingse Skattum
ə, e]27) and zero. A schwa usually corresponds to the letter <e>. We adopt here a
narrow view of schwa in that when a vowel is stable, it can no longer be a schwa (as
has been proposed for Midi French, see Durand 1995; Eychenne 2006). Based on
the results of the PFC coding system (Durand & Lyche 2003), we will comment on
the presence/absence of schwa in the different positions in the word.
Word-finally, schwa rarely surfaces, but its frequency in this specific context
surpasses what we can find in other survey points. Considering exclusively the
two conversations, very few schwas occur word-finally after a single consonant
(61 schwas for 1,093 unrealized schwas), and this number shrinks further to 18
when we exclude all final schwas followed by the hesitation marker euh, e.g.: là ils
viennent euh (maaaw1). We presume that in those cases, the vowel might be part
of the hesitation marker or that it signals ongoing discourse planning. At the end
of a word after a consonant cluster, however, schwa shows a high degree of stabil-
ity: 50 absences vs. 68 presences. The absence of schwa occurs when the cluster is
reduced to a single consonant (maasd1: par exemp(le) [ekzɑ̃p] mon vieux), while
the vowel is retained when both consonants are pronounced even if the following
word is vowel initial: pas du tout impossible [ɛ̃posiblə] à relever (maash1). With-
out the schwa, the word-final syllable would include a heavy coda, banned by
Bambara, Syenara, Fulfulde: [ekzɑ̃pl], [ɛ̃posibl].28 A highly undesirable structure
is repaired either minimally by the simplification of a coda (but still a marked
structure) or by the presence of a final schwa creating a new syllable and ensuring
that the last two syllables are open. This repair strategy concerns mainly speakers
whose L1 is a CV language, while Songhay and particularly Tamachek speakers
(as already mentioned in Section 5.3) are much less prone to simplify the clusters,
much less in fact than what is observed in FR.
Contexts other than word-final unveil, as expressed in Table 4, a confirmed
tendency towards a stabilization of the vowel in the context V(#)Cə, a prime
environment for variation in FR (Dell 1973).
The table shows an extremely high level of stabilization of schwa. In word-
initial position schwa shows a presence rate of greater than 97%. The two occur-
rences where schwa is dropped word-initially are standard cases involving the
prefix re- and the adjective petit: il est r(e)venu à Bamako (maant1); Ils avaient
une p(e)tite connaissance (maass1). The absence of schwa in these two examples
27.	 As shown in Section 5, a schwa is often realized as [e].
28.	Note that the illicit structure is not repaired by a possible enchaînement (forward linking),
usually so characteristic of French prosodic structure. For all our speakers, the basic stress unit
is built upon a lexical word, and cannot incorporate several such words, as is usually the case in
FR where the basic stress unit may include several lexical items. We will see in Section 7 how
prosodic structure impacts on liaison as well.
	 The phonological characteristics of French in Bamako, Mali	 93
cannot be directly correlated with the education level of the speakers as maass1,
a medical secretary who has studied five years in France, shows a different profile
from maant1, a kindergarten teacher with 11 years of schooling who has always
lived in Mali. Among the 69 occurrences of realized schwas we count several in-
stances of petit(e), a large number of the prefix re-, indicating a lack of correspon-
dence between the absence of schwa and the frequency (or the internal structure)
of an item. This entails that schwa syllables are absent word-initially for the large
majority of speakers and that word-initial syllables only include lexically stable
vowels.
In contradistinction to FR, schwa is massively present in clitics, including
je (je pense que). Absence of schwa is limited to a few frequent locutions. The
interrogative qu’est-c(e) que and the locution n’est-ce pas are the most likely candi-
dates for the absence of the vowel and we presume that they are both lexicalized
as such. In addition, a third (19 out of 58) of the occurrences of absent schwas
involves the negation ne. The presence of the particle ne constitutes a pan Afri-
can tendency29 and requires some attention since a large number of studies (inter
alii, Ashby 1981; Coveney 1996) have shown that the first part of the negation
in conversational French is massively absent. The Vendée data, taken here as an
example of FR, provide a case in point. The PFC search engine allows search-
ing for autonomous words (or strings of characters) in the transcription and we
count 307 occurrences of pas for 4 occurrences of ne.30 In our data, on the oth-
er hand, a similar search extracts 269 occurrences of ne for 572 occurrences of
pas, that is about 50% of the occurrences.31 The coded portion of the data shows
that, when the negation particle ne is present (37 occurrences), it may be reduced
with a reduction rate close to 50% (18 with a vowel and 19 without). A closer
29.	Queffélec (2008: 73) notes the “maintien très fréquent (statistiquement largement supérieur
à ce qu’on observe en français oral européen) de l’adverbe ne comme signe de la négation ver-
bale : même en situation informelle, cet indice négatif clitique reste présent dans le discours
parlé africain, là où il a largement disparu en français hexagonal”.
30.	Recall that the PFC protocol specifies that any element absent from the signal is not tran-
scribed as in il vient pas, faut qu’il vienne, etc.
31.	 In this number are included repetitions and locutions like pas encore.
Table 4.  Schwa distribution in conversations
Schwa present Schwa absent
Polysyllables initial   69   2
Clitics 359 58
Polysyllables medial   40 49
94	 Chantal Lyche and Ingse Skattum
examination of the verbs involved does not highlight any tendency; no lexicaliza-
tion is taking place, for example, in je ne sais pas, je ne peux pas which, consider-
ing the frequency of these two expressions, would appear as good candidates for
the absence of the vowel. Among clitics, ne maintains an underlying schwa while
the vowel may have stabilized elsewhere.
Another locus of true variation, as indicated in Table 4, is word-internal posi-
tion with about a 50% rate of schwa retention. Here, too, numbers alone do not
present an accurate picture of the data and can, in fact, be deceptive. Out of the
49 occurrences where schwa is absent, 24 concern parce que and nine the adverb
maintenant, which reduces considerably the number of items subject to varia-
tion. If parce que never appears with a schwa, thus indicating that it is stored as
/parskø/ (or more often /paskø/) by the speakers, maint(e)nant freely alternates
with maintenant and has not (yet) lexicalized without the vowel. It is noteworthy,
however, that this particular adverb should provide the prime locus of variation:
in all varieties of French its frequency of use ranks extremely high and it is sys-
tematically pronounced without schwa except in the most conservative varieties
of Midi French.
Before concluding this section, we turn briefly to the pronunciation of schwa
in the text. As expected, the vowel shows even more stability in the reading task.
Out of 11 schwas absent in clitics, seven involve the interrogation qu’est-ce que,
and only six occurrences of absent schwas word-internally can be observed. As a
comparison, the Paris data from the upper-class bourgeoisie, with only one more
speaker, total 40 absent schwas in clitics and 35 word-internally in the text. The
high level of schwa presence in the Bamako data finds a natural explanation in the
way French is acquired. As underlined in Section 3, French in Mali is never an L1;
it is learned at school and, in spite of the crying lack of teaching material, the rela-
tionship to the language remains highly influenced by the written word. We thus
conclude that the scope of schwa is much more restricted than in FR, confined as
it is to word-final syllables where it exhibits a larger degree of variation in polysyl-
lables than in clitics. If a few speakers have internalized a word-medial schwa, the
word-initial position admits full vowels only.
7.	 Liaison
Limited variation, particularly prevalent for schwa among our speakers, charac-
terizes liaison as well. In an analysis of liaison in four survey points in Africa
(Abidjan, Bangui, Ouagadougou and Bamako), Bordal & Lyche (2008) showed
that categorical liaison was restricted to determiners + nouns, pronouns + verb,
and the prepositions en, dans + NP, all other contexts being variable. A number
	 The phonological characteristics of French in Bamako, Mali	 95
of studies have underlined that morphological information is relayed via liaison
(Morin & Kaye 1982; Durand & Lyche 2008, among others), which strengthens
this particular context, as stated in Rosset (1911: 283):
Il faut remarquer que, mis à part les locutions toutes faites […], les mots qui font
liaison sont tous terminés en t, s ou n ; t, s, n étant des consonnes de désinences,
avaient un rôle morphologique qui leur donnait une plus forte résistance à la
tendance phonétique qui les amüissait.
In other words, the reason why the word-final consonants /t, s, n/ do not delete
stems from their morphological roles which have strengthened them and ensured
that they are not affected by the general tendency toward final consonant weak-
ening.32 In our survey, the distribution of the three consonants is as follows: /z/
212, /n/ 130, /t/ 46. Morphology alone however fails to account for the massive
supremacy of /z/ as a liaison consonant. Liaison is maintained when it fulfills
a morphological role but exclusively within a close prosodic unit, preferably a
prosodic word defined as a potential stress-bearing domain. When we consider
the 212 occurrences of realized liaisons in /z/, we observe that liaison is indeed
systematic between a determiner or a clitic and its head, with only five cases fall-
ing outside these categories. Out of these five tokens, two involve the preposition
dans (dans un rôle de parleur) and three adverbs: two occurrences of très (très in-
téressant, très exactement), one of pas (c’est pas un p/). None of the other contexts
triggers categorical liaison in the different tasks. The conversations, for example,
show a total of 44 instances where (c’)est does not link to the following word, con-
firming that the morphological role of the liaison consonant is restricted to the
indication of a plural marker.
Following polysyllabic words, liaison rarely occurs (8/119 occurrences in the
conversations) and all the instances but one (étaient élevées) concern the plural
form of an adjective followed by a noun: autres, premières, différentes, petits. The
text further confirms the variability of liaison in contexts other than det/clitics +
head and more specifically the absence of standard liaison between an adjective
and a noun: if 11 speakers pronounce a liaison in grand honneur, only nine do so
in grand émoi.
This highly restricted liaison usage, confining it mostly to categorical liaison,
is similar to what has been observed in other African countries (Bordal & Lyche
2008; Bordal this vol.; Boutin, Gess & Gueye this vol.). It reflects the situation
in another region where French interacts daily with another language, namely
32.	 Note, however, that while /z/ is associated with a plural marker and /t/ with a verbal marker,
the role of /n/ as a morphological desinence is less clear.
96	 Chantal Lyche and Ingse Skattum
Louisiana French (Klingler & Lyche this vol.).33 When reduced to its bare mini-
mum, liaison in its core function bears a prosodic role enhanced by a morpholog-
ical one.34 What we do not observe in those varieties is a high degree of variation
between the different styles. While this absence supports the view that Louisiana
French exhibits a number of characteristics of attrition (Rottet 2005), reinforced
by the lack of literacy in French among speakers, such should not be the case in
Mali, where French is mostly the language of formal interactions. Just like schwa
can be claimed to stabilize thanks to a spelling influence, we would expect in our
data a higher rate of liaison than what is observed. In fact, our speakers, even
the most educated ones, do not present any of the characteristics associated with
the influence of spelling on pronunciation, and in particular, we do not find a
single occurrence of unlinked liaison (liaison sans enchaînement) as described
by Encrevé (1988). The explanation for this state of affairs probably rests upon a
prosodic factor common to African varieties of French and Louisiana French. In
none of the different L1s of the speakers does stress carry a demarcative function
as it does in FR. Recall that French does not have word stress, only phrasal stress,
and that liaison has been seen to strengthen the internal cohesion of the constitu-
ents within a stress group (Selkirk 1974). The prosody of the different varieties of
French in Africa differs greatly from its FR counterpart and the impact of the L1
should not be underestimated (Lyche & Skattum 2010a).
From this discussion, we infer that the prosodic word, as a stress unit in Mali
French, integrates a lexical word and its clitics. Liaison is then categorical within
the prosodic word. It follows from this definition that monosyllabic prepositions
are not integrated within a prosodic word as posited in earlier studies (Selkirk
1974); rather, they constitute an independent prosodic unit. If such is the case,
the contrastive behavior of the two monosyllabic prepositions dans and chez calls
for an explanation. In our corpus,35 a categorical liaison follows dans but not chez,
although both prepositions are monosyllabic. We attribute the difference to a fre-
quency factor: in the PFC database, we count 4860 occurrences of dans for 963 of
chez, indicating that dans is much more present in daily interactions and therefore
forms with the following lexical item a construction in the sense of Bybee (2001).
An on-going study among non-literate speakers in Senegal by Boutin (p.c.)
33.	 The fragility of the system is also stressed by Walker (this vol.) for French in Alberta.
34.	 See in addition the study of Aub-Buscher (1962) of the dialect of Ranrupt in eastern
France.
35.	 A similar situation is observed in Abidjan, Ouagadougou and Bangui (Bordal & Lyche
2008).
	 The phonological characteristics of French in Bamako, Mali	 97
confirms the main taxonomy established above, thereby eliminating any impact
of orthography on liaison in African varieties of French.
8.	 Conclusion
This chapter has examined the main characteristics of the French spoken in Ba-
mako by 13 speakers of five different L1s. Although the phonemic inventory we
posited for these speakers differs little from FR, we noted four salient characteris-
tics: (1) a specific distribution of round mid vowels; (2) the fronting of schwa and
its stabilization in word-initial and word-internal positions; (3) the specific real-
ization of the rhotic; (4) the quasi absence of variable liaison. Taken collectively
or individually, these features do not single out a particular variety of French,
as identical traits prevail in other varieties of African French (Bordal this vol.;
Boutin, Gess & Gueye this vol.; Bordal & Lyche 2008). This could be taken to sup-
port the idea of an “inter-African norm”, often mentioned in the literature, e.g., by
Manessy (1992: 62):
Plus surprenante est l’impression de cohérence que procure l’examen d’ensemble
des données36 et qui a conduit certains auteurs à postuler l’existence d’une ‘nor-
me interafricaine’ justifiant la reconnaissance d’une variété régionale de français
coextensive à l’Afrique noire francophone.
Our study showed, however, that a number of differences emerged when we
took into consideration the L1 of the speakers. We opposed in particular the two
northern languages Songhay and Tamachek to Bambara, Fulfulde and Syenara.
The fact that both Songhay and Tamachek are C(C)VC(C) languages distinguish-
es their speakers from the others, who tend to simplify clusters and in particular
to drop the rhotic in coda position. Our speakers of northern languages maintain
the rhotic in contradistinction to their compatriots, as well as to speakers of FR.
The vowel inventory of the L1 was also shown to impact the distribution of vow-
els in French. Finally, although not explored here, the prosody of the L1 colors
the French of our speakers (Lyche & Skattum 2010a), a fact deserving further
attention.
When examining certain extralinguistic factors, however, we see that the im-
pact of the L1 is leveled out, reminding us that French in Mali is an L2, always
subject to development in contact with other languages. In this respect, we also
acknowledge the importance of Bamako, the capital, a melting pot where Bambara
36.	 From seven African countries.
98	 Chantal Lyche and Ingse Skattum
functions as a vehicular language, its regular use smoothing out the specific fea-
tures of the other L1s. The urban influence is stressed by Manessy (1994: 15):
il se crée […] en Afrique des variétés locales, plus exactement nationales, car
ce phénomène [‘la systématisation des manières de dire’] est surtout urbain et
l’effet de la capitale y joue un grand rôle […] que ce soit sur le plan phonétique,
sur le plan lexical ou, au niveau du discours, dans le maniement des ressources
intonatives […].
Though we concur with Gadet & Jones (2008: 238) (cited above, see Section 4),
that “the very act of considering languages at a ‘national’ level could be criticized
as something of an over-simplification”, we do not see a contradiction in terms in
the coexistence of local and pan African features. Together with, for example, the
level of education and exposure to French, diatopic differences across varieties
give African French its distinctive color. The French spoken in Bamako is thus
one and many, its diversity contributing to the wealth of the French language.
References
Andreassen, Helene N. forthc. The acquisition of schwa in Swiss French. Phonological variation
in grammar during L1 acquisition. PhD diss., University of Tromsø.
Ashby, William. 1981. The loss of the negative particle ne in French: A syntactic change in
progress. Language 57: 674–687.
Aub-Buscher, Gertrud. 1962. Le parler rural de Ranrupt (Bas-Rhin): essai de dialectologie vos-
gienne. Paris: Klincksieck.
Banque Mondiale. 2007. L’éducation au Mali. Diagnostic pour le renouvellement de la politique
éducative en vue d’atteindre les objectifs du Millénaire. 2007. Washington DC: Banque
Mondiale.
Boersma, Paul, and Silke Hamann. 2008. The evolution of auditory dispersion in bidirectional
constraint grammars. Phonology 25: 217–270.
Bordal, Guri. 2006. Traces de la créolisation dans un français régional. Le cas du /R/ à l’île de la
Réunion, Master thesis, University of Oslo. www.projet-pfc.net.
Bordal, Guri, and Chantal Lyche. 2008. La liaison en terre africaine. Paper presented at the
conference Phonologie du français contemporain: variation, interfaces, cognition, December
11–13, 2008. FMSH, Paris. www.projet-pfc.net.
Boutin, Béatrice A., Chantal Lyche, and Gisèle Prignitz. 2007. PFC en terre africaine. Bulletin
PFC 7: 297–326. www.projet-pfc.net.
Boutin, Béatrice A., and Gabor Turcsan. 2009. La prononciation du français en Afrique: la Côte
d’Ivoire. In Phonologie, variation et accents du français, eds. Jacques Durand, Bernard Laks
and Chantal Lyche, 131–152. Paris: Hermès – Lavoisier.
Brock-Utne, Birgit, and Ingse Skattum, eds. 2009. Languages and education in Africa. A com-
parative and transdisciplinary analysis. Oxford: Symposium Books.
Bybee, Joan. 2001. Phonology and language use. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
	 The phonological characteristics of French in Bamako, Mali	 99
Calvet, Louis-Jean. 1994. Les voix de la ville. Introduction à la sociolinguistique urbaine. Paris:
Payot.
Canut, Cécile, and Gérard Dumestre. 1993. Français, bambara et langues nationales au Mali. In
Le français dans l’espace francophone, tome 1, eds. Didier de Robillard and Michel Benia-
mino, 219–228. Paris: Champion.
Carlson, Robert. 1994. A grammar of Supyire. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Chaudenson, Robert. 1997. «Acrolecte», «Basilecte», «Mésolecte». In Sociolinguistique. Con-
cepts de base, ed. Marie-Louise Moreau, 19–20, 60, 210. Bruxelles: Mardaga.
Chaudenson, Robert, Raymond Mougeon, and Édouard Beniak. 1993. Vers une approche pan-
lectale de la variation du français. Paris: Didier Érudition.
Cissé, Ibrahima. 2009. Comparaison de deux langues en contact, le fulfulde et le bambara, dans
une perspective typologique: structures phonémiques, syllabiques et lexicales. Mémoire de
master, Université Stendhal Grenoble III.
Clements, G. Nick. 2004. Phonologie. In Les langues africaines, eds. Bernd Heine and Derek
Nurse, 149–192. Paris: Karthala.
Coveney, Aidan. 1996. Variability in spoken French: A sociolinguistic study of interrogation and
negation. Exeter: Elm Bank Publications.
Cuq, Jean-Pierre. 1991. Le français langue seconde: origines d’une notion et implications didac-
tiques. Paris: Hachette.
Dell, François. 1973. Les règles et les sons. Paris: Hermann.
Dister, Anne, Françoise Gadet, Ralph Ludwig, Chantal Lyche, Lorenza Mondada, Stefan Pfän-
der, Anne Catherine Simon, and Ingse Skattum. 2008. Deux nouveaux corpus internatio-
naux du français: CIEL-F (Corpus International et Ecologique de la Langue Française) et
CFA (Français contemporain en Afrique et dans l’Océan Indien). Revue de linguistique
romane 72: 295–314.
Dombrowsky, Klaudia. 1994. La situation sociolinguistique du sud du Mali (pays minyanka). In
Stratégies communicatives au Mali: langues régionales, bambara, français, ed. Gérard Du-
mestre, 13–88. Paris: Agence de Coopération Culturelle et Technique & Didier Érudition.
Dumestre, Gérard, ed. 1994a. Stratégies communicatives au Mali: langues régionales, bambara,
français. Paris: Agence de Coopération Culturelle et Technique & Didier Érudition.
Dumestre, Gérard. 1994b. Le trinôme langues régionales – bambara – français. In Stratégies
communicatives au Mali: langues régionales, bambara, français, ed. Gérard Dumestre, 3–
11. Paris: Agence de Coopération Culturelle et Technique & Didier Érudition.
Dumestre, Gérard. 2003. Grammaire fondamentale du bambara. Paris: Karthala.
Durand, Jacques. 1995. Alternances vocaliques en français du Midi et phonologie du gouverne-
ment. Lingua 95: 27–50.
Durand, Jacques, and Chantal Lyche. 2003. Le projet ‘Phonologie du Français Contemporain’
(PFC) et sa méthodologie. In Corpus et variation en phonologie du français: méthodes et
analyses, eds. Elisabeth Delais-Roussarie and Jacques Durand, 212–276. Toulouse: Presses
Universitaires du Mirail.
Durand, Jacques, and Chantal Lyche. 2008. French liaison in the light of corpus data. Journal of
French Language Studies 18: 33–66.
Encrevé, Pierre. 1988. La liaison avec et sans enchaînement. Paris: Seuil.
L’état de l’Afrique 2012. 2012. Paris: Jeune Afrique, hors série no. 30.
Eychenne, Julien. 2006. Aspects de la phonologie du schwa dans le français contemporain. Op-
timalité, visibilité prosodique, gradience. Thèse de doctorat, Université de Toulouse-Le
Mirail.
100	 Chantal Lyche and Ingse Skattum
Gadet, Françoise, and Mari C. Jones. 2008. Variation, contact and convergence in French spo-
ken outside France. Journal of Language Contact – THEMA 2: 238–248.
Gordon, Raymond G., and Barbara F. Grimes, eds. 2005. Ethnologue: Languages of the world.
15th ed. Dallas, Texas: Summer Institute of Linguistics International.
Hamers, Josiane F. 1997. Interférence. In Sociolinguistique. Concepts de base, ed. Marie-Louise
Moreau, 178–179. Bruxelles: Mardaga.
Heath, Jeffrey. 2005. A grammar of Tamashek (Tuareg of Mali). Berlin & New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Heine, Bernd, and Derek Nurse, eds. 2004. Les langues africaines. Paris: Karthala. Orig. title
(2000) African languages: An introduction. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Jakobson, Roman. 1971. Studies on child language and aphasia. The Hague: Mouton (1941,
Kindersprache, Aphasie und allgemeine Lautgesetze, Uppsala: Allmqvist & Wiksell.)
LaCharité, Darlene, and Carole Paradis. 2005. Category preservation and proximity versus
phonetic approximation in loanword adaptation. Linguistic Inquiry 36 (2): 223–258.
Laks, Bernard. 1977. Contribution empirique à l’analyse sociodifférentielle de la chute des /r/
dans les groupes consonantiques finals. Langue française 34: 109–125.
Lyche, Chantal, and Ingse Skattum. 2010a. Le rôle de la L1 dans le français du Mali: une étude
perceptive. In Congrès mondial de linguistique française – CMLF 2010, eds. Franck Neveu
et al., 1913–1926. Paris: Institut de Linguistique Française.
Lyche, Chantal, and Ingse Skattum 2010b. Le français contemporain en Afrique et dans l’Océan
Indien: usages, variétés et structure. Le Français en Afrique 26: 9–20.
Lyche, Chantal, and Kathrine Asla Østby. 2009. Le français de la haute bourgeoisie parisienne:
une variété conservatrice? In Phonologie, variation et accents du français, eds. Jacques Du-
rand, Bernard Laks and Chantal Lyche, 203–230. Paris: Hermès – Lavoisier.
Manessy, Gabriel. 1992. Norme endogène et normes pédagogiques en Afrique noire franco-
phone. In Multilinguisme et développement dans l’espace francophone eds. Daniel Baggioni
et al., 43–81. Aix-en-Provence & Paris: Institut d’études créoles et francophones, Univer-
sité de Provence & Didier Érudition.
Manessy, Gabriel. 1994. Pratique du français en Afrique noire francophone. Langue française
104: 11–19.
Morin, Yves Charles, and Jonathan Kaye. 1982. The syntactic bases for French liaison. Journal
of Linguistics 18: 291–330.
Nicolaï, Robert. 1981. Les dialectes du songhay. Contribution à l’étude des changements linguis-
tiques. Paris: SELAF.
Nicolaï, Robert. 1989. Songhay et mandé. Mandenkan 18: 69–80.
Nikiema, Emmanuel. 2002. Les (parlers) français ont le schwa, les créoles ont l’r. In Créolistique
et linguistique, eds. Claudine Bavoux and Didier de Robillard, 77–96. Paris: Antrophos.
Ploog, Katja. 2008. Subversion of language structure in heterogeneous speech communities:
The work of discourse and the part of contact. Journal of Language Contact – THEMA 2:
249–273.
Queffélec, Ambroise. 2008. L’évolution du français en Afrique noire, pistes de recherche. In La
francophonie aujourd’hui. Réflexions critiques, eds. Karin Holter and Ingse Skattum, 63–76.
Paris: L’Harmattan.
Rosset, Théodore. 1911. Les origines de prononciation moderne étudiées au 17e siècle d’après les
remarques des grammairiens et les textes en patois de la banlieue parisienne. Paris: Armand
Colin.
Rossillon, Philippe. 1995. Atlas de la langue française. Paris: Bordas.
	 The phonological characteristics of French in Bamako, Mali	 101
Rottet, Kevin J. 2005. Variation et étiolement en français cadien: perspectives comparées. In
Le français en Amérique du nord, eds. Albert Valdman, Julie Auger and Deborah Piston-
Hatlen, 243–260. Québec: Presses de l’Université Laval.
Roulon, Paulette. 1968. Essai de phonologie du tyembara, dialecte sénoufo. Paris: Bulletin 9 de
la SELAF.
Sankoff, Gillian. 2002. Linguistic outcomes of language contact. In The handbook of language
variation and change, eds. Jack Chambers, Peter Trudgill and Natalie Schilling-Estes, 638–
668. Oxford: Blackwell.
Selkirk, Elisabeth O. 1974. French liaison and X-notation. Linguistic Inquiry 5: 573–590.
Skattum, Ingse. 1997. L’éducation bilingue dans un contexte d’oralité et d’exoglossie: théories et
réalités du terrain au Mali. Nordic Journal of African Studies 6 (2): 74–106.
Skattum, Ingse, ed. 2000. L’école et les langues nationales au Mali. Special issue of Nordic Journal
of African Studies 9 (3).
Skattum, Ingse. 2004. L’apprentissage du français dans un pays ‘francophone’: le cas du Mali.
In Mandé – Manding. Background Reading for Ethnographic Research in the Region South
of Bamako, ed. Jan Jansen, 105–117. Leiden: University of Leiden, Department of Cultural
Anthropology and Development Sociology.
Skattum, Ingse. 2008. Mali: In defence of cultural and linguistic pluralism. In Language & Na-
tional Identity in Africa, ed. Andrew Simpson, 98–121. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Skattum, Ingse. 2010a. Le français parlé du Mali: une variété régionale? In Voix des français: en
parlant, en écrivant, eds. Michael Abecassis and Gudrun Ledegen, 433–447. Bern: Peter
Lang.
Skattum, Ingse. 2010b. L’introduction des langues nationales dans le système éducatif au Mali:
objectifs et conséquences. Journal of Language Contact – THEMA 3: 247–270.
Skattum, Ingse. 2010c. Si j’étais riche… Constructions hypothétiques en français parlé au Mali.
Le français en Afrique 26: 49–70.
Skattum, Ingse. 2012. L’impact des facteurs sociolinguistiques dans l’identification de la lan-
gue première, à travers le français langue seconde au Mali. In Hétérogénéité et variation.
Perspectives sociolinguistiques, didactiques et anthropologiques, eds. Martine Dreyful and
Jean-Marie Prieur, 229–246. Paris: Michel Houdiard.
Wachs, Sandra. 1997. Le relâchement de la prononciation en français parlé en Ile de France:
analyse linguistique et sociolinguistique par génération. Thèse de doctorat, Université de
Paris X-Nanterre.
Woehrling, Cécile, and Philippe Boula de Mareüil. 2006. Identification d’accents régionaux en
français: perception et analyse. Revue PArole 37: 25–65.
part ii
Europe
Map 2.  Europe
chapter 5
An overview of the phonological and phonetic
properties of Southern French
Data from two Marseille surveys
Annelise Coquillon and Gabor Turcsan
Université de Toulouse 2 / Université d’Aix-Marseille
This chapter focuses on one of the Southern French (also known as Midi French)
accents, spoken in the area of Marseille. We do not aim to give an overall descrip-
tion of Midi French as a whole here, though the features surveyed are often shared
by speakers living in other parts of Southern France. Traditional descriptions of
Southern French include Brun (1931), Séguy (1950), Carton et al. (1983), Blan-
chet (1984, 1992), Durand (1976, 1988), Durand et al. (1987). Other studies rely
on systematic observations based on various Southern corpora constructed and
annotated within the Phonology of Contemporary French (PFC) project, see for
instance in Durand, Laks & Lyche (2009) and Detey et al. (2010), to mention but
the latest.
First, we briefly recall the history and status of French in Provence (Sec-
tion 1), then we describe the corpora we are using (Section 2). We proceed to the
phonological description of the variety on different levels: consonants and vowels
(Section 3), the behavior of schwa (Section 4) and liaison consonants (Section 5).
Then we present our findings for prosody (Section 6). All our descriptions are
based on empirical and quantitative data from the PFC project.
1.	 French in Provence
From a geographical point of view, we rely on the oïl-oc division proposed by
Bec (1963). This linguistic partition roughly corresponds to the former limits of
Gallo-Romance dialect groups of France: (i) oïl (or Romana lingua) dialects in
the north, (ii) oc (or Occitan) dialects in the south and (iii) Franco-Provençal in
the eastern central region, a dialect group sharing features with both French in
106	 Annelise Coquillon and Gabor Turcsan
the north and Provençal in the south. The oc language or Occitan is subdivided
into dialects, with more or less mutual intelligibility, as shown on the map in
Figure 1.
French reached the Southern regions of France in the early or mid 15th cen-
tury, but was not really spoken fluently by inhabitants until the 19th century.
Occitan remained the mother tongue for many people, especially outside of cities,
until the beginning of the 20th century. Compulsory schooling, where languages
other than French were prohibited and their use severely punished, surely con-
tributed along with other factors (see Antoine et al. 2002) to the near disappear-
ance of these languages. The process of language loss was a long one, preceded
by a long-lasting situation of diglossia (Kremnitz 1981), hence a significant sub-
strate influence of Occitan on the French spoken in these regions (Lonnemann &
Meisenburg 2009; Blanchet 1984).
Although syntactic dialectal variation linked to the substrate is very limited
and mainly reflects general trends in spoken French (Blanchet 1992), we do notice
substantial influence on the vocabulary. A closer look at the corpus of this study
reveals only a few specific Southern markers. We cannot say for sure whether the
lack of more Southern lexical items is due to the interview paradox or rather that
the speakers of this corpus always make very limited use of such markers. We
can distinguish two types of regional markers. On the one hand, we have clearly
frenchified substrate loans such as minot ‘kid’, lambin ‘slow person’, piter ‘to nib-
ble’, peuchère ‘poor thing’, escagassé ‘messed up or bored’, esche ‘bait’, to cite but a
few. On the other hand, speakers also use ready-made Provençal expressions as
fan (expresses surprise), vé ‘look’, garri ‘rat’, lou ferun ‘smell of wildfowl’, la linga
de brès ‘cradle language’, among others.
Croissant
FRANCO-
PROVENÇAL
Prov. alpin
Provençal
•
•
OCCITAN MOYEN
Languedocien
LANGUE D’OC
Auvergnat
Limousin
NORD-OCCITAN
GASCON
CATALAN
BASQUE Marseille
Toulouse
Figure 1.  Occitan dialects (Bec 1963)
	 An overview of the phonological and phonetic properties of Southern French	 107
The French spoken in Provence is one of the most widely known and imitated
accents of the country and has indeed the reputation of being pleasant and musi-
cal. But what is it like in reality? We propose here, through a sample of 18 speakers
from Marseille, to highlight the most salient features of this accent.
2.	 The surveys
The 18 speakers presented in this study are taken from two different PFC surveys,
recorded in Marseille (Bouches-du-Rhône) or in the proximity.
The PFC survey Marseille (13a) was recorded in 2002 and presents ten mem-
bers of a family native to the city of Marseille. It was led by Jacques Durand, who
is a relative of this family. The ten speakers have always lived in Marseille, except
for one speaker who was born in the department of Hérault (about 200 kilometers
west of Marseille) and arrived in Marseille around the age of four.
The PFC survey Aix-Marseille (13b) was recorded by Annelise Coquillon in
2003–2004 and introduces a family that originates from Septèmes-les-Vallons (a
small village in the district of Marseille). Some of the speakers now live in the
center of Marseille or have moved to surrounding cities (Aix-en-Provence, about
30 kilometers away). They are members of the researcher’s family circle.
The corpus including both surveys, comprises nine men and nine women,
aged from 18 to 82 (mean age: 51), thus covering three generations that we divide
into three age brackets presented in the Table 1 below: above 65 for the first gen-
eration, between 30 and 65 for the second and under 30 for the third. The speak-
ers are from middle or working class backgrounds.
The speakers have always lived in or around Marseille and have only traveled
for holidays (less than a month spent abroad). The oldest are acquainted with
Provençal, mainly as passive speakers, or with Languedocian for 13aDS1 whose
family comes from Hérault. As we have shown in Figure 1 above, this Occitan
dialect is close to Provençal (with mutual intelligibility) and both are part of Oc-
citan Moyen.
As for all PFC surveys (Durand & Lyche 2003 and Chapter 1 of this vol-
ume), the recordings involve four separate tasks for each speaker: a read word list
(including minimal pairs), a read text (passage), a semi-directed (guided) con-
versation and an informal (free) conversation, each lasting around 30 minutes.
Orthographic transcriptions are available for the list, the passage and 5 minutes of
each conversation. Schwa and liaison are coded for the text and parts of the con-
versations: 3 minutes for schwa and 5 minutes for liaison. This study will therefore
rely on these transcriptions and codings.
108	 Annelise Coquillon and Gabor Turcsan
3.	 Phonological inventory and phonotactics
We present here the main segmental inventories of the French spoken in the
Marseille area, henceforth FM for français de Marseille, and we also use the ab-
breviation FR for français de référence (see Chapter 1).
3.1	 Consonants
Concerning the consonant system of FM, there does not seem to be any notice-
able difference with FR (see Lyche 2010), except for the palatal /ɲ/ which may be
absent for some speakers of our corpus. For instance, though five speakers real-
ize it in baignoire [beɲwaʁə], most of them pronounce [benjwaʁə] or even sim-
plify the cluster [benwaʁə]. This simplification is also found in compagnie, always
pronounced [kɔmpani], except for two speakers. Moreover, the word agneau is
pronounced [anjo] by all the speakers. No realization of /ɲ/ can be found in spon-
taneous speech or in the text, where this segment is rather realized as a sequence
of alveolar nasal plus glide /nj/ (campagne, baignait, gnôle, etc.). It therefore seems
that the palatal nasal /ɲ/ is disappearing from FM, as it is also the case in other
French varieties, in favor of the cluster /nj/.
Concerning the rhotic phoneme /R/, whereas an apical /r/ can be found in
other southern varieties (Durand 2009; Eychenne 2009), /R/ is always realized
as the uvular variant /ʁ/ in the Southeast. It is worth noting that this is also the
.	 Following Durand (2009), we use capital letters for phonemes underspecified for articula-
tory features.
Table 1.  Generation, code, sex and age of the speakers of both surveys
Generation Marseille survey Aix-Marseille survey
speaker sex age speaker sex age
1st 13aAC1 female 76 13bAA1 female 82
13aDS1 female 74 13bRP1 male 81
13aAS1 male 73
2nd 13aPD1 male 54 13bPA1 male 58
13aDG1 male 49 13bJC1 female 57
13aAG1 female 48 13bMA1 female 53
13aID1 female 45 13bRP2 male 45
3rd 13aOG1 male 23 13bFA1 male 30
13aLG1 female 20 13bSA1 male 27
13aMB1 female 18
	 An overview of the phonological and phonetic properties of Southern French	 109
case in Provençal, probably under the influence of French (see Durand & Tarrier
2003).
Consonants behave differently in clusters, which are often simplified (Carton
et al. 1983). In the word list, one speaker (13bAA1) reduces the cluster /ks/ to /s/
by eliding the /k/ in explosion and in extraordinaire, but not in ex-femme or ex-
mari (two morphemes). In the text, we can find four simplifications for explosion
and Express. Nevertheless, cluster simplification is more common in the conver-
sation tasks /ks/ → /s/ as in expliquer, exprès (13bAA1), extraordinaire (13bRP2)
or /ɡz/ → /z/ as in exemple (13bRP1). Other reductions and assimilations can of-
ten be found in this variety: for instance, the cluster /ʁsk/ in parce que is reduced
most of the time to [paskә] or [pasә] (with the deletion of the internal schwa).
The appearance of the shorter form seems systematic for most speakers (15) and
at least present for all of them: we have only 13 realizations of [paʁskә] out of 269
occurrences. Note that this is quite common in speech throughout France, and
can also be found for other words such as bien pronounced [bɛ] or [bɛ], il y a pas
[japa] and je suis [ʃɥi]. This latter place assimilation of the voiceless consonant [s]
to the [ʒ] is frequent as in most varieties, although we only find a single case of
[ʃɥi] here, as the other instances of je suis are pronounced with a schwa [ʒәsɥi],
separating the two consonants thus preventing assimilation. The lack of assimi-
lations is not an independent feature of this variety but a direct consequence of
schwa maintenance. As we will see in Section 4, this feature is one of the most
salient of this variety.
As for final clusters, simplification is not as common as in other varieties of the
South of France (Durand 2009), and is mainly found in Ouest Liberté [weslibɛʁte]
in the text and in infect [ɛ̃fɛk] (word list) for one speaker (13bPA1). The preposi-
tion avec displays truncated forms [ave] or [avɛ] but grammatical words behave
differently and do not necessarily allow generalizations over the lexicon.
We observe many instances of regressive voicing assimilation of /s/: socialisme
[sosjalizmə] (17 speakers), islamique [izlamikə] (4 speakers) or Israël [izʁaɛl]
(13aDS1). These are also attested in other varieties, but in FM, they can also affect
a word-initial sequence, as for instance in slip [zlip] (4 speakers). Other assimila-
tory processes involve palatalization of alveolar plosives /t/ and /d/ before /i/ and
/y/, as in parti [paʁtʃi] or dur [dʒyʁ], observed among the younger generation
(degree of presence depending on the speaker).
Interestingly enough, the phonotactic ban of FR on obstruent + liquid + yod
clusters, absent from many Southern French (SF) varieties (see Durand 2009) in
strings like vous entriez SF [ãtʁje] / FR [ɑ̃tʁije], un sablier SF [sablje] / FR [sablije]
is well respected in this corpus except for the speaker 13aDS1 with Languedocian
background. Indeed, dieresis is relatively common in the South: for instance, marié
pronounced with three syllables [ma.ʁi.je] (five occurrences in conversations) as
110	 Annelise Coquillon and Gabor Turcsan
opposed to two syllables expected in FR [ma.ʁje]). Similarly, muette [my.ɛtə] and
nier [ni.je] (in the word list) are almost always realized with dieresis (one excep-
tion for each), or reliure [ʁə.li.yʁə], for 14 speakers, and many examples can be
found in the conversations, such as estropiait [ɛs.tʁo.pi.je] (13bRP1). The ongo-
ing change towards syneresis observed in other Southern varieties like Languedoc
(Durand & Lyche 1999) seems to be absent in our corpus.
3.2	 Vowels
Between FM and FR, the phonological systems differ primarily in the vowel in-
ventory. More precisely we review here the patterns linked to mid-vowel distribu-
tion (3.2.1), nasal vowels (3.2.2) and limits on schwa deletion (4). The distribution
of FM vowels follows closely the trends observed in other Southern French vari-
eties and, together with the behavior of schwa, form the bulk of features that allow
an accent to be classified as Southern.
3.2.1	 Oral vowels
All in all, as in other Southern dialects and most French varieties (see Lyche 2010),
vowel duration plays no phonological role (no distinction between long and short
vowels), and the back /ɑ/ is completely absent from FM (compare âme [amә] vs.
[ɑm] in conservative FR). The phonetic quality of /A/ generally ranges from a
fronted to a central articulation.
Moreover, there is no phonemic opposition of aperture for mid vowels.
Though the distribution of mid vowels seems unstable in other French varieties,
we will see that it is quite steady in FM. The oral vowel system, which is thus
‘reduced’ compared to FR, includes seven units (versus eleven in FR) that we
represent in Figure 2.
Commonly, two surface realizations (allophones) are attested for mid vow-
els: /E/ → [e, ɛ], /O/ → [o, ɔ], /Ø/ → [ø, œ] and their distribution seems largely
.	 Not counting schwa.
Front Back
unrounded rounded rounded
high i y u
mid E Ø O
low a
Figure 2.  FM oral vowels
	 An overview of the phonological and phonetic properties of Southern French	 111
organized according to the loi de position (henceforth LdP, see Chapter 1). The
speakers of this corpus do realize [e, ø, o] in open syllables not followed by a
schwa syllable, and [ɛ, œ, ɔ] in closed syllables or open ones followed by a schwa
syllable, at least as far as spontaneous speech is concerned. Accordingly, we can
hear pronunciations like [bale] for balai, [kʁœzə] for creuse, and [ʃɔdə] for chaude.
Most of the production trends observed here confirm this tendency and show a
relative resistance to evolution towards FR, even for the most innovative speakers.
However, although it is widely acknowledged that the LdP plays a central role in
the phonology of Southern French, close examination of corpus data show some
too often neglected complexities (see Durand 2009). Note first that morphology
seems to have a significant influence in offering alternative syllabification algo-
rithms thus changing the input of the LdP. The LdP cannot apply to a prefix vowel
as in préscolaire [pʁeskolɛʁ] while it takes a free ride on prestataire [pʁɛstatɛʁ]
with no internal prefix boundary.
Some speakers do make oppositions between some mid vowels in the word
list. This is particularly true when minimal pairs are adjacent in the list. Table 2
below presents the pronunciations of mid vowels in minimal pairs from the word
list, when presented in a random order (separate) or next to one another (adja-
cent). Our transcriptions are the result of a thorough listening by both authors
and were sometimes verified by visual analysis of a spectrogram. Table 2 is sorted
by the age of the speakers and unexpected pronunciations are in bold. The FR
pronunciation of the minimal pairs, épais / épée, beauté / botté and jeune / jeûne,
are respectively: [epɛ] / [epe]; [bote] / [bɔte] and [ʒœn] / [ʒøn].
As we can see in Table 2, five of the speakers never make any distinction
between the presented minimal pairs. Interestingly enough, they are evenly dis-
tributed between the generations. Indeed, one would expect that younger gen-
erations would more readily adopt standardized language practices owing to the
well-known pressure of mass media. However, most speakers make only a few
distinctions, which are often improper (signaled by *) in the sense of not con-
forming to the FR pattern (nor, obviously, to FM), whether these occur on the
vowels or on adjacent phonemes.
We observe various differentiation strategies like the slight change in the rais-
ing / lowering (signaled by a diacritic) or lengthening of the vowel (not distinctive
in most French varieties and certainly not in the South). Some performance er-
rors consist in attributing low / high allophones to the wrong word in the minimal
pair (13bRP1 for beauté / botté; 13aDS1 for jeune / jeûne). We can even find long
distance strategies for differentiation purposes: for the distinction épais / épée,
13bRP2 tries to differentiate the two words by lowering the first vowel in épais
*[ɛpe], while 13aDS1 chooses consonant gemination instead, for the word botté
[botte] vs. beauté [bote] in the adjacent minimal pair list. The only two speakers
112	 Annelise Coquillon and Gabor Turcsan
(13bRP1 and 13aDS1) who make the FR opposition in étais / été in the word list,
never make use of a final mid-low vowel elsewhere (text or conversations). The
[ø] / [œ] pair triggers most of the vowel quality distinctions in the word list (with
feutre also pronounced once with [ø], again by 13aDS1), though it is worth not-
ing that the word jeûne is pronounced with a mid-low [œ] by all speakers in the
read text.
Instances of mid-vowel distinctions not conforming to the LdP pattern, to-
gether with ‘erratic’ productions, clearly indicate a certain awareness of the phone-
mic distinction between mid-low and mid-high vowels prescribed by the norm.
3.2.2	 Nasal vowels
The opposition /œ̃-ɛ̃/, which is disappearing in other French varieties (see for
instance in this volume Hambye & Simon for Belgium, Hansen for Paris, Bordal
for Central African Republic…), is surprisingly well maintained in FM. The /œ̃–ɛ̃/
opposition has a very small functional load in French, with only a handful of
.	 We use standard IPA diacritics [ː] for long; [˕] for lowered and [˔] for raised.
Table 2.  Minimal pairs for mid vowels (wordlist)3
Speaker Age épais / épée beauté / botté jeune / jeûne
adjacent separate adjacent separate adjacent separate
13aMB1 18 e / e e / e o / o o / o œ /œ œ / ø
13aLG1 20 e / e e / e o / o o / o œ /œ œ / œ
13aOG1 23 e / e e / e o / o o / o œ /œ œ / œ
13bSA1 27 e / e e / e o / o o / o œ̝ / ø œ̝ / ø
13bFA1 30 e / e e / e o / o o / o œ / œ̝ œ / œ
13bRP2 45 * e / e e / e o / o o / o œ / ø œ / œ
13aID1 45 e / e e / e o / o o / o œ /œ œ / œ
13aAG1 48 e / e e / e o / o o / o œ / œ œ / œ
13aDG1 49 e / e e / e o / o o / o œ / ø œ / ø
13bMA1 53 e̞ / e e / e o / o o / o * ø / ø * ø / ø
13aPD1 54 e / e e / e o / o o / o œ /œ œ / œ
13bJC1 57 * eː / e e / e o / o o / o œ / ø̞ œ / œ
13bPA1 58 e / e e / e o / o o / o œ / øː œ / œ
13aAS1 73 e / e e / e * o / oː * oː / o * œ / œː *œ / œː
13aDS1 74 ɛ / e ɛ̝ / e * o / o o / o * ø / œ œ / œ
13aAC1 76 e / e e / e o / o o / o * œ / œː œ / œ
13bRP1 81 ɛ / e ɛ / e * ɔ / o o / o * œ / œː * œ / œː
13bAA1 82 e / e e / e o / o o / o œ / œ œ / œ
	 An overview of the phonological and phonetic properties of Southern French	 113
minimal pairs (as emprunte / empreinte; un / hein) and just a few words contain-
ing a potential /œ̃/ other than the determiner un (usually unstressed). Neverthe-
less, all the speakers of the corpus make the distinction between brun / brin in
the wordlist, though some of the youngest tend to realize [œ̃] a little more front
and / or less rounded. The data show that the 725 instances of un(s) are realized
with [œ̃], and so are the occurrences of emprunter or chacun (1 instance of each),
aucun (5) and lundi (4).
Besides the maintenance of four nasal vowel oppositions, it is the particular
pronunciation of these vowels which is characteristic of Southern French (Brun
1931; Séguy 1950; Durand 1988). Some of these studies mention that nasal vowels
are generally longer than in other French varieties, probably due to their articula-
tion in several phases: They start as an oral vowel with possible regressive nasal-
ization and end with a consonantal nasal appendix. The strength of the appendix
is highly variable and its place of articulation depends on the context to its right.
When followed by a consonant, the nasal appendix is homorganic: [m] before a
bilabial, [ɱ] before a labiodental, [n] before an alveolar and [ŋ] before velar. Be-
fore a pause, the nasal takes on a velar articulation [ŋ] by default, which is also to
be found in the rare sequences where the nasal vowel is immediately followed by
another vowel in a non liaison context as in le pain et le vin [ləpɛŋeləvɛŋ] (in liai-
sons, the nasal will always be [n], as expected). In sum, /ɛ̃/ would be pronounced
[ɛŋ] or [ɛɛ̃ŋ] (partial regressive nasalization). The homorganicity requirement of
the consonantal appendix is also satisfied across word boundaries, see comment
en plus [komaŋamplys] (13bRP2). We will not detail here the quality of the oral
part of VN complexes but will just mention that it tends to be mid-low. Note that
there are no nasal vowels in Provençal, which might explain the oral qualities.
Durand (1988, 2009) proposes that, at the underlying level, Southern nasal
vowels are actually sequences of a vowel + a nasal segment (VN). Among the ar-
guments for this interpretation are the simplification of VN in consonantal clus-
ters, where the vowel is often oral, and the systematic oral quality of the vowel
before the liaison consonant [n]. Though we can find very few oral vowels in
VN sequences before consonant clusters in our corpus (for example construction
[kɔstʁyksjɔ̃] (13aDS1)), the denasalization of the vowel is quite common before
the liaison consonant [n] (as in en août [anut] (13aID1)). In this context, 289
VN sequences are pronounced with oral vowels (partially or totally) in the coded
corpus (170 for /ɔ̃/; 84 for /ɑ̃/; 35 for /œ̃/), vs. 150 with nasalized vowels. Thus,
FM speakers may be less conservative in this respect than the ones Durand (2009)
accounted for.
Table3illustratestherealizationsofnasalvowelsfortheitemsbrin,brun,blanc,
blond of the word list (when randomly presented) for all the speakers. We have
adopted the same methodology as in Table 2 for defining the pronunciations.
114	 Annelise Coquillon and Gabor Turcsan
What is striking in Table 3 is the important variability of nasal vowel pro-
nunciations in FM. The variation concerns not only productions across speakers
but we can also find pronunciation differences for the same speaker. The degree
of nasality of the vowel (in bold) is also highly inconsistent and oral vowels can
be found for all four vowel qualities in every generation. Still, back realizations
for /ɑ̃/ and high for /ɔ̃/ are absent for the first generation: [ɑ̃] only for speakers
under 54 and [õ] for speakers under 30. Concerning the consonantal appendix
(shaded), we can first note that, surprisingly, an [m] is realized three times instead
of the expected default [ŋ]. In any case, the appendix tends to occur more among
the oldest, though we see that it may be present or absent in every generation. The
only four speakers who do not make use of appendices in this task are 18, 20, 45
and 53 years old, showing that the age factor cannot explain consonantal appen-
dix realizations. Only a few speakers seem to have a steady realization, whether
pronouncing an oral vowel + appendix (13bRP1 and 13bRP2), a nasal vowel +
appendix (13aDS1), or a realization conforming to FR (13aBG1, 13aLG1, 13aID1,
13bMA1). Nevertheless a closer look at the rest of the corpus shows that nasal
vowels are somewhat unstable in the FM system.
Table 3.  Realizations of /ɛ̃/, /œ̃/, /ɑ̃/ and /ɔ̃/ in minimal pairs (word list)
Speaker Age brin brun blanc blond
13aMB1 18 ɛ̃ œ̃ ɑ̃ ɔ̃
13aLG1 20 ɛ̃ œ̃ ɑ̃ õ
13aOG1 23 ɛ̃ œ̃m ɑ̃ õ
13bSA1 27 ɛɛ̃ŋ œœ̃ ɑ̃ õ
13bFA1 30 ɛɛ̃ŋ œŋ ãŋ ɔ̃ŋ
13aID1 45 ɛ̃ œ̃ ɑ̃ ɔ̃
13bRP2 45 ɛŋ œŋ aŋ ɔŋ
13aAG1 48 ɛ̃ŋ œœ̃ ɑ̃ ɔ̃ŋ
13aDG1 49 *œ̃ œœ̃ ãŋ ɔ̃ŋ
13bMA1 53 ɛ̃ œ̃ ɑ̃ ɔ̃
13aPD1 54 ɛ̃ŋ œŋ aŋ ɔŋ
13bJC1 57 ɛ̃ŋ œ̃ŋ ã ɔ̃ŋ
13bPA1 58 ɛ̃ŋ œ̃ ã ɔ̃ŋ
13aAS1 73 ɛɛ̃ŋ œ̃ŋ ãŋ ɔ̃
13aDS1 74 ɛ̃ŋ œ̃ŋ ãŋ ɔ̃ŋ
13aAC1 76 ɛ̃ œ̃m ãm ɔ̃
13bRP1 81 ɛŋ œœ̃ŋ aŋ ɔŋ
13bAA1 82 ɛɛ̃ŋ œœ̃ŋ aãŋ ɔ̃ŋ
	 An overview of the phonological and phonetic properties of Southern French	 115
4.	 Behavior of schwa
The most important distinctive feature of the French schwa is not really its pho-
netic quality but rather its phonological behavior as a weak vowel. The pronuncia-
tion of schwa being largely optional, its presence or absence does not affect the
meaning of the word. Moreover, it cannot bear stress (unless emphatic). Phone-
mically, the French weak vowel is transcribed /ə/, though the actual realizations
are not very stable and can have various pronunciations: [ø], [œ], [e], [ʌ], [ɐ], [o]
and of course [ə] which remains the most common one, especially at word ends.
We can find many examples of such variation in this corpus: the schwa in the
prefix re+ is often pronounced as an [o] (see also Boula de Mareüil et al. 2007),
as in recommencerai (13bRP2) or reviens (13aOG1). It is generally acknowledged
that schwa reaches its maximum of effective realizations in the Southern accents
(Lucci 1983) and its presence is therefore taken as one of the most typical features
of Southern French accents. The rate of schwa realization can be correlated to the
degree of conservativeness.
We will identify here the occurrences of schwa in the corpus, relying on the
PFC coding protocol. The overall results show that there are 9,361 coded sites
for schwa in the corpus, out of which 4,674 are realized (about 50%) and 96 are
coded as uncertain (the coder is not sure whether a schwa has been realized).
These numbers are not really informative by themselves and need a more thor-
ough description. That is to say, the overall 50% deletion rate does not mean that
schwa is deleted half of the time regardless of the context. As we shall see below,
the deletion rate depends clearly on phonological and grammatical context, not
to mention the inevitable bias introduced by any coding policy. Besides, the treat-
ment of schwa in contemporary Southern French accents is a complex issue, and
the reader is invited to refer to Durand (2009) for a more detailed description.
4.1	 Final position
First of all, schwa is never realized word-finally immediately after a vowel (such
as in jolie) in this corpus or in any variety of French for that matter. Also, final
schwas are regularly deleted in prevocalic position within a rhythmic group, as in
course à pied [kuʁsapje]. This is indeed the case in this corpus, and the few schwas
coded as realized in this context correspond rather to a minor pause or a hesita-
tion than to a genuine prevocalic context. Moreover, the hesitation marker euh in
.	 We thank Julien Eychenne for providing the Plateforme PFC tool, which allows the count-
ing, among other possibilities (see Eychenne 2007).
116	 Annelise Coquillon and Gabor Turcsan
French is phonetically very close to schwa (lax [ø]) making it difficult to decide
whether schwa is actually realized or not.
However, the word-final position is still interesting. Contrary to what has
been observed in FR, word-final schwas will often be realized in Southern vari-
eties: le frère de sa mère will regularly be pronounced [ləfʁɛʁədəsamɛʁə]. On
the other hand, when a final consonant is not followed by an <e> in the spelling,
the realization of epenthetic schwas (non orthographic) is rare Il part sept jours
will give [ilpaʁsɛtʒuʁ]. It is definitely not the case that Southern speakers insert
schwas everywhere as a ‘phonetic lubricant’. In our corpus, 73% of final schwas
(4,018 out of 5,507 potential sites) are realized, prevocalic position excluded. In-
versely, only 4% of epenthetic schwas are produced (81 out of 2,057), concerning
mainly a few items: avec, donc, numerals such as vingt-deux [vɛ̃ntədø] or again
words followed by the hesitation filler euh. The difference between the realization
rate of schwas in /C#/ vs. /Cə#/ reveals that there is a phonological opposition in
close correlation with the graphical opposition <C#> vs. <Ce#>. This is partly re-
vealed by the word list, where 14 of the speakers distinguish between roc – rauque
[ʁɔk] – [ʁɔkə] and mal – malle – mâle [mal] – [malə] – [malə] (plus one speaker
for the distinction mal – mâle, the other three speakers adding a final schwa even
in mal). Note that the distinction between these pairs of words does not rely on
vowel quality as can be the case in FR (see Section 3.2.1), but on the presence of
the final schwa. A few examples of the opposition mer – mère [mɛʁ] – [mɛʁə] can
also be found in the conversations. Whether this distinction is morphological
(as in noir – noire) or lexical (as in the examples above), these word-final ortho-
graphic schwas should in any case be integrated into the underlying (abstract)
representation of these words (Durand 2009).
Table 4 is sorted by the average schwa realization rate. In this table, we can
also notice the bigger proportion of schwa retention in monosyllabic words (CV).
Only two younger speakers (13aOG1 and 13bSA1) retain less than 80% of schwas
in monosyllables while the 55+ age bracket reaches a rate of 95%.
The realization of schwas at word ends strongly depends on the speaker. The
overall realization rate of 73%, mentioned above, ranges from 40% to 99% and
is correlated to the age of the speakers, with a Rho = 0.796 (p = 0.001; n = 18),
the rate being higher for the older speakers, though this correlation is not linear
(see Table 4). For instance, 13bRP2, aged 45, has a higher final schwa realization
rate (92%) than 13aAC1 (78%), who is 76. According to what we have seen so far,
13bRP2 seems indeed to have a rather conservative accent (mid-vowel lowering,
VN realization, consonant cluster simplification, dieresis, and so forth).
.	 Spearman’s rank correlation coefficient.
	 An overview of the phonological and phonetic properties of Southern French	 117
Table 4 clearly shows that schwa deletion in final position varies considerably
according to the poly- or monosyllabic status of the items concerned, with 61%
vs. 89% of schwas retained, respectively. The difference in deletion rates is striking
for younger speakers who have a higher overall deletion rate (13aOG1, 13aLG1,
13aMB1, for instance), and it is still important for the middle generation. The
difference disappears altogether for older speakers who retain schwa in any case
(13bAA1, 13bRP1).
Incidentally, schwa-headed monosyllables are all function words in French:
determiners (le, ce), pronouns (je, me), prepositions (de), or conjunctions (que),
to name but a few. Phonologically, they behave as clitics in that they do not bear
stress and belong to the following lexical word as far as rhythm is concerned. If
this line of thinking is valid, schwa in monosyllables should not be considered fi-
nal but rather initial. This move would explain the higher retention rate of young-
er and middle aged speakers, ready deleters elsewhere. Indeed, schwa retention in
monosyllables (89%) is roughly the same as schwa retention in the first syllable of
polysyllables (91%), see 4.2 below. However, a closer inspection of the data reveals
that monosyllabic function words do not behave as a homogeneous set with re-
spect to schwa retention. Table 5 below shows some figures for the most frequent
items of the Marseille corpus. The figure after the items corresponds to the total
Table 4.  Realization rate of final schwas per speaker in monosyllables and polysyllables
Speaker Sex Age Polysyllabic Monosyllabic Total
13aOG1 M 23 22%   65% 40%
13aLG1 F 20 30%   81% 51%
13aMB1 F 18 36%   80% 56%
13bSA1 M 27 51%   70% 60%
13aDG1 M 49 41%   86% 62%
13bMA1 F 53 42%   91% 64%
13bFA1 M 30 50%   82% 65%
13bJC1 F 57 49%   89% 68%
13aAG1 F 48 51%   94% 69%
13aID1 F 45 59%   94% 74%
13aAC1 F 76 71%   90% 78%
13bPA1 M 58 69%   94% 80%
13aPD1 M 54 78%   90% 83%
13aDS1 F 74 82%   96% 88%
13aAS1 M 73 86%   99% 91%
13bRP2 M 45 89%   94% 92%
13bAA1 F 82 94%   96% 95%
13bRP1 M 81 98% 100% 99%
Mean 50,72 61%   89% 73%
118	 Annelise Coquillon and Gabor Turcsan
number of tokens while the percentage refers to the schwa retention rate. We split
the items in two categories according to the place of articulation of the consonant.
Studies on other Southern French corpora discovered a certain influence of the
preceding consonant on schwa deletion, fricatives triggering more deletions.
The tendency is confirmed by our data. The worst deletion environment is
le (4%), with an alveolar sonorant and the best is je (33%) with a post-alveolar
fricative. We surmise that some kind of a post-lexical phonetic resyllabification
procedure should intervene. Indeed, [l] + C initial clusters are universally highly
marked while [s] + C clusters are frequent. The phonetic explanation seems to us
truer to the facts than one based on frequency and usage. There is no doubt that
je showing the highest deletion rate is a very frequent item in our corpus, but so
is le or de with a low deletion rate.
We have found no real influence of register on schwa deletion. The overall fig-
ures seem to indicate a tendency to have slightly more schwas realized in the read
text (63%) than in the conversations (60% and 59%). A closer look at the speakers
reveals a rather chaotic picture. Half of the speakers have a higher deletion rate in
the read text than in the two conversations (ranging from 51% more in the text for
13bSA1 to 21% more in the conversations for 13aID1). Similarly, only half of the
18 speakers have a higher deletion rate in the free conversation than in the guided
one. This may seem somewhat surprising as high deletion rates are often linked
to informal styles. We have to admit that at this point, we cannot say whether this
is due to the insensitivity of schwa deletion to style in this variety. This is all the
more so since our data (a mean of 306 coded sites per speaker for final schwas)
does not allow for a fine-grained comparison of speech styles.
4.2	 Initial position
In initial position of polysyllables (#CəCV), schwa is frequently maintained in
Southern French accents. This seems to be true for Marseille speakers as well, for
whom the realization rate reaches 91% (275 out of 302) in this position. More-
over, we have found that out of the 26 cases of deletion, 22 are produced by speak-
ers under 55. The items involved are relatively common, as petit (7), semaine (5),
Table 5.  Average schwa retention in monosyllables
After non fricatives After fricatives
le 	 (565) 96% je 	 (361) 67%
de 	 (811) 94% se 	 (132) 87%
que 	(276) 91% ce 	 (127) 77%
	 An overview of the phonological and phonetic properties of Southern French	 119
demi (3), serais (2). Again, on the other extreme, the first generation group is
more conservative, with 95% of initial schwas maintained.
Our data give support to the argument (Durand 2009) that for most speak-
ers these stable initial schwas have to be considered as non-alternating mid front
vowels.
4.3	 Medial position
Internal schwas (in the second syllable or more) show more variation: only 50% of
them are realized (190 out of 384). On closer scrutiny of the lexical items involved
it turns out that the relatively higher deletion rate is linked to the high frequency
of set phrases like parce que and est-ce que (both considered as single words in
the codings). Incidentally, they represent 39% of all internal elision cases. For the
internal position then, without these two expressions, the maintenance rate sud-
denly rises to 72%, and once more to 85% for the older group.
Our results confirm the deletion hierarchy found for other Southern accents
(Coquillon & Durand 2010), in that final schwa is weaker (more prone to dele-
tion) than internal schwa, which in turn is weaker than initial schwa. Also, young
speakers tend to delete more schwas than the older ones. The age-dependent dif-
ference confirms that a high schwa realization rate is an important feature of con-
servative Southern accents. Incidentally, this is one of the features that tend to
fade with the new generation (tendency to neutralization), thus being a less stable
feature than vowel quality for instance.
5.	 Behavior of liaison consonants
This section gives a brief overview of liaison in FM. Our aim here is to show
realization rates according to the major factors that are said to have a significant
impact on liaison and explore the specificities of FM compared to other French
varieties.
Globally, there are 3,115 codings of potential liaison in the corpus, about 41%
of which are realized (1,263 against 1,846), one has been judged doubtful by the
coder and only three are epenthetic: two in mène [t] au village (read text) and the
other in il [z] a le, le, the latter interpreted as confusion or hesitation. All liaisons
are ‘enchaînées’ (linked forward to the following word). There is no liaison before
.	 We can also note a slight difference between the two surveys here: 18 of the 22 unrealized
schwas are to be found in the 13a survey (Marseille).
120	 Annelise Coquillon and Gabor Turcsan
a pause, even brief, or a hesitation, and if we remove the 304 cases of pre-pausal
unrealized liaisons from the potential sites, the realization rate is brought to 46%.
Needless to say that the overall 46% realization rate is not really interesting in
itself since it covers a set of different contexts depending on factors such as style,
age or word-length.
Our data show that the rates are quite different depending on the register
linked to the task: more liaisons are made in the read text (63%) than in the con-
versations (35%). As for the age factor, the older speakers tend to perform more
liaisons: 43% for the first and the second generations and 34% for the third. Again,
we are speaking about global figures here, but if we take just one highly variable
item such as est, the age influence becomes even clearer: 64% of realizations for
the first generation vs. 41% for the second and 21% for the third. Also, as expect-
ed, the length of the words in contact has an impact on liaison: 58% of monosyl-
labic words trigger liaison against 7% for polysyllabic words. In sum, tendencies
observed in other varieties (Mallet 2008) are confirmed here.
Concerning so-called compulsory liaisons, there does not seem to be any no-
ticeable difference between the realizations of the South as compared to other
French speaking regions either (but see Durand & Lyche 2008; Coquillon et al.
2010). The speakers of 13a and 13b make almost all the liaisons in categorical
contexts such as determiner + noun, personal pronoun + verb, monosyllabic
preposition… One wonders then, whether the fact of being an FM speaker may
have any kind of influence on liaison patterns after all. Is there any specific FM
feature linked to word edges? Indeed, as we have seen in Section 3, word-final
schwas are potentially realized in FM contrary to what happens in Northern vari-
eties. We should look at liaison contexts where the liaison consonant is preceded
by schwa.
A closer look into the corpus reveals that the only contexts where a potential
schwa is followed by a potential liaison consonant concern morphemes repre-
sented by the spellings <‑es> (plural noun and 2nd person singular verb markers)
for liaisons in [z] and <‑ent> (3rd person plural) for liaisons in [t]. Both contexts
belong to the variable liaison category. Overall, our data indicate that when a
liaison is realized in such contexts, a schwa will also appear in most cases (36 vs.
12, i.e., 75%). For instance, the string pâtes italiennes from the read text is realized
with a liaison consonant by three speakers, of whom two pronounced a schwa as
well. Needless to say that the small number of tokens does not allow us to make
generalizations about social or grammatical variables. On the other hand, when
the liaison consonant is not pronounced, very few schwas will appear (12 vs. 150,
i.e., 7%). This is not surprising since in this case the schwa is in a prevocalic con-
text and systematically followed by a glottal stop.
	 An overview of the phonological and phonetic properties of Southern French	 121
The realizations of these two optional phenomena seem to be linked to one
another, as they tend to appear simultaneously. Which of the two triggers the oth-
er is an issue that would require a more thorough analysis. Nevertheless, we tend
to think that, as FM prefers to avoid consonant clusters (see 3.1), it is probably
the realization of liaison that provokes the realization of schwa. Two examples of
variable liaison from the read text could justify this interpretation: (i) The word
chemises (+en soie) already ends with a pronounced [z] thus complicating the
realization of the liaison, except if one realizes a schwa (two cases in the corpus)
or geminates the [z] (not here). (ii) The word fanatiques (+auraient) being a poly-
syllable, no liaison is made in the corpus, yet eight schwas appear. These examples
show that on the one hand, schwas tend to appear to avoid consonant clusters
when liaison is realized, and on the other hand, the realization of schwa does not
necessarily trigger an optional liaison.
6.	 Prosody
When people in France are asked about their impressions of Marseille French,
the following labels are recurring: pleasant, musical, and singing. There must be
something in the prosody of FM that gives this impression. Dialect and accent
studies are too often focused exclusively on segmental variation. Nevertheless, su-
pra-segmental features have been shown to also play a role in identifying accents
(Hambye & Simon this volume; Boula de Mareuil et al. 2008; Barkat et al. 1999;
Peters et al. 2002; Van Leyden 2004). Prosodic analysis is quite costly in terms of
annotation and it is quite difficult to tell which parameter is the most representa-
tive. This is the reason authors prefer to pick just one or a few contours instead of
measuring duration, F0 and other supra-segmental values on a large set of data.
We will focus here on one F0 parameter, pitch span, which has been shown to be
one of the relevant features in accent discrimination (Ménard 2003; Todd 2002).
6.1	 General prosodic trends
Investigations on prosodic regional variations in Southern French are scarce and
the few studies rely mainly on melodic (tonal) aspects. Nevertheless, some pro-
sodic specificities of Southern French have been pointed out (Carton et al. 1983;
Watbled 1995). One of the most salient features is that word stress can sometimes
be paroxytonic (stress on the penultimate syllable of content words), whereas FR is
regularly oxytonic (stress on the last syllable). Such stress patterns are mainly due
to the heavy tendency of Southerners to realize schwas at word ends, which are
122	 Annelise Coquillon and Gabor Turcsan
always atonic. It is worth noting that penultimate stress exists in Provençal, and
is still visible in substrate words such as garri [ˈɡaʁi], or faudièu ‘apron’ [foˈdjɛu]
(13bRP1). Note that in such cases, there is a dependent (atonic) syllable on the
right edge of the tonic, thus furnishing a context for the LdP to lower mid vowels
(as in aïoli (‘provençal garlic sauce’) [aˈjɔli] as opposed to [ajoˈli]). At the melodic
level, penultimate stress creates a trochee. This disyllabic unit is the domain of
tonal and temporal distribution (Selkirk 1977), which therefore enables particu-
lar FM rhythmic and melodic patterns to occur, as shown in Coquillon (2005).
The latter study also revealed global tonal configurations specific to this regional
accent, as a melodic hat pattern that does not seem to occur in FR. Based on this
previous study on the prosody of FM, as well as on Coquillon (2006), we present
here one melodic parameter, pitch span, as a relevant distinctive feature of FM.
6.2	 Pitch span
Pitch span, as part of a tonal register parameter, characterizes the tonal range of
frequencies (broad or narrow) that a particular speaker uses in speech (see for in-
stance Patterson 2000). This parameter is generally represented by the difference
between the extreme melodic values (higher and lower F0 frequencies) within a
particular sentence or for a given speaker.
Coquillon (2005) points out that as far as melody is concerned, FM differs
from FR mainly in that Southern speakers present significantly wider tone spans,
i.e., melodic variations are more important in their speech. Perception tests by
the same author show that pitch span is correlated to the estimated degree of a
speaker’s regional accent i.e., the broader the span register, the more the speaker’s
Marseille accent is considered as strongly marked. We will present here measure-
ments on tone register values of a subset of six speakers in their conversation
task. Because we want to limit variation to a minimum in order to be able to
concentrate on the feature under investigation, the speakers are all taken from
the Aix-Marseille (13b) survey of our corpus thus belonging to the same family
network. As this corpus enables us to study change in time through three genera-
tions of speakers coming from the same family, the speakers we have chosen are
equally distributed between three age groups (see Table 6). Since the mid-age
group is slightly overrepresented we discarded two speakers from this age group.
We surmise that if there is a differential behavior linked to age, all other things
being equal, the speech of younger generations should be less marked for regional
features than the speech of older ones, thus closer to FR patterns.
Table 6 below displays our results for the speakers’ spans, calculated from F0
targets. Target points are defined as significant pitch change loci by the MOMEL
	 An overview of the phonological and phonetic properties of Southern French	 123
algorithm operating on a stylized F0 curve (see Hirst et al. 2000). The figures
correspond to frequency differentials expressed in semitones (ST) between the
mid (reference) value for each speaker and the two extreme sets of targets in both
directions. Following Patterson (2000), De Looze & Hirst (2008) and Coquillon
(2005), we isolated F0 extreme values distributed in quantile differential, using
a threshold of 15% of minimum/maximum targets calculated for each speaker.
Higher figures stand for wider register variation.
Our results for tone span patterns show a clear link between age and melody.
The average pitch span (absolute values) regularly narrows with each generation,
in chronological order (1st > 2nd > 3rd), with a mean difference of 1.75 ST be-
tween each age group, although the difference is more marked between the first
age group and the rest.
The mean values for inferior and superior targets confirm this tendency. We
can see that the two oldest speakers tend to make use of a broader pitch span than
the others, with a difference of 13.5 ST between “inf” and “sup”, as opposed to 8.5
ST for the 2nd generation and 6.6 ST for the 3rd. Statistical analysis (mixed effect
linear model) indicates a strong interaction effect between generation and mean
extreme values: F(1,1296) = 183,8447; p = < 0,0001. On closer inspection of the
data we discover that the tendency is not fully linear if we consider individual
speakers instead of generations: SA1 from the third generation presents similar
values to RP2 in the second.
Figure 3 repeats our results for minimum and maximum target points in a
more visual way.
We notice that the age-dependent span difference concerns more the inferior
(minima) targets than the higher pitch regions. Since low register tone is a marked
regional feature (Coquillon 2005), its neutralization clearly indicates alignment to
FR prosody for the younger generations.
Table 6.  Pitch span with respect to the medium towards inferior (inf) and superior (sup)
extremes, in semitones by speaker and generation
Gen Age Speaker Average
(absolute values)
Inf Sup
1st 82 AA1
6.751
7.479
–8.204
–8.933
5.298
6.025
81 RP1 6.070 –7.521 4.619
2nd 58 PA1
4.242
4.779
–2.782
–3.012
5.702
6.545
45 RP2 3.590 –2.502 4.678
3rd 30 FA1
3.311
2.891
–3.023
–3.087
3.599
2.695
27 SA1 3.648 –2.971 4.325
124	 Annelise Coquillon and Gabor Turcsan
These data confirm that a broad pitch register is representative of a conser-
vative FM accent, but that this feature is also tending to be neutralized from a
diachronic point of view.
7.	 Conclusion
We have attempted to characterize Marseille French based on two PFC cor-
pora, relying on PFC codings and annotations. Marseille French is undoubted-
ly a Southern French accent sharing some major features usually attributed to
non-standardized language practices south of the Loire. These features include:
complementary distribution of mid-high and mid-low vowels defined by syllable
structure, partly de-nasalized nasal vowels followed by a consonantal appendix
and a certain propensity for pronouncing a large number of lexical schwas. We
also highlighted prosodic aspects such as the existence of penultimate stress or
use of a wide tone span. For each and every dialect specificity we investigated
patterns by generations or by speakers if necessary. The overall picture shows that
younger generations may neutralize Southern features in favor of FR patterns.
Nevertheless, it is interesting and puzzling why certain regional features are main-
tained either totally (mid-vowel distribution) or partially (schwa maintenance)
while others are more and more aligned to FR practices (nasal vowel pronun-
ciation or pitch span). Actually, the picture looks even more complicated when
we consider individual speakers rather than generations. FM characteristics are
speaker dependent as well – the conservative features are not always the same
for each speaker. For instance, 13bRP2 shows some resistance to most segmental
8
6
4
2
–2
–4
–6
–8
–10
AA1 RP1
Speakers/generation
Semi-tones
1st 2nd 3rd
RP2
PA1 FA1 SA1
0 psup
pinf
Figure 3.  Superior and inferior points differential with respect to medium in semitones
by speaker
	 An overview of the phonological and phonetic properties of Southern French	 125
features (mid vowels, VN pronunciation…) but not to register span. This shows
the importance of multi-parametrical investigations in dialect studies.
References
Antoine, Gérald, Françoise Helgorsky, and Loïc Depecker. 2002. La langue française. Encyclo-
paedia Universalis 8: 714–721.
Barkat, Melissa, John Ohala, and François Pellegrino. 1999. Prosody as a distinctive feature
for the recognition of Arabic dialects. Proceedings of Eurospeech’99, Budapest, Hungary,
395–398.
Blanchet, Philippe. 1984. Le français régional de Provence: Étude linguistique du substrat pro-
vençal. Collection Lou prouvençau a l’escolo – Caièr n°1. Marseille: Centre International de
Recherches et d’Études Provençales.
Blanchet, Philippe. 1992. Le provençal, essai de description sociolinguistique et différentielle. Sé-
rie Pédagogique de l’Institut de linguistique de Louvain (SPILL) n°15, Louvain-la-Neuve:
Peeters.
Bec, Pierre. 1963. La langue occitane. Que sais-je? Paris: PUF.
Boula de Mareüil, Philippe, Martine Adda-Decker, and Cécile Woehrling. 2007. Analysis of
oral and nasal vowel realization in northern and southern French varieties. Proceedings
of the 16th International Congress of Phonetic Science (ICPHS), Saarbrücken, 6–10 August
2007, 2221–2224.
Boula de Mareüil, Philippe, Bianca Vieru-Dimulescu, Cécile Woehrling, and Martine Adda-
Decker. 2008. Accents étrangers et régionaux en français. Caractérisation et identification.
Traitement Automatique des Langues 49 (3): 135–162.
Brun, Auguste. 1931. Le français de Marseille. Étude de parler régional. Marseille: Institut his-
torique de Provence.
Carton, Fernand, Mario Rossi, Denis Autesserre, and Pierre Léon. 1983. Les accents des fran-
çais. Coll. De bouche à oreille. Paris: Hachette.
Coquillon, Annelise. 2005. Caractérisation prosodique du parler de la région marseillaise. PhD
diss., Université Aix-Marseille I.
Coquillon, Annelise. 2006. Caractéristiques tonales du parler de la région marseillaise: Ap-
proche globale. In Prosodie du français contemporain: L’autre versant de PFC, eds. Anne
Catherine Simon, Geneviève Caelen-Haumont and Claudine Pagliano, 103–114. Bulletin
PFC 6. Toulouse: CNRS & Université Toulouse II.
Coquillon, Annelise, and Jacques Durand. 2010. Le français méridional: Eléments de synthèse.
In Les variétés du français parlé dans l’espace francophone: ressources pour l’enseignement,
eds. Sylvain Detey, Jacques Durand, Bernard Laks and Chantal Lyche, 185–197. Paris:
Ophrys.
Coquillon, Annelise, Jacques Durand, Chantal Lyche, and Julien Eychenne. 2010. French li-
aison: What can PFC teach us? Paper presented at the International Conference Phonlex
2010: Liaison and other Sandhi Phenomena. 8–10 September 2010, Toulouse.
De Looze, Céline, and Daniel Hirst. 2008. Detecting changes in key and range for the auto-
matic modelling and coding of intonation. Proceedings of Speech Prosody 2008, 135–138.
Campinas, Brazil.
126	 Annelise Coquillon and Gabor Turcsan
Detey, Sylvain, Jacques Durand, Bernard Laks, and Chantal Lyche, eds. 2010. Les variétés du
français parlé dans l’espace francophone: ressources pour l’enseignement. Paris: Ophrys.
Durand, Jacques. 1976. Generative phonology, dependency phonology and Southern French.
Lingua e stile 11 (1): 3–23.
Durand, Jacques. 1988. Phénomènes de nasalité en français du midi: phonologie de dépen-
dance et sous-spécification. Nouvelles Phonologies, Recherches Linguistiques de Vincennes
17: 29–54.
Durand, Jacques. 2009. Essai de panorama critique des accents du Midi. In Le français d’un
continent à l’autre: Mélanges offerts à Yves Charles Morin, eds. Luc Baronian and France
Martineau, 123–170. Collection Les Voies du français. Québec: Presses de l’Université
Laval.
Durand, Jacques, Bernard Laks, and Chantal Lyche, eds. 2009. Phonologie, variation et accents
du français. Paris: Hermès.
Durand, Jacques, and Chantal Lyche. 1999. Regards sur les glissantes en français: français stan-
dard, français du midi. Cahiers de grammaire, vol. 24, ed. Nicole Serna, 36–95. Toulouse:
ERSS-Université de Toulouse II.
Durand, Jacques, and Chantal Lyche. 2003. Le projet ‘Phonologie du Français Contemporain’
(PFC) et sa méthodologie. Corpus et variation en phonologie du français: méthodes et ana-
lyses, eds. Elisabeth Delais and Jacques Durand, 212–276. Toulouse: Presses Universitaires
du Mirail.
Durand, Jacques, and Chantal Lyche. 2008. French liaison in the light of corpus data. Journal of
French Language Studies 18 (1): 33–66.
Durand, Jacques, Catherine Slater, and Hilary Wise. 1987. Observations on schwa in southern
French. Linguistics 25 (5): 983–1004.
Durand, Jacques, and Jean-Michel Tarrier. 2003. Enquête phonologique en Languedoc (Dou-
zens, Aude). La Tribune Internationale des Langues Vivantes 33: 117–127.
Eychenne, Julien. 2007. Documentation de la plateforme PFC (version 1.0). In Enjeux descrip-
tifs, théoriques et didactiques, eds. Sylvain Detey and Dominique Nouveau, 41–54. ERSS,
Toulouse-Le Mirail: Bulletin PFC, 7.
Eychenne, Julien. 2009. Une variété de français conservatrice en Languedoc. In Phonologie,
variation et accents du français, eds. Jacques Durand, Bernard Laks and Chantal Lyche,
231–256. Paris: Hermès.
Hirst, Daniel, Albert Di Cristo, and Robert Espesser. 2000. Levels of representation and levels
of analysis for the description of intonation systems. In Prosody: Theory and experiment,
ed. Merle Horne, 51–88. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Kremnitz, Georg. 1981. De l’occitan au français (par le francitan). Étapes d’une substitution
linguistique. In Logos semantikos. Studia linguistica in honorem Eugenio Coseriu, vol. V, ed.
Brigitte Schlieben-Lange, 183–195. Berlin: de Gruyter.
Lonnemann, Birgit, and Trudel Meisenburg. 2009. Une variété française imprégnée d’occitan
(Lacaune/Tarn). Phonologie, variation et accents du français, eds. Jacques Durand, Bernard
Laks and Chantal Lyche, 285–303. Paris: Hermès.
Lucci, Vincent. 1983. Étude phonétique du français contemporain à travers la variation situa-
tionnelle. PhD diss., Université de Langues et Lettres, Grenoble.
Lyche, Chantal. 2010. Le français de référence: éléments de synthèse. In Les variétés du français
parlé dans l’espace francophone: ressources pour l’enseignement, eds. Sylvain Detey, Jacques
Durand, Bernard Laks and Chantal Lyche, 143–165. Paris: Ophrys.
	 An overview of the phonological and phonetic properties of Southern French	 127
Ménard, Lucie. 2003. Le registre en tant que marqueur prosodique de dialectalité: le cas du
français du Québec et de la France. In Registre et voix sociale, ed. Monique Demers, 35–58.
Éditions Nota Bene: Québec.
Mallet, Géraldine. 2008. La liaison en français: descriptions et analyses dans le corpus PFC.
PhD diss., Université de Paris X-Nanterre.
Patterson, Dave. 2000. A linguistic approach to pitch range modelling. PhD diss., Edinburgh
University.
Peters, Jörg, Peter Gilles, Peter Auer, and Margot Selting. 2002. Identification of regional vari-
eties by intonational cues. An experimental study on Hamburg and Berlin German. Lan-
guage and Speech 45 (2): 115–139.
Séguy, Jean. 1950. Le français parlé à Toulouse. Toulouse: Privat.
Selkirk, Elisabeth. 1977. The French foot: on the status of ‘mute’ e. Studies in French linguistics
1: 141–150.
Todd, Richard. 2002. Speaker-ethnicity: Attributions based on the use of prosodic cues. In
Speech Prosody 2002, eds. Bernard Bel and Isabel Marlien, 663–666. Aix-en-Provence:
CNRS, Laboratoire Parole et Langage.
van Leyden, Klaske. 2004. Prosodic characteristics of Orkney and Shetland dialects. An experi-
mental approach. Utrecht: LOT.
Watbled, Jean-Philippe. 1995. Segmental and suprasegmental structure in southern French. In
Linguistic theory and the romance languages, eds. John Charles Smith and Martin Maiden,
181–200. (= Current Issues in Linguistic Theory, 122). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
chapter 6
The variation of pronunciation
in Belgian French
From segmental phonology to prosody
Philippe Hambye and Anne Catherine Simon
Centre de recherche Valibel – Discours et Variation, Institut Langage &
Communication, Université catholique de Louvain (UCL, Belgique)
1.	 Introduction
Several descriptions of the pronunciation of French in Belgium have attempted to
identify features making the supposed ‘Belgian accent’ unique and recognizable
as distinct from the French of Northern France – often labeled ‘standard French’
(see Francard 2001; Pohl 1983, 1985, 1986; Warnant 1997), or le français de ré-
férence (see Chapter 1), abbreviated in the remainder of this chapter as FR. The
list of characteristics their authors arrive at is somewhat variable, which explains
the following quote from Pohl in an article about the phonology of French in
Belgium:
Celui qui franchit la frontière franco-belge, en n’importe quel point, remarque
une différence d’‘accent’. Il s’agit d’un fait indéniable, immédiatement perceptible,
mais dont il est difficile d’analyser toutes les composantes. (Pohl 1983: 30)
However, these works are mostly based on unsystematic observations and on the
compilation of previous writings, and not on surveys allowing for a more de-
tailed and methodical description. The PFC surveys carried out between 2004
and 2006 in a dozen localities in French-speaking Belgium help to establish a
.	 “Anyone crossing the Franco-Belgian border, at any point, notices a different ‘accent’. It is
an undeniable fact, immediately perceptible, but one whose components are hard to identify”
(our translation).
.	 The situation was similar for the description of the lexicon until large surveys were carried
out by Francard et al. (2002).
130	 Philippe Hambye and Anne Catherine Simon
more valid and reliable picture of the phonological specifics of French spoken in
Brussels and Wallonia. As will be shown in this chapter, they open the way for
a description of the phonological features of this variety of French which relies
on empirical evidence and quantitative data (even if the speaker samples of PFC
surveys are always rather small).
These data confirm the fact that phonological variation is also very impor-
tant within French-speaking Belgium: beyond the homogenizing view of a single
‘Belgian accent’, one can observe a large variety of language use between speakers
from different regions or social groups. While this reality was often blurred by
early descriptions of Belgian French, it has long been emphasized by the authors
cited above. Indeed, there are still strong regiolects in Belgium, associated with
urban areas which resist the process of standardization towards a single norm
(would it be Parisian French or a hypothetical Belgian standard). They result in-
stead from a process of leveling of local varieties (see Hambye 2008). This geo-
graphic factor in variation is of course linked with a social factor: as the analysis
below will show, local phonological features are in general more frequent among
lower-class speakers than among upper-class speakers who tend to orient their
speech to a variety closer to the standard.
In the first part of this article, we describe the phonological inventory of vow-
els and consonants revealed by the PFC surveys (Section 3) as well as the behavior
of schwa and liaison in the speech of Belgian speakers (Sections 4 and 5). Our de-
scription aims to account for the variation mentioned above, and we thus choose
to present the data from three rather different places in Wallonia (Section 2), al-
lowing us to give a faithful representation of the diversity of French in Belgium.
Facing this heterogeneous picture of Belgian French, one can wonder wheth-
er it is possible to identify a set of phonological features characterizing this variety
and making it distinct from other varieties in Northern European francophonie.
It could be deemed difficult to define a Belgian accent/variety on the basis of the
few phonological variants that are both specific to and widespread in Belgium. As
we will see, these variants do not seem sufficient to account for a distinct Belgian
pronunciation of French (compared to that of hexagonal French). Does this mean
that the existence of a Belgian variety/accent is pure fantasy?
Perceptual studies have shown that Belgians were in fact able to distinguish
their peers from French speakers by their pronunciation with a high level of
success (Moreau et al. 1999). But many authors (Francard 2001: 256; Remacle
.	 These were made within a normative approach that tended to present a very negative and
homogenous vision of the Belgian francophonie (for a history of the linguists’ view on Belgian
French, see Hambye 2005: 71–80).
	 The variation of pronunciation in Belgian French	 131
1969: 55; Warnant 1997: 165) have suggested that this capacity of identification
may be based more on supra-segmental than segmental features.
This is why the last part of this chapter (Section 6) is dedicated to the study
of variation in prosody. We use the PFC data to investigate the role that prosodic
patterns may play in differentiating Belgian French from hexagonal French. We
first address the methodological difficulties in variationist research on prosody
and we then present the first results of the prosodic analyses carried out on a small
subset of our speaker sample.
2.	 The PFC surveys in French-speaking Belgium
The data analyzed below come from three out of the fifteen PFC surveys carried
out in Belgium. These three surveys were selected to illustrate the diversity of
French spoken in Belgium, since they correspond to three different socio-eco-
nomic and ‘geolinguistic’ areas. The city of the first survey, Gembloux, is situated
in the centre of Wallonia. The French variety spoken in Gembloux presents nu-
merous phonological features common to many speakers in Wallonia and even
in the whole of French-speaking Belgium. On the other hand, there are few vari-
ants that are very specific to the region, since Gembloux is neither the heart of an
urban regiolect nor a particularly isolated area where one can still find very local
and peculiar forms of speech. Newcomers to Gembloux hail from various places
around Brussels or Namur (the political capital of Wallonia, south of Gembloux)
and do not have strong ties to the area. Since it is situated within very dense auto-
mobile and railway networks, Gembloux acts as a satellite of other cities and not
as a real center of activities. This also means that there is no particular local iden-
tity associated with that city: given the small size of the town (about 20,000 inhab-
itants), people who live there work and seek entertainment in neighboring cities.
By contrast, the city of Liège is often viewed in Wallonia as a very particular
region, with its own history and identity, and as the centre of a specific and recog-
nizable accent, which counts the most differences with FR. Located in the East of
Wallonia, Liège is one of the biggest cities in Belgium (about 200,000 inhabitants)
and it is one of its most ancient urban and industrial areas. The French spoken
in Liège may for this reason be compared to other urban vernaculars observed
in industrial regions of France (Hornsby 2006; Pooley 2004) or the U.K. (Foulkes
and Docherty 1999).
Finally, our third survey was conducted in Tournai, a medium-sized city
(about 70,000 inhabitants) in the very West of Wallonia, close to the French bor-
der. This proximity with France and especially with the Lille conurbation, along
with the former influence of Picard (instead of Walloon in the centre and east
132	 Philippe Hambye and Anne Catherine Simon
of Wallonia), makes of Tournai a place relatively apart, whose particular accent
sounds French (and not Belgian) to many people in Brussels and Wallonia.
The geographic, social and economic differences between these three regions
undoubtedly have consequences at the linguistic level and help to explain both
the forms of speech that are more frequent in each of these areas, and the linguis-
tic attitudes their inhabitants develop towards their vernacular and towards the
(Belgian or French) standard.
However, in order to interpret the observations presented below, it is impor-
tanttokeepinmindthattheregionalvariantsinpronunciationmaycarrydifferent
social meanings and values (and not only function as a marker of local identity).
Studies of French spoken in Belgium have long distinguished between features
associated with the bourgeoisie, often widespread in French-speaking Belgium,
and those felt as popular and/or incorrect and which are therefore less frequent
among middle-class speakers, whatever their regional provenance (Hambye &
Francard 2008). This is related to the constant ambivalence of Belgian franco-
phones regarding their variety of French: all the sociolinguistic research about
how they relate to their own language shows that French-speaking Belgians tend
both to condemn and to be attached to their linguistic specificities (see Hambye
2005, 2008 for a survey). This sociolinguistic situation needs to be taken into ac-
count in order to explain the pattern of variation described below.
For each of our three PFC-surveys, the speaker sample consists of twelve
people, including an equal number of men and women, three age groups (19–27,
36–50 and 54–82 years old), and three social categories defined by level of educa-
tion (secondary education, post-secondary education other than university, and
university education).
3.	 Phonological inventories
A comparison of more than fifteen works on the pronunciation of French in Bel-
gium (published between 1956 and 2001) led to the identification of five general
trends characterizing Belgian francophones’ phonological inventory (see Hambye
2008, 2005: 85). Our data confirm the importance of these trends for the differ-
entiation of Belgian French, but also reveal variation between speakers and some
potential evolutions among younger speakers that former descriptions tended
to ignore.
.	 This association of the accent of Tournai with France was observed in many small-scale
perceptual studies carried out by our students for a seminar on accent perception.
	 The variation of pronunciation in Belgian French	 133
3.1	 Vowels
3.1.1	 Phonological oppositions
A first difference between the phonological system of Belgian French and the de-
scription of FR concerns the persistence of certain vocalic oppositions. This is only
clear-cut, however, for the speakers from two of the three regions investigated. We
can infer from the word-list task that speakers from Liège and Gembloux still
make a distinction between /ɔ/ and /o/, both in word-final (roc vs. rauque; pomme
vs. paume) and non-tonic positions (botté vs. beauté). The opposition between /ɛ/
and /e/ is also observed in word-final position (épais vs. épée; piquet/piquais vs.
piquer/piqué). Yet, for many speakers, the opposition is not stable in non-tonic
syllables and two young speakers (with a university degree) seem to confound
the two vowels even at the end of an intonation phrase. This may be the sign of a
tendency on the part of French-speaking Belgians to progressively adopt a more
“advanced” (Eckert 2000: 88) variety like that of some of their French neighbors.
This movement is obviously at a further stage among speakers from Tournai,
who tend to neutralize the former phonological oppositions. Indeed, eight out of
twelve speakers in Tournai (five being under 30 years old) do not systematically
make the distinction between botté and beauté (both prounounced with [o]). Re-
garding /ɛ/ vs. /e/, the distinction is completely lost by two speakers (two young
university students) who only use [e] and unstable for six other people. Again,
the fact that this process of neutralization seems more advanced among young
and middle-class speakers may indicate a change in progress led by prestigious
socio-cultural groups.
The situation of nasal vowels within the system is also evolving. While all
speakers conserve the opposition between /ɑ̃/ and /ɔ̃/, half of them (from various
categories) do not distinguish brun /bʁœ̃/ and brin /bʁɛ̃/ anymore (both pro-
nounced [bʁɛ̃]).
Only two speakers in the sample make a distinction between the terms of the
minimal pair jeune /ʒœn/ vs. jeûne /ʒøn/, and yet there is seemingly an opposition
between [ø] and [œ] for all the speakers recorded since their distribution in differ-
ent lexemes is stable and does not follow the loi de position (open vowels in closed
syllables and closed vowels in open syllables). For example, they pronounce creux
and creuse with [ø] but meurtre and peuple with [œ]. Finally, the opposition /a/
vs. /ɑ/ is not systematic for any of our speakers. Qualitative differences always go
with quantitative (durational) differences for the low vowels (see below).
Descriptions of French spoken in Belgium, which almost always take for
granted the maintenance of phonological oppositions among Belgians, should
thus be qualified on this point. We can nevertheless expect that the process of
neutralization is still slowed down in Belgium by speakers’ attitudes. That is,
134	 Philippe Hambye and Anne Catherine Simon
people who know that the phonological distinctions are being lost try to counter
this evolution, since maintaining them seems more “correct”, even if they are of-
ten conscious of diverging from the current Parisian norm.
3.1.2	 Vowel duration
For the majority of the speakers, vowel duration plays a phonological role. First,
we observe a long final vowel in some feminine words with a final open syllable,
especially when they are spelled with ‑ie or ‑ée (compagnie [kɔ̃paniː], épée [epeː]).
Secondly, some words are still pronounced by Belgian speakers with their histori-
cal long vowel (due to compensatory lengthening entailed by former [s] deletion
before a consonant) mirrored in the presence of a circumflex accent in the spell-
ing. This allows for a phonological distinction in pairs like faites [fɛt] vs. fête [fɛːt],
patte [pat] vs. pâte [paːt] or malle [mal] vs. mâle [maːl] (sometimes combined
with a differentiation for [a]/[ɑ]). These quantitative oppositions are still sys-
tematic for three quarters of the speakers in Liège and Gembloux, but only for
less than half of the Tournaisiens. As will be discussed below, vowel lengthening
may also be due to the application of marked prosodic patterns (see Section 6).
Yet, in Liège, speakers seem to integrate long vowels into the phonological rep-
resentation of specific words: as a consequence, vowels in these words appear to
be particularly long and salient when they are integrated in one of these marked
prosodic contours. This is the case, namely, for words like maison [meːzɔ̃], vrai-
ment [vʁeːmɑ̃], caisse [kɛːs] – where the spelling ‑ai- may be interpreted as mark-
ing a long vowel (see Hambye 2005: 202–205) – whose penultimate vowel is very
saliently lengthened when they appear in a prosodic pattern that is characterized
by an increase of penultimate vowel duration.
3.1.3	 Vowel opening and closing
The tendency for speakers to open unstressed vowels (e.g., [i] > [ɪ], [e] > [ɛ]) – a
tendency often analyzed as linked to an articulation weakening – is another
.	 Though we have not made any systematic measurement of lengthening in several prosodic
positions, scattered observations lead us to think that long vowels are only perceived as long
when they appear at the end of an intonation group. In this position, vowel lengthening (which
is observed for all vowels) is significantly greater for those long vowels (about 100 ms longer or
more).
.	 This analysis is somewhat dubious since it is not clear at all that vowel opening is due to
articulatory weakening since for vowels weakening may, on the contrary, lead to closing. In fact,
this interpretation is probably influenced by the traditional association of popular speech with
weakening, effortlessness, etc. (while proper pronunciation needs tension, clear distinctions,
etc. see Laks 2000 for a critique). We note with interest Crosswhite’s view (2004: 200–203) on
the loss of tense/lax distinctions in favor of lax in unstressed position as an ‘archiphonemic’
	 The variation of pronunciation in Belgian French	 135
feature mentioned in many descriptions of French in Belgium. No clear occur-
rence of this phenomenon appeared in the reading task, but examples in both
guided and free conversations are frequent: pied, déception and ici for instance
may be pronounced [pjɛ], [dɛsɛpsjɔ̃] and [ɪsɪ]. Yet, examples of this kind were
observed only among speakers from Gembloux and Liège and mainly among
older speakers from a working-class background.
On the contrary, the processes of vowel lengthening mentioned above may
produce the closing of the vowel (some speakers in Wallonia will pronounce laide
as [leːd] at the end of an intonation group) or even the appearance of a semi-
­
vocalic appendix at the end of the vocalic articulation. This happens in our corpus
in words like beauté [boːwte], épée [epeːj], botté [bɔteːj]. Again, these appear only
in the speech of elderly and working-class speakers.
3.1.4	 Glides
Sequences of two vowels in hiatus (closed vowel + vowel, e.g., scier, niais, mouette)
are known to be pronounced in Belgium with two vowels (scier [sie]), sometimes
linked with a semi-vocalic transition ([sije]) while they are usually realized with
a glide ([sje]) in FR. Data analysis reveals that actual linguistic practices are in
fact much more variable: in nièce, épier or miette, the hiatus is resolved with the
closing of the high vowel into a glide ([njɛs], [epje], [mjɛt]), while in nier, scier or
étrier we observe in general the realization [ije]. In the latter case, speakers may
be trying to avoid the group [trj]. In nier or scier, the most frequent pronunciation
avoids merging of the two morphemes (ni + er, sci + er) into a single syllable. In
fou à lier, mouette or niais, no realization emerges as privileged by Belgian speak-
ers. Age also seems to have an effect on the treatment of glides: the pronunciation
with two vowels maintained is favored by older speakers, perhaps because of the
attention they pay to their articulation.
We could not end this section without commenting on the case of /ɥ/. Its
absence in francophone Belgians’ phonological system is often cited as one dis-
tinctive feature of their speech. Our data confirm that /ɥ/ does not play a distinc-
tive role for our speakers – they do not make a difference between juin and joint,
both pronounced [ʒwɛ̃]. The sound [ɥ] is not, however, entirely replaced by [w],
contrary to what some authors have claimed (see for instance Remacle 1969: 105–
107). It functions as an allophone of /y/ in certain positions: habituels is always
neutralization (in line with Lehiste’s (1961) work on Slovene), but in the absence of a tense/lax
distinction in Belgian French we cannot propose neutralization as an alternative explanation.
.	 Examples of this kind may in fact appear both in stressed and non stressed syllables, but
they seem more frequent in the latter case than in the former, where the lengthening of the
vowel tends to have a closing effect.
136	 Philippe Hambye and Anne Catherine Simon
pronounced with [ɥ] or [y], but never with [w]. The same is true for muette where
the standard pronunciation [ɥ] is not replaced by [w] ([*mwɛt] or [*mywɛt]): the
realization [myɛt], besides [mɥɛt] for a young speaker of Tournai, is the only one
we find in the corpus.
3.2	 Consonants
The only consonant variant that is widespread among the speakers is the devoiced
realization of word-final consonants. Word-final consonant devoicing is another
much discussed feature of Belgian French (see Hambye 2009, 2005: 122–153). Yet,
two different phenomena must be distinguished here: in Liège and Gembloux,
speakers’ phonological system seems to have integrated a constraint favoring con-
sonant devoicing at the end of prosodic units (intonation groups, words or even
syllables). The integration of such a constraint in the system of Belgian speak-
ers of French may have been favored by the presence of a categorical devoicing
rule for obstruents at the end of prosodic units (words and syllables), in Wal-
loon (the major vernacular language in Wallonia before French became the main
language for all communicative functions, see Francard 1984; Francard & Morin
1986) and in the neighboring Dutch language and Flemish dialects (see Baetens-
Beardsmore 1971). The constraint favoring devoicing at the end of prosodic units
explains why word-final consonant devoicing may appear before a vowel (pas-
sage à [pasaʃa] niveau) or before a pause (regarde Claude## [klot]), i.e., where the
phonetic environment may not explain devoicing. In Tournai on the contrary,
devoicing almost only appears as the result of regressive assimilation (before a
voiceless consonant, like in les choses qu’il [ʃoskil] a faites). In the former case,
word-final consonant devoicing is perceptually salient and socially marked. As
a sociolinguistic stereotype, it is unsurprisingly less frequent among young and
highly educated speakers.
Other variations regarding consonants are more specific to small sub-groups
of our sample. Older speakers tend to palatalize dental stops before [j] in words
like soutien [sutjɛ̃]). Some speakers of Liège, again the older ones, pronounce with
an initial glottal fricative [h] some words beginning with a graphic <h> (e.g., hêtre
[hɛtʁ]).
4.	 The behavior of schwa
Though it has been said to be particular in Belgium (several authors claiming
schwa deletion to be more frequent in Belgium than in France; see Pohl 1986: 134,
	 The variation of pronunciation in Belgian French	 137
1985: 14–15; Remacle 1969: 115–116; Warnant 1997: 169), the pattern of schwa
behavior in our data does not seem to differ from what is claimed for FR and can
be analyzed with the model proposed by Dell (1973). In agreement with Dell’s
description, in the environments where schwa presence is variable, it may be ana-
lyzed either as an unstable vowel or as an epenthetic schwa whose realization is
conditioned by phonotactic constraints.
The first case is illustrated by schwas in word-initial syllables (tu s(e)ras) or
in monosyllables (mais j(e) suis). Phonotactic constraints play an important role
in the behavior of schwa in these types of sequence, since it is deleted more often
when the schwa syllable’s left context is a vowel than when it is a consonant (in
conversation tasks we find a 79% schwa deletion rate (1220/1544) in the context
V#Cә#C (mais je suis) compared to an 11% schwa deletion rate (79/741) in the
context C#Cә#C (car je suis), and a 79% schwa deletion rate (391/483) in the con-
text V#CәC (tu seras) versus a 13% schwa deletion rate (17/133) in the context
C#CәC (car depuis)). Nevertheless, phonotactic constraints do not explain all oc-
currences of schwa realization. In word-initial syllables for instance, morphologi-
cal factors play a role in the frequency of schwa deletion (e.g., schwa deletion is
more frequent in the initial morpheme re- or in flexional endings of future and
conditional tenses like ‑erai, ‑erais, etc.).
Schwas appearing at the end of polysyllables (la chos(e) qui; perdr(e) du temps)
are to be analyzed as epenthetic vowels the presence/absence of which is almost
entirely conditioned by phonotactic constraints and to a less extent by articula-
tory and prosodic constraints (see Hambye 2005: 291 for details).
In other cases, a graphic <e> may signal a stable vowel or be the trace of a
form­er vowel that has now disappeared from speakers’ phonological representa-
tion and is therefore never pronounced. Schwas in word-medial syllables illustrate
these cases: in words like débordement (CCәC), the <e> corresponds to a stable
vowel that is never deleted, while it is never present in a word like lanc(e)ment
(VCәC), where we have therefore no reason to postulate a latent schwa.
Finally, results from the text-reading tasks confirm that schwa-realization is a
marker of formal or more careful speech: variable schwas tend indeed to be pro-
nounced more often when reading a text than in the conversations. The analysis
of external factors supports this interpretation: speakers from intermediate social
groups, who are known to more readily adopt a hypercorrect style, are those who
produce variable schwa more frequently.
.	 There are however a few words with the VCәC structure where <e> signals a stable vowel
(atelier). Moreover, the <e> of future and conditional morphemes ‑erai, ‑eras, etc. do not cor-
respond to a stable vowel in words like restera.
138	 Philippe Hambye and Anne Catherine Simon
5.	 The behavior of liaison consonants
Results regarding liaisons confirm the description offered by Durand and Lyche
(2008) on the basis of several PFC-surveys in France. Following their suggestion,
we distinguish here between those cases where linguistic constraints render the
presence of a liaison consonant (almost) systematic, and those where the liaison
phenomenon is variable and rather unpredictable, i.e., with the same structure
being pronounced sometimes with and sometimes without a liaison by the same
speaker (see Hambye & Simon (2009) for a detailed analysis).
Sequences always pronounced with a liaison are of different types, and in-
clude those with a determiner (les—endroits, trois—ans, un—arbre, etc.) or a clitic
pronoun (il en—avait, on—avait, ils—ont, etc.), some fossilized phrases (de temps—
en temps, plus—ou moins, de plus—en plus, etc.), and structures with plus/très +
adjective (plus—ouvert, très—intéressant).
In other types of structure, the production of a liaison is by far the more fre-
quent case, but some unexpected forms are found in the corpus, in sequences
with bien + adjective (j’ai bien—aimé [bjɛ̃eme]), with the preposition dans (j’ai
été viré dans—un [dɑ̃œ̃]), with tout + verb (tout—a [tua] été enregistré), with some
adjectives + noun (des autres—activités [otʁaktivite], les cinq dernières—années
[dɛʁnjɛʁane]).
Liaison is highly variable (i.e., its frequency of realization is around 50%) in
structures such as rien—à découvrir, dont—on est très contents, quand—on veut, il
est—arrivé. Finally, there is seldom or even never a liaison in sequences with other
verbal forms (such as doit—être, suis—heureux, sont—amis, faut—avoir, etc.), with an
adverb/preposition(suchaspas—arrivé,trop—envie,après—elle,etc.),orwithanoun
+ adjective (such as mots—usuels, luttes—amicales, choses—extraordinaires, etc.).
Regarding external factors, we observe that women and older speakers real-
ize more liaisons than men or younger speakers. Variable liaison is also more
frequent in the reading task than in the conversations.
.	 Quantitative results can be skewed by sequences including est. In these cases, women make
a liaison in 56% of occurrences (84/151) while it appears in only 38% of occurrences among
men (63/164; p < 0.005; chi-square = 9.36; df = 1). The difference of liaison rate between speak-
ers above and under 30 years (71% (68/96) vs 16% (21/134); p < 0.001; chi-square = 71.74;
df = 1) is even more salient.
	 The variation of pronunciation in Belgian French	 139
6.	 Prosodic variation: The case of continuative contours
6.1	 Methodological issues
Assessing the role of prosody in the distinctiveness of Belgian French is not an
easy task, for research on prosodic variation cannot rely on well-defined prin-
ciples like those guiding the study of segmental variation (Woehrling et al. 2008).
A first problem is that we do not know a priori what to look for, since salient
prosodic variants have not been clearly identified. Duration is often mentioned
as a decisive parameter in former descriptions of Belgian French, which point out
a tendency for excessive sound lengthening (Remacle 1969: 70). Yet, lengthening
is not per se a (regionally) marked phenomenon and one may therefore observe
many variations in duration which are not at all typical of a particular variety or
‘accent’. Thus, we need to know in what conditions long syllables may appear in
FR, in order to identify marked long syllables. But again, this is a particularly dif-
ficult operation: there are many inter-related factors relevant to syllable duration,
and any salient lengthening might be due to a final intonation group boundary,
emphasis, emotional speech or regional variation.10
Knowing where to look is a second methodological hurdle. What is the do-
main where we can expect to observe marked prosodic variants? Since prosodic
analysis is often very demanding, it is all the more necessary to focus the analy-
sis on sequences where phenomena under scrutiny may potentially occur (see
Lacheret & Lyche 2006; Coquillon 2005: 129). But as long as marked variants are
not precisely described, we do not know exactly in what conditions they may or
may not appear.
6.2	 Inductive and deductive approaches to prosodic variation
Facing these difficulties, researchers have adopted two strategies. The first is in-
ductive and consists in measuring prosodic parameters for a rather large set of
data and to compare results between sub-groups of the speaker sample. While
this method has produced interesting results (see Coquillon 2005), there is a high
risk that means do not reflect actual and relevant differences between speakers:
Goldman & Simon (2007) have shown that regionally marked contours produced
by speakers from Liège are not singled out by automatic analysis whereas they are
10.	 In this view, models predicting the “standard” prosodic form (pitch, duration, and intensity
of each segment) are not of great help, since they represent neutral speech in a “read aloud”
style, and not conversational speech.
140	 Philippe Hambye and Anne Catherine Simon
perceived as extremely salient clichés by expert phoneticians. One reason is that
such clichés are quite infrequent; despite their scarcity they function very well as
social markers.11
Another solution is to adopt a more deductive approach and to focus only
on contours that are perceived as marked for their particular duration. It is then
possible to compare the (relative) frequency of these contours across different
speakers. While this method offers the advantage of restricting the analysis to pre-
determined occurrences, it also has two important limitations: it depends heavily
on the analyst’s perception, and it takes for granted that prosodic variation is only
categorical (a variant is marked or not), and not gradual (it is the average increase
of syllable duration of certain contours that creates the whole perception of a re-
gionally marked accent).
In our study of Belgian French, we tried to find a mid-way between these
two options. Considering that the first step was to learn a little bit more about the
characteristics of marked variants, we started by researching perceptually salient
marked variants among a sample of six Belgian and French speakers from the
PFC database.
6.3	 Data and annotation
The six speakers are all male, and between 30 and 55 years old. Three of them
come from Belgium (blaPS1 and blaTM1 from Liège; bgaLD2 from Gembloux,
and is representative of standard Belgian French) and the other three from France
(44aJN1 from Nantes, 75aAC1 from the Parisian upper-class, and 54aFL1 from
Ogéviller in Lorraine).12
A first-step annotation, conducted by two experts, led to the categorization
of continuative and conclusive contours as neutral vs. marked. We restricted our-
selves to the annotation of contours on the last syllable of Intonation Groups (IG,
see Mertens 1993), the highest prosodic constituent defined by intonation mod-
els. Final contours at an intonation group boundary correspond to salient pro-
sodic units as they are frequently followed by a silent pause.13 Intonation contours
in French are realized together with the primary, final stress, which is always on
the last full syllable of the intonation group (Mertens 1993). This syncretism of
11.	 Only a few terms or syntactic turns may suffice to color a typical way of speaking (Bally
1951, cited by Léon 1993: 231). The same holds for prosodic contours.
12.	 Recordings consist of more or less informal interviews ranging from 10 to 30 minutes. The
total duration of the data used in this study amounts to 138 minutes.
13.	 See also the notion of clausule (Carton 1985); see Note 14 below.
	 The variation of pronunciation in Belgian French	 141
accentuation and intonation (Di Cristo 1999) results in a significant prominence
of that last syllable, combining lengthening with a modification in F0 (rise for
continuation and fall for finality; Lacheret-Dujour & Beaugendre 1999: 41; Rossi
1999; Jun & Fougeron 2002: 153).
More than a third of the annotated contours had to be discarded for one of
the following reasons:
–	 contours followed by a hesitation particle (like euh) or within a context of
hesitation, since it may directly affect the duration of the contour;
–	 contours with a specific pragmatic function (like contextualizing reported
speech) since their specific duration or pitch can be attributed to interactive
or pragmatic functions;
–	 contours uttered with overlap or at a very fast speech rate, impeding any
acoustic measurement;
–	 contours in which the final stressed syllable of the intonation group is fol-
lowed by a schwa (Hansen 1997) or a vocalic appendix (like hein), since it
modifies the structural prosodic pattern typical for French.
In sum, the remaining contours are supposed to be highly comparable since many
variables responsible for prosodic variation have been dismissed. Those contours
have been grouped into two main categories: continuative contours (cont) re-
alized with a rising or higher pitch contour on the last syllable and conclusive
contours (fin) with a falling pitch movement (see Delattre 1966; Mertens 1987;
Rossi 1999). Contours were further categorized as neutral or regionally marked.
Neutral contours are those which, in our view, could not index for any regional
affiliation, while marked contours are those that could be associated with either a
Belgian or a hexagonal variety of French. We then identified sub-categories with-
in marked contours, on the basis of the prosodic feature supposedly responsible
for their markedness. For Belgian speakers, we distinguished two types of marked
contours14: those with an extra lengthening of the final stressed syllable of the
intonation group (CONT-L and FIN-L) and those with an extra lengthening of
the penultimate syllable of the intonation group, sometimes accompanied by an
14.	 Studying regional varieties of French, Carton (1984, 1986, 1991) observed particular pro-
sodic patterns (called clausules) characterized by duration and melodic variation in the last
three syllables of intonation groups, that were not expected in more standardized varieties of
French. Such prosodic patterns were also observed in Belgian varieties of French, where vowel
lengthening has long been considered a distinctive feature (see Francard 2001; Warnant 1997;
Remacle 1969). More specifically, the lengthening of penultimate syllable has been described as
a typical variant of the region of Liège (Hambye & Simon 2004).
142	 Philippe Hambye and Anne Catherine Simon
extra-long final syllable (CONT-P and FIN-P).15 On the other hand, contours
which had been categorized as typical of French-speakers were perceived as hav-
ing an extra-short final syllable (CONT-S and FIN-S).
6.4	 Perceptual validation test
In order to validate our categorization of neutral and marked contours, we con-
ducted a perceptual study among a group of Belgian students. We extracted 15
speech samples from the recordings of the six speakers. These samples contained
either a marked contour, a marked segmental variant (such as a word-final de-
voiced consonant or a posteriorised /a/) or were considered as unmarked and
neutral in the sense defined above. Samples were rather short (four seconds) and
contained no clue for identification at the content level. Samples were submitted
to 62 judges, who were asked to identify the speaker (is he/she Belgian or French?)
and to assess the correctness of his/her speech (do you think he/she would be a
good newscaster?). Results of the test indicate notably that:
–	 samples with marked contours led judges to identify speakers’ origin far bet-
ter (82% of correct identifications) than unmarked samples (55%);
–	 these prosodically marked samples led to almost the same rate of identifica-
tion as samples with a marked segmental variant (80%).
The results of the test allowed us to consider our categorization as a relatively
good basis to examine the distribution of prosodic variants across speakers on
the one hand, and on the other hand, to investigate the specificity of marked vs.
neutral contours. In this way, we could hope to find the prosodic features that help
people identify a Belgian or French accent. In what follows, we focus exclusively
on two specifically ‘Belgian’ contours: CONT-P and CONT-L, that is, continua-
tive contours with an IG-final or penultimate extra-long syllable.
6.5	 Analysis
6.5.1	 Distribution of continuative variants among speakers
Our database comprises 115 continuative contours from three Belgian and three
French speakers.
As Table 1 shows, the number of contours per speaker is highly variable, due
to the difference in length of recordings and the fact that some speakers produce
15.	 Finality contours with a sharp fall HL pattern (see Hambye & Simon 2006), contextualizing
emphasis, have not been analyzed.
	 The variation of pronunciation in Belgian French	 143
a large amount of hesitations (like Liège speaker blaPS1) or have a fast speech rate
(Nantes speaker 44aJN1) resulting in the rejection of many contours.
Data show that speakers from Liège (blaTM1, blaPS1) have a high proportion
of continuation contours with a perceived extra-lengthened IG-penultimate or
final syllable. As this table also shows, an analysis of prosodic variation based on
the distribution of categorical variants has the advantage of offering very clear-
cut results. We see an emergent difference between Belgian and French speak-
ers regarding the relative frequency of different types of marked contours. The
results are also suggestive of the social value of some of these contours: it might
be no accident that the contour with a long penultimate syllable (CONT-P) –
which is known to be socially and regionally marked (Hambye & Simon 2004;
Hambye 2005; Woehrling et al. 2008) – is more frequent in the speech of the Bel-
gian speaker who is from a working-class background (Liège speaker blaTM1).
On the other hand, results of this kind have several shortcomings. Clearly
marked variants seem to be rather rare, but more critically, their identification
relies too heavily on the analyst’s own perception: the perceptual test did confirm
that contours categorized as marked were indeed marked for other judges, but
it did not ensure that all the contours potentially perceived as marked were ef-
fectively counted as such. It may be the case that only very salient non-standard
contours have been categorized as marked, leaving aside intermediate variants
and thus exaggerating differences between speakers. This is why it is also inter-
esting to compare duration means between speakers and, moreover, to measure
duration means for the different contours categorized, so as to define quantitative
thresholds associated with each type of contour/variant. It is then possible to use
these thresholds, instead of analysts’ perception, to categorize and count variants,
and to study their distribution among speakers. It is for this reason that we carried
out an acoustic analysis of our data.
6.5.2	 Acoustic analysis of marked and neutral contours
The acoustic analysis aims to discover the prosodic parameters best suited for
describing and discriminating marked contours from neutral ones. The analysis
Table 1.  Contours types and count, for each speaker
44aJN1
(Nantes)
54bFL1
(Ogéviller)
75cAC1
(Paris)
bgaLD2
(Gembloux)
blaTM1
(Liège)
blaPS1
(Liège)
Total
CONT   7 16 11 30 19 4   87
CONT-L   0   0   0   5   7 3   15
CONT-P   0   1   0   0   6 0    7
CONT-S   4   1   0   0   1 0    6
Total 11 18 11 35 33 7 115
144	 Philippe Hambye and Anne Catherine Simon
is built upon duration and F0 measurements for the last four syllables of each
contour.16
What can we draw from the acoustic measurement of duration means, without
taking the perceptual categorization into account? As Table 2 shows, the duration
of final and penultimate syllables (measured in ms) does not vary significantly
between Liège speakers and speakers from France, although Table 1 showed that
the former present a high proportion of long contours (CONT-P or CONT-L)
while the latter do not.
We conclude that the mean duration of syllables is not a relevant cue for de-
scribing perceived lengthening, since it varies little. We could then think the rela-
tive duration of the final and the penultimate syllables (FS dur. / PS dur.) would
give its specificity and perceived markedness to the speech of speakers from Liege.
But this measure is not very informative: we see, for example, almost no difference
at this level between the Parisian speaker 75cAC1 and the Liège speaker blaTM1,
even while the former had no contours with long IG-penultimate syllables, which
on the contrary characterize the speech of the latter.
We then try to find a more fine-grained categorization by using threshold val-
ues to define the different prosodic variants. Final syllables longer than 400 ms are
considered as long, and final syllables under 300 ms as short. To determine these
thresholds, we relied on the mean duration of each contour type. For example,
CONT-L duration varies from 400 ms (blaTM1) to 500 ms (blaPS1); CONT-S has
a mean duration of 280 ms (44aJN1); unmarked continuations are 260 ms long
(44aJN1), 330 ms (bgaLD2), 360 ms (blaTM1) and 310 ms (blaPS1). In Table 3,
16.	 Recordings have been segmented into words and syllables using the EasyAlign software
(Goldman 2011). Acoustic measurements were automatically retrieved, giving for each syllable
mean F0 (in semitones, ST), F0 movement (in ST) and duration (in ms). Relative duration and
relative pitch (of the syllable within its context) have been calculated.
Table 2.  For continuation contours: Mean duration (in ms) of final (FS) and penultimate
(PS) syllables, and relative duration of final syllables (FS/PS)
44aJN1
(Nantes)
54bFL1
(Ogéviller)
75cAC1
(Paris)
bgaLD2
(Gembloux)
blaTM1
(Liège)
blaPS1
(Liège)
final syll.
dur. (ms)
266 305 352 348 363 390
penult. syll.
dur. (ms)
169 183 175 144 191 151
final syll.
relative dur.
1,71 1,75 2,13 2,55 2,09 3,41
	 The variation of pronunciation in Belgian French	 145
we see the distribution across speakers of these acoustically defined marked con-
tours (not perceptually defined as in Table 1).
This procedure yields far better results for discriminating speakers, since they
are in line with those in Table 1, while also qualifying them a bit. Indeed, what
emerges here is a clear opposition between two French speakers (Nantes speaker
44aJN1, Ogéviller speaker 54bFL1) who present more short syllables and very few
long syllables, and two Liège Belgian speakers (blaPS1, blaTM1) whose speech
has far fewer short syllables and more long ones (especially blaPS1). Note that
the two remaining speakers, situated in between the others, were those that the
student judges had considered as the more neutral (non-identifiable) in the per-
ceptual study described in Section 6.4.
We now specifically turn to contours with a long IG-penultimate syllable,
which have been described as typical for the variety of Liège (Hambye & Simon
2004). As we have seen in Table 2, the mean duration of IG-penultimate syllables
does not allow to discriminate between our speakers. The IG-final syllable (FS)
relative duration seems more predictive even though it leaves us with two contra-
dictory results: Liège speaker blaPS1 has the highest score for FS relative dura-
tion but does not have any perceived instances of CONT-P, and the FS relative
duration of Liège speaker blaTM1, who has the most instances of CONT-P, is not
the lowest – as would be expected if his IG-penultimate syllables were generally
longer than those of other speakers. This shows clearly that measuring only the
(relative) duration of the penultimate syllable is not an adequate way to account
for the differences of ‘accent’ perceived by our judges.
By looking at the contours labeled as ‘CONT-P’, we noticed that they were in
general characterized by two features: (i) the perception of a long penultimate syl-
lable could be linked to the fact that the duration difference between the last two
syllables was relatively small – the duration of the final syllable being in general
Table 3.  Acoustically defined marked contours (number and percentage
for each speaker)
44aJN1
(Nantes)
54bFL1
(Ogéviller)
75cAC1
(Paris)
bgaLD2
(Gembloux)
blaTM1
(Liège)
blaPS1
(Liège)
Contours with a long IG-final syllable (> 400 ms)
N   0   4   3 11 12   4
Tot 11 18 11 35 33   7
%   0 22 27 31 36 57
Contours with a short IG-final syllable (< 300 ms)
N   7 10   4 14   6   2
Tot 11 18 11 35 33   7
% 64 56 36 40 18 29
146	 Philippe Hambye and Anne Catherine Simon
lower than twice the duration of the penultimate syllable (FS/PS < 2) ; (ii) at the
same time, this last syllable was relatively long, with a minimum duration of 350
ms (FS > 350 ms) (see Table 4).
Again, this new way of categorizing our variants leads to results that interest-
ingly complement those from Table 1, with the speakers from Liège standing out
with a higher frequency of contours with a long IG-penultimate syllable (with
lengthening of the penultimate syllable now defined with the two criteria men-
tioned above).
Our data set is of course far too small to allow us to draw firm conclusions,
but the method used has led to more contrastive and convincing results. The
thresholds defined could be used to count marked variants within a larger set of
data, without having to take into account only the most salient variants.
7.	 Conclusion
In this contribution, we have aimed to provide a broad picture of French as it is
currently spoken in Belgium. Former descriptions of this variety are sometimes
confirmed by our analysis, but they are also sometimes qualified or contradicted.
More precisely, our data show that even though the main features associated with
Belgian French are still observed among speakers (maintenance of vocalic opposi-
tions, vowel lengthening, vowel opening, particular behavior of glides, word-final
consonant devoicing), there are indications of internal diversity and of current
evolutions that add complexity to the traditional picture of a single and archaic
Belgian French. Besides, the phonological inventory of Belgian speakers does not
diverge significantly from FR. The same is true for the way French-speaking Bel-
gians treat schwa and liaison.
This lack of a very clear differentiation at the segmental level led us to look
at prosody in search of the variants that seem to make Belgian and hexagonal
French so easy to distinguish for the average speaker. The last part of the paper
turned to prosodic variation in order to figure out which prosodic parameters
Table 4.  Acoustically defined contours with long penultimate (number and percentage
for each speaker)
44aJN1
(Nantes)
54bFL1
(Ogéviller)
75cAC1
(Paris)
bgaLD2
(Gembloux)
blaTM1
(Liège)
blaPS1
(Liège)
FS relative duration (FS/
PS) < 2 and FS ≥ 350 ms
  0   1   1   0   8   1
Total 11 18 11 35 33   7
Percentage   0   6   9   0 24 14
	 The variation of pronunciation in Belgian French	 147
characterize the contours that might be responsible for regional identification in
a perceptual test. Methodological efforts were made to reconcile perceptual and
acoustic approaches to the data and to combine data-driven and theory-driven (or
here model-driven) approaches. This allowed us to propose hypotheses regarding
the acoustic features leading to the perception of contours as marked (with a long
final or penultimate syllable). We conclude for instance that the perception of
penultimate extra-lengthening may rely on a combination of: (i) a minimum du-
ration for the last syllable (above 350 ms); and (ii) a relatively small duration dif-
ference between the penultimate and final syllables (the latter being at most twice
as long as the former). These acoustic definitions of marked prosodic variants in
Belgian French may now be tested on larger corpora in order to measure more
precisely the role they play in the differentiation of this variety.
References
Baetens-Beardsmore, Hugo. 1971. Le français régional de Bruxelles. Bruxelles: Presses univer-
sitaires de Bruxelles.
Carton, Fernand. 1984. Démarches de la recherche en phonétique: le cas des intonations régio-
nales du français. In Phonétique instrumentale en linguistique, Actes de la Journée d’études
du Laboratoire de phonétique de l’Université René Descartes, vol. 1, ed. Jean-Pierre Gou-
daillier, 37–53. Hamburg: Buske.
Carton, Fernand. 1985. L’identification régionale par l’intonation, Mélodie et intonation. In
Actes des Journées internationales d’Audiophonologie, 185–196.
Carton, Fernand. 1986. A la recherche d’intonations régionales. In Actes du 17e Congrès Inter-
national de linguistique et de philologie romanes, vol. 6, 249–257. Aix-en-Provence: Presses
de l’Université d’Aix-en-Provence.
Carton, Fernand. 1991. Besançon, Lille, Nancy: quelques données de prosodie compare. In
Variété et variantes du français des villes. Etats de l’Est de la France, Actes du 2e Colloque
organisé par le Centre de recherches et d’études rhénanes, ed. Georges Salmon, 171–183,
Paris-Genève: Champion-Slatkine.
Coquillon, Annelise. 2005. Caractérisation prosodique du parler de la région marseillaise. PhD
diss., Aix-en-Provence: Université de Provence.
Crosswhite, Katherine. 2004. Vowel reduction. In Phonetically based phonology, eds. Bruce
Hayes, Robert Kirchner and Donca Steriade, 191–231. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Delattre, Pierre. 1966. Les dix intonations de base du français. French Review 40 (1): 1–14.
Dell, François. 1973. Les règles et les sons. Introduction à la phonologie générative. Paris:
Hermann.
Di Cristo, Albert. 1999. Vers une modélisation de l’accentuation en français: première partie.
Journal of French Language Studies 9 (2): 143–179.
Durand, Jacques, and Chantal Lyche. 2008. French liaison in the light of corpus data. Journal of
French Language Studies 18: 33–66.
148	 Philippe Hambye and Anne Catherine Simon
Eckert, Penelope. 2000. Linguistic variation as social practice: The Linguistic construction of iden-
tity in Belten high. Oxford: Blackwell.
Foulkes, Paul, and Gerard J. Docherty, eds. 1999. Urban voices. Variation and change in British
accents. London: Edward Arnold.
Francard, Michel. 1984. Phénomènes de sandhi dans le wallon de Tenneville (Ma 51). Une
règle de dévoisement en finale de syllabe dans les pronoms personnels clitiques? Cahiers
de l’Institut de linguistique de Louvain 8 (3–4): 139–151.
Francard, Michel. 2001. L’accent belge: mythes et réalités. In French accents: Phonological and
sociolinguistic perspectives, eds. Marie-Anne Hintze, Tim Pooley and Anne Judge, 251–268.
London: CiLT/AFLS.
Francard, Michel, Geneviève Geron, and Régine Wilmet. 2002. Diffusion et vitalité des parti-
cularités lexicales du français en Belgique: une enquête sociolinguistique. In Les Belges:
enregistreurs de tous les usages, ed. Richard Wakely, 11–32. Edinburgh: French Section,
Centre de recherches francophones belges, University of Edinburgh.
Francard, Michel, and Yves-Charles Morin. 1986. Sandhi in Walloon. In Sandhi phenomena in
the languages of Europe, ed. Henning Andersen, 453–474. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Goldman, Jean-Philippe, and Anne Catherine Simon. 2007. La variation prosodique régionale
en français (Liège, Vaud, Tournai, Lyon). Paper presented at the conference Regards croisés
sur la phonologie du français contemporain (PFC 2007), 6–8 December, Paris.
Goldman, Jean-Philippe. 2011. Easy Align: A friendly automatic phonetic alignment tool un-
der Praat. In Proceedings of Interspeech 2010, 3233–3236. Florence: ISCA.
Hambye, Philippe. 2005. La prononciation du français contemporain en Belgique. Variation,
normes et identités. PhD diss., Université catholique de Louvain.
Hambye, Philippe. 2008. Convergences et divergences. Quelques observations sur la standar-
disation du français en Belgique. In Standardisation et déstandardisation. Le français et
l’espagnol au XXe siècle, eds. Jürgen Erfurt and Gabriele Budach, 35–62. Frankfurt am
Main: Peter Lang.
Hambye, Philippe. 2009. The sociolinguistic relevance of regional categories. Some evidence
from word-final consonant devoicing in French spoken in Belgium. In Sociolinguistic vari-
ation in contemporary French, eds. Kate Beeching, Nigel Armstrong and Françoise Gadet,
25–42. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hambye, Philippe, and Michel Francard. 2008. Normes endogènes et processus identitaires. Le
cas de la Wallonie romane. In Normes endogènes et plurilinguisme. Aires francophones, aires
créoles, eds. Claudine Bavoux, Lambert-Félix Prudent and Sylvie Wharton, 45–60. Lyon:
ENS Éditions.
Hambye, Philippe, and Anne Catherine Simon. 2004. The production of social meaning through
the association between varieties and styles: A small case study on vowel lengthening in
Belgium. Canadian Journal of Linguistics 49 (3–4): 397–421.
Hambye, Philippe, and Anne Catherine Simon. 2006. Domaines prosodiques de la variation
phonétique. Paper presented at the Colloque international Approches phonologiques et pro-
sodiques de la variation sociolinguistique: le cas du français, 6–8 July, Louvain-la-Neuve.
Hambye, Philippe, and Anne Catherine Simon. 2009. La prononciation du français en Belgi-
que. In Phonologie, variation et accents du français, eds. Jacques Durand, Bernard Laks and
Chantal Lyche, 95–130. Paris: Lavoisier.
Hansen, Anita Berit. 1997. Le nouveau [ә] prépausal dans le français parlé à Paris. In Polyphonie
pour Iván Fónagy, ed. Jean Perrot, 173–198. Paris: L’Harmattan.
	 The variation of pronunciation in Belgian French	 149
Hornsby, David. 2006. Redefining regional French. Koinéization and dialect levelling in Northern
France. London: Modern Humanities Research Association and Maney Publishing.
Jun, Sun-Ah, and Cécile Fougeron. 2002. Realizations of accentual phrase in French intonation.
Probus: International Journal of Latin and Romance Linguistics 14 (1): 147–172.
Lacheret, Anne, and Chantal Lyche. 2006. Le rôle des facteurs prosodiques dans l’analyse du
schwa et de la liaison. In Prosodie du français contemporain: l’autre versant de PFC (= Bul-
letin PFC, 6), eds. Anne Catherine Simon, Geneviève Caelen-Haumont and Claudine
Pagliano, 27–49. Toulouse: ERSS, Université Toulouse-Le Mirail.
Lacheret-Dujour, Anne, and Frédéric Beaugendre. 1999. La prosodie du français. Paris: CNRS
Éditions.
Laks, Bernard. 2000. De la variation et des variantes: à propos du relâchement. LINX 42:
21–28.
Lehiste, Ilse. 1961. The phonemes of Slovene. International Journal of Slavic Linguistics and
Poetics 4: 48–66.
Léon, Pierre. 1993. Précis de phonostylistique. Parole et expressivité. Paris: Nathan.
Mertens, Piet. 1987. L’intonation du français. De la description linguistique à la reconnaissance
automatique. PhD diss., KULeuven.
Mertens, Piet. 1993. Intonational grouping, boundaries and syntactic structure in French. Proc.
ESCA Workshop on Prosody, Lund (S) Working Papers 41: 156–159.
Moreau, Marie-Louise, Huguette Brichard, and Claude Dupal. 1999. Les Belges et la norme.
Analyse d’un complexe linguistique. Bruxelles/Louvain-la-Neuve: Ministère de la Culture,
Service de la langue française/Duculot.
Pohl, Jacques. 1983. Quelques caractéristiques de la phonologie du français parlé en Belgique.
Langue française 60: 30–41.
Pohl, Jacques. 1985. Le français de Belgique est-il belge? Présence francophone 27: 9–19.
Pohl, Jacques. 1986. Une parenté phonologique belgo-suisse archaïsante. La Linguistique 22
(2): 133–136.
Pooley, Tim. 2004. Language, dialect and identity in Lille. Lewiston, NY: Edwin Mellen Press.
Remacle, Louis. 1969. Orthophonie française: Conseils aux Wallons. 2nd ed. Liège: Les Lettres
belges.
Rossi, Mario. 1999. L’intonation, le système du français: description et modélisation. Paris-Gap:
Ophrys.
Warnant, Léon. 1997. Phonétique et Phonologie. In Le français en Belgique. Une langue, une
communauté, eds. Daniel Blampain, André Goosse, Jean-Marie Klinkenberg and Marc
Wilmet, 163–174. Louvain-la-Neuve: Duculot.
Woehrling, Cécile, Philippe Boula de Mareüil, Martine Adda-Decker, and Lori Lamel. 2008. A
corpus-based prosodic study of Alsatian, Belgian and Swiss French. Proceedings of Inter-
speech 2008: 780–783.
chapter 7
A study of young Parisian speech
Some trends in pronunciation
Anita Berit Hansen
University of Copenhagen
1.	 Presentation of the survey
1.1	 Paris
The French spoken in Paris and its surroundings has been the object of an abun-
dant literature that is too overwhelming to summarize here. The recent volume by
Lodge (2004) – A sociolinguistic history of Parisian French – is rich in references
to earlier work. Linguists’ interest in Paris seems to be explainable in mainly two
related ways. On the one hand, the capital of a country is in many ways dominant,
demographically, economically and culturally, and in the case of Paris perhaps
even more so, in the light of the important historical events that have taken place
here and its truly gigantic size compared to other French cities, from very early
on. These facts have been commented on by several observers (Lodge 2004; Morin
2000; Carton et al. 1983; Walter 1977 just to mention a few). On the other hand,
and this is of course connected to the first point, grammarians and orthophonists
have in fact taken the speech of well-educated Parisians as a starting-point for
their descriptions of French, be it to foreigners or to the French themselves, which
has contributed to the spread of an Ile-de-France based linguistic norm. Walter
(1977: 17) speaks specifically of the “prestige de la capitale en matière de modèle
linguistique”. Lyche (2010) and Morin (2000) go through the varying ways of de-
scribing those that were presented as holders of the bon français (from les gens de
la cour du roi, to les Parisiens cultivés), but Martinet & Walter (1973) have argued
that the contributions from the numerous provincials who came to live in Paris
are very important for the language’s development. They speak of a “brassage
incessant” and of a “unification”, and as such of an emergent “français moyen”
in Paris (Walter 1977: 17; see also Walter 1998: 16 for the concept of creuset or
152	 Anita Berit Hansen
“melting-pot”), which in itself does not reflect all of the original characteristics of
the city’s vernacular, but is “dynamique, puisque c’est l’usage qui tend à s’imposer”
(ibid.). In the same vein, more recent works describe the prestigious pronuncia-
tion in France as less attached to Paris itself, and more to a general, non-southern
variety, the terms being ‘le français de référence’ (Morin 2000; Lyche 2010), or a
‘supra-local French’ (Coveney 2001: 3–4). This is, however, without denying the
historical role of Parisian speech (of certain social classes and of certain registers)
as a basis for this development.
In a city of more than 10 million inhabitants, it seems inappropriate of course
to do a PFC investigation of the same nature as that of a village in the provinces
of France. It was therefore decided that Paris should be the object of several PFC
surveys, each concentrating on a specific local place or type of speakers. As such,
the studies of Lyche & Østby (2009) and of Mallet (2008) focus on the Parisian
aristocracy and on speech in a working class suburb, respectively. The present
study, however, was undertaken to include a broader social group, not specifically
located geographically, and to focus on young speech, as described in the follow-
ing section.
1.2	 The speakers
Nine young Parisian speakers were recorded by means of the PFC-protocol in
2001 and 2004 respectively, six women (PP, SA, AD, AM, ME, LA) and three men
(JJ, NI, ET). Born between 1974 and 1986 they were between 18 and 26 years old
at the time of the recordings.
All of the nine speakers worked, lived or studied in Paris then, and had close
ties to the Parisian region. They were all born and raised in Paris and/or in the
close suburbs (la petite couronne), with the exception of AM who came to Paris
from the city of Vannes (on the Atlantic coast, in southern Brittany) as a child.
More specifically, only five of the speakers were born and raised intra muros, that
is within the inner city limits (AD, NI, PP, ET, SA), while two speakers have lived
mainly in Paris, but also in the suburbs (LA, who has spent a couple of years
in department 93, Seine-Saint-Denis, in Pantin, and JJ who lived the first three
years of his life in department 92, Hauts-de-Seine, in Neuilly-sur-Seine), and two
others have lived mainly in the suburbs (ME spent 14 years in department 93,
Seine-Saint-Denis, in Epinay-sur-Seine, before returning to Paris, and AM has
lived in department 94, Val-de-Marne, since she left Vannes). The speakers do
not represent a single neighborhood within the capital, then, and neither were
they chosen to represent specific ones, and as such, the following analysis does
not intend to explore possible internal micro-geographic effects, but concentrates
	 A study of young Parisian speech	 153
on the common factor for these speakers, that is, their close bonds to the Parisian
region on a general level.
On the other hand, they have been selected deliberately to roughly represent
two different socio-cultural profiles in terms of education. Thus PP, SA, JJ, NI and
AD do or have done university studies at fairly advanced levels (in law, history
or linguistics), four of them beyond the master’s level (JJ, NI, AD are pursuing
a DEA (diplôme d’études approfondies – a diploma of advanced studies), and PP
has finished political science studies (Sciences Po) and is doing a thesis), where-
as among the remaining speakers, AM has a secretarial diploma, a BEP (brevet
d’études professionnelles), and a bac professionnel, and works as a secretary, and ET,
ME and LA are in a lycée professionnel sanitaire et social, that is in a technical up-
per secondary school, in the domain of health care, preparing the final exam (bac
sciences médico-sociales). This polarization of the speakers should allow for some
conclusions as to the socio-cultural embedding of certain recent pronunciation
features in Paris. See Table 1 for a summary of the sociodemographic information
concerning the speakers.
Table 1.  Summary of speaker information
Speaker Age at recording in
2001 (year of birth)
Ties to Paris Sociocultural profile
PP, female 25 (1975) Intra muros University studies, thesis
(history/political science)
SA, female 25 (1975) Intra muros University studies, BA
(law)
AD, female 22 (1978) Intra muros University studies, DEA
(linguistics)
AM, female 22 (1978) Suburbs only (arrived age
11 from southern Brittany)
Short, technical training
(secretarial diploma, BEP,
Bac professionnel)
ME, female 19 (1985)* Mainly suburbs,
but also intra muros
Short, technical training
(lycée professionnel)
LA, female 18 (1986)* Mainly intra muros,
but also suburbs
Short, technical training
(lycée professionnel)
JJ, male 25 (1975) Mainly intra muros,
but also suburbs
University studies, DEA
(linguistics)
NI, male 26 (1974) Intra muros University studies, DEA
(linguistics)
ET, male 20 (1984)* Intra muros Short technical training
(lycée professionnel)
* Recorded in 2004.
154	 Anita Berit Hansen
2.	 Description of the phonological inventory
Living in the heart of the linguistic center of prestige guarantees neither homoge-
neity nor conservatism among speakers. Within the last couple of decades, several
studies of the phonology of Parisian French have pointed to domains of variation,
instability and possible change. In the following, we shall first concentrate essen-
tially on the information we can extract about the nine speakers’ phonological
system from the PFC word list; in Sections 3 and 4, free speech and – to some
extent – the reading of the PFC text will be included for a fuller picture of the
speakers’ pronunciation.
2.1	 Vowels
2.1.1	 High vowels and gliding
The high oral vowels (/i/, /y/, /u/) are not mentioned in the literature on Parisian
French as an area of either change or of any remarkable new types of variation. The
general allophonic rules predict that these phonemes are realized as semi-vowels
[j], [ɥ], [w] when placed after a consonant and before a full vowel (as in miette
[mjɛt], muette [mɥɛt], mouette [mwɛt]), except in cases where the preceding con-
sonant forms an obstruent-liquid cluster, as in triomphe [triõf], cruel [kryɛl], and
ébloui [eblui], in which cases they are realized as syllabic segments ([i], [y], [u]).
These rules were to an overwhelming degree respected by the Parisian informants
of the Martinet & Walter (1973) survey, and this also seems to be the case among
the present nine young Parisian speakers.
First of all, they all clearly distinguish three different high oral vowel pho-
nemes (/i/, /y/, /u/), since miette, muette and mouette are kept systematically apart
in the expected way. However, the words are not always pronounced with a semi-
vowel. Five speakers produce a full vowel in the word muette ([myɛt]), and two
have a full vowel in mouette ([muɛt]). This could of course be a fact of reading
isolated words aloud. The general rule of pronouncing semi-vowels whenever /i/,
/y/, /u/ are placed after a single consonant and before a full vowel, seems respected
elsewhere: thus all speakers have semi-vowels in the words nièce, niais, cinquième
.	 Except by their speaker m who was born in Savoie (south-eastern France) and came to Paris
at the age of 11 (see Walter 1977: 82). This speaker, in accordance with the Southern French
phonological system, has full vocalic realizations in words like lier, buée, bouée.
.	 When speaker AM realizes mouette as [mɥɛt] we interpret this as a reading error rath-
er than as an aberrant phonological fact, albeit this speaker is the only one who could have
geographic reasons for showing a different system, since she came to Paris from le Morbihan
(southern Brittany) at the age of 11.
	 A study of young Parisian speech	 155
and (with one exception) fou à lier. In words where a morphological boundary is
present between the high oral vowel and the following full vowel, standard French
is normally described as showing some variation between full and semi-vowel
(lier: [lie], [lje]) according to speech tempo. This is reflected in the data, where
notably the words scier and nier are produced with a full vowel by more than half
of the speakers ([sie], [nie]). No similar behavior can be seen, however, in the
words relier and reliure, or in millionnaire, million, which are all pronounced sys-
tematically with a non-syllabic high vowel ([j]). In the absence of more abundant
data, we cannot conclude that the morphological boundary only plays a role in
(basic) infinitives. The matter ought to be investigated more thoroughly.
After an obstruent-liquid cluster (the words prendrions, prendriez, influence,
quatrième, trouer), however, the allophonic rule predicting a full vowel seems
very categorical. All speakers show syllabic high vowels in these words. In the two
first-mentioned words, a transitional [j] is heard in the speech of approximately
half of the speakers, yielding [prãdrijõ], [prãdrije], but this is somehow a phonetic
supplement to the full vowel, not a replacement of it.
On the whole, these vowels seem to maintain the original internal distinctions
as well as the distributional rules already described in the literature, although
some syllabic pronunciations do occur where semi-vowels are expected.
2.1.2	 Mid and low oral vowels
One part of the phonological system that has been described as undergoing
change relates to the so-called voyelles à double timbre. There are four pairs of
these: the mid vowels /e/–/ɛ/, as in parlé – parlait, /ø/–/œ/, as in jeûne – jeune and
/o/–/ɔ/, as in saute – sotte, and the low vowel pair /ɑ/–/a/ as in mâle – mal. These
pairs are commonly referred to as /E/, /Œ/, /O/, and /A/, with the capital letter in-
dicating underspecification of degree of height or backness respectively. All seem
to be engaged in a process of losing their oppositions to a greater or lesser degree.
Thus, in Martinet’s (1969) overview of the successive studies of Martinet (1945),
Reichstein (1960) and Deyhime (1967a, 1967b), it is clearly stated that the dis-
tinction between /ɑ/ and /a/ is gradually disappearing for Parisian speakers, and
in later studies (Léon 1973; Peretz 1977; Lefebvre 1988; Landick 1995; Hansen &
Juillard 2011) the distinctions between /e/–/ɛ/ and /ø/–/œ/ are included in the list
of affected pairs, leaving the /o/–/ɔ/ opposition as the best conserved of the four,
though not untouched by the general tendency.
The analysis of the PFC word-list shows, not surprisingly in the light of the
above mentioned studies, that the pairs of words displaying /A/ are distinguished
.	 See Lyche (2010), and Carton (2000) for summaries of some of these results.
156	 Anita Berit Hansen
in a very limited number of cases. In the pair ras – rat, no /ɑ/–/a/ distinction is
made by any of the speakers (all pronounce a slightly posterior [a]-sound). In the
pair mâle – mal, a tentatively traditional distinction is made by only one of the nine
speakers (SA), whereas the other speakers either make no distinction, or make a
phonetic distinction that is opposite of the one required by the norm. The last
pair, patte – pâte, which is tested both in random places in the course of the word-
list and in immediately consecutive positions for greater linguistic awareness at
the end of the list, scores no better than the other pairs in the first exercise (one
speaker-distinction only (SA), the rest of the occurrences being either identical,
as [a], or distinguished the wrong way around (NI and AM)). It does remarkably
better in the second exercise though. In fact, the immediate juxtaposition of the
words pâte and patte (as numbers 85 and 86 in the list) provokes four distinctions
(SA, PP, JJ, ET) that are, if not really traditional since the true posterior timbre
of [ɑ] never appears, at least intended in the traditional direction, with /A/ be-
ing realized as more posterior and/or longer in pâte than in patte. The remaining
five speakers show no distinction. The enhancement of the phonetic distinction
through conscious recognition seems to indicate that the knowledge of the op-
position is still there and can be triggered through normative pressure in some of
the speakers. Overall, however, the accumulated results for these three word-pairs
presented in the course of the list are very poor with respect to the stability of the
/A/-opposition: only three out of 27 possible distinctions (11%) are made.
As for the /e/–/ɛ/ opposition, represented in the word-list by six different pairs
(piqué – piquais, piquer – piquet, nier – niais, déjeuner – des jeunets, épée – épais
and pécheur – pêcheur), it confirms the idea of a weakened opposition, though it
is far from the level of /ɑ/-/a/ just mentioned. If pécheur – pêcheur is left out for a
moment, the word pairs show 33 out of 44 possible distinctions (73%). Each of
these word pairs is in fact distinguished by six or seven of the nine speakers.
The pair pécheur – pêcheur represents a different pattern displaying only one
distinction (by ET), while the other speakers either produce the opposite distribu-
tion (three speakers), i.e., a more open quality in the first than in the second word,
or none at all (five speakers). It should be noted that the vowel is placed in an un-
stressed position here. A link between stress patterns and merging tendency has
been reported by Landick (2004) for /E/ and /O/, and by Hansen & Juillard (2011)
for /Ø/ and /A/ as well (representative pairs being péché – pêcher, beauté – botté,
jeûner – déjeuner, passions – passion). It should be added that the difference made
.	 Except for speaker SA, who produces [ɑ] twice.
.	 The total should have been 9 speakers x 5 pairs = 45, but one occurrence is unfortunately
missing due to change of tape during the recording.
	 A study of young Parisian speech	 157
in the other word pairs, where /E/ is in a word-final syllable, is not always a full
traditional one of the type [e]–[ɛ]. In the majority of the distinctions (20 of 33) it
is only a slight phonetic distinction.
Curiously enough, the recurring of the pair épée – épais as direct neighbors
(numbers 88 and 87) at the end of the list provokes no change whatsoever in the
pronunciation by the speakers, as compared to their occurrence in the course of
the list (numbers 14 and 40). Thus there is apparently no normative pressure forc-
ing speakers to pay special attention to their /E/-quality, as was the case for /A/.
Since the number of distinguished pairs overall seems to be very similar
across the word pairs, it is interesting to see if certain speakers are systematically
the conservative ones, or, on the contrary, are systematically the ones who do
not make any distinction at all. This does seem to be the case to a certain degree,
since speaker SA represents five cases of total merging, while AM and JJ have four
cases each. As SA had a rather conservative profile for her /A/s, it seems difficult
to interpret this result.
The distinction /ø/–/œ/ is only represented by one word pair in the list,
jeûne – jeune (numbers 61 and 3), but this pair is repeated in immediate vicinity
at the end of the list (numbers 91 and 90). In its non-sequential occurrence, seven
out of nine speakers distinguish the pair (this gives a percentage of 78% that can
be approximately compared with the 73% for /E/ and the 11% for /A/, but of
course, the very limited amount of data here gives this comparison little weight).
Those who make a distinction rarely go for a full traditional opposition in quality
and length ([øː]–[œ]; one speaker only, PP). They either produce a clear quality
distinction without involving length ([ø]–[œ]; SA, JJ), or a slighter phonetic dis-
tinction (four speakers). Those who do not distinguish at all pronounce [œ] twice.
In the sequential position, a somewhat different picture emerges, in that among
the six speakers who make a distinction between the words, five make a full tra-
ditional vowel quality distinction (two of them accompanying this with a length
difference; PP, SA), only one producing a slighter physical difference. It would
seem that the visual impression of the words as neighbors enhances the efforts to
keep them apart, but the effect is not overwhelming, given that three speakers still
do not distinguish them at all (producing [œ] twice, exactly as for two speakers
in the course of the list). One speaker, AD, merges the two sounds in both occur-
rences of the word pair.
.	 It is noteworthy that in the reading of the PFC text, the words jeune and jeûne in context
(Un jeune membre…; …un jeûne prolongé) are phonetically distinguished in the traditional
direction by only three of the nine speakers (and only one speaker makes a clear distinction).
The rest of the speakers either pronounce the words identically or make a reverse differencia-
158	 Anita Berit Hansen
The inclusion in the list of other /Ø/ words which do not form minimal pairs
allows for a view into the allophonic constraints on the distribution of [ø] and
[œ] realizations. Though not systematic, it seems that many of the traditional al-
lophonic rules for standard French are respected by these Parisian speakers: in
word-final open syllable (creux), [ø] is heard in the majority of the cases as ex-
pected (only three speakers producing slightly more open qualities). Before word-
final ‑/z/ (creuse), again the [ø] sound is most frequent, and likewise before a
word-final cluster with ‑/t/ (feutre), where there are no exceptions. Where [œ] is
expected according to traditional rules, this also seems in place: All speakers have
[œ] before word-final ‑/r/ cluster (meurtre) and before other word-final clusters,
tested in the word peuple. A final examination of an open internal syllable, in
the word déjeuner, shows that eight out of nine speakers agree on producing [ø]
here, in accordance with “la loi de position” (closed quality in open syllable – see
Chapter 1).
/o/–/ɔ/ that was reported in other Parisian surveys to be the strongest of the
four oppositions treated here, confirms this position among the examined speak-
ers. In paume – pomme as well as in rauque – roc, eight out of nine speakers
make a phonetic distinction between the words. The total positive score for these
two word pairs thus comes out as 16 out of 18 (89%). But when beauté – botté is
included, odds seem less favorable: None of the speakers distinguish in the tra-
ditional way here (repeating [o], or a vowel sound between [o] and [ɔ], for both
words, or producing a more open quality for beauté than for botté). This recalls
the difference noted for /E/ above, between a word-final stressed and a word-
­
internal unstressed syllable. The repetition of beauté – botté at the end of the word
list (as numbers 91 and 92) gives slightly more conservative results, in that two
speakers (JJ, AM) now make a fine phonetic distinction in the original direction,
the rest repeating as before [o], or in one case an intermediate sound between [o]
and [ɔ], for both words. Though the overall picture of the /O/-opposition seems
more stable in word-final position than that of /A/, /E/ and /Ø/, it should be
added that the distinctions made in paume – pomme and in rauque – roc are not
always of the traditional kind [oː]–[ɔ]. In fact, only three speakers in the first pair
and two speakers in the second pair make a combined length and quality distinc-
tion. The other speakers either make the full quality distinction without involving
length (two plus two speakers) or a more subtle phonetic difference between the
words (some of these, however, still prefer making the vowel in rauque somewhat
longer than the one in roc). The few speakers that do not differentiate these word
tion. This might indicate that the freer or less observed the speech production, the closer we get
to data that point to a merger of the two vowels /ø/ and /œ/ in this word pair.
	 A study of young Parisian speech	 159
pairs at all, choose either [o] for both (ME in paume – pomme) or [ɔ] for both
(AM in rauque – roc).
Even within a single point of investigation, we are confronted with a great
deal of individual variation for /A/, /E/, /Ø/ and /O/ but also with clear signs of
ongoing merger processes within the former phonological oppositions /ɑ/–/a/,
/e/–/ɛ/, /ø/–/œ/ and /o/–/ɔ/, notably in word-internal syllables.
2.1.3	 Nasal vowels
Another subsystem of the Parisian French vowels for which instability and on-
going change has been reported is the system of nasal vowels (Coveney 2001;
Hansen 2001a; Hansen 2001b; Walter 1994; Léon 1993a, 1993b; Carton et al. 1983;
Malécot & Lindsay 1976; Léon 1979; Mettas 1979; Mettas 1973 just to mention a
few). One long-term observation has been the confusion of /œ̃/ and /ɛ̃/ (like in
brun and brin), more or less completed over the last century, with merger as [ɛ̃]
(some observers maintain, however, that whereas /œ̃/ has indeed lost its clear lip
protrusion, it is still not identical to /ɛ̃/, which has spread lips; cf. Hansen 2001a;
Malécot & Lindsay 1976). Another, more recent, observation is a reorganization
of the remaining nasal vowels, with no precise outcome as yet. The progression
of a rounded variant of /ɑ̃/ that theoretically compromises the distinction be-
tween /ɑ̃/ and /ɔ̃/ leads to two rough scenarios that have been sketched out on
the basis of empirical results from the last decades (overview in Hansen 2001a):
either a completion of this latter movement, giving a real confusion, so that the
traditional four nasal vowels are reduced to a two vowel system (/ɛ̃/ and /ɔ̃/), or a
chain shift by which /ɑ̃/ approaches /ɔ̃/, while /ɔ̃/ in return gets more closed and
rounded than before ([õ]), and /ɛ̃/ slips into the vacant position deserted by /ɑ̃/,
i.e., is pronounced more open and back than before. The reaction of /œ̃/ to these
new movements is not described in equal terms. Some note that it follows the new
tendency of aperture and backness of /ɛ̃/, others that it remains a front vowel
with its original vowel height (Hansen 2001a: 47). Probably, important lexical and
prosodic constraints are involved, such that full lexical items have other tenden-
cies than the grammatical and often unstressed word un.
In the data from the PFC word list, the effects of these tendencies are all re-
flected. In the first occurrences of /œ̃/ and /ɛ̃/ in the words brun and brin (num-
bers 27 and 57), four out of the nine informants make no distinction, pronouncing
.	 The word rhinocéros that was included in the PFC word list to test the LdP for /O/ displayed
for six of the nine speakers the realization [ʁinoseʁɔs], that is the expected closed quality in the
open internal syllable, and open quality in the closed final syllable.
.	 E.g., Fónagy (1989: 232): “[L]es ‘nouveaux venus’ n’ont aucun privilège: ils vont vers /ã/
comme les ‘anciens’.”
160	 Anita Berit Hansen
either both words with an intermediate lip rounding quality or with a very open
quality. The speakers that do have different realizations of the two words in ques-
tion make very slight distinctions, but these all seem logical in the light of the
above-mentioned displacements. One of the distinguishing speakers confuses the
properties and distinguishes brun and brin in the unexpected direction, which
might indicate a merger in the speech of this person. In the sequential repetition
of the word pair (numbers 93 and 94 in the list) no normative pressure seems to
enhance the distinction. On the contrary, now seven out of nine speakers give
exactly the same pronunciation to brun and brin. The two speakers that keep the
words apart do it the wrong way around as compared to traditional pronuncia-
tion. To summarize, speakers seem unable to produce a distinction of the tradi-
tional kind when focusing on the exercise, but curiously enough, four of them
keep the vowels phonetically apart when reading the words individually at some
distance, more unconsciously. This phenomenon could indicate a ‘near-merger’
(complete in perception, but incomplete in production) something that has been
observed in (late stages of) other sound changes (Labov 1994; see also Hansen
1998 and 2001a: 41). In any case, the /œ̃/–/ɛ̃/ distinction is either very subtle, or
non-existent, according to speaker, but it is not without traces in current young
Parisian speech.
The other word pair including nasal vowels is blanc – blond (words 59 and
42). Whereas only one speaker produces a traditional difference [ɑ̃] vs. [ɔ̃], five
use the slightly raised and closed variants for both (which speaks in favor of a
chain shift), and three oppose a traditional [ɑ̃] to shifted [õ]. Thus, not a single
speaker proposes an identical pronunciation for the two words, though the exact
realizations vary. Again this seems to go against the scenario of a merging process
of the two back nasal vowels /ɑ̃/ and /ɔ̃/.
2.2	 Consonants
2.2.1	 The palatal nasal
The gradual disappearance of a palatal consonantal nasal phoneme (/ɲ/) in favor
of a combination of [n] and [j] (in words like compagnie) has been reported by
several observers of Parisian French and indeed more generally of le français de
référence (summarized in Lyche (2010), and in Chapter 1, and henceforth referred
to as FR) since Martinet (1945).
The PFC word-list allows for a view into the speakers’ realization of the words
compagne, compagnie, agneau, baignoire and gnôle. In word-final position, com-
pagne, the pronunciation is conservative [kõpaɲ] in the reading of eight out of
nine speakers, the last one using [nj]. The picture changes radically, however, for
	 A study of young Parisian speech	 161
word-medial position (compagnie, agneau, baignoire) in which only about half
of the speakers use the palatal nasal consonant, whereas the rest use either [nj]
or, remarkably more often, [n] alone, yielding pronunciations like [bɛnwaːr] for
baignoire that, theoretically at least, compromises the distinction with baie noire.
The word-initial instance in gnôle is treated as the word-medial ones, i.e., either
with [ɲ] (five of the speakers), or with [nj] or [n]. A single speaker (ME) hesi-
tates between [ɲol] and the more orthographically inspired pronunciation [ɡnol]
which might be explained by the infrequency of the word and the existence of
other gn-initial words that are pronounced this way (gneiss, gnome, gnosticisme).
On a more speaker-oriented level, it can be stated that only speaker PP (who
is university educated) has the traditional nasal palatal sound in all of the five
test words, and only speaker ET (who is in a lycée professionnel (vocational high
school)) never uses the traditional sound, but [n] and [nj] only, whereas the rest
of the speakers use the traditional sound plus one or two alternating sounds in
variation.
Two conclusions can be drawn from this experience. First, as a sound change,
the replacement of [ɲ] by [nj] does not seem to be complete, as reflected in the
reading style, for these young Parisian speakers. Second, the replacement is per-
haps not so much by [nj] (which actually occurred only five times in total through
all the occurrences) but rather by [n] (11 occurrences). This result invites fur-
ther investigation, and a continued attention to the status of this nasal phoneme,
which seems stronger in word-final position than elsewhere.
2.2.2	 Consonantal groups
One domain in the word list, that of consonantal groups, has not revealed any
variation whatsoever among the nine speakers, though it probably would have in
a geographically more diverse speaker sample and in more informal speech styles.
This holds for final /-kt/ as well as for internal groups of /ks/+C(C).
Thus the words intact and infect are pronounced with a final [kt] by all the
speakers, and the word aspect invariably as [aspɛ], that is without final consonants
by all speakers. This last fact shows that none of the speakers have joined the ap-
parent recent tendency of giving in to pressure from orthography in words where
the final consonant is traditionally silent (Lyche 2010).
With a similar amount of agreement, the complex groups [kspl], [kstr], [ksf]
and [ksm] in the words explosion, extraordinaire, ex-femme and ex-mari are never
reduced by these nine speakers in the reading of the word list. One speaker, AM,
inserts a schwa in ex-femme, producing [ɛksəfam], revealing here what Martinet
(1969: 216) has called la fonction lubrifiante of the French schwa, that is, its capac-
ity of facilitating the pronunciation of complex consonant clusters, also seen in
arc de triomphe [arkədətriɔ̃f] or in film tchèque [filmətʃɛk].
162	 Anita Berit Hansen
2.2.3	 Velar palatalization
A striking feature that has not been mentioned thus far is the palatalization of the
consonant /k/, giving a [kj]-like sound. This phenomenon has been called typical
of a working class Parisian accent (Léon 1993b: 203–204), but a recent study of
the banlieue speech of Paris, Marseille and Grenoble claims that the connotation
is more generally one of young people with poor social conditions, living in areas
of heavy immigrant concentrations (Jamin et al. 2006).
Among our nine young Parisian speakers, only two had spent more time in
the banlieues of Paris than in Paris itself (the young women ME and AM, cf. Sec-
tion 1.2), but curiously enough these speakers are not the ones that show palatal-
ized /k/s. Instead, this feature is massively present with two of the young men,
ET and JJ. Examples include both word-initial occurrences in the word que and
word-final occurrences (in words like bac, fac, donc, public), whether these are
before a vowel (“donc euh”) or before a pause (“tel que le bac.”). Of course this
data set is too small to lend credit to any serious conclusion about a gender-based
pattern of variation, but Jamin et al.’s (2006) findings might suggest that a certain
toughness or masculine style could be associated with the palatalization.
3.	 Schwa
Two sorts of data will be analyzed here to clarify the use of schwa in young Pa-
risian speech, the free speech used in the guided interviews, and the reading of
the PFC text “Le premier ministre ira-t-il à Beaulieu?”. We shall concentrate on
comparing the use of the Parisian speakers with the traditional norm for standard
French in order to detect variation or new tendencies within this population.
3.1	 Schwa in consonantal environments
For standard French, the long-established loi des trois consonnes (Grammont
[1914] 1963) claims that schwa is maintained after two consonants and before a
third (CC_C: gouvernement) but can be dropped in a consonantal environment
after a single consonant (VC_C(C): samedi, pas de ski). The latter phenomenon
constitutes a notable difference in relation to Southern French.
.	 Recent studies, however, point to a gradual dedialectalization of Southern French in this re-
spect (Armstrong & Unsworth 1999 among others), a process by which the treatment of schwa
gets more identical to that of Northern French, and thus, of FR.
	 A study of young Parisian speech	 163
That this first constraint has to be refined in a number of ways in order to ac-
count adequately for Parisian French has been shown in a series of studies. The
behavior of schwa also depends on the position of the syllable in the word and of
formality and speech tempo (Hansen 1994; Léon 1987; Malécot 1976; Léon 1966).
But as a rough guideline, Grammont’s old rule still seems to apply for young Pa-
risian speakers in free speech. That is, if non-word-final cases are looked upon
as a whole (word-internal medial syllables and schwa in word sequences involv-
ing monosyllables and initial syllables), the nine speakers maintain schwa in 68%
(84/123) of the CC_C positions (as in justement (NI), jours de vacances (AD), donc
seconde (ET)) but in only 27% (90/328) of the VC_C positions. We thus see schwa
drop in VC_C in about three quarters of the examples, as in c’est vrai qu(e) j’ai
(SA), elle est r(e)tournée (JJ), dév(e)lopp(e)ment (ME). One factor that makes the
retention rate in CC_C seem relatively low for monosyllables, initial and medial
syllables here (68%) is the fact that the subordinate conjunction parce que is re-
garded as one word according to PFC coding conventions (Durand, Laks & Lyche
2002: 48), and accordingly the first schwa – which is always dropped by these
speakers – has been coded as a medial one. If parce que occurrences are excluded
from the count of medial CC_C occurrences, it turns out that these are categori-
cally retained (as in marchera, justement), and the total maintenance percentage
for the group of non-word-final CC_C occurrences reaches 76% (84/111). We
recall here that instances of obstruent + liquid + schwa + consonant in medial or
initial syllables (as in entreprise, breton) are not included in the PFC counts, given
that these are maintained in all known varieties of French (ibid.).
Having said that the inter-consonantal context after a single consonant
(VC_C) highly favors schwa drop for the analyzed speakers as compared to the
CC_C context, in the types of syllables treated here, an important modification
should be added. Word-initial syllables show more important retention rates in
VC_C than monosyllables (47% (28/60) vs. 30% (61/204)), whereas word-medial
syllables almost systematically show no retention of schwa at all in this context
(one occurrence out of 64, i.e., 1.6%, in the word recevoir). Other studies, based on
data from Parisian French, confirm that word-initial syllables have the strong­est
tendency of maintaining their schwa (Hansen 1994; Walter 1990; Fónagy 1989),
and claim in some cases that a process of stabilization of schwa in this position is
taking place (see also Walker 1996). In the present study, retention in this context
covers examples like on devait euh (AM), qui vont les reporter (ME), étaient peu
reconnus (ET), sans tenir compte (NI), une écriture très mesurée (PP), un certain
devoir (LA). Lexical studies of this tendency (Hansen 1994; Walker 1996) state
that the prefix re- is often involved in these cases of retention, but does not ac-
count for all examples, as can also be seen from the cases cited here.
164	 Anita Berit Hansen
The PFC reading exercise confirms the internal differences stated above for
free speech. Firstly, the context CC_C again yields more maintained schwas in
monosyllables, initial or medial syllables than does the context VC_C, but the
level of retention here is dramatically higher for both contexts: 100% vs. 71% (as
exemplified in the reading of six of the speakers). The reason for this increased
level can probably be found in a combination of the effect of the written form
of the words, and the school-based normative pressure of reading carefully. Sec-
ondly, the VC_C examples divide clearly into the same sub-types as was the case
in free speech. In initial syllables schwa is retained in all examples (100%), in
monosyllables in 80% of the examples, and in medial syllables in no examples
(0%). The only consistent schwa-drop context across speech styles thus seems
to be VC_C in medial syllables. It should be noted here, though, that the lexical
basis for these conclusions is limited due to the specific task in question. Thus, the
results for initial syllables are based on four words per speaker only (ses chemises,
en revanche, baisser depuis, par la télévision seraient témoins10) and similarly for
medial syllables (trente-six, bêtement, détachement, indiqueraient).
Word-final syllables have not yet been included in the analysis here. In this
position, schwa maintenance also heavily depends on the phonological context,
as predicted by Grammont ([1914] 1963). In the free speech of the nine speak-
ers, word-final schwa categorically drops out in the VC_C context (0/462), as in
je stresse beaucoup (SA) or deux stages d’un mois (AM), whereas it is retained in
67% of the cases in the CC_C context, as in les portes scientifiques (ET) or quelques
jours (AD). This pattern is echoed in the reading exercise (six speakers) where
there is a very small rate of retention word-finally in VC_C (1.6%, 5/320) as op-
posed to 84% (73/87) word-finally in CC_C. The higher rates of retention in read-
ing as compared to spontaneous speech almost solely affects the CC_C context
(from 67% to 84% of retention). The word-final VC_C context seems to be one of
nearly categorical schwa-drop, regardless of speech style, in Parisian French. The
rare cases of pronounced schwa in this context (campagne profonde (PP), chaque
fois (PP), Mont Saint Pierre qui (NI), un jeune membre (AM), La cote du (AM)) do
not seem explainable in any principled way.
Summing up the results for schwa in consonantal environments for these
Parisian speakers, the only new or interesting tendency seems to be the rather
high retention rates in VC_C word-initial syllables. This fact, that confirms earlier
observations already cited (and to which could be added Morin 1978 and Tranel
1987), invites us to follow this context more closely in the years to come.
10.	 This example was pronounced without a pause between the words “par la télévision” and
“seraient” by some speakers. 
	 A study of young Parisian speech	 165
3.2	 Schwa accompanying word-final consonants before a pause
Another context where these speakers deliver interesting data is the post-conso-
nantal context before a pause. This context traditionally calls for a drop of schwa,
no matter how many preceding consonants are present: Elle est bell(e). Il va au
théatr(e). Léon (1966) and Carton (1999) among others have commented on this
categorical schwa-drop before a pause in FR specifying that in an oratorical, en-
ergetic speech style only, where final consonants are pronounced very distinctly,
a weak vocalic echo with a schwa-like quality can be heard. For the last twenty
years or so, however, a full schwa can be heard in this same context in the speech
of Parisians (Léon 1987; Walter 1988; Fónagy 1989; Léon 1993a, 1993b; Hansen
1997; Carton 1999; Hansen & Hansen 2003). The exact conditions that favor the
emergence of this [ə] (be it etymologically based or not11) have been described
in different terms by observers, but they seem to agree that it is always accompa-
nied by a certain intonation contour, consisting of a high tone on the preceding
syllable and a low tone on the schwa itself. Curiously enough, it does not always
have the phonetic quality of a schwa, but can be more open or back (almost [a]) or
even slightly nasalized. It is thus in more than one respect not identical to South-
ern French prepausal schwa-occurrences. Phonetic constraints on its emergence
have been attested by Hansen (1997) and Hansen & Hansen (2003) who report
its particularly frequent occurrence after voiced consonants. But interactional
or emotional constraints have also been put forward (Hansen & Hansen 2003;
Fónagy 1989; Carton 1999) and seem to be more essential. Thus, the phenom-
enon is described as a means of drawing attention to an important element of
speech, of requesting the comprehension or approval of the interlocutor, or of sig-
naling informality and sympathy (Hansen & Hansen 2003). Some have compared
this function to that of the French discourse markers hein or n’est-ce pas, propos-
ing the term “schwa-tagging” (Armstrong & Unsworth 1999). Sociolinguists and
phonostylists have used labels like “jeune”, “nonchalant”, “populaire” etc. (Léon
1993b; Hansen 1997; Carton 1999) in referring to its usage.12
Given the pragmatic and sociolinguistic parameters involved in this phenom-
enon, we expected to find very variable use among the individual speakers. The
analysis first focuses on free speech, where prepausal schwas in fact occur in a
number of cases. Prepausal contexts with and without accompanying schwa were
counted in order to allow for a quantitative measure (following Hansen 1997).
11.	 It can be heard also in for instance Bonjour[ə].
12.	 Candea (2000) has a thorough discussion of different ways of hesitating in oral French, but
given the intonational contours and the pragmatic functions of prepausal schwa, we do not
interpret it as a means of hesitation.
166	 Anita Berit Hansen
Before a strong intonation border (“pause marquée”, Durand et al. 2002: 48),
schwas occurred in 26% of the possible cases (22/84) after a single consonant,
whether there was an etymological final ‑e or not in the word (VC(_)). Before a
weaker intonation boundary (shorter pause), the percentage of “parasitic” schwas
after a single consonant was somewhat lower (18%, 12/66 in VC(_)). But in both
types of context there is a clear tendency that the large majority of cases of pre-
pausal schwa come from the speakers with a long university education. Thus, 19
of the 22 examples of the first kind are found with speakers AD, PP, NI, JJ and
SA, and for the second kind, 10 out of 12 examples are found with these speakers
(PP and JJ making them most often). This could point to a confirmation of Léon’s
claim that these prepausal schwas might have been populaire in the beginning,
but are no longer so, signaling on the contrary a certain ease of communication,
“une parlure chic, moderne, jeune” (Léon 1987: 112) and “légèrement affectée”
(1993b: 256).
Examples in the recordings include the following:
		 D’abord moi c’est linguistique avant toute chose, c’est euh (…) (NI)
		 J’ai fait mon mémoire de maîtrise, sur euh le système (…) (NI)
		 Mais c’était un mixte entre des maths et (…) la Cagne normale, et puis (…)
(PP)
		 Moi je suis quelqu’un (…) qui aime mettre mes tripes, dans ce que j’écris. (PP)
		 dans certaines matières on a le droit au Code, à certains codes (…) (SA)
		 une fois qu’on a la logique, et que euh (…) (SA)
		 donc j’ai passé mon primaire avec euh avec tout le monde, et euh donc (…)
(JJ)13
Prepausal contexts after two consonants (CC(_)) were rare in the data, but in
some cases these were also accompanied by schwa, as in:
		 c’est le milieu social qui est revenu à la charge, et j’ai passé des concours (…)
(JJ)
In reading style it was not expected that the prepausal schwa phenomenon would
be very salient, given its informal connotations, and earlier studies (Hansen 1997;
Hansen & Hansen 2003) have also shown that if prepausal schwas do occur in
reading, it is in a slightly less distinctive way and very rarely with the extreme
phonetic realizations that can be heard in free speech ([a]-like or nasalized, as
13.	 The prepausal schwas used by this speaker have been treated in detail in Hansen (2007) and
Hansen (2010).
	 A study of young Parisian speech	 167
noted above). Nevertheless, each of the six speakers analyzed for the reading pas-
sage (the five university students and one young secretary, AM) present a couple
of cases, SA going to the extreme amount of 11 out of 25 possible occurrences
after a single consonant, the secretary staying at a modest four out of 25. As has
been shown in an earlier treatment of four of these speakers, the sonority of the
preceding consonant plays an important role (Hansen 2003). Thus, of all the 27
examples of prepausal schwa in the reading of the text, 26 occur after a voiced
word-final consonant, most often a sonorant (/n/, /l/) or plosive (/d/), more rarely
a fricative (/z/, /ʒ/). (The extreme user of these schwas, SA, also puts one after
a voiceless consonant in “vin blanc sec_”.) In other words, when interactional
explanations seem absent, a very strong phonetic constraint seems to account for
the occurrence of this feature.
The existence of prepausal schwas in reading may suggest that young Parisian
speakers have come to combine the oratory tendency of vocalic echo from earlier
times with the new often-heard schwa-tagging in free speech to arrive at rather
surprising schwa-rates in a variety of French that was traditionally known for its
categorical schwa drop before a pause.
4.	 Liaison
For FR, some change in the domain of liaison has been observed recently in a
couple of studies (Armstrong 2001; Smith 1996; Durand & Lyche 2008). Where-
as certain types of optional liaison were traditionally expected in careful speech
styles, it seems that this expectation is now partially weakened, so that in rela-
tively formal styles, speakers use fewer optional liaisons than before. This has been
seen as a sign of a ‘democratization process’ in the French language. In the pres-
ent study we therefore aimed to find out whether our young Parisian speakers,
in a guided interview with a non-native francophone they had never met before,
would follow this trend. Delattre’s (1966) model for obligatory and optional liai-
sons with some adaptation from Jensen & Thorsen (2004) provides the basis for
the analytical categories below.
The speakers of course pronounced liaison consonants in all of the obligatory
contexts. This included:
–	 Noun phrases, from determiner to noun (les_accents, ces_endroits-là, un_hô-
pital) as well as from determiner to adjective (les_autres facs) and from ad-
jective to noun (d’assez bons_élèves, un petit_accent). Even if the adjective had
two full syllables, this took place (un mauvais_enseignant).
168	 Anita Berit Hansen
–	 Prepositional phrases with en and dans (en_ethnolinguistique, dans_une
entreprise).
–	 Verbal phrases from personal pronoun to verb (ils_ont grandi, on_a démé-
nagé, qui nous_entourent), from other clitic pronoun to verb (il y en_a) or
from personal pronoun to y (ils_y tiennent, on_y va).
–	 Fixed expressions (de temps_en temps, tout_à fait, tout_à l’heure).
–	 From the temporal conjunction quand (quand_elle a vu, quand_on a fait).
But from the category of traditionally frequent optional liaisons very few cases
were realized, in spite of the supposedly formal atmosphere. According to Jensen
& Thorsen (2004), finite forms of être that end in latent consonants, should be
included in this category, but not a single case after suis, sont or était was noted.
Only after c’est, a few liaisons were pronounced (C’est_en Franche-Comté (ME),
C’est_un peu plus, un petit peu plus dur (LA), C’est_à Porte de Pantin (LA), tout ce
qui est_admission (AM), C’est_une grave erreur (NI)), but these represent a very
small number of the potential cases after c’est. The overwhelming majority of these
occurrences were pronounced without liaison.
A few other types of frequent optional liaisons occurred after plus (plus_âgé,
ME), très (très_assidue, SA), rien (ça a rien_à voir, AM), and bien (j’ai bien_ap-
précié, AM),14 but these were too rare to state any reliable percentage of presence.
Note however, that from among the scarce examples of liaisons in the optional
category all but two of them came from the speaker group with a short technical
education (LA, ME, AM). This could indicate a certain linguistic insecurity for
these speakers.
Even if it was logical that none of the rare optional liaisons occurred (like
from plural noun to adjective: origines espagnoles, or from mais: mais en fait), it is
still surprising that so few of the traditionally frequent optional liaisons showed
up. This might confirm Armstrong’s (2001) and Smith’s (1996) general hypothesis
of a change in the usage norm of standard French liaison in the specific case of Pa-
risian French, cf. also Durand & Lyche (2008). But this should ideally be checked
by a comparison of the free, relatively formal speech from the guided interview
with an even more formal register, the reading passage.
14.	 Unfortunately the size of the speaker sample and the amount of data from each speaker
does not allow for a systematic check of all possible frequent optional liaison contexts. Hence,
we cannot make a comparison with Durand & Lyche (2008) as regards, for instance, preposi-
tional contexts such as chez, sous, and dès.
	 A study of young Parisian speech	 169
5.	 Conclusion
Though the nine speakers analyzed here should – historically speaking – be rep-
resentative of FR, since they live in the capital that has been associated with the
pronunciation norm in France, they show in many respects dynamic tendencies
that go against the traditional normative system. This holds true both for the uni-
versity students and the speakers with short technical training.15 The dynamic
tendencies are evident both for the mid and low oral vowels, and for the nasal
vowels, where clear merger processes or shifts in place of articulation seem to
be ongoing. The high vowels, on the contrary, apparently still follow traditional
descriptions (with a few exceptions of full vowels where semi-vowels were ex-
pected), and the palatal nasal phoneme /ɲ/ does not seem as threatened as some
linguists have stated. The study of schwa partly confirmed the existing descrip-
tions of standard French, partly pulled out new tendencies, i.e., the high retention
rates of schwa in word-initial syllables in the VC_C context, and the importance
of a prepausal schwa-like segment (schwa-tagging). Parts of the analysis have lent
credit to particular hypotheses of sociolinguistic patterning that would be very
interesting to test on a larger corpus: on the one hand, the fact that the minimal
use of liaison in a guarded style is characteristic of prestige speakers while more
badly off speakers – in terms of education – seem to be linguistically insecure and
add optional liaisons sporadically; on the other hand, the fact that palatalized /k/
phonemes might be a masculine Parisian feature more than a banlieue or a fran-
çais populaire feature as such.
Though based on a very small proportion of the Parisian population, it is
nevertheless our hope that this study has given a glimpse into young people’s pro-
nunciation in the French capital today, and that it has perhaps sketched out ten-
dencies that could well be those of tomorrow’s français de référence.
References
Armstrong, Nigel. 2001. Social and stylistic variation in spoken French. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Armstrong, Nigel, and Sharon Unsworth. 1999. Sociolinguistic variation in southern French
schwa. Linguistics 37 (1): 127–156.
15.	 It should be recalled that the two speakers that produce the most conservative pronuncia-
tion across the various cases of ongoing merging tendencies (PP and SA) are history and law
students respectively. The three linguistic students (JJ, NI, AD) do not show a phonetic behav-
iour that singles them out from the other speakers in this respect.
170	 Anita Berit Hansen
Candea, Maria. 2000. Contribution à l’étude des pauses silencieuses et des phénomènes dits
« d’hésitation » en français oral spontané. Etude sur un corpus de récits en classe de fran-
çais. PhD diss., Université de Paris III.
Carton, Fernand. 1999. L’épithèse vocalique en français contemporain: étude phonétique. Faits
de langue 13: 35–45.
Carton, Fernand. 2000. La prononciation. In Histoire de la langue française 1945–2000, eds.
Gérald Antoine and Bernard Cerquiligni, 25–60. Paris: CNRS Éditions.
Carton, Fernand, Mario Rossi, Denis Autesserre, and Pierre Léon. 1983. Les accents des Fran-
çais. Paris: Hachette.
Coveney, Aidan. 2001. The sounds of contemporary French. Articulation and diversity. Exeter:
Elm Bank Publications.
Delattre, Pierre. 1966. La liaison en français, tendances et classification. In Studies in French and
comparative phonetics, ed. Pierre Delattre, 39–48. The Hague: Mouton & Co.
Deyhime, Guiti. 1967a. Enquête sur la phonologie du français contemporain. La linguistique 3
(1): 97–108.
Deyhime, Guiti. 1967b. Enquête sur la phonologie du français contemporain. La linguistique
3 (2): 57–84.
Durand, Jacques, Bernard Laks, and Chantal Lyche. 2002. Directions d’analyse. In Protocole,
conventions et directions d’analyse, eds. Jacques Durand, Bernard Laks and Chantal Lyche,
35–70. CNRS ERSS-UMR5610 and Université de Toulouse-Le Mirail. (= Bulletin PFC, 1).
Durand, Jacques, and Chantal Lyche. 2008. French liaison in the light of corpus data. Journal of
French Language Studies 18 (1): 33–66.
Fónagy, Ivan. 1989. Le français change de visage? Revue Romane 24 (2): 225–254.
Grammont, Maurice. [1914] 1963. Traité pratique de prononciation française. Paris: Delagrave.
Hansen, Anita Berit. 1994. Etude du E caduc – stabilisation en cours et variations lexicales.
Journal of French Language Studies 4: 25–54.
Hansen, Anita Berit. 1997. Le nouveau [ә] prépausal dans le français parlé à Paris. In Polyphonie
pour Iván Fónagy, ed. Jean Perrot, 173–198. Paris: L’Harmattan.
Hansen, Anita Berit. 1998. Les voyelles nasales du français parisien moderne. Aspects linguis-
tiques, sociolinguistiques et perceptuels des changements en cours. Copenhague: Museum
Tusculanum Press. (= Etudes Romanes, 40).
Hansen, Anita Berit. 2001a. Les changements actuels des voyelles nasales du français parisien:
confusions ou changements en chaîne? La Linguistique 37 (2): 33–47.
Hansen, Anita Berit. 2001b. Lexical diffusion as a factor of phonetic change. The case of Mod-
ern French nasal vowels. Language Variation and Change 13: 209–252.
Hansen, Anita Berit. 2003. Le contexte prépausal – un contexte dynamique pour le schwa dans
le français parisien? La Tribune Internationale des Langues Vivantes 33: 142–144.
Hansen, Anita Berit. 2007. Le français d’un étudiant parisien en situation d’entretien. In PFC:
enjeux descriptifs, théoriques et didactiques, eds. Sylvain Detey and Dominique Nouveau,
193–203. CNRS ERSS-UMR5610 and Université de Toulouse-Le Mirail. (= Bulletin PFC,
7).
Hansen, Anita Berit. 2010. Conversation à Paris avec un étudiant: un parcours scolaire difficile.
In Les variétés du français parlé dans l’espace francophone: ressources pour l’enseignement,
eds. Sylvain Detey, Jacques Durand, Bernard Laks and Chantal Lyche, 21–34. Paris:
Ophrys.
	 A study of young Parisian speech	 171
Hansen, Anita Berit, and Maj-Britt Mosegaard Hansen. 2003. Le [ә] prépausal et l’interaction.
In Structures linguistiques et interactionnelles dans le français parlé, eds. Anita Berit Han-
sen and Maj-Britt Mosegaard Hansen, 89–109. Copenhagen: Museum Tusculanum Press.
(= Etudes Romanes, 54)
Hansen, Anita Berit, and Caroline Juillard. 2011. La phonologie parisienne à trente ans d’inter-
valle – Les voyelles à double timbre. Journal of French Language Studies 21 (3): 313–359.
doi:10.1017/S0959269510000347.
Jamin, Mikaël, Cyril Trimaille, and Médéric Gasquet-Cyrus. 2006. De la convergence dans la
divergence: le cas des quartiers pluri-ethniques en France. Journal of French Language
Studies 16: 335–356.
Jensen, Ole Kongsdal, and Oluf Thorsen. 2004. Fransk fonetik & fonologi. København: Køben-
havns Universitet.
Labov, William. 1994. Principles of linguistic change. Internal factors. Oxford UK & Cambridge
USA: Blackwell.
Landick, Marie. 1995. The mid-vowels in figures: hard facts. French Review 69 (1): 88–103.
Landick, Marie. 2004. Enquête sur la prononciation du français de référence. Les voyelles moyen-
nes et l’harmonie vocalique. Paris: L’Harmattan.
Lefebvre, Anne. 1988. Les voyelles moyennes dans le français de la radio et de la télévision. La
Linguistique 24 (2): 75–91.
Léon, Pierre R. 1966. Apparition, maintien et chute du ‘E caduc’. La Linguistique 2: 111–122.
Léon, Pierre R. 1973. Modèle standard et système vocalique du français populaire de jeunes Pa-
risiens. In Contributions canadiennes à la linguistique appliquée, ed. Guy Rondeau, 55–79.
Montréal: Centre éducatif et culturel.
Léon, Pierre R. 1979. Standardisation/diversification dans la prononciation du français con-
temporain. In Current issues in the phonetic sciences, eds. Harry Hollien and Patricia Hol-
lien, 541–549. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Léon, Pierre R. 1987. E caduc: facteurs distributionnels et prosodiques dans deux types de
discours. Proceedings of the Eleventh International Congress of Phonetic Sciences, vol. 3,
109–112. Tallinn, Estonia.
Léon, Pierre R. 1993a. Phonétisme et prononciations du français. Paris: Nathan Université.
Léon, Pierre R. 1993b. Précis de phonostylistique. Parole et expressivité. Paris: Nathan
Université.
Lodge, R. Anthony. 2004. A sociolinguistic history of Parisian French. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Lyche, Chantal. 2010. Introduction: le français de référence. In Les variétés du français parlé
dans l’espace francophone: ressources pour l’enseignement, eds. Sylvain Detey, Jacques Du-
rand, Bernard Laks and Chantal Lyche, 143–166. Paris: Ophrys.
Lyche, Chantal, and Kathrine Asla Østby. 2009. Le français de la haute bourgeoisie parisienne:
une variété conservatrice? In Phonologie, variation et accents du français, eds. Jacques Du-
rand, Bernard Laks and Chantal Lyche, 203–230. Paris: Hermès.
Malécot, André. 1976. The effect of linguistic and paralinguistic variables on the elision of the
French Mute-e. Phonetica 33 (2): 93–112.
Malécot, André, and Patricia Lindsay. 1976. The Neutralization of /ɛ̃/–/œ̃/ in French. Phonetica
33 (1): 45–61.
Mallet, Géraldine. 2008. La liaison en français: descriptions et analyses dans le corpus PFC.
PhD diss., Université Paris Ouest Nanterre La Défense.
172	 Anita Berit Hansen
Martinet, André. 1945. La prononciation du français contemporain. Paris: Droz.
Martinet, André. 1969. Le français sans fard. Paris: Presses Universitaires de France.
Martinet, André, and Henriette Walter. 1973. Dictionnaire de la prononciation française dans
son usage réel. Paris: France-Expansion.
Mettas, Odette. 1973. Les réalisations vocaliques d’un sociolecte parisien. Travaux de l’Institut
de Phonétique de Strasbourg 5: 1–11.
Mettas, Odette. 1979. La prononciation parisienne. Aspects phoniques d’un sociolecte parisien (du
faubourg Saint-Germain à La Muette). Paris: SELAF.
Morin, Yves-Charles. 1978. The status of mute ‘e’. Studies in French Linguistics 1 (2): 79–140.
Morin, Yves-Charles. 2000. Le français de référence et les normes de prononciation. In Le fran-
çais de référence. Constructions et appropriations d’un concept, ed. Michel Francard (avec la
collaboration de G. Géron and R. Wilmet), 91–135. Louvain-la-Neuve: Peeters. (= Cahiers
de l’Institut de Linguistique de Louvain, 26).
Peretz, Caroline. 1977. Les voyelles orales à Paris dans la dynamique des âges et de la société.
PhD diss., Université de Paris V.
Reichstein, Ruth. 1960. Etude des variations sociales et géographiques des faits linguistiques.
Word 16: 55–99.
Smith, Alan. 1996. A diachronic study of French variable liaison. MLitt diss., University of
Newcastle upon Tyne.
Tranel, Bernard. 1987. The sounds of French. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Walker, Douglas. 1996. The new stability of unstable-e in French. Journal of French Language
Studies 6: 211–229.
Walter, Henriette. 1977. La phonologie du français. Paris: Presses Universitaires de France.
Walter, Henriette. 1988. Le français dans tous les sens. Paris: Robert Laffont.
Walter, Henriette. 1990. Une voyelle qui ne veut pas mourir. In Variation and change in French.
Essays presented to Rebecca Posner on the occasion of her sixtieth birthday, eds. John N.
Green and Wendy Ayres-Bennett, 27–36. London and New York: Routledge.
Walter, Henriette. 1994. Variétés actuelles des voyelles nasales du français. In Diachronie et
variation linguistique, ed. Rika van Deyck, 223–236. Ghent. (= Communication et Cogni-
tion, 27: 1/2).
Walter, Henriette. 1998. Le français d’ici, de là, de là-bas. Paris: J.C. Lattès.
chapter 8
A phonological study
of a Swiss French variety
Data from the canton of Neuchâtel*
Isabelle Racine and Helene N. Andreassen
University of Geneva / University of Tromsø-CASTL
1.	 Introduction
Despite its small population and territory – 7,870,134 inhabitants at the end of
2010 for 41,284 km2 – Switzerland (also named the Swiss Confederation) has four
national languages: German, French, Italian and Romansh. All are official lan-
guages, except for the last one, which is “an official language of the Confederation
when communicating with persons who speak Romansh”. German is declared
as the ‘main language’ by 63.7% of the population, and it is thus by far the most
widely spoken language in Switzerland. It constitutes the sole official language of
17 cantons and it is one of the official languages of four others. French is spoken by
20.4% of the population and constitutes the unique official language in the cantons
of Geneva, Jura, Neuchâtel and Vaud. Three other cantons, i.e., Bern, Fribourg
and Valais, are officially French-German bilingual. Italian, spoken by 6.5% of the
population, is the sole official language in the canton of Ticino, in addition to being
*	 We would like to thank Audrey Bürki and Sandra Schwab for their help with the acous-
tic analyses, and Nathalie Bühler and Jean-Paul Philippe for helping in the collection and the
transcription of the data. We also thank the University of Oslo for financing the collection and
treatment of the corpus.
.	 All the data in this chapter without explicit references are drawn from the Swiss Federal
Statistical Office, cf. http://www.bfs.admin.ch/bfs/portal/en/index.html, accessed on February
15th, 2012.
.	 Art. 70, al. 1 of the Federal Constitution of the Swiss Confederation of 1999. The English
version is quoted from page 19 in http://www.admin.ch/ch/e/rs/1/101.en.pdf, downloaded on
February 1st, 2011.
174	 Isabelle Racine and Helene N. Andreassen
one of the three official languages of the canton of Graubünden. Finally, Romansh
is spoken by a scarce 0.5% of the population and constitutes the official language
of Graubünden only.
The large majority of French-speaking Switzerland, named Romandy (Suisse
Romande), is part of the Franco-Provençal area (Kristol 1999). As for the rest of
Romandy, the canton of Jura is linguistically identified as part of the Oïl family,
while the French-speaking part of the canton of Bern (Jura Bernois) forms a tran-
sition zone between the two dialect areas (Burger 1971). The traditional Franco-
Provençal dialects started to decline in use in the 16th century, and gradually,
the diglossic situation disappeared in favor of French. Today, the Franco-Proven-
çal dialects are on the verge of disappearing: There are no monolingual speakers
(Maître 2003), and as regards bilinguals, the census of 2000 revealed that they
amounted to a scarce 0.9% of the population (Lüdi & Werlen 2005).
Because of their shared past, the Swiss varieties cannot be linguistically sepa-
rated from the neighboring hexagonal French varieties (Knecht 1979). Never-
theless, Swiss French is traditionally distinguished from le français de référence
(FR – see Chapter 1) by the presence of four types of variation: archaisms (from
Old Central French), dialecticisms (from the Franco-Provençal dialects), Ger-
manisms (from German or Swiss German) and proper innovations (Kristol 1996;
Matthey 2003; Andreassen et al. 2010). Swiss French, however, does not constitute
a homogeneous variety: According to Knecht (1979), the distinctive features of
Swiss French – which can be found at all levels of linguistic analysis – are either
restricted to a defined area within Romandy, or they are observed over all of Ro-
mandy in addition to crossing the border to the adjacent French region(s). Also,
Swiss French features can be found in Belgium, in North American varieties and
in African countries.
In this paper, we will concentrate on the phonology of the variety spoken in
the canton of Neuchâtel, situated in the northern part of Romandy at the center of
the sweep of the Jura Mountains. Our corpus was constructed in 2009 in the area
around the town of Neuchâtel, which is an agglomeration of 33,282 inhabitants.
The gender-balanced corpus comprises 12 informants who have lived more or
less their entire life in the region, cf. Table 1 for a presentation.
In the sections to follow, we will also make use of PFC data from Nyon (can-
ton of Vaud), cf. Table 2 for a presentation of the corpus.
.	 Note that this linguistic overview would not be exhaustive without mentioning that 8.9% of
the resident population claims a non-national language to be their ‘main language’.
.	 Nyon was the very first PFC investigation point in Switzerland, collected in 2002 by Helene
N. Andreassen (for a complete analysis of these data, see Andreassen 2004 and Andreassen &
Lyche 2009). Neuchâtel, the third Swiss investigation point in the PFC database (the second
	 A phonological study of a Swiss French variety	 175
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: In Section 2, we focus on
the vowel system; Section 3 is devoted to the study of schwa; and in Section 4, we
present the phenomenon of liaison as it manifests itself in our corpus.
being Geneva), was collected by Isabelle Racine with the help of Nathalie Bühler and Jean-Paul
Philippe.
.	 Note that Sections 3 and 4 on schwa and liaison comprise data from a thirteenth Neuchâtel
informant scacy1, a woman aged 43 years with a university degree living in Colombier. The
Table 1.  The 12 speakers of the Neuchâtel corpus
PFC code Gender Age Place of residence Level of studies
scajb1 F 78 Neuchâtel apprentissage
scamm1 F 67 Neuchâtel high school
scahd1 F 54 Neuchâtel obligatory school*
scacm1 F 39 Neuchâtel high school
scajd1 F 27 Corcelles high school
scajc1 F 27 Neuchâtel University
scaaf1 M 78 Neuchâtel apprentissage
scarp1 M 75 Colombier University
scapy1 M 44 Colombier apprentissage
scapm1 M 42 Neuchâtel high school
scaog1 M 35 Neuchâtel high school
scajb2 M 31 Neuchâtel high school
* The term ‘obligatory school’ refers to the nine years of compulsory school in Switzerland. Afterwards,
teenagers can continue in high school (which leads to university), or they can do an apprentissage, which
is a work-based learning program of 2–4 years.
Table 2.  The 12 speakers of the Nyon corpus
PFC code Gender Age Place of residence Level of studies
svaab1 F 65 Gland obligatory school
svarb2 F 52 Nyon apprentissage
svanp1 F 46 Begnins obligatory school
svamr1 F 31 Prangins apprentissage
svacb1 F 30 Prangins apprentissage
svarv1 M 70 Gland University
svajb1 M 59 Nyon apprentissage
svapb1 M 56 Nyon high school
svaje1 M 45 Gland apprentissage
svarb1 M 32 Nyon apprentissage
svayb1 M 32 Prangins apprentissage
svalr1 M 31 Prangins apprentissage
176	 Isabelle Racine and Helene N. Andreassen
2.	 The vowel system of the Neuchâtel variety
In this section, we focus on some of the quantitative and qualitative vowel con-
trasts in the Neuchâtel variety that can be expected on the basis of the previous
literature. An acoustic vowel analysis will be presented, with a twofold objective.
First, whereas previous research has already provided information regarding
Neuchâtel speakers’ intuitions about the vowel system, our recent data – collected
in the PFC framework – come from production, which adds another source of
linguistic evidence to the global analysis. Second, we will make use of the PFC
data from Nyon and perform a comparative acoustic analysis of a selected num-
ber of vowel contrasts.
The section is organized as follows: In 2.1, we present a global survey of
the consonantal and vocalic particularities of the Swiss French varieties (Sec-
tions 2.1.1 and 2.1.2, respectively), before we devote Section 2.2 to the above-
mentioned acoustic vowel analysis.
2.1	 Segmental particularities of the Swiss French varieties:
	 Previous research
Whereas the lexical dimension of the Swiss French varieties is well documented,
their phonetic and phonological particularities have hitherto been little studied.
As we will see, regionalisms are scarce in the phonological inventory, but differ-
ences have nevertheless been identified between Swiss French and FR, both at the
phonotactic and the phonetic level of analysis.
2.1.1	 Consonants
All consonants in FR are also part of the Swiss French segmental system, but two
consonants from the Germanic adstratum complete the latter inventory. First,
/h/ in the syllable onset, e.g., hochdeutsch [hoχdɔjtʃ], competes with the glottal
reason for excluding her from the vowel analysis in Section 2 is that we wanted to balance the
two corpora to be compared (Neuchâtel and Nyon). The reason for including her in the remain-
der of the paper is to maximize the number of occurrences of schwa and liaison.
.	 The most comprehensive lexicographic works include le Glossaire des patois de la Suisse
romande (Gauchat et al. 1924, cf. www.glossaire-romand.ch), le Dictionnaire historique du
parler neuchâtelois et suisse romand (Pierrehumbert 1926) and le Dictionnaire Suisse romand
(Thibault 2004, henceforth DSR).
.	 The term hochdeutsch is commonly used to refer to Standard German, which is not to be
confounded with the Alemannic dialects spoken across the German-speaking part of Switzer-
land (cf. Thibault 2004, DSR).
	 A phonological study of a Swiss French variety	 177
stop ([ʔoχdɔjtʃ]) and the absence of liaison (en//hochdeutsch [ɑ̃oχdɔjtʃ]). The sec-
ond consonant with an adstratic origin is /χ/, e.g., Bach [baχ]. In the area where
the ‘native’ rhotic is subject to devoicing, i.e., in Neuchâtel, Jura and in the Jura
Bernois, it is susceptible of being confounded with /χ/. In this case, the final con-
sonants in bar (with the rhotic) and Bach (with /χ/) are almost identical in quality,
differing however in length. Although both are voiceless and produced with a high
degree of friction, the consonant in Bach is longer. This particular realization of
the rhotic – an ‘R qui racle’ transcribed as [ʀ̥] (Andreassen et al. 2010) – is one of
the most salient features of the varieties of Neuchâtel and of the Jura Bernois. In
fact, speakers from this area can easily be identified by other Swiss French solely
on the basis of this particular realization of the rhotic.
The affricates /ʦ/, /ʣ/, /ʧ/, /ʤ/ and /kχ/ appear in the syllable onset or coda
of dialecticisms and Germanisms and are in some cases subject to variation. First,
/ʦ/, orthographically represented with <z> and frequently occurring in proper
nouns like for instance Zurich, competes with /ʣ/ and /z/: [ʦyʁik] vs. [ʣyʁik] vs.
[zyʁik].10 Second, /kχ/ only appears in Germanisms, e.g., schlouc [ʃlukχ] ‘a small
quantity of liquid that is swallowed’ (cf. Thibault 2004, DSR s.v. schlouc), and is
here in free variation with [k] and [kʀ̥] in the area of the ‘R qui racle’.11 For the
consonants, we finally mention two phonetic particularities that are more locally
restricted, e.g., the affrication of /tj/ in Valais, e.g., tient [tɕɛ̃] ‘hold3-sg-pre’, and
the palatalization of /k/ before front vowels or a pause, observed in Geneva, e.g.,
quatre [kʲat] ‘four’ (Andreassen et al. 2010).
2.1.2	 Vowels
The Swiss French varieties are assumed to diverge from FR by having a series of
long vowels. First, in word-final closed syllables, this archaic quantitative distinc-
tion persists to some degree (Métral 1977), e.g., belle /bɛl/ ‘prettyfem’ vs. bêle /bɛːl/
‘bleat3-sg-pre’. The instability of the length distinction in a pre-consonantal context
.	 All the examples provided in this section without explicit references, are drawn from
Andreassen et al. (2010).
.	 The analysis of read speech data in our Neuchâtel corpus reveals that the two items bar
and Bach differ on word duration and on repartition of phonemes. First, bar is longer (aver-
age: 627 ms) than Bach (513 ms). Second, the word-final consonant is shorter in bar (relative
duration: 28%) than in Bach (44%), and /a/ is longer in bar (45%) than in Bach (36%). Note
that Bach is produced four times as [bak], which means that our numbers are based on eight
informants only.
10.	 Our read speech data contain, for Zurich, one instance of /ʦ/, two instances of /ʣ/ and nine
instances of /z/.
11.	 Schlouc is especially used in the cantons of Neuchâtel, Bern and Jura.
178	 Isabelle Racine and Helene N. Andreassen
stands however in contrast to the stronger stability of contrastive vowel length
in word-final open syllables, e.g., bout /bu/ ‘end’ vs. boue /buː/ ‘clay’. This opposi-
tion is commonly used in Swiss French, but some speakers enhance the contrast
by adding a [j] or by slightly diphthongizing the long vowel, e.g., chantée [ʃɑ̃teːj]
‘singpast-part-fem’ (Voillat 1971), bue [byᵊ] ‘drinkpast-part-fem’ and boue [buᵊ] ‘clay’
(Walter 1982). Finally, as illustrated by the minimal pair bleu /blø/ vs. bleue /bløː/
‘bluemasc vs. fem’, vowel length can be interpreted as morphologically driven by the
fact that it allows for the creation of contrast between, for instance, masculine and
feminine nouns and adjectives.
The opposition /o/–/ɔ/ in word-final open syllables, e.g., peau /po/ ‘skin’ vs.
pot /pɔ/ ‘pot’, which has been neutralized in FR, is maintained in Romandy except
for in Geneva (Métral 1977; Schoch 1980). The recent data in Schouwey (2008)
by and large confirm this pattern. For the majority of the speakers of the Geneva
and Valais varieties, the vowels in peau and pot were judged as similar (80 to
100% of ‘same’ answers).12 This result contrasts with those of the speakers of the
Neuchâtel, Fribourg and Jura varieties, for whom the ‘same’ percentage was close
to zero.
Turning to the opposition /e/–/ɛ/ in word-final open syllables, it allows – in
Romandy as well as in other French-speaking regions – to distinguish for instance
the infinitive and the past participle from the imperfect (e.g., trouver/trouvé vs.
trouvait ‘findinf/past-part vs. 3-sg-imperf’), or the first-person singular future from the
present conditional (e.g., trouverai vs. trouverais ‘find1-sg-fut vs. 1-sg-cond’), this lat-
ter contrast neutralized to [e] in many French varieties (Knecht 1985). For in-
stance, for couché vs. couchait ‘lay downpast-part vs. 3-sg-imperf’, the word-final vowels
were considered as different by 99.5% of the informants in Métral (1977). The
data in Schouwey (2008), on the other hand, revealed that, although the contrast
was still present in most of Romandy, it seemed weaker in Valais but very strong
in Neuchâtel and Geneva.
Finally, concerning the last oral vowel series, /a/–/ɑ/, Métral (1977) observed
inter-cantonal variation in word-final open syllables. For rat ‘rat’ vs. ras ‘baremasc’,
the qualitative distinction was stable only in Vaud and Geneva, with 87 and 81%
‘different’ answers, respectively, and near stable in Fribourg, with 65% ‘different’
answers. Thirty years later, the pattern seems to be somewhat different. For the
same word pair rat – ras, Schouwey’s data (2008) revealed that only 50% of the in-
formants from Vaud and 45% from Fribourg indicated a vowel difference, and for
12.	 Andreassen et al. (2010) did not observe the opposition /o/–/ɔ/ for the speaker from Veyras
in Valais, which is in conformity with the finding in Schouwey (2008). In fact, the tendency
towards neutralization was already observed by Métral (1977), who, for the pair peau/pot, re-
ceived 12.5% of ‘same’ answers from the Valais informants (Métral 1977: 171).
	 A phonological study of a Swiss French variety	 179
Geneva, the vowels were identical for 90% of the informants. For Neuchâtel, less
than 10% indicated a difference, and finally, for the Jura and Valais informants, no
vowel difference was reported. Taking these recent judgment data into account,
the /a/–/ɑ/ contrast seems presently less stable than described by Métral (1977).
If we turn to word-final closed syllables, Métral (1977) observed a contrast in all
cantons, however differently implemented across the speakers. Although the Jura,
Neuchâtel and Valais informants reported a distinction in length only, e.g., patte
[pat] ‘paw’ vs. pâte [paːt] ‘dough’ (87%, 81% and 67%, respectively), half the Vau-
dois perceived a distinction in length and quality, e.g., patte [pat] vs. pate [pɑːt].
The Fribourg and Geneva informants were divided between [paːt] and [pɑːt] for
pâte. Schouwey’s data (2008) reconfirmed the presence of the contrast across all
of Romandy, with an almost 100% distinction in Neuchâtel and Jura and around
95% in Vaud. A lower percentage of less than 60% was observed in Valais. Unfor-
tunately, Schouwey (2008) did not examine at which level the two vowels differed
in the various cantons, i.e., whether the contrast was of a qualitative or a quantita-
tive nature.
Turning finally to the opposition /ɛ̃/–/œ̃/, the metalinguistic data in Métral
(1977) confirmed its strength. Among the 400 Romand teachers figuring in his
study, he obtained 98% ‘different’ answers, and the Neuchâtel speakers all indi-
cated a vowel contrast. Thirty years later, Schouwey (2008) revealed a quite differ-
ent pattern than Métral. For brin ‘spear (of grass)’ vs. brun ‘brownmasc’, the vowels
were considered different by only half the informants from Fribourg (46.67%),
Valais (50%) and Geneva (53.33%).13 The percentage of ‘different’ answers was
slightly higher for Vaud (57.14%), Jura (62.5%) and Neuchâtel (80%).
2.2	 An acoustic approach to the analysis of the Neuchâtel vowel system
The analyses to follow are based on read speech data from the PFC word lists, and
methodologically, the same procedure has been applied for all vowel contrasts
examined.14 The words were first orthographically transcribed in Praat (Boersma
& Weenink 2009). Second, they were automatically transcribed into IPA and
aligned with Easyalign (Goldman 2010). All segment boundaries were checked
13.	 Concerning Geneva, a decline in use of the nasal opposition had already been reported by
Schoch (1980).
14.	 Note that we have added two word lists to the general PFC protocol in order to obtain infor-
mation regarding the current status of phenomena traditionally considered to be present in the
Swiss French varieties (e.g., contrastive vowel length). The two lists, with the members of the
expected minimal pairs being put one into each list, contain 75 words each and are presented
in the Appendix.
180	 Isabelle Racine and Helene N. Andreassen
on a visual and an acoustic basis. We then followed a standard procedure for meas­
uring vowel duration and vowel quality (Nguyen & Espesser 2004). The values of
the first three formants (F1, F2 and F3) were measured at three different points of
the vowel segment (1/3, 1/2 and 2/3) and then averaged to obtain a single formant
value. Formant values were subsequently filtered in order to reject erratic items,
with respect to the acoustics of the vocal tract (cf. Gendrot & Adda-Decker 2004),
and a Nearey normalization was applied to the data (cf. Adank et al. 2004).15
Statistical analyses were conducted using mixed effects regression models (e.g.,
Goldstein 1987; Baayen et al. 2008) with the statistical software R (R Develop-
ment Core Team 2007) and the package lme4 (Bates & Sarkar 2007).
2.2.1	 Contrastive vowel length in word-final open syllables
According to the literature (cf. Section 2.1.2), contrastive vowel length is com-
monly used by a large number of Swiss speakers. For instance, the data in the
comparative production study by Grosjean et al. (2007) showed that, contrary to
the Parisian subjects, the speakers of the Neuchâtel variety made a clear duration
difference between the final vowels in word pairs like ami ‘friendmasc’ vs. amie
‘friendfem’. Differences have been reported, however, between the various vowels
and also as a function of the speakers’ age. In conformity with these results, we
first put forth the hypothesis that our data contain differences in vowel length,
which can be interpreted as contrastive. Second, we aim to check whether poten-
tial duration differences vary as a function of the vowel and/or as a function of
the speaker’s age.16
For each of our 12 speakers, the quality and the duration of the seven different
word-final vowels in the following 12 word pairs were measured, in addition to
word duration: /i/ in ami ‘friendmasc’ vs. amie ‘friendfem’, ski ‘ski’ vs. skie ‘ski3-sg-pre’
and vit ‘live3-sg-pre’ vs. vie ‘life’, /y/ in nu ‘nakedmasc’ vs. nue ‘nakedfem’, /u/ in bout
‘end’ vs. boue ‘clay’ and roux ‘russetmasc’ vs. roue ‘wheel’, /e/ in carré ‘squaremasc’ vs.
carrée ‘squarefem’, penser ‘thinkinf’ vs. pensée ‘thought’ and the Germanisms poutzer
‘cleaninf’ vs. poutzée ‘cleanpast-part-fem’, /ɛ/ in vrai ‘truemasc’ vs. vraie ‘truefem’, /ø/ in
bleu ‘bluemasc’ vs. bleue ‘bluefem’, and /a/ in voix ‘voice’ vs. voie ‘track’. The vowel
quality and the relative vowel duration (vowel duration / word duration x 100)
were calculated for each of the 265 vowel tokens, resulting in 136 values for what
15.	 The formant values were filtered in order to eliminate potential errors due to the automatic
processing performed by Praat. As regards the normalization procedure, available at http://
ncslaap.lib.ncsu.edu/tools/norm, it allows a minimization of variation due to the anatomic dif-
ferences between speakers.
16.	 Note that only young students were tested in Grosjean et al. (2007).
	 A phonological study of a Swiss French variety	 181
we have called the ‘vowel’ condition (e.g., bout) and 129 values for what we have
called the ‘vowel + <e>’ condition (e.g., boue).17
The results show an effect of the condition (‘vowel’ vs. ‘vowel + <e>’) on the
relative vowel duration. In the ‘vowel’ condition, the final vowel represents 52% of
the word duration vs. 60% in the ‘vowel + <e>’ condition, the 8% difference being
significant (F(1,245) = 116.79, p < 0.0001). There is no effect of age on relative
vowel duration, which means that lengthening is a stable phenomenon. In addi-
tion, there is an interaction between the condition and the vowel (F(6,245) = 8.39,
p < 0.0001), which means that lengthening varies as a function of the vowel. Fig-
ure 1 presents the mean relative vowel duration for the words in the two condi-
tions as a function of the vowel. The star indicates that the difference between the
conditions is significant.
The duration difference is present for the five vowels /e/, /ø/, /ɛ/, /i/ and /y/,
but not for /a/ and /u/. The lack of duration difference for the latter two vowels
goes against the data in Métral (1977), which showed a durational contrast in
Neuchâtel also for voix – voie and bout – boue. In our data, the strongest contrast
is observed for /y/, with a 21.2% difference in vowel length between the ‘vowel’
(nu) and the ‘vowel + <e>’ condition (nue). The smallest contrast is observed for
/e/ with only a 4.2% difference in vowel length between the ‘vowel’ and the ‘vow-
el + <e>’ condition (e.g., carré vs. carrée). Finally, note that no difference in vowel
quality is detected between the two conditions ‘vowel’ and ‘vowel + <e>’.
17.	 From the original 288 values, 16 values were excluded during the filtering procedure (cf.
Note 15). In addition, seven occurrences of /i/ in the ‘vowel + <e>’ condition have been re-
moved because the vowel was produced with a post-vocalic [j], e.g., amie [amiːj] ‘friendfem’.
Vowels
0 ε
*
*
*
*
*
a
30
Relative
vowel
duration
(in
%)
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
u e i y
Vowel
Vowel + <e>
Figure 1.  Mean relative vowel duration for words in the ‘vowel’ (grey)
and the ‘vowel + <e>’ (black) condition as a function of the vowel
182	 Isabelle Racine and Helene N. Andreassen
To sum up, contrastive vowel length in word-final open syllables is still pres-
ent in the Neuchâtel variety, but it varies as a function of the vowel. In addition,
as it is also present among our younger informants, distinctive length in this posi-
tion seems to be a stable phenomenon. Interestingly, significant length difference
is absent only in the pairs where the words are not from the same lexical base. As
mentioned in Section 2.1.2, phonological vowel length can serve to create mor-
phological minimal pairs (e.g., masculine vs. feminine), a phenomenon reported
as early as in 1618 by Maupas. Our results seem to indicate that phonology and
morphology still interact in Swiss French, but this cannot be confirmed without
data from a larger and more varied number of morphological minimal pairs.
2.2.2	 Contrastive vowel length in word-final closed syllables
For the word-final closed syllables, recall that Métral (1977) observed that con-
trastive length persisted at least to some degree in Swiss French (cf. Section 2.1.2).
For the word pair faites – fête (‘make2-pl-pre’ vs. ‘party’), the word-final vowels
were considered different for the large majority of the informants, with varia-
tion as a function of the canton. The highest difference was found for Jura (79%),
followed by Neuchâtel (76%), Geneva (74%), Fribourg (73%), Vaud (68%) and
Valais (53%). In conformity with these results, we hypothesize that a durational
difference is present in our Neuchâtel data.
For all 12 speakers, the quality and the duration of /ɛ/ in the following
word pairs were measured, in addition to word duration: belle ‘prettyfem’ vs. bêle
‘bleat3-sg-pre’, faites ‘make2-pl-pre’ vs. fête ‘party’ and tète ‘suck3-sg-pre’ vs. tête ‘head’.
The quality and the relative vowel duration (vowel duration / word duration x
100) of the 72 vowel tokens were calculated and we obtained 36 values for the
‘<e/ai>’ condition (e.g., belle) and 36 values for the ‘<ê>’ condition (e.g., bêle).
The results show an effect of the condition (‘<e/ai>’ vs. ‘<ê>’) on the relative
vowel duration. In the ‘<e/ai>’ condition, the vowel represents 35% of the word
duration, vs. 47% in the ‘<ê>’ condition, the 12% difference being significant
(F(1,67) = 7.64, p < 0.05). In addition, there is a significant interaction between
age and condition, which means that the duration difference is more important
for the older speakers than for the younger (F(1,67) = 4.03, p < 0.05). Finally, no
difference in vowel quality is detected between the two conditions.
To summarize, contrastive vowel duration in word-final closed syllables is still
present in the Neuchâtel variety. However, the fact that it is less present among the
younger speakers seems to indicate that the durational difference in this position
is declining in use.
	 A phonological study of a Swiss French variety	 183
2.2.3	 /o/–/ɔ/ in word-final open syllables
In light of the results in Métral (1977) and Schouwey (2008), mentioned in Sec-
tion 2.1.2, we put forth the hypothesis that the opposition /o/–/ɔ/ is maintained
in the Neuchâtel variety. For each of our 12 speakers, we measured the quality
and relative duration of the final vowel in the following 13 words: words where
the final vowel corresponds to orthographic <o>, i.e., sot ‘stupidmasc’, mot ‘word’,
lot ‘prize’, vélo ‘bike’, bistrot ‘bistro’, boulot ‘work’, stylo ‘pen’ and rigolo ‘funnymasc’,
and words where the final vowel corresponds to orthographic <au> or <eau>,
i.e., agneau ‘lamb’, seau ‘bucket’, réseau ‘network’, maux ‘painpl’ and eau ‘water’.18
133 values were obtained, 86 for the ‘<o>’ condition and 47 for the ‘<au/eau>’
condition.
For the F1 values, the results show an effect of the condition (‘<o>’ vs. ‘<au/
eau>’) in that the mean normalized F1 value is higher for the ‘<o>’ condition
(1.02) than for the ‘<au/eau>’ condition (0.94). This 0.08 difference is significant
(F(1,128) = 8.18, p < 0.05) and suggests that the vowel is significantly more open
in the ‘<o>’ condition than in the ‘<au/eau>’ condition.19 Moreover, no interac-
tion between condition and age is found, indicating that the effect of the condi-
tion does not vary as a function of age. For the F2 values, the results show an
effect of the condition in that the mean normalized F2 value is higher for the
‘<o>’ condition (0.71) than for the ‘<au/eau>’ condition (0.60), the 0.11 differ-
ence being significant (F(1,126) = 6.58, p < 0.05). Similar to the results obtained
for the F1 values, no interaction between condition and age is found for the F2
values. At this point, it is necessary to mention that F2 is greatly influenced by
the consonantal context (cf. Fougeron et al. 2007), a variable that has not been
controlled for in our data. Because of this fact, our interpretation of the difference
in F2 remains uncertain. It could be due either to contextual coarticulation, as
anticipated by Fougeron et al. (2007), or alternatively, to fronting, suggesting that
the vowel is more fronted in the ‘<o>’ condition, or rounding, suggesting that the
vowel is less rounded in the ‘<o>’ condition. For the F3 values, there is no effect of
the condition. Finally, before summing up this section, note that no difference in
relative vowel duration is detected between the two conditions.
18.	 For the analyses of spectral characteristics on F1, F2 and F3, the relative vowel duration was
entered in the statistical model in order to take into account the potential effect of coarticula-
tion on the formants (cf. Gendrot & Adda-Decker 2004).
19.	 Concerning vowel quality, the relation between the acoustic and articulatory properties of
the vowels can be described as follows: F1 values are determined by the position of the jaws
(open or closed), F2 values vary as a function of the tongue’s position (front or back) but also
as a function of the lips’ position (rounded or not). F3 values also depend on the lips’ position
(rounded or not) (cf. Meunier 2007).
184	 Isabelle Racine and Helene N. Andreassen
Thus, to sum up, our Neuchâtel data contain differences between the ‘<o>’
and the ‘<au/eau>’ condition that confirm the current presence of contrastive
/o/–/ɔ/ in word-final open syllables, phonetically implemented with a more open
(and possibly more fronted and/or less rounded) vowel in the ‘<o>’ condition,
e.g., mot (vs. maux). In future research, the hypothesis of a more fronted / less
rounded vowel in the ‘<o>’ condition needs to be verified in an analysis of vowels
produced in similar consonantal contexts. Finally, we conclude that the /o/–/ɔ/
opposition seems to be a stable phenomenon, also present among our younger
speakers.
2.2.4	 /e/–/ɛ/ in word-final open syllables
Concerning the mid front unrounded vowels, let us recall that Métral (1977) and
Schouwey (2008) stated that this opposition seemed particularly strong in the
canton of Neuchâtel (cf. Section 2.1.2). Surprisingly, however, neither of these in-
cluded in their questionnaire word pairs of the type trouverai ‘find1-sg-fut’ vs. trou-
verais ‘find1-sg-cond’, a contrast reported as neutralized in many French varieties
(Knecht 1985). Based on their other results, however, we put forth the hypothesis
that our Neuchâtel speakers make use of the /e/–/ɛ/ contrast in word-final open
syllables to oppose the two tenses.
For each of our 12 speakers, the final vowel in two word pairs opposing the
first-person singular future and the present conditional tense was measured in
terms of relative duration and vowel quality: mettrai ‘put1-sg-fut’ vs. mettrais
‘put1-sg-cond’ and pourrai ‘can1-sg-fut’ vs. pourrais ‘can1-sg-cond’. 48 values were ob-
tained, 24 for the ‘future’ condition and 24 for the ‘conditional’ condition.
For the F1 values, the results show an effect of the condition (‘future’ vs. ‘con-
ditional’) in that the mean normalized F1 value is lower for the ‘future’ condition
(0.92) than for the ‘conditional’ condition (1.14). This 0.22 difference is signifi-
cant (F(1,41) = 24.52, p < 0.001) and suggests that the vowel is significantly more
closed in the ‘future’ condition than in the ‘conditional’ condition. For the F2
values, the results show an effect of the condition in that the mean normalized F2
value is higher for the ‘future’ condition (1.30) than for the ‘conditional’ condition
(1.18). This 0.12 difference is significant (F(1,44) = 16.53, p < 0.001). Concerning
F2, we mentioned in the previous section that it is influenced by the segmental
context. In the items studied here, the consonantal context to the word-final vow-
els is identical, and we can therefore interpret the difference in F2, which suggests
that the vowel is significantly more fronted in the ‘future’ condition than in the
‘conditional’ condition. Finally, it is important to underline that no interaction
between condition and age is found for the F1 and F2 values, indicating that age
does not have an impact on the differences in vowel quality. For the F3 values, no
difference between the two conditions is observed. Finally, let us mention that,
	 A phonological study of a Swiss French variety	 185
concerning relative vowel duration, our data do not reveal any difference between
the conditions.
To summarize, our Neuchâtel data show a difference between the vowels
in the two conditions, which confirms the presence of the /e/–/ɛ/ opposition in
word-final open syllables. Further, the qualitative difference is used to distinguish
the first-person singular future and present conditional, with a more closed and
more fronted vowel in the future tense. In addition, this opposition seems to be a
stable phenomenon, as it does not vary as a function of the speakers’ age.
2.2.5	 /a/–/ɑ/
Concerning the low vowel series, the literature mentioned in Section 2.1.2 states
that in word-final open syllables (e.g., rat ‘rat’ vs. ras ‘baremasc’), there is no quali-
tative distinction in Neuchâtel. In word-final closed syllables (e.g., patte ‘paw’ vs.
pâte ‘dough’), on the other hand, the contrast is reported to be present in terms
of duration but not in terms of quality. The region that seems to differ the most
from Neuchâtel is Vaud: 87% of the Vaud informants in Métral (1977) reported a
distinction in terms of quality for the word pair rat – ras, and half the informants
reported a distinction in terms of both quality and duration for the word pair
patte – pâte. In light of these previously observed inter-cantonal differences, we
make use of the recent production data from the Nyon corpus, and compare these
with our Neuchâtel data.
For each of the 24 informants (12 from Nyon and 12 from Neuchâtel), the
vowels in the word pair rat – ras were measured in terms of vowel quality and
relative duration. 46 values were obtained, 22 for the ‘rat’ condition and 24 for the
‘ras’ condition. We additionally measured the quality and relative duration of the
vowels in the word pair patte – pâte.20 96 values were obtained, 48 for the ‘patte’
condition and 48 for the ‘pâte’ condition.
First, for the F1, F2 and F3 values of the vowels in rat – ras, the results show
no principal effect of condition (‘rat’ vs. ‘ras’), age or region. For F1 and F2, there
is however a significant interaction between the region and the condition (for F1:
F(1,38) = 7.57, p < 0.01; for F2: F(1,41) = 20.40, p < 0.0001), which means that for
F1 and F2, the difference between the two vowels varies as a function of the re-
gion, with a significant difference for Nyon only. In the Nyon data, the F1 and F2
values are significantly higher for rat (1.66 and 1.01) than for ras (1.46 and 0.87),
which means that the vowel in ras is more closed and more back than the vowel
in rat. In Neuchâtel, there is no difference between the vowels as they have near-
identical F1 (1.53 for rat vs. 1.51 for ras) and F2 values (0.93 for rat vs. 0.96 for
20.	The PFC word list contains two occurrences of each word (patte and pâte), once arbitrarily
distributed in the list, and once placed one immediately after the other.
186	 Isabelle Racine and Helene N. Andreassen
ras). In addition, there is no interaction between age and condition, which means
that age has no impact on the effect of the condition, whatever the region may be.
As regards relative duration, there is no difference between the vowels in rat and
ras. Thus, as expected, and in conformity with the findings in Métral (1977), our
results show a difference in the vowel quality for the Nyon variety, but not for the
one in Neuchâtel.
Second, for the F1, F2 and F3 values of the vowels in patte – pâte, the results
show no principal effect of condition (‘patte’ vs. ‘pâte’), age or region. For F1 and
F2, our data show once again a significant interaction between the region and the
condition (for F1: F(1,88) = 21.69, p < 0.0001; for F2: F(1,88) = 13.05, p < 0.01).
This means that for F1 and F2, the difference between the two vowels varies as a
function of the region, with a significant difference for Nyon only. In Nyon, the
F1 and F2 values are significantly higher for patte (1.71 and 1.24) than for pâte
(1.37 and 1.01), which means that the vowel in pâte is more closed and more back
than the vowel in patte. In Neuchâtel, there is no significant difference between
the vowels as they have close values on F1 (1.26 for patte vs. 1.47 for pâte) and F2
(1.04 for patte vs. 0.96 for pâte).
Concerning relative vowel duration, our data reveal two principal effects.
First, the vowel in patte is in a global fashion shorter than the vowel in pâte, and
second, the two vowels are longer in the productions of the Nyon speakers com-
pared to the Neuchâtel speakers. More interestingly, however, there is a significant
interaction between the region and the condition (F(1,88) = 21.69, p < 0.0001),
which means that the relative vowel duration varies as a function of the region,
with a significant difference in duration for Neuchâtel (0.44 for patte vs. 0.59 for
pâte) but not for Nyon (0.91 for patte vs. 0.93 for pâte). In addition, there is no
interaction between age and condition for neither of the criteria we have exam-
ined, which means that age has no impact on vowel quality or on relative vowel
duration.
To summarize, the vowels in rat – ras are qualitatively similar in the Neuchâ-
tel variety, but not in the Nyon variety, where the vowel in ras is more closed and
more back. For patte – pâte, the opposition is present in both varieties, but the
nature of the contrast differs across the regions. Whereas in Neuchâtel, the differ-
ence lies in duration only, it is of a qualitative nature in Nyon, with a more closed
and more back vowel for pâte. Finally note that, because they do not vary as a
function of the speakers’ age, the qualitative opposition in Nyon and the dura-
tional opposition in Neuchâtel seem to be stable phenomena.
2.2.6	 /ɛ̃/–/œ̃/
Over the last 30 years, the nasal opposition has, according to the literature (cf.
Section 2.1.2), declined in use across the whole of Romandy, but the /ɛ̃/–/œ̃/
	 A phonological study of a Swiss French variety	 187
contrast nevertheless still seems to be stronger in Neuchâtel compared to the other
regions. In light of these results, we put forth the following two hypotheses. First,
if the opposition is declining in use, as suggested by Andreassen et al. (2010), it
should be less strong in our younger speakers compared to our older speakers.
Second, we hypothesize that our Neuchâtel data reflect the /ɛ̃/–/œ̃/ contrast and
this in a stronger fashion than the Nyon data.
For each of the 24 speakers (Nyon and Neuchâtel), the vowels in the word
pair brin ‘spear (of grass)’ vs. brun ‘brownmasc’ were measured in terms of relative
duration and vowel quality.21 95 values were obtained, 48 for the ‘brin’ condition
and 47 for the ‘brun’ condition.
As regards vowel quality, for F1, F2 and F3, our data reveal no principal effects
of condition (‘brin’ vs. ‘brun’), age or region. For the F2 values, there is however
a significant interaction between the region and the condition (F(1,88) = 11.78,
p < 0.001), which means that the F2 values for brin and brun vary as a function of
the region, with a significant difference in the Neuchâtel variety only. In this vari-
ety, the vowel in brun has a lower F2 value (0.85) than in brin (1.07). Our results
partially agree with those of Delvaux et al. (2002), who, on the basis of Belgian
French production data, show that the difference between the two vowels is re-
stricted to lip position only, /œ̃/ being more rounded than /ɛ̃/.22 In their study, this
difference is reflected by lower F2 and F3 values for /œ̃/. Our data show a similar
difference for F2 but, surprisingly, not for F3.
Thus, the Neuchâtel and Nyon data confirm our second hypothesis, which
stated that the opposition is maintained in Neuchâtel but not in Nyon. Our data
also show a significant interaction between age and condition (F(1,88) = 19.64,
p < 0.0001), which confirms our first hypothesis. The difference in F2 values be-
tween brin and brun increases with age, being stronger for the older speakers than
for the younger ones, whatever the region may be. Finally, we mention that there
is no difference in relative vowel duration between the two conditions ‘brin’ and
‘brun’.
21.	 As for patte – pâte, the PFC word list contains two occurrences of each word (brin and
brun). First, they are arbitrarily distributed in the list and, second, at the end of the list, brin
immediately follows brun.
22.	 Even though the difference between the two nasal vowels is theoretically explained by the
rounding criterion only, studies on the French nasal vowels have shown that the relationship
between their acoustic and auditory properties is complex and not so categorical. According to
Delvaux et al. (2002), /ɛ̃/ and /œ̃/ can also differ on two other criteria (height and position of
the tongue). Moreover, Montagu (2002, 2007), in showing that the oral vowel corresponding to
/ɛ̃/ is not /ɛ/ but /a/, questions the pertinence of the IPA symbols for the French nasal vowels.
188	 Isabelle Racine and Helene N. Andreassen
To sum up, the comparison of the vowels in brin and brun produced by our
Neuchâtel and Nyon speakers has revealed that the contrast is maintained in
Neuchâtel only. In this variety, /œ̃/ is more rounded than /ɛ̃/ with lower F2 val-
ues, but surprisingly without differences on F3. The data also show that, in both
regions, the difference is less present in the younger speakers, which seems to
indicate that the contrast is declining in use in the Swiss varieties of French. In or-
der to further confirm our data and particularly to understand why no difference
on F3 showed up in our data, it is necessary to conduct an additional study with
more production data and more speakers, especially with younger ones, suscep-
tible of partially or completely merging the two vowels.
2.2.7	 The vowel system of the Neuchâtel variety: Synthesis
In the previous sections, we have carried out an acoustic analysis of a number of
quantitative and qualitative vowel contrasts in the Neuchâtel variety. The main
findings are presented in Table 3 (the grey cells refer to long contrastive vowels
unattested in French and which consequently have not been searched for in our
data, i.e., /œː/, /oː/ and /ɔː/).
While the previous literature has provided information regarding Neuchâtel
speakers’ intuitions about the vowel system, our acoustic approach to the data
adds another dimension to the phonological analysis. Importantly, however, the
perceptual salience of the vowel contrasts observed in our data would need to be
tested in order to confirm their phonological pertinence.
Table 3.  The Neuchâtel vowel inventory (word-final syllables)
Front Back
Unrounded Rounded Unrounded Rounded
Short Long* Short Long Short Long Short Long
Oral Closed i iː y yː u
Mid-high e eː ø øː o
Mid-low ɛ ɛː œ ɔ
Open a aː
Nasal ɛ̃ œ̃ ɑ̃ ɔ̃
* Because we have tested the contrastive vowel length in word-final closed syllables for two vowels only
(/ɛ/ and /a/), the column labeled “long” is only valid for word-final open syllables. Note however that
whereas /ɛː/ is found in both word-final closed and open syllables, /aː/ is found in word-final closed
syllables only.
	 A phonological study of a Swiss French variety	 189
3.	 Distribution of schwa
In this section, we discuss the behavior of schwa in the Neuchâtel conversational
data. We confine ourselves to a sole focus on schwa in word-initial syllables, and
this for two reasons. First, there is an ongoing debate as to whether the vowels
traditionally analyzed as schwas all share the same status in grammar, i.e., re-
searchers take different stands on the phonological correspondent to the graphic
<e> in le ‘thesg-masc’, cheval ‘horse’, doucement ‘gently’ and autre ‘other’. The vowel
corresponding to <e> in word-initial syllables (cheval) seems however to be the
least controversial in that there is a general consensus on its presence in the in-
put (/ʃәval/), as opposed to word-final schwa (autre), for example, which is of-
ten considered to be epenthetic in the northern varieties. Second, regular schwa
variation is confined to two positions only, i.e., word-initial syllables and mono-
syllables (e.g., le). While judgment data will complement our production data in
the discussion on word-initial syllables, such data are not available for monosyl-
lables, and we therefore leave the study of schwa in the latter context for future
research.
The section is organized as follows: In Section 3.1, we present previous re-
search on schwa in Swiss French before, in Section 3.2, we look at the distribution
of schwa in the Neuchâtel variety. We confine ourselves to examining nouns, ad-
jectives and verbs – three lexical classes with a large number of schwa-items.
3.1	 Schwa in Swiss French: Previous research
The French schwa vowel has received a lot of attention in work on phonologi-
cal theory, and traditionally, the data serving as testing ground have been taken
from FR. Whereas this methodological choice has been criticized by scholars ea-
ger to present French in all its diversity, this normative variety has, according to
Morin (2000), been used solely for practical reasons, as “cette variété de français
serait particulièrement bien décrite et assurerait une base empirique exception-
nelle pour la formulation de généralisations théoriques” (2000: 104). Schwa has
however proven to be subject to diatopic variation, and in recent years, theoreti-
cal analyses have emerged, attempting an account of some of these inter-regional
differences, cf. for instance Eychenne (2006), couched within the framework of
Optimality Theory (Prince & Smolensky 1993), and Pustka (2007), using the ex-
emplar model (cf. Bybee 2001, among others). Already prior to these comparative
theoretical studies, it had for a long time been established that the Midi French
varieties are distinct in obligatorily realizing all underlying schwas, except for
word-final schwas preceding a vowel in a breath group (cf. for instance Durand
et al. 1987). Walter (1982, 1990), in a large-scale study of 111 informants residing
190	 Isabelle Racine and Helene N. Andreassen
across francophone Europe, observed further inter-regional variation regarding
schwa deletion, and particularly important for our study, she claimed that in the
northern part of the area, schwa in word-initial syllables was stabilizing.23 How-
ever, this finding could not be generalized to the speakers of Swiss French who
were subjects of her study since several of them were among those that most fre-
quently deleted schwa in word-initial syllables during the conversation. Racine
(2008) strengthened this finding in a psycholinguistic study, in which she com-
pared judgment data from speakers of the Nantes variety (western France) and
speakers of the Neuchâtel variety. Asking them to judge the estimated frequency
of the two variants of a schwa-item (one variant with the vowel present, e.g., che-
min ‘road’, and one variant with the vowel absent, e.g., ch’min), she obtained data
indicating that the Swiss French are more inclined to accept vowel deletion than
speakers in Nantes (for more details regarding the procedure, cf. Section 3.2).
The creation of the PFC database has allowed us to revisit – for speakers across
the francophone world – various factors established in the literature as having an
influence on schwa in production. For instance, we can study the segmental con-
text of schwa (i.e., the nature of the surrounding consonants) and the material to
the immediate left of the schwa-item (vowel, consonant or pause), or we can study
the frequency of the schwa-item itself and the frequency of its output variants.
Further, to mention but a few more examples, we can examine the interaction be-
tween schwa presence and emphatic stress, or the importance of the formality of
the register (reading vs. semi-directed vs. informal speech). Finally, we can search
for generational effects on the rates of schwa presence versus absence. Several
studies have already been carried out using data from the previously mentioned
Nyon investigation point, but only a few of these focus on the rates of schwa de-
letion – the most comprehensive in this respect being Andreassen (2004) and
Andreassen & Lyche (2009). Neither of these have revealed any particular diver-
gence from FR, but Andreassen & Lyche (2009) did nevertheless observe that
schwa in word-initial syllables, in a V#CәC context, was present in less than
half of the cases in spontaneous speech (36%, i.e., 75/208 occurrences), thereby
contributing to the strength of the findings in Walter (1982, 1990) and Racine
(2008).24 Importantly, the Nyon data have indicated that schwa is particularly
23.	 “De nos jours, les prononciations des ch’minées, très m’suré, qui d’vait, la f’melle, est r’connu,
il m’a r’mis sont plus rares que des cheminées, très mesuré, qui devait, la femelle, est reconnu, il m’a
remis” (Walter 1990: 29).
24.	In what follows, we will examine schwa in three various contexts, i.e., schwa in the ini-
tial syllable of a polysyllable preceded by a word ending in a vowel (V#CәC) or a consonant
(C#CәC), or preceded by a pause (##CәC). For examples, see Table 4. Also note that throughout
the paper, we will use the symbol [ә] as the transcription of schwa, all while acknowledging that
	 A phonological study of a Swiss French variety	 191
prone to being realized when the informant is “dans une phase de planification
de son discours” (Andreassen & Lyche 2009: 79), i.e., when he hesitates, repeats
himself etc.
In the following section, we will examine the distribution of schwa as it mani-
fests itself in the Neuchâtel data, but let us recall that we do not expect the Neuchâ-
tel speakers to differ notably from the Nyon speakers, as the two varieties share
the majority of phonetic and phonological features. For this reason, at present,
we will not perform a detailed comparison of the two investigation points, but we
nevertheless acknowledge the necessity of a future inter-variety study confirming
(or disconfirming) that the rates of schwa deletion are identical across the Swiss
French varieties.
3.2	 Distribution of schwa in the Neuchâtel variety
The Neuchâtel corpus comprises 543 occurrences of schwa in the initial sylla-
ble of a polysyllable, orthographically corresponding to <e>, <ai> (e.g., faisait
‘do3-sg-imperf’) or <on> (monsieur). Approximately ten minutes per speaker per
conversation have been coded in accordance with the PFC protocol (Durand &
Lyche 2003), and when these occurrences are classified according to the material
to the immediate left of the schwa-item, we obtain the repartition presented in
Table 4 (note that the percentages refer to the rate of schwa presence in each con-
text). In the discussion following Table 4, we will first comment on the occurrence
of schwa in the contexts C#CәC and ##CәC, where we expect schwa to be present
due to structural (Grammont 1894; Dell 1985) and/or perceptual (Côté 2000)
requirements, i.e., there are constraints in the grammar preventing the creation of
the structures C#CC and ##CC. Thereafter, we will comment on the occurrence
of schwa in the context V#CәC, where schwa is expected to delete frequently and
to create a V#CC structure in the output.
in most varieties, it is (near-)identical to [œ] or [ø] (for inter-regional information regarding
the phonetic quality of schwa vs. the mid front, rounded vowels, see Bürki et al. 2008).
Table 4.  Rates of schwa presence in the Neuchâtel corpus (percentage and occurrences)
Context % Occurrences
V#CәC e.g., la fenêtre [lafәnɛːtʁ] 23 103/455
C#CәC e.g., cette demande [sɛtdәmɑ̃d] 52   34/65
##CәC e.g., regarde! [ʁәɡaʁd] 83   19/23
Total 29 156/543
192	 Isabelle Racine and Helene N. Andreassen
As expected, the level of schwa presence is higher when the item is preced-
ed by a consonant-final word or a pause, but interestingly, schwa absence still
amounts to 48% (31/65 occurrences) in the context C#CәC. First, ten occurrences
of an absent schwa are observed for the verbal forms devais ‘must1-sg-imperf’, fai-
sais ‘do1-sg-imperf’ and ser-ai/ais ‘be1-sg-fut/cond’, preceded by the 1sg pronoun je
realized as a single consonant, e.g., je faisais [ʃfzɛ] ‘I did’. Further, 11 occurrences
consist of schwa-items with an initial [s], in most cases preceded by a word end-
ing in a sonorant, e.g., par semaine [paʁsmɛn] ‘per week’ and école secondaire
[ɛkɔlzɡɔ̃dɛːʁ] ‘secondary school’ – the latter item, secondaire, subject to regressive
voicing assimilation /s/→[z] in all four occurrences. In the majority of remaining
occurrences with an absent schwa in the context C#CәC, the word-final conso-
nant is a nasal, e.g., une leçon [ynlsɔ̃] ‘asg-fem lesson’. Concerning the four schwa
absences in the context ##CәC, these consist of three occurrences of petit(s) [pti]
‘smallsg/pl-masc’ and one occurrence of cheni [ʃni] ‘dust, junk, mess etc. (reg.)’.25
First, as regards petit, it constitutes a long-established counterexample to the ban
on schwa deletion in the context ##Plosive + ә + Plosive (Dell 1985: 225). Sec-
ond, whereas cheni is in other regions produced with a variable schwa, a small
survey conducted in Neuchâtel by the authors seems to indicate that the default
production variant of this item in this area is in fact without schwa, whatever its
immediate left context. Thus, although word-initial [ʃn] is a marginal member of
French phonotactics, this seemingly does not constitute an obstacle to the pref-
erence for the schwa-less form, and possibly the lexicalization of /ʃni/ without
schwa altogether.
Before leaving the results on schwa in the contexts C#CәC and ##CәC, it is
important to mention that the items we have observed as subject to schwa absence
in these contexts are items occurring at a high frequency in the language. If it has
already been established by Dell (1985: 229) that it is “les mots peu courants ou
d’usage littéraire” that are least subject to deletion in the appropriate context, our
few examples of an absent schwa in the less appropriate contexts for deletion seem
to pattern with Dell’s (1985) observation. In the two contexts where grammatical
constraints are expected to block schwa deletion, and thereby avoid the creation
of the structures C#CC and ##CC, the items’ high token frequency seems – at
least to some degree – to take precedence over the segmental and phonotactic
constraints in the phonology.26
25.	 Alongside cheni, we find the alternative spellings chenis, chenil and chenit (cf. Thibault 2004,
DSR s.v. cheni).
26.	The importance of token frequency for the rate of schwa absence has already been estab-
lished in a production study by Racine & Grosjean (2002), who showed that, among seven
	 A phonological study of a Swiss French variety	 193
If we turn to the context V#CәC, schwa is absent in 77% of the occurrenc-
es (352/455), and when we break these numbers down into three sub-groups,
the following numbers result: 87% absence in the group of nouns and adjectives
(131/150), 77% absence in the group of verbs (195/253), and 50% absence in the
‘other’ group (26/52), the latter not subject to our study.27 Let us recall that the
judgment data on schwa in the context V#CәC obtained by Racine (2008) in-
dicated that the variant without the vowel was in numerous cases preferred to
the variant with the vowel present, and an interesting question in this regard is
whether the judgments reflect the reality in production.28 Table 5 presents the
nouns and adjectives attested in our data, divided into three groups according to
the combined estimated frequency (c.e.f.) value, which indicates the rate of schwa
alternation: items with a positive value, from 3.0 to 0.0, which are considered
as highly frequently alternating, items with a negative value, from –0.01 to –3.0,
which are considered as alternating, and items with a strongly negative value,
from –3.01 to –6.0, which are considered as non-alternating. A fourth group con-
tains nouns and adjectives that were not part of the test material in Racine (2008),
and these will not be further commented upon. Table 5 is to be read as follows:
For each of the above-mentioned three groups of items (highly frequently alter-
nating, alternating, non-alternating), we present the words that are examined in
Racine (2008) and also attested in our conversational data. The percentages and
occurrences we provide are calculated on the basis of each group as a whole, i.e.,
Table 5 does not provide information regarding the total number of occurrences
or the rate of deletion for specific items. Thus, for example, for the group High-
ly frequently alternating as a whole, 124 occurrences are attested in the context
V#CәC, out of which nine occurrences (or 7%) are produced with the schwa pres-
ent in the output.
variables that could hypothetically explain the variability of schwa in a V#CәC context, the
frequency of the item was the most important.
27.	 The ‘other’ group consists of adverbs, prepositions, pronouns, toponyms and derivatives of
the latter (e.g., genevois ‘Genevan’).
28.	Racine (2008) tested various types of items, including those with an expected variable ab-
sence of schwa, e.g., le chemin ‘thesg-masc road’. On a scale of 1 to 7 (very infrequent to very fre-
quent pronunciation), the speaker separately evaluated the two variants of the word presented
in written form, and for le chemin, the values given to the variants with and without vowel were
3.92 and 5.25, respectively, the combined estimated frequency (henceforth c.e.f.) amounting to
5.25 – 3.92 = 1.33. A (highly) negative c.e.f. value indicates the relatively stable presence of the
vowel, whereas a (highly) positive c.e.f. value indicates the relatively stable absence of the vowel.
C.e.f. values around zero indicate that both variants are equally well accepted.
194	 Isabelle Racine and Helene N. Andreassen
First, an examination of the nouns and adjectives in the Neuchâtel corpus
reveals that the majority of the attested items are judged with a positive c.e.f. or
with one that centers around zero in Racine (2008).29 Despite the preference for
the schwa-less variant in the judgment data, we attest nine occurrences of schwa
realization in items with a c.e.f. of 0.0 or higher. For instance, regarding petit, it
is – as expected – generally produced in its reduced form (88/90 occurrences),
and the two occurrences of schwa presence can possibly be explained as a reflec-
tion of extra-grammatical requirements. First, during the semi-directed conver-
sation, the subject scarp1 produces the vowel in c’était vraiment euh un, un petit
à côté ‘it was really euh a, a small [job] on the side’, where the schwa-item follows
a hesitation and a repetition. Second, during an informal discussion on inter-
variety differences in the labeling of principal meals, the subject scapm1 assigns
emphatic stress to the schwa syllable in fait un petit déjeuner (et puis un déjeuner)
‘makes a breakfast (and then a lunch)’, cf. Figure 2.
29.	A notable exception is chevreuil ‘roe deer’, with a c.e.f. amounting to –5.5, and, as expected,
realized with a vowel in our production data. When we take into account that the seven items
with initial <chevr> present in Racine’s material were judged with a c.e.f. value lower than –5,
both in the Neuchâtel and the western French data, a pattern emerges whereby the creation of
tri-consonantal *[ʃvʁ] is not authorized. The grammaticality of tri-consonantal [dɡʁ] in degré
in Neuchâtel, with a c.e.f. value of –1.83 (vs. –5.67 in western French), leads however to the
conclusion that there is no general ban on the creation of tri-consonantal sequences in Swiss
French.
Table 5.  Rates of schwa presence in nouns and adjectives in the context V#CәC
(percentage and occurrences)
c.e.f. Items attested in the Neuchâtel corpus (c.e.f.) V#CәC
% occ.
3.0 → 0.0
(Highly frequently
alternating)
petit-fils (2.58), cheveu (1.92), petit (1.5), chemin (1.33),
relève (1.25), retard (1.25), demie (1), seconde (0.67),
semaine (0.67), revanche (0.58), leçon (0.5), chevet (0.42),
remarque (0.42), repas (0.42), reproche (0.33), devoir
(0.08), retour (0.08), relation (0)
   7 9/124
–0.01 → –3.0
(Alternating)
retraité (–0.33), secret (–0.5), besoin (–0.58), femelle
(–0.75), recrue (–1.33), relaxation (–1.33), degré (–1.83),
registre (–2.17)
  35 7/20
–3.01 → –6.0
(Non-alternating)
chevreuil (–5.5) 100 2/2
Not examined by
Racine (2008)
cheni, petit-enfant, relecteur, représentatif   25 1/4
	 A phonological study of a Swiss French variety	 195
For the remainder of the nouns and adjectives that authorize schwa absence
(c.e.f. of –3.0 or higher), emphatic stress and preceding hesitations or repetitions
can account for several of the schwa presences attested, and this observation
seems to strengthen the finding in Andreassen & Lyche (2009), whereby schwa
presence frequently is a reflection of extra-grammatical factors. The importance
of these latter factors is further strengthened by the attestation of the influence
that orthography bears on pronunciation. The subject scapm1, during the infor-
mal conversation, reads aloud a phrase containing the item repas ‘meal’, where he
produces the schwa-vowel,30 whereas in the semi-directed conversation, a register
that compared to the informal conversation could be expected to contain a higher
level of schwa presence (cf. Lucci 1983), the same subject deletes the vowel in
the one occurrence of repas. The scarce number of occurrences prevents us from
drawing any conclusions, but we can nevertheless hypothesize that the phonolog-
ical constraints assumed to be visibly active during reading are still visible when
the reading is ‘integrated’ into a conversation, even an informal one.
Let us now turn to the last lexical category under examination, i.e., the verbs.
Unfortunately, there are no judgment data available for the verbal category,
and we will therefore provide a segmental analysis of these data. As previous-
ly mentioned, one factor relevant to schwa alternation is the segmental context
of the vowel, and in terms of markedness, one could expect schwa deletion in
the V#CәC context to be more frequent when the resulting structure V#CC is
30.	Est-il plus correct de dire pour le repas du midi … dîner ou déjeuner? ‘Is it more correct to say
dîner or déjeuner for the midday meal?’
Time (s)
petit
0 1.277
un
fait déjeuner
Figure 2.  Emphatic stress assigned to the schwa syllable in petit ‘smallsg-masc’ – intensity
(solid line) and pitch (dashed line)
196	 Isabelle Racine and Helene N. Andreassen
present elsewhere in the language. For instance, as Obstruent + Liquid (hence-
forth OL) clusters are authorized word-initially in French, e.g., fraise ‘strawberry’,
the absence of a schwa preceded by [f] and followed by [ʁ] (e.g., fera ‘do3-sg-fut’)
would not violate any dominating phonotactic constraint in the grammar. Con-
versely, as Liquid + Obstruent clusters are not authorized word-initially in French,
the absence of schwa preceded by [ʁ] and followed by an obstruent, e.g., refaire
‘do againinf’, should be less favored. Table 6 presents the segmental contexts of
schwa observed in the verbal forms in our corpus, with the number of schwas
present indicated in parentheses.
As could be expected on the basis of the low rate of schwa presence attested for
the nouns and adjectives (cf. Table 5), the number of schwas present is low for the
verbal forms as well, whatever the segmental context of the vowel. Nevertheless,
in what follows we will focus on only a few types of consonantal combinations.
First, we observe that the 15 instances of a Fricative + ә + Liquid combina-
tion are produced without a vowel, a result that patterns well with the Québec
judgment data in Côté (2009) that indicate the loss altogether of schwa in the OL
context. The 100% absence in our data could be explained as a reflection of pho-
notactic well-formedness, but when we take into account the type of schwa-items
found in this group – fer- ‘dofut/cond’ and ser- ‘befut/cond’ – we cannot exclude
the possibility that token frequency also has an effect on the vowel (cf. Hansen
Table 6.  Rates of schwa presence in verbs according to the segmental environment in the
context V#CәC (number of occurrences)
C2
C1
Plosives Fricatives Nasals Liquids
Plosives d(ә)v
d(ә)vj
d(ә)vw
d(ә)vʁ
(8/18)
(0/2)
(2/2)
(6/9)
d(ә)m
t(ә)n
(2/23)
(1/6)
Fricatives f(ә)z
ʃ(ә)v
(0/33)
(0/1)
v(ә)n
v(ә)nj
(1/25)
(1/1)
f(ә)ʁ
s(ә)ʁ
(0/4)
(0/11)
Nasals m(ә)n (1/1)
Liquids ʁ(ә)p
ʁ(ә)pʁ
ʁ(ә)t
ʁ(ә)tʁ
ʁ(ә)d
ʁ(ә)k
ʁ(ә)ɡ
ʁ(ә)ɡʁ
(3/9)
(2/11)
(3/10)
(4/8)
(0/1)
(4/8)
(2/21)
(1/2)
ʁ(ә)f
ʁ(ә)v
ʁ(ә)vj
ʁ(ә)s
ʁ(ә)ʃ
(2/4)
(4/8)
(5/7)
(1/10)
(0/1)
ʁ(ә)m (2/14) ʁ(ә)l (3/3)
	 A phonological study of a Swiss French variety	 197
1994; Racine & Grosjean 2002). The importance of token frequency seems further
confirmed when we include the result from the schwa-item fais- ‘doimperf/pres-part’,
where the surrounding consonants [f] and [z] are both fricatives: None of the 33
occurrences are produced with the vowel present.
If we now turn to the consonantal combinations of decreasing sonority, unat-
tested as regular word-initial clusters in French, they seem to act more hetero-
geneously with regard to schwa alternation. Among the 114 occurrences of an
underlying schwa preceded by [ʁ] and followed by a plosive, fricative or nasal, 82
(or 72%) are realized with the schwa absent, leading to output sequences like [ʁk
ʁs ʁm] in je r’connaissais ‘I recognized’ (scahd1), vous r’cevez ‘you receive2pl-pre’
(scajb1), and j’ai r’marqué ‘I have noted’ (scacm1). Already indicated in the lit-
erature, the relatively low number of schwas present here further strengthens the
claim that there is more to the explanation of schwa absence than a requirement
on word-initial phonotactic well-formedness: For instance, whereas Côté (2000)
considers schwa absence to reflect the perceptual salience of the preceding conso-
nant,31 Hansen (1994) highlights the importance of token frequency – this latter
approach moving some of the explanation outside the domain of phonological
constraints.
To end our section on the distribution of schwa in the Neuchâtel variety, let us
first confirm that token frequency, the frequency of variants, extra-grammatical
constraints and segmental constraints are factors that influence schwa alterna-
tion in the context V#CәC. Finally, however, yet another factor that remains to
be taken into account is the subjects themselves. Recall from the acoustic analysis
of the vowel system that the stability of several contrasts varied as a function of
age (cf. Section 2.2). Thus, we have examined the rate of schwa presence in the
nouns, adjectives and verbs per subject, and when we divide the corpus in two age
groups (age ranges of 27–44 years and 54–78 years), it turns out that the seniors
realize schwa at a higher percentage than the juniors, i.e., in 35% (45/173) vs. 14%
(32/230) of the occurrences. If the low number of recurring items across the cor-
pus prevents us from testing the significance of the age variable, this factor nev-
ertheless seems worth considering more thoroughly in future research on schwa
alternation in Swiss French. Differences have been established between age groups
in the Neuchâtel corpus in work on articulatory rate by Schwab & Racine (2012)
as well, and taking this result into account in the analysis, it is not impossible that
31.	 According to Côté (2000: 113), “prevocalic /r/ behaves like an obstruent, specified as
[–sonorant]”.
198	 Isabelle Racine and Helene N. Andreassen
the preservation of schwa in the context V#CәC is yet another phenomenon that
can be explained as varying with age.32
4.	 Distribution of liaison
In this section, we examine the phenomenon of liaison as it manifests itself in our
conversational data. Although our starting point is the classification proposed
by Delattre (1966) in his study on FR, we also aim to compare our findings with
the analyses of PFC data in Durand & Lyche (2008) and Andreassen & Lyche
(2009), cf. Section 4.1. In the examination of the Neuchâtel data in Section 4.2,
our main focus will be on categorical liaisons and on verbal liaisons traditionally
considered as variable. Regarding the other types of variable liaisons attested in
the literature (e.g., plural noun +, adverb +), these are excluded because of their
lack of frequency in the corpus. Outside of a verbal context, our data contain a
single occurrence of a variable liaison, i.e., the negation pas ‘not’, realized by the
subject scapy1 during the informal conversation, cf. (1).
	 (1)	 Je pense qu’au niveau de la presse ils préféreraient ne pas [z]en parler
maintenant.
		 ‘I think that in the press, they would prefer not to talk about it now.’
4.1	 Liaison in Swiss French: Previous research
Durand & Lyche (2008) – drawing their data from ten PFC investigation points –
examined the liaisons classified as categorical and variable in Delattre (1966). For
the former type of liaison, the PFC data patterned with the classification in Delat-
tre in the contexts personal pronoun + verb, determiner + substantive, and verb +
clitic. The PFC data diverged from Delattre, however, in displaying variable liai-
son in the contexts monosyllabic preposition +, preposed adjective + noun, and
c’est +, considered as categorical by Delattre. For the latter type of liaison, one of
the prototypical contexts is after a verbal form. Durand & Lyche (2008) focused
on the verb être, and they observed a difference in the rate of realization of liaison
depending on the verbal tense, with a higher rate for the present than for the past
tense.
32.	 Whether this would be an instance of a generational change or age-grading (Hockett 1950)
is of course another matter to determine. See also Malécot (1976), who reported a small age
effect on the rate of schwa deletion.
	 A phonological study of a Swiss French variety	 199
As regards Swiss French, Passy (1892: 119) stated that “[o]n fait infiniment
plus de liaisons dans la Suisse romande […] que dans la région parisienne”. This
impressionistic claim was tested by Andreassen & Lyche (2009) in their study of
the Nyon variety. Concerning categorical liaisons, the Nyon data seemed slightly
more conservative than those examined by Durand & Lyche (2008). Regarding
variable liaisons, in the Nyon data they were restricted to a limited number of
verbal forms – the most important being the present and imperfect forms of the
verb être ‘beinf’. For the forms in 3-sg-pre vs. 3-sg-imperf, the rates of realization
amounted to 38% (49/129) and 11% (2/37), respectively (Andreassen & Lyche
2009: 83). These results pattern with Durand & Lyche (2008) who, for the same
verbal forms attested 50% and 9% of realization, and therefore do not confirm the
claim Passy made more than 100 years ago.
Andreassen & Lyche (2009) further observed that the majority of verbal li-
aisons were produced by the older subjects, e.g., three seniors were responsible
for 14/24 occurrences of est [ɛt] ‘be3-sg-pre’. In fact, with the exception of est, c’est
‘it is’ and doivent ‘must3-pl-pre’, verbal liaison was restricted to four subjects aged
52–70 years.
In the following section, we will make use of these latter results from
Andreassen & Lyche (2009) and search for a link between rate of verbal liaison
and age. Note that, as in the case of schwa, we do not expect the Neuchâtel speak-
ers to differ notably from those in Nyon, but we once again underline the impor-
tance of a future inter-cantonal study confirming (or disconfirming) this claim.
4.2	 Distribution of liaison in the Neuchâtel variety
In accordance with the PFC protocol, five minutes per conversation have been
coded, providing us with 1,217 tokens of potential linking words, with the follow-
ing break-down: 510 instances of a forward-linked liaison, four occurrences of
a liaison consonant in a pre-consonantal context (item quand [kɑ̃t] ‘when’), and
703 instances where the liaison consonant is not realized. As regards the forward-
linked liaisons, 98% (498/510) are attested in monosyllables, where the nature of
the liaison consonant is distributed as follows: [n] = 45% (223/498), [z] = 42%
(209/498) and [t] = 13% (66/498). In the polysyllables with a forward-linked liai-
son, we exclusively observe [z] (12/12 occurrences).
Concerning the liaisons judged categorical by Delattre (1966), the Neuchâ-
tel data conform to the results obtained by Durand & Lyche in that personal
pronouns and prenominal determiners are obligatorily realized with liaison.33
33.	 Our data contain no example of a post-verbal clitic.
200	 Isabelle Racine and Helene N. Andreassen
Regarding the contexts observed as variable by Durand & Lyche (but categorical
by Delattre), our data seem to further strengthen the variability attested in the
PFC database. First, concerning the monosyllabic prepositions, although en en-
tails liaison in all 74 occurrences, dans is realized in 2/13 occurrences without [z].
Note however that in one of the cases of absence, dans precedes a pause in the sig-
nal, which possibly causes the non-realization of the liaison consonant. Turning
to the prenominal adjectives in our corpus, they only constitute 18/1,217 tokens
in a liaison context. Interestingly, however, whereas the scarce occurrences of ‘el-
ementary’ adjectives are realized with the liaison consonant, e.g., bon [n]accent
‘good accent’, grand [t]âge ‘old age’ and belles [z]images ‘beautiful pictures’, the
two occurrences of preposed parfait ‘perfectmasc’ are produced without [t]: Il parle
un parfait // allemand, il parle un parfait // anglais ‘He speaks perfect German,
he speaks perfect English’ (scapm1). Finally, concerning c’est +, attested 43 times
in our data, the liaison consonant is realized in six occurrences only, and this by
speakers who also realize c’est without [t] in the same situational context, thereby
illustrating true variation, cf. the subject scajd1 during the informal conversation,
presented in (2).
	 (2)	 Donc maintenant c’est //un peu compulsif. Si elle voit des chaussures qui lui
vont bien, elle les [z]achète même si elle en [n]a pas besoin. Ben moi, c’est
[t]un peu pareil.
		 ‘So now it is a bit compulsive. If she sees shoes that fit her, she buys them even
if she doesn’t need to. Well, it is a bit like that for me, too.’
In sum, concerning the liaisons judged categorical by Delattre (1966), our data are
in conformity with the PFC data studied by Durand & Lyche (2008).
When we now include the verbal forms whose liaison consonant is consid-
ered in the literature as variably realized, we first of all observe that, like in An-
dreassen & Lyche (2009), the presence of variable liaisons is extremely low in
our data, i.e., 6% (19/325), the above-mentioned occurrences of c’est included. In
Table 7, we present the verbal forms in which we have retrieved the 19 instances
of a liaison consonant in the output, alongside the occurrences and percentage of
liaison realization.
First, we observe in Table 7 that variable liaison is only found for the verb être.
Second, we note the absence of the imperfect form. This is in line with the results
in Durand & Lyche (2008), who observed, for this verbal tense, a low 5.34% rate
of liaison realization in the northern varieties (10/187) (vs. 15.75% rate of liaison
in the southern varieties (11/97)). Both Nyon and Neuchâtel seem to pattern with
the former varieties in that [t] in (c’)était is realized in 4/37 and 0/31 of the occur-
rences, respectively. Second, four Neuchâtel subjects are responsible for 14 out of
the 19 occurrences of a verbal liaison, i.e., the women scajb1 and scamm1, and
	 A phonological study of a Swiss French variety	 201
the men scaaf1 and scarp1, aged 67–78 years. Although the remaining five occur-
rences are found in younger speakers,34 illustrating the fact that they master both
variants (with and without the liaison consonant), it is still interesting to note that
all occurrences of a liaison consonant not belonging to est, are produced by the
senior subjects. While the numbers are low and do not allow for a conclusion, we
nevertheless find attractive Andreassen & Lyche’s (2009) discussion on variable
liaisons in the Nyon corpus, where “nous concluons à la prégnance du facteur
âge/locuteur sur la réalisation des données variables” (2009: 84).
To conclude this section, we further confirm that the claim by Passy (1892)
cannot be transferred to contemporary Swiss French production data – the dis-
tribution of variable liaisons in Neuchâtel seems as restricted as in the Nyon
variety.
5.	 Conclusion
The present chapter contains the first thorough analysis of the PFC investigation
point of Neuchâtel, and these recently collected production data have allowed us
to pay particular attention to three different phenomena, i.e., the vowel system,
the schwa vowel and the liaison consonant. Using previous literature as a starting
point, an acoustic approach to the vowel system in Neuchâtel has revealed the
following results. First, the analysis of vowels produced in the reading of word
lists has shown the preservation of contrastive vowel length both in word-final
open (nu vs. nue) and word-final closed syllables (belle vs. bêle), the latter being
less stable than the former. Second, the analysis has revealed an opposition for
two pairs of mid vowels in word-final open syllables: /o/–/ɔ/ (peau – pot) and
/e/–/ɛ/ (pourrai – pourrais). None of the contrasts seem to vary as a function of
the speakers’ age. Third, for /a/–/ɑ/, our data indicate that the opposition is absent
34.	 Four occurrences of c’est produced by scacm1 (aged 39), scajd1 (aged 27), scapm1 (aged 42)
and scapy1 (aged 44), respectively, and one occurrence of est produced by scacy1 (aged 43).
Table 7.  Realization of variable liaisons in a verbal context
(percentage and occurrences)
Verbal form % Occurrences
suis   32 7/22
est   25 4/16
c’est   14 6/43
sommes 100 1/1
sont   11 1/9
202	 Isabelle Racine and Helene N. Andreassen
in word-final open syllables (rat – ras). The absence of a qualitative difference has
further been confirmed by the word pair patte – pâte. In this latter case, however,
a durational contrast has been detected, seemingly stable as it does not vary as
a function of the speakers’ age. Finally, the opposition /ɛ̃/–/œ̃/ is maintained in
Neuchâtel but seems to decrease as a function of age.
The Neuchâtel data have additionally made it possible to perform a first inter-
cantonal analysis of the current vowel system in the Swiss French varieties. Per-
forming a comparative acoustic analysis of two PFC investigation points (Nyon
and Neuchâtel), we have observed that regarding the last two above-mentioned
contrasts (/a/–/ɑ/ and /ɛ̃/–/œ̃/), the Nyon variety differs from the Neuchâtel va-
riety. First, for the low vowels, the Nyon data show a qualitative difference only,
both in rat – ras and in patte – pâte. Second, for the nasal series, the Nyon data
indicate the absence of a contrast.
As regards the two phonological variables studied here, the schwa vowel and
the liaison consonant, both are attested as highly unstable. If schwa is absent in
77% of the cases in a V#CәC context, the liaison consonant, in contexts where it
is traditionally considered as variably authorized, is attested in a few verbal forms
only, and this at a very low rate. These results confirm previous studies, but they
also underline the importance of not blindly comparing old and new data. Con-
cerning schwa, although Walter (1982, 1990) claimed that schwa was stabilizing
in word-initial syllables in the northern varieties, she also discovered that this did
not hold for all speakers of Swiss French, an observation confirmed by Racine
(2008). Concerning liaison, Passy (1892) claimed that Swiss French speakers pro-
duced more liaisons than Parisian speakers. It is perfectly possible that Passy was
right for his time, but we nevertheless underline that his claim is contested by the
contemporary Nyon and Neuchâtel data.
To conclude, when we take into account older studies, recent ones and the
analyses provided in this chapter, it is interesting to note that not only do we find
generational variations with regard to the vowel system, but our senior speakers
also slightly diverge from our younger speakers in producing more schwas and
more liaisons. It thus seems that the Neuchâtel corpus reflects variation at two dif-
ferent levels. First, it illustrates a system in movement in that the senior speakers
are more conservative than the younger speakers. Second, it illustrates a system
that can be regionally identified. If the Neuchâtel variety undoubtedly turns out to
pattern with other (Swiss) French varieties at various levels of linguistic analysis,
it nevertheless contains particularities hitherto not confirmed as still being pres-
ent in other regions.
	 A phonological study of a Swiss French variety	 203
References
Adank, Patti, Roel Smits, and Roeland Van Hout. 2004. A comparison of vowel normalization
procedures for language variation research. JASA 116 (5): 3099–3107.
Andreassen, Helene N. 2004. Une contrainte de fidélité flottante pour le traitement du schwa et
de la liaison dans le canton de Vaud. Bulletin PFC 3: 139–184.
Andreassen, Helene N., and Chantal Lyche. 2009. Le français du canton de Vaud: une variété
autonome. In Phonologie, variation et accents du français, eds. Jacques Durand, Bernard
Laks and Chantal Lyche, 63–93. Paris: Hermès.
Andreassen, Helene N., Raphaël Maître, and Isabelle Racine. 2010. La Suisse. In Le français
parlé contemporain dans ses variétés: ressources pour l’étude du français, eds. Sylvain Detey,
Jacques Durand, Bernard Laks and Chantal Lyche, 211–233. Paris: Ophrys.
Baayen, R. Harald, Doug J. Davidson, and Douglas M. Bates. 2008. Mixed effects modeling
with crossed random effects for subjects and items. Journal of Memory and Language 59:
390–412.
Bates, Douglas M., and Deepayan Sarkar. 2007. lme4: Linear mixed-effects models using S4
classes, R package version 2.6, available at www.r-project.org.
Boersma, Paul, and David Weenink. 2009. Praat: doing phonetics by computer (version 5.0).
http://www.praat.org.
Bürki, Audrey, Isabelle Racine, Helene N. Andreassen, Cécile Fougeron, and Ulrich Frauen-
felder. 2008. Timbre du schwa en français et variation régionale: une étude comparative.
In Actes des 27èmes Journées d’études sur la parole, Avignon, 293–296. http://www.afcp-
­
parole.org/doc/Archives_JEP/ 2008_XXVIIe_JEP_Avignon/PDF/author/author_71.html.
Burger, Michel. 1971. À propos de la limite nord du francoprovençal. In Colloque de dialectolo-
gie francoprovençale organisé par le Glossaire des patois de la Suisse romande, eds. Zygmunt
Marzys and François Voillat, 56–69. Neuchâtel: Faculté des Lettres and Genève: Droz.
Bybee, Joan. 2001. Phonology and language use. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Côté, Marie-Hélène. 2000. Consonant cluster phonotactics: A perceptual approach. PhD diss.,
MIT.
Côté, Marie-Hélène. 2009. Contraintes segmentales et variation dans la perte et la stabilisation
du schwa en syllabe initiale. In Le français d’un continent à l’autre. Mélanges offerts à Yves
Charles Morin, eds. Luc Baronian and France Martineau, 93–121. Québec: Les Presses de
l’Université Laval.
Delattre, Pierre. 1966. Studies in French and comparative phonetics. Mouton: The Hague.
Dell, François. 1985. Les règles et les sons. Paris: Hermann.
Delvaux, Véronique, Thierry Metens, and Alain Soquet. 2002. French nasal vowels: acoustic
and articulatory properties. Proceedings of the 7th ICSLP (1): 53–56.
Durand, Jacques, and Chantal Lyche. 2003. Le projet ‘Phonologie du français contemporain’
(PFC) et sa méthodologie. In Corpus et variation en phonologie du français. Méthodes et
analyses, eds. Elisabeth Delais-Roussarie and Jacques Durand, 213–276. Toulouse: Presses
Universitaires du Mirail.
Durand, Jacques, and Chantal Lyche. 2008. French liaison in the light of corpus data. French
Language Studies 18: 33–66.
Durand, Jacques, Catherine Slater, and Hilary Wise. 1987. Observations on schwa in southern
French. Linguistics 25: 983–1004.
204	 Isabelle Racine and Helene N. Andreassen
Eychenne, Julien. 2006. Aspects de la phonologie du schwa dans le français contemporain: opti-
malité, visibilité prosodique, gradience. PhD diss., Université de Toulouse-Le Mirail.
Fougeron, Cécile, Cédric Gendrot, and Audrey Bürki. 2007. On the acoustic characteristics of
French schwa. ICPHS, Saarbrücken, Germany, 941–944.
Gauchat, Louis, Jules Jeanjaquet, Ernest Muret, and Ernst Tappolet, et al. 1924. Glossaire des
patois de la Suisse romande. Neuchâtel & Paris: Attinger and Genève: Droz.
Gendrot, Cédric, and Martine Adda-Decker. 2004. Impact of duration on F1/F2 formant values
of oral vowels: an automatic analysis of large broadcast news corpora in French and Ger-
man. Proceedings of Eurospeech 9: 2453–2456.
Goldman, Jean-Philippe. 2010. EasyAlign: A friendly automatic phonetic alignment tool under
Praat, unpublished paper available at http://latlcui.unige.ch/phonetique.
Goldstein, Harvey. 1987. Multilevel models in educational and social research. London: Griffin.
Grammont, Maurice. 1894. Le patois de la Franche-Montagne et en particulier de Damprichard
(Franche-Comté). Chapitre IV: la loi des trois consonnes. Mémoires de la société de linguis-
tique de Paris 8: 53–90.
Grosjean, François, Séverine Carrard, Coralie Godio, and Lysiane Grosjean. 2007. Long and
short vowels in Swiss French: their production and perception. Journal of French Language
Studies 17: 1–19.
Hansen, Anita B. 1994. Etude du E caduc – stabilisation en cours et variations lexicales. Journal
of French Language Studies 4: 25–54.
Hockett, Charles F. 1950. Age-grading and linguistic continuity. Language 26: 449–457.
Knecht, Pierre. 1979. Le français en Suisse romande: aspects linguistiques et sociolinguistiques.
In Le français hors de France, ed. Albert Valdman, 249–258. Paris: Honoré Champion.
Knecht, Pierre. 1985. La Suisse romande. In La Suisse aux quatre langues, ed. Robert Schläpfer,
125–169. Genève: Éditions Zoé.
Kristol, Andres. 1996. Dialectes, français régional et français ‘de référence’: une dynamique
complexe. Annales 1994–1995, Université de Neuchâtel: 228–241.
Kristol, Andres. 1999. Histoire linguistique de la Suisse romande: quelques jalons. Babylonia
3: 8–13.
Lucci, Vincent. 1983. Le e muet. Etude phonétique du français contemporain à travers la varia-
tion situationnelle. Grenoble: Éditions de l’Université de Grenoble.
Lüdi, Georges, and Iwar Werlen. 2005. Le paysage linguistique en Suisse. Recensement fédéral de
la population 2000, 116. Neuchâtel: Office fédéral de la statistique.
Maître, Raphaël. 2003. La Suisse romande dilalique. Vox Romanica 62: 170–181.
Maupas, Charles. 1618. Grammaire et syntaxe françoise contenant reigles bien exactes & certai-
nes de la prononciation, orthographe, construction & usage de nostre langue, en faveur des
estrangers qui en sont desireux. Orleans: O. Boynard et I. Nyon. Reprinted 1973. Geneva:
Slatkine.
Malécot, André. 1976. The effect of linguistic and paralinguistic variables on the elision of the
French mute-e. Phonetica 33: 93–112.
Matthey, Marinette. 2003. Le français langue de contact en Suisse romande. Glottopol 2:
92–100.
Métral, Jean-Pierre. 1977. Le vocalisme du français en Suisse romande: considérations phono-
logiques. Cahiers Ferdinand de Saussure 31: 145–176.
	 A phonological study of a Swiss French variety	 205
Meunier, Christine. 2007. Phonétique acoustique. In Les dysarthries, eds. Pascal Auzou, Véro-
nique Rolland-Monnoury, Serge Pinto and Canan Ozsancak, 164–173. Marseille: Solal.
Montagu, Julie. 2002. L’articulation labiale des voyelles nasales postérieures du français: com-
paraison entre locuteurs français et anglo-américains. Actes des XXIVèmes JEP: 253–256.
http://www.afcp-parole.org/doc/Archives_JEP/2002_XXIVe_JEP_Nancy/JEP2002/index.
htm
Montagu, Julie. 2007. Analyse acoustique et perceptive des voyelles nasales et nasalisées du
français parisien. PhD diss., University of Paris III.
Morin, Yves-Charles. 2000. Le français de référence et les normes de prononciation. Cahiers de
l’Institut de Linguistique de Louvain 26: 91–135.
Nguyen, Noël, and Robert Espesser. 2004. Méthodes et outils pour l’analyse acoustique des
systèmes vocaliques. Bulletin PFC 3: 77–85.
Passy, Paul. 1892. Les sons du français. Leur formation, leur combinaison, leur représentation.
Paris: Firmin-Didot.
Pierrehumbert, William. 1926. Dictionnaire historique du parler neuchâtelois et suisse romand.
Neuchâtel: Attinger.
Prince, Alan, and Paul Smolensky. 1993. Optimality theory: Constraint interaction in generative
grammar. New Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University Center for Cognitive Science.
Pustka, Elissa. 2007. Phonologie et variétés en contact. Aveyronnais et Guadeloupéens à Paris.
Tübingen: Narr.
R Development Core Team. 2007. R: A language and environment for statistical computing.
R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria. http://www.R-project.org.
Racine, Isabelle. 2008. Les effets de l’effacement du schwa sur la production et la perception de
la parole en français. PhD diss., Université de Genève.
Racine, Isabelle, and François Grosjean. 2002. La production du E caduc facultatif est-elle
prévisible? Un début de réponse. Journal of French Language Studies 12: 307–326.
Schoch, Marianne. 1980. Résultats d’une enquête phonologique en Suisse romande. Bulletin de
la Section de linguistique de la Faculté des lettres de Lausanne 2: 1–38.
Schouwey, Véronique. 2008. Les variantes cantonales dans la prononciation des voyelles du
français en Suisse romande. Mémoire de Master en Logopédie, Université de Genève.
Schwab, Sandra, and Isabelle Racine. 2012. Le débit lent des Suisses romands: mythe ou réalité?.
Journal of French Language Studies 22 (3): 1–15.
Thibault, André. 2004. Dictionnaire suisse romand. Particularités lexicales du français contem-
porain. Genève: Zoé.
Voillat, François. 1971. Aspects du français régional actuel. In Actes du colloque de dialectologie
francoprovençale (Neuchâtel), ed. Zygmunt Marzys, 216–246. Neuchâtel, Genève: Droz.
Walter, Henriette. 1982. Enquête phonologique et variétés régionales du français. Paris: Presses
Universitaires de France.
Walter, Henriette. 1990. Une voyelle qui ne veut pas mourir. In Variation and Change in French,
ed. John N. Green and Wendy Ayres-Bennett, 27–36. London: Routledge.
206	 Isabelle Racine and Helene N. Andreassen
Appendix
Additional word lists designed by the authors for the collection of the Neuchâtel data.
List 1 List 2
1. cratère 1. appartement
2. bar 2. cheminée
3. cheval 3. bouée
4. rigolo 4. mot
5. gouvernement 5. crever
6. année 6. district
7. zurichois 7. carré
8. semaine 8. bedaine
9. scier 9. seau
10. bêle 10. football
11. neveu 11. vague
12. lot 12. skier
13. il paie 13. je mettrais
14. au milieu 14. poêle
15. orteil 15. tu vois
16. il se noie 16. neuve
17. nuage 17. générale
18. le but 18. fosse
19. poil 19. amie
20. ami 20. la moutre
21. vélo 21. bout
22. nu 22. même
23. femelle 23. vrai
24. juin 24. il gueule
25. partenaire 25. nue
26. poutzer 26. ski
27. voiture 27. feuillu
28. ils veulent 28. tète
29. renne 29. voie
30. bleue 30. final
31. bilinguisme 31. mètre
32. penser 32. rigolote
33. caisse 33. nuée
34. heureuse 34. vit
35. Stöck 35. août
36. il passe 36. l’eau
37. fausse 37. la paye
38. vigneronne 38. genou
	 A phonological study of a Swiss French variety	 207
39. boue 39. Zurich
40. Lyon 40. langue
41. gentil 41. soleil
42. général 42. pensée
43. ils croient 43. rêne
44. le réseau 44. emprunte
45. la crève 45. cratse
46. requin 46. millier
47. carnotzet 47. Sierre
48. empreinte 48. ils se noient
49. buée 49. vigneron
50. drague 50. heureux
51. général 51. stylo
52. fleuve 52. fenêtre
53. mettre 53. poutzée
54. sotte 54. sûr
55. sûre 55. je pourrai
56. le fatre 56. roue
57. vraie 57. sot
58. roux 58. il veut
59. neuf 59. le zoo
60. je mettrai 60. bleu
61. bistrot 61. belle
62. vie 62. fédérale
63. la gueule 63. meute
64. voix 64. gentille
65. longue 65. maître
66. carrée 66. époque
67. finale 67. renard
68. skie 68. Bach
69. m’aime 69. enfuir
70. reine 70. boulot
71. je pourrais 71. lion
72. maux 72. beignet
73. enfouir 73. linguistique
74. fédéral 74. voilà
75. tête 75. il croit
part iii
North America
Map 3.  North America
chapter 9
An overview of the phonetics and phonology
of Acadian French spoken in northeastern
New Brunswick (Canada)
Wladyslaw Cichocki
University of New Brunswick
1.	 Introduction
1.1	 Acadian French in New Brunswick
Acadian French is one of the two major groups of French dialects spoken in Can-
ada. In terms of its history and linguistic structure, it differs significantly from its
well-known neighbor français laurentien, usually referred to as “Québec French”
and “Canadian French”. Acadian French has close linguistic ties with “Cajun
French”, spoken in the Louisiana region of the United States.
Speakers of Acadian French live in the eastern extremities of Canada in a
region that is called the Atlantic Provinces. As the map in Figure 1 shows, no geo-
graphic area or political boundary clearly delimits Acadie. Acadian communities
are scattered across the four provinces that make up the Atlantic region. Three of
the provinces have relatively small Acadian populations: Newfoundland and Lab-
rador (almost 2,000 according to the 2006 Canadian Census), Nova Scotia (about
34,000), and Prince Edward Island (about 6,000). The largest Acadian population
is in New Brunswick, where about 233,000 francophones make up one-third of the
province’s population (730,000). In addition, there are pockets of francophones
who are of Acadian origin on Québec’s Gaspé Peninsula (around Carleton and
Bonaventure in Figure 1), on the Magdalen Islands and on the French Territorial
Collectivity of Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon (located south of Newfoundland).
New Brunswick is Canada’s only officially English-French bilingual prov-
ince. In 1969, the provincial government passed the Official Languages of New
Brunswick Act that legislated bilingualism in various governmental jurisdictions
including justice, education and government services. A more recent law known
212	 Wladyslaw Cichocki
as Bill 88 recognizes the equality of the two official linguistic communities; it was
passed in 1981. In reality, the presence of the French language varies considerably
across the province. Numbers of French speakers tend to be greatest in northern
and northeastern regions (where concentrations of francophones vary between
50% and 95%), followed by eastern (75%) and southeastern (35%) areas. Western
and southwestern parts of the province are predominantly English speaking and
generally have less than 5% francophones.
The overview presented in this chapter is based on a survey that was carried
out in the municipality of Tracadie-Sheila, which is located in the northeastern
corner of New Brunswick on the Gulf of St. Lawrence. This municipality is often
referred to simply as “Tracadie,” and we will use the term “Tracadie French” in
our description. Tracadie lies in the middle of the Acadian Peninsula, the sparsely
populated rural area that is delimited roughly by the triangle formed by the towns
of Lamèque, Caraquet and Néguac (see Figure 1). This is an area of forests, rivers
and gently rolling hills; most towns and villages are found on or near the seacoast.
The nearest urban centre is Moncton, located about 220 kilometers to the south.
Like the Acadian Peninsula in general, Tracadie is predominantly francophone.
Landry and Allard (1994) describe the vitality of the French language in the
Anticosti Island
Gaspé
Carleton
Matapedia
Campbellton
Kedgwick
Edmundston
Fort-kent
Grand-Sault
Maine
New Brunswick
C
a
n
a
d
a
U
S
A
Québec
Laméque
Caraquet
Tracadie
Rogers-
ville
Richibouctou Abram-village
Mont Carmel
Bouctouche
Saint-Paul Shédiac
Cap-Pele
Memramcook
Saint John
Bangor
Pointe-de-l’Église
Pubnico-Quest
Halifax
Atlantic Ocean
Acadian French
Acadian French language areas
Former Acadian French language areas
Acadian localities
Orientation site
International border
Provincial border
www.wikipedia.en; Mikmaq, 2007; cc-by-sa/2.5/de
0 50 100 150 200 km
Prince Edward
Island
Chezzetcook
(anglicized)
Pomquet
(anglicized)
Larrys River
(anglicized)
Arichat
Nova Scotia
Wedgeport
Saulnierville
Meteghan
Sainte-Anne-du-Ruisseau
Bay of Fundy
P
e
n
o
b
s
c
o
t
S
a
i
n
t
J
o
h
n
R
i
v
e
r
Moncton/
Dieppe
Néguac
M
iram
ichi River Tignish
(anglicized)
Bathurst
Saint-
Quentin
Bonaventure
Gaspé Peninsula
St. Lawrence river
Gulf of St. Lawrence
Magdalen Islands (Québec)
Etang du Nord
Cheticamp
Cape Breton Island (Nova Scotia)
Saint-Joseph-
du-Moine
Chaleur-Bay
Figure 1.  Map of regions in eastern Canada where Acadian French is spoken
(Source: Mueller 2007)
	 An overview of the phonetics and phonology of Acadian French	 213
Acadian Peninsula area as one of the strongest of all the francophone regions in
New Brunswick.
1.2	 Socio-historical Background of Tracadie
The municipality of Tracadie-Sheila has a population of about 4,500 (according
to the 2006 Canadian Census). It is made up of two main towns, Tracadie and
Sheila. The area was originally a summer camp established around 900 AD by the
Mi’kmaq, an aboriginal (First Nations) people who are members of the Algon-
quian language family. European settlers began to arrive during the mid 1780s,
and they brought both French and English languages. These Europeans were from
surprisingly diverse backgrounds; historians (Basque 2010; Ganong 1906; Kerry
et al. 1984) have studied family names in order to uncover the social history of
the area.
The majority of French speakers are descendants of Acadian settlers. The first
Acadian families had arrived from France during the early 1600s, and they settled
in what was then Nova Scotia. However, during the period of upheavals called the
Grand Dérangement (“Great Expulsion”) between 1755 and 1763 (Faragher 2005),
Acadians were either deported from their lands or forced to flee. Some (with fam-
ily names such as Bastarache and Saulnier) eventually settled on the Acadian Pen-
insula in the Tracadie area. Other French-speaking settlers (Brideau, Desjardin
dit Lausier) arrived soon afterwards from Québec. Still others (LeBreton, Rous-
sel, Vienneau) came directly from Europe. During the 19th century, a number of
francophone Quebeckers made important contributions to life in Tracadie: the
first schoolteachers were from Québec as were the first Catholic priests. In the late
1860s, several members of the congregation of the Religieuses Hospitalières de
Saint-Joseph arrived from Montréal to administer a lazaret for the care of lepers.
These Catholic nuns eventually established the local hospital and an orphanage.
The first English speakers settled in Tracadie in about 1786, shortly after the
arrival of the first Acadians. They were Loyalists (Ferguson, McLaughlin), who
had left the events of the American Revolution. Other settlers came from Ireland
(McGrath, Walsh), Scotland (Young) and England (Drysdale, Richardson) in the
early 19th century, during a period of economic difficulties in Britain. They occu-
pied positions as the Officers who administered the region; some were responsible
for the Episcopalian Church. Many of the descendants of these settlers eventually
assimilated to the larger Acadian population. Ganong (1906: 195–196) gives the
following description: “Most of the English-speaking settlers … have descendants
now living at Tracadie, many of whom speak French rather than English, have
become Catholics, and are otherwise largely gallicized.”
214	 Wladyslaw Cichocki
The combination of Acadian and Québec French, English, Irish and Scottish
ethnic groups with different languages and cultures has lead to what Kerry et al.
(1984: 79) call la mentalité tracadienne. Today, over 95 percent of the residents of
Tracadie are francophone, and they consider themselves to be Acadians.
The Tracadie area has always had a diversified economy (Haines 1979; Kerry
et al. 1984). Throughout the 19th century, residents often worked at a combina-
tion of fishing, forestry and agriculture. However, Tracadie was never a regional
leader in any of these activities, with the result that residents were ensured only of
basic survival. Fishing, one of the main industries, has decreased steadily over the
past decades; today only one fish plant is still in operation, and Tracadie’s wharf
is used primarily for recreational boating. In the early part of the 20th century,
Tracadie started to attract small commercial enterprises such as telegraph, tele-
phone and newspapers. Gradually, the town became a commercial centre for the
region, and today it offers services such as shopping, both primary and secondary
schools, a regional hospital and other medical facilities, government offices, and
restaurants.
1.3	 Existing studies of the phonology of Acadian French
Only a few phonological investigations have been carried out on Acadian French.
Two significant studies are Lucci (1973), who describes speech in villages near
Moncton in southeastern New Brunswick, and Ryan (1981), who analyzes the
phonology of French spoken in Meteghan in the Baie Sainte-Marie region of
southwestern Nova Scotia. Based on original corpora collected by the authors,
both studies are set in a functionalist framework and offer clear presentations of
the inventory of phonemes and their allophones. Another important reference is
Flikeid’s study (1988) of similarities and differences in the phonologies of French
in the five main Acadian areas in Nova Scotia. Flikeid’s research is based on a large
sociolinguistic database (130 speakers) that is stratified by age, social group and
region. She argues for the inclusion of sociolinguistic and stylistic variation in
order to uncover underlying phonological systems.
Flikeid is also the author of a sociophonetic study of Tracadie French (Flikeid
1984). She carried out the fieldwork in the mid 1970s for her doctoral dissertation;
a major theme of her research is the retention of conservative or traditional Aca-
dian features by speakers in Tracadie. Two of the most noteworthy features that
she describes are the rhotic consonant, which shows a pattern of ongoing change
from an apical [r] to a uvular [ʀ] realization, and the /ɔ̃/–/ɑ̃/ contrast, which is of-
ten neutralized (Flikeid 1982, 1985). Throughout this chapter, we will make links
between Flikeid’s sociolinguistic findings and our overview of the phonetics and
phonology of Tracadie French.
	 An overview of the phonetics and phonology of Acadian French	 215
Other studies deal with various aspects of the sound system of Acadian
French. Studies of particular features include work on nasal vowels in Nova
Scotia (Landry 1985); on affrication in Prince Edward Island (King & Ryan
1989), in northwestern New Brunswick (McKillop & Cichocki 1989), and across
the Maritime Provinces region (Morgan 1978); and on /R/ in New Brunswick
(Phlipponneau 1991) and across the Maritime Provinces region (Cichocki 2006,
2008). Geddes (1908) is a descriptive account of Acadian French spoken on the
Gaspé Peninsula at the beginning of the 20th century. Falkert (2010) describes
phonetic variation in the Acadian French spoken on the Magdalen Islands, focus-
sing on the retention of traditional features. Diachronic information is presented
by Massignon (1962), who carried out a large dialectological survey of Acadian
French in the 1940s, and by Flikeid (1994).
1.4	 The corpus
The participants in the Tracadie French corpus are twelve speakers, six women
and six men, who were interviewed in the summer of 2005. All are natives of the
Tracadie-Sheila area and have spent all or most of their lives in this area. They are
members of three generations of one Acadian family. Table 1 presents the distri-
bution of the speakers in terms of age and gender.
The speakers received their education in French. The amount of education
increases with each generation: the oldest speakers have between 5 and 7 years
of formal schooling; those in the middle age group between 9 and 12 years; all
speakers in the youngest group have received at least a secondary school diploma
(12 years). Only one speaker has a good command of English; the others report
a limited knowledge of English. Occupation was not a factor in the selection of
speakers. Their occupations include carpenter, child care worker, equipment
operator, salesperson, and secretary; one of the women in the oldest age group
worked at home raising 14 children.
The speech of each family member was recorded during sociolinguistic inter-
views that followed the PFC protocol. This protocol was designed to elicit both
formal and spontaneous styles. The same person conducted each interview. She
is a native speaker of Tracadie French who was in her mid 20s at the time of the
Table 1.  Tracadie French corpus by age and gender
Age (years) Male Female
21–24 2 2
36–48 2 2
71–87 2 2
216	 Wladyslaw Cichocki
interviews. Speakers were recorded separately in a quiet room in their home. High
quality audio recordings were made with a portable Sony digital recorder and a
Shure unidirectional microphone.
2.	 Phonemic inventory
2.1	 Oral vowels
Tracadie French has 12 oral vowels plus schwa. There are three high vowels /i, y,
u/, seven mid vowels /e, ɛ, ɛː, ø, œ, o, ɔ/, and two low vowels /a, ɑ/.
2.1.1	 High vowels
Each of the high vowels has two main allophones: tense vowels [i, y, u] occur in
open syllables; lax vowels [ɪ, ʏ, ʊ] are found in syllables closed by most conso-
nants. Examples of words with the lax allophones are ville [vɪl], huit [ɥɪt], plume
[plʏm], pitoun [pitʊn]. Exceptions to the laxing process are syllables closed by the
lengthening consonants [v, z, ʒ, ʀ]; in this context the vowel is tense and gener-
ally long: lire [liːʀ], douze [duːz], court [kuːʀ], juge [ʒyːʒ].
Two interesting processes occur in spontaneous speech style. First, high vow-
els are sometimes devoiced when they occur between voiceless consonants: pi-
toun [pi̥tʊn]. This process is common in Québec French but is not mentioned in
surveys of Acadian French. Second, high vowels tend to be lengthened in English
borrowings: jeep [ʤiːp]. Note that information about Québec French used in the
comparisons given in this overview is based on research such as Morin (2002),
Walker (1984), and the chapters by Côté, Tennant and Walker in this volume.
2.1.2	 Mid vowels
The minimal pairs associated with seven mid vowels have the following
realizations:
		 /e/–/ɛ/: épée [epe] – épais [epɛ], piquer [pike] – piquet [pikɛ]
		 /ɛ/–/ɛː/: mettre [mɛtʀ] – maître [mɛːtʀ], faites [fɛt] – fête [fɛːt]
		 /ø/–/œ/: jeûne [ʒøːn] – jeune [ʒœn]
		 /o/–/ɔ/: paume [poːm] – pomme [pɔm], beauté [boːte] – botté [bɔte]
There is a noticeable variation in the quality of /ɛ/ and /ɛː/ which are sometimes
more central than the cardinal vowel [ɛ].
In spontaneous speech style, the seven mid vowels have a number of dif-
ferent realizations. Some mid vowels show diphthongization: /ɛː/ bête [bɛjt],
même [mɛjm], and /œ/ chaleur [ʃalœɥʀ], In closed unstressed syllables, /e, ɛ/ are
	 An overview of the phonetics and phonology of Acadian French	 217
loweredbefore/R/:certain[saʀtɛ̃],différent[dɪfaʀɑ̃]andpermission[paʀmɪsjɑ̃].This
lowering process can also occur in closed final syllables before /R/: l’hiver [livæʀ],
une réserve [ʀezaʀv] d’Esquimaux. Both of these processes are also found in
Québec French.
Tracadie French has two other processes involving mid vowels. In word-final
syllables, mid-low vowels can be raised to mid-high before /R/: misère [mizeːʀ],
dix heures là [dizøːʀlɑ], il est mort [jemoːʀ]. In the case of /ɛ/ raising, the word
class that participates in this process is different from the class that participates in
the lowering of /e, ɛ/ before /R/. Finally, mid back vowels can be raised to a high
back vowel in a well-defined word class, a process known as “ouisme”: comme
[kum, kʊm], gros [ɡʀu], ôter [ute]. Both processes are considered to be traditional
Acadian pronunciations; neither process is found in Québec French.
2.1.3	 Low vowels
The phonemic distinction between the low vowels /a/ and /ɑ/ is supported by
the realizations of minimal pairs such as patte–pâte, malle–mâle and male–mâle.
Speakers make this contrast by using the features of degree of frontness (/ɑ/ is
less fronted) and vowel length (/ɑ/ is longer). While vowel quality varies, speak-
ers consistently use both degree of frontness and vowel length to distinguish be-
tween these phonemes. Pronunciations fall into one of two patterns: either patte
[pæt] – pâte [paːt] and mal, malle [mæl] – mâle [maːl], or patte [pat] – pâte [pɑːt]
and mal, malle [mal] – mâle [mɑːl].
/a/ is realized as [æ, a], as in tabernacle [tabɛʀnæk]. In open syllables in word-
final position, /a/ often has the low back allophone [ɑ]; compare éclater [eklate]
and éclat [eklɑ]. The phoneme /ɑ/ is realized as [ɑ, ɒ] and can be diphthongized
in final closed syllables, as in Jacques [ʒɒːk, ʒawk].
The pronunciation of words with orthographic <oi> varies according to style,
environment and word class. In reading style, the <oi> in word-final syllables
tends to be realized as [wɑ] in open syllables (doigt, froid, toi) and in syllables
closed by /R/ (avoir, boire, noir). In non-final syllables (boisson, soirée) one finds
[wa]. In spontaneous style, speakers tend to pronounce the <oi> in word-final
syllables – both open (je crois, fois, toi, pourquoi, soit) and closed (avoir, soir,
voir) – as [we, wɛ] (cf. Chapter 11, Section 2.4.2). However, exceptions to this
pattern include a class of words (choix, le bois, mois) where final open syllables are
pronounced as [wɑ]. Against this backdrop of variability, some speakers say [wa]
in all contexts, as in français de référence or referential French (henceforth FR,
see Chapter 1). The possibility of a /wa/–/wɑ/ phonemic contrast (as suggested by
Côté, this volume) is open to further work. These complex patterns highlight the
importance of this feature as a sociolinguistic variable, a topic discussed at some
length by Flikeid (1984).
218	 Wladyslaw Cichocki
2.2	 Nasal vowels
Previous studies (Flikeid 1988; Lucci 1973; Ryan 1981) note that Acadian French
has three nasal vowel phonemes /ɛ̃, ɑ̃, ɔ̃/. However, like FR and Québec French,
Tracadie French has a fourth vowel, a mid front rounded /œ̃/. It is found in the
minimal pair brun–brin. Like Québec French, Tracadie French also has some
diphthongization in word-final closed syllables.
/ɛ̃/ is realized as [ɛ̃] or as a higher mid [ẽ]. In non-final positions we find in-
tact [ẽtak] and infect [ẽfɛk], and in final position: médecin [metsɛ̃], brin [bʀɛ̃]. In
word-final closed syllables, there is often a slight diphthongization: quinze [kɛ̃j̃z],
épingle [epɛ̃j̃ɡlə].
The /œ̃/ phoneme is pronounced [œ̃] in un [œ̃], brun [bʀœ̃]. The phoneme
may show some diphthongization as in emprunte [ãpʀœ̃ɥ̃t] and even [ãpʀɛ̃j̃t].
In most environments /ɑ̃/ is realized as [ɑ̃] or [ã]: quarante [kaʀãt], cent [sã]
and rendu, [ʀãdy]. The low fronted vowel [æ̃] and a diphthong can occur in word-
final closed syllables: lente [læ̃t], blanche [blæ̃w̃ʃ].
/ɔ̃/ has a number of posterior realizations: a higher mid [õ] and a more open
[ɔ̃] in explosion, maison, crayon. Diphthongization occurs in words such as honte
[hɑ̃w̃t].
In spontaneous speech there is a strong tendency for /ɑ̃/ and /ɔ̃/ to neutralize
in open syllables. Thus, while minimal pairs such as blanc–blond are clearly differ-
entiated in reading style, this is not the case in informal style. Often the /ɔ̃/ vowel
is lowered – longtemps [lɑ̃tɑ̃], construction [kɑ̃stʀyksjɑ̃], mon dieu [mɑ̃ʤø] – and
sometimes it is lowered and fronted to [ã] – as in jambon [ʒãbã] – or diphthong­
ized – as in non [nãw̃, nɑ̃w̃]. Flikeid (1984, 1985) observes similar lowering and
fronting of /ɔ̃/, and suggests that this variation is geographically based and related
to the original settlement patterns in the region around Tracadie.
2.3	 Vowel fusion
In spontaneous speech, a sequence of two vowels may be reduced to one vowel.
The process appears to retain the more open vowel, which is often the second of
the two vowels. Both oral and nasal vowels are involved in this process. Examples
are: un garçon qui était [ketɛ], j’ai asteur (= à cette heure) [ʒastøə], ç’a été tough
[satetɔf], tomber enceinte [tɑ̃bɑ̃sɛ̃j̃t], ben on était à Saumarez [bɔnetasɔmaʀɛjz].
The process operates after the optional deletion of certain consonants. Note
the deletion of /l/ in garder la maison [ɡaʀdamezɑ̃] and of /z/ in dans un an
[dɛ̃nɑ̃].
	 An overview of the phonetics and phonology of Acadian French	 219
2.4	 Glides
Tracadie French has three glides [j, ɥ, w] whose phonemic status is not clear.
Lucci (1973: 34–40) argues that minimal pairs such as pays /pei/ – paye /pej/ that
occur in FR are not found in Acadian French. This leads to the analysis that [j]
is a positional variant of the high front vowel /i/ when /i/ occurs before a vowel.
Similarly, Lucci analyzes [ɥ] as an allophone of /y/, when /y/ occurs before a front
vowel, and [w] as an allophone of /u/, when /u/ occurs before a front vowel. The
Tracadie French data show that contrasts such as miette–muette–mouette (see be-
low) confirm distinctions among the three glides, but the data reveal no minimal
pairs that might contribute to the discussion about their phonological status with
respect to the high vowels.
In reading style, the three high vowels /i, y, u/ are realized as glides [j, ɥ,
w] in contexts similar to those found in FR. In words where a single consonant
precedes the vowel, there are cases of syneresis, dieresis and, sometimes, dieresis
accompanied by a glide. For /i/ one observes: épier [ephje, epije], scier [sje, sie],
nier [nie, nije], liège [ljɛːʒ, lijɛːʒ], lierre [lijaːʀ]. Some words such as miette [mjɛt],
million [miljɔ̃] and nièce [njɛs] have syneresis only. What is remarkable is the high
frequency of dieresis in [i]. Both /y/ and /u/ also display a tendency for dieresis:
duel [ʤyɛl, dyɛl, dyɥɛl], muette [myɛt, myɥɛt], mouette [mwɛt, muwɛt]. The con-
text where /y/ is followed by /i/ has the [ɥ] glide, as in FR: cuisine [kɥizɪn], tuile
[tɥɪl, ʧɥɪl]. After obstruent-liquid clusters, the high vowel retains its full vocalic
character and is followed by a transitional glide: quatrième [katʀijɛm], prendriez
[pʀɑ̃dʀije], prendrions [pʀɑ̃dʀijɔ̃], trouer [tʀuwe].
In informal style, several patterns suggest that /j/ is a phoneme rather than
an allophone of /i/. There are noticeably fewer cases of dieresis than in reading
style. The pronoun yelle (= emphatic elle) is pronounced [jɛl] but not [iɛl], and
the third-person-plural imperfect verb ending ‑iont – as in ils étiont (= ils étaient)
[jetjɑ̃] – is pronounced [jɑ̃] but not [iɑ̃]. The [j] glide can be inserted between two
vowels: on était quatre [ɔ̃jetɛkæt]. On the other hand, there are cases where /i/
becomes a glide across word boundaries: si on aurait [sjɑ̃nɑʀɛ] marché. The issue
of the phonemic status of the three glides is open to further work.
2.5	 Consonants
The inventory of consonant phonemes – as listed in Table 2 – has approximately
21 elements. Many of these phonemes appear in all contexts – word-initial, word-
medial and word-final.
220	 Wladyslaw Cichocki
2.5.1	 Some general observations about stops
In syllable-initial positions /p, t. k/ are generally unaspirated. In word-final posi-
tion /t/ is often realized as a glottal stop or as a glottalized dental stop, as in nous-
autres [nuzoːʔ, nuzo:ʔt].
2.5.2	 Assibilation and affrication
Assibilation is the realization of the dental stops /t, d/ as alveolar affricates [ʦ,
ʣ] in the context before high front vowels [i, y], and front glides [j, ɥ]; for ex-
ample, petit [pʦi], du [ʣy]. This phenomenon is a well-known feature of Qué-
bec French, although it has not been generally associated with Acadian French.
Only two studies observe this feature in Acadian communities, one on Prince Ed-
ward Island (King & Ryan 1989) and the other in northwestern New Brunswick
(McKillop & Cichocki 1989). Indeed, Morgan (1978) suggests that assibilation is
a major isogloss that separates Acadian from Québec varieties.
In Tracadie French, we observe assibilation in both reading and spontaneous
speech styles; it appears to be more frequent among younger speakers than older
speakers. In addition to the alveolar affricates [ʦ, ʣ], /t, d/ are also realized as the
alveopalatal affricates [ʧ, ʤ]; this affrication of /t, d/ occurs mainly before [y, ɥ].
As well, /t/ occurs sometimes as an aspirated stop. Thus, /t, d/ have several allo-
phones in the assibilation environment: /t/ is realized as [t, ʦ, ʧ, th] and /d/ as [d,
ʣ, ʤ]. Both assibilation and affrication appear to be more frequent with /t/ than
/d/. Here is a sample of the variation observed in the reading text.
	 /t/: 	 d’identité [ʣidɑ̃ʦite, didɑ̃thite, didɑ̃ti̬te],
		 soutien [suʦjɛ̃, suʧɛ̃, suthjɛ̃],
		 tube [ʦʏb, ʧʏb, tʏb, thʏb],
		 tuile [ʧɥɪl, tɥɪl, thɥɪl],
	/d/: 	 dire [ʣiə, diʀ],
		 diète [ʣiɛʔt, diɛt],
		 rendu [ʀɑ̃ʤy, ʀɑ̃dy],
		 duel [ʤyɛl, dyɛl]
Table 2.  Inventory of consonants in Tracadie French
Bilabial Labio-
dental
Dental Alveolar Alveo-
palatal
Palatal Velar Uvular Glottal
stops p / b t / d k / ɡ
fricatives f / v s / z ʃ / ʒ h
affricates ʧ / ʤ
nasals m n ɲ ŋ
lateral l
rhotic ʀ
	 An overview of the phonetics and phonology of Acadian French	 221
Assibilation can occur across word boundaries. In the case of pas d’idées and
d’identité, where there is a weak word boundary, we find both [d] and [ʣ]. No
assibilation occurs across the stronger word boundary in voûte immense.
2.5.3	 On the status of [ʧ, ʤ]
All varieties of Acadian French have the alveopalatal affricates [ʧ, ʤ], which are
generally considered to index traditional pronunciations (Flikeid 1984). In Tra-
cadie French, these affricates occur only in spontaneous speech style. Further-
more, they occur in specific lexical items. Some of the words and pronunciations
observed are: tiendre (= tenir) les œufs [ʧɛ̃lezø], diable [ʤɒb], mon dieu [mɑ̃ʤø],
quelque chose [ʧɛʧoːz, kɛʧoːz], calcule [kalʧʏl], taquet [taʧɛ].
The phonological status of these affricates has been the subject of some de-
bate. A widely held analysis (Lucci 1973; Ryan 1981) is that these affricates are
allophones that have two sources: /t, d/ and /k, ɡ/. In the case where /t, d/ are the
underlying consonants, the affricates correspond to the sequences [tj, dj] in FR, as
in tiède [ʧɛd], tiens [ʧɛ̃], dieu [ʤø], diable [ʤɒb] (cf. Chapter 11, Section 4.2.1.1).
It is noteworthy that there is overlap here with the context for assibilation – for
example tiède [ʦjɛd]. The second source of these affricates is the phonemes /k, ɡ/
when these stops occur before non-low front vowels and semivowels, as in cœur
[ʧøːʀ], cul [ʧy], guerre [ʤɒːʀ] (cf. Chapter 11, Section 4.2.1.1). The analysis is a
process of affrication that operates in both contexts to generate the forms with
alveopalatal affricates. There is some support for this analysis in the fact that
speakers of Tracadie French alternate between the standard and traditional pro-
nunciations. Because they do so freely depending on style, it is likely the case that
the speakers are aware of /t, d/ and /k, ɡ/ as the underlying consonants.
A separate consideration in establishing the status of these affricates is that
they occur in a large number of English borrowings. In spontaneous speech style,
we find the following: mon chum [ʧɔm], watcher [waʧe], checker [ʧɛke], le jeep
[ʤiːp], une job [ʤɔb]. Because these borrowings are used widely in Tracadie, it is
reasonable to propose that these affricate consonants are phonemes.
2.5.4	 Deletion of /v/
In a small number of cases in spontaneous speech, /v/ is deleted before the <oi>
sequence. Examples include avoir [awæːʀ], envoie [ãwɛj], savoir [sawæːʀ]. Aca-
dian speakers consider this to be a traditional phonetic feature (Flikeid 1984).
2.5.5	 Aspirate /h/
The phonemic status of /h/ is justified by pairs such as haut [ɦo] – eau [o] and
haut [ɦo] – faut [fo]. In both reading and spontaneous styles, this phoneme is
often pronounced as either a voiceless or a voiced fricative [h, ɦ]. These aspirated
222	 Wladyslaw Cichocki
allophones appear frequently in word-initial position – honte [ɦɔ̃t, hɑ̃t], hasard
[ɦæzɒə]. In intervocalic position, in addition to the glottal fricative one also ob-
serves a glottal stop or no indication of the fricative – dehors [dahoə, daoə, doːʀ,
daʔoə]. /h/ does not appear in word-final position. As in FR, this phoneme can
have a zero phonetic realization, and it blocks liaison and schwa deletion in the
preceding determiner.
This fricative is pronounced in some English borrowings – un hobby [ɛ̃hɔbɪ] –
but not in others – les backhoe [lebæːko].
2.5.6	 /ɲ/ and /ŋ/
The /ɲ/ phoneme has two main allophones [ɲ, ŋ]. There is a tendency for the
palatal nasal to appear in syllable-initial position and for the velar nasal to be in
syllable-final position, but this pattern is not consistent. We observe agneau [aɲo,
æŋo], compagne [kɔ̃paɲə], baignoire [bɛ̃ɲwɛə, bɛ̃ŋwɛə], champagne [ʃãpaɲə].
The velar nasal is retained in English borrowings, where it appears in word-
final position: la gang [ɡæ̃ŋ], le jogging [ʤɔɡɪ̃ŋ]. The palatal nasal does not appear
in these forms, which suggests giving a phonemic status to /ŋ/ for these cases.
Thus, the velar nasal stop is an allophone of both phonemes.
2.5.7	 The rhotic
The /R/ phoneme has numerous allophones: a dorso-uvular fricative or trill [ʀ],
an apico-alveolar tap or trill [r], a vocalized variant that is similar to schwa [ə],
and a zero realization in contexts where there is deletion. There is also a small
number of occurrences of the alveolar approximant [ɹ]. Note that we use the sym-
bol R in those instances in which the word “rhotic” (in a general sense) could be
used. The symbol ʀ is used when we are referring specifically to the dorso-uvular
fricative or trill, or in the transcription of words or consonant sequences in which
any of the rhotic variants might occur.
Flikeid’s (1982, 1984) sociophonetic study of /R/ in Tracadie found consider-
able variation between apical [r] and dorsal [ʀ] allophones. At the time of her
study (in the mid 1970s), older speakers used the alveolar variant almost exclu-
sively, and younger speakers had both [r] and [ʀ] variants. Speakers who had not
shifted completely to the dorsal variant had the following complementary distri-
bution: the dorsal [ʀ] occurred in syllable-final position and alveolar [r] occurred
elsewhere. These data lead Flikeid to propose that a change was ongoing and that
it had started in syllable-final position.
The impression from our PFC survey is that a large number of occurrences of
/R/ are dorsal [ʀ] and that only a small number of occurrences are apical [r]. In-
deed, [ʀ] occurs in all contexts. Furthermore, the apical variant seems to be more
frequent among older speakers than younger speakers. When combined with the
	 An overview of the phonetics and phonology of Acadian French	 223
results of Flikeid’s apparent-time study, this suggests that the putative change in
progress has continued from [r] toward greater usage of [ʀ]. A quantitative study
is necessary to confirm the progression of the change across age groups, across
phonetic environments and across the lexicon.
The apical [r] variant is observed in both reading and spontaneous styles.
It is found predominantly in syllable-initial environments – as in rhinocéros
[rinɔserɔs], quarante [karɑ̃t], brun [brœ̃] – and, in a few cases, in syllable-final
position, as in reliure [rəliyr].
A vocalized schwa-like realization occurs in word-final position for most
speakers. Examples are: préfecture [pʀefɛkʧyə], port [poə], boulevard [bulvɒə].
This is a case of /R/ weakening; this realization is clearly not a voiceless apical or
uvular variant as in part [par̥, paʀ̥]. Further acoustic and articulatory analyses are
needed to provide a more precise description of this allophone.
The alveolar approximant [ɹ] occurs in only a few cases in spontaneous speech
after mid front vowels: asteur [astøːɹ]. It does occur frequently in English borrow-
ings (see Section 5 below).
Two processes involve the deletion of /R/ in word-final position. One is lim-
ited to a small set of lexical items that end in [ø] or [o]: pêcheur [pɛʃøː], pécheur
[peʃøː], bord [boː]. The other process is the simplification of obstruent-liquid
consonant clusters such as /bʀ/ libre [lɪb], /tʀ/ ministre [minɪs], notre [nɔt]. Both
processes occur in reading and spontaneous speech styles. Word-initial deletion
of /R/ is specific to certain lexical items – such as rien que [jɛ̃k, ɛ̃k] – and it occurs
in spontaneous speech.
/R/ also participates in metathesis with schwa. Examples are: entre nos
deux [ɑ̃təʀnodø], revenir [əʀvəniʀ]. /l/ has a similar process: un couple de fois
[kupəldəfwɛ]. Metathesis occurs in spontaneous speech. A related although not
very frequent process is the insertion of schwa in consonant-liquid clusters, as in
quatrième [katəʀjɛm].
2.5.8	 Retention of certain word-final consonants
In spontaneous speech style, speakers retain certain word-final consonants. This
is the case with /t/. We observe: boute (= bout) [bʊt], frette (= froid) [fʀɛt], icitte
(= ici) [isɪt], juillet [ʒɥijɛt]. The past participle of faire is [fɛt] as in j’ai fait [fɛt] mes
cours. The case of tout is more complex. In the pronoun and quantifier, we gener-
ally find [tʊt]: tout [tʊt] quoi c’que j’fais, rien en toute (= rien du tout) [tʊt], j’ai tous
[tʊt] fait mes cours. The underlying form is likely /tut/. However, note that [tu]
occurs in the following expressions, which appear to be lexicalized: tout de suite
[tusɥɪt], toutes sortes [tusɔʀt] d’affaires, tout le monde [tulmõd].
Word-final /s/ is retained in the adverb plus if the following word begins with
a consonant or a vowel: plus [plʏs] jeune, plus [plʏs] exigeant, plus [plʏs] comme
224	 Wladyslaw Cichocki
off là, j’ai plus [plʏs] aimé ça. The pronunciation of negations is different and does
not retain /s/: j’en ai plus [py], t’as plus [py] le droit. These facts suggest two differ-
ent underlying forms: /plys/ plus (adverb) and /py/ plus (negation).
3.	 Schwa
The general pattern of schwa occurrence is similar to FR. This is the case in read-
ing style where the contexts that favor and that disfavor schwa are the same in
both varieties. However, schwa has a noticeably small frequency of occurrence in
spontaneous speech in Tracadie French. Schwa is realized as a central vowel with
a pronunciation in the general area of [œ, ø]. Because the occurrence of this vowel
is sensitive to prosodic phrasing, we indicate a major Intonation Phrase boundary
by “‖” and a minor Intonation Phrase boundary by “|”.
3.1	 Contexts that favor the occurrence of schwa in the reading corpus
Schwa shows a strong tendency to be present in four of the contexts identified in
the PFC protocol: utterance-initial position, initial position of polysyllabic words,
monosyllabic words, and sequences of words with schwa.
Schwa always occurs in utterance-initial (or sentence-initial) position. In this
position, the schwa is generally found in the initial position of major IPs. Ex-
amples are: ‖Le village de and ‖De plus.
The initial syllable of polysyllabic words also favors the retention of schwa.
The position of the word with respect to the prosodic boundary does not seem
to be a determining factor. Schwa may occur in the first, second or third syllable
that follows a major or minor phonological phrase boundary. Compare: baisser
|depuis, ‖ses chemises and |est en revanche.
Schwa is almost always present in monosyllabic words such as ce, de, que, ne,
and le. The one context where schwa never occurs is in the expression qu’est-ce que
pronounced [kɛskœ]. In a few cases there is a tendency to delete schwa in le as in
dans l’coin and il a l’sentiment, and in de as in pas d’la, décidé d’faire. The deletion
of schwa may be followed by a devoicing assimilation in cases where one of two
adjacent consonants is voiceless, for example, the sequence /df/ in décidé d’faire
[desidetfɛːʀ].
Finally, sequences of schwa always entail realization. In both sequences of
words in the reading text – sentiment de se trouver, plutôt que de se trouver – all
schwas are pronounced. We note that these cases involve monosyllabic words, a
context that favors the retention of schwa.
	 An overview of the phonetics and phonology of Acadian French	 225
3.2	 Contexts that disfavor the occurrence of schwa in the reading corpus
There are two contexts where schwa occurs rarely or never: word-final position
before vowels and consonants, and sentence-final position before a pause.
Words that end in one consonant such as italiennes and profondes never have
their final schwas realized. In words that end in consonant clusters followed by
schwa, there is a reduction of the consonant cluster and a deletion of the schwa;
for example, Ministre is pronounced [minɪs] or [minɪst].
Schwa never marks the feminine in word-final postvocalic position; that is,
it is never pronounced at the end of words such as année or inconnue. Similarly,
schwa is not pronounced in word-final postconsonantal positions that are fol-
lowed by a word-initial vowel; usually, an enchaînement occurs as in faire étape
[fɛʀetap].
3.3	 Occurrences of schwa in spontaneous speech
While there are generally fewer occurrences of schwa in spontaneous speech than
in the reading corpus, four contexts favor its pronunciation.
Schwa tends to occur often in utterance-initial position. We observe ‖petites
moyennes entreprises, ‖que t’envoies ça and ‖Le pré. In a few cases, schwa is deleted
as in ‖j’vas êt’ certain.
Schwas are usually retained in cases where the three consonant rule is in ef-
fect (see Chapter 1): à part de ça, job de nèg’ là (= job de nègre là), en cause de zeux
(= à cause d’eux). This retention also occurs where the preceding word has had a
consonant cluster reduction: c’est jus’ que tu travailles. In other contexts, however,
schwas in monosyllabic words such as ce, de, que, ne, and le tend to be deleted.
Examples are: quoi d’différent, des gars d’même, tout l’temps, quand c’qu’on avait.
In sequences of schwa, the second schwa tends to be retained. Examples are:
‖comm’ j’te dirais, où c’que j’suis. In some cases, however, sequences of schwas are
deleted: ça peut t’met’ d’la vie dans l’corps.
Words with consonant cluster reduction in word-final position do not retain
schwa: trop diab’‖, c’est jus’‖. However, phrase-final schwas are retained in mono-
syllabic words: peut-êt’ de‖, ça fait que‖.
Two processes distinguish Tracadie French from FR in spontaneous style.
One is the deletion of the schwa that follows consonant cluster reduction in ob-
struent-liquid groups, which is systematic in Tracadie French. This process is
also found in informal Québec French. The other process is the loss of schwa in
monosyllabic words, which occurs with high frequency in spontaneous speech in
Tracadie French.
226	 Wladyslaw Cichocki
4.	 Liaison
4.1	 Liaison in the reading corpus
Liaison patterns are similar to those in FR. There is a significant contrast in the
realization of liaison in reading and spontaneous speech styles. Our discussion
distinguishes between obligatory and optional contexts of liaison.
In the reading passage, speakers realized liaisons in almost all of the contexts
that are traditionally considered as obligatory or system categorical. Only the ex-
pression Jeux olympiques is not realized with a liaison but with a pause between
the noun and adjective. In the other obligatory contexts, we observe a liaison with
enchaînement. The obligatory contexts and the relevant liaison consonants are:
–	 determiner plus noun
	 son [n] usine, un [n] arbre, les [z] élections
–	 monosyllabic prepositions plus XP
	 dans [z] un, en [n] effet
–	 subject pronoun plus verb
	 on [n] est, on [n] en [n] a, nous [z] avons, tout [t] est
–	 adjective plus noun
	 quelques [z] articles, grand [t] honneur, grand [n] émoi
Note that in grand émoi there is liaison with enchaînement but the liaison conso-
nant is [n] and not [t].
The striking observation about the diagnostic reading passage is that there are
almost no cases of liaison in optional or system variable contexts. The one excep-
tion is after the verb être in est [t] en; however, there is no liaison in the case of s’est
‖ en. Similarly, no liaison occurs with avoir as in ont ‖ eu.
The other optional contexts in the diagnostic passage are realized with a pause
or a glottal stop. These are:
–	 plural N plus XP
	 circuits ‖ habituelles, pâtes ‖ italiennes, visites ‖ officielles
–	 verb plus XP
	 provoquer ‖ une , préparent ‖ une, se trouver ‖ au
–	 adverb
	 toujours ‖ autant, vraiment ‖ en
	 An overview of the phonetics and phonology of Acadian French	 227
4.2	 Liaison in spontaneous speech style
Spontaneous speech shows the same difference between obligatory and optional
contexts. However, obligatory liaison consonants are realized considerably less
frequently in spontaneous speech than in the reading style. In optional contexts,
liaison almost never occurs.
The most notable cases of absence of liaison in obligatory contexts are with
subject pronouns:
–	 ils before vowel-initial verbs is often pronounced as a vowel or a glide, as in
ils ont [ijɔ̃, jɔ̃̃]. In verb forms in the third-person-plural, the traditional suf-
fix ‑ont generally occurs with the prefix /i-/ as in i appellont (= ils appellent)
[japlɑ̃]; one does not observe [izaplɑ̃]. It would appear that the underlying
representation of the prefix is /i-/ and not /ilz/, and this suggests that this is
not a context for liaison.
–	 on often occurs with no liaison, as in on était quatre [ɔ̃jetɛkæt], quand on était
jeunes [kɔ̃jtɛʒœn]; occasionally the on is deleted.
–	 in certain monosyllabic prepositions such as dans, liaison tends not to occur:
dans un an [dɛ̃nɑ̃].
Several insertions are also observed in the speech of older speakers: ça leur [z]
aidait à vivre, il commence à être [n] âgé.
There is variation in the pronunciation of the final consonants of certain nu-
merals. Some speakers make a gender distinction in the case of deux and trois:
[dø, tʀwa] are masculine and [døs, tʀwas] are feminine. For example, the refer-
ent sœurs in the following is feminine: y en a encore deux [s] là, ces trois [s] là.
However, we also observe the following where the referent is feminine: deux [z]
enfants. In the case of huit the liaison consonant is [z]: dix-huit [z] enfants.
Finally, individual words can show different patterns. The adverb bien is usu-
ally pronounced [bɛ̃] but it sometimes displays liaison: ç’a vraiment bien [bɛn] été,
ç’a bien [bɛ̃] été. The conjunction mais is pronounced [mɛ] with no liaison.
In general, three liaison consonants are attested: [z, n, t]; we do not observe
/ʀ, p, ɡ/ as liaison consonants. Liaison occurs in most of the so-called obligatory
or system categorical contexts, and the non-occurrence of liaison in these con-
texts is associated with spontaneous speech style. Optional liaison occurs in very
few cases regardless of speech style.
228	 Wladyslaw Cichocki
5.	 Related topics
5.1	 Influences from English
Given the many years of contact between French and English in the Atlantic re-
gion, the presence of English borrowings in Acadian French is not unexpected.
In a linguistic atlas survey of technical fishing vocabulary of Acadian French,
Péronnet et al. (1998) found that almost 25% of the 3,000 entries in the atlas are
borrowings from English. However, in spontaneous speech style the proportion
of borrowings is considerably smaller. Flikeid’s (1989) survey of five Acadian
communities in Nova Scotia, including localities surveyed in the linguistic atlas
survey, shows community borrowing rates of between 2% and 8%. Furthermore,
these rates vary not only by community but also with respect to style (in-group
vs. out-group context), speaker’s gender and speaker’s age. No studies of English
borrowings in spontaneous speech exist (to my knowledge) for speech in north-
eastern New Brunswick.
English borrowings are often well integrated into the phonetic patterns of
Acadian French. Péronnet’s (1989) study of older Acadian speakers from south-
eastern New Brunswick observes that borrowings tend to be mostly interjections
and conjunctions – such as well, alright, anyway, but – and these forms have a high
level of phonetic integration into French. However, using data from the linguistic
atlas survey mentioned above, Cichocki (2008) finds that phonetic integration of
the English retroflex [ɹ] – that is, replacement of the retroflex pronunciation by
either the apical or dorsal realizations [r, ʀ] – is related to the local proportion of
French speakers. Localities with higher proportions of francophones have higher
rates of phonetic integration than localities with lower proportions of franco-
phones. Localities in northeastern New Brunswick, where proportions of franco-
phones are generally over 95%, showed some of the highest rates of integration of
this consonant (over 75% of English-origin words).
In the spontaneous speech recorded in Tracadie, borrowings display fairly
regular morphological integration into French. Most borrowings observed are
nouns and verbs; the number of borrowed adjectives and interjections is relatively
small. All nouns receive a gender, and verbs generally take French morphology,
especially verb endings. In our discussion of the inventory of vowels and conso-
nants we mentioned the retention of English sounds in the case of the phonemes
/ʧ, ʤ, h, ŋ/. The following is an overview of some of the phonetic processes that
are involved in the phonetic integration of English borrowings.
The replacement of the approximant [ɹ] by [r, ʀ] is variable. We note no re-
placement in au parking [opaːɹkɪːŋ], je sais pas quoi c’qu’i y avait de wrong [dəɹɑ̃ːŋ],
but find it in le trip [lətʀ̥ɪp] and j’ai tout l’temps tripé [tʀ̥ɪpe] là-dessus. The other
	 An overview of the phonetics and phonology of Acadian French	 229
examples in this section attest to the variable nature of the rhotic replacement
process.
The stressed central vowel [ə], sometimes transcribed as [ʌ], becomes a lower
mid back vowel [ɔ] as in c’était l’fun [stɛlfɔn], un chum [œ̃ʧɔm], c’est une bad luck
[stʏnbæːdlɔk] pareil, ç’aurait busté (buster = ‘to bust, break’) [bɔste] les moteurs.
Similarly, the low back [ɑ] vowel may become [ɔ]: une job [ʏnʤɔb]. However, we
find a variable pronunciation for the word boss as [bɔs, bɒːs].
English diphthongs may become tense monophthongs that are often long.
For example, [ɔw] becomes [oː] in c’était tout l’temps en jokes [ɑ̃ʤoːk], Tilley Road
[tiliroːd]. The diphthong [ɛj] becomes [e] in un break là [œ̃bɹeːklɒ], la gate [laɡeːt],
un steak de noce [œ̃stekdənɔs]. However, some features of English phonetic pat-
terns remain. The /aj/ diphthong is pronounced [aj] in une drive [ʏndrajv]. Curi-
ously, although raising of /aj/ to [əj] before voiceless consonants is widespread in
Canadian English (this rule is known as Canadian raising), it does not occur in
words such as une pipe [ʏnpajp], Pizza Delight [dlajʔt].
Final consonant clusters are simplified. Note the loss of the final consonant
in the sequences /vz/ in des drives (de bois) [dedrajv] and /ts/ in pousse let’s go
[lɛzɡoː].
A feature found in polysyllabic words is the presence of a stress on the first
syllable that accompanies a word-final stress. The first stress is realized with a
lengthening and/or a pitch tone, and it is often the secondary stress. The second
stress is also realized with lengthening and pitch, and it is generally the primary
stress. This sequence of stresses sometimes gives the impression of a stress clash.
The pattern is especially noticeable in place names: à Bathurst [aˌbæːˈtœɹs], à
Campbellton [aˌkæːmɪlˈtɔn]; and in verbs: on a flyé [ɔ̃̃naˌflaːˈje] au fond à l’hôpital,
j’ai feelé mal [ʒeˌfiːleˈmæl], le coq nous chasait (chaser = ‘to chase’) [ˌʧeːˈsɛ].
Another process that occurs with English borrowings is vowel fusion. The
adverb anyway, which is pronounced [æniwɛ] in citation form, can show fusion
of both initial and final vowels: mais anyway à trente ans [mɛniwatʀɑ̃tɑ̃].
5.2	 Future perspectives
5.2.1	 Prosody
In this chapter we have not described the prosody of Tracadie French. Speech
rhythm is a noticeable feature of all varieties of Acadian French. Certain vowels
have longer durations; these include nasal vowels, the higher mid vowels /e, ø, o/,
back /ɑ/ and certain occurrences of /i/ (Cichocki 1996; Lucci 1973). However, the
phonological implications of this rhythm issue are still not well understood.
230	 Wladyslaw Cichocki
Stress in Tracadie French is similar to the general pattern found in FR: it oc-
curs on the final syllable of a prosodic phrase and on the final syllable of words
spoken in isolation. However, Tracadie French has an optional lengthening of
penultimate syllables, as in chez nous là [ʃenuːlɑ], where both the penultimate
and final syllables are long. Furthermore, this optional lengthening is sometimes
accompanied by a steep rising-falling pitch on the two lengthened syllables. This
rise-fall melodic pattern also occurs on the final syllable of an Intonation Phrase:
‖c’était pas ouvert‖, ‖on pouvait pas sortir d’la maison‖. A similar pattern some-
times accompanies English borrowings (see above). The challenge of describing
rhythm and intonation is open to future work.
5.2.2	 Traditional phonetic features
Another direction for further research is the study of traditional phonetic features
in Acadian French. The conservation of these features and their stylistic variation
have been ongoing themes in Acadian studies (see Cichocki & Beaulieu 2011;
Falkert 2010; Flikeid 1984 among others). On the one hand, traditional variants
have a strong presence in informal conversational speech; on the other, only cer-
tain traditional variants occur in formal styles. The relevant information that is
needed is the linguistic and social conditioning of this stylistic variation.
Based on the preliminary survey described in this overview, traditional fea-
tures that occur in both formal and informal contexts are mid-vowel raising be-
fore /R/, aspirate /h/, and the <oi> word classes. Among the traditional features
that occur only in informal speech are: neutralization of the /ɔ̃/–/ɑ̃/ contrast,
“ouisme”, lowering of /ɛ/ before /R/, pronunciation of the traditional alveopalatal
affricates [ʧ, ʤ] in a defined class of words, deletion of /v/, and retention of cer-
tain word-final consonants. These observations need to be confirmed in a careful
quantitative study.
5.2.3	 Sound change
This survey reveals other sociophonetic studies that can be undertaken with the
PFC corpus of Tracadie French. An examination of age-grading in the corpus,
accompanied by real-time comparisons with Flikeid’s (1984) earlier study of Tra-
cadie French, will provide a basis for uncovering the social and linguistic trajec-
tories of some of the putative sound changes that are ongoing in this variety of
Acadian French. We note two changes in particular: a shift in the /R/ phoneme
to a dorsal pronunciation and an increase in the assibilation and affrication of
dental stops.
	 An overview of the phonetics and phonology of Acadian French	 231
6.	 Summary
The general observation from this overview is that the phonological system of
Tracadie French is similar to that of FR. Phonemic differences in the vowel system
are the /ɛ/–/ɛː/ and /a/–/ɑ/ contrasts, and the presence of the nasal vowel /œ̃/. The
consonant system has an /h/ phoneme, which is often realized phonetically as a
fricative, and several phonemes that have a basis in English borrowings /ʧ, ʤ, ŋ/.
The phonological status of the three semi-vowels in Tracadie French is not clear.
Schwa and liaison follow the main patterns of FR, although optional liaisons tend
not to be realized.
Tracadie French differs from FR in the way that vowel and consonant pho-
nemes are realized phonetically. Many of the vocalic differences between Tracadie
French and FR are features that Tracadie French shares with Québec French.
These features include: the laxing of high vowels, high vowel devoicing, lowering
of /ɛ/ before /R/, oral and nasal vowel diphthongization, pronunciation of the low
vowels along the front-back continuum, variation in the pronunciation of words
with orthographic <oi>, and vowel fusion. We note that for all of these features
there are between-variety differences with respect to word class, phonological
environment, frequency of occurrence, and acoustic realization. Those features
that are unique to Tracadie French are: /ɔ̃/–/ɑ̃/ neutralization, mid-vowel raising
before /R/, and “ouisme”. The latter three processes belong to the group of features
that are generally perceived to be traditional features of Acadian French.
Similarly, there are numerous consonantal differences between Tracadie
French and FR. Those that Tracadie French shares in general with Québec French
are: assibilation of /t, d/, aspirate /h/, velarization of /ɲ/, variation in /R/, metath-
esis with schwa, consonant cluster simplification, retention of word-final conso-
nants, and deletion of /v/. Those features that distinguish Tracadie French from
Québec French are: the affrication of /t, d/ and the glottalization of /t/, which are
recent features, and one traditional feature, the pronunciation of the alveopalatal
affricates [ʧ, ʤ] in a defined class of words.
This is a rich collection of features, and it reflects the unique history and
current realities of French speakers who live in a small municipality in eastern
Canada. Our overview has described numerous points of similarity with FR and
with Québec French. It has also pointed out several traditional variants that are
unique to Acadian French, a few recent variants, and a small number of English-
like pronunciations. We have been able to identify such a large number of features
because the PFC interview protocol elicits both formal and spontaneous speech
styles, allowing us to observe those features that occur in only one of the styles. It
is important to emphasize that a complete description of the sound system of this
232	 Wladyslaw Cichocki
variety of Acadian French – and, indeed, other varieties of Acadian French – will
necessarily need to take into account these stylistic differences.
Acknowledgments
This research was supported by grants from the Canada Foundation for Innova-
tion and the University of New Brunswick Research Fund. The author would like
to thank Mélissa Chiasson, Daniel Grant and Rachael Smith for their contribu-
tion to the development of the PFC-Tracadie database.
References
Basque, Maurice. 2010. Histoires de Tracadie-Sheila. Lévis, Québec: Éditions de la Franco-
phonie.
Cichocki, Wladyslaw. 1996. Observations préliminaires sur le rythme en français acadien. In
Les Acadiens et leur(s) langue(s): quand le français est minoritaire, eds. Annette Boudreau
and Lise Dubois, 63–75. Moncton, NB: Éditions d’Acadie.
Cichocki, Wladyslaw. 2006. Geographic variation in Acadian French /r/: What can corre-
spondence analysis contribute toward explanation? Literary and Linguistic Computing 21:
529–541.
Cichocki, Wladyslaw. 2008. Retroflex realizations of Acadian French /r/: A dialectological per-
spective. All the things you are: A Festschrift in honour of Jack Chambers, eds. Sarah Cum-
mins, Bridget Jankowski and Patricia Shaw. Special issue of Toronto Working Papers in
Linguistics 27: 17–30.
Cichocki, Wladyslaw, and Louise Beaulieu. 2011. Factors contributing to the retention of
traditional phonetic features in Acadian French. Languages in Contact 2010. Philologica
Wratislaviensia Acta et Studia 4: 37–46.
Falkert, Anika. 2010. Le français acadien des Îles-de-la-Madeleine: Étude de la variation phoné-
tique. Paris: L’Harmattan.
Faragher, John Mack. 2005. A great and noble scheme: The tragic story of the expulsion of the
French Acadians from their American homeland. New York: Norton.
Flikeid, Karin. 1982. Variantes du /r/ dans le parler acadien du nord-est du Nouveau-Bruns-
wick. Journal of the Atlantic Provinces Linguistic Association 4: 9–26.
Flikeid, Karin. 1984. La variation phonétique dans le parler acadien du nord-est du Nouveau-
Brunswick: Étude sociolinguistique. New York: Peter Lang.
Flikeid, Karin. 1985. L’opposition /ɔ̃/–/ɑ̃/ dans le parler de la péninsule acadienne. Journal of the
Atlantic Provinces Linguistic Association 6/7: 89–102.
Flikeid, Karin. 1988. Unity and diversity in Acadian phonology: An overview based on com-
parisons among the Nova Scotia varieties. Journal of the Atlantic Provinces Linguistic As-
sociation 10: 64–110.
	 An overview of the phonetics and phonology of Acadian French	 233
Flikeid, Karin. 1989. ‘Moitié anglais, moitié français’? Emprunts et alternance de langues dans
les communautés acadiennes de la Nouvelle-Écosse. Revue québécoise de linguistique
théorique et appliquée 8: 177–228.
Flikeid, Karin. 1994. Origines et évolution du français acadien à la lumière de la diversité
contemporaine. In Les origines du français québécois, eds. Raymond Mougeon and Édouard
Beniak, 275–326. Québec: Presses de l’Université Laval.
Ganong, William F. 1906. The history of Tracadie. Acadiensis VI: 185–200.
Geddes, James. 1908. Study of the Acadian-French dialect spoken on the north shore of the Baie-
des-Chaleurs. Berlin: Niemeyer.
Haines, Cedric L. 1979. The Acadian settlement of northeastern New Brunswick: 1755–1826.
M.A. thesis, University of New Brunswick.
Kerry, Debra, Roy Bourgeois, and Maurice Basque. 1984. Deux siècles de particularisme: Une
histoire de Tracadie. Shediac NB: Imprimerie Chedik.
King, Ruth, and Robert Ryan. 1989. La phonologie des parlers acadiens de l’Île-du-Prince-
Édouard. In Le français canadien parlé hors Québec, eds. Raymond Mougeon and Édouard
Beniak, 245–259. Québec: Presses de l’Université Laval.
Landry, Francis. 1985. Étude synchronique des voyelles nasales dans le parler de Pubnico-
Ouest. M.A. thesis, Université de Montréal.
Landry, Rodrigue, and Réal Allard. 1994. The Acadians of New Brunswick: Demolinguistic
realities and the vitality of the French language. International Journal of the Sociology of
Language 105/106: 181–215.
Lucci, Vincent. 1973. Phonologie de l’acadien (parler de la région de Moncton, N.B., Canada).
Paris: Didier.
Massignon, Geneviève. 1962. Les parlers français d’Acadie. 2 vols. Paris: Klincksieck.
McKillop, Anne, and Wladyslaw Cichocki. 1989. Affrication dans le parler «brayon» du Nou-
veau-Brunswick. In Actes du 15e Colloque international de linguistique fonctionnelle,
eds. Gisèle Ducos and Catherine Phlipponneau, 229–235. Moncton NB: Université de
Moncton.
Morgan, Raleigh. 1978. Les occlusives dans les parlers français de l’Amérique du Nord: Structu-
ration des aires dialectales. Revue de l’Université de Moncton 11: 81–106.
Morin, Yves-Charles. 2002. Les premiers immigrants et la prononciation du français au Qué-
bec. Revue québécoise de linguistique 31: 39–78.
Mueller, Klaus. 2007. Acadian French – Map. URL: commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:
Acadian_French.png
Péronnet, Louise. 1989. Analyse des emprunts dans un corpus acadien. Revue québécoise de
linguistique théorique et appliquée 8: 229–251.
Péronnet, Louise, Rose Mary Babitch, Wladyslaw Cichocki, and Patrice Brasseur. 1998. Atlas
linguistique du vocabulaire maritime acadien. Québec: Presses de l’Université Laval.
Phlipponneau, Catherine. 1991. La dynamique phonologique dans les usages acadiens contem-
porains. La linguistique 27: 131–136.
Ryan, Robert W. 1981. Une analyse phonologique d’un parler acadien de la Nouvelle-Écosse
(Région de la Baie Sainte-Marie). Québec: Centre International de Recherche sur le
Bilinguisme.
Statistics Canada website consulted 9 November 2010. http://www40.statcan.ca
Walker, Douglas. 1984. The Pronunciation of Canadian French. Ottawa: University of Ottawa
Press.
chapter 10
Laurentian French (Quebec)
Extra vowels, missing schwas
and surprising liaison consonants*
Marie-Hélène Côté
Université d’Ottawa
1.	 Presentation of the survey
This chapter exploits the PFC survey carried out in Trois-Rivières (Quebec, Can-
ada), as a representative sample of Laurentian French (see Chapter 1 for a general
presentation of the PFC project). Laurentian French is one of the two historical
varieties of French spoken in Canada, with Acadian French. It originated in 17th
century New France, along the St. Lawrence river, and subsequently spread to
other parts of present-day Quebec, more western Canadian provinces and New
England.
Laurentian French is more widely known as Canadian or Quebec French.
“Laurentian” appears more appropriate, for reasons that are worth mentioning
briefly here, given that most readers are likely to be unfamiliar with the term.
First, “Canadian French” is ambiguous insofar as there are two historically dis-
tinct French settlements and dialects in Canada: Acadian and Laurentian. Cana-
dian French is used to refer sometimes to varieties of French spoken in Canada,
without distinguishing between Acadian and Laurentian French, sometimes to
Laurentian French proper, in accordance with the historical usage of the word
Canada as designating the French colony established along the St. Lawrence.
Since the word Canada is no longer used in this sense, the need to find a term
that refers specifically to the non-Acadian variety has arisen. The term “Quebec
*	 I would like to thank Hugo Saint-Amant Lamy, Marie-Claude Séguin and Marie-Claude
Tremblay for their assistance with the recording, transcription and coding of the Trois-Rivières
data. Without them this chapter would not exist. Thanks also to Jacques Durand and the three
editors for their patience and helpful comments.
236	 Marie-Hélène Côté
French” has gained popularity with the rise of Quebec’s self-assertion as a distinct
society in the 1960’s, but its politico-geographical basis does not adequately re-
flect the historical and linguistic reality. Laurentian French is spoken outside of
Quebec, as witnessed by other PFC surveys presented in this volume (see chapters
by Tennant and Walker), and some eastern parts of the province were settled by
Acadians. The term “Laurentian” includes all and only those communities whose
historical roots go back to the St. Lawrence colony. Although the adjective has not
been widely adopted by linguists, it is a traditional one, frequently used in other
scholarly domains.
Today there are approximately 6.5 million native speakers of Laurentian
French; 90% of them live in Quebec. According to the 2006 Canadian census,
French is the first language of 80% of the population of Quebec, the only Ca-
nadian province whose population is predominantly French-speaking. French
speakers make up 33% of the total population of New Brunswick and no more
than 4% in the other Canadian provinces. The situation of French in Quebec is
therefore unique in North America, in terms of the number of speakers and its
social and legal status. It is the only official language of the province, which has
put in place a number of measures to protect and promote its use in all spheres
of society. Of particular concern is the integration of newcomers in the French-
speaking community, as English remains highly attractive in the Canadian and
North American context.
Trois-Rivières is a city located on the north shore of the St. Lawrence river,
at the confluence of the Saint-Maurice river and approximately halfway between
Montreal and Quebec City, the two main cities in Quebec. Founded in 1634, it
is the second oldest city in New France, after Quebec City. With its population
of almost 130,000 inhabitants, called Trifluviens, Trois-Rivières is the admin-
istrative, economic and cultural hub of the Mauricie region. The current limits
of Trois-Rivières result from the amalgamation in 2002 of the historical city of
Trois-Rivières and four adjacent towns; the speakers who participated in the PFC
survey come from the larger city. Ethnically and linguistically, the city is remark-
ably homogeneous, with (Laurentian) French being the mother tongue of 97%
of the population. Contact with English is largely limited to the school context,
where it is taught as a foreign language, and to the bilingual content of consumer
products and public signage. Beyond that, knowledge and usage of English is very
much a matter of individual choices and circumstances. In the 2006 census, 75%
of adult French-speaking Trifluviens declared being unable to conduct a conver-
sation in English.
The survey includes 12 participants (six women, six men), who fall into two
clear age groups: 21–24 for the younger speakers and 52–79 for the older ones.
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 237
The older group itself includes four speakers in the 73–79 range and two middle-
aged speakers of 52–53. Each age group and sub-group is divided equally be-
tween men and women. All speakers grew up in Trois-Rivières and at least one of
their parents was born in Trois-Rivières or in a neighboring village. The level of
education is on average relatively high, as all participants have at least two years
of post-secondary education (general or technical) and studied until the age of
20–23. Two are currently enrolled in master’s programs at the Université du Qué-
bec à Trois-Rivières (AD in literature, LC in philosophy). This survey is therefore
representative of relatively educated groups, while offering a wide range of speech
styles in terms of carefulness, attention to the perceived norm of “international
French” or implicit promotion of Laurentian features. Clearly, though, all speak-
ers sound distinctly “Laurentian”. Participants’ knowledge of English varies from
basic to very good, but none is really bilingual or uses English on a regular basis,
with the exception of JB, whose mother was a native speaker of English and who
holds a BA in translation.
Table 1 summarizes the speakers’ main individual characteristics at the time
of recording.
The recordings took place in August 2010 and were conducted by two inter-
viewers. One interviewer, a Trifluvien himself, recruited the participants within
his social network, the other interviewer had no connection with the community
but is also a native speaker of Laurentian French. The interviews were organized
so as to maximize the register difference between the guided and free conversa-
tions. Except for one participant, the guided conversation took place at the begin-
ning of the interview, when speakers are most likely to be aware of the recording
situation and adjust their speech accordingly. The remaining participant com-
pleted the reading tasks first, followed by the guided and free conversations, in
that order. The guided conversation was conducted by the interviewer who is an
outsider to the community. By contrast, the free conversation was intended to
be a spontaneous dialogue with the local interviewer, who already knew all the
participants, with the exception of CC. The conversations are coded for schwa
and liaison according to the PFC conventions: three minutes of each conversa-
tion for schwa and five minutes for liaison. In addition to the standard PFC com-
ponents – the two conversations, the wordlist and the text – participants were
Table 1.  Speakers in the PFC Trois-Rivières French corpus
Code CC BP WD HD CL JB LL AD LC JG MC SB
Gender F M M F F M M F F M M F
Birth 1931 1933 1934 1937 1957 1958 1986 1987 1987 1987 1987 1989
Age 79 77 76 73 53 52 24 23 23 23 23 21
238	 Marie-Hélène Côté
asked to read a fairly long list of 209 words or short sequences designed to test
a number of processes specific to Laurentian French; see Appendix. The discus-
sions in this chapter draw extensively on the complementary list and the entire
free conversations.
As the main historical variety of French spoken natively outside of France
(from the point of view of number of speakers), Laurentian French has been ex-
tensively described and analyzed, with respect to its historical origins, linguistic
structure, and sociolinguistic situation. The bulk of this work has naturally fo-
cused on Quebec, given the large concentration of Laurentian speakers in this
province, and I can only provide here a small sample of relevant references. See
Auger (2003, 2005), Conseil de la langue française (2008) and Poirier (2009) for
recent overviews of French in Quebec. The historical dimension of this variety is
developed in Juneau (1972), Mougeon & Béniak (1994), Caron-Leclerc (1998),
Morin (2002) and Gendron (2007), while Dulong & Bergeron (1980), Poirier
(1998) and the TLFQ project (2010) offer a lexicographic perspective. The sound
system of Quebec French is described in Gendron (1966), Léon (1969), Walker
(1984), Dumas (1987), Ostiguy & Tousignant (1993) and the PHONO website
(Paradis & Dolbec 1998). More specialized references will obviously be added as
they become relevant in the course of the discussion. One reference that deserves
a specific mention is Deshaies-Lafontaine (1974), a lengthy sociolinguistic inves-
tigation of the French spoken in Trois-Rivières.
The rest of this chapter examines the segmental inventory (Section 2), the
behavior of schwa (Section 3) and liaison (Section 4) in the Trois-Rivières PFC
survey. All display interesting specificities of Laurentian French, some previously
undocumented. Most of these features occur across the entire Laurentian domain,
as amply illustrated in Tennant’s and Walker’s chapters (this volume), which de-
scribe Laurentian varieties spoken at a considerable distance from Trois-Rivières.
Many features are also shared by Acadian French; see Cichocki (this volume, es-
pecially Section 6) for a more systematic comparison between Laurentian and
Acadian varieties.
While the presentation of the segmental inventory is often simply offered as
background for more specific investigations, it represents here an important focus
of my contribution. The inventory of Laurentian French is not generally consid-
ered controversial; one may consult Walker (1984) for a detailed presentation of
the standardly accepted set of phonemes. Yet I argue for an inventory that differs
in some important respects from the traditional picture.
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 239
2.	 Segmental inventory
The vocalic system of Laurentian French, described in Section 2.1, is particularly
complex, both in its phonemic inventory and allophonic processes. First, Lau-
rentian French, including of course Trois-Rivières, displays a rich set of vocalic
oppositions; the contrasts that are regressing or absent in other varieties of French
are stable in Laurentian French and show no sign of weakening. This variety also
exhibits distinctions absent elsewhere in the French-speaking world. In addition,
a series of rising diphthongs is argued to hold phonemic status. In total, 23 con-
trastive vowels may be identified, excluding schwa (see Section 3), which exceeds
the number of 15 typically posited for French (e.g., Lyche 2010).
The consonant inventory is, in comparison, relatively straightforward. Points
of discussion include the dorsal nasal and the articulation of the rhotic. Conso-
nants are also subject to regular assimilation patterns, notably assibilation, and
C-zero alternations word-finally and in clitic pronouns. The consonantal system
is presented in 2.2.
2.1	 Vocalic system
The full set of vocalic oppositions in Laurentian French is realized in final closed
syllables. As many as 23 contrastive vowels can be identified in this context, as
shown in Table 2 with examples present in the Trois-Rivières corpus. Most words
appear in the standard or complementary wordlist; game, amuse, cool, coule and
conjointe are taken from the conversations. Table 2 distinguishes between 15 oral
vowels, four nasalized vowels, and four rising diphthongs. Segments are grouped
in three columns: front unrounded, front rounded and back (rounded).
Table 2.  Oral and nasalized vowels and rising diphthongs
i frise ‘curl’ y amuse ‘amuse’ u cool ‘cool’
ɪ quiz ‘quiz’ ʏ tube ‘tube’ ʊ coule ‘flow’
e game ‘game’ ø jeûne ‘fast’ o paume ‘palm’
ɛ faites ‘do.2pl’ œ jeune ‘young’ ɔ pomme ‘apple’
ɜ fête ‘party’
a patte ‘leg’ ɒ pâte ‘dough’
ẽ crainte ‘fear’ œ̃ jungle ‘jungle’ ɔ̃ honte ‘shame’
ɒ̃ lente ‘slow.fem’
ɥi tuile ‘tile’
wẽ conjointe ‘partner’
wa boite ‘limp’ wɒ boîte ‘box’
240	 Marie-Hélène Côté
These vowels undergo a number of allophonic processes, which give rise to
yet additional variants. They are also subject to neutralization patterns; as a re-
sult, some pairs of vowels are contrastive in certain contexts and allophonic in
others, which makes this system particularly complex. The following description
focuses on final syllables, which display most of the characteristic traits of the
Laurentian vocalic system; a complete analysis of non-final syllables will not be
undertaken here.
Sections 2.1.1–2.1.4 focus on the monophthongs in Table 2. Distinguishing
between non-high vowels and high vowels, Sections 2.1.1 and 2.1.2 establish the
contrasts, motivate the symbols used to represent them (which are not always
those encountered in the literature on French phonology), and present some allo-
phones specific to each category. Vowel length, a fundamental aspect of the entire
Laurentian system, is discussed in 2.1.3, followed by a description of the neutral-
ization patterns in final open syllables and in final syllables closed by /R/ (2.1.4).
The status of the rising diphthongs in Table 2 and their independence from the
corresponding vowels is addressed in 2.1.5.
2.1.1	 Non-high vowels
The monophthongs in Table 2 include all the oppositions tested in the standard
PFC protocol: /e–ɛ/ (épée–épais), /ø–œ/ (jeûne–jeune), /o–ɔ/ (paume–pomme),
/ɛ–ɜ/ (faites–fête), /a–ɒ/ (patte–pâte), /ɔ̃–ɒ̃/ (blond–blanc) and /ẽ–œ̃/ (brin–brun).
These pairs are all consistently distinguished by the Trois-Rivières participants
(and, indeed, by Laurentian speakers in general).
All vowels differ in quality, including those in fête and faites, traditionally
taken to implicate a length distinction: /ɛː/ in fête, /ɛ/ in faites. In fact, the qual-
ity of the vowel in fête is not that of (a long) /ɛ/ in Laurentian French – it is more
open and central (Santerre 1974, 1976) – and there seems to be no reason to dis-
tinguish fête and faites by vowel length, but as for other vowel contrasts – /e–ɛ/,
/o–ɔ/, /ø–œ/, /ɒ–a/ – by quality. In each of these pairs, the first vowel is longer but
the difference in quality appears to dominate that in length. Pronunciations such
as [fɛːt] or [paːt] for fêtes or pâte are unnatural in Laurentian French. Following
Santerre, I adopt the notation /ɜ/ for the vowel of fête, which emphasizes both
its distinct position in the vowel space and the uniform treatment of the entire
vocalic inventory, based on vowel quality.
.	 Symbols appearing between /…/ may be interpreted as labels for sets of related surface
realizations and not necessarily in terms of abstract or underlying sound units.
.	 The fact that the Laurentian descriptive tradition has mostly maintained the standard
length treatment of the vowel of fête may be partly related to the absence of a phonetic symbol
for a low-mid front vowel distinct from both [æ] and [ɛ]. The symbol [ɜ] proposed by Santerre
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 241
The vowel /e/ is usually taken to be excluded from closed syllables in French.
This is generally true of /e/ in French lexical items but Laurentian French has ar-
guably extended the distribution of /e/ to closed syllables through the integration
of English borrowings such as tape [tep] or brake [bRek]. Evidence of the nativ-
ization of such words includes their undergoing French morphological derivation
(e.g., the verbs taper [tepe] ‘to tape’ and braker [bReke] ‘to brake’) and the pres-
ence of a French rhotic (as in brake). Two examples of closed-syllable /e/, taken
from the free conversations, are given in (1). In this syllabic context, /e/ contrasts
with both /ɛ/ and /ɜ/, as in the triplet date /det/ ‘date (romantic engagement)’ vs.
dette ‘debt’ /dɛt/ vs. tête ‘head’ /tɜt/.
	 (1)	 a.	 c’est pas du tout la même game [ɡem] (AD)
			 ‘it is not at all the same game’
		 b.	 il y a des brakes [brek] dans les chars (BP)
			 ‘there are brakes in (the) cars’
The low back oral vowel is transcribed as the rounded /ɒ/ rather than the usual
unrounded /ɑ/, establishing the roundedness of the entire back series /u o ɔ ɒ/.
Evidence for the rounded quality of this vowel in Laurentian French can be found
in its two main allophones, further discussed below. First, the diphthongized vari-
ant, found in closed syllables, has an off-glide [u] whose rounded quality is taken
to originate in the roundedness of the underlying vowel. Second, /ɒ/ surfaces vari-
ably as [ɒ] or [ɔ] in open syllables (e.g., rat ‘rat’ [Rɒ ~ Rɔ]); these two vowels con-
trast in final closed syllables but freely alternate word-finally, where /ɔ/ and /o/ are
neutralized to [o] (see Section 2.1.4).
Turning now to nasalized vowels, Laurentian French firmly maintains four
phonemes, with a distinct vocalic quality: /ẽ, œ̃, ɔ̃, ɒ̃/. The vowel of brin /ẽ/ is
higher than in most other varieties of French and the low vowel of blanc /ɒ̃/ sur-
faces with a variable place of articulation, depending in particular on the syllabic
context: it tends to be back and rounded in closed syllables [ɒ̃] (like its oral coun-
terpart /ɒ/) but regularly fronts to [æ̃] or [ã] in open syllables.
is appropriate given its low-mid and central quality. Morin (2009) adopts [æ] instead, which
has the disadvantage of being more often used as an allophone of /a/ or /ɛ/ in descriptions of
Laurentian French; the vowel of fête also appears to behave like a mid rather than a low vowel,
since it neutralizes to /ɛ/ word-finally (see Section 2.1.4).
.	 The symbol [R] is used to refer to the rhotic consonant without specifying its alveolar or
uvular point of articulation (see Section 2.2.1).
242	 Marie-Hélène Côté
2.1.2	 High vowels
High vowels surface as tense or lax, short or long, as amply illustrated in the Trois-
Rivières corpus. Variation in high vowels is largely dependent on the context; see
McLaughlin (1989) for a global analysis of high vowels in Laurentian French.
In final syllables, high vowels surface as lax in syllables closed by consonants
other than /v, z, ʒ/ and as tense elsewhere; they are long in syllables closed by
/R, v, z, ʒ/, the so-called lengthening consonants, and short elsewhere (see Sec-
tion 2.1.3). This distribution yields four realizations of high vowels, illustrated in
(2) with words taken from the complementary wordlist. Forms of the verb dire
‘say’ also display these four variants: dit [dzi] ‘said.masc’, dire ‘say.inf’ [dzɪːR], dise
‘say.subj’ [dziːz], and dite [dzɪt] ‘said.fem’.
	 (2)	 a.	 [i, y, u] in final open syllables
			 e.g., génie [ʒeni] ‘rotten’, bourru [buRy] ‘gruff’, minou [minu] ‘cat’
		 b. 	 [ɪː, ʏː, ʊː] in final syllables closed by /R/
			 e.g., dire [dzɪːR] ‘say’, dur [dzʏːR] ‘hard’, court [kʊːR] ‘short.masc’
		 c.	 [iː, yː, uː,] in final syllables closed by /v, z, ʒ/
			 e.g., vive [viːv] ‘live.subj’, juge [ʒyːʒ] ‘judge’, douze [duːz] ‘twelve’
		 d.	
[ɪ, ʏ, ʊ] in final syllables closed by consonants other than /R, v, z, ʒ/
(including /R/ followed by another consonant)
			 e.g., île [ɪl] ‘island’, tube [tsʏb] ‘tube’, courte [kʊRt] ‘short.fem’
This distribution is categorical in the traditional French lexicon, for which only
one series of high vowels has to be posited underlyingly, with laxing and length-
ening applying allophonically in predictable contexts. However, borrowings from
other languages, especially English, have generated lexical exceptions to the gen-
eralizations in (2c–d): words with short lax vowels before final /v, z, ʒ/ and long
tense vowels before consonants other than /R, v, z, ʒ/. This suggests that the
tense-lax distinction has been reinterpreted as contrastive (which may have been
favored by its already distinctive status in mid vowels). All speakers, for instance,
produced a clear opposition in the complementary wordlist between a tense
.	 The distinct quality of high vowels before /R/ and /v, z, ʒ/ is consistent with the claim in
2.1.3 below that there is no uniform lengthening process before /R, v, z, ʒ/.
.	 The generalizations in (2a–b) remain exceptionless. Before final /R/ (2b), vowels are invari-
ably long and the tense-lax distinction is never contrastive. Traditionally, vowels are described
as tense before all lengthening consonants /R, v, z, ʒ/. In fact, there appears to be variation
within the Laurentian domain with respect to the quality of high vowels before /R/, as in [dziːR]
vs [dzɪːR]. The factors involved in this variation – regional, diachronic or other – remain to be
defined, but the lax variants seem to dominate and the claimed tenseness of high vowels before
all lengthening consonants, including /R/, in the literature appears to follow the tradition more
than a specific empirical analysis.
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 243
vowel in frise ‘curl’ [fRiːz] and a lax vowel in quiz ‘quiz’ [kwɪz] (which otherwise
is phonologically integrated in the French system). Vive ‘live.subj’ [viːv] also con-
trasts with Tel Aviv, variably produced [tɛlaviːv] or [tɛlavɪv] by the participants.
Exceptions are now also found in French lexical formations, such as the truncated
form of bizarre ‘odd’, pronounced [bɪz] (also the name of a well-known artist in
Quebec), which forms a minimal pair with bise ‘kiss’ [biːz] (see Côté 2010a for
more examples). Words with long high vowels before non-lengthening conso-
nants were not included in either the common or the complementary wordlist,
but the conversations contain minimal or near-minimal pairs such as coule ‘flow’
[kʊl] vs. cool [kuːl], bibitte ‘insect’ [bɪbɪt] vs. beat [biːt], tripe ‘have fun’ [tRɪp] vs.
cheap [tʃiːp].
Such contrasts establish two series of high vowels in final syllables closed by
consonants other than /R/: tense /i, y, u/ vs. lax /ɪ, ʏ, ʊ/. Since borrowings typi-
cally do not contain /y/, the contrast is active for /i–ɪ/ and /u–ʊ/ but may be con-
sidered only potential for /y–ʏ/. I could not find actual examples of [ʏ] before
/v, z, ʒ/ or [yː] before consonants other than /R, v, z, ʒ/, but a form such as [mʏz]
for musique is quite conceivable, on a par with [bɪz] above and in opposition to
muse ‘muse’ [myːz].
Lax vowels in syllables closed by /v, z, ʒ/ and tense ones in syllables closed by
other consonants must be lexically specified for tenseness. However, the lexical
representation of lax and tense vowels which conform to the generalizations in
(2) remains a matter of debate: the introduction of a contrast may have led to a
general reanalysis of high vowels in the lexicon (see Reighard (1986) for a model
with all high vowels lexically specified for tenseness), or may have left the regular
forms unspecified, with their lax or tense value determined by contextual rules.
This issue, in fact, may also arise for other pairs of contrastive vowels in Table 2,
such as /ø–œ/, whose distribution is also largely dependent on the context. I leave
this issue open.
Laxing also applies in a non-distinctive fashion in non-final syllables. Sev-
eral items in the complementary wordlist were included to test non-final lax-
ing, which is triggered variably in two distinct contexts (Dumas 1976; Dumas &
Boulanger 1982; Poliquin 2006): (1) in open syllables by virtue of a harmony pro-
cess with another lax high vowel in a final closed syllable (e.g., pilule ‘pill’ [pilʏl ~
pɪlʏl]; souligne ‘underlines’ [sulɪŋ ~ sʊlɪŋ]); (2) in closed syllables, with or without
a lax high vowel in the final syllable (e.g., Victor [viktɔːR ~ vɪktɔːR]). In non-final
closed syllables, the frequency of laxing depends in particular on the nature of
.	 It has been suggested that length is marginally contrastive in penultimate open syllables for
a number of vowels, including high ones (McLaughlin 1986; Reighard 1986; Picard 1987). This
issue is left for future work.
244	 Marie-Hélène Côté
the closing consonant. For example, the tense [i, y, u] are more frequent before
/s/, as in mystère ‘mystery’ and muscade ‘nutmeg’ (22 out of 23 productions in the
complementary wordlist), than before sonorant consonants, as in Linda (name)
and turban ‘turban’ (6/24). The presence of a lax high vowel in the following syl-
lable also favors laxing, as in multiple ‘multiple’, produced with a lax [ʏ] more
often than sultan ‘sultan’ (11/12 vs. 6/12).
High vowels in non-final syllables are also affected by devoicing when adja-
cent to voiceless obstruents, especially in medial syllables (Gendron 1966; Martin
2004). Three words in the complementary list present the ideal context for de-
voicing: équiper ‘equip’, député ‘deputy’ and écouter ‘listen’. The reading task does
not favor devoicing, yet inspection of the spectrograms indicates that two thirds
of the medial vowels in these three words (23/36) were fully devoiced. Devoicing
interacts with laxing, as in coutume ‘custom’, associated with at least three possible
pronunciations: [ku̥tsʏm] with devoicing (in which case it is difficult to determine
the lax or tense quality of the vowel), [kʊtsʏm] with laxing and [kutsʏm].
2.1.3	 Lengthening and diphthongization
Length is a central aspect of the Laurentian vowel system, even though the inven-
tory in Table 2 only involves vowel quality. A subset of the vowels are considered
intrinsically long; these include all mid-high and nasalized vowels and diph-
thongs, plus /ɜ, ɒ/ (3). These vowels surface as long in final closed syllables, the
contexts exemplified in Table 2, and, more variably, in non-final open syllables;
see Côté (2010a). Vowel length is neutralized in final open syllables.
	 (3)	 Long vowels:		 /e, ø, o, ɜ, ɒ, ẽ, œ̃, ɔ̃, ɒ̃/
Vowels other than those in (3) may also be lengthened contextually, when followed
by the so-called lengthening consonants /R, v, z, ʒ/. All vowels are conventionally
described as lengthened in syllables closed by /R, v, z, ʒ/, but I have argued that
only /R/ triggers lengthening of all vowels, while /v, z, ʒ/ only lengthen /i, y, u,
a/ (without excluding some degree of phonetic lengthening of the other vowels)
(Côté 2010a).
Length, whether intrinsic or contextual, is enhanced by diphthongization,
especially in final closed syllables. Only [aː] escapes diphthongization, for rea-
sons that remain unclear. Diphthongization is variable, both in whether or not it
applies and, if it does, in the form of the resulting diphthong. These allophonic
diphthongs are falling, unlike the contrastive ones in Table 2, which we turn to in
2.1.5. They adopt in general the place of articulation (anterior or posterior), the
nasality and rounding of the original long vowel, while the initial and final height
of the diphthong is variable. For example, the diphthongized variants of [ɜː] and
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 245
[œː] include, respectively, [ai, ae, aɜ, ɜi, ɜe] and [ɶy, ɶø, ɶœ, œy, œø]: the initial
height is that of the original long vowel or a degree lower, and the final height that
of the vowel or higher, up to the corresponding high vowel. However, diphthongs
arising from low vowels are always rounded and their final place of articulation
is always back.
Diphthongized variants are stigmatized to a degree, especially those with
more variation in height, and diphthongization tends to be avoided or articula-
torily reduced in higher registers and social classes. A detailed analysis of diph-
thongization in the Trois-Rivières data is beyond the scope of this chapter (see
Demharter 1980; Dumas 1981; Dagenais 1986, 1993; Santerre & Millo 1978), but
it is quite clear that it is much less frequent in the reading tasks and that inter-
speaker variability is substantial. This is illustrated by the range of pronunciations
in (4) obtained for neige in the complementary wordlist on the part of the 12
Trois-Rivières participants.
	 (4)	 neige	 ‘snow’	 [nɜːʒ, naeʒ, nɜiʒ, naɜʒ, nɛiʒ, naiʒ]
2.1.4	 Contextual neutralizations
The inventory of 15 oral vowels in Table 2 is reduced in two specific contexts,
which favor tense vowels in word-final open syllables and lax vowels in final syl-
lables closed by /R/. The nasal vowels and rising diphthongs remain fully contras-
tive in both closed and open final syllables.
Final open syllables essentially allow the following set of vowels: [i, y, u, e, ɛ,
ø, o, ɒ]. As in the standard variety, the /œ–ø/ and /ɔ–o/ contrasts are neutralized
to [ø] and [o], respectively. The /a–ɒ/ and /ɛ–ɜ/ contrasts are subject in Laurentian
French to similar word-final neutralizations, in favor of [ɒ] and [ɛ]. As shown
in Table 3 (first line), both [o] and [ɔ] in final closed syllables correspond to [o]
word-finally; likewise for [œ] and [ø] (second line), [a] and [ɒ] (third line) and
[ɛ] and [ɜ] (fourth line). Lax high vowels in final closed syllables also correspond
to tense ones in open syllables (last line). Several options are available for the
underlying vowel in a word like chat: /a/, assuming the same lexical vowel in chat
and chatte and the application of a backing process word-finally; /ɒ/, assuming
that chat and chatte are lexicalized separately; /A/, a low vowel unspecified for
backness. This issue goes beyond the objectives of this discussion, but I simply
note that the behavior of final vowels is independent of whether or not a different
vowel appears in a closed syllable in other forms of the paradigm (as in the chat-
chatte case); in other words, instances of [ɒ] in gras and chat behave identically.
The ban on final [œ, ɔ, a], however, requires qualifications. First, [œ] appears
in stressed clitics, notably as the vowel of the enclitic le (3rd person masculine
246	 Marie-Hélène Côté
object pronoun) in imperative constructions (ex. bois-le ‘drink it’ [bwalœ]), and
in the name of the letter E (see Séguin 2010: 35–37). Second, word-final [a] is
found in three specific contexts: reduplicated forms (e.g., papa ‘daddy’ [papa],
tata ‘idiot’ [tata]), the enclitic la (3rd person feminine object), and the sequence
[wa] corresponding to orthographic <oi>, addressed in Section 2.1.5. In addition,
the letter A is named [a] or [ɒ], depending on the speaker. The vowel [a] (or [æ])
is also a word-final allophone of /ɛ/, occasionally attested in the conversations,
as in était ‘was’ [etɛ ~ eta]. Finally, word-final [ɔ] appears as an allophone of /ɒ/,
as already noted (including [ɒ] corresponding to [a] in morphologically related
forms, e.g., chat [ʃɒ ~ ʃɔ], gras [ɡRɑ ~ ɡRɔ]).
To complicate matters further, the raised and diphthongized realizations of
the vowel /ɒ/ ([ɔ] and [ɒu]) are subject to some degree of social stigmatization.
This manifests itself in the unstable pronunciation of /ɒ/, which may be fronted to
[a] or even [æ], depending on the speaker and register. The variability in the pro-
nunciation of /ɒ/ is well illustrated in the Trois-Rivières corpus, as some speak-
ers show no tendency to front /ɒ/, while others produce instances of [a]~[æ],
especially in the reading tasks and in word-final position. Thus the pronunciation
of rat ‘rat’, cadenas ‘lock’ and other items in the wordlists ending in a low vowel
ranges from [ɔ] to [æ] with several intermediate realizations. The same variability
is observed in some non-final /ɒ/ as in passant ‘passer-by’, but less so in râteau
‘rake’ or in pâte ‘dough’. The fronted realizations of /ɒ/ weaken the distinction with
/a/ and may lead to cases of lexical reanalysis from /ɒ/ to /a/. The word gazette
‘newspaper’, for instance, is undergoing a shift from /ɡɒzɛt/ to /ɡazɛt/ and it was
.	 The enclitic le is variably pronounced [le] or [lœ] in Laurentian French. The only example
found in the Trois-Rivières conversations is actually [le].
Table 3.  Neutralizations in final open syllables
Final closed syllable Final open syllable
[ɔ]
[o]
sotte ‘silly.fem’ [sɔt]
grosse ‘big.fem’ [ɡRoːs]
[o] sot ‘silly.masc’ [so]
gros ‘big.masc’ [ɡRo]
[œ]
[ø]
pleuve ‘rain.sub’ [plœv]
gueuse ‘beggar.fem’ [ɡøːz]
[ø] pleut ‘rain.pres’ [plø]
gueux ‘beggar.masc’ [ɡø]
[a]
[ɒ]
chatte ‘she-cat’ [ʃat]
grasse ‘fat.fem’ [ɡRɒːs]
[ɒ] chat ‘cat’ [ʃɒ]
gras ‘fat.masc’ [ɡRɒ]
[ɜ]
[ɛ]
fraîche ‘fresh.fem’ [fRɜːʃ]
prête ‘ready.fem’ [pRɛt]
[ɛ] frais ‘fresh.masc’ [fRɛ]
prêt ‘ready.masc’ [pRɛ]
[ɪʏʊ]
[iyu]
frite ‘fried.fem’ [fRɪt]
mise ‘put.fem’ [miːz]
[iyu] frit ‘fried.masc’ [fRi]
mis ‘put.masc’ [mi]
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 247
pronounced with the traditional /ɒ/ by only three of the Trois-Rivières speakers
in the complementary wordlist. The reasons for such lexical and contextual varia-
tion in the avoidance of variants of /ɒ/ are not entirely clear.
Before word-final /R/, oral vowels display a different neutralization pattern.
Only [ɪ, ʏ, ʊ, ɜ, œ, ɔ, a, ɒ] appear (in their lengthened variants; see 2.1.3). High
and mid vowels neutralize in favor of their lax version, with a strong tendency to
also lose the opposition between /ɒ/ and /ɔ/ and, to a lesser extent, /ɒ/ and /a/.
The infinitive forms gérer ‘manage’, libérer ‘free’ and serrer ‘press’ in the comple-
mentary wordlist provide a nice illustration of the /e–ɛ–ɜ/ neutralization before
final /R/. The unsuffixed form of these verbs is invariably realized with [ɜ]: serre
[sɜːR], libère [libɜːR], gère [ʒɜːR]. After suffixation, however, the quality of the
stem vowel varies between [ɜ], [e] and [ɛ]: libérer is produced with [e] by all 12
participants, serrer with [ɜ] by 11 of them, and gérer is more variable.
The contrast between /ɒ/ and /ɔ/ before /R/ is at best weak and unstable. This
confusion originates in the raised variants of /ɒ/, which reach the quality of [ɔ].
In contexts other than before final /R/, these raised variants do not lead to confu-
sion between /ɒ/ and /ɔ/, for one of two reasons. In final open syllables, /ɒ/ is free
to raise since /ɔ/ would surface as [o] in this position anyway. In other contexts,
the clear length distinction between the two vowels – /ɒ/ surfaces as long and is
often diphthongized while /ɔ/ is short, e.g., mâle ‘male’ [mɒːl] vs. molle ‘soft.fem’
[mɔl] – keeps them apart. Before /R/, however, all vowels lengthen; this is in fact
the only environment where long variants of /ɔ, œ/ are attested. Nothing reliably
distinguishes [ɒː] from [ɔː] in their diphthongized or non-diphthongized vari-
ants, considering that not only does [ɒ] raise to [ɔ] but that the initial part of a
diphthongized [ɔː] may also lower to [ɒ].
The /ɒ–ɔ/ confusion before /R/ is tested in the complementary wordlist by
the minimal pair port ‘port’ and part ‘part’ (which appear next to each other in
Walker’s initial list; see Appendix). Only one participant did not distinguish be-
tween part and port; all the others produced a fronter and/or lower vowel in part
(ranging from [æː] to [ɔː]). This pair, then, suggests that the /ɒ–ɔ/ distinction
remains active before final /R/. However, this would be a misinterpretation of the
.	 The other lengthening consonants /v, z, ʒ/ pattern differently and all vocalic contrasts are
at least potentially maintained before them (see Côté 2010a).
.	 The generalization of mid-low vowels before /R/ is a relatively recent process and mid-high
vowels are still attested in conservative Laurentian varieties in a limited set of words, including
père ‘father’ and collège ‘college’ with /e/, beurre ‘butter’ with /ø/ and encore ‘again’ and dehors
‘outside’ with /o/ (Morin 2009). Père /peR/ may then contrast with paire ‘pair’ /pɜR/. Both
words, as well as beurre and dehors, were part of the complementary wordlist, but none was
pronounced with a mid-high vowel in the Trois-Rivières corpus, even by the older speakers.
248	 Marie-Hélène Côté
facts (see also Dumas 1987: 132). Most pronunciations of part sound unnatural:
after producing port, speakers strongly tended to accentuate the distinction with
part by failing to raise the vowel or by fronting it. This is confirmed by the other
words ending in the sequences /ɔR/ and /ɒR/ scattered in the wordlists (the first
four words in (5a) vs. dehors ‘outside’ and Victor). Despite the occasional fronting
tendency that affects /ɒ/ in the reading tasks, it is clear that the final rimes of those
words are hardly distinguishable.
The last issue in relation to neutralization before final /R/ is the merger in
progress between /a/ and /ɒ/, nicely illustrated by the Trois-Rivières data. Lauren-
tian French maintains a distinction between /a/ and /ɒ/ before final /R/. While /ɒ/
appears in most words (see a few examples in (5a)), /a/ is found in a small number
of items, all listed in (5b) (see also Dumas 1987: 128, 139). The complementary
wordlist includes five /a/-words (bulgare, guitare, gare, démarre, prépare), in con-
trast with four /ɒ/-forms (homard, lézard, boulevard in the complementary list,
fêtard in the common list).
	 (5)	 a.	
/ɒ/-words: homard ‘lobster’; lézard ‘lizard’; boulevard ‘boulevard’; fêtard
‘reveler’; bar ‘bar’; art ‘art’; phare ‘lighthouse’;
		 b.	
/a/-words: gare ‘station’; guitare ‘guitar’; cigare ‘cigar’; bagarre ‘fight’;
tare ‘defect’; bulgare ‘Bulgarian’; verbs in ‑are: prépare ‘prepare’, accapare
‘monopolize’, démarre ‘start’, sépare ‘separate, dépare ‘spoil’, compare
‘compare’
The Trois-Rivières data indicate a clear shift from /a/ to /ɒ/.10 The /ɒ/-words are
all consistently pronounced with the expected back vowel, while the /a/-words
display an age-dependent pattern. The older speakers all have a front vowel, as
does one of the young speakers (LL). The four remaining young speakers show an
expansion of /ɒ/: in guitare and gare for all four speakers, in bulgare for MC and
JG and in prépare for JG. This speaker seems to have completed the /a–ɒ/ neu-
tralization before final /R/, as even prépare, arguably the most deeply entrenched
/a/-form, has shifted to /ɒ/. Note that the direction of neutralization from /a/ to
/ɒ/ is both natural and surprising. On the one hand, /ɒ/ is more common before
final /R/; on the other hand, normative pressure favors fronted articulations for
low vowels, but this pressure has not been sufficient to block or even reverse the
direction of neutralization in this particular context.
10.	 Two female speakers, CL and AD, were excluded from the analysis, as their propensity to
front all low vowels in the reading tasks made it impossible to reliably establish the place of
articulation of the vowels. Also, one word – démarre – showed unsystematic variation across
speakers and does not participate in a clear way in the shift.
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 249
2.1.5	 Rising diphthongs
The segmental inventory of French typically includes three glides /j, ɥ, w/ in cor-
respondence with the high vowels /i, y, u/. One interesting aspect of the phonolo-
gy of French glides concerns the restriction on obstruent+liquid+glide sequences:
high vowel gliding (6a) and schwa deletion (6b) are blocked if their application
would yield such combinations.
	 (6)	 a.	 cinquième ‘fifth’ [sẽkjɛm] 				 vs.
			 quatrième ‘fourth’ [katrijɛm] *[katrjɛm]
		 b.	 atteler ‘harness’ [atle] 						 vs.
			 atelier ‘workshop’ [atœlje] *[atlje]
It is well known that certain glide+vowel combinations escape this restriction and
are allowed to surface after obstruent+liquid complex onsets, namely /wa, wẽ, ɥi/,
with the addition of /wɒ/ in varieties that maintain the /wa–wɒ/ contrast, such
as Laurentian French. Words exemplifying the marked obstruent+liquid+glide
configuration are given in (7) with their Laurentian pronunciation.
	 (7)	 /wa/	 ploie ‘bend’ [plwa]				 /wɒ/	 trois ‘three’ [tRwɒ]
		 /wẽ/	 groin ‘snout’ [ɡRwẽ] 			 /ɥi/		 bruit ‘noise’ [bRɥi]
One neglected issue in French phonology is whether these special glide+vowel
combinations should be analyzed as independent diphthongs or as two-segment
sequences. Their absence in conventional vocalic inventories of French indicates
that a separate (phonemic) status for this series of rising diphthongs has not been
endorsed. I argue otherwise, at least for Laurentian French, where three converg-
ing arguments reinforce the distributional evidence in (7): the different distribu-
tion of /wa, wɒ/ with respect to /a, ɒ/, the existence of patterns of alternation
involving /wa, wɒ/ but not /a, ɒ/, and the marked status of [ɥ], which surfaces
systematically only before [i]. 11
As noted in 2.1.4, the opposition between /a/ and /ɒ/ is active in closed syl-
lables but neutralized in favor of [ɒ] word-finally in Laurentian French (with the
specific exceptions mentioned above). The diphthongs /wa/ and /wɒ/ are contras-
tive not only in closed syllables (8a), but also word-finally (8b). The complemen-
tary wordlist includes both minimal pairs in (8a) and the first pair in (8b); all
participants produced the expected contrast.
11.	 The following discussion does not provide specific additional evidence for the independent
status of /wẽ/, but its inclusion in the set of rising diphthongs in Table 2 is justified by the paral-
lel distribution of /wa, wɒ, wẽ, ɥi/ in (7).
250	 Marie-Hélène Côté
	 (8)	 a.	 /wa/		 poil ‘hair’			 boite ‘limp’
			 /wɒ/ 	poêle ‘stove’		 boîte ‘box’
		 b.	 /wa/		 boit ‘drink’		 Troie/Troyes (cities)	 moi ‘me’
			 /wɒ/	 bois ‘wood’		 trois ‘three’							 mois ‘month’
The only context where /a/ regularly occurs word-finally is thus in combination
with /w/, where it is in fact much more frequent than /ɒ/. There is no tendency to
turn these final /a/’s into [ɒ], as could be expected if the sequences /wa, wɒ/ were
not independent from the corresponding low vowels.
Not only do /wa, wɒ/ have a distinct distribution, they are also subject to rules
of allophonic variation that do not apply to /a, ɒ/. These diphthongs are associ-
ated with a remarkable range of realizations, well described in Picard (1974) and
Dumas (1987): /wa/ and /wɒ/ surface as [wa, we, wɛ, e, ɛ, ɔ] and [wɒ, wɜ, we, ɜ],
respectively (see Klingler & Lyche, this volume, for related comments in Cajun
French). Such realizations tend to be perceived as sub-standard and, as such, are
not expected to appear in a formal reading task. One item in the complementary
list, however, succeeded in triggering four instances of [bwɜt] for boîte ‘box’ in the
sequence ferme ta boîte, a familiar expression meaning ‘shut up’ (literally ‘close
your box’). The free conversation also offers [drwɛt] instead of [dRwa] for droit
‘right’ and numerous instances of [mwe] for moi ‘me’. Note that the second part
of the rising diphthongs (including the specific allophones of /wɒ/, i.e., [wɒ, wɜ,
we, ɜ]) is also subject to lengthening and diphthongization, according to the gen-
eral rules presented in 2.1.3. Diphthongization results in triphthongs, e.g., [wɒu]
for /wɒ/ (e.g., poêle ‘stove’ [pwɒul]).
A third piece of evidence in favor of a distinct phonemic status for the excep-
tional glide+vowel combinations in (7) concerns the behavior of [ɥ]. This glide
surfaces categorically only before [i] in Laurentian French; it is marked before
other vowels, where dieresis is the norm for /y+V/ sequences. The wordlists con-
tain 39 occurrences of the orthographic sequence <ui> per speaker, systemati-
cally pronounced [ɥi]: 34 repetitions of huit ‘eight’ (in the numbers introducing
each item) and five other words (enduit ‘coated’, tuile ‘tile’, minuit ‘midnight’, cuil-
lère ‘spoon’, étui ‘case’). In contrast, the word muette ‘dumb.fem’ in the common
wordlist is produced in two syllables by all Trois-Rivières speakers [myɛt]. A quick
look at items with <u> followed by another vowel in the conversation confirms
the prevalence of dieresis (e.g., situation ‘situation’ [sitsyasjɔ̃], sensuel ‘sensual’
[sɒ̃syɛl], habitué ‘used’ [abitsye]). In other words, only [ɥi] functions as a unit.
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 251
2.2	 Consonantal system
2.2.1	 Segmental contrasts
The consonantal inventory of Laurentian French in Table 4 is unexceptional and
corresponds to that standardly posited for French.
Two points deserve further discussion. One will first notice the absence of
the velar [ŋ] in the nasal series. This may appear surprising given that the hypoth-
esized introduction of this segment in French has always been associated with
English borrowings ending in ‑ing. Given the proximity of the two languages in
the North American context, the velar nasal could be expected to be contrastive
in the Laurentian system more than in almost any other variety of French. The is-
sue here is simple: the dorsal nasal, which surfaces as the palatal [ɲ] in prevocalic
position (e.g., in baignoire ‘bathtub’, compagnie ‘company’ and gnôle ‘hooch’12 in
the common wordlist), is generally velarized to [ŋ] in coda position in Lauren-
tian French, including, of course, word-finally (Brent 1971: 61; Walker 1984).
There is therefore no possibility of establishing a contrast between French and
English words in the place of articulation of the final dorsal consonant. Indeed,
the wordlists contain words of both types: compagne ‘companion.fem’, souligne
‘underline’ and Bourgogne ‘Burgundy’ vs. meeting, pouding ‘pudding’ and build-
ing. The velar [ŋ] is dominant and the palatal [ɲ] occurs only in a few realizations,
interestingly in both the French and English sets. Note that this general feature
of Laurentian French appears to apply in all regions, including those with no or
marginal contact with English. This does not support the hypothesis that velariza-
tion has its direct source in the English /ŋ/.
But arguably the most interesting aspect of this inventory concerns the place
of articulation of the rhotic. The Laurentian domain is traditionally divided into
two areas with respect to the realization of /R/: dorsal in the eastern part, centered
12.	 The word gnôle is unknown to Laurentian speakers, but an initial palatal nasal appears in
the local word gnochon ‘stupid’ [ɲɔʃɔ̃].
Table 4.  Consonants
Labial Labio-
dental
Dental Alveolar Alveo-
palatal
Palatal Velar Uvular
Stops p b t d k ɡ
Fricatives f v s z ʃ ʒ
Nasals m n ɲ
Lateral l
Rhotic (r) (ʁ)
252	 Marie-Hélène Côté
around Quebec City, and apical in the Western part, centered around Montreal.
The apical/dorsal distinction itself masks a variety of specific articulations, that
stand in free, contextual or speaker-dependent variation (taps, trills, fricatives).
In coda position, however, rhotics are regularly vocalized or deleted, without clear
differences between the two dialectal areas. In some borrowings, /R/ may also
be produced in an English-like manner, a feature that displays individual, lexi-
cal and geographical variation. See Tousignant (1987) for a description of /R/ in
Montreal French.
Trois-Rivières is situated midway between Montreal and Quebec City, at the
boundary between the two dialectal areas; see the isogloss in Dulong & Bergeron
(1980: vol. 1, 31), which crosses Trois-Rivières. Further investigation, however,
suggests that it belongs to the apical area. In what can be considered the first
attempt in 1941 at a synthesis of geographical variation in the French spoken
in Quebec, Father Laurent Tremblay situated the dividing line between the two
rhotic zones 25 or 30 miles north of Trois-Rivières, commenting that Trois-
Rivières people speak like Montrealers (Verreault & Lavoie 1999). Vinay (1950)
also put the Mauricie region in the apical area and this is confirmed by Deshaies-
­
Lafontaine’s (1974) corpus of Trois-Rivières speech.
The apical rhotic, however, is rapidly losing ground and replaced by the back
[ʁ], now clearly considered to be the standard articulation in Quebec, as it is in
FR. This shift has been amply documented in Montreal (Clermont & Cedergren
1979; Santerre 1979, 1982; Cedergren 1985; Tousignant 1987; Tousignant et al.
1989; Sankoff et al. 2002; Blondeau et al. 2002; Sankoff & Blondeau 2007). But the
proximity of Trois-Rivières to the dorsal area raises an interesting question re-
garding the transition between the two articulations: did it start or reach comple-
tion earlier than in other parts of the apical area?
The proportion of apical and dorsal /R/ in prevocalic position was evaluated
for each speaker in the Trois-Rivières survey, based on five minutes of free con-
versation. The six younger speakers, born between 1986 and 1989 (aged 21–24),
all categorically produce dorsal rhotics. The remaining six participants, born be-
tween 1931 and 1958 (aged 52–79) have a proportion of apical rhotics ranging
from 3% to 100%, as summarized in (9).13
	 (9)	 One essentially “dorsal” speaker:			 CL (3%)
		 Three mixed speakers:										 CC, HD, WD (18–31%)
13.	 Note that the three women (CL, CC, HD) have a clear majority of dorsal consonants, sug-
gesting, as expected, that women have led this change from above toward the standard dorsal
rhotic (e.g., Sankoff & Blondeau 2007).
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 253
		 One essentially “apical” speaker:			 JB (91%)
		 One categorically “apical” speaker:		 BP (100%)
The small number of speakers does not allow us to draw firm conclusions on this
issue, but the available data from the PFC survey and Deshaies-Lafontaine (1974)
do not provide any indication that Trois-Rivières followed a path distinct from
Montreal (Côté & Saint-Amant Lamy 2012).
2.2.2	 Allophonic processes
The Trois-Rivières survey reveals some allophonic processes involving conso-
nants. The most characteristic or frequent ones are mentioned below; see Walker
(1984) for additional patterns, the presence of which in this corpus remains to be
determined.
Any description of the Laurentian French consonantal system emphasizes the
assibilation (or affrication) of /t, d/ to [ts, dz] before high front vowels, diphthongs
and glides /i, y, ɥi, j, ɥ/ (10). Assibilation is categorical inside words, including in
the formal reading tasks.
	(10)	 tige ‘stem’ [tsiːʒ]		 tube ‘tube’ [tsʏb]
		 dieu ‘god’ [dzjø] 		 tuile ‘tile’ [tsɥɪl]
There are, however, a few lexical exceptions, all English borrowings. Three such
wordsarepartofthecomplementarywordlist;buildingandmeetingwereproduced
with an unaffricated stop by all 12 participants, but pouding ‘pudding’ seems to be
shifting toward affrication, as five of the six younger speakers applied it.
At word and clitic boundaries, the behavior of assibilation is unclear. Accord-
ing to Walker (1984), it is generally variable across clitic boundaries and within
compound words, but absent at non-clitic word boundaries. The complementary
wordlist, which includes sequences of /t, d/ followed by /i/ across different types of
boundaries, offers a different picture. Affrication is categorical within compounds
(e.g., Sept-Îles, a town in Northern Quebec) and variable elsewhere; it is more
frequent across a clitic boundary (11a) than across a non-clitic word boundary
(11b), the rates of affrication being respectively 75% (27/36) and 39% (11/28).
	(11)	 a.	 pas d’idée ‘no idea’				 ça t’isolait ‘it isolated you’
		 b.	 sept idées ‘seven ideas’		 cet isolement ‘this isolation’
Another process involving /t, d/ and not mentioned, as far as I know, in other
references on the phonology of Laurentian French, is the tapping of prevocalic
/t, d/. The contextual conditions of this process are not entirely clear, but it seems
to apply in antepenultimate syllables (or earlier) following a long vowel. Tapping
is most notable in numbers formed with soixante ‘sixty’ followed by et (given
254	 Marie-Hélène Côté
the prevocalic application of tapping), e.g., soixante-et-onze ‘seventy-one, liter-
ally sixty-and-eleven’ [swasɒ̃ːɾeɔ̃ːz]. Et surfaces obligatorily before un and onze
and also variably in Laurentian French before other numbers (cf. soixante-deux ~
soixante-et-deux ‘sixty-two’). In the Trois-Rivières corpus, tapping is observed in
the speech of older male speakers (BP, JB, WD), especially BP, who inserts et in
all numbers formed with soixante and who taps quite regularly in this context. A
more complete investigation would be required to determine the contextual and
sociolinguistic conditioning of tapping.
Voicing assimilation applies regressively within obstruent clusters (e.g., mé-
decin ‘doctor’ [mɛtsẽ]) and triggers sonorant devoicing in the context of a voice-
less obstruent (e.g., socialisme ‘socialism’ [sɔsjalɪsm̥], meurtre ‘murder’ [mœχtχ]).
More characteristic is the nasalization of voiced stops followed by a nasal conso-
nant (12a) or preceded by a nasalized vowel (12b). Nasalization is blocked if the
stop is part of a stop-liquid cluster, but it is applicable after deletion of the liquid
(12c). The data in (12) are taken from the complementary wordlist.
	(12)	 a.	 cadenas 	‘lock’ 			 [kadnɒ ~ kannɒ]
		 b.	 seconde 	 ‘second’ 	[sœɡɔ̃d ~ sœɡɔ̃n]
		 c.	 épingles 	 ‘pin’				 [epẽɡl ~ epẽɡ ~ epẽŋ]
Other processes concern the variable pronunciation of consonants in word-final
position and in clitic pronouns and determiners. First, a sizable class of vowel-
final words in Standard French are variably pronounced with a final [t] in Lau-
rentian French (Pupier & Grou 1974). This process is well attested across Canada
and the United States, as confirmed by all the North American chapters in this
volume, but eventual differences between the relevant varieties in the lexical
distribution or conditioning of this phenomenon remain to be established. The
Trois-Rivières data contain several words ending in a variable [t], including those
in Table 5, listed with the number of tokens pronounced with and without the
consonant in the entire free conversations. The word fait takes an optional final
[t] as a noun (‘fact’), in particular in the expression en fait ‘in fact’, and as a past
participle (‘done’), but not as a present tense form (‘does’). These contexts pattern
differently and are considered separately. Both tout and tous may be pronounced
[tʊt], like the feminine toute(s), resulting in gender and number neutralization.
Tout, however, is a complex item and not all of its uses are compatible with the
form [tʊt]. A detailed analysis of tout being beyond the focus of this paper, the
numbers in Table 5 only concern tous (which can always be pronounced [tʊt]).
Such final [t]’s tend to be avoided in careful speech and my sense is that they
are globally on the decline (see also Pupier & Grou 1974: 60). But each word fol-
lows its own path along the transition from the [t]-full to the [t]-less form. The
form [isɪt] for ici, for instance, is not part of the repertoire of all speakers (all
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 255
instances in the corpus come from two participants), but [fɛt] for fait is still the
more common form, although one may certainly detect a recent tendency for
some speakers to favor the vowel-final variant.
Word-final cluster reduction occurs in all varieties of French, as other PFC
surveys abundantly illustrate; however, it appears particularly frequent in Lau-
rentian French (see Côté 2004 for a detailed description and analysis). The pro-
portion of simplified clusters in the schwa-coded portion of the conversations
approximates 65% of all final clusters (256/395), substantially higher than 34%
(3,927/11,684) for the entire PFC corpus. In the read text, the rate of simplifica-
tion of final clusters drops considerably (27%) but remains higher than in the rest
of the PFC corpus (20%). One factor favoring cluster simplification in Laurentian
French relates to the behavior of schwa, to which we turn in Section 3.
In determiners and pronouns, /l/ is subject to variable gemination or elision
(e.g., Bougaïeff & Cardinal 1980; Poplack & Walker 1986; Picard 1990). Gemina-
tion applies to the initial /l/ of the object pronouns le ‘him’ and la ‘her’ in inter-
vocalic position. The complementary wordlist contains the sequence je l’ai vu ‘I
have seen him/her’, where the initial /l/ is clearly geminated by half of the speak-
ers [ʒœllevy]. The conversation yields a similar proportion of gemination in the
sequence je l’V, where V stands for any vowel-initial verb. The example in (13a)
exemplifies the variability of the process, as AD produces in the same passage
the sequence je l’avais croisé with and without gemination (in the latter case the
schwa of je is also omitted). The example in (13b) illustrates gemination after a
word other than je.
	(13)	 a.	
Je pense je l’avais [ʒœllavɛ] croisé, j’étais allée au salon du livre pis je pense
je l’avais [ʒlavɛ] croisé (AD)
		 ‘I think I had come across him, I had gone to the book fair and I think I
had come across him’
		 b.	 on l’était [ɔ̃lletɛ] pas (WD)
			 ‘we were not (it)’
Table 5.  Words ending in variable [t]
Without [t] With [t]
bout [bu ~ bʊt] ‘tip, end, piece’   9   13
ici [isi ~ isɪt] ‘here’ 44    8
droit [dRwa ~ dRwɛt] ‘right (adjective or adverb)’   0    1
tout/tous [tu ~ tʊt] ‘every, all’ 15 (tous)   42 (tous)
fait [fɛ ~ fɛt] ‘fact (noun)’
en fait ‘in fact’
‘done (past participle)’
  4
  4
40
   4
  22
216
256	 Marie-Hélène Côté
The deletion of /l/ in il ‘he’ is quasi-systematic, including before vowel-initial
words: il alternates between [i] before a consonant and [j] before a vowel (14a).
Elle ‘she’ is more variable: its traditional and dominant pronunciation [a] before
consonants and [a]~[al] before vowels is rivaled, especially in a more careful reg-
ister, by [ɛ] and [ɛl] (14b).
	(14)	 a.	 il [i]		 savait ‘he knew’
			 il [j]		 avait ‘he had’
		 b.	 __C		 elle [a] peut ‘she can’
							 elle [ɛ] pourrait ‘she could’
							 elle [ɛl] fait ‘she does’
			 __V		 elle [al] aime ‘she likes’
							 elle [a] allait ‘she went’	
							 elle [ɛl] est ‘she is’
A richer aspect of /l/ in clitics concerns its variable deletion in the definite ar-
ticles and object pronouns la ‘her/the.fem’ and les ‘them/the.plur’. Deletion is
applicable when the clitic is preceded by a vowel-final word and followed by a
consonant-initial word, as in (15).
	(15)	 a.	 tu as compris la [kɔ̃pχia] culture (JG)
	 		 ‘you have understood the culture’
		 b.	 qui les [kje] suit (MC)
			 ‘that follows them’
This process of /l/ deletion is uncommon in this corpus, but more frequent in
specific preposition+article and subject+object pronoun combinations. Baronian
(2006) has argued that contracted preposition+article forms arising from /l/ dele-
tion and subsequent vowel fusion are lexicalized; the same conclusion holds for
pronoun sequences. The relevant combinations are presented in Table 6; they in-
volve the prepositions sur ‘on’ (first line), dans ‘in’ (second line) and à ‘at, to’ (third
line)14 and the subject pronouns je ‘I’ (fourth line), tu ‘you’ (fifth line), il/ils ‘he,
they’ (sixth line) and elle ‘she’ (seventh line).15 The first column gives the different
variants of each combination, in order of increasing contraction; /l/ deletion in
la/les interacts here with a number of other reduction processes: final /R/ deletion
in sur, schwa deletion in je, prevocalic /y/ deletion in tu, final /l/ deletion in il(s)
14.	 À le and à les are not possible sequences since they were historically reduced to au and aux,
respectively, both /o/.
15.	 This table omits combinations with the subject pronouns on ‘we, one’, vous ‘you.pl’ and
ça ‘this’, which do not give rise to further reduction or merger after /l/ deletion, e.g., on la
[ɔ̃la ~ ɔ̃a] and on les [ɔ̃le ~ ɔ̃e].
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 257
and elle, and vowel coalescence. The second column includes examples with /l/
deletion taken from the Trois-Rivières conversations.
3.	 Schwa
Schwa in Laurentian French functions globally as in other varieties of Northern
France, in which three preferential contexts for its realization have been identi-
fied: (1) when preceded by two (or more) consonants and followed by one (or
more) consonant (16a) – the famous loi des trois consonnes (‘law of the three con-
sonants’, hereafter LTC; Grammont 1894); (2) when preceded by a phrase-initial
consonant (16b); (3) between a consonant and a liquid+glide sequence (16c).
	(16)	 Preferential contexts for the realization of schwa:
		 a.	 CC_C
		 b.	 ##C_
		 c.	 C_LG
Deviations from this pattern correspond either to the omission of schwa in con-
texts where its realization is expected (16), or to the pronunciation of schwa
elsewhere (when preceded by only one phrase-internal consonant and in non-
preconsonantal position). In Laurentian French, both types of deviation are well
attested, but it is clear that this variety leans toward a more economical use of
Table 6.  Preposition+article and subject+object pronoun combinations
sur la [sʏRla ~ syla ~ sya ~ saː]
sur les [sʏRle ~ syle ~ sye ~ seː]
sur la rue ‘on the street’ [sylaʁy] (HD)
sur les genoux ‘on the knees’ [syeʒnu] (BP)
sur les profs ‘on the profs’ [seːpχɔf] (JG)
dans la [dãla ~ dãa ~ dãː]
dans les [dãle ~ dãe ~ dẽː]
dans la lune ‘in the moon’ [dãːlʏn] (CC)
dans les écoles ‘in the schools’ [dãezekɔl] (JG)
dans les deux cas ‘in the two cases’ [dẽːdøkɔ] (LL)
à la [ala ~ aː] à la messe ‘at the mass’ [aːmɛs] (WD)
je la [ʒœla ~ ʒla ~ ʒa]
je les [ʒœle ~ ʒle ~ ʒe]
je la frappe ‘I hit her’ [ʒafχap] (BP)
je les connais ‘I know them’ [ʒekɔnɛ] (MC)
tu la [tyla ~ tya ~ ta]
tu les [tyle ~ tye ~ te]
tu la mets ‘you put her’ [tamɛ] (JB)
tu les changes ‘you change them’ [teʃɒ̃ʒ] (CL)
il(s) la [illa ~ ila ~ ja]
il(s) les [ille ~ ile ~ je]
ils les accrochent ‘they hang them’ [jezakχɔʃ] (SB)
elle la [ɛlla ~ ala ~ aː]
elle les [ɛlle ~ ale ~ ae ~ ɛː]
258	 Marie-Hélène Côté
schwa. The discussion below is based on six minutes of speech per speaker (three
in the guided conversation and three in the free one), for a total of 72 minutes
and 2,530 contexts. The different categories of schwa – in monosyllables and in
initial, internal and final syllables – are considered separately, as they exhibit quite
distinct patterns of realization and omission.
When it is pronounced, schwa has the quality of [œ]. Martin (1998) has
shown that schwa is not perceptually different from [œ] in Quebec City French,
and Séguin (2010) extends this conclusion to the acoustic level, with a wider set of
Laurentian French speakers. The identity between schwa and [œ] matches native
speaker intuitions. Although no experimental study of the Trois-Rivières data has
been performed, there is no reason to suggest different results for schwa in this
corpus.
The surface quality of schwa leads to its phonological status. This issue will not
be discussed in depth here since it has no direct bearing on the surface distribu-
tional properties of schwa, the focus of this section. The underlying or epenthetic
nature of schwa is debated (see Côté & Morrison 2007 for a discussion of the dif-
ferent options), but the consensus is that at least morpheme-internal schwas must
be lexically encoded. Concerning the identity of the underlying vowel, however,
I depart from the tradition and consider that schwa is not a distinct phoneme in
(Laurentian) French: vowels conventionally transcribed as schwa or [œ] are all
expressions of the phoneme /œ/ (see Côté 2008). Hence the absence of schwa in
the vocalic inventory in Section 2.1. The distinguishing characteristic of schwa
is its instability in non-final syllables (including proclitics), but even in identical
segmental and prosodic contexts, different words exhibit different deletion pat-
terns, without a categorical distinction between stable /œ/’s and unstable schwas.
I assume that non-final /œ/’s appearing in contexts compatible with deletion are
lexically marked with a deletability index ranging from 0 (stable vowels) to 1.
However, I continue to use the word “schwa” to refer to variable /œ/’s.
Word-internal schwas systematically follow the basic pattern in (16). Schwa
is omitted after only one consonant (e.g., sûr(e)ment ‘surely’, crèm(e)rie ‘shop sell-
ing dairy products’), with only three isolated exceptions. It is systematically real-
ized after two consonants (e.g., justement ‘rightly’, garderie ‘day-care center’) and
before liquid+glide sequences (e.g., Davelyuville (village in Quebec); bachelier
‘bachelor’), with three apparent exceptions that in fact illustrate a regular process
in verbal conjugations in Laurentian French. Schwa is normally omitted in future
and conditional forms of verbs of the first conjugation (verb stems+rV, where V ∈
{e, ɛ, ɒ, ɔ̃}16), including with verb stems ending in two consonants (e.g., rest(e)rais
16.	 Schwa is maintained before the 2nd plural conditional ending ‑riez [rje], as before other
liquid+glide sequences, e.g., aimeriez [ɛmœrje].
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 259
‘would stay’ [ʁɛstχɛ]; retourn(e)rais ‘would return’ [ʁœtuʁnʁɛ]). Schwa omission
even applies after verb stems ending in an obstruent+liquid cluster, as in entr(e)ra
‘will enter’ [ɒ̃tχɔ], where the absence of schwa also triggers deletion of the stem-
final rhotic. To the extent that liquid deletion in obstruent+liquid clusters and
schwa omission regularly apply word-finally but not medially, this stem-suffix
boundary appears to function like a word boundary.
Final syllables also display a very regular pattern, but a different one from
internal syllables. Schwa is essentially excluded word-finally in conversational
speech, irrespective of the number of preceding consonants. In VC#C contexts,
unsurprisingly, no final schwas appear: in over 1,200 tokens, only two are coded
as realized schwas and these are clear cases of hesitation. This absence extends to
the CC#C environment, contrary to the prediction of the LTC. Out of 223 CC#C
combinations, only six contain an intervening schwa; consonant sequences oc-
curring at word boundaries are either produced in full or simplified by the dele-
tion of one (or more) word-final consonants.17 Only the very small set of words
in (17), excluded from the preceding count, escapes this generalization and trig-
gers regular schwa insertion, categorically in (17a–b), variably in (17c).18 In the
latter case, schwa even appears in prevocalic position in n’importe où ‘anywhere’
[nẽpɔRt(œ)u].
	(17)	 a.	 presque ‘almost’
		 b.	 quelque(s) ‘some’ (in particular in quelque chose ‘something’)19
		 c.	 n’importe ‘any’ before quand, comment, qui, quoi, quel, où, combien
The absence of word-final schwas holds phrase-internally and finally. The occur-
rence of pre-pausal schwas has been well documented in European varieties of
French (e.g., Hansen 1997; Carton 1999; Fagyal 2000), but this phenomenon is
not characteristic of Laurentian French. In 596 pre-pausal contexts in the schwa-
coded portion of the conversations, only five schwas were reported, interestingly
all in the guided conversations.
17.	 The absence of schwa at word boundaries in conversations does not extend to the read text,
where schwa is present in 29% of CC#C contexts (and in seven out of 1,280 VC#C contexts).
18.	 To this short list of words one could add compounds formed with que: parce que ‘because’
and est-ce que (interrogative particle). These forms clearly behave as units, but their final schwa
appears to pattern like those in monosyllables. Note that the internal schwa in parce que is also
systematically omitted; this item was excluded from the analysis of the behavior of schwa in
internal CC__C contexts.
19.	 Unlike presque and n’importe, the pronunciation of quelque(s) with the final cluster be-
longs to a formal or careful register. The more colloquial (and much more frequent) form is
[kɛk]~[kœk], with no final cluster and no motivation for final schwa insertion.
260	 Marie-Hélène Côté
Schwas in monosyllables are more variable and give rise to a significant pro-
portion of realized schwas after one consonant and omitted schwas after two con-
sonants and in phrase-initial syllables. In the environment V#C_#C, one in five
monosyllables is realized with schwa (130/543). Around the same proportion of
schwas are unexpectedly omitted in C#C_#C contexts (50/268), as illustrated in
(18a–b). In phrase-initial syllables, schwas are absent in a proportion of 1/3 (18c)
(59/172).
	(18)	 a.	 ça fait que je voyais				 [safɛkʒvwajɛ]		 (LC)
			 ‘it followed that I saw’
		 b.	 eux-autres se sont dit 			 [œzotssɔ̃dzi]			 (LL)
			 ‘they told themselves’
		 c.	 je vas y penser 							 [ʒvɔipãse]					 (JB)
			 ‘I will think about it’
Schwas in initial syllables display similar tendencies as monosyllables, although
the corresponding proportions are more difficult to interpret, since many vow-
els coded as initial-syllable schwas are variable in the standard variety but stable
in Laurentian French (e.g., religion ‘religion’, secondaire ‘secondary, specifically in
école secondaire’; see Côté (2009) about schwa in initial syllable in Laurentian
French). These vowels are not schwas in the sense of deletable vowels and their
realization is therefore not subject to the generalizations in (16).
Schwas in monosyllables and initial syllables also pattern alike in allowing so-
called metathesis, whereby schwa appears to the left of the word-initial consonant
rather than to its right, in post-consonantal or phrase-initial contexts. Metathesis
is considered quite characteristic of Laurentian French; it is not frequent in the
Trois-Rivières corpus but the coded portion of the conversation does offer a nice
range of examples, involving le ‘the.masc’ (19a), je ‘I’ (19b) and a re-initial verb
(19c), the three preferential contexts for metathesis.
	(19)	 a.	 le guide 					 ‘the guide’			 [œlɡɪd]							 (JB)
		 b.	 je trouve ça			 ‘I find that’		 [œʒtχuːvsɔ]				 (WD)
		 c.	 juste regarder 	 ‘only look’			 [ʒʏsœʁɡaʁde]		 (LL)
Laurentian French can be globally characterized as a schwa-avoiding variety. Two
factors largely contribute to reducing the number of realized schwas, in compari-
son with the rest of the PFC database. First, when one considers that 26% of all
realized schwas in the PFC database occur in final syllables (this proportion is
identical in a northern area like Île-de-France), the absence of word-final schwas
in Laurentian French has a considerable effect on the total number of schwas. Sec-
ond, in non-final syllables, deviations from the ideal distribution predicted by the
LTC are shared roughly equally in Trois-Rivières between “extra” schwas (realized
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 261
when the LTC predicts their omission) and “missing” schwas (omitted when the
LTC predicts their realization). In the whole PFC corpus, as well as in the Île-de-
France region, “extra” schwas largely outnumber “missing” ones.
4.	 Liaison
Liaison does not generally display massive dialectal variation and Laurentian va-
rieties obey the main rules and tendencies observed elsewhere. Nevertheless, the
Trois-Rivières survey uncovers a number of interesting specificities of liaison in
Laurentian French and potential ambiguities in its analysis. The liaison-coded
portion of the corpus contains 1,647 potential liaison sites and 660 realized liaison
consonants: 297 [n], 221 [z], 139 [t], 2 [r], and 1 [p]. In addition to this standard
set of liaison consonants, Laurentian French adds [l], which is attested in the non-
coded portion, as we will see below.
Contexts of categorical and variable liaison in conversational French are list-
ed in (20) and (21), respectively, putting aside liaison in compounds and fixed
phrases (Durand & Lyche 2008; Côté 2011). The variable contexts appear in order
of decreasing frequency, to the extent that a hierarchy can be extracted from the
considerable category-internal variation. Liaison consonants are indicated be-
tween brackets in the orthographic representation, the absence of liaison with |.
	(20)	 Contexts of categorical liaison
		 a.	 Clitic pronoun + Clitic/Verb	
			 on [n]en [n]avait			 ‘one had some’
		 b.	 Verb + Clitic pronoun
			 allez-[z]y								 ‘go there’
		 c.	 Determiner + Noun/Adjective
			 les [z]os 									 ‘the bones’
	(21)	 Contexts of variable liaison
		 a.	 Adjective20 + Noun
			 belles ([z])images			 ‘nice images’
			 gros ([z])outil						 ‘big tool’
		 b.	 Preposition + X		
			 dans ([z])une cage			 ‘in a cage’
			 Conjunction + X		
			 quand ([t])on veut 		 ‘when one wants’
20.	Adjectives include indefinite and interrogative adjectives and numerals.
262	 Marie-Hélène Côté
			 Adverb + X 							
			 mieux ([z])habillé			 ‘better dressed’
		 c.	 Verb + X			
			 est ([t])unique 					 ‘is unique’
			 venez ([z])ici 						 ‘come here’
		 d.	 Noun-pl + Adjective	
			 amis ([z])islandais 		 ‘Icelandic friends’
The contexts in (20) also essentially trigger categorical liaison in Trois-Rivières,
with some qualifications concerning proclitics (20a). First, the subject pronouns
on ‘we, one’ and ils ‘they’ have been described as triggering variable liaison in
Laurentian French (Ameringen 1977; Ameringen & Cedergren 1981; Tousignant
1978; Tousignant & Sankoff 1979; De Jong 1993). Most speakers omit liaison cat-
egorically with ils, as was the case historically in general French. Only upper-class
speakers may use liaison in [z], a reflection of normative pressure favoring liaison
with ils. The coded portion of the conversations – ten minutes per speaker – in-
cludes 66 instances of ils before vowel-initial verbs. Only BP variably inserts a
liaison [z] and the remaining speakers invariably omit liaison, as in ils | allaient
‘they went’ [jalɛ] (which is homophonous with y allaient).
Unlike liaison with ils, liaison with on is taken to be variable for most speak-
ers. The Trois-Rivières coded data, however, offer only one token of on without
the liaison [n], out of 152: on | y va ‘we go there’ (HD). A single isolated example
does not suffice to confirm the variability of liaison with on, but the naturalness
of this example for Laurentian speakers suggests that something more subtle is
going on. Indeed, the entire free conversations (not only the portions coded for
liaison) yield eight instances of on y, five of them without the liaison [n]. We lack
sufficient corpus data to adequately identify the locus of variation in liaison with
on, but speaker judgments suggest that the absence of liaison is particularly fa-
vored before the proclitic y [i].
One last comment on preverbal clitics concerns the existence of liaison in [l]
after ça ‘this’ and elle ‘she’. The [l] appearing with elle is usually taken to be a stable
word-final consonant, but in a system where it alternates between [a] before con-
sonants and [a ~ al] before vowels, as in Laurentien French, the [l] effectively
functions like a liaison consonant. This pattern has been extended to the clitic ça,
always pronounced [sa] before consonants and alternating between [sa] and [sal]
before vowels (Morin 1982). Here is an example with [l], analyzed as a liaison
consonant: ça [l] a juste ‘it has just’ (BP).
The contexts in (20b–c) are more straightforwardly categorical. The coded
sections contain more than 150 instances of prenominal determiners and, apart
from a single odd example (mon | ordi ‘my computer’ (AD)), liaison fails to surface
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 263
only before h-aspiré words: homard ‘lobster’ and letter names (X, i grec, iPod,
iPhone, mp3).
Prenominal adjectives (21a) are traditionally considered to trigger obligatory
liaison, but corpus studies have established the variability of liaison in this context.
The Trois-Rivières survey is consistent with this quasi-categorical characterization
of the adjective+noun context. Liaison is systematic in the coded portion of the
conversations (if we except the one case of jeunes | Européens ‘young Europeans’
with a pause between the two words). Adjectives after which liaison is attested
include: petit ‘petit’, premier ‘first’, bon ‘good’, fameux ‘famous’, plein ‘full’, quelques
‘some’, deux ‘two’, trois ‘three’, six ‘six’, dix ‘ten’, various plural adjectives (e.g., jeunes
‘young’, grandes ‘tall.fem’, etc.). The coded portion even contains two examples
of so-called epenthetic liaison consonants in adjective+noun contexts: super [z]
emplois ‘super jobs’ (LL) and vrai [t] investissement ‘real investment’ (JG). But the
rest of the free conversations contains at least one example where liaison fails to
apply after a prenominal adjective: premiers | épisodes ‘first episodes’ (MC).
Prenominal numerals deserve a couple of specific comments. First, six and
dix display an alternation between [siz]/[dziz] and [sɪs]/[dzɪs] before vowel-initial
words. The first variant corresponds to the preconsonantal form [si]/[dzi] with
liaison [z], while the second variant generalizes the pre-pausal form [sɪs]/[dzɪs]
(with high vowel laxing in closed syllables). This alternation is heavily condi-
tioned by the following noun. Before ans ‘years’ and heures ‘hours’, only the tense
vowel+liaison forms appear acceptable, and all the relevant tokens in the corpus
indeed contain the [iz] sequence. Before other nouns, both forms are possible
(e.g., six [siz] enfants ‘six children’ (HD); dix [dzɪs] étudiants ‘ten students’ (JG)).
The complementary wordlist also contains the sequence six étuis ‘six cases’, pro-
duced with a liaison [z] by three speakers and with the prepausal form by nine
participants (with enchaînement between the final [s] and the following vowel).
Second, in some spoken varieties of French, including Laurentian French, li-
aison in [z] may extend by analogy to all numerals, beyond those for which the
norm commands it (i.e., deux ‘two’, trois ‘three’, six ‘six’, dix ‘ten’). The Trois-Rivières
conversations do not offer any such examples (and in fact contain few potential
examples with nouns other than ans and heures). But the complementary wordlist
includes 100 épaves ‘hundred wrecks’, 20 épingles ‘twenty pins’, trente innocents
‘thirty innocent people’ and sept idées ‘seven ideas’ (20 and 100 are written in
numbers, to avoid spelling effects), which display cases of analogical plural [z].
FR commands liaison in [t] after vingt and cent, but three outputs are attested:
the standard liaison in [t], the analogical liaison in [z] and no liaison. Trente and
sept end in a stable [t], giving rise to two different pronunciations before vowel-
initial words: with and without a liaison [z] (enchaînement between the final [t]
and the following vowel is expected if liaison fails to apply). The analogical [z]
264	 Marie-Hélène Côté
accounts for half of the productions with 20 and 100 (respectively produced by
five and seven of the twelve participants); the rest of the productions were di-
vided between liaison in [t] (five after 20, two after 100) and no liaison (two after
20, three after 100). In comparison, only one analogical [z] was produced after
trente and none after sept. The obvious relevant difference between the two pairs
of numbers concerns their final segment: [z] is favored only with numbers end-
ing in a vowel.21 This generalization is consistent with what I have observed with
other numbers in Laurentian French and it suggests that the extension of [z] is
conditioned by the nature of the preceding segment.
The category in (21b) – prepositions, conjunctions and adverbs – is, as in any
other variety of French, a very mixed bag. The liaison-coded sections of the con-
versations display categorical liaison with en ‘in’ (87 tokens), très ‘very’ (7 tokens),
bien ‘well’ (2 tokens) and rien ‘nothing’ (1 token); for bien and rien, however, the
number of tokens is too small to draw any conclusions. Liaison is variable after
quand ‘when’, dans ‘in’, chez ‘at someone’s place’ and plus ‘more’.22 A closer look at
chez suggests, however, that it tends to behave categorically: liaison is systematic
in the sequence chez eux/elle ‘at their/her place’ (chez | eux is not acceptable) but
normally excluded outside of this restricted context, as in chez | un autre ami ‘at
another friend’s place’ (HD) and chez | un Walmart ‘at a Walmart’ (LL). Quand ap-
pears in some cases with a final [t] before a consonant-initial word (e.g., quand [t]
les gars étaient là ‘when the guys were there’ (WD)). While such forms are often
analyzed as exceptional cases of preconsonantal liaison, Morin (1990) shows that
this is not the case and that the conjunction quand, which never appears at the
pause (unlike the interrogative pronoun), simply allows two pronunciations in all
contexts: [kã] and [kãt].23
21.	 Another difference between 20/100 and sept/trente is that only the latter were represented
orthographically in the reading list, which could more strongly block [z] insertion. The spelling
factor cannot be entirely dismissed but I doubt it plays more than a marginal role. The propor-
tions reported above may not accurately reflect the degree of generalization of [z] with numer-
als in spontaneous speech, as [z] was certainly to some extent avoided in the reading task. But
there is a clear sense that [z] is the norm with vingt and cent but not with the consonant-final
numbers.
22.	 Moins ‘less’ appears only once, without liaison, but liaison is also possible. Pas ‘not’ and
beaucoup ‘very much’ are found once with liaison in [z] and [p], respectively. Such forms are
exceptional and the pas example is a clear case of style shift, as indicated by the use of ne: Wa-
tergate n’est pas [z]un scandale à propos de l’eau ‘Watergate is not a scandal about water’ (LL).
23.	 Cases of [t d] insertion in the locutions de ça ‘of this’ [dœtsɒ] and de là ‘of there’ [dœdlɒ]
cannot be considered instances of preconsonantal liaison. Such forms are frequent in Lauren-
tian French.
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 265
Tout ‘all’ raises a number of difficulties in the interpretation of liaison, in ad-
dition to its complex status as an adjective, pronoun and adverb. As noted earlier
in Section 2.2.2, tout is one of those words whose final [t] is variably pronounced,
even in non-liaison contexts. The appearance of a [t] between tout and a vowel-
initial word is therefore ambiguous between a stable final consonant and a liaison
consonant. One diagnostic of the status of [t] is the quality of the preceding high
vowel: high vowels lax before (stable) word-final consonants, as seen in 2.1.2, but
they do not before liaison consonants (see Côté 2010b). Both vowel qualities are
attested, e.g., tout [tut] est compris ‘everything is included’ (HD) vs. tout [tʊt] est
mort ‘everything is dead’ (JG). Syllabification judgments are consistent with this
double analysis: after a tense vowel, [t] syllabifies with the following vowel, as do
all liaison consonants, but as a coda after a lax vowel, since lax vowels are only
found in closed syllables word-finally.24
The same ambiguity between a word-final and a liaison [t] arises in the case
of the past participle or noun fait ‘done, fact’, also regularly produced [fɛt] (e.g.,
j’ai fait [fɛt] mon bac ‘I did my BA’ (LC and JB)). An example such as j’ai fait
[fɛt] un cours ‘I took a course’ (BP), where [t] is followed by a vowel-initial word,
could in principle be analyzed as an instance of liaison. I would argue that in the
case of fait, [t] is always the stable final consonant of fait and not a liaison con-
sonant. This conclusion is consistent with speaker intuitions, which place [t] in
the coda, and with the highly marked status of liaison after a past participle or a
singular noun.25
Liaison after verbs (21c) yields some of the more interesting features of liaison
in Laurentian French. This variety has generalized [t] after all forms of the present
tense of être ‘be’, in fact the only productive liaison context after a verb (but see
remarks on the infinitive être below). The 2nd person plural form êtes already has
a fixed final [t] and does not involve liaison, while the forms suis, es, est and sont
24.	In the two Laurentian survey points available on the PFC site, all instances of [t] between
tout and a word-initial vowel are coded as liaison consonants. A more careful analysis would
probably revise this initial coding.
25.	 A search through the entire online PFC corpus yields eight examples of liaison with the past
participle fait ‘done’, all from the two Laurentian survey points (caa and cqa); one other example
from Senegal is questionable and possibly a transcription error. Such a disproportion does not
indicate an exceptional behavior of liaison in this variety but rather a different lexical form for
fait. The PFC corpus also contains eight examples from six European survey points of the sin-
gular noun fait ‘fact’ followed by a liaison [t]. These include five tokens after the expression en
fait ‘in fact’. The pronunciation [fɛt] in en fait is noted in general dictionaries and such examples
should probably also be analyzed as involving a fixed final [t]. The remaining three examples
come from speakers born in 1932 or earlier, suggesting that they, like Laurentian speakers, have
retained a historical consonant-final pronunciation of the noun fait.
266	 Marie-Hélène Côté
variably trigger liaison in [t]; liaison in [z] is excluded in all cases.26 Representa-
tive examples of liaison appear in Table 7, with the rate of liaison realization with
each form in the coded part of the Trois-Rivières conversations (the example with
es is taken from the non-coded part). The presentative c’est ‘it is’ is treated sepa-
rately from est. Notice that je suis ‘I am’ is typically reduced to [ʃ] before a voiceless
consonant (including liaison [t], as in Table 7) and [ʃy] before other segments,
through a series of assimilations and reductions: [ʒœsɥi] > [ʃsɥi] > [ʃʃɥi] > [ʃɥi] >
[ʃy] > [ʃ]. The presence of the liaison [t] after est may also trigger the deletion of
the vowel of the verb: c’est is reduced to [s], and on est to [ɔ̃n], as in Table 7, lines
3–4. After vowel deletion, the liaison [t] is left as the sole manifestation of the
verb; in the case of on est, this results in the liaison [n] appearing on the surface
before a consonant (the liaison [t]).
Liaison is more frequent with est and sont than suis and es, where [t] is not
the norm and tends to be avoided (children are regularly told in school that such
forms are incorrect). Note that the frequency of liaison after est and c’est is much
higher in Laurentian French than in other varieties: in the entire PFC corpus, the
rate of liaison after est is 31% (881/2,002), against 87% (84/97) in Trois-Rivières
(not distinguishing between est and c’est and excluding cases of no liaison with
an intervening pause and the expression c’est-à-dire ‘that is’, where liaison is
obligatory).
Être ‘be’ is involved in another special case of liaison in Laurentian French, as
it may be preceded by a liaison [t] in a variety of contexts, including after words
that do not otherwise trigger it (Côté 2005). The Trois-Rivières data provide one
excellent example of this phenomenon (22a). The conditions attached to the inser-
tion of this [t] remain to be more fully understood but it is crucially excluded be-
fore infinitives other than être (e.g., *ça va [t]aller ‘it will go’). In the Trois-Rivières
corpus, (22a) is an isolated example, [t] being normally absent, as in (22b–c).
26.	The 1st person plural nous sommes is not part of the normal Laurentian repertoire and is
replaced by on est.
Table 7.  Rate of liaison after verbs
Rate Examples of liaison
suis 14/26* je suis [t]en ville ‘I am in town’ [ʃtãvɪl] (LC)
es 0/4 tu es [t]ébloui ‘you are dazzled’ [teteblui] (WD)
est 30/31 on [n]est [t]allés ‘we went’ [ɔ̃ntale] (CC)
c’est 54/66 c’est [t]ironique ‘it is ironic’ [stsiʁɔnɪk] (JG)
sont 7/9 ils sont [t]installés ‘they are settled’ [isɔ̃tẽstale] (JB)
* Notice that 13 of the 14 instances of liaison [t] with suis were produced by male speakers.
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 267
	(22)	 a.	 Ça va [t]être des nouveautés 	‘it will be new things’	 (JB)
		 b.	 Tu vas | être obligée							 ‘you will be forced’ 			 (BP)
		 c.	 Ça doit | être pour ça						 ‘it must be for that’			 (AD)
The final variable liaison context in (21d) involves plural nouns + adjective se-
quences, where liaison is extremely marginal in conversational Laurentian French.
No relevant example could be found in the Trois-Rivières data, including in se-
quences that might be considered fixed expressions (at least in the Laurentian
context), such as dessins animés ‘cartoons’, communautés autochtones ‘aboriginal
communities’ and personnes âgées ‘elderly’. The read text offers instances of liaison
after plural nouns, but the rate of realized liaison in this context (14/60 or 23%)
remains lower than in the entire PFC corpus (33%). Laurentian French distin-
guishes itself in the expression jeux olympiques ‘olympic games’, whose liaison [z]
was omitted by half of the Trois-Rivières speakers.
In conclusion, can we say, on the basis of the Trois-Rivières survey, that in
Laurentian French liaison is “globalement nettement moins réalisée que dans le
FR” (Eychenne & Walker 2010: 257)? It should be clear that all conversational va-
rieties of French, including Laurentian French, are expected to realize fewer liai-
sons than more formal registers. But do Laurentian speakers produce fewer liaison
consonants than in other colloquial varieties and, specifically, those of Northern
France? In the entire corpus (35 survey points, excluding the read text), 44% of
potential liaison consonants are realized (17,629/39,971). For Trois-Rivières, this
rate is 40% (660/1,647). This is arguably a bit lower than the PFC average, but
equivalent to or higher than the corresponding proportion for some areas in
Northern France (40% in Normandy, 38% in Burgundy). Moreover, the other two
Laurentian surveys available on the PFC website display higher rates of liaison
realization: 44% in Alberta (described in Walker, this volume) and 46% in Que-
bec City. The source of these differences is not entirely clear but they would not
support the claim of a significantly lower usage of liaison in Laurentian French.
Globally,then,LaurentianFrenchappearstobehaveliketherestoftheFrench-
speaking world with respect to liaison. Obligatory liaison remains so in Lauren-
tian French (with the exception of ils ‘they’) and optional liaison generally seems
to apply with comparable frequencies. If liaison is marginal with certain items in
Laurentian French (e.g., chez with words other than eux and elle), it is actually
more frequent than in the rest of PFC in other contexts, as with forms of the pres-
ent tense of être. Est and suis trigger liaison at rates of 31% and 13%, respectively,
in PFC but 87% and 54% in Trois-Rivières. The fact that Trois-Rivières uses liai-
son in [t] rather than [z] after suis and es is indicative of a different relationship to
the written norm, but not of a reduced usage of liaison. Prenominal adjectives and
268	 Marie-Hélène Côté
numerals possibly also trigger liaison more systematically in Laurentian French
than in other varieties (again possibly with non-standard forms of liaison).
Interestingly, the influence of the norm in Laurentian French tends to favor a
reduction more than an increase in the realization of liaison. Non-standard liai-
son consonants are avoided in careful speech, resulting in the omission of liaison.
But there is no visible tendency, at least in the Trois-Rivières corpus, to replace
non-standard liaison consonants with the “correct” ones, apply optional cases of
liaison more systematically, or widen the range of optional liaison.
5.	 Conclusion
This general study of the Trois-Rivières PFC survey, representative of middle class
urban speech, first confirms already well established segmental characteristics of
Laurentian French, notably high vowel laxing, diphthongization, assibilation and
the loss of the apical rhotic. But it also offers preliminary documentation and
analysis of certain underdescribed or previously unnoticed aspects of Laurentian
phonology, leading to a more sophisticated understanding of its system, how it
compares with other varieties of French and how it evolves in a context of linguis-
tic insecurity with respect to the perceived norm. Specific contributions concern
additional vowel contrasts (and neutralizations), affrication at word boundaries,
characteristic patterns in the distribution of schwa and liaison consonants, and
the avoidance of certain traditional Laurentian features (the vowel [ɒ], non-stand­
ard liaisons, word-final [t], [l] deletion in clitics). Such a wide range of issues
cannot be treated here in sufficient depth, but it is hoped that this chapter will
contribute to more detailed investigations in the future.
References
Ameringen, Arie van. 1977. La liaison en français de Montréal. Master’s thesis, Université du
Québec à Montréal.
Ameringen, Arie van, and Henrietta J. Cedergren. 1981. Observations sur la liaison en fran-
çais de Montréal. In Variation omnibus, eds. David Sankoff and Henrietta J. Cedergren,
141–149. Edmonton: Linguistic Research.
Auger, Julie. 2003. Le français au Québec à l’aube du vingt et unième siècle. The French Review
77: 86–100.
Auger, Julie. 2005. Un bastion francophone en Amérique du Nord: le Québec. In Le français
en Amérique du Nord: état présent, eds. Albert Valdman, Julie Auger and Deborah Piston-
Hatlen, 39–79. Quebec City: Presses de l’Université Laval.
Baronian, Luc. 2006. Preposition contractions in Quebec French. In Syntax and semantics of
prepositions, ed. Patrick Saint-Dizier, 27–42. Dordrecht: Springer.
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 269
Blondeau, Hélène, Gillian Sankoff, and Anne Charity. 2002. Parcours individuels et change-
ments linguistiques en cours dans la communauté francophone montréalaise. Revue qué-
bécoise de linguistique 31 (1): 13–38.
Bougaïeff, André, and Pierre Cardinal. 1980. La chute du /l/ dans le français populaire du Qué-
bec. La linguistique 16 (2): 91–102.
Brent, Edmund. 1971. Canadian French: A Synthesis. Doctoral diss., Cornell University.
Caron-Leclerc, Marie-France. 1998. Les témoignages anciens sur le français du Canada (du
XVIIe siècle au XIXe siècle): édition critique et analyse. Doctoral diss., Université Laval,
Quebec City.
Carton, Fernand. 1999. L’épithèse vocalique et son développement en français parlé. Faits de
langue 13: 35–45.
Cedergren, Henrietta J. 1985. Une histoire d’R. In Les tendances dynamiques du français parlé à
Montréal, eds. Monique Lemieux and Henrietta J. Cedergren, 25–56. Quebec City: Gou-
vernement du Québec, Office de la langue française, vol. 1.
Clermont, Jean, and Henrietta J. Cedergren. 1979. Les ‘r’ de ma mère sont perdus dans l’air. In
Le français parlé: études sociolinguistiques, ed. Pierrette Thibault, 13–28. Edmonton: Lin-
guistic Research.
Conseil de la langue française. 2008. Le français au Québec: 400 ans d’histoire et de vie. Mont­
real: Fides.
Côté, Marie-Hélène. 2004. Consonant cluster simplification in Québec French. Probus 16:
151–201.
Côté, Marie-Hélène. 2005. Le statut lexical des consonnes de liaison. Langages 158: 66–78.
Côté, Marie-Hélène. 2008. Empty elements in schwa, liaison and h-aspiré: The French holy
trinity revisited. In Sounds of silence: Empty elements in syntax and phonology, eds. Jutta M.
Hartmann, Veronika Hegedüs and Henk van Riemsdijk, 61–103. Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Côté, Marie-Hélène. 2009. Contraintes segmentales et variation dans la perte et la stabilisation
du schwa en syllabe initiale. In Le français d’un continent à l’autre. Mélanges offerts à Yves
Charles Morin, eds. Luc Baronian and France Martineau, 93–121. Quebec City: Presses de
l’Université Laval.
Côté, Marie-Hélène. 2010a. La longueur vocalique devant consonne allongeante en contexte
final et dérivé en français laurentien. In Vues sur les français d’ici, eds. Carmen LeBlanc,
France Martineau and Yves Frenette, 49–75. Quebec City: Presses de l’Université Laval.
Côté, Marie-Hélène. 2010b. Le statut des consonnes de liaison: l’apport de données du français
laurentien. In 2ème Congrès Mondial de Linguistique Française, eds. Franck Neveu, Vale-
lia Muni Toke, Thomas Klingler, Jacques Durand, Lorenz Mondada and Sophie Prévost,
1279–1288. Paris: Institut de Linguistique Française.
Côté,Marie-Hélène.2011.Frenchliaison.InCompaniontophonology,eds.MarcvanOostendorp,
Colin Ewen, Elizabeth Hume and Keren Rice, 2685–2710. Malden: Wiley-Blackwell.
Côté, Marie-Hélène, and Geoffrey Stewart Morrison. 2007. The nature of the schwa/zero alter-
nation in French clitics: Experimental and non-experimental evidence. Journal of French
Language Studies 17: 159–186.
Côté, Marie-Hélène, and Hugo Saint-Amant Lamy. 2012. D’un [r] à l’aut[ʁ]e: Contribution à
l’étude de la chute du R apical au Québec. In 3ème Congrès Mondial de Linguistique Fran-
çaise, eds. Franck Neveu, Valelia Muni Toke, Peter Blumenthal, Thomas Klingler, Pierluigi
Ligas, Sophie Prévost and Sandra Teston-Bonnard, 1441–1453. Paris: Institut de Linguis-
tique Française.
270	 Marie-Hélène Côté
Dagenais, Louise. 1986. Les sources historiques des diphtongues dans les dialectes d’oïl: de la
parenté linguistique. Revue québécoise de linguistique théorique et appliquée 5 (4): 63–128.
Dagenais, Louise. 1993. L’émergence des diphtongues dans le français du Québec: hypothèse.
In Français de France – Français du Canada, eds. Hans-Josef Niederehe and Lothar Wolf,
3–16. (= Canadiana romanica, 7) Tübingen: Niemeyer.
De Jong, Daan. 1993. Sociophonological aspects of Montreal French liaison. In Linguistic
perspectives on the romance languages, eds. William J. Ashby, Marianne Mithun, Giorgio
Perissinotto and Eduardo Raposo, 127–137. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Demharter, Cheryl A. 1980. Les diphtongues du français canadien de la Mauricie. French Re-
view 53 (6): 848–864.
Deshaies-Lafontaine, Denise. 1974. A Socio-Phonetic Study of a Quebec French Community:
Trois-Rivières. Doctoral diss., University College, London.
Dulong, Gaston, and Gaston Bergeron. 1980. Le parler populaire du Québec et de ses régions
voisines: atlas linguistique de l’Est du Canada, vol. 1–10. Quebec City: Gouvernement du
Québec, Ministère des communications / Office de la langue française.
Dumas, Denis. 1976. Quebec French high vowel harmony: The progression of a phonological
rule. Proceedings of CLS 12: 161–167.
Dumas, Denis. 1981. Structure de la diphtongaison québécoise. Revue canadienne de linguisti-
que 26: 1–61.
Dumas, Denis. 1987. Nos façons de parler: les prononciations en français québécois. Sillery:
Presses de l’Université du Québec.
Dumas, Denis, and Aline Boulanger. 1982. Les matériaux d’origine des voyelles fermées relâ-
chées en français québécois. Revue québécoise de linguistique 11 (2): 49–72.
Durand, Jacques, and Chantal Lyche. 2003. Le projet ‘Phonologie du français contemporain’
(PFC) et sa méthodologie. In Corpus et variation en phonologie du français: méthodes et
analyses, eds. Elisabeth Delais-Roussarie and Jacques Durand, 213–276. Toulouse: Presses
Universitaires du Mirail.
Durand, Jacques, and Chantal Lyche. 2008. French liaison in the light of corpus data. Journal of
French Language Studies 18: 33–66.
Eychenne, Julien, and Douglas Walker. 2010. Le français en Amérique du Nord: éléments
de synthèse. In Les variétés du français parlé dans l’espace francophone. Ressources pour
l’enseignement, eds. Sylvain Detey, Jacques Durand, Bernard Laks and Chantal Lyche,
249–264. Paris: Ophrys.
Fagyal, Szuszanna. 2000. Le retour du e final en français parisien: changement phonétique
conditionné par la prosodie. In Actes du XIIe Congrès International de Linguistique et Phi-
lologie Romane, Tome 3: Vivacité et diversité de la variation linguistique, eds. Annick En-
gelbert, Michel Pierrard, Laurence Rosier and Dan Van Raemdonck, 151–160. Tübingen:
Narr.
Gendron, Jean-Denis. 1966. Tendances phonétiques du français parlé au Canada. Paris/Quebec
City: Klincksieck/Presses de l’Université Laval.
Gendron, Jean-Denis. 2007. D’où vient l’accent des Québécois? Et celui des Parisiens? Quebec
City: Presses de l’Université Laval.
Grammont, Maurice. 1894. La loi des trois consonnes. Mémoires de la Société de Linguistique
de Paris 8: 53–90.
Hansen, Anita Berit. 1997. Le nouveau schwa prépausal dans le français parlé à Paris. In Po-
lyphonie pour Iván Fónagy: mélanges offerts en hommage à Iván Fónagy, ed. Jean Perrot,
173–198. Paris: L’Harmattan.
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 271
Juneau, Marcel. 1972. Contribution à l’histoire de la prononciation française au Québec: étude des
graphies des documents d’archives. Quebec City: Presses de l’Université Laval.
Léon, Pierre R., ed. 1969. Recherches sur la structure phonique du français canadien. Montreal:
Didier.
Lyche, Chantal. 2010. Le français de référence: éléments de synthèse. In Les variétés du français
parlé dans l’espace francophone. Ressources pour l’enseignement, eds. Sylvain Detey, Jacques
Durand, Bernard Laks and Chantal Lyche, 143–165. Paris: Ophrys.
Martin, Pierre. 1998. À Québec, a-t-on l’schwa? In Langue et langues: hommage à Albert Maniet,
ed. Yves Duhoux, 163–180. Leuven: Peeters.
Martin, Pierre. 2004. Dévoisement vocalique en français. La linguistique 40 (2): 3–21.
McLaughlin, Anne. 1986. Une (autre) analyse de la distribution des variantes des voyelles
hautes en français montréalais. Revue québécoise de linguistique théorique et appliquée 5
(4): 21–60.
McLaughlin, Anne. 1989. Une analyse synchronique et historique de la distribution des voyel-
les hautes en français québécois. Doctoral diss., Université de Montréal.
Morin, Yves-Charles. 1982. De quelques [l] non étymologiques dans le français du Québec:
notes sur les clitiques et la liaison. Revue québécoise de linguistique 11 (2): 9–47.
Morin, Yves-Charles. 1990. La prononciation de [t] après quand. Linguisticae Investigationes
XIV (1): 175–189.
Morin, Yves-Charles. 2002. Les premiers immigrants et la prononciation du français au Qué-
bec. Revue québécoise de linguistique 31 (1): 39–78.
Morin, Yves-Charles. 2009. À propos de la fermeture des voyelles moyennes devant [r] dans le
français du Québec. Canadian Journal of Linguistics 54: 461–510.
Mougeon, Raymond, and Édouard Béniak, eds. 1994. Les origines du français québécois. Sainte-
Foy: Presses de l’Université Laval.
Ostiguy, Luc, and Claude Tousignant. 1993. Le français québécois: normes et usages. Montreal:
Guérin.
Paradis, Claude, and Jean Dolbec. 1998. PHONO: Principales caractéristiques phonétiques
du français québécois. http://www.ciral.ulaval.ca/phonetique/phono/ (CIRAL, Université
Laval).
Picard, Marc. 1974. La diphtongue /wa/ et ses équivalents au Canada. Cahier de linguistique 4:
147–155.
Picard, Marc. 1987. Longueur, tension et aperture vocalique en québécois. Revue québécoise de
linguistique théorique et appliquée 6 (3): 59–72.
Picard, Marc. 1990. On morphologically-conditioned sound change: the deletion and gemina-
tion of l in Canadian French. Probus 2: 103–112.
Poirier, Claude. 1998. Dictionnaire historique du français québécois. Sillery: Presses de
l’Université Laval.
Poirier, Claude, ed. 2009. Le français au Québec: un trésor à découvrir. Special issue of Cap-
aux-diamants: la revue d’histoire du Québec 96: 9–39.
Poliquin, Gabriel. 2006. Canadian French vowel harmony. Doctoral diss., Harvard University.
Poplack, Shana, and Douglas C. Walker. 1986. Going through /l/ in Canadian French. In Diver-
sity and diachrony, ed. David Sankoff, 173–198. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Pupier, Paul, and François Grou. 1974. Le [t] final non standard et les alternances vocaliques du
français de Montréal. Cahier de linguistique 4: 57–67.
Reighard, John. 1986. Une analyse concrète du système vocalique du français montréalais.
Revue de l’Association québécoise de linguistique 5 (4): 281–310.
272	 Marie-Hélène Côté
Sankoff, Gillian, and Hélène Blondeau. 2007. Language change across the lifespan: /r/ in Mont­
real French. Language 83: 560–588.
Sankoff, Gillian, Hélène Blondeau, and Ann Charity. 2002. Individual roles in a real-time
change: Montreal (r-R) 1947–1995. In ‘r-atics: Sociolinguistic, phonetic and phonological
characteristics of /r/, eds. Hans Van de Velde and Roeland van Hout, 141–158. Bruxelles:
ILVP.
Santerre, Laurent. 1974. Deux E et deux A phonologiques en français québécois. Cahier de
linguistique 4: 117–145.
Santerre, Laurent. 1976. Stabilité et variation des oppositions ɛ/ɜ et a/ɑ en français de Montréal.
In Logos Semantiko: Studia Linguistica in Honorem Eugenio Coseriu 1921–1981, eds. Horst
Geckeler, Brigitte Schlieben-Lange, Jürgen Trabant and Harald Weydt, vol. 4, 376–384.
Madrid/Berlin: Gredos/Walter De Gruyter.
Santerre, Laurent. 1979. Les (r) montréalais en régression rapide. Protée VII (2): 117–132.
Santerre, Laurent. 1982. Des r montréalais imprévisibles et inouïs. Revue québécoise de linguis-
tique 12 (1): 77–96.
Santerre, Laurent, and Jacques Millo. 1978. Diphthongization in Montréal French. In Linguistic
variation: Models and methods, ed. David Sankoff, 173–184. New York: Academic Press.
Séguin, Marie-Claude. 2010. Catégorisation acoustique des voyelles moyennes antérieures ar-
rondies en français laurentien. Doctoral diss., University of Ottawa.
Tousignant, Claude. 1978. La liaison consonantique en français montréalais. Master’s thesis,
Université de Montréal.
Tousignant, Claude. 1987. La variation sociolinguistique. Modèles québécois et méthode d’analyse.
Sillery: Presses de l’Université du Québec.
Tousignant, Claude, and David Sankoff. 1979. Aspects de la compétence productive et réceptive:
la liaison à Montréal. In Le français parlé: études sociolinguistiques, ed. Pierrette Thibault,
41–51. Edmonton: Linguistic Research.
Tousignant, Claude, David Sankoff, and Laurent Santerre. 1989. New results on Montréal
French /r/. In Language change and variation, eds. Ralph W. Fasold and Deborah Schiffrin,
85–94. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Trésor de la langue française au Québec. 2010. http://www.tlfq.ulaval.ca/ (CIRAL, Université
Laval).
Verreault, Claude, and Thomas Lavoie. 1999. ‘La langue de nos gens’ du Père Laurent Tremblay:
une première synthèse sur la variation géolinguistique du français parlé au Québec au
début des années 1940. Langues et linguistique 25: 145–212.
Vinay, Jean-Paul. 1950. Bout de la langue ou fond de la gorge? French Review 23: 489–498.
Walker, Douglas. 1984. The pronunciation of Canadian French. Ottawa: University of Ottawa
Press.
	 Laurentian French (Quebec)	 273
Appendix: Complementary wordlist27
27.	 The 40 items numbered between 1 and 110 are taken from Doug Walker’s list of 116 items
used in other PFC surveys in Canada (and reproduced in Durand & Lyche 2003). Items 117–
141 come from Luc Baronian’s 29 additional words used in his Saguenay survey (Quebec). In
all cases, the original numbering was kept, to facilitate direct comparisons among PFC surveys
in Canada.
1.	 mettre
2.	 maître
3.	 écoeurer
9.	 juste
11.	 couple
15.	 juge
16.	 court
17.	 courte
18.	 boulevard
19.	 filtrer
20.	 abusif
21.	 ministre
22.	 pilule
28.	 neige
30.	 chaude
31.	 père
32.	 beurre
33.	 port
34.	 part
36.	 crainte
37.	 emprunte
38.	 honte
39.	 lente
40.	 équiper
41.	 député
42.	 écouter
48.	 cadenas
63.	 soirée
71.	 quinze
73.	 jungle
76.	 absent
82.	 coutume
84.	 dire
87.	 tube
88.	 tuile
89.	 pas d’idée
92.	 aveugle
98.	 pourrie
104.	 dehors
110.	 je l’ai vu
117.	 douze
118.	 pâté
121.	 vive
122.	 enduit
125.	 douzième
126.	 tiers
127.	 couve
128.	 pâtisserie
130.	 friser
133.	 reine
134.	 douzaine
136.	 frise
141.	 vous le fêteriez
143.	 victoire
144.	 printemps gris
145.	 prépare
146.	 vous sauteriez
147.	 paire
148.	 baver
149.	 mausolée
150.	 toundra
151.	 100 épaves
152.	 figer
153.	 doré
154.	 patient
155.	 Odette
156.	 le chapeau vert
157.	 sultan
158.	 bingo
159.	 autruche
160.	 sommet
161.	 t’es noir
162.	 raisin
163.	 pantalon
164.	 trop français
165.	 maudite amie
166.	 building
167.	 libérer
168.	 encastrer
169.	 poêle
170.	 bulgare
171.	 faucon
172.	 génie
173.	 fructose
174.	 génome
175.	 le printemps gris
176.	 muscade
177.	 nage
178.	 série
179.	 légo
180.	 meeting
181.	 tes poires
182.	 dévorer
183.	 sauna
184.	 grand innocent
185.	 raison
186.	 bêta
187.	 léger
188.	 ration
189.	 démarrer
190.	 chapeau vert
191.	 minou
192.	 girafe
193.	 saumon
194.	 passant
195.	 curé
196.	 Lisbonne
197.	 grave
198.	 graver
199.	 musée
200.	 forer
201.	 turban
202.	 sa peau verdit
203.	 multi
274	 Marie-Hélène Côté
204.	 guitare
205.	 bourru
206.	 gaz
207.	 région
208.	 un temps grisâtre
209.	 saucisse
210.	 laver
211.	 boit-il
212.	 pourtant
213.	 c’est ici
214.	 j’ai vécu
215.	 trente innocents
216.	 décorer
217.	 laiton
218.	 démarre
219.	 Maupassant
220.	 ça t’isolait
221.	 passion
222.	 furet
223.	 sept idées
224.	 Omer
225.	 dur
226.	 maudit ami
227.	 Victor
228.	 aussi
229.	 siéger
230.	 Audette
231.	 Néron
232.	 Linda
233.	 sirop
234.	 piger
235.	 en plein été
236.	 cadavre
237.	 nourri
238.	 pendentif
239.	 ratio
240.	 quiz
241.	 un grand sommet
242.	 gazette
243.	 mystère
244.	 tirer
245.	 encadrer
246.	 minuit
247.	 topaze
248.	 homard
249.	 à Sept-Îles
250.	 la peau brunie
251.	 Gilbert
252.	 lézard
253.	 déchirer
254.	 un grand sauna
255.	 thé noir
256.	 la peau bronzée
257.	 râteau
258.	 bureau
259.	 Bourgogne
260.	 trop latin
261.	 gérer
262.	 un temps gris
263.	 rôti
264.	 gare
265.	 protéger
266.	 museau
267.	 Réjean
268.	 serrer
269.	 sa peau verte
270.	 cage
271.	 vomi
272.	 Tel Aviv
273.	 maudit tamis
274.	 déchet
275.	 pouding
276.	 coma
277.	 seconde
278.	 péché
279.	 c’est isolé
280.	 six étuis
281.	 multiple
282.	 souligne
283.	 Ferme ta boîte!
284.	 plein d’innocents
285.	 cuillère
286.	 tige
287.	 du bois
288.	 mitaine
289.	 les sept îles
290.	 minet
291.	 mystique
292.	 soulier
293.	 20 épingles
294.	 curry
295.	 cet isolement
296.	 dieu
297.	 je boite
298.	 poil
chapter 11
“Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community
A phonological study of the French
of Ville Platte, Louisiana
Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
Tulane University / University of Oslo
1.	 Introduction
Louisiana is home to the oldest French-speaking communities in the United
States. After more than three centuries of existence in the lower Mississippi Val-
ley, however, the survival of French as a vernacular is far from assured. “Cajun”
French represents undoubtedly the most widely spoken variety of French in the
state, otherwise characterized by a linguistic gumbo (Picone & Valdman 2005).
It has evolved in a multilingual setting and has miraculously survived the over-
whelming advance of English, although it now shows all the signs of an endan-
gered language.
This chapter will focus on the phonology of a single variety, the French of
Ville Platte, and will aim at establishing its most salient features. Section 2 will set
French in a historical perspective and will sort out the different currents which
gave Louisiana such a rich background. Section 3 will present PFC in Ville Platte
and, in addition to the profile of our speakers, will discuss how the protocol need-
ed to be adapted in order to accommodate the linguistic situation. The phonemic
inventory will be presented in Section 4, followed in Section 5 by schwa, and liai-
son in Section 6. A short section on prosody (Section 7) will close the phonologi-
cal presentation before we conclude in Section 8.
276	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
2.	 Historical overview of French in Louisiana
2.1	 Colonization and French settlement
French settlement in the vast territory called Louisiana began with the expedition
led by the Canadian brothers Bienville and Iberville in 1699. While the French
colonial period lasted only until 1762, when Louisiana was ceded to Spain, those
sixty-three years of French rule were sufficient to indelibly mark what is today
the American state of Louisiana with a French cultural and linguistic imprint,
one that would be reinforced by further francophone immigration that continued
during the Spanish and, as of 1803, American rule, up until the Civil War (1861).
French immigration during the eighteenth century was primarily from Canada
and from northern and western France, though other regions of the country were
represented, as well. The French population was augmented by the importation
of enslaved Africans to Louisiana from 1719 until 1731, with one additional ship-
ment arriving in 1743. In all, 5,500 Africans were brought to Louisiana during
the French period, a number that would be dwarfed by the many thousands of
African slaves that the Spanish would bring to the colony between 1769 and 1800,
the year when Louisiana briefly reverted to French control before its sale to the
United States in 1803. An important cultural consequence of slavery in Louisiana
was the development of the Louisiana Creole language in the large plantation
regions along the Mississippi River and Bayou Teche to the west. This variety
continues to be spoken today by small numbers of blacks, whites, and persons of
mixed race in several geographically separate regions.
Most of the Frenchmen who settled in Louisiana in the eighteenth century
were soldiers, indentured servants, prisoners, or other persons of relatively low
social standing. We may suppose, then, that the French spoken in the colony was
strongly marked by features of popular French as well as by features of the oïl
dialects of the northern and western regions of France. During the Spanish pe-
riod, the French-speaking population, which remained numerically and cultur-
ally dominant, was further reinforced by the arrival of some 2,600–3,000 Acadian
exiles who had been expelled from Nova Scotia by the British in 1755 during the
Grand Dérangement, and made their way to Louisiana in several waves between
1764 and 1785 (Brasseaux 1987: 93), settling first along the Mississippi, then lat-
er in the prairies of southwestern Louisiana and along Bayou Lafourche, in the
southeast.
.	 For descriptions of Louisiana Creole, see Neumann (1985), Klingler (2003), and Klingler &
Dajko (2006).
	 “Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community	 277
2.2	 Acadians, Cajuns, Creoles: Ethnicity and language
	 in francophone Louisiana
It is well known that the Acadiens lent their name to today’s Cadiens [kɑʤɛ̃], or
Cajuns, of Louisiana; unfortunately, this knowledge has in turn led to the wide-
spread misconception that the Cajuns are mainly the descendants of the origi-
nal Acadian immigrants to Louisiana, and that “Cajun” French derives from the
French that they brought with them from Acadia. A closer look at demographic
developments before and after the Acadians’ arrival shows why this view is over-
simplified. First, it is important to note that when the Acadians began arriving in
Louisiana in 1764, they entered a region where French had been the dominant
language for over sixty years, and the early Acadian arrivals constituted a small
minority of the overall population. As shown in Table 1, in 1788 – three years
after the last Acadian arrivals to Louisiana – the total population of the colony
was 42,621. While as many as 3,000 Acadians, augmented by their offspring born
since 1764, constituted a significant portion of this population, they nevertheless
remained very much in the minority.
Moreover, after the sale of Louisiana to the United States in 1803, contin-
ued immigration of French-speaking populations served to further dilute the nu-
merical importance of the Acadians as a proportion of the overall population. In
1809–1810 alone, nearly 10,000 slaves, whites, and free persons of color from the
former French colony of Saint-Domingue, now the free republic of Haiti, arrived
in Louisiana after having been expelled from Cuba, and throughout the first half
of the nineteenth century, until the South’s economy was destroyed by the Civil
War, the wealth of Louisiana’s plantation economy continued to attract new im-
migrants from France. This nineteenth-century influx of French speakers led to a
flourishing of francophone culture, helped ensure more regular contact between
.	 This section is based on material originally published in Klingler (2009). See this publica-
tion for a more detailed discussion of language and ethnicity, and in particular of the relation-
ship between Acadian and Cajun people and between Acadian and Louisiana French.
Table 1.  Free and enslaved population in Louisiana around the time of the Acadians’
arrival (Rodríguez 1979: 413, cuadro 1.2 A; 438, cuadro 1.8 A; 440, cuadro 2.2 A; 458,
cuadro 2.8 A)
1766 1788
Free   5,611 19,455
Enslaved   5,799 23,166
Total 11,410 42,621
278	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
Louisiana and France, and was likely responsible for the implantation in Louisi-
ana of a language variety close in structure to le français de référence, henceforth
FR (see Chapter 1, and Morin 2000).
Thus the Acadians arrived as a minority group of French speakers in a heavily
French-speaking region that continued to see its francophone population grow
through diverse sources for decades to come. In their main areas of settlement,
the Acadians remained a cohesive social group with a high birth rate and a strong
tendency to assimilate members of other groups, be they white Creoles – the label
that historians of Louisiana traditionally use for settlers who came from France
or from a French-speaking region other than Acadia – or settlers of Anglo, Irish,
Spanish, or German extraction. When they migrated outside of their core areas of
settlement, however, the Acadians found themselves in the minority among the
local population and were themselves assimilated. This was the case, for example,
in the four parishes shown in Table 2, where according to the 1870 census, only
very few residents of Acadian origin lived.
It is clear that, no matter how influential they may have been, the Acadians
did not fully replace or absorb the francophone populations whose arrival in Lou-
isiana preceded or followed theirs.
Yet in the course of the nineteenth century, two developments occurred that
help to explain why most francophones – or more precisely, most white franco-
phones – in Louisiana today are considered Cajuns. The first was intensive con-
tact between Acadians and white Creoles that led to a blurring of the previously
clear boundaries separating these distinct francophone groups. The second was
the extension of the word “Cajun” to apply to all poor, white French speakers in
south Louisiana, occasioned above all by Anglos arriving from outside Louisiana
who had no understanding of its cultural and ethnic complexity. These processes
have been described in detail by Brasseaux (1992: 104–105).
.	 This variety, which Picone & Valdman (2005) call le français de plantation, long ago ceased
to be transmitted to younger generations and is now spoken by a tiny handful of elderly
Louisianans.
Table 2.  Residents of Acadian origin in parishes peripheral to the Acadian core, 1870
(Brasseaux 1992: 107)
Parish Number of residents of Acadian origin in 1870
Pointe Coupee 237 (1.8%)
Avoyelles 220 (1.6%)
St. John   44
St. Charles   20
	 “Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community	 279
Cajun was used by Anglos to refer to all persons of French descent and low eco-
nomic standing, regardless of their ethnic affiliation. By the end of the nineteenth
century, this class alone retained its linguistic heritage. Hence poor Creoles of the
prairie and bayou regions came to be permanently identified as Cajun, joining
the Acadian ever poor and nouveau pauvre […]. The term Cajun thus became a
socioeconomic classification for the multicultural amalgam of several culturally
and linguistically distinct groups.
In the course of the twentieth century, the strong stigmatization from which the
Cajuns had long suffered slowly began to weaken, as Louisiana came to witness a
growing popularity of all things Cajun, encouraged by the romanticizing of Aca-
dian history and, in the second half of century, the commodification of “Cajun”
culture. Taken together, these nineteenth- and twentieth-century developments
help to explain why Avoyelles Parish today calls itself the “Cajun Crossroads,” and
why the parish of which Ville Platte is the capital bears the name of Longfellow’s
mythic Acadian heroine, even though neither Avoyelles nor Evangeline Parish
was ever a site of significant Acadian settlement. Today most white residents of
French heritage in these parishes readily identify themselves as Cajuns, though
many elderly people still refer to themselves as Creoles, the term they used before
“Cajun” became a badge of honor rather than a stigma.
Just as the ethnic group of heterogeneous origin known as Cajuns cannot
properly be defined as comprising exclusively or even primarily the descendants
of the Acadian exiles, so, too, it is inaccurate to view their French as represent-
ing the modern-day form of the French brought to Louisiana by the Acadians. In
fact, the French spoken in Louisiana today has sources as diverse as those of the
populations who speak it, and, despite interesting regional variation, appears to
result from extensive leveling of the different social and dialectal varieties that
contributed to it.
The strong historicizing tendency that equates Cajun with Acadian contrasts
sharply with the complex and varied history of “Cajun” French, making the la-
bel misleading. This problem is compounded by the fact that, as an ethnonym,
“Cajun” is most commonly associated with whites. Yet many Indians, blacks, and
Creoles of color – groups who typically are not considered, and do not consider
themselves, to be Cajun – speak something that is virtually identical to the French
.	 As Brasseaux (1992: 111) explains, “Residents of French descent in Evangeline and Avoyel-
les parishes today still privately concede their Creole background. Yet when northwestern Im-
perial St. Landry seceded from its mother parish in 1910, it was dubbed Evangeline Parish by
the state legislature in honor of the region’s correspondingly mythical Acadian heritage”.
280	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
of their white neighbors. At best, the label “Cajun” French is awkward when used
in reference to the French of non-Cajuns; worse still, non-Cajun French speakers
tend to be obscured when the label is employed in reference to French in Louisi-
ana in general. For these reasons, we prefer the ethnically neutral label “Louisiana
Regional French”, or simply “Louisiana French” (henceforth LF), to refer to the
regional variety of French spoken in southern Louisiana.
Suchaneutrallabelisparticularlyappropriate in the case of Ville Platte, which,
as we have seen, is situated in a parish that was never a site for Acadian settlement.
The earliest European settlers of the area were soldiers from Fort Toulouse, near
what it is today Montgomery, Alabama, and some residents of Mobile (Brasseaux
2005: 103–104). In 1870, when present-day Evangeline Parish was still part of
the larger Imperial St. Landry Parish, only seven percent of Imperial St. Landry’s
population was Acadian in origin, compared with 14 percent in St. Martin Parish,
23 percent in Assumption Parish, and 29 percent in both Lafayette and Vermilion
parishes (Brasseaux 1992: 167, Table 14); it is likely, moreover, that the vast major-
ity of Acadians in Imperial St. Landry resided in the southern part of the parish,
from which Evangeline Parish, to the north would be separated in 1910. Although
inhabited by very few persons of Acadian descent, Evangeline Parish is home to
a number of black residents who speak LF (we did not encounter speakers of
Louisiana Creole in the parish during our fieldwork) but who typically refer to
themselves, and often to the French they speak, as Creole.
2.3	 Current situation
The growing popularity of “Cajun” culture, focused mainly on music and cuisine,
has had little discernible effect on the vitality of the French language, despite the
founding of the Council for the Development of French in Louisiana by the state
Legislature in 1968. On the whole, Louisiana’s French-speaking community has
not recovered from the pressures to assimilate linguistically to mainstream Amer-
ican society, pressures that were especially strong in the early twentieth century
.	 In an illustration of the strong link between language labels and ethnic labels, blacks and
Creoles of color tend to refer to themselves as well as to the French they speak as Creole; in
some cases the variety in question is indeed what linguists call Louisiana Creole, but often it is
essentially the same as the “Cajun” French of their white neighbors.
.	 In recognition of the distinct structural features of Louisiana Creole, we do not include it in
this label. This should not, however, be interpreted to mean that we do not consider Louisiana
Creole to be “French”: It is clear that the majority of its grammatical as well as lexical material
comes from French, and considering it to be a variety of French or a separate language is as
much an ideological as a linguistic decision.
	 “Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community	 281
and indeed were formalized by the introduction of compulsory education in 1916
and, following closely on its heels in 1921, the prohibition of the use of any lan-
guage but English as the medium of instruction in the public schools. As a result
of such legislation, the vast majority of Louisianans who speak French natively
today are illiterate in the language. Moreover, difficulties experienced by children
who arrived in school speaking no English led eventually to their decision not
to pass French on to their own children, and today homes in which children are
taught French as a first language are exceedingly rare. Most native speakers are
elderly, and it is difficult to identify fluent speakers under the age of sixty. The
2000 census counted just fewer than 200,000 French speakers in the state, and
it is all but certain that the 2010 census will show a further substantial drop in
those numbers. One bright spot in the situation of French in Louisiana today is
the steady growth of French immersion programs in elementary schools. While
such programs cannot replace the transmission of French in the home, they help
to ensure, if only on a small scale, that Louisiana will continue to have a French-
speaking population for generations to come.
2.4	 Diatopical variation in LF
As previously noted, LF shows some variation across regions. It is not so great as
to seriously impede comprehension and might even be considered insignificant
when compared to the overall unity of the variety; nevertheless, it is not without
linguistic interest and, when combined with demographic data on settlement pat-
terns, holds important clues to the historical development of French in Louisiana.
In this section we note just a few of the more salient features of this diatopical
variation.
2.4.1	 Lexical variation
There is general agreement among linguists that French in Louisiana is character-
ized by substantial lexical unity, a unity that extends even to Louisiana Creole (see
for example Klingler, Picone & Valdman 1997). However, the numerous lexical
studies that have been completed to date, as well as our own fieldwork, do point
up some regional differences in lexical usage (see Valdman et al. 2009: xxvii–xxix
for an inventory of these works). The most common term for “mosquito”, for ex-
ample, is maringouin, but moustique is attested with this meaning in some regions,
while in others moustique refers to a gnat (see Read 1931: 92–95 for details). The
terms for “tree” show a fairly clear geographical distribution, with arbre occurring
to the west of the Atchafalaya Basin and bois to the east. Some lexical differences
are prominent in the consciousness of speakers and are frequently mentioned
282	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
when they are asked about dialectal differences. Francophones in Ville Platte, for
example, are fond of telling outsiders that the word caouenne refers both to a
snapping turtle and, in a vulgar usage, to the female genitalia. Dajko (2009: 86) re-
ports only the first meaning in the Lafourche Basin, where speakers are, however,
also aware of the other meaning. Dajko also investigated several other examples
of lexical variation in the Lafourche Basin, including galette (“pancake” in the
Lafourche Basin but “female genitalia” elsewhere), the terms for “wall” (entourage
in the Lafourche Basin but muraille in many other parts of Louisiana), for “saw”
(scie in lower Bayou Lafourche but égoïne among some speakers in Terrebonne
Parish), and for “bucket” (sciau in much of Lafourche Parish but baquet in Terre-
bonne and some parts of Lafourche). A particularly interesting finding of Dajko’s
research is the frequent mismatch between what speakers believe to be the geo-
graphical distribution of lexical variants and the actual distribution revealed by
linguistic fieldwork.
2.4.2	 Phonological variation
The vocalic inventory of LF is similar across regions. However, as explained be-
low, the tendency for /ɑ̃/ to merge with /ɔ̃/, which is mentioned for some regions
(see for example Conwell & Juilland 1963: 54–55 for Lafayette and Papen & Rottet
1997: 75 for Terrebonne and Lafourche parishes), appears to be less common in
Ville Platte, where the phonemic status of these two vowels remains solid. A sec-
ond phonological variable linked to region is the realization of [wɑ] as [wɛ]~[we]
in words like boîte (cf. Chapter 9, on Acadian French spoken in New Brunswick).
While the pronunciation [bwɛt] is common in many regions, the [wɛ]~[we] pro-
nunciation of other words in oi is not so widespread; it appears to be most exten-
sively used in Vermilion Parish, where it frequently occurs in words like poisson,
soixante, and voisin.
Within the consonant system, one of the most salient variables – and the one
most clearly linked to region – is the replacement of /ʒ/ and, to a lesser extent, of
/ʃ/, /z/, and /s/, by [h], which occurs in Terrebonne and Lafourche parishes but not
elsewhere: jamais [ʒɑ̃mɛ]~[hɑ̃mɛ], maison [mezɔ̃]~[mehɔ̃], ça [sa]~[ha] (Papen
& Rottet 1997; Rottet 2001; Salmon 2009; Carmichael 2007, 2008; Dajko 2009). A
feature that we discuss at length below and that, within Louisiana, has only been
reported in Evangline Parish, is the affrication of /t/ and /d/ before /i/ and /y/:
parti [pɑrtsi], dur [dzyr]. We also discuss the variable alveopalatal affrication of /t/
and /d/, and, in somewhat different contexts, of /k/ and /ɡ/ (moitié [moʧe], diable
[ʤɑb], cul [ʧy], gueule [ʤœl], but this affrication, which tends to be restricted to
specific lexical items, is common throughout francophone Louisiana and not so
	 “Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community	 283
clearly linked to geographical location. Finally, the liquid /r/, which is realized as
an apical tap in almost all of French Louisiana today, has a uvular realization in the
“Plantation French” of New Orleans, in the French of upper Plaquemines Parish
and Grand Isle (Picone & Valdman 2005: 150), and in the Creole of St. Tammany
Parish (fieldwork by Klingler).
2.4.3	 Morphosyntactic variation
Within the noun phrase, a feature that has received considerable attention in re-
cent years is the use of qui versus quoi as an inanimate interrogative pronoun,
e.g., Qui tu veux? vs. Quoi tu veux? “What do you want?” Quoi is also found in
Acadian French, whereas qui is not. Byers (1988) showed usage of qui to be con-
centrated in the northern French-speaking parishes of Evangeline, Avoyelles, and
St. Landry, as well as in the southeastern parishes of Lafourche, Terrebonne, and
St. Mary, with quoi predominating in most other parishes (Map 7, p. 196). Rottet
(2004), who conducted a more in-depth study of this feature and its geographi-
cal distribution, was able to correlate the occurrence of quoi with heavy Acadian
settlement. Given what we have seen of the demographic history of Evangeline
.	 See Dajko (2009: 104–106) for a study of the alveopalatal affrication of /k/ and /ɡ/ in the
Lafourche Basin.
284	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
Parish, it should come as no surprise that, as Byers’ and Rottet’s studies show and
our own fieldwork confirms, qui is used there to the virtual exclusion of quoi.
A variable feature of verb morphology that shows a relationship to geogra-
phy is the use of the 3 pl. ending ‑ont versus no audible ending, as in FR, e.g., ils
parlont vs. ils parlent. Like interrogative qui, the ending ‑ont is a feature typical
of Acadian French. Byers (1988) found ‑ont to be frequently used in the most
heavily Acadian parish of Louisiana, Vermilion, as well as in Assumption and, to
a lesser degree, in Lafayette, St. Martin, and Lafourche parishes; he did not find it
in Evangeline or Avoyelles. This contrasts with our own data, which show fairly
frequent use of ‑ont in Ville Platte when the subject is ils.
3.	 PFC in Ville Platte
3.1	 Adaptation of the protocol
The PFC protocol (Durand & Lyche 2003) constitutes a challenge in a Louisiana
setting due to the linguistic situation which, as seen in 2.3, defies many of its spec-
ified requirements. Among these (same number of speakers for each sex, three
age groups, speakers exhibiting little mobility, if possible a certain social diversity
among speakers), only the sex variable can be easily integrated, and its adoption is
further legitimized by its significance in the Louisiana context. No specific study
about its impact has been conducted in Ville Platte or in Evangeline Parish, but
Carmichael (2007, 2008) shows that it is significant among Pointe-Au-Chien In-
dians in Terrebonne and Lafourche parishes. The remaining requirements of the
protocol either cannot be satisfied or are insufficient. Fluent speakers of French
all belong to older generations, thus preventing a partition into three age groups.
Furthermore, if we aim at a certain degree of socioeconomic diversity among our
speakers, we must inevitably include educated speakers, who by definition are
highly mobile. Finally, the protocol makes no mention of the race factor, so cru-
cial in Louisiana (Klingler 2005). Given our limited resources, we chose to focus
on the white francophone community, though we hope eventually to expand our
.	 The ending ‑ont occurs today almost exclusively in conjunction with the pronoun ils, which
competes with other forms such as ça and eux-autres that nearly always co-occur with a verb
conjugated in the 3 sg. (eux-autres va, eux-autres sait). The incidence of ‑ont is thus closely
related to the incidence of ils vs. the other forms of the 3 pl. subject pronoun.
.	 Older women in Carmichael’s studies exhibit a wider register range than men, and younger
women tend to maintain a stigmatized variant (use of [h] for [ʒ]) longer than men, in contra-
distinction to what is usually posited in the literature (Labov 1966).
	 “Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community	 285
corpus to include black francophones, as well. The greatest challenge presented by
the protocol however, does not stem from the selection of speakers, but from the
tasks they are asked to perform.
The reading tasks that are an integral part of the PFC protocol proved to be
especially problematic in Louisiana, where most speakers of French cannot read
or write the language. It was therefore necessary to devise other tasks that could
replace the reading exercises and provide data easily compared with the other
PFC investigation points. The new protocol (Klingler & LaFleur 2007) includes a
word translation task and the recitation of a prayer, a nursery rhyme, the lyrics to
songs, or any other item of memorized, formulaic language. All the words from
the PFC wordlist that belong to the LF lexicon were integrated into the transla-
tion task: for example the presence or not of an opposition /a/–/ɑ/ (mal – mâle) or
/e/–/ɛ/ (piquet – piquer – piquais) was easily tested. Words not found in LF were
replaced by local items involving the same phenomena (paume by baume, rauque
by drôle, rhinocéros by croquesignole) or eliminated altogether (nous prendrions).
Nasalization and assibilation were two variables targeted for further study, so that
the final list totals 105 items.
During the task, English words were either given in isolation (“How do you
say white in French?”) or in a context (“little like a little child”; “male and female”)
which could be extended to a whole sentence, for example, the sentence “They
lifted the wounded man into an ambulance” targets lifted (soulevé). The translation
task fails at times when the speaker does not know or remember the target word,
but the results were satisfactory enough to warrant the integration of the list into
a PFC-Louisiana protocol. In addition, as we often asked the speaker to repeat
the item, we obtained several occurrences of the same token, thus strengthening
potential acoustic analyses. The task requiring speakers to recite a prayer, nursery
rhyme, or the like did not fare as well and unfortunately provided little compa-
rable data.
The data were transcribed and coded according to the PFC protocol. Writing
conventions in LF have been at the heart of numerous debates and authors vary
considerably in their practice. We chose to adopt a standard French spelling sys-
tem whenever possible10 and to follow closely the conventions established for the
Dictionary of Louisiana French (Valdman et al. 2010), which represents our main
reference work for all regional words.
10.	 This decision fully accords with the PFC methodology (Durand & Lyche 2003).
286	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
3.2	 Selection of speakers
The town of Ville Platte was chosen because it is home to a large number of French
speakers and because one of our team members, Amanda LaFleur, is from there
and could facilitate our work within the community. We made our first trip to
Ville Platte for a preliminary survey in November of 2007 and have made several
follow-up visits to conduct additional interviews since then. During our first visit
we were immediately confronted with the problem of delimiting the geographical
area from which we would draw our speaker sample. Since French in Louisiana
can show variation across short distances, we did not want to cast too broad a
net. Yet at the same time, we soon discovered that most of the French speakers
we encountered in Ville Platte actually came from somewhere else, most often a
hamlet within a radius of two to ten miles, but sometimes from further away, even
from a different parish. We included any otherwise eligible speakers who came
from within a reasonable distance of Ville Platte, but we eliminated anyone who
was not raised in Evangeline Parish. This slowed our work somewhat, because it
was only in the course of interviewing them that we discovered that some speak-
ers who were long-time residents of Ville Platte had actually been born and spent
much of their childhood outside of Evangeline Parish; in such cases we completed
the interview but did not include it in our PFC corpus.
At present we have nearly completed the twelve interviews for the PFC cor-
pus, but not all have been transcribed and coded. For the purposes of this chapter,
we limited our analysis to interviews with four speakers, all of whom were born
and raised in or near Ville Platte and learned French as a first language. All speak-
ers except elaca1 were interviewed according to the PFC protocol adapted to the
Louisiana context, as described above. Since elaca1 was exceptional in having a
good knowledge of written French, however, we took advantage of this rare op-
portunity by asking her to read aloud the written version of the word list adapted
for Louisiana in order to compare her pronunciation with that of speakers who
completed this task by translating English words we read aloud to them, without
seeing the written French forms.
3.3	 Speakers’ characteristics
Speaker elafs1, a male, was 69 years old at the time of the interview. Although
he was born in the town of Washington, about twelve miles from Ville Platte in
St. Landry Parish, he moved to Ville Platte when he was three years old and gradu-
ated from the local high school. He is fully fluent in French and speaks with great
ease and clarity, having been a radio announcer in addition to the many other
	 “Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community	 287
professions he exercised, including farmer, carpenter, record producer, and sales-
man. He has traveled to France and has had frequent interactions with French
speakers from various parts of the francophone world.
Speaker elajs1, also a male, was 64 years old when interviewed. Born and
raised in l’Anse Bleue, a few miles outside of Ville Platte, he speaks French fluently.
He obtained a Master’s degree in school administration and worked as a farmer
and a seventh- and eighth-grade teacher. He never studied French but has had a
good deal of contact with speakers from France.
Our third speaker, elaem1, is a female who was born and raised near l’Anse
Bleue and was aged 75 at the time of the interview in November 2007. She is a
widow with six children who completed the eleventh grade and worked as a sales
clerk and in a school cafeteria before her retirement. She is fully fluent in French
and still speaks the language regularly with friends and relatives.
Our fourth speaker whose interview was used for this study is elaca1, a fe-
male born and raised in Ville Platte, across the street from the house where she
now lives. She completed a Bachelor’s degree and taught elementary school for
38 years before her retirement. Unlike most Louisiana francophones, elaca1 was
able to read French because she had minored in it in college. As noted above, we
decided to take advantage of this by asking her to read the word list aloud, rather
than having her translate from English as we did with the other speakers in the
study.
4.	 The phonemic system
4.1	 Vowels
Two classical descriptions of the LF vocalic system (Conwell & Juilland 1963 for
dialects around Lafayette, and Papen & Rottet 1997 for Terrebonne and Lafour-
che parishes) attribute eight oral vowels to LF, /i, y, u, e, ø, ə, o, a/, but differ in
the number of nasal vowels, three or four, respectively. Our own data basically
agree with this oral vowel inventory and we count three nasal vowels as we will
see below.
High vowels may be subject to a variable laxing process, common to varieties
of French in North America. In Canadian French (Côté 2005b), laxing affects
high vowels in word-final closed syllables, as long as the coda is not a voiced
fricative. Before a rhotic, laxing is associated with vowel lengthening. The pro-
cess, systematic in final syllables, may be observed as well in non-final syllables
(see Walker this vol.). Laxing in LF is not as prevalent as in Canadian French,
being optional and restricted to final syllables, but it applies to any high vowel in
288	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
a final closed syllable, regardless of the nature of the coda: Evangéline [evɑ̃ʒelɪn],
servir [særvɪr], futur [fytsʏr] (without lengthening before /r/). High vowel laxing
does vary from one speaker to the next and is limited for each speaker to certain
lexical items.
In order to get a better grasp of the allophonic realizations of mid and low
vowels, we measured F1, F2 and F3 values of 263 vowels taken from the word list
recorded by elaem1. The measurements were done manually in Praat. For each
vowel, we targeted the center of the steady part of the spectrogram and recorded
vowel length as well. The results show a vocalic system where the quality of mid-
vowels in final syllables correlates strongly with syllabic structure according to
the Loi de Position (see Chapter 1). In our data, /e/ is realized as [e] in all open
syllables (word final or median) and [ɛ] in closed syllables. Although our word
list does not match entirely the standard PFC list, it includes the items épais –
piquet – piqué where the final vowel could theoretically show three degrees of
aperture (Martinet 1945). For comparison purposes, we chose a female Parisian
speaker born in 193511 (75cab1) representing FR, who is, in this respect, a good
case in point since her F1 values12 for the three words, as shown in Table 3, could
indicate that she maintains a threefold opposition.
F2 values are similar for both subjects, but elaem1’s vowels do not show any
aperture distinction while maintaining a fairly open realization. The tendency for
a relatively open system is confirmed when comparing the overall realizations
of /e/ in final open syllables: F1 = 480 Hz (75cab1), 545 Hz (elaem1). In final
closed syllables, /e/ is more open for elaem1 than it is for 75cab1 (F1 = 729 Hz
vs. 667 Hz),13 and the vowel shows its maximal aperture before /r/ (F1 = 927 Hz),
where its phonetic realization is an open [æ]. /e/ lowering before /r/ is pervasive
in LF, but the quality of the vowel is not consistent. For our speaker, we observe
11.	 The data on 75cab1 were provided to us by K. A. Østby. See Østby (forthc.) for an analysis
of mid vowels among Parisian upper-class speakers.
12.	 Recall that F1 value increases with aperture, while F2 value increases with frontness.
13.	 The figures represent the averages for each speaker.
Table 3.  F1, F2 values for /e/ in final open syllables (a Parisian and a Cajun female)
Word 75cab1 elaem1
F1 F2 F1 F2
épais 624 2412 528 2413
piqué 443 2728 586 2419
piquet 552 2586 514 2436
	 “Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community	 289
a vowel with a greater aperture than /ɑ/, and more front as the F2 values average
1673 Hz (F2 = 1250 Hz for /a/). The vowel is nevertheless more posterior than all
other realizations of /e/, which cluster around 2200 Hz for F2. We will come back
to /e/ lowering below.
For our speaker, /e/ in median syllables shows values similar to open final
syllables, regardless of syllable type: for example in respecter, the three vowels are
mid-high, with comparable F1 values, in spite of the different environments. The
phoneme /o/ follows the same pattern, although it is not affected by the presence
of /r/. Once again, if we compare the formant values of our LF speaker with those
of our Parisian speaker, we observe that the LF vowels are slightly more open, and
the same is true of /ø/, which, like the other mid vowels, faithfully respects the
Loi de Position, and like /o/, does not vary in aperture before /r/.14 Dubois (2003,
2005) argues for the preservation of certain Acadian features in the phonology
of LF. In particular, she claims that LF in four parishes (St Landry, Vermillion,
Avoyelles and Lafourche) maintains a mid-high round vowel ([ø, o]) in syllables
closed by /r/. The absence of the phenomenon in Ville Platte comes as no surprise
since the local population is not of Acadian descent; it shows nevertheless the
compartmentalization of the different dialects.15
We will close our treatment of oral vowels with /a/. The average F1, F2 values
of the vowel in all its phonetic contexts differ little as shown in Table 4.
If we compare these results to those of our Parisian speaker, we observe that,
while the F1 values converge, the F2 values indicate a generally more posterior
vowel in LF. Østby (forthc.) distinguishes for 75cab1 two distinct vowel qualities:
[ɑ] F1 = 877 Hz, F2 = 1641 Hz vs. [a] F1 = 794 Hz, F2 = 1723 Hz, i.e., what she
considers as a posterior vowel is more anterior than any of elaem1’s [a]-like seg-
ments. A closer look at the LF data unveils further allophonic distinctions. The
vowel is most posterior after /w/ (F2 = 1043 Hz), as already pointed out by Papen
& Rottet (1997) for Terrebonne and Lafourche parishes. Nearly as posterior with
14.	 Note the pronunciation of brune [brœ̃n] (FR [bʁyn]).
15.	 Theoretically, we should not expect Acadian features in Avoyelles parish either for exactly
the same reasons. This point is however not discussed by Dubois (2003, 2005).
Table 4.  Average F1 and F2 values for /a/: elaem1, wordlist
Position F1 F2
Final: a# 800 1314
Final: aC# 798 1188
a(median)
Internal: (C)Ca.C
837 1267
290	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
F2 = 1072 Hz, we have the word pâte which seems to be more posterior than patte
(F2 averaging around 1180 Hz when the word is pronounced in isolation), which
could indicate the existence of two phonemes. The repetition of the two words
cancels this first impression as the F2 values of the vowels vary considerably (pâte:
F2 = from 1072 Hz to 1241 Hz; patte: F2 = from 1170 Hz to 1464 Hz), the most
anterior realizations occurring in context (la patte du chien). We thus conclude
that we are dealing with one phoneme (/ɑ/) with allophonic variation.
We now return to /e/ lowering before /r/ where we asserted that the vowel
was realized as [æ] (pierre [pjær]). In this context, the F2 value (1673), situates the
vowel as anterior in the LF context, but between the FR [a] (F2 = 1723 Hz) and
[ɑ] (F2 = 1641 Hz). It then appears more appropriate to posit that /e/ is realized
as [æ, a] before /r/.
As a conclusion to our section on oral vowels, we stress the following four
characteristics: high vowel laxing occurs variably in word-final closed syllables;
mid vowels obey the Loi de Position and are generally more open than their FR
counterparts; /e/ is lowered to [æ, a] before /r/; /ɑ/ in all its realizations is more
posterior than in FR.
In addition to the oral vowels just considered, LF includes three or four nasal
vowels and pervasive nasalization. The extent of this nasalization constitutes no
doubt the main characteristic of the LF vowel system when considering a large
span of varieties of French. In our data, three nasal vowels are easily identified: /ɛ̃,
ɑ̃, õ/. /ɛ̃/ is often rounded, but positing a phoneme /œ̃/ seems unjustified, besides
accounting for the pair brun – brin ([brœ̃] – [brɛ̃]). This opposition is extremely
stable, while all other words where /œ̃/ could be expected are realized with either
vowel (quelqu’un [kɛkɛ̃] – [kɛkœ̃]) or with the unrounded variant (lundi [lɛ̃dzi],
un [ɛ̃n]). While the contrast /ɛ̃/–/œ̃/ seems lost in our data, another contrast per-
sists but shows signs of receding in LF. Papen & Rottet (1997: 75) mention free
alternation between /õ/ and /ɑ̃/, /ɑ̃/ replacing /õ/ more often than the contrary.
Although our speakers do not systematically differentiate between the two pho-
nemes and sometimes pronounce a vowel whose degree of rounding is difficult to
determine, the existence of two distinct categories cannot be questioned. elaem1
was extensively tested for oppositions like plan – plomb, rang – rond, blanc – blond,
and she insists on a difference, although after a certain number of repetitions, the
distinctions fade out.16 The impression of LF as a highly nasalized system is rein-
forced by extensive contextual nasalization in the corpus. Contextual nasalization
of mid and low vowels applies more or less systematically throughout the data: a
vowel in direct contact with a nasal consonant may be nasalized as in liane [lijɑ̃n],
16.	 The psycholinguistic reality of the distinction is enhanced by the lack of literacy in French
of the speaker. Her comments cannot therefore be attributed to a spelling influence.
	 “Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community	 291
pomme [põm], baignoire [bɛ̃nwɑ]. Finally, notice that the clitic lui¸ usually real-
ized [i], may merge completely with the nasal, giving it a palatal feature: des fois
on lui donnait douze [õɲdone].
4.2	 Consonants
The inventory of LF consonants, summarized in Table 5, is somewhat larger than
that of FR, comprising, in addition to all of the phonemes of this variety, three
that it does not include: the affricates /ʧ/ and /ʤ/ and the voiceless glottal fricative
/h/. The status of the palatal and velar nasals /ɲ/ and /ŋ/ is marginal, however, as
will be explained below.
The consonants of LF tend to be realized with less articulatory tension than
those of FR. One consequence of this is that voiceless stops are typically aspirated,
a phenomenon that Phillips (1936: 19) attributed to influence from English. This
view has recently received support from Russell (2009), who based his study on
our Ville Platte corpus.
4.2.1	 Affrication of stops
The dental and velar stops are subject to affrication in certain contexts. We will
first examine alveopalatal affrication before turning to dental affrication, which,
as we shall see, has a somewhat different status.
4.2.1.1	 Alveopalatal affrication. Before the glides [j] and [ɥ], the dental stops
tend to undergo affrication (cadien [kɑʤɛ̃], bon Dieu [bɔ̃ʤø], tiens [ʧɛ̃], tuer
[ʧɥe]) (cf. Chapter 9, Section 2.5.3). For most speakers these are the usual pro-
nunciations, though they typically show awareness of the non-affricated variants,
as can be seen in this exchange with elaem1 concerning the pronunciation of tuer,
Table 5.  The consonant inventory
Labial Labio-
dental
Dental Alveo-
palatal
Palatal Velar Glottal
stop unvoiced p t k
voiced b d ɡ
fricative unvoiced f s ʃ h
voiced v z ʒ
affricate unvoiced ʧ
voiced ʤ
Approximant j
Liquid l, r
Nasal m n (ɲ) (ŋ)
292	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
in which she compares her own pronunciation to that of two local radio announc-
ers – referred to as eux-autres here – who used more “educated” pronunciations
on the radio:
		 elaem1:				 On disait [ʧwe],17 eux-autres ça disait [tsɥe].18
		 Interviewer:	 Mais vous-autres disait?
		 elaem1:				 [ʧɥe]. Comme ça on a été élevés, c’est tout ça nous on a appris.
Similarly, elaca1, who, as previously explained, had studied French and was able
to read the word list aloud rather than translate from English cues delivered
orally, read diable as [djɑb] but then immediately commented in an embarrassed
whisper, as if saying something vulgar, “Of course, we say [løʤɑb]!” This incident
concisely demonstrates (1) the speaker’s awareness of a non-affricated prestige
variant, (2) the power of the written form to elicit this variant in her pronuncia-
tion, and, (3) in her commentary, the fact that the affricated variant is the com-
monly used one in Ville Platte.
The contexts for affrication of the velar stops are somewhat different; more-
over, this type of affrication is less widespread, and its effects are limited to certain
lexical items (cf. Chapter 9, Section 2.5.3). For example, /k/ > [ʧ] occurs before
/y/ and [ɥ], as well as before the high mid front vowels /e/ and /ø/ (cul [ʧy], queue
[ʧø]), but many items showing /k/ in this context appear to be excluded from
the process (e.g., calculer, que [conjunction or pronoun], piqué). Affrication of
/ɡ/ is only attested before the mid front vowels, and only in certain words. Thus
gueule and guêpe are typically realized as [ʤœl] and [ʤɛp],19 while words like
guérir, bégayer, blaguer, and blagueur are not attested with affrication anywhere
in LF.20 For this feature, too, there is a keen awareness among speakers who use
the affricated variants of the existence of non-affricated forms that are consid-
ered to be the original and more correct ones. This is illustrated in these com-
ments made by elajs1 regarding the pronunciation of queue, which he initially
pronounced [lakø]:
17.	 The glide /ɥ/ often alternates with /w/.
18.	 Note that this second pronunciation, attributed to eux-autres, is also affricated, but with a
different point of articulation. Dental affrication is discussed below.
19.	 One of our speakers, however, pronounces guêpe with no palatalization (1aajs1).
20.	We might posit that affrication of /ɡ/ is limited to monosyllables and to word-initial posi-
tion in a few isolated polysyllables. However, the attestation of forms like braguette [braʤɛt]
and dégaine [deʤɛ̃n] in Valdman et al. (2009) argues against such an analysis.
	 “Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community	 293
		 elajs1:					 Mais là ça dit [laʧø] aussi des fois.
		 Interviewer:	 Qui ça toi tu dis?
		 elajs1:					
Ah, dis proche tout le temps [laʧø]. Les plus vieux disaient
[lakø], là c’est venu à [laʧø] ça asteur.21
While the examples of alveopalatal affrication we have seen are clearly the result
of assimilation, there is nevertheless some justification for according phonemic
status to alveopalatal affricates in LF. One reason for doing so is the lexicalized
nature of affrication in words of French origin, which suggests that it is no longer
an active process and that words like queue and gueule might best be analyzed
as having two lexical entries, one with an initial velar stop and the other with
an initial alveopalatal affricate, rather than as having a single entry whose initial
segment may variably undergo affrication. Positing a single lexical entry to which
palatalization applies would require us to mark items like que, piqué and blaguer
as exceptional because they are not subject to the process. A second reason for
according phonemic status to /ʧ/ and /ʤ/ is that they are widely present in LF in
loanwords that are otherwise fully integrated phonologically, and in these words
they may occur before any vowel and are thus not linked to phonetic context: jug
[ʤɔg], tchac [ʧɑk] ‘drunk’, tchoc [ʧɔk] ‘blackbird’, tchaurisse [ʧoris] ‘spicy sausage’.
While we believe that /ʧ/ and /ʤ/ should be considered phonemes in this variety,
their phonemic status appears to be marginal in that they occur only in loanwords
or, in words of French origin, as the result of a process of affrication that is no
longer active.
4.2.1.2	 Dental assibilation. When they appear before the high front vowels /i/
and /y/, the dental stops /t/ and /d/ most frequently undergo affrication while
retaining their dental point of articulation, a process commonly referred to as
assibilation: petit [ptsi], tu [tsy], dis [dzi], du [dzy]. This feature, which was not
part of eighteenth-century Acadian French (although cf. Chapter 9, Section 2.5.2)
and therefore cannot have been brought to Louisiana by settlers exiled during the
Grand Dérangement, is rare outside of Evangeline Parish and thus serves to set
it apart from the other French-speaking regions of the state.22 It also raises the
intriguing possibility of an early but enduring influence of Laurentian French on
the French of Evangeline Parish, which did receive settlers from Quebec. How-
ever, based on the historical record showing that many of the earliest settlers of
21.	 But people say [laʧø] sometimes. –What do you say? –Ah, most of the time I say [laʧø]. The
older people said [lakø], it’s become [laʧø] now.
22.	 It does, however, occur in the French creoles, including that of Louisiana (Neumann
1985: 90).
294	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
Evangeline Parish were French soldiers who arrived via Fort Toulouse in Ala-
bama (Brasseaux 2005: 103–104), in combination with Poirier’s (2009) demon-
stration that assibilation must have existed in seventeenth-century France, Russell
(2009: 26–30) suggests that the feature owes its existence in Louisiana at least in
part to settlers who came from France rather than from Quebec.
Assibilation is very much an active process in the French of Ville Platte, and
unlike their alveopalatal counterparts, the dental affricates [ts] and [dz] do not
have phonemic status but are properly considered allophones of /t/ and /d/.
4.2.2	 Other features of stops
Before we close this discussion of stops, we note a few additional phenomena of
interest. First, as in many parts of the francophone world, LF features a final /t/
in words that do not have it in FR: icitte, aussitte, juillet [ʒyljɛt]. Second, in a few
words /k/ may alternate with /t/. Thus the relative subject pronoun (but not the in-
terrogative) qui is often realized as [ti], and quelque is sometimes realized as [kɛt]:
dans les soixante et quelques [swɑsɑ̃tekɛt], quelque chose [kɛtʃɔz]. Finally, the word
septembre frequently takes the form [sɛktɑ̃m], in which [p] is replaced by [k].
4.2.3	 Fricatives
Certain words feature an alveopalatal fricative in FR but occur in Ville Platte
French with the corresponding dental fricative, and vice-versa: chez [se], juste
[zys] ~ [ʒys] ~ [ʒyʃ], sécher [ʃese], sauvage [ʃovɑʒ], chemise [ʃmiʒ]. While the
last four examples are common throughout francophone Louisiana, chez [se] is a
hallmark pronunciation of Evangeline Parish and not widely attested elsewhere.
In rapid speech the consonant of the 1 sg. subject pronoun becomes dental and
assimilates in voicing to the following consonant: je dis [əzdi], je crois [skrwɑ].
The voiceless alveopalatal fricative of the forms of acheter where it occurs inter-
vocalically (achète, achètera, etc.) is voiced in LF: j’achète [ʒaʒɛt].
The glottal fricative /h/, which is an inheritance from the varieties of French
brought to Louisiana during the colonial period and is not attributable to influ-
ence from English, occurs in words that have ‘aspirate’ h in FR: hâche [hɑʃ], haut
[ho], honte [hɔ̃t] (but: haricots [zɑriko]).
4.2.4	 Glides
LF has the same glides as FR: [j], [ɥ], and [w]. All three can be derived from their
corresponding high vowel when it appears before another vowel: hier /iɛr/ > [jɛr],
huit /yit/ > [ɥit], croire /kruɑr/ > [krwɑr]. Unlike [ɥ] and [w], however, [j] can also
occur in the coda of a syllable: paille [paj]. In this position, it cannot plausibly be
derived from /i/ and is therefore best recognized as a distinct phoneme.
	 “Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community	 295
4.2.5	 Liquids
The /r/ of Ville Platte French, as in most of francophone Louisiana, is an apicoal-
veolar tap.23 It is often weakened and sometimes dropped in syllable codas, ei-
ther medially before a consonant or word-finally: arbre [ɑrb] ~ [ɑb], pour [pur] ~
[pu], toujours [tuʒur] ~ [tuʒu]. As noted in Section 4.1, when maintained, it has a
marked opening effect on a preceding /e/ or /ɛ/, which is typically realized as [æ]
in this context: hier [jær], frère [frær].
The lateral liquid /l/ is usually dropped in the word quelque [kɛk] and the
adverb plus [py] used negatively, and it is also absent from the name of the month
avril [avri]. Note, however, its realization in juillet [ʒyljɛt].
As explained in Section 4.2.7 below, the liquids /r/ and /l/ are nearly always
deleted word-finally when part of a consonant cluster.
4.2.6	 Nasals
The palatal nasal /ɲ/ is not attested in this form in our corpus. In most instances
it is realized as [j], with strong nasalization of the preceding vowel, and some-
times of [j] and even of the following vowel, as well: espagnol [ɛspɑ̃jɔl] (elaem1),
baignoire [bɛ̃j̃wɑr] (elaca1), compagnie [kɑ̃pɔ̃je/ɛ̃] (with slight nasalization of the
final vowel) (elaca1), campagne [kɔ̃pɔ̃j̃] (elaca1). Other realizations of etymologi-
cal /ɲ/ include [nj], [n], and [ŋ], the latter being limited to word-final position:
espagnol [ɛspɑ̃njɔl] (elaca1), magnifique [mɑ̃nifik] (elafs1), ligne [liŋ] (elafs1).
While [j] or [j̃] are possible realizations of /ɲ/ word-finally, [n] and [ŋ] are more
common.
In addition to being a possible reflex of /ɲ/, the velar nasal [ŋ] results from as-
similation of a word-final /ɡ/ preceded by a nasal vowel (langue [lɑ̃ŋ]). This sound
is also present in English loanwords.
Note that in the verb venir, /v/ in contact with /n/ assimilates to [m]: [mnir].
4.2.7	 Final consonants
The simplification of what in FR are word-final consonant clusters comprising
an obstruent followed by a liquid is systematic in LF, except when the following
word begins with a vowel: quatre [kɑt], imaginable [imɑʒinɑb], simple [sɛ̃p], cercle
[særk], but quatre ans [kɑtrɑ̃], quatre arbres [kɑtrɑb]. The presence of the liquid
in prevocalic contexts like [kɑtrɑ̃] as well as in derivationally related words like
quatrième shows that speakers have knowledge of the variation. It is unclear, how-
ever, whether they interpret the [r] as belonging to the first word or the second,
23.	 See Section 2.4.2 for uvular [ʁ] in some parts of Louisiana.
296	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
for which they may in fact have two lexical representations (arbre, rarbre),24 the
second one originating from the presence of a linking /r/. This ambiguity is evi-
dent in the results of an exercise that we have integrated into the PFC proto-
col for Louisiana, in which we ask participants to count to ten using a variety of
vowel-initial words, including ans, année, arbre, enfant, école, and several others,
in order to elicit sequences like un arbre, deux arbres, trois arbres, quatre arbres,
etc. In the case of elaem1 counting with the noun arbre, she produced the follow-
ing sequence: [ɛ̃nɑrb], [døzɑrb], [trwɑzɑrb], [kɑtrɑb], [sɛ̃kɑb], [sisɑb], [sɛtɑb],
[ɥitrɑb], [nœfɑb], [disrɑb], the form [rɑrb] being clearly triggered by the context
quatre (and also huit, probably through hypercorrection based on the mistak-
en assumption that the final /t/ resulted from simplification of what was origi-
nally a /tr/ cluster; it is less clear what may have triggered her pronunciation of
[disrɑb]). Then, apparently uncertain of the forms she had used, she immediately
asked, “[rɑb] ou [ɑb], tu veux”? When we answered, “[ɑrb],” she then produced
the series as follows: [ɛ̃nɑb], [døɑb], [trwɑɑb], [kɑtɑb], [sɛ̃kɑb], [sisɑb], [sɛtɑb],
[ɥitɑb], [nœfɑb], [disɑb]. While the initial series she produced suggests she has
more than one lexical representation of quatre (and possibly of huit, as well), her
question, as well as her ability to reproduce the series without any [r] before [ɑb],
suggests that she treats [rɑb] and [ɑrb] as distinct forms.
When a word-final voiced stop follows a nasal vowel, it is replaced by a hom-
organic nasal consonant: langue [lɑ̃ŋ], blonde [blɔ̃n], jambe [ʒɑ̃m]. This occurs
most frequently when the stop becomes word-final through deletion of a follow-
ing liquid: fondre [fɔ̃n], prendre [prɑ̃n], novembre [novɑ̃m], chambre [ʃɑ̃m].
The three words in the Louisiana protocol featuring a potential final /kt/ clus-
ter systematically show simplification through deletion of the /t/, except in the
speech of elaca1, the only speaker to read the word list: exact [eɡzɑk], correct
[korɛk], (il) infecte [ɛ̃fɛk].25 As in the case of words like quatre, however, the de-
leted consonant is present in derivationally or inflectionally related words: exacte-
ment [ɛɡzaktəmɑ̃], infecter [ɛ̃fɛkte].
24.	See Section 6 where the same phenomenon appears in liaison context and where it seems
legitimate to posit lexical entries with an initial [z].
25.	 It is instructive to contrast elaca1’s pronunciation of these items with her pronunciation
of quatre in all the numbers in which it appeared on the word list (4, 24, 34, etc.): in these
instances the items were not written out, and she never pronounced the /r/ in final position.
When she was done reading the list, we used verbal cues to elicit exact and correct from her
again, this time without the written words in front of her; although she once again pronounced
[ɛɡzɑkt], she did not realize the final consonant of correct: [korɛk].
	 “Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community	 297
5.	 Schwa in LF
Leaving aside the representation of the vowel, there remain two general domains
which need to be addressed in any description of schwa, namely its phonetic qual-
ity and its behavior in an utterance. While the quality of schwa in FR is most often
assimilated to that of [ø] or [œ] (inter alii Dell 1973 in his classic work), recent
studies (e.g., Bürki et al. 2008) show that schwa may be endowed with a specific
vowel quality. This is certainly true of LF where schwa alternates with [i] and [e]
when stressed26 (Lyche 1995a). (1) provides a few typical examples:
	 (1)	 Allophonic variation for schwa
		 chemise	 [ʃəmiz]		 [ʃimiz]
		 petit			 [pəti]			 [piti]
		 venir			 [vənir]		 [vinir]
		 venait		 [vəne]		 [vene]
When stressed, schwa is affected by an assimilation process, and the vowel is real-
ized as either [i] or [e], with [ø] appearing as well, for example in [dødɑ̃] in ça, ça
tient dedans. The general distribution of schwa brings forth a further particularity
in LF, shared with Québec French (Auger & Villeneuve 2007), but absent from
FR: a schwa may be present syllable initially in the clitics le, je or in words whose
initial syllables include the prefix re (see 5.2 for a discussion).
	 (2)	 Initial schwa
		 Va voir dessus le [el] gros CEDAR CHEST
		 Le [ɛl] monde allait chez quelqu’un d’autre
		 Je [əʒ] me rappelle plus
		 Mais je [əʒ] trouvais ça drôle
Apart from this specific phenomenon, the distribution of schwa reflects what is
observed in other varieties of French: schwa appears in clitics and in word-initial
and medial syllables. It is not present word-finally, however, even when the fol-
lowing word contains a realized onset. This comes as no surprise given the mas-
sive dropping of final consonants in clusters that we described in 4.2.4.
Regarding schwa alternation with Ø, LF follows the general pattern. The pres-
ence of schwa depends on the phonotactic context: when schwa is preceded by
two consonants (either CC_ or C#C_) where the first C is not a rhotic (pour l(e)
faire), it surfaces regularly (autrement, quinz(e) de décembre). It is variable when
26.	See Section 7 for stress in LF.
298	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
preceded by a single consonant, although it is mostly absent in this environment.
The following sub-sections will be devoted to contexts where schwa is variable.
5.1	 Schwa in monosyllables
In most varieties of French, nine monosyllabic words may contain a schwa: je, te,
me, se, le, ce, que, de, ne. In LF, with the absence of the particle ne, eight clitics are
used with a somewhat lower degree of frequency from what is observed in FR: que
as a relative and as a complementizer is often omitted (je pense ‘A.’ était pas là) and
the determiner, usually present, is not systematically required (et vieux docteur
A.V.; ça faisait récolte). In addition to these simple omissions which reduce the
sheer number of clitics found in the data, other syntactic peculiarities strengthen
this tendency. LF generally limits to two the number of contiguous clitics (là, je
le mets dedans). Strings of three clitics, common in FR (je te le demande), are not
attested. Moreover, schwa has been eliminated from a number of adverbial locu-
tions of quantity. For example beaucoup de, un tas de, trop de, and assez de are
realized as beaucoup des, un tas des, trop des, and assez des when followed by a
plural (un tas des gens). Finally, LF sometimes uses compounds where FR would
need a prepositional phrase (LF farine maïs vs. FR farine de maïs). The determiner
ce rarely occurs, which is probably equally true of other varieties of French and
cannot be regarded as a peculiarity of LF.
These restrictions on the distribution of clitics aside, little differentiates schwa
behavior in LF from FR. Schwa is overwhelmingly absent in the corpus as illus-
trated in (3).
	 (3)	 Clitic pronouns
		 J(e) crois pas j’ai compris
		 C’est m(e) donner
		 Si eux-autres s(e) rappelleraient, j(e) pense pas
		 Ça s(e) faisait de l’argent
		 Il faut tu l(e) fais quelque sorte de manière
		 Tu as personne icitte pour l(e) faire
		 Là j(e) commence à l(e) décoller
The striking element here is not the phonetic context allowing the absence of
schwa, but rather the regularity of the process. Schwa is for example (quasi) sys-
tematically absent when the subject pronoun stands alone or precedes another
clitic as in (4).
	 “Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community	 299
	 (4)	 Contiguous clitics
		 J(e) le mets dedans
		 Il cuit, j(e) le brasse
		 J(e) me rappelle pas d(e) ça,27 j(e) m(e) rappelle pas d(e) ça
As mentioned above, contiguous clitics do not exceed two tokens in LF and when
the first one is je, by far the most common case, the pronoun is systematically
reduced to [ʒ] (j(e) le couvre [ʒløkuv]).28 Clitic doubling is frequent in LF, but it
does not always indicate emphasis or contrast, as illustrated by this example from
Rottet (2001: 145): “…lui il était iné sus Terrebone et mon j’ai ité inée sus Lafour-
che. Et j’ai tout le temps resté dans la Paroisse Terrebone do. […] Drette après que
mon j’sutais inée, ma mame et mon pape a délogé au Bayou du Large.” As Rottet
observes, there is a clear contrast in the first two instances of doubling, but not in
après que mon j’sutais inée ‘after I was born’ where mon does not seem to express
emphasis or contrast. Our data concur with this observation. We notice moreover
that, in this context as well, the subject clitic, when realized, is reduced to the
onset consonant: mon, j(e) l’amenais chez le docteur. In FR, after the dislocated
pronoun moi, the clitic je easily maintains its schwa, as a quick search of the PFC
database confirms: schwa surfaces in nearly 50 percent of the occurrences in this
context in the northern regions of France (69 tokens with schwa and 85 without
schwa). We can hypothesize from our data that the clitic subject pronoun je is
eminently weak in LF, partially due to the quasi systematic absence of the vowel,
and that this lack of salience may account as well for the possible omission of the
pronoun: mon rappelle pas. The intrinsic prosodic weakness of the clitic would
also explain why mon je does not always signal emphasis or contrast, and tends to
overtake the default functions of je.29
Due to prosodic and informational factors, clitic pronouns exhibit much less
variation than other grammatical clitics. We start in (5) with determiners where
schwa is usually absent.
27.	 Auger & Villeneuve (2007) contrast Quebec French and FR (as detailed in Delattre 1966)
for the string je me. They point out that in Quebec French and similarly to our own observa-
tions for LF, the schwa in je is absent while Delattre posits the opposite (je m(e), but also je l(e)).
We searched the PFC database for Paris (upper-class speakers) and found for the string je me
results that totally concur with the Louisiana (and therefore Quebec) data and thereby contra-
dict Delattre’s observations.
28.	In Quebec French on the other hand, je l(e) appears as the default form (Auger &
Villeneuve 2007).
29.	Although this phenomenon deserves further attention, it seems that the emphatic form is
best expressed as je VERB PHRASE mon: je rappelle pas de ça, mon [ʒərapɛlpadsa mõ].
300	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
	 (5)	 Determiners
		 a.	 En bas c(e) pont ça
			 A la maison l(e) soir
			 Et l(e) lendemain matin
		 b.	 dans l(e) clos
			 dans l(e) gym ça nous faisait rentrer
			 j’étais tout l(e) temps la main droite
		 c.	 C’est l(e) cinq de septembre
			 L(e) premier décembre dans 48
		 d.	 Lui, il a né le sept, octobre le sept
			 Il a fait 52, le vingt-deux de décembre
			 Peut-être, peut-être le premier [pøtɛləprømje]
		 e.	 je l’ai ramené ici dans l/ dans le ALBUM-là
			 Tu as pas besoin d’user le POTATO MASHER
(5a) shows quite standard examples where schwa is not present in the context
V#C_. In (5b), the determiner is located within a prosodic unit and schwa is typi-
cally absent. The only factor that could induce a schwa in contexts similar to (5a)
or (5b) would be hesitation or emphasis. Following usage grammar (Bybee 2001),
we consider that the locution tout le temps in (5b) is internalized by the speaker as
a chunk [tultɑ̃] where le has lost its autonomous grammatical constituency. (5c)
and (5d) show different behaviors in similar contexts, and we suspect that the
differences may be explained by the interplay of prosodic and functional effects.
From a functional perspective, the introduction of numerals, more specifically in
dates, favors the presence of schwa when new information is given at the outset
of a rheme, as exemplified in (5d). In these examples, the presence of schwa is
reinforced by the prosodic structure, since the determiner appears at the left edge
of a larger prosodic unit where faithfulness constraints usually intervene (Smith
2005). The two factors combined are instrumental in requiring the presence of
the vowel (Lacheret & Lyche 2008). In (5c), c’est l(e) cinq de septembre, the deter-
miner is nested within a phonological phrase30 and therefore prosodically weak-
er; in this instance, prosodic weakness appears to override the functional factor.
Such is not the case in the following example, L(e) premier décembre dans 48
[lprømje], where phonotactics (the heavy initial [lpr] cluster created by the ab-
sence of schwa), prosody (the sentence-initial position of the determiner), and
functional considerations (the introduction of a date) would all lead us to pre-
dict the realization of schwa. Its non-realization in this context suggests that the
behavior of schwa, while influenced by these factors, is not fully determined by
30.	The phonological phrase (Nespor & Vogel 1986) is the domain of primary stress in
French.
	 “Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community	 301
them and in fact displays a certain degree of variability.31 Finally, the presence
of schwa in (5e) can be fully attributed to prosodic factors: the words album and
potato masher are clearly inserted into the conversation as foreign words. They are
preceded by a slight pause as in a quotation, in which case the realization of schwa
is entirely predictable.
We will now conclude our section on schwa in monosyllables with the clitic
de, quite frequent in the corpus, and which shows a similar behavior to what we
have outlined for the determiner. The clitic de in French fulfills two functions,
that of a determiner and that of a preposition. In the partitive determiner, schwa
is not realized (je mets d(e) la farine maïs), regardless of the left context as in faire
d(e) l’argent, or even utterance initially: c’était peut-être …d(e) l’air fallait pomper
[stɛptɛt] … [dlærfalepõpe]. On the other hand, it is variable in the preposition
as in (6).
	 (6)	 The preposition de
		 a.	 Je rappelle pas d(e) ça
			 Un bon bout d(e) temps
			 Je fais un pain d(e) maïs [pɛ̃nmai]32
			 Je l’ai quitté finir d(e) crever
		 b.	 et je mets un peu de sucre, un peu d(e) sel
			 sont venus au bout de, de tout mourir
(6a) corresponds to what we observed in (5b) (tout l(e) temps) where, due to fre-
quency factors, schwa is systematically omitted. When the preposition introduces
an argument of the verb as in finir de crever, the vowel does not usually surface
either. (6b) shows an instance of true variation within identical phonetic contexts,
but we suspect that the nouns do not carry a heavy functional load in opposition
to (5d), where the schwa surfaces. Finally, the last example in (6b) reflects the
impact of speech rate, and hesitation caused by discourse planning, on schwa
retention.
Summing up this section on schwa in monosyllables, we underline the high
level of schwa absence compared to FR. We see similar forces at work (impact
of the functional load, frequency effect), but it seems that the structure of the
prosodic unit within which the schwa is not realized is much more stable in LF
than it is in FR. As Auger & Villeneuve (2007) point out for Quebec French, per-
sonal pronouns and other grammatical clitics vary in their behavior and do not
31.	 From a functional perspective, we might argue that the absence of schwa in (5c) is attribut-
able to a lower functional load associated with the introduction of dates in these contexts than
in those illustrated in (5d), but the evidence for such an analysis is not compelling.
32.	 The nasal vowel triggers a nasal assimilation (see Section 4.1)
302	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
constitute a single class. We saw that a tight prosodic connection to the host (as
in pronouns and the determiner) favors the absence of schwa, which culminates
in the first person pronoun je. Other grammatical clitics on the other hand, carry
functional loads that contribute to the observed retention of schwa. This dichoto-
my deserves further attention and should be the topic of a separate study.
5.2	 Schwa in polysyllables
Three word positions should be considered: word-initial, word-internal and word-
final. Word-internal and word-final schwas do not show a specific behavior in LF;
they are absent from the corpus. Word-final schwas do not appear in the context
CC_#C since final cluster simplification takes place overwhelmingly, thus elimi-
nating a possible insertion site. We will then concentrate on word-initial schwas,
which seem to follow the same principles as in most varieties of French. The ques-
tion of schwa in polysyllables is, however, a tricky one, as close examination of the
data reveals a large number of schwas not always perceptible to an untrained ear,
thus requiring an acoustic analysis. After considering these schwas that we will
call for the time being intrusive schwas, we will turn to the most classical case.
When we examine our speaker elaem1, we notice that she regularly breaks up
obstruent + liquid clusters with the help of a schwa (creuse [kərøz], blanc [bəlɑ̃).
This vowel is clearly a phonetic schwa with nearly prototypical formant values:
F1 590 Hz, F2 1669 Hz and F3 2539 Hz. Blainey (2009) shows that the phenom-
enon is widespread in the Ville Platte corpus, but it remains to be seen whether
this vowel is a bona fide schwa or whether it stems from the articulation of /r/, a
dental tap in LF. A complete acoustic analysis, beyond the scope of this chapter,
might prove helpful as we can hypothesize that if the epenthetic vowel is to be
analyzed as a bona fide schwa, it should show a wide range of phonetic values as
in (1). The acoustic values that we have measured closely cluster around typical
schwa values, but they are too few to be conclusive. The short duration of the
vowel (2 ms) is equally inconclusive since a realized schwa can be very short. It
should be noted however that these epenthetic schwas are consistently short, their
duration being about a third of what we observe for surrounding vowels, while
the length of normal schwa varies a lot in our data. To sum up, both the formant
values and vowel duration point to an autonomous segment, although further
analyses need to be carried out.
Spanish is well known for hosting a similar phenomenon already described
by Malmberg (1963). In certain varieties of Spanish, an intrusive schwa appears
between an obstruent and an alveolar liquid flap (/ɾ/) (tigre) and sometimes be-
	 “Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community	 303
tween an obstruent and a lateral alveolar (Inglaterra).33 The phonological nature
of the vowel is contested as some studies (Massone 1988; Guiaro & Garcia 1991)
argue that the vowel is the result of co-articulation. Navarro (1963), on the other
hand, sees an epenthetic vowel which can develop into a full vowel, and he de-
scribes the phenomenon as unconscious. Ramirez (2006) presents an in-depth
acoustic and perceptual study that shows that listeners react to manipulation of
the vowel (shortening or deletion), thus suggesting that it is perceived by native
speakers. Interestingly, in his description of the Spanish svarabatic vowel, Ramirez
points out that the vowel length is about a third of the surrounding vowels, and
that the dental /t, d/ exhibit the highest insertion rate. These two observations
concur with our data: we already mentioned that in LF the intrusive vowel was
much shorter than the surrounding vowels, and Blainey (2009) gives the highest
insertion rate (74 percent and 100 percent) for /t/ and /d/, respectively. We might
be dealing here with a similar phenomenon.
In order to pursue our reflection on the theoretical status of the vowel, we
considered three speakers from Douzens who show a conservative Midi French
variety,34 where the rhotic is either an alveolar flap or an alveolar trill, and speak-
ers in Domfront (Normandy), where similarly to the Douzens corpus, older
speakers maintain an alveolar tap, completely eliminated in the speech of younger
generations. The realizations of the obstruent + liquid clusters are equally prone
to intrusive schwa among these speakers, although the phenomenon is limited
in scope. The figures below (copied from Praat) illustrate an intrusive schwa in
Douzens (Figure 1) and LF (Figures 2 and 3).
The acoustic data thus converge in the varieties of French that maintain a
(dento‑)alveolar tap.35 The LF variety differs however from hexagonal varieties in
that the intrusive schwa may develop into a full vowel (as suggested for Spanish
by Navarro 1963) in LF, mostly word-initially as in ertouner where an initial vowel
is pronounced. Lyche (1995b) argues in those cases against a metathesis process
and proposes to account both for intrusive and word-initial schwas as epenthesis
triggered by the acoustic properties of /r/ and more specifically its high sonor-
ity. The data under consideration support this analysis, but lead us to distinguish
33.	 There are many fewer instances of insertion with a fricative (Ramirez 2006).
34.	 The speakers are: 11ajp1, 11aal1 and 11aml1. We are grateful to Julien Eychenne for sug-
gesting which speakers should be analyzed.
35.	 Colantoni & Steele (2005) find intrusive schwas in similar contexts among speakers of Que-
bec French who show a uvular /ʁ/. It seems however much more restricted than what can be
observed in Spanish. The question of the relationship between the phonetic characteristics of
the rhotic and the presence of intrusive schwa deserves further attention. The PFC database
should provide an excellent testing ground for in-depth studies.
304	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
between a phonetic process where the presence of schwa is part and parcel of
the realization of /r/ (and therefore not consciously uttered by the speaker) and
a phonological process where a vowel is clearly uttered and may stabilize as in
erpasser (FR repasser), which is the only form appearing in the corpus regardless
of the phonetic environment.36
Intrusive schwa aside, initial syllables of polysyllables do not display any spe-
cific behavior. Schwa is nearly systematically absent after /r/ (prefix or not) (quand
je suis r(e)venue, des r(e)passages), but not otherwise (qu’ c’est qu’est dev(e)nu
d’elle). Within certain phonetic contexts, an initial schwa may drop even when
36.	 Note that intrusive schwa cannot be used as an argument for a CVCV approach (Scheer
2004) since it does not affect all clusters in the same way, and since epenthesis creates VC syl-
lables. The phonetic approach is strengthened by the behavior of /r/ in creoles (Nikiema 2002)
and in varieties of French in regular contact with creoles (Bordal 2006). In Reunion French, /r/
in coda position is often reduced to a schwa if it does not drop altogether (Bordal 2006).
104
8000
6000
4000
2000
0
p @ ra?
0.2
0.1
0
Freq.
(Hz)
p @ ra~
Figure 1.  prend (contact) 11ajp1, PFC-text
d@ r@ di
va^
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
104
8000
6000
4000
2000
0
Freq.
(Hz)
Figure 2.  vendredi, elaem1
@
g ro
0.2
0.1
0
104
8000
6000
4000
2000
0
Freq.
(Hz)
Figure 3.  gros, elaem1 (trois gros hommes)
	 “Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community	 305
preceded by two consonants as in et j(e) m(e)sure pas rien [ɛʒmzyrparjɛ̃]. Similar-
ly to monosyllables, polysyllables are sensitive to prosodic structure, and a schwa
may appear when a constituent bears focus stress, as in j’ai mis ça dedans un livre
where the preposition dans would have sufficed, or in instances of hesitation, dis-
course planning: j’ai travaillé dedans euh…, ah elle a né dedans, dans 48. Dedans,
as a preposition or adverb, is frequent in our corpus and its pronunciation subject
to substantial variation. A closer study of the data reveals that when dedans is an
argument of the verb, and therefore has close syntactic ties to its head, the syllable
is schwa-less, otherwise schwa tends to be realized: là je le mets d(e)dans, mets du
lait d(e)dans aussi vs. ça, ça tient dedans.
6.	 Liaison
Recent studies on liaison (e.g., Durand & Lyche 2008) have unveiled its limited
use in daily exchanges in France, where categorical liaisons are restricted to Det +
Noun and clitic + Verb, although liaison is nearly categorical between Adj + Noun
and between certain monosyllabic prepositions + X. All other contexts trigger
optional liaison which is statistically modest in scope, varying from item to item:
for example, in the northern part of France, Durand & Lyche (2008), for a similar
number of tokens, count no liaison after avait and 5.35 percent after (c’)était. Their
study points to receding liaison usage in FR, and similar tendencies are observed
in European varieties of French. When we leave Europe for other continents, these
tendencies intensify (see Bordal & Lyche 2008, for four African countries), an ob-
servation confirmed by our data. Liaison in LF is mostly confined to its function
as a plural marker: Det + Noun (il est mort il y a pas trop des [z]années), clitic +
Verb (un soir Mam nous [z]a dit; comment elle les [z]appelle asteur). This par-
ticular role is enhanced by two facts: (i) there is no liaison between an adjective
and a contiguous noun unless the noun is plural (des petites [z]affaires vs. c’était
un bon | éduqueur; un gros, gros | homme); (ii) numbers are followed by liaison
when they indicate a plural but not otherwise. As noted in Section 4.2.6, we asked
our speakers to count from one to ten (une école, deux écoles, etc.), and numbers
overwhelmingly trigger liaison (cinq [z]écoles, sept [z]écoles, but not with heures
or ans (il a cinq ans [sɛ̃kɑ̃], il est cinq heures [sɛ̃kœr]). With heures, we record
both forms, with forward linking (enchaînement), and with liaison: with standard
forward linking when the speaker gives the time, with plural liaison when the
speaker indicates a length of time (la fait ça en cinq [z]heures de temps).
In certain nouns, commonly used in their plural form, the fricative has be-
come agglutinated to the noun, a common process in Creole (Klingler 2003): venir
306	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
avec un zoie dedans un sac. A number of such nouns are recorded in the Diction-
ary of Louisiana Creole (Valdman et al. 2010) under the letter z. From a theoretical
point of view these forms are interesting because they support the claim that the
liaison consonant is not part of word 1, as for example a floating consonant (see
Encrevé 1988 among others), but part of word 2. Whether we are dealing with a
prefix (Morin 1983) or an insertion (Côté 2005a), the plural marker is liable to
fuse with the noun, giving rise to a new entry.
Aside from [z], the most frequent liaison consonant is [n]: en [n]hiver, on [n]a
été à l’école, j’en [n]attrapais un, y a jamais un [n]œuf. In all these cases, liaison is
categorical. Variable liaison is quasi inexistent, appearing only after the auxiliary
est (est | arrivé vs. est [t]arrivé). In the progressive locution est après on the other
hand, liaison is systematic [ɛtapɛ] (le soleil qui est après se coucher [ɛtapɛskuʃe]
elafs1) when the copula is realized. LF seems to have eliminated variable liaison
while categorical liaison does not show any sign of weakening.
7.	 Prosody
Prosody plays a major role in the perception of foreign accent (e.g., Boula de
Mareüil & Vieru-Dimulescu 2006), and a number of studies demonstrate how it
is permeable to contact-induced change (see for example Bullock 2009 and refer-
ences therein). Recall that all our speakers acquired French as a first language, but
that French has long surrendered most of its social functions to English, which
is now the dominant language for our subjects. The segmental level does not dis-
play signs of transfer from English,37 but the stress and intonation patterns of our
speakers differ considerably from the FR patterns and therefore may originate
from the impact of lasting contact with English. FR is characterized by group
stress with a demarcative function (the final prominence signaling the right edge
of the prosodic group), while English is a typical lexical stress language where
stress plays a contrastive role (e.g., Lacheret-Dujour & Beaugendre 1999). In our
data, all our speakers produce lexical stress, and if a sharp increase in the F0 is a
reliable correlate to stress,38 stress falls mostly on the last syllable of a lexical word,
as in Figure 4.
37.	 French, on the other hand, directly impacts the pronunciation of certain sounds, and espe-
cially the dental fricatives, which are often realized as dental plosives.
38.	 For the correlation of stress perception and acoustic realizations, see Cutler (2005). French
stress is usually associated with the combination of several factors: rise in F0, vowel length and
to a lesser extent increase in intensity (Lacheret-Dujour & Beaugendre 1999).
	 “Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community	 307
In the pitch contour displayed in Figure 4, every sharp rise of the F0 cor-
responds to the last syllable of a word (ailleurs, avant, premier, mariée). A final
rise very often indicates the end of a prosodic group where in FR we would have
expected a fall (cf. Delattre’s (1966) finality contour). Figure 5 illustrates the same
phenomenon.
In addition to this recurrent prosodic contour associated with final lexical
stress, initial stress occurs regularly in the data. Conwell & Juilland (1963) ob-
serve that the position of stress is more unstable in LF than in FR. Non final
stress is common, usually for expressing emphasis, but also in normal discourse:
je m’ai mariée [ʒmaˈmarije]. As seen in (1), one effect of initial stress is to modify
the quality of schwa (petit [ˈpiti]). Both strategies converge in insuring that the
domain of stress in LF is the lexical word and not a concatenation of words as in
FR, and that stress clash is a characteristic of this variety as exemplified by the
common Cajun phrase laissez les ˈbonsˈtemps rouler.
Time (s)
970.7
968.1
Pitch
(Hz)
75
500
968.142092
Figure 4.  (ai resté) ailleurs avant en premier j’étais mariée (elamv1)
308	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
8.	 Conclusion
As described here, the phonological system of the French of Ville Platte bears the
marks of its origins in popular and regional varieties of French (metropolitan
and possibly Laurentian, with less clear influence from Acadian than some other
Louisiana varieties) and of more recent historical developments that have shaped
its trajectory, including intensive contact with English and a decline in its number
of speakers and domains of use. Like other peripheral varieties of French, it is
conservative in the sense that it retains a number of features, such as the glottal
fricative /h/ and an apical /r/, that were once widespread in France but have long
since been eliminated from FR. Other features, such as the front rounded nasal
vowel [œ̃] and the low back vowel [ɑ], appear at first to conserve distinctions
that are increasingly unstable in FR, but upon closer examination we see that
these vowels are in fact allophones and do not contrast with [ɛ̃] (except in the
pair brin ~ brun) or [a], respectively. In other respects, far from being conserva-
tive, the French of Ville Platte presents characteristics of français avancé in that
it has regularized, or nearly so, evolutionary tendencies apparent in colloquial
metropolitan French, such as the simplification of word-final obstruent + liquid
clusters and the reanalysis of the /z/ of liaison as a plural marker on vowel-initial
nouns. Influence from English, though pervasive, is most notable in the prosodic
domain, clearly influencing stress patterns and intonation.
Time (s)
–
–
–
–1
–2
–3
–4 –
2113.30601
2115
2113
75
500
Pitch
(Hz)
Figure 5.  et on lavait (elaem1)
	 “Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community	 309
Our corpus-based study of the French of Ville Platte provides a more detailed
description of the phonology of LF than has previously been available and, we
hope, paves the way for further research on LF using PFC data. It is important to
emphasize, however, that what we have presented here is a snapshot of the pho-
nology of one francophone group whose membership is narrowly circumscribed,
both geographically and socially: older white speakers raised in and around the
town of Ville Platte, Louisiana. Because it does not seek to observe phonological
behavior in real or apparent time, our study is also static in nature and can only
hint at the dynamic processes currently underway.39 Part and parcel of ongoing
language decline, the dearth of younger speakers makes intergenerational studies
that could track change through apparent time increasingly difficult to conduct,
while the limited availability of phonological data on earlier generations of speak-
ers poses an obstacle to studies of change in real time.40 Expanding the PFC in
Louisiana to include other ethnic groups (African Americans and Indians) and
other regions is very much within our reach, however, and promises to give us a
fuller panorama of the phonology of French in this unusual corner of the franco-
phone world.41
References
Acosta Rodriguez, Antonio. 1979. La población de Luisiana Española (1763–1803). Madrid:
Ministerio de Asuntos Exteriores. Dirección General de Relaciones Culturales.
Auger, Julie, and Anne-José Villeneuve. 2007. L’épenthèse vocalique et les clitiques en français
québécois. GLOTTOPOL 9: 49–65. www.univ-rouen.fr/dyalang/glottopol.
Blainey, Darcy. 2009. Schwa behaviour in the Louisiana Regional French of Ville Platte. Paper
presented at the South Eastern Conference On Linguistics (SECOL LXXVI), April 8–10,
New Orleans, Louisiana.
Bordal, Guri. 2006. Traces de la créolisation dans un français régional: le cas du/R/. M.A. thesis,
University of Oslo. www.projet-pfc.net.
39.	 Rottet (2001), Dubois (2005), and Salmon (2009) examine the evolution of several features
of Louisiana French over time. None of these studies includes Evangeline Parish.
40.	Some data from earlier generations do exist, however, and as illustrated by the studies cited
in footnote 37, they can indeed shed some light on linguistic change in LF. For the French of
Evangeline Parish, two early studies exist: Phillips (1936) for the early twentieth century and
Hamlett (1954) for the French of African Americans in the mid-twentieth century.
41.	 Darcie Blainey recently completed a set of PFC interviews in Lafourche Parish as part of her
PhD research at Tulane University.
310	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
Bordal, Guri, and Chantal Lyche. 2008. La liaison en terre africaine. Paper presented at the
conference Phonologie du français contemporain: variation, interfaces, cognition, 11–13 De-
cember, Paris. www.projet-pfc.net.
Boula de Mareüil, Philippe, and Bianca Vieru-Dimulescu. 2006. The contribution of prosody to
the perception of foreign accent. Phonetica 63: 1–21.
Brasseaux, Carl A. 1987. The founding of new Acadia: The beginnings of Acadian life in Louisi-
ana, 1765–1803. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press.
Brasseaux, Carl A. 1992. Acadian to Cajun: Transformation of a people, 1803–1877. Jackson:
University Press of Mississippi.
Brasseaux, Carl A. 2005. French, Cajun, Creole, Houma: A primer on Francophone Louisiana.
Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press.
Bullock, Barbara E. 2009. Prosody in contact in French: A case study from a heritage variety in
the USA. International Journal of Bilingualism 13: 165–194.
Bürki, Audrey, Isabelle Racine, Helene N. Andreassen, Cécile Fougeron, and Ulrich H. Frauen-
felder. 2008. Timbre du schwa en français et variation régionale: une étude comparative.
Journées d’Etudes sur la Parole (JEP’08), Université d’Avignon, Avignon, 9–13 June 2008.
Bybee, Joan. 2001. Phonology and language use. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Byers, Bruce. 1988. Defining norms for a non-standardized language: A study of verb and pro-
noun variation in Cajun French. PhD diss., Indiana University, Bloomington.
Carmichael, Katie. 2007. Gender differences in the substitution of /h/ for /ʒ/ in a formal register
of an endangered dialect of Louisiana French. Southern Journal of Linguistics 31: 1–27.
Carmichael, Katie. 2008. Etiolement de langue et variation stylistique: une étude intergénéra-
tionnelle de la substitution de /h/ pour /ʒ/ dans le français des Indiens Pointe-Au-Chien.
Paper presented at the conference Structures des Français en Contact, June 26–28 2008,
Tulane University, New Orleans. www.projet-pfc.net.
Colantoni, Laura, and Jeffrey Steele. 2005. Phonetically-driven epenthesis asymmetries in
French and Spanish obstruent-liquid clusters. In Theoretical and experimental approaches
to Romance linguistics, eds. Randall S. Gess and Edward J. Rubin, 77–96. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Conwell, Marilyn J., and Alphonse Juilland. 1963. Louisiana French grammar. The Hague:
Mouton.
Côté, Marie-Hélène. 2005a. Le statut lexical des consonnes de liaison. Langages 158: 66–78.
Côté, Marie-Hélène. 2005b. Phonologie française. University of Ottawa, Ms. http://aix1.
uottawa.ca/~mhcote/pages//Ms-PhonoFr.pdf.
Cutler, Anne. 2005. Lexical stress. In The handbook of speech perception, eds. David B. Pisoni
and Robert E. Remez, 264–289. Oxford: Blackwell.
Dajko, Nathalie. 2009. Ethnic and geographic variation in the French of the Lafourche basin.
PhD diss., Tulane University.
Delattre, Pierre. 1966. Studies in French and comparative phonetics. The Hague: Mouton.
Dell, François. 1973. Les règles et les sons. 2nd ed. 1985. Paris: Hermann.
Dubois, Sylvie. 2003. Pratiques orales en Louisiane. La Tribune Internationale des Langues Vi-
vantes 33: 89–95.
Dubois, Sylvie. 2005. Un siècle de français parlé en Louisiane: persistance linguistique, hétéro-
généité géographique et évolution. In Le français en Amérique du Nord. Etat présent, eds.
Albert Valdman, Julie Auger and Deborah Piston-Hatlen, 287–305. Québec: Presses de
l’Université Laval.
	 “Cajun” French in a non-Acadian community	 311
Durand, Jacques. 1995. Alternances vocaliques en français du midi et phonologie du gouverne-
ment. Lingua 95: 27–50.
Durand, Jacques, and Chantal Lyche. 2003. Le projet ‘phonologie du français contemporain’
(PFC) et sa méthodologie. In Corpus et variation en phonologie du français, eds. Elisa-
beth Delais-Roussarie and Jacques Durand, 213–276. Toulouse: Presses Universitaires du
Mirail.
Durand, Jacques, and Chantal Lyche. 2008. French liaison in the light of corpus data. Journal of
French Language Studies 18: 33–66.
Encrevé, Pierre. 1988. La liaison sans enchaînement. Paris: Seuil.
Guirao, Miguelina, and Maria A. Gracia Jurado. 1991. Los perfiles acústicos y la identificación
de /l/ /r/. Revista argentina de lingüística 7: 21–42.
Hamlett, James A. 1954. The folklore of the French-speaking Negro of Evangeline Parish, Loui-
siana. M.A. thesis, Louisiana State University.
Klingler, Thomas A. 2003. If I could turn my tongue like that. The Creole language of Pointe Cou-
pée Parish, Louisiana. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press.
Klingler, Thomas A. 2005. Le problème de la démarcation des variétés de langues en Louisiane:
étiquettes et usages linguistiques. In Le français en Amérique du Nord. Etat présent, eds.
Albert Valdman, Julie Auger and Deborah Piston-Hatlen, 349–367. Québec: Presses de
l’Université Laval.
Klingler, Thomas A. 2009. How much Acadian is there in Cajun? In Acadians and Cajuns: The
politics and culture of French minorities in North America/Acadiens et Cajuns: politique et
culture des minorités francophones en Amérique du Nord, eds. Ursula Mathis-Moser and
Günter Bischof, 91–103. Innsbruck: Innsbruck University Press.
Klingler, Thomas A., and Nathalie Dajko. 2006. Louisiana Creole at the periphery. In History,
society, and variation in pidgins and creoles, eds. Clancy J. Clements, Thomas A. Klingler,
Deborah Piston-Hatlen and Kevin J. Rottet, 11–28. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Klingler, Thomas, and Amanda LaFleur. 2007. L’enquête PFC en Louisiane. Bulletin PFC 7:
331–340. www.projet-pfc.net.
Klingler, Thomas A., Michael D. Picone, and Albert Valdman. 1997. The lexicon of Louisi-
ana French. In French and Creole in Louisiana, ed. Albert Valdman, 145–181. New York:
Plenum.
Labov, William. 1966. The social stratification of English in New York city. Washington DC: Cen-
ter for Applied Studies. Second edition, 2006, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lacheret-Dujour, Anne, and Frédérique Beaugendre. 1999. La prosodie du français. Paris:
CNRS Éditions.
Lacheret, Anne, and Chantal Lyche. 2008. Looking at French schwa through the glasses of pros-
ody. Speech Prosody-2008: 523–526.
Lyche, Chantal. 1995a. The nature of schwa in Cajun French. In Papers from the XVth Con-
ference in Scandinavian Linguistics, eds. Inger Moen, Hanne Gram Simonsen and Helge
Lødrup, 350–361.University of Oslo.
Lyche, Chantal. 1995b. Schwa metathesis in Cajun French. Folia Linguistica 29: 369–393.
Lyche, Chantal. 2010. Le français de référence. Eléments de synthèse. In Les variétés du français
parlé dans l’espace francophone. Ressources pour l’enseignement, eds. Sylvain Detey, Jacques
Durand, Bernard Laks and Chantal Lyche, 143–165. Paris: Ophrys,
Malmberg, Bertil. 1963. Spansk fonetikk. Lund: Liber.
Martinet, André. 1945. La prononciation du français contemporain. Paris: Droz.
312	 Thomas A. Klingler and Chantal Lyche
Massone, Maria. 1988. Estudio acústico y perceptivo de las consonantes nasales y liquidas del
español. Estudios de fonética experimental 3: 15–34.
Morin, Yves Charles. 2000. Le français de référence et les normes de prononciation. Cahiers de
l’Institut de linguistique de Louvain 26: 91–135.
Morin, Yves Charles. 2003. Remarks on prenominal consonants in French. In Living on the
edge. 28 Papers in honour of Jonathan Kaye, ed. Stefan Ploch, 385–400. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Navarro, Tomás. 1963. Manual de pronunciación española. New York: Hafner Publishing.
Nespor, Marina, and Irene Vogel. 1986. Prosodic phonology. Dordrecht: Foris.
Neumann, Ingrid. 1985. Le créole de Breaux Bridge, Louisiane. Hamburg: Helmut Buske
Verlag.
Nikiema, Emmanuel. 2002. Les (parlers) français ont le schwa, les créoles ont l’r. In Créolistique
et linguistique, eds. Claudine Bavoux and Didier de Robillard, 77–96. Paris: Anthropos.
Østby, Kathrine A. forthc. Les voyelles moyennes dans la haute bourgeoisie parisienne. PhD
diss., University of Oslo.
Papen, Robert A., and Kevin J. Rottet. 1997. Cajun French in two Louisiana parishes. In French
and Creole in Louisiana, ed. Albert Valdman, 71–108. New York: Plenum.
Phillips, Hosea. 1936. Etude du parler de la paroisse Evangéline (Louisiane). Paris: Droz.
Picone, Michael D., and Albert Valdman. 2005. La situation du français en Louisiane. In Le
français en Amérique du Nord. Etat présent, eds. Albert Valdman, Julie Auger and Deborah
Piston-Hatlen, 143–165. Québec: Presses de l’Université Laval.
Poirier, Claude. 2009. L’assibilation des occlusives /t/et/d/au Québec: le point sur la question.
In Le français d’un continent à l’autre. Mélanges offerts à Yves Charles Morin, eds. Luc Baro-
nian and France Martineau, 375–421. Québec: Les Presses de l’Université Laval.
Ramirez, Carlos Julio. 2006. Acoustic and perceptual characterization of the epenthetic vowel
between the clusters formed by consonant + liquid in Spanish. In Selected proceedings of
the 2nd Conference on Laboratory Approaches to Spanish Phonetics and Phonology, ed.
Manuel Diaz Campos, 46–61. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Proceedings Project.
Read, William A. 1931. Louisiana French. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press.
Rottet, Kevin J. 2001. Language shift in the coastal marshes of Louisiana. New York: Peter Lang.
Rottet, Kevin J. 2004. Inanimate interrogatives and settlement patterns in Francophone Louisi-
ana. Journal of French Language Studies 14: 169–188.
Russell, Alexander. 2009. L’affrication à la Ville Platte: la variation dans la réalisation des occlu-
sives en français louisianais. M.A. thesis, University of Western Ontario.
Salmon, Carole. 2009. Cent ans de français cadien en Louisiane: une étude sociolinguistique du
parler des femmes. New York: Peter Lang.
Scheer, Tobias. 2004. A lateral theory of phonology, vol. 1: What is CVCV, and why should it be?
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Smith, Jennifer L. 2005. Phonological augmentation in prominent positions. New York:
Routlegde.
Valdman, Albert, Kevin J. Rottet, Barry J. Ancelet, Richard Guidry, Thomas Klingler, Amanda
LaFleur, Tamara Lindner, Michael D. Picone, and Dominique Ryon, eds. 2010. Dictionary
of Louisiana French. Jackson: University Press of Mississippi.
chapter 12
Laurentian French phonology
in a majority setting outside Québec
Observations from the PFC Hearst Ontario Study*
Jeff Tennant
The University of Western Ontario
1.	 Introduction
A large portion of present-day Ontario, Canada’s most populous province, was
part of New France at the time of the British Conquest of Québec on the Plains
of Abraham in 1759, a decade and a half prior to the arrival of the first English-
speaking settlers, United Empire Loyalists who were fleeing the American Revo-
lution. While the region’s French-speaking population in the 18th century was
small, it grew rapidly due to migration from Quebec starting in the 1830s, at the
same time as the English-speaking population expanded with new immigration,
notably from Ireland. According to the 2006 Canadian Census (Statistics Canada
2006), francophones (Ontarians who report French as their mother tongue or
one of their mother tongues) currently constitute 4.4% of the population. With
few exceptions, including the case studied here, they are a minority in the locali-
ties in which they reside. As a result of this contact situation with the majority
language, for almost 40% of these 532,855 French mother-tongue speakers in On-
tario, French is not the primary language of communication in the home.
Two surveys have thus far been carried out in Ontario applying the Phono-
logie du Français Contemporain (PFC) protocol. For details on the PFC project,
see Durand, Laks & Lyche (2002, 2005) and other chapters in this volume, es-
pecially Chapter 1. In this chapter, I draw on data from the most recent of these
surveys (Tennant, Poiré & Scott 2009) to present a description of the main pho-
nological characteristics of the French spoken in the predominantly francophone
*	 I gratefully acknowledge here the work of my Research Assistant, Alexandra Scott, without
whose hard work and local contacts the PFC Hearst project would not have been possible.
314	 Jeff Tennant
Northeastern Ontario town of Hearst. The sample consists of 12 speakers, six
women and six men, representing three generations, and including three cases of
parent and daughter or son, as well as one case of brothers in the middle genera-
tion. All but the oldest speaker (a 78-year-old man who migrated from Quebec
as a child) were born in Hearst or in nearby villages, and all have lived in Hearst
since early childhood, although some studied and/or worked elsewhere in the
province before returning to settle in Hearst.
The initial focus will be on describing the phonemic inventory of Hearst
French, using the reading of the word list. I then describe the realization of schwa
and liaison in the reading of the text “Le Premier Ministre ira-t-il à Beaulieu?”
and finally, I give some observations from an ongoing research project on pro-
sodic rhythm.
The overall impression one gets from the study of the PFC Hearst corpus is of
a variety of Laurentian French that has not been greatly influenced in its phonol-
ogy by the contact situation. This lack of a strong English influence can be attrib-
uted to the exceptional position of Hearst in Ontario, where we see the majority
status of French and regular contact with (as well as migration from) Québec
reinforcing the ethnolinguistic vitality of the Franco-Ontarian community.
2.	 PFC Ontario
Ontario French is generally considered to be a variety of Laurentian French, so
it can be expected to share phonological characteristics with the Québec variety
from which it descended. However, given its minority status in most localities in
the province, we can also expect it to show some differences with respect to the
French currently spoken in Québec, differences that would be the result of restric-
tion in French language use and the influence of the majority language, English.
The first PFC survey in Ontario was carried out by François Poiré and Stepha-
nie Kelly (Poiré & Kelly 2005) in the region of Windsor, which has the longest-
standing francophone community in the province, dating back to the early 18th
century, a community that has been reduced to a small minority in recent decades,
leading to an intense contact situation with English whose effects are evident par-
ticularly in the speech of the youngest generation. The rationale for the choice of
Hearst as the location to carry out the second Ontario PFC study was based on its
exceptional demographic profile that makes it an ideal point of comparison and
contrast to Windsor on the majority/minority dimension. With a population of
.	 See Côté (2010a: 1288, and this volume) for a discussion of this term and why it is preferred
to the terms “Canadian French” and “Quebec French”.
	 Laurentian French phonology in a majority setting outside Québec	 315
5510 of whom 89% have French as their mother tongue, Hearst provides an excel-
lent example of Ontario French in a majority setting. In addition, while the lexical
characteristics of Hearst French have been subjected to scrutiny by a handful of
researchers (Germain 1976; Golembeski 1999, 2000), to my knowledge no studies
have yet examined its phonetic and phonological aspects.
The fieldwork was carried out over a one-week period in August 2009, with
the author of this chapter working with a research assistant who had lived in the
community from age 2 to age 18. In the weeks leading up to the trip to Hearst,
once ethics approval for the study had been obtained, the research assistant made
a selection of potential subjects among her friends and acquaintances and con-
tacted them by phone and e-mail to invite them to participate. During the record-
ing sessions in Hearst, she led the free conversation part and the other interviewer,
who was external to the community and previously unknown to the speakers,
conducted the formal interviews. Recordings were done using a Marantz Profes-
sional 600 digital recorder with Shure microphones, generating 22.5 KHz stereo
wav files, with the fieldworker on one channel and the participant on the other, or,
in the case of conversations between two participants, each participant on a sepa-
rate channel. Demographic information about the speakers is given in Table 1.
All speakers are bilingual, and all but one use French as their primary or sole
language of everyday communication. Their levels of English proficiency vary and
many speak English with at least a slight francophone accent. An important dif-
ference between our sampling of speakers and the sampling in the Windsor PFC
survey is the lack of a significant number of “restricted” speakers (Mougeon &
Table 1.  Demographic information on PFC Hearst speakers
Age Sex Age Family relations
16–30 (5)
cobrp1 F 19 daughter of cobal1
cobvf1 F 26  
cobjc1 M 18 son of cobnc1
cobfb1 M 23  
cobjc2 M 25
31–60 (4)      
cobal1 F 55 mother of cobrp1
cobrl1 F 42 daughter of cobjl1
cobnc1 M 47 father of cobjc1
coboc1 M 58 brother of cobnc1
60+ (3)      
cobrg1 F 65  
cobhb1 F 60  
cobjl1 M 78 father of cobrl1
316	 Jeff Tennant
Beniak 1991, see below), who use English in most communication situations out-
side of the school. The only participant from our sample who might not be clas-
sified as unrestricted is the youngest, cobjc1, whose mother is Anglophone. This
speaker, qualified by his father, cobnc1, as “le petit Anglais de la gang,” despite his
frequent recourse to code switching and the difficulty he appears to have with the
reading aloud task, has a French that is fluent and doesn’t show any strong trace of
an Anglophone learner accent. His language use profile corresponds to the “semi-
restricted” category according to Mougeon & Beniak’s classification.
3.	 Ontario French
A considerable amount of research has been carried out on Ontario French, with
a large proportion of it focusing on variation in morphology, syntax and lexicon
(Beniak & Mougeon 1989; Mougeon & Beniak 1991; Mougeon & Nadasdi 1998;
Mougeon 2005; Nadasdi 2005; Barysevich 2009; among others). The majority of
studies are based on corpora gathered in French-medium schools, with subject
sampling limited to the 15–18 age range.
A considerable number of studies have examined the effects of the minor-
ity situation, and particularly of the consequences of this situation: linguistic
restriction (or reduced frequency in use of French) and influence of English.
Cross-­linguistic influence from the majority language, English, is the most obvi-
ous starting point when one seeks to characterize Ontario French and identify
particularities that distinguish it from Quebec French. Mougeon, Brent-Palmer,
Bélanger & Cichocki (1982) show that English borrowings are less frequent than
stereotypes might lead one to believe and that, predictably, their frequency is in-
versely proportional to the demographic concentration of francophones in the
community. Mougeon & Beniak (1991) demonstrate that use of the core lexical
borrowing of the connector so (alternating with non-borrowed equivalents alors
and ça fait que) is more frequent in minority than majority settings, and also more
frequent among balanced bilinguals and restricted speakers, a tendency also at-
tested in Hearst by Golembeski (1999) (see below).
French language use restriction has been shown to result in grammatical
simplification among restricted speakers who exhibit the highest use of leveled
third-person plural forms in verbs such as savoir: eux-aut’ i’ sait (vs. ils savent).
Restricted speakers, who make little use of French outside of the French-medi-
um school, have also been shown to underuse vernacular variants such as pos-
sessive à (la maison à / de Marie), a phenomenon termed ‘sociolectal reduction’
(Mougeon&Beniak1991)or‘devernacularization’(Mougeon2005).Tennant(1995,
1996) illustrates a similar tendency in a case of morphophonological variation: the
	 Laurentian French phonology in a majority setting outside Québec	 317
deletion of /l/ in pronouns and articles, a phenomenon also studied in Ottawa-
Hull by Poplack & Walker (1986).
Léon & Cichocki (1989) survey the early research on phonetic and phono-
logical characteristics of Ontario French: Opitz (1968) on unstressed /a/ and /ɑ/,
Séguinot (1968) and Léon (1983) on nasal vowels, Cichocki & Lepetit (1981) on
/h/, and Baligand & Cichocki (1985) on /e/ and /ɛ/. These latter two studies take
language dominance of speakers into account, but do not find any systematic
effect of that factor on the dependent variables under study.
A few studies have examined the French spoken in Northern regions of On-
tario. Léon, James & Sévigny (1968) observe a duration difference in /a/ that un-
derlies the contrast between present il est après faire ‘he is doing’ and imperfect il
était après faire ‘he was doing’, in which a the /ɛ/ of était lowers and combines with
the /a/ of après. Holder’s (1972) study based on three speakers from the Sudbury-
North Bay region is more general in focus, and confirms that all phonetic and
phonological characteristics observed in his corpus are attested elsewhere in Que-
bec and Acadia. Thomas (1986) examines seven phonetic variables in the French
of adolescents in Sudbury: pronunciation of /ʀ/, assibilation of dental consonants,
deletion of /ʀ/, laxing of high vowels, fronting of /ɑ̃/, raising of back /ɑ/, and rais-
ing of /wa/. He demonstrates that the last four variables listed here, those relat-
ing to the vowel system, are socially stratified, while the consonant ones are not.
Thomas’ data reveal few effects of language dominance on speakers’ use of these
variables, but raised variants of /ɑ̃/ do tend to be less frequent in the speech of
English-dominant speakers, a trend Thomas attributes to the possible standard-
izing effect of the French-medium school.
A number of studies carried out at the Experimental Phonetics Laboratory at
the University of Toronto in the 1970s focused on the prosody of Ontario French:
Nemni (1973) comparing the intonation of the incise in Ontario and Standard
French, Wrenn (1974) on intonation of the declarative sentence in the village of
Lafontaine, Maury & Wrenn (1973) on question intonation, Baligand & James
(1973) as well as Ginsberg (1976) on intonation in Wh-questions, Szmidt (1976)
on yes/no question intonation in Lafontaine, and Baligand & James (1979) on
vowel duration. Cichocki & Lepetit (1986) is the first study to show the effects of
language dominance on a prosodic pattern in Ontario French, through an exami-
nation of F0 declination in the speech of young Franco-Ontarians from Welland.
Tennant (2000) and Tremblay (2007) look at rising intonation in declarative sen-
tences, and identify probable cases of prosodic influence of English in Southwest-
ern Ontario localities with intense language contact, London and Windsor.
Finally, we can note the contribution of studies by François Poiré and his col-
laborators on the PFC Windsor corpus: Poiré, Kelly & Williams (2006) on the
318	 Jeff Tennant
realization of a nasal appendix with nasal vowels, Poiré, Gurski & Kelly (2007) on
glides, and Poiré, Kaminskaïa & Tremblay (2010): on liaison and schwa.
4.	 Hearst French
As can be seen from the map in Figure 1, Hearst is located in the northernmost
part of Ontario where towns of significant size can be found. The origins of the
region’s Franco-Ontarian communities date back to the “third wave” of migra-
tion, according to Mougeon & Beniak’s (1991) overview of the history of fran-
cophone settlement in Ontario, which began in the 1880s. The main economic
activities in the early days of francophone settlements in the Northeastern region
of the province were mining, forestry, and, to a lesser extent, agriculture. Farm-
ing was the main occupation of francophones who settled earlier in the Eastern
region of the province, the other region where Franco-Ontarians can be found in
significant local majorities, but the latitude of Hearst makes the growing season
much shorter, so agriculture was a less viable economic activity there than else-
where. While the opening of the North to francophone settlement from various
regions of Quebec and Ontario began in the 1880s in the region of North Bay and
Sudbury, in the case of Hearst, and neighboring towns of Timmins and Kapus-
kasing, it was mostly in the early decades of the 20th century that francophone
communities were established.
Quebec
Toronto
Windsor
Hearst
Sault
Ste. Marie
Ontario
Manitoba
N
Figure 1.  Location of Hearst, Ontario, from Golembeski (1999) (used by permission)
	 Laurentian French phonology in a majority setting outside Québec	 319
The forest industry has recently been hard-hit by the economic crisis, and
Hearst is feeling the effects acutely. During the interviews I conducted with local
residents, they did however express optimism that, thanks to efforts to diversify
its economy, Hearst will be resilient. Hearst enjoys considerable prestige among
Northern Ontario francophone communities and is indeed a significant cultural
centre. It has the main campus of the Université de Hearst, a small undergraduate
degree-granting institution with two satellite campuses within a radius of 250 km.
It also has one of the few French-language bookstores in Ontario, and it hosts
an annual French book fair that brings prominent authors. People with whom I
spoke in Hearst, as well as in Timmins and Kapuskasing, where the satellite cam-
puses of the Université de Hearst are located, were unanimous in their expression
of the attitude that the French of Hearst is the least affected by English interfer-
ence, an evaluation that tends to be synonymous with high quality of language in
the linguistic imaginary of Franco-Ontarians.
Data from the 2006 Census (Statistics Canada 2006) allow us to appreciate
the exceptional demographic status of French in Hearst. The Canadian Census
asks respondents to report both their mother tongue (first language learned in
childhood and still understood) and their home language (the language most
often used in the home). Multiple responses are possible, but here we use only
the single-response data. For the entire province of Ontario, 488,815 or 4.06% of
12,028,900 inhabitants report French as their only mother tongue, while 289,035
or 2.40% report it as their only home language. Taking the difference between
these figures, we can calculate the proportion of French mother tongue speakers
who do not use French as their primary language of communication in the home,
40.87%. This can be taken as the assimilation or French abandonment index (taux
d’assimilation, taux d’abandon du français) (Beniak & Mougeon 1989: 73). Hearst,
in contrast, out of a population of 5510, has 4905 inhabitants, or 89.02% who
declare French to be their only mother tongue, and 4855 or 88.11%, who report it
as their only home language, giving a low French abandonment index of 1.02%.
Hearst and its surrounding region have important First Nations communities as
well, for example in Constance Lake, with some speakers of Ojibwa and Cree,
although use of these Algonkian languages is in decline. Golembeski (1999: 36)
notes that, in the 1940s, “the proportion of French speakers to English speakers
was roughly equal.” Now, with nine inhabitants out of ten being francophone,
Hearst is truly exceptional in Ontario.
Golembeski (1999) presents the most thorough and systematic study of lexi-
cal variation in Hearst French, distinguishing in his corpus among English-origin
words attested in Quebec sources before 1950, those attested in Quebec sources
after 1950, words attested only in Ontario sources, and words that have not been
attested in any lexicographic source for Quebec or Ontario French. Among these
320	 Jeff Tennant
latter categories, Golembeski (1999: 301) notes that the following are attested in
Ontario sources, but not Quebec sources: because, but, good!, garbage, maybe,
moose, remote control, right, slow, so, whatever, while the following words found in
his corpus are not attested in any previous Ontario source: by-law, bear, chip, jack,
nursing, polite, roommate, treefarmer, trend, windshield. Participants in the PFC
Hearst survey have told me that the latter word has a distinctive pronunciation
in Hearst French: [wɪnʃiːʀ]. In his sociolinguistic analysis of the use of loanwords
from all of these categories in Hearst, Golembeski (1999) observes that restricted
speakers (those who use English in the majority of communication situations)
use more English-origin words than unrestricted speakers, and working class
speakers use them more than middle class speakers. He notes that, while young
speakers, and particularly young men, use more English loanwords than older
speakers, this may not necessarily be the sign of a change in progress, but rather
a case of age grading reflecting a stable difference between generations. Finally,
he notes that borrowings are more frequent among speakers who learned both
languages in childhood than among those who learned English later in life. Fo-
cusing on those borrowings that were previously unattested in Quebec or Ontario
French, he notes a different pattern, with language dominance and age being the
statistically significant conditioning factors. Balanced bilinguals use more of these
loanwords than French dominant speakers, a finding consistent with Mougeon et
al.’s (1982) results. He also notes that younger speakers use fewer such loanwords
than older speakers, a trend that, according to Golembeski, could reflect a change
in progress towards greater standardization, as a result of greater institutional
support for French, including increased access to French-language education.
Golembeski (2000) examines variable usage of the discourse connector so
(which alternates with non-borrowed forms alors, donc, ça fait que). He notices
an overall frequency of the borrowed form of 2.9%, similar to that observed by
Mougeon & Beniak (1991) in another majority Franco-Ontarian community,
Hawkesbury, and which can be compared to rates of so usage exceeding 50% in
interviews with semi-restricted speakers in minority communities such as North
Bay, Cornwall, and Pembroke. In Hearst, usage of so is found at a rate of 10.8%
among restricted speakers, and is very rare among other speakers. Golembeski
notes a correlation with age, with so usage being more frequent among older
speakers than younger speakers, and the middle group showing the lowest use of
so, a trend he postulates might be attributable to standardization resulting from
increased institutional support for French, as noted above for other loanwords.
Golembeski is also interested in the attitudes of Hearst francophones towards
English borrowings. He notes that many speakers say that English borrowings
do not bother them, and that some express rather positive attitudes: “C’est plus
court en anglais les mots j’trouve, hein, fait que ça vient plus court que dire tout
	 Laurentian French phonology in a majority setting outside Québec	 321
en français” ‘Words are shorter in English I find, eh, so it’s shorter that saying
everything in French’ (1999: 314). Golembeski points out that it is not clear that a
positive attitude towards anglicisms would necessarily have a negative impact on
French language maintenance, and he notes that it would be reasonable to think
that knowledge and acceptance of informal anglicized French could reduce pres-
sure to shift entirely to English.
In sum, previous work on Ontario French and Hearst French in particular
gives us a solid basis on which to formulate hypotheses regarding the phonetics
and phonology, as well as the sociophonetics, of Hearst French, using data from
the PFC survey.
5.	 Vowels
5.1	 Vowel inventory
Hearst French exhibits the full vowel inventory of Canadian French as described
in Walker (1984: 5), Séguin (2010: 4) and Côté (2010b: 53): /i y u e ø o ɛ ɜ œ ɔ
a ɑ ɛ̃ ɑ̃ ɔ̃ œ̃/, in addition to schwa /ə/. /ɜ/, the vowel found in fête (see Côté, this
volume), will be represented in this paper as /ɛː/, following Walker (1984: 27).
Particularly notable in comparison to Standard French (or français de réfé-
rence, FR) is the maintenance of contrasts between front /a/ and back /ɑ/, long
/ɛː/ and short /ɛ/, nasals /œ̃/ and /ɛ̃/. All speakers show these distinctions in their
reading of the word lists in at least some occurrences, and a number of speakers
exhibit variable pronunciation, to be described below.
Hearst French also, unsurprisingly, shows abundant examples of well-docu-
mented processes that characterize the vowel system of Laurentian French: diph-
thongization of long vowels in closed syllables, laxing of short high vowels in
closed syllables, as well as devoicing and deletion of unstressed high vowels.
Thatbeingsaid,wefindasimilarphonologicalpatterningofmid-lowandmid-
high vowel pairs /ɛ, e/, /ɔ, o/, and /œ, ø/ to non-Southern European French.
5.2	 Front /a/ back /ɑ/
Analysis of the reading of the minimal pairs mâle ~ mal and pâte ~ pate shows
that the contrast is maintained by almost all speakers. patte is pronounced [pat] by
all, and pâte is pronounced [pɑt] by all when first read in the random list, and one
female speaker, cobrl1, neutralized the opposition in reading the minimal pair at
the end of the list by pronouncing [pat] for pâte. mal is consistently pronounced
322	 Jeff Tennant
as expected with [a] while mâle is pronounced with [ɑ] by all speakers but one,
cobrg1 a female speaker, 65 years old, who reads in a very careful speech style and
may be exercising hypercorrection here when she pronounces [mal]. We do not
find a clear [a–ɑ] opposition in the rat ~ ras minimal pair, a result likely attrib-
utable to the fact that the phonemic contrast tends to be neutralized in stressed
open syllables in Laurentian French, in favor of the back [ɑ] vowel. We thus find
for rat six occurrences of [ʀa] and five of [ʀɑ], the latter all by male speakers. In
ras, the front vowel [a] predominates, being used by seven speakers, while we find
[ɑ] in the reading of four speakers, again all of them male.
Along with widespread use of the back vowel [ɑ], there would appear to be a
convergence toward a European standard in this careful reading style, particularly
among female speakers. The absence of raised back variants such as [ɔ] in open
syllable, and of diphthongs such as [ɑw] in the closed syllable of pâte may also be
attributable to the careful word list style.
5.3	 Mid vowels
5.3.1	 Mid-high /e/ and mid-low /ɛ/, and long /ɛː/ (/ɜ/)
Readings of the following words show categorical use of the expected phoneme
in final (stressed) position, for [e]: épée, épier, piqué, piquer, étrier, étriller; and for
[ɛ]: épais. In piquais, we find a single occurrence of [e], in the reading of the old-
est speaker, cobjl1, and this is likely due to an error, since this speaker appeared
to have some difficulty with the reading task. In piquet, we find eight occurrences
of [ɛ] in open syllable, and two cases in closed syllable, with pronunciation of a
final [t], a common characteristic of Laurentian French (Walker 1984: 95). There
is one occurrence of [æ], a common vernacular allophone of /ɛ/ in a stressed
open syllable.
In final closed syllables, we find short /ɛ/ categorically realized as [ɛ] in the
word faites. The differing pronunciations observed for the word fête (one occur-
rence of [ɛː] and ten diphthongs [aj] or [ɛj]) attest to the fact that these two words
form a minimal pair pointing to the existence of a distinct phoneme /ɛː/, often
represented as /ɜ/ in the literature on Quebec French, as noted above. In addition
to such cases where diphthongs appear in the pronunciation of an /ɛː/ that is long
by nature, we also find diphthong allophones of /ɛ/ when it is long by position in a
.	 Where the total number of occurrences does not add up to 12, it means there was a miss-
ing reading, either due to an error by the speaker or a short gap in the recording caused by an
equipment setting that was not discovered until after fieldwork had been completed.
	 Laurentian French phonology in a majority setting outside Québec	 323
word ending with a lengthening consonant, as in the words lierre (four occurrenc-
es of [aj] and eight of [ɛː]) and liège (four occurrences of [aj] and seven of [ɛː]).
In unstressed open position, alongside a tendency toward mid-high [e] in épée
and épier (but with two pronunciations of [ɛpe] that run counter to this trend),
we also find a tendency toward vowel harmony (Léon 1992: 85) in épais, with
six occurrences of [ɛpɛ] as well as six occurrences of [epɛ]. The words pécheur
and pêcheur would appear to form a minimal pair for some speakers but not for
others, with pécheur being pronounced [peʃœːʀ] by 11 speakers and [pɛʃœːʀ] by
one speaker, and pêcheur pronounced [peʃœːʀ] or by five speakers, [pɛːʃœːʀ] by
six speakers, and [pajʃœːʀ] by one speaker, with the diphthong attesting to the
existence in the vowel system of at least some speakers of an underlying long /ɛː/
phoneme. This diphthong allophone is found in seven occurrences in the first syl-
lable of fêter ([fajte]), alongside four occurrences of [ɛː] ([fɛːte]). Fêtard shows 11
occurrences of [fɛːtɑʀ] and one of [fetɑʀ], again by the older speaker cobjl1.
In unstressed closed position, we find considerable variation in the pronun-
ciation of bêtement, with three occurrences of [ɛː], seven of diphthongs [ɛj] or
[ej], and two occurrences of [e].
In short, for these mid front unrounded vowels, Hearst French shows three
phonemes where Standard French has two.
5.3.2	 Mid-high /ø/ and mid-low /œ/
In a final open syllable in the word creux, we find categorical use of the mid-high
vowel [ø] by Hearst speakers, a result that is not surprising since no exception to
the loi de position (LdP – see Chapter 1) has previously been attested in this envi-
ronment in Laurentian French.
In non-final (unstressed) open syllable, considering occurrences of these
vowels along with those of schwa, we find more variation:
–	 des jeunets: 4 occurrences of [œ], 7 occurrences of [ø] and 1 occurrence of [ə]
–	 déjeuner: 8 occurrences of [œ] and 2 occurrences of [ø]
–	 des genets: 7 occurrences of [ə], 3 occurrences of [œ] and 2 occurrences of [ø]
–	 dégeler: 2 occurrences of [ə], and 8 with deletion of the vowel
These results suggest a phonemic distinction between schwa on the one hand, and
/ø/ and /œ/ on the other, since only schwa is subject to deletion. Formant analysis
such as that presented in Séguin (2010) would allow for a more precise character-
ization of the nature of these vowels.
In final closed syllables, we find the contrast between /ø/ and /œ/ manifested
variably, with the expected categorical [œ] in both readings of jeune. We find eight
occurrences of [ø] and four of [œ] in jeûne in the randomized list, and only one
when it occurs as a minimal pair with jeune. The mid-low vowel in jeune of course
324	 Jeff Tennant
follows the LdP, while the mid-high vowel in jeûne is an exception of the kind
observed in non-Southern European French. [œ] predominates in peuple (11 oc-
currences and one of [ø]) and meurtre (ten occurrences and one of [ø]), while [ø]
predominates in feutre (ten occurrences and two of [œ]) and creuse (11 occur-
rences and one of [œ]).
5.3.3	 Mid-high /o/ and mid-low /ɔ/
As expected, in stressed open syllables, the LdP applies systematically to back mid
vowels, which are realized as [o] without exception in Hearst French. In stressed
closed syllables, however, minimal pairs such as roc [ʀɔk] ~ rauque [ʀok] and
pomme [pɔm] ~ paume [pom] confirm the potential for contrast between these
two phonemes, the first item of each pair representing a graphic exception (due
to the <au> spelling) to the LdP. In stressed closed syllables, however, minimal
pairs such as roc [ʀɔk] ~ rauque [ʀok] and pomme [pɔm] ~ paume [pom] confirm
the potential for contrast between these two phonemes, the first item of each pair
representing a graphic exception (due to the <au> spelling) to the LdP. The only
divergences from these expected pronunciations are an open [ɔ] for one speaker
in paume, and an erroneous pronunciation [ʀak] for rauque. We find [ʀɔs] cat-
egorically for the final syllable of rhinocéros.
In unstressed (non-final) open syllable, the opposition between /o/ and /ɔ/ is,
unsurprisingly, clearly maintained in the minimal pair reading at the end of the
list of beauté ~ botté. We also find [o] for all speakers when beauté is pronounced
in the random section of the list, and for botté, ten occurrences of the expected
open [ɔ], and two of [o].
5.4	 Nasal vowels
For nasal vowels, Hearst French, like other varieties of Laurentian French, exhib-
its a system of four phonemes, with the /œ̃–ɛ̃/ contrast systematically retained in
the brun ~ brin pair, both when they are read together in the minimal pair section
of the list, and when read in the randomized part of the list. /ɑ̃/ and /ɔ̃/ are also
clearly distinct, with no overlap in blanc and blond. The pronunciation of blanc
reflects Laurentian French forms of the phoneme /ɑ̃/: nine occurrences of [ã], two
of [æ̃], and one of [ɛ̃], this latter form illustrating the perennial point of interdia-
lectal misunderstanding of the words for wind (vent) and wine (vin) for speakers
of European French whose ears are not accustomed to the surface phonetics of
Laurentian French.
	 Laurentian French phonology in a majority setting outside Québec	 325
5.5	 High vowel laxing
When the high vowels /i y u/ are in a stressed closed syllable whose coda is not
filled by a lengthening consonant (/z ʒ ʀ v vʀ/) in Laurentian French, the lax allo-
phones of these vowels commonly appear (Walker 1984: 51–53; Côté 2010b: 53):
[ɪ ʏ ʊ]. The fact that only four speakers in the Hearst corpus representing differ-
ent age groups (cobjl1, cobal1, cobvf1, coboc1) lax the /i/ in the final syllable in
islamique may be attributable to the formal reading style.
This laxing can also occur in unstressed closed syllables, or in unstressed open
syllables due to vowel harmony (Walker 1984: 54–55). Six of our Hearst speakers
lax the initial /i/ in islamique, and six have a lax vowel [ʊ] in the first syllable of
bouleverser.
Many more examples of laxing can be found through a cursory listening of
the supplementary reading list and spontaneous speech parts of the corpus, and
they will be analyzed in detail in a subsequent study.
5.6	 Devoicing of high vowels
Walker (1984: 65–69) notes that high vowels /i y u/ are commonly devoiced or
deleted in unstressed position. The PFC wordlist contains a number of words
with [i] between two stops, and devoiced pronunciations of the vowel are quite
frequent: piquer (6 devoiced), piquet (7 devoiced), piqué (7 devoiced), piquais
(7 devoiced), extraordinaire (9 devoiced). This kind of devoicing, as well as dele-
tion of unstressed high vowels (for example between two fricatives), appear from
informal observations to be quite common in the spontaneous speech part of
the Hearst corpus, and in the reading of the supplementary word list, and will be
analyzed in depth in an upcoming study.
The data we have analyzed here from the PFC wordlist show that the vowel
system of Hearst French presents no great surprises in that it exhibits the sys-
tem of Laurentian French vowels. It maintains distinct phonemes /ɑ/, /ɛː/ and /œ̃/
that, in français de référence, have undergone more or less complete merger with
neighboring vowels in the system. Finally, processes that have been shown else-
where (Walker 1984) to be widespread in Laurentian French vernacular speech
also show up with considerable frequency here in formal reading style.
326	 Jeff Tennant
6.	 Consonants
6.1	 Consonant inventory
Not much needs to be said here about particularities of the inventory of conso-
nant phonemes in Hearst French, since it matches that of Laurentian French in
general, which itself differs little from FR. For obstruents, we find the FR stops /p t
k b d ɡ/ and fricatives /f v s z ʃ ʒ/. We will discuss below the assibilation of /t/ and
/d/. As for sonorants, we find the nasals /m n ɲ/ and /ŋ/, as well as /ʀ/. Variation
observed in the realization of some of these phonemes will be discussed below.
6.2	 Palatal nasal /ɲ/
The palatal nasal [ɲ] predominates in the reading of the words compagnie (10 oc-
currences of [ɲ] and 1 of [nj]) and agneau (nine occurrences of [ɲ] and two of
[nj]). In addition, as Walker (1984: 98) notes, /ɲ/ in Laurentian French under-
goes an obligatory velarization process in syllable-final position, changing to [ŋ].
In compagne, seven speakers use velar [ŋ] and five use palatal [ɲ]. This suggests
that Walker’s obligatory rule may only be obligatory in spontaneous vernacular
speech, and that style shifting towards the standard in reading aloud introduce
variation. The word baignoire in our reading corpus exhibits categorical use of
velar [ŋ], possible due to assimilation with the following velar glide. Finally, many
Hearst speakers seem to be unfamiliar with /ɲ/ in word-initial position and with
the PFC wordlist lexical item that contains it, gnôle. Indeed, several speakers hesi-
tated on that word and asked what it meant, four of them pronouncing [ɲ], four
of them [n] and three pronouncing [nj].
6.3	 Assibilation of coronal stops
A well-known characteristic that distinguishes Laurentian French from European
as well as traditional Acadian varieties is the affrication or assibilation of coronal
stops /t/ and /d/ before high front vowels and glides [i y j ɥ] (Poirier 2009). In the
Hearst corpus for the PFC reading list, this process applies almost categorically,
with 11 speakers pronouncing [ts] in petit, and [dz] in extraordinaire. The only
speaker not to assibilate in these two words is cobrg1, who does use assibilation
in spontaneous speech, but appears to be paying careful attention to enunciating
sounds according to the prescriptive norm in reading style, as will be noted below
in the discussion of schwa.
	 Laurentian French phonology in a majority setting outside Québec	 327
6.4	 /ʀ/
The variation between front [r] and back [ʀ] or [ʁ] in Laurentian French is well
known (Clermont & Cedergren 1979; Walker 1984: 86). As Thomas (1986) ob-
serves, front and back variants were in an approximately 50/50 distribution in
his corpus gathered among Sudbury adolescents in the 1970s. In the Hearst cor-
pus, back [ʀ] (we have not yet done a fine-grained analysis to distinguish uvular
and velar variants) is almost categorically used. In the reading list, we find only
one occurrence of apical [r] in the word étriller, pronounced by an older speaker,
cobrg1.
6.5	 Final /t/ retained
As noted above in the discussion of /e–ɛ/, in the word piquet, two speakers pro-
nounce a final /t/. Both of these speakers are in the younger generation, one of
them, cobjc1, being the most English dominant, while the other, cobvf1, is very
French dominant. As Walker (1984: 96) notes, the orthography may play a role in
the presence of these final consonants that are absent in FR, but it should be noted
that it is a common phenomenon in Laurentian French, particularly in frequent
words such as tout, bout, and prêt.
6.6	 Consonant clusters
Deletion of final consonants and simplification of final consonant clusters are
common phenomena in many varieties of French and, as Walker (1984: 93)
points out, Laurentian French “has carried forward [deletion of final consonants]
to a greater degree than is found even in colloquial [Standard French].” The PFC
wordlist includes a number of diagnostic items for consonant clusters in internal
and in final positions. In internal clusters, we find almost categorical pronuncia-
tion of all consonants in the words ex-femme, explosion, ex-mari, and extraordi-
naire. The only exception is one speaker, cobjl1, who pronounces the latter word
[stʀɔʀdzi̥nɛʀ]. In final position, we have one occurrence of deletion of the final /t/
in intact, and two such occurrences in infect. In final Cʀ clusters, we find deletion
of [ʀ] for five speakers in titre and four in autre.
328	 Jeff Tennant
7.	 Glides
Hearst French has all three glides found in FR and other varieties of Laurentian
French: [j w ɥ]. Glide-vowel sequences following a consonant in the reading of
the PFC wordlist by Hearst speakers show variation between syneresis, pronun-
ciation of just the glide and the following vowel, and dieresis, with insertion of a
vowel before the glide (or simply a sequence of two vowels).
The following words show categorical syneresis: millionnaire, reliure, million,
cinquième, while the following show syneresis in nine or more cases (number of
cases indicated in parentheses): niece (11), miette (10), relier (10), fou à lier (9). We
observe a considerable degree of competition between the two categories of glide
formation in: scier (7 syneresis), mouette (6 syneresis), muette (5 syneresis), niais
(4 syneresis), influence (4 syneresis), and nier (1 syneresis). In all of the above
cases, the glide is preceded by a single consonant. In the following words, where
the glide is preceded by two consonants, dieresis is categorical: quatrième, vous
prendriez, nous prendrions, trouer.
8.	 Liaison
For most cases in the PFC reading list that represent contexts traditionally clas-
sified as obligatory liaison (although the obligatory nature of liaison in many of
these cases is debatable), we predictably find categorical pronunciation of the
liaison consonant: très_inquiet, les_élections, les_opposants, en_effet, son_usine,
d’un_autre côté, on_en_a vu, on_est, nous_avons, quelques_articles, des_activistes,
dans_une. For the following cases, however, we observe some degree of variation:
grand_émoi (4 non liaisons), jeux_olympiques (7 non liaisons), grand_honneur
(2 non liaisons), tout_est (2 non liaisons). As regards the cases in the PFC list
belonging to the traditional category of forbidden liaisons (liaisons interdites), we
find categorical non pronunciation of the liaison consonant for Hearst speakers:
Berlin// en, Comment// en plus, le coin// on, vraiment// une étape.
Variable liaisons traditionally classified as “liaisons facultatives” predictably
show variation in Hearst French, but the variation is confined within a rather nar-
row range. Only two of these liaisons are made frequently: est_en (grand émoi)
(8 liaisons) and est_en (revanche) (10 liaisons). In visites_officielles, pâtes_ita-
liennes, and préparent_une, cobhb1 (a French instructor who appears to be quite
aware of the formal French norm) is the only speaker to make the liaison. In
chemises_en and circuits_habituels, two speakers make the liaison. Finally, the fol-
lowing optional liaisons are not made by any of the Hearst speakers: plus// à quel,
toujours// au, toujours// autour, provoquer// une, fanatiques// auraient, s’est// en,
and trouver// au.
	 Laurentian French phonology in a majority setting outside Québec	 329
9.	 Schwa
9.1	 Analysis of schwa
For this preliminary analysis of schwa in Hearst French, I noted the presence or
absence of schwa in speakers’ pronunciations for the following contexts of schwa
represented in the passage “Le Premier Minstre ira-t-il à Beaulieu”: initial po-
sition of utterance, initial syllable of polysyllabic word, word-internal position,
word-final position between consonants, monosyllabic word, sequence of schwas,
insertion site. Other contexts where schwa is coded in the PFC to reflect variation
in Midi French varieties are not considered here, because they show categorical
deletion of schwa in Laurentian French: word-final after a single consonant, or
with no consonant at the beginning of the following word, and word-final follow-
ing a vowel.
9.2	 Initial position of utterance
The PFC reading passage contains four occurrences of schwa in the initial syllable
of the utterance in the definite article le. In all of these cases in the Hearst corpus,
the schwa is pronounced.
9.3	 Initial syllable of polysyllabic word
For schwa in the initial syllable of a polysyllabic word, we find categorical pro-
nunciation of schwa in depuis and seraient, and some variation in revanche (schwa
deleted by two speakers) and chemises (deleted by two speakers).
9.4	 Word-internal position
Schwa in word-internal position in Hearst speakers’ reading of the passage follows
closely the rules of FR described in Léon & Bhatt (2005), among other sources,
with categorical deletion of schwa when preceded by a single consonant in bête-
ment and détachement, and pronounced by two speakers in indiqueraient. With
two consonants preceding, the schwa is pronounced by all speakers in gouverne-
ment, in spite of the potential interference one might expect from the trisyllabic
English word government.
330	 Jeff Tennant
9.5	 Word-final position between consonants
A similar observation to that made for the word gouvernement can be made for
word-final schwa preceded by two consonants and with a single consonant at the
beginning of the following word. In the seven occurrences of titre where [ʀ] is
maintained and the eight occurrences of autre where [ʀ] is maintained, the schwa
is pronounced. In the remaining occurrences where [ʀ] is deleted, schwa is pre-
dictably also deleted.
9.6	 Monosyllabic word
Schwa in monosyllabic words in the reading of the passage by Hearst speakers
shows some degree of variation, but schwa retention is the dominant realization.
For the following monosyllabic words, schwa is categorically maintained
(words are shown with the preceding and the following word): décidé de faire,
titres de gloire, gloire de Beaulieu, olympiques de Berlin, usine de pâtes, Beaulieu ce
grand, car le Premier, Ministre ne cesse, cesse de baisser, à se multiplier, opposants
de tous, assure que tout, pour le protéger, risquent de provoquer, membre de l’oppo-
sition, jaloux de notre, nous ne répondons, maire de Beaulieu, Beaulieu ne sait, saint
se vouer, désespoir de cause.
For each of the following monosyllabic words, we find schwa deletion in the
reading of only one speaker: village de Beaulieu, cours de sa, local de course, décou-
vrir ce qu’il, fois que les, église de Saint-Martinville.
Two speakers delete schwa in de in maire de Beaulieu, and four speakers de-
lete schwa in the monosyllabic words in the following: tournée de la, détachement
de police, dans le coin, avons le soutien, a le sentiment.
These data reflect, as for other PFC survey points, the high level of stability of
schwa in reading style for this distribution.
9.7	 Sequence of schwas
The reading passage has two sequences of more than one monosyllabic word with
schwa. In the first, de se, both schwas are pronounced by all speakers except for
one, who deletes the schwa in se. In the other sequence, que de se, nine speakers
pronounce all three schwas and one deletes the schwa of de.
	 Laurentian French phonology in a majority setting outside Québec	 331
9.8	 Schwa insertion sites
Epenthetic schwa is not frequent in the Hearst speakers’ rendering of the reading
passage. In Marc Blanc, one speaker inserts schwa, while in Ouest Liberté, three
speakers insert a schwa.
9.9	 General observations
The tendency observed here to retain schwa could be attributed to the formal read-
ing passage style or it could be symptomatic of a tendency for Franco-­Ontarian
speakers to maintain schwa in monosyllables. Poiré et al. (2010) observe a ten-
dency for Windsor French speakers in intense contact with English to have lower
rates of schwa deletion. Future studies comparing schwa in Windsor and Hearst
French could shed further light on this question.
It is interesting to note that one speaker, cobrg1, is very careful to pronounce
schwa, but there are a considerable number of liaisons that she does not make,
including obligatory ones such as grand_émoi, while another speaker in the same
age group, cobhb1, pronounces several optional liaisons (pâtes italiennes, circuits
habituelles, visites officielles) but drops schwa quite frequently in contexts where
other speakers pronounce it (tournée de la région, détachement de police, dans le
coin). A future analysis of the interview and conversation parts of the corpus will
allow us to shed more light on this stylistic variation in liaison and schwa.
10.	 Prosody: Rhythm and language contact
One of the initial focuses of work on the PFC Hearst corpus is prosodic rhythm
and how it might vary on the minority/majority dimension as a result of differ-
ing levels of influence from English. In this section, after situating this research
in the context of previous work on rhythm, I briefly describe some initial results
from Kaminskaïa, Tennant & Russell (2010) drawing on the Hearst, Windsor and
Quebec City PFC corpora.
The classification of languages according to their overall rhythm patterns,
attributed first to Pike (1945) and further developed by Abercrombie (1967), is
well known. According to the traditional dichotomy (Abercrombie 1967: 98), lan-
guages like French and Spanish are termed syllable-timed, since there is regular-
ity in the duration of intervals between syllables, while English and German are
considered stress-timed languages due to the fact that intervals between stresses
are thought to be regularly distributed across the utterance. Abercrombie adds a
332	 Jeff Tennant
third category, mora timing, for Japanese. It is also well known that this catego-
rization of languages on the basis of isochronic spacing of syllables or stresses,
is not universally accepted, and has been questioned by several researchers, for
example Dauer (1983), Nolan & Asu (2009).
Wenk & Wioland (1982) call into question the classification of French as
a syllable-timed language, and propose a different label for its rhythm pattern:
“trailer timed,” due to the status of the final syllable of the rhythm group. Léon
(1992) joins other phoneticians and phonologists in defining the French rhythm
group as a sequence of unaccented syllables of more or less equal duration fol-
lowed by an accented syllable that is twice the duration of an unaccented syllable.
This description of the basic “Standard French” rhythm pattern does of course set
aside group-initial stress (with emphatic or other functions), and when we look at
regional variation, we see that not all varieties, not even all Hexagonal varieties,
conform to the pattern. Tables 2 and 3 illustrate the phenomenon for four-syl-
lable rhythm groups (or accent phrases), the first table giving average durations
in centiseconds and the second table representing durations as a percentage of
the duration of the group-final syllable. For Standard European French, we can
see that unstressed syllables preceding the final are of more or less equal dura-
tion, and the duration of the final stressed syllable is at least double that of an
unstressed syllable. In the Ontario French studied by Robinson (1968), a corpus
drawn from speakers recorded during a radio broadcast and speaking a fairly
standardized variety of Canadian French, we see that the duration difference be-
tween the penult and final syllable is lower, while in Nova Scotia and PEI Acadian
varieties, the length of the penult approaches that of the final syllable. The find-
ings of Tennant & King (2007) suggest that the rhythm pattern of Newfoundland
French resembles that of the Ontario variety studied by Robinson.
Over the past decade, one of the most notable developments in research on
prosodic rhythm has been the application of rhythm indices designed to situate
Table 2.  Average syllable durations (in centiseconds) in 4-syllable rhythm groups in six
varieties of French
4th to last
position
3rd to last
position
Penult Final
Standard (European) (Léon 1992: 111) 13.2 14.5 16.3 25.7
Midi (Léon 1992: 111) 17.4 13.9 19.7 18.4
Ontario (Robinson 1968: 166) 12.7 14.9 15.0 20.3
Acadian, Nova Scotia (Cichocki 1997: 66) 16.1 17.4 20.7 22.7
Acadian, Prince Edward Island
(Tennant & King 2007)
13.2 14.0 17.1 21.5
Acadian, Newfoundland (Tennant & King 2007) 14.9 16.7 17.7 24.2
	 Laurentian French phonology in a majority setting outside Québec	 333
languages and varieties along a continuum between the two poles of syllable
timing and stress timing, based on the degree of syllable-to-syllable duration
fluctuations. Ramus, Nespor & Mehler (1999: 272) propose a number of inter-
val measures: the proportion of vocalic intervals within the sentence, that is, the
sum of vocalic intervals divided by the total duration of the sentence, noted as
%V, the standard deviation of the duration of vocalic intervals within each sen-
tence, noted as ∆V, and the standard deviation of the duration of consonantal
intervals within each sentence, noted as ∆C. Another approach, developed by
Low, Grabe & Nolan (2000), represents rhythm patterns in terms of durational
variability between pairs of contiguous segments. This Pairwise Variability Index
(or PVI) “captures the degree of durational variability in a set of acoustic data,
measured sequentially, and it allows us to express numerically a tendency towards
stress- or syllable-timing in one language or variety relative to another” (Low et al.
2000: 378). The version of the PVI adopted for the study of rhythm in the Ontario
PFC project, nPVI-V, measures duration variability between pairs of contiguous
segments on the vowel tier. The nPVI-V would appear to be the PVI index most
used in recent rhythm research in a variationist framework (Carter 2005; Thomas
& Carter 2006) and according to White & Mattys (2007), it is an effective metric
for distinguishing languages by rhythm class. It is obtained by taking the abso-
lute value of the duration difference between each pair of contiguous vowels and
dividing this absolute value by half of the total duration of the two vowels. The
central tendency of these PVI quotients (and the median tends to be used rather
than the mean) is the nPVI-V for the speech sample.
Table 4 gives PVI values from Grabe & Low (2002) for a selection of language
varieties, by descending order of PVI value, that is, going from more syllable-
timed to more stress-timed varieties. We can note the location of British English
and French, presumably Standard European French, in this table, which in the
Table 3.  Average syllable durations (as proportion of final syllable duration) in 4-syllable
rhythm groups in six varieties of French
4th to last
position
3rd to last
position
Penult Final
Standard (European) (Léon 1992: 111) 51.4% 56.4%   63.4% 100.0%
Midi (Léon 1992: 111) 94.6% 75.5% 107.1% 100.0%
Ontario (Robinson 1968: 166) 62.6% 73.4%   73.9% 100.0%
Acadian Nova Scotia (Cichocki 1997: 66) 70.9% 76.7%   91.2% 100.0%
Acadian Prince Edward Island
(Tennant & King 2007)
61.4% 65.1%   79.5% 100.0%
Acadian Newfoundland (Tennant & King 2007) 61.6% 69.0%   73.1% 100.0%
334	 Jeff Tennant
absence of data for Canadian English and Quebec French, will serve as provision-
al benchmarks for comparing the PVI values of our Ontario French speakers.
For our initial study of rhythm in the PFC corpus, we selected three Wind-
sor speakers, four Hearst speakers and two Quebec City speakers. Their sex and
age information are given along with median nPVI-V values measured on the
basis of a minimum of 200 PVI quotients in Table 5. Our working hypothesis was
that the Ontario speakers would show PVI values closer to those of English than
Quebec speakers (i.e., higher PVI values), and that the Windsor speakers, due to
their minority situation in intense contact with English, would have the highest
PVI values.
These results show some individual variation, but all PVI values are clearly in
the syllable-timed range. We can observe small differences in PVI values between
speakers from the minority setting (Windsor) and the majority settings (Hearst,
Quebec City), but the differences are not large and would not likely be statistically
significant. Bearing in mind the reference values of 57.2 for British English and
43.5 for Standard French given in Table 4 from Low & Grabe (2002), it is clear
that all of these PVI values are much closer to those for French than those for
English, and indeed, it may well be the case that the overall rhythm pattern of
Ontario French is not subject to English influence. Future studies applying the
Table 4.  PVI values for a range of languages (Grabe & Low 2002)
Language nPVI-V
Thai 65.8
Dutch 65.5
German 59.7
British English 57.2
Tamil 55.8
Malay 53.6
Singapore English 52.3
Greek 48.7
Welsh 48.2
Romanian 46.9
Polish 46.6
Estonian 45.4
Catalan 44.6
French 43.5
Japanese 40.9
Luxembourg 37.7
Spanish 29.7
Mandarin 27.0
	 Laurentian French phonology in a majority setting outside Québec	 335
other rhythm indices mentioned above, as well as more fine-grained analyses of
timing within prosodic units, will explore this question further.
11.	 Conclusion
The goal of this chapter has been to present the Hearst Ontario PFC study and de-
scribe the main phonological characteristics of this variety of Laurentian French
that finds itself in an exceptional situation of being the local majority language in
a Canadian location outside of Quebec.
The analysis of the reading portion of the corpus shows that it follows ex-
pected trends of Laurentian French in its segmental inventory and realization
of liaison and schwa, as well as in the application of rules such as assibilation of
coronal stops, laxing and devoicing of high vowels, and diphthongization. These
tendencies will be verified in future studies on the interview and conversation
parts of the corpus.
Our initial study of rhythm (Kaminskaïa et al. 2010) suggests that some as-
pects of the prosody of French such as its rhythmic pattern might be impervious
to significant English influence in minority situations such as in Windsor, Ontar-
io. The Hearst PFC corpus, which represents Laurentian French outside Quebec
in a situation of low intensity contact with English, provides an essential reference
point for further research into such questions.
Table 5.  nPVI-V values for ten speakers from three PFC surveys on Laurentian French
Sex and age Median nPVI-V
Windsor coarc1 M	 66 44.5
coahc1 F	 65 45.6
coamc1 M	 33 45.9
AVG 45.5
Hearst cobjl1 M	 78 42.8
cobrl1 F	 44 37.6
cobnc1 M	 45 46.2
cobjc1 M	 18 46.4
AVG 43.9
Québec cqamg1 F	 26 42.4
cqams1 F	 25 45.5
AVG 44.5
336	 Jeff Tennant
References
Abercrombie, David. 1967. Elements of general phonetics. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University
Press.
Baligand, Renée, and Wladyslaw Cichocki. 1985. Variation dans le système du /E/ chez les
jeunes bilingues franco-anglais de Welland (Ontario). Information/Communication 4:
42–64.
Baligand, Renée, and Eric James. 1973. The Intonation of Wh-Questions in Franco-Ontarian.
The Canadian Journal of Linguistics / La Revue canadienne de linguistique 18 (2): 89–101.
Baligand, Renée, and Eric James. 1979. Contribution à l’étude de la durée vocalique en franco-
ontarien. In Problèmes de prosodie, eds. Pierre R. Léon and Mario Rossi, vol. II, Studia
Phonetica 18, 55–63. Paris-Montréal-Bruxelles: Didier.
Barysevich, Alena. 2009. Variation et changement lexical dans le français canadien: Approche
variationniste quantitative. Paper presented at New Ways of Analyzing Variation (NWAV)
38, October, Ottawa.
Beniak, Édouard, and Raymond Mougeon. 1989. Recherches sociolinguistiques sur la variabili-
té en français ontarien. In Le français canadien parlé hors Québec: études sociolinguistiques,
eds. Raymond Mougeon and Édouard Beniak, 69–104. Québec: Presses de l’Université
Laval.
Carter, Phillip M. 2005. Quantifying rhythmic differences between Spanish, English, and His-
panic English. In Theoretical and experimental approaches to romance linguistics: Selected
papers from the 34th linguistic symposium on romance languages, eds. Randall S. Gess and
Edward J. Rubin, 63–75. (= Current Issues in Linguistic Theory, 272) Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Cichocki, Wladyslaw. 1997. Observations préliminaires sur le rythme en français acadien. In
Les Acadiens et leur(s) langue(s): quand le français est minoritaire eds. Louise Dubois and
Annette Boudreau, 63–73. Moncton: Édition de l’Acadie.
Cichocki, Wladyslaw, and Daniel Lepetit. 1981. La variable/h/en français ontarien: Quelques
aspects sociophonétiques. Toronto Working Papers in Linguistics 2: 45–63.
Cichocki, Wladyslaw, and Daniel Lepetit. 1986. Intonational variability in language contact:
F0 declination in Ontario French. In Diversity and diachrony, ed. David Sankoff, 239–247.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Clermont, Jean, and Henrietta Cedergren. 1979. Les ‘R’ de ma mère sont perdus dans l’air. In
Le français parlé: Études socio-linguistiques, ed. Pierrette Thibault, 13–28. Edmonton: Lin-
guistic Research, Inc.
Côté, Marie-Hélène. 2010a. Le statut des consonnes de liaison: l’apport des données du français
laurentien. In 2ème Congrès Mondial de Linguistique Française, eds. Franck Neveu, Vale-
lia Muni Toke, Thomas Klingler, Jacques Durand, Lorenz Mondada and Sophie Prévost,
1279–1288. Paris: Institut de Linguistique Française.
Côté, Marie-Hélène. 2010b. La longueur vocalique devant consonne allongeante en contexte
final et dérivé en français laurentien. In Vues sur les français d’ici, eds. Carmen LeBlanc and
France Martineau, 49–75. Québec: Presses de l’Université Laval.
Dauer, Rebecca M. 1983. Stress-timing and syllable-timing revisited. Journal of Phonetics 11:
51–62.
	 Laurentian French phonology in a majority setting outside Québec	 337
Durand, Jacques, Bernard Laks, and Chantal Lyche. 2002. La phonologie du français con-
temporain: usages, variétés et structure. In Romanistische Korpuslinguistik: Korpora und
gesprochene Sprache/Romance corpus linguistics: Corpora and spoken language, eds. Claus
Pusch and Wolfgang Raible, 93–106. Tübingen: Narr.
Durand, Jacques, Bernard Laks, and Chantal Lyche. 2005. Un corpus numérisé pour la pho-
nologie du français. In La linguistique de corpus, ed. Geoffrey Williams, 205–217. Actes
du colloque ‘La linguistique de corpus’, Lorient, 12–14 septembre 2002. Rennes: Presses
Universitaires de Rennes.
Germain, Doric. 1976. Le vocabulaire français des travailleurs en forêt du nord-est ontarien.
Boréal: Revue du nord de l’Ontario 6: 13–50.
Ginsberg, Raymond E. 1976. Study of the lexical interrogative sentence in the French of
Welland, Ontario. PhD diss., University of Toronto.
Golembeski, Daniel J. 1999. French Language Maintenance in Ontario, Canada. A Sociolin-
guistic Portrait of the Community of Hearst. PhD diss., University of Indiana.
Golembeski, Daniel J. 2000. Variable lexical usage in the French of Northern Ontario. IUWPL
2. http://www.indiana.edu/~iulc/WP2-golembeski.pdf (accessed June 12, 2011).
Grabe, Esther, and Ee Ling Low. 2002. Durational variability in speech and the rhythm class
hypothesis. In Papers in laboratory phonology 7, eds. Natasha Warner and Carlos Gussen-
hoven, 515–546. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Holder, Maurice. 1972. Le parler populaire franco-canadien: la prononciation de quelques Ca-
nadiens français de la région de Sudbury-North Bay. Phonetica 26: 33–49.
Kaminskaïa, Svetlana, Jeff Tennant, and Alexander Russell. 2010. Le PFC en Ontario: Rythme
et français en contact. Paper presented at Journées Phonologie du français contemporain
(PFC), December, Paris.
Léon, Pierre R. 1983. Dynamique des changements phonétiques dans le français de France et
du Canada. La Linguistique 19 (1): 13–28.
Léon, Pierre R. 1992. Phonétisme et prononciations du français. Paris: Nathan.
Léon, Pierre R., and Parth Bhatt. 2005. Structure du français moderne. Second edition. Toronto:
Canadian Scholars Press.
Léon, Pierre R., and Wladyslaw Cichocki. 1989. Bilan et problématique des études sociophoné-
tiques franco-ontariennes. In Le français canadien parlé hors Québec: études sociolinguisti-
ques, eds. Raymond Mougeon and Édouard Beniak, 37–51. Québec: Presses de l’Université
Laval.
Léon, Pierre R., Eric James, and Georges Sévigny. 1968. Observations sur la forme progres-
sive en français canadien. In Recherches sur la structure phonique du français canadien, ed.
Pierre R. Léon, 36–41. Studia phonetica 1. Paris-Montréal-Bruxelles: Didier.
Low, Ee Ling, Esther Grabe, and Francis Nolan. 2000. Quantitative characterizations of speech
rhythm: Syllable-timing in Singapore English. Language and Speech 43 (4): 377–401.
Maury, Nicole, and Phyllis Wrenn. 1973. L’interrogation mélodique en français canadien de
l’Ontario. In Interrogation et intonation, eds. Alain Grundstrom and Pierre R. Léon, 99–
167. Studia phonetica 8. Paris-Montréal-Bruxelles: Didier.
Mougeon, Raymond. 2005. Rôle des facteurs linguistiques et extra-linguistiques dans la déver-
nacularisation du parler des adolescents dans les communautés francophones minoritaires
du Canada. In Le français en Amérique du Nord: état présent, eds. Albert Valdman, Julie
Auger and Deborah Piston-Hatlen, 261–285. Québec: Presses de l‘Université Laval.
338	 Jeff Tennant
Mougeon, Raymond, and Édouard Beniak. 1991. Linguistic consequences of language contact
and restriction: The case of French in Ontario. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Mougeon, Raymond, Cora Brent-Palmer, Monique Bélanger, and Wladyslaw Cichocki. 1982.
Le français parlé en situation minoritaire. Volume 1: Emploi et maîtrise du français parlé
par les élèves des écoles françaises dans les communautés franco-ontariennes minoritaires.
Québec: Centre international de recherche sur le bilinguisme.
Mougeon, Raymond, and Terry Nadasdi. 1998. Sociolinguistic discontinuity in minority lan-
guage communities. Language 74 (1): 40–55.
Nadasdi, Terry. 2005. Le français en Ontario. In Le français en Amérique du Nord: état présent,
eds. Albert Valdman, Julie Auger and Deborah Piston-Hatlen, 99–115. Québec: Presses de
l’Université Laval.
Nemni, Monique. 1973. Vers une definition syntaxique et phonologique de l’incise en français
canadien et en français standard. PhD diss., University of Toronto.
Nolan, Francis, and Eva Liina Asu. 2009. The pairwise variability index and coexisting rhythms
in language. Phonetica 66: 64–77.
Opitz, Helgard. 1968. Le ‘A’ inaccentué dans le parler français du Sud de l’Ontario. In Recherches
sur la structure phonique du français canadien, ed. Pierre R. Léon, 79–87. Studia phonetica
1. Montréal-Paris-Bruxelles: Didier.
Pike, Kenneth. 1945. The intonation of American English. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan
Press.
Poplack, Shana, and Douglas Walker. 1986. Going through (L) in Canadian French. In Diversity
and diachrony, ed. David Sankoff, 173–198. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Poiré, François, Claire Gurski, and Stephanie Kelly. 2007. L’analyse phonétique à partir de pe-
tit corpus de parole spontanée: le cas des glissantes en français de Windsor, Canada. In
PFC: enjeux descriptifs, théoriques et didactiques (= Bulletin PFC 7), eds. Sylvain Detey and
Dominique Nouveau, 341–358. Toulouse: CNRS / Université Toulouse-Le Mirail.
Poiré, François, Svetlana Kaminskaïa, and Rémi Tremblay. 2010. Conséquences du contact avec
l’anglais sur la réalisation de la liaison et du schwa en français de Windsor, Canada. In
Actes du XXVe Congrès International de Linguistique et de Philologie Romanes, eds. Maria
Iliescu, Heidi Siller-Runggalier and Paul Danler, vol. 1, 365–374. Berlin & New York: De
Gruyter.
Poiré, François, and Stephanie Kelly. 2005. Windsor French and the phonologie du français
contemporain. Paper presented at New Ways of Analyzing Variation (NWAV) 34, October,
New York.
Poiré, François, Stephanie Kelly, and Darcie Williams. 2006. La réalisation des voyelles nasales
en français de Windsor. Parole 39/40: 259–284.
Poirier, Claude. 2009. L’assibilation des occlusives /t/et/d/au Québec: Le point sur la question.
In Le français d’un continent à l’autre: Mélanges offerts à Yves Charles Morin, eds. Luc Baro-
nian and France Martineau, 375–421. Québec: Presses de l’Unversité Laval.
Ramus, Franck, Marina Nespor, and Jacques Mehler. 1999. Correlates of linguistic rhythm in
the speech signal. Cognition 73: 265–292.
Robinson, Linda. 1968. Étude du rythme syllabique en français canadien et en français stan-
dard. In Recherches sur la structure phonique du français canadien, ed. Pierre R. Léon, 161–
174. Studia Phonetica 1. Paris-Montréal-Bruxelles: Didier.
Séguin, Marie-Claude. 2010. Catégorisation acoustique des voyelles moyennes antérieures ar-
rondies en français laurentien. PhD diss., University of Ottawa.
	 Laurentian French phonology in a majority setting outside Québec	 339
Séguinot, André. 1968. Étude sur le degré de nasalité des voyelles nasales en français canadien
et en français standard. In Recherches sur la structure phonique du français canadien, ed.
Pierre R. Léon, 88–89. Studia Phonetica 1. Paris-Montréal-Bruxelles: Didier.
Statistics Canada. 2006. 2006 Census: Language Highlight Tables. http://www12.statcan.ca/
census-recensement/2006/dp-pd/hlt/97-555/Index-eng.cfm (accessed June 12, 2011).
Szmidt, Yvett. 1976. L’interrogation totale dans le parler franco-canadien de Lafontaine, Ontar­
io. PhD diss., University of Toronto.
Tennant, Jeff. 1995. Variation morphophonologique dans le français parlé des adolescents à
North Bay (Ontario). PhD diss., University of Toronto.
Tennant, Jeff. 1996. Variation morphophonologique dans une langue en situation minoritaire:
le français à North Bay. Revue du Nouvel-Ontario 20: 113–136.
Tennant, Jeff. 2000. Language contact and intonational variability: High rising terminals in On-
tario French. Paper presented at NWAV (New Ways of Analyzing Variation) 29, October,
Ann Arbor.
Tennant, Jeff, and Ruth King. 2007. Le rythme dans le français parlé de Terre-Neuve et de
l’Île-du Prince-Édouard. Paper presented at Journées Phonologie du français contemporain
(PFC), July, London, ON.
Tennant, Jeff, François Poiré, and Alexandra Scott. 2009. Le PFC en Ontario: du milieu minori-
taire (Windsor) au milieu majoritaire (Hearst). Paper presented at Journées Phonologie du
français contemporain (PFC), December, Paris.
Thomas, Alain. 1986. La variation phonétique: cas du franco-ontarien. Studia Phonetica 21.
Paris-Montréal-Bruxelles: Didier.
Thomas, Erik R., and Phillip M. Carter. 2006. Prosodic rhythm and African American English.
English World Wide 27 (3): 331–355.
Tremblay, Rémi. 2007. La réalisation des contours mélodiques dans deux variétés du français en
contact avec l’anglais. MA research paper, University of Western Ontario.
Walker, Douglas. 1984. The pronunciation of Canadian French. Ottawa: University of Ottawa
Press.
Wenk, Brian J., and François Wioland. 1982. Is French really syllable-timed? Journal of Phonet-
ics 10: 193–216.
White, Laurence, and Sven L. Mattys. 2007. Calibrating rhythm: First and second language
studies. Journal of Phonetics 35: 501–522.
Wrenn, Phyllis. 1974. Declarative melodic structure of Canadian French, as spoken in Lafon-
taine, Ontario. PhD diss., University of Toronto.
chapter 13
Albertan French phonology
French in an anglophone context*
Douglas C. Walker
University of Calgary
1.	 Introduction
French was the first European language spoken in Alberta and, to the surprise of
many, the majority of the province’s population as well as that of Edmonton, the
capital city, was francophone until the beginning of the 20th century. The lan-
guage was originally brought into the territory in the 18th century by explorers
and traders, and subsequently implanted in a number of Métis communities as
the Métis moved westward as a result of pressure on their settlements and their
way of life. Many of these communities were established in proximity to Catholic
missions, and the Catholic Church continued to play a significant role in encour-
aging Catholic and francophone immigration into the Canadian west well into
the early decades of the 20th century. This immigration was seen as a counterbal-
ance to the waves of additional immigrants, from Europe in particular, who were
encouraged to populate the vast and empty territories, settlers who in the major-
ity were neither Catholic nor francophone. There are literally hundreds of French
*	 Thanks to Julien Eychenne and the editors of this volume for helpful comments on an ear-
lier version of this paper.
1.	 Alberta is the westernmost of Canada’s prairie provinces. It covers an area of some 661,818
square kilometers, and has a current population of approximately 3,800,000 inhabitants. In
1900, by contrast, the population was just over 73,000, so the number of French speakers could
hardly have exceeded 40,000 at that time.
.	 In this context, ‘Métis’ refers to a person or a family of mixed origin, French and Indian,
French-speaking and Catholic. In the middle of the nineteenth century, the Métis were suffi-
ciently numerous to form a distinct society on the Prairies and a recognizably different dialect
of French is still heard. See Papen (1984) for an excellent discussion of this population.
342	 Douglas C. Walker
names present in Alberta history – reflecting the influential citizens who left their
mark in place names or in their impact on the development of the province.
If the early years had a distinctly French “flavor,” the twentieth century saw
a steady reduction in the francophone proportion of the populace. At the onset
of the 21st century, roughly 60,000 French speakers, or markedly less than 2% of
the total population, are to be found, and the sociolinguistic composition of the
French community has become increasingly heterogeneous. The early population
had very largely Quebec roots, and their speech is easily recognizable as a popular
variety of what may be called general Canadian French (“le français laurentien”).
More recently, these original French speakers have been reinforced by immigra-
tion from a range of additional communities: European, African, Caribbean, as
well as large numbers of immersion graduates who, if not strictly comparable to
native speakers, certainly buttress support for the French language and culture in
the province.
Returning to the earlier and traditional sources, however, the French com-
munities can largely be seen in three clusters: villages in the centre of the province
surrounding Edmonton (Beaumont, St-Albert, Legal, Morinville, Villeneuve…),
and two further groupings. The first of these is in the center-eastern region and
includes Bonnyville, St-Paul, Lac La Biche, Plamondon, Thérien and others; the
second in the north west, in the general Peace River region: Guy, Falher, Donnelly,
Girouxville, Nampa, St-Isidore and others. The Peace River region still contains
the highest proportion of francophones in Alberta, although recent changes have
drastically modified the demography of the region. It is here that the fieldwork
for the Phonologie du français contemporain (PFC) project was carried out, and
this report on Albertan French (AF) is based on data from those interviews.
2.	 The speakers
Interviews were conducted in the summer of 2001 with twelve speakers residing
in villages in the heavily agricultural area south east of the city of Peace River:
seven women; five men. Three age groups are represented: five “seniors” over 65
years of age (three women, two men), four “moyens” between 25 and 64 (two
women, two men), and three “juniors” under 25 (two women, one man). With
one exception (a senior born in Vivian, South Dakota who moved to the area at a
.	 For example, in the 1971 census, 60% of the population of the region was identified as of
French origin, compared to 50% in 2001. In 1981 (the first year this question was asked) 44% of
the households had French as “la seule langue du foyer.” By 2001, this number had fallen drasti-
cally to only 11%, although 37% of homes reported use of both French and English.
	 Albertan French phonology	 343
pre-school age), all speakers were born in Alberta, and all are bilingual in French
and English. The oldest speaker was 82 at the time of the interviews, the youngest
14. Recordings follow the PFC protocol: reading of word lists (both the general
list and one developed specifically to test for widespread Canadian French char-
acteristics such as vowel laxing or diphthongization, traits which do not emerge
from the general list) and the diagnostic text plus recording of informal spontane-
ous conversations. The structure of the phonological system of AF may easily be
determined from the diagnostic word lists, and is confirmed by speaker behavior
in the conversations. As will be seen below, it reflects to a highly significant de-
gree the system of the Canadian French vernacular (popular Canadian French or
PCF). More detailed discussion of liaison and schwa behavior depends directly on
longer texts: the diagnostic reading passage and the spontaneous conversations.
Two of the reading passages proved to be unusable, however, and four additional
speakers manifested significant difficulties in reading. The reading by the latter
four is very hesitant (one does not read at all, either in English or French), to the
degree that evaluation of the behavior of schwa and liaison, behavior which is
heavily determined by phonological phrasing, would not be valid. Consequently,
analysis of the latter phenomena will deal with all conversations but with diag-
nostic passages from only six informants. Details concerning the speakers follow
in Table 1.
.	 Interviews were conducted by two young women, Mélanie Boudreaux and Doris LaChance,
both in-group members of the community who interviewed close friends or relatives. Because
of the specific circumstances of the interviews, no guided conversations were obtained.
Table 1.  Speakers in the PFC Canada Albertan French corpus
Speaker (PFC
code, caa---)
Age Sex Home Profession Diagnostic
reading passage
pm1 82 M Guy Retired (farmer, civil servant) N
ca1 80 F Guy Retired (teacher) Y
mg1 75 F McLennan Retired (teacher, librarian) N
dl1 72 M McLennan Retired N
al1 68 F McLennan Housewife N (hesitations)
lm1 56 F Guy Secretary-Treasurer Y
ag2 51 M McLennan Farmer N (hesitations)
rl1 45 M Donnelly Self-employed N (hesitations)
ag3 45 F Donnelly Teacher Y
ca2 19 F Guy Student Y
vg1 17 F McLennan Student Y
lg1 14 M McLennan Student Y
344	 Douglas C. Walker
3.	 The phonological system
The phonological inventory of AF, in comparison to that of “le français de référen-
ce” (henceforth referred to as FR), presents a number of conservative properties,
i.e., elements that are stable in Alberta but that have disappeared or are disappear-
ing from FR (although not, clearly, from other varieties of French), especially in
the vocalic domain. Both vocalic and consonantal inventories are presented in the
tables below.
.	 This analysis also reflects data from a conversation between two young women (both 19 at
the time and both native to the region).
Table 2.  Oral vowels (and glides) in AF
Oral Front Back
unrounded rounded unrounded rounded
high i / j y / ɥ u / w
mid-high e ø o
ə
mid-low ɛ ɛː œ ɔ
low a ɑ
Table 3.  Nasal vowels in AF
Nasal Front Back
unrounded rounded unrounded rounded
high
mid-high
mid-low ɛ̃ œ̃ ɔ̃
low ɑ̃
Table 4.  Consonants AF
Bilabial Labio-
dental
Alveolar Alveo-
palatal
Palatal Velar Uvular Glottal
stops p / b t / d k / ɡ
fricatives f / v s / z ʃ / ʒ h
nasals m n ɲ ŋ
lateral l
rhotic ʀ*
* As well as [r ɾ] and others.
	 Albertan French phonology	 345
Among the vowels, we may first note the preservation of long /ɛ:/ (fenêtre),
of /œ̃/ (un), of back /ɑ/, and the opposition between /a/ and /ɑ/ (Non je pense pas;
Puis qu’est-ce qui se passait). The PFC word lists (both the general list and that
adapted for Canadian French) also contain items that test for each of these seg-
ments: évêque, fête, brun – brin, pâte – patte. In the case of the mid vowels /e/, /ɛ/,
the distinction is clearly preserved in word-final open syllables (épée – épais) and,
in fact, reinforced, as we will see below. Finally, in contrast to FR, schwa in AF has
resisted the pressure to merge with one of the two mid front-rounded vowels: des
genêts with /ә/ vs. déjeuner with /ø/, jeune with /œ/. As to the consonantal inven-
tory, few comments are needed. Velar [ŋ] is regularly present, both in loan words
and through a velarization process to be discussed below. Rhotics vary widely,
impacted no doubt by the presence of numerous unassimilated English imports.
Finally, /h/ is heard both in loans (e.g., hitch, highway) and in native forms (honte,
dehors).
The phonological inventories, then, present few surprises in comparison with
well-known continental varieties. It is much more in the often disparate realiza-
tions of these segments that the most characteristic and intricate traits of AF (and
PCF) are to be found. The consonants present no doubt the least complex of these
variations. We see the assibilation of /t/ and /d/ to [ts] and [dz] preceding high
front vowels and glides: éventuellement; Tu veux-tu m’en parler; pour dix jours, as
well as the diagnostic words dire, diète, duel, tube. Aspiration of voiceless stops,
especially /p/, is also present: à moins que; dans les fenêtres puis; avec Madame
Pauline; quoi d’autre [doth], plus, among other diagnostic words, poutine, quinze.
As previously indicated, palatal /ɲ/ backs to /ŋ/ word-finally or preconsonantally:
baignoire, compagne, champagne vs. enseigner. Further, the rhotics (for which we
will use /R/ as a general cover symbol) are realized in diverse ways ([r ɾ ʁ ʀ ɚ]) in
numerous diagnostic items, both by different speakers and variably in the speech
of individuals, no doubt linked as well to the presence of many English loans: Am-
sterdam, Red Light District, nurse. Finally, word-final consonant clusters, includ-
ing consonant + liquid, /s/ + consonant and stop + stop groups, are consistently
simplified: autres /ot/, notre /nɔt/, ensemble /ɑ̃sɑ̃m/ (with assimilation of /b/ to
the preceding nasal vowel), triste /tʀɪs/, correct /kɔʀɛk/, plus the diagnostic words
sab(le), lib(re), jus(te), coup(le), minis(tre), touris(te), neut(re), jung(le), prêt(re),
aveug(le), convainc(re), orches(tre) (Canadian list); intac(t), peup(le), meurt(re)
(general PFC list), among others.
.	 In contrast to the word-final simplification of consonant clusters, we may also note the
insertion (or preservation) of final /t/ in various forms: ici (icitte), tout, tous /tʊt/, fait /fɛt/, plus
numerous proper names ending in <‑et> or <‑ot>: Chabot, Pâquet, Morisset, etc.
346	 Douglas C. Walker
It is, however, in the vocalic domain that the greatest variability is found in
the allophonic realizations. No doubt the best known is the laxing of short high
vowels in closed syllables: [ɪ] Belgique, triste, huit, musique; [ʏ] autobus, ducs,
capsule, juste; [ʊ] toutes, etc. The Canadian diagnostic list targets this laxing ex-
plicitly: vite, plume, couple, extending the test to pretonic syllables (both open
and closed, where optional laxing is also found: abusif, ministre, pilule, cuisine,
boulevard, coutume, filtrer, etc. Unstressed high vowels in voiceless contexts may
also undergo devoicing, as in the PCF diagnostic words équiper, député, écouter,
all with a voiceless vowel in the second syllable for several of the speakers. As
a contrast to the laxing and devoicing of short (high) vowels, AF also shows,
as do other PCF varieties, the diphthongization of long vowels, a very frequent
process in word-final syllables, with long vowels developing an off-glide sharing
features of rounding and frontness/backness with the nucleus. The text includes
the following examples: [ej] mère, infirmière, neige; [œɥ] soeur; [ɑw] lâches; [ɑ̃w̃]
étrange, ensemble; [ɔw] fort, etc. and once again the word list presents confirming
evidence: pur, neutre, chaude, père, beurre, pâte, port, Jacques, crainte, honte, lente,
emprunte, as well as long /ɛ:/: évêque, prêtre.
Other characteristics of PCF are clearly present in AF. The rotational shift of
the (non-diphthongized) nasal vowels /ɛ̃/ and /ɑ̃/ respectively towards [ẽ] (trains;
loin) and [ã] or [æ̃] (parents; passant) is seen both in the conversations and the
word lists (brin, bain, vent). The backing of /a/ to /ɑ/ in final open syllables is fully
regular, as seen in the alternation in éclater – éclat (/eklate/ – /eklɑ/) or in the
omnipresent discourse particle là /lɑ/: … il me voyait là; … comme des femmes là;
c’est pas loin là; Puis là on met tous, tous les billets… and many others. Lower-mid
/ɛ/ in final open syllables also opens to [æ] or occasionally [a], as in met [mæ];
parce qu’on avait [avæ] appris, while /ɛ/ preceding /ʀ/ opens to /a/, at least spo-
radically: faire [faʀ]; personne [paʀsɔn]. Both speakers in the conversation have
an idiosyncratic pronunciation of Europe as /y(ː)ʀɔp/, perhaps influenced by the
realisation of the past participle eu (/y/), while all speakers show the “regular”
compression of a number of characteristic frequent words or sequences in PCF:
(ça) fait que… (/fak/), tu sais (/tsɛ/), c’était (/stɛ/), ce/cet/cette (/st(ə)/), puis (/pi/)
used to mean both ‘alors’ and ‘et’, bien (/bɛ̃/) and numerous others. Not present in
the conversation but clearly heard among other AF speakers are examples of me-
tathesis involving schwa in the prefix re-: ergarder /əʀɡaʀde/, ervenir /əʀvəniʀ/,
among others.
In the pronominal domain, we may note the general vernacular reanalysis
of il as /i/ preconsonantally, /j/ prevocalically: il /i/ me voyait là; ils /i/ travaillent
fort là. elle is heard frequently enough as /al/; elles can merge on occasion with
ils and be realized /i/ – /j/ (even without liaison: ils | ont | acheté /jɔ̃aʃte/); tu is
regularly /t/ prevocalically (t’es, t’as, t’aimes; just as je suis is heard as /ʃt/ in the
	 Albertan French phonology	 347
same context: … que je suis assez bonne /kəʃtasebɔn/. Subject or object pronouns
reinforced with ‑autres are also frequent: nous-autres, vous-autres, eux-autres (…
qui sont après eux-autres (fem.) là), and are also heard in a truncated form /zot/.
Finally, pronominal la and les, and the homophonous articles la, les, show the
characteristic deletion of /l/ (and occasional vowel fusion), although, at least on
an impressionistic basis, not as frequently as the vernacular speech heard in Que-
bec: célébrer les francophones dans la région [fʀɑ̃kofɔndãːʀeʒjɔ̃].
4.	 The behavior of schwa
Schwa in AF, like that in Canadian French in general, remains phonetically dis-
tinct from the front rounded vowels /ø/ and /œ/. Various words may also show
metathesis or insertion involving schwa (brouette /bəʀwɛt/, mercredi /mɛʀkəʀdi/,
février /fevəʀje/, rien /əʀjɛ̃/, reculez /əʀkyle/ (c’était pas là pour erien; erculez-
vous là, je m’en vas là, both from speaker dl1, are typical), but the rare examples
from AF in this corpus involve the prefix re-: regarder /əʀgaʀde/, qu’il revient
/kiləʀvjɛ̃/. However, it is for study of the retention or deletion of schwa that the
PFC project provides the most useful diagnostic tools and the most significant
information, and it is to this area that we now turn, based both on diagnostic
reading passages and on free conversations. In general terms, there are approxi-
mately 3850 potential schwas coded in the study if both reading passages and
conversations are considered. Globally, only 19% of these were pronounced, with
81% not being realized. The contrast between reading and conversation is inter-
esting but not surprising given the differing degrees of formality between the two:
in reading, schwa is pronounced 31% of the time; in free conversation, only 12%.
A more specific breakdown of global schwa pronunciation by individual speakers
is shown in Table 5.
It might be, however, in the finer distinctions encompassing both social
variables (age and sex) as well as linguistic context that greater differentiations
emerge. We will now examine schwas (or potential schwas) in final position in
polysyllables, in internal position, in the initial syllable of polysyllabic forms, and
in monosyllables. We begin with polysyllabic forms.
.	 One can see in this form the presence of an analogical /t/ derived from the /t/ of liaison in
il est. It is also heard in second singular forms: t’es/t/ allée: t’es/t/ un pas bon!
348	 Douglas C. Walker
4.1	 Schwa in polysyllables
As is well known, the key factors influencing deletion or retention of schwa in-
clude the number of consonants preceding the schwa and its occurrence either
preconsonantally or in phrase-final position. In simplified schematic terms,
these contexts may be indicated as ‑VCə#C, ‑VCCə#C for word-final schwas, and
‑VCə||, ‑VCCə|| for those in phrase-final position (where ‘||’ indicates an intona-
tional break, either major or minor). Data for final schwas (number of schwas
pronounced; number of potential schwas not pronounced) are found below in
Tables 6 and 7, the first for reading passages (all speakers), the second for the
conversations.10
These tables call for a number of additional comments. First, the results are
generally unsurprising. Schwa in AF is widely and freely deleted, even in contexts
which, in other varieties, favor its retention. Also not remarkable is the great-
er rate of retention or pronunciation of schwa in the reading passage over the
free conversations. A more detailed examination does, however, reveal further
.	 With only minor exceptions involving the so-called aspirate-h, schwa is excluded from pre-
vocalic contexts.
.	 PFC data is coded for both major and minor intonational breaks (“frontières intonatives
forte et faible”). Our AF data indicate no differences in schwa behavior resulting from this
distinction.
10.	 In these tables, and those to follow, deleted schwas are enclosed in parentheses. Schwa dele-
tion often leads to further consonantal deletion, and deleted consonants in these examples are
also enclosed in parentheses.
Table 5.  Schwa in the PFC AF corpus
Age Sex Reading Conversation Global
pm1 82 M n/a   9% n/a
ca1 80 F 42% 15% 27%
mg1 75 F n/a 13% n/a
dl1 72 M n/a 12% n/a
al1 68 F n/a 13% n/a
lm1 56 F 35% 13% 21%
ag2 51 M n/a 16% n/a
rl1 45 M n/a   8% n/a
ag3 45 F 33%   8% 19%
ca2 19 F 35% 12% 22%
vg1 17 F 30%   8% 20%
lg1 14 M 35% 10% 27%
	 Albertan French phonology	 349
matters of interest. If we consider the two cases in the reading passage where
schwa is retained in the context VCə#C (la cote du Premier…; impasse stupide),
the identity in position of articulation of the surrounding consonants (/t + d/;
/s + s/) may have provided pressure or support for an intervening vowel. Sec-
ondly, it is striking that in the 58 conversational contexts VCCə#C and VCCə||
where schwa is absent, only two instances of …CL(ə) occur (oncl’; êtr’); one would
have expected a greater effect of CL_# in this domain in helping to preserve the
schwa. Thirdly, it is interesting to point out a distinction between items ending in
a “bare” consonant and one followed by schwa (net versus nette, for example) in
order to test for a contrast between /…C#/ and /…Cə#/, orthographically <…C>
and <…Ce>). There are only four instances in the corpus of a “phantom” schwa
appearing without orthographic support: three cases of Marc Blanc in the reading
passage (/maʀkəblɑ̃/) and one of pour rien (/puʀəʀjɛ̃/) in conversations. In the
latter, the conjunction of identical consonants may again be a factor, as well as the
frequent independent occurrence of /əʀjɛ̃/ with inserted /ə/ in PCF. In general
terms, then, the very small numbers of schwa that occur word-finally argue for
the quasi neutralization of a /…C#/ – /…Cə#/ opposition in AF. Finally, the social
distinctions of sex and age are not relevant to a discussion of schwa behavior, at
Table 6.  Schwa in polysyllables: word-final position; reading passage
Context VCә#C VCCә#C VCә|| VCCә||
Schwa present 2 41 2 12
Examples la cote du Premier…;
impasse stupide
Marc[ә] Blanc;
titre de gloire
barrage, chaque;
revanche, très
Centre; Ministre;
risquent; quelque
Schwa absent 342 19 257 18
Examples d’un aut(r)(e)
coté
manifes(t)(e)nt;
Minis(tr)(e);
Cent(r)(e)
Table 7.  Schwa in polysyllables: word-final position; conversations
Context VCә#C VCCә#C VCә|| VCCә||
Schwa present 1 9 1 7
Examples quelque chose là
/kɛkəʃozlɑ/
n’importe quoi;
notre cathédrale
parce que
(followed by
change of
speaker)
parce que
(6 times);
comprendre, là
Schwa absent 629 20 613 38
Examples en charg(e) de;
n’import(e) quel
onc(l)(e); êt(r)(e);
organis(t)(e);
sort(e)
350	 Douglas C. Walker
least in this category: men and women show virtually the same rates of retention
or deletion, as do the three age groupings “senior,” “moyen,” and “junior.”11 Let us
now turn to word-internal behavior.
The relevant contexts for schwa in word-internal position are obviously …
VCəC and …VCCəC, the former favoring deletion, the latter retention. There
is, however, little to say here. For the deletion context …VCəC, there are 112
examples in the combined reading and conversation components: 106 deletions
(e.g., acheté, déroulement bêtement, détachement, aimerais, finalement, lende-
main, demanderas, emmenaient, acheté…) and six retentions (qu’est-ce qui… and
three instances of indiqueraient) in the reading passage plus dangereux twice from
the same speaker in a conversation. In the retention context …VCCəC, examples
are even more rare: one deletion (garde-malade, where deletion in this type of
compound structure is normal; see Léon 1966: 73) and eleven retentions (par-
dessus, justement, département, revenu (/əʀvəny/) and gouvernement, the latter
occurring seven times). Again, no distinctions involving sex or age are evident.
The behavior of word-internal schwas, in other words, corresponds to the typical
patterns found elsewhere in PCF and, more generally, FR. Much the same can be
said for schwas in the initial syllable of polysyllabic words.
As is well known, the behavior of schwa in word-initial syllables is condi-
tioned by their occurring in phrase-initial position (||Cə…) or by the structure
of the preceding word – whether it ends in a vowel or a consonant: …V#CəC…
or …C#CəC…12 For initial schwas, Tables 8 and 9 reveal some interesting
distinctions.
11.	 There may be a very slight tendency among the seniors to pronounce schwa more fre-
quently in the contexts VCCə#C and VCCə||, but the numbers are too small to allow for further
analysis.
12.	 Words of the form #CCə… are excluded from the analysis since schwa is uniformly re-
tained here in all varieties of French. Items of the form #CəV are likewise absent since schwa
does not occur prevocalically, other than in rare cases involving the so-called aspirate-h. Here,
as elsewhere, the small number of examples does not permit analysis of distinctions based on
age or sex.
Table 8.  Schwa in polysyllables: initial syllable; reading passage
Context V#CәC… C#CәC… ||CәC…
Schwa present 21 0 7
Examples ses chemises; en revanche;
baisser depuis
la télévision,
seraient
Schwa absent 0 0 0
Examples n/a n/a n/a
	 Albertan French phonology	 351
Of initial interest is the observation that these data demonstrate a clear dis-
tinction between reading and conversation. In the reading passage, no schwa
deletion occurs in initial syllables, perhaps a not surprising result in phrase-ini-
tial contexts, but striking in the case of V#CəC… where one would at least ex-
pect some variation. (The diagnostic reading passage provides no examples of a
C#CəC… context.) These results confirm the distinct nature of the reading task.
The conversations, obviously, are more variable. V#CəC…, as is well known,
favors deletion, so the preponderance of absent schwas is not unusual. An exami-
nation of the 17 cases of retention in a potential deletion context reveals that 11 of
them involve the prefix re- while the rest involve the stops /b d m n/ (besoin, dessus,
deviennent, devenu, menait, neveu), both conditions which in general terms are
known to support schwa retention. The converse case, deletion in a retention con-
text, is equally interesting. The majority of the cases (both C#CəC… and ||CəC…)
involves the frequent word petit and invites the conclusion that this form has been
relexicalized as /pti(t)/, phonetically [ptsi] or [ptsɪt], a variant widely available in
PCF. Also of interest, in contrast to the unexpected retention cases where stops
are involved, is the observation that the unexpected deletions (excluding petit) all
involve the fricatives /v ʒ ʃ/, permitting the conclusion that strength or sonority
effects are involved in the phonotactics of schwa behavior in AF.
4.2	 Schwa in monosyllables
The final category of items to examine is that of the monosyllables: je, me, te se, le,
ce, ne, de, que and une. To give some idea of the extent of the data, Table 10 gives
totals for the reading passages and conversations.
We may first note that the diagnostic passage contains no instances of the
pronominal clitics je, te, me. Conversely, the conversations, as one might expect
Table 9.  Schwa in polysyllables: initial syllable; conversations
Context V#CәC… C#CәC… ||CәC…
Schwa present 17 13 9
Examples avait pas besoin; mes
neveux; sont retirés
écol(e) secondaire; sort(e)
de soupe; embarqu(e)nt
dessus
les…repas; ouais,
visiter, recevoir; une
euh semeuse
Schwa absent 51 10 1
Examples trois p(e)tits; j’ai g(e)lé;
doit s(e)mer
pèr(e) v(e)nait; jus(te)
g(e)lé; not(re) ch(e)val;
not(re) p(e)tit frère
comme un…p(e)tit
show là
352	 Douglas C. Walker
in an informal context, show a virtually complete absence of negative ne.13 Finally,
again not unusual in conversations, the first person pronoun je is widespread. Let
us now consider the behavior of schwa in these forms. As previously, the relevant
contexts will include phrase-initial position, then monosyllables preceded by a
vowel or a consonant, including those in both phrase-internal and phrase-final
positions (where, in the latter case, they precede an utterance-internal pause). Fi-
nally, we will examine the behavior of sequences of monosyllables, a combination
that has generated significant discussion (see Dell 1985; Picard 1974). We begin
with phrase-initial monosyllables.
Again, one clear generalization emerges: schwa-final monosyllables never ap-
pear in prevocalic position (in keeping with the general French constraint block-
ing ə + V sequences). The single exception here involves the so-called aspirate-h
13.	 The two exceptions: qui ne traîne pas les enfants…; qui ne peuvent pas conduire.
Table 10.  Schwa in monosyllables
Form Reading Conversations
je   0 204
te   0   17
me   0   19
se 10   25
le 32 145
ce   6   14
ne   9    0
que 10 239
de 70 259
Table 11.  Schwa in phrase-initial monosyllables
Context ||Cә#V… ||Cә#C…
Schwa present: reading 8 98
Examples le hasard (8 times)
[ləazaʀ]
Le Ministre; de plus; ne cesse
Schwa absent: reading 0 1
Examples n/a le gouvern(e)ment
Schwa present: conversations 0 45
Examples n/a Le gars m’a…; je sais; que si tu prends;
ne traîne…
Schwa absent: conversations 0 105
Examples n/a j(e) dis; d(e) toute manière
	 Albertan French phonology	 353
of hazard in the reading passage, which consistently requires /lə/.14 With respect
to the preconsonantal monosyllables, schwa is deleted more than it is preserved
(105 versus 45 cases), with the great majority of deletions involving je, while the
retentions involve not only je, but as expected the “harder”, i.e., orally closed
consonants of de, que, le and me. The phrase-internal monosyllables present anal-
ogous patterns.15
Let us then turn to phrase internal monosyllables (excluding for now sequenc-
es of these forms, e.g., je me, de se, etc.). The relevant contexts, here as elsewhere,
are …V#Cə#C… and …C#Cə#C…, i.e., whether the form is preceded by a vowel
or a consonant, as well as …V#Cə#V… and …C#CəV…, where the forms precede
a vowel. The latter cases are easily disposed of: as we have repeatedly seen, schwa
does not precede vowels (aspirate-h cases excepted), so such cases are absent from
consideration in this series, as in others. One over-riding comment is necessary
here with respect to the …C#Cə#C… context. The PFC coding conventions re-
quire that the word-final consonant preceding any of the monosyllabic forms be
coded for the presence or absence of schwa whether or not an orthographic <e>
occurs. Thus, one would indicate whether the <e> of fille is realized as schwa,
and also whether such a vowel occurs after voir, hiver, carnaval, tank and other
consonant-final words. That is, a …C#Cə#C… sequence is treated as if it were a
potential …Cə#Cə#C… sequence. This requirement allows for general compari-
sons within the entire PFC set of corpora, particularly those involving Southern
French varieties where the behavior of schwa is highly distinctive. In our case
however, no schwas are heard preceding the clitics, even in cases of words ending
in consonant-liquid sequences. The following examples are typical: troisièm(e) de
nos enfants; trouv(e) que les jeunes; écol(e) de campagne; peut-êt(re) le jeu; liv(re) de
recettes; sort(e) de papier. With this in mind, we can now proceed to an examina-
tion of the data in Table 12.
This table reveals some interesting contrasts and confirms as well patterns
we have already seen. It is striking, for example, that in a context which heavily
favors deletion (…V#Cə#C…), schwa is retained in the reading passage far more
than it is deleted: 112 cases of retention versus only three of deletion. Possible
14.	 Note that hasard is pronounced [azaʀ], not [hazaʀ], despite other native words in the cor-
pus with [h]: honte, hache, hockey, etc. Elsewhere in the corpus, we find pronunciations such as
/ləhajwe/ for le highway, but given the presence of [h] this is not a pre-vocalic issue.
15.	 There will be no category of utterance-final monosyllables since, as an obvious consequence
of their grammatical functions, these clitic forms do not appear utterance finally. They do, how-
ever, appear preceding utterance-internal intonational boundaries, exclusively in hesitation
contexts, where the schwa is uniformly pronounced: un de, mes favoris; c’était le, carnaval…;
c’est là que, un de nos oncles…
354	 Douglas C. Walker
explanations include the formality of the reading task, coupled with the speakers’
general lack of familiarity with reading aloud and the concomitant tendency to
read slowly and deliberately. Conversations show a more typical …V#CəC… pat-
tern: deletion in roughly 85% of the cases (190 out of 224 possibilities) although
even here the degree of retention in a spontaneous vernacular setting is surprising.
The retention context provided by a consonant preceding the clitic (…C#Cə#C…,
with two consonants preceding the schwa) shows the usual behavior. No deletion
occurs in the reading passage, while 13 deletions (versus 80 retentions) are found
in the conversations. In these deletion cases, phonological factors are evident:
deletion is most frequent either when the forms follow /ʀ/ (/ʀC/ sequences being
phonotactically “congenial”) or with the fricative-initial forms je and ce which
combine easily with the following consonant.
The final category of schwa behavior to occupy us involves sequences of
monosyllables, a domain that again provides interesting data. The forms poten-
tially involved, once again, are je, me, te, se, le, ce, ne, de and que. The case of ne is
easily dispensed with: It is found virtually exclusively in the reading passage, only
twice in all the conversations, and never in combination with another of these
monosyllables. In the same fashion, ce is heavily restricted. By far the great major-
ity of sequential occurrences are in the complex forms est-ce que / qu’est-ce que,
where the ce is exclusively /s/. Only two other sequences occur: de ce temps-ci and
parce que ce serait, pronounced /dəstɑ̃si/, /paʀskəsəsʀɛ/, and no generalizations
are possible.
Table 12.  Schwa in phrase-internal monosyllables
Context …V#Cә#C… …C#Cә#C…
Schwa present: reading 112 100
Examples décidé de faire; détachement
de police; avons le soutien
Schwa absent: reading 3 0
Examples en fin d(e) l’année; pas d(e) la
réaction; qu’est-c(e) qui…
n/a
Schwa present: conversations 34 80
Examples au lieu de voir; qui devient le
roi; avait oublié de mettre; il
fallait que les…
troisième de nos enfants; je
trouve que les jeunes; pour le
travail
Schwa absent: conversations 190 13
Examples au mois d(e) novembre; on
prenait l(e) tracteur; quand
j(e) vais en convention
dur d(e) parker; toujours
qu(e) la jument; capab(le) d(e)
la contrôler; au bord d(e) la
tank
	 Albertan French phonology	 355
The preposition de and conjunction que provide somewhat greater room for
discussion. de is found in two combinations: de se and de le. The former occurs
five times in the reading passage in façon de se débarrasser, uniformly /dəsə/, un-
doubtedly because of the slow and hesitant efforts these speakers make in reading
generally. In conversation, the single example pas besoin de le dépenser is also, per-
haps unexpectedly, /dələ/. que shows more variation. In the reading text, plutôt
que de se trouver, again read slowly, is /kədəsə/ with no deletion. The three exam-
ples of que le are perplexing in that they are inconsistent: parc(e) que le prisonnier
était /kələpʀizɔnje/ (no deletion); aut(re) que le bénévolat /otkəlbenevɔlɑ/ (dele-
tion in le); je pense que le plus loin /ʃpɑ̃skləplylwɛ̃/ (deletion in que). The thirteen
cases of que je, on the other hand, behave almost exclusively as expected. Apart
from the utterance-initial and emphatically pronounced Que je me rappelle de…
with no deletion, the others all show schwa deletion in je, even if the general con-
text would allow deletion in que.
Striking here is the retention of schwa in que even when preceded by a vow-
el – the prototypical context for schwa deletion given by the context …V(#)Cə…
One is led to the conclusion that the sequence que je has been lexicalized as /kəʒ/,
irrespective of the environment. One final example here is also worthy of com-
ment: après ça, ce que je te disais. Here we find four potential schwas in sequence
and the alternating pattern of deletion (no two adjacent schwas delete) that leads
to the next segment of our discussion, that involving the monosyllabic pronomi-
nal clitics je, me, te, se and le, all of which are found only in the conversations.
Table 13.  Schwa in sequences of que je
V#que je… VkәʒC
que tu voulais pas que je fasse pakəʒfas
c’est pas ça que je veux entendre pasakəʒvø
s’il faudrait que je vive, proche là fodʀɛkəʒviv
mais que je vais te faire parler mɛkəʒvɛ
il y en a que je vois pas jɑ̃nakəʒvwɑpɑ
l’année que je suis à… anekəʒsɥia
pendant que je travaille pɑ̃dɑ̃kəʃtʀavaj
après ça, ce que je te disais skəʃtədizɛ
C#que… CkәʒC
parce que je suis pas une personne paʀskəʒsɥipa
parce que je reste chez mes parents paʀskəʒʀɛs
parce que je lisais dans le journal paʀskəʒlizɛ
fait que là tu s/ que je sais pas latyskəʒsɛpɑ
356	 Douglas C. Walker
Potentially, given the syntactic constraints, the pronominal combinations to
be examined would include je me, je te, je le, me le, te le, and se le. In fact, only the
first three occur, in the following proportions: je me: 10; je te: 6; je le: 1.
In these cases, there is a mixture of what might be called free expressions
with more fixed patterns. With je le, we find the only instance of /ʒəl/ with schwa
retained in the subject pronoun and deletion in the le. je te occurs exclusively with
dire: /ʃtədi/, /ʃtədizɛ/, and it is evident that these forms have been lexicalized with
/ʃtə/, even when a consonant precedes the subject pronoun. With je me, there
is more structural variation syntactically, but phonological consistency. With a
single exception, je me is exclusively /ʒmə/ whether it occurs phrase-initially, fol-
lowing a consonant or following a vowel. Again, phonological fusion and lexical-
ization of the sequence appears to be the most reasonable explanation.
16.	 This table provides additional examples of properties of colloquial AF (and PCF in gen-
eral): dropping of the complementizer que: c’est la première fois je le mets…; the discourse par-
ticle anyway (= ‘en tout cas’): anyway, je te dis que…, and the quotative comme, calqued on the
ubiquitous ‘like’ that characterizes the surrounding English vernacular: sont comme “ah moi je
me rappelle de de ça”; est comme “oh oui, je me rappelle de de ça”.
Table 14.  Schwa in pronominal clitic sequences16
je le
c’est la première fois je le mets fwaʒəlmɛ
je te
ils ont ben raison parce que, je te dis que… ʃtədi
pas trop de bonne humeur, je te dis qu’ils… ʃtədi
en tous les cas, je te dis que… ʃtədi
anyway, je te dis que… ʃtədi
pas trop creux, je crois ben, mais je te dis que… ʃtədi
après ça, ce que je te disais skəʃtədizɛ
je me
Que je me rappelle pas de… kəʒəməʀapɛlpɑdə
moi, je me rappelle, le père Bouchard… mwaʒməʀapɛlЕ
sont comme “ah moi je me rappelle de de ça” amwaʒməʀapɛlЕ
moi je me rappelle de… mwaʒməʀapɛlЕ
est comme “oh oui, je me rappelle de de ça” owi mwaʒməʀapɛlЕ
pis elle est comme “oh je me rappelle, j’en avais une…” o ʒməʀapɛl ʒɑ̃navɛЕ
on allait ram/, je me souviens… ɔ̃nalɛʀam ʒməsuvjɛ̃
je me suis fait des petits coins ʒməsɥifɛЕ
ensuite je me suis mariée ɑ̃sɥitʒməsiɥmaʀje
disons je me demandais… dizɔ̃ʒmədmɑ̃dɛ
	 Albertan French phonology	 357
This concludes our survey of the behavior of schwa in AF. Among the gen-
eral conclusions we may draw are the following. All data reflects a significant
difference in behavior between the reading passages and the spontaneous con-
versations, with far greater schwa retention in the diagnostic texts. This may be
attributed both to the greater inherent formality of the reading task and to the
lack of familiarity among the AF speakers with such tasks, a lack which causes
significant hesitations for most of them. In phonological terms, word-final schwa
is virtually absent, an absence that is in accord with patterns in all non-southern
dialects, but which extends systematically to words ending in consonant groups
in words such as res(te), jus(te), quat(re), tab(le) and so on. In non-final position,
we also see the effects of the standard constraints which yield widespread deletion
in the context V(#)Cә(#)C… versus retention in C(#)Cә(#)C… Against this pat-
terning, we must also note the effects of the lexicalization of a number of frequent
words or word combinations. petit(e), for example, is usually /pti(t)/, que je is real-
ized as /kəʒ/, and the discourse marker je te dis is uniformly /ʃtədi/, where /pti(t)/
and /ʃtədi/ both occur post-consonantally despite the complex C#CC clusters that
arise. Finally je me is exclusively reduced to /ʒmə/ (the alternative reduced real-
ization /ʒəm/ does not occur), a testament to the ease with which the pronoun
je combines with the following consonant independent of context. As might be
expected, then, the behavior of schwa in AF, as in other varieties, is a mixture of
phonological, morphological, lexical and social constraints, a patterning mani-
fested as well in liaison, a domain to which we now turn.
5.	 Liaison in AF
Liaison in French involves the pronunciation of a word-final consonant, normally
silent, when that word is in a close syntactic link with a following vowel-initial
form. In normal circumstances, the liaison consonant will also resyllabify to ini-
tial position in the following word. Liaison is traditionally subdivided into three
types: those which are obligatory, those which are optional, and those which,
despite the presence of the appropriate conditions, are prohibited.17 In general
terms, the tendency in colloquial French is for optional liaisons to be reduced or
eliminated, for some obligatory liaisons to become optional, and, paradoxically,
for some prohibited liaisons to begin to occur. The PFC diagnostic text allows for
an analysis of liaison in a more formal setting, while the coding procedures ap-
ply, needless to say, both to the text and to the spontaneous conversations. This
17.	 For a survey of liaison patterning in FR see Tranel (1987: 168–190) or Walker
2001: 160–169).
358	 Douglas C. Walker
permits us to gain a detailed picture of liaison behavior in the AF corpus. We
begin with liaison in the reading passage, where higher rates are expected, fol-
lowed by the conversations, where greater variability and less correspondence to
the norm occur. We should note first that, both in the reading passages and in the
conversations, the only liaison consonants in play are /t n z/; possible occurrences
involving /ʀ/, /p/ or /ɡ/,18 rare in other varieties, are completely absent in AF.
Few surprising elements are to be found in this behavior which, since it in-
volves monosyllables, implies significant amounts of obligatory liaison. The most
consistent behavior is with /n/, where the only break (two of six cases) involves
18.	 For liaison in /ʀ/, premier provides a typical example: au premier étage /opʀəmjeʀetaʒ/.
For /p/, trop and beaucoup are the only candidates (trop aimable /tʀopemablə/); /ɡ/ may rarely
appear with long (long été /lɔ̃ɡete/); liaison with /k/, as in sang impur from La Marseillaise, is
absent from the contemporary language except in that one fixed expression. As stated, none of
this is found in AF.
Table 15.  Liaison in the texts: monosyllables
Present Absent Examples
a. Liaison in /t/
est 14 9 est en grand émoi; est en revanche; est, en désespoir de…
ont   0 9 ont eu
grand   6 8 grand honneur; grand émoi
tout   4 3 tout est fait
b. Liaison in /n/
en effet 11 0 a, en effet, décidé
son usine   6 0 son usine de pâtes
un autre   7 0 d’un autre côté
on est   6 0 on est jaloux de
on a   1 0 comme on a vu
on en   5 0 comme on en a vu
en a   4 2 comme on en a vu
grand   1 0 grand honneur /ɡʀɑ̃nɔnœʀ/
c. Liaison in /z/
les 14 0 les élections; les opposants; les activistes
des   6 0 des activistes
nous   6 1 nous avons le soutien
dans   5 2 dans une impasse stupide
très   5 2 très inquiet
plus   0 7 ne sait plus à quel saint se vouer
jeux   2 8 jeux olympiques de Berlin
pâtes   0 7 usine de pâtes italiennes
	 Albertan French phonology	 359
en a. The other anomalous instance is found in a single occurrence where grand
links in /n/ rather than /t/, a resurfacing of a putative underlying nasal consonant
that is of potential theoretical interest. Liaison with /z/ provides greater variation,
but there is a distinct division between the first four elements in the table, des,
nous, dans and très, where liaison is the norm, versus negative plus and the two
nouns. In the former, the obligatory liaison is frequent, and the anomalous lapses
are attributable to the reading task. In the latter, negative plus is variable in any
case, as is liaison with the plural nouns. Hence, liaison with /z/ also corresponds
to what one would expect to occur in a more formal task. When we turn to cases
involving /t/, we see the greatest variation, even though liaison is considered cat-
egorical with grand and either categorical or strongly favored with singular est
and ont, at least in FR, although not seen as such in the PFC data base.19 The
widespread absence here, particularly with grand, provides a strong indication of
the widespread weakening of the liaison process in AF. This weakening is further
evident when we turn briefly to the polysyllabic contexts in the reading text. Here,
the story of liaison is quickly told: it is exceedingly rare. Potential linkable words
in the text include chemises en soie, circuits habituels, toujours autour, visites offi-
cielles, provoquer une explosion and quelques articles. In all but the last, liaison is
completely absent, while quelques articles is pronounced /kɛlkəzaʀtik/ on five of
seven occasions. Other than with the frequent adjective quelques, in other words,
we may observe that liaison is restricted to monosyllables in the reading passage,
despite the more formal nature of the reading task.
The spontaneous conversations provide a somewhat different picture. Before
a discussion of the details emerging from both monosyllables and polysyllables,
we note again that the only consonants involved are /t/, /z/ and /n/. Potential
cases of liaison involving /ʀ/, /ɡ/ or /p/ provide no examples. (The one occur-
rence of beaucoup in a liaison context, beaucoup aidé, is /bokuede/.) Let us begin
with monosyllables terminating in /n/, which present the most consistent case.
Here, there are just over 200 potential liaison contexts, and liaison occurs in 195
of them. The relevant forms are on, en (pronoun), en (preposition), un, mon, ton
and son.
Absence of potential liaison is restricted to just eight cases, where three of
them constitute optional environments: un | ou l’autre; un an | en Colombie; bon |
à combiner. The remainder all involve the subject pronoun on: on | avait attaché ça
après la…; on | avait du plaisir; on | était, euh, à l’ouest; on | était jamais…; on | était
à peu près un mile… We may conclude that obligatory liaison with /n/ is stable
in monosyllables in AF, and that the very few exceptions are not indicative of
19.	 For discussion, see Durand and Lyche (2008).
360	 Douglas C. Walker
incipient weakening of the phenomenon or of variation in this case.21 The same
may not be said for either /t/ or /z/. With /t/, the absence of liaison occurs in over
three dozen cases, both traditionally optional and obligatory, compared to some
50 examples of its occurrence. We see liaison with /t/ in Table 17.
To complete this picture, we should note that, technically, liaison with /t/ also
occurs in fixed expressions such as Saint-Isidore, vingt et un, tout à l’heure and (if
petit is lexicalized as the monosyllable /pti(t)/) petit à petit. Interestingly, we also
find many examples of the absence of liaison in identical or similar contexts.
The preceding table gives a good indication of the weakening of the con-
straints on obligatory liaison, that with est and ont in particular, extending to the
semi-auxiliaries such as devoir and pouvoir and to “full” verbs such as vivre and
savoir before affecting adjectives or nouns (prêt, droit) where optional liaison is
scarcely present in colloquial speech in any case. Similar data are to be found in a
discussion of the most frequent liaison consonant, /z/.
20.	Note the use of avoir as the auxiliary, here and with non-prepositional verbs such as aller as
well.
21.	 For completeness, we may note that liaison /n/ is blocked by hesitation (…rien, eux-autres)
and by aspirate-h (en haut, ton hockey). Further, the denasalization present in some other vari-
eties (mon ami /mɔnami/ instead of /mɔ̃nami/) is absent in AF.
Table 16.  Liaison in conversations: monosyllables in /n/
Liaison in /n/ Examples
on + y, en, est, a, avait, aura, aimait, attend, emmenait
en (pronoun) + ai, a (including il y en a), ait, aura, avoir
en (preposition) + allant, avant, arrière, Angleterre, Europe, études sociales
un + an, autre, accident, emploi
mon + oncle, ami
ton + oncle
son + enfant, office, uniforme
Table 17.  Liaison in conversations: monosyllables in /t/
Liaison in /t/ Examples
est + allé, arrivé, en charge, une ville, un fermier, une nurse, à la maison,
agréable
c’est + un gaz, une pas mal grosse cour, à Saint-Isidore, en Saskatchewan,
intéressant, aussi important
sont + installés, accrochés, encore, en train de sécher, après eux-autres
fait + une fois, à mon gilet, une grimace, (on s’avait) fait une sleigh20
tout + un, un déroulement, était beau
	 Albertan French phonology	 361
Table 18.  Non liaison in conversations: monosyllables in /t/
Non liaison in /t/ Examples
est + il est | été voir, on est | en même cour que mon père
c’est + un team, une femme, en neuvième année, après, à peu près
soit + en dehors
ont + embarqué, enseigné, acheté
vont + avoir
peut + aller
doit + être, avoir, en avoir
fait + une bouteille, une entrevue, un couple, en famille
vient + un peu
savent + avant de partir
vit + à Westlock
prêt + pas prêt encore
droit + il a droit à une…
Table 19.  Liaison in conversations: monosyllables in /z/
Liaison in /z/ Examples
nous + avons, a été, autres, envoyait
vous + êtes
ils + ont, appellent (three cases in total)
mes + amis, enfants, oncles
tes + enfants
ses + affaires
nos + enfants, oncles
leurs + enfants
les (article) + oncles, autres, hommes, affaires, enfants, heures, écoles, évêques,
autobus, anglophones, oiseaux
les (pronoun) + a appris, arroser, envoyer, emmener, à fait bâtir, a élevés
des + antiques, affaires, animaux, années, oncles, hommes, études,
anglophones, histoires
ces + années
dans + un bodyshop, un crate
plus + intéressante, en plus avec, de plus en plus
très + isolés, important
trois + ans, ans et demi
bonnes + écoles
cents + acres (vingt-trois cents acres)
chez + eux
362	 Douglas C. Walker
The most striking case of non liaison involving /z/ occurs with ils, where ab-
sence is the norm (39 of 42 possibilities). In prevocalic position, the third plural
subject pronoun (both masculine and feminine) is realized as /j/ not just in AF,
but more generally in PCF as well. When other clear cases of putative obligatory
liaison are added (e.g., les, des, dans, très), the overall weakening of liaison in AF is
clear.22 This tendency is reinforced by a consideration of liaison in polysyllables.
A discussion of liaison involving polysyllabic forms will be less extensive than
the previous section for two straightforward reasons: the number of eligible cases
(both type and token) is smaller and liaison with such forms is uniformly option-
al. It should not be surprising, therefore, that the absence of liaison far exceeds its
presence. It is easiest to begin with the occurrence of liaison, which is found only
six times with /z/, examples shown in Table 21.23 Absence of potential liaison, liai-
son which would normally occur only in more formal circumstances, is therefore
not the least exceptional in the examples in Table 22.
This concludes our brief review of liaison in AF. In general terms, we have
found major differences of two types: between the reading task and the sponta-
neous conversations, and between monosyllables and polysyllables. Even in the
sequences where the highest rate of liaison is expected, in monosyllables in the
texts, we begin to see the breakdown of the system, where obligatory liaison fol-
lowing est and ont is reduced (only 14 of 23 possibilities with est) or absent (no
liaison with ont). With polysyllables, the only liaison in the texts involves quelques
(five of seven realizations). When we turn to the conversations, the absence of
linking consonants is even more noticeable. It is virtually absent in all polysyl-
lables, the only exceptions involving occasional linking with était and petit. In
22.	 Note the following examples from the extract discussed in the phonology section: ils | ont |
acheté /jɔ̃aʃte/; participé dans | un festival; c’est | eux-autres; c’est | un carnaval.
23.	 To which we may add liaison in the compound form arrière-petits-enfants.
Table 20.  Non liaison in conversations: monosyllables in /z/
Non liaison in /z/ Examples
ils + ont, avaient, étaient, aiment, aimeraient, embarquaient, emmenaient,
ouvraient, en mangeaient (39 cases in total)
les (pronoun) + ils les appellent
des + inconnus
dans + un (4 cases), une, Edmonton
plus + en trouble, à l’hôpital
très + heureux, en vie
trois + ou quatre
chez + untel
	 Albertan French phonology	 363
the monosyllables, only /n/ is consistently produced (over 98% of the time), no
doubt because of the clitic status of the relevant forms (on, en, un, mon, ton, son).
With forms ending in /t/ or /z/, the results are mixed, with absence of linking in
a third or more of the possibilities. Most striking of these cases is the consistent
pronunciation of ils as /j/ (ils ont /jɔ̃/) over 90% of the time. AF provides evidence,
in other word, of the great variability, not to say fragility of liaison processes in
vernacular forms of the language.
6.	 The impact of English
We have already observed that all speakers in the corpus are fluently bilingual.
Conditions in the community require the use of English in a variety of contexts
outside family circles, and it is inevitable that this contact be manifested in the
phonological (and other) behavior of the speakers. In this section, we will exem-
plify briefly the phonological behavior of loan words, both assimilated and non-
assimilated, showing how they demonstrate mastery of the surrounding English
variety and how they are assimilated fully, partially or not at all, into the AF of our
speakers. First, however, we may note how the following list of loans demonstrates
the agricultural roots of the community and how the use of English is reflected
in the day-to-day life of the speakers: acreage, acres, aphids, bodyshop, buggy, bulk
Table 21.  Liaison in conversations: polysyllables in /z/
Liaison in /z/ Examples
petits + enfants
petites + écoles
plusieurs + années
Table 22.  Non liaison in conversations: polysyllables in /n/, /t/ and /z/
Non liaison in /n/,
/t/ and /z/
Examples
Non liaison in /n/ camion | avec; chacun | un rang; chacun | un fouet; le jardin | encore
aujourd’hui; occupation | à (5 cases)
Non liaison in /t/ no liaison with avait, était, étaient, devait, devraient, fallait, voulait,
faisait; comment, tellement, souvent, vraiment and some 80 additional
cases
Non liaison in /z/ no liaison with avais, aurais, étais, devais, voulais, pensais; toujours, ja-
mais, assez, après; plural noun subjects (les petits en mangent, les enfants
aidaient, les chemins étaient); plural past participles (arrivés en, retirés à,
rendus assez) and some 30 additional cases
364	 Douglas C. Walker
24.	Laxing of high vowels, obligatory in native words, is optional in loans, creating occasional
contrasts /i/–/ɪ/, /u/–/ʊ/, etc. in final closed syllables (speed – vide, caboose – pousse) and so
on.
Table 23.  Complete phonological assimilation
Complete phonological assimilation Phonetic comments
des sleighs [sle] no diphthongization
des antiques [ɑ̃ntsɪk] assibilation, laxing
les cabooses [kabus] no laxing24
j’avais pris du speed [spid] pas mal no laxing
sa chum [tʃɔm] affricate, back vowel
une bonne job [dʒɔb] affricate, back vowel
l’arrondissement de High Prairie [hajpreˈri] apical [r], [e] rather than [ɛ], final stress
il y avait pas de show [ʃo] no diphthongization
c’est ben le fun [fɔn] back vowel
en arrière du truck [trɔk] apical [r], back vowel
c’était une tank [taŋk] de huit cents gallons
[ɡaˈlɔ̃]
no aspiration; nasal vowel, final stress, no final
plural suffix
des boyfriends [bɔjˈfrɛn] apical [r], final stress, no final plural suffix
pour les combines [kɔ̃ˈbɪn] no aspiration; nasal vowel, laxing, final stress
Table 24.  Morphological and phonological assimilation
Morphological and phonological
assimilation
Comments
comment tu peux mover [muˈve] l’Alberta
dans le B.C. toi
first conjugation
il était après peinturer la grainerie [ɡrɛnˈri] compare English ‘granary’
j’aurais dû arrêter d’avoir checké [tʃɛˈke] first conjugation
il swathe [swat] [a] rather than [ɔ], no interdental fricative
l’orge qu’ils ont swathé [swaˈte] là first conjugation
ça doit être bon à combiner [kɔ̃biˈne] ça first conjugation
j’aime collecter [kɔlɛkˈte] des antiques [ɑ̃ˈtsɪk] first conjugation; no vowel reduction,
aspiration, assibilation, laxing
c’est dur parker [parˈke] pis tout ça first conjugation
il run [rɔn] ben par exemple [ɔ] rather than [ʌ]
je suis fortuné [fɔrtsyˈne] pour avoir deux
langues
compare English ‘fortunate’; first conjugation;
assibilation, final stress
	 Albertan French phonology	 365
station, canola, canner, combine, combiner, combining, crate, ditch, farming, grain-
erie, hitch, land, landmark, lawn, pony, pork, rhubarb, ridge, runner, saskatoons,
seeder, shack, shaft, shed, shop, sleigh, struts, swather, tank, truck. This list contains
a number of morphologically adapted forms (combiner, grainerie, swather) where,
as we will see, such assimilation is also an indication of complete phonological
assimilation. The first two lists (Tables 23 and 24) demonstrate such assimilation,
where the phonetic properties of AF are fully evident, followed by a set of unas-
similated forms demonstrating mastery of English phonology.25
While it is clearly impossible to give a detailed description of the differenc-
es between Canadian English pronunciation and the phonology of AF, we can
highlight some of the properties of the former most evident in the unassimilated
examples to follow: the presence of diphthongized vowels, lax vowels and vowel
reduction, centralization of the diphthongs /aj/ and /aw/ to [ʌj] and [ʌw], non-fi-
nal stress, aspiration of voiceless stops, velarization of /l/, retroflex rhotic, flapping
of intervocalic /t/ and /d/ to [ɾ] in post-stress position, and so on.26
This concludes the brief review of loan phonology in AF, where we essentially
see coexistent systems: a native AF phonology paralleled by a native Canadian
English structure, a testimony to the bilingual competence of the speakers and the
bilingual nature of their community.
25.	 These forms indicate additional morphological, syntactic or lexical properties of AF (être
après + infinitive, être une nurse, une LPN rather than être infirmière, absence of pronoun sub-
jects (with e.g., être, faire), calquing (comme = like), etc. that are beyond the bounds of this
discussion. For a preliminary treatment, see Walker (2003, 2006).
26.	Picard (1987) provides an excellent comparative survey of the phonetic and phonological
issues involved.
Table 25.  Unassimilated loans
Unassimilated loans Comments
Arthur est venu au monde à Wainwright
[ˈwejnɹʌjt]
initial stress, retroflex [ɹ], centralized
diphthong (“Canadian Raising”)
il travaille à Hertz Rent-a-Car
[həɹtsˈɹɛntʰəkʰaɹ]
/h/, retroflex [ɹ], aspiration, non-final stress
il s’en va à Barry, Ontario [ˈbɛɹijɔnˈtʰɛɹijow] diphthongs, aspiration, non-final stress
hockey, comme, Old Timers [oɫˈtʰajməɹz] velarized [ɫ], aspiration, retroflex [ɹ]
voir les Badlands [ˈbædlænz] initial stress, [æ]
travaille au Bird Walk [ˈbəɹdwɔk] initial stress, retroflex [ɹ]
jouer pour les She Devils, les Donnelly She
Devils [ˈdɔnəlijˈʃijdɛvəɫz]
diphthong, velarized [ɫ], initial stress
366	 Douglas C. Walker
Unassimilated loans Comments
les choses drôles comme Simpsons [ˈsɪmsənz] initial stress, vowel reduction
des jeux comme Medieval Times
[məˈdijvəɫˈtʰajmz]
non-final stress, velarized [ɫ], vowel
reduction, diphthong
est une LPN [ˈɛɫpijɛn] initial stress, velarized [ɫ], diphthong
je sais pas s’ils sont encore dans l’NHL
[lɛnejtʃˈɛɫ]
diphthong, velarized [ɫ], affricate
as-tu un jupon de spare [spɛɹ] retroflex [ɹ]
il était dans l’intensive care [ɪnˈtʰɛnsəvˈkʰɛɹ] non-final stress, retroflex [ɹ], aspiration,
vowel reduction
nursing home [ˈnəɹsɪŋˈhowm] pis l’hôpital-là
ils mettent ça ensemble à cette heure
non-final stress, retroflex [ɹ], diphthong
elle est, euh, plus, comment je dirais ça? Cozy.
[ˈkʰowzij]
non-final stress, aspiration, diphthong
Dans le voy/ dans le diner [ˈdajnəɹ] qu’ils
appellent en bon français
non-final stress, diphthong, retroflex [ɹ]
oh…était très fair [fɛɹ] retroflex [ɹ]
il prend un cours de automotive marketing…
business administration [ˈɔɾəmowdɪvˈmaɹkədɪŋ
ˈbɪznəsædmɪnəˈstɹejʃən]
flapping of /t/, vowel reduction, non-final
sress, diphthong
les fun years [ˈfʌnjəɹz] retroflex [ɹ], non-final stress,
ma mère est une nurse [nəɹs] retroflex [ɹ]
il est pewter [ˈpʰjuwɾəɹ] aspiration, diphthong, flapping of /t/,
non-final stress
faire du white water rafting
[ˈʍʌjtwɔɾəɹˈɹæfdɪŋ]
/ʍ/, non-final stress, retroflex [ɹ], flapping of
/t/, centralized diphthong
Julie est comme housewife [ˈhʌwswʌjf] centralized diphthongs, non-final stress
il est cute [kʰjuwt] pis adorable [əˈdɔɹəbəɫ] aspiration, diphthong, non-final stress, vowel
reduction, velarized [ɫ]
il y a pal mal rien du stuff ici [stʌf] [ʌ]
on a un gros front lawn [fɹʌntˈlɔn] [ʌ], retroflex [ɹ]
au theme park [ˈθijmpaɹk] pis tout ça diphthong, non-final stress, retroflex [ɹ],
interdental fricative
il y avait comme une petite ditch [dɪtʃ] final affricate
tout son fender [ˈfɛndəɹ] non final-stress, retroflex [ɹ]
Table 25.  (continued)
	 Albertan French phonology	 367
7.	 Conclusion
This review of AF phonology reveals it to present a wide range of characteristics
that are typical of popular Canadian French in general, an unsurprising result
given the history of the set of communities represented in the corpus, commu-
nities largely established during the first third of the 20th century via immigra-
tion from Quebec. Among the most salient is the conservative structure of the
vowel system – the retention of the three distinctions /ɛː/–/ɛ/, /a/–/ɑ/ and /ɛ̃/–/œ̃/.
This conservatism is in contrast to the highly innovative set of allophonic realiza-
tions – diphthongization, laxing and devoicing, oral and nasal vowel shifts among
the vowels, assibilation, cluster simplification, velarization of /ɲ/ among the con-
sonants – again typical of many Canadian varieties.
When we turn to more detailed investigation of the key domains of schwa
and liaison, additional generalizations emerge, reflecting in the first instance an
understandable distinction between performance in the reading passage and in
the spontaneous conversations. Schwa, for example, is significantly more pres-
ent in reading, although even here we see the weakening of the constraints on its
retention, most evident in the lexicalization of the sequence je me as /ʒmə/, even
following consonants where it violates the constraint favoring schwa retention
post-consonantally, as in ensuite je me… /ɑ̃sɥitʒmə…/. A parallel situation oc-
curs with liaison, where we again see a breakdown in the restrictions operative in
the standard language. Monosyllabic ils, for example, should uniformly be linked
with a following vowel, but liaison is absent in 39 of 42 cases in the conversa-
tions.27 In the same vein, linking of polysyllabic forms is virtually absent in the
conversations, and sharply reduced in the text.
Finally, AF shows the effects of the surrounding anglophone context. Given
the bilingual competence of all speakers, loan words are common (as are nu-
merous examples of other contact phenomena – calquing and code switching in
particular). Both assimilated and unassimilated forms are frequent, all providing
evidence of the long-standing impact of English, with the latter providing detailed
phonetic evidence of speakers’ mastery of the local variety. This general behavior
confirms the profound and on-going sociolinguistic interest of Albertan French
and of colloquial Canadian French in general.
27.	 Alternatively, one could argue that a restructuring of ils to /i/–/j/ has occurred, thereby
bleeding any potential liaison.
368	 Douglas C. Walker
References
Dell, François. 1973; 19852. Les règles et les sons. Paris: Hermann.
Durand, Jacques, and Chantal Lyche. 2008. French liaison in the light of corpus data. Journal of
French Language Studies 18 (1): 33–66.
Léon, Pierre. 1966. Prononciation du français standard. Paris: Didier.
Papen, Robert. 1984. Quelques remarques sur un parler français méconnu de l’Ouest canadien:
le métis. Revue québécoise de linguistique 14 (1): 113–139.
Picard, Marc. 1974. L’effacement du cheva dans les monosyllabes en québécois. Cahier de lin-
guistique 4: 1–12 (now titled Revue québécoise de linguistique).
Picard, Marc. 1987. An introduction to the comparative phonetics of English and French in North
America. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Tranel, Bernard. 1987. The sounds of French. An introduction. Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
Walker, Douglas. 1984. The pronunciation of Canadian French. Ottawa: University of Ottawa
Press.
Walker, Douglas. 1996. The new stability of unstable-e in French. Journal of French Language
Studies 6: 211–229.
Walker, Douglas. 2001. French sound structure. Calgary: University of Calgary Press.
Walker, Douglas. 2003. Aperçu de la langue française en Alberta (Canada). In Corpus et varia-
tion en phonologie du français. Méthodes et analyses, eds. Elisabeth Delais-Roussarie and
Jacques Durand, 279–300. Toulouse: Presses Universitaires du Mirail.
Walker, Douglas. 2006. Canadian English in a Francophone family. Canadian Journal of Lin-
guistics 51 (2/3): 215–224.
chapter 14
Phonological variation in French
Unity and diversity across continents
Chantal Lyche, Trudel Meisenburg and Randall Gess
University of Oslo / University of Osnabrück / Carleton University
1.	 Introduction
This chapter aims at offering a brief summary of the preceding chapters while
underlining common trends and specific issues across varieties presented within
their geographical regions. In the delicate balance between being too specific or
too general, we do not attempt to do full justice to the wealth of information pro-
vided by the authors, but concentrate on facts regarding segmental inventories,
schwa and liaison, which might help the reader get a better grasp of the mosaic
that emanates from this volume. An important caveat is warranted as the reader
approaches this concluding chapter: some of the observed differences across vari-
eties may result from uncontrollable performance factors and/or statistical noise
in the corpus, or may be influenced by different theoretical frameworks adopted
by the contributors. Nevertheless, the illustrations of phonological variation that
are depicted in our panorama of three continents are certainly poised to inform
both future work on variation in French and theorizing around long-standing
problems in French phonology.
2.	 French in Africa
Three chapters illustrate phonological variation in African French: French in
Bangui, the capital of Central African Republic, French in Dakar, the capital of
Senegal, and French in Bamako, the capital of Mali. The three countries became
French colonies in the late 19th century resulting in the imposition of French as
an official language, the only language of formal education and of administration,
a situation which remained practically unaltered after independence. French has
370	 Chantal Lyche, Trudel Meisenburg and Randall Gess
thus an elevated status (Chaudenson 2000) and its mode of acquisition entails
a conservative representation of the language strongly poised to influence the
nature of the variety acquired. Although essential, this factor is overshadowed
by the impact of regional languages in the acquisition process. In a multi-lin-
guistic setting characteristic of all African countries, French is overwhelmingly
a second language (L2), rarely a first language (L1), which entails that degree of
proficiency and usage varies across speakers and also across nations. Mali is for
example the least francophone of the three countries. The three surveys in this
volume were conducted in the countries’ capitals where one indigenous language
is empowered with the role of a lingua franca: Sango in Bangui, Wolof in Dakar
and Bambara in Bamako. We may thus expect that the different L1s of our speak-
ers will interfere in their acquisition of French, an aspect which is envisaged by
all authors.
2.1	 Segmental inventories
2.1.1	 Vowels
The three varieties count nine oral vowel phonemes and share certain difficulties
involving mid front rounded vowels inexistent in all L1s under consideration.
They nevertheless maintain enough specific features to warrant individual treat-
ment. In Bangui, the distribution of mid vowels does not pattern with that of
Parisian French (see Section 3.1.1), and in particular, the LdP (loi de position)
applies systematically to mid back vowels (rauque = roc). Such is not the case
for the two mid front vowels: both [ø] and [œ] appear in closed syllables, but
are subject to inter- and intra-speaker variation, although the mid-low vowel is
regularly found before /ʁ/. Finally, /e/ and /ɛ/ are in opposition in final open syl-
lables in accordance with classical descriptions, a fact which may be related to
the presence of an aperture contrast in Sango as well. Sango’s influence might
also contribute to the presence of extensive vowel harmony affecting not only
mid vowels, but also /i/. This factor interacts with difficulties in articulating front
rounded vowels, leading at times to hypercorrections. The other vowels conform
to Parisian French with one low vowel /a/ and three nasal vowels, although one
speaker maintains a four-way contrast, which could imply a certain amount of
inter-speaker variation.
In Dakar, Boutin et al. note that the ATR harmony which characterizes Wolof
carries over to French and takes precedence over the LdP. While vowel harmony
in Wolof proceeds from left to right, the direction of harmony in the local variety
.	 Except in Ivory Coast (Boutin & Turcsan 2009).
	 Phonological variation in French	 371
of French may be bidirectional, possibly resulting from an interaction with vowel
harmony in French (Nguyen & Fagyal 2008). ATR vowel harmony affects /e–ɛ/
and /o–ɔ/. In stressed closed syllables, both vowels may be found, <au>, unlike
<ô>, triggering a mid-high vowel. As expected from their absence in Wolof, the
acquisition of front rounded vowels is problematic: /y/ may be realized at times
as [i] or [u], and the pair /ø–œ/ is replaced by a single central mid to mid-high
unrounded vowel that the authors transcribe [ɘ], insisting on the large span of
variation in its realization.
The contrast /a–ɑ/ has been neutralized although it holds for some older
speakers who differentiate the two vowels by lengthening, or keep two distinct
qualities. The Wolof speakers of Dakar maintain a four-way contrast for nasal
vowels although nasal vowels do not belong to the vowel inventory of Wolof. This
variety of French thus includes nine oral vowels /i, y, u, e, ɛ, ɘ, o, ɔ, a/ and four
nasals.
French in Bamako shows, as in Dakar, a nine-member oral vowel inventory
due to the absence of an opposition /ø–œ/. In the Bamako survey, although all
speakers speak Bambara, the local vehicular language, most of them have a differ-
ent L1. Five typologically distinct L1s are thus represented and they all interfere
with the speakers’ French, as shown by Lyche & Skattum (2010), Lyche & Bordal
(to appear). The impact of these five L1s, coupled with unequal degrees of acquisi-
tion, leads to considerable inter-speaker variation. The absence of front rounded
vowels in the five L1s plays a significant role in the realization of schwa but not in
that of <eu>, probably as a result of formal instruction. Thus <e> might be realized
as [e], but <eu> always triggers a rounded vowel. The importance of orthography
is palpable as well in the different realizations of /e–ɛ/ which follow the orthoepic
norm, and of /o–ɔ/ where <ô> is realized as a mid-low vowel in contradistinction
to <au> (paume [pom]/[pɔm]). As in Bangui and Dakar, there exists only one low
vowel /a/, but the number of nasals is a function of the presence of nasal vowels in
the L1 of the speakers. Bambarophones integrate four nasals while Songhay and
Tamachek speakers have three.
2.1.2	 Consonants
One of the most salient features of varieties of French spoken in Africa lies in the
phonetic realization of the rhotic and its frequent absence among speakers whose
L1s are CV based. In Bangui, /R/ invariably deletes in coda position, usually trig-
gering compensatory lengthening of the previous vowel. It may delete as well in
.	 The three surveys differ in this respect: <au> triggers a mid-low vowel in Bangui in a closed
syllable, it triggers a mid-high vowel in Dakar, and both, although a mid-high seems preferred,
in Bamako.
372	 Chantal Lyche, Trudel Meisenburg and Randall Gess
an onset cluster, albeit less frequently and mostly after /f/. The phonetic realiza-
tion of the rhotic shows inter- and intra-speaker variation, the same speaker al-
ternating between [ʁ], [r] and [ɽ] in similar contexts. The absence of the rhotic in
coda position stems from a partial ban against CVC-type syllables in Sango which
triggers the systematic simplification of complex coda clusters and the deletion of
all simple codas, irrespective of their nature. Vowel epenthesis breaking a cluster
represents another strategy used to repair illicit syllables.
In addition to this widespread phenomenon, Bangui French exhibits pala-
talization of dentals before all three high vowels, a feature probably imported
from Sango, and alveolar and alveopalatal fricative devoicing in word-final posi-
tion, as observed in other varieties of African French (e.g., Dakar), but unrelated
to Sango.
In Dakar, devoicing affects final voiced stops which may also be realized as
unreleased like their voiceless counterparts, leading to some potential confusion
(e.g., tu me manques = tu me mens). The most significant features of this variety
lie in the presence of three consonants borrowed from Wolof: /ʔ, c, ɟ/ and of
prenasalized stops always resulting from assimilation (en bas [ã.mba] with a syl-
labic break after the nasal vowel). The three added phonemic segments do not
fulfill identical functions: the word-initial glottal stop is required to fill empty
onsets prohibited by an overarching constraint on syllable structure, while the
two dorso-palatal stops are simple borrowings appearing in a number of French
words and alternating with [tj–dj] respectively.
Wolof syllable structure is of the CVC type, where both onsets and codas are
filled by single segments. We would then expect the corpus to show the strong
tendency to cluster simplification that was observed in Bangui, but clusters
are usually maintained, although a certain amount of cluster reduction is ob-
served word-finally, affecting stop + stop clusters to a larger extent than other
combinations.
Unsurprisingly, the consonantal system of Bamako French is influenced by
the L1s of the speakers, but not so much in terms of segments, as most speak-
ers master the French consonantal inventory including the phonemes which are
absent from their L1s. Once again though, we observe that the native language
imposes its syllable structure on French. Five different languages constitute our
speakers’ L1s, three of which are strict CV (or CV(C)), while the northern lan-
guages (Songhay and Tamachek) are CVC and allow complex clusters. As a result,
a clear line may be drawn between the North and the rest of the country, with
northern speakers maintaining all clusters, to an even greater extent than in Euro-
pean varieties (e.g., no cluster simplification in ministre). All remaining speakers
simplify final coda clusters, and delete the rhotic in simple codas and in clusters.
	 Phonological variation in French	 373
The presence of the rhotic was shown to be a major discriminating factor for the
determination of the speakers’ L1s in a perception test (Lyche & Skattum 2010).
As a conclusion, let us stress that the three chapters show a wide range of
variation related not to political or geographical domains, but to the speakers’
L1 and their linguistic environments. Although in Mali, for example, all speakers
were recorded in the capital, different L1s impinge on French, thus generating
distinct varieties. Prosody contributes further to the shaping of these varieties:
Boula de Mareüil & Boutin (2011) mention that in Senegal, stress tends to be
word-initial, with an intensity peak, a system carried over from Wolof which is
not a tone language. In Bangui and in Bamako as well, a study of prosody requires
a preliminary consideration of the L1 prosodic system: a tone language producing
a tonal system, a stress language producing a stress system. Few speakers acquire a
typical French prosody, i.e., accentual phrases with demarcative stress on the final
syllable (Bordal to appear; Lyche & Bordal to appear).
2.1.3	 Schwa
All authors stress that a strict definition of schwa (see Chapter 1), whereby a schwa
is realized as a mid front rounded or a central unrounded vowel alternating with
a null segment, entails the existence of very few schwas in the varieties under
consideration. Recall that in northern varieties of Hexagonal French (e.g., Dell
1973/1985), schwa deletes obligatorily word-internally and word-finally when
preceded by a single consonant. It is subject to variable deletion in monosyllables
and in initial syllables (of polysyllabic words) in the same context. Except word-fi-
nally, it is maintained after two consonants. We observe in the three surveys stable
vowels in initial syllables and in most clitics, with little or no distinction between
the conversations and the reading exercise. The items where the vowel may drop
are high frequency words (e.g., petit), probably stored without the vowel.
All authors conclude to the presence of a stable vowel in word-initial position
and exclude schwa from this context. Two factors might be invoked to account
for this African peculiarity: prosody and the segmental context. Recall that the
influence of the different L1s is stressed throughout the three chapters and these
L1s obey, in their large majority, a highly ranked constraint against complex seg-
ments. The disappearance of an initial vowel would entail a complex cluster and
thus violate this constraint. In addition, the stress patterns of the different varie-
ties all indicate that stress is not assigned postlexically (group stress), but lexically
(word stress). This autonomy of the word would guarantee its integrity. Finally,
in all the countries considered, French is acquired at school and this mode of
.	 There is however some debate about the syllabification of a string following the absence of
a schwa, but see Grammont (1933) and, for a general discussion, Côté (2009).
374	 Chantal Lyche, Trudel Meisenburg and Randall Gess
acquisition probably favors a closer link to the written word. Interestingly enough,
the PFC database shows a certain number of schwa absence in Ivory Coast, the
only African country where French might be an L1 (Boutin & Turcsan 2009).
Regarding clitics, Lyche & Skattum analyze the negation ne, whose presence
(50% of the coded sites) contrasts dramatically with some hexagonal survey points
(1.2% in Treize-Vents). The negation stands out among clitics as exhibiting a schwa
with a reduction of 50% while others show an overwhelmingly stable vowel. The
word-internal context displays true variation with a deletion rate around 50% in
the three surveys. The word-final context, on the other hand, might be a locus of
discrimination pointing to the influence of the speakers’ L1s. Final schwas are
thus more frequent in Bangui and Bamako among speakers whose L1 is CV, sug-
gesting an overarching constraint against codas and more specifically complex
codas.
2.2	 Liaison
Given the small amount of variation observed, liaison does not call for an indi-
vidual consideration of each survey. Liaison is mostly realized after monosyllables
and associated with the plural, although the morphological marking alone cannot
explain the massive percentage of liaisons in [z] compared to European survey
points. This high proportion of liaisons in [z] stems from the fact that liaison is
mainly confined to categorical contexts (Durand & Lyche 2008) excluding adjec-
tive + noun where it is optional, but including monosyllabic prepositions + X
(only dans in Bangui and Bamako, but dans and chez in Dakar). It is interesting to
note that liaison usage does not increase with the formality of the task in Bangui
and Bamako, contrary to the strong tendencies observed in European surveys
(Durand & Lyche 2008; Durand et al. 2011). A certain distinction is perceived in
Dakar, but not as large as what has been disclosed for European French (Mallet
2008). The absence of a register distinction in Bangui and Bamako may be due to
the local practice of French usage, which is restricted to the formal sphere. The
reluctance to link contiguous words in a sentence might stem from the prosody of
the different varieties: recall that in Dakar, a glottal stop is inserted word-initially
and that an intensity stress falls on the initial syllable of the word. In Bangui and
Bamako as well, lexical words tend to bear stress (or keep a certain tonal contour)
eliminating the possibility of liaison. The lack of variable liaison then follows from
the prosody.
Variable liaisons seldom occur, except after the monosyllabic est. Bordal un-
veils a particularly intriguing phenomenon in Bangui where the past participle
allé appears to trigger liaison, so that it would be realized in suis [z]allé but not in
suis arrivé for instance.
	 Phonological variation in French	 375
The African varieties of French described here all point to the weight of the
L1 of the speakers, which interferes not only with the segmental inventories, but
also with the treatment of schwa and liaison. In spite of transnational similarities
in the latter two phenomena, the results presented here converge on the need to
consider varieties in terms of an L1 more than in terms of a geographical location,
although the melting pot role of larger cities cannot be ignored (Lyche & Skattum
2010).
3.	 French in Europe
French in Europe has been repeatedly described as subject to powerful leveling
forces (Coveney 2001; Armstrong & Pooley 2010; inter alia), regional features
disappearing in favor of a supralocal norm, succumbing to what Pooley (2006)
associates to an ‘Oïl Slick’.
Nowhere else in western Europe are phonological regiolectal features levelled to
such a degree over a large area. […] there is little evidence to suggest that new
vernacular varieties are emerging. Projected overviews of southern, Belgian and
Swiss varieties may nuance this view to some extent, but it cannot alter the fact
that the Oïl French area not only covers around two-thirds of the landmass of
the francophone Europe and the majority of its population, but that it is expand-
ing still further. This exception française merits revisiting in a wider perspective.
 (Pooley 2006: 386)
Similarly, Gadet (2003/2007) claims that variation in French is reduced to the
stylistic sphere, that it no longer affects phonological features characterizing dif-
ferent geographical varieties. As suggested by Pooley’s quotation above, southern,
Belgian and Swiss French might be more resistant to this Oïl Slick, a prognosis
that we may now test with a comparison of PFC survey points.
3.1	 Segmental inventories
3.1.1	 Vowels
The vowel system presented by Hansen for nine young Parisian speakers confirms
earlier studies (e.g., Peretz 1977; Landick 1995) and more specifically Lyche &
Østby (2009) in their analysis of 12 PFC speakers from the Parisian upper bour-
geoisie. If this system is to be considered as tomorrow’s standard, it is reduced to
ten oral and three nasal vowels. The distinction /a–ɑ/ no longer prevails although
some speakers regard it as prestigious and differentiate the two phonemes in min-
imal pairs. Mid vowels are all affected by the LdP, albeit to different degrees. The
376	 Chantal Lyche, Trudel Meisenburg and Randall Gess
mid-high vowel gains considerable ground in open syllables, as speakers do not
internalize here a prestigious norm and their pronunciations remain unaffected
by the proximity of the different items when reading minimal pairs: épée = épais.
The distinction /ø–œ/ in the pair jeûne – jeune is weakening as expected, due to
its low functional load, while the few traditional exceptions to the LdP are main-
tained in word-final syllables. The opposition /o–ɔ/ shows the most vitality, but
it is threatened as well in open internal syllables (beauté-botté [bote]), and the
merger in closed syllables, when it occurs, favors the mid-low vowel. It seems that
the decried LdP (e.g., Morin 1986) represents a system-internal force (Durand,
Eychenne & Lyche to appear) that regulates the distribution of mid vowels in
northern varieties of French.
Nasal vowels have merged to three in a system where the opposition /ɛ̃–œ̃/ no
longer exists although the quality of the vowel is subject to large variation. In ad-
dition, Hansen’s study brings forth new results on the evolution of vowel length in
Hexagonal French. Although length distinctions are maintained in, for example,
some parts of Normandy (Montreuil 2003; Lepelley 1999 for the Cotentin; contra
Girard & Lyche 2003 for Domfront and Brécey), they fluctuate in Parisian French
(see also Østby forthc.). Mid-high vowels in closed syllables are traditionally pre-
sented as long (e.g., Delattre 1966) (rauque [ʁoːk]), but they now do not exceed
in length their mid-low counterparts in similar contexts. Vowel length is being
expunged from Parisian French and its demise will probably affect other varieties
of French as already observed in Normandy (Girard & Lyche 2003). In Belgium
and Switzerland on the other hand, its vitality remains remarkable.
In Neuchâtel French, contrastive vowel length is present for all front vowels
(/i, y, e, ɛ, ø/) in final open syllables (nu [ny] vs. nue [nyː], ami [ami] vs. amie
[amiː]) where the degree of lengthening depends on the vowel. Morphology here
interacts with phonology as length may often express a gender distinction (mas-
culine-feminine). In final closed syllables, Racine & Andreassen found significant
length differences for the opposition <é>/<ai> vs. <ê> and <a> vs. <â>, i.e., in
the traditional contexts which are no longer active in northern French. In the
three survey points considered by Hambye & Simon, contrastive vowel length
is present, but less pervasive than in Neuchâtel: final closed syllables of words
spelled with a circumflex (fête, pâte) are lengthened as in Neuchâtel, but in final
open syllables, only feminine words spelled <ie> or <ée> are subject to length-
ening. The domain of vowel length, on the other hand, extends to penultimate
or final syllables affected by a specific prosodic contour, as for example maison
[meːzõ]. Although solid, length distinctions in final closed syllables are reduced
(they remain stable for /a/, however) among younger speakers in Switzerland and
among speakers living closer to the French border in Belgium. Regarding vowel
inventories, both chapters show that traditional features persist, for example the
	 Phonological variation in French	 377
opening of final unstressed vowels in Belgian French, the presence of /o–ɔ/ and
/e–ɛ/ contrasts in final open syllables in Neuchâtel. It is clear from both chapters
that the LdP does not interfere with vowel distribution. Nasal vowels on the other
hand tend to follow the Parisian pattern and although the contrast /ɛ̃–œ̃/ retains
some vitality, it appears threatened, the two vowels merging into /ɛ̃/.
Compared to these rich vowel inventories, albeit in evolution, Midi French
presents a stable vowel system composed of seven oral and four nasal vowels.
Coquillon & Turcsan analyze the speech of 18 speakers in the Marseille area and
show that this variety of French does not exhibit a phonemic height contrast for
mid vowels whose distribution is strictly governed by the LdP. Although some
speakers in all age groups are conscious of the northern norm, it does not affect
their productions in conversations, its impact being mostly confined to the read-
ing of minimal pairs at the end of the word list. The vowel inventory includes
one low vowel only (/a/) as traditionally described (Durand 2009) and four nasal
vowels. Coquillon & Turcsan propose that nasal vowels, although unstable, might
be underlying and not derived, as was argued by for example Durand (2009) for
other surveys. They point to an extreme intra- and inter-speaker variation in the
realizations of these vowels.
3.1.2	 Consonants
The consonantal system shows much less variation across surveys than the vocalic
system. Hansen confirms the projected disappearance of the nasal palatal usually
replaced by /nj/ or even /n/ and notices a certain amount of velar palatalization,
usually associated with speakers originating from suburban areas, albeit not in
her own survey. In Belgium, Hambye & Simon observe final consonant devoicing
at the end of prosodic phrases, a phenomenon restricted to Liège and Gembloux.
Tournai, close to France, is affected by regressive assimilation only; a final voiced
consonant may be devoiced when followed by a voiceless one. The tendency to
palatalization of dental stops is present in Belgium and in Midi French, but does
not stem from the same process. Probably an archaism in Belgium as it affects
older speakers, it is mostly a young generation phenomenon in southern France
linked to immigration (Trimaille 2010).
3.2	 Schwa
Barring the North-South opposition, schwa behavior shows more homogeneity
in our three survey points than the rest of the segmental system. Nevertheless,
although subtle, a certain amount of variation is present. Schwa’s basic behavior
differs little across surveys and corresponds to traditional descriptions (e.g., Dell
378	 Chantal Lyche, Trudel Meisenburg and Randall Gess
1973/1985): present after two realized consonants, it may be absent in a V(#)C_
context. Hansen notes fewer schwas absent word-initially than in clitics, and she
stresses that the initial <re-> (prefix or not) favors retention, although lexical fac-
tors should be taken into account. A clear register and age distinction is observed
as well, the number of schwas maintained increasing with age and the degree of
formality. Although both factors are not systematically studied in the other chap-
ters, they seem to play a similar role in the other surveys.
Hansen investigates a more recent phenomenon spreading through northern
France (Candea 2000) that she labels ‘prepausal schwa’. Prepausal schwas appear
before an intonation boundary, mostly after a single consonant, whether or not
a graphic vowel is present (c’est net [sɛnɛtə]). In contradistinction to her earlier
studies of the phenomenon (Hansen 1997), she notes a non-negligible number
of occurrences in the reading task signaling a certain evolution of the phenom-
enon. For Belgian French, Hambye & Simon view the presence of final schwas
as conditioned by phonotactic constraints, but not by prosodic factors. Word-
initially, on the other hand, they stress the role played by morphology, and in
particular the impact of the prefix <re>, in unison with the Parisian situation. In
Neuchâtel French, an in-depth analysis of schwa reveals the influence of token
frequency, lexical category (more absence in initial syllables of nouns and adjec-
tives than of verbs), a high rate of deletion (72%) for initials in <re> (contra the
other two surveys), and a generally high deletion rate for schwas in initial syl-
lables of polysyllables. This singles out this particular variety even though Racine
& Andreassen stress the importance of non-phonological constraints for schwa
maintenance. The three surveys thus point to a slight differentiation in schwa
behavior, the most striking being undoubtedly the high frequency of final schwas
in Parisian French.
As a massive presence of schwas in southern French has traditionally been a
characteristic element in its phonology, Coquillon & Turcsan’s analysis is a wel-
come addition to earlier studies of schwa in Southern French for other surveys
(Durand & Eychenne 2004; Coquillon & Durand 2010). We observe that schwa in
southern French is under pressure and that its evolution follows the historical de-
velopment of schwa in northern French (Durand, Eychenne & Lyche to appear):
if in word-initial syllables, <e> remains a stable vowel and is rarely a schwa, such
is not the case of other word positions. Word-internally, the vowel is weaker and
still weaker word-finally, younger generations leading the change. All registers
seem to be affected in the same way in opposition to what was observed in the
other southern surveys. Coquillon & Turcsan stress as well, although indirectly,
the absence of a prepausal schwa phenomenon. For a final schwa to be realized in
southern French, it must have a graphic correlate, thus reinforcing the geographi-
cal limitation of the phenomenon.
	 Phonological variation in French	 379
3.3	 Liaison
While the different chapters brought to light geographic variation regarding seg-
mental inventories and, to a certain extent, schwa, they concur in their treatment
of liaison. Categorical liaison is restricted to a few contexts (e.g., determiners +
X, pronouns + verbs, a few monosyllabic prepositions) and, more specifically, an
adjective is not systematically linked to the following noun (parfait // anglais in
Neuchâtel). Variable liaison is overwhelmingly scarce, truly variable after est, but
nearly inexistent between a plural noun and an adjective for instance. All surveys
stress that variable liaison is more frequent in the reading task than in conversa-
tions although a differentiation does not seem possible between the guided and
the informal contexts. Among external factors influencing the realization rate,
age seems to be important notwithstanding individual differences. For Belgium,
Hambye & Simon find that women might realize more variable liaisons than men.
Southern French patterns with the other surveys in spite of the presence of final
schwas which could be expected to trigger an increased use of liaison. Coquillon
& Turcsan discuss this eventuality and conclude that it is not the case, that a schwa
may appear when liaison occurs, thus avoiding a consonant cluster, but that the
reverse is not true.
As a conclusion to this section, let us stress that, southern, Belgian and Swiss
varieties of French maintain their characteristics and do pose strong resistance to
the leveling tendencies observed by Armstrong & Pooley (2010). In addition to
the phenomena presented above, two chapters (Hambye & Simon and Coquillon
& Turcsan) show that those varieties, through their typical intonation patterns,
will resist leveling for the years to come, as distinctive patterns are kept alive by
all generations.
4.	 French in North America
The first permanent European settlements were established in Canada in the early
17th century when French colonists occupied the banks of the St. Lawrence Riv-
er and the Maritime Provinces located on Canada’s east coast. The two colonies
showed distinct immigration patterns and developed separately administratively
and linguistically. As a result, two major French dialect groups are present in
Canada today, Acadian French and Laurentian French, both represented in this
volume, with Tracadie (New Brunswick) for Acadian French, and Trois-Rivières
(Quebec), Hearst (Ontario), and Peace River (Alberta) for Laurentian French.
The major variety of French spoken in Louisiana maintains a few linguistic ties to
Acadian French due to the settlement in Louisiana of a number of Acadian exiles
380	 Chantal Lyche, Trudel Meisenburg and Randall Gess
who were expelled from Canada in the mid 18th century. The varieties of French
in North America may thus be distinguished linguistically, although this factor
alone proves insufficient for their characterization. In Ville Platte, Louisiana and
in Peace River, Alberta, monolingual speakers are scarce, French there fights for
its survival and is slowly being supplanted by English. In the other three PFC
surveys presented here (Tracadie, Trois-Rivières and Hearst), French is the major
language of communication, the speakers’ proficiency level in English varying
from high to limited.
4.1	 Segmental inventories
4.1.1	 Vowels
Phonetically, there appears to be little variation between the four Canadian sur-
veys, which maintain an extremely rich set of oral and nasal vowels. On the basis
of an analysis of complementary data, Côté proposes that high vowel laxing, tra-
ditionally considered as allophonic, may be reanalyzed as contrastive. Côté, who
added a list of 209 words to the standard PFC word list, thereby largely augment-
ing the Canada-specific list used in the other surveys (Durand & Lyche 2003),
argues that Laurentian French has 23 contrastive vowels, including four rising
diphthongs, which can be identified in final closed syllables. All authors agree on
the presence of full mid-vowel contrasts, of a distinction between fête and faites
attributed either to length or to quality (i.e. /ɛː/ vs. /ɜ/), and the presence of diph-
thongs in final closed syllables. The observed unity is broken by an Acadian par-
ticularity, where mid-low vowels tend to raise to mid-high in word-final syllables
before /R/ and mid-back vowels raise to high in certain words (ôter [ute]).
All high vowels undergo laxing and lengthening in certain environments: in
stressed syllables closed by voiced fricatives (and /R/), vowels are tense and usually
long. For Laurentian French, Côté posits long lax vowels before /R/ (dur [dzʏːR]),
while Cichocki does not make this distinction for Acadian French (court [kuːR]).
High vowels may be devoiced when occurring between voiceless consonants. This
assimilation process has commonly been observed in different varieties of Lau-
rentian French (Gendron 1966; Walker 1984), but its presence in Acadian French
is first noticed here.
A two-way low vowel contrast (/a–ɑ(ɒ)/), clearly identifiable in final closed
syllables, is kept in all surveys with a number of specific tendencies. While /a/ is
subject to backing in final open syllables, Hearst’s subjects in their majority pro-
nounce an anterior vowel in rat and ras in the PFC word list. Côté, for Laurentian
French, points to an ongoing change whereby the /ɒ-ɔ/ distinction weakens in
final closed syllables before /R/ and where a decline of the usual contrast /a–ɒ/
	 Phonological variation in French	 381
occurs also before /R/ in favor of the back vowel, a tendency which goes counter
to normative pressure in favor of /a/. The two phonemes may be distinguished
by an increased degree of frontness and vowel length: patte [pæt] vs. pâte [paːt],
especially in the reading task.
A four-way contrast prevails among all nasal vowels, although previous de-
scriptions of Acadian French mention three vowel phonemes. The speakers of
Tracadie conform to their Quebec neighbors and distinguish brin from brun.
They show, however, a tendency to neutralize the /ɑ̃–ɔ̃/ contrast in open syllables,
a phenomenon which was claimed to be geographically based (Flikeid 1984) and
which has been noticed in Louisiana as well (Papen & Rottet 1997), although not
in Ville Platte.
The vocalic system of Ville Platte to which we now turn, is much less complex
than its Canadian counterpart, retaining only high vowel laxing, which occurs
sporadically in all final closed syllables. Mid vowels conform to the LdP without
any raising in syllables closed by /r/, in contradistinction to what was observed
in other parishes (Dubois 2005). There is, however, a lowering of /e/ to [æ, a] be-
fore a coda /r/. The /a–ɑ/ contrast seems inexistent in spite of a wide variation in
the phonetic realizations of the vowel, systematically more posterior than in FR.
Three nasal vowels are distinctive in Ville Platte and the contrast /ɛ̃–œ̃/ seems lost
except in the pair brin-brun. The system gives the impression of being highly na-
salized, though, due to pervasive contextual nasalization which affects all vowels
adjacent to a nasal consonant.
4.1.2	 Consonants
The consonantal inventory of French in North America presents few surprises if
we disregard the absence of a palatal nasal in Louisiana French and the presence
of historical alveopalatal affricates [tʃ, dʒ] in Acadian French, although their pho-
nemic status is the subject of some debate. Affrication affects /t, d, k, ɡ/ as well
in Ville Platte, where it is restricted to a few lexical items for which speakers are
aware of the non-affricated form. All varieties are subjected to alveodental assib­
ilation before high front vowels and glides. Traditionally, Acadian French is not
affected by the process, which constitutes an element distinguishing the two ma-
jor varieties of French in Canada. Cichocki observes assibilation in reading and
in conversations, more frequently with younger speakers than with older ones,
which could point to an ongoing change in Tracadie French. Specific to Louisiana
French is the commutation between dental and alveopalatal fricatives, leading for
instance to the realization [ʃovɑʒ] for sauvage.
Certain surveys witness the survival of word-initial aspiration (la honte [ʰõt]),
while it is disappearing from the varieties of French where it used to be heard
(Eychenne 2009; Lepelley 1999). The presence of /h/ in the consonant inventory is
382	 Chantal Lyche, Trudel Meisenburg and Randall Gess
mentioned for Acadian French, Alberta and Louisiana, but the segment does not
extend to Hearst or Trois-Rivières.
The place of articulation of the rhotic is subject to variation across surveys.
While we traditionally find an apical realization in the western part of Quebec
and a dorsal in the eastern part, Côté shows for her speakers in Trois-Rivières a
tendency which confirms earlier studies pointing to the emergence of a dorsal
norm. In prevocalic position, the six younger speakers all produce a dorsal rhotic
in their conversations. Cichocki draws a similar conclusion for Tracadie, where
his results parallels Flikeid’s (1984) suggestion of an ongoing change initiated in
syllable-final position. The dorsal variant is almost categorically used in Hearst,
while Peace River exhibits both apical and dorsal rhotics in addition to other vari-
ants due to contact with English. In Ville Platte on the other hand, the rhotic is
realized as an apicoalveolar tap weakened and sometimes absent in coda position
as in Bangui or Bamako French (see Section 2.1.2). /R/ weakening occurs as well
in Tracadie, where the consonant is often reduced to a schwa-like vowel word-
finally, and deleted after [ø] and [o] in the same context.
Massive word-final consonant cluster reduction prevails in all surveys. The
phenomenon has been abundantly illustrated in France (Laks 1977; Wachs 1997),
but the reduction rate is undoubtedly higher in North America than in Europe,
both in conversations and in the reading task. On the other hand, a final /t/, usu-
ally absent in European French, commonly appears in certain words (e.g., bout,
juillet). A nasal assimilation phenomenon, which frequently occurs after the
simplification of an obstruent + liquid cluster, is mentioned both for Laurentian
French and Louisiana French: chambre [ʃɑ̃m].
4.2	 Schwa
Authors do not concur on the phonemic status of the vowel and it remains un-
clear whether this divergence hides deeper distinctions: Walker, for Peace River,
considers that schwa is a phoneme endowed with a specific realization, while Côté
does not include schwa in the vowel inventory of Trois-Rivières. She considers
that schwa is an allophone of /œ/ without a distinct quality. Only in Louisiana do
we observe for schwa a realization not confined to the mid-vowel space, as schwa
may surface as [i]. Authors agree however on a clear distinction between the rate
of presence of schwa in the reading test and in conversations. These results fully
support what has been observed in all other PFC surveys. Albeit with a few excep-
tions, all varieties obey the standard constraints regulating the presence or absence
of schwa in a string. Compared to other varieties discussed in Sections 2 and 3,
North America may be characterized globally as composed of schwa-avoiding
	 Phonological variation in French	 383
varieties. Côté opposes schwa behavior word-finally in Trois-Rivières and in the
PFC database. While schwa is nearly categorically absent in that environment in
Trois-Rivières, it shows a 26% retention rate in the rest of the database, this pro-
portion being typical for Ile de France for instance. Walker, for Peace River, draws
similar conclusions and notes as well that schwa absence word-finally is especially
remarkable in words ending in a cluster.
Louisiana French patterns with the other varieties and might be even more
schwa-avoiding given the behavior of monosyllables. We might conjecture that
the absence of written knowledge impacts on the use of schwa. Common to Ville
Platte and all Canadian surveys is the presence of metathesis which takes place
regularly with /R, l, ʒ/ giving rise at times to stable vowels (erpasser for repasser
in Ville Platte). This phenomenon establishes a clear distinction between North
American and European varieties of French where metathesis survives exclusively
in a few dialects of the western part of France (e.g., in Normandy, Desgrippes
1982).
4.3	 Liaison
Categorical and variable liaison contexts in all surveys correspond to more recent
descriptions which take into account a large number of PFC surveys (Durand &
Lyche 2008; Durand et al. 2011). The system shows nevertheless a few peculiari-
ties to which we will now turn. Liaison consonants are reduced to three, /z, n, t/,
except in Trois-Rivières where liaisons in /R/ are attested as well in the corpus.
In Trois-Rivières, Tracadie and Ville Platte, analogical plural [z] is observed to
extend to numerals (cinq [z]écoles in Louisiana), although to varying degrees. In
Louisiana, the fricative may agglutinate at times to the following word (un in-
dien – un zindien). Louisiana French presents otherwise a highly reduced liaison
system, with hardly any variable liaison when we disregard the context auxiliary
est + X.
Laurentian French shows a few specific phenomena regarding liaison, the
most commonly described (here both by Côté and Walker) concerning the ab-
sence of liaison after the clitic pronoun ils (ils ont [jõ]), and the variability of
liaison after on, although this variability might be restricted to the context on y
in Trois-Rivières. In addition, two non-standard phenomena are mentioned by
Côté for Laurentian French which, interestingly enough, considerably increase
the realization rate of liaisons in the corpus. Liaison is observed to be frequent
after the different forms of the present tense of être and also before the infinitive.
In both cases, the occlusive [t] is the liaison consonant. Thus, not only do we have
standard realizations like ils sont [t]installés, but also strings like je suis [t]en ville
384	 Chantal Lyche, Trudel Meisenburg and Randall Gess
and tu es [t]ébloui. Moreover, être triggers liaison before the infinitive as in ça va
[t]être, an isolated example in Trois-Rivières, although this specific phenomenon
is not uncommon in Laurentian French. Thus, être in its monosyllabic realizations
is much more prone to bring about liaison in Laurentian French than in European
French. Considering exclusively rates of presence might be deceptive as the fig-
ures hide different usages. Note as well how generalized liaison with être or lack of
it may impact these figures: when speakers are conscious of the norm, they avoid
these non-standard forms and thereby reduce the percentage of realized liaisons
in their speech.
4.4	 Related issues
Cichocki and Walker consider in detail the influence of English on the vari-
eties they describe. Although Tracadie’s speakers do not exhibit the same level
of English proficiency as Peace River’s speakers who are all fluent bilinguals, the
overwhelming presence of English in the Atlantic region has introduced a large
number of borrowings into the language, thereby impacting that variety. The two
surveys display similarities in loanword adaptation and in the variable retention
of the retroflex [ɻ]. Diphthongs tend to become tense monophthongs (lengthened
in Tracadie), affricates are maintained and the central vowel [ʌ] is realized as [ɔ]
(truck [trɔk]). The conversations in Peace River reflect more than anywhere else
the bilingual status of all speakers with numerous instances of code-switching
(as-tu un jupon de SPARE?).
We will close this section with a few remarks on prosody amply examined by
Tennant in his chapter on Hearst and mentioned as well for Tracadie and Ville
Platte. Both in Tracadie and Ville Platte, the presence of an initial stress and of
stress clash are detected with somewhat distinct implementations. Tennant pro-
poses a study of the prosodic rhythm of a selection of PFC speakers from Que-
bec City, Windsor (Ontario) and Hearst under the assumption that the impact of
English prosody would increase with the degree of contact. We would then expect
the rhythm of Windsor’s speakers, all bilinguals, to be more stress-timed than that
of Quebec City speakers who, for lack of direct contact with English, would main-
tain a syllable-timed rhythm typical of French. The results of this study reveal
little influence from English, it establishes on the contrary that all varieties remain
within the syllable-timed range.
.	 Although this is not discussed specifically by all authors, these tendencies prevail in all vari-
eties of French in North America including Louisiana.
	 Phonological variation in French	 385
5.	 Conclusion
This chapter shows that each variety described in this volume is unique in one
way or another, that the leveling which might affect northern French does not
spread in a similar fashion to other varieties. There is no doubt, however, that the
prestige of FR outside of France has the potential to accelerate certain changes.
Apical /r/ for instance is maintained in Africa, due to language contact, and in
Louisiana, where there is no overarching norm, but it is receding in Canadian
varieties whereas the dorsal variant, at times felt as more prestigious, seems to
be spreading across geographic regions. Vowel systems preserve their specifici-
ties and exhibit a large span of variation: from eleven in southern French to a
potential twenty-three in Laurentian French. In contradistinction to this massive
variety warranting distinct phonological treatments, we observe some common
trends regarding schwa. Note first that if schwa is by definition a vowel alter-
nating with zero, its distribution will vary from one survey to another, southern
French and African French exhibiting fewer real schwas than other varieties. It
seems however that when a schwa may occur in all word-positions, deletion rates
vary according to register and word-position, e.g., word-initial schwas are strong­
er than schwas in clitics. Numerous studies underline positional strength, and
although French mostly keeps characteristics of a cursus language (in terms of
Pulgram 1970), the word as a phonological unit continues to impact postlexical
phonology (Lyche & Girard 1995). Finally, with respect to liaison, although the
rate of retention may vary, categorical contexts remain uniform throughout the
francophone world. The rate of realization of variable liaisons does differ though,
and this should be seen in connection with the importance attributed locally to
orthography and the knowledge thereof. Liaison might be, however, the phono-
logical domain where a unified analysis across varieties is warranted.
References
Armstrong, Nigel, and Tim Pooley. 2010. Social and linguistic change in European French. Ba­
singstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Bordal, Guri. To appear. La variation prosodique en contexte multilingue: le cas du français
centrafricain. PhD diss., University of Oslo/Université de Paris Ouest.
Boula de Mareüil, Philippe, and Béatrice Akissi Boutin. 2011. Évaluation et identification
perceptives d’accents ouest-africains en français. Journal of French Language Studies 21:
361–379.
Boutin, Béatrice A., and Gabor Turcsan. 2009. La prononciation du français en Afrique: la Côte
d’Ivoire. In Phonologie, variation et accents du français, eds. Jacques Durand, Bernard Laks
and Chantal Lyche, 131–152. Paris: Hermès – Lavoisier.
386	 Chantal Lyche, Trudel Meisenburg and Randall Gess
Candea, Maria. 2000. Contribution à l’étude des pauses silencieuses et des phénomènes dits
“d’hésitation” en français oral spontané. Étude sur un corpus de récits en classe de français.
PhD diss., Université de Paris III-Sorbonne Nouvelle.
Chaudenson, Robert. 2000. Mondialisation: La langue française a-t-elle encore un avenir? Paris:
Didier Érudition.
Coquillon, Annelise, and Jacques Durand. 2010. Le français méridional: éléments de synthèse.
In Les variétés du français parlé dans l’espace francophone: ressources pour l’enseignement,
eds. Sylvain Detey, Jacques Durand, Bernard Laks and Chantal Lyche, 185–197. Paris:
Ophrys.
Côté, Marie-Hélène. 2009. Contraintes segmentales et variation dans la perte et la stabilisation
du schwa en syllabe initiale. In Le français d’un continent à l’autre, eds. Luc Baronian and
France Martineau, 93–121. Québec: Presses de l’Université Laval.
Coveney, Aidan. 2001. The sounds of contemporary French. Articulation and diversity. Exeter:
Elm Bank Publications.
Desgrippes, Bernard. 1982. Le patois du Domfrontais. Le Pays Bas-Normand 75.1. 165.1. Flers:
Imp. E. Vicq.
Delattre, Pierre. 1966. Studies in French and comparative linguistics. The Hague: Mouton.
Dell, François. 1973. Les règles et les sons. 2nd ed. 1985. Paris: Hermann.
Dubois, Sylvie. 2005. Un siècle de français parlé en Louisiane: persistance linguistique, hétéro-
généité géographique et évolution. In Le français en Amérique du Nord. Etat présent, eds.
Albert Valdman, Julie Auger and Deborah Piston-Hatlen, 287–305. Québec: Presses de
l’Université Laval.
Durand, Jacques. 2009. Essai de panorama phonologique: les accents du midi. In Le français
d’un continent à l’autre. Mélanges offerts à Yves-Charles Morin, eds. Luc Baronian and
France Martineau, 123-170. Québec: Presses de l’Université Laval.
Durand, Jacques, and Julien Eychenne. 2004. Le schwa en français: pourquoi des corpus? Cor-
pus 3: 311–356.
Durand, Jacques, and Chantal Lyche. 2003. Le projet ‘Phonologie du Français Contemporain’
(PFC) et sa méthodologie. In Corpus et variation en phonologie du français: methods et
analyses, eds. Elisabeth Delais-Roussarie and Jacques Durand, 213–279. Toulouse: Presses
Universitaires du Mirail.
Durand, Jacques, and Chantal Lyche. 2008. French liaison in the light of corpus data. Journal of
French Language Studies 18: 33–66.
Durand, Jacques, Bernard Laks, Basilio Calderone, and Atanas Tchobanov. 2011. Que savons-
nous de la liaison aujourd’hui? Langue française 169 (1): 103–126.
Durand, Jacques, Julien Eychenne, and Chantal Lyche. To appear. Levelling and counter-level-
ling in French: A phonological perspective. In Language and social structures in urban
France, eds. David Hornsby and Mari Jones. Oxford: Legenda.
Eychenne, Julien. 2009. Une variété de français conservatrice en Languedoc. In Phonologie,
variation et accents du français, eds. Jacques Durand, Bernard Laks and Chantal Lyche,
231–256. Paris: Hermès.
Flikeid, Karin. 1984. La variation phonétique dans le parler acadien du nord-est du Nouveau-
Brunswick: Etude sociolinguistique. New York: Peter Lang.
Gadet, Françoise. 2003. La variation sociale en français. Édition revue et augmentée 2007. Paris:
Ophrys.
	 Phonological variation in French	 387
Gendron, Jean-Denis. 1966. Tendances phonétiques du français parlé au Canada. Paris, Quebec
City: Klincksieck & Presses de l’Université Laval.
Girard, Francine, and Chantal Lyche. 2003. La phonologie du français contemporain dans le
Domfrontais: un français en évolution. La Tribune Internationale des Langues Vivantes 33:
166–172.
Grammont, Maurice. 1933. Traité de phonétique. Paris: Delagrave.
Hansen, Anita Berit. 1997. Le nouveau [ә] prépausal dans le français parlé à Paris. In Polyphonie
pour Iván Fónagy, ed. Jean Perrot, 173–198. Paris: L’Harmattan.
Laks, Bernard. 1977. Contribution empirique à l’analyse socio-différentielle de la chute de /r/
dans les groupes consonantiques finals. Langue Française 34: 109–125.
Landick, Marie. 1995. The mid-vowels in figures: Hard facts. French Review 69 (1): 88–103.
Lepelley, René. 1999. La Normandie dialectale. Caen: Presses universitaires de Caen.
Lyche, Chantal, and Guri Bordal. To appear. Le rôle de la prosodie dans la reconnaissance
d’accent: le cas du français de Bamako. Proceeding of The Perception of Varieties of French
Spoken outside of France, University of Avignon, November 17–18, 2011, ed. by Anika
Falkert. Mons: Éditions du Centre International de Phonétique Appliquée.
Lyche, Chantal, and Francine Girard. 1995. Le mot retrouvé. Lingua 95: 205–221.
Lyche, Chantal, and Kathrine Asla Østby. 2009. Le français de la haute bourgeoisie parisienne:
une variété conservatrice? In Phonologie, variation et accents du français, eds. Jacques Du-
rand, Bernard Laks and Chantal Lyche, 203–230. Paris: Hermès.
Lyche, Chantal, and Ingse Skattum. 2010. Le rôle de la L1 dans le français du Mali: une étude
perceptive. In Congrès mondial de linguistique française – CMLF 2010, ed. Franck Neveu,
Valelia Muni Toke, Thomas Klingler, Jacques Durand, Lorenz Mondada and Sophie Pré-
vost, 1913–1926. Paris: Institut de Linguistique Française.
Mallet, Géraldine. 2008. La liaison en français. Descriptions et analyses dans le corpus PFC.
PhD diss., Université Paris Ouest, Nanterre La Défense.
Montreuil, Jean-Pierre. 2003. La longueur vocalique en français de Basse-Normandie. In Cor-
pus et variation en phonologie du français: méthodes et analyses, eds. Elisabeth Delais-Rous-
sarie and Jacques Durand, 321–349. Toulouse: Presses Universitaires du Mirail.
Morin, Yves-Charles. 1986. La loi de position ou de l’explication en phonologie historique. Re-
vue québécoise de linguistique 15 (2): 199–131.
Nguyen, Noël, and Zsuzsanna Fagyal. 2008. Acoustic aspects of vowel harmony in French. Jour-
nal of Phonetics 36: 1–27.
Østby, Kathrine A. Forthc. Les voyelles moyennes dans la haute bourgeoisie parisienne. PhD
diss., University of Oslo.
Papen, Robert A., and Kevin J. Rottet. 1997. Cajun French in Two Louisiana Parishes. In French
and Creole in Louisiana, ed. Albert Valdman, 71–108. New York: Plenum.
Peretz, Caroline. 1977. Les voyelles orales à Paris dans la dynamique des âges et de la société.
PhD diss., Université de Paris V.
Pooley, Tim. 2006. On the geographical spread of Oïl French in France. Journal of French Lan-
guage Studies 16: 357–390.
Pulgram, Ernst. 1970. Syllable, word, nexus, cursus. The Hague: Mouton.
Trimaille, Cyril. 2010. Consonnes dentales palatalisées/affriquées en français contemporain:
indicateurs, marqueurs et/ou variantes en développement? In Les voix des Français. Vol-
ume 2, En parlant, en écrivant, eds. Michaël Abecassis and Gudrun Ledegen, 89–100. Bern:
Peter Lang.
388	 Chantal Lyche, Trudel Meisenburg and Randall Gess
Wachs, Sandra. 1997. Le relâchement de la prononciation en français parlé en Ile de France:
analyse linguistique et sociolinguistique par génération. Thèse de doctorat, Université de
Paris X-Nanterre.
Walker, Douglas. 1984. The pronunciation of Canadian French. Ottawa: University of Ottawa
Press.
A
Acadia/Acadie  1, 211, 277, 310
Acadian Peninsula  212–213
Africa  1, 13, 14, 21, 23–101, 369,
371, 385
African countries  50, 75,
174, 305, 370, 374
Afroasiatic language family  77
Aix  13, 107–108, 122
Alberta  1, 267, 341–344, 368,
379, 382
Alemannic dialects  176
Algonquian language family 
213
Anse Bleue  287
Arabic  80, 125
Assumption  280, 284
Atchafalaya  281
Atlantic coast  152
Atlantic language group  77–78
Atlantic Provinces  211
Atlantic region  211, 228, 384
Avoyelles  278–279, 283–284,
289
B
Badyara  47
Baie Sainte-Marie  214, 233
Balanta-Ganja  47
Bamako  13, 37, 73–101, 369–374,
382, 387
bamanankan  76
Bambara  74–82, 84, 86, 88–92,
97, 370–371
bambarophone  88
Bangui  13–14, 23–26, 29–34,
36–39, 41–42, 94, 369–374, 382
banlieue speech  162, 169
Baol  47
Bayou Lafourche  276, 282
Bayou Teche  276
Bedik  47
Begnins  175
Belgium  1, 13, 112, 129–133,
135–136, 140, 146, 148, 174,
376–377, 379
Berber language  77, 83
Bern  173–174
bobo  76
Bomu  76–77
bon français  151
Bozo  76–77
Brittany  152–153
Brussels  130–132
Burkina Faso  60
bwamu  76
C
Canada  32, 211–212, 235, 254,
269–271, 313, 337–338, 343,
368, 379–381, 386
Cap-Vert peninsula  45
Cayor  47
Central African Republic (CAR) 
1, 13, 23–26, 75, 90–91, 112, 369
Colombier  175
Constance Lake  319
Corcelles  175
Creole  43, 90, 276–279, 280–
281, 283, 305–306, 310–312,
387
D
Dakar  13, 45–47, 369–372, 374
Diula  77
Djolof  47
Dogon  76–77
Dutch  45, 136, 334
E
Edmonton  341
England  213
English  5, 10, 45, 211–216,
221–223, 228–231, 236–237,
241–242, 251–253, 275, 306,
313–321, 331, 343, 345, 363–365,
367–368, 380, 382, 384
Epinay-sur-Seine  152
Europe  1, 12–14, 29, 148, 190,
341, 375, 382
Evangeline  279–280, 283–284,
286, 293–294, 309, 311
F
Fouta  47
français acadien  232–233, 336
français de plantation  278
français de référence (FR)  2–5,
9, 13, 27–29, 39–41, 50–60,
62–63, 65–66, 68–70, 74,
79–80, 84–94, 96–97, 108–112,
121–124, 176–178, 263, 321, 385
français langue étrangère (FLE) 
73
français langue seconde (FLS) 
73, 78, 80
français laurentien  211, 342
français moyen  151
français populaire  169
France  2, 74, 105–106, 109, 131,
136, 151–152, 169, 213, 276–278,
294, 305, 378, 382
Franco-Ontarian  318, 320,
331, 336
francophone Europe  190
Northern European
francophonie  130
francophone West Africa 76
Franco-Provençal  105, 174
French
Acadian French  211–233,
235, 238, 282–284, 332–333,
379–382
indices
Varieties and geographical names
390	 Phonological Variation in French
African (varieties of) French 
6, 23, 32, 37–38, 80, 89,
96–98, 369, 385, 375
Albertan French (AF)  341–
367
Belgian French  13, 129–133,
139–140, 146–147, 187, 378
Cajun French  14, 275–312
Canadian French  211, 235,
269, 271, 287, 342–343, 347,
367–368, 387
Central African French  23,
42
European French  7, 30, 324,
332–333, 374, 382, 384–385
French creoles  90, 293
French-speaking Belgium 
129–132
Hexagonal (varieties of)
French  2, 332, 373, 376
Laurentian French  14,
235–274, 308, 321–329, 335,
379–380, 385
Louisiana French  6, 96,
280, 381–383
Midi French  6, 92, 94, 105,
189, 303, 377
Northern French  283, 376,
378, 385
Old Central French  174
Ontario French  314–321,
332, 334, 336, 338
pan African French  80
Parisian French  35, 38, 90,
130, 134, 144, 151–172, 180,
202, 288–289, 370, 375–378
Plantation French  283
Popular Canadian French
(PCF)  343, 345–346,
349–351, 362, 367
Quebec French  14, 71, 211,
214, 216–218, 220, 225, 231,
297, 301
Reunion French  90
Southern French  13,
105–125, 353, 378–379
Standard French  10, 129,
155, 158, 254, 317, 321, 332,
334
supra-local French  152
Swiss (varieties of) French 
17, 98, 149, 173–178, 182,
188–191, 375, 379
Tracadie French  212,
214–221, 229–231, 381
Fribourg  178–179, 182
fulaphone  86
Fulfulde  76–78, 81–83, 88–92,
97
G
Gao  74–75, 83
Gao variety  83
Gaspé Peninsula  211, 215
Gembloux  131, 133–136,
143–146
Geneva  173, 177–179, 182
German  173, 204, 278, 331, 334
Standard German  176
Swiss German  174
Gland  175
Gorean   61
Gorée Island  45, 61
Graubünden  174
Grenoble  162
Gunyuño  47
Gur language group  77–78
H
Hassaniyya  45, 47, 76–77
Hauts-de-Seine  152
Hearst  14, 313–321, 335, 379–
380, 384
I
Ile-de-France  151
Indian  77
inner city  16, 152
intra muros  152–153
Ireland  213, 313
Italian  173
Ivory Coast  32, 36, 60, 374
J
Jalunga  47
Joola  47
Jura  173–174, 177–179, 182
K
Kapuskasing  318–319
L
Laalaa  47
Labrador  211
Lafayette  280, 282, 284, 287
Lafontaine  317, 338–339
Lafourche Basin   283
Lafourche Parish  282
la petite couronne  152
Lebanese  45
Liège  131, 133–136, 143–146
London   317
Lorraine  140
Louisiana  1, 275–287, 293–296,
379–383, 385, 387
M
Magdalen Islands  211, 215
Mali  1, 13, 73–79, 96–101,
369–370, 373, 387
malinké  77
Mamara  76–77
Mande  77–78
Mandinka  47
Mandjak  47
Maninka  76–77
Mankanya  47
Maritime Provinces  215, 379
Marseille  13, 105–108, 121–122,
124–125, 162, 377
maure  76
Mauricie  236, 252, 270
Métis  341
Mi’kmaq  212–213
minyanka  76, 99
Mississippi  275–276
Moncton  212, 214, 233
Montreal  252–253, 269–272
Moores  77
Moorish  45
Morbihan  154
N
Namur  131
Nantes  140, 143–146
Nantes variety  190
Ndút  47
Neuchâtel  14, 173–202, 205,
376–379
Neuilly-sur-Seine  152
New Brunswick  14, 211–215,
220, 228, 236, 379
	 Varieties and geographical names	 391
New England  235
Newfoundland  211, 332–333
New France  235–236, 313
New Orleans  283
Ngbandi  23, 25, 42
Niger-Congo languages  24, 45,
77–78, 82
Nilo-Saharan languages  24,
77–78
non-southern variety  152
Noon  47
North America   1, 14, 51
North American varieties 
51, 90, 174
North Bay   338
Nova Scotia  211–215, 228, 232,
332–333
Nyon  174–176, 185–191,
199–202
O
Occitan  105–107
Ogéviller  143–146
oïl  105, 174, 276, 375
Oniyan  47
Ontario  1, 14, 313–321, 332–335,
379, 384
P
Pantin  152
Paris  1, 38, 112, 143–146,
151–153, 162
Parisian region  152–153
Parisian suburb  152–153
Peace River  14, 342, 379–380,
382–384
peul  42, 76
Plaquemines  283
Pointe-Au-Chien Indians  284
Portuguese  45
Prangins  175
Prince Edward Island  211, 215,
220, 332–333
Pulaar  46–47
Q
Quebec/Québec  1, 212–213,
235–238, 313–314, 318–320,
335–336, 367, 379
Quebec City  236, 252, 258, 384
R
Romandy  174, 178, 186
Romansh  173–174
S
Saafi-Saafi  47
Saint-Domingue  277
Saint-Louis  45
Saint-Maurice river  236
Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon  211
Saloum  47
Sango  13, 23–34, 41, 43, 75,
370, 372
Savoie  154
Scotland  213
Seereer  46–47
Seine-Saint-Denis  152
Semitic language  77
Senegal  1, 13, 32, 45–49, 68, 70,
74–75, 91, 96, 369, 373
Senegalo-Guinean  45
sénoufo  76, 101
Songhay  76–78, 80–81, 83–92,
97, 100, 371–372
Soninke  47, 76–77
South-eastern France  96
St. Landry  280, 283
St. Lawrence  14, 212, 235–236,
379
St. Martin  284
St. Mary  283
Sudbury  317–318, 337
Suisse romande  199, 203–205
Supyire  99
Switzerland  1, 173–175, 376
Syenara  76–78, 81–82, 89–92,
97
Syrian  45
T
Tamachek  76–78, 80–81,
83–86, 88–92, 97, 371–372
Terrebonne Parish  282
Ticino  173
Timmins  318–319
Tournai  131–133, 377
Tracadie  212–216, 228, 379–384
Tracadie-Sheila  14, 212–213,
215, 232
Trois-Rivières  14, 235–268,
379–380, 384
V
Valais  173, 177–179, 182
Val-de-Marne  152
Vannes  152
Vaud  14, 17, 173–174, 178–179,
182, 185, 203
Vermilion  280, 282, 284
Veyras  178
Ville Platte  14, 275, 279–280,
282, 284, 286–287, 289, 292,
294–295, 302, 308–309, 312,
380–384
W
Waalo  47
Wallonia  130–132, 135–136
Washington  286
Welland  317, 336–337
Western Atlantic  45
Windsor  314–315, 317, 331,
334–335, 338–339, 384
Wolof  13, 45–71, 75, 370–373
wolophone  46, 50–54, 59,
61, 63, 70
X
Xassonke  77
A
accent  8–9, 40, 56, 68–70,
105, 107, 110, 115, 116, 118–119,
121–122, 124, 129–132, 145,
306, 332
accent d’intensité  83
accentuation  9, 53, 68–70, 141
acoustic analysis  51, 55, 143,
176, 188, 197, 202, 302
Advanced Tongue Root (ATR) 
3, 50–51, 53–56, 370–371
ATR harmony  50, 53, 55–56,
370–371
affricate  177, 220–221, 230–231,
291–294, 364, 366, 381, 384
affrication  177, 215, 220–221,
230–231, 253, 268, 282,
291–293, 326, 381
allophone  31, 57, 61, 82, 86, 88,
110–111, 135, 214, 216–217,
219, 220–223, 240–241,
246, 250, 294, 308, 322–
323, 325, 382
allophonic  29, 57, 84,
154–155, 158, 239–240, 244,
250, 253, 288–290, 297,
346, 367, 380
alveopalatal  4–5, 220–221,
230–231, 282, 291, 293–294,
372, 381
archaism  174, 377
article  256–257, 317, 329, 347,
361
aspirate  60, 221, 230–231, 294,
348, 350, 352–353, 360
aspiration  345, 364–366, 381
assibilation  32, 220–221,
230–231, 239, 253, 268, 285,
293–294, 317, 326, 335, 345,
364, 367, 381
assimilation  47, 51–52, 62–64,
70, 109, 136, 192, 224, 239,
254, 266, 293, 295, 297, 319,
326, 345, 364–365, 372, 377,
380, 382
B
bilabial  4–5, 60, 82–83, 113,
220, 344
bilingual  26, 76, 90, 173–174,
211, 236–237, 315–316, 320,
343, 363, 365, 367, 384
bilingual education  75
borrowing  5, 51, 82, 216,
221–223, 228–231, 241–243,
251–253, 316, 320, 372, 384
C
category proximity principle 
86
chain shift  159–160
change  8, 25, 62–63, 80,
110–111, 122, 133, 154–155, 157,
159, 160–161, 167–168, 214,
222–223, 230, 306, 309, 320,
378, 380–382, 385
clitic  9, 38–40, 67–68, 87, 91,
93–96, 117, 138, 168, 198, 239,
245, 253–254, 256, 261–262,
268, 291, 297–299, 301–302,
305, 351, 353–356, 363, 373–374,
378, 383, 385
closing  134–135, 244
cluster  31, 33, 62, 70, 89–92, 113,
116, 121, 161, 223, 225, 229,
231, 295, 327, 345, 379, 382
cluster simplification/
reduction  12, 33, 61, 90,
108–109, 113, 116, 223, 231,
225, 255, 269, 295–296,
302, 308, 327, 367, 372, 382
complex consonant cluster 
161
liquid cluster  6, 12, 90,
154–155, 219, 223, 254, 259,
302–303, 308, 310, 382
obstruent cluster  90, 109,
154–155, 196, 219, 223, 254,
259, 302–303, 308, 382
coda  8, 28–36, 61, 64, 83–84,
90–92, 97, 177, 251–252, 265,
287, 294–295, 371–372, 374, 381
code alternation  47
conservatism  154, 367
consonant
consonant(al) system/
inventory  2, 4–5, 7, 60,
70, 82–83, 88, 108, 231, 239,
251, 253, 282, 291, 326, 372,
377, 381
consonant deletion  31, 33,
62, 82, 90, 218, 221–223,
254, 256–257, 259, 268, 296,
317, 327, 372
final consonant  7, 32, 56, 59,
61–63, 70, 89–90, 95, 116,
136, 146, 161, 165, 167, 177,
192, 223, 227, 229–231, 259,
262, 265, 295, 297, 327, 345,
353, 357, 377, 382
final consonant weakening 
95
laryngeal consonant  83
lengthening consonant  69,
216, 242–244, 323, 325
nasal consonant  161, 254,
290, 296, 359, 381
palatal nasal consonant  161
word-final consonant  32,
95, 136, 146, 165, 167, 177,
192, 223, 230–231, 259, 262,
265, 295, 345, 353, 357, 382
word-final consonant
devoicing  136, 146
Subjects and key notions
394	 Phonological Variation in French
contextual nasalization  290,
381
continuative  139–142
contour  8–9, 28, 69, 121, 134,
139–147, 165, 307, 374, 376
conclusive contour  140–141
creuset  151
CV language  81–82, 89–90, 92
D
denasalization  63–64, 113
determiner  38–39, 67–68,
94–95, 113, 117, 120, 138, 167,
198–199, 222, 226, 254–255,
261–262, 298–302, 379
devoiced  58, 63, 89, 136, 142,
216, 244, 325, 377, 380
devoicing  31–32, 42, 59, 61,
63, 90, 136, 146, 177, 224,
231, 244, 254, 321, 325, 335,
346, 367, 372, 377
dieresis  57, 65, 109–110, 116,
219, 250, 328
diphthong(ized)  217–218,
229, 239–241, 244–247,
249–250, 253, 322–323, 346,
365–366, 380, 384
diphthongization  216, 218,
231, 244–245, 250, 268, 321,
335, 343, 346, 364, 367
rising diphthong  239, 245,
249–250, 380
discourse marker  165, 357
E
education  8, 13, 23–24, 26–27,
46, 49, 59, 62, 68–69, 75–76,
78–79, 88–89, 93, 98, 132, 153,
166, 168–169, 211, 215, 237, 281,
320, 369
elision  5, 82–83, 119, 255
interconsonantal vowel
elision  82
enchaînement  68, 92, 96, 225,
263, 305
enclitic  245–246
epenthesis  33, 62, 70, 303,
304, 372
exposure to French  78, 86,
88–90, 98
extralinguistic factors  68, 73,
78, 80, 88–89, 97
F0 (fundamental frequency) 
8–9, 40, 69, 121–123, 141, 144,
306–307, 317
first language  13, 23, 47, 50, 54,
63, 73, 236, 281, 286, 306, 319,
370–371, 373–375, 387
flap  91, 302–303
formal speech  168
forward linking  92, 305
francophone  13, 46–47, 50,
75–76, 97, 132, 135, 167, 190,
211–214, 228, 277–278, 282,
284–285, 287, 294–295, 309,
313–314, 318–319, 341–342,
370, 375, 385
French speakers  46, 130, 140,
142–143, 145, 202, 212–213,
228, 231, 236, 258, 277–278,
280–281, 286–287, 319, 331,
334, 341–342
fricative  4–5, 7, 28, 31–33, 60,
61, 82, 88–90, 118, 167,
196–197, 220, 222, 231, 251,
294, 305, 325–326, 351, 364,
366, 372, 381, 383
alveopalatal fricative  4, 294,
372, 381
glottal fricative  5, 60, 136,
222, 291, 294, 308
voiced fricative  32, 82–83,
88–89, 221
voiceless fricative  60, 83
fronting  97, 183, 218, 248, 317
frontness  85, 217, 288, 346, 381
G
gemination  111, 255, 271
glide  4, 11, 31, 33, 57–58, 61,
64–65, 70, 89, 108, 135, 146,
219–220, 227, 249–250, 253,
257–258, 291, 294, 318, 326,
328, 344–346, 381
gliding  154, 249
glottalization  231
Grand Dérangement  213
H
h-aspiré  5, 263, 269
hesitation  35, 92, 115–116,
119–120, 141, 194, 259,
300–301, 305
hesitation particle  141
hypercorrection  296, 322, 370
I
immigration  276–277, 313,
341–342, 367, 377, 379
implosives  82
indigenous language  47, 75–76,
370
individual variation  34, 88,
159, 334
instability  41, 90, 154, 159, 177,
258
interference  80, 88–90, 319,
329
interrogation  94, 99, 337–338
interrogative  69, 93, 264,
283–284, 294, 312, 337
intonation  8–9, 43, 69, 125–126,
133–134, 139–141, 147,
165–166, 224, 230, 306,
308, 317, 336–338, 348,
378–379
intonation contour  69,
140, 165
intonation group (IG)  135–
136, 139–141, 142–146
L
L1  see first language
L2  see second language
language
language change  43, 80,
271–272
language contact  42–43, 80,
99–101, 317, 331–338, 385
language mixing  77
language of instruction  73,
76–77
language variation  80, 101,
170, 203
national language  47, 74,
76, 173
laxing  216, 231, 242–244, 263,
268, 287–288, 290, 317, 321,
325, 335, 343, 346, 364, 367,
380–381
	 Subjects and key notions	 395
lengthening  8–9, 17, 56–57,
90, 111, 134–135, 139, 141,
144, 146–148, 181, 229–230,
242–244, 250, 287–288, 371,
376, 380
leveling  130, 279, 375, 379, 385
lexical borrowing  82, 316
lexical tones  28, 41
liaison  7–8, 12, 14–17, 37–42,
67–68, 70, 94–101, 119–121,
125, 138, 146, 149, 167–172,
198–203, 226–227, 231,
261–272, 305–306, 308, 318,
328, 331, 335, 338, 357–363,
367, 374–375, 379, 383–385
analogical liaison  263
categorical liaison  37–38,
68, 94–96, 198–199,
261–262, 264, 305–306, 379
epenthetic liaison  263
liaison consonant  2, 7–8,
32–33, 37–39, 59, 67, 95,
119–121, 138, 167, 199–202,
226–227, 261–268, 272,
306, 328, 357–358, 360, 383
liaison with enchaînement 
226
non-standard liaison  268
obligatory liaison  227, 263,
267, 328, 357–360, 362
optional liaison  121,
167–169, 227, 231, 267–268,
305, 328, 331, 357, 360
unlinked liaison  96
variable liaison  37–39, 41,
67, 97, 120–121, 138, 172,
198–201, 261–262, 267, 306,
328, 374, 379, 383, 385
verbal liaison  198–200
lingua franca  24, 75, 77, 370
linguistic insecurity  48, 168,
268
linguistic norm  46, 151
literacy  74, 76, 96
loanword  345, 363, 367, 384
loanword adaptation  86,
100, 384
loi de position (LdP)  3, 29, 50,
111–112, 122, 133, 158, 288–290,
323–324, 370, 375–377, 381, 387
loi des trois consonnes (LTC)  5,
15, 162, 204, 257, 259–261
lowering  83–84, 111, 116, 217–
218, 230–231, 288–290, 381
M
markedness  2, 61, 84, 141,
144, 195
masculine style  162
melting pot  24, 73, 97
merger  159–160, 169, 248, 325,
376
merging process  160
merging tendency  156
near-merger  160
metathesis  223, 231, 260, 303,
311, 346–347, 383
minimal pair  11, 88, 111–114,
182, 216–219, 243, 321–324,
375–377
mobility  78–80, 88, 284
monophthongs  229, 240, 384
monosyllable  6, 12, 28, 41,
65–67, 116–118, 137, 163–164,
189, 199, 258, 260, 298–302,
331, 351–363, 373–374
morphological integration  228
multilingual  13, 23, 75, 77–78,
275
multilingualism  23, 27, 41,
73, 75
N
nasalization  57, 113, 254, 285,
290, 295, 381
nativization  241
ne  93–94, 98, 224–225, 298,
330, 351–352, 354, 374
negation  36, 93, 99, 198, 224,
374
neutralization  57, 119, 123, 133,
171, 230–231, 240, 245–248,
254, 268, 349
New Brunswick Act  211
noun phrase  167, 283
numeral  116, 227, 263, 268,
300, 383
O
obstruent  6, 12, 136, 163,
196, 225, 244, 249, 254, 295,
302–303, 326
official language  13, 25, 45–46,
73–75, 173–174, 211, 236, 369
onset  5, 8, 28, 31, 33, 59, 61–62,
64–65, 82, 89, 176–177,
249, 299, 372
complex onset  31, 33, 82,
89, 249
orthoepic norm/rule  87, 371
orthographically inspired
pronunciation  161
ouisme  217, 230–231
P
palatalization  31–32, 41, 63–64,
109, 162, 177, 293, 372, 377
perception test  40, 78, 85, 91,
122, 373
perceptual studies  130
phonemic/phonological system/
inventory  27–35, 50–61,
81–82, 108–114, 132–136,
154–162, 216–224, 287–296,
344–347
phonetic integration  228
pitch span  9, 121–124
plosive  7, 33, 82, 89, 109, 167,
192, 196–197
prenasal plosive  82
polysyllable  6, 68, 93–94,
117–118, 121, 191, 199, 302–305,
348–351, 362–363
prefix re-  92–93, 163, 346–347,
351
preposition  36, 38–39, 67,
94–96, 109, 117, 120, 138,
198, 200, 226–227, 256–257,
261, 264, 269, 301, 305, 355,
359–360, 374, 379
prepositional phrase  168,
298
primary auditory dispersion
effect  84
proclitic  262
pronunciation norm  2, 169
prosodic pattern  68, 131, 134,
141, 317
prosodic structure  41–42, 84,
300, 305
prosodic unit  7, 9, 39–41, 89,
95–96, 136, 140, 300–301, 335
prosodic word  68–69, 95–96
396	 Phonological Variation in French
prosody  8–10, 16–17, 97,
121–123, 125–127, 139, 146, 149,
229–230, 306–307, 310–311,
331–335, 373–374, 384
Q
quality distinction  55, 112,
157–158
R
raising  53, 111, 217, 229–231, 317,
365, 381
R deletion  33, 256
R weakening  223, 382
regiolect  130
register  28, 32, 35, 37–38, 90,
118, 120, 122–125, 152, 190, 195,
245, 256, 267, 310, 374, 378
released/unreleased  58–59,
89–90, 372
retroflex  31, 228, 232, 365–366,
384
rhotic  4–5, 28, 31–32, 61, 84,
88, 90–91, 97, 108, 177, 214,
220, 222–223, 241, 251–252,
268, 287, 303, 344–345, 365,
371–373, 382
rhythm  10, 16–17, 69–70, 229,
331–335, 337–339, 384
S
schwa  5–7, 12, 15–17, 34–37,
39–41, 65–66, 86–87,
91–94, 97–100, 109–111,
115–121, 126, 136–137, 149,
161–167, 169–170, 189–198,
202–205, 223–225, 231,
255–261, 268–271, 297–305,
309–312, 323, 329–331,
338, 345–357, 367, 373–375,
377–379, 382–383, 385–386
epenthetic schwa  12, 116,
137, 302, 331
fonction lubrifiante of schwa 
161
intrusive schwa  302
latent schwa  137
parasitic schwa  166
prepausal schwa  165–167,
169, 378
schwa deletion  6, 36–37, 115,
117–119, 136–137, 190–193,
195, 224–225, 249, 256,
258, 303, 323, 329–331, 348,
350–357, 373–374, 378, 385
schwa drop  163, 167
schwa maintenance  109,
124, 378
schwa retention  94, 116–118,
163, 224, 301, 330, 348, 351,
355, 357, 367
schwa retention rate  117–
118, 163–164, 169, 383
schwa-tagging  165, 167, 169
stabilization of schwa  92,
163
word-final schwa  35–36, 40,
116, 120, 164, 189, 259–260,
302, 330, 348, 357
second language  23–24, 35,
61, 64, 73, 79, 81, 84–86, 97,
339, 370
semi-vowel  154–155, 221
social class  2, 8, 245
socio-cultural profile  13, 153
sonorant  83, 192, 244, 254, 326
sound change  161, 230, 271
speech tempo  155, 163
stop  4–5, 58–60, 62–64, 67–68,
70–71, 82–83, 89–90, 120,
136, 177, 220–221, 222, 226,
230, 251, 253–254, 291–294,
296, 325–326, 335, 344–345,
351, 365, 372, 374, 377
glottal stop  59–60, 67–68,
70, 120, 176, 220, 222, 226,
372, 374
prenasalized stop  63–64, 71,
83, 372
stress  10, 42, 69–70, 82–84,
87, 96, 115, 121–122, 124,
140, 194–195, 229–230,
305–308, 310, 331–333, 336,
364–366, 373–374, 384
fixed stress  83
lexical stress  82, 84,
306–307, 310
stress group  96
word stress  83, 96, 121, 373
syllabic structure  28, 82–83
syllable
closed syllable  3, 29, 51–53,
55–56, 87, 111, 177, 179, 182,
185, 188, 201, 217–218, 239,
241, 243–246, 249, 263,
265, 287–288, 290, 321–325,
346, 370–371, 376, 380–381
closed final syllable  29, 87,
159, 177, 179, 182, 185, 188,
201, 217–218, 239, 241,
243–246, 287–288, 290,
322–323, 364, 376, 380–381
CVC syllable  67
final stressed syllable  141,
332
final syllable  12, 29, 32–35,
40, 69, 82, 87, 92, 94,
142–144, 145, 147, 157, 164,
188, 217, 230, 240, 242–245,
258–260, 287–289,
324–325, 332–333, 346, 373,
376, 380
initial syllable  6, 10, 34, 36,
41, 65–66, 70, 87, 163–164,
191, 224, 260, 297, 329,
350–351, 373–374
medial syllable  137, 163–164,
244, 297
non-final syllable  217, 240,
243–244, 258, 260, 287
open internal syllable  158,
376
open syllable  3, 29, 54–56,
134, 158, 185, 202, 217, 241,
245–246, 288, 322–324,
345, 376
stressed syllable  51, 66, 90,
141, 332, 380
unstressed syllable  332
word-final syllable  29,
32–33, 35, 92, 94, 157, 164,
188, 217, 346, 376, 380
word-initial syllable  30, 93,
137, 163–164, 169, 189–190,
202, 350, 378
word-internal syllable  34,
159
word-medial syllable  137,
163
	 Subjects and key notions	 397
T
tap  88, 222, 283, 295, 303, 382
tense  3, 50–51, 134–135, 184–
185, 198, 242–245, 380
tone language  28, 69, 81–83
traditional phonetic feature 
221, 230, 232
transfer  23–24, 50, 55, 70
trill  28, 31–32, 61, 83, 88, 91,
222, 252, 303
V
vehicular language  23, 47,
77, 98
velarization  251, 326, 365
velar palatalization  162, 377
vernacular  131–132, 136, 152,
275, 316, 325–326, 354, 363
vocalic echo  165, 167
vocalic opposition  133, 146, 239
vocalic system  50–52, 84–88,
239–240, 287–288, 381
vowel
back vowel  32, 65, 186, 217,
229, 248, 308, 322, 364,
370, 381
back rounded vowel  84
bimoraic vowel  83
contrastive vowel length 
178, 180, 182, 188, 201, 376
epenthetic vowel  62, 137,
302–303
five-vowel system  82–83, 86
front vowel  29, 32, 57, 65,
159, 177, 219–221, 240, 248,
253, 292–293, 322, 326, 345,
370, 376, 381
front rounded vowel  28,
55, 30, 70, 83–87, 191, 347,
370–371
front unrounded vowel  53–
54, 85, 87, 184, 323
full vowel  8, 34, 41, 91, 94,
154–155, 169, 303, 321
high vowel  2, 4, 50–52, 66,
85, 135, 154–155, 169, 216,
219, 231, 240, 242–245,
249, 263, 265, 268, 270,
287–288, 290, 294, 317, 321,
323–325, 335, 346, 371–372,
380–381
intrusive vowel  303
lax vowel  3, 51, 85, 116,
134–135, 216, 242–243, 245,
265, 325, 365, 380
long vowel  82, 134, 177–178,
244–245, 253, 321, 346
low vowel  2, 88, 133, 155,
185, 202, 217, 231, 241,
245–246, 248, 250, 288,
290, 370–371, 377, 380
mid back vowel  217, 229,
370, 380
mid front vowel  55, 119, 223,
292, 370
mid-high vowel  2–3, 29,
52–53, 55, 87–88, 112, 247,
321, 323–324, 371, 376
mid-low vowel  2, 29–30, 53,
82, 84, 87, 112, 124, 217, 323,
370–371, 376, 380
mid vowel  2–4, 29–30,
52–54, 70, 85–87, 110–112,
116, 155, 171, 216–217, 290,
322–324, 345, 370, 375–377,
381
monomoraic vowel  83
nasal vowel  2, 4, 27–29,
57–58, 63–64, 81, 83, 88,
112–114, 124–125, 133,
159–160, 169–170, 203, 215,
218, 231, 287, 290, 295–296,
308, 317–318, 324, 344–346,
364, 367, 370–372, 375–377,
380–381
open vowel  53, 82, 133, 218
oral vowel  4, 28, 58, 82, 88,
110, 113–114, 154–155, 169,
204, 216, 239, 245, 247, 287,
289–290, 344, 371
oral vowel system  81, 110
phonemic vowel length  82
rounded mid vowel  4,
30, 86
short vowel  83, 204
tense vowel  51, 216,
242–243, 245, 263, 265
unrounded vowel  53–55,
85–87, 184, 323, 371
vowel fusion  218, 229, 231,
256, 347
vowel harmony  30, 41, 43,
50, 53–54, 243, 270–271,
323, 325, 370–371, 387
vowel laxing  263, 268, 288,
290, 325, 380–381
vowel length  3, 16, 82, 178,
180–182, 188, 201, 217, 240,
244, 288, 303, 376, 381
vowel lengthening  134–135,
146, 148, 287
vowel lowering  84, 116
vowel sound  85
vowel system/inventory  2–
4, 28, 50–51, 54, 58, 81–84,
86, 88, 110, 159, 176, 179,
188, 201–202, 231, 287, 290,
317, 321, 323, 325, 367–377,
385
W
wolofization  47
word-final position  3, 32,
34–36, 58–59, 66, 91, 116,
133, 158, 160–161, 217, 220,
222–223, 225, 246, 254, 295,
329–330, 349, 372
word-initial position  82, 91, 94,
222, 373
word-medial position  161
working class  107, 162, 320
