Chapter 2
Two Observations about
Bulgarian
2.1 A Complementizer That Requires Multiple Speci®ers
I have already noted that Bulgarian (unlike English) shows multiple in-
stances of overt phrasal wh-movement to the left periphery of CP. So far
I have said nothing about the obligatoriness or optionality of multiple
overt movement. The obligatoriness of multiple overt movement partly
depends on D-linking, in ways I discuss later. For now I consider only
multiple questions without a D-linked interpretation. In these cases the
facts are somewhat subtle.
Consider a question containing three wh-phrases. According to con-
sultants' judgments, in the most natural multiple question using three
wh-phrases, all three are overtly fronted, as in (35a). Nonetheless, a con-
struction in which only two of the wh-phrases are fronted is fairly
acceptable. By contrast, a multiple question in which only one wh-phrase
is overtly fronted is strongly unacceptable (in the non-D-linked usage
being considered). There is thus a three-way contrast. The diacritics
(``**'' vs. ``??'' vs. ``OK'') are those supplied by one of my consultants,
Roumyana Izvorski, but the general description of the judgments con-
trasts perfection with unnaturalness with total unacceptability: the break
between (35b±c) and (35d) is claimed to be sharper than that between
(35a) and (35b±c).19 ((35a±d) were supplied by Roumyana Izvorski and
Ivan Derzhanski.)
Fronting di¨erent numbers of wh-phrases (Bulgarian)
(35) a. Koj
who
kakvo
what
na
to
kogo
whom
dade? [all wh-phrases move]
gave
`Who gave what to whom?'
b. ??Koj na kogo dade kakvo? [2 wh-phrases move]
c. ??Koj kakvo dade na kogo? [2 wh-phrases move]
d. **Koj dade kakvo na kogo? [only 1 wh-phrase moves]
Since there seems to be no reason to assume that the Bulgarian wh-
phrases in a multiple question are related to distinct heads (Rudin 1988),
we may safely assume that these phrases all bear the speci®er relation to
the same interrogative head, in the manner posited by Koizumi (1995)
and Ura (1996). I will call this interrogative head the multispeci®er com-
plementizer (Cm-spec), to indicate that its ``speci®er potential'' requires it to
take more than one speci®er. The ability of Cm-spec to attract more than
one wh-phrase indicates that the feature of Cm-spec responsible for wh-
movement (uninterpretable though it may be) does not need to delete and
does not exhaust its ability to motivate wh-movement until its maximal
projection has been fully built. It is thus possible to propose that (36) is
true and that (36) and (37) are jointly responsible for the three-way split in
judgments on Bulgarian multiple questions.20
Speci®er potential of Cm-spec
(36) Cm-spec requires more than one wh-speci®er.
General preference
(37) All wh-phrases in a multiple question move.
I will assume that Cm-spec di¨ers both syntactically and semantically
from the standard interrogative complementizer C1-spec, which takes a
single wh-speci®er.
Speci®er potential of C1-spec
(38) C1-spec requires one wh-speci®er.
A multiple question in English or Bulgarian must be introduced by Cm-spec
(and a nonmultiple question must be introduced by C1-spec). Conse-
quently, (35d) cannot slip through the net of constraints discussed in this
section by using the complementizer reserved for nonmultiple questions.
(I discuss the typology of complementizers in more detail in chapter 5).21
Besides the multiple-speci®er requirement of Cm-spec, there must be
another condition with the e¨ect of requiring at least one instance of
phrasal wh-movement in an embedded question, so as to rule out (39a)
with wh-feature movement from what. The speci®er properties of C1-spec
ensure the contrast in (39) and its Bulgarian counterparts. The pronunci-
ation principles guarantee that the one speci®er required by C1-spec will be
overt.
20 Chapter 2
C1-spec in English
(39) a. *Mary needs to know [Bill saw what].
b. Mary needs to know [what Bill saw].
An alternative view of the Bulgarian data deserves attention. On this
view the only factor in¯uencing judgments is (37), sentences being judged
gradiently according to how many wh-phrases violate it. To decide between
these two proposals on the basis of Bulgarian data, we must examine the
behavior of questions with four (or more) wh-phrases. The two statements
in (36)±(37) predict a three-way contrast in such a case. Moving all four
wh-phrases would be perfect; moving two or three of the four wh-phrases
would be indistinguishably unnatural to a mild degree; and moving only
one wh-phrase would be unacceptable. To the extent that such a paradigm
can be constructed without running afoul of other complications, the facts
seem to support (36)±(37). For example, in (40) a ditransitive verb and an
instrumental phrase furnish the four wh-phrases. According to the judg-
ments of Roumyana Izvorski (personal communication), there is a major
acceptability break between (40a±c) and (40d).22
Four wh-phrases: monoclausal examples
(40) a. Koj
who
na
to
kogo
whom
kakvo
what
s
with
kakvo
what
napisa? [all wh-phrases move]
wrote
`Who wrote what to whom with what?'
b. ?Koj na kogo kakvo napisa s kakvo? [3 out of 4 wh-phrases move]
c. ???Koj na kogo napisa kakvo s kakvo? [2 out of 4 wh-phrases move]
d. **Koj napisa kakvo na kogo s kakvo? [1 out of 4 wh-phrases moves]
Similar tests can be performed with biclausal structures. Once again there
is a major acceptability break, between (41a±c) and (41d).
Four wh-phrases: biclausal examples
(41) a. Koj
who
kogo
whom
na
to
kogo
whom
kakvo
what
ubedi
convinced
da
to
dade?
give
`Who convinced whom to give what to whom?'
b. ?Koj kogo na kogo ubedi da dade kakvo?
c. ???Koj kogo ubedi na kogo da dade kakvo?
d. **Koj ubedi kogo da dade kakvo na kogo?
2.2 Superiority E¨ects and the Principle of Minimal Compliance
So far I have not considered how wh-phrases in a Bulgarian multiple
question are ordered.23 As Rudin (1988) observes, the order of wh-phrases
Two Observations about Bulgarian 21
in a Bulgarian multiple question conforms to the generalization in (42),
exempli®ed in (43)±(44). In other words, the contrast between Bulgarian
(43a) and (43b) corresponds to an English Superiority e¨ect.24
Superiority e¨ect (Bulgarian)
(42) The leftmost wh-phrase in a Bulgarian multiple question is the wh-
phrase that moves overtly in the corresponding English multiple
question.
(43) a. Koj
who
kakvo
what
viz
Ïda?
sees
[cf. Who sees what?]
b. *Kakvo koj viz
Ïda?
[cf. *What does who see?]
(44) a. Koj
who
ku
Æde
where
udari
hit
Ivan?
Ivan
[cf. Who hit Ivan where?]
b. *Ku
Æde koj udari Ivan?
[cf. *Where did who hit Ivan?]
The Superiority e¨ect in English follows naturally from Attract Closest
(AC), on the assumption that the overt instance of phrasal wh-movement
in English is also the ®rst instance of phrasal wh-movement in the deri-
vation. By parity of reasoning, the leftmost wh-phrase in a Bulgarian
question is also the ®rst to move. This means that the second wh-phrase
must have ``tucked in'' underneath the ®rst phrase, forming a lower spec-
i®er than the wh-phrase that moved ®rst.
``Tucking in''
(45) a. Koj ku
Æde C udari Ivan ?
1 2
5 5
who where hit Ivan
`Who hit Ivan where?'
b. *Ku
Æde koj C udari Ivan ?
2 1
5
5
This is, in fact, the hypothesis advanced by Richards (1997), who
conducted an extensive study of multiple-attraction constructions in Bul-
22 Chapter 2
garian and other languages. As Richards points out, second instances
of movement to a given attractor should ``tuck in'' if, in addition to
the ``attractor-oriented'' condition AC, movement also obeys a ``mover-
oriented'' condition, Shortest Move. The ®rst wh-phrase to be attracted by
C in (44a) is, because of AC, the highest C in the structure. (I will assign the
label wh1 to the wh-phrase of a question that occupies the highest struc-
tural position before wh-movement, and similarly for other wh-phrases.)
Wh1 moves as short a distance as possible, which in this case creates the
®rst speci®er of C. The second wh to be attracted in constructions like
those in (43)±(44) is the other wh-phrase: wh2. This wh-phrase could in
principle create a speci®er higher than wh1, or it could create a speci®er
lower than wh1. Shortest Move favors creation of a speci®er lower than
wh1Ðthat is, ``tucking in'' as in (45a). In this way, the interaction of
AC and Shortest Move causes the command relations between two wh-
phrases after movement to mirror their order before movement.25
As Richards notes, a tucking-in derivation is ``countercyclic'' in that it
does not extend the tree. This would violate the Strict Cycle Condition if
each category were to count as a cycleÐas suggested by Chomsky (1993)
under the rubric of the Extension Condition, which requires each overt
operation to extend the tree at its root. Richards suggests that it is not the
tucking-in hypothesis but the Extension Condition that is incorrect. The
cases that actually motivated the Extension Condition and its predeces-
sors involve derivations in which the overt-movement requirements of a
lower head are satis®ed later than the overt-movement requirements of
a higher head. In later work Chomsky (1995) suggests an alternative
approach that zeros in more tightly on the actual cases that need to be
excluded. He suggests that convergent derivations must satisfy the overt-
movement requirements of a head H while still building the portion of
the tree headed by H. (In his terminology, failure to satisfy the ``strong
feature'' of a head H in a timely fashion ``cancels the derivation.'') This
proposal, which Richards calls featural cyclicity, blocks most traditional
Strict Cycle Condition violations, but allows tucking in as in (45a), pre-
cisely because tucking in involves countercyclic movements to a single
head.26
Now let us consider AC more closelyÐin particular, its e¨ects in
multiple questions with three or more wh-phrases. All things being equal,
one might expect AC to be obeyed in some fashion in each instance of
wh-attraction to Cm-spec. For example, in a multiple question with three
overtly moved wh-phrases, one might expect their order after movement
Two Observations about Bulgarian 23
to mirror their order before movementÐjust as in a multiple question
with two overtly moved wh-phrases. As Bos
Ïkovic
Â (1995, 1998) notes,
however, this is not the case. Though the leftmost wh after movement
must be the highest wh before movement, the second wh after movement
is not required to be the second highest wh before movement. The orders
wh1 wh2 wh3 and wh1 wh3 wh2 are equal (or nearly equal) in acceptability.
Wh1 wh2 wh3 and wh1 wh3 wh2 both acceptable
(46) a. Koj
who
na
to
kogo
whom
kakvo
what
dade?
gave
`Who gave what to whom?'
b. ?Koj kakvo na kogo dade?
(47) a. Koj
who
kogo
whom
kak
how
udari?
hit
`Who hit whom how?'
b. Koj kak kogo udari?
(48) a. Koj
who
kogo
whom
kakvo
what
e
aux
pital?
asked
`Who asked whom what?'
b. Koj kakvo kogo e pital?
The AC requirement seems to be ``turned o¨'' for movement to a given
Cm-spec once it has been satis®ed by a prior operation of wh-movement
to that Cm-spec. As Richards puts it, it is as if the ®rst operation of
wh-movement pays an ``AC tax'' that allows subsequent instances of wh-
movement to the same target to ignore this constraint, as in the following
sketch of a derivation for (46b):
Paying the ``AC tax''
(49) a. Before wh-movement
Cm-spec [koj dade na kogo kakvo]
b. Step 1
Cm-spec attracts the wh-feature of koj (wh1), pays ``AC tax.''
koj C [ dade na kogo kakvo]
c. Step 2
Cm-spec attracts either of the remaining wh-phrases, since ``AC
tax'' has been paid. Wh-phrase tucks in under koj.
koj kakvo C [ dade na kogo ]
d. Step 3
Cm-spec attracts the other wh-phrase, which tucks in under kakvo.
koj kakvo na kogo C [ dade ]
24 Chapter 2
Richards (1997) argues that this view of the matter is exactly correct. He
suggests further that the logic of the ``AC tax'' is a special case of a much
more general metaconstraint that he calls the Principle of Minimal Com-
pliance (PMC). The precise characterization of this more general princi-
ple (see Richards 1997) is not important here. The relevant phenomenon
is the simple observation that ``attractor-oriented'' constraints on move-
ment apply only to the ®rst movement operation that targets a given
attractor.
Principle of Minimal Compliance
(50) For any dependency D that obeys constraint C, any elements that
are relevant for determining whether D obeys C can be ignored for
the rest of the derivation for purposes of determining whether any
other dependency D0
obeys C.
An element X is relevant to determining whether a dependency D
with head A and tail B obeys constraint C i¨
a. X is along the path of D (that is, X ˆ A, X ˆ B, or A
c-commands X and X c-commands B), and
b. X is a member of the class of elements to which C makes
reference.
PMC for our purposes
(51) Once an instance of movement to a has obeyed a constraint on the
distance between source and target, other instances of movement to
a need not obey this constraint.
The PMC applies to a number of syntactic conditions. Certain island
e¨ects, such as Ross's (1967) Complex NP Constraint, hold in their
strongest form only of the ®rst instance of wh-movement to a given C.
The Bulgarian example (52a), for instance, displays the expected judg-
ment for wh-movement out of a clause contained inside an NP. Example
(52b) contains exactly the same instance of wh-movement as (52a), except
that here it is (by hypothesis) the second instance of movement to its
target, rather than the ®rst. Strikingly, the e¨ects on acceptability of the
Complex NP Constraint violation fade nearly to the vanishing point.27
(Data from Roumyana Izvorski, Ani Petkova, and Roumyana Slabakova,
in personal communication to Norvin Richards; see Richards 1997.)
PMC improves Subjacency violations
(52) a. *Koja
which
kniga
book
otrec
Ïe
denied
senatora
Æt
the-senator
[ma
Ælvata
the-rumor
c
Ïe
that
iska
wanted
da
to
zabrani ]?
ban
`Which book did the senator deny the rumor that he wanted to ban?'
Two Observations about Bulgarian 25
b. ?Koj senator koja kniga otrec
Ïe [ma
Ælvata c
Ïe iska da zabrani ]?
1 2
5 5
which senator which book denied the-rumor that wanted to ban
`Which senator denied the rumor that he wanted to ban which book?'
These facts recall properties of English multiple questions. As is well
known, wh-in-situ in English multiple questions do not display island
e¨ectsÐor at least display them very weakly (Hankamer 1974). This fact
has always been a puzzle, particularly if, as I have argued, wh-in-situ
standardly undergo covert wh-movement. Traditional accounts (e.g.,
Huang 1982) attribute the absence of island e¨ects in these environments
to a special fact about covert wh-movement. As Richards notes, the phe-
nomenon can instead be seen as the English counterpart of the e¨ect
in (52). On this view, Subjacency e¨ects are absent with covert wh-
movement in multiple questions not because the movement is covert, but
because it follows an earlier application of wh-movement in its clause.28
In this respect Richards's Bulgarian discoveries perfectly mirror data
from Italian discovered by Longobardi (1991), as analyzed by Brody
(1995). Bulgarian exhibits multiple instances of overt movement, the ®rst
instance paying the ``Subjacency tax'' that allows later instances to bypass
the Subjacency e¨ect. Italian exhibits multiple instances of covert move-
ment with the same properties. The Italian case does not involve wh-
movement, but scope assignment to negative phrases. I follow Brody's
presentation here. A negative phrase like nessuno `no one' and its scope
position (marked by non with postverbal negation) can be separated by
embedded clauses.
Long-distance scope (Italian)
(53) Non
neg
approverei
I-would-approve
che
that
tu
you
gli
him
consentissi
allow
di
to
vedere
see
nessuno.
no-one
`I would not approve that you allow him to see anybody.'
Nonetheless, the relationship obeys adjunct islands (as shown in (54a))
and subject islands (as shown in (54b)). This fact leads one to suspect that
covert movement of the negative element takes place.
Long-distance scope obeys islands (Italian)
(54) a. * Non
neg
fa
does
il suo
his
dovere
duty
per
for
aiutare
to-help
nessuno.
no-one
`He does not do his duty in order to help anyone.'
26 Chapter 2
b. ?*Chiamare
to-call
nessuno
no-one
sara
Á
will-be
possibile.
possible
`It will not be possible to call anyone.'
Crucially, when two negative phrases share the same scope, the lower
phrase does not have to obey the islands seen in (54).
PMC improves island violations (Italian)
(55) a. ?Chiamare
to-call
nessuno
no-one
servira
Á
will-serve
a
for
niente,
nothing
ormai.
now
`To call no one will do any good now.'
b. Non
neg
fa
does
niente
nothing
per
for
aiutare
to-help
nessuno.
no-one
`He does not do anything in order to help anyone.'
English, Bulgarian, and Italian thus all display the same phenomenon:
the ®rst occurrence of movement to a given position obeys islands, but
the second does notÐwhether the two movements di¨er in overtness
(English), are both overt (Bulgarian), or are both covert (Italian).29
A cautionary note is in order. Although AC is subject to the PMC,
Shortest Move is another matter. Once a given instance of movement to
a given C has satis®ed Shortest Move, it must not be the case that sub-
sequent instances of movement to that C may violate Shortest Move; if
they did, we could not observe a ``tucking in'' requirement. This follows if
Shortest Move is not a constraint governing the distance between an
attractor and an attractee, but a constraint that chooses the exact position
near a given attractor to which copying takes place.
2.3 Summary of Bulgarian Wh-Movement
I have made the following observations about Bulgarian:
. Multiple-speci®er requirement: The complementizer of a multiple ques-
tion in Bulgarian appears to strongly require at least two wh-phrases as
speci®ers. This is a separate requirement from the general preference for
moving all wh-phrases in a multiple question.
. Superiority: The leftmost wh-phrase in a multiple question is the wh-
phrase that was highest before movementÐwh1 in the terminology used
here. If this is the same fact as the Superiority e¨ect in English, it suggests
that the leftmost wh-phrase is also the ®rst to move. This entails that
multiple movement to a given head proceeds via ``tucking in.''
Two Observations about Bulgarian 27
. The PMC: In Bulgarian, AC is only required to be satis®ed by the ®rst
instance of phrasal wh-movement to C. Consequently, the second wh-
phrase to move is not necessarily the second highest wh-phrase before
movement (wh2).
Finally, it is now apparent that the pronunciation principles in (14)±
(15), repeated here, were appropriately formulatedÐassuming, of course,
that it was correct to identify the leftmost wh-phrase in Bulgarian with the
single overtly moved wh-phrase in English.
Pronunciation rule (English)
(56) a. The ®rst instance of wh-phrase movement to C is overt, in that
wh is pronounced in its new position and unpronounced in its
trace positions.
b. Secondary instances of wh-phrase movement to C are covert, in
that wh is pronounced in its trace position and unpronounced in
its new position.
Pronunciation rule (Bulgarian)
(57) All wh-phrase movement to C is overt, in that wh is pronounced in
its new position and unpronounced in its trace positions.
As promised earlier, I will argue that (56) and (57) are the only relevant
di¨erences between English and Bulgarian wh-questions. In particular,
once wh-feature movement is introduced into the discussion, we will see
that several peculiarities of English multiple questions are simply the
re¯ection, in English, of the Bulgarian properties summarized in this
section.30 Having discussed phrasal movement versus feature movement
in chapter 1 and sketched Bulgarian wh-syntax in this chapter, I can now
develop the argument.
28 Chapter 2
Chapter 3
Does Wh1-in-Situ Undergo
Covert Phrasal Movement?
3.1 No
As noted earlier, wh-questions show apparent exceptions to Attract Closest
(AC), over and above those attributable to the Principle of Minimal
Compliance (PMC). These are cases in which wh1 is pronounced in situ,
while some other wh-phrase is pronounced in [Spec, CP]. (I describe the
situation in terms of pronunciation only so as not to prejudge the actual
movement patterns.) One exception of this type mentioned in chapter 1
involves D-linking. Relevant examples were given in (31)±(32), of which
(31) is repeated here.
D-linking apparent exception to Superiority
(58) a. Which person bought which book?
b. Which book did which person buy ?
Example (58a) shows wh1 (presumably) moved and pronounced in [Spec,
CP].31 Example (58b), on the other hand, shows wh2 moved and wh1 in
situ. Obviously, the acceptability of (58b) reveals an inadequacy some-
where in the previous discussionÐbut where? To answer this question, we
need to know what the syntax of (58b) is.
. For example, does wh1, the in-situ wh-phrase in (58b), undergo phrasal
wh-movement of some sort? If the in-situ wh-phrase does undergo phrasal
movement, the movement is obviously covert. If so, we must ask why.
Did wh1, the higher wh-phrase, undergo phrasal movement ®rstÐbut
the output of movement was pronounced as covert movement for some
reason, in violation of the pronunciation rule (56)? Or was AC violated,
so that the ®rst wh attracted was wh2, the lower wh (with the pronuncia-
tion rule (56) operating exactly as expected)?
. If, however, the in-situ wh-phrase does not undergo phrasal movement,
we must also ask why. Is wh1 in (58b) for some reason ineligible for wh-
movement? Or is AC violable in situations other than those given by the
PMC? Or is something else going on?
Clearly, the ®rst issue to settle is whether or not wh1 undergoes
phrasal movement. We have in our repertoire exactly one test for speci®-
cally phrasal movement: antecedent-contained deletion (ACD). We have
already used this test as part of an argument that wh-in-situ may in prin-
ciple undergo covert phrasal movement. The relevant cases were examples
like (12a±b), repeated here, in which a relative clause modifying a wh-
phrase in situ contains an instance of ACD.
Wh-in-situ licenses ACD
(59) a. Which girl invited [which student that John did [VP D]]?
b. I need to know who can speak [which languages that Ken Hale
can [VP D]].
These examples, of course, do not involve any apparent exception to the
Superiority e¨ect. Neither example shows wh1-in-situ, so neither example
tests whether the covert phrasal movement detected in (59) is also avail-
able to wh1-in-situ. By attaching a modi®er that contains ACD to an
otherwise legal instance of wh1-in-situ, we should be able to determine (all
things being equal) whether this type of wh-in-situ also undergoes covert
phrasal movement. Although the relevant examples are (inevitably) com-
plex, the experiment is straightforward and its results are clear.
Let us begin by constructing, as an experimental control, a slightly
more complex counterpart to the examples in (59), containing three rele-
vant DP positions. Example (60a) is the necessary control. The three DP
positions that we will work with are the subject of order, the object
of order, and the object of congratulate. I have glossed (60a) with its
intended interpretation, (60b).
Wh1 not in situ, ACD within wh2
(60) a. I need to know which girl ordered [which boy that Mary
(also) did D] to congratulate Sarah.
b. I need to know for which girl x and for which boy y such that
Mary ordered y to congratulate Sarah], x also ordered y to
congratulate Sarah. [i.e., I need to know the girl-boy pairs such
that both the girl and Mary ordered the boy to congratulate
Sarah]
---------------------------------------
30 Chapter 3
The ®rst crucial comparison is (61a), glossed with its intended inter-
pretation, (61b). Both (60a) and (61a) contain the same instance of ACD
inside an in-situ wh-phrase in the middle DP position. In (60a) the wh-
phrase that moved overtly came from a higher DP position. In (61a) the
wh-phrase that moves overtly will come from the lower DP position.
Thus, in (60a) ACD is not contained within an instance of wh-in-situ, but
in (61a) it is. In my experience speakers uniformly ®nd a sharp di¨erence
in the acceptability and interpretability of the two examples. Example
(60a) is perhaps di½cult to interpret, but (61a) is impossible.
Wh1 in situ, ACD within wh1
(61) a. *I need to know which girl Sue ordered [which boy that Mary
(also) did D] to congratulate .
b. I need to know for which girl x and [which boy y such that
Mary ordered y to congratulate x], Sue also ordered y to
congratulate x. [i.e., I need to know the girl-boy pairs such
that both Sue and Mary ordered the boy to congratulate the
girl]
----------------------------------
I conclude from the contrast between (60a) and (61a) that in apparent
exceptions to the Superiority e¨ect like (58b), wh1 does not undergo
covert phrasal movement. Still, to assure ourselves that this explanation is
both plausible and correct, we must construct other experiments that test
other explanations of the contrast between (60a) and (61a). For example,
one might ask whether the meaning of (61a) is in some way especially
di½cult to construct. This can be tested by examining constructions
whose meaning is similar or identical to that of (61a), but whose syntax is
di¨erent. Such experiments can be performed. Example (61a) involves a
wh-phrase overtly moved from the third DP position. This wh-phrase
binds an elided bound variable inside the second DP position. An equiv-
alent interpretation can be obtained by switching the initial positions of
the bound variable and the wh-phrase, and overtly moving wh1 (which
now contains the second wh-phrase in situ). The relevant construction
is (62), which expresses the meaning of (61a) but is quite acceptable. If
there is any deviance to (62), it may be related to the failure of surface c-
command between which girl and her, but the contrast with (61a) is sharp.
It's not the meaning of (61a) that renders it unacceptable . . .
(62) ?[Which boy that Mary ordered to congratulate which girl] did Sue
(also) order to congratulate her?
Does Wh-in-Situ Undergo Covert Phrasal Movement? 31
As just noted, the interpretation of the elided VP in (61a) includes
a variable bound by the overtly moved phrase which girl. This raises
another possible account for the deviance of (61a). Might this variable
within an elided VP obey the Complex NP Constraint, as a trace inside an
overt VP would? That is, could the contrast between (60a) and (61a) stem
from a violation of the Complex NP Constraint in (61a)? The answer
seems to be no. Consider, for example, an instance of ACD that di¨ers
minimally from (61a) in that the position occupied by wh1-in-situ in (61a)
is occupied by a non-wh-phrase. An example is (63a), which replaces wh1-
in-situ with a quanti®ed phrase headed by every. Since every boy that
Mary did is not a wh-phrase, it does not compete with which girl for
movement to C. Consequently, no special problem is expected with
ACDÐand none is found. Crucially, however, the ellipsis in (63a) con-
tains a variable bound by which girl across a Complex NP Constraint
boundary. Consequently, it is unlikely that this factor accounts for the
unacceptability of (61a).
. . . nor is it the Complex NP Constraint violation within the ellipsis
site . . .
(63) a. I need to know which girl Sue ordered [every boy that Mary
(also) did D] to congratulate .
b. I need to know for which girl x, if Mary ordered a boy to
congratulate x, then Sue also ordered that boy to congratulate x.
It is also worth verifying that if the wh-in-situ and the overtly moved
wh-phrase are reversed (i.e., if the apparent Superiority violation is elimi-
nated), ACD becomes acceptable. Though the example might (for some
speakers) involve a Weak Crossover e¨ect, the conclusion seems to be
correct. Useful primes for (64a) are other sentences in which an in-situ
which-phrase binds a variable to its leftÐfor example, Which man ordered
a boy that liked her to congratulate which girl?
. . . nor is it the apparent Superiority violation (wh2 in situ, ACD within
overtly moved wh1) . . .
(64) a. (?)I need to know [which boy that Mary (also) did D] Sue
ordered to congratulate which girl.
b. I need to know for which girl x and [which boy y such that
Mary ordered y to congratulate x], Sue also ordered y to
congratulate x. [i.e., I need to know the girl-boy pairs such
that both Sue and Mary ordered the boy to congratulate the
girl]
----------------------------------
32 Chapter 3
Some other tests can be performed. For example, Hiroshi Aoyagi
(personal communication) notes that it is important to make sure that the
variable in wh1 (inside the ellipsis site) in (61a) can in fact be bound by the
overtly moved wh, as it needs to be. For example, one might ask whether
wh1 undergoes covert movement to a position higher than the overtly
moved wh-phrase, making binding of a variable within wh1 impossible for
simple reasons of scope and c-command. Examples like (65), where the
parasitic gap within the in-situ wh1 is successfully bound by the moved
wh-phrase, seem to suggest that this is not the case.
. . . nor is it binding into wh-in-situ . . .
(65) Which girl did you persuade [which friend of ] to
congratulate ?
Another relevant example is due to James McCawley (personal commu-
nication). Example (66) is like (59), except that it has in common with
(61a) a variableÐhere a pronounÐfollowing wh2-in-situ. Although
McCawley actually judged the example deviant, I disagree.
. . . nor is it the variable bound by the moved wh to the right of the wh-in-
situ.
(66) I need to know which girl ordered [which boy that Bill (also)
did D] to congratulate her.
In my view the tests performed here point to one clear conclusion.
Whatever the syntactic fate of wh1-in-situ in apparent Superiority viola-
tions like (58b), covert phrasal wh-movement is not one of the things that
can happen to it. The next question, of course, is what does happen to
wh1-in-situ in such examples.
3.2 Covert Phrasal Movement and Case
Before turning to this question, however, I want to point out an interest-
ing corollary result. The comparison between (60a) and (61a) has revealed
a link between the availability of ACD inside a wh-phrase and the
overall pattern of wh-movement: wh1-in-situ in a multiple question does
not undergo covert phrasal movement. Since it does not undergo covert
phrasal movement, we can conclude a fortiori that it does not undergo
covert phrasal wh-movement, which is our main concern here. But it is
worth noting some implications of the stronger conclusion, because it
bears directly on a current debate concerning the syntactic con®gurations
Does Wh-in-Situ Undergo Covert Phrasal Movement? 33
that resolve ACD. If we consider the explanations for ACD resolution
that have been o¨ered in the literature and focus on those explanations
that posit covert phrasal movement, we can distinguish two families of
proposals.
One school of thoughtÐrepresented, for example, by May (1985, 11±
14)Ðargues that ACD resolution not only provides evidence of covert
phrasal movement, but also reveals severe limitations on its distribution.
We can call this school of thought the limited movement family of
theories. In particular, May suggests that constraints on ACD show that
covert phrasal movement is limited to special types of constituentsÐ
constituents whose special syntactic or interpretive needs motivate such
movement. He takes the contrast between (67a) and (67b) to show that
quanti®ed expressions, but not DPs headed by proper names, undergo the
covert phrasal movement that can resolve ACD.
Quanti®ers versus proper names in ACD
(67) a. Dulles suspected [everyone who Angleton did D].
b. *Dulles suspected [Philby, who Angleton did D].
May's explanation does not seem quite correct, however. The contrast
between (67a) and (67b) does not seem to correlate directly with the
quanti®cational nature of the relevant phrase, since focusing the VP inside
the relative clause renders (67b) acceptable.
Focus eliminates the quanti®er/proper name contrast
(68) a. Dulles suspected [Philby, who Angleton also did D].
b. Dulles suspected [Philby, who Angleton did not D].
c. Dulles did not suspect [Philby, who Angleton did D].
The contrast between (67b) and (68) is familiar from other cases of VP-
ellipsis (or even simple VP-repetition, in some cases) and seems to be
unrelated to ACD.32
Quanti®er/proper name contrast not limited to ACD
(69) a. *Dulles suspected Philby. Angleton did D.
b. Dulles suspected Philby. Angleton also did D.
c. Dulles suspected Philby. Angleton did not D.
d. Dulles did not suspect Philby. Angleton did D.
The real puzzle, then, is the absence of this focus requirement in restric-
tive relatives such as the one in (67a). I will not attempt to solve this puzzle
here. In any case, Fiengo and May (1994, 242) note that a wide variety of
NP types support ACD.
34 Chapter 3
ACD with other NP types
(70) a. Dulles suspected some spy that Angleton did D.
b. Dulles suspected the spy that Angleton did D.
c. Dulles suspected many spies that Angleton did D.
These facts raise the question of whether, in Fiengo and May's words,
``the construction can [still] be taken as a diagnostic for quanti®cation.''
They suggest that it can. For example, they take (70b) to argue in favor of
the Russellian analysis of de®nite descriptions as quanti®cational. And
they note, with Diesing (1992) (though disagreeing over details), that the
determiners in (70c) and similar examples receive a strong interpretation,
which suggests some sort of QR-like operation on the object NP.
The other school of thought (which we can call the Case movement
family of theories) rejects this conclusion. In particular, it abandons the
view that the phrasal movement that resolves ACD in a direct object is
limited to particular subtypes of DPs. According to this proposal, devel-
oped independently by Lasnik (1993) and Hornstein (1994, 1995), the
covert phrasal movement that licenses ACD is not limited to ``special
DPs,'' but is actually a much more ``garden-variety'' type of movementÐ
namely, movement for reasons of Case. Lasnik and Hornstein develop
their proposals in the context of Chomsky's (1991, 1993) proposal that
object Case is checked, not within VP, but in a VP-external projection
(AgrOP in Chomsky 1993; vP in Chomsky 1995) to which the object
moves. They suggest that it is this kind of Case-driven movement, not QR
or covert wh-movement, that resolves ACD in the standard cases.33
(They develop this proposal as part of a broader proposal that QR does
not exist, which I will not report here.)34
The central di¨erence between the limited movement and the Case
movement approaches lies in whether ACD resolution within direct
objects is brought about by special processes that are limited to certain
DP types (quanti®ed phrases and wh-phrases), or whether ACD resolu-
tion is available to all direct object DPs that bear objective Case. Some of
the arguments developed by Kennedy (1997) help answer this question, by
arguing for the weak point that covert operations other than Case move-
ment must at least be allowed to resolve ACD. As Kennedy notes, there
are instances of ACD that require a type of movement that Case consid-
erations do not motivate. For example, ``NP-contained ACD'' of the sort
illustrated in (71) (Kennedy's (68)±(70)) has an interpretation entirely
unexpected under theories in which ACD is resolved through Case
movement.
Does Wh-in-Situ Undergo Covert Phrasal Movement? 35
NP-contained ACD
(71) a. Beck read [a report on [every suspect Kollberg did D]].
b. Melander requested [copies of [most of the tapes Larsson did
D]].
c. Kollberg took [pictures of [the same people Beck did D]].
If any DP in (71) is assigned Case outside its VP, it is the external brack-
eted DP. However, the interpretation of ellipsis in these examples is
unexpected if ACD is resolved by Case movement. Instead, the interpre-
tation is that derived if the internal bracketed DP undergoes covert
movement (e.g., QR) to a VP-external position.
LF representations for (71)
(72) a. [every suspect Kollberg read a report on]x Beck read a report
on x
b. [the tapes Larsson requested copies of ]x Melander requested
copies of most of x
c. [Kollberg took pictures of the same people]x Beck took pictures
of x
Thus, there must be some type of covert phrasal movement distinct from
Case movement that resolves ACD.35
The contrast between (60a) and (61a) provides a good argument in
favor of an even stronger position. If objective Case really is checked
outside VP, through movement into AgrOP or vP, this kind of move-
ment cannot involve the entire object phrase, since it does not resolve
ACD. The point is straightforward. Examples (60a) and (61a), if I have
interpreted them correctly, display an interaction between wh-movement
and ACD resolution. More speci®cally, they show that when a lower
wh-phrase undergoes overt wh-movement past a higher direct object wh-
phrase, the higher phrase cannot contain an instance of ACD. If direct
object phrases uniformly undergo a type of movement for Case purposes
that is capable of resolving ACD, then the interaction with wh-movement
seen here could only entail (all things being equal) that movement of a
lower wh-phrase over a higher one prevents the higher wh-phrase from
undergoing movement for Case purposes. But this conclusion cannot be
correct. If objective Case cannot be checked on the higher wh-phrase, wh1,
in these con®gurations, thenÐindependent of ACDÐsuch con®gurations
should have the status of Case Filter violations. But, of course, they do
not. Remove the ACD from (61a) and the structure, though complex,
36 Chapter 3
does not violate the Case Filter, as (73) shows. Whatever might be wrong
with (61a), Case is not the culprit.36
Wh1-in-situ does not violate the Case Filter
(73) I need to know which girl Sue ordered which boy to
congratulate .
A limited movement hypothesis o¨ers a more plausible perspective on
the problem of (61a). Suppose only covert phrasal wh-movement can
resolve ACD in a relative clause that modi®es an in-situ interrogative
wh-phrase. Though I have not yet explained why covert phrasal wh-
movement is not available in these cases, the unavailability of such
movement should not be surprisingÐeven at this point in the story. After
all, there is something special about wh1-in-situ from the perspective of
wh-movement. Furthermore, the hypothesis that wh1-in-situ does not
undergo covert phrasal wh-movement helps us understand the contrast
between (61a) with ACD and (73) without ACD, since the presence of
phrasal movement is crucial only to ACD.
Consequently, if Case on direct objects is checked external to VP,37 the
kind of direct object movement that accomplishes this task cannot be
phrasal movement. Otherwise, whether or not wh1-in-situ also undergoes
phrasal wh-movement, Case movement alone would license ACD in
examples like (61a). To put the matter di¨erently: Hornstein (1994, 1995)
and Lasnik (1993) were correct in noting that Case-driven phrasal move-
ment to a VP-external position should license ACD, but they were wrong
about the existence of this sort of phrasal movement.
Indeed, the conclusion that objective Case movement (if it exists) is not
phrasal excludes not only proposals that posit that English direct objects
undergo covert phrasal movement, but also proposals like Johnson's (1992)
and Koizumi's (1995) that English direct objects undergo overt phrasal
movement outside VP for Case reasons. The moment we posit phrasal
object movement for Case reasons, we lose almost all hope of accounting
for the ACD contrasts that concern us. Either there is no movement for
Case purposes to a VP-external position, or there is only feature move-
ment. The latter is, in fact, what Chomsky (1995) proposes.38,39
These conclusions from (60a) and (61a) ®t quite nicely with arguments
by Kennedy (1997) that also make the stronger case: not merely that
operations like QR and covert wh-movement serve to resolve ACD,
but also that covert objective Case movement does not. For example,
Does Wh-in-Situ Undergo Covert Phrasal Movement? 37
Kennedy notes (p. 675) that the de dicto reading normally available for
the subject of an in®nitive embedded under want disappears when that
subject contains an elided VP whose antecedent is the VP headed by want.
((74a±b) are Kennedy's (50) and (48), respectively.)
De dicto reading disappears
(74) a. Kollberg [VP wants [everyone Beck wants to interrogate] to
answer these questions].
b. Kollberg [VP wants [everyone Beck does D] to answer these
questions].
As Kennedy points out, (74a) ``is ambiguous between a [de re] reading . . .
in which Kollberg's desire concerns particular individuals, and [a de dicto]
one . . . in which his desire concerns any individual who meets the
requirements imposed by the restriction (that Beck wants to interrogate
him).'' By contrast, (74b) allows only the de re, ``particular individual''
reading. It cannot mean that Kollberg wants the set of people who answer
the questions to coincide with the set of people who Beck wants to answer
the questions, whoever that set may happen to consist of. In fact, as
Danny Fox (personal communication) has pointed out, simpler examples
can be constructed with bare DP objects.40 These also display a de re/de
dicto ambiguity eliminated by ACD.
De dicto reading disappears
(75) a. Kollberg [VP wanted [every book that Mary wrote]].
b. Kollberg [VP wanted [every book Mary did D]].
In (75a) Kollberg might desire a particular set of books (without even
knowing that they were written by the same person), or his desire may
concern any book that Mary happens to have written. In (75b) Kollberg's
desire must concern a particular set of books.
The data in (74)±(75) follow straightforwardly if ACD resolution
requires covert phrasal movement of the bracketed phrase to a position
that also happens to be outside the semantic scope of want. But this
position cannot be the Case position for the bracketed DP; if it were, the
de dicto reading would also be unavailable in (74a) and (75a), contrary to
fact. Therefore, the Case position for the embedded subject, wherever it is,
must have two properties: (1) it lies within the scope of want, and (2)
movement to it does not license ACD resolution.41
38 Chapter 3
Chapter 4
What Does Happen to
Wh1-in-Situ?
4.1 Does Wh1-in-Situ Undergo Feature Movement?
In previous chapters, I have argued that in D-linked exceptions to the
Superiority e¨ect, wh1-in-situ does not undergo covert phrasal movement.
This argument is possible only because the ACD behavior of wh1-in-situ
can be contrasted with the behavior of wh-in-situ that do undergo covert
phrasal movement. So far this conclusion accords with the argument in
Pesetsky 1987 that wh1-in-situ fails to undergo covert phrasal move-
ment.42 At this point, however, the work of the last few years raises new
questions. In Pesetsky 1987, I assumed that if an in-situ wh-phrase fails to
undergo covert phrasal movement, it undergoes no movement at all. For
that reason I suggested that a special mechanism (unselective binding)
assigns such wh-in-situ their scope, but that no instance of wh-movement
applies to them. Now, however, a less ad hoc proposal is possible. In
particular, we can ask whether a wh-in-situ that fails to undergo wh-
phrase movement might nonetheless undergo wh-feature movement. In
(58b), for example (Which book did which person buy ?), even though
wh1, which person, fails to undergo covert phrasal wh-movement, could it
be that its wh-feature has moved on its own to the interrogative Cm-spec,
leaving the rest of the phrase behind?
This possibility suggests a new perspective on apparent exceptions to
the Superiority e¨ect. (I call them ``apparent exceptions'' from this point
on.) Perhaps wh1-in-situ in these examples actually undergoes wh-feature
movement. If so, we might entertain the possibility that this instance of
feature movement is actually the ®rst instance of wh-movement in its
clauseÐthe ®rst instance of overt phrasal movement actually constituting
the second instance of wh-movement overall. On this view the pronuncia-
tion principle for English wh-movement remains accurate in exactly the
form given earlier. The ®rst instance of phrasal movement is overt, even
if the ®rst instance of phrasal wh-movement is not the ®rst instance of
wh-movement.
Feature movement analysis of apparent exceptions to the Superiority e¨ect
(76) a. Structure before movement
Cm-spec [which person bought which book]
b. Step 1
Cm-spec attracts the wh-feature of which person
Fi-C [Fi-which person bought which book]
c. Step 2
Cm-spec attracts the wh-phrase which book
which book Fi-C [Fi-which person bought ]
d. Pronounced result
Which book did which person buy?
If this hypothesis is correct, thenÐalthough such examples sound as if
they violate Attract Closest (AC)Ðin reality AC is not violated at all.
The ®rst wh-feature attracted by Cm-spec in the course of the derivation is
the closest instance of this feature. The only relevant di¨erence between
Which book did which person buy ? and Which person bought
which book? lies in whether the ®rst instance of wh-movement is feature
movement or phrasal movement.
This hypothesis, in turn, raises the possibility that AC for the wh-
feature is inviolable, just as Chomsky (1995) suggests.43 The appearance
of counterexamples arises simply from the failure to consider the possi-
bility that the ®rst instance of overt movement to Cm-spec might not be the
®rst instance of movement to Cm-spec. On this hypothesis the failure of
ACD in a relative clause attached to wh1-in-situ44 (as seen in (61a)) stems
from the same cause as the failure of ACD in relative clauses attached to
the associate of there, studied earlier in connection with (25). In each case
movement takes place from the constituent that contains ACD, but
because the movement is not phrasal, ACD is not resolved.
4.2 What Is Special about Questions with D-Linking?
This proposal comes no closer than previous e¨orts to explaining why
the semantic property of D-linking yields an exception to the Superiority
e¨ect in (76), but it suggests a new way of looking at the syntactic side of
the problem. Nothing so far has excluded the possibility of a derivation
40 Chapter 4
like (76) for English examples without D-linkingÐyet these do show a
Superiority e¨ect. We need to know what is wrong with a derivation
like (77).
Spurious derivation of an apparent exception to Superiority
(77) a. Structure before movement
Cm-spec [who bought what]
b. Step 1
Cm-spec attracts the wh-feature of who
Fi-C [Fi-who bought what]
c. Step 2
Cm-spec attracts the wh-phrase what
what Fi-C [Fi-who bought ]
d. Pronounced result
*What did who buy?
I want to suggest that what is wrong with (77) is that it violates a con-
straint we have already seen in a di¨erent form in Bulgarian: the multiple-
speci®er requirement of Cm-spec presented in (36), repeated here.
Multiple-speci®er requirement of Cm-spec
(78) Cm-spec requires more than one wh-speci®er.
Recall that this requirement displays itself in Bulgarian as the strong re-
quirement that at least two wh-phrases undergo overt phrasal movement
in a multiple question. If a multiple question involves only two wh-
phrases, and one of them undergoes feature movement to C, the multiple-
speci®er requirement cannot be satis®ed. This, I suggest, is what goes
wrong with the derivation sketched in (77). Feature movement involves
communication between the wh-feature of who and a corresponding fea-
ture of Cm-spec, but it does not involve copying a phrase into a speci®er
position, which could help satisfy the multiple-speci®er requirement.45
If this idea is correct, then the multiple-speci®er requirement must
somehow be suspended in questions that involve D-linking; if it is not, the
derivation in (76) will also lead to deviance. Let us suppose that this is the
case.
Multiple-speci®er requirement of Cm-spec (revised)
(79) Except in questions where a wh-phrase is D-linked, Cm-spec requires
more than one wh-speci®er.
Alternatively, D-linked multiple questions might be formed (and receive
normal ``pair-list'' readings) with the complementizer otherwise reserved
What Does Happen to Wh-in-Situ? 41
for nonmultiple questions: the interrogative complementizer C1-spec that
takes only one wh-phrase as speci®er. On this view we would not need the
exception clause built into (79), but we would need to understand why the
semantics of D-linked multiple questions allows a complementizer that is
otherwise not found in such questions. I do not know at present how to
decide between the two hypotheses.46
More generally, it remains unclear why D-linked phrases should con-
stitute an exception to the multiple-speci®er requirement. In this domain
my proposal leaves an important question unanswered. This is not
grounds for giving up on the proposal, however. Even when one is forced
to leave some aspect of a phenomenon unexplained, one can often tell
whether the discussion is on the right track by examining whether the
unexplained portion of the phenomenon has internal coherence. If so,
there are grounds for optimism about the overall approachÐgrounds for
suspecting that the unanswered question is a real question about the
true theory and not merely an artifact of missteps and false notions. In
the present case, if the absence of Superiority e¨ects with D-linked wh in
English is due to an exception to the multiple-speci®er requirement, we
immediately expect this exception to show up in a slightly di¨erent way in
Bulgarian. In English the multiple-speci®er requirement, combined with
the pronunciation principles stated earlier, produces one overt occurrence
of wh-phrase movement and one covert occurrence. In Bulgarian the
multiple-speci®er requirement, combined with the pronunciation princi-
ples for that language, forces the overt fronting of at least two wh-phrases.
Consequently, if the D-linking exception to English Superiority e¨ects
arises from an exception to the multiple-speci®er requirement, we expect
D-linking to improve Bulgarian multiple questions in which just one wh-
phrase has fronted. As mentioned in note 24, this is the case. Examples
like the double-asterisked (35d), (40d), and (41d), in which only one out of
three or four wh-phrases has fronted, are signi®cantly improved when one
or the other wh-phrase is understood as D-linked (i.e., as demanding
answers drawn from a set that counts as old information for speaker and
hearer). The same is true of questions with only two wh-phrases (``binary
questions''). ((80) is from Roumyana Izvorski (personal communication).)
D-linked wh-in-situ (Bulgarian)
(80) a. Koj
who
dade
gave
kakvo
what
na
to
Stefan? [* if non-D-linked; better if D-linked]
Stefan
b. Koj kakvo dade na Stefan? [no D-linking preference]
42 Chapter 4
Furthermore, as mentioned in note 19, a binary question may constitute
an exception to Superiority, so long as the question involves D-linkingÐ
just as in English.
D-linking exception to Superiority in questions with overt movement
(Bulgarian)
(81) Kakvo koj dade na Stefan? [* if non-D-linked; better if D-linked]
If I am correct in my suppositions about wh-feature movement, (81)
receives an analysis akin to (76), the multiple-speci®er requirement be-
coming irrelevant because of the D-linking exception.47
4.3 Nonbinary Multiple Questions
As it happens, in Pesetsky 1987 (citing Wachowicz 1974 and Jae-Woong
Choe, personal communication) the Polish counterpart of the just-cited
Bulgarian facts was used as an argument for the hypothesis that D-linked
wh-in-situ may fail to undergo covert phrasal wh-movement. In the con-
text of that work, questions with D-linking were not an exception to a
multiple-speci®er requirement, but an exception to a proposed require-
ment that each wh-phrase undergo some form of phrasal wh-movement by
LF. I viewed Polish as a language that ``wears its LF on its sleeve,''
thanks to the phenomenon of multiple overt wh-phrase movement. The
discussion had certain marked de®ciencies, however. For its conclusions to
have force, it was necessary to assume that Polish wh-movement is always
overt (an assumption I did not make explicit). Furthermore (needless to
say) the possibility of feature movement was not considered at all. In this
context it was reasonable to assume that D-linking is an exception to a
movement requirement for wh-phrases, rather than an exception to a
requirement on the speci®ers of Cm-spec.
In fact, however, evidence now available favors the latter view over the
former. Recall that the multiple-speci®er requirement is satis®ed once two
wh-phrases have moved to [Spec, Cm-spec]. Superiority e¨ects arise in
binary questions without D-linking because such questions contain only
two wh-phrases in the ®rst place. Consequently, a derivation in which one
of the two wh-phrases undergoes feature movement inevitably violates the
multiple-speci®er requirement. The situation should be di¨erent, however,
in a multiple question that contains more than two wh-phrases. In such a
question, nothing said so far should block a derivation in which one or
more of the wh-phrases undergoes wh-feature movement, so long as at
What Does Happen to Wh-in-Situ? 43
least two wh-phrases undergo the phrasal version of wh-movement. In
particular, in a question with three or more wh-phrases, wh1 (the highest
wh-phrase) should be able to undergo wh-feature movement as the ®rst
instance of wh-movement (satisfying AC), with two of the lower wh-
phrases undergoing phrasal movement. Of these instances of phrasal
movement, the ®rst will be overt in English, and the rest will be covert. In
other words, independent of D-linking, questions with three or more wh-
phrases should show no Superiority e¨ect. In fact, this is the case, as I
pointed out when presenting example (33), repeated here.
Superiority e¨ect disappears with more than two wh-phrases
(82) a. *What did who give to Mary? [detectable Superiority
e¨ect]
b. What did who give to whom? [no detectable Superiority
e¨ect]
Example (82a) contains only two wh-phrases. Consequently, both must
undergo phrasal wh-movement, in order to satisfy the multiple-speci®er
requirement of Cm-spec. Since AC is inviolable, who must move ®rst, and
what second. By the pronunciation principles, movement of who should
be the overt instance of movement. Since this not the case in (82a), the
sentence is deviant. Example (82b), on the other hand, contains three wh-
phrases. The highest wh-phrase, who, is thus free to undergo wh-feature
movement, as the ®rst instance of wh-movement to the complementizer
of the question. What and whom then undergo phrasal wh-movement,
satisfying the multiple-speci®er requirement. The ®rst instance of wh-
movement is overt, and the result is (82b).
The disappearance of Superiority e¨ects with nonbinary multiple ques-
tions makes it clear that the grammar of multiple questions contains a
multiple-speci®er requirement, and not a requirement that all wh-phrases
undergo phrasal wh-movement. This, in turn, tells us exactly which prop-
erty of grammar D-linked questions are exceptions to. Despite our igno-
rance concerning the semantic source of this D-linking exception, the
strong hidden parallels between Bulgarian and English revealed by this
approach suggest that we are on the right track. The failure of D-linked
questions to display the Superiority e¨ect in English groups with the fact
that D-linking in Bulgarian obviates the requirement that two wh-phrases
move overtly. The fact that English questions with more than two wh-
phrases also fail to show the Superiority e¨ect groups with the fact that
Bulgarian multiple questions with two overtly moved wh-phrases are
44 Chapter 4
signi®cantly better than multiple questions with only one overtly moved
wh-phrase.
An additional observation may support this perspective. From time to
time I have encountered speakers of English who report a residual Supe-
riority e¨ect in those cases where other speakers report its disappearance.
For these speakers the Superiority contrast weakens in questions with D-
linking and in nonbinary multiple questions, but it remains detectable. It
is not implausible that this ``lesser'' Superiority contrast re¯ects the e¨ect
in English of Bulgarian's ``general preference'' reported in (37) for multi-
ple questions in which all wh-phrases are attracted to Cm-spec. If my pro-
posals are correct, apparent Superiority violations always involve at least
one wh-phrase (wh1) undergoing feature movement, rather than phrasal
movement, to Cm-spec.48
The same considerations may help us understand comparable cases in
Bulgarian. The Superiority e¨ect in Bulgarian shows up as the observa-
tion that where wh1 has clearly undergone overt wh-movement, it is left-
most among the wh-phrases that have fronted. We have already seen this
e¨ect in binary questions in (43)±(44). The same e¨ect can be observed in
ternary questions. Where it is clear that wh1 has undergone overt wh-
phrase movement, it must be leftmost among the various wh-phrases.
Examples (83a±b) must be parsed either with koj `who' in situ, violating
the multiple-speci®er requirement, or with koj having undergone overt
wh-phrase movement later than a lower wh-phrase, violating AC. That is
why these examples are completely unacceptable.
Violation of multiple-speci®er requirement or violation of AC
(83) a. **Na
to
kogo
whom
koj
who
dade
gave
kakvo?
what
b. **Kakvo koj dade na kogo?
Such examples contrast detectably with minimally di¨erent (though still
unacceptable) examples in which koj is arguably completely in situ.
Although one may remain skeptical of arguments based on a contrast
between strong and weaker unacceptability (``**'' vs. ``*''), the contrast
here is apparently quite clear.49
Multiple-speci®er requirement satis®ed/AC satis®ed
(84) *Na
to
kogo
whom
kakvo
what
dade
gave
koj?
who
If my hypothesis is correct, the ®rst instance of wh-movement to Cm-spec
in (84) is wh-feature movement from koj. The second instance of wh-
What Does Happen to Wh-in-Situ? 45
movement involves the wh-phrase that ends up leftmost, and the third
instance of wh-movement involves the second overtly fronted wh-phrase.
The contrast between (83) and (84) follows as the Bulgarian counterpart
to the English di¨erence between binary and nonbinary multiple ques-
tions that appear to violate Superiority. Of course, (84) is not fully ac-
ceptable, as the asterisk indicates. This fact may re¯ect the preference for
multiple questions in which all wh-phrases undergo wh-phrase movement
(especially if this preference is stronger for Bulgarian speakers, who can
hear the di¨erence, than it is for English speakers).50
One ®nal empirical point must be investigated. The proposal in this
section has presupposed that wh1-in-situ in non-D-linked ternary ques-
tions has essentially the same syntax as its counterpart in D-linked binary
questions. That is, it fails to undergo phrasal wh-movementÐbut it does
undergo wh-feature movement, if my hypothesis is correct. ACD evidence
bearing on this point is hard to come by. In order to construct a fair test,
we need to avoid D-linking, and we need at least four argument places to
work with (in order to vary the status of the wh-phrase with ACD from
wh1-in-situ to wh2-in-situ while holding other conditions constant). To the
extent that such examples can be constructed, and to the extent that they
do not pose insuperable burdens on linguistic memory, the facts appear to
be as expected. It is exceedingly di½cult to parse (85a±b), but insofar as
one can judge the examples at all, they seem to contrast as indicated.
Example (85b) su¨ers from the repetition of who, but its instance of ACD
seems to be interpretable, unlike ACD in (85a). The problem with the
judgment is the excessive concentration required to deliver it.
ACD in wh1 within three-wh questions
(85) a. *What did Sue order [who that Mary (also) did D] to give
to whom?
b. What did who order [who that Mary (also) did D] to give
to whom?51
4.4 Wh-Feature Movement versus No Wh-Movement at All
The discussion in sections 4.1±4.3 has provided only one real argument
that directly bears on the existence of wh-feature movement. This was the
observation that if wh-feature movement can be the ®rst instance of wh-
movement, examples that look like violations of AC really do not violate
it at all. If we accept the evidence from the there construction in favor of
46 Chapter 4
the existence of nonphrasal feature movement, this consideration is sig-
ni®cant, since it explains the existence of apparent Superiority violations
as a consequence of independently detected properties of grammar. In this
sense it is superior to certain potential alternatives.
For example, one might suppose that the wh-phrases that undergo wh-
feature movement (according to my hypotheses) are actually ``invisible''
to wh-attraction by Cm-spec and undergo no wh-movement whatsoever.
On this view, so long as the multiple-speci®er requirement is satis®ed
in the end, an invisible wh1 would be free to remain overlooked by wh-
attraction. The multiple-speci®er requirement would ®lter out non-D-
linked binary questions in which one of the two wh-phrases had been
marked invisible.52 The cost of this proposal, however, would be the
postulation of a construction-speci®c ``invisibility'' motivated only by
apparent Superiority violations. The feature movement proposal may be
the less complex of the twoÐbut more evidence bearing on the issue
would still be welcome.
It is clear what we want to ®nd out. We know from ACD that in
apparent Superiority violations, wh1 undergoes neither overt nor covert
phrasal wh-movement. Can we tell whether it undergoes any sort of wh-
movementÐin particular, feature movement? More speci®cally, do we
have a tool for detecting whether wh1-in-situ undergoes feature movement
before the ®rst instance of overt phrasal wh-movement?
Surprisingly, we do have such a tool. One might think it impossible to
distinguish between phonologically vacuous feature movement and the
absence of movement, but we can actually do so by looking at the impact
that feature movement should have on other, later operations that do
have phonological consequences. Richards's (1997) Principle of Minimal
Compliance (PMC), discussed in section 2.2, provides just the tool we
need to detect this impact.53
Recall how I introduced this principle. Following Richards (who in
turn used evidence from Bos
Ïkovic
Â 1995, 1999), I noted that the ®rst
instance of wh-movement in a Bulgarian multiple question has a notable
e¨ect on subsequent instances of wh-movement within that multiple
question. In particular, once overt wh-phrase movement has taken place
in accordance with AC, subsequent instances of wh-phrase movement do
not need to satisfy AC.54 As I discussed, and as illustrated in derivation
(49), repeated here as (87), it is as if satisfying AC with the initial instance
of movement to Cm-spec pays an ``AC tax'' that provides immunity to AC
for other instances of wh-movement to that Cm-spec. As a consequence,
What Does Happen to Wh-in-Situ? 47
orders like wh1 wh2 wh3 and wh1 wh3 wh2 are nearly equal in acceptability,
as (46), repeated as (86), shows.
Wh1 wh2 wh3 and wh1 wh3 wh2 both acceptable (Bulgarian)
(86) a. Koj
who
na
to
kogo
whom
kakvo
what
dade?
gave
`Who gave what to whom?'
b. ?Koj kakvo na kogo dade?
Demonstration of ``AC tax''
(87) a. Before wh-movement
Cm-spec [koj dade na kogo kakvo]
b. Step 1
Cm-spec attracts the wh-feature of koj (wh1), pays ``AC tax.''
koj C [ dade na kogo kakvo]
c. Step 2
Cm-spec attracts either of the remaining wh-phrases, since ``AC
tax'' has been paid. Wh-phrase tucks in under koj.
koj kakvo C [ dade na kogo ]
d. Step 3
Cm-spec attracts the other wh-phrase, which tucks in under kakvo.
koj kakvo na kogo C [ dade ]
This e¨ect, if I have understood it correctly, provides a way of telling
whether an instance of overt wh-movement in an English multiple ques-
tion is the ®rst or the second instance in its clause. If overt wh-movement
in English has been preceded by another type of wh-movement, it should
show no e¨ects of AC, since the earlier instance of wh-movement has
already paid an ``AC tax.'' On the other hand, if the overt wh-movement
in a particular multiple question is the ®rst instance of wh-movement, it
should show the e¨ects of AC.
Consider in particular a question with three wh-phrases: wh1, wh2, and
wh3. By the multiple-speci®er requirement, we know that at least two of
them must undergo phrasal movement. As a factual matter, we know that
questions with three wh-phrases may appear to violate Superiority. Con-
sider such a case. By hypothesis, wh1 does not undergo phrasal movement
at all, but wh2 and wh3 do. The question is, which one undergoes phrasal
movement ®rst?
If we suppose that apparent Superiority violations are allowed because
wh1 can be marked as ``invisible'' to movement, then what we hear as
48 Chapter 4
overt wh-movement is the ®rst instance of wh-movement in its clause. This
instance of movement would have to involve wh2, because wh2 is the
closest attractable wh-phrase. (If wh2 were marked as ``invisible,'' the ®rst
instance of wh-movement would involve wh3, but the structure would be
®ltered out by the multiple-speci®er requirement.) Consequently, appar-
ent Superiority violations in questions with three wh-phrases would need
to show wh2 overtly moved and wh3 remaining in situ. On the other hand,
if apparent Superiority violations arise simply because wh1 may undergo
wh-feature movement, then this instance of feature movement is expected
to pay the ``AC tax'' for its multiple question. The next instance of wh-
movement must be phrasal, or else the multiple-speci®er requirement
would not be satis®ed in the end. This instance of wh-movement will
also be overt. But because the ``AC tax'' has already been paid, we expect
both wh2 and wh3 to be possible candidates for the overt instance of
wh-movement.
The facts support the feature movement proposal. In ternary questions
with wh1-in-situ, either wh2 or wh3 may undergo overt wh-movement. The
only interfering factor is a slight dispreference for sequences of identical
wh-phrases in these structures. This factor degrades sequences like who did
who . . . As the pair of paradigms (88)±(89) show, this dispreference
crosscuts the e¨ect under investigation. In (88) it favors overt movement
of wh2, but in (89) it favors overt movement of wh3.55
Wh1 wh2 wh3 and wh1 wh3 wh2 both acceptable (English)
(88) a. Who gave what to whom? [wh1 moves overtly]
b. What did who give to whom? [wh2 moves overtly]
c. ?Who did who give what to ? [wh3 moves overtly]
(89) a. Who persuaded whom to buy what? [wh1 moves
overtly]
b. ?Who did who persuade to buy what? [wh2 moves
overtly]
c. What did who persuade whom to buy ? [wh3 moves
overtly]
The derivation of (89c) proceeds as follows:
Derivation of (89c)
(90) a. Before wh-movement
Cm-spec [who persuaded whom to buy what]
What Does Happen to Wh-in-Situ? 49
b. Step 1
C attracts the wh-feature of who (wh1), pays ``AC tax'' (PMC).
Fi-C [Fi-who persuaded whom to buy what]
c. Step 2
C attracts either of the remaining wh-phrases, since the PMC no
longer requires obedience to AC.
what Fi-C [Fi-who persuaded whom to buy ]
d. Step 3
C attracts the other wh-phrase.
what whom Fi-C [Fi-who persuaded to buy ]
e. Pronounced result
What did who persuade whom to buy?
The free choice of which wh-phrase moves overtly in ternary questions
with wh1-in-situ is thus essentially the same fact as the free choice of
which wh-phrase moves second in Bulgarian overt phrasal movement. (In
addition, (84) has already displayed an example in Bulgarian of the deri-
vation now being considered in EnglishÐan example in which the ®rst
instance of wh-movement is feature movement in a Bulgarian multiple
question.) We thus have support for the hypothesis that in apparent
Superiority violations in English, the ®rst instance of wh-movement is
actually feature movementÐspeci®cally, feature movement that satis®es
AC.56 Thus, apparent exceptions to the Superiority e¨ect, when examined
more closely, are really not exceptions at all.
This evidence also bears on an issue I have not discussed so far. I posed
the problem of explaining apparent violations of AC. My proposal has
the interesting consequence that these violations are merely apparent. AC
is being satis®ed by an instance of wh-movement that had not previously
been postulated. (The alternative involving ``invisibility'' also had this
property.) I might have chosen to consider another possibility: that
apparent violations of AC really do violate this constraint. One approach
of this kind might use the logic of Optimality Theory (OT; Prince and
Smolensky 1993), in which certain constraints on linguistic form can be
violated when this is the only way to satisfy other, more highly valued
(highly ranked) constraints. If the apparent Superiority violations dis-
cussed here were actual AC violations, one would not expect to discover
the evidence I have presented that these violations are merely apparent.57
In particular, one would be surprised to see AC violated in ternary ques-
tions, with no apparent pressure on output forms to minimize this viola-
50 Chapter 4
tion by preferring overt movement of the second closest wh-phrase in
cases where the ®rst closest cannot (for some reason) move. Consequently,
this set of apparent violations does not provide support for the view that
constraints on movement are ranked and violable in an OT fashion.
This observation is of interest, since proposals that tend in the opposite
direction (for di¨erent sets of data) have been advanced in a number of
studies, including Grimshaw 1997 and many papers in Barbosa et al.
1998. In Pesetsky 1997, 1998, I suggested that those OT interactions that
are visible in syntactic phenomena actually re¯ect the way in which pho-
nology interprets syntax (e.g., via the pronunciation principles discussed
earlier), and I speculated that principles governing movement might not
be ranked and violable in an OT fashion. My current proposal about
apparent Superiority violations removes a case that might have seemed to
support the opposing view.58 As far as I can tell, except for the e¨ects of
the PMC, AC is inviolable. In addition, I can draw a methodological
moral: exceptions and violations are not necessarily what they appear to
be. More takes place in syntax than meets the ear.59
4.5 Interim Summary
The central argument for my proposal concerning feature movement
comes from the fact that the peculiarities of English multiple questions
turn out to faithfully reproduce the peculiarities of Bulgarian multiple
questions if the feature movement proposal is assumed. The only di¨er-
ence we must posit between Bulgarian and English multiple questions
concerns the pronunciation of wh-phrase movement structures (i.e., how
many instances of wh-phrase movement to a given Cm-spec are overt; see
(56)±(57)). Otherwise, the syntax of multiple questions is identical in the
two languages. I am now in a position to summarize this result. (Relevant
example numbers are given after each comment.)
The multiple-speci®er requirement of Cm-spec
In a non-D-linked question, at least two wh-phrases must be attracted by
Cm-spec.
Bulgarian: In a non-D-linked binary question, at least two wh-phrases
move overtly. This is clear from the distribution of overt wh-fronting.
(35), (40), (41)
English: In a non-D-linked binary question, wh-feature movement is not
an option for either wh-phrase. This cannot be viewed directly (though
What Does Happen to Wh-in-Situ? 51
ACD shows that the in-situ wh may undergo covert wh-phrase
movement), but it is crucial to the distribution of Superiority e¨ects, as
indicated in what follows.
The Superiority e¨ect
In a non-D-linked binary question, where the multiple-speci®er
requirement forces both wh-phrases to undergo wh-phrase movement,
wh1 moves ®rst.
Bulgarian: In a non-D-linked binary question, both wh-phrases are
overtly fronted and wh1 is leftmost (given the ``tucking in'' property
enforced by Shortest Move). (43)±(44), (83)
English: In a non-D-linked binary question, one wh-phrase is overtly
fronted; the other is covertly fronted. Wh1 is the overtly fronted wh.
(26)±(27)
The D-linked exception to the multiple-speci®er requirement
In a D-linked question, there is no requirement that at least two wh-
phrases must be attracted by Cm-spec. This means that wh1 might
undergo feature movement.
Bulgarian: In a D-linked question, it is not necessary that at least two
wh-phrases move overtly. (80)
English: In a D-linked binary question, wh-feature movement is an
option for either wh-phrase. (76)
The absence of Superiority e¨ects in questions with D-linking
Bulgarian: In a D-linked question, wh1 may remain in situ. (81)
English: In a D-linked binary question, wh1 may remain in situ.
(31)±(32) [ACD shows that it does not undergo covert phrasal
movement. (60)±(61)]
The absence of Superiority e¨ects with nonbinary questions
When a multiple question contains more than two wh-phrases, wh1 may
undergo wh-feature movement, so long as at least two wh-phrases
undergo wh-phrase movement.
Bulgarian: In a ternary question, wh1 may be pronounced in situ.
(83)±(84)
English: In a ternary question, wh1 may be pronounced in situ. (33)/(82)
The PMC and AC
Once a ®rst instance of wh-movement to a given C has obeyed AC,
subsequent instances need not obey AC.
52 Chapter 4
Bulgarian: In a ternary question, in which wh1 has moved overtly and is
the leftmost moved wh-phrase, the order of subsequent wh-phrases is
free. (46)±(48) [Also: when wh1 undergoes feature movement and is
pronounced in situ, the choice of leftmost overtly moved wh is free. (84)]
English: When wh1 undergoes feature movement and is pronounced in
situ, the choice of overtly moved wh is free. (88)±(89)
The next two sections take up (inconclusively) some loose ends. In
particular, I want to examine a few possible competitors to the ``feature
movement'' hypothesis, in part to note their advantages and disadvan-
tages, but most important, to show that my overall account is compatible
with a variety of hypotheses concerning the true nature of what I have
been calling ``feature movement.'' I then move on to a deeper discussion
of the speci®er potential of interrogative complementizers.
4.6 Is ``Feature Movement'' Really Feature Movement?
One possible competitor to the ``feature movement'' hypothesis is relevant
to an issue left open in the discussion so far: the choice between phrasal
and feature movement in a derivation. Consider what happens when
Cm-spec has been introduced into a structure and proceeds to attract
instances of the wh-feature to it. I have suggested that this attraction may
proceed in either of two ways: either the feature itself is attracted from an
expression that bears it, or the largest phrase that bears the feature is
copied as a speci®er of Cm-spec. I have also noted that certain properties of
the attractorÐproperties external to the laws of movementÐdictate
which type of attraction occurs in a particular case. External properties
include the fact that Cm-spec requires two speci®ers and the fact that C1-spec
requires one, facts I will explore in greater detail in the next chapter.
Are there other, more general preferences for one type of movement
over the other, rooted in the laws of movement, in addition to ``external''
®lters that may require phrasal movement in certain circumstances? As
noted earlier, Chomsky (1995) answers this question in the a½rmative. He
suggests that attraction of the smallest possible unitÐthe feature itselfÐis
a more economical operation than attraction of any larger unit. The basis
for Chomsky's particular claim is the idea that feature movement is the
proper reanalysis of covert phrasal movementÐcoupled with the claim
(inherited from earlier work) that covert movement is the default. I have
argued throughout this book against the ®rst of these claims. As noted
What Does Happen to Wh-in-Situ? 53
earlier, it is not clear whether there is any particular reason to hold to the
second claim, though it can certainly be modi®ed to be consistent with the
present discussion.
Still, it is worth mentioning variant proposals that might be equally
appealing in other ways. For example, consider the observation that
words and phrases bear grammatical features by virtue of their introduc-
tion as a subconstituent of these words and phrases. In the case of English
wh-words, it is not implausible to imagine that the wh-feature is intro-
duced by means of the wh-morpheme /hw
/ with which these words begin.
(The fact that two English ``wh-words'' actually begin with pronounced
/h/ is plausibly a re¯ex of the phonological processes mentioned below.)
In several cases the morpheme that follows /hw
/ also appears in a de-
monstrative whose initial morpheme is /D/.60
The English wh-morpheme
(91) hw
Lt `what'
hw
en `when'
hw
eyr `where'
hw
ay `why'
hw
ic
Ï `which'
hw
aw `how'
hw
`who'
(many speakers lose aspiration)
"
"
"
"
(with dissimilative loss of rounding;
cf. the absence of /kw
aw . . ./)61
(with the rounding feature appearing
on epenthetic vowel)
cf. that
cf. then
cf. there
The morpheme /hw
/ is cognate with /k/ in Bulgarian and other Slavic
languages. Slavic wh-morpheme /k/ alternates rather regularly with de-
monstrative /s/, much as English /hw
/ alternates with demonstrative
/D/. Other, unrelated languagesÐfor example, JapaneseÐshow similar
patterns.
The Japanese wh-morpheme
(92) dore `which one'
dono `which'
dotira `whither'
doo `how'
dare `who'
cf. kore `this one'
cf. kono `this'
cf. kotira `this direction'
cf. koo `this manner'
cf. kare `he'
sore
sono
sotira
soo
Ð
are `that one'62
ano `that'
atira `that direction'
Ð `that manner'
Ð
If the ``wh''-morpheme in languages like English, Bulgarian, and Japa-
nese has no grammatical properties besides its role as the bearer of the
wh-feature, wh-feature movement might simply be the attraction of this
morpheme from inside the word that contains it (see Watanabe's (1992)
54 Chapter 4
and Tsai's (1994) proposals along similar lines). One might ask whether
other instances of ``feature movement'' might be better viewed as ``mor-
pheme movement''Ðthough obvious questions arise where a phonologi-
cally distinct morpheme cannot be identi®ed (e.g., nominative Case in
English). If this proposal is correct, then feature movement is simply the
copying of a morphosyntactic constituent, just like more familiar exam-
ples of movement.63 When wh-feature movement takes place from a
phrase like which book or who, it is the wh-morpheme that is being copied
to C (perhaps adjoining to it). The movement is covert in that the mor-
pheme remains pronounced in its original position. This may simply re¯ect
its status as a bound morpheme. If this view is correct, then ``feature
movement'' is movement of the smallest unit that bears the feature in
question.64
AC raises some obvious questions if ``feature movement'' is morpheme
movement. The wh-feature present in wh-words is also present in larger
``wh-phrases'' that contain these words, at least insofar as attraction of wh
may attract a phrase containing the morphemeÐthe ``phrasal move-
ment'' I have discussed throughout.65 Crucially, it is the distance from
Cm-spec to the maximal wh-phraseÐnot the distance from Cm-spec to the
wh-morphemeÐthat counts for the calculation of ``closeness'' relevant to
AC, even when the maximal phrase, rather than the minimal unit, is
copied.
Closeness
(93) A feature b is closer to K than a i¨ K c-commands an occurrence
of b, and b asymmetrically c-commands an occurrence of a.
Phrasal movement can now be seen as copying the closest bearer of the
relevant feature. Feature movement, by contrast, can now be seen as
copying the smallest bearer of a feature. As suggested by Norvin Richards
in work in progress, and as mentioned earlier in this book, both con-
ditionsÐcloseness and smallnessÐ®t the spirit of ``economy.'' Either is a
plausible candidate for a genuine principle of grammar. Quite possibly,
movement is possible if it meets either one.66 Putting the matter in pro-
cedural terms, the target scans down the tree for the closest occurrence of
the feature it attracts. When it ®nds an occurrence on a constituent, it has
a choice: it either copies that constituent or copies the smallest subcon-
stituent that contains the feature. Excluded is copying of an intermediate
constituent that bears the relevant feature, since it is neither the closest
nor the smallest expression of the relevant feature.
What Does Happen to Wh-in-Situ? 55
It is entirely possible, of course, that other considerations will come to
light that restrict the choice between feature (morpheme) movement and
phrasal movement. For example, feature movement for Case purposes
may be intrinsically preferred over phrasal movement. I was able to dem-
onstrate the properties of feature movement successfully with the there
construction in part because (evidently) covert phrasal movement to T
is impossible in this construction. In discussing ACD in multiple ques-
tions, I showed that covert phrasal movement to a VP-external objective
Case position is impossible. (Overt phrasal movement to subject position
is the consequence of other considerations, often grouped under the rubric
``Extended Projection Principle.'') Conceivably, these two observations
reveal that preferences for feature movement over phrasal movement exist.
The question would be whether this preference is limited to movement for
Case purposes, or whether the preference is more general, in the spirit of
Chomsky's (1995) proposals. For now I take these to be open questions.
4.7 Is ``Feature Movement'' Really Feature Movement?
Another open question concerns island e¨ects. When I ®rst introduced
Richards's (1997) Principle of Minimal Compliance, I mentioned his ob-
servations concerning its with island constraints on wh-movement. If the
®rst instance of wh-movement in a Bulgarian multiple question satis®es
Subjacency, the Subjacency e¨ect weakens or disappears for subsequent
instances of wh-movement. The ®rst instance of movement pays a ``Sub-
jacency tax'' valid for the subsequent instances of movement. I repeat
the relevant example, (52).
PMC improves Subjacency violations
(94) a. *Koja
which
kniga
book
otrec
Ïe
denied
senatora
Æt
the-senator
[ma
Ælvata
the-rumor
c
Ïe
that
iska
wanted
da
to
zabrani ]?
ban
`Which book did the senator deny the rumor that he wanted to ban?'
b. ?Koj senator koja kniga otrec
Ïe [ma
Ælvata c
Ïe iska da zabrani ]?
1 2
5 5
which senator which book denied the-rumor that wanted to ban
`Which senator denied the rumor that he wanted to ban which book?'
The subsequent discussion of wh-feature movement raises the question of
whether wh-feature movement, like overt phrasal movement in Bulgarian,
pays a ``Subjacency tax,'' just as it pays an ``AC tax.'' The answer seems
to be that it does not.
56 Chapter 4
Wh-feature movement does not pay a ``Subjacency tax''
(95) a. ??Which book did the senator deny the rumor that he wanted to
ban?
b. ??Which book did which senator deny the rumor that he wanted
to ban?
(96) a. *What would you be upset if the reporter revealed about
whom?
b. *What would who be upset if the reporter revealed about
whom?
(97) a. *What do you want to applaud the person that gave to
whom?
b. *What does who want to applaud the person that gave to
whom?
One can imagine a number of reasons why wh-feature movement, in
contrast to phrasal movement, might not pay a ``Subjacency tax.'' For
example: wh-feature movement is covert, in that pronunciation continues
to target the wh-morpheme in its lower, original position. Quite generally,
island violations do not cause deviance when the trace position receives a
pronunciation. (This is how Perlmutter (1972) explained the ameliorating
e¨ect of resumptive pronouns; also see Pesetsky 1997, 1998.) Conceiv-
ably, movement that fails to ``leave a gap'' does not pay a ``Subjacency
tax'' because it does not trigger the Subjacency e¨ect. Likewise, if feature
movement is really morpheme movement, its covert status may explain
the absence of a Subjacency e¨ect and the absence of ``Subjacency tax''
paying.
Another possibility is suggested by the research of Ochi (1998), devel-
oping earlier ideas by Takahashi (1994). Recall from section 1.1 that
Chomsky (1995) decomposes phrasal movement into two distinct oper-
ations: Attract F (feature attraction) and ``generalized pied-piping''
(which forces the copying of phrasal material). Ochi (1998) argues that it
is the ``generalized pied-piping'' component of phrasal movement that is
responsible for many of the island e¨ects often grouped under the rubric
of the Subjacency Condition. He suggests that these island e¨ects arise
from a con¯ict between a requirement that generalized pied-piping copy a
phrase to the closest possible landing site and other requirements that
prevent movement from targeting these very positions. As Ochi points
out, this proposal entails that pure feature movement should not show
these island e¨ects at allÐto which I would now add that pure feature
What Does Happen to Wh-in-Situ? 57
movement should also not pay any ``tax'' that allows later instances of
phrasal movement to escape these island e¨ects.67
As a ®nal possibility, we might take the contrast between (94) and (95)±
(97) as a sign of a deeper inaccuracy in the picture painted so far. Phrasal
movement obeys both AC and Subjacency, whereas what I have called
``feature movement'' obeys only AC. The fact that phrasal movement
obeys a superset of the conditions on ``feature movement'' might indicate
that what I have been calling ``feature movement,'' though it might be a
subcomponent of movement, is something quite di¨erent from the oper-
ations traditionally called ``movement.'' This is, in fact, the proposal
advanced by Chomsky (1998). He suggests that phenomena he previously
identi®ed (Chomsky 1995) as instances of feature movement are actually
the result of a simpler operation called Agree. Agree merely establishes a
link between an attracting head and the features that it seeks, without the
copying operation characteristic of movement. Movement itself is simply
Agree plus this copying.68
To keep the discussion as clear and simple as possible, I will not explore
further the consequences of choosing one or another variant of the feature
movement proposal. What seems evident is this: there is an operation O
that has certain manifest properties:
How O is like phrasal movement
1. O is feature-driven.
2. O obeys AC.
3. O interacts with phrasal movement for the purposes of the PMC as
applied to AC.
How O is unlike phrasal movement
1. O does not copy and delete phrases.
2. O does not display Subjacency e¨ects.
3. O does not interact with phrasal movement for the purposes of the
PMC as applied to Subjacency e¨ects.
Other questions about this operation cannot be answered using the facts
at hand.
On the other hand, there is an entirely di¨erent set of facts that rein-
forces the conclusions I have already reached and the particular analysis
of apparent Superiority violations I have presented. By reinforcing my
conclusions with new evidence, I support the proposal I have advancedÐ
incomplete though it may be in certain respects. I turn to this new source
of evidence in the next chapter.
58 Chapter 4
Chapter 5
The Intervention E¨ect and
the Typology of Interrogative
Complementizers
One of the linchpins of my hypothesis has been the idea that multiple
questions are introduced by a complementizer (Cm-spec) that requires wh-
movement to establish a multiple-speci®er con®guration. This property of
Cm-spec helped explain why only binary questions show the Superiority
e¨ect in English. The argument that the multiple-speci®er requirement is
not a deus ex machina came from Bulgarian, where failure to move at
least two wh-phrases in a multiple question produces sharp unaccept-
ability (except in a D-linked environment), a situation that contrasts with
the mild deviance produced when additional wh-phrases are not fronted.
Still, it would be useful to have converging evidence that the number of
speci®ers associated with Cm-spec is relevant to the detection of a Superi-
ority e¨ect.
In this chapter I provide converging evidence of just this sort and in the
process shed light on other aspects of the proposed account. In particular,
I will tie up a loose end from chapter 1. In section 1.3 I noted three situ-
ations in which an otherwise expected Superiority e¨ect is not found. I
have dealt with two of them: English multiple questions with D-linking
and multiple questions with more than two wh-phrases. I have not yet
discussed the third: the case of German, where, as (34) illustrated, even
binary questions fail to display a Superiority e¨ect. More interesting still
is the fact that English and German turn out to ®t into a simple typology
of wh-speci®er interactionsÐof which Japanese exempli®es the one lan-
guage type undiscussed so far (see sections 5.5 and 5.6).
The English data I will discuss are partly original to this book, but are
modeled in crucial ways on German paradigms investigated by Beck
(1996), whose work inspired this chapter. After considering the crucial
English cases, I will turn to Beck's German discoveries.
5.1 The Intervention E¨ect in English Multiple Questions
In chapter 4 I examined several apparent exceptions to the Superiority
e¨ect: acceptable multiple questions with wh1-in-situ. The impossibility of
ACD in wh1 revealed at a minimum that there is something special about
wh1 in such cases. A phenomenon ®rst noted by E
Â . Kiss (1986) and
Hornstein (1995) shows another property of wh1-in-situ that teaches a
similar lesson. In apparent counterexamples to the Superiority e¨ect,
something special happens when a scope-taking element such as negation
intervenes between wh1 and the Cm-spec with which it is associated. For
many speakers, at least as a ®rst reaction, such examples are completely
unacceptable. For other speakers (and perhaps for all speakers when the
possibility is pointed out to them), the examples are acceptable so long as
they receive a ``single-pair'' rather than a pair-list reading.
A representative paradigm is displayed in (98). Examples (98a) and
(98b) are experimental controlsÐnormal multiple questions in which wh1
has undergone overt phrasal movement. Nothing special happens when
negation intervenes between Cm-spec and wh2-in-situ in such cases. Exam-
ple (98c) shows wh1-in-situ (i.e., an apparent Superiority violation). Here,
if I am correct, the ®rst instance of wh-movement is feature movement of
which person. In this example negation has not moved with the auxiliary
verb to C and thus remains lower than wh1-in-situ. Once again, not sur-
prisingly, English speakers note no special e¨ect. Example (98d) is the
example that contrasts crucially. It is identical to (98c), except that the
clitic form of negation moves to Cm-spec with the auxiliary verb. As a
consequence of this movement, negation intervenes between wh1 and
Cm-spec. Example (98d) does produce special judgments.
Intervention e¨ect with not
(98) a. Which person did not read which book?
b. Which person didn't read which book?
c. Which book did which person not read ?
d. *Which book didn't which person read ?
[cf. also Which book did which person read ?]
Though, as the asterisk indicates, many speakers regard (98d) as com-
pletely unacceptable, the marginal acceptability of the single-pair reading
in this and similar examples will be noted by superscripting and under-
scoring the judgment indication. The single-pair reading for (98d) asks for
the name of a single person and a single book, such that the person did
not read the book. For example, suppose you pass a classroom and hear
60 Chapter 5
the teacher yelling. You know that this teacher only yells at the class when
a student has failed to read his or her book for that day. In such a context
(and only in such a context), some speakers accept a question like Which
book didn't which person read today? For the time being I will put aside
the single-pair readings of examples like these and con®ne my presenta-
tion of judgments on multiple questions to the pair-list reading.
Following Hagstrom's (1998) terminology, I will call the type of e¨ect
seen in (98d) an intervention e¨ect. The intervention e¨ect is less sharp
when wh1 is not a subject, but much the same judgment obtains.69
Intervention e¨ect with notÐnonsubjects
(99) a. Which issue should I not discuss with which diplomat?
b. ??
Which diplomat should I not discuss which issue with ?
[cf. Which diplomat should I discuss which issue with ?]
The same judgment can be produced when other negative expressions
and other downward-entailing phrases intervene between wh1 and Cm-spec,
showing that elements other than clausal negation function as interveners.
Intervention e¨ect with no one
(100) a. Which book did no one give to which student?
b. ??
Which student did no one give which book to ?
[cf. Which student did Mary give which book to ?]
Intervention e¨ect with never
(101) a. Which topic did he claim which student would never talk
about ?
b. ??
Which topic did he never claim which student would talk
about ?
[cf. Which student did he never claim would talk about
which topic?]
Intervention e¨ect with very few
(102) a. Which picture did very few children want to show to
which teacher?
b. ??
Which teacher did very few children want to show which
picture to ?
[cf. Which teacher did she want to show which picture to ?]
Intervention e¨ect with only
(103) a. Which girl did only Mary introduce to which boy?
b. ??
Which boy did only Mary introduce which girl to ?
[cf. Which girl did only Mary introduce to which boy?]
Intervention E¨ect and Interrogative Complementizers 61
The intervention e¨ect is not a property of ``overt syntax''; instead, it
cares about the scope (LF position) of the intervener. For example, in
(104), which should be compared with (103), the acceptability of the pair-
list reading reemerges so long as only Mary receives matrix scope. Some
degree of focus stress on only Mary facilitates this reading.
Intervention e¨ect disappears with wide scope of only
(104) Sue asked which boy only Mary introduced which girl to .
[i.e., Mary is the only person such that Sue asked which boy this
person introduced which girl to]
Although downward-entailing elements produce the most easily de-
tected intervention e¨ects, it seems that other quanti®ers produce a
similar e¨ect.70 Consider, for example, a nonmultiple question with a
universal quanti®er, such as (105).
Wh-quanti®er scope ambiguity
(105) Which newspaper did everyone write to about this book?
This type of question displays a well-known ambiguity (Engdahl 1980;
May 1985) between a pair-list or distributive reading (for which a well-
formed answer provides a list of people paired with the newspapers they
wrote to) and a single-answer reading (which asks for the name of a single
newspaper such that everyone wrote to it).71 Although controversies
abound concerning the syntax and semantics of the distributive reading
(see, e.g., Chierchia 1993), one common and plausible conjecture derives
the distributive reading from an LF representation in which the universal
quanti®er takes wide scope over the wh-expression. If we imagine that
wide scope for everyone results from movement to a position above which
newspaper (CP-adjunction, perhaps), the LF representation for the dis-
tributive reading of (105) is approximately (106).
LF representation for the distributive reading of (105)
(106) everyonex [which newspapery C1-spec x write to y about this book]
The ambiguity survives in multiple-wh questions like (107).
Wh-quanti®er scope ambiguity in questions with overt movement
(107) Which newspaper did everyone write to about which book?
[ambiguous]
On a wide-scope reading for everyone, (107) asks for triplet answers that,
for each person picked out by everyone, give the newspaper and the book
62 Chapter 5
such that that person wrote to the newspaper about the book. That is, a
possible answering pattern might be (108).
Wide-scope answering pattern
(108) Bill wrote to the New York Times about book X, Mary wrote to
the Boston Globe about book Y, and Tom wrote to the Maquoketa
Sentinel about book Z.
On a narrow-scope reading for everyone, (107) asks for pair-list answers
of the form exempli®ed by (109).
Narrow-scope answering pattern
(109) Everyone wrote to the New York Times about book X, everyone
wrote to the Boston Globe about book Y, and everyone wrote to
the Maquoketa Sentinel about book Z.
Given the ambiguity of (107), the nonambiguity of (110) is striking.
Intervention e¨ect disappears with wide scope of every
(110) Which book did everyone write to which newspaper about ?
[unambiguous]
This example is the same as (107), except that wh2 has undergone overt
phrasal movement instead of wh1. Consequently, everyone intervenes
between wh1 and Cm-spec. If all things were equal, (110) might be expected
to allow the same two answering patterns as (107). Though it takes some
work to see, I believe that (110) lacks the reading that would yield the
narrow-scope answering pattern in (109). Unless the two wh-phrases are
accorded a single-pair reading, a question like (110) can only be asked in
expectation of an answer like (108). A single-pair reading for the two wh-
phrases is also available in (110)Ðthat is, a reading that invites a simple
answer like Everyone wrote to the New York Times about book X. This is
not surprising, since the intervention e¨ect is not found with single-pair
readings.72 This fact seems to reinforce the observation that the inter-
vention e¨ect is a constraint on LF that examines the scope position of
the intervener.
This conclusion is supported by other, related tests. An expression like
clausal negation whose scope is ®xed at roughly its surface position pro-
duces the unacceptability already noted when it intervenes between wh1-
in-situ and Cm-spec. There are also certain types of expressions that do
allow LF scope wider than surface scope that still do not allow scope
wider than wh within the con®nes of a question. Such expressions, as
predicted, also produce unacceptability rather than disambiguation when
Intervention E¨ect and Interrogative Complementizers 63
inserted between wh1-in-situ and Cm-spec. These expressions include no one
and only NP, which I have already examined, as well as almost every NP
(e.g., almost everyone), which contrasts minimally with everyone.73
Assigning wide scope to these expressions at the outer boundary of a
question seems to be impossible. This scope assignment may run afoul of
something like (111), with the consequences documented in (112).74
Unaskable questions
(111) A clause interpreted as a question may not request anything less
than a full answer.
Examples of unaskable questions
(112) a. Which newspaper did almost everyone write to about this
book? [cannot be used to express the following request for
information: ``Give me an almost complete list of people paired
with the newspapers they wrote to about this book.'']
b. Which book did no one give to John? [cannot be used to
express the following request for information: ``Don't tell me
which book anyone gave to John.'']75
c. Which teacher did very few children want to visit ?
[cannot be used to express the following request for information:
``There are a number of children who wanted to visit a variety
of teachers. Answer the question `What teacher did he/she want
to visit?' for a very small number of these children (and don't
bother providing the rest of the answers).'']
d. Which girl did only Mary introduce to John? [cannot be
used to express the following request for information: ``I know
that several people introduced girls to John. Tell me which girl
Mary introduced to him, but don't tell me which girls other
people introduced to him.'']
Since the only way around the intervention e¨ect in examples like (100b)
and (103b) involves wide scope for the intervener that violates (111), the
examples cannot be saved. The same explanation accounts for the contrast
between (110) with every and a comparable example with almost every.
Intervention e¨ect with almost every
(113) ??
Which book did almost everyone write to which newspaper
about ?
As predicted, it is di½cult or impossible to understand (113) as any sort of
pair-list multiple question. To the extent that it is acceptable at all, it is
64 Chapter 5
only a request for a single-pair answer (e.g., Almost everyone wrote to this
newspaper about that book).
Quanti®er ¯oat provides a similar demonstration. Floated quanti®ers
are restricted in scope to their surface position. For example, whereas
(114a) has a reading in which each student has wider scope than at least
one teacher, (114b) does not.
Frozen scope with quanti®er ¯oat
(114) a. At least one teacher made each student sing the national
anthem.
b. At least one teacher made the students each sing the national
anthem.
The same observation holds for the relative scope of each and wh.
Whereas (115a) may be a request for an answer that provides adult-kid-
book triplets, (115b) is at best a request for adult-book pairs, such that
each kid in the group will persuade the adult to read the book.76
Frozen scope with quanti®er ¯oat in multiple questions
(115) a. Tell me which adult each kid will try to persuade to read
which book.
b. Tell me which adult the kids will each try to persuade to
read which book.
If we now alter these examples by overtly fronting wh2 (which book) rather
than wh1, the impossibility of wide scope when each is ¯oated should
produce an intervention e¨ect from which the only (marginal) escape is
the single-pair reading. This seems correct.
Intervention e¨ect with quanti®er ¯oat
(116) a. Tell me which book each kid will try to persuade which adult
to read .
b. ??
Tell me which book the kids will each try to persuade which
adult to read .
The paradigms I have discussed so far seem to support the following
(interim) characterization of the intervention e¨ect as it shows up in
English:
Intervention e¨ect in English
(117) A scope-bearing element (especially quanti®ers and negation) may
not intervene at LF between wh1-in-situ and the Cm-spec with
which it is associated.
Intervention E¨ect and Interrogative Complementizers 65
The data presented to support this characterization come from instances
of wh1-in-situ in binary questions with D-linking. Our other case of wh1-
in-situÐquestions with more than two wh-phrasesÐappears to show the
same pattern of intervention e¨ects. This is particularly evident when
negation is the intervener. Taking as baseline a triple-wh question without
negation, but with wh1-in-situ, we can easily see that negation intervening
between wh1 and Cm-spec (as in (118b) and (119b)) has an e¨ect not found
when negation is lower than wh1(as in (118a) and (119a)). The e¨ect is the
familiar one: the example is either unacceptable or else acceptable with
only a single-pair reading.
Intervention e¨ect with not in nonbinary, non-D-linked multiple questions
(118) Baseline: What did who give to whom?
a. What did who not give to whom?
b. *What didn't who give to whom?
(119) Baseline: What did Bill persuade who to give to whom?
a. What did Bill persuade who not to give to whom?
b. ??
What did Bill not persuade who to give to whom?
The other interveners discussed above seem to behave similarly. Because
questions that include three wh-phrases plus a quanti®er are complex,
judgments on these examples do not come easily. Thoughtful consider-
ation is necessary.
Intervention e¨ect with no one in nonbinary, non-D-linked multiple
questions
(120) a. What did who say no one gave to whom?
b. ??
What did no one say who gave to whom?
Intervention e¨ect with never in nonbinary, non-D-linked multiple
questions
(121) a. What did he claim who would never talk about with
whom?
b. ??
What topic did he never claim who would talk about
with whom?
Intervention e¨ect with very few in nonbinary, non-D-linked multiple
questions
(122) a. Who did very few people persuade to give what to
whom for Christmas?
b. ??
What did very few people persuade who to give to
whom for Christmas?
66 Chapter 5
Intervention e¨ect with only in nonbinary, non-D-linked multiple questions
(123) a. What did who persuade only Mary to buy where?
b. ??
What did only Mary persuade whom to buy where?
5.2 The Intervention E¨ect in German Separation Constructions
The intervention e¨ect in English is particularly interesting because it
singles out wh1-in-situ. As (118a) and (119a) show, no intervention e¨ect
is observed with other wh-phrasesÐeven in questions that display wh1-
in-situ. Since we do not know for sure whether there is an overall prefer-
ence for phrasal movement or for feature movement, the one English
wh-phrase that we can be certain has undergone feature movement is
wh1-in-situ in apparent counterexamples to Superiority. Consequently, it is
tempting to see the intervention e¨ect as a diagnostic for some property
that distinguishes wh-feature movement from phrasal wh-movement of
the sort we have been examining.77
One property that distinguishes wh-feature movement from wh-phrase
movement in English is the fact that feature movement leaves the restric-
tion on wh-quanti®cation inside the clause, whereas phrasal movement
typically pied-pipes the restriction with the wh-phrase. It could be that
``separation'' of the sort seen in wh-feature movement is the cause of the
intervention e¨ect.78
Intervention e¨ect (universal characterization)
(124) A semantic restriction on a quanti®er (including wh) may not be
separated from that quanti®er by a scope-bearing element.
German provides interesting support for this viewÐsupport that will
ultimately provide evidence for several aspects of my overall account. My
discussion of German is a reworking of data and discussion from Beck
1996. I have added to Beck's paradigms in several cases and have trun-
cated the presentation of data in others, but my debt to her work should
be clear throughout. I will not take a stand on the question of why a
constraint like (124) should hold, instead limiting my discussion to the
truth of the generalization itself and its role in supporting the proposals
about wh-movement presented here. For a view of intervention e¨ects
quite similar to (124), and a possible account, see Honcoop 1998, esp. 19,
81¨.
German displays several constructions in which phrasal wh-movement
raises a portion of an argument phrase overtly, leaving the remainder
Intervention E¨ect and Interrogative Complementizers 67
behind in the clause. We can call this family of constructions separation.
Among the phrases that can separate in this manner are phrases of
the form ``wh-word ‡ partitive-PP,'' ``wh-word ‡ adjective,'' and ``wh-
word ‡ all.'' I will leave open the exact nature of wh-separation. It might
involve an internal structure for the phrases in question that simply per-
mits a subconstituent to count as a wh-phrase and extract accordingly.
Alternatively, it might involve scrambling of an expression that is to be
stranded out of its wh-phrase, with phrasal wh-movement of the remnant.
Either way, it is a construction that strandsÐinside its clauseÐmaterial
belonging to the restriction of a wh-phrase. Strikingly, the construction is
subject to the intervention e¨ect, as the paradigms in (125)±(126) make
clear.
Who ‡ among DP
(125) a. No separation, no intervener
[Wen
whom
von
of
den
the
Musikern]
musicians
hat
has
Hans
Hans
getro¨en?
met
`Who among the musicians has Hans met?'
b. Separation, no intervener
Wen hat Hans [ von den Musikern] getro¨en?
c. No separation, intervener
[Wen
whom
von
of
den
the
Musikern]
musicians
hat
has
keine
no
Studentin
student
getro¨en?
met
`Who among the musicians has no student met?'
d. Separation, intervener
??
Wen hat keine Studentin [ von den Musikern] getro¨en?
Who ‡ all
(126) a. No separation, no intervener
[Wen
whom
alles]
all
hat
has
Hans
Hans
gesehen?
seen
`Who all did Hans see?'
b. Separation, no intervener
Wen hat Hans [ alles] gesehen?
c. No separation, intervener
[Wen
whom
alles]
all
hat
has
niemand
no-one
gesehen?
seen
`Who all did no one see?'
d. Separation, intervener
??
Wen hat niemand [ alles] gesehen?
68 Chapter 5
What ‡ adjective
(127) [no separation impossible, for unknown reasons]
b. Separation, no intervener
Was
what
hat
has
Gretchen
Gretchen
heute [
today
scho
Ènes]
nice
gemacht?
done
`What nice thing did Gretchen do today?'
d. Separation, intervener
??
Was
what
hat
has
niemand
no-one
heute [
today
scho
Ènes]
nice
gemacht?
done
`What nice thing did no one do today?'
Other facets of our discussion of English can be reproduced here as well.
For example, (128) has only a distributive reading.
Distributive reading only
(128) Wen
whom
hat
has
jeder
everyone
alles
all
gesehen?
seen
`Who all did everyone see?'
The common behavior of German separation constructions and English
wh1-in-situ supports my hypotheses nicely.79 If English wh1-in-situ in-
volves feature or morpheme movement (as argued above), it is actually
simply an instance of ``separation'': a piece of the wh-phraseÐin this case
just the wh-morpheme or featureÐmoves to the complementizer, strand-
ing the restriction inside its clause. If we adopt the alternative that posits
an agreement operation in these cases, we still see a separation of the
interrogative C-system from the restriction of a wh-phrase. Consequently,
even if this variant of my views on English wh1-in-situ is correct, these
constructions should share the intervention e¨ect with the more obvious
instances of separation found in German.80
In fact, one dialect of English actually displays a German-like separa-
tion construction that seems to show the intervention e¨ect. As described
by McCloskey (2000), the West Ulster dialect of Irish English shares with
many colloquial registers a series of wh-phrases modi®ed by all: who all,
what all, and so on. The semantic e¨ect of the morpheme all is roughly to
presuppose that the answer will be a plurality. The West Ulster dialect,
unlike others, allows all to be separated from its wh-phrase.
West Ulster what all separation
(129) a. What all did Mary get on her birthday?
b. What did Mary get all on her birthday?
Intervention E¨ect and Interrogative Complementizers 69
When this occurs, an intervention e¨ect seems to arise.81
West Ulster intervention e¨ect with separation
(130) a ??What did Mary not buy all up the town?
b. *What did only Mary get all on her birthday?
c. What did everybody get all on Christmas morning?
[distributive reading only]
d. *What did almost everybody get all on Christmas
morning?
e. *What did very few people get all for Christmas?
The observation must be treated with some caution, since even the
``unseparated'' variants of (130) are felt by speakers to be strange (e.g.,
?What all did Mary not buy up the town?). Nonetheless, the separated
versions are said to be detectably worse.
In any case, if I am right about the unity of the intervention e¨ect in
English multiple questions and German separation constructions, then we
must accept a characterization like (124) instead of the one o¨ered by
Beck (1996). According to Beck, the intervention e¨ect in German sepa-
ration constructions is an island condition on traces formed by covert
phrasal movementÐin particular, a condition on a rule that moves the
restriction to its quanti®er in separation constructions. (A similar for-
mulation is given by Hasegawa (1994), who treats it as an LF-particular
case of the Minimal Link Condition.) In Beck's (1996, 39) formulation,
quanti®er-induced barriers cannot be crossed by traces that are created
solely ``at LF'' (i.e., by covert phrasal movement).
Beck's proposals
(131) a. Quanti®er-induced barrier
The ®rst node that dominates a quanti®er, its restriction, and
its nuclear scope is a quanti®er-induced barrier.
b. Minimal Quanti®ed Structure Constraint
If an LF trace b is dominated by a quanti®er-induced barrier,
a, then the binder of b must also be dominated by a.
The earlier discussion of ACD revealed that the stranded material in
English wh-feature movement does not undergo covert phrasal movement
of any sort. Consequently, if the intervention e¨ect in German separation
constructions is the same phenomenon we have examined in English, the
Minimal Quanti®ed Structure Constraint as stated in (131b) is probably
incorrect. Instead, something like (124) must be true.82
70 Chapter 5
5.3 The Intervention E¨ect in German Multiple Questions
If the intervention e¨ect diagnoses the presence of ``restriction material''
stranded within an interrogative clause, it can be used as a probe to dis-
cover instances of feature movement in languages and constructions
where the previous test, ACD, is unavailable. German, for example, lacks
VP-ellipsis and seems to lack other instances of anaphora with the right
set of properties.83 If we use the intervention e¨ect as a probe for feature
movement in German multiple questions, we discover a notable di¨erence
between English and German. I will argue that a partial explanation for
this di¨erence is available, and that this explanation in turn supports the
overall architecture of my proposals.
In German, unlike in English, the intervention e¨ect in multiple ques-
tions is not limited to cases of wh1-in-situ. Instead, no wh-in-situ may be
separated from C by the sorts of elements that produce the intervention
e¨ect.84 (I will not prejudge the nature of the complementizer by calling it
Cm-spec, for reasons that will become clear shortly.) Example (132), for
instance, is a multiple question in which nominative wh1-in-situ has
undergone overt phrasal wh-movement and accusative wh2 has not. When
the dative NP that intervenes between wh2 and its C is an ordinary NP
like dem Karl, the result is fully acceptable. When the intervener is a neg-
ative quanti®er, as in (133b), the result is unacceptable in a quite familiar
way. The result is unacceptable unless (for some speakers) a single-pair
answer is expected.85 That this is an ``intervention'' e¨ect is made clear by
the contrast between (133a) and (133b). These examples di¨er only in that
the accusative wh-phrase appears to the left of the dative in (133a), pre-
sumably as a consequence of scrambling.
Baseline: no intervener, no intervention e¨ect
(132) Welche Kinder
which children-nom
haben
have
dem Karl
the Karl-dat
welche Bilder
which pictures-acc
zeigen
show
wollen?
wanted
`Which children wanted to show Karl which pictures?'
Intervention e¨ect (German) with no one
(133)
a. Welche Kinder
which children-nom
haben
have
welche Bilder
which pictures-acc
niemandem
no-one-dat
zeigen
show
wollen?
wanted
[scrambling of acc]
`Which children wanted to show nobody which pictures?'
b. ??
Welche Kinder haben niemandem welche Bilder zeigen wollen?
The set of interveners that produce the e¨ect appears to be the set now
familiar to us. Although I have not displayed the relevant examples,
Intervention E¨ect and Interrogative Complementizers 71
scrambling the accusative wh2 over the dative NP eliminates the interven-
tion e¨ect. Examples (134)±(135) display downward-entailing interveners.
Intervention e¨ect (German) with very few
(134) ??
Welche Kinder
which children-nom
haben
have
sehr wenigen Lehrern
very few teachers-dat
welche Bilder
which pictures-acc
zeigen
show
wollen?
wanted
`Which children wanted to show very few teachers which pictures?'
Intervention e¨ect (German) with only
(135) ??
Wer
who-nom
hat
has
nur
only
dem Karl
the Karl-dat
welche Bu
Ècher
which books-acc
gegeben?
given
`Who gave only Karl which books?'
Intervention by jeder `everyone' is possible, so long as jeder is assigned
wide scope.
Intervention e¨ect (German) with everyone
(136) Wen
whom
hat
has
jeder
everyone
wo
where
gesehen?
seen
(wide scope for jeder
`everyone' or single-pair
narrow scope; otherwise
``??
'')
`Who did everyone see where?'
Since wide scope is impossible for fast jeder `almost everyone', there is no
reading (except perhaps the single-pair reading) that bypasses the inter-
vention e¨ect.
Intervention e¨ect (German) with almost everyone
(137) ??
Wen
whom
hat
has
fast
almost
jeder
everyone
wo
where
gesehen?
seen
`Who did almost everyone see where?'
The question to be answered here concerns the stark di¨erence in the
types of wh-in-situ subject to the e¨ect. Why is only wh1-in-situ subject to
the e¨ect in English, whereas all wh-in-situ are subject to it in German? If
I am right about the character of the intervention e¨ect, the answer must
be this:
Movement in German multiple questions
(138) In a German multiple question, all wh-in-situ undergo wh-feature
movement.
German multiple questions behave like separation constructions because,
in a sense, they are separation constructions.86
What property of German is responsible for (138)? In particular, what
distinguishes German from Bulgarian and English, which allow multiple
72 Chapter 5
wh-phrase movement? Though one might try to account for this distinc-
tion in a number of ways,87 I will explore the possibility that it arises from
di¨erences in the inventory of complementizers available to the two types
of languages.
If my proposals are correct, multiple questions in English and Bul-
garian boast a special complementizer that I have called Cm-spec. As dis-
cussed, this complementizer has a wh-feature that can and must be deleted
after attracting more than one instance of a corresponding wh-feature to
it, either by means of phrasal movement or by means of feature move-
ment. Cm-spec also has a speci®c syntactic requirement: it must be asso-
ciated with more than one speci®er. This fact was visible in the patterns of
overt wh-phrase movement in Bulgarian exempli®ed earlier, and it formed
an important component of my explanation for the Superiority e¨ect in
English.
Cm-spec obviously di¨ers from the complementizer found in single-
wh questions, since these questions cannot satisfy a multiple-speci®er
requirementÐat least not through wh-movement. For this reason, I have
suggested that single-wh questions are introduced by a complementizer
that requires a single speci®er: C1-spec. The requirements of the two com-
plementizers, ®rst stated in (36) and (38), are repeated here. I omit, for
now, the special case of D-linked questions.
Single-speci®er requirement of C1-spec
(139) C1-spec requires one wh-speci®er.
Multiple-speci®er requirement of Cm-spec
(140) Cm-spec requires more than one wh-speci®er.
Recall that both complementizers are taken to bear an uninterpretable
feature, in something of Chomsky's (1995) sense. It is this feature that
triggers the rule Attract, which leads to wh-movement.
In English and Bulgarian a question is apparently always introduced by
the interrogative complementizer with the greatest ``speci®er potential''
consistent with the instances of the wh-morpheme or feature that it can
attract. Consequently, a question containing only one instance of the wh-
feature is introduced by C1-spec, but a question containing two or more
instances of the wh-feature must be introduced by Cm-spec. Otherwise, we
would not detect the Superiority e¨ect in cases of wh1-in-situ within
binary sentences. As discussed earlier, the D-linking exception is either
an exception to (140) or an exception to the rule of complementizer
choice.
Intervention E¨ect and Interrogative Complementizers 73
Suppose the rule of complementizer choice (informally stated in (141))
is universal.88
Complementizer Choice Rule
(141) Use the complementizer with the maximum satis®able speci®er
potential.89
Let me now advance the hypothesis that the availability of a particular
complementizer depends on the resources of the lexicon in a particular
language. If this hypothesis is correct, the special facts of German wh-
questions must be indicating that the German lexicon contains C1-spec, but
lacks Cm-spec. Because the lexicon contains C1-spec, German wh-questions
show one instance of phrasal wh-movement, which is overt, as in English.
Because the lexicon lacks Cm-spec, any other instance of wh-movement in a
multiple question must involve feature movement.
If the intervention e¨ect found with pair-list multiple questions in
German is due to the separation of the wh-feature from the restriction, it
must be the case that the pair-list reading depends on wh-movement. That
is, something like (142) must be true, presumably as a consequence of
mechanisms of semantic interpretation that I will not explore here.
Syntax of the pair-list reading for multiple questions
(142) A wh-expression participates in a pair-list reading within an
interrogative clause only if its wh-feature has been attracted to the
complementizer of the clause.
In English (142) can be satis®ed by multiple phrasal wh-movement, which
does not involve separation of the wh-feature from its restriction. Conse-
quently, English multiple questions do not have to show an intervention
e¨ect when a wh-in-situ is separated from the complementizer by a scope-
bearing element (except when feature movement has in fact taken place,
as in apparent Superiority violations). Since German wh-in-situ has only
feature movement at its disposal as a means of satisfying (142), pair-list
readings for multiple questions always produce an intervention e¨ect
when a scope-bearing element intervenes between wh-in-situ and the
complementizer. On this view a single-pair reading results from the failure
of a wh-feature to undergo wh-movement, which in turn accounts for the
lack of intervention e¨ects with this reading.
The notion of speci®er potential, though implicit in the work on multi-
ple speci®ers initiated by Ura (1996), is novel, as is the idea that questions
pick the complementizer with the greatest potential. It is therefore useful
74 Chapter 5
( just as it was when I ®rst introduced Cm-spec) to show that these ideas are
not dei ex machinis, by showing that they play a role in explaining other
phenomena. In the present case the Superiority e¨ect furnishes such a
demonstration.
The fact that English binary questions show a Superiority e¨ect follows
from the fact (now a consequence of (141)) that such questions involve
Cm-specÐthe interrogative complementizer that requires at least two
speci®ers. It is this fact that ruled out the spurious derivation of What did
who buy? in (77), repeated here.
Spurious derivation of an apparent exception to Superiority (English)
(143) a. Structure before movement
Cm-spec [who bought what]
b. Step 1
Cm-spec attracts the wh-feature of who
Fi-C [Fi-who bought what]
c. Step 2
Cm-spec attracts the wh-phrase what
what Fi-C [Fi-who bought ]
d. Pronounced result
*What did who buy?
If Cm-spec could be replaced with C1-spec in English, the derivation would
succeedÐbut that would run afoul of the Complementizer Choice Rule,
which requires the multiple question to be introduced by Cm-spec. On the
other hand, C1-spec is exactly what German must use, if my proposals are
correct. Consequently, German should show no Superiority e¨ect in such
examples. Derivation (144) should be just as possible as (145).
An apparent exception to Superiority: not spurious (German)
(144) a. Structure before movement
C1-spec [wer
who
sah
saw
was]
what
b. Step 1
C1-spec attracts the wh-feature of wer
Fi-C1-spec [Fi-wer sah was]
c. Step 2
C1-spec attracts the wh-phrase was
was Fi-C1-spec [Fi-wer sah]
d. Pronounced result
Was sah wer?
Intervention E¨ect and Interrogative Complementizers 75
No apparent Superiority violation (German)
(145) a. Structure before movement
C1-spec [wer
who
sah
saw
was]
what
b. Step 1
C1-spec attracts the wh-phrase wer
wer C1-spec [ sah was]
c. Step 2
C1-spec attracts the wh-feature of was
wer Fj-C1-spec [ sah Fj-was]
d. Pronounced result
Wer sah was?
In fact, as has been well known since at least Haider 1986, 114, both
outputs are acceptable. German speakers sometimes feel that (144) is
``more natural'' than (145), but I have never encountered a German
speaker who felt that (144) was deviant; nor do these examples require D-
linking (but see Wiltschko 1997 and Grohmann 1998 for alternative
views).90 Both outputs have a pair-list interpretation.
As Grohmann (1998) notes, the absence of the Superiority e¨ect in
German is not limited to cases in which wh1 is a subject. Cases in which it
is an object also fail to show the e¨ect. ((146) is Grohmann's (30).)
Apparent Superiority violation: wh1 as object
(146) a. Wen
whom-acc
hast
have
du
you
u
Èberredet
persuaded
was
what
zu
to
kaufen?
buy
`Who did you persuade to buy what?'
b. Was hast du wen u
Èberredet zu kaufen?
I take these examples to show that German generally lacks the Superi-
ority e¨ect.91 This is an interesting result, since it is not otherwise obvious
(independent of my proposals) why German should show greater freedom
than English with respect to Superiority, but less freedom than English
with respect to the intervention e¨ect. My proposals link these two
facts.92
Before proceeding further, I need to note that the status of Superiority
e¨ects in German is controversial. A number of investigators, including
Bu
Èring (1994) and Fanselow (1991, 1997), have pointed out that long-
distance wh-movement shows contrasts that look like a Superiority e¨ect.
(The examples in (147) are from Fanselow 1997.)
76 Chapter 5
A Superiority e¨ect with long-distance wh-movement?
(147) a. Wer
who-nom
glaubte,
believed
daû
that
der Peter
the Peter-nom
ihr
her-dat
wen
whom-acc
vorstellte?
introduced
`Who believed that Peter introduced her to whom?'
b. ?*Wen
whom-acc
glaubte
believed
wer,
who-nom
daû
that
der Peter
the Peter-nom
ihr
her-dat
vorstellte?
introduced
`Whom did who believe that Peter introduced to her?'
One way of explaining the contrast in (147), considered by Fanselow,
relies on the idea that the Superiority e¨ect is active in German just as it is
in EnglishÐthe opposite of my conclusion. In this proposal what allows
apparent Superiority violations in German is the possibility of scrambling.
In a multiple question in which the object undergoes overt wh-movement,
whereas the subject remains in situ, the object (on this view) ®rst scram-
bles to a position higher than the subject. The object is now structurally
higher than the subject, and consequently not only can but must be the
®rst wh-element attracted by the interrogative complementizer.
The scrambling proposal (not adopted here)
(148) a. Structure before movement
C [wer
who
sah
saw
was]
what
b. Step 1
was scrambles to a position higher than were
C [was [wer sah tscrambling]]
c. Step 2
C attracts the wh-phrase was, since it is closer than wer
wer C [ [wer sah tscrambling]]
d. Pronounced result
Was sah wer?
In order to overcome the Superiority e¨ect in (147) in the same fashion,
the embedded object would have to scramble out of the embedded ®nite
clause in order to land in a position higher than the matrix subject. As an
independent fact about German, scrambling from ®nite clauses is forbid-
den. ((149) is from Fanselow 1997.)
No scrambling from ®nite clauses
(149)
*. . . daû
that
der Fritz
the Fritz-nom
den Josefi
the Josef-acc
glaubte,
believed
daû
that
der Peter
the Peter-nom
ihr
her-dat
i vorstellte.
introduced
`. . . that Fritz believed that Peter introduced Josef hscrambledi to her.'
Intervention E¨ect and Interrogative Complementizers 77
Consequently, (147b) could only show wh-movement directly from the
embedded clause. Since the matrix subject is closer to the interrogative
complementizer, wh-movement from the embedded clause, at least as the
®rst instance of wh-movement, is forbidden by AC.
This is an attractive competitor to my proposal, since (like my pro-
posal) it reduces the di¨erence in Superiority e¨ects between German and
English to an independent di¨erence: here, the availability of scrambling
in German and its unavailability in English. There is an alternative expla-
nation for the contrast in (147), however, that does not rely on facts about
scrambling. Example (147b) shows an instance of overt wh-movement
from an embedded ®nite clause; (147a) does not. As it happens, many
speakers reject wh-movement from embedded ®nite clauses altogether.
Even the many speakers who do not reject wh-movement from embedded
®nite clauses ®nd such examples more di½cult to accept than more local
instances of wh-movement. This factor alone could explain the contrast
between (147a) and (147b).93
Still, if a wh-phrase may scramble before undergoing wh-movement,
and if this scrambling operation allows objects to count as closer to the
complementizer than subjects, we do have a source for apparent Superi-
ority violations independent of the hypotheses presented here. Indeed, it is
not established that scrambling to the left of the subject can feed overt wh-
movement as the scrambling proposal assumes. For one thing, it seems to
be impossible to scramble a wh-phrase when that phrase does not undergo
subsequent overt phrasal wh-movement, as several researchers have
noted. Fanselow (1990), for example, observes that although scrambling
of a non-wh-phrase is acceptable inside a multiple question (as seen in
(150b)), scrambling of the wh-phrase that does not undergo overt phrasal
wh-movement is impossible (as seen in (150d)). (This generalization is due
to Engel (1972), according to Sauerland (1998a); see also Mu
Èller and
Sternefeld 1993, 483.) Example (150a) shows that Superiority is not what
is at stake in (150), and (150c) is the variant of (150d) without scrambling.
((150a±d) are from Fanselow 1990, 114.) The examples in (151) provide a
similar paradigm from Grewendorf and Sternefeld 1990, 5.94
No scrambling of wh-in-situ
(150) a. Wie
how
hat
has
wer
who
gestern
yesterday
das
the
Auto
car
repariert?
®xed
`How did who ®x the car yesterday?'95
78 Chapter 5
b. Wie
how
hat
has
das
the
Auto
car
gestern
yesterday
wer
who
repariert?
®xed
`How did who ®x the car yesterday?'
c. Wie
how
hat
has
der
the
Mann
man
gestern
yesterday
was
what
repariert?
®xed
`How did the man yesterday ®x what?'
d. *Wie
how
hat
has
was
what
der
the
Mann
man
gestern
yesterday
repariert?
®xed
`How did the man yesterday ®x what?'
(151) a. Was
what
hat
has
wer
who-nom
dem Studenten
the student-dat
ausgeliehen?
lent
`What did who lend to the student?'
b. Was
what
hat
has
der Professor
the professor-nom
wem
whom-dat
ausgeliehen?
lent
`What did the professor lend to whom?'
c. Wem
whom-dat
hat
has
der Professor
the professor-nom
was
what
ausgeliehen?
lent
`To whom did the professor lend what?'
d. ??Was
what
hat
has
wem
whom-dat
der Professor
the professor-nom
ausgeliehen?
lent
`What did the professor lend to whom?'
Furthermore, if separation constructions provide reliable markers of
positions that wh-movement passes through, there are other arguments
that scrambling to the left of the subject cannot feed wh-movement. One
argument was pointed out to me by Gu
Ènther Grewendorf (personal
communication). In (125) we examined a separation construction in
which a wh-word like wer/wen `who' is separated from a restrictor like von
den Musikern `of the musicians', stranding the restrictor in object posi-
tion. Such separation is possible in derived positions as well. (152a), for
example, shows von den Musikern `of the musicians' stranded in a [Spec,
CP] through which a wh-phrase has passed. (The presence of overt mate-
rial in [Spec, CP] correlates with ``verb-second'' (movement of V to C)
and with the absence of the complementizer daû, as discussed by Den
Besten (1983).) The possibility of ``separation'' in [Spec, CP] contrasts
sharply with the impossibility of a comparable separation in a post-
complementizer scrambling position, seen in (152c), which contrasts min-
imally with the unscrambled (152b).
Intervention E¨ect and Interrogative Complementizers 79
No separation in scrambled position
(152)
a. Separation in [Spec, CP]
?Wen
whom
glaubst
believe
du
you
[ von
of
den
the
Musikern]
musicians
hat
has
Hans
Hans
gesehen?
seen
`Who among the musicians do you believe that Hans saw?'
b. Separation in object position
Ich
I
weiû
know
nicht,
not
wen
whom
du
you
glaubst,
believe
daû
that
Hans [
Hans
von
of
den
the
Musikern]
musicians
gesehen
seen
hat.
has
`I don't know who among the musicians you believe that Hans saw.'
c. Separation in scrambled position
*Ich
I
weiû
know
nicht,
not
wen
whom
du
you
glaubst,
believe
daû [
that
von
of
den
the
Musikern]
musicians
Hans
Hans
gesehen
seen
hat.
has
`I don't know who among the musicians you believe that Hans saw.'
Similar paradigms can be constructed with other separation con-
structions, except that separation across a ®nite-clause boundary seems
degraded in the ®rst place in some of these cases, and separation in [Spec,
CP] is not possible.96
No separation in scrambled position (was alles)
(153) a. Separation in [Spec, CP]
*Wen
whom
glaubst
believe
du
you
[ alles]
all
hat
has
Hans
Hans
eingeladen?
invited
b. Separation in object position
%Ich
I
weiû
know
nicht,
not
wen
whom
du
you
glaubst,
believe
daû
that
Hans [
Hans
alles]
all
eingeladen
invited
hat.
has
`I don't know who-all you believe that Hans invited.'
c. Separation in scrambled position
*Ich
I
weiû
know
nicht,
not
wen
whom
du
you
glaubst,
believe
daû [
that
alles]
all
Hans
Hans
eingeladen
invited
hat.
has
`I don't know who-all you believe that Hans invited.'
There might, of course, be some special explanation for the failure of
separation in the scrambled position. I suggest instead that (152) and
(153) illustrate the same point as (150) and (151): that wh-phrases are
simply not scrambled to the left of the subject in the ®rst place.
5.4 Further Discussion of Fanselow's Proposal
Fanselow (1997) provides two arguments in favor of the scrambling pro-
posal that need to be considered. Since this section does not contribute to
the forward ¯ow of argumentation, it can be viewed as an appendix to the
preceding section and can be skipped without losing the thread. None-
80 Chapter 5
theless, Fanselow's arguments are an important challenge to this portion
of our ideas about wh-movement, and they merit discussion.
5.4.1 Argument 1
Suppose certain separation constructions actually involve, not direct wh-
movement of a portion of the bigger phrase that might have moved, but
scrambling of the phrase ultimately left behind, followed by wh-movement
of the remnant that includes the trace of scrambling.
Separation via scrambling
(154) a. Starting point
C . . . X [wieviel
how-many
Bu
Ècher
books
u
Èber
about
Hans] . . .
Hans
b. Step 1
u
Èber Hans scrambles to the left of X
C . . . u
Èber Hansi X [wieviel Bu
Ècher ti] . . .
c. Step 2
The remnant wh-phrase undergoes phrasal wh-movement
[wieviel Bu
Ècher ti] C . . . u
Èber Hansi X . . .
Mu
Èller (1996) and Mu
Èller and Sternefeld (1993) have observed that a
constituent from which scrambling has taken place may not itself undergo
scrambling. If this is the case, then the wh-phrase cannot itself undergo
scrambling as a precursor to wh-movement. Now consider a situation in
which u
Èber Hans is replaced by a wh-phrase such as u
Èber wen `about
whom' in the starting point of (154). If u
Èber wen undergoes scrambling,
then, by Mu
Èller's generalization, the remnant [wieviel Bu
Ècher t] may not
itself undergo scrambling. If Superiority holds in German as it does in
English, we expect the (now) higher wh-phrase u
Èber wen to be the only
phrase attractable by the interrogative complementizer. This prediction is
borne out.97
A Superiority e¨ect in German?
(155)
a. Ich
I
wu
Èûte
knew
gerne,
eagerly
u
Èber weni
about whom
er [
he
wieviel
how-many
Bu
Ècher ti]
books
gleichzeitig
simultaneously
kritisieren
criticize
kann.
can
`I would like to know how many books about whom he can simultaneously criticize.'
b. ?*Ich wu
Èûte gerne, [wieviel Bu
Ècher ti] er gleichzeitig u
Èber weni kritisieren kann. [same
example with u
Èber Hans replacing u
Èber wen is ®ne]
Notice, however, that (155b) di¨ers from (155a) in other ways that we
know in¯uence acceptability. For one thing, (155b) is a Weak Crossover
Intervention E¨ect and Interrogative Complementizers 81
con®guration: the variable associated with wen is an argument of [wieviel
Bu
Ècher t], which c-commands wen. The Weak Crossover e¨ect may be
particularly strong with wh-feature movement (an observation also made,
in slightly di¨erent terms, by Miyagawa (1998)).98 This fact alone might
produce the judgment given, which would be (in my approach) akin to the
e¨ects seen in English examples like (156) and (157b).99
Weak Crossover e¨ects induced by wh-feature movement
(156) ??[How many books about himi] did whoi show to whom?
(157) a. Which of his friends ordered which boy to congratulate
Sue ?
b. [*]Which of his friends did Sue order which boy to
congratulate ?
5.4.2 Argument 2
If separation constructions arise from a derivation like (154), then the
``separated'' piece of the wh-moved phrase is ``an indicator of the upper-
most position the wh phrase had prior to wh-attraction'' (Fanselow 1997),
since, by Mu
Èller's generalization, the wh-phrase could not have scrambled
before undergoing wh-movement. Therefore, if another wh-phrase is
found higher than the separated piece, and the Superiority e¨ect holds in
German just as it does in English, it should be that higher wh-phrase that
needs to undergo overt wh-movement.
Thus, for example, in (158a) the underscored phrase von den Studenten
`of the students' marks the highest position that the remnant [wen t] could
have occupied before wh-movement. Consequently, when the subject der
Peter in (158a) is replaced by the wh-phrase wer `who' in (158b), the result
is a Superiority violation (from Fanselow's perspective), since werÐas
the higher wh-expressionÐshould have undergone overt wh-movement
instead of [wen t]. In (158c) scrambling of wen von den Studenten took
place before von den Studenten scrambled further. Since the launching site
for wh-movement of [wen t] is higher than the subject wh-phrase wer in
this example, it is [wen t] that undergoes overt wh-movement, with no
problem.
A Superiority e¨ect in German when remnant movement controls for
scrambling?
(158)
a. [Wen
whom
ti] hat
has
denn
prt
der
the
Peter
Peter
im
in-the
Sommersemester
summer-term
von
of
den
the
Studenteni
students
pru
Èfen
examine
wollen?
wanted
-----------------
`Who among the students did Peter want to examine in the summer term?'
82 Chapter 5
b. ?*[Wen ti] hat denn wer im Sommersemester von den Studenteni pru
Èfen wollen?
-----------------
c. [Wen ti] hat denn von den Studenteni wer im Sommersemester pru
Èfen wollen?
-----------------
Here too there is an immediate alternative explanation. Example (158b) is
ruled out by the intervention e¨ect, since the scope-bearing element wer
intervenes between a part of the restriction on wen and wen itself. As
Gu
Ènther Grewendorf (personal communication) points out, wh-phrases in
situ count as interveners for the intervention e¨ect.
An alternative explanation for (158): an intervention e¨ect induced by
wh-in-situ
(159) a. Was
what
hat
has
der
the
Professor
professor
dem Studenten
the student-dat
[ alles]
all
geraten?
advised
`What-all did the professor advise the student?'
b. *Was
what
hat
has
wer
who
dem Studenten
the student-dat
[ alles]
all
geraten?
advised
`What-all did who advise the student?'
I now return to the main line of discussion.
5.5 Japanese and a Typology of Wh-Speci®ers
Sections 5.1±5.3 provided support for a key component of my account of
apparent Superiority violations: the notion of speci®er potential. Accord-
ing to my proposal, the German lexicon contains only C1-spec, whereas
the English (and Bulgarian) lexicon contains both C1-spec and Cm-spec.
This lexical di¨erence, I have argued, is the key to gross di¨erences in the
distribution of the intervention e¨ect in German and English multiple
questions. Since German allows only one wh-speci®er per question, the
restrictions of the other wh-phrases in a multiple question remain sepa-
rated from the interrogative complementizer. This generates an interven-
tion e¨ect when a scope-bearing element occupies an intervening position.
Since English allows multiple wh-speci®ers, the intervention e¨ect is found
only in cases where an apparent Superiority violation indicates that fea-
ture movement has taken place from a wh-phrase in situ.
Alongside interrogative complementizers that require multiple speci-
®ers and interrogative complementizers that require a single speci®er, it is
reasonable to expect to ®nd an interrogative complementizer that toler-
ates no speci®ers whatsoever: that is, C0-spec. As it happens, my hypoth-
eses make very speci®c predictions about the properties of questions
introduced by C0-spec. I will argue that C0-spec does exist and that these
predictions seem to be fully con®rmed. In particular, I will suggest that
Intervention E¨ect and Interrogative Complementizers 83
Japanese (and Korean) wh-questions are introduced by C0-spec. Japanese/
Korean, German, and English/Bulgarian thus round out the paradigm of
speci®er potential for interrogative complementizers, as summarized in
(160).
Maximum speci®er potential for the interrogative C in three types of
languages
(160) C0-spec C1-spec Cm-spec
Japanese/Korean
p
German
p
English/Bulgarian
p
For Japanese, I rely mostly on data and insights from Miyagawa 1998.
For Korean (which I will not focus on), I rely on Beck and Kim 1996.
What do we expect from a language that must introduce wh-questions
with C0-spec? Obviously, such a language will show wh-in-situ questions.
As is well known, Japanese and Korean are languages of this sort.
Wh-in-situ (Japanese)
(161) John-ga
John-nom
nani-o
what-acc
katta
bought
no?
q
`What did John buy?'
Wh-in-situ (Korean)
(162) Suna-ka
Suna-nom
muo
Æs-u
Æl
what-acc
sass-ni?
bought-q
`What did Suna buy?'
Except for di¨erences in speci®er potential, the interrogative comple-
mentizer used for wh-questions should be fundamentally identical across
languages. Consequently, we expect that Japanese and Korean C0-spec,
like C1-spec and Cm-spec, bears an uninterpretable wh-feature. If this feature
is not deleted in the course of the derivation, the derivation should crash.
Since C0-spec does not allow wh-phrase movement to form a speci®er, only
wh-feature movement (or its counterpart in the variant proposals dis-
cussed above) can delete its uninterpretable feature. Consequently, a
wh-question in such a languageÐbe it a single question or a multiple
questionÐmust contain at least one wh-phrase not separated from C0-spec
by a scope bearer. If the question contains just one wh-phrase, and this
wh-phrase is separated from C0-spec by scope bearer, the question should
be unacceptable. As noted by Hoji (1985), this is indeed the case in
Japanese. A scope-bearing element in a single-wh question produces an
84 Chapter 5
intervention e¨ect whenever it comes between the wh-phrase and the
interrogative complementizer. As in German, scrambling eliminates the
violation, as the (b) examples show. ((163)±(166) are respectively from
Tanaka 1999 (cited in Hagstrom 1998), Hoji 1985, Miyagawa 1998, and
Hoji 1985; regarding (166), see also Hagstrom 1998.)
Intervention e¨ect with wh and negation/only (Japanese)100
(163) a. *Hanako-sika
Hanako-only
nani-o
what-acc
yoma-nai
read-neg
no?
q
`What did only Hanako read?'
b. Nani-o Hanako-sika yoma-nai no?
Intervention e¨ect with wh and every (Japanese)101
(164) a. ?*Dono
every
hito-mo
person
nani-o
what-acc
yonda
read
no?
q
[less deviant for some
speakers, allegedly
not necessarily with
wide-scope every]
`What did every person read?'
b. Nani-o dono hito-mo yonda no?
Intervention e¨ect with wh and almost every (Japanese)
(165) a. *Hotondo
almost
dono
every
hito-mo
person
nani-o
what-acc
yonda
read
no?
q
[for all speakers]
`What did almost every person read?'
b. Nani-o hotondo dono hito-mo yonda no?
Intervention e¨ect with wh and or (Japanese)
(166) a. ?*[John-ka
John-or
Bill]-ga
Bill-nom
nani-o
what-acc
nomimasita
drank
ka?
q
`What did John or Bill drink?'
b. Nani-o [John-ka Bill]-ga nomimasita ka?
In essence, examples like the (a) sentences in (163)±(166) present the
Japanese speaker with a Hobson's choice. If no feature movement takes
place, the uninterpretable wh-feature in C0-spec is not deleted and the
derivation crashes. If feature movement does take place, the result is
an intervention e¨ect. Quite comparable data have been provided for
Korean by Beck and Kim (1996), for example.
Intervention e¨ect with wh and negative polarity item (Korean)
(167) a. *Amuto
anyone
muo
Æs-u
Æl
what-acc
sa-chi
bought-chi
anh-ass-ni?
not-did-q
`What did no one buy?'
b. Muo
Æs-u
Æl amuto sa-chi anh-ass-ni?
Intervention E¨ect and Interrogative Complementizers 85
Intervention e¨ect with wh and only (Korean)
(168) a. *Minsu-man
Minsu-only
nuku-lu
Æl
who-acc
poass-ni?
saw-q
`Who did only Minsu see?'
b. Nuku-lu
Æl Minsu-man poass-ni?
Intervention e¨ect with wh and every (Korean)
(169) a. ??Nukuna-ka
everyone-nom
o
Ænu
Æ
which
kyosu-lu
Æl
professor-acc
chonkyo
Ængha-ni?
respect-q
`Which professor did everyone respect?'
b. O
Æ nu
Æ kyosu-lu
Æl nukuna-ka chonkyo
Ængha-ni?
If the question contains multiple wh-phrases, the nature of the inter-
vention e¨ect is determined by the position of the intervener. When an
intervener c-commands all wh-expressions, the same deviance results as in
single wh-questions that have the same problem. ((170) is from Miyagawa
1997, citing Tanaka 1999. (170) is to be compared with (172).)
Intervener (only) c-commands multiple wh-phrases (Japanese)
(170) ?*Taroo-wa
Taroo-top
[Hanako-sika
Hanako-only
dare-ni
who-to
nani-o
what-acc
yom-ana-i
read-neg-pres
to]
c
Tomoko-ni
Tomoko-to
itta
said
no?
q
------- ------
`To whom did Taroo tell Tomoko that only Hanako read what?'
The cause of the deviance is the same as in the single-wh questions just
examined. Either the complementizer is left with an undeleted wh-feature,
or an intervention e¨ect is produced.
When the intervener c-commands one but not all the wh-expressions in
Japanese, the result is not deviant (Watanabe 1992; Tanaka 1999). (This
is often known as the ``additional wh-e¨ect,'' following Saito 1994.) This
is because wh-feature movement (or its counterpart in variant theories)
can take place from the highest wh-phrase, eliminating the uninterpretable
wh-feature on the complementizer. Nonetheless, the resulting sentences
are limited to the single-pair reading, just as we have seen in English and
German (Miyagawa 1997). The reason is the observation stated in (142),
which characterizes the distribution of the single-pair reading in English
and German.
Intervention e¨ect in multiple questions with or (Japanese)
(171) a. ???John-ga
John-nom
[MIT-ka
[MIT-or
Harvard]-ni
Harvard]-dat
nani-o
what-acc
ageta
gave
no?
q
`What did John give MIT or Harvard?'
b. Dare-ga
who-nom
[MIT-ka
[MIT-or
Harvard]-ni
Harvard]-dat
nani-o
what-acc
ageta
gave
no?
q
[single-pair only]
`What did who give MIT or Harvard?'
86 Chapter 5
Intervention e¨ect in multiple questions with only (Japanese)
(172)
a. ?*Taroo-wa
Taroo-top
[Hanako-sika
Hanako-only
nani-o
what-acc
yom-ana-i
read-neg-pres
to]
c
Tomoko-ni
Tomoko-to
itta
said
no?
q
------
`What did Taroo say to Tomoko that only Hanako read?'
b. Taroo-wa
Taroo-top
[Hanako-sika
Hanako-only
nani-o
what-acc
yom-ana-i
read-neg-pres
to]
c
dare-ni
who-to
itta
said
no?
q
[single-pair only]
------ ------
`To whom did Taroo say that only Hanako read what?'
As in German, scrambling eliminates the intervention e¨ect. ((173) is
from Hagstrom 1998.)
Scrambling (Japanese)
(173) a. ?*[John-ka
John-or
Bill]-ga
Bill-nom
dare-ni
who-dat
nani-o
what-acc
ageta
gave
no?
q
`What did John or Bill give to who?'
b. ?Dare-ni [John-ka Bill]-ga nani-o ageta no? [single-pair
only]
c. ??Nani-o [John-ka Bill]-ga dare-ni ageta no? [single-pair
only]
d. Dare-ni nani-o [John-ka Bill]-ga ageta no? [pair-
list reading OK]102
In Korean similar facts seem to obtainÐexcept that I have not inves-
tigated whether examples in which some but not all wh-phrases are c-
commanded by the intervener have the single-pair reading. Beck and Kim
(1996) mark such examples with an asterisk, which I reproduce here in
square brackets. If the asterisk is real, even on a single-pair reading, the
di¨erence between Korean and Japanese will require further investigation.
Scrambling (Korean)
(174) a. *Amuto
anyone
nuku-lu
Æl
who-acc
o
Æti-eso
Æ
where-loc
manna-chi
meet-chi
anh-ass-ni?
not-did-q
`Where did no one meet whom?'
b. [*]Nuku-lu
Æl amuto o
Æti-eso
Æ manna-chi anh-ass-ni?
c. Nuku-lu
Æl o
Æti-eso
Æ amuto manna-chi anh-ass-ni?
d. O
Æ ti-eso
Æ nuku-lu
Æl amuto manna-chi anh-ass-ni?
As a ®nal piece of reassurance, it is worth observing, with Miyagawa
(1998), that Japanese displays the intervention e¨ect in non-wh environ-
ments exactly where we expect to ®nd it: in separation constructions. For
example, when existential dareka `some (adj.)' scrambles in a manner that
Intervention E¨ect and Interrogative Complementizers 87
strands its restriction, as in (175a±b), a scope-bearing phrase like `only
Hanako' may not intervene between dareka and its restrictor.
Intervention e¨ect with Q-NP split (Japanese)
(175) a. Hanako-ga
Hanako-nom
gakusei-o
student-acc
dareka
some
yonda
invited
(koto)
(fact)
`(the fact that) Hanako invited some student'
b. darekai Hanako-ga gakusei-o ti yonda (koto)
c. Hanako-sika
Hanako-only
gakusei-o
student-acc
dareka
some
yoba-nakat-ta
invite-neg-past
(koto)
(fact)
`(the fact that) only Hanako invited some student'
d. *darekai Hanako-sika gakusei-o ti yoba-nakat-ta (koto)
Similar facts obtain when a numeral is scrambled away from its
restriction.
Intervention e¨ect with Num-NP split (Japanese)
(176) b. ?San-satui
3-cl
Taroo-ga
Taroo-nom
gengogaku-no
linguistics-gen
hon-o
book-acc
ti yonda.
read
d. *San-satui
3-cl
Taroo-sika
Taroo-only
gengogaku-no
linguistics-gen
hon-o
book-acc
ti yoma-nakat-ta.
read-neg-past
Japanese and Korean thus appear to meet our expectations for a language
whose interrogative complementizer is identical to that of English and
German, except that it does not take a speci®er.103 Since the notion of
speci®er potential played a crucial role in our original discussion of
apparent AC violations, the results in this section help support con-
clusions we have already reached. The notion of speci®er potential has
been shown to play a key role in explaining variation in the syntax of wh-
questions. In particular, the scale of speci®er potential has been shown
to correlate inversely with the number of environments in which wh-
questions show intervention e¨ects, as illustrated in (177).
Environments in which intervention e¨ects are found in wh-questions
(177) Single-wh
questions
Multiple-wh
questions
Multiple-wh questions
with apparent AC
violations
C0-spec
p p p
C1-spec
p p
Cm-spec
p
88 Chapter 5
This makes sense, since the fewer opportunities a language has for phrasal
wh-movement, the greater the number of environments in which the re-
striction of a wh-phrase must remain inside TP, yielding intervention
e¨ects.104
5.6 Some Unanswered Questions about the Typology
Some important questions remain, to which the answers are not com-
pletely clear. One question concerns the repertoire of complementizers in
a given language. I have described the list of available complementizers as
®xed in the lexicon of each language. This is important to the action of
the Complementizer Choice Rule in (141). If Japanese, for example, had
the option of using Cm-spec in a multiple question, the Complementizer
Choice Rule should require its use in Japanese just as it does in English,
where the forced use of Cm-spec forms a key component of the explanation
for the Superiority e¨ect. As it happens, on one interpretation of Taka-
hashi 1993, we may suspect that we are faced with exactly this problem.105
Though Japanese is famously a ``wh-in-situ language,'' it allows wh-
phrases to be fronted by a process that in certain cases has the properties
of English or Bulgarian wh-movement, according to Takahashi. These
properties show up when the wh-phrase is moved out of an embedded
clause to the left periphery of an interrogative CP. For example, (178), in
which nani `what' has been fronted from a lower interrogative CP to the
left periphery of a matrix interrogative CP, can only be understood as a
matrix question. ((178) is Takahashi's (4b).)
Overt wh-fronting in Japanese interrogative ®xes scope
(178) Nani-o
what-acc
John-wa
John-top
[CP Mary-ga
Mary-nom
tabeta
ate
ka]
q
siritagatteiru
want-to-know
no?
q
Only: `What did John want to know whether Mary ate?'
Not: `Did John want to know what Mary ate?'
In all other cases wh-fronting has the properties expected from simple
scrambling: ``A-movement-like'' properties when the fronting is more
local (Webelhuth 1988; Mahajan 1990; Saito 1992), and reconstruction
properties when the fronting does not target an interrogative CP. For
example, (179) is identical to (178) except that the matrix clause is non-
interrogative. In this case the fronted wh-phrase nani is understood via
reconstruction as taking scope in the embedded clause. ((179) is based on
Takahashi's (2b).)
Intervention E¨ect and Interrogative Complementizers 89
Wh-reconstruction with fronting in a noninterrogative clause
(179) Nani-o
what-acc
John-wa
John-top
[CP Mary-ga
Mary-nom
tabeta
ate
ka]
q
siritagatteiru.
want-to-know
`John wanted to know what Mary ate.'
The construction behaves as if the following statements were true of
Japanese:106
. The left periphery of an interrogative CP may not be the target of long-
distance scrambling of a wh-phrase.
. The left periphery of an interrogative CP may be the target of long-
distance wh-movement.
Certain facts about this construction are murky. For example, Richards
(1997) observes that multiple questions with two wh-phrases allow both
wh-phrases to front, in which case his consultant noted a Bulgarian-style
Superiority e¨ect. Some speakers disagree with this judgment, even to the
extent of ®nding (180b) marginally better than (180a).107 ((180a±b) are
from Richards (1997), citing a personal communication from Takako
Aikawa.)
Bulgarian-style Superiority e¨ect (Japanese)
(180) a. Darei-ni
who-dat
nanij-o
what-acc
Taroo-ga
Taroo-nom
ti [Hanako-ga
Hanako-nom
tj katta
bought
to]
c
itta
said
no?
q
`Who did Taroo tell that Hanako bought what?'
b. *Nanij-o darei-ni Taroo-ga ti [Hanako-ga tj katta to] itta no?
Takahashi notes the possibility of fronting only one of the two phrases
and observes that a Superiority e¨ect of the English sort arises here too.
((181) is from Takahashi 1993, 664.)
English-style Superiority e¨ect (Japanese)
(181)
a. Dare-ni
whom-dat
John-ga
John-nom
[Bill-ga
Bill-nom
[Mary-ga
Mary-nom
nani-o
what-acc
tabeta
ate
to]
c
itta
said
to]
that
omotteiru
thinks
no?
q
`To whom does John think that Bill said that Mary ate what?'
b. *Nani-o John-ga [Bill-ga dare-ni [Mary-ga tabeta to] itta to] omotteiru no?
Some controversy surrounds these observations as well. For one thing,
the sharp cases of the ``English-style'' Superiority e¨ect seem to involve
situations like (181), in which one wh-phrase comes from a higher clause
than the other. Other cases show weaker and more variable e¨ects. If so,
we might not be dealing with a Superiority e¨ect at all in (181), but with a
90 Chapter 5
simpler contrast between longer- and shorter-distance scramblingÐmuch
as I suggested for German examples like (147a±b). Supporting this is
the fact that multiple questions with left-peripheral wh-phrases do show
an intervention e¨ect when a scope-bearing element c-commands an
unmoved wh-phrase in the question: a German pattern. If this is the case,
then the analysis of Japanese must be more complex than represented so
far. We must actually allow Japanese questions to be introduced by
C0-spec, C1-spec, or Cm-spec: the ®rst for in-situ questions, the second for
questions like those in (181), and the third for ``Bulgarian-style'' questions
like those in (180)Ðthe Complementizer Choice Rule being somehow
inactive in Japanese. Alternatively, we might continue to view the inter-
rogative complementizer in Japanese as an instance of C0-spec and ask
whether the attractor in putative overt wh-movement isn't a di¨erent
entity entirelyÐperhaps an optional focus head above or below C0-spec,
which optionally takes multiple speci®ers. For lack of clear and decisive
evidence, I must leave the matter open.
A similar issue arises in French. Although French overall appears to
display the English patterns of movement and pronunciation, it is well
known that in matrix clauses French allows wh to remain in situ rather
more freely than does English, without necessarily producing an ``echo
question'' reading.
Matrix wh-in-situ (French)
(182) Ils
they
ont
have
rencontre
Â
met
qui?
who
[nonecho reading possible]
`Who did they meet?'
Chang (1997) and Bos
Ïkovic
Â (to appear) have observed that wh-in-situ in
this type of question shows the intervention e¨ect. The examples in (183),
from Chang 1997, are acceptable only as echo questions, as indicated by
the annotation a.
Intervention e¨ects (French)
(183) a. aTous
all
les
the
e
Âtudiants
students
ont
have
rencontre
Â
met
qui?
who
b. aChaque
each
e
Âtudiant
student
a
has
rencontre
Â
met
qui?
who
c. aIl
he
n'a pas
has-neg
rencontre
Â
met
qui?
who
Intervention E¨ect and Interrogative Complementizers 91
d. aIl
he
admire
admires
toujours
always
qui?
who
f. aPersonne
no-one
n'
neg
admire
admires
qui?
who
If the intervention e¨ect here is a sign that these matrix questions are
introduced by C0-spec, we once again need to ask whether the Com-
plementizer Choice Rule is somehow inactive in French as well (with the
English-style pronunciation pattern when Cm-spec is chosen)Ðor whether
C0-spec is perhaps the only option for the interrogative complementizer,
with some other attractor, optionally absent from matrix questions,
responsible for what we have hitherto thought of as wh-movement.108
Alternatively, C0-spec may be a special option related to the semantics of
questions like (182). Boeckx (1999a,b) has argued that such questions are
interpreted in a manner reminiscent of cleft sentences (e.g., Who is it that
you met?)Ðwith a strong presuppositional reading. Personne `no one', for
example, is not a felicitous answer to (182). If this is the case, we may
suppose that French is in general like English in its use of interrogative
complementizers, except for the special possibility of using C0-spec as a
complementizer in strongly presuppositional single questions. This fact in
turn might be compared with the fact that English (and French) allow
C1-spec as the complementizer for D-linked multiple questions, as dis-
cussed earlier. Perhaps questions that are strongly context dependent
quite generally allow complementizers with smaller than expected speci-
®er potentials. I leave this line of thinking for further research.
Also left for further research is the possible existence of pronunciation
patterns for multiple phrasal wh-movement besides those of English and
those of Bulgarian. For example, I noted that the use of C0-spec to intro-
duce a wh-question yields a question whose wh-phrases are pronounced in
situ because they are in situ. The test of this hypothesis was the interven-
tion e¨ect. But there are other possible ways to derive a ``wh-in-situ''
language. One might imagine a language whose interrogatives could be
introduced by C1-spec or Cm-specÐjust like EnglishÐbut in which all wh-
phrases are pronounced in their pre-wh-moved position. (This is essen-
tially the traditional proposal concerning wh-in-situ languages.) The sign
of a ``super®cial'' wh-in-situ language of this sort would be the absence of
the intervention e¨ect in simple wh-questions. As described by Aoun and
Li (1993b), Chinese is such a language.109
92 Chapter 5
Though open questions like these remain, I believe they do not chal-
lenge the arguments I have presented. These include the arguments for the
existence of overt and covert phrasal movement as well as the relation I
have called feature movementÐthough other views of this relation were
also considered. The evidence for this position came from several sources,
including ACD, intervention e¨ects, and the typology of wh-constructions
discussed in the previous paragraphs.110 If successful, this study has ®lled
in an important piece of the puzzle posed by wh-constructionsÐa puzzle
whose solution illuminates the variety and nature of movement and its
kin.
Intervention E¨ect and Interrogative Complementizers 93
Notes
1. In later work Chomsky (1998) suggests a view of ``feature movement phe-
nomena'' according to which movement per se is not part of the relation. I touch
on this proposal in section 4.7.
2. Though not always. See Pesetsky 1997, 1998 for discussion of cases in which
pronunciation targets more than one position in a movement construction.
3. I use phrasal movement as a cover term for movement of any syntactic unit that
is word-sized or larger. Thus, what is traditionally called head movement is an
instance of phrasal movement in my sense.
4. Larson and May's examples involve the matrix verb want. The phenomenon is
clearer with negative verbs like refuse that make the scope of the quanti®ed phrase
entirely obvious.
5. In light of Mu
Èller 1996 and Mu
Èller and Sternefeld 1993, we must suppose that
the c-command property is apparent because VP-fronting and wh-movement are
in some fashion the same process. Where two movement processes are su½ciently
di¨erent, the interaction with c-command is not observed (e.g., when scrambling
and wh-movement yield a con®guration in which a trace is not c-commanded by
its antecedent).
6. The order of moved wh-phrases given here (who what whom) anticipates later
discussion, but is irrelevant at this point.
7. A third approach, represented by Kayne 1998, reanalyzes apparent covert
phrasal movement as overt movement masked by compensating overt movement
of other constituents. On this view, for example, the derivation of What did John
give to whom? might involve overt leftward movement of what to a position below
who followed by leftward movement of the remnant IP containing traces of what
and to whom. I will not investigate this alternative here. There is probably no
straightforward translation of the proposals made in this book into this approach.
8. This proposal assumes that it is a property of the attracted element that causes
movement to be phrasal rather than purely featural. Chomsky (1998) suggests an
alternative: that it is a property of the attractor that causes movement to be
phrasal (a property anachronistically called the Extended Projection Principle
(EPP) feature; Chomsky 1981). In the end my proposal will more closely resemble
the one in Chomsky 1998, but this detail is not important at the present stage of
the argument.
9. Chomsky's proposal leaves us with one style of phrasal movement, but does
not explain why this style of movement involves the ``overt'' pronunciation pat-
tern, as opposed to some other. Nunes (1995), Wilder (1999), and others have
o¨ered proposals, based on Kayne 1994, that ®ll this gap. Of course, if Chomsky's
proposal is incorrect (as I argue here), then Nunes's and Wilder's proposals must
be modi®ed in some way. Both Nunes and Wilder explore interesting con-
sequences of their hypotheses beyond the simple prediction of overt movement
patterns, so it would be desirable to explore alternatives that retain these interest-
ing results.
10. Brody (1995) independently develops a notion of ``expletive-associate'' chain
whose properties are close to those one would need to attribute to the operation of
feature movement in Chomsky's (1998) proposal. Unlike Chomsky, Brody (pp.
114±127) suggests a treatment of ACD compatible with his proposal that
responds to some (but not all) of the evidence taken to support a treatment in
terms of covert phrasal movement. In particular, he o¨ers a proposal that
responds to the scope evidence, but not to Fox's (1995) interpretation of the
binding evidence in (7) (not available at the time Brody's work was written)Ðnor,
obviously, to the new evidence presented here. He also expresses skepticism (p.
120) about the validity of the core factÐthough a claimed counterexample
(Brody's (50)) actually follows from Fox's proposal.
11. I owe these thoughts to a suggestion from Norvin Richards. See also discus-
sion in Brody 1997.
12. The proposal bears interesting similarities to proposals within the Generalized/
Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar tradition (Gazdar 1981; Gazdar et al.
1985; Pollard and Sag 1994), which treat a wide variety of syntactic relations as
the result of extremely local feature movement.
13. Kai von Fintel (personal communication) suggests that the e¨ect may be
weaker in there constructions that do not involve the verb be ( judgment indica-
tions mine, but tentative).
(i) [??]There arose every problem that there could.
(ii) [??]On Tuesday, there didn't occur any of the disruptions that there did on
Monday.
If this observation is correct, it may be related to the obligatory focus interpreta-
tion of the associate in a there construction without be. Conceivably the associate
is actually extraposed from VP overtly, in the manner of heavy NP shift.
14. It is also worth noting that the copula does not block ACD. For example, the
U.S. Army's recruiting slogan Be all that you can be! could have been o¨ered in a
form with ACD: Be all that you can!
15. Covert head movement might also ®t the bill, except that overt cases of head
movement generally obey strict locality conditions, whereas the movement dis-
covered here (as discussed below) obeys very weak locality conditions. See Hag-
strom 1998 for discussion and some competing considerations.
96 Notes to Pages 10±13
16. Because most wh-expressions may be understood as D-linked, it is hard to
tell which among the wh-phrases in a multiple question must be D-linked for the
Superiority e¨ect to disappear. My own impression of speakers' judgments is that
either the higher wh-phrase or the wh-phrase that moves overtly must be D-linked,
but opinions di¨er. (For example, Comorovski (1996) claims that it is crucial for
both the overtly moved phrase and the in-situ phrase to be D-linked.) I will try
to sidestep this issue by referring sloppily to ``D-linked questions'' or ``questions
with D-linking,'' even though technically it is wh-phrases that are D-linked. Any
attempt to explain the semantic sources of the syntactic properties of D-linking
will require more conclusive investigation of this issue.
17. To my knowledge the e¨ect seen in (33) was ®rst noted by Kayne (1983), who
o¨ered an account in terms of his Connectedness principleÐa proposed revision
of the Empty Category Principle. Connectedness covers cases in which the highest
wh-in-situ is not lexically governed (i.e., is a subject). However, the ameliorating
e¨ect of a ``third'' wh-phrase is not limited to those cases of the Superiority e¨ect
in which the highest wh-in-situ is a subject.
(i) ??What did you persuade whom to give to Mary?
(ii) What did you persuade who to give to whom?
By contrast, the variant of Connectedness that I proposed (Pesetsky 1982) did cover
these cases, though I didn't say this explicitly. My observations about questions
with three or more wh-phrases have been noted independently by Fiengo (1998).
18. I have encountered a few speakers who ®nd (33b) less than perfect. All
speakers acknowledge a contrast.
19. The double-asterisked examples in (35), (40), and (41) improve when the wh-
in-situ is D-linked. I return to this fact later.
20. Some speakers of some Slavic languages report stronger e¨ects of (37) than do
others. There may be individual variation on this pointÐor crosslinguistic varia-
tion. Empirical work more ®ne-grained than I have undertaken is necessary.
21. Though it is tempting to imagine that clauses introduced with C1-spec uni-
formly receive a single-question interpretation and that clauses introduced with
Cm-spec uniformly receive a multiple-question interpretation, the facts will turn
out to be somewhat more complex. In particular, certain multiple questions (in
English and in other languages) appear to be introduced with C1-spec.
22. Of course, one might continue to maintain that only a gradient (37) in¯uences
the judgment, by positing a nonlinear relation between number of violations and
actual judgments. (An anonymous reviewer reports that comparable judgments in
Serbo-Croatian are detectably gradient, without the major acceptability break
reported here for Bulgarian.) In section 4.3, I argue that English multiple wh-
questions with three or more wh-phrases are also instances of the phenomenon in
(35). This argument will help settle the matter in favor of (36) and a nongradient
(37).
23. This section mostly summarizes results reported by Richards (1997), whose
workÐalong with Beck 1996Ðprovided the inspiration for the research reported
here.
Notes to Pages 16±21 97
24. As discussed later, the contrasts in (43) and (44) weaken in questions with D-
linking. I have also encountered a few speakers who simply do not agree with the
contrasts in (43) and (44), either ®nding all orders acceptable or reporting a hunch
that particular intonation contours render the (b) examples acceptable, indepen-
dent of D-linking. I have not been able to understand what factors distinguish the
grammars of these speakers from the grammars of those who detect the judgments
discussed here, nor have I been able to get to the bottom of the reports of an
intonational di¨erence.
Billings and Rudin (1994) identify several factors that license exceptions to the
Superiority e¨ect among their Bulgarian consultants. These include animacy and
avoidance of phonetic identity. My informants and Richards's have not assented
to the judgments reported by Billings and Rudin. Nonetheless, it is not impossible
to imagine ways in which their data could be understood within the framework of
hypotheses reported here, if considerations of animacy and phonetic identity are
allowed to override the e¨ects of Shortest Move. (I am grateful to Barbara Citko
for bringing Billings and Rudin 1994 to my attention.)
25. Mu
Èller (1998), developing an optimality-theoretic approach to these phe-
nomena, encodes this property directly as a constraint requiring ``parallel move-
ment''Ðmovement that minimizes reversals of c-command. As far as I can tell,
the approaches are empirically indistinguishable in this case.
26. It is worth noting that we might extend Chomsky's requirement to cover all
instances of movement, both overt and covert, if the Y-model is abandoned, as
suggested above.
27. As discussed in detail by Richards (1997), Bulgarian island e¨ects are some-
what more complex than represented here. I have presented the Subjacency argu-
ment simply as a further demonstration of the PMC. The point most relevant here
is the e¨ect of the PMC on AC, as described above. Here again I have found some
variability among speakers.
It should also be noted, as Gu
Ènther Grewendorf (personal communication) has
reminded me, that the condition that bars extraction from islands of adjuncts (or
perhaps non-NPs) is not subject to the PMC. This may provide an argument that
this condition has a nonsyntactic basis.
28. Bos
Ïkovic
Â (1998, 1999) o¨ers an alternative account of the ordering of Bul-
garian triple wh-questions that does not extend to the Subjacency data just con-
sidered, but is compatible with the rest of this book. Like Richards, he assumes
that multiple movement to the same head involves ``tucking in.'' Like Richards
and many others, he assumes that Superiority e¨ects arise from a closeness con-
dition on the operation Attract, an operation in which the featural needs of an
attracting head are satis®ed by copying some expression that can satisfy those
needs.
Unlike Richards, however, Bos
Ïkovic
Â suggests that when multiple wh-movement
to the same C-system is observed, only the ®rst instance of movement results from
attraction of a wh-feature by an interrogative C. (An antecedent for this idea can
be found in Cheng's (1991) theory that the ®rst instance of wh-movement is special
because it alone ``types'' the sentence as interrogative.) All other instances of
98 Notes to Pages 22±26
movement to the speci®er of that C are the result of featural needs intrinsic to the
wh-phrases themselves (focus, perhaps)Ðnot needs intrinsic to C. Thus, in a
question that involves three wh-phrases, the ®rst instance of wh-movement to C is
a case of Attract, but the other two instances are cases of Move. When two wh-
phrases have a need to move to [Spec, CP] in a clause in which a third wh (wh1)
has already been attracted to C, no principle regulates which of the two remaining
wh-phrases moves ®rst. That is why both wh1 wh2 wh3 and wh1 wh3 wh2 orders are
possible. As far as I can tell, most of the results reported here are compatible with
this hypothesis. Note, however, that wh-movement and focus movement must
both target [Spec, CP] in Bulgarian. If the focus position were lower than C, the
closest wh-phrase to C would be the highest wh-phrase in [Spec, Focus], and we
would not expect to ®nd the Superiority e¨ect. This raises questions about focused
non-wh-phrases, which are not freely interspersed among the fronted wh-phrases
of a multiple question, as this approach would seem to predict.
29. This generalization clearly undermines a traditional argument for segregating
covert movement into a component distinct from overt movement: their di¨ering
levels of obedience to subjacency. (The argument has also been made for cases of
single-wh questions in languages like Chinese and Japanese, which also do not
seem to show island e¨ects. For a reanalysis of these cases, see Hagstrom 1998.)
Despite this, Richards develops his PMC in the context of the Y-model and pres-
ents other arguments in support of that model. I will not evaluate these arguments
here.
30. I will not derive this di¨erence between English and Bulgarian from deeper
properties of the grammars of these two languages.
In presenting this material, I have occasionally encountered the view that the
absence of such a connection is a drawback of the proposal. As a spur to further
research, such an objection can be useful. It is always possible that we will dis-
cover a crosslinguistic correlation between following (56) versus (57) and some
other property of grammar. Furthermore, we will never discover such a correla-
tion unless we look for it.
Nonetheless, as an a priori view, the objection is misplaced. Languages do dif-
fer, as a consequence of the role of linguistic experience in language acquisition.
This fact means that certain di¨erences among languages are virtually guaranteed
to be irreducible. It is certainly possible (though not inevitable) that this is true of
the language-particular choice between (56) and (57). The fact that the Germanic
language Yiddish and the Romance language Romanian both show the Slavic
pattern of (57) might support this view, by hinting that obedience to (57) does not
depend too closely on other properties of syntax that distinguish the Slavic family
of languages from its neighbors.
31. There is some controversy about whether string-vacuous wh-movement is
possible (George 1980; Gazdar 1981; Chung and McCloskey 1983; Chomsky
1986a). I assume that it is. The opposite assumption would require nonlethal but
substantial reformulations of my proposals.
32. Kai von Fintel (personal communication) suggests that this phenomenon may
be related to an observation of Irene Heim's (personal communication to von
Notes to Pages 27±34 99
Fintel). I can o¨er a visitor a cup of co¨ee by asking ``Would you like a cup of
co¨ee?'' Suppose the visitor ®nishes that cup and I want to o¨er him another. In
this context I cannot simply repeat ``Would you like a cup of co¨ee?'', even
though a standard semantics for inde®nites allows this. I need to explicitly signal
the fact that the question is a repetition by asking ``Would you like another cup of
co¨ee?'' Repeated VPs (whether elided or not) may require explicit markers like
too or all as part of the same phenomenon. The real puzzle becomes the absence of
this requirement in relative clauses modifying quanti®ers, as in familiar examples
of ACD like (67a), where the addition of also actually makes the relative clause
relatively unacceptable.
33. Taking up a suggestion made by Baltin (1987), Lasnik (1993) suggests that
overt extraposition also resolves ACD in certain types of constructions. To sim-
plify the discussion, I put this possibility aside.
34. As an anonymous reviewer suggests, on this view the impossibility of ACD in
the associate of a there sentence, illustrated in (25), might be a consequence of
assigning a kind of Case to the associate that does not require raising out of the
VPÐfor example, what is sometimes called inherent Case.
35. If there is any phrasal movement for Case, we expect at least the availability
of a reading in which Case-motivated movement of the outer bracketed DP per-
mits ACD resolution in which the entire direct object is a variable (e.g., for (71b),
the interpretation `Melander requested copies of most of the tapes Larsson
requested'). This is generally unavailableÐwhich would be a good argument for
the stronger position (that there is no phrasal movement for Case) were it not that
QR also might be expected to allow this reading. If the outer bracketed DP
undergoes QR (followed by secondary QR of the inner bracketed phrase), it
creates a VP of the sort that could yield the unattested interpretation.
Though Kennedy (1997) discusses this issue at lengthÐtreating the possibility
of double QR as a problemÐSauerland (1998b) notes that under certain circum-
stances this type of reading is available (perhaps marginally), especially when the
inner and outer DPs contain identical material. Bill visited a city near the city
Mary did thus seems to have two readings: `Bill visited a city near the city that
Mary visited a city near' and `Bill visited a city near the city that Mary visited'.
Space does not permit me to sketch Sauerland's proposal, but its logical structure
is quite compatible with the proposals I make here.
36. This conclusion dovetails with an anonymous reviewer's observation that
even predicatesÐexpressions that seem not to need CaseÐmay contain ACD
(e.g., I consider Bill everything that John doesn't).
37. Perhaps the best argument I know in favor of this proposition is Wurm-
brand's (1998) discussion of ``restructuring'' phenomena in German. She argues
persuasively that in®nitival complements to restructuring predicates are sig-
ni®cantly smaller than CP or TP, and may be bare VPs. She then shows that
although a bare VP complement to a restructuring predicate may contain a verb
and its object, the licensing of object Case does not take place within this domain;
instead, it depends on the Case properties of the restructuring predicate. The link
100 Notes to Pages 35±37
between the ``smallness'' of the embedded VP and the absence of objective Case
licensing in that domain provides a good argument that objective Case licensing
depends on VP-external structure.
38. A reviewer notes that if Case movement is feature movement, we face the task
of explaining a set of di¨erences between the feature movement posited for ob-
jective Case checking and the feature movement posited between T and the asso-
ciate NP in the existential there construction. Several papers in Lasnik 1999 o¨er
evidence from the binding theory, scope, and other phenomena that objective
Case-marked NPs in English are interpreted outside the VP in which they origi-
nate. The same is not true of the nominative Case-marked NPs in the there con-
struction. Their scope is con®ned to the VP (as in There do not seem to be many
linguists in the room, where many unambiguously has scope lower than negation),
as are their binding possibilities (*There seem to themselves to be some linguists in
the room). I will not try to resolve this di½culty here.
39. The only slender hope left for Case movement theories of ACD arises if we
can argue that objective Case checking in general involves phrasal movement
(overt or covert)Ðbut that for some reason the pattern of wh-movement under
study restricts objective Case checking to feature movement. I will not explore this
possibility here.
40. As Kai von Fintel (personal communication) notes, the analyses of (74) and
(75) actually coincide if one adopts the proposal by Larson, Den Dikken, and
Ludlow (1997) (reminiscent of Generative Semantics) that posits clausal structure
in the complement position of (75).
41. One weakness in this argument is the possibility that the Case position for
the embedded subject lies outside the scope of want and licenses ACD, but the
de dicto reading in (74a) results from either reconstruction or the scope neutrality
of feature movement for Case reasons. (The latter suggestion is from Kai von
Fintel (personal communication).) The reconstruction option in (74b) might be
blocked by the ACD itself. The argument from (61a) does not have a comparable
weakness.
42. In my (1987) theory of the Superiority e¨ect, the very existence of D-linked
counterexamples constituted an argument for the absence of covert movement of
wh1, since I assumed there that the Superiority e¨ect arises from illicit con®gu-
rations of covert movement, rather than from illicit choices for overt movement.
43. Chomsky's (1995) theory captures the inviolability of AC by building the
condition into the de®nition of the operation Move.
44. An important terminological note: I will continue to use the informal term
wh1-in-situ to designate the highest of a group of wh-phrases when it has not
undergone overt phrasal movementÐregardless of whether wh-feature movement
has taken place from it. In situ in this book means `pronounced in situ'.
45. Covert phrasal wh-movement is not clause-bound. If it were clause-bound,
examples like (i) would violate the multiple-speci®er requirement, contrary to fact,
and would have the same status as (ii).
Notes to Pages 37±41 101
(i) Who did Sue think bought what?
(ii) *What did Sue think who bought?
This result con¯icts with a claim by Baltin (1987), who uses data from ACD as
part of an argument that wh-in-situ does not undergo full phrasal movement of a
sort that could resolve ACD. The example he cites is (iii) (his (14)).
(iii) Who thought that Fred read how many of the books that Bill did D?
According to Baltin, the ellipsis in (iii) may take the lower VP (. . . read t) as its
antecedent, but not the higher VP (* . . . thought that he read t).
I believe that Baltin's factual claim is not correct (even though it is assented to
by Kennedy (1997, 670), who suggests an account). True, there may be a prefer-
ence for lower-clause interpretation of the ellipsis in examples like (iii), but the
upper-clause interpretation does not seem to me to be excluded. Furthermore, no
sensation of deviance arises when the context forces an upper-clause interpretation
of the ellipsisÐas in (iv) and (v), where the modal stranded before the ellipsis site
matches a matrix modal and does not match material from the lower clause.
(iv) Which student will claim that you visited which woman that Mary (also) D
will?
(v) Who might claim that he visited which city that Mary (also) D might?
It seems to me that the correlation between wide scope and the possibility of wide-
scope ACD resolution holds up even in these cases.
46. Barss (to appear) claims that D-linked questions that (appear to) violate
Superiority lack the pair-list reading otherwise available to multiple questions. If
he is correct, a question like Which book did which person buy? can only seek for
its answer a single person-book pair, such that the person bought the bookÐ
whereas the corresponding question that does not resemble a Superiority viola-
tion, Which person bought which book?, may seek a set of person-book pairs as its
answer (Mary bought this book, Bill bought that book, etc.). If correct, Barss's
claim would support my contention that apparent Superiority violations are pos-
sible only in the presence of a special type of interrogative complementizer, since
we would be able to attribute a special semantics to this complementizer.
Unfortunately, both types of multiple question seem to me to have a pair-list
readingÐparticularly when contrasted with examples considered later (section
5.1) that strongly exclude the pair-list reading.
47. It would be useful to acquire evidence that could con®rm or refute the claim
that wh-in-situ in Bulgarian examples like (80a) (on the acceptable parse) does not
undergo covert phrasal movement. To test this, we would have to develop evi-
dence for something like VP-ellipsis in Bulgarian (which is not inconceivable:
Stjepanovic
Â (1998) argues for the existence of VP-ellipsis in closely related Serbo-
Croatian) and tests that can ensure that scrambling of complex NPs out of the VP
has not taken place overtly. I have not undertaken this work.
48. This possibility turns the speakers who do not report any residual Superiority
e¨ect into the unexplained case, but perhaps these speakers are simply less sensi-
tive to (37) than others are.
102 Notes to Pages 42±45
49. Roumyana Izvorski (personal communication) notes that the contrast is even
clearer if the optional interrogative complementizer li is added.
(i) **Na kogo koj li dade kakvo?
(ii) **Kakvo koj li dade na kogo?
(iii) *Na kogo kakvo li dade koj?
50. Curiously, if koj is placed to the left of the verb dade in (84), the resultÐ
though still unacceptableÐimproves once again.
(i) a. ?*Na kogo kakvo koj dade?
b. ?*Kakvo na kogo koj dade?
Perhaps (ia±b) are more acceptable than (83a±b) because they, like (84), have a
parse in which koj has not undergone phrasal wh-movement, but remains (for
pronunciation purposes, at least) in [Spec, TP].
(ii) a. ?*[CP Na kogo kakvo Cm-spec [TP koj dade ]]?
b. ?*[CP Kakvo na kogo Cm-spec [TP koj dade ]]?
The di½culty with this proposal is that verb movement to C is normally obliga-
tory in Bulgarian wh-questions, as in English.
(iii) a. *Na
to
kogo
whom
kakvo
what
Ivan
Ivan
dade?
gave
`To whom did Ivan give what?'
b. Na kogo kakvo dade Ivan?
All things being equal, this should render (ia±b) worse than (84)Ðnot better. I
leave this as a puzzle. I am grateful to Roumyana Izvorski for her judgments and
to an anonymous reviewer for raising the issue.
51. The ®nal wh-phrase in (85b) is included only to balance the corresponding
phrase in (85a), but the judgment should remain constant even if it is eliminated:
What did who order [who that Mary (also) did D] to buy ?
52. As a reviewer points out, a proposal similar to this has been advanced by
Barss (to appear). Barss suggests that the wh-feature on interrogative (``wh'')
phrases is optional, so that when a lower wh-phrase moves to [Spec, CP] over a
higher wh-phrase left in situ, it is only because the higher phrase lacks the wh-
feature. Barss does not discuss what ties this possibility to D-linking, but one
might imagine extending his proposal as suggested in this (straw-man) paragraph.
53. In the present context Bos
Ïkovic
Â's (1998, 1999) alternative to the PMC (see
note 28) would do just as well.
54. It is in this limited sense that AC is ``violable'' even in my theory, though
formally the ``violations'' actually accord with a general format for constraint
satisfaction.
55. For me, whom is the obligatory form for object wh-in-situ, and who is the form
for both objects and subjects when moved. As far as I can tell, the choice between
who and whom makes no di¨erence in this paradigm, except that for any given
speaker the morphological rules followed by that speaker should be used in con-
structing examples.
Notes to Pages 45±49 103
56. It goes without saying that the PMC is conceptually surprising in its own
right. Obviously, we would like to understand why the PMC holds. Nonetheless,
for present purposes it is su½cient to view the PMC as a placeholder for a future
explanation of the phenomenon. As long as the placeholder correctly identi®es a
real phenomenon, the signi®cance of this discussion lies in the link it draws be-
tween otherwise distinct sets of facts in English and Bulgarian.
57. Of course, it could be argued that the notion of constraint ranking in OT is
simply a di¨erent notion of what it means to be an ``apparent'' violation of a
constraint. In any case, the issue is ®nding the correct account of the apparent
violations. In lectures at the 1997 LSA Linguistic Institute at Cornell University, I
presented an OT account of many of the phenomena subsequently analyzed as
they are here. The proposal was a precursor to the present ones and included
many of the components of this discussion, including the multiple-speci®er re-
quirement (with a D-linking exception) and AC. It also posited a Movement
Faithfulness constraint that favors derivations whose patterns of wh-movement
and nonmovement match those of an ``input'' derivation. (In OT phonology,
among the constraints governing pronunciation are some that favor ``faithfulness''
to an input formÐin just this fashion. Only constraints ranked higher than a given
faithfulness constraint can enforce a deviation from the input with respect to the
property singled out by the faithfulness constraint.) Movement Faithfulness
strongly resembles the proposal made by Legendre, Smolensky, and Wilson
(1998).
The ranking posited was this:
(i) Multiple-Specifier Requirement g Movement Faithfulness g Attract
Closest
Movement Faithfulness occupies the same logical place in this OT proposal
that the feature movement option occupies in the proposal presented here. It is
what licenses apparent violations of Attract Closest, while not tolerating vio-
lations of the Multiple-Specifier Requirement. The system handled the data I
have discussed as follows:
. Given an input derivation that violates the Multiple-Specifier Requirement
(e.g., *What did who buy?, with no covert movement of who), the Multiple-
Specifier Requirement will reject it in favor of those alternative derivations in
which at least two wh-phrases undergo movement, and Attract Closest will
choose the one in which the highest wh-phrase moves ®rst.
. Given a binary question in which the Multiple-Specifier Requirement is sat-
is®ed in the input (e.g., Who bought what?, with covert movement of what, or
*What did who buy?, with covert movement of who), Movement Faithfulness
will allow the input and all alternatives that share the same pattern of movement
and nonmovement. Attract Closest will favor the one in which the highest wh-
phrase moves ®rst, even if that property was not met in the input.
. Given a nonbinary multiple question in which the Multiple-Specifier Re-
quirement is satis®ed, but wh1 is not moved (e.g., What did who give to whom?,
with covert movement only of whom), faithfulness will exclude derivations that
satisfy Attract Closest, since they involve a movement pattern distinct from the
104 Notes to Page 50
input, and Attract Closest, by the logic of OT, will be violated by the winning
candidate.
To explain the facts just discussed in the text, it was necessary to stipulate that
Attract Closest is nongradient. If presented only with candidates in which wh1
remains in situ, so that the closest wh-phrase has not moved, Attract Closest
``gave up'' and enforced no preference among other movement possibilities. This
property of Attract Closest could not be brought together with data handled by
Richards's PMC, which I take to be a notable disadvantage of this OT account
compared with its non-OT sibling defended here.
58. I am not, of course, providing a general argument against ranking and viola-
bility within the theory of movementÐmerely suggesting that one potential argu-
ment from Superiority violations does not support an OT view. Consequently, it
might turn out that movement theory invokes a system in which constraints are
ranked and violable that also countenances wh-feature movement as the ®rst in-
stance of movement in an apparent Superiority violation. Apparent Superiority
violations would just not play a special role in arguing for the OT character of this
system.
59. It is important to emphasize that the operation of wh-feature movement was
not posited simply to maintain the view that AC is inviolable. It is also crucial to
remember that the PMC considerations discussed in this section also converge on
this conclusion.
60. One might add to the list semiarchaic whence/thence and whither/thither. I am
grateful to Morris Halle for discussion of the morphological and phonological
issues connected with the English wh-words. The parallelisms in (91) are, of
course, not an original observation; they have frequently been noted in philologi-
cal and other studies.
61. My phonological remarks should be understood as suggestions that the rela-
tion between putative underlying form and surface form could be the result of a
natural process. I am aware that serious phonology imposes a higher standard of
proof than my speculations meet.
62. The forms with so- are demonstratives distal with respect to speaker. The
forms with a- are distal with respect to speaker and hearer.
63. This view might help us understand Chomsky's (1995) observation that cer-
tain instances of feature movement take other features along with them (as ``free
riders,'' in his terminology). The packaging of features in this way may re¯ect the
distribution of morphemes in the language. For example, if Case and number are
packaged together, as they typically are in Indo-European languages, we might
expect that feature movement of Case also moves number.
64. The wh-morpheme discussed here seems to be quite distinct from the ``Q-
morpheme'' on wh-phrases discussed at length by Hagstrom (1998). Hagstrom
hypothesizes that the Q-morpheme is a quanti®er over choice functions that
moves to C to generate the observed interpretation for interrogative clauses. He
argues that the Japanese morpheme -ka, usually identi®ed as an interrogative
Notes to Pages 51±55 105
complementizer, is actually this morpheme after overt movement from a wh-
phrase. The properties he identi®es as properties of -ka, however, are quite
orthogonal to the properties required of our wh-morpheme. For one thing, it
appears to be present on only one wh-phrase in a multiple question, with some
evidence that it appears only on the lowest of a group of wh-phrases when a mul-
tiple question receives a pair-list reading. It is strikingly hard to identify a seman-
tic function for the wh-feature discussed here, at least within Hagstrom's
framework. I leave this key issue for future study.
65. The mechanism by which the wh-feature percolates is unclear. In languages
like Quechua and Basque, where clauses undergo pied-piping, the feature appar-
ently percolates to larger constituents than is possible in English. Furthermore, the
English conventions appear to be sui generis, which makes them hard to under-
stand in terms of deeper principles. It appears that linear peripherality plays
an important role. The basic rule for identifying an interrogative wh-phrase in
English seems to be this:
(i) A wh-phrase has the form [(Adv) (P) wh . . . ].
If the condition in (i) is met, the wh-feature can be embedded inde®nitely far down
in the structure.
(ii) a. Mary wondered [whose brother's cousin's shoes] we had found at the
playground.
b. *Mary wondered [the cousin of whose brother's shoes] we had found at
the playground.
(iii) a. Mary wondered [in whose brother's cousin's shoes] we had been
walking.
b. *Mary wondered [in the cousin of whose brother's shoes] we had been
walking.
(iv) a. Mary wondered [how many people's rights] the government had
trampled on.
b. Mary wondered [on how many people's rights] the government had
trampled.
c. Mary wondered [exactly how many people's rights] the government had
trampled on.
d. *Mary wondered [the rights of how many people] the government had
trampled on.
(v) a. Mary wondered [which violinist's cadenzas] Kremer intended to play.
b. *Mary wondered [the cadenzas by which violinist] Kremer intended to
play.
Perhaps the wh-feature adheres to a syntactic phrase by virtue of occupying the
left periphery of the ®rst phonological phrase of that constituent (on the assump-
tion that leading prepositions and adverbs may have clitic status and do not need
to belong to this phrase).
66. In OT terms we might think of the two principles as tied constraints (Pesetsky
1997, 1998).
106 Notes to Page 55
67. For the details of the relevant conditions, Ochi follows Takahashi (1994).
He argues, for example, that adjunction to individual members of multimember
chains is forbidden by a general ``uniformity'' requirement on operations that
a¨ect chains. If subjects in [Spec, IP] have moved from a lower position, this
requirement will predict the islandhood of subjects. Adjunct constituents that are
semantically interpreted via coordination, including VP adjuncts and relative
clauses, also bar adjunction. Thus, the islandhood of VP adjuncts and relative
clauses is also predicted.
On one key point Ochi's hypotheses and mine are incompatible. Ochi follows
Takahashi in arguing that the constraint on generalized pied-piping that requires
extremely local landing sites is ``mover-oriented'' rather than ``attractor-oriented.''
He suggests, in fact, that the relevant constraint is Shortest Move. If this were the
case, we would expect the PMC to never license violations of island conditions, for
the same reason it never licenses violations of the ``tucking in'' requirement (as
discussed in the ®nal paragraph of section 2.2). There is no ``tax relief'' from
tucking in because Shortest Move is not a constraint governing the distance be-
tween an attractor and an attractee, but a constraint that chooses the exact posi-
tion near a given attractor to which copying takes place. There is, as we have seen,
``tax relief'' from island conditions. Consequently, the two phenomena cannot
both be traced back to Shortest Move.
68. If I were to substitute Agree for feature movement in my account of wh-
con®gurations, the distribution of AC and Subjacency e¨ects might be explained
as follows:
1. Feature matching obeys AC, except insofar as the PMC allows exceptions.
2. Movement is subject to island conditions (Subjacency), except insofar as the
PMC allows exceptions.
3. Movement of b to a speci®er of a is possible only if a feature of a has been
matched with a feature of b.
69. Needless to say, contexts in which the ``good'' examples are natural are often
rather recherche
Â. For example, (99a) requires a context in which the speaker knows
that certain sensitive issues are to be avoided when speaking with certain diplomats.
70. This observation is similar to a point made by Beck (1996) for German.
71. There is also the (possibly distinct) functional reading, which I will ignore
here. (It will ultimately be important to investigate these results in light of Chier-
chia's (1993) hypothesis that the pair-list reading is a species of functional reading.)
72. For very similar data and discussion, see Barss, to appear. Barss goes on to
argue that the wide-scope answering pattern in examples like (108) does not
include a pair-list reading for the two wh-phrases. Instead, the two wh-phrases are
claimed to have an independent interpretation that, were it not for the universal
quanti®er every, would invite a single-pair response. This is in keeping with Barss's
claim (disputed in note 46 above) that apparent Superiority violations of all sorts
generally lack the pair-list readingÐa claim at odds with the much sharper con-
trast between pair-list readings and their absence found with the intervention
e¨ect.
Notes to Pages 58±63 107
73. The illuminating contrast between every and almost every is adapted from
Beck (1996), though she does not o¨er the explanation suggested here.
74. My statement contains the phrase a clause interpreted as a question, because if
the question is embedded in further structure, wide-scope readings are available
that do end up expressing requests for incomplete information or requests for
no answer at all. Example (104) is a good case in point. On the other hand, the
observation in (111) extends beyond the content of [Spec, CP]. For example, (i)
cannot be a request for a partial list of people.
(i) aIn part, who did Mary invite to the party?
However, (ii) may be a description of a partial answer.
(ii) John told me in part who Mary invited to the party.
75. One might imagine a question that requests an absence of an answer in a
discourse in which it was conjoined with other questions. For example, one might
imagine being able to use (i) to express the thought otherwise expressed by Tell me
which book Mary gave to John, but don't tell me which book anyone from Paris
gave to John.
(i) aWhich book did Mary give to John, but which book did no one from Paris
give to John?
The absence of this possibility is therefore of interest. Another unaskable question
in the same vein is (ii).
(ii) Which problems did no one except Mary solve?
The question in (ii) can be a request for the names of the problems such that Mary
solved them and no one else solved them. This is the narrow-scope reading for no
one except Mary. The wide-scope reading for no one would amount to a request to
keep quiet about who besides Mary solved problems, while providing the names
of problems that Mary (possibly along with others) solved. A report of such a
question, which would show no one except Mary taking higher-clause scope, might
be something like (iii).
(iii) He was only interested in Mary's performance on the exam. He asked which
problems no one except Mary solved.
Thinking about (iii) helps bring out the interest of the missing reading in (ii).
76. I embed the question under tell me because each NP does not easily allow
wide scope over wh in a matrix question.
(i) Which book did each student buy ? [? with a pair-list reading]
In this respect it behaves a bit like the quanti®ers in (113). Perhaps ``aggressively
requesting'' complete information within a question clause is not allowed, just
as requests for incomplete information are not allowed. What the notion of
``aggressively requesting'' might be, such that it distinguishes every from each in
the correct way, is unclear.
77. Counterevidence to this conjecture comes from Bulgarian, where the one
consultant I have asked (Roumyana Izvorski) reports neither marked unaccept-
ability nor loss of the pair-list reading when a D-linked wh-in-situ is separated
from interrogative C by negation. Recall that Bulgarian allows wh-phrases to
108 Notes to Pages 64±67
appear in situ when they are D-linked. I argued in section 4.2 that these phrases
are truly in situ, in the sense that their link to C involves feature movement, rather
than phrasal movement. Izvorski does report that (i) is somewhat worse than (ii).
(i) [?]Koj
who
ne
not
dade
gave
kakvo
what
na
to
Stefan?
Stefan
`Who did not give what to Stefan?'
(ii) Koj dade kakvo na Stefan?
However, she also reports that (iii) is a bit worse than (iv), making it impossible to
con®dently attribute the constrast between (i) and (ii) to the intervention e¨ect
discussed in the text.
(iii) [?]Koj
who
kakvo
what
ne
not
dade
gave
na
to
Stefan?
Stefan
(iv) Koj kakvo dade na Stefan?
It is conceivable that Bulgarian reveals a genuine ¯aw in my characterization
either of the special e¨ects of D-linking or of the intervention e¨ect. It is also
possible that other factors are masking the expected e¨ect. For example, the deg-
radation observed in (iii) might indicate that negation in Bulgarian has scopal
properties (e.g., obligatory widest scope) that, on the one hand, interfere with
multiple questions altogether and, on the other hand, bypass the intervention
e¨ect. I leave this as an open problem for the hypotheses advanced here.
78. If the Agree alternative to feature movement is adopted, then it is the mere
fact that the restriction remains within TP (the ``nuclear scope''), rather than the
existence of separation, that produces the e¨ect. All my generalizations remain
intact.
79. Beck also observes an intervention e¨ect with the German ``partial move-
ment'' construction. The partial movement construction is a form of interrogative
whose [Spec, CP] contains an invariant was `what', and the wh-phrase that would
otherwise occupy that [Spec, CP] is instead found in some lower [Spec, CP]. For
example:
(i) Was
what
glaubst
believe
du,
you
mit
with
wem
whom
Hans
Hans
gesprochen
spoken
hat?
has
`Who do you believe that Hans spoke to?'
The intervention e¨ect shows itself in examples like these, from Beck 1996:
(ii) *Was
what
glaubst
believe
du
you
nicht,
not
mit
with
wem
whom
Hans
Hans
gesprochen
spoken
hat?
has
`Who do you not believe that Hans spoke to?'
(iii) ??
Was
what
glaubt
believes
niemand,
nobody
wen
whom
Karl
Karl
gesehen
seen
hat?
has
`Who does nobody believe that Karl has seen?'
(iv) ??
Was
what
glaubt
believes
fast
almost
jeder,
everyone
wen
whom
Karl
Karl
gesehen
seen
hat?
has
`Who does almost everyone believe Karl has seen?'
Notes to Pages 67±69 109
Cheng (1997, to appear) has argued that partial movement in German involves
phrasal movement followed by feature movement of the wh-feature (a conclusion
that may dovetail with Cole and Hermon's (1998) demonstration that the rela-
tionship between the wh-phrase and the invariant interrogative marker obeys
island conditions in Malay). If we adapt this hypothesis to the overall account I
have proposed, we might handle the e¨ects seen in (ii)±(iv) in the same way as the
e¨ects discussed in the text.
80. The well-known constraint on separation of French combien `how many' from
its restriction discovered by Obenauer (1984) is presumably an instance of the
intervention e¨ect in a separation construction (see also Rizzi 1990).
(i) a. [Combien
how-many
de
of
ve
Âhicules]
cars
a-t-il
did he
conduit ?
drive
`How many cars did he drive?'
b. Combien a-t-il conduit [ de ve
Âhicules]?
(ii) a. [Combien
how-many
de
of
ve
Âhicules]
cars
n'a-t-il pas
did-he not
conduit ?
drive
`How many cars didn't he drive?'
b. *Combien n'a-t-il pas conduit [ de ve
Âhicules]?
As noted by Longobardi (1986), among others, similar e¨ects can be detected in
English, when attention is paid to the relative scope of the many NP portion of
how many questions with respect to scope markers. This shows that the interven-
tion e¨ect is sensitive to reconstruction phenomena, not a surprise for a condition
on LF.
81. I am extremely grateful to Jim McCloskey for collecting these data, which
represent the judgments of a number of West Ulster English speakers gathered in
San Francisco. He writes (personal communication):
The e¨ect is weakest for simple negation as in [(130a)]. Everyone was very clear about
[(130b,d,e)], but about [(130a)] there was more doubt and more debate (people began mak-
ing up elaborate scenarios about shopping lists etc). [(130b,d,e)] are uninterpretable, but
interpretations can be constructed for [(130a)]. The interpretation which is available is, in my
opinion, one in which the wh-phrase is strongly D-linked.
The interpretation that is available for [(130c)] is, in my opinion anyway (though the
people I was working with couldn't articulate this), one in which the subject quanti®er has
wider scope than the wh-phrase (i.e. for every relevant person, give me a complete listing of
the things they got on Christmas morning). The other scope (wh > every) is incoherent with
[(130c)].
As McCloskey (2000) notes, the phenomenon of wh-all separation is of more
general interest, especially because the all may be stranded in what appear to be
intermediate [Spec, CP]s. For more discussion, see McCloskey 2000.
82. As already noted, one also wants to know why the intervention e¨ect exists.
Considerations advanced by Reinhart (1997) suggest a possible line of attack,
though some rethinking is necessary. Reinhart states that in Pesetsky 1987 I pro-
pose that all D-linked wh-in-situ are interpreted in situ, rather than by covert
phrasal movement. She then shows that on the simplest assumptions about in-situ
interpretation of wh-phrases, this suggestion fails. In particular, in a downward-
110 Notes to Pages 69±70
entailing environment, if we interpret the restriction on a wh-phrase as a conjunc-
tion at the lowest possible level, multiple questions should allow all manner of silly
answersÐfor example, Lucie will invite Donald Duck, and Bill will invite Mickey
Mouse in (i)±(ii).
(i) Who will be o¨ended if we invite which philosopher?
a. i. Wrong interpretation
For which hx; yi, if we invite y and y is a philosopher, then x will be
o¨ended?
ii. Answer
Lucie±Donald Duck; Bill±Mickey Mouse; . . . [i.e., Lucie will be
o¨ended if [DD is a philosopher and] we invite DD.]
b. Right interpretation
For which hx; yi, y is a philosopher, and if we invite y, x will be
o¨ended?
(ii) Which linguist didn't invite which philosopher?
a. i. Wrong interpretation
For which hx; yi, x is a linguist & [it is not the case that y is a
philosopher and x invited y]?
ii. Answer
Lucie±Donald Duck; Bill±Mickey Mouse
b. Right interpretation
For which hx; yi, x is a linguist & y is a philosopher & [it is not the case
that x invited y]?
On the one hand, Reinhart is not correct about the details of my (1987) proposal.
In that paper I argue that D-linked wh may (not ``must'') be interpreted in situ.
Nonetheless, one wonders whetherÐin those cases where the only parse for a
multiple question involves wh-feature movementÐthe deviance attributed to the
intervention e¨ect might actually be attributable to the ``Donald Duck'' problem.
It is necessary to imagine that questions that fail to control their answers are
actually felt as deviantÐwhich of course is the sticking point here. Nonetheless, if
this conjecture is correct, Reinhart's observation may have (semi-inadvertently)
provided the key to understanding the intervention e¨ect. That is, she may be
correct in her argument that in-situ restrictions cause interpretive di½culties, but
wrong in her assumption that this poses a problem for theories that allow for
in-situ interpretation. It might instead o¨er a solution to a problem: why the
intervention e¨ect holds. Unfortunately, this proposal does not cover cases of
the intervention e¨ect involving interveners like every, which are not downward
entailing for their nuclear scope. If these cases are of a piece with the others,
Reinhart's suggestion is not apropos here. Honcoop (1998) o¨ers an alternative
that might be investigated in its place.
83. In principle, any sort of antecedent-contained anaphora could be used to dis-
cover whether a restriction on a quanti®er or wh-phrase exits its VP by means
of covert phrasal movement. For example, one might hope that antecedent-
contained clausal anaphora as in (i) can be taken as a probe of the appropriate
sort, where that seems to take a clause of the form PRO invite t as its antecedent.
Notes to Page 71 111
(i) John wanted to invite exactly those people who didn't want him to do that.
If this type of anaphora could provide a test akin to ACD, we could use this test in
languages like German that do not allow VP-ellipsis. Unfortunately, this type of
anaphora di¨ers from VP-ellipsis in allowing a variety of contextually salient
antecedents, including entirely nonlinguistic ones. For example, that in (ii) can
take a visually presented action as its antecedent.
(ii) I wish you wouldn't do that!
As discussed earlier, the inability of VP-ellipsis to take antecedents not present in
the linguistic environment is crucial to the link between ACD and covert phrasal
movement. In fact, such a link seems to be absent for clausal anaphora. An
argument that ACD could only be resolved by movement came from Larson and
May's (1990) facts discussed in (5). In (5) it was crucial that the elided VP in (iii)
cannot take the higher VP headed by refuse as its antecedent without the every
phrase taking wide scope.
(iii) John refused to visit [every city Mary did [VP D]]. [cannot mean: John
refused to do the following thing: visit every city Mary refused to visit.]
Since the referent of clausal anaphora does not have to be present in the linguistic
environment, it can be merely ``evoked'' by the linguistic environment. Conse-
quently, we do not ®nd the link between scope and antecedent-contained ana-
phora seen in (iii).
(iv) John refused to call every employee who wanted him to do that. [can
mean: John refused to do the following thing: call every employee who
wanted John to refuse to call him.]
84. The observation is due to Beck (1996), who does not, however, develop an
account of the contrast with English.
85. Beck (1996, 3, fn. 2) o¨ers a more nuanced description of the unacceptability
judgment:
The ``??
'' means that the data are incomprehensible (uninterpretable) rather than simply
ungrammatical. I would accordingly ask native speakers to try and interpret the sentences,
not simply judge whether they ``sound bad.''
Some English speakers describe much the same e¨ect. Though Beck does not
mention the improved acceptability with a single-pair reading in her (1996) article,
it was she who ®rst mentioned the fact to me, in the context of German.
86. If the Agree variant is correct, they have in common with separation con-
structions the presence of the restriction on quanti®cation inside the nuclear
``scope'' (the main body of the clause). See note 78.
87. For example, one might be tempted to argue that the presence of separation
constructions in German that are not allowed in English indicates a greater overall
``separability'' of the components of wh-phrases. If feature movement or mor-
pheme movement is favored over phrasal movement, this greater overall separa-
bility might yield (138). As far as I can tell, however, languages and dialects di¨er
substantially in the availability of separation constructions in ways that do not
correlate with (138). For example, the Slavic languages show a wide variety of
112 Notes to Pages 71±73
separation constructions yet allow multiple phrasal movement, as we have seen in
Bulgarian.
88. I state (141) informally because its place in the overall scheme of things is
underdetermined by the available facts. The Complementizer Choice Rule might
be part of the theory of merger in a bottom-to-top derivation, in which case a
more careful formulation might be as follows:
(i) Consider a TP t that contains n instances of wh not moved to its scope
position. An interrogative complementizer k with speci®er potential m may
merge with t only if the lexicon contains no interrogative complementizer k0
with speci®er potential p, such that m < p U n.
This formulation has the odd result of ruling out extraction of a wh-phrase from a
nonmultiple embedded question (but not from an embedded multiple question);
that is, it attributes one, but not all, of the cases of the Wh-Island Constraint to
the principle of complementizer merger. If this consequence is false, one should
look for alternative hypotheses.
For example, the rule could also be understood as a ®lter on wh-movement,
along the following lines:
(ii) An interrogative complementizer k with speci®er potential m may attract n
instances of wh only if the lexicon contains no interrogative complementizer
k0
with speci®er potential p, such that m < p U n.
I leave the investigation of these possibilities and others for further research.
89. The Complementizer Choice Rule as stated in (141) is compatible with the
treatment of D-linked questions o¨ered in (79). According to (79), the central
peculiarity of D-linked wh lies in the fact that feature movement from a D-linked
wh can satisfy a requirement of Cm-spec that is otherwise satis®able only by phrasal
movement. I also considered an alternative to (79) according to which the excep-
tional feature of questions with D-linking is di¨erent: they allow a multiple-
question interpretation with C1-spec. If the alternative is on the right track, we do
not need (79), but D-linked questions are some kind of exception to (141). As
noted earlier, more work is needed before we can understand (rather than merely
describe) why wh with the semantics of D-linking has the syntactic peculiarities
that it does. (I owe these points to discussion with Norvin Richards.)
90. The truth is more complicated. In addition to cases that I turn to in the next
paragraph, certain types of wh-phrases do seem to yield a Superiority e¨ect. For
example, as Armin Mester (personal communication) notes, phrases of the type
that I called ``aggressively non-D-linked'' in Pesetsky 1987 yield something like a
Superiority e¨ect. Judgments di¨er, but many speakers report a contrast between
examples like (ia) and (ib)Ða discovery independently reported by Wiltschko
(1997). (The examples are Wiltschko's.)
(i) a. Wer
who
zum
to-the
Teufel
devil
hat
has
wen
whom
gesehen?
seen
`Who the devil saw whom?'
b. ?*Wen zum Teufel hat wer gesehen?
Notes to Pages 74±76 113
Conceivably it is wrong to argue, as I have, that German lacks Cm-spec entirely.
Instead, it is possible that German reserves Cm-spec in multiple questions for
explicitly non-D-linked questions (with C1-spec as a default) as a mirror image of
the fact that English reserves C1-spec in multiple questions for explicitly D-linked
questions (with Cm-spec as a default).
There are a few other ways to bring out a Superiority e¨ect in German. Haider
(2000) notes that it is unacceptable to overtly move a wh-phrase over another wh-
phrase when the two are identical. The verb beten `ask', unlike versprechen
`promise', takes an accusative object.
(ii) a. Wen
whom-acc
hat
has
er
he
denn
prt
wem
whom-dat
versprochen [
promised
davon
from-it
abzuhalten]?
to-keep-away
`Who did he promise to keep whom away from it?' [translation reverses the
movement pattern]
b. *Wen
whom-acc
hat
has
er
he
denn
prt
wen
whom-acc
gebeten [
asked
davon
from-it
abzuhalten]?
to-keep-away
I have no account for this fact.
91. Wiltschko (1997) o¨ers another interesting problem for this conclusion. Con-
sider a multiple question with two wh-phrases in which both phrases are taken to
range over the same set containing two individuals. In German such a question
yields a Superiority e¨ect.
(i) Peter is walking his stubborn dog on the leash. The dog is dragging really
hard in the direction of his favorite tree.
a. Wer
who
fu
Èhrt
leads
denn
prt
hier
here
wen
whom
an
on
der
the
Leine?
leash
`Who is leading whom here on the leash?'
b. *Wen fu
Èhrt denn hier wer an der Leine?
(ii) I have heard that Peter and Mary had an a¨air. Can you tell me:
a. Wer
who
hat
has
wen
whom
verfu
Èhrt?
seduced
`Who seduced whom?'
b. *Wen hat wer verfu
Èhrt?
(iii) I am sure that Peter and Mary must have talked to each other on the phone.
a. Weiût
know
du,
you
wer
who
wen
whom
angerufen
called
hat?
has
`Do you know who called whom?'
b. *Weiût du, wen wer angerufen hat?
One can imagine ways in which such questions might di¨er syntactically from
other questions to yield these e¨ects, but the solutions that come to my mind are
mechanical. For example, in English the wh-phrase that moves overtly in other
multiple questions has a special status as the ``sorting key'' for the answer (Kuno
1982). Thus, a person who asks Which person bought which book? normally
expects an answer that exhausts some domain of people, but not necessarily any
domain of books, whereas the person who asks Which book did which person buy?
normally has the opposite expectation. No such di¨erence can be imagined in
114 Notes to Page 76
Wiltschko's cases, where the expected answer naturally exhausts the relevant set
no matter what. Suppose the requirement of a wh-speci®er needs to be satis®ed as
early as possible in the derivation, except when delaying the requirement makes
an interpretive di¨erence. Such a condition on the patterns of movement might
account for Wiltschko's observation, since the (b) examples, if I am correct, show
feature movement preceding phrasal movement.
92. Previous proposals link the absence of Superiority e¨ects with subject wh-in-
situ to the absence of that-trace e¨ects in German (e.g., Haider 1986; see also
Mu
Èller 1995). My proposal does not make this link.
93. I am grateful to Irene Heim (personal communication) for this observation.
Furthermore, if a higher clause is added to (147) so that even (147a) involves wh-
movement from an embedded clause, three of ®ve speakers polled found that the
di¨erence disappeared. Two speakers still felt that (147b) remained less accept-
able, but one volunteered the observation that wh-extraction from one ®nite clause
(as in (147a)) is in general more acceptable for her than extraction from two ®nite
clauses (as in (147b)).
(i) a. ??/*Wer
who
denkst
think
du,
you
daû
that
glaubte,
believed
daû
that
der Peter
the Peter
when
whom
vorstellte?
introduced
b. *Wen
whom
denkst
think
du,
you
daû
that
wer
who
glaubte,
believed
daû
that
der
the
Peter
Peter
ihr
to-her
vorstellte?
introduced
A particularly interesting case might be provided by Dutch, if the status of the
Superiority e¨ect for Dutch speakers can be resolved. Some Dutch speakers, at
least, present judgments on the Superiority and intervention e¨ects that are iden-
tical (or nearly so) to those reported for German, with three exceptions. First,
Dutch lacks a scrambling process that places objects to the left of subjects (John-
son and Tomioka 1997). Second, interrogative wh-phrases move freely from
embedded ®nite clauses. Third, Dutch fails to display the contrast in (147) (Sjef
Barbiers, personal communication). For these speakers, one might argue that
scrambling does not provide the explanation for the phenomena discussed here.
Koster (1987, 204) and Aoun et al. (1987, ex. (61)) do note a contrast between
Dutch equivalents of Who saw what? and What (did) who see? that looks like a
Superiority e¨ect. Although the judgment reported by Aoun et al. is assented to
by van de Koot (1988), Koster expresses doubts about the strength of the e¨ect
(p. 236, fn. 12). Concerning (i), he writes, ``I ®nd it di½cult to make up my
mind. . . . The sentence does not seem entirely ungrammatical, which again casts
doubt on the generality of the proposed explanations [in terms of a Superiority
e¨ect].'' (Koster himself cites (ii) without an asterisk, though earlier he asterisks a
comparable example.)
(i) Wat
what
heeft
has
wie
who
gekocht?
bought
As Gu
Ènther Grewendorf (personal communication) points out, it is also worth
noting that Bulgarian shows Superiority e¨ects despite also allowing scrambling,
as perhaps (according to Grewendorf ) does Turkish. Japanese (discussed here in
section 5.5) provides a similar case. Thus, there does not appear to be a correla-
Notes to Pages 76±78 115
tion between the availability of scrambling and the apparent absence of Superior-
ity e¨ects.
94. Beck (1996) notes that wh may appear to the left of a subject if it is quanti-
®edÐperhaps a (mysterious) instance of the otherwise forbidden scrambling of
wh-phrases, as suggested by Sauerland (1996). If so, (i) is a counterexample to the
generalization given in the text.
(i) Wer
who
hat
has
gesagt,
said
daû
that
wen
whom-acc
niemand
nobody
mag?
likes
`Who said that nobody likes whom?'
95. The translations of (150a±b) and (151a±b) are, of course, not fully acceptable
English, since they show the Superiority e¨ectÐbut there are no fully acceptable
alternatives.
96. Kai von Fintel (personal communication) reports that extraction from the
embedded clause without separation is degraded, to a level better than (152c) but
worse than (152b). I do not know why this is the case. It is also worth noting that
the who of NP construction does not display the same contrast as that seen in
(152) and (153). This might be due to the possibility of taking the PP to modify the
clause (`among the musicians, . . . ') in clause-initial position.
97. I quote Fanselow's data here. Some speakers dislike extraction from the
object of certain verbs, including kritisieren `criticize'. Such speakers should judge
comparable examples with a variety of main verbs.
98. Gu
Ènther Grewendorf (personal communication) notes that many German
speakers entirely lack Weak Crossover e¨ects with wh-phrases, so a strong burden
would fall on the claim that such e¨ects are generally stronger with feature
movement. Wiltschko (1997, 125) notes speaker variation in weak crossover
judgments. I will not tackle this problem here.
99. Also relevant are examples like (i), which should be compared with the
examples discussed in section 3.1.
(i) ?*I need to know [which girl that Mary did D] Sue ordered which boy to
congratulate . [i.e., I need to know the girl-boy pairs such that both
Sue and Mary ordered the boy of the pair to congratulate the girl of the
pair]
The example cannot be ruled out by any failure of ACD, per se, since the deletion
site has undergone overt movement. The problem seems to be the fact that which
boy fails to c-command a variable that it must bind within the deletion site, and
feature movement seems to fail to allow this binding.
100. Beck and Kim (1996) provide similar examples from Korean.
(i) a. *Amuto
anyone
nuku-lu
Æl
who-acc
po-chi
see-ing
anh-ass-ni?
neg-did-q
b. Nuku-lu
Æl amuto po-chi anh-ass-ni?
101. Miyagawa (1998) notes that the choice of quanti®er makes a di¨erence here.
In particular, minna `every' does not produce the intervention e¨ectÐone of many
116 Notes to Pages 78±85
di¨erences between minna and other universal quanti®ers discussed by Miyagawa.
I will not attempt to account for this fact here.
102. The order of fronted wh-phrases matters. If the order is switched, as in (i),
only a single-pair reading is possible.
(i) Nani-o dare-ni [John-ka Bill]-ga ageta no? [single-pair only]
This is expected if one of the scrambled wh-phrases must reconstruct, but it is
unclear why that would be the case. Perhaps if nani-o had to be parsed as an
instance of ``
A-scrambling'' like instances of long-distance scrambling (Webelhuth
1988; Mahajan 1990; Saito 1992), reconstruction would be forced, as suggested by
Paul Hagstrom (personal communication). I leave the problem unresolved here.
103. Gu
Ènther Grewendorf (personal communication) points out that wh-in-situ
appears to generate an intervention e¨ect in German separation constructions.
(i) Was
what
hat
has
der
the
Professor
professor
den
the
Studenten [
students
alles]
all
geraten?
advised
`What-all did the professor advise the students?'
(ii) *Was
what
hat
has
wer
who
den
the
Studenten [
students
alles]
all
geraten?
advised
As he notes, this fact is a problem for my hypotheses concerning Japanese. If all
Japanese wh-phrases associate with C via feature movement, then the higher of
two wh-phrases in a multiple question might be expected to block the existence of
the lower, just as wer in (ii) blocks the separation of was from alles. I leave this
issue open; perhaps the set of interveners is not quite the same in Japanese as it is
in GermanÐas argued by Beck and Kim (1996) with respect to Korean and
German.
Another open question noted by Grewendorf concerns subjacency. I observed
in section 4.7 that the hypothesized wh-feature movement in English does not
show island e¨ects of the sort usually attributed to the Subjacency Condition and
does not pay a ``Subjacency tax'' for later instances of phrasal wh-movement. If
Japanese wh-in-situ always associate with interrogative C by wh-feature move-
ment, one might expect them also to disobey Subjacency and not to pay a ``Sub-
jacency tax.'' This is true up to a point. Wh-phrases quite generally fail to show
Complex NP Constraint e¨ects, but they do show Wh-Island e¨ects, as docu-
mented by Watanabe (1992). In addition, they do pay a ``Subjacency tax'' (gov-
erned by the PMC) for wh-island violations, as Watanabe also documents.
Wh-feature movement of dare-ni in (iv) to the matrix complementizer no permits
subsequent feature movement from nani-o to the matrix complementizer to avoid
the Wh-Island e¨ect seen in (iii).
(iii) ??John-wa
John-top
[Mary-ga
Mary-nom
nani-o
what-acc
katta
bought
ka dooka]
whether
siritagatte-iru
know-want
no?
q
`What does John want to know whether Mary bought?'
(iv) John-wa
John-top
[Mary-ga
Mary-nom
nani-o
what-acc
katta
bought
ka dooka]
whether
dare-ni
who-dat
tazuneta
asked
no?
q
`Who did John ask whether Mary bought what?'
Notes to Pages 87±88 117
It is not clear how we should understand the contradiction between the distribu-
tion of island e¨ects in Japanese and the observations in the text concerning fea-
ture movement in English. It is possible that this contradiction reveals some
fundamental problem with the hypotheses advanced here. It may also be the case
that the contradiction simply reveals how the PMC individuates syntactic rela-
tions. In (iv) we observe (if my ideas about Japanese are correct) an instance of
feature movement rescuing another instance of feature movement from Sub-
jacency e¨ects. In (95)±(97), by contrast, we were examining cases in which an
instance of feature movement might have been expected to rescue an instance of
phrasal movement. This might make a di¨erence, but I will leave the question
open for now.
104. Beck (1996) and Beck and Kim (1996) suggest a di¨erent crosslinguistic
predictor for the intervention e¨ect. They note that both Korean and German (the
languages they discuss) allow scrambling to remove a wh-phrase from the scope of
a potential intervener, whereas English does not. They suggest that if a language
has a scrambling process that can eliminate an intervention e¨ect, it must use itÐ
and they speculate that the absence of scrambling correlates with the absence of
the intervention e¨ect. For them, the intervention e¨ect is an island condition on
traces of movement that have not been formed as early in the derivation as pos-
sible. It thus restricts ``LF traces'' in a language like German or Korean where
scrambling can yield an overt-syntax trace in the same environment, but remains
silent about comparable ``LF traces'' in a language like English, where no overt
process can create the trace earlier in the derivation. (As Beck and Kim note, the
logic here follows the Earliness Principle (Pesetsky 1989); also see Diesing 1992.)
However, they do not note the intervention e¨ect with which this discussion
began: the English e¨ect found in multiple questions that appear to violate AC.
One can imagine variants of their approach that might accommodate the inter-
vention e¨ect in English, but none of these (I think) straightforwardly extends to
the other properties of these constructions discussed earlier.
105. This issue was brought to my attention by Hisatsugu Kitahara. I am also
grateful to him for discussing the issue with me at length.
106. Hasegawa (1994) shows that a similar paradigm holds for the interaction
of scrambling and negation with the negative polarity su½x -sika `only' and with
-mo `also'. One wonders if a language could have the properties identi®ed by
Hasegawa without the property identi®ed by Takahashi, and vice versa.
107. Disagreement of this sort is not unknown among Bulgarian speakers either,
as noted earlier. Shigeru Miyagawa (personal communication) suggests that the
contrast emerges most clearly when one focuses on the pair-list interpretation
for the two examples. In his judgment (180b) and (181b) have only single-pair
readings.
108. A similar speculation has been advanced by Miyagawa (1998).
109. I owe this suggestion to Norvin Richards (personal communication). Aoun
and Li relate the Japanese/Chinese di¨erence to morphological di¨erences in their
wh-words. In a footnote they observe an important di½culty: Korean patterns
118 Notes to Pages 89±92
with Chinese morphologically (by allowing bare wh-words to serve noninterrog-
ative functions), but patterns with Japanese in showing the intervention e¨ect. My
speculation about Chinese entails that Chinese wh-phrases, unlike their Japanese
counterparts, undergo covert phrasal movement. This contradicts the conclusions
of Aoun and Li (1993a) and other researchers, such as Tsai (1994).
110. It will be interesting to investigate similar typologies in other domains. There
are some intriguing possibilities. Guerzoni (1999) investigates whether the licens-
ing of negative polarity items (NPIs) in English and Italian is, like the licensing of
wh-phrases, accomplished sometimes by (covert) phrasal movement to the
licenser, and sometimes by feature movement. Suggestive evidence for this
hypothesis comes from the fact that long-distance licensing of an NPI over an
intervener (such as a closer instance of negation) obeys island conditions that
other instances of licensing do not, as noted by Kurata (1991). For example,
licensing of an NPI by the nearest negation (or other licenser) does not display any
subject/nonsubject asymmetry.
(i) a. John doesn't think that Mary loves anyone.
b. John doesn't think that anyone loves Mary.
When an NPI has a choice between a nearer licenser and a further licenser, the
facts are di¨erent. In (ii) the embedded object anyone may be licensed either by
impossible in the middle clause or by negation in the higher clause. Kurata para-
phrases the two readings as shown.
(ii) I don't believe it to be impossible that John saw anyone.
Narrow scope: `I believe it is possible that John saw at least one person.'
Wide scope: `I believe of each person that it is possible that John saw that
person.'
By contrast, in (iii) the embedded subject anyone has only a reading in which it is
licensed by the nearest instance of negation (the negative predicate impossible).
(iii) I don't believe it to be impossible that anyone saw John.
Narrow scope: `I believe it possible that at least one person saw John.'
Wide scope: *`I believe of each person that it is possible that that person saw
John.'
Guerzoni suggests that the only way to allow an NPI to have wider scope than an
intervening negation is through covert phrasal movement (a suggestion supported
by evidence from ACD) to a position close to the licenser of the NPI (perhaps
[Spec, NegP]). It is this type of movement, she suggests, that displays subject/
object asymmetries (as argued extensively in work of the 1980s; see, e.g., Kayne
1984). When scope is not assigned across an intervener, the licensing relation can
be established by feature movement, with no subject/object asymmetryÐas seen
in (i).
Notes to Page 93 119
References
Aoun, Joseph, Norbert Hornstein, David Lightfoot, and Amy Weinberg. 1987.
Two types of locality. Linguistic Inquiry 18, 537±578.
Aoun, Joseph, Norbert Hornstein, and Dominique Sportiche. 1981. Aspects of
wide scope quanti®cation. Journal of Linguistic Research 1, 67±95.
Aoun, Joseph, and Yen-hui Audrey Li. 1993a. Wh-elements in situ: Syntax or LF?
Linguistic Inquiry 24, 199±238.
Aoun, Joseph, and Yen-hui Audrey Li. 1993b. On some di¨erences between
Chinese and Japanese wh-elements. Linguistic Inquiry 24, 365±372.
Baltin, Mark. 1987. Do antecedent-contained deletions exist? Linguistic Inquiry
18, 579±595.
Barbosa, Pilar, Danny Fox, Paul Hagstrom, Martha McGinnis, and David
Pesetsky, eds. 1998. Is the best good enough? Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press and
MITWPL.
Barss, Andrew. To appear. Minimalism and asymmetric wh-interpretation. In
Roger Martin, David Michaels, and Juan Uriagereka, eds., Step by step: Essays in
honor of Howard Lasnik. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Beck, Sigrid. 1996. Quanti®ed structures as barriers for LF movement. Natural
Language Semantics 4, 1±56.
Beck, Sigrid, and Shin-Sook Kim. 1996. On wh- and operator scope in Korean.
Journal of East Asian Linguistics 6, 339±384.
Besten, Hans den. 1983. On the interaction of root transformations and lexical
deletive rules. In Werner Abraham, ed., On the formal syntax of the West-
germania. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Billings, Loren, and Catherine Rudin. 1994. Optimality and superiority: A
new approach to overt multiple-wh ordering. In Jindr
Ïich Toman, ed., Proceedings
of FASL 3: The College Park Meeting. Ann Arbor, Mich.: Michigan Slavic
Publications.
Bobaljik, Jonathan. 1995. Morphosyntax: The syntax of verbal in¯ection.
Doctoral dissertation, MIT, Cambridge, Mass.
Boeckx, Cedric. 1999a. Decomposing French questions. In Jim Alexander, Na-
Rae Han, and Michelle Minnick Fox, eds., UPenn working papers in linguistics 6.
PWPL, Penn Linguistics Club, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.
Boeckx, Cedric. 1999b. Properties of French questions. Ms., University of Con-
necticut, Storrs.
Bos
Ïkovic
Â, Z
Ï eljko. 1995. On certain violations of the Superiority Condition, AgrO,
and economy of derivation. Journal of Linguistics 33, 227±254.
Bos
Ïkovic
Â, Z
Ï eljko. 1998. Multiple wh-fronting and economy of derivation. In
Emily Curtis, James Lyle, and Gabriel Webster, eds., Proceedings of the 16th West
Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics. Stanford, Calif.: CSLI Publications.
[Distributed by Cambridge University Press.]
Bos
Ïkovic
Â, Z
Ï eljko. 1999. On multiple feature checking: Multiple wh-fronting and
multiple head movement. In Samuel David Epstein and Norbert Hornstein, eds.,
Working minimalism. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Bos
Ïkovic
Â, Z
Ï eljko. To appear. Sometimes in [Spec, CP], sometimes in situ. In
Roger Martin, David Michaels, and Juan Uriagereka, eds., Step by step: Essays in
honor of Howard Lasnik. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Bouton, Lawrence F. 1970. Antecedent-contained pro-forms. In Papers from the
Sixth Regional Meeting, Chicago Linguistic Society. Chicago Linguistic Society,
University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
Brody, Michael. 1995. Lexico-Logical Form. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Brody, Michael. 1997. Perfect chains. In Liliane Haegeman, ed., Handbook of
syntax. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Bu
Èring, Daniel. 1994. The dark side of wh-movement. Linguistische Berichte 149,
56±74.
Chang, Lisa. 1997. Wh-in-situ phenomena in French. Doctoral dissertation, Uni-
versity of British Columbia, Vancouver.
Cheng, Lisa. 1991. On the typology of wh-questions. Doctoral dissertation, MIT,
Cambridge, Mass. [Reprinted, New York: Garland, 1997.]
Cheng, Lisa. 1997. ``Partial'' wh-movement. In Luther Chen-Sheng Liu and
Kazue Takeda, eds., UCI working papers in linguistics 3. Department of Linguis-
tics, University of California, Irvine.
Cheng, Lisa. To appear. Moving just the feature. In Uli Lutz, Gereon Mu
Èller, and
Arnim von Stechow, eds., Wh-scope marking. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Chierchia, Gennaro. 1993. Questions with quanti®ers. Natural Language Seman-
tics 1, 181±234.
Chomsky, Noam. 1973. Conditions on transformations. In Stephen Anderson and
Paul Kiparsky, eds., A festschrift for Morris Halle. New York: Holt, Rinehart and
Winston.
Chomsky, Noam. 1976. Conditions on rules of grammar. Linguistic Analysis 2,
303±351. [Reprinted in Essays on form and interpretation. New York: Elsevier
North-Holland, 1977.]
122 References
Chomsky, Noam. 1981. Lectures on government and binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
[Reprinted, Dordrecht: Mouton de Gruyter, 1993.]
Chomsky, Noam. 1986a. Barriers. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1986b. Knowledge of language: Its nature, origins, and use. New
York: Praeger.
Chomsky, Noam. 1991. Some notes on economy of derivation and representation.
In Robert Freidin, ed., Principles and parameters in comparative grammar. Cam-
bridge, Mass.: MIT Press. [Also published in Noam Chomsky, The Minimalist
Program. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1995.]
Chomsky, Noam. 1993. A minimalist program for linguistic theory. In Kenneth
Hale and Samuel Jay Keyser, eds., The view from Building 20. Cambridge, Mass.:
MIT Press. [Also published in Noam Chomsky, The Minimalist Program. Cam-
bridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1995.]
Chomsky, Noam. 1995. Categories and transformations. In The Minimalist Pro-
gram. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1998. Minimalist inquiries: The framework. (MIT Occasional
Papers in Linguistics 15.) MITWPL, Department of Linguistics and Philosophy,
MIT, Cambridge, Mass. [To appear in Roger Martin, David Michaels, and Juan
Uriagereka, eds., Step by step: Essays in honor of Howard Lasnik. Cambridge,
Mass.: MIT Press.]
Chomsky, Noam, and Howard Lasnik. 1977. Filters and control. Linguistic
Inquiry 8, 425±504.
Chung, Sandra, and James McCloskey. 1983. On the interpretation of certain
island facts in GPSG. Linguistic Inquiry 14, 704±713.
Cole, Peter, and Gabriella Hermon. 1998. The typology of wh movement. Syntax
1, 221±258.
Comorovski, Ileana. 1996. Interrogative phrases and the syntax-semantics inter-
face. Kluwer: Dordrecht.
Diesing, Molly. 1992. Inde®nites. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Engdahl, Elisabet. 1980. The syntax and semantics of questions in Swedish. Doc-
toral dissertation, University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Engel, Ulrich. 1972. Regeln zur Satzgliedfolge: Zur Stellung der Elemente im
einfachen Verbalsatz. Du
Èsseldorf: Schwann.
Fanselow, Gisbert. 1990. Scrambling as NP-movement. In Gu
Ènther Grewendorf
and Wolfgang Sternefeld, eds., Scrambling and barriers. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Fanselow, Gisbert. 1991. Minimale Syntax. Habilitation thesis, University of
Passau.
Fanselow, Gisbert. 1997. Minimal Link e¨ects in German (and other languages).
Ms., University of Potsdam. [Related 1996 handout at http://www.ling.uni-
potsdam.de/@fanselow/mlc.htm]
References 123
Fiengo, Robert. 1998. How to ask multiple questionsÐsome simple ways: A
footnote to Austin. Ms., Queens College and the Graduate Center of CUNY,
New York.
Fiengo, Robert, and Robert May. 1994. Indices and identity. Cambridge, Mass.:
MIT Press.
Fox, Danny. 1995. Condition C e¨ects in ACD. In Rob Pensal®ni and Hiroyuki
Ura, eds., Papers on minimalist syntax. (MIT Working Papers in Linguistics 27.)
MITWPL, Department of Linguistics and Philosophy, MIT, Cambridge, Mass.
Fox, Danny. 1998. Economy and semantic interpretation: A study of scope and
variable binding. Doctoral dissertation, MIT, Cambridge, Mass.
Gazdar, Gerald. 1981. Unbounded dependencies and coordinate structure. Lin-
guistic Inquiry 12, 155±184.
Gazdar, Gerald, Ewan Klein, Geo¨rey Pullum, and Ivan Sag. 1985. Generalized
Phrase Structure Grammar. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.
George, Leland. 1980. Analogical generalization in natural language syntax.
Doctoral dissertation, MIT, Cambridge, Mass.
Grewendorf, Gu
Ènther, and Wolfgang Sternefeld. 1990. Scrambling theories. In
Gu
Ènther Grewendorf and Wolfgang Sternefeld, eds., Scrambling and barriers.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Grimshaw, Jane. 1997. Projection, heads, and optimality. Linguistic Inquiry 28,
363±422.
Groat, Erich, and John O'Neil. 1996. Spell-out at the LF interface. In Werner
Abraham, Samuel D. Epstein, Ho
Èskuldur Thra
Âinsson, and Jan-Wouter Zwart,
eds., Minimal ideas. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Grohmann, Kleanthes. 1998. Syntactic inquiries into discourse restrictions on
multiple interrogatives. Ms., University of Maryland, College Park.
Guerzoni, Elena. 1999. Phrasal and feature movement: Syntactic conditions on
NPI licensing. Ms., MIT, Cambridge, Mass.
Hagstrom, Paul. 1998. Decomposing questions. Doctoral dissertation, MIT,
Cambridge, Mass.
Haider, Hubert. 1986. A¨ect a: A reply to Lasnik and Saito, ``On the nature of
proper government.'' Linguistic Inquiry 17, 113±125.
Haider, Hubert. 2000. Towards a superior account of Superiority. In Uli Lutz,
Gereon Mu
Èller, and Arnim von Stechow, eds., Wh-scope marking. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Hankamer, Jorge. 1974. On WH indexing. In Ellen Kaisse and Jorge Hankamer,
eds., Papers from the Fifth Annual Meeting of the North Eastern Linguistic Society.
Department of Linguistics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
Hankamer, Jorge, and Ivan Sag. 1976. Deep and surface anaphora. Linguistic
Inquiry 7, 391±428.
Hasegawa, Nobuko. 1994. Economy of derivation and A0
-movement in Japanese.
In Masaru Nakamura, ed. Current Topics in English and Japanese. Tokyo: Hituzi
Syobo.
124 References
Hoji, Hajime. 1985. Logical Form constraints and con®gurational structures in
Japanese. Doctoral dissertation, University of Washington, Seattle.
Honcoop, Martin. 1998. Dynamic excursions on weak islands. The Hague: Hol-
land Academic Graphics.
Hornstein, Norbert. 1994. An argument for minimalism: The case of antecedent-
contained deletion. Linguistic Inquiry 25, 455±480.
Hornstein, Norbert. 1995. Logical Form: From GB to minimalism. Cambridge,
Mass.: Blackwell.
Huang, C.-T. James. 1981. Move wh in a language without wh movement. The
Linguistic Review 1, 369±416.
Huang, C.-T. James. 1982. Logical relations in Chinese and the theory of gram-
mar. Doctoral dissertation, MIT, Cambridge, Mass. [Reprinted, New York:
Garland, 1998.]
Johnson, Kyle. 1992. Object positions. Natural Language & Linguistic Theory 9,
577±636.
Johnson, Kyle, and Satoshi Tomioka. 1997. Lowering and mid-size clauses. Ms.,
University of Massachusetts, Amherst, and University of California, San Diego.
Kayne, Richard. 1983. Connectedness. Linguistic Inquiry 14, 223±249. [Reprinted
in Kayne 1984.]
Kayne, Richard. 1984. Connectedness and binary branching. Dordrecht: Foris.
Kayne, Richard. 1994. The antisymmetry of syntax. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT
Press.
Kayne, Richard. 1998. Overt vs. covert movement. Ms., New York University.
Kennedy, Christopher. 1997. Antecedent-contained deletion and the syntax of
quanti®cation. Linguistic Inquiry 28, 662±688.
E
Â . Kiss, Katalin. 1986. Against the LF-movement of WH-phrases. Ms., Hungar-
ian Academy of Sciences, Budapest.
Koizumi, Masatoshi. 1995. Phrase structure in minimalist syntax. Doctoral dis-
sertation, MIT, Cambridge, Mass.
Koot, Hans van de. 1988. The vacuous movement hypothesis, superiority and the
ECP. In Ger de Haan and Wim Zonneveld, eds., Formal parameters of generative
grammar IV: Yearbook 1988. Dordrecht: ICG Printing.
Koster, Jan. 1987. Domains and dynasties. Dordrecht: Foris.
Kuno, Susumu. 1982. The focus of the question and the focus of the answer. In
Robinson Schneider, Kevin Tuite, and Robert Chametzky, eds., Papers from the
Parasession on Nondeclaratives. Chicago Linguistic Society, University of Chi-
cago, Chicago, Ill.
Kuno, Susumu, and Jane J. Robinson. 1972. Multiple wh questions. Linguistic
Inquiry 3, 463±487.
Kurata, Kiyoshi. 1991. The syntax of dependent elements. Doctoral dissertation,
University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
References 125
Larson, Richard, Marcel den Dikken, and Peter Ludlow. 1997. Intensional tran-
sitive verbs and abstract clausal complementation. Ms., SUNY at Stony Brook.
Larson, Richard, and Robert May. 1990. Antecedent containment or vacuous
movement: Reply to Baltin. Linguistic Inquiry 21, 103±122.
Lasnik, Howard. 1993. Lectures on Minimalist syntax. (Occasional Papers 1.)
Department of Linguistics, University of Connecticut, Storrs. [Distributed by
MITWPL, Department of Linguistics and Philosophy, MIT, Cambridge, Mass.]
Lasnik, Howard. 1999. Minimalist analysis. Oxford: Blackwell.
Lasnik, Howard, and Mamoru Saito. 1984. On the nature of proper government.
Linguistic Inquiry 15, 235±290.
Legendre, Ge
Âraldine, Paul Smolensky, and Colin Wilson. 1998. When is less
more? Faithfulness and minimal links in wh-chains. In Pilar Barbosa, Danny Fox,
Paul Hagstrom, Martha McGinnis, and David Pesetsky, eds., Is the best good
enough? Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press and MITWPL.
Longobardi, Giuseppe. 1986. L'estrazione dalle isole e lo scope dei sintagmi
quanti®cati. In K. Lichem, E. Mara, and S. Knaller, eds., Parallela 2: Atti del
terzo Incontro Italo-Austriaco di Linguisti. Tu
Èbingen: Gunter Narr.
Longobardi, Giuseppe. 1991. In defense of the correspondence hypothesis: Island
e¨ects and parasitic constructions in Logical Form. In C.-T. James Huang and
Robert May, eds., Logical structure and linguistic structure. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Mahajan, Anoop. 1990. The A/A0
distinction and movement theory. Doctoral
dissertation, MIT, Cambridge, Mass.
May, Robert. 1977. The grammar of quanti®cation. Doctoral dissertation, MIT,
Cambridge, Mass.
May, Robert. 1985. Logical Form. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
McCloskey, James. 2000. Quanti®er ¯oat and wh-movement in an Irish English.
Linguistic Inquiry 31, 57±84
Miyagawa, Shigeru. 1997. Class handout, MIT, Cambridge, Mass.
Miyagawa, Shigeru. 1998. WH chains and quanti®er induced barriers. Ms., MIT,
Cambridge, Mass.
Mu
Èller, Gereon. 1995. A-bar syntax: A study in movement types. Berlin: Mouton
de Gruyter.
Mu
Èller, Gereon. 1996. A constraint on remnant movement. Natural Language &
Linguistic Theory 14, 355±407.
Mu
Èller, Gereon. 1998. Order preservation, parallel movement, and the emergence
of the unmarked. Ms., Universita
Èt Stuttgart. [ftp://ruccs.rutgers.edu/pub/OT/
TEXTS/archive/275-0798/275-07982.pdf ]
Mu
Èller, Gereon, and Wolfgang Sternefeld. 1993. Improper movement and unam-
biguous binding. Linguistic Inquiry 24, 461±507.
Nunes, Jairo. 1995. The copy theory of movement and linearization of chains in
the Minimalist Program. Doctoral dissertation, University of Connecticut, Storrs.
126 References
Obenauer, Hans-Georg. 1984. On the identi®cation of empty categories. The
Linguistic Review 4, 153±202.
Ochi, Masao. 1998. Move or Attract? In Emily Curtis, James Lyle, and Gabriel
Webster, eds., Proceedings of the 16th West Coast Conference on Formal Linguis-
tics. Stanford, Calif.: CSLI Publications. [Distributed by Cambridge University
Press.]
Perlmutter, David. 1972. Evidence for shadow pronouns in French relativization.
In P. Peranteau, J. Levi, and G. Phares, eds., The Chicago which hunt: Papers
from the Relative Clause Festival. Chicago Linguistic Society, University of Chi-
cago, Chicago, Ill.
Pesetsky, David. 1982. Paths and categories. Doctoral dissertation, MIT, Cam-
bridge, Mass.
Pesetsky, David. 1987. Wh-in-situ: Movement and unselective binding. In Eric
Reuland and Alice ter Meulen, eds., The representation of (in)de®niteness. Cam-
bridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Pesetsky, David. 1989. Language-particular rules and the Earliness Principle. Ms.,
MIT, Cambridge, Mass.
Pesetsky, David. 1997. Optimality Theory and syntax: Movement and pronunci-
ation. In Diana Archangeli and D. Terence Langendoen, eds., Optimality Theory:
An overview. Oxford: Blackwell.
Pesetsky, David. 1998. Some optimality principles of sentence pronunciation. In
Pilar Barbosa, Danny Fox, Paul Hagstrom, Martha McGinnis, and David Peset-
sky, eds., Is the best good enough? Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press and MITWPL.
Pollard, Carl, and Ivan A. Sag. 1994. Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Prince, Alan, and Paul Smolensky. 1993. Optimality Theory: Constraint interac-
tion in generative grammar. Technical Report 2, Rutgers University Center for
Cognitive Science, Piscataway, N. J. [To appear, Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.]
Reinhart, Tanya. 1997. Quanti®er scope: How labor is divided between QR and
choice functions. Linguistics and Philosophy 20, 335±397.
Richards, Norvin. 1997. What moves where in which language? Doctoral disser-
tation, MIT, Cambridge, Mass.
Rizzi, Luigi. 1990. Relativized Minimality. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Ross, John R. 1967. Constraints on variables in syntax. Doctoral dissertation,
MIT, Cambridge, Mass.
Rudin, Catherine. 1985. Aspects of Bulgarian syntax: Complementizers and wh
constructions. Columbus, Ohio: Slavica.
Rudin, Catherine. 1988. On multiple questions and multiple WH fronting. Natural
Language & Linguistic Theory 6, 445±502.
Sag, Ivan. 1976. Deletion and Logical Form. Doctoral dissertation, MIT, Cam-
bridge, Mass.
References 127
Saito, Mamoru. 1992. Long distance scrambling in Japanese. Journal of East
Asian Linguistics 1, 69±118.
Saito, Mamoru. 1994. Additional wh-e¨ects and the adjunction site theory. Jour-
nal of East Asian Linguistics 3, 195±240.
Sauerland, Uli. 1996. The interpretability of scrambling. In Masa Koizumi,
Masayuki Oichi, and Uli Sauerland, eds., Formal Approaches to Japanese Lin-
guistics 2. (MIT Working Papers in Linguistics 29.) MITWPL, Department of
Linguistics and Philosophy, MIT, Cambridge, Mass.
Sauerland, Uli. 1998a. Erasability and interpretation. Ms., Kanda University,
Makuhari Kaihin, Japan.
Sauerland, Uli. 1998b. The meaning of chains. Doctoral dissertation, MIT, Cam-
bridge, Mass.
Stjepanovic
Â, Sandra. 1998. On the placement of Serbo-Croatian clitics: Evidence
from VP-ellipsis. Linguistic Inquiry 29, 513±515.
Takahashi, Daiko. 1993. Movement of wh-phrases in Japanese. Natural Language
& Linguistic Theory 11, 655±678.
Takahashi, Daiko. 1994. Minimality of movement. Doctoral dissertation, Uni-
versity of Connecticut, Storrs.
Tanaka, Hidekazu. 1999. Conditions on Logical Form derivations and repre-
sentations. Doctoral dissertation, McGill University, Montreal, Que.
Tsai, Wei-Tien Dylan. 1994. On nominal islands and LF extraction in Chinese.
Natural Language & Linguistic Theory 12, 121±175.
Ura, Hiroyuki. 1996. Multiple feature checking: A theory of grammatical function
splitting. Doctoral dissertation, MIT, Cambridge, Mass.
Wachowicz, Krzystina. 1974. Against the universality of a single WH-question
movement. Foundations of Language 11, 155±166.
Watanabe, Akira. 1992. Subjacency and S-Structure movement of wh-in-situ.
Journal of East Asian Linguistics 1, 255±291.
Webelhuth, Gert. 1988. Syntactic saturation phenomena and the modern Ger-
manic languages. Doctoral dissertation, University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Wilder, Chris. 1999. Right node raising and the LCA. In Sonya Bird, Andrew
Carnie, and Peter Norquest, eds., Proceedings of the 19th West Coast Conference
on Formal Linguistics. Stanford, Calif.: CSLI Publications. [Distributed by Cam-
bridge University Press.]
Wiltschko, Martina. 1997. D-linking, scrambling and superiority in German. In
Werner Abraham, ed., Groninger Arbeiten zur germanistischen Linguistik 41.
Germanistisch Instituut, Rijksuniversiteit Groningen.
Wurmbrand, Susanne. 1998. In®nitives. Doctoral dissertation, MIT, Cambridge,
Mass.
128 References
Index
Agree (rule), 58, 69, 95n1, 107n68, 107n78,
112n86
Antecedent-contained deletion (ACD). See
also Scope
analysis of, 3±5, 96n10, 111±112n83
case checking analysis of, 34±37, 100n34
and quanti®er/proper name contrast, 34±
35
as test for covert phrasal movement, 6, 10,
30±31, 40, 46, 101±102n45
and there-sentences (see there-construction)
Aoun, Joseph, 5, 115n93, 118n109
Attract Closest (AC), 15, 22±25, 40, 47±53,
55, 101n43, 107n67 (see also Principle of
Minimal Compliance)
Baltin, Mark, 100n33, 101±102n45
Barbiers, Sjef, 115n93
Barss, Andrew, 102n46, 103n50, 107n72
Basque, 106n65
Beck, Sigrid, 1±2, 59, 67±80, 84±85, 87,
97n23, 107n70, 107n73, 109n79, 112n84,
112n85, 116n94, 116n100, 118n104
Beck-e¨ects. See Intervention e¨ect
Billings, Loren, 98n24
Binding Theory. See Principle C
Bobaljik, Jonathan, 7
Boeckx, Cedric, 92
Bos
Ïkovic
Â, Z
Ï eljko, 24, 47, 91, 98n28, 103n53
Bouton, Lawrence F., 3
Brody, Michael, 7, 9, 26, 95n9, 96n10,
96n11
Bulgarian
and Complementizer Choice Rule, 73±74
(see also Complementizer Choice Rule)
e¨ects of D-linking, 41±43, 107n77
e¨ects of the Principle of Minimal
Compliance on Superiority, 23±25, 47±48
and Multiple Speci®er requirement, 18±21,
45±46, 97n22
phrasal movement in multiple questions, 6,
8, 14, 102n47
properties of wh-movement in, 27±28
Superiority e¨ects, 19±25, 98n24, 115n93,
118n107
wh-movement compared to English, 51±53
Bu
Èring, Daniel, 76
Case, 33, 100n34, 100n35, 100n37, 100n39.
See also Antecedent-contained deletion
(ACD), case checking analysis of
Chang, Lisa, 91
Cheng, Lisa, 98n28, 110n80
Chierchia, Gennaro, 62
Chinese, 5, 92, 118±119n109
Choe, Jae-Woong, 43
Chomsky, Noam, 1, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 11, 13, 15,
22, 35, 40, 53, 56±58, 73, 95n1, 95±96n8,
96n9, 98n26, 99n31
Chung, Sandy, 99n31
Citko, Barbara, 98n24
Cole, Peter, 110n80
Comorovski, Ileana, 97n16
Complementizer Choice Rule, 74, 89,
113n88, 113n89
Complementizers. See also Complementizer
Choice Rule; Speci®ers
C0-spec, 20, 73, 83±84, 88±93
C1-spec, 20, 73, 83, 88±93
Cm-spec, 20, 23±24, 40±41, 73, 83, 88±
93
and unary vs. multiple question
interpretation, 97n21
Complex NP Constraint. See Subjacency
Connectedness principle (Kayne 1983),
97n17
De dicto/de re ambiguity, 37±38, 101n41
Deletion. See also Antecedent-contained
deletion (ACD)
Deletion (cont.)
and requirement of a linguistic antecedent,
3
Den Besten, Hans, 79
Den Dikken, Marcel, 101n40
Diesing, Molly, 35, 118n104
D-linking, 16, 29, 40±47, 51±52, 73, 92,
96n16, 98n24, 101n42, 107n77, 111n82,
113n90
``Donald Duck'' problem, 110±111n82
Dutch, 115n93
E
Â . Kiss, Katalin, 60
Earliness Condition, 8±9
Ellipsis. See Antecedent-contained deletion;
Deletion
Engdahl, Elisabet, 62
Engel, Ulrich, 78
Extended Projection Principle, 11, 56, 95n8
Extension Condition, 23
Fanselow, Gisbert, 76±83, 116n96
Feature movement, 8±13, 39±40, 46±51,
105n59. See also Antecedent-contained
deletion (ACD); Intervention e¨ect
and island conditions, 56±58
of negative polarity items, 119n110
vs. Agree, 58
vs. morpheme movement, 53±56
Fiengo, Robert, 4, 6, 10, 34, 97n17
Fintel, Kai von, 99n32, 101n40, 116n96
Fox, Danny, 4±5, 10, 96n10
French
combien-extraction as a separation
construction, 110n80
wh-in-situ, 91±93
Gazdar, Gerals, 96n12, 99n31
George, Leland, 99n31
German
apparent violations of Superiority, 17, 75±
83
intervention e¨ects, 67±80
possible Superiority e¨ects, 77±83, 113±
114n90, 114n91, 115n93
separation constructions, 68±69
Grewendorf, Gu
Ènther, 78±79, 83, 98n27,
115n93, 116n98, 117n103
Grimshaw, Jane, 51
Groat, Erich, 7
Grohmann, Kleanthes, 76
Guerzoni, Elena, 119n110
Hagstrom, Paul, 61, 85, 87, 96n15, 98n29,
105±106n64
Haider, Hubert, 114n90, 115n92
Hankamer, Jorge, 3, 26
Hasegawa, Nobuko, 70, 118n106
Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar
(HPSG), 96n12
Heim, Irene, 99n 32, 115n93
Hermon, Gabriella, 110n80
Hoji, Hajime, 84, 85
Honcoop, Martin, 67, 111n82
Hornstein, Norbert, 5, 6, 35±37, 60, 115n93
Huang, James C.T., 3, 26
Inde®nite NPs, repetition of, 99±100n32
Intervention e¨ect
absent with single-pair reading, 60±61
characterization of, 65, 67
in English multiple questions, 60±67
in German multiple questions, 71±74,
117n103
in German separation construction, 67±70
in Japanese and Korean wh-questions, 85±
89, 118n106
in Japanese separation construction, 87±88
judgments on, 112n85
as a test for feature movement, 71 (see also
Feature movement)
typology of, 88±93
in West Ulster English separation
construction, 69±70
Island e¨ects. See Subjacency
Italian, 26±27
Izvorski, Roumyana, 19, 42, 103n49,
103n50, 108±109n77
Japanese
intervention e¨ects, 85±89
overt wh-movement, 89±91
Subjacency e¨ects, 117±118n103
Superiority e¨ects, 90, 115n93
wh-in-situ constructions, 5, 84±89
wh-morpheme, 54, 105n62, 105±106n64
Johnson, Kyle, 37, 115n93
Kayne, 95n7, 96n11, 97n17, 119n110
Kennedy, Chris, 35, 37±38, 100n35, 101±
102n45
Kim, Shin-Sook, 84±85, 87, 116n100,
118n104
Kitahara, Hisatsugu, 118n105
Koizumi, Masatoshi, 20, 37
Korean, 85±89, 116n100, 118n109
Koster, Jan, 115n93
Kuno, Susumu, 15, 114n91
Kurata, Kiyoshi, 119n110
Larson, Richard, 3, 4, 95n4, 101n40, 112n83
Lasnik, Howard, 6, 7, 14, 35±37, 100n33
130 Index
Legendre, Geraldine, 104n57
Li, Yen-hui Audrey, 118n109
Longobardi, Giuseppe, 26±27, 110n80
Ludlow, Peter, 101n40
Mahajan, Anoop, 89, 117n102
May, Robert, 3, 4, 6, 10, 34, 62, 95n4,
112n83
McCawley, James, 33
McCloskey, James, 69±70, 99n31
Mester, Arnim, 113n90
Minimal Quanti®ed Structure Constraint
(Beck 1996), 70.
Miyagawa, Shigeru, 82, 84, 85, 86, 87,
116n101, 118n107, 118n108
Movement
c-command condition on, 5
partial, 109n79
string-vacuous, 99n31
triggered by uninterpretable features, 9
types of, 2±15, 53±58 (see also Feature
movement; Phrasal movement)
Mu
Èller, Gereon, 78, 81, 82, 95n5, 98n25,
115n92
Negative polarity items (NPIs), 119n110
Nunes, Jairo, 96n9
Obenauer, Hans, 110n80
Ochi, Masao, 57, 107n67
O'Neil, John, 7
Optimality Theory, 50±51, 98n25, 103n54,
104±105n57, 105n58, 106n66
Perlmutter, David, 57
Pesetsky, David, 6, 8, 16, 39, 51, 57, 95n2,
97n17, 101n42, 106n66, 110n82,
118n104
Phrasal movement. See also Pronunciation
patterns for movement.
and antecedent-contained deletion (see
Antecedent-contained deletion [ACD])
covert vs. overt, 2±15, 95n7, 96n9, 96n15
vs. feature movement (see Feature
movement)
Pied-piping, 9, 53±56, 105n63, 106n65
Polish, 43
Pollard, Carl, 96n12
Prince, Alan, 50
Principle C, 4±5
Principle of Minimal Compliance (PMC),
24±27, 28, 47±52, 56±58, 103n53, 104n56,
105n57, 105n59, 117±118n103
Procrastinate, 8±9
Pronunciation patterns for movement, 5±8,
28, 95n9
Quanti®ers. See also Scope
¯oated, 65
and intervention e¨ects, 61±62
and Quanti®er-induced barriers (Beck
1996), 70
Quechua, 106n65
Questions. See wh-questions
Reinhart, Tanya, 110±111n82
Restructuring, 100±101n37
Richards, Norvin, 14, 22±23, 25±27, 47, 56,
90, 96n11, 97n23, 98n27, 98n28, 98n29,
113n89, 118n109
Rizzi, Luigi, 110n80
Robinson, Jane, 15
Romanian, 99n30
Ross, John R., 25
Rudin, Catherine, 6, 20, 21, 98n24
Sag, Ivan, 3, 4, 96n12
Saito, Mamoru, 6, 14, 89, 117n102
Sauerland, Uli, 5, 78, 100n35
Scope
®xed by overt wh-fronting in Japanese, 89±
90
interaction with antecedent-contained
deletion, 4, 35±38, 100n35, 101±
102n45
interaction with intervention e¨ect, 62±67,
69
island conditions on, 26±27
of a universal quanti®er in a wh-question,
62±67, 107n74, 110n81
Scrambling
as an escape from the Intervention e¨ect,
68, 71, 87±88, 118n104
as an escape from the Superiority e¨ect,
77±83
impossible with German wh-in-situ, 78±
79
of wh in Japanese, 89±91
Separation construction. See Intervention
e¨ect
Serbo-Croatian, 97n22, 102n47
Shortest Move, 23
Smolensky, Paul, 51, 104n57
Speci®er potential, 20±21, 84
Speci®ers. See also Complementizers
and multiple speci®er requirement, 19±21,
27, 41±42, 44±46, 51±52
typology of, 73±74, 83±93
Sportiche, Dominique, 5, 115n93
Stjepanovic, Sandra, 102n47
Sternefeld, Wolfgang, 78, 81, 95n5
Subjacency, 25±26, 32, 56, 98n28, 107n67,
107n68, 117n103
Index 131
Superiority e¨ect, 15±17, 22±25, 27, 32, 52.
See also Bulgarian; German; Japanese,
Superiority e¨ects; Principle of Minimal
Compliance (PC)
and feature movement, 39±40
in nonbinary questions (see wh-questions
nonbinary multiple)
Superraising, 12
Takahashi, Daeko, 57, 89, 90, 107n67,
118n106
Tanaka, Hidekazu, 85, 86
there-construction, 11±13, 96n13, 100n34,
101n38
Tomioka, Satoshi, 115n93
Traces, deletion of, 4±5, 100n35
Tsai, Wei-Tien Dylan, 55, 119n109
Tucking in, 22, 27
Turkish, 115n93
Ura, Hiroyuki, 20, 74
van de Koot, 115n93
Wachowicz, Krzystina, 43
Watanabe, Akira, 54, 117n103, 117±
118n103
Weak crossover, 32, 82, 116n98
Webelhuth, Gert, 89, 117n102
West Ulster English, 69±70, 110n81
wh-Island Constraint, 113n88
wh-morpheme, 53±56, 105n60, 105±106n64,
106n65
wh-questions, 5±6. See also Bulgarian,
e¨ects of D-linking; Principle of Minimal
Compliance (PMC); Superiority e¨ect
binary multiple, 42±43
intervention e¨ects in (see Intervention
e¨ect)
nonbinary multiple, 17, 23±24, 43±51, 66±
67, 97n17, 98±99n28
nonmultiple in-situ, 83±93
pair-list vs. single-pair reading of multiple,
60±61, 74, 102n46, 107n71, 107n72,
117n102, 118n107
presuppositional reading of, 92
unary vs. multiple, 97n21
unaskable, 64±65, 107n75
Wilder, Chris, 96n9
Wilson, Colin, 104n57
Wiltschko, Martina, 76, 113n90, 114n91,
116n98
Wurmbrand, Susanne, 100n37±38
Yiddish, 99n30
Y-model, 7±8, 10, 98n26, 98n29
132 Index
