8 1 The Portuguese language in the world
thepeninsula.Soldiers,settlers,andadministratorsallspokeLatin,andalthough
Rome did not care what language subjected peoples actually spoke – learning
Latin was considered a privilege rather than a duty – the prestige of Roman civ-
ilization, manifested by an impressive network of paved roads, bridges, aque-
ducts, temples, theaters, public baths, circuses, and an administrative organiza-
tion unparalleled in the ancient world, led the original inhabitants of Hispania
to adopt the language and customs of the Romans. After a period of bilingual-
ism, the languages spoken before the Romans’ arrival – with the exception of
Basque – were eventually replaced by the settlers’ popular Latin, which coex-
isted with the more cultivated variety used by officials and an educated elite.
Eventually, some cities in Hispania – Tarragona, Córdoba, Mérida – emulated
Rome in beauty and quality of life, and in the first century of our era a number of
Hispanic Romans – such as the philosophers Seneca the Elder, his son Seneca
the Younger, the poets Lucan and Martial, and the rhetorician Quintilian – made
major contributions to Latin letters.
1.1.2 Visigothic Hispania
The collapse of the Western Roman Empire, whose last emperor, Romulus
Augustulus, was deposed in 476 AD, brought about the breakdown of admin-
istrative cohesiveness and communication among Hispania’s various regions.
The ensuing isolation led to increasing regional differentiation in the Latin
spoken in Hispania and elsewhere. Beginning in the first decade of the fifth
century, a series of invasions by Germanic tribes such as the Suevi, the Vandals,
and the Alans culminated, in the early sixth century, with the arrival of the
Visigoths. These either enslaved, killed off or drove away their predecessors,
with the exception of the Suevi, who maintained a small kingdom in Gallaecia
until about 585, when they too were conquered by the Visigoths. Being quite
romanized, thanks to an early sojourn in Roman Gaul, the Visigoths adopted
Roman Hispania’s language, customs, and religion. By the end of the sixth
century the Visigothic kingdom, which had Toledo as its capital, extended all
over the peninsula, though its suzerainty over the Basque Country remained
nominal, as the Roman domination had been – a factor that permitted survival
of the Basque language until our days.
Even in the heyday of the Roman Empire the speech of the inhabitants of
the peninsula was essentially popular Latin, which differed noticeably from the
literary Latin we learn at school. By the end of the sixth century, however, that
speech had changed even further, into something considerably different from
Latin as it was still spoken and written, as a learned language, by a literate
minority associated primarily with clerical life. This new way of speaking,
whether or not people realized that it derived from Latin, became known as
fabulare romanice, that is ‘to speak Romance.’ Eventually the adverb romanice,
1.1 The growth of Portuguese 9
GALICIA
CASTILE
CATALONIA
LEÓN
PORTUGAL
AL-ANDALUS
(ISLAMIC TERRITORIES)
NAVARRE
ARA
G
O
N
Map 1.2 Schematic location of Christian dominions and Islamic holdings in
Hispania in the early tenth century
shortened to romance, was reinterpreted as a noun designating the local speech.
In other words, everyone spoke Romance, and a few, usually members of the
clergy, also learned to speak and write medieval Latin. (The verb fabulare,
originally meaning ‘to spin a yarn,’ was the source of Pg falar, Sp hablar ‘to
talk.’) Since most people were illiterate, and all writing was done in Latin,
written signs reflecting a Romance speech were slow to appear, and its growth
andexpansionarecloselylinkedtothoseoftheChristiankingdomsthatemerged
from what had been Roman Hispania.
1.1.3 Islamic Hispania
In 711, the Iberian peninsula was invaded by an Islamic army made up of
Berbers and Arabs, collectively called Moors◦
(after Lat Mauri, the name of
the inhabitants of Mauritania in Roman North Africa). The invaders crossed the
Strait of Gibraltar (from gebel-al-Tarik ‘Tarik’s hill,’ a toponym that preserves
the invaders’ leader’s name) and in a short time overwhelmed the Visigothic
kingdom. By 718 the peninsula had been divided (Map 1.2) into a southern
Islamic area, Al-Andalus (a name that recalls the ferocious Vandals and is
preserved today in the place-name Andalusia), and a northern fringe under
10 1 The Portuguese language in the world
Christian domination. The latter area, which included a few strongholds in the
mountains of Asturias, the Basque region, and a string of fortifications called the
Spanish March, set up by Charlemagne (742–814) along the Pyrenees, would
eventually be divided into several Christian kingdoms and counties which, for
the next seven centuries, fought to reconquer the territory lost to the invaders.
Also in 718, the Christians holding out in the mountains of Asturias achieved a
small victory over a detachment of Moors in a skirmish celebrated in legend as
the battle of Covadonga, traditionally held to be the beginning of the reconquest
which culminated in the fall of Granada to the Catholic Monarchs Ferdinand
and Isabella in 1492.
1.2 The formation and expansion of Portuguese
AfundamentallinguisticconsequenceoftheArabconquestoftheIberianPenin-
sula was that in each of the small northern territories the Romance vernacular◦
developed features that differentiated it from the speech of neighboring regions.
The speech of Christians in Al-Andalus itself, known as Mozarabic◦
(from Ar
musta‘rib ‘Arab-like’), was eventually absorbed by the northern Romances as
these expanded into territory conquered from Islam. In the Christian area, start-
ing at the Mediterranean end of the Pyrenees, in the region around Barcelona,
there arose Catalan, which was carried to Valencia, Alicante, and the Balearic
Islands in the first half or the thirteenth century by military conquest. Immedi-
ately to the west a group of closely related vernaculars known to linguists as
Navarro-Aragonese developed. In an initially small area around and north of
Burgos, there was another Romance known as Castilian, which in time would
extend over most of the peninsula and develop into modern Spanish. To the
west of Castilian there developed a Romance speech known as Leonese, or
Asturian-Leonese, parent of the various bables, as the vernaculars spoken in
Asturias are still called. Finally, in the northwest corner of the peninsula, in the
former Roman province of Gallaecia, was born the vernacular which linguists
refer to as Galician-Portuguese, the parent of modern Galician as well as of
Portuguese.
By the eleventh century the kingdom of Castile (Sp Castilla) had acquired
hegemony over Leon and Galicia and was leading the reconquest of Muslim
Spain. Its policy of establishing alliances with the Franks beyond the Pyre-
nees entailed an infusion of French culture, such as the creation of monasteries
linked to Cluny Abbey in Burgundy, and the substitution of Roman liturgy
for the ancient Hispanic (often called “Mozarabic”) liturgy inherited from the
Visigothic kingdom. Another consequence was the presence of French noble-
men who came to seek fortune in frequent campaigns waged against the Muslim
states of Al-Andalus.
One of these French adventurers, Count Raymond of Burgundy, a region
in central eastern France, in 1087 married Urraca (a charming name meaning
1.2 The formation and expansion of Portuguese 11
SALAMANCA
TOLEDO
BURGOS
BARCELONA
ARABIC AND MOZARABIC
CÓRDOBA
GRANADA
SEVILLA
COIMBRA
LEONESE
BASQUE
CATALAN
NAVARRO-ARAGONESE
C
A
S
T
I
L
I
A
N
G
A
L
I
C
IA
N
-
P
O
R
T
U
G
U
E
S
E
Map 1.3 Schematic location of the language areas in the Iberian Peninsula
(ca. tenth century)
‘magpie’), a daughter of King Alfonso VI of Leon and Castile, who granted the
newlyweds the county of Galicia. In 1093, another daughter of Alfonso VI,
Teresa, married Raymond’s cousin, Henry of Burgundy, who received the
county of Portucale, stretching southward as far as the region of Coimbra, which
had been taken from the Arabs in 1064. After Count Henry’s death (ca. 1112),
his son Afonso Henriques (the ending -es is a patronymic◦
signifying ‘son of’)
assumed the title of king, secured Portugal’s independence from Castile and
Leon through a combination of military strength and diplomacy, and proceeded
to conquer territory to the south. After several major victories and setbacks,
the drive southward was completed by Afonso III, the fifth Portuguese king,
who conquered the Algarve in 1249. These historical events – Portugal’s inde-
pendence and the establishment of her borders – contributed powerfully to
the gradual differentiation of Portuguese and Galician in the later Middle Ages.
Portuguese independence also blocked the expansion of Castilian into the south-
west of the Iberian Peninsula, notwithstanding the union of the Portuguese and
Spanish crowns from 1580 to 1640, which had no linguistic sequels.
From the late twelfth century to the early fourteenth, Galician-Portuguese –
a conveninent term limited to the period when the two languages had not yet
become clearly differentiated – was used in a poetic style which imitated, in
12 1 The Portuguese language in the world
form as well as content, the lyric poetry cultivated in the courts of Provence.
As regards prose, although the first document in a language recognizable
as Portuguese is dated from about 1214 or 1216 (5.6.1), systematic use of
Portuguese in place of Latin in royal documents began only in 1255, under
Afonso III (who reigned 1248–1279). This preference was made mandatory
in 1279 by his successor, Dinis, himself a renowned poet in the Galician-
Portuguese tradition. By the time King Dinis died in 1325, however, Portuguese
and Galician had drifted apart enough to preclude writing poetry in Galician-
Portuguese (Vázquez-Cuesta and Mendes da Luz 1987:204).
Between 1255 and 1335, Portuguese was used extensively in private doc-
uments, letters, municipal ordinances (foros and forais), royal decrees (Leis
Gerais, or General Laws), reports from the royal chancery (Inquirições), trans-
lations of Castilian legal documents, and a variety of other writings which
provided a training ground for the first literary texts that began to appear in the
fourteenth century. These include didactic works like King João I’s Livro da
Montaria(ahuntingtreatise)andKingDuarte’sLealConselheiro(‘LoyalCoun-
selor’), as well as historical works like the Count of Barcelos’s vast Crónica
Geral de 1344 (‘General Chronicle of 1344’), and the single-reign histories of
Fernão Lopes (?1378/1383–?1460) such as the Crónica de El Rei D. João I
(‘Chronicle of King João I’), Chronica do senhor rei D. Pedro I (‘Chronicle of
King Pedro I’), and so on.
The end of the fifteenth century and the first half of the sixteenth was a
period of intense change. In 1492 Columbus arrived in America and Antonio
de Nebrija, an Andalusian, published his Gramática de la lengua castellana, the
first formal grammar of a Romance language. A major political event was the
end of Muslim sovereignty in Spain with the capture of the kingdom of Granada
by the Catholic Monarchs, Ferdinand and Isabella, in 1492. In the same year
these monarchs promulgated the expulsion of all Jews who would not convert
to Catholicism, some sixty thousand of whom sought refuge in Portugal, where
they soon had again to choose between conversion or expulsion. In 1517 Luther
reportedly nailed his ninety-five theses onto the door of the Castle Church in
Wittenberg, thus launching the Reformation.
In 1516 Garcia de Resende (1470–1536) published the Cancioneiro Geral,
a compilation of courtly poetry. His contemporary Gil Vicente (1460/1470–
?1536), working virtually single-handed between 1502 and 1536, created Por-
tuguese theater in a medieval tone still noticeable in his last play, Floresta de
enganos (‘Forest of Errors’), produced in the year of his death. Change, how-
ever, was in motion for both the culture and the language of Portugal. In 1527
Francisco de Sá de Miranda (?1495–1558), a nobleman who had studied law
at the University of Coimbra, returned from a sojourn in Italy and began to
disseminate the literary ideas of the Renaissance, although with a slight delay
in relation to the rest of Europe, since Petrarch and Boccacio had been dead
1.2 The formation and expansion of Portuguese 13
for nearly a century. There was enough change in the air to attract the Inqui-
sition, introduced in 1531 to protect souls by burning unrepentant bodies and
heretical books, for which an underground market was made possible by the
movable type press, developed by Gutenberg in 1468. Among books unwel-
come in the peninsular kingdoms were those by the great humanist thinker
Erasmus (?1466–1536).
In 1536 Fernão de Oliveira published his Grammatica da lingoagem por-
tuguesa, the first of its kind, followed in 1540 by João de Barros’s own
Gramática da lı́ngoa portuguesa. In 1572 Luiz Vaz de Camões (?1525–1580)
celebrated Vasco da Gama’s discovery of the sea route to India in his epic poem
Os Lusı́adas. The prevailing eagerness for new things clamored for a renovated
language, and as it adjusted to new cultural realities, Portuguese shaped a mod-
ern image for itself. Linguistic features considered too close to Galician were
eschewed (6.2), and southern Portuguese, loosely identified with the speech of
the Coimbra–Lisbon area, provided the new frame of reference for the language.
After Portuguese and Galician split, their paths diverged substantially.
Whereas Portuguese acquired full autonomy by becoming the official language
of an independent state, Galician found itself limited to oral communication
at the local level and excluded from an official role in public administration,
education, and the higher forms of literary expression. Such limitations caused
Galician to be not only subordinated to Spanish but also progressively infiltrated
by it, particularly in the lexicon and morphosyntax. Since becoming coofficial
with Spanish in Galicia, as allowed by Spain’s 1978 Constitution, Galician has
been able to recover much lost ground through use in public administration,
education, and the public media. Even so, and despite an increase in the number
of books published in Galician, its presence in the privately owned media is
still limited, and indications that the number of native speakers may actually
be decreasing (Fernández Rodrı́guez et al. 1996) are not encouraging. All in
all, the task of normalizing and unifying local varieties, described by Teyssier
(1985:48) as essential to forge a modern Galician language, is still unfinished.
Back in the sixteenth century, Portuguese seafarers were busy exploring the
coast of Africa. Following the conquest of Ceuta in 1415, they reached Madeira
and the Azores between 1419 and 1427, and in 1445 set up the first feitoria,
or trading post, in the region of Arguin, in today’s Mauritania. In 1457 the
Cape Verde archipelago was discovered, and in 1482 the fort of São João da
Mina, which would play a major role in the slave traffic, was built in territory
of today’s Ghana. In 1497–1498 Vasco da Gama arrived in Calicut, on the west
coast of India; in 1500 Pedro Álvares Cabral landed in Brazil; and by 1515 the
Portuguese had reached Goa in India, Malacca in Malaysia, and Hormuz at the
mouth of the Persian Gulf. A Portuguese trading expedition arrived in China in
1514, and in 1518 a Portuguese fort was built in Colombo, Ceylon (today’s Sri
Lanka). Japan was reached in 1543, and in 1549 a trading post was set up in
14 1 The Portuguese language in the world
Macao (Pg Macau). In 1606 the Portuguese reached the New Hebrides (today’s
Vanuatu), the last of a series of maritime enterprises that opened the path to
a world larger than Europe and provided riches undreamed of: by the end of
the fifteenth century gold trading in Africa surpassed other sources of the royal
income (Saraiva 1997:39).
This gold coin, however, had a negative flip side: since everyone wanted
to share in the colonial enterprise, fields lay fallow and unemployed peasants
swelled Lisbon’s population. Inflation was rampant, and the Crown had neither
the people nor the means to run such a far-flung empire. To make things worse,
from the end of the sixteenth century it faced increasingly strong competition
from the Netherlands and England. Furthermore, when Portugal was ruled by
Spanish kings for dynastic reasons between 1580 and 1640, Portuguese ships
and colonies became a legal target for those competing nations, then at war
with Spain. As a result, by the middle of the seventeenth century the Por-
tuguese possessions were fast being lost to the Dutch and the British. After
Portuguese sovereignty was restored in 1640 and peace was made with Britain
and the Netherlands, Portugal’s remaining colonial empire included Angola,
Mozambique, Portuguese Guinea (now Guinea-Bissau), Cape Verde, and São
Tomé and Prı́ncipe in Africa; Goa, Damão and Diu, in India; East Timor in
South-East Asia; and Macao in China. There was also Brazil, where gold was
discovered in 1690. By the end of the eighteenth century it is estimated the
Crown had received between one and three thousand tons of gold and over two
million carats in diamonds (Saraiva 1997:75). Most of those riches reportedly
went to English bankers, but Portugal, though impoverished and sorely taxed
by the effort, had succeeded in opening up the oceans and making Portuguese
an international language.
1.3 Portuguese pidgins and creoles: A thumbnail sketch
A linguistic consequence of the spread of Portuguese in Africa and Asia was
the creation of Portuguese-based languages of the pidgin◦
and creole◦
category,
about which we will say more in section 6.5.1. A pidgin is a grammatically
simplified hybrid language, with words from two or more languages, created
through continuing interaction of people who do not have a language in com-
mon. Pidginized versions of Portuguese have supposedly been used since the
fifteenth century in the Mediterranean and along the coast of Africa, where
Portuguese sailors and traders came into contact with speakers of African lan-
guages. Eventually, pidgin Portuguese became a ◦
lingua franca for European
traders and navigators, as well as for Africans and Asians. Although a pidgin is
nobody’s native language, when the offspring of pidgin speakers acquire their
parents’ language, it becomes a creole. Thus a creole may become the primary
language of a formerly pidgin-speaking community.
1.4 The spread of Portuguese 15
PlaceswherePortuguese-basedpidginsdevelopedincludedtheregionaround
Fort São João da Mina, which was a trading post serving an area including
today’s Senegal, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Ivory Coast, and the Gold Coast as far
as the Niger Delta. A similar process took place further south in today’s Guinea-
Bissau, where slaves were sent from the trading post in Cacheu to Cape Verde,
and thence to America. There was another trading zone in the Gulf of Guinea,
connected with the island of São Tomé, also used in the slave traffic. In due
time several creoles developed that are still spoken in Guinea-Bissau and the
islands of Cape Verde, São Tomé and Prı́ncipe, and Annobón, which is part of
Equatorial Guinea (a Spanish colony between 1778 and 1968).
One of the consequences of intermarriage between Portuguese settlers and
natives of Africa and Asia was the development of several Portuguese-based
creoles, some of which are still spoken. A group of creoles known as Indo-
Portuguese developed in the colonies of Goa, Damão, and Diu, which were
taken over by India in 1961. In Ceylon (today’s Sri Lanka), a Portuguese creole
was still spoken by small communities in the 1970s, when its chances of sur-
vival were described as “bleak” (Smith 1978:32). In the Malay peninsula and the
Indonesian archipelago the growth of Malayo-Portuguese creoles came in the
wake of trading posts, which were lost to the Dutch in the seventeenth century;
the sole exception was Macao, which remained Portuguese until it was turned
over to China in December 1999. In Malacca (today a state of Malaysia), West
African Pidgin Portuguese was used and eventually conditioned the develop-
ment of a creole called Papia Kristang (‘Christian talk’) that still had some 1000
speakers in the early 1980s (Baxter 1988:1). Other Portuguese creoles used to
be spoken in Indonesia (Java and Timor), Macao, Hong Kong, and Singapore,
but at the end of the twentieth century they were reduced to “small communities
isolated from each other” (Teyssier 1985:48).
1.4 The spread of Portuguese
The national language of Portugal (pop. 10,266,053, area 92,080 square kilome-
ters or 35,552 square miles – slightly larger than Maine, 33,265 square miles),
Portuguese is spoken natively by almost the entire population, with the excep-
tion of recent immigrants and bilingual minorities in areas in the north and the
northeast along the border with Spain, where Galician and Leonese dialects are
spoken (6.3). Portugal’s territory includes the Atlantic archipelagos of Madeira
(two islands) and the Azores (nine islands), both of which enjoy autonomous
administrative status.
In 1822 Portugal lost Brazil, and in the twentieth century, all of its remaining
colonies. In Asia, Portuguese is an official language only in East Timor (pop.
750,000, area 14,609 square kilometers or 5640 square miles, slightly bigger
than Connecticut, 5018 square miles). It is still spoken by a fast-shrinking
16 1 The Portuguese language in the world
minority in the former colonies of Goa, Damão, and Diu (India) and Macao
(turned over to China in 1999).
In Africa, Portuguese is the official language of five countries which became
independent from Portugal in the mid-1970s, collectively called PALOP (Paı́ses
Africanos de Lı́ngua Oficial Portuguesa ‘African Countries Where Portuguese
is the Official Language’). On the east coast there is Mozambique (pop.
19,371,057, area 801,590 square kilometers or 309,494 square miles, some-
what larger than the combined area of Texas and Tennessee, 308,951 square
miles), and on the west coast lie two others, Angola (pop. 10,366,031, area
1,246,700 square kilometers or 481,352 square miles, a little over three times the
area of California, 158,706 square miles) and Guinea-Bissau (pop. 1,315,822,
area 36,120 square kilometers or 13,943 square miles, slightly more than the
combined area of Massachusetts and Connecticut, 13,302 square miles). Off
the west coast of Africa lie the two small island countries, Cape Verde (pop.
405,163, area 4,033 square kilometers or 1556 square miles, a bit larger than
Rhode Island), and São Tomé and Prı́ncipe (pop. 165,034, area 1001 square
kilometers or 371 square miles, 5.5 times larger than the area of Washington,
DC). In these countries, however, despite its official status, Portuguese is the
native language of only a minority, and outside the larger cities relatively few
people speak it fluently as a second language (6.5). As we will see in Chapter 6,
the coexistence of creoles and African languages spoken by different ethnic
groups poses a unique situation for the future of Portuguese in these regions.
1.5 Immigrant communities
Portuguese is spoken by communities of immigrants and their descendants in
several countries. The presence of Portuguese speakers in European countries
(e.g. France, ca. 750,000; Germany, ca. 78,000), is the outcome of twentieth-
century immigration in search of work. A group of self-exiled Portuguese
Jews from Brazil landed in New Amsterdam (today’s New York) in 1654 (Pap
1949:3), but most people of Portuguese descent in the United States trace their
ancestry to immigrants in the late nineteenth and twentieth century (6.7).
Immigration with substantial linguistic consequences, however, started in the
early nineteenth century, when whalers from the Azores – soon followed by oth-
ers from Cape Verde, mostly creole speakers – began to settle in New England
(Newport, New Bedford, Cape Cod) and Rhode Island. Immigrants from conti-
nentalPortugalestablishedcommunitiesinConnecticut,NewYork,NewJersey,
and Pennsylvania. It was Azoreans who made up most of the Portuguese com-
munity in California, although there were also immigrants from Madeira and
continental Portugal. Although the current generation of Portuguese Americans
is largely bilingual, language maintenance is strong enough to support some
newspapers and a small but thriving Portuguese American literature (Almeida
1.6 Portuguese in Brazil 17
2001, Stephens 1989, Vaz 2001). Figures for 1997 showed 515,000 Portuguese
immigrants living in Canada and 55,339 in Australia (Rocha-Trindade
2000a:21). As in the United States, a sizeable body of Portuguese-language
literature exists in Canada (Joel 2000).
1.6 Portuguese in Brazil
Portuguese is one of the most widely spoken languages of the world largely on
account of Brazil, a nation of continental dimensions with a vast population. The
country extends over 3,286,475 square miles (slightly over the 3,126,793 square
milesoftheforty-eightcontiguousUSstates,oroversixtimesthecombinedarea
of Germany, France, and Spain). Brazil’s population, which reached 175 million
in 2002 and was estimated at 178,103,554 in January 2004 (www.ibge.gov.br),
makes it the sixth most populous country after China, India, the United
States, Indonesia, and the Russian Federation (Embassy of Brazil, London,
www.brazil.org). These figures mean that about 80% of the world’s speakers
of Portuguese live in Brazil, and even if the language were spoken nowhere
else, it would still be placed seventh (instead of sixth) among the world’s lan-
guages with most speakers. The city of São Paulo alone, with 10,405,867 inhab-
itants, has a slightly larger population than Portugal’s 10,066,253. Together,
East Timor and the five African countries where Portuguese is the offi-
cial language have about 32,373,107 inhabitants; if we add to these the
4,806,353Portugueseimmigrantsallovertheworld(siteImigraçãoPortuguesa,
www.imigrantes.no.sapo.pt in 2002), we would have a total of 37,189,460 –
only slightly above the population of the state of São Paulo (36,969,476).
Settlement of colonial Brazil began with the foundation of a village named
São Vicente (‘St. Vincent’) on the northern coast of today’s state of São Paulo.
At first the colony was divided into fifteen Capitanias (‘Captaincies’), vast terri-
tories awarded on a hereditary basis to individuals charged with exploiting them.
Because the captaincies failed (with the exception of those of São Vicente and
Pernambuco, the latter in the northeast), in 1548 the Crown switched to a sys-
tem of appointed governors who reported directly to the king. As colonization
expanded, the territory was further divided and more governors appointed, but
by the beginning of the nineteenth century the colonial enterprise was exhausted
(Prado Junior 1942:5–6) and resentment against its exploitative practices inten-
sified. In January 1808, French troops invaded Portugal in retaliation for its
refusal to abide by Napoleon’s ban on trade with Great Britain. Acting as
Regent due to Queen Maria’s illness, Prince João (later King João VI) ordered
the royal court and some 10,000 followers to leave for Brazil, under the protec-
tion of a British fleet, to resettle in Rio de Janeiro.
After Napoleon’s defeat in 1814, the Congress of Vienna decided to recog-
nize only Lisbon as the seat of the Portuguese government. To get around that
18 1 The Portuguese language in the world
decision, in 1815 Prince João signed a decree elevating Brazil to the category
of a kingdom united to Portugal and the Algarve, a measure that enabled him to
stay in Brazil even after becoming king on Queen Maria’s death (1816). When
the court finally returned to Portugal in 1821, King João left his son, Prince
Pedro, as Regent of Brazil. At this point, Brazilian nationalistic feelings, exac-
erbated by the Portuguese Parliament’s humiliating decision to return Brazil to
colony status, led the Regent in 1822 to declare Brazil an independent Empire
and to assume the title of Pedro I. Except for some bloodshed in the provinces
of Grão-Pará (today’s states of Pará and Bahia), the independence process was
much less violent in Brazil than in either the United States or Spanish America.
Since becoming independent, Brazil has followed a totally separate path,
politically as well as culturally, from the other Portuguese-speaking lands, a
circumstance that has contributed to the specific character of Brazilian Por-
tuguese. Whereas in the African countries Portuguese is the native speech only
of a minority, in Brazil it has been for generations the native language of a
majority of the population. Also, contact with the languages spoken by the
indigenous inhabitants, by African slaves, and by immigrants, as well as the
influence of exogenous cultures – French, British, American – have had substan-
tially different results in Brazil than in Africa or Asia. According to Article 13
of the Brazilian Constitution, Portuguese is the only official language. The
approximately 170 indigenous languages (a flexible figure, since there is no
consensus as to how to separate “languages” from “dialects”) have only about
330,000 speakers, primarily in the Amazon region. In late 2002 the city council
of São Gabriel da Cachoeira, a municipality covering about 112,000 square
kilometers in the State of Amazonas, passed an ordinance (Municipal Ordi-
nance 145/2002) making the indigenous languages Nheengatu, Tukano, and
Baniwa coofficial with Portuguese (Oliveira 2003). It is, however, too early
to speculate on the possible impact, if any, that such measures might have on
Portuguese.
Immigration, once a factor of some language diversity, has decreased
since the middle of the twentieth century, and the number of speakers of
heritage languages (the most numerous being Italian, German, Polish, and
Japanese) falls short of 1% of the total population. Since education must be in
Portuguese (bilingual schools are few and cater to an affluent minority), immi-
grants’ descendants tend to be Portuguese-dominant, even when they speak
their heritage language.
1.7 The Community of Portuguese Language Countries
A little over a quarter century ago, the late French philologist Paul Teyssier
assessed the situation of Portuguese as being supported primarily by only Por-
tugal and Brazil. In both countries, Portuguese is a truly national language:
1.8 Varieties of Portuguese 19
besides being the native tongue of most people, it fulfills all roles in public and
private communication, government, education, and the media, without com-
petition from any other language. In Teyssier’s view, in the African countries
(and one might add, in East Timor as well) the future of Portuguese would
depend on its relationship to local indigenous languages and creoles, a situa-
tion he considered comparable to “the situation of English and French in other
[African] regions” (1985:47).
The overall situation of Portuguese as an international language may in the
long run be helped by the creation, in November 1989, of the Comunidade dos
Paı́ses de Lı́ngua Portuguesa – CPLP (“Community of Portuguese Language
Countries”), made up of the seven countries where Portuguese is official plus
East Timor with the status of “Guest Observer” at the time of writing. Defining
itself as an organization based on the commonality of the Portuguese language,
the CPLP proposes to undertake joint action in cultural, economic, and educa-
tional fields. One of its projects includes the establishment of an International
Institute of the Portuguese Language. It would be premature to speculate about
the extent to which such activities may influence the learning of Portuguese as
a second language in those countries where, its official status notwithstanding,
it is actually a minority language.
1.8 Varieties of Portuguese
The English language taken to America in the seventeenth century has since
changed substantially, giving rise to an American English standard that partially
diverges from British English, particularly in pronunciation and vocabulary, less
so in syntax. Elsewhere, largely due to its global role as the first and second
language of millions of new speakers, English has changed enough to give rise
to the concept of “new Englishes” and new standard varieties (Crystal 1997:130;
Trudgill and Hannah 2002).
Likewise, Portuguese in Brazil has changed in a variety of ways since the
sixteenth century, and today a standard for Brazilian Portuguese (BP), partially
different from the standard for European Portuguese (EP), is clearly distin-
guishable. This is hardly surprising, for a language can only remain relatively
homogeneous if it is used by a speech community small enough to allow con-
tinuous feedback among its members, and isolated enough to prevent influence
from other languages. That is definitely not the case of either English or
Portuguese, which are spoken by millions of people over a vast territory.
Whether BP and EP are still “the same language,” or whether BP has changed
enoughtojustifybeingclassifiedasa“differentlanguage,”isadebatedtopicthat
has received varying solutions – none definitive – from linguists. Some scholars
have written about “the existence of two cultivated and sovereign norms – one
Portuguese, the other Brazilian – within the single linguistic system of the
20 1 The Portuguese language in the world
Portuguese language” (Vázquez-Cuesta and Mendes da Luz 1987:129). Others
have claimed that the language spoken in Brazil (though not its written variety)
is a language different from that spoken in Portugal (Perini 1997). This book
adopts the viewpoint that, while substantial differences exist between BP and
EP, they are outweighed by the similarities, and consequently BP and EP are
varieties of the same language. Our presentation will concentrate on what is
commontobothvarietiesandfocusoncontrastswheneverappropriate.Learners
of Portuguese make their individual choice on the basis of personal preferences
or practical reasons – such as an intention to travel, work, or live in one country
or the other – but soon find out that learning to use one variety does not preclude
understanding the other.
Since most of the press in Portugal or Brazil uses a standardized language,
educatedpersonsfamiliarwitheithervarietyencounterlittledifficultyinreading
most articles in a newspaper or news magazine written in the other. Copy written
in a more colloquial language – by definition a local feature – is bound to present
difficulties of the kind an American would find in a British publication or a
Briton in an American one. Clearly, difficulties due to lack of familiarity with
national or local events, or to references to specific institutions or persons – like
the puzzlement experienced by an American trying to figure out a news item on
cricket or that felt by a Briton trying to read an article on baseball – are cultural
and circumstantial rather than linguistic.
Differences in speech are more intensely felt, and familiarity with one
variety does not ensure immediate comprehension of the other. Pronuncia-
tion plays a major role in this. Like Spanish or Italian, Brazilian Portuguese
articulates vowels rather clearly. In contrast, in European Portuguese unstressed
vowels tend to be weakly articulated or altogether eliminated, and even a short
utterance includes sequences of consonants that do not occur in Brazilian
Portuguese (2.9). Consequently, while speakers of European Portuguese find it
relatively easy to figure out Brazilian pronunciation, those familiar with the lat-
ter alone may require major adjustments to become comfortable with European
Portuguese. (Learners need not feel embarrassed about this, since Brazilians
visiting Portugal often find themselves in the same predicament.)
Comprehension, however, is a relative matter: educated speakers of BP and
EP talking about a topic with which they are both familiar should experience
minimal difficulty in understanding each other. On the other hand, either might
have a hard time following a heated argument in very colloquial style in the
other variety. The ultimate test, if you are a soccer fan, may well be listening
to a radio broadcast of a match: if you can follow you should have no difficulty
with other language styles. As regards the media, EP speakers are more exposed
to BP than the other way round: whereas the presence of Portuguese programs
on television in Brazil is minimal, it has been reported recently that as many as
1.8 Varieties of Portuguese 21
seven programs from the Brazilian TV network Globo were being broadcast in
Portugal on a single day (Brittos 2001:24).
Whereas in the late nineteenth century J. Leite de Vasconcellos, the founder
of Portuguese dialectology, could go unchallenged in classifying Portuguese as
spoken in Brazil as an “overseas dialect” (1970:132–133; Head 1994), over a
century later, such classification is untenable, given the vast body of linguistic
evidence that Brazil has its own linguistic norm. Perception of this situation
is evidenced by the indication “translated from the Brazilian” or “translated
from Brazilian Portuguese” in European translations of some Brazilian novels
(suchasRosa1987,1990,1991).Furthermore,someEuropeanuniversitiesoffer
separate courses in European Portuguese and Brazilian Portuguese (Endruschat
2001).
Whilst European Portuguese continues to provide a linguistic frame of refer-
ence for the African countries, the development of local standards is currently a
topic of debate among African linguists (6.5). Brazilian Portuguese, in turn, may
be expected to serve as the model of choice for Portuguese as a second language
in neighboring regions such as the Southern Cone, where Brazilians increas-
inglyinteractwithArgentinians,Chileans,Uruguayans,andParaguayans.Inthe
United States, consistently with faculty research interests and of most college
students’ academic or travel goals, Brazilian Portuguese provides the contents
of most textbooks published since the 1970s, such as Ellison et al. 1971; Abreu
and Rameh 1972, 1973; Tolman et al. 1988, 1989; and Perini 2002a, 2004.
As this brief overview suggests, Portuguese is a richly diverse language,
sporting as much variation as other languages which, like English or Spanish,
have spread themselves far and wide over the globe. In projecting itself beyond
its original territory, Portuguese has served a variety of communicative pur-
poses, as the native language not only of immigrants and settlers but also of
communities only remotely connected with their European roots. It has been a
contact language for individuals who depended on it for communication, trade,
or even survival. It is the heritage language of communities which, while proud
of their Portuguese descent, have shifted to another primary language. It has
even served as a foundation for new pidgin and creole languages, some of which
are still spoken. We would be pursuing a chimera if we thought something so
variegated could ever remain immutable through time and space, and present
the same facies everywhere. The only way to come to terms with Portuguese –
as with English – is to accept it as a plural linguistic entity.
Oncethebasicvocabularyandstructureshavebeenacquired,learnersventure
beyond the artificial predictability of classroom practices and instruction manu-
als to be confronted with a remarkable degree of variation, manifested in surpris-
ing departures from standard morphological details and syntactic arrangements.
As their horizon expands, learners find out that attaining proficiency involves
22 1 The Portuguese language in the world
Table 1.1 Speakers of Portuguese in the world*
Population*
% of
Pg-speaking
Number of
languages** Literacy rate*
Angola 10,776,471 42 41+ 42%
Brazil 182,032,604 99 192# 86.4%
Cape Verde 412,137 10 2*** 76.6%
Guinea-Bissau 1,360,827 0.03c 21*** 42.4%
Mozambique 17,479,266 47l 39+ 47.8%
Portugal 10,102,022 99+ 4+ ## 79.3%
São Tomé and
Prı́ncipe
175,883 2.12 4*** 79.3%
East Timor 997,853 2 19+ 48%
* Data from the CIA World Factbook (www.cia.gov).
** Including Portuguese.
*** Including creole varieties.
c Couto 1991:116.
l Lopes 2002c:51.
+Approximate figure; some scholars count as languages what others count as dialects.
# www.ethnologue.com mentions 192 living languages; Portuguese is official; others include Indian
languages and immigrant languages such as Spanish, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, etc.
## Portuguese official; Mirandese has official local status; others include Galician, creole varieties,
and recent immigrant languages such as Bulgarian.
the challenge of acquiring a specific code – Brazilian Portuguese or European
Portuguese, as the case may be – for active use, while striving to be able to
understand other codes so as to expand their communicative ability. Learners
would do well to keep in mind that, for all its importance, the grammar of a
language is only one element in a complex system that functions as both a
cognitive tool and a means of interaction in socially defined contexts. Once
some of the grammar is more or less in place (a phrase that aptly describes
most learners’ proficiency even after years of practice), we must continuously
refine our sense of the pragmatics of interaction in order to be successful in
communication.
The view of the language as a variable system is at odds with notions
expressed in traditional grammars and adopted by teachers who insist that there
is only one “correct” way to speak the language. Such an attitude is particularly
damaging in coming to terms with Brazilian Portuguese, where there is marked
divergence between popular speech and educated speech, on the one hand, and
between speech and writing on the other. Another misconception to be avoided
is that the written language is somehow superior to speech, or that any depar-
tures from the written norm, such as occur in spontaneous speech, are to be
regarded as deviations from an ideal of correctness. Though unsupported by
1.8 Varieties of Portuguese 23
any scientific evidence, such notions are propagated by a host of self-appointed
language arbiters who proffer inept advice on matters of correctness and find
errors where a bona fide language specialist would find none. Perhaps the most
important thing to keep in mind, in approaching Portuguese, is that a flexible
attitude towards diversity will go a long way towards understanding its var-
ious manifestations, all of them legitimate means of individual and cultural
expression for millions of people around the world.
2 Sounds
The primary medium of Portuguese, like that of any other language, is phones,◦
that is articulated sounds made by the organs of speech (Figure 2.1, p. 26).
Although used for talking, those organs are primarily involved in breathing
and eating. Furthermore, not all sounds produced by them are actually used in
speech. Heavy breathing, Bronx cheers, catcalls, or whistles of various kinds,
loaded with meaning as they may be, are not phones.
Phonesoccurinspeechinsequencescalledsyllables(2.6).Althoughtheexact
nature of syllables is a matter of debate among linguists, you can develop a feel
for them simply by humming a song while keeping the beat by tapping your
foot. In Portuguese as in English, in every word of two or more syllables there
is one that is pronounced louder than the others. That extra degree of loudness
is known as lexical stress (2.9). As the following series of words illustrates, the
position of the stressed syllable is crucial to identify the meaning of a word:
sabiá sa-bi-á (a kind of thrush) stressed on the last
sabia sa-bi-a ‘P3sg knew’ stressed on next to last
sábia sá-bi-a ‘learned (f. adj.)’ stressed on the third from last
Individual phones, their arrangement in syllables, and the placement of stress
along syllable sequences are three basic elements of speech.
2.1 The representation of phones
Some phrase books coach pronunciation by transcribing words in a way that
approximates English phones, separating syllables with hyphens, and showing
stressed syllables in capitals: Muito obrigado MWIN-too oh-bree-GAH-doo
‘thank you.’ Though useful for getting along in basic communication, such
representation is not precise enough for analyzing speech. Nor is ordinary writ-
ing, which represents speech in a conventional, almost stylized manner. The
Portuguese alphabet has twenty-three letters (a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i, j, l, m, n, o,
p, q, r, s, t, u, v, x, z), to which k, y, w are added to write words from other lan-
guages. A few letter combinations, or digraphs◦
, stand each for a single phone,
as in
24
2.1 The representation of phones 25
ch chato ‘boring,’ achar ‘to find’ rr carro ‘car,’ barro ‘mud’
nh acanhado ‘shy,’ ganhar ‘to win’ lh falha ‘flaw,’ palha ‘straw’
The letters gu and qu may function as digraphs or as two sounds:
Digraph (qu = hard g; qu = hard k) Two sounds
guitarra ‘guitar,’ guerra ‘war’ água ‘water,’ égua ‘mare’
quente ‘hot,’ quiabo ‘okra’ aquático ‘aquatic’
In addition, some letters may be modified by diacritics◦
such as the
cedilla (ç) or the various accents placed on vowels, viz.:
acute accent lá ‘there,’ pé ‘foot,’ rio ‘river,’ só ‘only,’ açúcar ‘sugar’
grave accent à ‘to the’ as in vou à piscina, ‘I’m going to the pool’
circumflex relevância ‘relevance,’ bebê ‘baby,’ avô ‘grandfather’
tilde irmã ‘sister,’ relações ‘relations’
umlaut lingüista ‘linguist’ (currently used in BP but not in EP)
Books published up to the early twentieth century show other consonant com-
binations that have since been abolished, such as ph (pharmacia, mod. farmácia
‘pharmacy’) or a few double letters (commercio, mod. comércio ‘commerce’).
EP spelling retains nn in connosco ‘with us,’ written conosco in BP.
An additional inconvenience is that the same phone may be represented by
more than one letter:
g, j gente ‘people,’ jornal ‘newspaper’
ch, x chá ‘tea,’ xadrez ‘chess’
s, ss, c, ç, z só ‘only,’ massa ‘mass,’ cedo ‘early,’ caça ‘hunting,’
voz ‘voice’
z, s, x zebra ‘zebra,’ casa ‘house,’ exame ‘exam’
Conversely, a letter may stand for different phones:
c capa ‘cloak,’ cego ‘blind’
g gato ‘cat,’ gênio ‘genius’
x paixão ‘passion,’ táxi ‘taxi,’ exato ‘exact’
Different letter combinations may also stand for the same phone, as am, ão
(falaram, ‘they spoke,’ falarão ‘they will speak’). Unlike in standard English,
the letter h before a vowel normally represents no phone, as in homem ‘man’
(an exception is the conventional representation of laughter: hahaha). Regional
variationfurtherdistanceswritingfromspeech:althoughchinwordslikechama
‘flame,’ chato ‘flat’ stands for the sound of sh, as in ship, in areas in northern
26 2 Sounds
alveolae
nasal tract
predorsum
lips
blade
tip (apex)
vocal cords
soft palate
uvula
pharynx
postdorsum
esophagus
trachea
larynx
front teeth
oral tract
dorsum
glottis
hard palate
Figure 2.1 The organs of speech
Portugal or central Brazil such words are pronounced with a tch-like sound (like
ch in chat, cheap).
To overcome the inconsistencies of ordinary spelling linguists use systems
of phonetic transcription. The most widespread of these is the International
Phonetic Alphabet (IPA 1999). Phonetic transcriptions are enclosed in square
brackets [ ], with the symbol  placed before a stressed syllable, as in aqui [aki]
‘here,’ capa [kapɐ] ‘toad,’ barracão [bahakɐ̃w] ‘shack.’ The phonetic sym-
bols used in this book are shown in Tables 2.1 and 2.2 (under “allophones” – a
2.2 Articulatory phonetics 27
concept explained in section 2.3). Examples are intended to illustrate specific
phones, although in many cases other pronunciations for the same words are
possible. Unless otherwise indicated, the pronunciation depicted reflects edu-
cated usage in Brazilian Portuguese (BP) as heard in the southeast of Brazil
(states of Minas Gerais, São Paulo, and Rio de Janeiro). For European Por-
tuguese (EP), the accent of reference is that of educated speakers from the city
of Lisbon. Certain pronunciation variations heard in regional or social accents
will be mentioned in later chapters.
Transcriptions, unless otherwise indicated, reflect the pronunciation that cor-
responds basically to the consultative style described in Joos 1967. It is the
relatively unmonitored pronunciation used by educated speakers in situations
that entail neither disdain for correctness nor concern for elegance, and in which
they aim at sounding neither too distant nor too chummy. References to formal
pronunciation, in turn, should be understood as being used in styles aiming for
maximum clarity and involving a degree of self-monitoring, as when we try to
clarify an utterance: Eu disse comprimento, não cumprimento ‘I said length,
not greeting.’ Finally, casual pronunciation (a label adopted here to cover Joos’s
informal and intimate styles) veers towards unconcern for form and uses more
emphatic or emotional language, with virtually no self-monitoring.
In the following sections we will analyze Portuguese phones from two com-
plementary viewpoints, namely how they are articulated, which is the purview
of articulatory phonetics (2.2), and the way phones work together in a system,
which is the area of phonology (2.3).
2.2 Articulatory phonetics
Phones are articulated by the organs of speech, which are made up by the
respiratory apparatus and the vocal tract (Figure 2.1). Breathing involves the
lungs, the bronchi, the trachea (or windpipe), and the larynx. In the larynx, right
behind the Adam’s apple, there are two muscular bands, called vocal cords (or
vocal folds), which can move close together or wide apart to control the passage
of air. Above the larynx and beginning with the pharynx, we distinguish the
oral tract and the nasal tract, which together constitute the vocal tract, where
most of the articulation process takes place. The oral tract includes the mouth
and its organs, such as the tongue, the teeth, the lips, the alveolar ridge, the
hard palate, the soft palate or velum, and the uvula. For descriptive purposes
the tongue is divided in several areas, namely the tip, the blade (which extends
about half an inch behind the tip), and the dorsum, each of which participates
in the formation of specific phones.
The space between the vocal cords constitutes the glottis, a triangular opening
leading into the pharynx. As the vocal cords tense up and the glottis narrows,
the pressure of egressive air causes them to vibrate. This vibration propagates
28 2 Sounds
harmonically through the air, like that of the strings of an acoustic guitar in
the body of the instrument, imparting to phones a feature known as voicing.◦
You can feel this vibration by lightly touching the area of your Adam’s apple
while humming continuously a series of phones like ee-ee-eye-eye-ow. You
can also feel the contrast between voiced and voiceless phones by pronouncing
continuous phones like vvvv-ffff-vvvv-ffff or zzzz-ssss-zzzz-ssss, or th as in that
and th as in think: ththth-ththth-ththth-ththth. You will develop a much sounder
grasp of practical phonetics if you do similar experiments as we go along, so
as to get a feel for the position and movement of the speech organs as they
articulate each phone. It will also help to systematically relate the articulation
of each phone to the respective phonetic terminology, as the terms reflect very
closely what goes on in your speech apparatus.
Most phones are formed as air exits through the oral tract, while the nasal
tract is blocked off by the tip of the velum touching the pharynx wall. Such
sounds are called oral. If, however, the tip of the velum is lowered, blocking
the oral tract, air goes out through the nasal tract, causing a resonance known
as nasality. Nasal phones are represented in English by m, n (money) and in
Portuguese by m, n, nh (maninha ‘little sister,’ campo ‘field,’ santo ‘saint’) or
by a tilde over ã or õ (lã ‘wool,’ põe ‘P3sg puts’), or by a mute consonant after
a vowel as in som ‘sound.’
Despite their variety, the phones of all languages can be sorted, in terms
of their articulatory features, into three categories, namely vowels, glides, and
consonants. In what follows, let us keep in mind that we are talking about
phones, not letters.
2.2.1 Vowels, glides, and diphthongs
To have an idea of what a vowel is, try to pronounce a long, uninterrupted
sound like eeeeeeeeee (that is, the ee or ea in see or tea) and feel how air flows
out freely. This kind of phone has the fundamental characteristic of vowels, of
being articulated without any obstruction to the passage of air (Table 2.1).
Now to get a feel for how vowels vary, repeat the experiment, alternating the
vowels of words like see, ah, low, do: eeee-aaaah-ooooh-oooo. You will notice
that the specific quality, or timbre, of this long vocalic sound is modulated by
factors like the position of the tongue, or the shape of the lips. According to
the relative height of the tongue, vowels are classified as high, mid, or low.
Depending on the degree of horizontal fronting or backing of the tongue, they
are classified as front, central, or back. These terms refer to the position of
articulation of a given vowel in relation to the other vowels, rather than to
any precise location inside the oral tract (Ladefoged 2001:71). Back vowels
(Table 2.3) are formed with a degree of lip-rounding that gives them a labial
articulation that is missing in non-back (that is, front and central) vowels.
2.2 Articulatory phonetics 29
Like vowels, glides are phones formed without any obstacle to the passage
of air (Table 2.1). Unlike a vowel, however, a glide cannot be the center of a
syllable, nor can it be pronounced in isolation (2.6). Rather, a glide is always
articulated next to a vowel, either before it (onglide) or after it (offglide). In
either case the vowel and glide together form a diphthongo
, as in ai [aj] ‘ouch’
or Eng I [ɑj]. Another difference is that whereas in the articulation of a vowel the
tongue remains in a given position (as when you say aaaaaaah at your doctor’s
request), a glide is formed while the tongue is moving. Since the tongue can only
move so far without encountering an obstacle (such as the palate, for example),
the possible duration of a glide is minimal.
In forming an offglide, the tongue moves away from the position of a vowel.
The resulting sequence of vowel + glide constitutes a falling diphthong:
vowel + front offglide vowel + back offglide
pai [aj] ‘father’ mau [maw] ‘bad’
lei [lej] ‘law’ eu [ew] ‘I’
méis [mεjs] ‘honeys’ céu [sεw] ‘sky’
boi [boj] ‘ox’ dou [dow] ‘I give’
sóis [sɔjs] ‘suns’ sol [sɔw] ‘sun’ (in BP only)
When, conversely, the tongue moves towards the position of a vowel, forming
a sequence of onglide + vowel, the result is a rising diphthong:
back onglide + vowel
quatro [kwatɾu] ‘four’
água [agwɐ] ‘water’
quota [kwɔtɐ] ‘quota’
lingüista [l ı̃gwistɐ] ‘linguist’
Articulatorily, then, to form the front glide [j] the tongue moves towards or
away from the position of articulation of the vowel [i] near the front section
of the palate. Conversely, the back glide [w] is formed as the tongue moves
towards or away from the position of articulation of the vowel [u] near the
velum.
Portuguese sequences of [j] + vowel or [w] + vowel are unstable and tend to
be pronounced as [i] + vowel or [u] + vowel, respectively. Thus depending on
pronunciation style we may have either a diphthong or a hiatus,◦
that is as two
contiguous vowels in separate syllables:
dipthong
onglide + vowel
hiatus
vowels in contiguous
syllables
pátria ‘fatherland’ pá-tria [pa-tɾjɐ] pá-tri-a [pa-tɾi-ɐ]
quieto ‘quiet’ quie-to [kj ε-tu] qui-e-to [ki-ε-tu]
Table
2.1
Portuguese
vowel
and
glide
phonemes
and
their
main
allophones
Phonemes
Allophones
Oral
vowels
Glides
/i/
[i]
high
front
li
‘I
read
[past]’
/j/
[j]
high
front
(palatal)
/e/
[e]
medium
front
lê
‘he
reads’
/ε/
[ε]
low-medium
front
pé
‘foot’
/w/
[w]
high
back
(velar)
/a/
[a]
low
central
lá
‘there’
/ɔ/
[ɔ]
low-medium
back
nó
‘knot’
/o/
[o]
medium
back
avô
‘grandfather’
/u/
[u]
high
back
nu
‘nude’
Oral
diphthongs
Falling
Rising
/iw/
[iw]
riu
‘P3sg
laughed’
/uj/
[uj]
fui
‘I
was’
/ew/
[ew]
meu
‘my’
/ej/
[ej]
rei
‘king’
/we/
[we/
lingüeta
‘latch’
/je/
+
[je]
série
‘series’
/εw/
[εw]
céu
‘sky’
/εj/
[εj]
papéis
‘papers’
/wε/
[wε]
+
cueca
‘shorts’
/jε/
+
[jε]
dieta
‘diet’
/aw/
[aw]
mau
‘bad’
/aj/
[aj]
mais
‘more’
/wa/
[wa]
quarto
‘room’
/ja/
+
[ja]
quiabo
‘okra’
/ow/
[ow]
**
sou
‘I
am’
/oj/
[oj]
dois
‘two’
/wo/
[wo]
vácuo
‘vacuum’
/jo/
+
[jo]
biologia
‘biology’
/ɔl/
[ɔw]
*
sol
[sɔw]
‘sun’
/ɔj/
[ɔj]
sóis
‘suns’
/wɔ/
[wɔ]
quota
‘quota’
/jɔ/
[jɔ]
maior
‘bigger’
/ul/
[uw]
*
culpa
[

kuwpɐ]
‘guilt’
/uj/
[uj]
fui
‘I
went’
/ju/
+
[ju]
viuvez
‘widowhood’
Nasal
vowels
#
Nasal
diphthongs
Falling
Rising
/in/
[ı̃]
fim
[f
ı̃]
‘end,’
cinto
[

s
ı̃
tu]
‘belt’
/en/
[ẽ]
dentro
[

dẽ
tru]
‘inside’
/enj/
[ẽ

˜
]
em
‘in’
/wan/
[
w̃ɐ̃]
quanto
‘how
much’
/ɐn/
[ɐ̃]
lã
[lɐ̃]
‘wool,’
canto
[

kɐ̃
tu]
‘corner’
/ɐnj/
[ɐ̃

˜
]
mãe
‘mother’
/wen/
[
w̃ẽ]
freqüência
‘frequency’
/on/
[õ]
som
[sõ]
‘sound,’
conto
[

kõ
tu]
‘tale’
/onj/
[õ

˜
]
ações
‘actions’
/win/
[
w̃ı̃]
qüinquagenário
‘fifty
years
old’
/un/
[ũ]
um
[ũ]
‘one,’
mundo
[

mũ
du]
‘world’
/unj/
[ũ
j̃]
muito
‘much,’
BP
ruim
‘bad’
/jan/
##
[

˜
ɐ̃]
amianto
‘asbestos’
/ũnw/
[
ɐ̃
w̃]
pão
‘bread’
/jen/
##
[
j̃ẽ]
arreliento
‘annoying’
/jon/
##
[

˜
õ]
biombo
‘partition’
*
Post-vocalic
/l/
pronounced
as
[w]
in
BP
only.
See
section
2.5.
**
BP
/ow/
is
normally
pronounced
[o]
in
unmonitored
speech.
+
These
rising
diphthongs
alternate
with
two-vowel
sequences:
cue-ca
/
cu-e-ca,
quia-bo
/
qui-a-bo,
bio-lo-gi-a
/
bi-o-lo-gi-a,
etc.
#
Nasal
vowels
are
interpreted
phonologically
here
as
a
sequence
of
vowel
+
nasal.
##
These
diphthongs
may
alternate
with
sequences
of
vowel
+
nasal
consonant:
biom-bo
/
bi-om-bo.
32 2 Sounds
Finally, a vowel between two glides forms a triphthong: Uruguai [uɾugwaj],
Paraguai [paɾagwaj]. (See Table 2.1 for a list of Portuguese diphthongs.)
2.2.2 Nasal vowels and diphthongs
A peculiarity of Portuguese (shared with only French among the Romance lan-
guages) is nasal vowels (Table 2.1) which contrast with their oral counterparts:
cito [situ] ‘I cite’ / cinto [sı̃tu] ‘belt’ juta [utɐ] ‘jute’ / junta [ũtɐ] ‘junta’
teta [tetɐ] ‘teat’ / tenta [tẽ tɐ] ‘P3sg
tries’
popa [popɐ] ‘stern’ / pompa [põpɐ]
‘pomp’
lá ‘there’ [la] / lã [lɐ̃]
Diphthongs and triphthongs may also be nasal, as in pão [pɐ̃w̃] ‘bread,’ cem
[sẽ
˜] ‘hundred,’ quão [kwɐ̃w̃] ‘how much.’ Muito(s) [mũjtu] ‘very, many’ (as
well as its obsolete clipped variant mui) is the only instance of nasal [ũj] in
all varieties of Portuguese, although in BP ruim ‘bad’ tends to be pronounced
[hũ
˜] rather than [huı̃] as in EP, and the same goes for derived forms such as
ruindade ‘cruelty,’ ruinzão ‘cruel,’ ruinzinho ‘shabby.’ Although these phones
are either vowels or diphthongs phonetically, their pronunciation may involve
a weak constriction like a nasal palatal consonant (see section 2.2.3) which
links up with a following vowel, as in tem amigo [tẽ
˜	
amigu] ‘has a friend’
instead of [tẽ
˜amigu], or cem anos [sẽ
˜	
ɐnus] ‘a hundred years’ instead of
[sẽ
˜ɐnus]. The nasal vowel [õ] in final position may be diphthongized: dom
‘gift’ [dõ] ∼ [dõw̃], som ‘sound’ [sõ] ∼ [sõw̃].
2.2.3 Consonants
As we have seen, when vowels and glides are articulated, no obstacle inter-
feres with air leaving the oral cavity. Consonants, on the contrary, are always
formed when there is an obstacle blocking, wholly or partially, the passage
of air (Table 2.2). Three criteria are used for classifying consonants. One is
voicing: if the vocal cords vibrate (see the examples in section 2.2), conso-
nants are voiced, as b d g [b d g] in bodega [bodεgɐ] ‘tavern,’ and if they
do not vibrate, consonants are voiceless, as p t c [p t k] in peteca [petεkɐ]
‘shuttlecock.’
The second criterion, manner of articulation, based on how the obstacle is
made, comprises the following seven categories: stop (or occlusive), fricative,
affricate, lateral, vibrant, retroflex, and nasal.
Stop (occlusive): The vocal tract is momentarily stopped, shutting off the
flow of air, and then reopened, letting air burst out, hence the alternate name of
2.2 Articulatory phonetics 33
plosive. In [p] (pai ‘father’) or [b] (boi ‘ox’) the obstacle is created by the lips
coming together. Consonants other than stops involve a partial obstacle.
Fricative: The opening is narrow enough to create friction as air goes through,
as in [s] só ‘alone,’ [z] zum ‘zoom,’ [] já ‘already,’ [ʃ] chá ‘tea,’ [f] fé ‘faith,’
or [v] vi ‘I saw.’
Affricate: As in stops, there is an initial closure, which is then partially
released, producing friction as in fricatives. Examples are the voiceless affricate
[] of Eng chip and its voiced counterpart [] or Eng jeep. The affricate []
occurs in the Brazilian leave-taking expression tchau (< It ciao), and in the BP
pronunciation of t and d before the sound [i] as in tio [iu] tio ‘uncle,’ este
[esi] or dia [iɐ] ‘day,’ ode [ɔi] ‘ode.’
Lateral: The tongue creates an obstacle in the central area of the vocal tract,
letting air out laterally, on one side alone or on both sides, as [l] in lei ‘law’ or
[ʎ] as in ilha [iʎɐ] ‘island.’
Vibrant: An articulator, such as the tip of the tongue, moves quickly once
or several times. Only one vibration is involved for the voiced flap [ɾ] of caro
[kaɾu] ‘dear,’ and two or more vibrations participate in the formation of the
voiced trill [r] of carro [karu] ‘car’ or rei [rej] ‘king.’ In EP the uvular vibrant
[] is the usual phonetic value of r or rr in words like rato ‘rat,’ carro ‘car,’
honra ‘honor.’ Laterals and vibrants are grouped under the generic label liquids.
(In BP the alveolar trill [r] has largely been displaced by a glottal (see below)
fricative transcribed as [h].)
Retroflex: The tip of the tongue is raised and turned backwards towards the
pre-palatalregion,asinthepronunciatonofrinAmericanEnglish.Aretroflexed
sound, transcribed [ɹ], occurs in the interior of the states of São Paulo and Minas
Gerais (7.3.1.2).
Nasal: As mentioned earlier, the velum is lowered, letting air through the
nasal tract, where it resonates, as in [m] meu ‘my,’ [n] nós ‘we,’ [	] pinho
‘pine.’
The third criterion, place of articulation, concerns the location of the
obstacle, and provides the following categories: bilabial, labiodental,
(linguo)interdental, (linguo)dental, (linguo)alveolar, (linguo)palatal,
(linguo)velar, uvular, and glottal.
Bilabial: The lips come together, as in [p] pai ‘father,’ boi ‘ox,’ mar ‘sea.’
Labiodental: The lower lip touches the upper front teeth, as in [f] fala ‘speech’
or [v] vala ‘ditch.’
Interdental: The tip of the tongue comes under the upper front teeth, as in
English [] thin or [ð] that.
Dental and alveolar: For dental phones, the tongue touches the inner surface
of the front teeth, and for alveolar phones it touches the alveolar ridge. The
stops [t] and [d] tend to be dentoalveolar in Portuguese (tu ‘you,’ dois ‘two’),
whereas they are fully alveolar in English (too, dual). Other alveolar consonants
Table
2.2
Portuguese
consonant
phonemes
and
their
main
allophones
Phonemes
Allophones
Voicing
Area
of
articulation
Manner
of
articulation
Active
articulator
Passive
articulator
/p/
[p]
unvoiced
bilabial
occlusive
lower
lip
upper
lip
pato
/pato/
[

patu]
‘duck’
/b/
[b]
voiced
bilabial
occlusive
lower
lip
upper
lip
bala
/bala/
[

balɐ]
‘bullet’
[
β
]
1
voiced
bilabial
fricative
lower
lip
upper
lip
aba
/

aba/
[

a
β
ɐ]
1
‘brim’
/t/
[t]
unvoiced
laminoalveolar
occlusive
blade
front
teeth
tapa
/

tapa/
[

tapɐ]
‘slap’
/d/
[d]
voiced
laminoalveolar
occlusive
blade
front
teeth
dado
/

dado/
[

dadu]
‘die’
[ð]
1
voiced
interdental
fricative
blade
front
teeth
dado
/dado/
[

daðu]
1
‘die’
/k/
[k]
unvoiced
dorsovelar
occlusive
dorsum
soft
palate
coco
/

koko/
[

koku]
‘coconut’
/g/
[g]
voiced
dorsovelar
occlusive
dorsum
soft
palate
gato
/

gato/
[

gatu]
‘cat’
[]
1
voiced
dorsovelar
fricative
dorsum
soft
palate
chaga
/

ʃaga/
[

ʃaɐ]
1
‘wound’
/f/
[f]
unvoiced
labiodental
fricative
lower
lip
front
teeth
café
/ka

fe/
[ka

fε]
‘coffee’
/v/
[v]
voiced
labiodental
fricative
lower
lip
front
teeth
vaca
/

vaka/[

vaka]
‘cow’
/s/
[s]
unvoiced
predorsoalveolar
fricative
predorsum
alveolae
sopa
/

sopa/
[

sopɐ]
‘soup’
/z/
[z]
voiced
predorsoalveolar
fricative
predorsum
alveolae
zebra
/

zebra/
[

zebrɐ]
‘zebra’
/ʃ/
[ʃ]
unvoiced
dorsopalatal
fricative
dorsum
hard
palate
chato
/

ʃato/
[

ʃatu]
‘flat’
//
[]
voiced
dorsopalatal
fricative
dorsum
hard
palate
jato
/

ato/
[

atu]
‘jet’
/l/
[l]
voiced
dorsoalveolar
lateral
apex
alveolae
lado
/

lado/
[

ladu]
‘side’
/ʎ/
[ʎ]
voiced
dorsopalatal
lateral
dorsum
hard
palate
palha
/

paʎa/
[

paʎɐ]
‘straw’
/ɾ/
[ɾ]
voiced
apicoalveolar
tap
apex
alveolae
caro
/

kaɾo/
[

karu]
‘expensive’
//
2
[h]
unvoiced
glottal
fricative
see
footnote
2
[

kahu]
[]
voiced
uvular
trill
dorsum
velum
carro
/

karo/
[

karu]
‘car’
[r]
voiced
apicoalveolar
trill
apex
alveolae
[

karu]
[x]
unvoiced
dorsovelar
fricative
dorsum
hard
palate
[

kaxu]
/m/
[m]
voiced
bilabial
nasal
lower
lip
upper
lip
mapa
/

mapa/
[

mapɐ]
‘map’
/n/
[n]
voiced
laminoalveolar
nasal
apex
alveolae
pano
/

pano/
[

panu]
‘cloth’
/	/
[	]
voiced
dorsopalatal
nasal
dorsum
soft
palate
banha
/

ba	a/
[

ba	ɐ]
‘lard’
1
In
some
varieties
of
EP.
2
//
used
here
as
a
generic
symbol.
In
BP
the
allophones
[
r
x
h]
may
occur
in
the
same
region,
although
one
of
the
most
widespread
renderings
is
the
fricative
[h],
formed
when
egressive
air
causes
friction
in
glottis
and
pharynx.
2.3 Phonology 35
include the fricative [s] (sim ‘yes’), the lateral [l] (lá ‘there’), and the vibrant
[ɾ] (cara ‘face’).
Palatal: The tongue blade touches the palate, as in the fricatives [ʃ] (chá
‘tea’) and [] (já ‘already’), the affricates [] (cheap), [] ( jet), or the voiced
lateral [ʎ] (alho ‘garlic’).
Velar: The tongue dorsum touches the velum, as in the stops [g] (gago ‘stam-
merer’) and [k] (coco ‘coconut’).
Uvular: The uvula vibrates, as in the voiced trill [], or it may be the place
where a constriction of the vocal tract articulates a fricative, voiceless [x] or
voiced [ʁ]. These phones are possible pronunciations of initial r (rápido ‘fast’)
or intervocalic rr (carro ‘car’).
Glottal: The articulation is made in the glottis by a movement of the vocal
cords. For the voiceless glottal fricative [h] the glottis narrows, causing friction
as air rushes out, as in Eng he, home, BP rápido [hapidu] ‘fast,’ BP carro
[kahu] ‘car.’ This sound is the most common pronunciation of initial r (rei
‘king’) and intervocalic rr (torre [tohi] ‘tower’) in BP (Perini 2004:26).
The glottis may close momentarily, creating an occlusion responsible for the
glottal stop [ʔ] that occurs marginally in English between vowels, in interjec-
tions conventionally written ah-ah or oh-oh.
2.3 Phonology
The phonetic description of phones is complemented by phonology, which
analyzes how they work together as a system in a given language. In this
case we refer to them as phonemeso
. The basic property of phonemes is
that they signal differences in meaning. Thus the words mama ‘teat,’ mana
‘sister,’ and manha ‘guile’ form minimal pairs◦
that contrast in meaning
owing to the nasal consonants [m], [n], [	]. This meaningful contrast allows
us to postulate the Portuguese phonemes /m/, /n/, and /	/. It is conventional
to transcribe phonemes between slashes to differentiate them from phonetic
transcriptions.
Whereas the phones of the world’s languages are virtually infinite, each
language has a finite set of phonemes. Phones with similar articulation may
correspond to separate phonemes in one language and variants of the same
phoneme in another. Such variants are traditionally known as allophones◦
. For
example, both Portuguese and English have the stops [t], [d] and the affricates
[], []. Since these phones appear in minimal pairs such as tip/chip or dig/jig,
we classify /t/, /d/, //, // as separate phonemes in English. In BP, however,
pairs like tipo [tipu] ∼ [ipu] ‘type’ or digo [digu] ∼ [igu] ‘I say’ are
simply pronunciation variants of the same word. Likewise, minimal pairs like
sheep/cheap or cash/catch serve to identify /ʃ/ and // as English phonemes. In
36 2 Sounds
Portuguese, on the contrary, [] is just a regional variant of [ʃ], and we say that
both [] and [ʃ] are allophones of the phoneme /ʃ/.
The symbols for the phonemes of Portuguese and their allophones are shown
in Tables 2.1 and 2.2.
2.3.1 Phonological processes
One way to account for the various pronunciations of the same word is to
consider them different phonetic realizations of the same basic phonological
representation. Thus tipo, digo would have the phonological representations
/tipu/, /digu/, and as many phonetic representations as there are ways of pro-
nouncing them. The actual phonetic articulation in BP of /t/ as [] or of /d/ as
[] before [i] results from a process called palatalization, which causes the
tongue blade to move towards the palatal region. In other varieties of the lan-
guage, where phonological process is not operative, such as EP, /d/ and /t/ are
always pronounced as a dental (or dentoalveolar) [d] or [t].
Phonological processes act on the phonemes in a word’s phonological repre-
sentationsoastoultimatelyyieldtheallophonespresentinitsphoneticrepresen-
tation(s). A phonological process is either categorical or variable. A categorical
process applies whenever the required conditions are fulfilled, as in the case
of the voicing of the Portuguese phoneme /s/ in word-final position before a
word beginning with a vowel: os amigos [uzamigus] ‘the friends.’ A variable
process, on the contrary, may or may not apply, depending on a variety of fac-
tors. For example, the conjunction e, phonologically /i/, if unstressed after a
vowel, as in sala e quarto ‘living room and bedroom,’ may be pronounced as
the vowel [i] in slow speech [sa-lɐ-i-kwa-tu], or as the glide [j] in fast speech
[sa-lɐj-kwa-tu].
Phonological processes operate in four basic ways, as follows:
(1) They may change a feature of a phoneme, as when voiceless /s/ becomes
voiced before a vowel or a voiced consonant, yielding [z]: os amigos
[uzamigus] ‘the friends,’ os dois [uzdojs] ‘the two of them.’
(2) Conversely, they may add a new feature, as when /d/ or /t/ become palatal-
izedrespectivelyas[]or[].Boththesecasesoffeaturechangeoraddition
illustrate assimilationo
, a process whereby a phoneme becomes more like
a neighboring phoneme.
(3) In addition, phonological process may eliminate a full phoneme, as in the
loss of the final /ɾ/ of infinitives in BP: falar > [fala] ‘to speak,’ comer
[kume] ‘to eat,’ partiɾ [pafi] ‘to leave.’
(4) Finally, phonological processes may add a whole phoneme, as when an
initial /i/ is added to a foreign word beginning with s + consonant to adapt
it to BP pronunciation, as in Eng stress > BP estresse, Eng stereo > BP
estéreo.
2.4 Portuguese phonemes 37
2.4 Portuguese phonemes
The phonological inventory of Portuguese (Tables 2.1 and 2.2) may be described
as including the seven vowels /a e ε i o ɔ u/, the two glides /j w/, and the nineteen
consonants /p b t d k g f v s z ʃ  m n 	l ʎ ɾ /. The vowel inventory of EP
includes also the vowels /ɐ/ and / /, which are responsible for certain contrasts
that do not occur in BP (2.4.2).
2.4.1 Nasalization
While the phonetic nature of nasal vowels is well understood, linguists have
interpreted their phonological status in several ways. For Portuguese nasal vow-
els, there are two basic options. Interpretation (A) below postulates five inde-
pendent nasal phonemes / ã ẽ ı̃ õ ũ/, which yield the phonetic nasal vowels
[ɐ̃ ẽ ı̃ õ ũ]. Interpretation (B) postulates phonological sequences of a vowel plus
a nasal consonant that may be represented as /n/, thus: /an en in on un/. Each
such sequence undergoes two phonological processes, namely vowel nasal-
ization followed by loss of the nasal consonant (/an/ → /ãn/ → [ɐ̃]). Thus
a word like lã ‘wool’ derives from a phonological representation like /lan/,
with nasalization yielding /lãn/ → [lɐ̃] and loss of the nasal consonant yield-
ing the phonetic form [lɐ̃]. Whichever theoretical interpretation one chooses,
it is crucial for learners to acquire control of the nasalization mechanism to
avoid pronouncing an [m] or [n] in words spelled with m or n after a vowel in
final position or before a consonant, such as com ‘with,’ campo ‘field,’ canto
‘corner.’
Intepretation A Interpretation B
phonological
representation
phonetic
transcription
phonological
representation
phonetic
transcription
lã ‘wool’ /lã/ → [ɐ̃] /lan/ → /lãn/ → [lɐ̃]
tenda ‘tent’ /tẽda/ → [tẽdɐ] /tenda/ → /tẽnda/ → [tẽdɐ]
sim ‘yes’ /sı̃/ → [sı̃] /sin/ → /sı̃n/ → [sı̃]
onda ‘wave’ /õda/ → [õdɐ] /onda/ → /õnda/ → [õdɐ]
um ‘one’ /ũ/ → [ũ] /un/ → /ũn/ → [ũ]
The contrasts /e/ : / ε / (este ‘this’ : este ‘East’) and /o/ : /ɔ / (forma ‘mould’ :
forma ‘form’) hold in stressed position only. Whereas in BP only /e/ and /o/
occur before a nasal consonant, EP allows any of these vowels in that position,
38 2 Sounds
as we can see in the following examples:
EP BP
lema ‘motto’ [lemɐ] [lemɐ]
ténis ‘tennis’ [tεniʃ] [tenis]
tomo ‘tome’ [tomu] [tomu]
bónus ‘bonus’ [bɔnuʃ] [bonus]
In BP a nasal consonant in syllable-initial position tends to impart a degree
of nasalization to the preceding vowel. Consequently, words like cama ‘bed,’
tenho ‘I have,’ fino ‘fine,’ ponho ‘I put,’ punho ‘fist’ have a slightly nasalized
stressed vowel. Such pronunciation differences are responsible for differences
in spelling, as in EP ténis, bónus vs. BP tênis, bônus.
This process of phonetic nasalization by assimilation varies not only region-
ally but also from one speaker to another. The vowel /a/ in particular tends to
become nasalized, changing from [a] to a mid-central nasalized [ɐ̃], as in cama
[kɐ̃mɐ] ‘bed,’ cano [kɐ̃nu] ‘pipe,’ banho [bɐ̃	u] ‘bath.’ The contrasts /e/ : / ε/
and /o/ : / ɔ/ tend to be neutralized before a nasal consonant and a high-mid [e] or
[o] is the norm in BP (tênis [tenis] ‘tennis,’ tônico [toniku] ‘tonic’). However, a
few words have alternate pronunciations with either vowel, as in fome [fomi] ∼
[fɔmi] ‘hunger,’ Antônio [ɐ̃toniu] ∼ António [ɐ̃tɔniu]. Likewise, either [e] ∼
[ε] or [o] ∼ [ɔ] may occur in specific forms of the verbs tomar ‘to take,’ comer
‘to eat,’ fechar ‘to close,’ and frear ‘to brake’:
toma ‘P3sg takes’[tomɐ] ∼ [tɔmɐ] tomam ‘P3pl take’ [tomɐ̃w̃] ∼ [tɔmɐ̃w̃]
come ‘P3sg’ [komi] ∼ [kɔmi] comem ‘P3pl eat’ [kom ẽ
˜] ∼ [kɔm ẽ
˜]
fecho ‘I close’ [feʃu] ∼ [fεʃu] fecha ‘P3sg closes’ [feʃɐ] ∼ [fεʃɐ]
freia ‘P3sg brakes’ [frejɐ] ∼ [frεjɐ]
2.4.2 Stressed vowels
Since stress affects vowel quality, we will take up stressed and unstressed vowels
separately. In stressed position, both BP and EP show a seven-way contrast
among the phonemes /i e ε a ɔ o u/:
/i/ bico ‘a bird’s beak’ /u/ suco ‘juice’
/e/ beco ‘alley’ /o/ soco ‘a punch’
/ε/ seco ‘dry’ /ɔ/ soco ‘I punch’
/a/ saco ‘bag’
Although in EP syllable-final /a/ is usually pronounced [ɐ] before a nasal
consonant (pano [pɐnu] ‘cloth’), stressed [ɐ] and [a] contrast in the first person
plural of -ar verbs, distinguishing the present ending -amos [ɐmuʃ] from the
2.4 Portuguese phonemes 39
preterit -ámos [amuʃ], as in example 1a. This contrast does not occur naturally
in BP where both endings are pronounced [ɐ] and written alike, as in 1b:
(1) a. EP Trabalhamos [ɐ] hoje porque não trabalhámos [a] ontem.
b. BP Trabalhamos [ɐ] hoje porque não trabalhamos [ɐ] ontem
‘We work today because we did not work yesterday.’
2.4.3 Unstressed vowels
The pronunciation of unstressed vowels varies according to their position in
relation to the stressed syllable. An unstressed vowel may be either final or
non-final, and in the latter case it may be pre-stressed or post-stressed. In EP
unstressed vowels tend to be shortened, compressed, or eliminated altogether,
which imparts an overall consonantal character to pronunciation. This is a
major difference from BP, which mostly pronounces unstressed vowels rather
clearly, although there are exceptions, such as Mineiro◦
, which tends to slur
and eliminate those vowels in word-final position.
2.4.3.1 Unstressed final position In BP unstressed final /a/ (spelled
a) is either a weak [a] or a mid central vowel [ɐ]: bala [balɐ] ‘bullet.’ The
phonological contrasts /i/ : /e/ and /u/ : /o/ are neutralized, which explains why
[i] corresponds to orthographic i, e and [u] to orthographic o, u. Thus the final
vowels in xale [ʃali] ‘shawl’ and galo [galu] ‘rooster’ are the same as the
final vowel in cáqui [kaki] ‘khaki’ and bônus [bonus] ‘bonus,’ respectively.
The unstressed vowels [e], [o] in final position (corresponding to the letters
e, o) reflect a pronunciation that survives in areas in the southern state of Rio
Grande do Sul and in some rural areas of the state of São Paulo (Rodrigues
1974:186ff.), where one can hear alternations like pobre [pɔbɾi] ∼ [pɔbɾe]
‘poor’ or do gado [dugadu] ∼ [dogado] ‘of the cattle.’
In EP unstressed final /a/ is pronounced as a central mid vowel [ɐ] (casa
[kazɐ] ‘house’), while unstressed final /e/, spelled e, yields a higher central
vowel, transcribed [ə]. The vowels [i] and [u] also occur in final unstressed
position, which means that EP has a four-way contrast, compared with the three-
way contrast of BP, as shown below. As mentioned above, however, unstressed
vowels, particularly in final position, are systematically weakened and tend to
be dropped in fast pronunciation (casa [kaz], hoje [o] ‘today’).
BP EP
/i/ [i] táxi [taksi] ‘taxi’ [i] táxi [taksi] ∼ [taks]
/e/ [i] taxe [taʃi] ‘P3sg may tax’ [ə] taxe [taʃə] ∼ [taʃ]
/a/ [ɐ] taxa [taʃɐ] ‘tax,’ ‘P3sg taxes’ [ɐ] taxa [təʃ] ∼ [taʃ]
/u/ [u] tacho [taʃu] ‘cauldron’ [u] tacho [taʃu] ∼ [taʃ]
40 2 Sounds
2.4.3.2 Pre-stressed position In BP the phonemes /i e a o u/ occur in
pre-stressed position with the respective phonetic values [i e a o u], and generally
corresponding to written i e a o u, as in pirata ‘pirate,’ cutelo ‘cleaver,’ pecado
‘sin,’ covarde ‘coward,’ pagar ‘pay.’
Certain broad generalizations distinguish northern speech, characterized by
openpre-tonicvowels[ε]and[ɔ],fromsouthernspeech,characterizedbyclosed
pre-tonic vowels [e] and [o] in words like sereno ‘dew,’ veneno ‘poison,’ moreno
‘swarthy,’ colega ‘colleague’ (Leite and Callou 2002). Since these differences
are purely phonetic and entail no meaningful contrasts, they need not concern
us further.
The contrasts /e/ : /i/ and /o/ : /u/ are unstable in pre-stressed position, and
consequently words with orthographic e, o tend to be pronounced with [i],
[u], as in moleque [mulεki] ‘street boy,’ pequeno [pikenu] ‘small.’ Due to a
phonological process called vowel harmonyo
, the high vowels [i], [u] are likely
to occur if a stressed high vowel follows, as in
menino [mininu] ‘boy’ moringa [muɾı̃gɐ] ‘jug’
seguro [siguɾu] ‘insurance’ coturno [kutuhnu] ‘military boot’
Inword-initialposition,orthographice,andtoalesserextento,inpre-stressed
position likewise tend to be pronounced respectively as [i] or [u]:
emenda [imẽdɐ] ‘amendment’ entrega [ĩtɾεgɐ] ‘delivery’
operação [upeɾasɐ̃w̃] ‘operation’ horizonte [uɾizõi] ‘horizon’
boneca [bunεkɐ] ‘doll’ comércio [kumεhsiu] ‘commerce’
If the stressed vowel is high, vowel harmony reinforces this trend:
ferido [fiɾidu] ‘wounded’ serviço [sihvisu] ‘service’
formiga [fuhmigɐ] ‘ant’ coluna [kulunɐ] ‘column’
In most cases, [e], [o] can occur in monitored pronunciation if clarification
is required: boneca [bonε kɐ] ‘doll,’ emenda [emẽdɐ] ‘correction,’ perdiz
[pehdis] ‘partridge,’ formiga [fohmigɐ].
In both BP and EP, although the phonological contrast /e/ : /ε/ does not
occur in unstressed position, the low-mid vowels [ɔ], [ε] are retained in certain
derived words. These include adverbs in -mente (certo ‘certain’ [sεh tu] >
certamente ‘certainly,’ BP [sεhtɐmẽi], EP [sεɾtmẽt]; or somente ‘only,’ BP
[sɔmẽi], EP [sɔmẽt], and words formed with the superlative suffix -ı́ssimo/a:
perto ‘near’ > pertı́ssimo ‘very near’ [pεhtisimu].
In BP [ε] and [ɔ] may be either kept or replaced respectively by [e] or [o] in
derived words formed with the diminutive suffixes -inho/a, -zinho/a. In some
accents, such as Mineiro, [i], [u] are common in such words:
2.4 Portuguese phonemes 41
BP in general Mineiro
[ε] ∼ [e] and [ɔ] ∼ [o] [ε] ∼ [e] ∼ [i] ∼ [ı̃]
[ɔ] ∼ [o] ∼ [u] ∼ [ũ]
velho ‘old’ > velhinho [vεʎi	u] ∼ [veʎi	u] [viʎi	u] ∼ [viʎ ı̃]
Zé > Zezinho (from the
name ‘José’)
[zεzi	u] ∼ [zezi	u] [zizi	u] ∼ [ziz ı̃]
pé ‘foot’ > pezinho
‘little foot’
[pεzi	u] ∼ [pezi	u] [pizi	u] ∼ [piz ı̃]
só ‘alone’ > sozinho
‘quite alone’
[sɔzi	u] ∼ [sozi	u] [suzi	u] ∼ [suz ı̃]
In EP pre-stressed vowels regularly undergo a phonological process called
raisingo
, which causes them to be articulated one level higher on the scale in
Table 2.1: /o/ (spelled o) yields [u] (pomar ‘orchard’ [pumaɾ], provocar ‘to
provoke’ [pɾuvukaɾ]); /e/ (spelled e) is raised and centered, and pronounced
[ə], as in pegar [pəgaɾ] ‘to grab,’ depois [dəpojʃ] ‘after,’ whereas /a/ corre-
sponds to [ɐ], as in pagar [pɐgaɾ] ‘to pay,’ catar [kɐtaɾ] ‘to pick up.’ The
presence of a syllable-final /l/, phonetically a velar lateral [], however, con-
tributes to have /a/, /e/, /o/ pronounced respectively as [a], [ə], [o], as in palmar
[pamaɾ] ‘palm tree grove,’ selvático [səvatiku] ‘savage,’ colcha [koʃɐ]
‘bedspread.’
2.4.3.3 Post-stressed non-final position Post-stressed non-final
vowels occur only in words stressed on the third syllable from the last. In
BP all five phonemes /i e a o u/ may occur in this position. The phoneme
/a/ is articulated as a weak [a] or [ɐ]: cágado [kagɐdu] ‘turtle,’ pênalti
[penɐwi] ‘penalty (sports).’ As in other unstressed positions, the contrast
/e/ : /i/ is weakened, so that orthographic e may correspond to either [e] or [i],
as in the following examples, where the second member of each pronunciation
pair rhymes with código [kɔigu] ‘code’:
córrego [kɔhegu] ∼ [kɔhigu] ‘creek’
pêssego [pesegu] ∼ [pesigu] ‘peach’
cônego [konegu] ∼ [konigu] ‘canon’
tráfego [tɾafegu] ∼ [tɾafigu] ‘traffic’
Written o likewise corresponds to either [o] or [u], as in cômodo [ komodu] ∼
[komudu] ‘comfortable,’ diálogo [ialogu] ∼ [ialugu] ‘dialog,’ with the
second member of each pair rhyming with centrı́fugo ‘centrifugal.’ Since
post-stressed non-final vowels are naturally weak, they may be devoiced and
shortened or even dropped in popular pronunciation, as in
Table
2.3
Comparison
of
phonemes
of
Portuguese
and
English
Portuguese
English
Consonants
labio-
dento-
bilabial
bilabial
dental
alveolar
alveolar
palatal
velar
uvular
dental
labio-
dental
alveolar
palatal
velar
glottal
Stop
p
b
t
d
k
g
p
b
t
d
k
g
Fricative
f
v
s
z
ʃ

1
f
v

ð
s
z
ʃ

h
Affricate
t
ʃ
d
Lateral
l
ʎ
l
Nasal
m
n
	
m
n
Vibrant
ɾ
Glides
j
w
r
j
w
Vowels
front
central
back
front
back
High
i

2
u
ij
uw
i

Mid
e
ɐ
3
o
e
o
ε
ɔ
ε

ɔ
Low
a
æ
a
1
As
in
Table
2.2,
//
is
used
here
as
a
generic
symbol.
The
allophones
[
r
x
h]
may
occur
in
the
same
region,
often
in
the
speech
of
the
same
speaker,
although
[h]
is
the
most
widespread
rendering.
2
A
phoneme
in
EP
only:
pegar
[p

gaɾ]
‘to
grab’
vs.
pagar
[pɐ

gaɾ]
‘to
pay.’
3
A
phoneme
in
EP
only
in
the
contrast
falamos
[fə

lɐmuʃ]
‘we
speak’
vs.
falámos
[fə

lamuʃ]
‘we
spoke.’
2.5 Comparison with English 43
estômago [istomɐ
gu] pop. [istomu] ‘stomach’
pêssego [pesi
gu] pop. [pezgu] ‘peach’
córrego [kɔhi
gu] pop. [kɔɹgu] ‘creek’
2.5 Comparison with English
English-speaking learners of Portuguese may benefit from a comparison
between the phonemes of the two languages (Table 2.3) and the articulation
of their main allophones. Whereas Portuguese clearly distinguishes diphthongs
from vowels, in English the articulation of / ij ej uw ow/ (/ow/ > [əw] in British
English) includes a downglide typical of falling diphthongs. Despite some pho-
netic similarity, the offglides in [aj], [ɔj], [aw] are shorter in Portuguese than in
English. Consequently, the diphthongs of Pg mau ‘bad,’ pai ‘father,’ dói ‘(it)
hurts’ are respectively shorter than those in Eng cow, pie, boy.
English vowels tend to be longer in open syllables than in syllables closed
by a consonant. In the latter case the vowel tends to be shorter if the consonant
is voiceless than if it is voiced. These differences can be noticed by comparing
vowel length in triplets like tea, steed, steep. In BP, stressed vowels tend to
be slightly longer than unstressed ones in monitored pronunciation; in casual
pronunciation vowel length can vary considerably, depending on factors such as
speech style or emphasis. In some accents, such as Mineiro, stressed vowels can
be rather drawled out. Variation in vowel length is a major difference between
BP and EP, which, as pointed out earlier, shortens or even eliminates unstressed
vowels, thus creating a series of consonants strung together. Another difference
is that EP phones tend to be articulated with the tongue a bit retracted and raised,
conditioning a somewhat velarized resonance (Cruz-Ferreira 1999:126) that is
lacking in BP.
Other differences relate to area of articulation. Pg /i/ and /u/ are a bit higher
and more fronted than Eng /ij/, /uw/ (cf. Pg si ‘B (musical note)’ : sea, Pg tu
‘you’ : too). Likewise, Pg /ε/ is more fronted and shorter than Eng /ε/ (cf. Pg
sete: Eng set), and Pg /a/ is less backed than Eng /ɒ/. The contrast between the
vowels of bait/bet does not match that of Pg /e/ : /ε/ (este [esi] ‘this’: este
[εsi] ‘east’), which learners tend to underdifferentiate.
IftransferredtoPortuguese,thearticulationofEnglishvowelsnotonlycauses
a foreign accent but may interfere with comprehension by underdifferentiating
the contrasts between the vowels /e u o ɔ/ and the diphthongs /ej uw ow ɔw/.
The contrast Eng [ow] : [ɔ] does not match Pg [o] : [ɔ] (avô : avó), since Eng
/ɔ/ in final position tends to be lengthened (law [l ɔ:]) and even diphthongized,
as in the case of some US southern varieties (cf. law [lɔw]).
Unstressed English vowels tend to undergo lenitiono
, a phonological process
involving a softening of articulatory effort. They are thus reduced to either a
44 2 Sounds
central mid [ə] or a high central [] (Whitley 1986:58), as illustrated by the
stressed/unstressed vowels in pairs like Asia [ej] / Asiatic [ə], repetitive [ε] /
repetition [ə], contemplate [ɒ] / contemplative [ə], Adam [æ] / adamic [ə].
Since no such reduction occurs in BP, where even unstressed vowels retain a
distinctive quality, English speakers’ tendency to pronounce [ə] in unstressed
position undermines important distinctions such as that between masculine and
feminine endings, indicated by the contrast [u] : [ɐ], as in menino ‘boy’ vs.
menina ‘girl.’
Of the nineteen Portuguese consonant phonemes, fifteen / p b t d k g f v s z ʃ
 l m n/ have an approximate articulatory homologue in English, although the
use of like symbols should not be mistaken for identical phonetic realizations.
Stops /p t k b d g/. The basic allophones of these phonemes are respectively
the stops [p t k b d g]. In southern Portugal, lenition causes intervocalic / b
d g / to be pronounced as the fricative allophones [  ]: cabra [kaɾɐ]
‘goat,’ lado [lau] ‘side,’ figo [fiu] ‘fig.’ (Phonetic similarity between []
and [v] lies at the source of the erroneous notion that EP speakers “change
their b’s for v’s.”) As mentioned earlier, in BP there is a tendency to palatal-
ize /t d/, yielding the affricates [ ] when followed by [i], spelled either i
or unstressed e: tio [iu] ‘uncle,’ sete [sεi] ‘seven,’ sede [sei] ‘thirst.’
Such palatalization, which apparently started in Cariocao
speech, is currently
slowly spreading out, but the older pronunciation of /t d/ as stops [t d] is
still used. In accents such as Paulista, final unstressed vowels tend to be
devoiced or even lost, and consequently such words end in an affricate: [es],
[se].
The voiceless stops corresponding to /p t k/ (spelled p, t, k/que,i
) and /b g/
(spelled b, g/ gue,i
) share the same basic articulation in Portuguese as in English.
Pg /t d/, however, have an alveodental articulation, whereas Eng /t d/ are fully
alveolar, a minor difference which may cause a slight accent. English voiceless
stops in syllable-initial position are released with a slight puff of air, called
aspiration, which may be shown in transcription as a raised h
[ph
th
kh
]. Since
there is no such aspiration in Portuguese, using it in words like pata ‘paw,’ tapa
‘slap,’ capa ‘cloak’ may result in an accent. Furthermore, since Eng /b d g/
are only partially voiced, unless preceded by a voiced segment, this aspiration
reinforces the contrast between /b d g/ and the voiceless phonemes /p t k/.
Thus absence of aspiration in Portuguese seemingly explains why English-
speaking learners experience some difficulty distinguishing between Pg [p t k]
and [b d g]. The American pronunciation of intervocalic /t d/ as an alveolar
tap [ɾ] (waiter/wader [wejɾəɹ]) has no correlate in Portuguese, where /ɾ/ is
a separate phoneme. Consequently, pronouncing /t d/ as [ɾ] is likely to cause
miscomprehension, as in pata ‘paw’ or cada ‘each’ (cf. para ‘for’ [paɾɐ], cara
‘face’ [kaɾɐ]).
2.5 Comparison with English 45
Fricatives / f v s z ʃ /. The fricatives /f/ and /v/ (spelled f, v) are articulated
like Eng [f] (fogo ‘fire’ [fogu]) or [v] (vila ‘village’ [vilɐ]). Articulation of Pg
/ʃ/, // and pre-vocalic /s/, /z/ is also close to English. The phoneme /z/ has a
voiced alveolar allophone [z], spelled either z (zebra), x (êxito ‘success’), or s
between vowels (casa ‘house’), or before a voiced consonant (asno ‘donkey,’
rasgo ‘tear,’ israelense ‘Israeli’). /s/ is a voiceless alveolar fricative [s], spelled
ss or ç between vowels (cassa ‘muslin,’ caça ‘hunting’) or s in other positions
(sal ‘salt’); in word-final position /s/ becomes voiced by assimilation to a fol-
lowing vowel or voiced consonant, as in os amigos ‘the friends’ [uzamigus],
os doces ‘the sweets’ [uzdosis].
In both EP and Carioca, palatalization of post-vocalic /s/ yields the palatal
fricative [ʃ] both finally or before a voiceless consonant (custos ‘costs’
[kuʃtuʃ]). Before a voiced consonant, this fricative is voiced as [] (os dois bois
‘the two oxen’ [u-doj-bojʃ]), although before a vowel or a voiceless conso-
nant it remains [ʃ]: os amigos, Carioca [uzamiguʃ], EP [uzɐmiguʃ]. Although
a hallmark of Carioca speech, which is a prestigious accent, this palatal [ʃ] is
not readily imitated elsewhere in Brazil.
In EP syllable-final /s/ followed by another /s/ yields the sequence [ʃs] as
in ascender [aʃ-s ẽ-deɾ] ‘ascend’ (cf. acender ‘to light’ [a-s ẽ-deɾ]), os sap-
atos [uʃ-sɐ-pa-tuʃ] ‘the shoes.’ In BP, on the contrary, two contiguous /s/
assimilate into a single syllable-initial [s]: ascender/acender [a-sẽ-deɾ], os
sapatos [u-sa-pa-tus]. Consequently, BP speakers have to learn by heart the
spelling differences between word pairs like ascético ‘ascetic’/acético ‘acetic’
or ascender ‘to ascend’/acender ‘to light,’ whereas EP speakers easily correlate
[ʃs] with sc.
The voiceless palatal fricative / ʃ/ (spelled ch, x), as in chato [ʃatu] ‘flat,’
xerife [ʃerifi] ∼ [ʃirifi] ‘sheriff,’ and its voiced counterpart //, spelled j, ge,i
,
as in jato [atu] ‘jet,’ gelo [elu] ‘ice,’ are similar in articulation to Eng shape
and azure, respectively.
Nasals /m n/. The nasal phonemes /m/ and /n/ (spelled m, n) are articu-
lated like Eng /m n/ in pre-vocalic position (minuto ‘minute’), with the minor
difference that Eng [n] is alveolar, while Pg [n] is dental. Since written post-
vocalic m and n do not stand for consonants but rather indicate that the pre-
ceding vowel is nasal (sim ‘yes’ [sı̃], com ‘with’ [kõw]), learners should avoid
pronouncing them, particularly between words: com alguém ‘with someone’
[kõwawgẽ
˜] rather than *
[kõwmawgẽ
˜].
Liquids / l ʎɾ / and nasal /	/. Pre-vocalic /l/ is pronounced in BP as a voiced
dental lateral [l] (lapela ‘lapel’), whereas Eng /l/ has an alveolar articulation.
In EP, though not in BP, a slight degree of velarization is noticeable. In EP
syllable-final position /l/ is a strongly velarized lateral [], as in mel [mε]
‘honey,’ not unlike Eng Mel. In BP this velarized pronunciation used to be
46 2 Sounds
considered standard until the middle of the twentieth century, and can be heard
in recordings from the 1940s and 1950s. (Mascherpe [1970:41] listed it as the
normal realization of post-vocalic /l/.) It is still heard regionally (as in in the
extreme south) and among older speakers elsewhere, but it is in the process of
being replaced by a velar glide [w] that forms a diphthong with the preceding
vowel (Demasi 1995, Leite and Callou 2002:47–48) in sequences like -al, -el,
-il, -ol, -ul, as in mil [miw] ‘thousand,’ sul [suw] ‘south,’ mel [mεw] ‘honey,’
sol [sɔw] ‘sun,’ sal [saw] ‘salt.’
By neutralizing the contrast /l/ : /w/, this diphthongization process creates
homonyms (that is, like-sounding words) such as mal ‘evil’ / mau ‘bad,’ or
rhymes such as papel ‘paper’ / céu ‘sky,’ or vil ‘vile’/ viu ‘P3sg saw,’ neither
of which exists in EP.
Neitherthepalatals/ʎ/,/	/northevibrants/ɾ,/havecounterpartsinEnglish.
The voiced lateral palatal /ʎ/, spelled lh, is articulated with the tongue blade
against the palate (filho ‘son’ [fiʎu]). It occurs initially in only a few words
(lhama ‘llama,’ lhano ‘unpretentious’), of which the only relatively frequent
one is the pronoun lhe ‘to him/her/you.’ English speakers tend to substitute
the sequence [li] or [lj], pronouncing words like malha ‘knit sweater’ or molho
‘sauce’ as *
[ma-li-ɐ], *
[ma-ljɐ], *
[ mow-li-u], *
[mow-lju].
The nasal palatal /	/, spelled nh, is articulated very much like /ʎ/ but with
the velum lowered to let air escape through the nasal tract. It occurs initially in
somefiftywords(mostlyborrowingsfromindigenouslanguagessuchasnhandu
‘emu,’ nhenhenhém ‘babble’) as well as medially (senhora ‘lady’ [si	ɔɾɐ]).
Like [ʎ], [	] does not come easily to English speakers, who tend to substitute
[ni] or [nj], senhor *
[sinior] or Senhora *
[sinjɔrɐ].
Despite being spelled with the same letter r, the phonetic outputs of Pg
/ɾ/ and // are very different from Eng /r/, which is a central alveolar glide-
like retroflexed consonant. A phonetic [ɾ] occurs in American English as the
pronunciation of intervocalic t, d (waiter, wader), and also in the tapped Scot-
tish r (Ladefoged 2001:151). Portuguese /ɾ/ is phonetically a tap [ɾ] artic-
ulated by the tongue touching the alveolar ridge once, as in cara [kaɾɐ]
‘face.’
The phoneme // has several phonetic realizations, the oldest of which is
an alveolar trill formed by the tongue tip touching the alveolar ridge a couple
of times, as in carro [karu] ‘car.’ Once considered standard in Brazil, this
pronunciation can be heard in songs recorded in the 1940s and 1950s, but it
seems to be giving way to a range of articulations which include, among other
possibilities, a voiceless uvular trill, voiceless [] or voiced [ʁ], a velar voiceless
fricative[x],andthewidespreadglottalfricativetranscribed[h].Consequently,a
word like barro ‘mud’ may be pronounced variously as [baru], [bau], [baxu],
or [bahu]. As mentioned above, it is not unusual for two or more allophones
to occur in the speech of the same speaker.
2.6 Syllables 47
The contrast /ɾ / : // however, only holds between vowels (caro/carro). Only
// occurs initially (rádio, Roberto) or after syllable-final /l/, /s/, or orthographic
n (palrar ‘to babble,’ transreceptor ‘transceiver,’ enredo ‘plot’). In syllable-
final position EP tends to have /ɾ/, often weakened, whereas in BP either /ɾ/ or
// occurs. In word-final position the contrast /ɾ/: // is neutralized: EP tends to
have a light tap [ɾ] whereas in BP any of the alternatives described above are
possible. Except in monitored pronunciation, BP tends to eliminate final /ɾ/ in
infinitives, so that fala(r) [fala] ‘to speak,’ come(r) [kume] ‘to eat,’ parti(r)
[parti] ‘to leave’ rhyme with lá ‘there,’ você ‘you,’ aqui ‘here.’
2.6 Syllables
Syllables are short phone sequences organized according to language-specific
phonotactics◦
, that is rules specifying the position in which a given phone can
occur, which phones can or cannot occur next to each other, and so on. Every syl-
lable has a nucleus (N), which in Portuguese must be a vowel or a diphthong. (In
English certain consonants may be a syllable nucleus, as /n/ in mutton [mt-n]
or /l/ in little [lit-].) Monosyllables have only the nucleus: há [a] ‘there is,’ é
[ε] ‘is,’ eu [ew] ‘I,’ oi ‘hi.’ Consonants coming before the nucleus constitute
the onset (O), as [p] in pá ‘shovel,’ or [s] in só ‘only.’ Consonants following the
nucleus form the coda, like [s] in voz ‘voice.’ The nucleus and the coda, if there
is one, make up the rhyme (R). Portuguese syllable types may be represented
as in Table 2.4.
The onset may have a single consonant (C) or a cluster of two specific con-
sonants, C1 C2. As shown in Table 2.4, C1 is either a stop /p b t d k g/ or a
labiodental fricative /f v/ and C2 must be a liquid /l ɾ/. Since Portuguese phono-
tactics exclude the cluster /dl/, the sequence /d/ + /l/ splits between contiguous
syllables, and only occurs in items of specific groups, such as:
– words derived from foreign words with /dl/: adleriano (< name ‘Adler’) –
ad-le-ria-no
– scientific nouns: adlúmia ‘Adlumia fungosa,’ adlumina ‘adlumine’ – ad-lú-
mi-a, ad-lu-mina
– learned compounds: adligar-se ‘to attach itself to another (of a plant)’ –
ad-li-gar-se
In unmonitored speech those consonants are separated by introducing a
vowel, as in the brand name Revlon, pronounced [hε-vi-lõ]. The cluster /tl/
occurs initially in the onomatopoeic word tlim [tlı̃] ∼ [tilı̃] ‘ringing’ and medi-
ally in fewer than fifty words, such as atlas ‘atlas’ or atlético ‘athletic’; /vl/ and
/vr/ occur initially only in the name Vladimir and its popular variant Vradimir.
No clusters occur in the coda, where possible phonemes include /l/, /s/; in
addition, since the contrast between /ɾ/ and // is neutralized, words spelled
with a final -r can be pronounced with [ɾ] or one of the allophones of // ([],
48 2 Sounds
[ʁ ], [x], or [h]), as in the following examples. A consonant following one of
these phonemes begins a new syllable:
coda position: only /l ɾ  s/ /l ɾ  s/ + consonant
cal /kal/ [kaw], [ka] ‘lime’ al-ma [aw-mɐ], [amɐ] ‘soul’
par /paɾ/ [paɾ], [pah] ‘pair’ ar-ma [aɾ-mɐ], [ahmɐ] ‘weapon’
paz /pas/ [pas] ‘peace’ cas-ta [kas-tɐ] ‘caste’
The nasal /n/ occurs in the coda only if we choose to represent nasals as
sequences of vowel + /n/. Phonetically, however, such a sequence is simply a
nasal vowel. If we choose to include nasal vowels in the phonological repre-
sentation, words like lã ‘wool’ or transpor ‘transpose’ would be /lɐ̃/, /trɐ̃spor/,
following the pattern CV and CCVC.
Phonotactic divergences between BP and EP account for minor differences in
syllable structure. In EP consonant clusters other than those shown in Table 2.4
may occur at the onset of a syllable, either initially or medially:
initial position medial position
psi-quiatria a-bso-lu-to ma-gno
pneu-monia a-dvo-ga-do a-gnós-ti-co
gnóstico pers-pe-cti-va a-dsor-ção
If there are three or more consonants, the second one is always /s/ in syllable-
final position: C1 C2 – C3 (abs-ter ‘to abstain’) or C1 C2 – C3 C4 (abs-trair
‘to abstract’, ads-trin-gen-te ‘astringent’). In BP this syllabification may occur
in monitored pronunciation, but in spontaneous speech consonant sequences
other than those clusters are broken up by inserting the vowel /i/ (or /e/ in some
accents). The same goes for word-initial non-cluster sequences of the type
C1 C2V, such as pneu, pneumonia, psiquiatra, gnomo, which become
C1 V – C2V, as in the examples below:
monitored
pronunciation
spontaneous
pronunciation
VC1 C2 – C3 (C4) VC1 – [i]C2 – C3 C4
absoluto [ab-so-lu-tu] [a-bi-su-lu-tu]
agnóstico [ag-nɔs-ti-ku] [a-gi-nɔs-i-ku]
absurdo [ab-suh-du] [a-bi-suh-du]
advogado [ad-vo-ga-du] [a-i-vo-ga-du] ∼
[a-de-vo-ga-du]
perspectiva [pehs-pek-i-vɐ] [pehs-pe-ki-i-vɐ]
magno [mag-nu] [ma-gi-nu]
2.7 Resyllabification 49
C1 – C2V C1 [i] – C2V
pneu [pnew] [pi-new]
psiquiatra [psi-ki-a-tɾɐ] [pi-si-ki-a-trɐ]
pneumonia [pnew-mu-ni-ɐ] [pi-new-mu-ni-ɐ]
gnomo [gno-mu] [gino-mu]
When Portuguese borrows a foreign word ending in a consonant other than
/r s l/, its pronunciation is adjusted according to Portuguese phonotactics: Eng
modem > Pg modem [modẽj], Eng short ‘shorts’ > BP [ʃɔhi] (cf. EP shorts
[ʃɔɾts], Eng bang bang > BP bangue-bangue [bɐ̃gibɐ̃gi] ‘Western [movie]’,
Eng VIP (lounge) > BP (sala) VIP [vipi], far West > faroeste [faɾoεsi] ‘a
Western (movie).’
2.7 Resyllabification
Several phonological phenomena may take place over a word boundary, that
is between continguous words, changing their syllable structure. A word-final
consonant forms a new syllable by linking with the initial vowel of the following
word. In consequence, a sequence like os amigos americanos ‘the American
friends is resyllabified as o-sa-mi-go-sa-me-ri-ca-nos [u-za-mi-gu-za-me-ɾi-
kɐ-nus].
In EP final /ɾ/ links with a following vowel, thus becoming syllable-initial
(falar alto ‘to speak loudly’ [fɐ
-la-ɾa-tu]). In BP the contrast between /ɾ/ and
// is neutralized in this position, and furthermore in unmonitored pronuncia-
tion this /ɾ/ tends to be dropped in verb infinitives. Consequently a sequence
like comer alface ‘to eat lettuce’ is likely to be [ku-me-aw-fa-si] in unmoni-
tored pronunciation. In monitored pronunciation, however, a linking vibrant is
possible, as in [ku-me-ɾaw-fa-si].
Likewise in EP word-final /l/, phonetically a velarized lateral [], links with a
following vowel, becoming syllable-initial, as in papel amarelo ‘yellow paper’
[pɐpε-ɐ-mɐ-ɾε-lu]. In BP, syllable-final /l/ is usually a velar glide [w], which
forms a diphthong with the preceding vowel, [papεw], and may link with a
following vowel: [pa-pεw-a-ma-rε-lu] or [pa-pε-wa-ma-rε-lu]. Neverthe-
less, an [l] may occur in this position, in the speech of the same person: [pa-pε-
lɐ-mɐ-ɾε-lu] ∼ [pa-pε-wɐ-mɐ-ɾε-lu]. Word-final /s/ followed by a vowel is
pronounced [z], voiced and syllable-initial: dois atos ‘two acts’ [doj-za-tus],
coisas americanas ‘American things’ [koj-zɐ-za-me-ɾi-kɐ-nɐs].
The occurrence of two vowels over a word boundary may have differ-
ent results (Bisol 1992, 1996). We will consider only a few cases. Identical
unstressed vowels may be pronounced in separate syllables or fused into a
single syllable:
50 2 Sounds
Table 2.4 Portuguese syllable structures, types, consonant groups, and
consonant sequences
Syllable types:
V é ‘is’ CV pó ‘dust’ C1C2 V crê ‘P3sg believes’
VG oi ‘hi’ CVG boi ‘ox’ C1C2 VC três ‘three’
VC ar ‘air’ CVGC dois ‘two’ C1C2 VG frei ‘friar’
VGC eis ‘here is’ CVC voz ‘voice’ C1C2 VGC freis ‘friars’
C1C2VCC trans- * CVCC perspirar ‘to
perspire’
Clusters (indivisible and always before the nucleus):
/pl/ plano
‘plan’
/pr/ preço
‘price’
/kl/ claro ‘clear’ /kr/ cruz ‘cross’
/bl/ bloco
‘block’
/br/ bravo
‘brave’
/gl/ glosa ‘gloss’ /gr/ gruta ‘grotto’
/tl/ tlim ‘tlin’ /tr/ trio ‘trio’ /dl/ – /dr/ draga ‘dredger’
/vl/ Vladimir /vr/ Vradimir /fl/ flor ‘flower’ /fr/ fração ‘fraction’
Non-cluster consonant sequences after the nucleus (divisible sequences):
VC1 – C2 es-te ‘this’, al-to ‘high’, hor-ta ‘vegetable garden’
Examples of syllable division:
R
R
s s s
N
V
o o
N
V
s
Cd
C
p r r r
a a n
e s s
t t
O
C
d
R
N
V
o
s
R
s
O
v
C
N
V
o
Cd
z
C
R
N
V
Cd
C
R
N
V
Cd
C3 C4
*
R
N
V
O
C1 C2
O
C1 C2
O
C1 C2
s s
*Assuming /trans/ as a phonological representation S = syllable; R = rhyme; N = nucleus;
O = onset; Cd = Coda; V = vowel; C = consonant; G = glide; C1, C2 = different consonants.
casa agradável ‘pleasant house’ [ka-zɐ-a-gɾa -da-vew] ∼ [ka-za-
gɾa-da-vew]
osso humano ‘human bone’ [o-su-u-mɐ-nu] ∼ [o-su-mɐ-nu]
esse irmão ‘this brother’ [e-si-ih-mɐ̃w] ∼ [e-sih-mɐ̃w].
If the second vowel is either unstressed /i/ or /u/, the vowels may be in separate
syllables or combine to form a diphthong, or the first vowel may be elided:
essa história ‘this story’ [ε-sɐ-i s-tɔ-ɾi-ɐ] ∼ [ε-sɐjs-tɔ-ɾi-ɐ] ∼
[ε-sis-tɔ-ɾi-ɐ]
outra usina ‘another factory’ [o-tɾɐ-u-zi-nɐ] ∼ [o-tɾɐw-zi-nɐ] ∼
[o-tɾu-zi-nɐ].
2.9 Prosody: Stress, pitch, and rhythm 51
2.8 Other phonological processes
Lenition◦
is also involved in the weakening and loss of unstressed vowels,
as in BP para > pra [pra] ‘for,’ EP pessoa > p’ssoa [psoɐ] ‘person,’ or of
consonants, such as final /ɾ/ in BP falar > falá, comer > comê, partir > parti.
Devoicing◦
, a process whereby a voiced phone becomes voiceless, accounts
for voiceless final unstressed vowels in BP (moro muito perto ‘I live rather
close’ [mɔ-ɾu
mũj-t u
pεh-t u
]) and in EP (é do Porto ‘it’s from Oporto’
[ε-du
 -poɾ-t u
]).
Monophthongization◦
is a process that reduces a diphthong to a single vowel.
In BP the diphthong /ow/, stressed or unstressed, is usually pronounced [o]
although the glide [w] may be reinstated in monitored speech, as in falou
pouco [falopoku] ∼ [falowpowku] ‘P3sg spoke little.’ Monophthongization
does not affect, however, the diphthong [ow] originating from velarization of
post-vocalic /l/ in BP, as in soldado ‘soldier’ /soldado/ → [sowdadu], volta-
mos ‘we came back’/voltamos/ → [vowtɐmus], which contrasts with votamos
[votɐmus] ‘we vote.’
The opposite process, diphthongization◦
, causes a vowel to be articulated as
a diphthong. It occurs in BP when a stressed vowel is followed by word-final
/s/, although in monitored pronunciation this syllabus nucleus may revert to a
vowel:
unmonitored
pronunciation
monitored
pronunciation
mas /mas/ ‘but’ (cf. mais ‘more’) [majs] [mas]
pés /pεs/ ‘feet’ [pεjs] [pεs]
vez /ves/ ‘time’ [vejs] [ves]
pôs / pos/ ‘P3sg put’ [pojs] [pos]
luz / lus/ ‘light’ [lujs] [lus]
português /portuges/ ‘Portuguese’ [pohtugejs] [pohtuges]
inglês /ingles/ ‘English’ [ı̃glejs] [ı̃gles]
2.9 Prosody: Stress, pitch, and rhythm
The umbrella label “prosody” covers the interrelated phenomena of stress, pitch,
and rhythm, usually referred to as “suprasegmentals,” since they are perceived
as being superimposed onto the segments that make up a phone sequence.
Stress, mentioned at the beginning of this chapter, is the phonetic correlate
of shifts in articulatory and respiratory intensity, caused by increased muscular
activity during the production of a given syllable relative to neighboring syl-
lables. Monosyllables uttered in isolation cannot be said to have stress. Even
though we tend to refer to stressed and unstressed vowels, auditorily stress
52 2 Sounds
involves the degree of loudness of the syllable as a whole, which is why some
phoneticians prefer to put the stress mark [] before the syllable, rather than on
the vowel, in phonetic transcription.
A words is called an oxytone◦
if the stressed syllable is the last one (aqui
‘here,’ você ‘you’), a paroxytone◦
if stressed on the second from last syllable
or penult (fala ‘speech,’ capa ‘cloak’), and a proparoxytone◦
if the stress falls
on the third from last syllable or antepenult (hipótese ‘hypothesis,’ tentáculo
‘tentacle’). There are also cases of stress on the fourth syllable from the last.
In BP, this includes words with a consonant sequence such as pt or tn, which,
as noted earlier (2.6), is broken up by a vowel, as in crı́ptico [kri-pi-i-ku]
‘cryptic’ or étnico [ε-i-ni-ku] ‘ethnic.’ Another case, found regularly in EP,
though not so commonly in BP, involves proparoxytone verb forms with an
unstressed object pronoun (3.4, 5.2) placed after the verb, such as estudávamo-
lo ‘we studied it’ or comprávamo-los ‘we used to buy them.’
Each Portuguese word carries lexical stress in a given position (only a few,
like projétil/projetil ‘projectile’ or réptil/reptil ‘reptile,’ admit two possibili-
ties). As mentioned earlier, given two otherwise identical phoneme sequences,
stress position is phonologically contrastive, as in cara ‘face’ vs. cará ‘a kind
of yam.’ Contrasts based on stress position differentiate past perfect forms
(3.5.2.2) from future forms, as in andara ‘P3sg had walked’ / andará ‘P3sg will
walk.’
Phonetically, a syllable is either stressed or unstressed (Cagliari 1999:39).
Phonologically, however, a secondary degree of stress has been described in BP
forms derived from words with stressed [ɔ] or [ε] and bearing endings such as
-eiro, -inho, -zinho, -zal, or -mente:
copo [kɔpu] ‘drinking glass’ > copinho [kɔpi	u]
café [kafε] ‘coffee’ > cafezinho [kafεzi	u] ‘a
demitasse of coffee’
café [kafε] ‘coffee’ > cafezal [kafεzaw] ∼ [kafezaw]
‘coffee plantation’
só [sɔ] ‘alone’ > sozinho [sɔzi	u] ‘alone’
Althoughthissecondarystressholdswhensuchwordsareutteredinisolation,
in normal speech the apparent prominence of these syllables seems to owe
more to the retention of the open vowel than to an actual increase in stress. The
secondary stress in words like rapidamente ‘rapidly’ or tristemente ‘sadly’ (on
-ra and -tris, respectively) results from the fact that such adverbs are compounds
ratherthanderivedwords(3.6).Suchsecondarystressisvariableandmorelikely
to occur when emphasis is intended.
A group of words pronounced in the same breath group constitutes a
phonological phrase◦
, in which there is only one strong phrase stress, usu-
ally coinciding with the last word stress. Thus an utterance like Eu chamei três
2.9 Prosody: Stress, pitch, and rhythm 53
táxis ‘I called three taxis’ would likely be Eu chamei três TÁXIS at its most
generic rendering, and the stress in the words eu, chamei, and três would be
lower in relation to the stressed syllable of táxis, although stronger than the
unstressed syllables. Such stress variation makes possible subtle contrasts like
the following:
feroz cidade ‘wild city’ vs. ferocidade ‘ferocity’
voraz cidade ‘voracious city’ vs. voracidade ‘voracity’
veloz cidade ‘fast city’ vs. velocidade ‘velocity’
(Oliveira 1976).
Pitch is the auditory correlate of the frequency of vibration of the vocal
cords, and physiologically, it relates to the degree of tension of the cords as
they vibrate. Pitch is measured in hertz (Hz, a unit of frequency equal to one
cycle per second) and varies in range, depending on factors such as the speaker’s
sex or age, from between 80 and 200 Hz for males, between 180 and 400 Hz
for females. In Portuguese as in English, pitch variation plays a distinctive role
at sentence level, combining with stress to create melodic contours, referred to
as intonation, which signal whether an utterance is a statement, a question, or
a command.
Intonation also conveys information about speakers’ attitudes, such as hes-
itation, annoyance, or cooperativeness, and consequently a good grasp of it is
essential for capturing the full intent of an utterance. Unfortunately, of all the
aspects of prosody, it is the least amenable to verbal description, and full control
of intonation in a foreign language can only be acquired by carefully listening
to and imitating appropriate models. A few generalizations, however, can be
made.
Pitch variations in Portuguese have traditionally been described in terms of
three levels, labeled low (1), mid (2), and high (3) (Staub 1956, Rameh 1962,
Ellison and Gomes de Matos 1987, Azevedo 1981a). An extra high (4) level
is associated with emphasis. Arrows are used to show rising ➶, falling ➷, or
sustained ➵ pitch at the end of phonological phrases, signaling the direction
of pitch that forms terminal contours.
If a sentence like Ela vem amanhã ‘She is coming tomorrow’ is uttered as a
statement, pitch stays at level 2 beginning at the first stressed syllable (el) and
drops to level 1 at the last stressed syllable, which usually carries phrase stress.
The result of that drop will be a falling terminal pitch (Ela2
vem2
amanhã1
➷).
Questions introduced by an interrogative word (quando ‘when,’ quem ‘who,’
and so on) usually have falling terminal pitch when intended simply to elicit
information (Quando2
é que a Maria1
vem1
? ➷ ‘When is it that Maria is
coming?’). Rising terminal pitch is possible, however, when conveying an
element of surprise or doubt, or a request for confirmation (Quando2
é que
a Maria2
vem3
? ➶).
54 2 Sounds
Yes/no questions, on the other hand, typically have rising terminal pitch (Ela2
já2
chegou3
? ➶ ‘Has she already arrived?’) Sustained pitch (Ela chegou ontem
➵ ‘She arrived yesterday’) suggests an unfinished utterance, leading a listener
to expect additional information, such as e vai embora amanhã ➷ ‘and will
leave tomorrow.’
Rhythm, the third element of prosody, has to do with variations in tempo
related to our perception of recurring patterns of speech units. In English tempo
patterns involve the alternation of stressed and unstressed syllables. Other lan-
guages use different units, such as short vs. long syllables as in Classical Latin,
or high and low pitches as in some Asian languages, or syllables as in Italian
or Spanish. Languages used to be classified as having either syllable-timed
rhythm (like Italian or Spanish) or stress-timed rhythm (like English or Dutch).
Some phoneticians, however, have pointed out that language comparison fails to
support such a dichotomy. Nooteboom (1997:663) and Ladefoged (2001:231)
suggested that whether a language has variable or fixed stress is more important
as far as characterizing rhythm is concerned.
The traditional view of syllable-timed rhythm has to do with a relatively
even distribution of stressed and unstressed syllables of approximately the
same duration. Stress-timed rhythm, in turn, involves distribution of stressed
syllables along even intervals, with the unstressed syllables clustered between
two stresses. While consensus has yet to be reached, scholars agree that EP
belongs to the stress-timed type (Cruz-Ferreira 1999:129). Others point out
that some speakers of BP have stress-time rhythm, while others have syllable-
timed rhythm (Cagliari & Abaurre 1986, Massini-Cagliari 1992).
Whilst a comparison of sufficiently large samples of the two varieties of
Portuguese has yet to be carried out, it is apparent that striking differences in
rhythm patterns obtain between them. In BP differences in duration between
stressed and unstressed syllables seem linked to emphasis. In EP, on the con-
trary, unstressed vowels are systematically shorter than stressed ones and may
be deleted in unmonitored speech, causing rhythm to be stress-timed. Thus an
utterance such as uma linha de pensamento partilhada pela maioria ‘a line of
thought shared by the majority,’ which in BP would be something like (3a), in
EP would be more like (3b), where a raised sign indicades a weakened vowel.
(3) a. BP [umɐli	ɐdipẽsamẽtupahtiʎadɐpelɐmajoɾiɐ]
b. EP [umɐ li	ɐ
dpẽ sɐ mẽ tu
pɐɾ
tiʎadɐ
plɐ
mɐ
juɾiɐ
]
uma linha de pensamento partilhada pela maioria
In themselves, phones have no meaning. How meaning-bearing phone
sequences are organized is the subject of morphology, which will occupy us in
the next chapter.
3 Words
Even if Polonius found Hamlet’s reply “Words, words, words” a trifle odd, he
had no reason to question what it meant – after all, the prince was holding
a book, which is where anyone would expect to find words. Like Polonius,
most of the time we act as if we knew what a word is, and feel no urge to
question the status of words like chuva ‘rain,’ filhinho ‘sonny,’ ponta ‘point,’
guarda ‘guard,’ pé ‘foot,’ or papai ‘daddy.’ But what about forms like pontapé
‘kick,’ guarda-chuva ‘umbrella,’ filhinho-de-papai ‘mamma’s boy’? Are they
single words or combinations of two or three words? And what should we
say of word combinations that function like a meaning unit, such as bico-de-
papagaio, rabo-de-arara, parece-mas-não-é or planta-de-Natal, which despite
their literal meanings (respectively ‘parrot’s beak,’ ‘macaw’s tail,’ ‘it-seems-
but-it-isn’t,’ ‘Christmas plant’) are simple regional Brazilian names for the
Euphorbia pulcherrima, the poinsétia ‘poinsettia’ of Yuletide fame? In this
chapter we will look into morphology, itself made up of two Greek words,
morphē ‘form’ + logos ‘study,’ that is, the study of the form of words.
3.1 Words and morphemes
Despite their variety, words have a definite internal structure. In words like car-
ros or senhores, we recognize two formants. One is the stem◦
(carr-, senhor),
which bears the lexical◦
meaning of an extralinguistic referent◦
, such as things,
persons, ideas, and so on. The other is a suffix◦
(-s, -es), attached to the stem
and carrying the meaning ‘plural.’ This kind of meaning has no extralinguistic
referent; rather, it is strictly grammatical, that is, it has to do with the structure
of the language. In carro we likewise recognize two formants, namely the stem
carr- (which occurs in related words like carreta ‘cart’) and the suffix -o, which
is a noun-forming element that also appears in words like livro, menino. For-
mants like senhor, carr-, -s, -es, -o (phonologically /se	oɾ/, /ka/, /s/, /es/, /o/),
which cannot be further subdivided without losing their meaning, constitute
word-building blocks called morphemes◦
. Like a phoneme, a morpheme is an
abstract concept and each of its actual manifestations is called an allomorph◦
.
The morpheme plural, for instance, has the allomorph -s in casas, carros and
55
56 3 Words
the allomorph -es in rapazes, mulheres. (We will use boldface to distinguis mor-
phemes from words as necessary.) Morphemes like -s, -es, which are always
linked to other morphemes, are bound forms, whereas morphemes like táxi,
senhor, which may occur alone in an utterance (Senhor! Táxi?), are free forms.
Like morphemes, words are either grammatical or lexical. Grammatical
words (also called structural, or function words) signal structural relationships
between words, like de in cadeira de rodas ‘wheelchair,’ com in café com leite
‘coffee and milk,’ or e in bom e barato ‘good and cheap.’ Lexical words (also
called content words), in contrast, have extra-linguistic referents: nouns refer to
beings, things, concepts; adjectives refer to qualities; and verbs refer to actions,
states, or processes.
Nouns Adjectives Verbs
(beings, things, concepts) (qualities) (actions, states,
processes)
mulher ‘woman’ (being) alegre ‘merry’ andar ‘to walk’ (action)
apartamento ‘apartment’ (thing) colorida ‘colorful’ ficar ‘to remain’ (state)
amizade ‘friendship’ (concept) agradável
‘pleasant’
morrer ‘to die’
(process)
The traditional classification of words in parts of speech (nouns, adjectives,
pronouns, verbs, adverbs, prepositions, and conjunctions), which goes back to
ancientGreekandRomangrammarians,canbeuseful,aslongaswedonotthink
of them as rigid categories but rather as labels for certain roles which words per-
form in an utterance. Thus, saber may be a verb (quero saber o nome dela ‘I want
toknowhername’)oranoun(osabernãoocupalugar‘knowledgedoesnottake
up space’), or an invariable formant in the expression a saber ‘to wit,’ ‘viz.’
3.1.1 Morphological variation: inflection
Inflection is a morphological process that modifies certain grammatical fea-
tures of a word by means of inflectional suffixes◦
, without changing its lexical
meaning. Some such changes include making nouns and adjectives plural, as
in orquı́dea negra > orquı́deas negras ‘black orchid/s,’ or making an adjective
masculine or feminine, as in homem gordo ‘fat man’ vs. mulher gorda ‘fat
woman’ (3.2). Inflection also changes verb endings to show person, as in tra-
balhamos ‘we work’ vs. trabalhas ‘you work,’ or tense, as in trabalhei ontem
‘I worked yesterday’ vs. trabalharei amanhã ‘I will work tomorrow’ (3.5).
3.2 Nouns and adjectives
Nouns are lexical words that have extralinguistic referents such as animate
beings (cachorro ‘dog,’ Sandra), things (comida ‘food’), or abstract concepts
3.2 Nouns and adjectives 57
(liberdade ‘freedom’). A noun may consist of a lexical morpheme, either alone
(boi ‘ox,’ pau ‘stick’) or together with a noun-forming grammatical morpheme,
called the theme vowel◦
, as in livr- + -o > livro, cas- + -a > casa, gent- + -e >
gente ‘people.’ Adjectives have a lexical stem that refers to qualities of nouns
and grammatical suffixes, as in
lexical stem grammatical suffix
alegr- e alegre ‘merry (m./f.)’
fei- a feia ‘ugly (f.)’
ocult- o oculto ‘hidden (m.)’
3.2.1 Gender
Gender is a purely grammatical category whereby every Portuguese noun is
classified as either masculine or feminine. For most nouns, this classification
relates to no identifiable feature of the noun’s referent, as shown by the fact that
the same object may be designated by nouns of either gender, as in o bastão/a
bengala ‘walking stick,’ or o impermeável/a capa (de chuva) ‘raincoat.’
All the same, most nouns in -o are masculine (o momento ‘moment,’
o assunto ‘subject’) and nouns in -a are usually feminine (a fazenda ‘farm,’
a mala ‘suitcase’). An occasional feminine noun in -o such as a virago ‘man-
nish woman’ is a rare exception, but there are a few nouns in -a that are
masculine:
o lama ‘lama’ cf. a lama ‘mud’
o grama ‘gram’ cf. a grama ‘grass’
o coma ‘coma’ cf. a coma ‘mane’
Nouns with other endings, as in the following examples, belong to either
gender. Consequently, a learner’s only safe guideline is to learn every noun
with its article.
a ponte ‘bridge’ o pente ‘comb’
a cal ‘lime’ o mal ‘evil’
a voz ‘voice’ o arroz ‘rice’
a bı́lis ‘bile’ o lápis ‘pencil’
For a subset of nouns referring to humans and certain animals, however,
gender is linked to the referent’s biological sex. The gender of nouns referring
to humans usually correlates with biological sex, and masculine nouns in -o
or -e usually have a feminine counterpart in -a:
o menino ‘boy’ a menina ‘girl’
o monge ‘monk’ a monja ‘nun’
58 3 Words
These are not cases of gender inflection but rather of replacement of the
noun-forming suffix -o by -a, or simply of adding -a to a masculine form to
create a feminine noun:
o engenheiro > a engenheira ‘engineer’ o arquiteto > a arquiteta ‘architect’
o advogado > a advogada ‘lawyer’ o agrônomo > a agrônoma
‘agronomist’
o juiz > a juı́za ‘judge’ o monitor > a monitora ‘monitor’
Some nouns in -e, however, may be of either gender (o/a agente ‘agent,’
o/a tenente ‘lieutenant’) and a few have also a variant in -a with a differ-
ent meaning (o/a governante ‘the governing official’ vs. a governanta ‘the
housekeeper’).
Nouns (among them a few derogatory slang terms) designating a condition
or activity which, for biological or social reasons, is exclusive to or typical of
individuals of one sex or the other, belong to only one gender:
o eunuco ‘eunuch’ a meretriz ‘prostitute’
o jesuı́ta ‘jesuit’ a parturiente ‘woman in labor’
o castrado ‘castrato’ a mocréia (sl.) ‘ugly woman’
o cardeal ‘cardinal’ a madame (sl.) ‘madam, brothel manager’
o veado (sl.) ‘homosexual male’ a menstruante ‘menstruating woman’
o padre ‘priest’ a madre ‘nun’
o bispo ‘bishop’ a gestante ‘pregnant woman’
Some single-gender nouns denote persons of either sex, whereas other single-
form nouns, including most nouns ending in -ista, may be masculine or femi-
nine, as shown by the article:
Single gender, either sex Either gender, sex distinguished by article
a pessoa ‘person’ o/a estudante ‘student’
a vı́tima ‘victim’ o/a camarada ‘comrade’
a testemunha ‘witness’ o/a colega ‘colleague’
o algoz ‘tormentor’ o/a mártir ‘martyr’
o indivı́duo ‘individual’ o/a assistent ‘assistant’
o carrasco ‘executioner’ o/a artista ‘artist’
a criança ‘child’ o/a feminista ‘feminist’
o cônjuge ‘spouse’ o/a pianista ‘pianist’
In a small subset, however, variation in gender does not correlate with
biological sex and the noun may refer to males or females:
o/a sentinela ‘sentry’ o/a personagem ‘character (play, novel)’
o/a ordenança ‘orderly (mil.)’ o/a praça ‘private soldier (mil.)’
3.2 Nouns and adjectives 59
Even though nouns referring to animals do not constitute a morphologi-
cal category, they illustrate how varied gender representation is. For most
names of animals, the words macho ‘male’or fêmea ‘female’ are added to
indicate biological sex (a tartaruga macho ‘male turtle’/a tartaruga fêmea
‘female turtle’). Gender is linked to final –o or –a for names of certain animals
(o gato/a gata ‘cat,’ o raposo/a raposa ‘fox’ – in the latter, the feminine is
the generic form). Finally, a third subset involves morphologically unrelated
pairs: o bode ‘he-goat’/a cabra ‘she-goat,’ just like o homem ‘man’/a mulher
‘woman’ or o pai ‘father’/a mãe ‘mother.’ Summing up:
macho/fêmea final -o/-a unrelated pairs
o jacaré macho/fêmea
‘alligator’
o pato/a pata ‘duck’ cavalo ‘horse’/égua
‘mare’
a girafa macho/fêmea
‘giraffe’
o lobo/a loba ‘wolf’ cão ‘dog’/cadela ‘bitch’
a cobra macho/fêmea
‘snake’
o leão/a leoa ‘lion’ burro/besta ‘donkey’
a onça macho/fêmea
‘jaguar’
o mulo/a mula ‘mule’ bode ‘male goat’/ cabra
‘female goat’
Although intrinsically genderless, adjectives inflect to replicate the gender
of an accompanying noun through a process called agreement◦
. Adjective gen-
der inflection follows a few general rules, though there are exceptions. The
general case covers adjectives in which the suffixes -o/-a function as mascu-
line and feminine markers respectively: bonito cravo ‘pretty carnation’/bonita
rosa ‘pretty rose.’ Adjectives in -a, -e, -r, -l, -z, -s, or -m (corresponding to a
nasal vowel), are usually invariable, wih the exception of gentile◦
adjectives
(Table 3.1). Adjectives in -or, -u, and -ês add an -a (lutador > lutadora ‘fight-
ing,’ cru > crua ‘raw,’ inglês > inglesa ‘English’).
Through a phonological process called metaphony◦
, some adjectives with
stressed [o] in the masculine singular have [ɔ] in the feminine singular and
in both plural forms. Since this change in vowel quality cannot be predicted,
words of one type or another have to be learned individually.
[o] > [ɔ] (metaphony) [o] = [o] (no metaphony)
gostoso > gostosa, gostosos, gostosas ‘tasty’ moço > moça ‘young’
formoso > formosa, formosos, formosas
‘attractive’
fofo > fofa ‘soft’
grosso > grossa, grossos, grossas ‘thick’ oco > oca ‘hollow’
idoso > idosa, idosos, idosas ‘aged’ fosco > fosca ‘dark’
charmoso > charmosa, charmosos, charmosas
‘charming’
tosco > tosca ‘rough’
60 3 Words
Table 3.1 Adjectives invariable in gender
Ending
-a cosmopolita ‘cosmopolitan,’ indı́gena
‘indigenous,’ cipriota ‘Cypriot’
-e forte ‘strong,’ triste ‘sad,’ alegre ‘merry,’ berbere
‘Berber,’ bermudense ‘Bermudan’
-l cordial ‘cordial,’ fiel ‘faithful,’ azul ‘blue’
-z capaz ‘capable,’ soez ‘vile,’ feliz ‘happy,’ feroz
‘ferocious,’ motriz ‘motor,’ lapuz ‘coarse’
-r exemplar ‘exemplary,’ par ‘even (number),’
ı́mpar ‘odd (number),’ familiar ‘familiar’
-or indolor ‘painless,’ maior ‘bigger,’ menor
‘smaller,’ melhor ‘better,’ pior ‘worse’
-m comum ‘common,’ ruim ‘bad,’ afim ‘akin,
willing,’ mirim ‘small,’ marrom ‘brown’
-ês cortês ‘courteous,’ pedrês ‘mottled’
Exception: gentile◦ adjectives in
-l, -z, -ês:
espanhol (m.) > espanhola (f.)
‘Spanish’
andaluz (m.) > andaluza (f.) ‘Andalusian’
inglês (m.) > inglesa (f.)
‘English’
francês (m.) > francesa (f.) ‘French’
For other endings, there are some general norms but exceptions exist.
Table 3.2. shows the more frequent cases.
3.2.2 Number: Plural of nouns and adjectives
As in English, number in Portuguese involves a contrast between one and more
than one. Ambos ‘both’ is a lone case of dual plural, and nouns referring to two
or more items of a kind are morphologically singular, like o par ‘the pair,’ o
casal ‘the couple,’ a parelha ‘the team (of animals).’ Like gender, number is
a mandatory category: a noun is either singular or plural, and accompanying
determinants and adjectives reflect this fact through number agreement.
The plural of nouns and adjectives is formed on the singular according to
regular rules, with some exceptions. Nouns and adjectives ending in a vowel,
stressed or unstressed, oral or nasal, form the plural by adding /-s/, spelled s
(caqui maduro > caquis maduros ‘ripe persimmon/s,’ carro verde > carros
verdes ‘green car/s,’ irmã alemã > irmãs alemãs ‘German sister/s.’ (Adjust-
ments in spelling and accentuation may be required, as in armazém [ẽ
˜] >
armazens [ẽ
˜] ‘warehouse/s.’)
The plural allomorph /es/, written -es, occurs with nouns in -r and -z (bar >
bares, cruz > cruzes) as well as optionally in paroxytones ending in -n, where it
signals a nasal diphthong in the singular but a full vowel in the plural: abdômen
[abdom ẽ
˜] > abdomens or abdômenes ‘abdomen/s.’ Nouns and adjectives
3.2 Nouns and adjectives 61
Table 3.2 Feminine of adjectives
Ending General rule Variants (nc = no change)
-ês inglês > inglesa ‘English’ nc: cortês ‘courteous’
português > portuguesa ‘Portuguese’
-or encantador >encantadora ‘charming’ nc: melhor ‘better,’ pior
‘worse,’ menor ‘smaller,’
maior ‘bigger’
-u cru> crua ‘raw’
nu > nua ‘naked’
nc: zulu, hindu
-éu [εw] ilhéu > ilhoa
-dor trabalhador > trabalhadora/trabalhadeira ‘diligent’
gerador > geradora/geratriz ‘generating’
-tor motor > motora/motriz ‘motive’ (as in força motriz
‘motive power’)
-ão são > sã ‘healthy’
alemão > alemã ‘German’
cristão > cristã ‘Christian’
glutão > glutona ‘glutton’
respondão > respondona ‘given to rude answers’
ending in /s/ are invariable if the last syllable is unstressed: um pires simples ‘a
plain saucer’/dois pires simples ‘two plain saucers,’ um reles lápis ‘a worthless
pencil’/dois reles lápis ‘two worthless pencils.’ Some linguists postulate for
such invariable forms a plural allomorph without a phonological representation,
shown as Ø (zero). Thus, pires + plural would be represented as pires + Ø.
Table 3.3 shows other cases of pluralization.
For reasons related to the historical development of Portuguese morphology,
nouns in -ão form the plural in three ways, exemplified by mão > mãos ‘hand/s,’
pensão > pensões ‘boarding house/s,’ cão > cães ‘dog/s.’ Although there is
no overt indication of how a given noun in -ão will pluralize, a few general
trends are apparent. Only the pattern -ão > -ões is productive, and it includes
the following categories:
loan words◦
: vagão ‘wagon’ > vagões (< Eng wagon), BP
caminhão > caminhões / EP camião > camiões
‘truck/s’ (< Fr camion)
augmentatives
in -ão:
amigão > amigões ‘good buddy/buddies,’ dedão >
dedões ‘big toe/s’
abstract nouns: sequidão > sequidões ‘dryness,’ sensação >
sensações ‘sensation/s’
all nouns in
-são:
alusão > alusões ‘allusion/s,’ abusão > abusões
‘abuse’
all nouns in
-ção:
obrigação > obrigações ‘obligation/s,’ vocação >
vocações ‘vocation/s’
62 3 Words
Table 3.3 Noun and adjective plural endings
Ending Nouns Adjectives
oxytones in -s, -z
plural: add -es
o ananás > os ananases
‘pineapple/s’
a voz > vozes
‘voice/s’
o deus > os deuses
‘god/s’
a luz > as luzes
‘light/s’
cortês > corteses
‘courteous’
atroz > atrozes
‘atrocious’
andaluz > andaluzes
‘Andalusian’
paroxytones in -s
plural: 
o pires > os pires
‘saucer/s’
o ônibus > os ônibus
‘bus/es’
-al, -el, -ol, -ul
plural: replace /i/ for /l/ + -s
animal > animais
‘animal/s’
papel > papéis
‘paper/s’
lençol > lençóis
‘bedsheet/s’
(Exceptions: mal > males
‘evil/s’,
cônsul > cônsules ‘consul/s’
vital > vitais
‘vital’
amável > amáveis
‘friendly’
espanhol > espanhóis
‘Spanish’
stressed -il
plural: -l > Ø + -s
fuzil > fuzis
‘rifle/s’
projetil > projetis
‘projectile/s’
febril > febris
‘feverish’
senil > senis
‘senile’
unstressed -il
plural: -il > -ei + s
fóssil > fósseis
‘fossil/s’
réptil > répteis
‘reptile/s’
projétil > projéteis
‘projectile/s’
fácil > fáceis
‘easy’
difı́cil > difı́ceis
‘difficult’
erétil > eréteis
‘erectile’
stressed on the next
to last syllabe in -n
plural: -ns or -nes
gérmen > gérmens, gérmenes
‘germ/s’
The other two types, -ãos and -ães, are closed sets that include a number of
common nouns:
-ão > -ães -ão > -ãos
pão > pães ‘bread/s’ cristão > cristãos ‘Christian/s’
cão > cães ‘dog/s’ chão > chãos ‘floor/s’
capitão > capitães ‘captain/s’ cidadão > cidadãos ‘citizen/s’
alemão > alemães ‘German/s’ irmão > irmãos ‘brother/s’
capelão > capelães ‘chaplain/s’ mão ‘hand’> mãos ‘hand/s’
3.3 Determinants 63
Nouns in -ão may be analyzed as having a phonological representation in
-/n/, e.g. /patron/, /kan/, and /man/. This analysis is supported by the presence
of /n/ in derived forms like patrono ‘patron saint,’ canino ‘canine,’ and manual
‘manual.’ Though absent in the singular, the theme vowel of such theoretical
forms is either e (as in /patron + e/, /kan + e/) or o (as in /man + o/). The
nasal consonant nasalizes the preceding vowel and assimilates to it completely,
yielding /patrõ/, /kã/, and /mã/. In nouns with the theme vowel -e, the final
nasal vowel, /õ/ or /ã/, originates the diphthong [ãw] in the singular ([patrãw,
[pãw]). The theme vowel -e appears in the plural, forming the sequences /õe/ or
/ãe/, which respectively yield diphthongized endings as in [patrõjs], [pãjs]. For
nouns with the theme vowel -o, dipthongization◦
(/ão/ > [ãw]) yields singular
forms like mão, to which the plural ending /s/ is added directly. Loan words in
-om [õ] tend to appear in doublets, -om ∼ -ão:
garçom/garção ‘waiter’ guidom/guidão ‘handlebar’
acordeom/acordeão ‘accordion’ odeom/odeão ‘music hall’
In nouns of the type /penson + e/, the nasal consonant /n/ disappears after
nasalizing the preceding vowel, which forms a diphthong with the semivowel
[j] originating from the unstressed theme vowel, pensão > pensões. In nouns
of the type /man + o/ and /pan + e/ the nasalized vowel forms a diphthong
with the unstressed theme vowel, which changes into a glide, either /o/ > [w]
(mão > mãos) or /e/ > [j] (pão > pães). There is, however, some variation:
some nouns in -ão have two or even three plurals. Grammar manuals prescribe
one or another, but there is no definitive study on actual usage.
Nouns in -ão with two or three plurals
refrão > refrãos, refrães ‘refrain/s’
vulcão > vulcões, vulcãos ‘volcano/es’
vilão > vilãos, vilães, vilões ‘villain/s’
ancião > anciãos, anciões, anciães ‘old man/men’
3.3 Determinants
Determinants (Table 3.4) include grammatical words such as articles, demon-
stratives and possessives, which have a noun-qualifying function. The definite
article is usually anaphoric, i.e. it signals a noun that has occurred earlier in the
discourse or that is supposed to refer to something known. Thus definite articles
(o, a, os, as ‘the’) generally introduce a noun that conveys specific information
(O ajudante telefonou ‘the aide phoned’) while indefinite articles (um, uns ‘a,
an,’ uma, umas ‘some’) introduce a noun representing non-specific information
(Um ajudante telefonou ‘an aide phoned’).
64 3 Words
The definite article o also serves to nominalize◦
a word of any other class,
that is, to make it into a noun, as in o bom disso tudo é que ela sobreviveu ‘the
good thing about all that is that she survived.’ Singular definite and indefinite
articles as well as plural definite articles are used to signal a noun used in a
generic sense. Thus in 1a and 1b, respectively, the noun refers to all referents,
male or female, of the categories advogado and polı́tico:
(1) a. O/um advogado deve conhecer a lei
‘The/a lawyer must know the law.’
b. Os polı́ticos deveriam pensar no povo.
‘Politicians should think about the people.’
Unlike articles, demonstratives are primarily deictic◦
(from the Gr deixis
‘signal, indication’), that is, they point to something situated in the extralin-
guistic world. The demonstratives (est-, ess-, aquel-) form a three-point system
to signal what is near the speaker (est-), near the hearer (ess-), or distant from
both (aquel-).
Demonstratives show gender by the endings -e, -a and have regular plural
formation. The demonstratives isto, isso, aquilo, on the other hand, refer to an
object or an aggregate that has been mentioned or that is apparent from the
context. These demonstratives are masculine in gender, as shown by adjective
agreement: isso é feio, mas aquilo é grotesco ‘this is ugly but that is grotesque.’
An anaphoric use of este/aquele corresponds respectively to the latter/the
former, as in (2):
(2) O presidente e o ministro chegaram, este de carro e aquele de
helicóptero.
‘The president and the minister arrived, the latter by car and the
former by helicopter.’
Two tendencies of BP should be noticed. One is the reduction of the system
of demonstratives to two points only: ess-/aquel- and isso/aquilo. The other
is an expansion of the system by combining demonstratives with the place
adverbs aqui ‘here,’ aı́ ‘there,’ ali ‘over there,’ lá ‘over there,’ as in esse livro
aqui ‘this book,’ esse livro aı́ ‘that book,’ aquele livro ali/lá ‘that book over
there.’
Possessives refer to the persons of discourse (3.4), namely the speaker or first
person (P1), the hearer or second person (P2), and the so-called third person
(P3), which refers to something or someone that is neither P1 nor P2. Posses-
sives may be combined with a definite article or a demonstrative, and function
as adjectives when directly qualifying a noun, as in o meu relógio ‘my watch,’
aquele nosso amigo ‘that friend of ours.’ They function as pronouns when qual-
ified by an article or a demonstrative to refer to a noun that is understood from
3.4 Personal pronouns 65
Table 3.4 Determinants
Generic*
Person m. sg m. pl. f. sg. f. pl (aka “neuter”)
Definite articles o os a as
Indefinite articles um uns uma umas
Demonstratives este estes esta estas isto
esse esses essa essas isso
aquele aqueles aquela aquelas aquilo
Possessives P1sg meu meus minha minhas
P2sg teu teus tua tuas
P3sg, P3pl seu seus sua suas
P1pl nosso nossos nossa nossas
P2pl vosso vossos vossa vossas
* Formally masculine singular: Isto é bonito.
the context, as in 3a–3b. However, use of seu/sua/seus/suas can be ambiguous,
since these possessives may be interpreted as referring to the hearer or to a third
party, as in 3c. Such ambiguity can be prevented by use of dele/dela/deles/delas
(formed by combining de + ele, etc.) as in 3d:
(3) a. O meu carro está na garagem, onde está o seu?
‘My car is in the garage; where is yours?’
b. Aquele meu guarda-chuva velho sumiu. E aquele seu?
‘That old umbrella of mine has vanished. What about that one of
yours?’
c. A Mara me pediu para trazer o seu dicionário.
‘Mara asked me to bring her dictionary/your dictionary.’
d. A Mara me pediu para trazer o dicionário dela.
‘Mara asked me to bring her dictionary.’
3.4 Personal pronouns
Personal pronouns are grammatical words that refer directly to the persons
of discourse. Table 3.5 shows their forms for the syntactic functions (4.2) of
subject, direct object, indirect object, and prepositional object. This array cov-
ers all possibilities, but in actual usage it is restructured in ways that will be
commented on in Chapter 7.
Third person pronouns, singular as well as plural, inflect for gender with both
the subject and direct object, and for number alone with the indirect object.
Though morphologically masculine, eles may refer generically to an aggregate
of elements of both genders, as in 4a–4b:
Table
3.5
Personal
pronouns
P1sg
P2sg
P3sg
P1pl
P2pl
P3pl
Speaker
Hearer
Neither
P1
nor
P2
Speaker
plus
someone
else
Hearer
plus
someone
else
Neither
P1
nor
P2,
Subject
eu
tu
você
o
senhor
(m.)
a
senhora
(f.)
ele
(m.),
ela
(f.)
nós
vós
vocês
os
senhores
(m.)
as
senhoras
(f.)
eles
(m.)
elas
(f.)
Prepositional
mim
comigo
ti
contigo
si
consigo
conosco
(EP
connosco)
convosco
si
consigo
Direct
object
me
te
o,
lo,
no
(m.)
a,
la,
na
(f.)
os,
los,
nos
(m.)
as,
las,
nas
(f.)
Indirect
object
lhe
nos
vos
lhes
Reflexive
(DO/IO)
se
se
3.4 Personal pronouns 67
Third person pronouns
subject direct object indirect object
ele, ela o, a lhe
eles, elas os, as lhes
(4) a. A Mara e o Joaquim chegaram ontem.
‘Mara and Joaquim arrived yesterday.’
– Eles ficam até quando?
‘Until when are they staying?’
– Até o Natal.
‘Until Christmas.’
b. Aquela professora americana e os alunos dela, quando é que eles
chegam?
‘That American teacher and her students, when are they arriving?’
Second person pronouns fall into two categories: tu (P2sg) and vós (P2pl) take
specific second person verb forms: tu falas ‘you speak,’ vós falais ‘you speak’
(3.5). Informal você/vocês and deferential o senhor/a senhora/os senhores/as
senhoras are lexicalized forms of address that function for all purposes like
pronouns and combine with third person verb forms (8.4). Since você/s and
o/s senhor/es, a/s senhora/s take third person object pronouns, a sentence like
Preciso vê-lo para lhe dar um recado is ambiguous, as it may mean ‘I need to
see you (m. sg.) / him to give you/him/her a message.’
Direct and indirect object pronouns are clitics◦
(5.2), that is unstressed
forms that are placed before or after a verb form as an extra syllable, as
in 5a–5b:
(5) a. Ele o comprou/comprou-o ontem.
‘He bought it yesterday.’
b. Ela me deu/deu-me um presente.
‘She gave me a gift.’
Combinations of indirect object + direct object clitics (Table 3.6) occur
in EP though not in BP, where prepositions (para, a ‘for, to’) are used to
introduce an indirect object, as in example 6 below (for clitic deletion in BP,
see 7.3.2.4).
(6) a. EP Ela entregou-mo = BP Ela o entregou para mim.
‘She handed it to me.’
b. EP Eu entreguei-lhos = BP Eu os entreguei para ele/para
ela/para você/para vocês/para eles/para elas.
‘I handed them to him/her/you/them.’
68 3 Words
Table 3.6 Direct object (DO) and indirect object (IO) clitic
combinations
IO
DO me te nos vos lhe/lhes
o mo to no-lo vo-lo lho
a ma ta no-la vo-la lha
os mos tos no-los vo-los lhos
as mas tas no-las vo-las lhas
3.5 Verbs
English speakers cannot be blamed if they find Portuguese verbs overwhelming.
The most complex English verb has eight forms (be am are is was were been
being), besides two relics (art wert) and a country cousin (ain’t). Other verbs
have five (do does did done doing), four (come comes came coming), three
(put puts putting), two (can could) or just one (ought must). By contrast, most
Portuguese verbs have several dozen forms, neatly arrayed in six-packs called
tenses. Despite such morphological luxuriance, they are quite systematic and
can be mastered with a bit of perseverance and time. In this section we will
cover the main aspects of verb tense formation.
There are three verb classes called conjugations, each identified by a specific
theme vowel◦
(or conjugation vowel), -a, -e, or -i. A verb is referred to and
listed in dictionaries by its citation form, the infinitive, which shows the theme
vowel followed by the infinitive marker -r, and so we refer to -ar, -er, and -ir
verbs. The sole exception is pôr ‘to put’ (and its derivatives, such as compor ‘to
compose’ or depor ‘to depose’), which largely follows the -er conjugation, but
has enough irregularities to be considered separately (Table 3.14). The historical
reason for this is mentioned in section (5.3.4). Impersonal◦
and defective verbs
(3.5.6) have fewer forms.
The endings of the -er and -ir conjugations overlap somewhat, and most
irregular verbs have tenses that form regular subsets. Newly created verbs,
like faxar ‘to fax,’ escanear ‘to scan,’ are always in -ar or -ear, and are fully
regular. Our presentation shows all six persons of speech, including tu (P2sg),
alive in EP and used regionally in BP, and vós (P2pl), which though archaic for
most speakers, is still in use in parts of northern Portugal. It also leads a ghost
existence in certain formal oratorical styles or as the prescribed epistolary form
in the Brazilian military. Furthermore, familiarity with these forms helps one
understand older literary texts.
3.5 Verbs 69
Table 3.7 Verbs: stem, theme vowel, and desinences
Future indicative Present indicative
Stem TV TMD PND Stem TV TMD PND
P1sg fal a re i fal (a) * o
P2sg fal a rá s fal a s
P3sg fal a rá fal a
P1pl fal a re mos fal a mos
P2pl fal a re is fal a is
P3pl fal a ra ão fal a m*
P1sg com e re i com (e) * o
P2sg com e rá s com e s
P3sg com e rá com e
P1pl com e re mos com e mos
P2pl com e re is com e is
P3pl com e r ão com e m*
P1sg part i re i part (i) * o
P2 g part i rá s part e s
P3sg part i rá part e
P1pl part i re mos part i mos
P2pl part i re is part (i) is
P3pl part i r ão part e m**
* Parentheses signal the theme vowel is dropped when the person–number
desinence begins with a vowel other than /i/.
** Orthographic m indicates a nasal diphthong -am [ɐ̃w̃], -em [ẽ
˜].
3.5.1 Conjugations
Verb forms may be analyzed as combinations of morphemes following the
general formula
Theme + Tense–Mood Desinence + Person–Number Desinence.
The theme (T) includes the stem, which carries the lexical meaning, plus one
of the theme vowels a, e, i. The tense–mood desinence (TMD) identifies the
tense and the mood, and the person–number desinence (PND) assigns a verb
form to one of the persons of discourse. This is exemplified in Table 3.7, where
the future indicative forms falaremos ‘we will speak,’ comeremos ‘we will eat,’
and partiremos ‘we will leave,’ show the stem (fal-, com-, part-), the theme
vowel (-a-, -e-, -i-), the tense–mood desinence (-re-), and the person–number
desinence of the first person plural (-mos). Some forms lack one or more of
these formants, and a handful of high-frequency irregular verbs will be dealt
with in 3.5.3.
70 3 Words
Although tenses are used to refer to time, their actual chronological value is
rather flexible, and names such as present or future should be regarded primarily
as identificatory labels. Verb tenses are grouped into three categories called
moods, namely indicative, subjunctive, and imperative. There are also three
non-finite or uninflected tenses, viz.
infinitive gerund participle
falar ‘to speak’ falando ‘speaking’ falado ‘spoken’
comer ‘to eat’ comendo ‘eating’ comido ‘eaten’
partir ‘to leave’ partindo ‘leaving’ partido ‘left’
3.5.2 Regular verb formation
In the formula stem + TV + TMD + PND the theme vowel comes right after
the stem and before any suffixes. In verbs with the infinitive in -ar, the theme
vowel (TV) is -a throughout, but in verbs with the infinitive in -er or -ir, the
theme vowel is either -e or -i, depending on the specific tense. In uninflected
forms the theme vowel remains constant (cf. infinitives -ar, -er, -ir, gerunds
-ando, -endo, -indo, or participles -ado, -ido).
The gerund is invariable and the participle varies in gender and number in
passive and passive-like constructions only (4.8.1). The infinitive is invariable,
but it has an inflected counterpart (Table 3.8) which has endings for all persons
except P1sg and P3sg (for use of the inflected infinitive, see section 4.13). For
regular verbs, personal infinitive forms are identical to those of the future sub-
junctive (3.5.2; Table 3.12), whereas for irregular verbs the future subjunctive
has a specific stem.
Table 3.8 Inflected infinitive
falar comer partir
P1sg fal-a-r com-e-r part-i-r
P2sg fal-a-re-s com-e-re-s part-i-re-s
P3sg fal-a-r com-e-r part-i-r
P1pl fal-a-r-mos com-e-r-mos part-i-r-mos
P2pl fal-a-r-des com-e-r-des part-i-r-des
P3pl fal-a-r-em com-e-r-em part-i-r-em
3.5.2.1 Present tenses and the imperative The present indicative
(Table 3.9) has a stem followed by a theme vowel and a person–number
desinence. Exceptions are P1sg, where the theme vowel is replaced by the
unique person–number desinence -o, and P3sg, which has no person–number
3.5 Verbs 71
Table 3.9 Present indicative, present subjunctive, and imperative
falar comer partir
indicative subjunctive indicative subjunctive indicative subjunctive
P1sg fal-o fal-e com-o com-a part-o part-a
P2sg fal-a-s fal-e-s com-e-s com-a-s part-e-s part-a-s
P3sg fal-a fal-e com-e com-a part-e part-a
P1pl fal-a-mos fal-e-mos com-e-mos com-a-mos part-i-mos part-a-mos
P2pl fal-a-is fal-e-is com-e-is com-a-is part-is part-a-is
P3pl fal-a-m fal-e-m com-e-m com-a-m part-e-m part-a-m
imperative
falar comer partir
affirmative negative
P2sg (tu) fal-a* com-e* part-e* não fal-es não com-as não part-as
P2pl (vós) fal-a-i com-e-i part-i não fal-eis não com-ais não part-ais
Same as the present subjunctive:
P3sg (você) fal-e com-a part-a não fal-e não com-a não part-a
P3pl (vocês) fal-em com-am part-am não fal-em não com-am não part-am
* Also used with você in BP.
desinence. The contrast between indicative and subjunctive hinges on the alter-
nation of the vowels -a/-e for -ar verbs and -e/-a for -er and -ir verbs. In P1sg,
however, the contrast is between the vowels -o/e for verbs in -ar and -o/-a for
verbs ins -er and -ir. The person–number desinence of P3pl forms, orthograph-
ically -m, may be interpreted phonologically as a nasal consonant /n/, which
both diphthongizes and nasalizes the preceding vowel, so that -am, -em are
phonetically nasal diphthongs (falam [falɐ̃w̃], podem [pɔdẽj̃]). This analysis
applies to P3pl in other tenses as well.
Imperative forms for tu and vós derive from corresponding present indicative
forms minus the final -s. The imperative forms of você(s) are the corresponding
forms of the present subjunctive. In negative commands, subjunctive forms are
used for all persons (Table 3.9).
3.5.2.2 Past tenses: Imperfect, preterit, and past perfect (pluperfect)
indicative In imperfect forms the stress falls systematically on the
theme vowel (-a for verbs in -ar or -i for verbs in -er, -ir). The tense–mood
desinence is -va (-ve in P2pl) for -ar verbs and -a (-e in P2pl) for -er, -ir verbs.
In the preterit P1sg and P3sg lack a theme vowel and each has a unique
ending. P1sg has -ei for -ar verbs and stressed -i for -er and -ir verbs, while
72 3 Words
Table 3.10 Past tenses: Imperfect, preterit, and past perfect (pluperfect)
indicative
Imperfect Preterit
falar comer partir falar comer partir
P1sg fal-a-va com-i-a part-i-a fal-ei com-i part-i
P2sg fal-a-va-s com-i-a-s part-i-a-s fal-a-ste com-e-ste part-i-ste
P3sg fal-a-va com-i-a part-i-a fal-ou com-eu part-iu
P1pl fal-á-va-mos com-ı́-a-mos part-ı́-a-mos fal-a-mos (*) com-e-mos part-i-mos
P2pl fal-á-ve-is com-ı́-e-is part-ı́-e-is fal-a-stes com-e-stes part-i-stes
P3pl fal-a-va-m com-i-a-m part-i-a-m fal-a-ram com-e-ram part-i-ram
Past perfect (pluperfect)
falar comer partir
P1sg fal-a-ra com-e-ra part-i-ra
P2sg fal-a-ra-s com-e-ra-s part-i-ra-s
P3sg fal-a-ra com-e-ra part-i-ra
P1pl fal-á-ra-mos com-ê-ra-mos part-ı́-ra-mos
P2pl fal-á-re-is com-ê-re-is part-ı́-re-is
P3pl fal-a-ram com-e-ram part-i-ram
(*) EP falámos.
P3sg has -ou (pronounced [o] in BP except in monitored speech, which has
[ow]) for -ar verbs, -eu for -er verbs, and -iu for -ir verbs. The morpheme -ste-
may be considered a tense–mood desinence, but since P2sg lacks its usual -s
ending and P2pl has -s instead of the usual -is, it makes sense to consider -ste
and -stes specific endings for those persons.
In the past perfect the theme vowel is stressed throughout and the tense–
mood desinence -ra (-re in P2pl) characterizes this tense, which in BP is largely
replaced by the compound form, e.g., tinha falado (Table 3.10).
3.5.2.3 Future and conditional These tenses are derived from the
infinitive and characterized by a stressed tense–mood desinence. In the future,
this desinence is -ei for P1sg, -e- for P1pl and P2pl, and -a- for P2sg, P3sg,
and P3pl. In P3pl the vowel -a- combines with the person–number marker -m,
signaling the nasal diphthong [ɐ̃w̃]. Actually, the spelling distinction between
the preterite (falaram) and the future (falarão) is relatively modern; until the
beginning of the twentieth century it was common to see both forms written
with -ão.
The tense–mood desinence in the conditional is stressed -ia- throughout
except in P2pl, which has -ie-. In both tenses, vowel alternation has historical
reasons. (In Brazilian grammars the future indicative and the conditional are
respectively labeled “future of the present” and “future of the preterit.”)
3.5 Verbs 73
Table 3.11 Future indicative and conditional
Future indicative Conditional
falar comer partir falar comer partir
P1sg fal-a-r-ei com-e-r-ei part-i-r-e-i fal-a-r-ia com-e-r-ia part-i-r-ia
P2sg fal-a-r-á-s com-e-r-ás part-i-r-ás fal-a-r-ia-s com-e-r-ia-s part-i-r-ia-s
P3sg fal-a-r-á com-e-rá part-i-rá fal-a-r-ia com-e-r-ia part-i-r-ia
P1pl fal-a-r-e-
mos
com-e-r-e-
mos
part-i-r-e-
mos
fal-a-r-ı́a-
mos
com-e-r-ı́a-
mos
part-i-r-ı́a-
mos
P2pl fal-a-r-e-is com-e-r-e-is part-i-r-e-is fal-a-r-ı́e-is com-e-r-ı́e-is part-i-r-ı́e-is
P3pl fal-a-r-ão com-e-r-ão part-i-r-ão fal-a-r-ia-m com-e-r-ia m part-i-r-ia-m
Table 3.12 Past and future subjunctive
Past subjunctive Future subjunctive
falar comer partir falar comer partir
P1sg fal-a-sse com-e-sse part-i-sse fal-a-r com-e-r part-i-r
P2sg fal-a-sse-s com-e-sse-s part-i-sse-s fal-a-r-es com-e-r-es part-i-r-es
P3sg fal-a-sse com-e-sse part-i-sse fal-a-r com-e-r part-i-r
P1pl fal-á-sse-mos com-ê-sse-mos part-ı́-sse-mos fal-a-r-mos com-e-r-mos part-i-r-
mos
P2pl fal-á-sse-is com-ê-sse-is part-ı́-sse-is fal-a-r-des com-e-r-des part-i-r-des
P3pl fal-a-sse-m com-e-sse-m part-i-sse-m fal-a-r-em com-e-r-em part-i-r-em
3.5.2.4 Past and future subjunctive In the past subjunctive the theme
vowel is stressed throughout and is derived from the infinitive by insertion of
the tense–mood desinence -sse /se/. This future subjunctive, which has the same
endings as the inflected infinitive, is formed on the stem of the preterit indicative,
e.g. fiz ‘I did’> (quando eu) fizer ‘when I [fut.] make’, vi ‘I saw’ > (quando
eu) vir ‘when I [fut.] see.’
3.5.3 Irregular verbs
Irregular verbs involve changes in the stem or in the tense–mood or person–
number desinences. Changes in the stem vowel in the present indicative (and
derived tenses) involve alternation between a mid-high vowel [e] and a mid-low
vowel [ε], spelled e, or between a mid-high vowel [o] and a mid-low vowel [ɔ],
spelled o, in all persons.
For -ar verbs like pegar ‘to grab,’ cegar ‘to blind,’ regar ‘to water (plants),’
levar ‘to take,’ stressed orthographic e is normally pronounced [ε]: eu pego ‘I
74 3 Words
grab.’ A few verbs have [e] throughout, like chegar ‘to arrive’ (eu chego) and
verbs in which stressed e is followed by a palatal consonant such as [], e.g.,
desejar ‘to desire’ (eu desejo), or by a nasal consonant such as [m] in remar
‘row’ (eu remo). In BP, however, a few verbs, like fechar ‘to close’ have [e] or
[ε] (eu fecho) ‘I close’.
Likewise, some verbs like engordar ‘to put on weight,’ podar ‘to trim
(plants),’ arrotar ‘to belch,’ coçar ‘to scratch,’ which have an orthographic
o in the stem, have [ɔ] throughout: eu engordo, você engorda. An exception
are verbs with a radical in o, such as doar ‘to donate,’ voar ‘to fly,’ or coar ‘to
strain (a liquid),’ which have [o]: eu dôo, ele voa, eles coam.
In -er verbs like beber ‘to drink,’ ceder ‘to cede,’ dever ‘to owe,’ meter ‘to
stick, to insert,’ P1sg has [e] (eu bebo, cedo, meto, devo) and the other forms
with stressed e have [ε]: tu bebes, ele cede, eles devem. Likewise, -er verbs like
mover ‘to move’ and correr ‘to run’ have [o] in P1sg (eu movo, eu corro) and
the other forms have [ɔ]: tu moves, ele corre, eles movem. Poder ‘to be able’
and querer ‘to wish’ have respectively [ɔ] or [ε] in all stem-stressed forms.
Although the stem vowel tends to be closed when a nasal consonant follows,
as in comer, BP has either [ɔ] or [o] in P2 comes, P3sg come, P3pl comem.
Some verbs in -ir, like progredir ‘to progress,’ prevenir ‘to prevent,’ and
agredir ‘to assault,’ change e [e] into i [i] in stressed position: este paı́s progride
pouco ‘this country progresses little.’ A number of verbs in -ir, like servir ‘to
serve,’ prevenir ‘to prevent,’ agredir ‘to assault,’ have [i] in P1sg. eu não sirvo
para isso I’m no good that’ and [ε] in the other persons: esse lápis não serve
‘that pencil won’t do.’
Other verbs in -ir, such as dormir, have stressed [u] in P1sg and [ɔ] in other
persons: eu durmo muito mal mas a minha mulher dorme [ɔ] maravilhosamente
‘I sleep very poorly but my wife sleeps wonderfully.’ The spelling of verbs like
dormir masks the fact that for most speakers (of both BP and EP) unstressed
o is phonetically [u]. Consequently, there is alternation between stressed [ɔ] in
P2sg, P3sg, P3pl and [u] in the other persons.
Whereas orthographic o normally appears in P1pl and P2pl (dormimos, cobri-
mos, tossimos, conferimos, competimos), the corresponding forms of engolir ‘to
swallow’ are spelled with an u: engulimos, engulis. A similar situation obtains
in vestir and the verbs of the first set (pedir, etc.), where unstressed written e is
pronounced as [i] in BP and [ə] in EP (pedimos). The type represented by fugir
‘to run away,’ with stressed [u] in P1sg and [ɔ] in the other persons (eu fujo,
ele foge), contrasts with the type represented by iludir ‘to fool,’ which has [u]
throughout (eu iludo, ele ilude).
Another type of irregularity involves changes in the form of either the stem
itself or the tense–mood or person–number desinences of the first and third
persons singular of the present and preterit indicative. In some cases there
3.5 Verbs 75
are also variations in the future indicative or the participle. The most frequent
among such irregular verbs are listed in Table 3.13.
Other stem variations shown in Table 3.13 have to do with an irregular form
for P1sg in the present indicative (which, as noted, is the basis for the present
subjunctive), alternating with a regular form for other persons. In perder ‘to
lose’, valer ‘to be worth’, ouvir ‘to hear’, pedir ‘to ask’, medir ‘to measure’
that stem is respectively perc-, v[a]lh-, ouç, p[ε]ç-, m[ε]ç-.
The four verbs dizer ‘to say’, trazer ‘to bring’, fazer ‘to make/do’, poder
‘can/may’ have a special stem for P1sg in the present indicative (digo, trago,
faço, posso) and another for the preterit (disse, trouxe ([trows-] or [tros-]),
fiz-, pude-). This preterit stem naturally reappears in the past perfect, the past
subjunctive, and the future subjunctive. However, whereas poder forms the
future indicative and conditional regularly (poderei, poderia), dizer, trazer, and
fazer have a special stem for these tenses (dir-, trar-, far-). In ter ‘to have’,
pôr ‘to put’, and vir ‘to come’ the stem of the present indicative acquires a
nasal consonant which appears as a palatal in P1sg (tenh-, venh-, ponh-) and
disappears after nasalizing the stem vowel in the other persons (tens, tem, temos,
tendes, tem). The imperfect stem has a nasal palatal consonant and a vowel rise:
e > i (tinh-, vinh-), o > u (punh-). In addition, in these verbs the preterit has
two radicals with vowel alternation: tiv- / tev-, pus/pos, vim/vie.
The four verbs saber ‘to know’, querer ‘to want’, requerer ‘to require’,
caber ‘to fit’ share several irregularities without forming a uniform pattern.
Caber and requerer have a diphthongized stem vowel in the first person of the
present indicative and present subjunctive (caibo > caiba, requeiro > requeira).
Saber and querer have both a diphthongized stem vowel in first person of the
present subjunctive (saiba, queira), but saber has a different diphthong in the
first person of the present indicative (sei), while querer is regular in the present
indicative except for P3sg, which lacks the desinence -e (eu quero, tu queres,
ele quer). Finally, caber, saber, and querer have a specific preterit radical (P1sg
coube, soube, quis), whereas requerer, though historically related to querer, is
regular (P1sg requeri, P2sg requereste, and so on).
The five verbs dar ‘to give’, estar ‘to be’, haver ‘there to be’, ser ‘to be’,
and ir ‘go’ share certain features with each other as well as with other irregular
verbs. In addition, each has a few unique features of its own. Dar changes the
radical vowel in the preterit, to [e] in P1sg, P3sg, and P1pl (dei, deu, demos)
and to [ε] in P2sg and P2pl (deste, destes). The radical in [ε] appears regularly
in the past perfect (dera) and in the past and future subjunctive (desse, der).
Like estar, ser, and ir, the verb dar has, in P1sg of the present indicative, an
ending ou, usually pronounced [o] or, in monitored pronunciation, [ow]. Estar
shows in the P1sg of the preterit indicative the same type of [i] ∼ [e] vowel
alternation found in ter and fazer (estive ∼ esteve, tive ∼ teve, fiz ∼ fez), and
76 3 Words
Table 3.13 Irregular verbs
Infinitive Present indicative Preterit Other irregularities
caber P1sg caibo P1sg coube
P3sg cabe P3sg coube
dizer P1sg digo P1sg disse FutInd: direi
P3sg diz P3sg disse Part: dito
fazer1 P1sg faço P1sg fiz FutInd: farei
P3sg faz P3sg fez Part: feito
ler2 P1sg leio
P3sg lê
odiar3 P1sg odeio
P3sg odeia
ouvir P1sg ouço
P3sg ouve
pedir4 P1sg peço [ε]
P3sg pede [ε]
perder P1sg perco [e]
P3sg perde [ε]
poder P1sg posso [ɔ] P1sg pude
P3sg pode [ɔ] P3sg pôde
querer P1sg quero [ε] P1sg quis PresSubj: queira
P3sg quer [ε] P3sg quis
requerer P1sg requeiro
P3sg requer [ε]
rir P1sg rio
P3sg ri
saber P1sg sei P1sg soube PresSubj: saiba
P3sg sabe P3sg soube
seduzir5 P1sg seduzo
P3sg seduz
trazer P1sg trago P1sg trouxe FutInd: trarei
P3sg traz P3sg trouxe
valer P1sg valho
P3sg vale
ver P1sg vejo P1sg vi Part: visto
P3sg vê P3sg viu
1 Like fazer: refazer ‘to redo, remake,’ satisfazer ‘to satisfy,’ desfazer ‘to undo.’
2 Like ler: reler ‘to reread,’crer ‘to believe.’
3 Like odiar: ansiar ‘to yearn,’ incendiar ‘to set on fire.’
4 Like pedir: medir ‘to measure.’
5 Like seduzir: produzir ‘to produce,’ reduzir ‘to reduce,’ conduzir ‘to conduct.’
3.6 Adverbs 77
haver shows in the preterit indicative the ou diphthong (usually [o] except in
careful pronunciation) in caber, saber, trazer (houve, coube, soube, trouxe). On
the other hand, ser shows several radicals (s- ∼ so- ∼ sej-, é-, fu ∼ fo-), some
of which are shared with ir.
Finally, a handful of high frequency anomalous verbs show so many anoma-
lies in some tenses that it is simpler to list them (Table 3.14).
3.5.4 Perfect and continuous tenses
In addition the simple tenses seen so far there are also constructions made
up of an inflected auxiliary verb◦
followed by one or two non-finite forms
(Table 3.15). Perfect tenses are made up of a conjugated form of ter (or haver
in rather formal styles) and the participle of the main verb: tenho trabalhado
‘I have worked,’ tens dormido ‘you have slept.’ Continuous tenses are formed
with estar and a gerund: estou andando ‘I’m walking,’ estávamos dormindo
‘we were sleeping.’
Combining an inflected form of ter and the participle of estar plus the gerund
of the main verb yields a perfect continuous tense: tenho estado estudando ‘I
have been studying.’ These tenses are structurally very similar to their English
counterparts given in the glosses, although there are some differences in usage.
3.5.5 Double participles
Besides the regular participles in -ado and -ido, a number of verbs have one
or two irregular participles (Table 3.16). The regular form generally occurs in
perfect tenses (3.5.4) while the irregular form occurs as adjectives or in passive
constructions (4.8.1), but usage varies considerably.
3.5.6 Impersonal verbs
A few verbs lacking a subject occur only in the third person singular. A subset
of these includes verbs having to do with weather phenomena such as chover
‘to rain,’ relampaguear (and its variants relampejar, relampar, relampear) ‘to
flash like lightning,’ trovejar ‘to thunder,’ nevar ‘to snow,’ ventar ‘to blow (the
wind),’ and a few others: Ontem ventou, relampagueou e trovejou, mas não
choveu ‘yesterday the wind blew, there was lightning and thunder, but it did not
rain’ (4.7).
3.6 Adverbs
Adverbs are words (or phrases◦
that function as a single lexical unit) that add
circumstantial information to whole sentences or to a specific element of a
Table
3.14
Anomalous
verbs
Tense
Person
dar
estar
haver
ir
pôr
ser
ter
vir
PresInd
P1sg
dou
estou
hei
vou
ponho
sou
tenho
venho
P2sg
dás
estás
hás
vais
pões
és
tens
vens
P3sg
dá
está
há
vai
põe
é
tem
vem
P1pl
damos
estamos
havemos
vamos
pomos
somos
temos
vimos
3
P2pl
dais
estais
haveis
ides
pondes
sois
tendes
vindes
P3pl
dão
estão
hão
vão
põem
são
têm
vêm
ImperfInd
P1sg
dava
estava
havia
ia
punha
era
tinha
vinha
PretInd
P1sg
dei
estive
houve
fui
pus
fui
tive
vim
P2sg
deste
estiveste
houveste
foste
puseste
foste
tiveste
vieste
P3sg
deu
esteve
houve
foi
pôs
foi
teve
veio
P1pl
demos
estivemos
houvemos
fomos
pusemos
fomos
tivemos
viemos
P2pl
destes
estivestes
houvestes
fostes
pusestes
fostes
tivestes
viestes
P3pl
deram
estiveram
houveram
foram
puseram
foram
tiveram
vieram
Pluperf
P1sg
dera
estivera
houvera
fora
pusera
fora
tivera
viera
FutureInd
P1sg
darei
estarei
haverá
irei
porei
serei
terei
virei
Conditional
P1sg
daria
estaria
haveria
iria
poria
seria
teria
viria
Imperative
P2sg
dá
4
está
[há]
2
vai
põe
sê
tem
vem
P3sg
dê
esteja
haja
vá
ponha
seja
tenha
venha
P2pl
dai
estai
havei
ide
ponde
sede
tende
vinde
P3pl
dêem
estejam
hajam
vão
ponham
sejam
tenham
venham
PresSubj
P1sg
dê
esteja
haja
vá
ponha
seja
tenha
venha
P2sg
dês
estejas
hajas
vás
ponhas
sejas
tenhas
venhas
P3sg
dê
esteja
haja
vá
ponha
seja
tenha
venha
P1pl
demos
estejamos
hajamos
vamos
ponhamos
sejamos
tenhamos
venhamos
P2pl
deis
estejais
hajais
vades
ponhais
sejais
tenhais
venhais
P3pl
dêem
estejam
hajam
vão
ponham
sejam
tenham
venham
PastSubj
P1sg
desse
1
estivesse
houvesse
fosse
pusesse
fosse
tivesse
viesse
P2sg
desses
estivesses
houvesses
fosses
pusesses
fosses
tivesses
viesses
P3sg
desse
estivesse
houvesse
fosse
pusesse
fosse
tivesse
viesse
P1pl
déssemos
estivéssemos
houvéssemos
fôssemos
puséssemos
fôssemos
tivéssemos
viéssemos
P2pl
désseis
estivésseis
houvésseis
fôsseis
pusésseis
fôsseis
tivésseis
viésseis
P3pl
déssem
estivessem
houvessem
fossem
pusessem
fossem
tivessem
viessem
FutSubj
P1sg
der
estiver
houver
for
puser
for
tiver
vier
Infinitive
—
dar
estar
haver
ir
pôr
ser
ter
vir
Gerund
—
dando
estando
havendo
indo
pondo
sendo
tendo
vindo
Participle
—
dado
estado
havido
ido
posto
sido
tido
vindo
1
Forms
with
a
stressed
e
are
pronounced
[ε]
(all
irregular
verbs).
2
A
theoretical
form.
3
Vimos
is
replaced
by
PretInd
P1pl
viemos
in
colloquial
BP,
possibly
to
avoid
homophony
with
vimos
‘we
saw’
from
ver
‘to
see.’
4
Imperative
forms
of
tu
are
regularly
used
with
você
in
colloquial
BP.
80 3 Words
Table 3.15 Simple and compound (perfect, continuous, and
perfect-continuous) tenses
Tense names
Simple and perfect
tenses
Continuous and perfect
continuous tenses
Present ando estou andando
Present Perfect tenho andado tenho estado andando
Imperfect andava estava andando
Preterit andei estive andando
Past perfect andara estivera andando
Past perfect (comp.) tinha andado tinha estado andando
Future andarei estarei andando
Future Perfect terei andado terei estado andando
Conditional andaria estaria andando
Conditional Perfect teria andado teria estado andando
Pres Subj ande esteja andando
Pres Perf Subj tenha andado tenha estado andando
Past Subj andasse estivesse andando
Past Perf Subj tivesse andado tivesse estado andando
Fut Subj andar estiver andando
Fut Perf Subj tiver andado tiver estado andando
sentence, such as a verb, an adjective, or another adverb. The fact that the words
we call adverbs are lumped into a single category, however, is a holdover from
traditional grammars, and much work remains to be done to understand exactly
how they work (Ilari 1996). Except for adverbs ending in -mente ‘-ly’ (see
below) there is no morphological feature that characterizes adverbs as such
(Table 3.17).
As in English, so in Portuguese there are words that double as adjectives and
adverbs. In 7a–7b duro and rápido add circumstantial information to the basic
meaning of the verb. Likewise, in 7c–7d the adverb cedo and the phrase◦
às
três da manhã bear the same structural relationship to the verb levantei-me.
(7) a. Ela trabalha duro.
‘She works hard.’
b. A Fernanda subiu rápido.
‘Fernanda climbed fast.’
c. Levantei-me cedo.
‘I got up early.’
d. Levantei-me às três da manhã.
‘I got up at three in the morning.’
Such examples show that the label “adverb” designates certain syntactic func-
tions that can just as well be played by phrases that behave like adverbs. In fact
some adverbs originate from lexicalized prepositional phrases, such as depressa
3.6 Adverbs 81
Table 3.16 Verbs with double participles
Infinitive
Regular
participle
Irregular
participle Infinitive
Regular
participle
Irregular
participle
aceitar ‘accept’ aceitado aceito,aceite acender ‘turn on’ acendido aceso
eleger ‘elect’ elegido eleito inserir ‘insert’ inserido inserto
entregar ‘deliver’ entregado entregue suspender ‘lift’ suspendido suspenso
gastar ‘spend’ gastado gasto erigir ‘erect’ erigido erecto
limpar ‘clean’ limpado limpo imprimir ‘print’ imprimido impresso
matar ‘kill’ matado morto frigir ‘fry’ frigido frito
pegar ‘grab’ pegado pego fritar ‘fry’ fritado frito
prender ‘arrest’ prendido preso tingir ‘dye’ tingido tinto
Infinitive Participle
aceitar Reg. aceitado CT: Ele não tinha aceitado a conta. ‘He had not accepted the bill.’
Irreg. aceito Pas.: A conta não foi aceita. ‘The bill was not accepted.’
Adj: Os documentos estão aceitos. (EP = aceites)
acender Reg. acendido CT: Eu tinha acendido as lâmpadas. ‘I had turned on the lamps.’
Irreg. aceso Pas.: As lâmpadas foram acendidas/acesas. ‘The lamps were
turned on.’
Adj: As lâmpadas estão acesas.
imprimir Reg. imprimido CT: Eles tinham imprimido/impresso os panfletos. ‘They had
printed the pamphlets.’
Irreg. impresso Pass.: Os panfletos foram imprimidos/impressos. ‘The pamphlets
were printed.’
Adj: Os documentos estão impressos. ‘The documents are printed
[e.g. as opposed to handwritten].’
CT: compound tense; Pas.: Passive; Adj.: Adjective.
‘quickly’ (de + pressa ‘hurry’), devagar ‘slowly’ (de + vagar ‘leisure’),
embaixo ‘underneath’ (em + baixo ‘low’), even though, oddly enough, em
cima ‘on top of, above’ is written as two words.
Like nouns and adjectives, some adverbs may be modified by the diminutive
suffix -inho (3.8.1). The resulting adverb has the same basic meaning and some
added connotation:
logo ‘soon’ > loguinho ‘rather soon’
agora ‘now’ > agorinha ‘right now’
cedo ‘early’ > cedinho ‘rather early’
tarde ‘late’ > tardinho ‘rather late’
A useful distinction may be made between deictic◦
and modal adverbs. Deic-
tic adverbs signal the location of something in relation to the speaker or some
other point of reference. This is apparent in locative adverbs, some of which
form triads such as aqui ‘here, near the speaker,’ aı́ ‘there, near the hearer,’
and ali and lá ‘over there, near neither speaker nor hearer.’ There is a clear
82 3 Words
Table 3.17 Adverbs
Deictic adverbs
Locative aqui ‘here,’ aı́ ‘there,’ ali ‘over here’ cá ‘here,’ lá ‘there’
Temporal ontem ‘yesterday,’ hoje ‘today,’ amanhã ‘tomorrow’
antes ‘before,’ agora ‘now,’ depois ‘after’
Modal adverbs
Manner bem, mal
Doubt talvez, quiçá (obs.)
Quantifiers or
intensifiers
muito, pouco, bastante, mais, menos
Affirmatives sim
Negatives não
Interrogatives quem? como? quando? onde?
parallel between these triads and the three-way distinction established by the
demonstratives este, esse, aquele (3.3).
Time adverbs, as their name suggests, take a temporal frame of reference, as
in ontem ‘yesterday,’ hoje ‘today,’ amanhã ‘tomorrow.’ A few adverbs, such
as antes ‘before,’ agora ‘now,’ and depois ‘after,’ indicate a sequencing that is
either spatial, or temporal, or both.
In contrast with deictic adverbs, modal adverbs characterize a set of circum-
stances, as in the case of manner adverbs, which include single words like bem
‘well’ and mal ‘badly,’ as in example 8 and adverbs ending in -mente.
(8) A gente comeu bem mas dormiu mal.
‘We ate well but slept poorly.’
Although semantically equivalent to English ‘-ly,’ -mente is not a suffix, but
rather an independent word (Câmara 1972:105; Cintra 1983) that is attached to
the feminine form of an adjective, if there is one (atenta ‘attentive’+ -mente >
atentamente ‘attentively’), or directly to an adjective in -e (alegre ‘happy’ +
-mente > alegremente ‘happily’). There is some room for variation, though, as
a few adjectives in -or or -ês escape this rule: elas fazem isso superiormente
‘they do this in a superior fashion’; as meninas trajavam portuguesmente ‘the
girls were dressed in the Portuguese manner.’ If two or more such adverbs
are coordinated, -mente is usually attached to the last one only: dançavam
lenta e tristemente ‘they danced slowly and sadly.’
Other modal adverbs express doubt (9a), intensity (9b), or affirmation or
negation (9c):
(9) a. Talvez chova.
‘Maybe it’ll rain.’
b. Quem pode mais, chora menos.
‘He who is more powerful will cry less.’
3.7 Connectors: prepositions and conjunctions 83
c. Elas vêm? Sim ou não?
‘Are they coming? Yes or no?’
Also traditionally listed as adverbs are the interrogative words that begin
an information question, like wh- words in English: quando? ‘when?,’ como?
‘how?’ onde? ‘where,’ quem? ‘who?,’ BP por que? EP porque? ‘why?’ To these
should be added BP cadê?/quedê? ‘where is?’ as in (10a–b), derived from the
old expression Que é feito de . . .? ‘what has become of . . .?’
(10) a. Cadê o teu irmão?
‘Where is your brother?’
b. Quedê a pasta de dentes?
‘Where is the toothpaste?’
c. E o cantil, quedê?
‘And the canteen, where is (it)?’
3.7 Connectors: prepositions and conjunctions
Lexical words in utterances are linked by grammatical connectors that signal
structural relationships. Prepositions can connect a variety of formants such as
nouns (rainha de copas ‘queen of hearts,’ café-com-leite ‘coffe with milk’) or
a noun and a verb (pizza para levar ‘pizza to take out’, coisas por fazer ‘things
to be done’) or two sentences, as in 11:
(11) O pai trabalhava feito um burro para as filhas viverem feito rainhas.
‘The father worked like a slave (lit. donkey) so the daughters could
live like queens.’
A sentence formant such as a verb, a noun, or an adjective may require a
specific preposition as a link to another formant that complements its meaning.
Here are a few examples:
Verb
acabar (com) ‘to get
rid of’
Acabaram com os ratos naquele prédio. ‘They
got rid of the rats in that building.’
bater (em) ‘beat, spank’ A polı́cia batia nos presos. ‘The police used to
beat up the inmates.’
depender (de) O mundo depende do petróleo. ‘The world
depends on oil.’
Noun
doutor (em) Joana é doutora em filosofia. ‘Joana is a doctor of
philosophy.’
obrigação (de) Temos obrigação de pagar isso. ‘We have the
obligation to pay that.’
horror (a) Tenho horror a gente burra. ‘I hate stupid people.’
84 3 Words
Table 3.18 Prepositions
a fui a Lisboa ‘I went to Lisbon’; escrito a mão ‘written by hand’
ante compareci ante o juiz ‘I appeared before the judge’
até fui até a esquina ‘I went as far as the street corner’
com saı́ com Marina ‘I went out with Marina’
contra somos contra esse governo ‘we are against this government’
de a bicicleta de Selma ‘Selma’s bicycle’
desde estou a trabalhar desde as sete ‘I’ve been working since seven’
em Filomena vive em Viseu ‘Filomena lives in Viseu’
entre Cá entre nós: estamos entre amigos ‘between you and me: we are among
friends’
por faço-o por ela ‘I do it for her’
para trouxeram flores para você ‘they’ve brought flowers for you’
perante estamos perante a autoridade ‘we are before the authority’
sem estou sem trabalho ‘I’m without a job’
sob fizemos isso sob ameaça de morte ‘we did that under threat of death’
sobre o dinheiro estava sobre a mesa ‘the money was on the table’
como ele vive como rei ‘he lives like a king’
feito (= como) ele trabalha feito escravo ‘he works like a slave’
que nem (= como) eles estavam rindo que nem loucos ‘they were laughing like crazy’
conforme vieram conforme as instruções ‘they came according to the instructions’
durante chegaram durante a noite ‘they arrived during the night’
exceto vieram todos exceto Norma ‘all arrived except Norma’
mediante o senador ficou rico mediante arranjos duvidosos ‘the senator got rich
through shady deals’
Adjective
forte (em) Nunca fui forte em matemática. ‘I was never
strong in math.’
disposto (a) O Juca está disposto a te ajudar. ‘Juca is willing
to help you.’
cheio (de) Ele está cheio de dinheiro. ‘He’s full of money.’
Besides the basic prepositions shown in Table 3.18, other words may func-
tion as prepositions, such as conforme ‘according to,’ durante ‘during,’ exceto
‘except.’
The class of conjunctions encompasses two types of connectors that perform
rather different functions in structuring a sentence (Table 3.19).
Coordinating conjunctions join two or more like elements with like status.
Such conjunctions may be copulative, like e ‘and,’ ou ‘or,’ and nem ‘nor’ in
12a–12c:
(12) a. Ele trabalha e ela estuda.
‘He works and she studies.’
3.7 Connectors: prepositions and conjunctions 85
Table 3.19 Conjunctions
Coordinating conjunctions:
Copulative e, nem (= e não)
Adversative mas ‘but,’ porém ‘however,’ senão
Alternative ou ‘or’
Explicative logo, pois, por isso, portanto
Subordinating conjunctions:
Nominalizing que
Time quando, sempre que, enquanto, antes que, depois que
Cause porque, pois, porquanto, já que
Condition se ‘if,’ contanto que ‘as long as,’ caso/desde que ‘as long as,’ a
não ser que ‘unless’
Purpose para que, a fim de que
Concessive embora, conquanto, ainda que, se bem que
Consecutive de forma que, de maneira que
Comparative como, como se ‘as if,’ assim como, que nem
b. Vou e volto já.
‘I’ll go and come back soon.’
c. O presidente não fala inglês nem francês.
‘The president speaks neither English nor French.’
Other coordinating conjunctions have an adversative function and imply
an excluded term, such as mas ‘but,’ porém ‘however,’ senão ‘otherwise’ in
13a–13b:
(13) a. Ele vai vir mas não vai falar.
‘He’s going to come but won’t speak.’
b. Na América você tem que trabalhar feito uma mula senão não
come.
‘In America you have to work like a slave (lit. mule) or you won’t
eat.’
A third type, alternative conjunctions, like ou, signals a disjunctive, as in 14:
(14) Vocês querem beber vinho ou cerveja?
‘Do you all want to drink wine or beer?’
Explicative conjunctions introduce an explanation or conclusion, as in 15:
(15) Eu estava sem dinheiro, logo não podia vir.
‘I didn’t have money, so I couldn’t come.’
86 3 Words
Finally, comparative conjunctions include como (16a) as well as words
and constructions that have acquired this function, such as the participle feito
(< fazer) and que nem, both meaning ‘like,’ as in 16a–16c:
(16) a. Ele vive como um rei.
‘He lives like a king.’
b. Ele estuda feito louco.
‘He studies like crazy.’
c. Ela ronca que nem um anjinho.
‘She snores like a little angel.’
Subordinating conjunctions establish a syntactic relationship between two
sentences by embedding◦
one in the other. Thus given two sentences, 17a
and 17b, the subordinating conjunction que ‘that’ embeds 17b in 17a, yield-
ing 17c. In such a construction, que eu não minto functions as a subordinate
(or dependent) clause, and você sabe as the main (or matrix) clause.
(17) a. Você sabe ‘You know’
b. Eu não minto ‘I don’t lie’
c. Você sabe que eu não minto ‘You know I don’t lie.’
Specific subordinating conjunctions signal relationships, as in 18a–18:
(18) a. Time: Ele saiu quando a gente estava chegando.
‘He went out when we were arriving.’
b. Cause: Não vou te pagar porque não tenho dinheiro.
‘I’m not going to pay you because I don’t have (any) money.’
c. Condition: Conto só se você fizer uma coisa.
‘I’ll tell it only if you do something.’
d. Purpose: Ele estava se matando para que o filho fosse alguém.
‘He was killing himself so his son might be somebody.’
Whereas adverbs, prepositions, and conjunctions may be listed and, to a
certain extent, analyzed in isolation, their full meaning only becomes clear in
the context of complete constructions, as we will see in Chapter 4, which deals
with the structure of sentences.
3.8 Word formation
Inflection modifies nouns and adjectives to signal variation in grammatical cat-
egories such as number (fuzil/fuzis ‘rifle/s’) or gender (bonito/bonita ‘pretty’),
and verbs to signal variation in tense, aspect, and person (comi ‘I ate’/comemos
‘we eat’). In such cases, the lexical meaning of the word remains the same.
Furthermore, inflectional variation is limited to closed sets of desinences that
3.8 Word formation 87
generate entirely predictable forms. To put it in another way, inflection rear-
ranges existing language stock within a self-contained system, but it does not
create new words. Given enough time, some desinences, like the verb endings
for vós, may cease to be used, but we cannot invent new desinences to signal
a different kind of plural, or a new gender, or a new verb tense. In order to
create new words other processes are used, such as derivation, compounding,
reduplication, clipping, and acronyms.
3.8.1 Derivation: prefixes and suffixes
Unlike inflection, derivation is a creative process, using an existing word as
a base for producing countless new words with related meanings. It would
be impossible for a dictionary to list all possible derived words, since there
are virtually infinite possible combinations of stems and two types of bound
morphemes, namely prefixes◦
and suffixes◦
(collectively known as affixes◦
).
Prefixes come before a stem, as in anti- ‘against’ + globalização >
antiglobalização ‘antiglobalization.’ Most Portuguese prefixes come from
Greek or Latin (Table 3.20), where they already had this function, as in these
simple examples:
Gr a- or an- ‘without:’ a- + theos ‘God’ > ateu ‘atheist’
Lat i-, in- ‘non:’ i- + legal > ilegal ‘illegal;’ in- + ativo > inativo
‘inactive’
Lat bis- ‘twice:’ + avô ‘grandfather’ > bisavô ‘great-grandfather’
In addition to these prefixes, a few Latin or Greek words have been adopted
into Portuguese as prefixes:
Lat extra ‘outside, beyond:’ extra-oficial ‘unofficial,’ extrafino ‘very
fine’
Lat multi ‘many:’ multicolor ‘many-colored,’ multilingüe ‘multilin-
gual’
Gr macro ‘large:’ macrorregião ‘macroregion,’ macrodialect ‘macro-
dialect’
Gr micro ‘small:’ microcomputador ‘personal computer,’ micro-ondas
‘microwave’
Derivative suffixes are placed after a stem to form new words, as in livro +
-aria > livraria ‘bookstore.’ They fall into two broad categories, namely mod-
ifying and transforming suffixes. Modifying suffixes (Table 3.21) include aug-
mentatives and diminutives, the most productive of which are the augmentative
-ão/-ona and the diminutive -inho(a)/-zinho(a) (-ito(a) is also current in EP, as
in livro > livrito). Other diminutive suffixes exist in a fixed number of words
(like -ebre in casebre ‘hut,’ a unique form) or very rarely combine with new
88 3 Words
Table 3.20 Some Portuguese prefixes
Of Latin origin
a-, ad- ‘near, next to’ acercar-se ‘to approach,’ adjunto ‘adjunct’
contra- ‘opposition’ contra-revolucionário ‘counter-revolutionary,’ contraponto
‘counterpoint’
i-, im-, in- ‘negation’ ilegal ‘illegal,’ impossı́vel ‘impossible,’ infeliz ‘unhappy’
infra- ‘underneath’ infraestrutura ‘infrastructure,’ infra-vermelho ‘infra-red’
mini- ‘small’ minissaia ‘miniskirt,’ miniconto ‘very short story’
multi- ‘numerous’ multimilionário ‘multimillionaire’ multicor, multicolor
‘many-colored’
pós- ‘after’ pós-ditadura ‘post-dictatorship,’ pós-moderno ‘post-modern’
pró- ‘in favor of’ pró-anistia ‘pro-amnesty,’ pró-arte ‘pro-art’
trans- ‘beyond’ transportar ‘transport,’ transamazônico ‘beyond the Amazon’
sub- ‘under’ subproduto ‘byproduct,’ subalugar ‘sublease’
sobre-, super- ‘above’ sobrenatural ‘supernatural,’ superhomem ‘superman’
ultra- ‘beyond’ ultramar ‘overseas,’ ultra-som ‘ultrasound’
Of Greek origin
arqui-, arc- ‘superior’ arcebispo ‘archbishop,’ arqui-inimigo ‘arch-enemy’
anti- ‘against’ anti-capitalista ‘anticapitalist,’ anti-comunista
‘anticommunist’
aero- ‘air’ aeródromo ‘aerodrome,’ aerograma ‘aerogram’
geo- ‘earth’ geografia ‘geography,’ geotérmico ‘geothermic’
hemi- ‘half’ hemiplegia ‘hemiplegia’
hiper- ‘very large’ hipermercado ‘hypermarket,’ hipersensı́vel ‘hypersensitive’
macro- ‘big’ macroeconomia ‘macroeconomy,’ macróbio ‘long-lived’
micro- ‘small’ microcirurgia ‘microsurgery,’ microônibus ‘microbus’
peri- ‘around’ periférico ‘peripheral,’ perı́metro ‘perimeter’
pseudo- ‘false, fake’ pseudointelectual ‘pseudo intellectual’
stems, like -úsculo, which appears in a few Latinate forms (corpúsculo ‘cor-
puscle,’ arbúsculo ‘small shrub,’ opúsculo ‘opuscle’) and every now and then
yields a new one, like grupúsculo ‘a small, unimportant group.’
Despite their name, the primary function of augmentative and diminutive
suffixes is to convey positive or negative connotations such as appreciation,
tenderness, irony, or scorn. Thus the same jantar ‘dinner’ may be referred to
as a jantarzinho by a self-deprecating host or as a jantarzão by an appreciative
guest. Likewise, the owner of a fazenda ‘ranch’ may call it his fazendinha,
even though impressed visitors may think of it as a fazendona. Neither size
nor intensity plays a role in an invitation like Vamos tomar uma cervejinha/um
uisquı́nho ‘let’s have a (little) beer/whisky,’ where the diminutive connotes a
degree of informality or friendliness not present in the regular forms cerveja or
uı́sque. Since context is crucial in interpreting the nuance intended, a statement
like eles compraram um carrinho/um carrão, literally ‘they bought a little car/a
3.8 Word formation 89
big car’ may suggest admiration or disapproval that is only fully captured if we
take into account the situation in which it is uttered.
Nounsformedwithrelativelyunproductivesuffixesoftenbecomelexicalized,
that is “frozen” with a specific meaning that camouflages its derivational origin.
Thus a chaveta (< chave ‘key’ + -eta) is a special kind of key (such as a slot
key), and a malote (< mala ‘suitcase’ + -ote) is a specific bag used to transport
correspondence or packages, and very different from a maleta, which is more
like an attaché case.
Even derived forms with -inho(a)/-zinho(a) or -ão may lose some or all of
their original size denotation and become lexicalized with a specific meaning,
as in the following:
– folhinha (lit. ‘small leaf’), meaning ‘any calendar,’ though originally one
with daily removable pages
– armarinho (lit. ‘small cabinet’): short for loja de armarinhos ‘sewing notions
store’, ‘haberdasher’s’, thus called because it used to be fitted with small
cabinets for merchandise
– casinha (from casa ‘house’): ‘outhouse’
– sombrinha (from sombra ‘shade’): a parasol
– camisinha (from camisa ‘shirt’): ‘condom’
– mocinho (from moço ‘young man’): ‘good guy (in westerns)’
– cafezinho (from café ‘coffee’): ‘a demitasse of coffee’
Other lexicalized diminutives originate from a comparison, as in tatuzinho
‘sow bug, woodlouse’ possibly due to some perceived similarity to a tatu
‘armadillo,’ or abelhão ‘bumblebee,’ likewise compared to an abelha ‘bee.’
Likewise, someone’s jeitão (< jeito ‘way’) is simply their very personal aspect,
and solteirão (< solteiro ‘unmarried’) means ‘bachelor,’ whereas solteirona
has, for some speakers at least, the less charming connotation of ‘spinster,’ and
BP sapatão (lit. ‘big shoe’) is a slang term for ‘lesbian.’
Two modifying suffixes, -ı́ssimo/a and -érrimo/a, function as adjective inten-
sifiers in the creation of superlatives, e.g. rico ‘rich’ + ı́ssimo > riquı́ssimo
‘extremely rich’ and chato ‘boring’+ -érrimo > chatérrimo ‘extremely bor-
ing.’ The morphology of superlatives is made slightly complex by the fact
that –ı́ssimo/a and –érrimo/a, which come from classical Latim -issimus,
-errimus ‘the most . . . of,’ entered Portuguese already attached to a Latin
or Latinized root, via Renaissance Italian. This process gave origin to a
hybrid system in which some adjectives have a regular superlative while
others preserve the original root and yet others have both, as shown in
Table 3.21.
Transforming suffixes create new words that may belong to a different gram-
matical category from the original word. Some, like -ada, -ida, change verb
stems into nouns denoting an action:
90 3 Words
Table 3.21 Some Portuguese modifying suffixes
Diminutive suffixes
-inho/a, -zinho/a: -ote(a)
livro > livrinho ‘little book’ menino/a > meninote/a ‘a child in his/her early teens’
bicicleta > bicicletinha ‘small bicycle’ baixo/a > baixote ‘shortish’
lápiz > lapizinho ‘small pencil’
cruz > cruzinha ‘small cross’ -usco, -ucho
velho > velhusco ‘oldish’
negro > negrusco ‘blackish’
-ito/a, -zito/a (more common in EP) gordo > gorducho ‘fatty’
livro > livrito ‘little book’
casa > casita ‘little house’ -eco, -ico
livro > livreco ‘a poor quality book’
-ete, -eta jornal > jornaleco ‘a trashy newspaper’
pistola > pistolete ‘small pistol’ namoro > namorico > ‘flirt’
mala > maleta ‘small suitcase’
Augmentative suffixes
-ão(ona) -aço, -aça
livro > livrão ‘big book’ animal > animalaço ‘brute, ignoramus’
casa > casona ‘big house’ barba > barbaça ‘big beard’
grosseiro > grosseirão ‘very rude
person’
-(z)arrão, -eirão -ázio
cão > canzarrão ‘big dog’ copo > copázio ‘large glass’
santo > santarrão ‘sanctimonious
person’
Superlative suffixes
Base adjective
form
Regular With Latinate radical
elegante ‘elegant’ elegantı́ssimo ‘extremely elegant’
triste ‘sad’ tristı́ssimo ‘extremely sad’
fácil ‘easy’ facilı́ssimo facı́limo (< Lat facilis) ‘extremely easy’
doce ‘sweet’ docı́ssimo dulcı́ssimo (< Lat dulcis) ‘extremely sweet’
humilde ‘humble’ humildı́ssimo humı́limo (< Lat humilis) ‘extremely humble’
pobre ‘poor’ pobrı́ssimo paupérrimo (< Lat pauper) ‘extremely poor’
negro ‘black’ negrı́ssimo nigérrimo (< Lat niger) ‘extremely black’
cruel ‘cruel’ crudelı́ssimo (< Lat crudelis) ‘extremely cruel’
célebre ‘famous’ celebérrimo (< Lat celebris) ‘extremely famous’
ı́ntegro ‘righteous’ integérrimo (< Lat integer) ‘extremely
righteous’
3.8 Word formation 91
estudar > uma estudada ‘a quick study’
subir > uma subida ‘a climb’
andar > uma andada ‘a walk’
Others, such as -dor(a), refer to an occupation or activity:
fala(r) > falador(a) ‘talker’
compra(r) > comprador/a ‘buyer’
trepa(r) > trepadeira ‘a climbing vine’
doma(r) > domador/a ‘tamer’
The suffixes -ista, -ismo, -izar, are used to form respectively adjectives,
nouns, or verbs from adjectives: social + -ista > socialista ‘socialist,’ social +
-ismo > socialismo ‘socialism,’ social + -izar > socializar ‘to socialize.’
Since a derivative suffix becomes part of a word, it comes before any inflec-
tional suffixes: juiz + inho + -s > juizinhos ‘little judges,’ derrota ‘defeat’ +
ista + -s > derrotistas ‘defeatists.’ A derived word may in turn serve as a stem
from which new words may be derived: socializar gives socializ-, which may be
combined with other suffixes to form socializável ‘socializable,’ or socialização
‘socialization.’
3.8.2 Compounding
Two or more words may combine to form a new lexical unit. They may do this
by coalescing into a new word, as in ponta ‘point’ + pé ‘foot’ > pontapé ‘a
kick,’ or água ‘water’ + ardente ‘burning’> aguardente ‘brandy’ (lit. ‘burning
water’). They may also simply stand side by side, as in carro esporte ‘sports
car,’ apartamento kitchenete ‘studio apartment.’ Finally, they may be linked by
a hyphen (diretor-gerente ‘managing director’), or by a preposition (clube de
campo ‘country club’), or by a conjunction (cama e comida ‘room and board’).
In principle, hyphens should signal a high degree of coalescence between the
formants, but hyphenation rules are far from fixed and despite grammarians’
efforts, tend to be used erratically. A distinction can be made between real
compounds like pé-de-meia ‘savings’ (lit. ‘a sock’; cf. American Eng sock away
‘save money’) and syntactic groups like lança-foguetes ‘rocket launcher,’ on
the basis of the fact that the latter are “transparent” (Sandemann 1995:399).
These distinctions, however, are not necessarily perceived alike by different
speakers.
A compound is considered coordinate when its formants belong to the
same word class and have the same status in the new word, like the nouns
in bar-restaurante ‘restaurant bar’ or paı́s-membro ‘member country,’ or the
adjectives in (assunto) polı́tico-religioso ‘political and religious (subject)’ or
(acordo) brasileiro-uruguaio ‘Brazilian–Uruguayan (agreement).’ A subset of
92 3 Words
Table 3.22 Some Portuguese transforming suffixes
Noun to noun
-ada a verbal action: estud(ar) ‘to study’ estudada > ‘a quick study,’ limp(ar)
‘to clean’ > limpada ‘a quick cleaning’
-ada a collective: criança ‘child’ > criançada ‘a group of children,’ cachorro >
cachorrada ‘a band of dogs’
-ada a typical action: criança ‘child’> criançada ‘a childish action,’ canalha
‘scoundrel’> canalhada ‘a scoundrel’s action’
-agem an action: pilh(ar) > pilhagem ‘pillage,’ clone ‘clone’ > clonagem
‘cloning’
-al a plantation: bambu ‘bamboo’ > bambual ‘bamboo grove,’ café ‘coffee’>
cafezal ‘coffee plantation’
-ança festa > festança ‘merrymaking’
-aria abstract nouns: carpinteiro ‘carpenter’ > carpintaria ‘carpentry,’ porco
‘pig’> porcaria ‘filth’
a collective: lata ‘can’ > lataria ‘an amount of cans,’ fuzil ‘rifle’ >
fuzilaria ‘a series of rifle shots’
a business establishment: papel ‘paper’> papelaria ‘stationery store,’ livro
‘book’> livraria ‘bookstore’
-(i)dade Brasil > brasilidade ‘brazilianness’
-eiro agent, maker: canoa ‘canoe’ > canoeiro ‘canoe maker,’ grafiti ‘graffiti’ >
grafiteiro ‘grafiti writer,’ cozinha ‘kitchen’ > cozinheiro ‘cook’
-ez quality: lı́quido ‘liquid’ > liquidez ‘liquidity,’ macio ‘soft’ > maciez
‘softness’
-ida verbal action: benz(er) ‘to bless’ > benzida ‘a blessing,’ sa(ir) ‘to go out’
> saı́da ‘an outing’
-ismo abstract nouns: Lula (name of Brazil’s president) > lulismo ‘Lula’s political
ideas,’ coronel ‘colonel, i.e. rural political boss’ > coronelismo ‘a
political regime dominated by rural bosses’
-ista follower of a person or an ideology: comunista ‘communist,’ petista
‘follower of the PT [pete] i.e. Partido dos Trabalhadores ‘Workers’
Party’
-ite illness or similar condition: apêndice ‘appendix’ > apendicite
‘appendicitis,’ pulmão ‘lung’ > pulmonite ‘pulmonitis,’ paixão
‘passion,’ > paixonite ‘chronic passion,’ preguiça ‘laziness’ >
preguicite ‘chronic laziness,’ pesquisa ‘research’ > pesquisite‘obsession
with research’
-ódromo place: aeródromo ‘aerodrome,’ cão ‘dog’ > canódromo ‘dog race track,’
samba ‘kind of dance’ > sambódromo ‘place for collective dancing’
-or agent: conduzir ‘drive’ > condutor ‘driver,’ acupuntura ‘acupuncture’ >
acupuntor, reproduzir ‘to reproduce’ > reprodutor ‘reproducer’
Adjective to noun:
-(i)dade quality: oral > oralidade ‘orality,’ bom ‘good’ > bondade ‘goodness’
-eza quality: mole ‘soft’ > moleza ‘softness,’ baixo ‘low’ > baixeza ‘lowness’
-aria quality: baixo ‘low’ > baixaria ‘low action,’ velho ‘old’ > velharia ‘any
old thing’
- ura quality: fresco ‘fresh’> frescura ‘freshness,’ gostoso ‘pleasant’ >
gostosura ‘intense pleasure’
-ância a feature: elegante ‘elegant’ > elegância, arrogante ‘arrogant’ > arrogância
‘arrogance’
3.8 Word formation 93
coordinate compounds are additive, because the meaning of a formant is added
to the meaning of the preceding one, as in dezesseis (< dez e seis) ‘sixteen.’
In subordinate (or exocentric) compounds a formant functions like a nucleus
andismodifiedbyanotherformantwhichusuallyfollowsit.Thesimplesttypeof
subordinate compounding involves juxtaposing the formants, as in navio-escola
‘training ship’ or escola-modelo ‘model school,’ but in such cases the mean-
ing of the resulting compound is more specific than either formant. As these
examples suggest, nouns thus formed usually have the gender of the nucleus:
homem-rã (m.) ‘frogman,’ tartaruga macho ‘male turtle.’ Other compounds
follow the formula noun + adjective, as in boina-verde ‘green beret (mil.)’ or
bóia-fria (lit. ‘cold meal’) ‘a worker who eats a cold meal at his workplace.’
Subordination may be indicated by a preposition: homem de negócios ‘busi-
nessman,’ filme para adultos ‘adult movie,’ cartão de crédito ‘credit card,’
água-com-açúcar (lit. ‘water-and-sugar’) ‘sappy, soppy,’ as in romance água-
com-açúcar ‘a sappy novel, or ‘very easy,’ as in esse problema é água-com-
açúcar ‘that problem is like a breeze.’
Endocentric compounds, in contrast, lack a nucleus, and their meaning entails
a reference to some understood word:
o limpa-trilhos ‘a device for cleaning rails’
o limpa-chaminés ‘chimney-sweep’
o tira-manchas ‘spot remover’
os sem-terra ‘landless persons’
o sem-modos ‘an ill-mannered person’ (lit. ‘without manners’)
3.8.2.1 Plural of compound nouns and adjectives There is a great
deal of variation in the way compound nouns and adjectives form their plurals.
If the two formants are connected by a preposition, only the first one varies:
fim-de-semana > fins-de-semana ‘weekend/s’
aspirante-a-oficial aspirantes-a-oficial > ‘officer candidate’
In coordinated compounds, both nouns vary: bar-restaurante > bares-
restaurantes ‘restaurant bar/s’, and in exocentric compounds the general rule
is that both elements vary whether they are nouns, or a noun and an adjective,
or an adjective and a noun:
Nouns
carro-bomba > carros-bombas ‘car bomb/s’
salário-famı́lia > salários-famı́lias ‘family bonus/es’
Noun + adjective
lugar-comum > lugares-comuns ‘cliché/s’
prato-feito > pratos-feitos ‘one-dish meal/s’
94 3 Words
Table 3.23 Types of compound nouns and adjectives
noun + noun
palavra-chave ‘key word’
empresa-fantasma ‘ghost firm’
carro-bomba ‘car bomb’
diretor-chefe ‘head director’
noun + adjective
homem público ‘public man’
criado-mudo ‘night table’
pão-duro ‘tightwad’
dedo-duro ‘informer’
noun + connector + noun
fim-de-semana ‘weekend’
escova-de-dentes ‘toothbrush’
água-com-açúcar
‘easy, saccharine, soppy’
cama-e-mesa ‘room and board’
pau-para-toda-obra ‘factotum’
adjective + adjective
azul-marinho ‘navy blue’
verde-amarelo ‘green and yellow’
auriverde ‘gold and green’
rubro-negro ‘red and black’
adjective + noun
pequeno almoço (EP) ‘breakfast’
boa-pinta ‘good looking’
terceiro-mundo ‘third world’
mau-caráter ‘scoundrel’
shortened adjective + adjective
ı́talo-brasileiro ‘Italian-Brazilian’
sino-brasileiro ‘Chinese-Brazilian’
nipo-brasileiro ‘Japanese-Brazilian’
franco-brasileiro ‘French-Brazilian’
verb + noun
tira-manchas ‘spot remover’
quebra-molas ‘road bump/ditch’
guarda-costas ‘body guard’
afia-lápis ‘pencil sharpener’
verb + verb
vaivém ‘to-and-fro motion’ (vai e vem)
sobe-desce ‘up-and-down motion’
espicha-encolhe ‘an indecisive situation
or person’
chove-não-molha ‘an indecisive situation or
person’
numeral + noun
quatro-olhos ‘four-eyes’
terça-feira ‘Tuesday’
quadrigêmeos ‘quadruplets’ (gêmeos
‘twins’)
preposition + noun
de-comer ‘food’
sem-terra ‘landless’
sem-vergonha ‘shameless’
à-toa ‘worthless’
adverb + noun
mais-valia ‘surplus value’
adverb + adjective
bem-amado ‘well liked’
bem-falante ‘glib’
mal-educado ‘rude’
malvisto ‘suspect’
adverb + verb
bem-estar ‘well being’
bem-vindo ‘welcome’
malversar ‘mismanage’
malferir ‘to hurt badly’
mal-estar ‘indisposition’
synthetic compounds
leva-e-traz ‘busybody’
pega-pega ‘free for all’
sabe-tudo ‘know-it-all’
bem-te-vi ‘a kind of bird’
não-te-esqueças ‘forget-me-not’
pega-pra-capar ‘free-for-all’
3.8 Word formation 95
Adjective + noun
gentil-homem > gentis-homens ‘nobleman.’
Exceptions are the shortened forms grão (m.), grã (f.) (<grande) and bel (<
belo) which occur in a few low-frequency compounds such as
grão-duque > grão duques ‘grand duke/s’
grã-duquesa > grã-duquesas ‘grand duchess/es’
bel-prazer > bel-prazeres ‘pleasure/s’
Although traditional grammars prescribe that only the first element should
vary when its meaning is limited by the second, as in the exocentric compound
navio-escola > navios-escola ‘training ship/s,’ actual usage shows considerable
variation, as in peixe-boi > peixes-bois ‘manatee/s,’ navio-oficina > navios-
oficinas, ‘repair ship/s.’ If the first formant is a verb or an invariable word, only
the second varies:
lança-rojão > lança-rojões ‘bazooka/s’
beija-flor > beija-flores ‘humming bird/s’
vice-presidente > vice-presidentes ‘vice president/s’
With words like guarda, however, there is variation, depending on whether
the word is considered a noun (‘guard’) or a verb (‘to guard, protect’). Thus we
have guarda-chuva > guarda-chuvas ‘umbrella/s,’ guarda-roupa > guarda-
roupas ‘wardrobe/s,’ but guarda civil > guardas-civis ‘civil guard/s.’ At least
one such noun, guarda-marinha ‘ensign (nav.),’ has three possible attested
forms: guardas-marinha, guardas-marinhas, and guarda-marinhas.
Compound adjectives also show considerable variation. Surdo-mudo ‘deaf-
mute’ (n. or adj.) is always surdos mudos, but otherwise the generic norm for
compound adjectives is that only the second formant agrees with the noun:
suéter azul-claro > suéteres azul-claros ‘light blue sweater/s’
camisa verde-clara > camisas verde-claras ‘light green shirt/s’
This rule also applies to compound adjectives with a short form in –o for the
first formant, as in the following:
austrı́aco > austro ‘Austrian’ austro-italiano ‘Austrian Italian’
francês > franco ‘French’ franco-prussiano ‘Franco-Prussian’
africano > afro ‘Afro’ afro-brasileiro ‘Afro-Brazilian’
In compound adjectives made up of a color adjective followed by a qualifying
noun, the tendency is for the first element to inflect (painel verde-garrafa >
painéis verdes-garrafa, painéis verdes-garrafas ‘bottle-green panel/s’). There
are, however, examples of invariable compounds, as in uniforme/s verde-oliva
‘olive green uniform/s,’ gravata/s amarelo-ouro ‘gold-yellow tie/s.’ Variation
96 3 Words
is probably encouraged by the fact that the same compound may function as an
adjective, in which case only the second formant varies (terno azul-marinho >
ternos azul-marinhos ‘navy-blue suit/s’), or as a noun, in which case both vary,
as in Comprei os azuis-marinhos ‘I bought the navy-blue ones.’ The relatively
low frequency of such compounds likely contributes to the fact that actual usage,
even among the educated, can diverge considerably from normative grammar
rules.
3.8.3 Other word-formation processes
A word may be created by clipping one or two syllables off an existing one, not
only in common nouns but also in names, thus forming nicknames:
delegado > delega ‘police chief’ José > Zé
pneumático > pneu ‘tire’ Antônio > Tonio, Tonho
subtenente > sub [subi]
‘sublieutenant’
Claudinê > Clau
Álvaro > Arvo
comunista > comuna ‘communist’ Maria de Lurdes > Marilu
motocicleta > BP moto, EP mota
‘motorcycle’
Mariângela > Mari
bicicleta > bici ‘bicycle’
Dorotéia > Doró
Maria Augusta > Magu
Clipping is productive in creating new prefixes, as in motor > moto (as in
moto-serra ‘an electric/gas chain saw’), narcótico > narco (as in narcotráfico
‘drug traffic,’ narcodólar ‘narcodollar’).
Sometimes an old prefix reincarnates with a new meaning. Gr auto ‘self’ is
the basis for automóvel, originally ‘self-moving’ and later used as the name of
a specific kind of self-propelled vehicle. Automóvel, in turn, has been clipped
into the noun auto ‘car,’ used as a prefix meaning ‘having to do with cars,’ as
in:
auto-estrada ‘highway’ auto-peças ‘a store selling car parts’
auto-escola ‘driving school’ auto-estrada ‘expressway’
Likewise cinema (originally from Gr kı́nesis ‘movement,’ hence cinemato-
graph ‘a machine that shows moving pictures’) has yielded cine- ‘related to
cinema,’ as in:
cine-revista ‘flick magazine’ cineclube ‘film club’
cine-drama ‘a dramatic movie’ cinejornal ‘newsreel’
The Gr prefix tele ‘far’ was used in new coinages like telégrafo or telefone
(loan words from Fr télégraphe, téléphone) and televisão (from Eng television)
toindicatedevicesforwriting,speaking(Grgraphein‘writing,’phono‘sound’),
or seeing (Lat visio ‘vision’) from a distance. In turn, televisão has been clipped
3.8 Word formation 97
to tele, which is used as a prefix meaning ‘related to television’ in a raft of
coinages such as:
telenotı́cias ‘telecast news’ telenovela a ‘soap opera’
telespectador ‘television viewer’ telediário ‘news program’
telecurso ‘television course’ teleator ‘television actor’
telever ‘to watch television’ televizinho ‘someone who watches
television at a neighbor’s’
Reduplication is a rather active process, particularly in BP (Couto 1999).
It consists in repeating a base form or a clipped version thereof, as in coll.
bunda ‘buttocks’ > bumbum ‘fanny.’ This process is productive in nicknames
involving repetition of either one of the syllable of a name (Carlos > Cacá,
José > Zezé) or even a syllable bearing no resemblance to the name Fafá (Maria
Antonia), > Gigi (Wilma), Gugu (Adalgisa). Some reduplicated kinship terms
are virtually lexicalized:
avô ‘grandfather’> vovô
‘grandpa’
avó ‘grandmother’ > vovó
‘grandma’
pai ‘father’> papai ‘daddy’ mãe ‘mother’ > mamãe ‘mummy’
tio ‘uncle’ > titio ‘nunky’ tia ‘aunt’ > titia ‘auntie’
Reduplication of verb forms uses the third person singular, usually of the
present indicative, as in:
corre-corre (< correr ‘to run’) ‘a hurried situation’
trepa-trepa (< coll. trepar ‘to screw’) ‘intense sexual activity’
pinga-pinga (< pingar ‘to drop’) ‘a vehicle that makes many
stops/landings to pick up/let off passengers’
Related verbs may be used, as in pegue-pague (< pegar ‘to pick up,’ pagar
‘to pay’), a self-service market; vai-vem (< ir ‘to go,’ vir ‘to come’), a sit-
uation where one is constantly on the move. Use of the preterit has a condi-
tional connotation (if . . . then . . .) as in pegou-comprou (< pegar ‘to pick
up,’ comprar ‘to buy’) ‘if you touch it, you’ve bought it,’or quebrou-pagou
(< quebrar ‘to break,’ pagar ‘to pay’) ‘if you break it you’ll pay for it.’
Acronyms are formed by two or more initials pronounced as a word:
PT [pete] < Partido dos Trabalhadores ‘Workers’ Party’
PC [pese] < Partido Comunista ‘Communist Party’
USP [uspi] < Universidade de São Paulo ‘University of São Paulo’
O.N.G., ONG, ong [õgi] < organização não-governamental ‘NGO’
The referent need not be the thing or entity named by the acronym: fenemê is
the name of a large truck bearing the maker’s acronym, FNM (Fábrica Nacional
de Motores ‘National Motor Factory’). Once created, acronym-derived words
98 3 Words
may become stems for new derived words: polı́tica petista ‘PT politics,’ normas
uspianas ‘USP norms.’ An acronym may be based on the Portuguese translation
of a foreign term, as in ONU [onu] ‘UN’ (Organização das Nações Unidas)
or sida [sidɐ] ‘aids’ (< sı́ndrome de deficiência imunológica adquirida), but it
may also be borrowed directly as in the case of NASA [nazɐ] (North American
Space Agency, CIA [siɐ] (Central Intelligence Agency).
Synthetic formation creates a word out of a phrase with a sometimes distantly
related meaning, as in os afazeres ‘duties’ (plural of a fazer ‘to be done’), o
sabetudo ‘know-it-all,’ um chove-não-molha (lit. ‘rains-and-doesn’t wet’) ‘an
indecisive situation or person’ or um pega-pra-capar (lit. ‘grab for castrating’)
‘a free for all.’ Involving whole phrases, synthetic compounds are close to, and
sometimes difficult to distinguish from, idioms, which are phrases functioning
as lexical units with a meaning unrelated to the meaning of its formants. Thus
pé-de-moleque, lit. ‘street urchin’s foot,’ is a kind of peanut praline, and bater
as botas, lit. ‘to hit the boots,’ and esticar as pernas, lit. ‘to stretch one’s legs,’
are colloquial synonyms of ‘to die,’ not unlike the English idioms ‘to kick the
bucket’ or ‘to give up the ghost.’ This is the area where morphology slides into
the more complex area of phrase and sentence formation, which will be the
topic of the next chapter.
4 Sentences
Whatever our native language, we intuitively know that the order of words is not
haphazard but follows certain patterns, and that deviating from these patterns
creates sequences that range from odd to meaningless. We know, for exam-
ple, that in English the rifle and my rifle are acceptable sequences, whereas
*
the my rifle is not. (The asterisk is conventionally used to mark a poorly
formed construction that does not meet native speakers’ criteria of accept-
ability.) This kind of judgment has nothing to do with the words themselves.
Rather, it reflects our intuitive knowledge that whereas the orders article +
noun and possessive + noun are all right, there is something wrong about
the order article + possessive + noun. That there is nothing universal about
these rules becomes apparent when we learn that Portuguese allows all three
sequences:
Art + N o fuzil ‘the rifle,’ os fuzis ‘the rifles’
Pos + N meu fuzil ‘my rifle,’ meus fuzis ‘my rifles’
Art + Pos + N o meu fuzil ‘my rifle,’ os meus fuzis ‘my rifles’
These examples illustrate a phenomenon common to all languages, namely
that word arrangements can be described by general rules. In this chapter we
will analyze some rules governing the basic patterns of such arrangements in
Portuguese, and we will pay closer attention to structures that usually require a
bit more attention from learners. Part of the problem is that such constructions
do not have a counterpart in English, or if they do (as in the case of articles
and possessives), they are governed by different rules. Unless otherwise indi-
cated, our presentation concentrates on standard usage acceptable to educated
speakers. As in English, there is substantial variation between this educated
standard and the non-standard usage found among the uneducated – what is
often referred to as popular speech. A point to keep in mind, however, is that in
spoken Brazilian Portuguese, colloquial usage among educated speakers shows
many non-standard features typical of popular speech, which tends to depart
significantly from that standard. Some of these labels – standard, non-standard,
99
100 4 Sentences
colloquial, and so on – are somewhat vague and denote ranges of language
acceptability. We will return to these matters in Chapter 7.
4.1 Syntactic devices
Words are organized into sentences, which include a verb, as in 1a, and phrases◦
,
which do not, as in 1b.
(1) a. Você quer sal? ‘Do you want salt?
Quem é? ‘Who is it?’
Que horas são? ‘What time is it?’
Vamos entrar! ‘Let’s go/come in.’
b. Saúde! ‘Cheers!’
Feliz aniversário! ‘Happy birthday!’
Que horror! ‘How terrible!’
Branco ou tinto? ‘White or red?’
Este ou aquele? ‘This one or that one?’
Sentences and phrases are made up of both lexical words, which have an
extralinguistic referent, and grammatical words, which signal structural rela-
tions between words (3.1). The meaning of a phrase or sentence depends partly
on the meaning of its words and partly on its internal structure, that is the way
the words relate to each other. Syntax (from Gr syntassein ‘to ordain’) is the
analysis of such structures, which depend on devices that include (a) agreement,
(b) word order, (c) grammatical words, (d) the syntactic information inherent
in each word, and (e) coordination and subordination. We will take up each of
these in turn.
4.1.1 Agreement
We saw in the section on inflection (3.2, ‘Nouns and adjectives’) that a noun’s
features of number or gender are replicated by the endings of accompanying
words such as determinants or adjectives. The mechanism responsible for this
process is called agreement.
Nominal agreement applies to nouns and adjectives. In um chapéu e uma fita
amarela ‘a hat and a yellow ribbon’ the feminine adjective amarela agrees with
fita, which is feminine, but not with chapéu, which is masculine. But um chapéu
e uma fita amarelos the plural adjective amarelos agrees with both nouns, for
when masculine and feminine nouns are qualified by the same adjective, the
contrast in gender is neutralized and the adjective retains its masculine plural
form.
4.1 Syntactic devices 101
Verbal agreement modifies a verb’s person–number desinences (3.5) so as to
match the subject’s corresponding features, as in 2a–2c:
(2) a. Ela e eu já comemos. ‘She and I have already eaten.’ (ela e eu =
nós ‘we’)
b. Marta e Maria saı́ram. ‘Marta and Maria have left.’(Marta e
Maria = elas ‘they’ (f.))
c. Tu e eu vamos ao clube. ‘You and I are going to the club.’ (tu e
eu = nós ‘we’)
4.1.2 Word order
The syntactic information encoded in word order lets us know that a headline
like Cachorro morde carteiro ‘dog bites mailman’ is news as usual,
whereas Carteiro morde cachorro ‘mailman bites dog’ is extraordi-
nary news. If we compare the sentences in 3a–3b to those in 3c–3d, we realize
how word order contributes to meaning:
(3) a. Romeu beijou Julieta. ‘Romeo kissed Juliet.’
b. Julieta esbofeteou Romeu. ‘Juliet slapped Romeo.’
c. Julieta foi beijada por Romeu. ‘Juliet was kissed by Romeo.’
d. Romeu foi esbofeteado por Julieta. ‘Romeo was slapped by Juliet.’
Most speakers understand that, insofar as meaning is concerned, sentences
3a and 3c tell us that Romeo did the kissing and Juliet got kissed, whereas
sentences 3b and 3d state that Julieta did the slapping and Romeo got slapped.
In syntactic terms, in 3a the noun Romeu is the subject◦
of the verb beijou
and Julieta is its direct object◦
, whereas in 3b Julieta is the subject of the verb
esbofeteou and Romeu is its direct object. A crucial syntactic feature is that the
verb agrees with the subject in person and number.
4.1.3 Grammatical words
Grammatical words, the nuts and bolts that hold a sentence together, have struc-
tural meaning that concerns relationships between the formants of sentences or
phrases. In examples 4a–4f, the relationship indicated by each preposition is
shown in parentheses:
(4) a. A eleição foi adiada pelo governo. (por = agent)
‘The election was postponed by the government.’
b. Marta passou por Paris. (por = place)
‘Marta went through/by Paris.’
c. Dei-lhes a informação por cortesia. (por = cause)
‘I gave them the information out of courtesy.’
102 4 Sentences
d. Marta trabalha de intérprete. (de = activity)
‘Marta works as an interpreter.’
e. Ela vinha de Pasadena. (de = origin)
‘She came from Pasadena.’
f. Ele trouxe a bagagem de Daniel. (de = possession)
‘He brought Daniel’s luggage.’
4.1.4 Inherent syntactic information
A word can be thought of as containing a bundle of inherent information related
to the syntactic structures in which it can participate. Certain verbs, such as sair,
chegar, ou acordar, may stand alone with their subject, as in A Joana saiu? ‘Has
Joan gone out?’ Others, such as comprar, vender (and esbofetear and beijar in
3a–3d above), require a complement, as in 5a–5b. All the same, O José comprou
can function as a full sentence, provided the complement is retrievable from the
context, as in a reply to the question – Quem comprou o bonde? ‘Who bought
the street car?’ (see 4.5.1).
(5) a. O José comprou um bonde no Rio e revendeu-o em São Paulo.
‘José bought a street car in Rio and resold it in São Paulo.’
b. Os nativos vendiam flores.
‘The natives sold flowers.’
4.1.5 Coordination and subordination
Two processes for joining sentence formants are coordination and subordina-
tion. Coordination links words, phrases, or sentences sequentially, as in Sı́lvio,
Sérgio e Marco; de carro, de avião e de navio ‘by car, by plane, and by ship’,
or Ondina cozinha, Danira ensina e Carolina estuda ‘Ondina cooks, Danira
teaches, and Carolina studies.’ Subordination in turn embeds a sentence into
another by means of a function word such as the conjunction que ‘that,’ as in
Álvaro sabe que Mariano escreve ‘Álvaro knows that Mariano writes.’ We
will see more about coordinate and subordinate sentences in sections 4.10
and 4.11.
4.2 Syntactic functions vs. semantic roles
Besides the meaning of individual lexical words and the grammatical relation-
ships expressed by syntactic devices, the meaning of a sentence depends on the
semantic roles and the syntactic functions of its components. The distinction
4.2 Syntactic functions vs. semantic roles 103
between these two categories may be grasped by examining sentences like those
in example 6.
(6) a. Cardoso Gomes escreveu Contracanto.
‘Cardoso Gomes wrote Contracanto.’
b. Contracanto foi escrito por Cardoso Gomes.
‘Contracanto was written by Cardoso Gomes.’
In both sentences the noun Cardoso Gomes stands for the semantic actor◦
,
that is the person who did the writing, whereas the book title Contracanto stands
for the semantic patient◦
, that is what resulted from the action of writing. The
semantic roles of actor and patient remain the same despite the fact that 6a and
6b have a different syntactic structures. In 6a Cardoso Gomes is the subject of
the verb escreveu and Contracanto is its direct object. In 6b there is a passive
construction (4.8.1) in which Contracanto is the subject of foi escrito while
Cardoso Gomes, introduced by the preposition por, is the agent of the passive.
Likewise, in 7a the nouns have the same semantic roles as in 7b:
(7) a. Lucrécia deu a maçã a Paulo.
‘Lucretia gave the apple to Paul.’
b. A maçã foi dada a Paulo por Lucrécia.
‘The apple was given to Paul by Lucretia.’
In either sentence Lucrécia is the semantic actor (the person who gives some-
thing), maçã is the semantic patient (the thing given) and Paulo is the semantic
benefactive◦
(the person receiving something, irrespective of whether an actual
benefit is involved). The syntactic functions of those words, however, vary in
each case. In 7a Lucrécia is the subject of the verb deu, Paulo is its indirect
object◦
, and maçã is its direct object; in 7b maçã is the subject of the passive
construction foi dada, Lucrécia is the agent of the passive (characteristically
introduced by the preposition por), and Paulo is the indirect object, introduced
by the preposition a. English allows one more passive variation, in which the
benefactive appears as the subject: Paulo was given an apple by Lucretia; this
construction, however, does not work in Portuguese.
By substituting the verb ganhar ‘to receive as a gift,’ we create a new sen-
tence, Paulo ganhou a maçã de Lucrécia, in which the benefactive (Paulo)
appears as the subject and Lucrécia, the giver of the apple, as the semantic role
source, introduced by the preposition de. Keeping semantic roles separate from
syntactic functions (Table 4.1) helps us understand how the elements of a sen-
tence interact with each other at the levels of semantic meaning and syntactic
organization.
104 4 Sentences
Table 4.1 Correspondences between semantic roles and syntactic functions
Semantic roles Syntactic functions
Actor: Whoever/whatever undergoes a process
(morrer ‘to die’) or performs an action
(assaltar ‘to rob’)
Subject (active sentence): Meu gato morreu.
‘My cat died.’
João assaltou o banco. ‘John robbed the bank.’
Patient: The entity (person or thing) on whom
the action is performed
Direct object (active sentence): João assaltou
o banco. ‘João robbed the bank.’ Subject
(passive sentence): O banco foi assaltado.
‘The bank was robbed.’
Benefactive: Whoever receives a thing or favor
(which is the semantic patient)
Indirect object: Paulo deu um canivete ao
filho. ‘Paulo gave his son a pocket knife.’
Paulo entregou as flores a Joana. ‘Paulo
handed the flowers to Joana.’
Source: Whoever or whatever originates a
process (though not an action)
Subject (active sentence): Joana recebeu uma
herança de sua avó. ‘Joana received an
inheritance from her grandmother.’
4.3 Sentence types
Sentences may assert something, as in 8a–8b; ask a question, as in 8c–8d; or
issue a comand, a request, an exhortation, or an invitation, as in 8e–8f. Any one
of these three types may be either affirmative or negative.
(8) a. Eles moram em Lisboa.
‘They live in Lisbon.’
b. Ela não vem hoje.
‘She is not coming today.’
c. Você vem aqui sempre?
‘Do you always come here?’
d. Vocês não querem vir com a gente?
‘Won’t you come along with us?’
e. Não comam essas maçãs.
‘Don’t eat those apples.’
f. Sente-se aqui ou ali, por favor.
‘Please sit here or over there.’
A positive reply is made by repeating the verb of the question and placing
the word sim ‘yes’ at the end (9a), whereas a negative reply is made by placing
the word não before the verb; in BP a second não is placed after the verb as
well (9b). Actually, in BP double or even triple negatives are perfectly correct
and actually considered more polite in an answer (as in 9c) than using a single
negative word.
4.4 Components of sentence structure 105
(9) a. – Vocês falam inglês? ‘Do you speak English?’
– Falamos, sim. ‘Yes, we do.’
b. – Elas chegaram? ‘Have they arrived?’
EP – Não chegaram. ‘No, they haven’t.’
BP – Não chegaram, não. ‘No, they haven’t.’
c. – Já tomou o seu remédio? ‘Have you taken your medicine?’
EP – Não, ainda não tomei. ‘No, I haven’t yet.’
BP – Não, ainda não tomei, não. ‘No, I haven’t yet.’
4.4 Components of sentence structure
As mentioned above, a sentence (S) has a verb, which is the nucleus of its verb
phrase (VP). The basic sentence format is S → NP + VP (that is, a sentence is
generated as a noun phrase followed by a verb phrase) as in 10a. The verb phrase
may include one or more noun phrases, as in 10b, or other phrase types, shown
schematically in 11a–11c. Sentence structures are highlighted by bracketing in
the examples.
(10) a. [S [NP Francisca] [VP chegou]].
‘Francisca arrived.’
b. [[S [NP Francisca] [VP [V comprou] [NP carne]]].
‘Francisca bought meat.’
(11) a. Adjectival phrase: [[S [NP Selma [[VP está [AdjP alegre]]].
‘Selma is happy.’
b. Adverbial phrase: [[S [NP Nelson] [[VP fala [AdvP depressa]]].
‘Nelson talks fast.’
c. Prepositional phrase: [[S [NP Edwiges trabalha [PrepP por prazer]]].
‘Edwiges works for pleasure.’
Sentences 12a–12f include noun phrases made up of a pronoun (12a), a single
noun (12b), coordinated nouns (12c), or a noun accompanied by a variety of
modifiers, such as an article (12d), or a demonstrative and a possessive (12e),
a demonstrative, a possessive and an adjective (12f).
(12) a. [NP Ela] [VP partiu].
‘She left.’
b. [NP Francisca] [VP trabalha].
‘Francisca works.’
c. [NP Selma e Margot] [VP estudam].
‘Selma and Margot study.’
d. [NP O Fernando] [VP virá].
‘Fernando will come.’
106 4 Sentences
e. [NP Aquele meu amigo] [VP virá].
‘That friend of mine will come.’
f. [NP Aquela tua colega alemã] [VP virá].
‘That German colleague of yours will come.’
4.4.1 Verb phrases
In a structure like S → NP + VP the noun phrase constitutes the subject, and
the verb phrase, together with other sentence constituents, if any, make up the
predicate◦
. Adverbial phrases, shown in 13a–13c, provide additional informa-
tion on how the action referred to by the verb is performed. Morphologically, an
adverbial phrase (AdvP) can include an adverb in -mente as in 13a, an adjective
functioning like an adverb as in 13b, or a prepositional phrase, as in 13c.
(13) a. Marina fala [AdvP [Adv rapidamente]].
‘Marina talks fast.’
b. Greta anda [AdvP [Adj rápido]].
‘Greta walks fast.’
c. Francisca lê [AdvP [PrepP com rapidez]].
‘Francisca reads fast.’
4.4.2 Adverbial and prepositional phrases
A key difference between adverbial phrases and prepositional phrases is that
adverbial phrases can move around a sentence rather freely, as in 14, whereas
prepositional phrases remain attached to the sentence constitutent they modify,
as in 15a, though not in the impossible 15b. (Constructions are possible in
certain poetic styles which need not concern us here.)
(14) Comprei a casa de manhã ∼ De manhã comprei a casa.
‘I bought the house in the morning.’
(15) a. Comprei uma casa de tijolos. ‘I bought a brick house.’
b. *
De tijolos comprei uma casa.
Adverbs may be combined in sequences, as in 16a–16c. When two adverbs in
-mente are coordinated, it is possible to drop the suffix from all but the rightmost
one:
(16) a. Greta anda [AdvP [Adv muito] [Adv rapidamente]].
‘Greta walks very quickly.’
b. Jurema trabalhou [AdvP [Adv intensamente] [Adv a noite toda]
[Adv por prazer]].
‘Jurema worked intensely all night for pleasure.’
4.5 Subject and predicate 107
c. Ronalda estava cantando [AdvP [Adv rápida], [Adv intensa]
e [Adv alegremente]].
‘Ronalda was singing quickly, intensely, and happily.’
As well as functioning as adverbs, prepositional phrases signal a variety of
relational meanings, as exemplified in 17a–17f:
(17) a. Possession: Eu quero o carro [PrepP de Henrique].
‘I want Henrique’s car.’
b. Company: Lucila saiu [PrepP com Marcelo].
‘Lucila went out with Marcelo.’
c. Place: Adagilsa está [PrepP in Coimbra].
‘Adagilsa is in Coimbra.’
d. Means: Elisa chegou [PrepP de táxi].
‘Elisa arrived by taxi.’
e. Manner: Selma acordou [PrepP em pânico].
‘Selma woke up in a panic.’
f. Motivation: Ela fez isso [PrepP por caridade].
‘She did that out of charity.’
In 18a–18b the prepositional phrase, introduced by a or para (the latter is
far more common in BP but also occurs in popular EP) functions as an indirect
object, which stands for the semantic benefactive.
(18) a. Entreguei o livro ao/para o Renato.
‘I handed the book to Renato.’
b. Vou dar um presente a/para você.
‘I am going to give a gift to you.’
4.5 Subject and predicate
Thesubject,theelementaboutwhichthesentencestatessomething,iscontained
in the noun phrase with which the verb agrees. It may be simply a pronoun, as eu
and eles in 19a or a noun (as meninas chegaram ‘the girls arrived’). The subject
may also be a verb in the infinitive, as in compreender tudo isso é importante
‘understanding all that is important.’ In such cases the verb is in the third person
singular, e.g. é ‘is’ in 19b. All verbs, except impersonal ones (4.7), require a
subject. The predicate, as its name suggests, contains information that is stated
about the subject, e.g. trabalho and ganham dinheiro in 19a.
(19) a. [S[Subj Eu] [Pred trabalho] e [Subj eles] [Pred ganham dinheiro]].
‘I work and they make money.’
b. [S [Pred É importante] [Subj compreender tudo isso]].
‘Understanding all that is important.’
108 4 Sentences
4.5.1 Verb complements
Verbs like those in 20a–20b, which express a full meaning without the help of
any complements, are called intransitive◦
.
(20) a. Meu cachorro morreu.
‘My dog died.’
b. Chegou a primavera.
‘Spring has arrived.’
Other verbs need a complement to complete the information they carry. Verbs
like those in 21a–21b, which require a noun phrase that plays the syntactic
function of direct object that corresponds to the semantic patient in active
sentences (4.2), are called transitive◦
.
(21) a. Cláudia comprou os livros de Freud.
‘Claudia bought Freud’s books.’
b. Escreveste a carta?
‘Have you written the letter?’
LikeEnglish,Portugueseallowstransitiveverbswithoutanovertdirectobject
when used with a generic meaning (22a–22b). Unlike English, however, it also
allows null direct objects that are understood from the context, as in the replies
in 22c–22e:
(22) a. – O que ela faz? – Ela pinta e borda.
‘What does she do?’ ‘She paints and embroiders.’
b. – O que é que você faz? – Eu importo e exporto.
‘What is your line of work?’ ‘I import and export.’
c. – Vocês compraram os laptops? – Compramos, sim.
‘Did you buy the laptops?’ ‘Yes, we bought [them].’
d. – Você quer um guarda-chuva? – Não, eu tenho.
‘Do you want an umbrella?’ ‘No, I have [one].’
e. – Quando você vai escrever a carta? – Já escrevi.
‘When are you going to write the letter?’ ‘I’ve already written [it].’
Other verbs, called ditransitive◦
, take both a direct object and an indirect
object◦
. This component usually corresponds, in sentences like those in (23), to
the semantic benefactive. Verbs that express the notion of giving something to
someone (dar ‘to give,’ oferecer ‘to offer,’ entregar ‘to hand over, to deliver,’
ofertar‘tooffer,’emprestar‘toloan’),orofrequestingsomethingfromsomeone
(pedir ‘to ask,’ solicitar ‘to request,’ rogar ‘to beseech,’ implorar ‘to implore’)
fall into this category.
4.5 Subject and predicate 109
(23) a. Juca deu o dinheiro à Fernanda.
‘Juca gave the money to Fernanda.’
b. Patrı́cia entregou as chaves do apartamento ao zelador.
‘Patricia handed over the apartment keys to the custodian.’
There is also a category of verbs such as agradar ‘to please,’ interessar ‘to
interest,’ and pertencer ‘to belong,’ called indirect transitive, that require an
indirect object (but no direct object) expressed by an unstressed pronoun, as in
example 24, or by a prepositional phrase, as in 25:
(24) Esse assunto não me agrada.
‘That subject does not please me.’
(25) Eu acho que isso vai interessar a ele.
‘I think this will interest him.’
4.5.2 Clitics
Clitics, or unstressed pronouns (3.4), have no stress of their own and function
phonologically as an extra syllable attached to another word, usually a verb.
They may come in enclitic position, that is, after the verb (26a) or in proclitic
position, that is, before the verb (26b). A third possibility, namely mesoclitic
position, with the clitic placed inside the verb, applies only to forms of the future
or the conditional (26c–26d). Though used in European Portuguese, meso-
clitic constructions only occur in BP as school-learned forms, usually in formal
styles.
(26) a. Ele viu-me.
‘He saw me.’
b. Ela me beijou.
‘She kissed me.’
c. EP Entregar-lho-ei em Berkeley.
‘I’ll give it to you in Berkeley.’
d. EP Dar-te-iam os presentes.
‘They would give you the gifts.’
Even for educated native speakers, clitic placement is one of the most vexing
topics of Portuguese syntax, largely because it has been muddled by traditional
grammars that neither reflect actual language use, nor take into account dif-
ferences between speech and writing, or between BP and EP usage (Martins
1989:117). Our non-exhaustive presentation will deal first with the unstressed
pronouns me te se nos (vos) lhe lhes (4.5.2.1), then with the unstressed third
110 4 Sentences
person pronouns o a os as (or their variants lo la los las, no na nos nas; see
Table 3.5), which have a few pecularities of their own (4.5.2.2), then with
lhe/lhes (4.5.2.3) and finally with the stressed pronouns used with prepositions
(4.5.2.4).
4.5.2.1 Position of me, te, se, nos (vos) In simple non-imperative
verb forms in sentence-initial position, enclisis (27a–27b) is the general norm
in EP and in formal BP. In unmonitored BP, however, proclisis is the general
trend. Sentences like 27a–27c belong to a relatively careful level of speech in
BP, where proclisis, even in utterance-initial position, is habitual in spontaneous
speech, as in 27d.
(27) a. Parece-me que vai chover.
‘It looks like rain to me.’
b. Pretende-se construir um hospital nesse lugar, mas eu duvido.
‘They are planning to build a hospital in that place, but I doubt it.’
c. É, fala-se muito de processar os corruptos.
‘Sure, they talk a lot about prosecuting the corrupt ones.’
d. Me parece que o coronel ainda não chegou.
‘It seems to me that the colonel hasn’t arrived yet.’
Whereas clitics in utterance-initial position are widespread in BP, literate
speakers are often aware that this practice is frowned upon in formal usage and
so may employ alternative constructions like 28:
(28) a. Estão pretendendo construir um hospital nesse terreno.
‘They intend to build a hospital in that lot (on that site).’
b. Estão falando muito em processar os corruptos.
‘They’re talking a lot about prosecuting the corrupt ones.’
c. Tenho a impressão que ele ainda não chegou.
‘I have the impression that he hasn’t arrived yet.’
In imperative verb forms in utterance-initial positon, enclisis is the norm
(29a–29b), although proclisis is widespread in BP (29c–29e). While 29a is
possible in either EP or BP, 29b is normal in colloquial EP; given the general
trend to avoid both clitic pronouns and direct commands, 29e would be a likely
alternative in BP.
(29) a. Sente-se, por favor.
‘Sit down, please.’
b. EP Chega-te cá, menina.
‘Come closer, girl.’
c. BP Se enquadre!
‘Stand at attention!’
4.5 Subject and predicate 111
d. BP Me desculpe, tá?
‘Excuse me, ok?’
e. BP A senhora desculpe.
‘I’m sorry, ma’am.’
If the verb is not in sentence-initial position, again EP tends to prefer enclisis
(30), whereas BP prefers proclisis, as shown in 31.
(30) a. EP Isto irritou-me profundamente.
‘That annoyed me deeply.’
b. EP A famı́lia juntou-se a ele mais tarde.
‘The family joined him later.’
c. EP Eles perguntaram-me se queria vir.
‘They asked me if I wanted to come along.’
(31) a. BP A Denise me pediu um favor.
‘Denise asked a favor of me.’
b. BP Essas coisas me chateiam muito.
‘Those things bother me a lot.’
c. BP Aı́ eles se juntaram.
‘Then they shacked up together.’
Preference for proclisis in BP and for enclisis in EP extends to compound verb
forms, where EP prefers to have the unstressed pronoun enclitic to the auxiliary,
as in 32a–32b. BP, on the contrary, tends to have the pronoun proclitic to the
main verb, with no hyphen, as in 32c–32d. The hyphenated variant used to be
the norm in written BP but both forms coexist nowadays.
(32) a. EP Ele tinha-me falado desse assunto.
‘He had talked to me about that subject.’
b. EP Elas estão-nos a observar.
‘They are watching us.’
c. BP Eu tenho te visto na praia.
‘I have seen you on the beach.’
d. BP Ela está te olhando.
‘She’s watching you.’
Likewise, if there is a modal verb◦
such as dever, querer, poder followed by
either a simple or a compound tense, BP tends to prefer proclisis and EP tends
to prefer enclisis to the modal, as in 33:
(33) a. BP Você devia me ver no trapézio.
‘You should see me on the trapeze.’
b. EP Devias-me avisar.
‘You should warn me.’
112 4 Sentences
c. BP Eles queriam me avisar desse problema.
‘They wanted to warn me about that problem.’
d. EP Eu até que podia-te contar tudo, mas não vale a pena.
‘I could even tell you everything but it isn’t worth it.’
Proclisis is generally conditioned by specific words, as in 34a–34l:
(34) Negative words:
a. Eu não te conto nada.
‘I’m not telling you anything.’
b. Eu não me vejo fazendo isso.
‘I don’t see myself doing that.’
Interrogative words:
c. Quem me empresta o dinheiro do metrô?
‘Who will lend me the subway fare?’
d. Quando te promoveram?
‘When did they promote you?’
Adverbs:
e. Vocês sempre me dão problemas.
‘You always cause me problems.’
f. Ontem me chamaram às três da madrugada.
‘Yesterday they called me at three in the morning.’
Relative pronouns:
g. Acabou de passar aquele cara que te ligou hoje cedo.
‘That guy who called you up this morning has just come by.’
h. Você precisa falar com quem tem autoridade para resolver isso.
‘You have to talk to who(ever) has authority to settle that.’
Subordinating conjunctions:
i. Ele disse que me emprestava o dinheiro.
‘He told me he’d lend me the money.’
j. Eu te chamo assim que me disserem alguma coisa.
‘I’ll call you up as soon as they tell me something.’
A preposition that introduces a loose/independent infinitive:
k. Ele trouxe um livro para te dar no Natal.
‘He brought a book to give you for Christmas.’
l. Você tem um cigarro para me dar?
‘Have you got a cigarette to give me?’
4.5 Subject and predicate 113
4.5.2.2 Position of o, a, os, as Very much alive in EP, these
unstressed pronouns have a low frequency in spoken BP. As mentioned in
(3.4), these pronouns take the form lo, la, los, las after a verb form ending in r,
s, or z (35a–35d) and the forms no, na, nos, nas after a nasal diphthong (35e).
(35) a. EP Queres vendê-los? ‘Do you want to sell them?’
b. BP Nós só querı́amos cumprimentá-lo pelo seu aniversário.
‘We just wanted to greet you on your birthday.’
c. EP Tomou o prato e pô-lo no microndas.
‘P3sg took the dish and put it in the microwave.’
d. EP Faz bonecas de madeira, e fá-las muito bem.
‘P3sg makes wooden dolls and makes them very well.’
e. Ponham-nas no armário.
‘Put them in the closet.’
These pronouns also tend to be enclitic in EP except when proclisis is con-
ditioned by the words mentioned in example 34, as exemplified in 36a–36b:
(36) a. Creio que não os tratamos muito mal.
‘I think we don’t treat them too poorly.’
b. É assim, se não me engano.
‘That’s it, if I’m not mistaken.’
While these clitics are used regularly in EP, there is a strong tendency in
vernacular BP either to dispense with them altogether or to use ele, ela, eles,
elas as a direct object (section 7.3.2.3), as shown in (37a)–(37c):
(37) a. É, não trataram eles muito bem, não.
‘Yeah, they didn’t treat them too well.’
b. Aquelas camisas, eu pus elas na cômoda.
‘Those shirts, I put them in the dresser.’
c. Você sabe quando é que a gente vai poder ver ele?
‘Do you know when we’re going to be able to see him?’
The pronoun o/lo/no may refer to an aggregate of things or circumstances. In
BP this practice is limited to monitored speech (38a), whereas in unmonitored
speech the clitic may be left out altogether (38b):
(38) Já fez o que tinha que fazer?
‘Have you done what you had to do?’
a. – Não, mas vou fazê-lo amanhã.
‘No, but I’m going to do it tomorrow.’
b. – Não, mas vou fazer amanhã.
‘No, but I’m going to do [it] tomorrow.’
114 4 Sentences
4.5.2.3 The pronouns lhe, lhes The clitic lhe(s) is essentially a third
person indirect object pronoun which refers to the listener, as in 39a–39b, or
to a third party, as in 39c. Although lhe(s) may occur with this function in
monitored BP, it is rare in unmonitored speech. Besides, having either a second
or third person referent makes lhe, lhes ambiguous, which may explain the
marked preference for casting the indirect object as a prepositional phrase with
a/para combined with ele/s ela/s, você/s, o/s senhor/es, a/s senhora/s, as in
40a–40b:
(39) a. Senhor Paulo, eu tenho um documento para lhe entregar.
‘Mr Paulo, I have a document to give you.’
b. Senhores, amanhã eu vou lhes dar todas as intruções.
‘Gentlemen, tomorrow I am going to give you all the instructions.
c. O gerente chamou o porteiro para lhe entregar o abono.
‘The manager called the doorman to give him the bonus.’
(40) a. BP Aı́ eu entreguei o presente para ela.
‘Then I gave her the gift.’
b. BP Quero dar isto aqui para o senhor.
‘I want to give you this, sir.’
c. BP Ele queria oferecer um livro ao professor.
‘He wanted to offer a book to the teacher.’
Perhaps to compensate for the low frequency of o, a, os, as as a direct object
in unmonitored BP, many speakers – even educated ones – use lhe as direct
object, creating sentences like those in 41a–41c, which traditional grammarians
ineffectually frown upon. Such regular occurrence of constructions with direct
object lhe(s) where normative grammar rules would call for o/a(s), however,
strongly suggests that a restructuring of the referential values of the pronoun
system (Table 3.5) is taking place in BP.
(41) a. BP Seu Paulo, eu quero lhe ouvir sobre esse assunto.
‘Mr. Paulo, I want to hear you about this subject.’ (for quero
ouvi-lo).
b. BP Se vocês mudarem para Santos, pode deixar que nós vamos
lhes visitar.
‘If you move to Santos, be sure we’ll call on you.’
c. BP Então eu lhe espero à uma.
‘Then I’ll expect you at one (o’clock).’
4.5.2.4 Prepositional pronouns As their name indicates, preposi-
tional pronouns (Table 3.5) occur as complements in prepositional phrases, as
in 42a–42b. As such, they often have the specific function of an indirect object
4.5 Subject and predicate 115
introduced by either a or para (42c–42d). Another is that of agent of a passive
construction, with por (42e–42f):
(42) a. Aparentemente você não acredita em mim.
‘Apparently you don’t believe in me.’
b. Não posso viver sem ti, meu amor.
‘I can’t live without you, my love.’
c. EP Ele entregou o jornal a ti, e não a mim.
‘He handed the newspaper to you, not to me.’
d. Você trouxe aquele dinheiro para mim?
‘Have you brought that money for me?’
e. EP Desculpa-me, mas esse documento deveria ser assinado por ti.
‘Excuse me, but that document should be signed by you.’
f. Isso nunca foi aprovado por mim.
‘That has never been approved by me.’
Another use is that of direct object, often with a slightly emphatic value, as
in 43:
(43) Eles afirmaram que viram a mim no parque, eu, que nunca fui lá.
‘They stated they saw me at the park, I, who have never been there.’
There are several areas in which educated usage contradicts normative rules.
One example is the use in BP of the first person prepositional pronoun mim as
the subject of a verb in the infinitive, as in 44a, where a prescriptive rule would
call for eu, as in 44b:
(44) a. Esses arquivos são para mim guardar?
‘Are these files for me to put away?’
b. Esses arquivos são para eu guardar?
‘Are these files for me to put away?’
Another example, this time from EP, involves the stressed third person pro-
noun si. Originally a reflexive and regularly used as such (45a), si also occurs
non-reflexively as a polite way of referring to one’s interlocutor, thus precluding
choice between intimate tu, or less formal você, or formal o senhor/a senhora,
as in examples 45b–45d taken from an e-mail (7.3.2.3; 8.4).
(45) a. Ele só pensa em si.
‘He only thinks about himself.’
b. EP Nessa revista encontrei, além de si, outros amigos que muito
admiro.
‘In that journal I found, besides you, other friends whom I admire
a lot.’
116 4 Sentences
c. EP Este livrinho é para si.
‘This little book is for you.’
d. EP Isso foi feito por si?
‘Was this done by you?’
4.6 Reflexive constructions
In a reflexive construction a clitic associated with the verb matches the subject
in person an number, as in 46–48. In 46a–46c the verb conveys a truly reflexive
action in which the actor and the patient have the same referent. In 47 there is
an action but no actual patient to receive it, and levantar-se may be considered
an intransitive verb like acordar ‘to wake up’ or adormecer ‘to fall asleep’ (as
opposed, say, to Eu levantei a mala ‘I lifted the suitcase,’ where the verb is
clearly transitive).
(46) a. E aı́ Judas se enforcou.
‘And then Judas hanged himself.’
b. EP Banhas-te todos os dias?
‘Do you bathe every day?’
c. Alice olhou-se no espelho.
‘Alice looked at herself in the mirror.’
(47) Geralmente eu me levanto às sete horas e nunca me deito antes da
meia-noite.
‘Usually I get up at seven o’clock and never go to bed before
midnight.’
In 48a–48c the notion of semantic reflexivity is even more tenuous. In 48a
the semantic experiencer Selma undergoes the (essentially involuntary) process
of remembering something; similar verbs include recordar-se ‘to remember,’
esquecer-se ‘to forget.’ In 48b there is no action, reflexive or otherwise; the
subject minha cidade ‘our town’ is inanimate, and the fact that chamar-se is
morphologically reflexive is best interpreted as idiomatic. Finally, in 48c the
verb queixar-se ‘to complain’ refers to an action without a patient/direct object
and belongs to a subset of intransitive verbs requiring a semantically empty
reflexive clitic. Other verbs in this group are orgulhar-se (de) ‘to be proud (of),’
envergonhar-se (de) ‘to be ashamed (of).’
(48) a. Selma lembrou-se de que tinha um encontro.
‘Selma remembered she had an appointment.’
b. A minha cidade se chamava Batatais.
‘My town’s name was Batatais / My town was called Batatais.’
c. O Daniel se queixa sem motivo.
‘Daniel complains for no reason.’
4.6 Reflexive constructions 117
As these examples suggest, the label “reflexivity” has two interpretations.
One is the notion of an action whose actor and patient have the same referent,
such as cortar-se ‘to cut oneself,’ barbear-se ‘to shave oneself,’ or enforcar-se
‘to hang oneself.’ Secondly, there is reflexivity as an idiosyncratic syntactic
phenomenon, as in verbs like queixar-se ‘to complain,’ esquecer-se ‘to forget,’
arrepender-se‘torepent,’wheretherequiredcliticmatchesthesubjectinperson
and number, but lacks a semantic interpretation. It is not surprising that such
reflexive clitics should be regularly dropped in unmonitored BP, as in 49a–49d,
a topic to which we will return in 7.3.2.4.
(49) a. Eu deito e levanto muito tarde.
‘I go to bed and get up rather late.’
b. Pára de queixar!
‘Stop complaining!’
c. O banco abre às dez.
‘The bank opens at ten.’
d. Eu arrependo muito de ter abandonado a faculdade.
‘I very much regret having dropped out of college.’
4.6.1 Reciprocity
Reflexive constructions with a plural verb like those in 50a–50c are interpreted
as involving a reciprocal action. In 50a each member of the subject noun phrase
(o patrão, eu) is simultaneously an actor and a patient. Sentence 50b, in turn,
ambiguously allows for two interpretations: one is reciprocal, along the lines
of 50a, and in the other each actor performs a reflexive action. In this case
the sentence may be seen as a compressed variant of two coordinate reflexive
sentences, namely o marido se matou e a mulher se matou ‘the husband killed
himself and the wife killed herself.’ Finally, 50c involves the singular noun
phrase a gente as a substitute for the first person plural and is the equivalent of
the slightly more formal Nós nos falamos mas não nos beijamos.
(50) a. O patrão e eu nos cumprimentamos na saı́da.
‘The boss and I greeted each other on our way out.’
b. O marido e a mulher se mataram.
‘The husband and the wife killed each other/themselves.’
c. A gente se fala, mas não se beija.
‘We talk to each other but we aren’t real buddies.’ (lit. ‘One talks
to each other but one does not kiss each other.’)
These sentences have the same syntactic structure, and the reason for the
difference in interpretation lies in the semantics of verbs like cumprimentar
‘to greet’ (just like chamar ‘to call,’ abraçar ‘to embrace,’ beijar ‘to kiss,’
118 4 Sentences
espancar ‘to beat up,’ empurrar ‘to push’), which refer to actions in which the
actor and the patient normally have different referents. On the other hand, verbs
like matar, cortar ‘to cut,’ barbear ‘to shave,’ pentear ‘to comb,’ coçar ‘to
scratch’ denote actions one can perform on oneself as well as on others. Thus, a
sentence like 50a may be seen as containing two separate sentences, namely O
patrão me cumprimentou and Eu cumprimentei o patrão. Such ambiguity may
be avoided by adding phrases like um ao outro ‘each other’ as needed.
4.7 Null subjects
Portuguese allows omission of the subject, whether it is made explicit by the
form of the verb, as in 51a, where moramos clearly refers to nós, or whether
context permits identification of a third person subject, as in 51b:
(51) a. Moramos aqui.
‘We live here.’
b. Ela descia o morro todo dia e dizia que adorava a praia.
‘She walked down the hill every day and said [she] loved the
beach.’
Certain verbs, however – such as those referring to weather phenomena
(3.5.6), have no subject and occur only in the third person singular. Some
linguists postulate for such sentences a structure NP + VP in which the noun
phrase is semantically empty. Note that some such verbs can be used figuratively
with a subject, 52b.
(52) a. – Nevou na serra?
– Não, mas trovejou e choveu muito.
‘Did it snow in the sierra?’
‘No, but it thundered and rained a lot.’
b. O senador trovejou insultos.
‘The senator thundered insults.’
Other impersonal verbs are fazer ‘to do’and haver ‘to have’ used to express
time elapsed (53a–53b) as well as haver and ter (the latter being typical of BP)
when used to indicate existence (53c–53d). This use of haver/ter is equivalent in
meaningtoEnglishthereis/are,butacrucialdifferenceisthattheaccompanying
noun phrase (vários bancos livres, quatro soldados) is the direct object of the
verb:
(53) a. Faz tempo que não nos vemos.
‘We haven’t seen each other for a while.’
b. Fazia dez dias que não chovia.
‘It had not rained for ten days.’
4.8 Verb phrases with more than one verb 119
c. Havia vários bancos livres na praça.
‘There were several free benches on the square.’
d. BP Tinha quatro soldados esperando na saı́da.
‘There were four soldiers waiting at the exit.’
However, possibly because such subjectless constructions go against the gen-
eral pattern of verbs, in unmonitored speech it is not unusual for the direct object
to be interpreted as the subject, triggering the agreement rule in BP, yielding
sentences like 54a–54c, which are rather common, despite being condemned
by prescriptive grammar.
(54) a. BP Fazem oito meses que ele faleceu.
‘It’s been eight months since he passed away.’
b. BP Houveram muitos problemas.
‘There were many problems.’
c. BP Tinham muitas pessoas na Noca ontem?
‘Were there many people at Noca’s yesterday?’
4.8 Verb phrases with more than one verb
As we saw in 3.5.4, Portuguese uses compound tenses made up of one or two
auxiliary verbs and a non-finite verb form:
tenho falado estou comendo estou a comer
‘I have spoken’ ‘I am eating’ ‘I am eating’
tenho estado
trabalhando
tenho estado a
trabalhar
vou sair
‘I have been working’ ‘I have been working’ ‘I’m going to leave’
In such constructions the first auxiliary verb occurs in a conjugated form,
but stripped of its original lexical meaning, and becomes a carrier of grammat-
ical notions such as tense/aspect and person/number, while lexical meaning is
conveyed by the main verb in a non-finite form (gerund, infinitive, participle).
Although some grammarians insist on considering them periphrases rather than
true tenses, from the language user’s viewpoint these constructions have a uni-
tary meaning and function just like the simple verb tenses. Other constructions
with two or more verbs, however, present specific features that will be analyzed
in the following sections.
4.8.1 The passive construction and other auxiliary + verb constructions
The label “passive,” a holdover from Latin grammar (5.3.4), refers to a verb
phrase in which a form ser combines with the participle of a transitive verb, as in
120 4 Sentences
55a–55b. The subject noun phrase contains the semantic patient. The semantic
actor, if there is one, appears in a prepositional phrase introduced by por (or,
in archaizing styles, de). Unlike in compound verb tenses like tenho amado ‘I
have loved,’ in passives the participle agrees with the subject in number and
gender:
(55) a. O desfile da escola de samba foi patrocinado pela prefeitura.
‘The samba club parade was sponsored by City Hall.’
b. Os bailes de carnaval são financiados pela máfia da droga.
‘The Carnival balls are financed by the drug mafia.’
The examples in 56a–56f exemplify passive-like sentences in which a
participle is combined with other auxiliaries, such as estar or ficar:
(56) a. A garota estava acompanhada por um médico.
‘The girl was accompanied by a doctor.’
b. A casa esteve vigiada por dois guardas durante várias semanas.
‘The house was watched by two guards for several weeks.’
c. A plantação está arruinada pela praga.
‘The plantation is ruined by the pest.’
d. As passeatas estão proibidas pelo governo.
‘The demonstrations are banned by the government.’
e. O trombadinha ficou enterrado no mato.
‘The street kid got buried in the woods.’
f. Ficou confirmado que os dois carros estavam em mau estado
de manutenção.
‘It was confirmed that both cars were in a poorly maintained
condition.’
Sentences 56a–56b are about states that result from actions and persist as
long as the agents (expressed by the agent complement in por + NP) continue
to perform those actions. In 56c the state expressed by the participle (arruinada)
is irreversible, but in 56d it may be reversed, provided the prohibition is lifted.
In 56e–56f enterrado and confirmado likewise convey a state created by an
action, but the focus is the result rather than the action itself.
Analogous constructions with verbs such as andar ‘to walk,’ viver ‘to live,’
achar-se ‘to find oneself,’ ver-se ‘to see oneself’ express shades of meaning
of to be and the participle functions here as a descriptive adjective. In 57a and
57b anda and vive suggest a continuing or repetitive situation, perhaps more
intensely in the latter case. In 57d acha-se (or its synonym encontra-se) is a
stylistically more sophisticated way of saying está.
(57) a. Adalgisa anda deprimida ultimamente.
‘Adalgisa has been depressed lately.’
4.8 Verb phrases with more than one verb 121
b. Ele vivia amargurado pela morte do filho.
‘He was constantly embittered by his son’s death.’
c. Teve um momento que quase eu me vi perdido, mas consegui
superar.
‘There was a moment when I was almost lost, but I managed to
overcome it.’
d. Infelizmente o diretor acha-se completamente enganado.
‘Unfortunately the director is completely mistaken.’
Like estar, which combines with a gerund to make up continuous verb tenses
(3.5.4), the verbs andar ‘to walk,’ vir ‘to come,’ and ir ‘to go’ also combine
with a gerund to form constructions that focus on the ongoingness of the event,
action, or process referred to by a verb:
(58) a. Ela anda bebendo muito.
‘She has been drinking a lot.’
b. A gente vinha trabalhando sem ganhar nada mais de um mês.
‘We had been working without earning anything for longer than a
month.’
c. Aı́ eu disse para ele, “Espera aı́ na fila enquanto eu vou
comprando as entradas.”
‘Then I told him, “Wait in line while I buy the tickets.”’
4.8.2 Constructions with modals
Like auxiliaries, modals are verbs which combine with an infinitive or a gerund
toformtwo-verbconstructionswiththesamesubject.Unlikeauxiliaries,modals
preserve their basic lexical meaning, as dever ‘must, should, be probable’ and
poder ‘to be able to, may’ in 59a–59b. Furthermore, modal + verb constructions
function like a unit that may be combined with an auxiliary to form a compound
tense, as in 59c–59d
(59) a. Eu acho que ela deve partir amanhã.
‘I think she should leave tomorrow.’
b. Pode deixar isso em cima da mesa.
‘You may leave that on the table.’
c. O avião dele devia estar saindo naquele instante mesmo.
‘His plane must have been leaving that very minute.’
d. Ela disse que não vai poder trazer as taças de vinho.
‘She said she would not be able to bring the wine glasses.’
Two modals may also be combined, as in 60, but while dever and poder are
combined directly with an infinitive, acabar, começar, and continuar combine
directly with a gerund, as in 61a–61c.
122 4 Sentences
(60) O Daniel deveria poder ajudar você.
‘Daniel should be able to help you.’
(61) a. Eu vou acabar votando no PT.
‘I’ll end up voting for the Workers’ Party.’
b. O Daniel já começou falando mal do governo.
‘Daniel has already started badmouthing the administration.’
c. E vocês duas continuam saindo juntas?
‘And the two of you are still seeing each other?’
Other modals systematically combine with an infinitive by means of a specific
connector, as in 62a–62e:
(62) a. Meu marido acabou de sair.
‘My husband has just left.’
b. Os sequestradores acabaram por se entregar.
‘The kidnapers ended by turning themselves in.’
c. Por que você não deixa de fumar?
‘Why don’t you give up smoking?’
d. Hoje eu não posso sair, tenho que cuidar das crianças.
‘I can’t go out today, I have to take care of the kids.’
e. A gente tem de acertar essa dı́vida o quanto antes.
‘We must settle that debt as soon as possible.’
Finally, haver de combined with an infinitive, as in 63a–63b, suggests futurity
combined with strong determination:
(63) a. Eu hei de me vingar daquele canalha.
‘I’ll get even with that scoundrel.’
b. Ela há de pagar o que me fez.
‘She’ll pay for what she did to me.’
Since modals may be combined with auxiliaries in passive constructions,
strings of several verbs are possible (64a), although constructions of more than
four verbs, like 64b, are not very frequent, probably because they involve redun-
dancy that interferes with interpretation:
(64) a. Aquela casa deve ter sido pintada várias vezes.
‘That house must have been painted several times.’
b. Esse assunto deve ter estado sendo debatido na imprensa com
alguma freqüência.
‘That subject must have been being debated in the press with
some frequency.’
4.9 Actor indeterminacy 123
4.9 Actor indeterminacy
Certain syntactic constructions keep the semantic actor indeterminate, either
because it is unknown, irrelevant, or obvious in the context, or simply because
the speaker does not care to mention it. One way of doing this is by means of
a passive without an agent phrase (65a–65c).
(65) a. Foram abertas vinte mil contas novas no mês passado.
‘Twenty thousand new accounts were opened last month.’
b. Foram sequestrados dois industriais no fim de semana.
‘Two industrialists have been kidnapped over the weekend.’
c. Os sequestradores foram presos na quinta-feira.
‘The kidnapers were arrested on Thursday.’
Another device for signalling an indeterminate actor is the clitic se – often
called “indeterminate se” – used with the approximate meaning of one or you,
as in 66:
(66) a. Naquele tempo se estudava de verdade.
‘In those days one studied really hard.’
b. Em Lisboa vive-se muito bem.
‘One lives rather well in Lisbon.’
c. Comprava-se e vendia-se muito gado mas ninguém ficava rico.
‘They bought and sold a lot of cattle but nobody got rich.’
d. Aluga-se quarto para rapaz solteiro. (A sign.)
‘Room for rent for a young single man.’
e. Vendem-se apartamentos novos e usados. (A sign.)
‘New and used apartments for sale.’
f. Conserta-se motos. (A sign.)
‘Motorcycles fixed.’
g. Aqui se vende e se compra todas as coisas que você pode
imaginar e mais algumas.
‘Here they buy and sell everything you can imagine and then
some.’
The indeterminate se is widely used in expositive style (Perini 2002a:268),
e.g. in written recipes such as the one in example 67:
(67) Amassa-se bem meio limão e acrescenta-se a cachaça devagar. A
seguir mexe-se bem, adicionando gelo moı́do. Adoça-se a gosto e
então bebe-se em boa companhia.
‘Crush half a lime and add the sugar cane brandy slowly. Then stir
(it) well, adding crushed ice. Sweeten [it] to taste and then drink
[it] in good company.’
124 4 Sentences
Although historically derived from a reflexive form, the indeterminate se
does not connote reflexivity but rather a semantically unspecified actor. This is
particularly apparent when the verb is intransitive and thus cannot be related to
a patient. Since reflexivity requires an actor and a patient with the same referent,
intransitive verbs cannot participate in a reflexive action.
Another characteristic of the indeterminate se is that it is not normally used
with verbs that describe a non-human action, such as pastar ‘to graze.’ Thus
a sentence like Pasta-se bem aqui ‘One grazes well here’ receives a figurative
interpretation, such as a comment on the quality of food or the manners of those
eating.
A transitive verb such as comprar, vender, or alugar (66c–66d) appears
in the third person singular form if the semantic patient is singular (muito
gado, quarto). Prescriptive grammarians have traditionally adopted a formal
interpretation for such constructions: the semantic patient is analyzed as the
subject, and consequently its number will determine whether the verb should
be singular as in 66d or plural as in 66e. Constructions without agreement, like
66f or 66g, however, occur regularly in the language and cannot be dismissed
simply as resulting from poor grammar.
The indeterminate se construction is a unique combination of semantic and
syntactic features (Azevedo 1976, 1980) and should not be analyzed as a variant
of other sentence types, such as reflexives or passives. Sentences like 68a may
have a reflexive reading, with portas as the apparent actor and patient, as when
we interpret them to mean that opening and closing results from an automatic
process. Likewise, in 68b apartmentos clearly is not the actor but rather the
patient, and the apparent reflexivity is a metaphorical way of saying that selling
them is so easy that it seems to happen of its own accord without a semantic
actor’s intervention. This is clearly different from a reflexive sentence with
vender such as 68c.
(68) a. As portas se abrem às oito da manhã e se fecham às seis da tarde.
‘The doors open at eight a.m. and close at six p.m.’
b. Esses apartamentos se vendem sozinhos.
‘These apartments sell themvelves.’
c. Aquelas pobres mulheres tinham que se vender para comer.
‘Those poor women had to sell themselves to eat.’
On the other hand, whilst in 69a there is no hint of human intervention
(it might be a reference to doors that opened automatically), in 69b human
intervention is assumed and there is no suggestion of any automatic process.
Although the glosses in 69b suggest a semantic equivalence between the inde-
terminate se and agentless passives, it does not follow that they are structurally
equivalent:
4.10 Joining sentences: Coordination 125
(69) a. As portas se abrem às oito.
‘The doors open at eight.’
b. Aqui se abre as portas às oito.
‘Here they open the doors/the doors are opened at eight.’
This analysis provides a basis to consider the indeterminate se as having
the same function in all the sentences in 66. The subject–verb agreement in
sentences like 68a is simply the result of the subject (portas) being interpreted as
a plural and the structure being formally reflexive – without implying, however,
semantic reflexivity (Perini 1998:270–272).
Other syntactic devices for leaving the semantic actor unidentified include
verbs in third person plural, with or without the pronoun eles:
(70) a. Deixaram um pacote para você.
‘[They]’ve left a package for you.’
b. Você não tem medo de eles acharem ruim?
‘Aren’t you afraid they may not like it?’
c. Ih, rapaz, eles estão dizendo que o governo vai soltar outro pacote
econômico.
‘Hey man, they’re saying the government’s going to bring out
another economic package.’
Spoken BP goes one step further and favors a subjectless construction, as in
71, with the verb in the third person singular (7.3.2.5).
(71) a. Faz favor, como é que chega na Raposo Tavares?
‘Please, how do you get to Raposo Tavares [highway]?
b. Para desmontar a pistola, primeiro tira o carregador.
‘To take the pistol apart, first [one] remove(s) the clip.’
4.10 Joining sentences: Coordination
Coordination(4.1.5)consecutivelyarrangestwoormoresentenceswhich,while
having the same status, may share a specific relationship, such as cause and
effect (72a) or temporal sequencing (72b), either implicit or made explicit by
specific coordinating conjunctions (3.7). The most frequent additive coordinat-
ing conjunctions are e ‘and’ and nem ‘nor, neither.’
(72) a. Passei a luz vermelha, o meganha me multou, meu dia estragou.
‘I went through the red light, the cop gave me a ticket, my day got
ruined.’
126 4 Sentences
b. Vamos dar uma volta no quintal, chupar umas laranjas, e molhar
os pés no ribeirão?
‘Shall we take a walk in the backyard, eat some oranges, and wet
our feet in the creek?’
c. Ele nem come nem deixa comer.
‘He neither eats nor lets (others) eat.’
Adversative conjunctions (mas ‘but,’ porém ‘however’) signal a contrast:
(73) a. Eles querem ficar ricos mas não trabalham.
‘They want to get rich but do not work.’
b. O Antonio sabe ler inglês porém não fala.
‘Antonio can read English but does not speak it.’
Disjunctive conjunctions (ou ‘or’) indicate a contrast:
(74) a. Vens comigo ou vais com elas?
‘Will you come with us or will you go with them?’
b. Ou é neste prédio ou é naquele.
‘It is either in this building or in that one.’
Explicative conjunctions (pois ‘since,’ logo ‘therefore’) signal an explana-
tion:
(75) a. Não posso fazer nada, pois não tenho recursos.
‘I cannot do anything since I have no means.’
b. Você não explica as coisas, logo eu não posso ajudar.
‘You don’t explain things, therefore I cannot help.’
Coordination may also be brought about by a variety of locutions, such as
the following (as shown in 76a–76c):
não só . . . mas também, não só . . . como também ‘not only . . . but
also’
tanto . . . como ‘as much . . . as’
quanto mais/menos . . . (tanto) mais/menos ‘the more/less . . . the
more/less’
(76) a. Isso não só é possı́vel como também é indispensável.
‘This is not only possible but also indispensable.’
b. Ele trabalha tanto como o outro rouba.
‘He works as much as the other steals.’
c. Quanto mais a gente trabalha, menos dinheiro tem.
‘The more we work the less money we have.’
4.11 Joining sentences: Subordination 127
4.11 Joining sentences: Subordination
Subordination consists in embedding◦
one sentence (called the subordinate
or embedded clause) in another (called the matrix or main clause). Once it
becomes a constituent of the matrix, the subordinate clause functions like a
noun (nominal clause), an adverb (adverbial clause), or an adjective (adjective
or relative clause).
Subordination taxes listeners’ memories by requiring them to recall what has
been said in order to relate it syntactically to what is being said. This is probably
why the incidence of subordination increases in direct proportion to the level
of formality. Whereas an informal chat tends to rely more on coordination,
a formal presentation (say, at a university lecture) is likely to rely more on
subordination, particularly in technical and scientific fields (Marques 1995).
4.11.1 Subordinate nominal clauses
Thesyntacticfunctionofasubordinatenominalclause(NomC)isdeterminedby
the type of the verb in the matrix. Thus the bracketed NP in 77a and the bracketed
embedded sentence in 77b function as the direct object of the transitive verb
anunciaram:
(77) a. Anunciaram [NP a chegada do avião].
‘They’ve announced [NP the plane’s arrival].’
b. Anunciaram [NomC que o avião chegou].
‘They’ve announced [NomC that the plane has arrived].’
In such cases the verb is transitive, and the subordinate clause functions
as its direct object, which may be introduced by connectors like que as in
77b or se, quando, como, as in 78a–78c. In such cases the subordinate clause
may be replaced by an anaphoric demonstrative like isso or aquilo (that is,
sei/disse/perguntei isso/aquilo ‘I know/said/asked this/that’).
(78) a. Eu não sei [NomC se eles vêm].
‘I don’t know [NomC if they are coming].’
b. Ele não disse [NomC quando vem].
‘He didn’t say [NomC when he’s coming].’
c. Eu perguntei [NomC como eles vinham].
‘I asked [NomC how they were coming].’
In 79, the bracketed nominal clause S functions as the subject of é. In this
case a confirmation-seeking rejoinder might be isso é verdade? ‘is that true?’
(79) É verdade [NomC que ele chegou à noite].
‘It is true [NomC he arrived in the evening].’
128 4 Sentences
A subordinate nominal clause may also function as the subject of an imper-
sonal verb as in 80a–80b, or of an impersonal construction as in 80c–80d, or of
a full matrix sentence as in 80e:
(80) a. Acontece [NomC que elas não querem vir].
‘What happens is (As it happens) that [NomC they don’t want to
come].’
b. Parece [NomC que o trem está atrasado de novo].
‘It seems [NomC the train is late again].’
c. Bom, o importante é [NomC que elas chegaram inteiras].’
‘Well, what matters is [NomC that they arrived in one piece].’
d. O melhor da história foi [Nom que elas chegaram ensopadas].
‘The best part of the story was [Nom that they arrived soaked].’
e. Me alegra muito [NomC que vocês entraram na faculdade].
‘I’m very pleased [NomC that you got into college].’
Two or more subordinate nominal clauses may be joined by a connector as
in 81a. If the same connector such as que is needed in both clauses, it may be
omitted in the second clause in informal speech, as in 81b:
(81) a. Ela disse para a gente [NomC [NomC que ia viajar] e [NomC quando
ia chegar]].
‘She told us [NomC [NomC she was going to travel]] and [NomC when
she was going to arrive].’
b. Eu sabia [[Nom que ele estava sem carro] e [Nom ia chegar
atrasado]].
‘I knew [[NomC he was without a car] and [NomC was going to be
late]].’
4.11.2 Subordinate relative (or adjective) clauses
A subordinate adjective or relative clause (RelC) is embedded in the matrix
clause by a relative pronoun such as que or one of the others shown in
Table 4.2.
(82) a. Ontem eu fiquei conhecendo uma moça [RelC que fala espanhol
muito bem].
‘Yesterday I met a young woman [RelC who speaks Spanish very
well].’
b. O rapaz [RelC que toca piano] é o meu irmão.
‘The young man [RelC who plays the piano] is my brother.’
In 82a we understand that the subject of fala is moça, just as in 82b we
recognize o rapaz as the subject of estava tocando. Also, the clause que fala
Table
4.2
Relative
pronouns
Whole
clause
as
Restrictive
Non-restrictive
After
prep.
Free
relative
antecedent
Invariable
que
‘that,
who,
which’
yes
yes
yes
–
–
quem
‘who’
–
–
yes
yes
–
o
que
‘what’
–
–
yes
yes
yes
Variable
o
qual
(m.sg.),
a
qual
(f.sg.)
‘which’
–
yes
yes
–
–
os
quais
(m.pl.),
as
quais
(f.pl.)
‘which’
–
yes
yes
–
–
cujo
(m.sg.),
cuja
(f.sg.)
‘whose’
yes
yes
yes
–
–
cujos
(m.pl.),
cujas
(f.pl.)
‘whose’
yes
yes
yes
–
–
Adverbial
onde
‘where’
(place)
yes
yes
yes
yes
–
como
‘how’
(manner)
yes
–
–
–
–
130 4 Sentences
qualifies moça in the same way as the adjective hispanoparlante ‘Spanish-
speaking’ in Conheci uma moça hispanoparlante ‘I met a Spanish-speaking
young woman.’ Although *
pianotocante ‘piano-playing’ is not a recognized
adjective in Portuguese, we can just as easily gloss o rapaz que está tocando
piano as ‘the piano-playing young man.’
4.11.2.1 Restrictive vs. non-restrictive relative clauses A relative
clause (RelC) may be restrictive or non-restrictive. A restrictive clause pro-
vides information essential to characterize the noun phrase functioning as
its antecendent. Thus in 83a–83c the information contained in me ajudou,
é advogado, está em cima do piano is restricted to the specific antecedent
it characterizes (o meu amigo, um primo meu, um martelo); the assump-
tion is that although there may exist other friends, cousins, or hammers, the
speaker is only interested in the one that helped him/is a lawyer/is on the
piano.
(83) a. O amigo [RelC que me ajudou] mora em Coimbra.
‘The friend [RelC who helped me] lives in Coimbra.’
b. Eu posso perguntar isso para um primo meu [RelC que é
advogado].
‘I can ask that of a cousin of mine [RelC who is a lawyer].’
c. Faz favor, me traz um martelo [RelC que está em cima do piano].
‘Please bring me the hammer [RelC that is on the piano].’
In contrast, non-restrictive clauses (also called explicative) simply provide
additional but non-essential information about their antecedents, as in 84a and
84b. They are usually set off by commas that correspond to slight pauses in
speech.
(84) a. A minha motoca, [RelC que é uma Yamaha 750], estava precisando
de uma revisão.
‘My motorcycle, [RelC which is a Yamaha 750], needed a tune-up.’
b. Aı́ ela apresentou o namorado, [RelC que estava meio sem jeito].
‘Then she introduced her boyfriend, [RelC who was a bit
embarassed].’
4.11.3 Subordinate adverbial clauses
A subordinate adverbial clause (AdvC) signals the same kind of relationship
as indicated by an adverbial phrase, such as time, condition, cause, purpose, or
manner. The adverbial clause is embedded in the matrix by a conjunction or a
conjunction-like construction made up of que and one or two words:
4.11 Joining sentences: Subordination 131
time: quando ‘when,’ enquanto ‘while,’ sempre que
‘whenever,’ assim que ‘as soon as’
condition: se ‘if,’ desde que ‘as long as’
cause: porque ‘because,’ porquanto ‘because,’ como ‘since’
purpose: para que ‘so that,’ a fim de que ‘in order to’
manner: como ‘as,’ conforme ‘as,’ segundo ‘as,’ de maneira
que ‘so that’
concessive: embora ‘even though,’ conquanto ‘even though,’
apesar de que ‘even though’
(85) a. A gente ia chegando [AdvC quando ele puxou o carro].
‘We were arriving [AdvC when he drove away].’ (time)
b. A gente vai passar o Carnaval em Ubatuba [AdvC se o Mário tiver
folga].
‘We’ll spend Carnival in Ubatuba [AdvC if Mario is on leave].’
(condition)
c. Nós acabamos o muro [AdvC como foi possı́vel.]
‘We finished soon the wall [AdvC as possible].’ (manner)
d. [AdvC Como você não chegou na hora], a gente não esperou.
‘[AdvC Since you did not arrive on time], we did not wait.’ (cause)
e. Esse aı́ lava [AdvC se eu imploro].
‘This (guy) will wash (the dishes) [AdvC if I beg (him to)].’
(condition)
f. Papai trazia presentes [AdvC sempre que viajava].
‘Dad brought gifts [AdvC whenever he traveled].’ (time)
g. A gente vai na boate [AdvC quando sobra dinheiro].
‘We go to a night club [AdvC when there is extra money].’ (time)
Unlike nominal or relative clauses, adverbial clauses add information to the
whole matrix clause, and not just to one of its elements. Consequently they may
be moved around, so that 85g could just as well be Quando sobra dinheiro,
a gente vai na boate, or A gente, quando sobra dinheiro, vai na boate. Since
some connectors may be used in any one of the three types of embedded clauses
86a–86c, the classification of the subordinate clause depends on the function it
performs in relation to the matrix clause.
(86) a. (Nominal) Eu sei [NomC quando você chega].
‘I know [NomC when you arrive].’
b. (Relative) O dia [RelC quando ele chega] é amanhã.
‘The day [RelC when he arrives] is tomorrow.’
c. (Adverbial) Eu saio [AdvC quando você chega].
‘I leave [AdvC when you arrive].’
132 4 Sentences
4.11.4 Relative pronouns
The most frequent relative pronoun is que (87), while quem, which applies to
human antecedents only, is used after a preposition (88a–88b) and as a free
relative, without an overt antecedent (88c):
(87) Você conhece o cara que ganhou na loteria?
‘Do you know the guy who won (in) the lottery?’
(88) a. Aquele homem para quem a Joana estava olhando
é meu vizinho.
‘That man that Joana was looking at is my neighbor.’
b. Onde está o garoto de quem você estava cuidando?
‘Where is the kid you were taking care of?’
c. Quem não trabalha não come.
‘Whoever does not work does not eat.’
A bit clumsier because of its mandatory agreement in number and gen-
der with its antecedent, o/a qual / os/as quais is largely restricted to formal
speech and writing, where it serves to avoid ambiguity between two possi-
ble antecedents: in 89a que may refer to either o instrutor or aquela garota,
but agreement of o qual/a qual makes the reference unmistakable in 89b,
where a qual refers to garota, as well as in 89c, where o qual refers to
instrutor:
(89) a. O instrutor daquela garota, [RelC que você quer conhecer],
é do Rio.
‘The instructor of that girl, [RelC who you want to meet], is
from Rio.’
b. O instrutor daquela garota, [RelC a qual você quer conhecer],
é do Rio.
‘The instructor of that girl [RelC you want to meet] is
from Rio.
c. O instrutor daquela garota, [RelC o qual você quer conhecer],
é do Rio.
‘That girl’s instructor, [RelC who you want to meet], is
from Rio.’
The relative cujo ‘whose’ signals a relation of possession regarding its
antecedent but agrees in number and gender with the accompanying noun, as
in 90a–90b. Although it hardly ever occurs outside formal speech and writing
(7.3.2.7), some speakers use it in the approximate sense of o qual, to reiterate
an already-mentioned element 90c:
4.11 Joining sentences: Subordination 133
(90) a. Este é o senhor [RelC cujo carro foi roubado].
‘This is the gentleman [RelC whose car was stolen].’
b. O livro [RelC cujas páginas estavam rasgadas] foi substituı́do.
‘The book [RelC whose pages were torn] was replaced.’
c. O governo quer fazer o congresso aprovar um pacote de leis muito
drásticas, [RelC cujo pacote não vai melhorar em nada a situação].
‘The government wants to make Congress pass a package, [RelC
which package won’t improve things at all].’
Onde ‘where’ (alone or combined with one of several prepositions, such as
de onde, donde ‘from where,’ para onde ‘where to’) and como ‘how’ (when
used with an antecedent referring to manner) function as relative pronouns. In
91a–91b onde and como are equivalent to the preposition + relative pronoun
construction shown in parentheses:
(91) a. A casa [RelC onde (= na qual) a gente morou] foi vendida.
‘The house [RelC where (= in which) we used to live] was sold.’
b. Não estou lembrando o nome da cidade [RelC para onde (= para a
qual) a Cidinha se mudou].
‘I can’t remember the name of the town [RelC where Cidinha
moved to].’
c. Meu pai acha que o jeito [RelC como (= do qual) eu me visto] é um
escândalo.
‘My father thinks the way [RelC I dress is a scandal].’
Finally, o que ‘what’ is used to refer to a whole aggregate of circumstances,
expressed by one or several clauses (92a–92b), or with no antecedent at all
(92c):
(92) a. Eles não trouxeram nada para o piquenique, [RelC o que
pegou mal].
‘They didn’t bring anything for the picnic, [RelC which
looked bad].’
b. Ela não tinha nenhum diploma, falava muito mal e além disso não
tinha boa aparência, [RelC o que naquele tempo era inaceitável].
‘She didn’t have a degree, spoke very poorly and besides she was
not presentable, [RelC which at that time was unacceptable].’
c. Eu faço [RelC o que o senhor me mandar].
‘I’ll do [RelC whatever you tell me].’
In BP there is a sharp contrast between the standard use of relative pronouns
and their use in informal speech, where que functions as an all-purpose pronoun,
replacing virtually all other forms, either combined with a subject pronoun
preceded by a preposition (93a–93c) or simply alone (93d–93e):
134 4 Sentences
(93) a. O cara [RelC que eu queria falar com ele] não veio. (= st. O cara
com quem/com o qual eu queria falar não veio.)
‘The fellow [RelC I wanted to talk to didn’t show up].’
b. Aquela cidade [RelC que você queria ir nela], lembra? (= st.
Aquela cidade aonde/à qual você queria ir, lembra?)
‘That town [RelC where you wanted to go], remember?’
c. Ela tinha uma amiga [RelC que o pai dela (= st. cujo pai)] era
brigadeiro.
‘She had a friend [RelC whose father] was a general.’
d. Em Paris, todos os restaurantes [RelC que (= st. aonde/aos quais) a
gente foi,] a comida era excelente.
‘In Paris, (in) every restaurant [RelC where we went], the food was
excellent.’
e. Aquele porteiro [RelC que (= st. a quem/ao qual) você perguntou o
endereço] não sabia nada.
‘That doorman [RelC whom you asked about the address] didn’t
know anything.’
4.12 The subjunctive
For a speaker of English, which does not have the subjunctive as a fully char-
acterized tense, the mandatory choice between indicative and subjunctive in a
Romance language can be a real challenge. What is called the subjunctive in
English is not a verb tense with its own forms, but rather a syntactic construction
(McArthur 1992:997) that survives primarily in formal usage, with the infini-
tive (the citation form of the verb), as in I require that the witness take (rather
than takes) the stand now, which contrasts with, say, I know that the witness
takes the stand whenever necessary. Likewise, in the past, the infinitive would
also be used, as in Her lawyers insisted that she take (as opposed to took) the
Fifth Amendment. In if-clauses with the verb to be, the subjunctive construction
appears, again in formal style, as were: If I were rich, she’d be my wife; but if
she were my wife, I’d be poor. In colloquial usage the regular past form is used:
If I was rich; if she was my wife.
In contrast, Portuguese has six full subjunctive tenses contrasting with the
indicative’s nine (Table 4.3). The subjunctive occurs primarily in subordinate
clauses, where it is governed by an element present in the matrix. Since the
nuancesexpressedbythesubjunctivewouldrequireawholevolume,thissection
will be limited to an overview of its main uses.
4.12.1 The subjunctive in nominal clauses
In sentences like those in 94a–94e, the subjunctive may be explained by the
presence in the matrix of a verb (94a), noun (94b), or adjective (94c) that signals
4.12 The subjunctive 135
Table 4.3 Indicative and subjunctive tenses contrasted
Indicative Subjunctive
present falam present falem
present perfect têm falado present perfect tenham falado
future falarão future falarem
future perfect terão falado future perfect tiverem falado
imperfect falavam
preterit falaram past falassem
conditional falariam
pluperfect falaram/tinham falado past perfect tivessem falado
conditional perfect teriam falado
either some sort of command or request, or a subjective evaluation (94d–94e)
regarding what is expressed by the verb in the subordinate clause.
(94) a. Quero [NomC que você venha amanhã].
‘I want [NomC you to come tomorrow].’
b. Minha preferência é [NomC que ele trabalhe até as oito].
‘My preference is [NomC that he should work till eight].’
c. É preferı́vel [NomC que a reunião não comece tarde].
‘It’s preferable [NomC that the meeting should not begin late].’
d. Lamento [NomC que você não possa vir].
‘I regret [NomC that you cannot come].’
e. É uma pena [NomC que esse acidente tenha acontecido].
‘It’s a shame [NomC that that accident has happened].’
By contrast, in 95a–95c the verb, noun, or adjective in the main clause simply
conveys the assumption that what comes in the subordinate clause is factual,
and so the indicative is used.
(95) a. Sei [NomC que você vem amanhã].
‘I know [NomC you are coming tomorrow].’
b. A informação é [NomC que ele trabalha até as oito].
‘The information is [NomC that he works till eight].’
c. É sabido [NomC que as reuniões não começam tarde].
‘It is known [NomC that the meetings do not begin late].’
Exhortative sentences have a subjunctive form introduced by que as in
96a–96c, and may be considered subordinate to a deleted main sentence con-
taining a volition verb, that is, one expressing a wish or desire:
(96) a. Os outros [NomC que se ocupem disso].
‘Let the others [NomC take care of that].’
136 4 Sentences
b. Eles [NomC que se danem!]
‘Let them [NomC be damned!]’
c. Eu não comi nada, quem comeu [NomC que pague].
‘I didn’t eat anything, [NomC whoever ate, let them pay].’
After deletion of the matrix, the subject may be moved to a position before
que or altogether deleted, as in 97:
(97) Eu quero que eles se danem → que eles se danem →
eles que se danem → que se danem.
Such sentences commonly occur in exchanges like 98a–98b, where the
volition verb present in the question is understood in the reply.
(98) a. – Quer alguma coisa de Miami?
‘Do you want (me to bring you) something from Miami?
b. – Muito obrigado, só [NomC que faça boa viagem].
‘(No) thank you, only [NomC that you have a good trip].’
An element of doubt or denial, or a subjective attitude or evaluation expressed
in the main clause, likewise determine the subjunctive in the subordinate clause.
Doubt may be conveyed by a verb such as duvidar ‘to doubt,’ negar ‘to deny,’
or by a negative construction such as não crer ‘not to believe,’ não acreditar
‘not to believe,’ or by impersonal constructions with ser followed by a noun or
adjective such as possı́vel, impossı́vel, duvidoso, and so on, as shown in 99:
(99) a. Duvidavam [NomC que o Lula ganhasse a eleição].
‘They doubted [NomC Lula would win the election].’
b. É duvidoso [NomC que ela chegue na hora].
‘It is doubtful [NomC that she will arrive on time].’
In the sentence pairs in 100 and 101 the sentence with the subjunctive (b)
reflects an element of doubt that is absent from the corresponding sentence with
the indicative (a).
(100) Q.: A Gabriela vem trabalhar amanhã?
‘Is Gabriela coming to work tomorrow?’
A.: a. Eu imagino [NomC que ela vem, sim].
‘I guess [NomC she is].’
b. Eu imagino [NomC que ela venha, sim].
‘I guess [NomC she may].’
(101) Q.: A Gabriela vem trabalhar amanhã?
‘Is Gabriela coming to work tomorrow?’
a. Acredito [NomC que ela vem, sim].
‘I believe [NomC she is].’
4.12 The subjunctive 137
b. Acredito [NomC que ela venha, sim].
‘I believe [NomC she may].’
Subjective evaluations, in turn, may be expressed by a verb like agradar ‘to
please,’ gostar ‘to like,’ adorar ‘to be very fond of,’ lamentar ‘to regret,’ or an
impersonal construction made up of ser and an adjective or noun, as in (102):
(102) a. Não me agrada [NomC que ela chegue tão tarde].
‘I am not pleased [NomC that she should arrive so late].’
b. Lamento [NomC que ele tenha falecido tão jovem].
‘I regret [NomC that he passed away so young].’
c. É pena que [NomC ele não fale inglês].
‘It’s a shame [NomC he does not speak English].’
4.12.2 The subjunctive in relative clauses
The key factor in choice between the indicative and the subjunctive is the
speaker’s assumptions about the relative pronoun’s antecedent in the matrix
clause (Table 4.2). The indicative suggests an antecedent perceived as actual
and specific, as in 103a. If that antecedent is viewed as a hypothetical entity,
however, the verb will be in the subjunctive 103b:
(103) a. Eu quero comprar a moto [RelC que foi anunciada no jornal
de ontem].
‘I want to buy the motorcycle [RelC that was advertised in
yesterday’s paper].’
b. Eu quero comprar uma moto [RelC que tenha pouca
quilometragem].
‘I want to buy a motorcycle [RelC that has low mileage].’
c. Eu quero comprar uma moto [RelC que foi anunciada no jornal
de ontem].
‘I want to buy a motorcycle [RelC that was advertised in
yesterday’s paper].’
d. Eu quero comprar a moto perfeita, [RelC que gaste pouca gasolina
e não exija manutenção].
‘I want to buy the perfect motorcycle [RelC that would use little gas
and require no maintenance].’
Since nouns referring to known entities are often introduced by the definite
article, we may assume that use of the definite article a in sentence 103a implies
a definite motorcycle. Not so in 103b, where the subjunctive tenha suggests that
no specific motorcycle with low mileage is known to exist, even though there
is nothing improbable about its existence. In 103c cooccurence of an indefinite
article (uma moto) and an indicative form (tem) suggests the speaker is aware
138 4 Sentences
of a specific motorcycle, which may simply be out of sight at the moment of the
utterance. In 103d, finally, the definite article suggests a specific entity, but its
cooccurrence with the subjunctive suggests it is hypothetical – for example, an
ideal motorcycle that the speaker knows has yet to be made. These possibilities
may be described by means of two variables, definite and hypothetical, to which
we assign positive or negative valences, yielding four combinations:
+ Hypothetical – Hypothetical
+ definite Ainda estou por conhecer a
sogra que trate bem o
genro.
Finalmente conheci a
sogra que trata bem o
genro.
‘I have yet to meet the
mother-in-law who
would treat her
son-in-law nicely.’
‘Finally I have met the
mother-in-law who
treats her son-in-law
nicely.’
− definite Quero conhecer uma sogra
que trate bem o genro.
Quero te apresentar uma
sogra que trata bem o
genro.
‘I want to meet a
mother-in-law who who
treats her son-in-law
nicely.’
‘I want you to meet a
mother-in-law who
treats her son-in-law
nicely.’
4.12.3 The subjunctive in adverbial clauses
Subordinate adverbial clauses are introduced by conjunctions that fall into three
large classes (Table 4.4), depending on whether the verb of the adverbial clause
is (a) in the indicative, (b) or in the subjunctive, or (c) either in the indicative
or the subjunctive.
With conjunctions in group (1), which introduce clauses that carry an assump-
tion of reality (104a–104c), there is no choice and therefore no contrast in mood.
(104) a. O chefe cortou as diárias [AdvC porque ninguém mais vai viajar].
‘The boss has cut the perdiem [AdvC because nobody is going to
travel anymore].’
b. [AdvC Visto que você não veio], nós cancelamos a reunião.
‘[AdvC Since you didn’t show up], we canceled the meeting.
c. [AdvC Já que ia ter inspeção] a gente teve que limpar o alojamento.
‘[AdvC Since there was going to be an inspection] we had to clean
the lodging.’
Likewise, conjunctions in group (2) introduce adverbial clauses that con-
vey something contrary to fact or hypothetical, or describe a future, yet to be
4.12 The subjunctive 139
Table 4.4 Conjunctions introducing subordinate adverbial clauses
(After Perini 2002a)
(1) Conjunctions that
introduce an adverbial case
with the verb always in the
indicative
(2) Conjunctions that
introduce an adverbial case
with the verb always in the
subjunctive
(3) Conjunctions that
introduce an adverbial case
with the verb in either the
indicative or the subjunctive
assim como ‘just so as’ a não ser que, a menos que
‘unless’
quando ‘when’
dado que ‘given that’
ainda que ‘although’
depois que ‘after’
já que ‘since’
antes que ‘before’
enquanto ‘while’
porque ‘because’
caso, em caso de que ‘in case’
logo que ‘as soon as’
visto que ‘given that’
contanto que ‘as long as,
provided that’
quanto mais . . . mais ‘the
more . . . the more’
embora ‘although’
sempre que ‘as long as,’
‘whenever’
mesmo que ‘even if’
nem que ‘not even if’
para que ‘so that, in order to’
sem que ‘unless’
fulfilled, event. There is no contrast, since the verb is always in the subjunctive,
as in (105a)–(105c).
(105) a. Não faço isso [AdvC nem que me paguem].
‘I don’t do that [AdvC even if they pay me].’
b. Trabalhou cinco meses [AdvC sem que lhe pagassem nada].
‘He worked for five months [AdvC without them paying him
anything].’
c. Eu trabalho [AdvC para que me paguem].
‘I work [AdvC so they’ll pay me].’
Finally, adverbial clauses introduced by conjunctions of group (3) may have
the verb either in the indicative or in the subjunctive. Mood choice here corre-
sponds to whether the event in the adverbial clause is perceived by the speaker
as fulfilled (indicative) or as yet to be fulfilled, either because it is non-factual
or because it is still in the future (subjunctive).
The prototypical conjunction case is the temporal conjunction quando (106a–
106h):
(106) a. Vamos jantar [AdvC quando vocês chegarem].
We’ll have dinner [AdvC when you arrive].’
b. Vou fazer o café [AdvC tão logo ela saia do banheiro].
‘I’ll make coffee [AdvC as soon as she gets out of the bathroom].’
140 4 Sentences
c. A gente põe o vı́deo [AdvC assim que eles chegarem].
‘We’ll start on the video [AdvC as soon as they arrive].’
d. Eu vou fazer isso [Adv desde que vocês não me chateiem].
‘I’ll do that [AdvC as long as you don’t bug me].’
e. Eu entrego o dinheiro [Adv desde que vocês me dêem um recibo].
‘I’ll hand in the money [AdvC as long as you give me a receipt].’
f. Eu entreguei o dinheiro, [Adv desde que eles me deram um recibo.]
‘I handed in the money, [AdvC because they gave me a receipt].’
g. Eu entreguei um recibo [Adv depois que me deram o dinheiro].
‘I handed in a receipt [Adv after they gave me the money].’
h. Eu só vou entregar o dinheiro [AdvC depois que me derem um
recibo].
‘I’m only going to hand in the money [AdvC after they give me a
receipt].’
4.12.4 The subjunctive with se in contrary-to-fact adverbial clauses
Adverbial clauses introduced by the conjunction se imply a condition. A verb
in the indicative signals the assumption that the condition has been fulfilled.
(107) a. [AdvC Se você tem carro], não vai ficar sozinho.
‘[AdvC If you have a car], you won’t lack for company.’
b. [AdvC Se ela conhece esse software], vai conseguir emprego fácil.
‘[AdvC If she knows that software], she’ll get a job easily.’
c. Meu filho, [AdvC se você tem fé], não vai ter problema.
‘My son [AdvC, if you have faith], there won’t be any problem.’
In contrast, a verb in the subjunctive signals an unfulfilled condition. This
may be a permanent situation, as in the case of a past event calling for the
verb in the past subjunctive (108a–108b). In 108c–108d the verb in the future
subjunctive signals a condition that may yet be fulfilled.
(108) a. [AdvC Se você tivesse trazido o passaporte], a gente podia ir a
Tijuana.
‘[AdvC If you had brought your passport] we’d be able to go to
Tijuana.’
b. Ele ainda teria o emprego [AdvC se não falasse tanto].
‘He’d still have the job [AdvC if he didn’t talk so much].’
c. [AdvC Se a gente quiser ir à ópera], temos que comprar as
entradas logo.
‘[AdvC If we want to go to the opera] we have to buy the tickets
soon.’
d. A gente pode cuidar disso [AdvC quando vocês chegarem].
‘We can take care of that [AdvC when you arrive].’
4.13 The inflected infinitive 141
4.12.5 The subjunctive in independent clauses
Subjunctive forms in independent (that is, non-subordinated) sentences (109a–
109b) are limited to a handful of formulaic constructions in which the verb is
preceded by specific words such as talvez ‘maybe,’ tomara que ‘let’s hope that’
(a lexicalized◦
form of tomar ‘to take’), quiçá ‘maybe’ (related to an old form
of quem sabe ‘who knows’), or oxalá ‘let’s hope that’ (from Ar wa xa illah ‘and
may God wish’). Talvez has the particularity of taking the subjunctive when it
comes before the verb as in 109a, and the indicative when it comes after the
verb (Ele chega hoje talvez ‘Maybe he’ll arrive today’), without any noticeable
change in meaning.
(109) a. Talvez ele chegue hoje. ‘Maybe he’ll arrive today.’
b. Oxalá ela tenha êxito. ‘Let’s hope she’ll be successful.’
c. Quiçá ele seja de Minas. ‘Maybe he’s from Minas.’
c. Tomara que chova! ‘Let’s hope it rains!’
4.13 The inflected infinitive
Inflection of the infinitive for subject and number (3.5.2) is an idiosyncrasy of
Portuguese, and its use is fraught with uncertainty (Cunha and Cintra 1985:473).
In BP it is far more used in writing and in formal, monitored speech than
in unmonitored speech, where its frequency is rather low. Perhaps because
of that it has been suggested (Martin 1976) that speakers of BP who learn
the inflected infinitive do so through formal instruction rather than natural
aquisition.
The only forms that show inflection are those for tu, vós, nós, and eles/vocês.
Since however in BP vós is no longer used, tu is used only regionally, and nós
tends to be replaced by a gente in informal speech (Freitas 1995), most actual
cases of the inflected infinitive naturally belong to vocês/eles. In EP, where tu
and nós are regularly used, one would expect a higher incidence of inflected
infinitive forms.
Even so, data from spontaneous speech are scarce, and consequently the
phenomenon is far from being fully understood and linguists underscore the
provisionality of their claims (Perini 1997:7, 1998:200). This brief presentation
concentrates on the essentials and follows the main lines of the analysis given
in Perini (1998, 2000a).
In 110a–110d the inflected infinitive occurs in a sentence that serves as a
complement to another sentence, to which it is connected by a preposition. A
key factor here is whether or not an overt subject is associated with the verb in
the infinitive, which is inflected if its overt subject is different from the subject
of the other sentence, as in 110a–110b. If there is no overt subject, inflection
occurs if the subjects are different, as in 110c, and it is optional if the subject is
the same, as in 110d.
142 4 Sentences
(110) a. [A Dora deixou umas revistas] [para nós lermos].
‘[Dora left some magazines] [for us to read].’
b. [Eu vou fazer umas pipocas] [para vocês comerem].
‘[I’m going to make some popcorn] [for you to eat].’
c. [Comprei uma garrafa de vinho] [para bebermos hoje de noite].
‘[I have bought a bottle of wine] [for us to drink tonight].’
d. [Vamos comprar uma garrafa de vinho] [para beber/bebermos
hoje de noite.]
‘[Let’s buy a bottle of wine] [for us to drink tonight].’
If the infinitive in a construction like 110c is not inflected, the resulting
sentence is grammatical, but it may mean something else, as in 111:
(111) Comprei uma garrafa de vinho para beber hoje de noite.
‘I bought a bottle of wine to drink tonight.’
To understand how the inflected subjunctive is bypassed, as it were, in spoken
BP, compare the sentences in 110 with their homologues in 112a–112d:
(112) a. A Dora deixou umas revistas para a gente ler.
‘Dora left some magazines for us to read.’
b. Eu vou fazer umas pipocas para vocês comer.
‘I’m going to make some popcorn for you to eat.’
c. Comprei uma garrafa de vinho para a gente beber hoje de noite.
‘I have bought a bottle of wine for us to drink tonight.’
d. Vamos comprar uma garrafa de vinho para beber hoje de noite.
‘Let’s buy a bottle of wine for (us) to drink tonight.’
The inflected infinitive also occurs when the first sentence includes a verb of
perception or suasion:
Verbs of perception Verbs of suasion
ver ‘to see’ mandar ‘to command’
ouvir ‘to hear, to listen’ ordenar ‘to order’
escutar ‘to hear, to listen’ fazer ‘to make [someone do something]’
observar ‘to watch’ deixar ‘to let’
(113) a. Ontem eu vi Madalena dançar.
‘Yesterday I saw Madalena dance.’
b. Ontem eu a vi dançar.
‘Yesterday I saw her dance.’
c. Ontem eu vi as Roquetes dançar.
‘Yesterday I saw the Rockettes dance.’
d. Ontem eu vi as Roquetes dançarem.
‘Yesterday I saw the Rockettes dance.’
4.14 Information distribution and word order 143
In 113a Madalena is perceived as being both the actor/subject of dançar
and the patient/direct object of vi, which is why Madalena may be replaced by
a direct object clitic, as in 113b. If we replace Madalena with a plural noun
phrase, then the infinitive may be inflected or not, as in 113c–113d. This means
that in constructions involving a verb of perception followed by a noun phrase
and an infinitive, the infinitive may or may not agree with the noun phrase.
The situation is made a little more complex because not every native speaker
agrees that sentences like 114b can have an inflected infinitive if the clitic is in
the plural:
(114) Q. – Você já viu as Roquetes dançarem?
‘Have you seen the Rockettes dance.’
A. a. – Eu já as vi cantar, mas não dançar.
b. – Eu já as vi?*
cantarem, mas não?*
dançarem.
‘I’ve seen them sing, but not dance.’
With verbs of suasion, the infinitive may likewise be inflected to agree with
the subject noun phrase, as in 115b. In spoken BP, where ele(s) is regularly
used as a direct object (7.3.2), either agreement or non-agreement is possible,
as in 116a–116b:
(115) a. Eu mandei os meninos fazer umas compras.
‘I sent the boys out to buy a few things.’
b. Eu mandei os meninos fazerem umas compras.
‘I sent the boys out to buy a few things.’
(116) a. Eu sempre deixo eles brincar na rua.
‘I always let them play on the street.’
b. Eu deixo elas irem a tudo quanto é baile.
‘I let them go to all kinds of dances.’
4.14 Information distribution and word order
We have seen (4.1.2) that the order of words within a sentence constituent
obeys certain constraints. In a noun phrase, articles come before possessives
and nouns, not after (a minha bicicleta, not *
minha a bicicleta, nor *
minha
bicicleta a). In a verb phrase the auxiliaries precede rather than follow the main
verb (tinha falado, not *
falado tinha), and so on. On the other hand, where word
order may vary, sentence constituents are distributed in information bundles so
as to facilitate comprehension.
The generic or unmarked order of a Portuguese sentence is subject +
verb + object (SVO). The subject is the head noun phrase (NP), and the verb
(V), together with the object (NP) and other complements (such as preposi-
tional phrases and adverbial phrases, if any) constitute the predicate. In the
sequence NP1 VP NP2 the relative ordering of the noun phrases reflects the
144 4 Sentences
unmarked order SVO, and consequently Paulo viu Maria and Maria viu Paulo
mean different things. Adding a prepositional phrase like de manhã, which has
an adverbial function of time, makes possible other arrangements such as Paulo
viu Maria de manhã or De manhã Paulo viu Maria.
Variation in word order modifies the distribution of information by focusing
on one component or another. Although the decision regarding which element
is informationally more important is the speaker’s and cannot be predicted,
we can analyze word order in terms of processes that distribute information in
different sentence patterns.
A key notion is topic◦
, defined as the constituent that tells us what the sentence
is all about. What lies outside the topic constitutes the commentary.◦
In the
unmarked order SVO, the subject usually corresponds to the topic, while the
predicate (again formed by the verb, objects, and complements) constitutes
the commentary. Placed at the beginning of the sentence, the topic provides a
background for the main information; the latter, being placed toward the end,
is likely to remain more vividly in the listener’s memory.
A productive process for varying word order consists in inverting the terms
of the unmarked order. Example 117a is an ordinary sentence of the type SV,
which if given as a reply to a question like E a Selma? ‘What about Selma?’
simply conveys information about the subject; the latter, having already been
mentioned, carries old information. In 117b the verb chegou provides a back-
ground for the new information contained in Selma; this sentence might be
uttered as a reply to Quem chegou? ‘Who has arrived?’ and the information
focus is on Selma. This displacement of a component to topic position is known
as topicalization.◦
(117) a. A Selma chegou. ‘Selma has arrived.’
b. Chegou a Selma. ‘Selma has arrived.’
The passive construction allows topicalization◦
of the semantic patient by
making it the subject and placing it at the beginning of the sentence. In sen-
tence 118a, the information focus is on what City Hall did, namely to sponsor
a parade by a samba club named Morro Branco (‘White Hill’). In 118b pas-
sivization topicalizes the reference to the parade, placing the information focus
on the new information regarding who did the sponsoring, which constitutes
the commentary.
(118) a. A Prefeitura patrocinou o desfile da Morro Branco.
‘City Hall sponsored the Morro Branco parade.’
b. O desfile da Morro Branco foi patrocinado pela Prefeitura.
‘The Morro Branco parade was sponsored by City Hall.’
There are other processes for moving sentence constituents around. The
unmarked SVO distribution of sentence 119a is an unexceptional statement,
4.14 Information distribution and word order 145
but the speaker can choose to create an emphatic sentence by using a syntactic
device known as left-dislocation. This process shifts the element to be focused
on to the leftmost position, yielding 119b, where the reference to na minha casa
‘at my home’ becomes a backdrop to the statement eu mando ‘I give orders.’ If
subject–verb inversion is also applied, we have sentence 119c, with information
focus on eu, highlighting who gives orders, against the background of where
order-giving takes place.
(119) a. Eu mando na minha casa. ‘I give orders in my home.’
b. Na minha casa, eu mando. ‘In my home, I give orders.’
c. Na minha casa, mando eu. ‘In my home, I give orders.’
Likewise, given an unmarked word order such as in 120a, we may use left-
dislocation to topicalize amanhã, placing it at the head of the sentence, as in
120b where the notion of car-buying appears as a commentary on what will
happen tomorrow. Since the speaker is free to choose what will be topicalized,
other arrangements are possible.
(120) a. Eu vou comprar aquele carro amanhã.
‘I’m going to buy that car tomorrow.’
b. Amanhã eu vou comprar aquele carro.
‘Tomorrow I’m going to buy that car.’
Yet another way topicalization operates is by cleft sentences (121), which are
created by placing the topicalized element in the main clause as the subject of a
form of the verb ser. The main clause then becomes the matrix of a subordinate
clause introduced by a relative pronoun such as que. (As shown in 121c, quem is
possible if the antecedent is human.) In 121d topicalization affects the adverbial
amanhã, possibly to underscore the speaker’s decision to stop putting off buying
the car. As in the preceding sentences, a cleft sentence switches amanhã to
topicalized position:
(121) a. Foi esse povinho que invadiu a fazenda.
‘It was that riff-raff who invaded the farm.’
b. Fui eu que pus os convites no correio.
‘It was I who mailed the invitations.’
c. Foi ela quem trouxe essas revistas.
‘It was she who brought these magazines.’
d. É amanhã que eu vou comprar aquele carro.
‘Tomorrow is when I’m going to buy that car.’
A similar construction, called pseudo-cleft sentence (122a–122c), uses a
relative pronoun without an antecedent (such as quem or o que) to place the
146 4 Sentences
topicalized element at the end of the sentence, again as the subject of a form of
the verb ser:
(122) a. Quem invadiu a fazenda foi aquele povinho.
‘(The people) who invaded the farm were that riff-raff.’
b. Quem pôs os convites no correio fui eu.
‘(The person) who mailed the invitations was I.’
c. O que eu vou comprar amanhã é aquele carro.
‘What I’m going to buy tomorrow is that car.’
In the preceding sections we have simply touched upon the essentials of high-
frequency syntactic constructions which learners are likely to encounter. Since
developing a feel for sentence construction is one of a language learner’s most
important skills, it is recommended that learners use this chapter as a blueprint
for identifying and analyzing sentences found in speech and writing, with a
view to understanding different ways in which it can be modified.
5 Portuguese in time
In Chapter 1 we glanced at the external history of Portuguese, and in Chapters 2
through 4 we examined aspects of its sounds, word forms, and the structure of
phrases and sentences. In doing this we followed a synchronic◦
perspective,
looking at the language in its contemporary state, without taking into account
historical factors, as though the language were fixed in time.
As time goes by, however, every language undergoes a variety of diachronic◦
processes that substantially affect all of its components and which constitute its
internal history. Such modifications affect sounds (phonetic and phonological
change), the shape of words (morphological change), the structure of phrases
and sentences (syntactic change), the make-up of the lexicon (lexical change),
and the meaning of words (semantic change). Given enough centuries, a
language can be changed into a substantially different one. In this chapter
we will consider some of the diachronic processes responsible for transforming
popular spoken Latin into Portuguese.
5.1 The Latin source
Although it is difficult to observe diachronic processes directly, we have suf-
ficient data about Latin and early forms of Romance, provided by ancient
manuscripts, inscriptions, and grammarians’ comments about the language.
By comparing such information with data from today’s Romance languages,
we can make reasonable conjectures about what happened. A major obstacle,
however, is that understanding those processes requires a knowledge of Latin,
which most students nowadays lack. Consequently, we will only sketch a few
of the major processes involved in the development of Portuguese, and com-
plement our diachronic view with samples of earlier stages of the language, in
order to give a panoramic notion of how it grew.
In the heyday of the Roman Empire, the speech of the cultivated patrician
minority, on which literary, or classical, Latin was based, was a highly inflected
language. Its nouns, adjectives, and determinants were distinguished by case◦
endings which varied to show syntactic function. Nouns were organized into
five classes known as declensions◦
, each of which had six case endings for
147
148 5 Portuguese in time
the singular and another six for the plural. Despite considerable overlapping,
there were enough case endings to ensure that a noun’s syntactic function was
specified. Accompanying words such as adjectives and determinants, as well
as pronouns, were likewise marked by case endings.
There was also enough social variation in Latin to differentiate the educated
elite’s sermo urbanus, or ‘city speech’ (from Lat sermo ‘speech’ and urbs
‘town’) from the rural dwellers’ sermo rusticus or ‘country speech’ (from Lat
rus ‘country’) and from the lower classes’ sermo vulgaris or ‘popular speech’
(from Lat vulgus ‘common people,’ not “vulgar” in today’s sense of ‘in poor
taste, obscene’). In this popular Latin, spoken by the majority of the population,
the inflection system tended to be simplified. As case endings were merged or
dropped, two compensatory devices became indicators of syntactic function.
One involved more extensive use of prepositions; the other was a more fixed
word order. As in Portuguese or English today, popular speech also used many
words not found in literary works, although many have survived in graffiti (see
below). Likewise, literature employed many terms that were not used in the
spoken language. Today’s Romance languages grew out of this popular variety,
traditionally known as “Vulgar Latin,” about which we have information from
a variety of sources, to wit:
– Inscriptions on monuments, tombs, and ruins found all over the territory once
occupied by the Roman Empire.
– Graffiti,likethosefoundintheexcavatedtownsofPompeiiandHerculaneum,
buried by a volcanic eruption of Mount Vesuvius in the year 79 AD (Väänänen
1966, 1981).
– The pronunciation of some Latin words incorporated in other languages.
– The representation of the speech of rustic characters in popular works such
as Plautus’ comedies or Gaius Petronius’ Cena Trimalchionis (‘Trimalchio’s
Supper’), written ca. 61 AD.
– The language of personal letters and non-literary works of a practical nature,
such as medical, cooking, agricultural, and architectural treatises.
– Popular works on religious themes like the Peregrinatio ad loca sancta (‘Pil-
grimage to the Holy Places’), attributed to Egeria, a nun from the north of
the Iberian Peninsula in the early fifth century.
– Didactic comments by Latin grammarians criticizing features of popular
speech, such as the Appendix Probi, or ‘Probus’ Appendix,’ a list of 227 word
pairs comparing forms considered correct with their supposedly incorrect
popular counterparts. It deserves special mention.
Compiled anonymously, likely in the third century AD, the Appendix owes
its name to having been found attached to a copy of a manuscript attributed to
Marcus Valerius Probus, a Roman grammarian of the first century AD (Probi is
the form of the genitive, or possessive, case, corresponding to Eng Probus’s.)
Long thought to have been written in the third century AD, its compilation is
5.2 Sound change 149
now dated after AD 568. In spirit as well as in form, the Appendix has much
in common with the lists of the type “say it like this, not like that” found in
newspaper and magazine columns purporting to teach readers to talk genteel.
Ironically, the forms it criticizes include features of popular Latin that became
the basis of the corresponding forms in the Romance languages, as can be
seen in the following sample, where bracketed numbers are those provided by
Väänänen (1981:200–203):
(a) replacement of e by i (probably a palatal glide /j/):
[55] vinea non vinia ‘vine’
[80] solea non solia ‘a kind of sandal’
[72] lancea non lancia ‘lance’
[63] cavea non cavia ‘cage’
(b) loss of an unstressed vowel:
[11] oculus non oclus ‘eye’
[142] stabulum non stablum ‘stable’
[130] tabula non tabla ‘board’
[201] viridis non virdis ‘green’
(c) loss of a consonant or a syllable:
[155] auctoritas non autoritas ‘authority’
[154] auctor non autor ‘writer’
[221] vobiscum non voscum ‘with you (pl.)’
[220] nobiscum non noscum ‘with us’
[224] olim non oli ‘formerly’
[152] tensa non tesa ‘wagon for transporting images of gods to public
spectacles’
By the early ninth century, however, unmistakably Romance words were
appearing in documents written in notarial Latin, bearing evidence of a new
popular speech that differed widely from the school-learned Latin of the lit-
erate classes (copyists, writers, translators, notaries); and by the middle of the
eleventh century an anonymous hand was making the first deliberate record
in a Hispanic Romance language, in the form of glosses written into a Latin
manuscript at the monastery of San Millán de la Cogolla in Rioja, Spain.
5.2 Sound change
The primary motor of language change is sound change. It involves complex
processes largely arising from a widespread tendency to relax the articulation of
some speech sounds, and to compensate for this by exaggerating the articulation
of others. Sound change begins with minor variations in pronunciation like those
150 5 Portuguese in time
that characterize regional accents◦
. Eventually, it affects the contrasts between
phonemes, thus leading to changes in the phonological system.
Phonological change happens when one phoneme coalesces with another,
or splits into two new ones, or simply is lost altogether. Such rearrangements
often induce modifications in the morphology of words, affecting morphemes
that signal syntactic relations. This is what happened to Latin case endings.
Since sound changes take place over a period of time and then cease to oper-
ate, a detailed study of a language’s development would require taking into
account the relative chronology of intervening processes. Given its generic aim,
however, our presentation will be limited to examining some of the processes
that occurred in the formation of Portuguese, without regard to their absolute
chronology.
5.2.1 Kinds of sound change
Changes induced by a neighboring sound are called conditioned. Such changes
may involve simple modifications of a phonetic nature. For example, voiceless
consonants may become voiced in intervocalic (between vowels) position, pos-
sibly due to their assimilation to the vowels, which are voiced. In the examples
below, the Latin phonemes /p/, /t/, and /k/ (represented in spelling by the small
capitals p, t, k) became voiced as /b/, /d/, /g/ in intervocalic position in Portu-
guese as in Spanish, though not in Italian. The forms are cited, unless otherwise
indicated, in the accusative◦
singular, which ended in /m/; the case ending -m is
placed in parentheses as a reminder that it was generally lost in popular Latin.
Latin Portuguese Spanish Italian
lupu(m) lobo lobo lupo ‘wolf’
sapone(m) sabão jabón sapone ‘soap’
pratu(m) prado prado prato ‘field’
passatu(m) passado pasado passato ‘past’
amicu(m) amigo amigo amico ‘friend’
Conditioned change was also involved in the nasalization of vowels by assim-
ilation to a following nasal consonant, which was in turn lost after nasalization.
Thus Portuguese ended up with a set of nasal vowels before syllable-final con-
sonants and in word-final position. In the examples in the right-hand column,
the original word-final vowel was fused with the preceding nasal vowel:
Before syllable-final consonants In word-final position
tantu(m) > tanto [tãtu] ‘so much’ bonu(m) > bõo > bom [bõ] ‘good’
campu(m) > campo [kãpu] ‘field’ rana(m) > rãa > rã [rã] ‘frog’
cantare > cantar [kãtaɾ] ‘to sing’ lana(m) e lãa > lã [lã] ‘wool’
5.2 Sound change 151
Table 5.1 Latin stressed vowels and diphthongs and their result in Portuguese
Class. Lat Pop. Lat Pg Class. Lat Pop. Lat Pg
/i:/ vitam vita vida /a/ latum latu lado
/i/ pilum pelo pelo /o/ porta porta porta
/e:/ tres tres três /o:/ famosum famosu famoso
/e/ petram petra pedra /u/ bucca boca boca
/a:/ pacem paz paz /u:/ acutu acutu agudo
/aj/ caesar Cesar César /oj/ poena cena cena
/aw/ aurum auru o(u)ro
Changes that cannot be ascribed to specific factors in the phonetic envi-
ronment are said to be unconditioned. A major unconditioned sound change
in the popular Latin of the Iberian Peninsula was the loss of duration as a
phonological contrast. Classical Latin distinguished between short (single)
and long (double) consonants. Loss of this distinction caused double conso-
nants to became short, that is, single in Portuguese. Since voiceless consonants
derived from Latin double consonants remained voiceless, we can assume that
voicing process was no longer operative by the time double consonants were
shortened:
cuppa > copa ‘cup’ cappa > capa ‘cloak’
littera > letra ‘letter’ gutta > gota ‘drop’
bucca > boca ‘mouth’ vacca > vaca ‘cow’
Loss of duration also affected the vowels. Classical Latin had five long vow-
els, ā ē ı̄ōū (phonetically [a: e: i: o: u:]) that contrasted with five short ones,
represented as ă ĕ ı̆ŏŭ ([a e i o u]). (The superscript signs ¯ and ˘, used to show
long and short vowels respectively, are a relatively modern invention.) As the
long vs. short distinction gave way to a contrast involving vowel quality, some
vowels merged with others while others simply changed quality. Vowel dura-
tion, no longer signaling a phonological contrast, became a function of word
stress: all stressed vowels became long and unstressed vowels became short.
The result of such changes in the speech of Galicia was a system of seven vowels
in stressed position that has persisted in contemporary Galician and Portuguese
(Table 5.1).
Classical Latin also had three diphthongs, æ /aj/, œ /oj/, and au /aw/. The
first two were reduced to simple vowels in popular Latin, as in æ /aj/ > /ε/
cesar > César, œ /oj/ > /e/ poena > pena ‘punishment’; au /aw/ yielded
/ow/, as in auru > ouro ‘gold,’ and in the sixteenth century this diphthong,
too, was monophthongizedo
(/ow/ > /o/) in the south of Portugal, although the
diphthongized pronunciation is preserved in northern regions.
152 5 Portuguese in time
A major result of sound change was that popular Latin lost meaning-bearing
contrasts in case endings. Let us take an example from the first declension. A
noun like poeta‘poet’ assumed several forms, according to case:
nominative (subject) case: a short final /a/ poet ã ‘the poet’
genitive (possessive) case: a diphthong /aj/ poetæ ‘of the poet’
accusative (direct object) case: an /m/ poetam ‘the poet’
ablative (indirect object) case: a long /a:/ poet ā ‘to the poet’
With the loss of diphthongs and length as a distinctive factor, and the loss
of the accusative ending /m/, these contrasting forms were reduced to a single
ending in /a/, poeta. Since plural forms were also reduced to the accusative,
which ended in /s/, the resulting contrast between poeta (sg.) and poetas (pl.)
gave rise to -s as a plural marker. These changes may be summarized as
follows:
Latin (accusative form) Portuguese
Declension Singular Plural Singular Plural
1st poetam poetas poeta poetas ‘poet/s’
2nd librum libros livro livros ‘book/s’
4th lacum lacus lago lagos ‘lake/s’
3rd principem principes prı́ncipe prı́ncipes ‘prince/s’
5th seriem series série séries ‘series’
Changes in the Latin system of eleven consonants gave rise to new consonants
in Romance (Table 5.2).
5.2.2 Palatalization
Such remarkable sound changes, including the creation of new sounds, stemmed
from palatalization that a moderately detailed study of this process gives an
idea of sound change as a whole. Palatalization involves displacing the point
of articulation to an area closer to the palate. While palatalization gave rise
to no new vowels, it frequently altered their quality. The single most effective
agent of palatalization was the palatal glide /j/. This sound, which already
existed in Classical Latin, became much more common through the operation
of various processes in popular speech. The front or palatal vowels /i/ and /e/,
when unstressed and forming a hiatus (2.2.1) with a following vowel, became
palatal glides. This is the process documented in examples like lancea non
lancia found in the Appendix Probi (5.1). In other words, the presence of the
palatal vowel /i/ or the palatal glide /j/ conditioned the consonant to acquire a
palatalized articulation.
5.2 Sound change 153
Table 5.2 Comparison of Latin and Portuguese consonants
Latin Portuguese
lab- lab-
bilabial dental dental alv pal velar glottal bilabial dental dental alv palatal velar glottal
stops p b t d k g p b t d k g
fricatives f s h f v s z ʃ
laterals l l ʎ
vibrants r ɾ r
nasals m n m n 	
Such glides palatalized all immediately preceding consonants, except labi-
als /p/, /b/, and /r/. Thus the Latin alveolar lateral /l/, when followed by /j/
(written li), yielded the palatal lateral /ʎ/: filiu > filho ‘son,’ muliere
> mulher ‘woman.’ A similar trend is noticeable today in Brazilian Por-
tuguese in the casual pronunciation of nouns like familia ‘family’ (< familia)
as [famiʎɐ] or mobı́lia ‘furniture’ (< mobilia) as [mubiʎɐ] instead of
[familiɐ],[mubiliɐ].ThesamegoesforthenameJúlio(<juliu),pronounced
as [uʎu] (= julho ‘July’) instead of [uliu].
A similar merger joined the alveolar nasal /n/ to an immediately following /j/
to form the palatal nasal /	/ as in seniore > senhor ‘sir,’ vinea/vinia >
vinha ‘vine’ (vinia is listed in the Appendix Probi; see 5.1). Today this process
appears in Brazilian Portuguese, in popular pronunciations such as demonho for
st. demônio (< demonium) ‘devil’ or Antonho for Antônio. On the outcomes
of dental /t/, /d/, and velar /k/, /g/ consonants plus /j/, see below.
Another important source of the palatal glide /j/ was syllable-final velar
consonants. The velar became a palatal glide which in turn palatalized, and
merged with, immediately following consonants. Thus /gn/ became /jn/, which,
justlike/nj/,yieldedthepalatalnasal/	/,asinpugnu >punho‘fist.’Likewise,
palatalization modified the alveolar fricative /s/ followed by /j/ (written sse or
ssi), producing the palatal consonant /ʃ/, as in russeu ‘red’> roxo ‘purple’
or passione > paixão ‘passion.’
Velar consonants that became syllable-final through syncope, that is loss of
following vowels, also became palatal glides, as in oculu > /oklo/ > /ojlo/ >
olho ‘eye,’ where the sequence /jl/ gives precisely the same result as the
sequence /lj/. Palatalized velar consonants regularly palatalized preceding vow-
els when the following consonant was not affected, as in factu > /fajto/ >
feito ‘deed,’ where the open central vowel /a/ became the mid front (palatal)
vowel /e/ in contact with the following /j/. Note that in this instance the palatal
glide still exists in Portuguese. In fact, the palatal glide often palatalized both
154 5 Portuguese in time
the immediately following consonant and the preceding vowel. An example of
this is popular Lat basiu, where the glide first jumped to the preceding syllable,
i.e. /bajso/, then palatalized both the alveolar sibilant /s/ and the open central
vowel /a/, yielding beijo ‘kiss.’
The consonant clusters /pl/, /kl/, and /fl/ (written pl, cl, fl) also palatalized,
originating the palatal affricate //, source of the fricative /ʃ/, as in the set below:
plorare > chorar ‘to cry’ clave > chave ‘key’
flamma > chama ‘flame’ pluvia > chuva ‘rain’
In another set of words, however, /pl/, /kl/ and /fl/ yielded respectively /pr/,
/kr/, /fr/:
placere > prazer ‘pleasure’ clavu > cravo ‘nail’
flaccu > fraco ‘weak’ plaga > praga ‘plague’
Palatalization also affected the velar consonants /k/, /g/ in contact with fol-
lowing palatal (that is, front) vowels. This process created affricate and fricative
consonants, some of which, however, did not end up being palatal themselves.
The shift of the point of articulation of /k/ and /g/ from the velum toward the
palate went on beyond the latter to the alveolar ridge. Thus in word-initial posi-
tion /k/ before /i/ or /e/ became the voiceless dorsoalveolar affricate /ts/, as in
centu [kentu]>cento/tsentu/‘hundred.’Inintervocalicposition,justlikethe
voiceless stop consonants /p/, /t/, and /k/ (see section 5.2.1), the same affricate
/ts/ became voiced /dz/, as in placere > /pradzer/ > prazer ‘pleasure.’
It seems likely that the alveolar articulation of /ts/ and /dz/ as products of /k/
before front vowels came about through the merger of the palatalized products
of /tj/ and /kj/. In other words, both the dental /t/ and the velar /k/ before the
palatal glide /j/ yielded the same dorsoalveaolar affricates, /ts/ and /dz/, that are
the products of /k/ before front vowels, and in similar conditions. Thus fortia
/fortja/ > força ‘force,’ lancea /lankja/ > lança ‘lance,’ with voiceless /ts/,
and ratione /ratjone/ > razão ‘reason,’ with voiced /dz/.
Portuguese is exceptional among the Romance languages of the Iberian
Peninsula in that the affricate /ts/ derived from /kj/ was not normally subject
to lenition◦
: facie /fakje/ > face ‘face.’ Likewise, in intervocalic position
palatalization of /t/ before /j/ (written ti or te) also yielded either the voiceless
affricate /ts/, as in oratione > oração, pretiu > preço /pretsu/, gratia >
graça ‘grace,’ or the voiced affricate /dz/, as in ratione > razão ‘reason,’
pretiare > prezar ‘to prize.’ Another source of /ts/ was palatalization of
intervocalic /k/ (written c) before /e/ or /i/, as in placere > prazer, vices
> vezes ‘times.’
Palatalization of the voiced velar occlusive /g/ yielded consistently palatal
results. The velar occlusive /g/ became a voiced affricate /d/ in word-initial
position, or in syllable-initial position after a consonant, and this affricate /d/
5.2 Sound change 155
then lost its occlusive element, becoming the voiced fricative //, as in gingiva
> gengiva ‘gum’ or gente > gente ‘people.’ The Latin palatal glide /j/ also
became a voiced affricate, phonetically identical to the palatalized outcome of
the voiced velar /g/, not only in word-initial position but also intervocalically:
ianuariu > janeiro ‘January,’ cuiu > cujo ‘whose.’ In the latter envi-
ronment, i.e. between vowels, the development of /g/ and the voiced dental
occlusive /d/ before the palatal glide /j/ coincided with that of the original Latin
glide, thus adiutare > ajudar ‘to help.’ Unlike its voiceless counterpart /k/,
before the front vowels /i/, /e/ the voiced velar /g/ disappeared: regina >
rainha ‘queen,’ digitu > dedo ‘finger.’
In medieval Portuguese, the dorsoalveolar affricates /ts/, /tz/, resulting from
the palatalization of /k/, /kj/, and /tj/ mentioned above, contrasted with the
apicoalveolar sibilant fricatives /s/, /z/, which descended from Latin /s/. The
voiced sibilant /z/ is also a product of lenition, i.e. Latin /s/ was voiced in
intervocalic position. The four phonemes were distinguished in spelling:
Palatal affricates Apicoalveolar fricatives
/ts/ ç before a, o, u: palatiu >
paaço > paço
/s’/ s initially: sic > sim ‘yes’
c before e, i: acceptare >
aceitar ‘to accept’
-ss- intervocally: passu >
passo ‘step’
/dz/ z ∗
cocere > cozer ‘to cook’ /z’/ -s- intervocally: casa > casa
‘house’
BytheendoftheMiddleAges,theaffricates/ts/,/dz/losttheirocclusiveartic-
ulation and became the dorsoalveolar sibilant fricatives /s/, /z/, which continued
to contrast with the two apicoalveolar fricatives /s’/ and /z’/. This four-way con-
trast, based on the manner of articulation (dorsoalveolar vs. apicoalveolar) and
on the voiced/voiceless feature, was described in 1536 by Fernão de Oliveira
(2000:96–97):
Pre-dorsodental fricatives Apicoalveolar fricatives
/s/ ç before a, o, u: palatiu paço
‘palace’
/s’/ s initially: sic > sim ‘yes’
c before e, i: acceptare >
aceitar ‘to accept’
-ss- intervocally: passu >
passo ‘step’
/z/ z: ∗
cocere > cozer ‘to cook’ /z’/ -s- intervocally: casa >
casa ‘house’
By the end of the sixteenth century this four-way contrast had been simplified
in most of the country (with the exception of a small area in the northeast) into
two distinct two-way contrasts. One of these, in the area south of the Douro,
156 5 Portuguese in time
Table 5.3 Examples of palatalization of consonants
Class. Lat Changes Mod. Pg Class. Lat Changes Mod. Pg
centum /k/ > /ts/ > /s/ cento plorare /pl/ > // > /ʃ/ chorar
mulierem /lj/ > /ʎ/ mulher clamare /kl/ > // > /ʃ/ chamar
oculum /kl/ > /ʎ/ olho cognatum /gn/ > /	 / cunhado
flamam /fl/ > // > /ʃ/ chama vineam /nj/ > /	 / vinha
involved the dorsopalatals /s/ : /z/. The other, north of that river, in the Beira
region, involved the alveopalatals /s’/ : /z’/. In either case the contrast between
-ç- and -ss- became a matter of a spelling convention devoid of any relevance
to pronunciation, as the following scheme shows:
/s/ initially: c- before e, i: célebre
‘famous,’ cidade ‘town’
s-: sou ‘(I) am,’ sim ‘yes’
intervocally: -ç-: paço ‘palace,’ maça
‘mace’
-ss-: passo ‘step,’ massa
‘mass’
/z/ intervocally: -z-: cozer ‘to cook’ -s-: casa ‘house’
In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries the affricate // lost its occlu-
sive feature (Castro 1991a:258), originating the palatal fricative /ʃ/ in most
of the country, although the pronunciation [] persists to this day in conser-
vative northern dialects, as in chorar [urar ] vs. st. [ʃuraɾ] ‘to cry’ (Mota
2001:33).
5.2.3 Phoneme addition
Besides modifying one or more features of a phoneme, sound change may
involve either addition or loss of an entire phoneme. Evidence of this process
in popular Latin is provided by graffiti found in Pompeii showing that an initial
/i/, written i, tended to be added to words beginning with /s/ followed by a con-
sonant, as in Ismurna for smyrna, the name of a town, or ispose for sponsae
‘(of a) wife.’ This phonological process, known as prothesis, has continued in
Portuguese: any word-initial sequence of /s/ + consonant must be preceded by
/e/ (phonetically EP [ɐ] and BP [i]), as in statua > estátua ‘statue,’ scutu >
escudo ‘shield,’ or sphaera > esfera ‘sphere.’ This process applies regularly
to new loan words beginning in /s/ + consonant, such as standard > estândar
or stress > estresse.
Addition of a phoneme within a word is called epenthesis. For instance,
sequences of vowels in hiatus often became separated by a consonant, the
nature of which was conditioned by the phonetic features of one of those
vowels, usually the preceding one. Thus mea > mı̃a > minha ‘mine,’ where the
5.2 Sound change 157
consonant /	/ retains both the palatal articulation and the feature of nasality of
the vowel /ı̃ /. In turn, the vowel then lost its nasal articulation. In una > ũa >
uma the epenthetic consonant /m/ shows the features of nasality and labial
articulation of the preceding /u/.
A sequence of glide + vowel could also undergo epenthesis, as in lau-
dare > loare > loar > louvar [lovar] ∼ [lowvar] ‘to praise.’ In this
case the epenthetic /v/, a voiced labiodental fricative, shares the features of
voice and labial articulation with the labiovelar glide /w/. Epenthesis could also
undo a consonant group, as in the insertion of /a/ between the /b/ and /l/ in
blatta > barata ‘cockroach.’ In Brazilian Portuguese an epenthetic /i/ is
regularly inserted in consonant sequences such as -dv- or pn-, as in advogado
[adivogadu] ‘lawyer’ or pneu [pinew] ‘tire’ (7.3.1.2).
Additionofaphonemeinfinalposition,knownasparagoge,explainschanges
like ante > antes ‘before,’ possibly by analogy with depois ‘after.’ Addition
of a paragogic e [ə] or [ ] at the end of infinitives is common in European
Portuguese, as in falar > [falaɾə] ∼ [falaɾ ] ‘to talk.’
5.2.4 Phoneme loss
Phonemes may be lost in word-initial, word-medial, or word-final position.
Loss in initial position, or apheresis, occurred in words like hominaticum
> homenagem > menagem ‘house arrest’ (cf. torre de menagem ‘castle keep’),
imaginare > imaginar > dial. maginar ‘to imagine,’ or horrore > horror
> ror ‘a large amount,’ as in pop. um ror de gente ‘a lot of people.’
The last three examples also show loss of a phoneme in final position, or
apocope, as in sale > sal ‘salt,’ male > mal ‘evil’, and mense > mese
> mês ‘month.’ The loss of word-final /m/ in the accusative of nouns and
adjectives (5.3.2) and verb forms like amabam > amava ‘P1sg loved’ (5.3.4)
are also cases of apocope.
The loss of vowels in word-medial position is called syncope, and was espe-
cially frequent in unstressed syllables, whether posttonic or not. This was the
case with speculum > pop. speclu > espelho ‘mirror’ and oculum >
pop. oclu > olho ‘eye’ (as found in the Appendix Probi, 5.1) where -cl-
/kl/ palatalized and yielded /ʎ/, as mentioned earlier. Syncope of pretonic f e/
(written e) and subsequent voicing of the occlusive consonant in the resulting
intervocalic cluster produces e.g. operare > obrar ‘to work’ or superare
> sobrar ‘to be left over.’ This process also took place in word-medial position,
as in the case of intervocalic /l/ (written l), creating a hiatus, which remained as
such, as in salire > sair ‘to go out,’ or resulted in the fusion of the two iden-
tical vowels as in colore > coor > cor ‘color,’ voluntate > voontade >
vontade ‘will.’
158 5 Portuguese in time
Table 5.4 Examples of addition and loss of phonemes
Addition Loss
Word-initial position (prothesis) Word-initial position (apheresis)
statua > estátua ‘statue’ hominaticum > homenagem > menagem
‘house arrest’
stella > estrela ‘star’
apotheka > bodega ‘tavern’
sphaera > esfera ‘sphere’
Word-medial position (epenthesis) Word-medial position (syncope)
laudare > loare > loar > louvar
‘praise’
nudu > nuu > nu ‘nude’
stella > estrela ‘star’
nidu > ninho ‘nest’
regestu > registro ‘register’
speculum > pop. speclu > espelho ‘mirror’
Word-final position (paragoge) Word-final position (apocope)
ante > antes ‘before’ sale > sal ‘salt’
sunt > são ‘are’
5.3 Morphological change
Morphological change, caused in part by sound changes and in part by a simpli-
fying tendency already noticeable in popular Latin, yielded a radically different
system of determinants, nouns, adjectives, and pronouns, and profoundly mod-
ified verb conjugation.
5.3.1 Determinants
As we have seen, the class of determinants (3.3) includes articles, demonstra-
tives, and possessives. Although Classical Latin did not have a definite article,
it had a set of six fully declined demonstratives. One of the most common of
these, ille–illa–illud, developed into a definite article in popular Latin.
Thus a phrase like illa mulier, which meant ‘that woman’ in the literary
language, came to mean ‘the woman’ in popular speech.
The Portuguese definite article developed from the accusative forms
illu(m), illa(m), with loss of the first syllable il- in most cases. Thus in
pre-literary Portuguese, there were four forms of the definite article, inflected
for gender and number: lo, la, los, las. These forms were reduced to o, a, os,
as in syntactic contexts where the initial l- stood between vowels, as in de + lo
+ noun, a + las + noun. (This was the same regular deletion of /l/ that occurred
within words, as in palatiu > paaço > paço ‘palace.’) Eventually, o, a, os,
as became generalized as the only forms for the definite article.
The cardinal number unus, una ‘one’ was used in Latin to suggest indef-
initeness, as in unus cassius ‘a certain Cassius,’ and eventually became the
5.3 Morphological change 159
Table 5.5 Origin of Portuguese determinants
Articles Demonstratives Possessives
Definite
illu > OP lo >
o
∗accu1 + iste > OP aqueste >
este
meu > meu mea > OP mia >
minha
illa > OP la > a ∗accu + isse2 > OP aquesse >
esse
tuu > OP tou3 >
teu4
tua > tua
∗accu + ille > aquele suu > sou3 > seu4 sua > sua
Indefinite nostru > nosso nostra > nossa
unu > ũu > um vostru > vosso vostra > vossa
una > ũa > uma
1 Hypothetical form, from ecce, used in combination with demonstratives.
2 ipse > pop. Lat isse.
3 Dial. in N. Portugal.
4 By analogy to meu.
indefinite article unum > uu > um, and unam > ua > uma, which developed
plural forms with the meaning of ‘indefinite small number of’: uns, umas.
The Latin demonstratives iste and ipse ‘same, self’ respectively yielded
este, esse. ille was also preserved as a demonstrative, but with the addition
of the expletive adverb ∗
accu (itself a hypothetical form supposedly derived
from ad eccu), so that accu ille evolved into aquele. In medieval and early
modern Portuguese, the other two demonstratives often appeared with initial
aqu- (aqueste, aquesse), by analogy with aquele.
The derivation of Portuguese possessives from Latin ones was quite straight-
forward, with some important adjustments: teu, seu were modeled after meu <
meu(m), and the etymological nostro < nostru(m) was replaced by nosso,
which likely resulted from a hypothetical nossum. The second person plural
form vestrum of Classical Latin left no trace, since the Romance languages
presuppose the analogical form vostru(m) > vostro, which in Portuguese
yielded to vosso. As mentioned in section (5.3), the feminine possessive mea
produced minha through nasalization of the stressed vowel and subsequent
development of the nasal palatal /	/.
5.3.2 Nouns and adjectives
The paradigms of nouns and adjectives were radically simplified in popular
Latin by three developments. First, several processes of amalgamation reduced
the declensions of nouns and adjectives from five to three. Secondly, the neuter
gender disappeared as a formal category, leaving only vestiges, such as the so-
called neuter determinants isto, isso, aquilo (3.3). Finally, nouns and adjectives
160 5 Portuguese in time
lost the case inflections that indicated their syntactic functions. In consequence,
variation in gender was reduced to masculine and feminine only. In Portuguese
and other Ibero-Romance languages, noun and adjective forms descend reg-
ularly from the accusative form of Latin nouns and adjectives. As mentioned
earlier, since the accusative plural in all declensions ended in /s/, this phoneme
ended up as a plural marker, as in porta(m) ‘door’ – portas ‘doors.’
Popular Latin retained three declensions, classified according to their theme
vowel, -a, -u, or -e. Nouns in -a were mostly feminine: rosa ‘rose,’ stella
‘star,’ filia ‘daughter,’ but poeta ‘poet’ (m.). Nouns in -u were mostly
masculine, e.g. servu ‘slave,’ filiu ‘son,’ carru ‘cart,’ but manu ‘hand’
(which originally belonged to the fourth declension) was feminine. Finally,
nouns in -e were either masculine (principe ‘chief,’ consule ‘consul’)
or feminine (virgine ‘maiden,’ turre ‘tower’). Since in Portuguese most
nouns in -u were masculine and those in -a were feminine, the endings -o
and -a ended up being associated, respectively, with the masculine and feminine.
Neuter singulars in -u were reinterpreted as masculine, e.g. cornu ‘horn,’
corpu[s] ‘body’ as in Portuguese corno, corpo (the -s removed by analogy,
since it had become the plural marker). Feminine singulars in -u (usually, but
not always, from the fourth declension) either became masculine, as in pinu >
Pg pinho ‘pine tree,’ or, in order to mark feminine gender explicitly, had their
endings shifted to the first declension. For instance the Classical Latin forms
socru ‘mother-in-law’ and nuru ‘daughter-in-law’ appear in the Appendix
Probi (5.1) in their popular forms socra, nura, which produced Pg sogra,
nora. Plural neuter nouns ending in -a, such as opera ‘works’ or ligna ‘fire-
wood,’ were reinterpreted as being singular feminine; consequently, their Por-
tuguese descendants, a obra ‘work’ and a lenha ‘firewood,’ are feminine, some-
times with a collective or generic meaning traceable to the original plurality.
(Compare Pg lenho ‘log, tree trunk’ < lignu(m) ‘stick of wood’ with lenha.)
5.3.3 Pronouns
First person and second person subject pronouns have changed relatively little:
ego > eo > eu, tu > tu, nos > nós, vos > vós. Direct and indirect object
pronouns descend from the Latin accusative forms, me > me, te > te, nos
> nos, vos > vos, but they lost their stress and became clitics (4.5.2). The
pronominal objects of prepositions, which are stressed, go back to the Latin
datives mihi and tibi, thus mihi > OP mi > mim (with nasalization of
/i/ by assimilation to initial /m/), tibi > ti. The plural forms, as objects of
prepositions, are identical to the subject pronouns.
Combinations of pronouns with the preposition cum ‘with’ had a separate
development. In Latin cum followed, rather than preceded, its pronominal
object, which stood in the ablative case, thus mecum ‘with me,’ nobiscum
5.3 Morphological change 161
‘with us,’ tecum ‘with you (sg),’ and vobiscum ‘with you’ (pl). This usage
can be seen in the traditional greeting Dominus tecum/vobiscum ‘(may) the
Lord (be) with you,’ and mecum survives in the noun vade-mecum (literally
‘go with me’), meaning something, e.g. a book, constantly carried for use.
Regular phonetic loss of final -m and voicing of intervocalic -c- reduced the
singular form mecu> mego and tecu > tego, and then, by analogy with
the prepositional objects OP mi/ti, to migo/tigo. The plural forms nosco, vosco
were formed from a combination of the preposition with the pronouns nós/vós in
place of the original datives/ablatives nobis/vobis. As time went by, however,
speakers ceased to identify the terminal segments -go/co with their primitive
meaning ‘with,’ and consequently they started combining those forms with
com, creating comigo, contigo, consigo, conosco (EP connosco), convosco.
Instead of a specific pronoun for the third person, Latin used the demonstra-
tive is–ea–id to refer to someone other than the speaker or the hearer, or to
something not associated with either. In popular Latin is was replaced by the
demonstrative ille–illa–illud, whose paradigms furnished most of the
forms of the third person subject and object pronouns in Romance. Exception-
ally, the third person subject pronouns preserved a Latin nominative, i.e. the
masculine singular ille, which yielded ele. The feminine form could come
from either the nominative or the accusative, illa or illa(m) > ela. The plu-
ral forms eles, elas were formed by adding -s to the singular. These four forms
also function as objects of prepositions and, in popular Brazilian Portuguese,
as direct objects (7.3.2.3).
The direct object pronouns became clitics, like me/te, discussed above, with
apheresis of the first syllable: (il)lu(m) > lo, (il)la(m) > la, (il)los > los,
(il)las > las. Loss of the resulting initial l- when it followed a vowel then
yielded o, a, os, as. However, the l was preserved after a consonant, leading to
preservation of allomorphs of the direct object pronouns with initial l-, as in
fazê-lo ‘to do it (m.),’ comê-la ‘to eat it (f.).’
The third person object pronouns, unlike those of the first and second persons,
maintained a formal distinction between direct and indirect objects. The latter
descend from the Latin datives (il)li and (il)lis, where apheresis of the first
syllable yielded OP li, lis. Apheresis also modified the pronominal sequence
dative + accusative (il)li illu(m) ‘to him + it.’ Subsequent palatalization of
the initial consonant in the resulting li illu yielded ∗
ljelo > lhelo > lheo >
lho. The latter form served as a basis for the indirect object pronoun lhe, which
replaced li, and lhes was formed analogically.
To express reflexivity (4.6), the first and second person object forms me, te,
nos, vos function as reflexives with no formal distinction. In Latin, the single
form se, which embraced all genders and numbers of the third person reflexive,
yielded Pg se, which became a clitic like me/te. The dative form sibi, like tibi,
became the object of prepositions, si. The ablative form se combined with the
162 5 Portuguese in time
Table 5.6 Origin of Portuguese pronouns
ego > eo > eu me > me mihi > OP mi > mim
nos > nós nos
tu > tu te > te tibi > ti
vos > vós vos
ille > ele sibi > si
illa > ela la > a
illu > lo > o
(il)li illu(m) > ∗ljelo > lhelo > lheo > lho > lhe
preposition cum in the same way as did me and te, with similar outcomes:
secum > sego, sigo (by analogy with si), consigo.
5.3.4 Verbs
Like the other Romance languages, Portuguese inherited the basic structure of
the Latin verb system, with major modifications in the general design and many
morphological changes. What follows is a very streamlined overview.
The core of the Latin verb system included four formal categories called
conjugations. In addition to the denotative, that is lexical, meaning of the verb,
a Latin verb could display up to four categories of grammatical information,
namely, (1) tense (present, past, or future); (2) mood (indicative, subjunctive,
or imperative); (3) person and number; and (4) voice (active or passive). Thus
in a form such as amabamus ‘we loved’ (whence the Portuguese imperfect
amávamos), the verbal root am- carries the lexical, meaning; the stem vowel
-a- shows the verb belongs to the conjugation in -are (amare > Pg amar
‘to love’). Next the morpheme -ba- signals both the tense (imperfect) and the
mood (indicative); the person ending -mus shows this form corresponds to
the first person plural (Lat nos ‘we’). The category of voice is revealed by the
contrast between amabamus ‘we loved’ and amabamur ‘we were loved,’ which
belonged to a parallel passive conjugation, vanished in Romance, about which
more will be said below.
Portuguese has kept only three of the Latin conjugations, those with verbs
stressedonthestemvowelintheinfinitiveforms(amare ‘tolove,’debere ‘to
have to,’ audire ‘to hear’). The third-conjugation verbs (legěre ‘to read’),
with unstressed endings in the infinitive forms, were absorbed into the other
conjugations. Some phonological anomalies caused the third conjugation verb
poněre ‘to put’ to lose intervocalic -n- and subsequently the resulting hiatus
was reduced to a single vowel: poněre > ∗
/ponére/ > /pōer/ > /por/ pôr ‘to
put.’ Consequently, Portuguese ended up with three conjugations, namely –ar
(amar), -er (dever), and -ir (dormir), and a kind of extra conjugation made up
5.3 Morphological change 163
of pôr and its compounds, as in the following scheme, where only the singular
forms are shown for the sake of brevity:
1st 2nd 3rd (3rd) 4th
Latin amare debere legěre poněre dormire
amo debeo lego poneo dormio
amas debes legis ponis dormis
amat debet legit ponit dormit
1st 2nd 3rd
Portuguese amar dever ler pôr dormir
amo devo leio ponho durmo
amas deves lês pões dormes
ama deve lê põe dorme
The Latin tense system included a contrast between two aspects◦
, which
conveyed the speaker’s perception of how a verbal action was carried out. One
aspect was the infectum, or imperfective, meaning an action not completed.
The other was the perfectum (from Lat per- ‘completely’ + -fectum ‘done’),
or perfective, meaning an action fully carried out. The relationships between
imperfective and perfective forms can be seen in the scheme below (based on
Penny 1991:141):
Indicative Subjunctive
Imperfective Perfective Imperfective Perfective
Present amo amavi amem amaverim
Past amabam amarem amaverim
Future amabo amavero
Anterior amaveram amavissem
Of these tenses, only those in boldface have survived. The imperfective
present and past, respectively amo > amo ‘I love’ and amabam > amava
‘I loved/used to love’ passed to Romance more or less intact. The future tense
(amabo ‘I will love’), however, was replaced by a periphrasis◦
made up of an
infinitive followed by a form of habere ‘to have,’ e.g. amare habeo ‘I
will love.’ The forms of habere (P1sg habeo, P1pl habemus, etc.) functioned
at first as an auxiliary verb◦
, but eventually they coalesced with the infinitive,
forming a single word, thus amare habeo > amar hei > amarei ‘I will love,’
amare habemus > amar emus > amaremos ‘we will love,’ and so on.
The basic meaning of the tenses of the perfectum shifted from ‘completed,
punctual’ to ‘anterior’ or ‘past’ and underwent radical changes, e.g. amavi >
amei, a preterit, and amaveram > amara, a past perfect (that is, ‘anterior’) or
pluperfect. Further, amavi was restricted to the past punctual meaning where it
contrasted with amabam. As a result, it is only in the past tense that a formally
164 5 Portuguese in time
marked aspectual contrast now exists, that is, between the preterit (“punctual
past”) amei < amavi and the imperfect (“durative past”) amava < amabam.
New tenses were created, usually by means of periphrases combining
habere (and later tenere) as an auxiliary verb placed before the participle,
as in habeo amatum, which yielded hei amado. This later became tenho
amado ‘I have loved,’ when ter (from Lat teněre ‘to have’) became the
preferred auxiliary verb of the perfect tenses (instead of haver).
By analogy, the periphrasis habeo amatum (vs. amavi) spawned other
parallel constructions, such as habebam amatum > havia/tinha amado ‘I
had loved.’ This periphrasis initially contrasted with amaveram > amara
‘I had loved,’ but no aspectual difference in fact existed, and eventually the
new compound tense displaced the latter non-periphrastic past anterior in the
common language, although amara is preserved in formal styles (as is havia
amado,consideredmoreformalthantinhaamado).Aperiphrasticfutureperfect
was also formed, namely habere habeo amatum (vs. amavero), which
yielded haverei amado, or more commonly terei amado ‘I shall have loved.’
Of the Latin subjunctive the only survivors were the present amem >
(present) ame and the pluperfect amavissem > (past) amasse. A brand-
new future subjunctive developed to indicate a hypothetical future situation
in constructions like quando nós amarmos ‘when we may love.’ According
to a generally accepted explanation, it came about from the fusion of the
future anterior (perfect) indicative amavero with the present anterior (perfect)
subjunctive amaverim. Since in regular verbs, the forms of the inflected
infinitive (see below) coincide with those of the future subjunctive, the mor-
phological peculiarity of the latter tense is more apparent in verbs with changes
in the radical, such as fecerimus > [quando nós] fizermos ‘[when we]
may do’.
Following the general model of periphrastic constructions with habere, a
present perfect was created as habeam amatum > haja / tenha amado, as
was a past perfect (or pluperfect) as habuissem amatum > houvesse/tivesse
amado.
Another Romance novelty was the creation of a new mood, the conditional,
which signals an eventuality less certain in the speakers’ minds than that asso-
ciated with the future (amarei ‘I will love’), which is regarded as more certain
to happen. The conditional was morphologically like the future but with the
past tense of the auxiliary verb: amare habebam > amaria ‘I would love.’
Following the model of the future, a compound conditional also came about as
teria amado ‘I would have loved.’
Like other Romance languages, Portuguese retained only two forms of the
Latin imperative, yielding P2sg ama > ama (tu) and P2pl amate > amai
(vós). For the other persons, as well as for the negative forms of these two
imperatives, forms of the present subjunctive are used.
5.3 Morphological change 165
Three non-finite or uninflected Latin verb forms had special significance in
the development of Portuguese verbs. One was the infinitive per se, the infectum
form amare, a verbal noun. Another was the past passive participle, ama-
tum/a/os/as, a verbal adjective (and as such inflected for gender and number
like other adjectives); the third was the gerund, amando, fundamentally a
verbal adverb.
Portuguese is the only Romance language with an infinitive with per-
son/number inflections. Thus the full Portuguese reflection of the Latin infini-
tive amare is amar, amares, amar, amarmos, amardes, amarem, as in Ela
pediu para nós falarmos ‘she asked (for) us to sing.’ Both the uninflected
and the inflected infinitives participate in perfect and passive constructions:
termos/havermos amados ‘to have [we] loved,’ haver amado ‘to have loved,’
termos/havermos sido amados ‘to have [we] been loved,’ haver sido amado ‘to
have been loved.’
As hinted above, Latin had two parallel conjugation sets, distinguished by
their desinences and referred to as “voices.” In the active voice, which was the
source of the verb system in Romance, the subject corresponded to the semantic
actor(4.2).Inthepassivevoice,thesubjectcorrespondedtothesemanticpatient.
In the past tenses, the passive used a periphrastic construction made up of a
past participle followed by a conjugated form of the verb esse ‘to be’:
Active voice Passive voice
Present
amo ‘I love’ amor ‘I am loved’
amas ‘you love’ amaris ‘you are loved’
amat ‘he/she loves’ amatur ‘he/she is loved.’
Preterit
amavi ‘I loved amatus sum ‘I was loved’
amavisti ‘you loved’ amatus es ‘you were loved’
amavit ‘he/she loved’ amatus est ‘he/she was loved’
In popular Latin the inflected passive was lost, and the passive preterit con-
struction, made up of a participle + sum/es/est was retained with a present
meaning, originating the Portuguese periphrastic construction ser + participle
(sou/és/é amado ‘I am/you are/he/she is loved’), which grammarians have con-
tinued to call the “passive voice” for the sake of tradition. The new construction
accepted an explicit agent of the passive (4.2), introduced by a preposition
which in early stages of Portuguese was de. Eventually, por became the regular
marker of the agent, as in Violeta foi abandonada por seus amantes ‘Violet
was abandoned by her lovers.’ Nonetheless, de survives in this function in set
phrases such as estimado dos amigos ‘liked by friends.’
166 5 Portuguese in time
In the new periphrastic perfect tenses, the participle was originally passive
in meaning, and agreed in gender and number with the direct object of the
verb, as in tenho escritas cartas ‘I have written letters’ vs. tenho escritos livros
‘I have written books.’ This concordance was lost in perfect constructions in
Portuguese(tenhoescritocartas/livros ‘Ihavewrittenletters/books’).Inpassive
constructions, however, the participle retains its adjectival character, and thus
agrees with the subject of the verb in gender and number.
Finally, the gerund grew out of a Latin verbal form which, while functioning
as a noun, strongly connoted the idea of a continuing action, as in amando
‘by loving.’ In Portuguese this gerund formed periphrases, especially with the
verb estar (from Lat stare), that expressed actions in progress (hence the label
“progressive” or “continuous” for tenses like estou falando ‘I am speaking’). In
turn, the original present active participle amans ‘loving’ acquired the status
of either a noun or an adjective, as for instance amante(m) > amante ‘lover.’
5.3.5 Adverbs
Classical Latin formed manner adverbs with specific endings, e.g. -ter, as in
fortiter ‘bravely,’ or -e, as in romanice ‘in the Roman manner,’ from which the
noun romance was derived (3.6). This adverb-forming process fell in disuse in
popular Latin, which used instead constructions such as ad sic ‘thusly’ which
gave OP assi > assim ‘thus.’ Another process used word combinations like the
following:
demonstrative + noun hac hora ‘this hour’ > agora ‘now’
preposition + adjective +
noun
in bona hora ‘in good hour’> embora
‘although’
preposition + adverb de magis > ‘of more’ > demais ‘too much’
The most productive adverb-forming process, in Portuguese (3.6) and other
Romance languages, involves adding mente, derived from the noun mente
‘mind,’ to a feminine adjective, as in placida mente ‘with a quiet mind,’
that is ‘quietly’ or triste mente ‘with a sad mind,’ or ‘sadly.’ Table 5.8
shows the origin of some adverbs.
5.3.6 Connectors: Prepositions and conjunctions
Use of prepositions as a syntactic device, common in popular Latin, increased
in Romance, allowing many Latin prepositions to survive in Portuguese. In
addition,onewaytocreatenewprepositionsconsistedincombiningtwoormore
existing ones (de in ante > denante > diante ‘in front of’). Another was to
use as prepositions words from other categories, such as the present participle
durante ‘during,’ from durar ‘to last, to endure.’ Portuguese conjunctions, on
Table 5.7 Origin of Portuguese verb tenses
Portuguese
Latin From Latin Romance creations
Indicative
Present amo Present amo Present perfect >
hei/tenho amado
Imperfect amabam Imperfect amava
Preterit amavi Preterit amei
Pluperfect amaveram Pluperfect amara Past perfect tinha
amado
Future amabo ----- Future amar hei >
amaréi
Future
perfect∗
amavero Future perfect terei
amado
Condicional amar ia
> amaria
Conditional perfect
teria amado
Subjunctive
Present amem Present ame Present perfect tenha
amado
Imperfect amarem -----
Perfect amaverim ----- Future∗
amar,
amares, amar . . .
Future perfect tiver
amado
Pluperfect amavissem Imperfect amasse Past perfect tivesse
amado
Future perfect amaverimus -----
Imperative
Present ama, amate Imperative ama (tu), amai (vós)
Future amato, amatote -----
Infinitive
Present amare Infinitive amar Inflected infinitive:
amares, amarmos,
amardes . . .
Perfect amavisse/amasse -----
Future amaturus esse -----
Participles amatus Participle amado
Present amans, -antis amante (adj.)
Future amaturus, -a,
-um
-----
Gerund Gerund
Genitive amandi
Dative amando
Accusative amandum amando
Ablative amando
Supine: amatum -----
∗ Except for the first person, the forms of the future perfect indicative and the perfect subjunctive
(amavero/amaverim) were identical.
168 5 Portuguese in time
Table 5.8 Origin of Portuguese adverbs
Latin Pg Latin Pg Latin Pg
Time
hac hora > agora ad post > após de ex post > depois
ad *maniana > amanhã hodie > hoje nunquam > nunca
cito > cedo jam > já semper > sempre
Place
ad illic > ali de intro > dentro ad trans > atrás
*accu hic > aqui ab ante > ante de trans > de trás
ad ibi / hic > aı́ longe > longe ad cima > acima
Manner
de magis > demais ad sic > assim bene > bem
quomodo > como tali vice > talvez male > mal
the other hand, include only a few inherited from Latin and many more created
in the language (Table 5.9).
5.4 Syntactic change
To make up for the loss of word-final contrasts that once expressed syntactic
functions in Latin, two devices were widely used in Romance, namely a more
fixed word order and an increase in the use of function, or structural, words.
5.4.1 Word order
By relying on case endings to signal the syntactic function of determinants,
nouns, adjectives, and pronouns, Latin allowed considerable variation in word
order. This meant that a sentence like Puellam mula momordit ‘the mule bit the
girl’ always had the same meaning even though word order might vary, as in
these arrangements:
mula puellam momordit momordit puellam mula momordit mula puellam
puellam momordit mula mula momordit puellam puellam mula momordit
Inallsuchorderingsthenominativedesinence-aandtheaccusativedesinence
-m make it clear that mula is the subject and puellam is the direct object.
Swapping those endings creates a different sentence: Puella mulam momordit
‘the girl bit the mule,’ again irrespective of word order.
As contrasting case endings were lost, prepositions and word order were
increasingly relied upon to signal syntactic function. A more rigid order then
tended to favor the sequence subject – verb – object (SVO) as a kind of default,
5.4 Syntactic change 169
Table 5.9 Origin of Portuguese connectors
Prepositions
Latin Pg Latin Pg Latin Pg
a > a de > de sine > sem
ante > ante in > em sub > so (arch.)1
cum > com inter > entre super > sobre
contra > contra per/pro > por trans > trás
Compound prepositions
Latin Pg Latin Pg Latin Pg
de in ante > diante ad post > apos per ad > pera (arch.)
> para
de trans > detrás de ex de > desde per ante > perante
Conjunctions
Latin Pg Latin Pg Latim Pg
et > e magis > mas aut > ou
nec > nem pro inde > porém quid > que
quomodo > como quando > quando si > se
que > que
1 MP sob is a learned form.
or unmarked◦
, order, as in puella momordit mula. This is reflected in today’s
preference: in a menina mordeu a mula the noun phrase a menina is invariably
interpreted as the semantic subject. Other orderings, though possible, tend to
be marked◦
. The order verb – object – subject, for example, is used when we
want to focus the subject, as in 1a–1b:
(1) a. Patrulhará a cidade o Exército.
‘The Army will patrol the town.’
b. Chegarão amanhã os astronautas.
‘
The astronauts will arrive tomorrow.’
The use of prepositions increased in Romance as a device for signaling
syntactic function. A Latin construction like 2a, where the ae marks Tulliae as
the indirect object (dative case), was rephrased in popular Latin as 2b, with the
preposition a marking the indirect object. (Cf. to in Julia gave a great gift to
Tullia.)
(2) a. Julia Tulliae donum magnum dedit.
‘Julia gave Tullia a great gift.’
b. Julia dedit donu magnu a Tullia.
‘Julia gave a great gift to Tullia.’
A combination of fixed word order and preposition was used in develop-
ing the noun-forming pattern noun + preposition + noun, in which the first
170 5 Portuguese in time
noun is modified by the construction preposition + noun: carro de combate
‘combat car,’ casa de campo ‘country house,’ filho de algo > fidalgo, origi-
nally ‘man of means’ (algo ‘something’) and later ‘nobleman.’ The pattern noun
+ noun, in which the second noun qualifies the first without being connected to
it by any explicit syntactic link, is another productive noun-forming device, as
in caminhão-tanque ‘tanker truck,’ moda praia ‘beach fashion,’ oferta Natal
‘Christmas special,’ and so on.
5.4.2 Indeterminate constructions
As seen in 4.8.1, the passive construction makes possible sentences like Os bon-
des foram comprados ‘The street cars were bought,’ which describe an action
without mentioning any actor. Latin had other devices for omitting informa-
tion about the actor. One of these consisted in using the noun homo ‘man’
generically, as a kind of indeterminate actor (homo dicit ‘one says’), which
survived in old Portuguese as homem: Quanto homem vive, vê mais ‘the more
man [=one] lives, the more one sees’ (Bueno 1955:208). Another device was
a construction with the third person reflexive pronoun se, as in se dicit
‘one says’ (Elcock 1940:104) or littera se scribit ‘the letter is written’
(Coutinho 1962:326), which was the source of the indeterminate se (4.9).
5.4.3 Other constructions
Inevitably, Old Portuguese had features that have disappeared from the modern
language. One such feature was the adverb hi or i (comparable to Fr y), which
preceded the verb haver with an existential meaning, as in (h)averá i tristeza
‘there will be unhappiness’ (Bueno 1955:205). Another was the use of the
relative pronoun cujo ‘whose’ as an interrogative without an antecedent, as in
Cujo filho és? ‘whose son are you?’ (Bueno 1955:219).
A feature may cease to be active in the common language and yet be retained
in fossilized expressions. For example, the use of the past perfect indicative
in -ra, -ras, -ra in hypothetical clauses, as in como se foram ‘as if they were’
(Silva Neto 1970:509), was replaced, with the same meaning, by the imperfect
subjunctive, como se fossem. Nevertheless, the old form occurs in set expres-
sions such as se eu fora ‘if I were,’ as in Se eu fora rica você teria de tudo ‘if I
were rich you would have everything.’
Uneven patterns of language change account for the fact that constructions no
longer used in EP persist in BP. According to Bueno (1955:211–214) this is the
case with subject pronouns used as direct objects (7.3.2.3), or the preposition
em used with verbs of movement (7.3.2.8). Both uses occur in the following
Old Portuguese examples:
5.5 Lexical change 171
(3) a. Perdi ela que foi a rem milhor.
‘I lost her who was the best thing.’
b. Se a alma vai en paraı́so . . . a alma está benta.
‘If the soul goes to Paradise, the soul is blessed.’
5.5 Lexical change
Over the centuries the meaning of words can undergo several kinds of mod-
ification. Processes of semantic change include generalization, which turns a
word with a specific meaning into a generic term, as in the case of popular Lat
caballu ‘nag’> cavalo ‘horse,’ or popular Lat casa ‘shack’ > casa ‘house.’
Conversely, a generic term may become specific, as in Lat venatu ‘any game
animal’ > veado ‘deer.’
Words acquired lowly or even negative connotations through a process known
as pejoration, as in the case of alarife ‘master builder,’ which has come to
mean ‘scoundrel,’ or popular Lat villanu > vilão, once ‘village dweller’ and
nowadays ‘villain,’ or, as we have seen, vulgaris ‘pertaining to the vulgus
(common people),’ which yielded vulgar ‘vulgar, lowly.’ The opposite change,
known as melioration, caused some words of humble connotations to acquire a
favorable meaning, e.g. Lat servire ‘to serve as a slave’ > servir ‘to serve’ (as
in servir a Pátria ‘to serve one’s country’); Lat minister ‘servant’ > ministro
‘minister’; brasileiro ‘collector of brazilwood’ (a trade once engaged in by
former convicts) > brasileiro ‘Brazilian’; mineiro ‘miner’ > mineiro ‘from the
State of Minas Gerais.’
Besides changes in the meaning of existing lexical items, there has been a
continuing process of words becoming archaic and dropping from active use. A
commonreasonforthisistheobsolescenceoftheirreferent.Thus,asgunpowder
rendered medieval weaponry and tactics obsolete, dozens of words related to
armor went out of use. Likewise, as motor vehicles became widespread in the
early twentieth century, the lexicon of traction vehicles, horses, harness, and
related equipment quickly began to fade from collective memory. Conversely,
in the course of technological and social change new words have come into
circulation.
The modern Portuguese lexicon is a hybrid, the heir to a variety of sources and
influences, not all of them transparent. From the languages of the inhabitants
of pre-Roman Hispania, a handful of lexical items are still used, even if the
exact source language is not always clear, e.g. bezerro ‘calf,’ esquerdo ‘left,’
páramo ‘prairie.’ The bulk of the lexicon, however, is made up of patrimonial
words, that is those derived from popular Latin through Romance, to which
items created through derivation and composition (3.8) have been added on a
regular basis.
172 5 Portuguese in time
Over the centuries, thousands of new words have continuously been bor-
rowed from the many languages with which Portuguese has come into con-
tact. A primary source of such loan words was Greek, which pervaded ancient
Roman culture in philosophy, the arts, literature, and science, enriching Latin,
and subsequently Portuguese, with words such as corona > coroa ‘crown,’
gubernare > governar ‘to govern,’ and machina > máquina ‘machine.’
Words pertaining to intellectual activities, in which the Greeks excelled,
included bibliotheca > biblioteca ‘library,’ philosophia > filosofia
‘philosophy,’ schola > escola ‘school,’ and theatrum > teatro ‘theatre’
(Väänänen 1981:11). Early Christianity, legalized in 312 and made the Roman
Empire’s religion in 380, used Greek as a scriptural language in preference to
Latin, which was considered the language of paganism. Consequently a number
of early religious terms were Greek in origin, such as eucaristia ‘eucharist,’
igreja ‘church’ (via Lat ecclesia), apóstolo ‘apostol,’ bispo ‘bishop,’ and
presbiter ‘presbyter.’
Germanic languages left a modest mark. Both the Visigoths and the other
Germanic tribes that moved into the Iberian Peninsula had lived in imperial
lands beyond the Pyrenees, where they had become partly romanized by learn-
ing some Latin along with Roman ways. A few of the words of Germanic
origin that entered Iberian Romance in that period are related to everyday life,
such as espeto ‘skewer,’ roupa ‘clothing,’ sopa ‘soup.’ Most, however, were
related to the military arts in which their users excelled, and are still in the
language:
dardo ‘dart’ elmo ‘helm’ estribo ‘stirrup’
espora ‘spur’ guerra ‘war’ trégua ‘truce’
brandir ‘to brandish’ marchar ‘to march’ trepar ‘to climb’
acha ‘axe’ guarda ‘guard’ guiar ‘to guide’
Another source of new words was Arabic, which in the eighth century served
as the vehicle of a civilization that in some technical aspects was ahead of
Europe. In Portugal, where Arab-dominated territories were finally conquered
in 1249, arabisms, while fewer than in Spanish, covered a range of fields, such
as the following examples, given with their present-day glosses:
Botany Agriculture Military
açucena ‘lily’ algodão ‘cotton’ aljava ‘quiver’
alecrim ‘rosemary’ arroz ‘rice’ alfanje ‘curved sword’
alcachofra ‘artichoke’ limão ‘lemon’ alferes ‘second lieutenant’
alfavaca ‘basil’ laranja ‘orange’ almirante ‘admiral’
Food Technology Business
almôndega ‘meat ball’ acéquia ‘irrigation ditch’ alfândega ‘customs house’
álcool ‘alcohol’ albarda ‘pack saddle’ açougue ‘butcher’s’
5.5 Lexical change 173
xarope ‘syrup’ alfinete ‘pin’ leilão ‘auction’
marzipã ‘marzipan’ alicerce ‘house
foundation’
quilate ‘carat’
Activities Construction Science
alcagüete ‘pimp,
informer’
adobe ‘sun-dried brick’ algarismo ‘digit’
alfaiate ‘tailor’
alcova ‘windowless
bedroom’
cifra ‘zero’
algoz ‘executioner’ andaime ‘scaffolding’
zênite ‘zenith’
almoxarife ‘store
keeper’
azulejo ‘ceramic tile’
nadir ‘nadir’
Through Arabic came a few Greek terms, such as acelga ‘chard,’ alambique
‘still (n.),’ alcaparra ‘caper,’ guitarra ‘guitar’; a handful of them came through
the Mediterranean trade, such as botica ‘pharmacy,’ farol ‘lighthouse.’ The
other Semitic language of the Peninsula, Hebrew, left several religious terms
that entered Portuguese through Latin:
aleluia ‘hallellujah’ amén ‘amen’ Belzebu ‘Belzebuth’ éden ‘Eden’
cabala ‘kabala’ rabino ‘rabbi’ sábado ‘sabbath Saturday’
As Portugal and other Christian peninsular kingdoms fought against Islam,
they developed strong ties with the Christian kingdoms on the other side of the
Pyrenees.Provençalinfluence,activeinthecontextoftroubadourpoetry(5.6.1),
appears in words like viagem ‘journey’ (< Pr viatge < Lat viaticu(m), ‘travel
provisions’), jogral ‘buffoon’ (< Pr joglar ‘singer,’ related to Lat jocularis
‘amusing’), rouxinol ‘nightingale’ (< Pr roussinhol), trovar ‘to compose a
song’ (< Pr trobar ‘to make verses’).
French likewise provided a number of items that entered the language early:
dama (< Fr dame ‘high class married woman’), chapéu (< Fr chapel ‘kind of
hairdo’), chefe (< Fr chef ‘head man’), assembléia ‘assembly’ (Fr assemblée
‘meeting’), jaula ‘cage’ (< Fr jaole ‘prison’), manjar ‘dainty food’ (Fr manger
‘to eat; any food’). Many more would come in later centuries as French became
an international language and its literature increased in importance.
Receptivity to Renaissance ideas entailed massive importing of Italian arti-
facts together with their names, e.g. in the military, alarme ‘alarm’ (< It allarme
‘toarms’),mosquete‘musket’(<Itmoschetto),coronel‘colonel’(<Itcolonello
‘commander of a column of soldiers’); or in the arts, Arlequim ‘Harlequin’
(< It Arlechino), Colombina ‘Columbine’(< It Colombina), palhaço ‘clown’
(< pagliaccio ‘circus buffoon’), artesão ‘artisan’ (< artigiano ‘someone who
works with his hands’).
In addition to such regular loans, the intellectual trend from the Renais-
sancethroughtheeighteenthcenturyencouragedborrowingwordsdirectlyfrom
174 5 Portuguese in time
Latin. A practical reason for such massive borrowing was that Portuguese prose,
forged in the historiography of the late fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, while
possessing a vocabulary apt for describing events and actions, was not fully
equipped to handle abstractions in more philosophical and aesthetic genres.
Borrowing thus contributed to creating a supplementary lexicon of learned
terms, such as were employed by Camões his epic poem Os Lusı́adas (1572),
some of which are still used nowadays, if only in elevated styles. Since such bor-
rowing came directly from Latin, instead of from the popular Latin accusative
like patrimonial words, the items in the following sample are given in the nom-
inative singular:
pudicitia > pudicı́cia ‘modesty’ insanus > insano ‘mad’
incautus > ı́ncauto ‘careless’ sordidus > sórdido ‘filthy’
plumbeus > plúmbeo ‘of lead’ argenteus > argênteo ‘of silver’
pertinax > pertinaz ‘tenacious’ armiger > armı́gero
‘arms-bearing’
sagittifer > sagitı́fero
‘arrow-bearing’ nauticus > náutico ‘nautic’
Such was the prestige of Latin that some authors actually went a step beyond
borrowing to meet expressive needs and endeavored to ennoble the lexicon
by substituting Latin or latinized forms for patrimonial words that had been
considered rustic, as in the following sample:
Latin source Patrimonial word New loan word
aspectu(m) aspeito aspecto ‘aspect’
dignu(m) dino digno ‘worthy’
lucta(m) luita lucta ‘struggle’
malignu(m) malino maligno ‘evil’
arbitriu(m) alvedrio arbitrio ‘will’
Another procedure consisted in dropping patrimonial words considered old-
fashioned and substituting a morphologically unrelated Latin synonym spelled
in the Portuguese manner (nouns are given below in the nominative singular):
Latin source Learned loan word Patrimonial word
vinculum vı́nculo atamento ‘bond, tie’
impedimentum impedimento empacho ‘encumbrance’
sanare sanar guarir ‘to heal’
obtinere obter gançar ‘to obtain’
adornare adornar guarnir ‘to decorate’
An unforeseen result of such massive borrowing is that, since many new
loan words had a counterpart that had evolved in the language, the Portuguese
5.5 Lexical change 175
lexicon ended up with patrimonial/learned doublets the meaning of which can
be just a shade apart or even substantially different:
Popular Latin Patrimonial form Learned form
articulu(m) artelho ‘toe’ artigo ‘article’
decretu(m) degredo ‘banishment’ decreto ‘decree’
inflatu(m) inchado ‘bloated’ inflado ‘filled (with air)’
lacuna(m) lagoa ‘pond’ lacuna ‘gap’
auricula(m) orelha ‘ear’ aurı́cula ‘atrium (anat.)’
cathedra(m) cadeira ‘chair’ cátedra ‘bishop’s throne’
strictu(m) estreito ‘narrow’ estrito ‘strict’
delicatu(m) delgado ‘slender’ delicado ‘delicate’
limpidu(m) limpo ‘clean’ lı́mpido ‘limpid, clear’
plenu(m) cheio ‘full’ pleno ‘full’
pulsare puxar ‘to pull’ pulsar ‘to throb’
aprehendere aprender ‘to learn’ apreender ‘to aprehend’
palpare poupar ‘to save’ palpar ‘to touch’
captare catar OP ‘to look’ MP
‘to pick’
captar ‘to capture’
fabulare falar ‘to talk’ fabular ‘to invent, to lie’
litigare lidar ‘to deal with’ litigar ‘to litigate’
From the fifteenth century on, maritime expansion took the Portuguese to
Africa, Asia, and the Americas. Trade and colonization promoted contact with
speakers of a variety of languages from which hundreds of items flowed to
the lexicon of European languages. Either directly or through an intermediary
language, Portuguese received many such words, of which a small sample is
given below:
Mandarin Malay Japanese
chá ‘tea’ cacatua ‘cockatoo’ catana ‘sword’
caolim ‘kaolin’ orangotango ‘orangutan’ quimono ‘kimono’
ganga ‘kind of cloth’ bule ‘coffee pot’ biombo ‘divider’
In proportions varying from one historical period to another, major European
languages, particularly French and Italian, have remained a vital source of loan
words that promoted lexical growth and renewal. In the second half of the
eighteenthth century, the so-called neoclassical period, it became fashionable
to borrow from literary Latin. In the following century, under the influence of
Romanticism, foreign borrowings, particularly from French, again came into
fashion. Since the second half of the nineteenth century, scientific advances
have fostered an increase in technical terms, at first through French and then,
176 5 Portuguese in time
particularly since the Second World War, through English, whose hegemony as
an international language has made it a primary source of borrowings.
5.6 From the twelfth century on
By the twelfth century, language change had consolidated the long process
of transforming the popular Latin of Galicia into the Romance speech which
linguists have traditionally called Galician-Portuguese. Since language change
tends to be gradual, over the decades each generation adjusted to it effortlessly
as speakers passed on to their offspring a speech that diverged in minor ways
from that which they had received from their own elders.
It took a long time for this new speech to appear in writing, and when it did it
was sporadically at first, as occasional words and expressions slipped into texts
written in a medieval Latin increasingly divergent from its classical ancestor.
As elsewhere in the Romance area, so in Galicia language change widened
the gap between Latin and everyday speech. By this time Latin was no longer
anybody’s native tongue and was preserved at monastic schools by a literate
minority made up mostly of monks and lay brothers. The extent of the gap
between Latin and the spoken language is evidenced by the Roman Catholic
Church’s decision at the Third Council of Tours (813) that preaching should
no longer be in Latin but rather “in rusticam romanam linguam” – the “rustic”
Romance vernacular – so it could be understood by the faithful.
5.6.1 Galician-Portuguese: from the early thirteenth century
to about 1325
The development of poetry in Galician-Portuguese followed the troubadour
tradition imported from Provence. The earliest extant poem, by Paio Soares de
Taveirós, has been dated to about 1189. The following stanza is from a poem by
Joan Garcia de Guilhade, from the middle of the thirteenth century, clearly of a
satirical bent, listed under number 1486 in the collection entitled Cancioneiro
da Biblioteca Nacional:
Ai dona fea! Fostes-vos queixar Oh ugly lady! You’ve complained
Porque vos nunca louv’ en meu
trobar
That I never praise you in my verses
Mais ora quero fazer un cantar So now I want to make a song
En que vos loarei toda via; In which I will praise you all the way;
E vedes como vos quero loar: And see how I want to praise you:
Dona fea, velha e sandia! Ugly lady, old and silly!
As this style is rather sophisticated, we can safely assume this poem was
preceded by many others, unfortunately lost or buried in some archive. Prose,
5.6 From the twelfth century on 177
on the other hand, took longer to grow, and its beginnings were practical rather
than artistic. Already in the twelfth century, Galician-Portuguese words began
to appear amidst the medieval Latin of notarial papers, and the two earliest
extant texts that may be considered Portuguese are legal documents.
The first text is the unimposing draft of a notı́cia de torto, that is a notarial
report (noticia) containing a complaint for wrongful acts (torto ‘tort’) filed by
a landed squire against some neighbors. It comes from the region of Braga, in
northern Portugal, and while the manuscript bears no date, internal evidence
has made it possible to place it around 1214 and 1218 (Cintra 1986/1987:42;
Castro 1991a:228). It begins thus:
De noticia de torto que fecerũ a Laurrẽcius Fernãdiz por plazo que fece Gõncauo
Ramiriz antre suos filios e Lourẽzo Ferrnãdiz quale podedes saber: e oue auer, de
erdade e dauer, tãto quome uno de suos filios, daquãto podesē auer de bona de seuo
pater. (Castro 1991a:231)
[Report of a tort that was done to Lourenço Fernandes regarding an agreement made
by Gonçalo Ramirez between his sons and Lourenço Fernandez, to wit: he should have
received, in inheritance and property, as much as one of his sons, of all they might have
from the goods/property from their father.]
Although the language is mostly Galician-Portuguese, notarial Latin per-
vades the document: fecerũ, fece are close to Lat fecerunt, fecit ‘they made
/he made;’ the odd possessive seuo has been analyzed as a cross between the
Romance form seu and Lat suo (Castro 1991a:235); auer (from Lat habere,
MPg haver) preserves the full meaning of ‘to have’ which lasted until at least
the late sixteenth century. Spelling is still far from regular, and although the
tilde (originally a miniature n placed over a vowel) is used to signal a nasal
vowel in Laurrẽcius, Lourẽzo, Ferrnãdiz, podesē, nasalization is marked with
a full n in antre (MPg entre) and with both a tilde and a nasal consonant in
daquãnto.
The next oldest known text in prose is the will of King Afonso II (reigned
1211–1223),writteninCoimbraanddatedJune4thoftheyear1252oftheJulian
calendar then in use, corresponding to 1214 in today’s Gregorian calendar:
En’o nome de Deus. Eu rei don Afonso pela gracia de Deus rei de Portugal, seendo
sano e saluo, temẽte o dia de mia morte, a saude de mia alma e a proe de mia molier
raina dona Orraca e de me(us) filios e de me(us) uassalos e de todo meu reino fiz mia
mãda p(er) q(ue) depos mia morte mia molier e me(us) filios e meu reino e me(us)
uassalos e todas aq(ue)las cousas qu(ue) De(us) mi deu en poder sten en paz e en
folgãcia. P(ri)meiram(en)te mãdo q(ue) meu filio infante don Sancho q(ue) ei da raina
dona Orraca agia meu reino enteg(ra)m(en)te e en paz. E ssi este for morto sen semmel,
o maior filio q(ue) ouuer da raina dona Orraca agia o reino entegram(en)te e en paz. E
ssi filio barõ nõ ouvuermos, a maior filia q(ue) ouuermos agia’o. E ssi no tẽpo de mia
morte meu filio ou mia filia q(ue) deuier a reinar nõ ouuer reuora, segia en poder da
178 5 Portuguese in time
raina sa madre e meu reino segia en poder da raina e de me(us) uassalos ata q(uan)do
agia reuora. (Castro 1991a: 197)
[In God’s name. I, King Afonso, by the grace of God king of Portugal, being a sane
mind fearing the day of my death, the salvation of my soul and the interests of my wife
Queen Urraca, and of my children and of my vassals and of my whole kingdom, have
made my will so that after my death my wife and my children and my kingdom and
my vassals and all those things that God gave me in stewardship may be in peace and
tranquility. First, I command that my son the infante (‘prince’) dom Sancho, whom I
have from the queen dona Urraca, will have my kingdom, whole and in peace. And if
he should die without issue, the eldest son that I may have from the queen dona Urraca
will have the kingdon whole and in peace. And if we should not have a son, the eldest
daughter that we may have shall have it. And if by the time of my death my son or my
daughter who comes to reign should not be of age, let him/her remain in the power of
the queen his/her mother and let my kingdom be in the power of the queen of and of my
vassals until such time as they be of age.]
This text is actually far closer to today’s Portuguese than its spelling might
suggest. Old Portuguese spelling was far from uniform, and manuscripts contain
many idiosyncratic creations by scribes who needed to invent ways to represent
RomancesoundsthatdidnotexistinLatin,theonlylanguageinwhichtheywere
literate. As Castro (1991a:215) points out, the ci in gracia (< Lat gratia) and
folgã[n]cia suggests the affricate pronunciation [ts] (that is, gratsa, folgãntsa)
that eventually yielded today’s graça, folgança. Double vowels (seendo) signal
stress, and nasalization is marked by a tilde in temẽte, mãda, folgãça, though
with an n in infante. Likewise, the palatal affricate /d/ is represented as gi
where we would use j (segia, agia cf. mod. seja, aja), the lateral palatal /ʎ/
appears as li (molier, filio, filia), and the nasal palatal /	/ hides behind a regular
n in raina (raina, mod. rainha). The u in uasallos, reuora and the double uu in
ouuer, ouuermos reminds us that Latin spelling did not differentiate between u
and v, which remained interchangeable well into the Modern Age.
In morphology we notice that the unstressed short form of the possessive (sa
madre) alternates with the full form (meu filio). Sten is the first person plural of
the present subjunctive of stare, replaced in the sixteenth century by estejam,
formed by analogy to seja.
The vocabulary shows archaic items such as madre for mãe, semmel (< Lat
seminem ‘semen, seed’ that is, ‘descendants’), proe ‘profit’ (< Lat prodire
‘to advance’), and the verb haver (spelled without an h) used in the transitive
sense of Lat habere ‘to have’ (meu filio . . . que ei da raina; o maior filio que
ouuermos; agia meu reino). As one might expect in a legal document, there
are formulaic expressions such as seendo sano e saluo ‘being of sane mind’
(nowadays, em plena posse de minhas faculdades mentais ‘in full possession
of my mental capacities’), mando que ‘I order,’ and juridical terms like mãda
or manda ‘a will’ (from mandar ‘to order, to dispose’) and reuora, mod. revora
or robora ‘legal age.’
5.6 From the twelfth century on 179
Once these details have been mastered, comparison to a slightly modernized
version shows that in fact the text is not really that far removed from what we
are used to:
No nome de Deus. Eu, Rei Dom Afonso, pela graça de Deus rei de Portugal, sendo
são e salvo, temente o dia de minha morte, a saúde [= salvação] de minha alma e os
interesses de minha mulher a rainha dona Urraca e de meus filhos e de meus vassalos
e de todo meu reino, fiz minha manda [= meu testamento] para que depois de minha
morte minha mulher e meus filhos e meu reino e meus vassalos e todas aquelas coisas
que Deus me deu em poder estejam em paz e em tranquilidade. Primeiramente mando
que meu filho infante dom Sancho, que tenho da rainha dona Urraca, tenha meu reino,
integramente e em paz. E se este vier a morrer sem descendência, o filho mais velho que
[eu] tiver da rainha dona Urraca haja o reino integralmente e em paz. E se filho varão
não houvermos, a filha mais velha que houvermos haja-o. E se no tempo de minha morte
meu filho ou minha filha que devier a reinar não houver maioridade, seja em poder da
rainha sua mãe e meu reino seja em poder da rainha e de meus vassalos até quando
haja maioridade.
5.6.2 Old Portuguese: from about 1325 to 1536
The troubador-inspired fashion of writing courtly poetry in Galician-Portuguese
persisted until the middle of the fourteenth century, after the death of King Dinis
(1279–1325), the sixth monarch of the Burgundian dinasty and a prolific poet.
By his time, however, the language had changed considerably and such poetry
was already an archaizing literary exercise restricted to a cultivated minority.
An important reason for this was that Portugal’s independence, recognized
by Alfonso VII of Castile in 1143 and by Pope Alexander III in 1179, fostered
cultural and linguistic differentiation. Victory against Castile at the battle of
Ajubarrotain1385notonlyconsolidatedindependencebutreinforcedthepower
of the new king, João I, first of the dynasty of Avis, directly supported by the
Lisbon merchants who would underwrite the seaward expansion of the fifteenth
and sixteenth centuries.
As the new language took shape, it occupied areas hitherto reserved for
Latin, such as public administration and the law. Scholars date the beginning
of Portuguese prose at 1255, when, during Afonso III’s reign (1248–1279), the
language started replacing Latin regularly in the royal chancery, a practice made
mandatory by King Dinis in 1279. In what we would consider a more literary
vein, Portuguese appears with increasing regularity in translations of saints’
lives from Latin, and, with Fernão Lopes (1380–1464), in chronicles which are
considered the beginning of historiography in Portuguese.
A certain amount of Portuguese–Spanish bilingualism was also fostered by
intense political and cultural interaction between Portugal and Spain from the
middle of the fifteenth century through the middle of the seventeenth century.
As Teyssier (1959:293) points out, Spanish was a second language among
180 5 Portuguese in time
educated Portuguese, and most sixteenth-century writers, such as Gil Vicente,
Sá de Miranda, and Camões, also wrote in Spanish. Gil Vicente wrote nineteen
bilingual plays (autos) in which each character speaks his or her own language,
which suggest his audiences had no difficulty in understanding Spanish.
5.6.3 Classical Portuguese: from the mid-sixteenth century to
the mid-eighteenth century
The period from about 1536 to the first half of the eighteenth century saw the
developmentofPortugueseasafull-fledgedlanguageofcultureandcivilization.
Such growth entailed changes that distanced it even more from the original
Galician source. Among such changes were the replacement of the four-way
contrast among the sibilants /s/, /z/, /s’/, /z’/ by the two-way contrast between /s/
and/z/,thechangeoftheaffricatepronunciationofchforitsfricativearticulation
(5.2.2), and the establishment of the contrast /v/ : /b/, all of which became the
norm in the Lisbon-Coimbra region.
A major task begun in 1536 was the standardization of the language. Until
then written Portuguese reflected the speech prevalent in each writer’s region,
even though the Royal Chancery exerted a certain uniformizing influence. In
1536, however, Fernão de Oliveira published his Grammatica da Lingoagem
Portuguesa, the first of its kind, soon followed by João de Barros’ Grammatica
da lingoa portuguesa in 1539. Once spelling is slightly modernized, as in a
recent edition (Oliveira 2000), Oliveira’s diction appears remarkably familiar:
E o rei ou senhor, ainda que fosse estrangeiro e viesse de fora senhorear em alghũa
terra, havia de apartar sua lingua e não na deixar corromper com alghũa outra, assi
par’elle viver em paz, como também porque seu reino fique e persevere em seus filhos.
Quanto de minha parte segundo eu entendo, eu juraria que quem folga d’ouvir lingua
estrangeira na sua terra não he amigo da sua gente nem conforme à musica natural
della. (Oliveira 2000:124–125)
[And the king or master, although he were a foreigner and came from abroad to rule in
some land, should set aside his language and not allow it to be corrupted by any other,
so as to live in peace, and also so that his kingdom will remain and prosper with his
offspring. So far as I am concerned, I would swear that whoever is pleased to hear a
foreign language in his land is not a friend of his people, nor attuned to its natural music.]
Such works, partly inspired by Nebrija’s Gramática de la lengua caste-
llana (1492), were followed during the next two hundred years by grammars,
vocabularies, orthographic treatises, and pronunciation primers. Works in praise
of the Portuguese language constituted a particularly rich genre, avidly culti-
vated between 1580 and 1640, when Portugal, for dynastic reasons, was under
Spanish domination. This uninterrupted grammatical and lexicographic work
was instrumental in shaping a written language that consciously avoided
5.6 From the twelfth century on 181
features from the northern regions of the country, which were regarded as
old-fashioned or rustic. Gradually, a written code evolved, modeled regionally
on the speech of southern Portugal – the Coimbra-Lisbon area – and socially on
the usage prevalent among the upper classes, thus contributing to a rift between
the educated standard and popular speech which would never cease to widen.
Though the language had changed greatly in over ten centuries, its urbanus
variety still kept its distance from its rusticus and vulgaris relatives.
5.6.4 Modern Portuguese
It is customary to give the label of “modern Portuguese” to the language from
the mid-eighteenth century onward. Just as Renaissance ideas had been a major
influence on the language in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, it was the
Enlightenment of the eighteenth century, and the subsequent intellectual trends
linked to scientific and technological advances, which contributed to a constant
upgrading of the lexicon.
While such changes were taking place in Europe, the Portuguese language
was being taken far afield by the people involved in the maritime enterprises
which,fromthefifteenthtothemiddleoftheseventeenthcentury,madePortugal
a major seafaring nation. As the language traveled far and wide, it was adopted
in the newly established settlements by people who used it as their first or second
language. In so doing they modified it to meet their communicative needs and
to reflect the new natural, cultural, and linguistic environment in which they
lived. In the next two chapters we will examine some aspects of this process.
6 The expansion of European Portuguese
The expansion of Portuguese in the world illustrates what can happen when
a segment of a speech community moves out of its original territory to set-
tle down thousands of miles away. There is an approximate parallel with the
spread of Latin in the territories conquered by the Roman Empire, or, more
recently, with the spread of English in the British Empire. In each situation
the language has changed, sometimes drastically, borrowing words from other
languages, developing some of its latent possibilities, and eventually acquiring
a new countenance, close enough to the original model and yet unmistakably
unique.
From the middle of the fifteenth century to the middle of the twentieth,
thousands of Portuguese emigrated to other European countries, to Africa, to
Asia, to the Americas and, more recently, to Australia. Throughout most of
that period, once anchors had been cast off, oral communication was limited
to one’s immediate community on board or in the new settlements. As this
happened, the language, unbeknownst to its speakers, started on a course of its
own. In this chapter we will examine some of the ways in which the spread
of Portuguese in continental Portugal and elsewhere in the world has fostered
innovation.
6.1 Aspects of language variation
Reified expressions like “Portuguese language” or “Portuguese” convey an
impression of uniformity which, while convenient for the theoretical analysis
of language structure, camouflages the fact that any real language is riddled with
variation. In fact, what we call “a language” is the sum total of its regional and
social variants. Within each new community set up abroad, a variety of factors
contribute to modify its speech. One such factor is drift, characterized by Sapir
(1921) as a natural tendency for languages to change as time passes. Another
is a leveling process: interaction among speakers from various regions in the
original country tends to iron out salient differences, inducing in the speech
of subsequent generations, born and raised in the new community, a degree of
182
6.1 Aspects of language variation 183
homogeneity in pronunciation, morphology, syntax, and the lexicon that will
make their language contrast with that of the original community.
The first aspect of regional variation we tend to notice is accent◦
, the impres-
sion caused on the ear by pronunciation features – such as consonant articula-
tion, vowel quality, the presence or absence of certain diphthongs, intonation,
and so on – which characterize a given group of speakers. Everyone has an
accent of some kind (Esling 1998), for even standard pronunciation can be
characterized in terms of those features. Accents can be either regional (as in
Brazilian vs. Portuguese, or American vs. British), or social, as in the case
of British Received Pronunciation (also known as “BBC English”) vs. popu-
lar varieties of British English such as Cockney. Some classifications cut both
ways:whereasaruralaccentmayberelatedtoaspecificgeographiclocation,the
contrast “rural vs. urban” has social implications as well. If non-phonological
features, such as morphology, syntax, or the lexicon, are involved, we no longer
talk of an accent but rather of a language variety or dialect.
As used in linguistics, the term dialect◦
is merely a neutral way to designate
the speech of a region or social group. The reason this term has connotations
of folksy speech is that dialectal studies began, in the late nineteenth century,
with a focus on rural varieties, contrasting these with the formal educated vari-
eties associated with the written language. Nowadays, however, we realize that
“urban vs. rural” or “educated vs. uneducated” are only some of the many
possible dimensions of language variation. Urban varieties, prestigious or not,
are also dialects, as is the written norm embodied in prescriptive grammars.
It should be clear, then, that in linguistics the terms “dialect” and “language
variety,” or just “variety,” are simply ways of referring to a specific manifesta-
tion of a language, be it regional or social. Social dialects or varieties are also
called sociolects◦
, and some linguists prefer lect◦
as a generic term. The term
“macrodialect◦
”, in turn, refers to a set of dialects or varieties.
In Chapter 5 we saw some of the processes whereby popular Latin changed
into Galician-Portuguese, which in turn split into Galician and Portuguese as
two differentiated, if closely related, languages. From the twelfth century on,
large groups of speakers migrated southward from the lands of the original
Portucalense County to the Coimbra and Lisbon regions. The presence of the
Court and the university (which was moved a couple of times between those
two cities) ensured that the south would remain the prestige center of European
Portuguese. As Portuguese society expanded and became more stratified, the
language underwent changes in three dimensions, namely time, geographical
space, and social context. Although we can focus on any one of these dimensions
for purposes of analysis, all three need to be taken into account.
There is a relationship between a language’s rate of change and its geo-
graphic spread. Icelandic, for instance, developed in Iceland from the speech
184 6 The expansion of European Portuguese
of Norwegian settlers in the late ninth and early tenth centuries. About 37 per
cent of a population of 277,906 live in the capital, Reykjavik, and except for
immigrant communities (in e.g. the US and Canada), Icelandic has remained in
its original territory of 39,768 square miles (103,000 square kilometers), with
limited direct contact with other languages. Unsurprisingly, it has remained
relatively homogeneous, and is defined linguistically in terms of usage in its
home territory.
Portuguese, on the contrary, has spread world-wide, putting down roots in
areas far vaster and more populated than its original territory. It has come into
close contact with many other languages, from which it has borrowed new
words, and the communities where it is spoken show a great deal of social
variation. It is only natural that it should have changed considerably, to the
pointofprovidingafoundationfornewlanguages,thePortuguese-basedcreoles
(6.5.1); and it is thus a diversified language, with no single standard defined by
a single speech community.
While diachronic change may look rather homogeneous when considered
in abstraction, its effects on the language’s territory are far more varied. For
example, although loss of the occlusive element [t] in the original Galician-
Portuguesephoneme//eliminatedthecontrast//:/ʃ/insouthernPortugal,that
contrast still exists in the north of the country. From a dialectological perspective
this diachronic change has not been complete, and decades may go by before
[] completely disappears, if it ever does. Thus answers to questions like “does
the sound [] exist in Portuguese?” or “do the sounds [] and [ʃ] contrast
in Portuguese?” will depend on whether we take “Portuguese” in the broad
sense of an ensemble of dialects, some of which have [], or in the narrower
sense of the standard variety of the language, which does not have [].
Social stratification may be encoded, often in subtle ways, by some corre-
lation between language features and social factors such as sex, age, ethnicity,
education level, and socioeconomic standing. Pinto (1981:175–178, 192) points
out that although grammarians began to label the sound [] as rustic at the end
of the seventeenth century, as late as the early nineteenth century a respected
grammarian such as Jerónimo Soares Barbosa insisted that []and [ʃ] should be
kept apart in educated pronunciation. In contrast, other contemporary grammar-
ians believed that pronouncing ch as [ʃ] rather than [] was the correct choice.
These opposing views were apparently influenced by scholars’ place of birth or
residence: those born or living in areas north of the Mondego River, where []
and [ʃ] contrasted, insisted on distinguishing between ch and x, whereas their
colleagues from southern areas where that contrast had been lost accepted [ʃ]
as the correct rendering for ch. Such variety of opinion suggests that although
the norm had not yet been fixed at the time, there was already a tendency to
consider ch = [ʃ] standard and to mark [] as geographically “dialectal” or as
socially “rustic.”
6.2 Continental Portugal 185
6.2 Continental Portugal
Taken as a whole, continental Portugal is quite homogeneous linguistically.
Regional differences are relatively small in comparison to other European coun-
tries, such as neighboring Spain, which has three major Romance languages
(Spanish, Catalan, and Galician), a few minor ones (Aranese [in Catalonia],
Aragonese, and Asturian), and a totally unrelated language (Basque). Por-
tuguese regional dialects in Portugal – usually labeled after the region’s name,
such as Minhoto in Minho or Trasmontano in Trás-os-Montes – are basically
mutually intelligible, and other languages are restricted to rather small border
regions (6.3). Cintra (1971:28) proposed for the whole area of Galician and Por-
tuguese a phonology-based division into three primary dialectal zones, namely
(a) Galician dialects, (b) Northern Portuguese dialects, and (c) Center–Southern
Portuguese dialects.
Galician contrasts with Portuguese by the absence of nasal vowels, and the
presence of a single voiceless alveolar fricative /s/, as opposed to Portuguese
voiceless /s/ and voiced /z/ (face:fase). Likewise, Galician has only the voiceless
palatal fricative /ʃ/, while Portuguese contrasts voiceless /ʃ/ with voiced //
(acho:ajo). Finally, unstressed vowels tend to retain their quality in Galician,
whereas in European Portuguese they tend to be reduced to [ə] or dropped
altogether.
Differences between Northern and Center–Southern Portuguese dialects are
likewisedefinedbyafewphonologicalfeatures.Regardingconsonants,whereas
Center–Southern speech contrasts bilabial /b/ and labiodental /v/, Northern
has only the phoneme /b/, manifested by the allophones [b] and [β]. Conse-
quently, while word pairs like bala ‘bullet’/vala ‘ditch’ or cabo ‘handle’/cavo
‘I dig,’ contrast in Center–Southern pronunciation, they are homophonous in
the north. This difference forms the basis for the purely impressionistic pop-
ular notion that Northern speech mixes bs and vs, when in fact it has no vs to
speak of.
Northern dialects also articulate /s/ and /z/ with enough palatalization to make
them sound a bit like [ʃ] and [], as in Viseu [biew], esse [eʃə], as opposed to
[vizew], [esə] in Center–Southern pronunciation. Furthermore, as mentioned
earlier, Northern speech follows Galician in preserving the contrast /ʃ/ : //,
while Southern speech has only /ʃ/ (orthographically ch or x).
As regards the vocalic system, two features involve reduction of diphthongs
to simple vowels. In Center–Southern speech the original diphthong /ou/ has
long been reduced to a simple vowel [o], as in ouro [oɾu] ‘gold,’ Douro [doɾu].
Although this pronunciation has been incorporated in the standard language,
Northern speech preserves the /ou/ diphthong, phonetically either [ow] or [ɐw],
according to the region. The other diphthong affected is /ej/, pronounced [e]
in the south, as in feira [ferə]. This feature, unlike the preceding ones, is not
186 6 The expansion of European Portuguese
considered standard. Furthermore, the Lisbon variety of Portuguese renders the
diphthong /ej/ as [ɐj], as in feira [fɐjrɐ] ‘fair,’ thus preserving the contrast
/ej/ : /e/, albeit with a different timbre.
Other features contribute to further characterize regional pronunciation. We
have seen (5.2.2.) that medieval Portuguese had two contrasting pairs of sibi-
lants, apicoalveolar /s’/ and /z’/ and dorsoalveolar /s/ and /z/. Changes in sound
articulation have led to three different situations. One is the preservation of the
old four-way contrast in a conservative area (roughly including Trás-os-Montes,
Alto Minho, and part of Beira-Alta), as in the following scheme:
/s/ cego ‘blind,’ caça ‘hunting’ : /z/ fazer ‘make’
/s’/ saber ‘knowledge,’ passo ‘step’ : /z’/ casa ‘house’
In another area (part of Minho, Douro, part of Beira Alta and Beira Baixa)
thereisonlyonecontrast,involvingtheapicoalveolarsibilants,/s’/:/z’/.Finally,
in the central-southern region (including Lisbon) there is also only one contrast,
but involving instead the two dorso-dental sibilants, /s/ : /z/, which are identified
as being standard pronunciation (Cintra 1995:28, Rı̈ı̈ho 1999:62).
The dialect area extending from Beira Baixa to Algarve deserves mention-
ing (Cintra 1995:155) on account of articulatory changes in the vowel system
that took place before the sixteenth century, and which linguists have called
the “Portuguese Vowel Shift” (Rogers 1979, Silva 1988:337). The most salient
contrast with the standard vowel system is the pronunciation of the stressed
vowel /u/ with the tongue forward, resulting in a front rounded vowel [ü], as
in maduro [madüɾu] instead of [maduɾu]. This feature occurs in the Castelo
Branco–Portalegre dialect, thus named after the two towns that signal respec-
tively its northern limit, Castelo Branco in Beira Baixa, and its southern limit,
Portalegre in Alto Alentejo.
More extreme changes are found in the speech of Barlavento (Windward) do
Algarve, on the southwestern tip of the peninsula. This dialect has two extra
vowels in stressed position, namely /ü/ and /æ/, giving a total of eight stressed
vowels, / i e ε ae a ɔ o ü/. The following examples (collected from Azevedo
Maia 1975:10–23), show some phonetic realizations:
/ε/ > [æ] terra [tærɐ] for st. [tεrɐ] ‘land’
pedra [pædɾɐ] for st. [pεdɾɐ] ‘stone’
pesca [pæʃkɐ] for st. [pεʃkɐ] ‘fishing’
/ɔ/ > [o] porca [poɾkə] for st. [pɔɾkə] ‘sow’
cova [kovɐ] for st. [kɔvɐ ‘pit’
cobra [kobrɐ] for st. [kɔbrɐ] ‘snake’
/u/ > [ü] tudo [tüdə
] for st. [tudu] ‘all’
uma [ümɐ] for st. [ümɐ] ‘one (f.)’
azul [azü ] for st. [azul ] ‘blue’
6.3 Border talk 187
Survival of this regional vowel subsystem may have been due at least in
part to the fact that the regions of Alentejo and Algarve were largely iso-
lated from the rest of the country until relatively recent times. Azevedo Maia
(1975:23) pointed out that while some of these variations seemed to be on the
wane elsewhere in the country, in Algarve they were found in the pronunciation
of people of all age groups. These features also appear in some of the island
dialects (6.4).
6.3 Border talk
In Europe and elsewhere, most borders are artificial constructs established for
political reasons rather than to mark linguistic or cultural differences. Never-
theless, over the centuries European borders have proved rather permeable as
people from both sides crossed them to carry on their daily business. In such sit-
uations of language contact, which provide an ideal breeding ground for mixed
speeches, inhabitants have been known to have varying degrees of proficiency
in two or more languages. Despite Portugal’s general linguistic homogeneity, a
few pockets of diversity exist, usually in areas under Spanish jurisdiction that
were settled by Portuguese speakers, or conversely, in areas settled by speakers
of Galician, Leonese, or Spanish which are part of Portuguese territory.
In the process of settling border disputes with Spain, Portugal has kept several
northern villages of Galician or Leonese speech (Santos 1964–1965:91). On
several points along the border between Minho and the Galician region of
Ourense there are towns (such as Soutelinho da Raia, Cambedo, and Lama de
Arcos) where Portuguese coexists, in varying proportions, with Galician and/or
Spanish. In the northern district of Bragança (Trás-os-Montes) there are border
villages (Riodonor, Guadramil) where traces of Leonese dialects once spoken
are still present in popular speech (Cruz et al. 1994).
When dialectal studies started in Portugal at the end of the nineteenth century
(Vasconcellos 1970), such situations of language contact promoted conditions
of bilingualism, trilingualism, or language mixture which were supported by
the relative isolation of those rural regions and an extremely low literacy rate.
Although it was remarked in the 1960s that some of those dialects were on the
wane (Santos 1964–1965:138), factors such as the current revival of Galician,
an open border, access to television and radio in Portuguese, Spanish, and
Galician, and frequent travel may foster varying degrees of active or passive
bilingualism among the inhabitants of those regions.
A resilient instance of non-Portuguese speech is found further west, in the
district (Concelho) of Miranda do Douro in the Trás-os-Montes region, where
Mirandese (Mirandês), a variety of Leonese, is spoken by a few thousand peo-
ple. It has been suggested that Mirandese once covered a wider area along
the border (Ferreira 2002:140) and that a situation of active bilingualism was
188 6 The expansion of European Portuguese
prevalent until the sixteenth century, with Portuguese and Mirandese used
for complementary communicative purposes in a diglossic◦
situation (Martins
1995). Its continuity, and perhaps survival, is assisted by a law passed in 1999,
which recognizes
the right to cultivate and promote the Mirandese language, as a cultural asset and instru-
ment of communication, and support of the identity of the region of Miranda . . . . [and]
a child’s right to learn Mirandese. [The law also authorizes] public agencies . . . in the
concelho of Miranda do Douro . . . to issue their documents together with a version in
the Mirandese language. (Law # 7/99, Diário da República # 24 /99)
While this law is clearly favorable to Mirandese, its wording implies that the
original documents will continue to be issued in Portuguese, with a Mirandese
version being optional.
Three subdialects of Mirandese have been identified, namely Raiano, Cen-
tral,andSendinês,althoughtherelativeindependenceofSendinesefromMiran-
dese has been maintainted by Ferreira (1994). A feature shared by all three is the
preservation of intervocalic Latin /l/ and /n/, which have been lost in Portuguese,
as in plenu > Pg cheio, Mir. cheno, solu > Pg só, Mir solo ‘alone.’ Raiano
and Central also have initial /ʎ/ corresponding to Ptg /l/, as in llobo/lobo ‘wolf,’
lliebre/lebre ‘hare,’ as well as a rising diphthong, /wo/ or /je/, where Portuguese
has /o/ or /e/, as in fuonte/fonte ‘fountain,’ cuorpo/corpo ‘body,’ mulhier/mulher
‘woman,’ bielho/velho ‘old.’ In Sendinês, on the contrary, there is no initial /ʎ/
and instead of those diphthongs we find high vowels: libre/lebre, tirra/terra,
curpo/corpo.
There is an old tradition of oral literature in Mirandese (Barros 2002:141–
142) and efforts are currently under way to record and transcribe representative
texts. The following passage was recorded in 1998 in the village of Picuôte:
Era ua beç dues comadres, l tiu era pastor. I el fui-se a deitar cun la comadre, cun
outra, cun la mulhier daquel pastor e apuis, pul meio de la nuite, staba l cura deitado
na cama cun la tie i el batiu, i el metiu-se debaixo de la cama. Pula manhana, quando
se lhebantou, bestiu las calças de l cura, l pastor. Quando andaba cun las canhonas: –
Ai diabo que you trago las calças dun cura! (Alves 1999:29)
[Portuguese:] Era uma vez duas comadres, o marido era pastor. E ele foi-se deitar com
a comadre, com outra com a mulher daquele pastor, e depois, pelo meio da noite, estava
o padre deitado na cama com a mulher e ele bateu, e ele meteu-se debaixo da cama.
Pela manhã, quando se levantou, vestiu as calças do padre, o pastor. Quando andava
com as ovelhas: – Ai, diabo, que eu levo as calças dum padre!
[Once upon a time there were two women, the husband was a shepherd. And he went to
sleep with a woman, with another, with the wife of that shepherd, and later, in the middle
of the night, the priest was lying in bed with the wife and he knocked, and he crawled
under the bed. In the morning, as he got up, he put on the priest’s pants. When he was
walking with the sheep [he said]: “What the devil, I’m wearing a priest’s pants!”]
6.4 The Atlantic islands: Madeira and the Azores 189
A case of linguistic hybridism is found in the village of Barrancos, located
on the Portuguese border between Beja in Baixo Alentejo and the Spanish
provinces of Huelva and Badajoz (Extremadura). The Spanish presence in Bar-
rancos goes back to 1253, when a land grant was made to a Spanish princess
who married King Afonso III. Since the border in this area was not finally con-
sidered settled until 1926, it is not surprising that the inhabitants (under 3,000)
speak a mixture of Portuguese and southern Spanish. A salient phonological
feature, normal in southern Spanish though not in Portuguese, is the aspiration
or loss of syllable-final /s/: dois filhos > doi[h] filho[h], doi filho, detrás >
detrá[h], detrá. Another feature is the loss of final /r/ as in correr > corrê,
buscar > bu[h]cá (Stefanova-Gueorguiev 2000).
On the Spanish side of the border there are a few Portuguese enclaves such as
the town of Olivenza (Pg Olivença), but the general tendency is for the younger
generations, particularly in urban environments, to be Spanish-speaking, or at
any rate Spanish-dominant bilinguals. Nevertheless, efforts are being made (as
in the case of Mirandese on the Portuguese side) to preserve at least some
of that linguistic heritage. A decree passed in 2000 by the Culture Department
(Consejerı́a de Cultura) of the Autonomous Region of Extremadura recognized
as a cultural asset the variety of Galician-Portuguese, with Leonese features,
traditionally known as “A Fala,” spoken in the towns of San Martı́n de Trevejo,
Eljas, and Valverde del Fresno, in the Jálama Valley (Vázquez-Cuesta 1971:
76, Viudas Camarasa 2001).
While such legal measures provide conditions favorable to minority dialects,
the extent of their effectiveness remains an open question. The pressure of the
standard official language, public education, the media, and increased oppor-
tunities for travel and work in other countries of the European Community
may work against their preservation. As one might expect, such varieties have
tended to fare better in fast-shrinking rural areas than in towns. Whatever their
outcome, such efforts evince a positive change of attitude toward regional vari-
eties which, until relatively recently, were left to their own devices, when not
persecuted outright.
6.4 The Atlantic islands: Madeira and the Azores
The Madeira archipelago (pop. ca. 271,000) comprises two inhabited islands,
Madeira and Porto Santo, situated about 640 km (398 miles) off the Moroccan
coast. The archipelago of the Azores (pop. ca. 237,000) includes nine islands
dividedintothreegroups:EasternAzores(SãoMiguelandSantaMaria),Central
Azores (Graciosa, Terceira, São Jorge, Pico, and Faial), and Western Azores
(Corvo and Flores), located in the middle of the Atlantic, at about the same
latitude as Beja in Portugal or Washington, DC. Settlement of these two hitherto
uninhabited island groups began in the middle of the fifteenth century. Madeira
190 6 The expansion of European Portuguese
and Porto Santo were settled quite successfully due largely to their mild climate
and fertile soil, while the Azores were settled more slowly on account of low
demographic resources and other factors (Mendorica 2000:21).
Rogers (1946, 1948, 1949) provides an ensemble view of the speech of both
Madeira and the Azores. By and large the Azores are unevenly studied, with the
speech of some islands, such as São Miguel, having received far more attention
than that of others. The main phonological consonantal features in the speech
of both island groups coincide with those of Central–Southern dialects, e.g. the
/b/ : /v/ contrast and the occurrence of fricative [ʃ] rather than affricate [] in
words written with ch.
In Madeira, however, there is palatalization of /l/ after [i] or [j], as in vila
[viʎɐ] ‘village,’ telefone [teʎifon]. Some features from northern Portugal
occur in the vowel system, such as the pronunciation of /ei/ as [ej] instead
of [e] and /ou/ as [ow] instead of [o]. Furthermore, [ow] alternates with [oj],
as in coisa/cousa [kowzɐ] / [kojzɐ] ‘thing.’ Vocalic features found in Algarve
which reappear in Madeira include the fronted vowel [ü] as in escudo [ʃküdu]
and the articulation of stressed /a/ as a back low–mid [ɔ] as in casa [kɔzə].
There is also a tendency to diphthongize stressed high vowels, e.g. /i/ (filho
[fɐjʎu] for st. [fiʎu]) or /u/ (lua [lɐwɐ] for st. [luɐ]).
Linguists (Silva 1988, Rogers 1948) have pointed out that Miquelense, the
dialect of São Miguel, is the variety that departs most strikingly from standard
European Portuguese. This is due primarily to the effects of the aforementioned
Portuguese Vowel Shift, brought to the island in the sixteenth century by settlers
from Algarve. The following examples (from Silva 1988:337) give an idea of
the range of such divergence:
/i/ > [i] fita [fitɐ] for st. [fitɐ]
‘ribbon’
/a/ > [ɐ] cabra [kɐbɾɐ] for st.
[kabɾɐ] ‘goat’
/e/ > [ε] pretu [pɾεtu] for st.
[pɾetu] ‘black’
/ɔ/ > [o] porca [poɾkɐ] for st.
[pɐɾkɔ] ‘sow’
/ej/ > [e] peixe [peʃ] for st.
[pejʃ] ‘fish’
/o/ > [u] porto [puɾtu] for st.
[poɾtu] ‘port’
/ε/ > [æ] terra [tærɐ] for st.
[tεrɐ] ‘earth’
/u/ > [ü] uvas [üvɐʃ] fos st.
[uvɐʃ] ‘grapes’
Phonetic variation of vowels has been interpreted as socially significant by
Silva (1988), who determined that pronunciation of /a/ as either central [a] or
back [ɑ] or [ɔ], in the same person’s speech, is not random. The variant [a],
which coincides with the standard pronunciation, is the prestige form, while
the variant [ɔ], traditionally considered typical of São Miguel pronunciation, is
considered less prestigious by outsiders. The back variant [ɑ], in turn, seems
to be a compromise solution: unlike [ɔ] and like [a], it is unrounded, but unlike
[a] and like [ɔ], it is backed. In other words, it is sufficiently similar to [a] to
6.4 The Atlantic islands: Madeira and the Azores 191
share some of its prestige value and also close enough to [ɔ] to partake its value
as an index of regional or ethnic identity.
A more recent analysis by Cruz and Saramago (1999), based partly on Cintra
(forthcoming), suggests that Madeira and the Azores should be considered a
dialect area in their own right because they share a number of features, some
of which are either regional or non-existent in mainland Portugal. The authors
support this view with data from their own acoustic analysis of vowel harmony
(more intense in Azores) and final /s/ (more intense in Madeira). They also find
that stressed vowel quality is unstable and affected by the quality of preced-
ing unstressed vowels and by the quality of the final unstressed vowel. This
phonological process, reportedly found on most Azorean islands but particu-
larly evident on Terceira, involves changing the stressed vowel into a rising
diphthong by inserting a semivowel whose articulation has the same tongue
position as a preceding unstressed vowel or semivowel:
insertion of [j]:
e ferve [ifjεɾvi] st. [ifεɾvi] ‘and (it) boils’
ceifar [sejfjaɾ] st. [sejfaɾ] ‘to reap’
insertion of [w]:
buscar [buʃkwaɾ] st. [buʃkaɾ] ‘fetch’
ao gato [awγwatu] st. [awγatu] ‘to the cat’
The stressed vowel may in turn assimilate to the semivowel in area of articula-
tion, becoming palatalized if the semivowel is [j], or velarized if the semivowel
is [w]. Vowel instability is apparent in the fact that several forms may occur not
only in the same dialect but in the speech of the same speaker:
cidade [siðaði] ∼ [siðjäði] ∼ [siðεði] for st. [siðaði]
fumar [fumwaɾ] ∼ [fumwɑɾ] ∼ [fumɑɾ] for st. [fumaɾ]
This diphthongization process has been identified in continental Portugal
(Beira Baixa, Alto Alentejo, Beira Alta). In Madeira, diphthongization of
stressed vowels preceded by a syllable with a high vowel or a semivowel is
likewise found, as in the examples below, although there is no further palatal-
ization of a vowel preceded by a palatal semivowel.
inverno [ı̃vjεɾnu] for st. [ı̃vεɾnu] ‘winter’
comer [kumweɾ] for st. [kumeɾ] ‘to eat’
In Madeira, when the stressed vowel is high, there is a tendency for unstressed
high final vowels to be articulated as a relatively weak [i]:
limpo [l ı̃pi] for st. [l ı̃pu] ‘clean’
bico [biki] for st. [biku] ‘bird’s beak’
192 6 The expansion of European Portuguese
Words ending in unstressed [u] may have their stressed vowel velarized,
particularly if it is /a/, which may be pronounced as [ɑ] or even [ɔ], as in
carro [kɑu], [kɔ] ‘car’ (with loss of the final vowel), contrasting with st.
[kau]. This phenomenon apparently occurs, with varying frequency, in the
speech of all Azorean islands.
As regards final /s/, on Madeira it may either be articulated as [ʃ] or [z] as
in the mainland, or eliminated, or articulated as [j] when preceding a vowel
beginning with a voiced consonant or a voiceless fricative, thus originating
a falling diphthong, as in os donos [ujdonuʃ], st. [uʃdonuʃ] ‘the owners’ or
os machos [ujmaʃuʃ], st. [uzmaʃuʃ] ‘the males,’ or as veias [ajvejɐʃ], st.
[azvejɐʃ] ‘the veins.’ On the Azores, and particularly on Flores, this process
reportedly takes place regularly, occurring also before voiceless stops, as in as
pegadas [ɐjpεaðɐʃ], st. [ɐʃ pεaðɐʃ] ‘the footprints.’
With the exception of transformation of final /s/ into [j], these features of
island speech also occur, albeit unsystematically, in continental Portugal. Cruz
and Saramago hypothesize that their regular occurrence on the islands may
result from a settlement pattern lacking “noticeable predominance of settlers
from any given region” (1999:732). Furthermore, while the pressure of standard
language has limited the occurrence of those features on the continent, lack of
such pressure on the islands has made it possible for those features to be present
in the speech of all social groups, thus contributing to the characterization of
the islands as a whole as a dialect region.
6.5 Africa
The presence of the Portuguese language in Africa is the outcome of a colonial
situation that began with the conquest of Ceuta by Portugal in 1415 and lasted
until the middle of the 1970s. The five African countries where Portuguese has
official status – Angola, Mozambique, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, and São
ToméandPrı́ncipe(seeTable1.1fordemographicdata)–arecollectivelyknown
by the acronym PALOP (Paı́ses Africanos de Lı́ngua Oficial Portuguesa).
Portuguese was adopted as a lingua franca◦
by the various ethnic groups
involved in the struggle for independence from the early 1960s. This was an act
of language planning as well as a conscious political decision to use Portuguese
“as a bridge in the face of inter-regional barriers to communication” (Katupha
1994:91). Its retention as an official language after independence in the 1970s
can also be seen as a pragmatic move. In multilingual countries such as Angola,
Mozambique, and Guinea-Bissau, adoption of Portuguese has obviated the
potentially divisive choice of an African language spoken by some ethnic groups
but not others. In this context, Lopes (1997b:493) states:
the Portuguese language is and will most likely be, in our lifetime, the national lingua
franca . . . [for] Mozambicans who speak different mother tongues.
6.5 Africa 193
When universal proficiency has been achieved, it will be no doubt advanta-
geous for all citizens to share a language which, having been used for over eight
centuries for all kinds of literary and non-literary purposes, can be a vehicle for
the development of a national culture (Ferreira 1988), as well as for communi-
cation among those five countries and between them and Portugal and Brazil.
There is, however no way of guessing how long it may take for a significant
majority of the population to acquire that proficiency. At present, Portuguese
is an exogenous language, spoken by less than 40 per cent of the population.
Furthermore, it is the native or dominant language of a rather small percent-
age of the population. This situation, sharply different from that of Portugal or
Brazil, where most people speak Portuguese natively, has specific implications
for the future of the language in Africa. Furthermore, since in Cape Verde,
Guinea-Bissau, and São Tomé and Prı́ncipe several Portuguese-based creoles
are also spoken, a brief overview of these languages should help put things in
perspective.
6.5.1 Pidgins and creoles: An excursus
As mentioned in 1.3, a remarkable by-product of the contact of Portuguese
with African languages in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries was the develop-
ment of hybrid languages called pidgins◦
and creoles◦
. A pidgin, often called
a trade language on account of its customary association with business, is
a much simplified, essentially oral language formed by combining elements
taken from the languages of people trying to communicate without know-
ing each other’s language. Its structure usually involves the vocabulary of the
socially dominant language (called the lexifier or superstrate language), with
a trimmed-down version of the grammar of the socially subordinate (or sub-
strate) language. Although a pidgin is nobody’s native language, when the
offspring of pidgin speakers acquire it as their first language, it becomes a
creole.
A well-known instance of a pidgin is Sabir (< saber ‘to know’), which
was spoken by merchants, sailors, and warriors round the Mediterranean in the
Middle Ages. It had an Italian and Occitan lexical basis and was still in use,
in various forms, in places on the North African coast in the early nineteenth
century. Its other name, Lingua Franca – that is, “language of the Franks,”
as Europeans were called by non-Europeans – survives as a designation of a
language which, like English, is used for a variety of communicative purposes
by speakers of other languages.
Since the early fifteenth century, contact with African languages, and the
familiarity the Portuguese had with techniques for simplifying their own lan-
guage to communicate with foreigners, promoted the rise of pidgins. Although
the precise circumstances surrounding their genesis continues to be a topic
of debate (see, for example, Whinnom 1965; Naro 1978, 1981; Clements
194 6 The expansion of European Portuguese
1992, 2000, Holm 2004), Portuguese-based pidgins were formed and used
not only between Europeans of various nationalities and Africans, but also
among Africans who did not share a common language. This process con-
tributed to rise to the creoles currently spoken, with regional variations, in
Guinea-Bissau, on Cape Verde, and on São Tomé and Prı́ncipe. A creole is
also spoken on the island of Annobón, which was originally settled by the
Portuguese and was a Spanish colony from 1778 to 1968, when it became part
of the territory of the Republic of Equatorial Africa (formerly known as Spanish
Guinea).
Like pidgins, creoles are structurally simplified, but whereas a pidgin may
hold, at least in its initial stages, a kind of dialectal relationship with its lexi-
fier, a creole is an autonomous entity. Consequently, in dealing with language-
planning issues such as the establishment of a standard grammar or the compila-
tion of a dictionary that can be used by speakers of partially divergent varieties,
it is necessary to find solutions that take into account the creole’s own structure
rather than the structure of the original lexifier language. There are substan-
tial differences among the different Portuguese-based creole varieties found in
Africa, for even though a large portion of their lexicon is Portuguese, each has a
number of loan words from different African languages. It has been argued that
such differences do not necessarily alter the shared structure of Portuguese cre-
oles (Ploae-Hanganu 1998), but nonetheless each creole – like any language –
follows its own process of diachronic change, and differences tend to accumu-
late over the years.
If the lexifier coexists with a creole – as Portuguese does in Cape Verde, São
Tomé and Prı́ncipe, and Guinea-Bissau – its very presence may turn out to be
an obstacle – though not necessarily an insurmountable one – to the use of the
creole in socially prestigious activities such as education, the media, and the
administration. Rather than accept the creole as it is, the educated segments of
society, whose social prestige benefits from their command of the lexifier, may
consider that the value of the creole depends on its ability to approximate to the
lexifier in spelling or vocabulary. Since creoles are essentially oral, however,
there may be a great deal of regional variation, and consequently the task of
developing a viable writing system requires choosing a specific variety as a
point of reference.
The decision processes involved in such language planning are fraught with
technical and social problems. First, creoles are not necessarily discrete entities
but form a continuum where it is not always clear where one variety ends
and another begins. Secondly, decisions on how to represent sounds and sound
combinations in spelling require an informed view on whether, and to what
extent, the written creole should or should not look like the lexifier language.
Further, deciding which syntactic structures should be taken as a basis for the
standard may prove a vexing issue, encroaching upon the prestige of speakers of
6.5 Africa 195
competing varieties. Given such a diversified situation, it is no surprise that the
task of developing a relatively standardized norm for Portuguese-based creoles
is still in its early stages.
The extent to which a creole both resembles and differs from its lexifier
language can be appreciated by comparing a text in Guinea-Bissau creole with
its translation into Portuguese:
I ten ba un bias un omi ku tene kandonga, ma i ka tene kusa riba. I tene un kacon tras.
I mbarca son un amparante ku sukundi na kacon. I bai i bai tok i ciga na Safin. Jintis
e bin pidi buleia. I inci jintis karu. Suma cuba na cobi i mbarka kil jintis tras. E bai
tok e ciga na Jugudul. Cuba para, cuba para son. Amparante manera ku i miti dentru
di kacon i iabri son kacon. Ku velosidadi ku karu na bin ba ki jintis oja son manera
ku kacon iabri. Omi lanta. Kada kin na kai na si ladu. Kada kin na kai. Te pa e ciga
Gan-Mamudu, tudu ku sta ba na karu e muri. Amparante boka mara. Ma i bin fala elis
kuma i cuba ku pul ba i miti dentru di kacon. Ami i ka kuma di difuntu. I ka algin ku
muri ku tenedu na kacon. Bu obi. (Couto 1994: 131)
Havia um homem que tinha uma candonga que não tinha teto. Na carroceria havia um
caixão. Em seguida o cobrador embarcou e se escondeu dentro do caixão. Assim foram
até chegar a Safim. Algumas pessoas pediram carona. O homem encheu o carro de gente.
Estava chovendo muito, mas embarcaram todos atrás [na carroceria]. Continuaram a
viagem até chegar a Jugudul. A chuva parou. O cobrador saiu de dentro do caixão.
Na velocidade em que o veı́culo corria todos viram o caixão se abrir. O homem se
levantou. Cada uma das pessoas caiu para um lado. Todos caı́ram. Todos que estavam
na candonga caı́ram, até chegar a Gã Mamudu todos morreram. O cobrador ficou sem
fala (boquiaberto). Apesar de ele lhes ter dito que não era defunto, que se metera dentro
do caixão por causa da chuva. (Couto 1994:131)
[There was a man who had a candonga (bush taxi) that did not have a roof. In the back
there was a coffin. Then the conductor got on and hid inside the coffin. They went on
like that until they got to Safim. Some people asked for a ride. The man filled the car
with people. It was raining a lot, but they all climbed in the back. The trip went on until
they got to Jugudul. The rain stopped. The conductor got out of the coffin. At the speed
at which the vehicle was running everyone saw the coffin open. The conductor got up.
Every person fell out by the wayside. Everyone fell out. The conductor was speechless
(open-mouthed). Every one who was on the candonga fell off, by the time they got to
Gã Mamudu everyone died. Even though he told them he was not a corpse, that he had
got into the coffin because of the rain.]
6.5.2 The continental countries: Angola, Mozambique, and
Guinea-Bissau
As pointed out by Lopes (2002b:22), Angola, Guinea-Bissau and Mozambique
have considerable linguistic diversity, in the sense that no single language is spo-
ken by over 50 per cent of the population. Furthermore, the close links between
linguistic diversity and ethnic variety impinge upon efforts to bring about
196 6 The expansion of European Portuguese
language unification. The three countries originated from colonial entities
created by fiat following the Berlin Congress in 1884, at which European
powers agreed to partition Africa without regard for existing ethnic groups.
Consequently, the task of establishing a post-colonial nationhood was one
for which their previous experience had not prepared them (Cahen 1994).
Portuguese remains primarily an urban language, and major cities, such as
LuandaandBenguelainAngola,andMaputoandBeirainMozambique,arepre-
dominantly Portuguese-speaking (Barbeitos 1985:422; Castro et al. 2001:234–
236). In Angola, for example, about 46.4% of the residents of urban areas speak
Portuguese, as opposed to about 11.9% in the countryside (MICS 1997:29). In
rural or semi-rural areas, however, teaching Portuguese as a second language
is likely to remain a priority task for some time to come.
Consensus is lacking regarding figures pertaining to languages, not only
because of a lack of reliable statistics but also because some linguists consider
as separate languages what others would classify as dialects of the same lan-
guage. Available information, however, shows that in Angola and Mozambique
bilingualism or even multilingualism is the rule for the majority of the popu-
lation. Although pidgin varieties may have existed (Holm 1989:271), there are
at present no Portuguese-based creoles.
In Mozambique about 3% of the population speak Portuguese as a native lan-
guage (Lopes 2002c:51), and about 43% speak it as a second language. Of the
native languages, Emakhuwa is spoken by about 25% of the population (Lopes
2002b:23), three fourths of whom speak at least one of some twenty Bantu lan-
guages, distributed with considerable geographic overlapping and none with a
clear majority. Non-Bantu languages such as Swazi or Zulu are also spoken in
border areas. Surrounded by countries where English has official status, inter-
acting directly with South Africa, and having joined the British Commonwealth
in 1995, Mozambique has witnessed a growth of interest in learning English,
which seems destined to play the role of every educated person’s “third lan-
guage,” that is after a native African language and native or school-learned
Portuguese (Matusse 1997:551). As regards geographic distribution, 79% of
the speakers of Portuguese live in urban areas, whereas 74% of the speakers of
African languages live in rural areas (Castro et al. 2001:234–238).
In Angola there are about 40 languages, belonging primarily to the Bantu
family. Some 29.8% of the population speak Umbundu (the only language spo-
ken only in Angola), followed by 26.3% who speak Portuguese, with Kimbundu
in third place with 15.4% (MICS 1997:29). Kimbundu seems to be in a process
of replacement by Angolan Popular Portuguese. Kikongo is spoken by some
1.5 million people (Barros 2002:37–38). Fluency in Portuguese is limited, and
most speakers speak a variety of European Portuguese influenced by native
languages (Mingas 2000, 2002:47).
Even more than in Angola and Mozambique, in Guinea-Bissau, where over
fifteen African languages are spoken, Portuguese was spoken at the end of the
6.5 Africa 197
twentieth century by only 0.03% of the population (Couto 1991:116). Balanta
is spoken by some 27% (Lopes 2002b:23), and there are three creole varieties,
namely that of Bissau and Bolema on the coast, that of the town of Bafatá in
the hinterland, and that of Cacheu in the north of the country. Depending on the
source chosen, between 50% and 90% of the population speak a Portuguese-
based creole that is widely used in urban areas.
The complex relationship between creole and Portuguese involves a con-
tinuum linking standard Portuguese to creolized Portuguese, to Lusitanized
creole, to traditional creole, to creole influenced by African languages, and to
the African languages themselves. The transition from one link to the next is
relatively smooth, and “only the ends of that continuum are completely alien
to each other” (Couto 1994:53). Varieties can also compete with each other.
For example, a Lusitanized variety known as kriol lebi (crioulo leve or ‘light
creole’), spoken primarily in the Bissau and Bolema area, competes in the media
with the traditional kriol fundu (crioulo fundo or ‘deep creole’) associated pri-
marily with the Cacheu area. At the time of writing (2004), a trend was reported
in favor of using a variety of kriol fundu in certain sectors of the media, so as to
take advantage of “its inherent richness and mechanisms for expanding itself to
report on themes that have typically been reserved for kriol lebi or Portuguese”
(Brian King, personal communication).
If a creole variety were to become the language of national communication,
it would offer the considerable advantage of not belonging to any ethnic group
in particular and so it could be shared by everyone without impinging on eth-
nic pride. During the anticolonial struggle in the 1960s and 1970s, creole was
taken to the hinterland by revolutionaries, who used it as a language of intra-
ethnic communication. After independence, efforts have been made to increase
media use of light creole, officially or officiously called Kriol (Henriques
1985), which has been adopted by government agencies such as the National
Assembly and the Supreme Court “to ensure the clarity of the proceedings”
(King 2001:35–41).
6.5.3 The island countries: Cape Verde and São Tomé and Prı́ncipe
The two island countries, Cape Verde (ten islands) and São Tomé and Prı́ncipe
(two islands), were uninhabited when the Portuguese arrived in the second half
of the fifteenth century. Their population comprises mostly Africans from the
mainland and descendants of Portuguese settlers, many of whom were exiles
or deported convicts. Intermarriage of Europeans and Africans accounts for an
Afro-Portuguese socioeconomic elite.
In colonial times islands of both archipelagos served as trading posts for the
traffic of slaves, who went to São Tomé from the kingdom of Benin (in today’s
Nigeria) and later from the regions of Congo and Angola. Slaves from several
ethnic groups went to Cape Verde from the region that is now Guinea-Bissau.
198 6 The expansion of European Portuguese
Cape Verde comprises two groups of islands, Sotavento (Leeward) and
Barlavento (Windward). Virtually everyone speaks a creole as a first language
and an educated minority is fluent in Portuguese. The creole variety of the island
of São Vicente (located in Barlavento) is known for its “light” features, which
bring it closer to Portuguese than to other creoles, such as the one spoken on the
island of Santiago (Holm 1989, 2000; D. Pereira 2000; Espı́rito Santo 1985).
The creole of Barlavento has a reputation of being particularly different from
those of Sotavento, although recent work has shown that São Vicente creole
seems to be “more permissive, among other reasons, because of the importance
of the European presence in the settlement of the island,” whereas Santiago
creole “is more resistant” to outside influences (D. Pereira 2000:44).
On São Tomé there are two creole varieties, known as Sãotomense or Forro
(spoken by some 85,000 speakers, clearly the majority of the population) and
Angolar (about 9000 speakers). The latter is spoken by an ethnic community
of descendants of slaves who escaped from the plantations. The creole known
as Principense or Lunguyè, spoken on Prı́ncipe, has about 4000 speakers. Both
Angolar and Principense are said to have few young speakers and to be used
primarily by older persons, “and even so only in very private situations,” and
may thus be on the wane, whereas Forro may be undergoing a decreolization
process (Mata 1998:33–34).
The island societies are thus essentially bilingual and creoles constitute their
main native languages. Command of Portuguese ranges from the European
standard, spoken by a minority, to vernacular Portuguese and on to the creole-
influenced, rudimentary Portuguese spoken by the less educated (Ramos 1985).
The lack of a regional norm of Portuguese has been pointed out as an obstacle
to the teaching of the language (Pontı́fice 2002:57–58).
6.5.4 Whither Portuguese?
Due to the fast pace of national and international events, assessments of social
situations must be considered provisional, and linguistic matters are no excep-
tion. While negative feelings about the former status of Portuguese as a colonial
language seem to have been largely overcome, the absence of local roots may
limit some of its effectiveness as a language of national solidarity in multilin-
gual societies (Lorenzino 2000:446). Portuguese may, nevertheless, turn out
to be a viable “supra-national” alternative to the national African languages.
Given the many obstacles, such as lack of funds for education and a shortage
of teachers, for most of whom Portuguese is a school-learned rather than native
language, new learners’ proficiency is likely to continue ranging from rudi-
mentary fluency to a vernacular Portuguese influenced by local languages, to
standard European Portuguese spoken by an educated urban minority.
6.5 Africa 199
Diglossia◦
, which will be discussed in some detail in section 8.2, is a situation
characterized by a relationship of social subordination between two varieties
of the same language or between two different languages. The subordinate
variety is usually a vernacular used at home, in community life, and sometimes
in some popular literature. The superordinate variety is reserved for formal
venues, such as formal education, law courts, and serious literature. Learning
it usually requires years of formal training that is not necessarily available to a
majority of the population.
In the African case, Portuguese functions as the superordinate variety, while
creoles and African languages play a subordinate role and are generally lim-
ited to informal contexts, although this situation may be changing somewhat in
Guinea-Bissau, as mentioned in 6.5.2. Two factors are particularly important.
One is the role of Portuguese since the beginning of the struggle for inde-
pendence, as a symbol of national unity (Larsen 2003); another is its prestige
and power, for as underscored by Lopes is a comment applicable to all PALOP
countries, “Portuguese has provided Mozambican speakers with unprecedented
power for mobility and advancement in society” (1997a:21). Since much more
widespread proficiency than is currently the case would be necessary for Por-
tuguese to serve effectively as a common language for all citizens, a situation
with diglossic features may endure for some time.
In the early days of colonization native languages were used in education by
the Jesuits, but this practice was forbidden in 1759 by the Portuguese govern-
ment, which expelled the Jesuits from the colonies. Portuguese was introduced
as an instructional medium and was maintained through a succession of educa-
tional reforms aiming primarily at integrating Africans into the labor market.
African languages were kept out of the education process and students were
punished if caught using them at school (Martinho 1991:167).
Use of standard European Portuguese as the exclusive medium of educa-
tion, even when students do not understand it, tends to work against efforts to
increase literacy in Portuguese. Some scholars believe that speakers of African
languages or creoles would stand a better chance of becoming fluent and literate
in Portuguese if they could learn it as a second language after having become
literate in their own native language (Couto 1994:62–65). This approach, how-
ever, is hampered by the circumstance that native languages and creoles are
essentially oral and lack a written system as well as a tradition of use in for-
mal education. Whatever solutions are ultimately envisaged, it is clear that any
serious language policy must take indigenous languages into account (Firmino
1995a, 1995b).
Efforts to develop writing systems for African languages in Angola and
Mozambique have yielded only modest results, on account of the large number
of languages involved and also of the intrinsic difficulty of choosing a variety
acceptable to a majority of speakers. The technical aspects of developing a
200 6 The expansion of European Portuguese
workable writing system, already mentioned in relation to creoles, are another
obstacle.
Although school instruction is conducted in Portuguese, creole is used on
radio and television, as well as in some of the press, and thus a struggling, though
apparently viable, body of publications in creole is under way. This includes not
only comic books and fiction works but also publications of a more practical
content such as election materials, health education, technical information, and
so on. Publishing in creole is hampered by dialectal variation, and although
proposals have been made for a unified written norm, that goal is far from having
been reached (Augel 1998:35–37). The essentially oral nature of creoles, bound
by no single grammatical standard and tolerating a great deal of variation in
pronunciation, syntax, and the lexicon, contributes to the preservation of creole
continua. Since developing a writing system requires choosing a specific variety
and therefore excluding others, the process of establishing a norm raises issues
akin to those involved in developing a writing system for African languages.
According to King (2001:41), in Guinea-Bissau in the 1980s “at least two
standardized Kriol alphabets were elaborated, yet no single standard was
adopted or promoted by the state.” Eventually, the Bissau variety of “crioulo
aportuguesado” or Lusitanized creole “completely superseded the other two
principal dialects” (King 2001:35) in most written materials. Ironically,
increased use of this variety of creole may lead to a “decreolization process
[that] accelerates every passing day” (Couto 1994:66). The fact that differences
between creoles are sometimes deep enough to interfere with mutual intelligi-
bility – as in the case of Guinea-Bissau’s fundu and lebi varieties, or in that of
the Capeverdian variety spoken on the island of São Vicente (D. Pereira 2000) –
further complicates standardization efforts.
It has been suggested that learners’ linguistic background also interferes
with their formal learning of Portuguese, particularly among children from
families of low socioeconomic standing, who speak non-standard Portuguese,
alone or in combination with a native language and/or a creole (Pontı́fice 1991).
African languages also borrow words from Portuguese, usually with phonolog-
ical adaptations. Examples of this process include oral diphthongs reduced to
vowels (caixa > kaxà ‘box’) or split by a glide (queijo > kexjù ‘cheese’); nasal
diphthongs are made oral and reduced to simple vowels (pão > pawu ‘bread’);
consonant groups are split by a vowel (grade > gàradà ‘grille,’ cerveja >
sàràvhexjà ‘beer’). At the morphological level we find verb infinitives marked
by two Bantu elements, such as the prefix ku- and the infinitive-marking suf-
fix -a (passear > kùpàsı̀yàrà ‘to stroll,’ arrumar > kùrùmàrà ‘to fix’) (Sitoe
1991:109–110).
Linguists have pointed out that there is something artificial in a situation in
which European Portuguese remains the standard for language teaching and
use, even though most speakers and learners have little or no contact with
6.5 Africa 201
that variety (Lopes 1997a:41; Silva 1991:102). Because Portuguese is learned as
a second language by persons who get little or no feedback from native speakers
of standard European Portuguese, their language tends to undergo a process
of nativization, whereby it acquires specific features from African languages.
This happens not only at the lexical level, where borrowing from the national
languages is to be expected, but also at the phonological and morphosyntactic
levels (Mingas 2000).
Some scholars (such as Gonçalves (1985, 1996), Firmino (1995a, 1995b),
Lopes (1997a), and Marque (1985)) have debated the issues involved in defin-
ing an African variety (or varieties) of Portuguese, with specific features for
each country. Endruschat (1995) analyzed differences in the placement of clitic
pronouns between EP and Angolan and Mozambican varieties, and research
carried out in Mozambique (Stroud and Gonçalves 1997–1998) has yielded a
corpus of oral production for systematic analysis. Loan words from African
languages are found not only in the colloquial language but also in the literary
variety, as in the following items from Quimbundu: kixima > cacimba ‘rain
water well,’ kubata > cubata ‘house,’ muamba ‘chicken stew,’ maka ‘fight,
confusion,’ quinda ‘basket,’ soba ‘chief, chieftain,’ gimbo ‘money,’ guimbo
‘machete,’ milongo ‘medicine,’ quituxe ‘crime’ (Santos 1991; Oliveira 1991).
Asignofintegrationofloanwordsintothelexiconistheiruseintheformation
of new words by derivation (3.8.1). In Mozambique, for example, a borrowed
noun such as lobolo ‘a fee paid to a bride’s father by her betrothed’ has yielded
the derived verb lobolar (< lobolo + -ar) ‘to pay the tribute owed to one’s
bride’s father.’ Another regular process is the extension of the meaning of a
Portuguese word, such as alarmar ‘to startle,’ as in alarmar um carro ‘to install
an alarm system in a car.’ Semantic extension may involve syntactic change,
as in the use of nascer ‘to be born’ in the transitive sense of ‘to give birth to,’
e.g. eu nasci três vezes: duas meninas e um rapaz ‘I gave birth three times: two
girls and a boy’ (Lopes 2002a). Making a verb transitive is easily achieved by
omitting the preposition required in standard EP, as in the following examples
from Gonçalves (1996:74):
(1) a. MoP Não queriam obedecer ordens dos professores.
‘They did not want to obey the teachers’ orders’ (cf. EP obedecer
às ordens).
b. MoP O inspector acertou aqueles indivı́duos.
‘The inspector hit (with a shot) those individuals’ (cf. EP acertou
naqueles indivı́duos).
Generalized transitivity makes possible passive sentences in which a seman-
tic benefactive (4.2) occurs in the syntactic function of the subject, a construc-
tion not considered grammatical in EP, as in these examples from Gonçalves
(1996:75):
202 6 The expansion of European Portuguese
(2) a. MoP O irmão foi concedido uma bolsa de estudos.
‘The brother was awarded a scholarship.’
b. EP Uma bolsa de estudos foi concedida ao irmão.
‘A scholarship was awarded to the brother.’
(3) a. MoP Segundo nós fomos explicados isso deve-se a questões de
ordem prática.
‘As we were explained (= was explained to us), that is due to
practical reasons.’
b. EP Segundo foi-nos explicado, isso deve-se a questões de ordem
prática.
‘As was explained to us, that is due to practical reasons.’
Possibly because it is a school-learned language, spoken and written Por-
tuguese tends to include words and expressions that would be considered lit-
erary, or at any rate typical of formal written styles, in European Portuguese.
This usage creates blends of formal and informal styles in the same sentence
as in example 4, where formal items such as fundos, alocar, execução, emprei-
tada cooccur with the nearly-slang expression comer o dinheiro ‘to embezzle,’
literally ‘to eat the money.’
(4) Os fundos alocados para a execução da empreitada não chegaram,
porque comeram o dinheiro. (Lopes 2002a)
‘The funds allotted to the project did not suffice because [they] ate
the money.’
Such a situation underscores the need pointed out by Lopes (1997b:499,
n. 16) for linguistic analysis to take into account “considerations of syntax,
idiom, style and usage related to social and cultural features of the Mozambican
way of life,” a line of research further developed by Lopes et al. (2002). Much
work remains to be done, for as scholars have argued (Brito 1999), the evidence
available is fragmentary and based largely on data that have yet to be submitted
to statistical analysis, and consequently it would be premature to evaluate claims
about the formation of country-specific varieties of Portuguese. Clearly, issues
related to language acquisition and the definition of regional standards are likely
to remain topics of lively debate in the foreseeable future.
6.6 Asian twilight
As mentioned in Chapter 1, Portugal’s seafaring and trade activities in Africa
and Asia in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries made Portuguese an inter-
national language. It was used in oral and written communication, not only
between Portuguese seafarers and administrators and local rulers, but also by
6.6 Asian twilight 203
Dutch and English explorers and explorers of other nationalities in their African
and Asian contacts (Cintra 1999a:293). Portuguese also provided a foundation
for pidgins and creoles, and it has been suggested (Clements 2000) that a generic
Portuguese-based pidgin participated in the formation of creoles in Asian com-
munities formed by Portuguese settlers, their native spouses or companions,
and eventually by their descendants, for whom that pidgin became a creole.
Recent research (Tomás 1992) suggests the presence of African elements in
Asian Portuguese creoles.
The development of creoles in Asia was aided by the circumstance that
the number of native speakers of Portuguese in the colonies was relatively
small, and shrank further as Portugal’s maritime empire was gradually lost
to the British and the Dutch in the seventeenth century. Goa, Daman (Pg
Damão), and Diu remained Portuguese until 1961, when they were taken over
by India and reorganized as a single Union Territory. Even during the colo-
nial period, however, the Portuguese language was spoken only by an educated
minority, while the general population spoke Indo-Portuguese creole, Konkani,
or other Indian languages. After 1961 the new Indian administration continued
operating in Portuguese for a few years as it converted to English, and schools
likewise changed to English on a gradual basis. Although still spoken as a fam-
ily language by some people and taught at the university as a foreign language,
Portuguese is clearly on the wane in India (Rodrigues 2000; Cahen et al. 2000).
This situation was aptly summed up by Teyssier (1985:47), who underscored
the residual nature of Portuguese or Indo-Portuguese creoles in a few remaining
Asian communities. The Portuguese-based creole of Sri-Lanka, for example,
was still spoken by about 1,000 people or less in the early 1970s (Theban
1985:276), although “prospects for its survival can only be described as
bleak” (Smith 1978:32). In Macau (pop. 453,700, area 25.4 square kilometers,
9.8 square miles), by the end of twentieth century Chinese had become the
language of young people (Batalha 1985). When sovereignty was returned to
China in December 1999, the region became the Macao Special Administrative
Region,andPutonghuawasrecognizedastheofficiallanguage,withPortuguese
remaining official but in a secondary role (Mann and Wong 1999:32). There is
no reason to expect it to regain any significant ground.
A similar situation obtains in Hong Kong, where a once viable Portuguese-
based creole was reported as having disappeared a decade ago (Charpentier
1992; Baxter 1990). In Malaysia, Papia Kristang (‘Christian talk’) or simply
Kristang, spoken in Malacca by some 1,000 people, is “the last surviving variety
of Creole Portuguese in South East Asia which still functions as a mother tongue
and home language of a speech community” (Baxter 1988:vii). It remains to be
seen whether the adoption of Portuguese in 2002 as a coofficial language (with
Tetum) in East Timor will signal the beginning a new life cycle for Portuguese
in Asia. Even if it does, teaching it as a second language to a population with
204 6 The expansion of European Portuguese
low literacy levels in their own native languages (Costa 1995) may prove a
formidable task, if for no other reason then because Portuguese has to compete
with English, widely used throughout Asia as a second language with a much
wider international reach.
6.7 Emigration and contact with other languages
Emigration from continental Portugal and the islands increased considerably in
the twentieth century, so that between 1964 and 1974, according to Bloemraad
(1999:103), “about 100,000 Portuguese were leaving the country every year.”
Motivated primarily by the need to find work opportunities, emigration led
to the establishment of Portuguese-descent immigrant communities in several
countries around the world.
The presence of Portuguese immigrants in Western European countries
became statistically significant after the 1960s, and although most countries
received at least some immigrants, the most numerous communities are found
in France and Germany. In France there were about 765,000 Portuguese in the
late 1980s, about half of them in the Paris region. In Germany there were slightly
fewer than 110,000 in 1981 and as they started going back to Portugal that fig-
ure decreased to about 77,000 by 1986 (Dias 1989:18). With the establishment
of the European Union and increasing ease of travel thanks to affluence and
better roads in Spain and Portugal, frequent visits to the homeland have become
commonplace.
Prolonged contact with the host country’s language(s) and increasing bilin-
gualism within the community have contributed to the development of dis-
tinctive, though not necessarily stable, varieties of mixed speech referred to
as emigrês ‘Emigrese’ (Dias 1989). The development of an Emigrese variety
does not seem to have taken place in Germany, where influence of German
on the speech of Portuguese immigrants and their descendants is limited to
the kind of interference that is expected when languages come into con-
tact (Dias 1989; Sousa-Möckel 1995). French, on the other hand, seems to
have left a deeper mark, linguistically as well as socially, on the immigrants
and their descendants, as noted in studies on French-dominant adolescents
attending school in Portugal (Mesquita 1986; Afonso 1998; Bendiha 1998;
Matos 1991).
An analysis of immigrants living in Paris by a Portuguese psychiatrist (Barros
Ferreira 1988) revealed regular patterns of French influence. As one might
expect, there were many loan words that represented unknown or unfamiliar
terms, such as Fr veau > vô for Pg vitela ‘veal,’ Fr poubelle > pubela for Pg
caixote do lixo ‘dustbin,’ Fr vacances > vacanças for Pg férias ‘vacation.’ Other
loan words, however, either replaced ordinary Portuguese terms (Fr seau > sô
for Pg balde ‘pail,’ Fr balai > bàlé for Pg vassoura ‘broom,’ Fr serpillière >
6.7 Emigration and contact with other languages 205
sarapilheira for Pg esfregão ‘cleaning rag’). Others were simply adapted for
ease of pronunciation, as Fr lessive > lessivia for Pg lexı́via ‘bleach.’
Morphological loans included regular change of the French adjective-
forming suffix -eux into -oso, as in affreux > afrôso, malheureux > malerôso,
dangereux > dangeroso for Pg. terrı́vel ‘terrible,’ infeliz ‘unhappy,’ perigoso
‘dangerous,’ respectively.
Borrowing sometimes yielded unexpected results, as in the case of Fr retraite
‘retirement’ > retrete (cf. Pg retrete ‘outhouse’). French verbs in -er and -ir
were systematically changed into Portuguese verbs in -ar and -ir, respectively,
as in Meu marido trompava-me for Meu marido enganava-me ‘my husband
was betraying me,’ from Fr tromper ‘betray’ > trompar.
Contact with English has been particularly significant in Australia, South
Africa, and above all North America. Portuguese emigration to Australia
involved no more than 1,000 individuals until the middle of the twentieth cen-
tury, and increased through the 1980s mostly due to an exodus from the former
African colonies and from East Timor. By the end of that century there was
an estimated community of 65,000 people of Portuguese origin (though only
under 18,000 Portugal-born), with over 50% of them living in New South Wales
(Rocha-Trindade 2000a:23).
In South Africa Portuguese immigration also grew in the second half of the
twentieth century, mainly from Madeira, and by the last decade of the century
the Portuguese-descent community had increased by some 100,000, including
people coming from Angola and Mozambique after decolonization, to reach
about 600,000–800,000 (Dias 1989:16; Rocha-Trindade 2000a:23).
In Canada, where Portuguese immigration started in 1953, there are “approx-
imately 292,185 individuals . . . who claim a Portuguese ethnic origin” (Nunes
1998:i). About 92% of the Portuguese-Canadians live in the provinces of
Ontario, Quebec, and British Columbia. Major concentrations live in the
metropolitan regions of Toronto (48%) and Montreal (13%) (Nunes 1998:i).
Now in its third generation and increasingly integrated in Canadian society, this
community seems to be undergoing a process of language attrition as young
people either fail to learn Portuguese or stop using it. Researchers suggest
that in the Toronto area the retention of Portuguese fell from 83% in 1971
all the way to 60.5% in 1991 (Helms-Park 2000:128). Interference from other
languages seems particularly intense in Quebec, where Portuguese-Canadians
tend to learn and use both English and French (Dias-Tatilon 2000).
The largest communities of Portuguese ancestry in North America are in the
United States, and their establishment can be traced to the second half of the
nineteenth century, when whalers from the Azores, and later from Cape Verde,
started arriving in New England, California, and Hawaii.
Despite restrictive immigration laws in the 1920s, the influx of Portuguese
immigrants increased again after the 1950s, thanks to legislation favoring
206 6 The expansion of European Portuguese
victims of the volcanic eruption on the Azorean island of Fayal in 1957–1958,
but then slackened off in the 1980s. Portuguese-American communities exist
today on the East Coast, in and around New Bedford, Fall River, Lowell, and
Boston, and there are other significant communities in Newark, Providence,
Philadelphia, New York, and Hartford. The other significant community – again
mostly of Azorean origin, with Madeirans running a distant second – is located
in California, where immigrants started arriving in the second half of the nine-
teenth century, again attracted to the fishing industry, and ended up primarily
in the San Francisco Bay area, all the way south to San José and inland in the
San Joaquı́n Valley. In Hawaii, a Portuguese-American community, likewise
descended primarily from Azoreans and Madeirans, was established around
1878.
Reliable data about actual use of the Portuguese language in the USA and
Canada are scarce, and systematic large-scale sociolinguistic research has yet to
be carried out. A favorable sign is the existence, in the United States and Canada,
of a small but viable literature (Almeida 2001, Vaz 2001). A less favorable one
is that the press in Portuguese in California, once thriving, seemed limited to
two bimonthly bilingual papers in 2003. A few websites in Portuguese have
appeared in both Canada and the United States but it is difficult to estimate
their readership. Radio programs in the language are reportedly dwindling, as
are television programs, although cable television may play a relevant, if small,
role.
According to data from the USA Census Bureau (www.census.gov), in 1990
429,860 respondents declared Portuguese as their home language; in 2000 that
figure had jumped to 564,630, a difference of 134,770 that seems to require
careful scrutiny. Home use of the language is likely to be primarily by the older
generations, and the younger segment of the Portuguese-descent population
appears to be not only bilingual but increasingly English-dominant. A survey
of 100 Portuguese-American high school students (Borges 2001) found that
fewer than 50% of their parents used Portuguese at home. About 15% of the
respondents used the language because their immigrant parents did not speak
English, whereas another 15% reported talking to their parents in English,
even though the latter used Portuguese to address their own parents. The same
author reports that in 1998 secondary schools in the San Joaquı́n Valley cities
of San Jose, Turlock, Hilmar, Los Banos, and Tulare had about 550 students in
Portuguese language classes, while in all of California there were only seven
community-supported night schools offering language courses to fewer than
500 students. On the East Coast, Bento (1998) reports that at a language school
in Newark the number of enrollments dropped from 550 in 1983–1984 to 400
in 1988–1989 and to 250 in 1997–1998.
Works such as Pap 1949 and Dias 1989 give an idea of the processes
involved in forming this Emigrese variety. Intense borrowing, primarily at the
lexical level, includes not only single words but compounds and full idiomatic
6.7 Emigration and contact with other languages 207
phrases. Loan words are systematically adapted to Portuguese phonology, with
the resulting loss of certain contrasts that are functional in English. Thus the
English high front vowels (Table 2.4) /i/ (beet) and /i/ (bit) are both interpreted
as Pg /i/, as in milker > milca, freeway > friuei. Eng /i/ (bit), however, may
also be interpreted as /ej/, as in television > televeija, air conditioning > arcan-
deixa. Eng /t/, articulated as [ɾ] in intervocalic position (waiter, water), tends
to be interpreted phonetically as [ɾ], as in automatic > arameque; starter >
estara, radiator > radieira. Diphthongs are usually preserved, as in /ej/ bacon
> beica, brake > breique; /aj/ dryer > draia, size > saize.
While phonological adaptations are more or less predictable from a compari-
son of the two phonological systems, it is more difficult to predict which specific
words will be borrowed, since this will depend on the specific needs of the com-
munity.Onthebasisofcompiledlists,however,onecandetectatendencytobor-
row the names of technological items that did not exist in the immigrants’ orig-
inal environment. Once brought into the lexicon of the community, items may
stay on indefinitely, even if the next generations, who are usually bilingual, more
educated, and likely to be English-dominant, are familiar with the English word.
It should be kept in mind that strange as the spelling of some items may
appear, it merely reflects an attempt to represent in writing what is essentially
a strictly oral adaptation to Portuguese phonology. The phonological processes
involved parallel those responsible for the anglicization of Spanish words like
burrito, tortilla, Los Angeles or San Jose to [bəɾitə], [təɾtilə], [ləsændələs],
[sənəzej], making them unrecognizable to Spanish speakers from other coun-
tries. Below are some items that illustrate the borrowing and phonological
adaptation process:
Technology Culture-specific
television > televeijo sheriff > charêfe
market > marqueta tenement > tanamento
carpet > carpeta vacation > vaqueixa
store > estôa undertaker > anatêca
manager > maneja radiator > radiera
bookkeeper > boquipa son of a gun > sanabagana
grocery (store) > grosseria go to hell! > gorele!
New activities Clothing
to trim the bushes > trimar os buxos
to drop a course > dropar un curso
overalls > alverozes/
alveroles
to drive > draivar overshoes > alvachús
overcoat > alvacote
Another regular borrowing process is loan translation, in which an English
word or expression is literally translated into Portuguese: high school > escola
alta (Pg escola secundária), black coffee > café preto (Pg café simples),
208 6 The expansion of European Portuguese
boarding house > casa de bordo (Pg pensão), to watch television > vigiar
televeijo (ver televisão).
Activities are often encoded by combining an action verb and a noun, usually
involving direct translation:
fazer o parque ‘to park’ (Pg estacionar)
fazer a estoa ‘to go to the store’ (Pg fazer compras)
fazer o fainaute ‘to find out’ (Pg descobrir)
fazer uma direita/esquerda ‘to make a right/left’ (Pg virar à
direita/esquerda)
dar para trás ‘to give back’ (Pg restituir, devolver)
dizer para trás ‘to talk back’ (Pg replicar)
mandar para trás ‘to send back’ (Pg devolver)
Semantic extension, in turn, involves adding to an existing Portuguese word
the meaning of a like-sounding English word, as in the following items (with
spelling adjusted to approximate the pronunciation, since this is an oral variety
without regular written expresion):
Portuguese
word
Meaning Immigrese (English-
influenced meaning)
cela cell (e.g. prison) cellar
mecha wick match
especial special (adj.) special (item on sale)
bordar to embroider to board
grau degree (e.g. temperature) school grade
aplicar to apply (e.g. a compress) apply for something
Code-switching is also an active communicative device, as seen in these
examples cited by Dias (1989:103–104):
(5) a. Pintei a minha casa de blue. Ficou nice.
‘I painted my house blue. It turned out nice.’
b. A senhora não dá juice para o meu kid?
‘Won’t you give my kid some juice?’
c. Não sei why tu foste com ela.
‘I don’t know why you went with her.’
On returning to their place of origin, either on a visit or permanently, immi-
grants take back some of these items, which may end up adopted by their less
mobile compatriots. Borges (1960) points out that most such items collected
by her on the island of São Miguel, in the Azores, were listed in Pap (1949) as
occurring in Portuguese-American speech.
6.7 Emigration and contact with other languages 209
Similar though apparently less extended interference phenomena from
English and French are noticeable in the Portuguese of Quebec, where Dias-
Tatilon has registered a variety of calques such as the following (2000:153,
adapted):
Luso-Québécois Québécois French or
English
Standard Portuguese
inecessário unnecessary desnecessário
permitir algumas
semanas
allow some weeks esperar algumas
semanas
levar vantagem to take advantage aproveitar-se
dopar-se se doper drogar-se
apontamento appointment hora marcada
mesmo se é duro même si c’est dur mesmo se é difı́cil
o secondário le secondaire o liceu
The varieties of Portuguese spoken and written in the regions covered in this
chapter are, linguistically and culturally, an extension of European Portuguese.
The Azores and Madeira are of course a part of the Portuguese Republic, and
despite regional features, their language remains unmistakably Portuguese.
The PALOP countries have kept cultural links with Portugal, and while the
Portuguese spoken in those countries shows some specific features, not enough
time has elapsed for the development of autonomous varieties, although this
may come to pass. It is worth recalling that Portuguese-based creoles, as said
earlier, are autonomous languages and should not be thought of as dialects of
Portuguese.
As for immigrant communities around the world, if developments in North
America may serve as a point of reference, interference from contact languages
is likely to go on, coupled with increasing dominance of the national language(s)
among the young and decreasing numbers of native speakers as the immigrant
generations pass away. It is unclear to what extent Portuguese is likely to be
kept, beyond emblematic use, by the new heritage speakers, despite a sense of
ethnicidentitywhichappearstoendure,independentlyoflanguagemaintenance
(Stephens 1989; Noivo 2000: 163; Rocha-Trindade 2000:29).
As of late, Brazilians have been making their presence felt in growing num-
bers in the world immigration scene, especially in the United States, where since
the 1980’s their number has grown, particularly in California, Florida, New
York, and the Boston and New Jersey regions, where they share some space
with Portuguese-origin communities. Although reliable statistics are virtually
non-existent, partly because many such immigrants are undocumented, off-the-
record estimates by consular officials range between 500,000 and 1,000,000
for the whole country. This would make the 2000 census figure of 181,076
Brazilians sound rather low, in view of the 200,000 reported in the Miami
210 6 The expansion of European Portuguese
area alone (The Brasilians 2003 (May), 16-P) and some 40,000 in the Atlanta
(Georgia) area alone, where schools in Cobb County supposedly have some
5,000 Brazilian pupils.
Although no large-scale systematic studies of the speech of Brazilians living
in the United States have been carried out, casual observation reveals similar
patterns of adaptation of English words to everyday, as in the sample below:
Adapted term Source/meaning Standard Portuguese
enforçar to enforce (a law) fazer cumprir (uma lei)
afordar to afford poder pagar
tiquetar to ticket pôr uma multa
rentar to rent alugar
(6) a. Tem uma lei contra, mas eles não enforçam ela.
‘There is a law against (it) but they don’t enforce it.’
b. A gente queria rentar um penthouse, mas não dá para a gente
afordar, é muito caro.
‘We wanted to rent a penthouse but we can’t afford [it], it’s too
expensive.’
Another topic to be researched in the next decade is the outcome from contact
between the two varieties of Portuguese, either in the already mentioned regions
in the United States or in Portugal itself, where immigration from Brazil has
grown steadily in the last twenty years and an estimated 100,000 Brazilians,
both legal and undocumented, currently live (Beatriz Padilla, personal commu-
nication; see also Rocha-Trindade 2000). Brazilian television programs, and
particularly soap operas, are extremely popular and contribute to foster famil-
iarity with Brazilian Portuguese. This is important, because the situation of the
language in Brazil is very different from that in the other regions commented
on in this Chapter. Having grown primarily out of the speech of the original
sixteenth- and seventeenth-century settlers, it has taken deep roots and become
the native language of vast majority of the population, who may understand
European Portuguese, but do not identify with it. Though significantly diversi-
fied and endowed with an educated standard of its own, Brazilian Portuguese
has an unmistakable profile, about which we will talk in the next chapter.
7 Brazilian Portuguese
Like any language spread over a large territory occupied by a stratified soci-
ety, Portuguese as spoken in Brazil encompasses a raft of partially overlapping
regional and social varieties that show a significant amount of contrast in pro-
nunciation and syntax. The present chapter will review some of the specific
features of Brazilian Portuguese.
7.1 Variation in Brazilian Portuguese
A great deal of such variation is directly related to speakers’ educational level,
which in turn is linked to their socioeconomic situation. In fact, some of the
most salient contrasts within Brazilian Portuguese are not regional but social.
Thereisconsiderabledivergencebetweenthevernacular◦
speechofthemajority
of the population, the speech of the educated minority, and the normative◦
languagecodifiedinprescriptive◦
grammars.Traditionally,suchgrammarshave
been based primarily, if not exclusively, on the formal written usage found
in Portuguese (and, as of the 1920s, also Brazilian) literary works spanning
over four centuries. In principle, there is nothing wrong with this, for it is
necessary to have reliable descriptions of the language used in literature. The
error, however, has consisted in taking the literary variety as being the only valid
one, and in condemning varieties diverging from it – such as the vernacular –
as the result of decay caused by speakers’ poor language habits. In addition, it
has been determined that poor theoretical principles and unsystematic selection
of examples have led normative grammars to contradict each other (Castilho
1989a:57). Linguistic research carried out in the second half of the twentieth
century has invalidated this view, and work on Brazilian linguistics over the
last four decades shows that features of vernacular speech are an integral part
of the language.
Contradiction between grammar manuals and actual language use has long
been a major stumbling block not only for foreign learners but also for Brazilian
students, particularly those from the lower social strata who are not exposed
to educated varieties of speech. For many of those students, formal vari-
eties of Portuguese constitute, if not a “foreign” language, certainly a dialect
211
212 7 Brazilian Portuguese
very distant from the linguistic reality to which they are accustomed. Such a
situation, puzzling to outsiders, has not gone unnoticed by perceptive writers.
Early in the twentieth century the modernist author Mário de Andrade (1893–
1945) described a picaresque character named Macunaı́ma studying “the two
languages of the country, namely spoken Brazilian and written Portuguese”
(Andrade 1978:111). More recently, a Brazilian linguist wrote:
O português (que aparece nos textos escritos) não é a nossa lı́ngua materna. A lı́ngua
que aprendemos com nossos pais, irmãos e avós é a mesma que falamos, mas não é
a que escrevemos. As diferenças são bastante profundas, a ponto de, em certos casos,
impedir a comunicação . . . há duas lı́nguas no Brasil: uma que se escreve (e que recebe
o nome de “português”); e outra que se fala (e que é tão desprezada que nem tem
nome). E é esta última que é a lı́ngua materna dos brasileiros; a outra (o “português”)
tem de ser aprendida na escola, e a maior parte da população nunca chega a dominá-la
adequadamente. (Mario Perini, Sofrendo a gramática, 35–36. Italics in the original.)
[Portuguese (as it appears in written texts) is not our mother tongue. The language we
learn from our parents, siblings, and grandparents is the same as we speak, but it is
not the one we write. Differences are very deep, enough, in certain cases, to prevent
communication. . . . there are two languages in Brazil: a written one (which receives the
name of ‘Portuguese’) and a spoken one (which is so despised that it does not even have
a name). The latter is the mother tongue of Brazilians; the other (‘Portuguese’) has to be
learned at school and the majority of the population never manage to master it properly.]
To understand this situation, it is helpful to visualize it as a triangle. One of
its vertices represents Vernacular Brazilian Portuguese (VBP), the essentially
oral variety spoken natively by the majority of the population. Another vertex
represents what we will call Prescriptive Portuguese, is the norm embodied
in traditional grammar manuals based primarily on literary sources. Although
Prescriptive Portuguese is essentially a school-learned variety, persons who
grow up in highly educated environments, where its use is a mark of prestige,
can speak and write it fluently. While it is no exaggeration to say that for
educated Brazilians, Prescriptive Portuguese remains, at least in theory, an ideal
of language correction and elegance, in the informal situations that make up
the bulk of everyday communication, we encounter the variety that constitutes
the third vertex of our triangle. This variety, still imperfectly analyzed, may be
referred to as Standard Brazilian Portuguese. It may be characterized, somewhat
loosely,asthevarietyusedbyeducatedspeakersincasualspeechandlessformal
kinds of writing – such as correspondence with intimates, which in recent years
includes e-mailing – which do not call for Prescriptive Portuguese. This is, of
course, a simplification, for the complex relationships among these three facets
of the language constitute a thorny linguistic issue which has long occupied a
growing number of linguists.
The coexistence of a vernacular and a standard in the same language com-
munity need not constitute a problematic issue if the two varieties can be kept
7.1 Variation in Brazilian Portuguese 213
reasonably apart. In the case of Brazil, however, vernacular features pervade
the unmonitored speech of the educated with a (to many, disquieting) regularity
that suggests that, rather than discrete entities, VBP and SBP are an integral
part of Brazilian Portuguese as a whole. As Holm puts it, even the most extreme
modalities of the vernacular and the standard belong to “a continuum of lects◦
that relate more to social class and education than to race” (2004:58).
Since vernacular forms are either frowned upon or downright condemned
by prescriptive grammars, educated speakers find themselves in an ambiva-
lent position. On the one hand, they are aware that vernacular features in their
speech contribute to defining the colloquial styles that are essential for effec-
tive communication in settings where standard or prescriptive forms would
create distance between the interlocutors. This is not only the case with casual
conversation with social equals but also crucial in communicating with VBP
speakers at work, on the street, or in a variety of daily interactions with ser-
vice people. On the other hand, being aware that language correctness is held
as a mark of educational excellence and social status, educated speakers feel
pressured to follow norms of prescriptive grammar in formal and semi-formal
situations. Some individuals feel comfortable codeswitching along the gamut
of possibilities between vernacular and standard. For others – particularly the
semi-educated trying to climb the social ladder – the ease with which vernacular
features occur in their speech as soon as self-monitoring is relaxed can be a
source of embarrassment and loss of face. It is not surprising that stock phrases
like para usar a linguagem popular ‘to use popular language’ or como se diz na
gı́ria ‘as they say in slang’ are widely used as an excuse for vernacular forms
that pop up in conversation, like country cousins showing up uninvited at an
smart party.
To complicate things, while prescriptive grammars are based, as already
mentioned, on literary usage, a reasonably complete descriptive grammar of
non-literary educated usage has yet to be produced. The language of the press,
for example, shows a great deal of variation. In the same newspaper or news
magazine, the language of editorials tends to adhere to prescriptive usage, while
feature articles often use constructions, idioms, and vocabulary close to vernac-
ular usage, or at any rate to what one could describe, somewhat loosely, as rather
colloquial BP. Furthermore, some forms accepted by the style manuals of some
publications are eschewed by those of others, just as forms used in speech or
writing by some educated persons are frowned upon by others with as much
claim to being educated. Together, these factors foster a situation of linguis-
tic insecurity that is exploited by media mavens ready to foist advice – often
contradictory and without a solid linguistic basis – upon a disoriented public.
For foreign learners of BP, initiated through textbook dialogs and edited read-
ing selections, such variation can be, to put it mildly, confusing. If they perse-
vere, however, they will likely understand that it is a reflection of a multifaceted
214 7 Brazilian Portuguese
social situation that must be grasped on its own terms. This presentation will
contrast educated usage with vernacular forms and, when appropriate, indi-
cate those which are, for purely social reasons, considered inappropriate for
educated discourse.
7.1.1 Research on Brazilian Portuguese
As an academic subject and a research area, linguistics is a relatively recent
activity in Brazil, and as recently as the early 1970s, there was only a handful
of scholars with a doctoral degree in linguistics. Thus it is only in the last
few decades that a sufficent critical mass of scholars have begun to study BP
systematically. (For an overview, see Naro 1976 or Altman 1998.)
Nevertheless, objective analysis of the characteristics of Brazilian Portuguese
began much earlier, with individual efforts focusing on specific instances of
linguistic variation. One of these was Amadeu Amaral’s O Dialecto Caipira
(1920), a description of the main features of rural speech in the backlands of
the State of São Paulo. Another was Antenor Nascentes’s O Linguajar Carioca
(1922), which analyzed popular speech in the city of Rio de Janeiro. Yet another
was Mário Marroquim’s A Lı́ngua do Nordeste (Alagoas e Pernambuco) (1934),
a study of the speech of the northeastern region. Nascentes (1953) character-
ized two large dialectal areas according to the vowel quality (2.4.3.2), namely
Northern (with open pre-tonic vowels) and Southern (with closed pre-tonic
vowels). He also tentatively proposed a division of Brazil into six dialec-
tal regions: Amazon, Northeast, Bahia, Fluminense (state of Rio de Janeiro),
Mineiro (part of the state of Minas Gerais), and Southern. Work on linguis-
tic atlases following the European tradition of focusing rural speech on a
number of pre-selected points over a geographical area began with Nelson
Rossi’s Atlas Prévio dos Falares Baianos (Rossi et al. 1963), followed up
more recently by regional linguistic atlases such as Ribeiro et al. 1977, Aragão
and Menezes 1984, Ferreira et al. 1987, Aguilera 1994, and others report-
edly in progress. A dialectological description on a national level is reportedly
under way. For an overview of current dialectology work in Brazil see Cardoso
1999, 2001; Ferreira 1995; and Head 1996, and for sociolinguistics, Paiva and
Scherre 1999.
The diachronic study of Brazilian Portuguese, essential to a comprehension
of the process of regional differentiation, is likely to benefit greatly from the
project Para a História do Português Brasileiro, based on corpora drawn from
archival sources such as private letters, documents, and newspapers (Castilho
1998; Silva 2001; Duarte and Callou 2002; Alkmin 2002, among others).
Regarding the description of actual spech, one major project, started in 1969,
is the Projeto NURC (NURC = Norma Urbana Culta or ‘Educated Urban
Norm’), based on recorded interviews with educated informants (defined as
7.2 The development of Brazilian Portuguese 215
individuals with full college-level instruction) from the five state capitals of
Porto Alegre, Recife, Rio de Janeiro, Salvador, and São Paulo (Cunha 1985).
Partial studies published so far not only confirm clear differences between
the prescriptive norm and actual educated speech (Lucchesi 2002:65), but also
reveal the systematic occurrence of vernacular features (Castilho 1989a, 1990a,
1990b, 1990c; Castilho and Preti 1987; Castilho and Basilio 1996; Abaurre and
Rodrigues 2002; Neves 1999; for an updated account of other equally relevant
projects, see Castilho 2002).
It should be pointed out that the very notion of an “educated speaker” is
open to debate. When the NURC project was launched, there were relatively
few universities, admission to which was controlled, particularly at the public
institutions, by strict entrance exams. Universitites and colleges have since
mushroomed – between 1993 and 2003 alone, their number jumped from 1,100
to2,000,whileenrollmentsrosefrom1.5millionto3.5million.Significantly,on
national exams designed to evaluate the performance of graduating seniors, the
lowest averages (2.0 out of a possible 10.0) were earned by students in Colleges
of Letters (faculdades), which train language teachers (Weinberg 2003:74). One
can only wonder to what extent low salaries and heavy class loads drive away
from the teaching profession those employable elsewhere, and what impact this
situation has on the quality of instruction, particularly when one considers that
“the great majority of teachers, particularly those in charge of the first school
levels, share the language varieties of the majority of their students, and have
no means to acquire, and thus to teach, the standard idealized for the school”
(Silva 1996:398).
7.2 The development of Brazilian Portuguese
BP began during the colonial period, as settlers – mostly men – from differ-
ent regions in Portugal moved to Brazil. According to Pessoa (1998:244), the
development of BP can be divided into three periods, namely an initial period
during which regional varieties began to take shape (1534–1750), a second
period during which a common BP came into existence (1750–1922), and a
third period, from 1922 on, during which a Brazilian literary standard became
established.
One way in which Brazilian speech moved away from EP was through a
process of linguistic leveling◦
that ironed out major differences among the
early settlers’ dialects. Furthermore, in the eighteenth century EP went through
a process of reduction and elimination of unstressed vowels, which led to its
present consonantal quality and syncopated rhythm. In particular, weakening
and elimination of final unstressed vowels has caused EP to have consonants in
final position which do not occur in Brazilian speech, as in:
216 7 Brazilian Portuguese
come ‘P3sg eats’ EP [kɔm] vs. BP [kɔmi]
cabe ‘P3sg fits’ EP [kab] vs. BP [kabi]
pega ‘P3sg grabs’ EP [pεg] vs. BP [pεgi]
In Brazil, however, vowels have continued to be pronounced fully, even
though some regional accents, such as Mineiro, tend to slur and drawl them.
Another change that took place in the Lisbon variety but not in Brazil concerns
the articulation of the vowel /e/ as a low central [ɐ] before a palatal consonant,
creating contrasts such as the following:
beijo ‘kiss’ EP [bɐju
] vs. BP [beju] ∼ [beu]
feixe ‘bundle’ EP [fɐjʃ] vs. BP [fejʃi] ∼ [feʃi]
Differentiation was also influenced by the fact that certain syntactic features
which became regional or archaic in Portugal remained in general use in Brazil.
One instance of this process involves the construction estar + gerund (Table
3.15), which was replaced in the nineteenth century in standard EP by estar
a + infinitive (i.e. estou falando vs. estou a falar). The earlier construction,
however, has been preserved not only in Brazil but also in regions such as
Algarve (Azevedo Maia 1975:97) and Alentejo. There is nothing unusual about
this: peripheral areas (as Brazil used to be during the colonial period) often
tend to preserve features that have become archaic in the variety spoken in
metropolitan areas.
Not surprisingly, the lexicons of Portuguese in Brazil and in Portugal have
diverged noticeably. Certain words current in one variety are not used in the
other, or are used only regionally, or have partially or completely different
meanings. Despite the importance of the lexicon in communication, such dif-
ferences do not affect the structure of the language, even though they are the
first thing that catches one’s attention. The sample in Table 7.1 should suffice
for illustrative purposes and interested readers will find abundant information
in Villar (1989) and Prata (1994).
7.2.1 Colonial times (1500–1808/1822)
A certain amount of language variation was likely fostered not only by contact
with other languages but also by the lack of public education, in keeping with
the Crown’s decision to exploit the colony exclusively for its (the Crown’s) own
enrichment. Whilst in Spain’s American colonies universities were created early
in the colonial period (Santo Domingo, 1538; Lima and Mexico, 1551; Bogotá,
1652; Caracas, 1721; La Habana, 1728), only elementary instruction existed
in colonial Brazil, offered at a few Church-sponsored schools or by more or
less improvised teachers. The offspring of the elite, if interested in studying
at all, attended university in Portugal or perhaps elsewhere in Europe. Until
7.2 The development of Brazilian Portuguese 217
Table 7.1 Some lexical differences between Brazilian
Portuguese and European Portuguese
EP BP
o autoclismo a descarga flush system (on a toilet)
a camioneta o ônibus bus
a camisola a camisa esporte sports shirt
a camiseta a camisa polo polo shirt, T shirt
a casa de banhos o banheiro bathroom
o comboio o trem train
o durex a camisinha condom
o eléctrico o bonde street car, tramway
a esquadra a delegacia police station
o estendal o varal clothes line
o estore a persiana blind
a factura a nota fiscal sales receipt
o fato o terno suit of clothes
o fiambre o presunto cozido cooked ham
o gasóleo o diesel diesel
o gelado o sorvete ice-cream
a hospedeira a aeromoça stewardess
o leitor de cassetes o toca-fitas casette player
as pastilhas elásticas a goma de mascar chewing gum
a quinta o sı́tio rural property
a sanita a privada toilet
o sumo o suco (fruit) juice
o talho o açougue butcher’s shop
as tapas os canapés hors d’oeuvres
o utente o usuário user
a velharia a antiguidade antique
1808 neither institutions of higher learning nor printing presses were allowed
in Brazil, and all publications – censored if legal, and liable to prosecution if
not – came from Portugal. Not surprisingly, the levels of illiteracy, high in the
mother country, were also high in the colony.
Except for specific areas in the backlands, settlement developed primarily
along the coast, where most of the population was concentrated until the middle
of the twentieth century (Prado Junior 1945: 33). It is not clear whether any one
region in Portugal contributed a preponderance of settlers to Brazil, although the
north, being more densely populated than the south, would likely have provided
a proportionately larger share. There were also settlers from the Azores, who
from the early seventeenth century until the eighteenth century arrived in the
northern regions of today’s states of Pará and Maranhão, as well as in the
today’s southern states of Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul (Silva Neto
1976:43–45).
218 7 Brazilian Portuguese
Between 1500 and 1760 about 70,000 mostly male Portuguese settlers moved
to Brazil (IBGE 2000; www.imigrantes.no.sapo.pt). Since most of them came
from the rural lower classes and tended to be illiterate, their language accord-
ingly reflected conservative usage (Silva Neto 1970:587). As the colony’s pop-
ulation grew, fostered by intermarriage among settlers, Indians, and Africans
brought in as slaves, the proportion of native speakers of EP decreased in rela-
tion to those born in Brazil. Limited EP input also meant that language changes
occurring in Portugal failed to influence Brazilian speech. As dialect leveling◦
eliminated the more obvious differences among the settlers’ dialects, the speech
of their descendants was progressively pushed away from the original models.
7.2.2 Indian and African influence
When the early settlers arrived in Brazil there were an estimated one thou-
sand indigenous languages with some three million speakers. The languages
of a major family, Tupi-Guarani, were spoken along the coastal area stretching
between today’s states of Bahia and Rio de Janeiro.
Although that original Tupi population disappeared as a result of wars,
enslavement, and intermarriage, their speech survived as the Lı́ngua Geral
(“General Language”), a once widespread koine◦
which served as a lingua
franca and was spoken in colonial times by natives and settlers alike. Accord-
ing to Rodrigues (2001), the tendency was for Lı́ngua Geral to be spoken by
families where “only the husband and, after a certain age, the male children
were bilingual in Portuguese.” Lı́ngua Geral was progressively taken to the
backlands by expeditions aiming at prospecting and enslaving Indians, and
managed to survive into the early twentieth century. A similar linguistic sit-
uation developed in the northern area ocupied by today’s states of Pará and
Maranhão, where another koine developed in colonial times, Nheengatu, is still
spoken in the Amazon region.
Besides serving the population at large, Lı́ngua Geral was also used by
Jesuits as a medium for teaching and indoctrination. Whatever its consequences
for spiritual matters, this practice fostered bilingualism in Lı́ngua Geral and
Portuguese, which was widespread well into the seventeenth century, at which
point two new factors contributed to reinforce the hegemony of Portuguese. One
was a renewed influx of settlers from Portugal, headed for the newly discovered
gold and diamond mines in the region of today’s state of Minas Gerais. The
other was the Crown’s decision in 1758 to expel the Jesuits from the colony,
ban Lı́ngua Geral as a medium of instruction, and enforce the use of Portuguese
in government and education. Ultimately, the influence of Indian languages on
BP became limited to the lexicon, since it was natural for colonial speakers,
bilingual or not, to use Indian words related to the environment, food, and other
everyday matters. Thus, except for a handful of words in general use, most
7.2 The development of Brazilian Portuguese 219
Table 7.2 Brazilian Portuguese words from indigenous languages
Plants
abacaxi ‘pineapple,’ buriti ‘a kind of palm tree,’ caju ‘cashew,’ capim ‘grass,’ cipó ‘vine,’
cupim ‘anthill,’ jacarandá ‘jacaranda,’ mandioca ‘manioc,’ maracujá ‘passion fruit’
Fauna
piranha ‘piranha,’ pirarucu ‘pirarucu,’ quati ‘coati,’ sucuri ‘anaconda,’ tatu ‘armadillo,’
capivara ‘capivara’ (large rodent), arara ‘macaw,’ jibóia ‘boa,’ tamanduá ‘ant eater,’
caitetu ‘wild pig,’ jacarutu ‘kind of snake,’ içá ‘female winged ant’
Toponomy
Towns: Aracaju, Avaı́, Ubatuba, Caraguatatuba, Parati, Piracicaba, Guaratinguetá, Itu, Niterói
Town districts: Paquetá, Guanabara, Jabaquara, Jacarepaguá, Tijuca, Jaraguá, Morumbi
Geography
caatinga ‘arid region in the NE of Brazil, with drought-resistant vegetation’ (< Tupi ka’a
‘wood,’+ tinga ‘white’)
capoeira ‘new-growth area’ (Tupi ko ‘plantation,’ + pwera ‘which was’)
capão ‘small thicket or grove’ (< Tupi ka’a ‘wood’ + puã ‘round’)
pororoca ‘wave caused by the shock of the water of the Amazon River with the ocean’
(< Tupi poro’roka ‘loud noise’)
Personal names
Araci, Jaci, Iracema (f.), Ubiratã, Ubirajara, Moacir (m.), Juraci, Jair (m./f.)
Supernatural beings
Tupã ‘thunder god, supreme being’ (< Tupi tu’pã)
Saci ‘a one-legged, pipe-smoking black boy who frightens cattle and travelers’
(< Tupi sa’sı̈e)
Caipora ‘forest-dwelling humanoid who lives in the woods and brings bad luck or death to
those who see him’ (Tupi kaa’pora)
Curupira ‘forest-dwelling humanoid with feet turned backwards’ (< Tupi kuru’pira)
lexical items of Indian origin are regionalisms (Houaiss 1985:65) having to do
with plants, animals, the landscape, and things related to indigenous cultures
(Table 7.2).
Another source of lexical items were the languages spoken by the approx-
imately four million African slaves imported between 1530 and 1850
(Almanaque Abril 2002a:376). During the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries
slaves were primarily of Bantu origin and spoke languages such as Kikongu or
Kimbundu. Destined initially for the labor-intensive sugar cane industry and
later for mining and for coffee plantations, a number of slaves who worked in
homes acquired varying degrees of fluency in Portuguese through interaction
with members of the household. Today African influence is noticeable at the
lexical level, where several hundred words are incorporated – often, as in the
case of words of Indian origin, regionally – in everyday vocabulary, involving
various aspects of social life. Some of the more widespread terms include the
following, of Kimbundu origin:
220 7 Brazilian Portuguese
senzala ‘slave quarters’
(< K. sanzala)
caçula ‘youngest offspring’
(< K. kasula)
moleque ‘young boy, street urchin’
(< K. mu’leke)
molambo ‘rag’ (< K. mu’lambu)
macambúzio ‘gloomy’
mucama ‘female household slave’
(< K. mu’kama)
(< K. kubanza)
munguzá ‘cooked corn meal
fubá ‘corn flour’ (K. fuba) dish’ (< K. mu’kunza).
quilombo ‘escaped slaves’s
settlement’ (< K. kilombu)
tanga ‘loin cloth’ (< K. ntanga)
berimbau ‘a one-string instrument’
(< K. mbirimbau)
molambo ‘rag’ (< K. mulambo)
Slaves from West Africa (today’s Nigeria, Benin, and Togo) arrived in the
eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. They spoke Sudanese languages such as
Yoruba or Ewe. Words of Yoruba origin related to African-Brazilian religions
include priests’ titles such as babalaô, babalorixá, names of specific rituals like
umbanda, macumba, mandinga, and names of African deities or orixás, such
as Exu, Iemanjá, Ogum, Oxum, Xangô. In regions such as the state of Bahia,
wherethepopulationcontainsahighpercentageofAfrican-Brazilians,religious
practices include liturgical vocabularies and prayers from African languages.
The extent to which African languages influenced other aspects of Por-
tuguese in Brazil, such as phonology or morphosyntax, remains open to debate
(Megenney 2001, 2002; Castro 1980, 1983, 1997), as does the topic of the sup-
posed creole origins of Vernacular Brazilian Portuguese, which will be taken
up in 7.2.4.
7.2.3 Independence and beyond
The arrival of the Portuguese Royal Court in Rio in 1808 (1.6) had a power-
ful impact on Brazilian culture. Between 1808 and 1820 the Crown created
schools which included a Naval Academy (1808), a Military Academy (1812),
schools of Medicine and Engineering, a Royal School of Science, Art, and
Trades which later became the Academy of the Arts, and a variety of trade
schools for utilitarian purposes. A fledgling press began, also in 1808, with the
Correio Braziliense, printed in London, soon followed by the Gazeta do Rio de
Janeiro, the first paper printed in Brazil, well over two centuries after printing
had been introduced in Peru.
The sudden arrival of some ten thousand native speakers of European Por-
tuguese also provided a powerful linguistic input that supposedly lies at the
origin of the articulation of post-vocalic /s/ as a palatal fricative [ʃ], typical
of Carioca◦
pronunciation, but also found in areas in the northeastern region,
such as the states of Alagoas and Pernambuco (Leite and Callou 2002:32). The
7.2 The development of Brazilian Portuguese 221
presence of those new speakers, however, was not enough to reinstate EP as the
model for Brazilian speech, which at that point had probably drifted irreversibly
away from its European source.
The earliest reference to specific features of Brazilian Portuguese appears
in a text written in French in 1824–1825, and thus soon after independence in
1822, by Domingos Borges de Barros, Viscount of Pedra Branca. It lists words
with different meanings in Brazil and Portugal, and words used in Brazil and
unknown in Portugal (Pinto 1978:9–11). Throughout the nineteenth century an
awareness of differences between European and Brazilian usage grew among
intellectuals, fiction writers, and journalists. Their views, documented by Pinto
(1978), show concern with lexical matters, particularly regarding neologisms
originating from popular creation or coined by writers of fiction. Another theme
of debate was gallicisms, that is French loan words and loan constructions that
entered the language on both sides of the Atlantic, condemned by purists and
defended by those who considered them a legitimate means of linguistic and
cultural renovation (Silva Neto 1976:212–218). Even authors who strongly
defended what they saw as typically Brazilian modes of expression, however,
tended to stop short of accepting the vernacular syntax. Then as today, popular
speech not only diverged substantially from educated usage but also provided a
number of shibboleths that have traditionally served to separate the two varieties
and identify who should or should not be considered educated.
Although nationalistic fervor theoretically encouraged avoidance of EP
norms that contradicted Brazilian usage, most literate speakers were not pre-
pared to relinquish the Portuguese tradition in the written language. Throughout
the nineteenth century, the grammar manuals used in Brazil came from Portugal
and naturally took Portuguese literary works as reference. Significantly, this
practice was followed by Brazilian grammarians: it was only a century after
independence that a manual (Silveira 1923) included examples drawn from
Brazilian literary works. Even so, in the second half of the twentieth cen-
tury, Brazilian grammars (such as Brandão 1963 or Almeida 1967) remained
strongly conservative, and even a few more progressive manuals (such as Cunha
and Cintra 1985 or Bechara 1999) have retained a cautiously prescriptive stance
based on literary models. Only very recently have a few usage-based grammars
and dictionaries (such as Neves 1999, 2003; Borba 2002; Perini 1998, 2002a;
Houaiss 2001) offered more accurate guidance to users of BP.
Some scholars have interpreted adherence to Portuguese linguistic tradition
as resulting from the nineteenth-century Brazilian “elite’s wish to live in a White
and European country,” which “made it react systematically against anything
that distinguished [Brazilians] from a certain Lusitanian linguistic standard”
(Faraco 2002:43). There were, however, powerful social reasons for this: then as
today, the vernacular was the language of the poor and the disenfranchised, and
speaking correctly, however defined, was, and continues to be, a mark of social
222 7 Brazilian Portuguese
distinction. It is difficult to imagine how things could have been otherwise,
given the unrivalled prestige of European cultural models and the stratification
of Brazilian society at the time. Nevertheless, despite adherence to Portuguese
models, the interest shown by nineteenth-century romantic authors in pop-
ular language and traditions helped pave the way for two important trends.
One was the work of the regionalist authors of the late nineteenth and early
twentieth centuries, who collected and used a variety of forms typical of rural
language. The other was the work of modernist authors beginning in the 1920s,
whose representation of both rural dialects and urban sociolects◦
helped rekin-
dle the question of what was distinctive about Brazilian Portuguese (Lessa 1976;
Barbadinho Neto 1972, 1977).
7.3 Main features of Brazilian Portuguese
As already mentioned, although VBP is primarily the language of the uned-
ucated, vernacular features occur, in varying proportions, in the unmonitored
speech of educated speakers. Linguistically speaking, there is nothing wrong
with those features per se, though there may be something awry about a social
situation in which people are discriminated against because of the way they
talk. Nonetheless, learners should be aware that using vernacular features in
formal contexts that call for standard forms may affect their success in com-
municating. In informal contacts, failure to use vernacular features may put an
undesirable distance between them and their interlocutors. Learning to pick the
right form, vernacular or standard, constitutes the process of learning to “talk
Brazilian,” which unfortunately cannot be learned from a book. All we can do
is present the main features of the vernacular and attempt to compare them with
their standard counterparts.
7.3.1 Phonology
Brazilian Portuguese pronunciation was commented on in Chapter 2. This sec-
tion will focus on those features considered typical of unmonitored speech,
focusing on those that may be considered non-standard.
7.3.1.1 Vowels Generalfeaturesincludephonologicalprocessesthat
involve turning a vowel into a diphthong or, conversely, reducing a diphthong
to a simple vowel.
Diphthongization◦
of a vowel by inserting the glide [j] before syllable-final
/s/ is widespread. It may be light or strong, depending on whether the glide
is articulated softly or in full, and it is particularly common in monosyllables
such as mas [majs] ‘but’ (which thus sounds exactly like mais ‘plus’), luz [lujs]
‘light,’ pôs [pojs] ‘P3sg puts,’ três [trejs] ‘three.’ The latter item accounts for
7.3 Main features of Brazilian Portuguese 223
the use of meia (dúzia) ‘half (a dozen)’ to clearly distinguish between três [trejs]
and seis [sejs] ‘six’ as when reading out figures, so that a number like 666, for
example, would be spoken as seis-seis-seis in Portugal and meia-meia-meia
in Brazil. Monitored pronunciation, however, particularly in formal contexts,
tends to avoid this diphthongization, particularly in nouns or adjectives such
as inglês ‘English,’ francês ‘French,’ português ‘Portuguese,’ arroz ‘rice,’ and
so on.
In unmonitored speech the orthographic diphthong ei tends to lose the glide
and be pronounced [e] before /ɾ/, // or /ʃ/, although in monitored speech the
full diphthong [ej] may be restored:
primeiro [primeɾu] ∼ [primejɾu] ‘first’
dinheiro [di	eɾu] ∼ [di	ejɾu] ‘money’
feixe [feʃi] ∼ [fejʃi] ‘bundle’
seixo [seʃu] ∼ [sejʃu] ‘pebble’
queijo [keu] ∼ [keju] ‘cheese’
beijo [beu] ∼ [beju] ‘kiss’
Likewise, in unmonitored speech the orthographic diphthong ou tends to
lose the glide and be pronounced [o], although as in the preceding case the full
diphthong [ow] may be restored in formal pronunciation:
couro [koɾu] (rhyming with coro ‘choir’) ∼ [kowɾu] ‘leather ’
ouro [oɾu] (rhyming with soro ‘serum’) ∼ [owɾu] ‘gold’
outro [otɾu] ∼ [owtɾu] ‘other’
loura [loɾɐ] ∼ [lowɾɐ] ‘blonde’
7.3.1.2 Consonants Occlusives. Voiced /b d g/ are always occlusive
[b d g] in every position, never fricative [  ] intervocalically as in some
varieties of EP. Articulation of /t/ and /d/ before [i] (spelled i or e) varies from
a stop [t], [d], which is the traditional pronunciation, to moderate affrication [ts
dz
] or full affrication [ ], as in tio [tiu] ∼ [ts
iu] ∼ [iu] ∼ [iw] ‘uncle,’
dia [diɐ] ∼ [dz
iɐ] ∼ [iɐ] ‘day.’ Devoicing◦
and loss of unstressed [i] in final
position results in words with a final affricate, as in este [esi] > [es] ‘this’ or
leite [lejtsi] > [lejts] ‘milk.’
Lenition and loss of /d/ in gerunds is habitual in vernacular VBP (Lipski
1975:64) but occurs also in unmonitored educated speech (falando [falɐnu],
comendo [kumenu], pedindo [pidinu]), although /d/ tends to be restored in
monitored pronunciation ([falɐ̃du]).
Fricatives. Articulation of syllable-final /s/ varies between an alveolar [s]
and a palatal [ʃ], which are respectively voiced as [z] or [] before a voiced
sound: os dois, as amigas. Post-vocalic /s/ (este, dois) occurs as either [s] or
[ʃ] in all five capitals analyzed in the NURC project (7.1.1), but whereas in
224 7 Brazilian Portuguese
Salvador the proportion is about 50% for each variety, [s] clearly predominates
in São Paulo and Porto Alegre, whereas in Recife and Rio de Janeiro the rates
for [ʃ] are about 70% and 90% respectively (Leite and Callou 2002: 45–46).
Liquids.Articulationofsyllable-final/l/asvelar[]canbeheardinrecordings
of popular songs from the 1930s and 1940s (Alves, n/d). It used to be the norm
and is still common in some regions, such as Porto Alegre in the state of Rio
Grande do Sul (Leite and Callou 2002:48). Elsewhere it is recessive (as in
the city of São Paulo, where it occurs in the pronunciation of older speakers).
Despite some grammarians’ insistence on the desirability of preserving []
(Bechara 1999:78), in most of the country [] has largely been replaced by [w],
as in alto [awtu] ‘tall’ or mal [maw] ‘evil,’ respectively pronounced like auto
‘car,’ mau ‘bad.’ The glide [w] is kept even when a vowel follows, as in sal
e limão ‘salt and lemon’ [sawilimɐ̃w], but in compounds in which /l/ comes
before a vowel the pronunciation may be either [w] or [l], sometimes in the same
individual’s speech: mal-educado [mawidukadu] ∼ [malidukadu] ‘boorish,’
mal-humorado [mawumoɾadu] ∼ [malumoɾadu] ‘ill-tempered.’
The contrast between the vibrants // and /ɾ/ is only functional intervocali-
cally (carro ‘car’ – caro ‘car’); initially or after /n/ or /s/, only // occurs (rato
‘rat,’ honra ‘honor,’ Israel). In other positions, that contrast is neutralized and
the phonetic rendering varies from the alveolar tap [ɾ] or trill [r] to a velar
fricative [x], a uvular vibrant [], a velar aspiration [h] or a retroflexed [ɹ] (see
below). The phoneme /r/ in post-vocalic position (arma, porta) appears as a
simple vibrant apical [ɾ] primarily in São Paulo and Porto Alegre, whereas in
Rio de Janeiro, Salvador, and Recife it occurs mostly as the velar fricative [h]
(Leite and Callou 2002:43–44).
Except in closely monitored deliberate speech, loss of final /ɾ/ is universal in
infinitives (falar [fala] ‘to talk,’ comer [kume] ‘to eat,’ sair [sai] ‘to leave’).
Loss of final /ɾ/ in words of other classes is considered socially less acceptable
(senhor [si	o] ‘mister,’ cantor [kɐ̃to] ‘singer,’ ator [ato] ‘actor.’ If a vowel
follows, [ɾ] may be articulated or not (falar alto [falaɾawtu] ∼ [falaawtu]).
Retroflex [ɹ], known as r Paulista◦
‘São Paulo r’ or r Caipira◦
‘rural r’
(approximate glosses), is heard in the interior of the state of São Paulo and
part of the state of Minas Gerais (Head 1973; Rodrigues 1974). The urbaniza-
tion process of the second half of the twentieth century has brought to the city
thousands of people who regularly use this [ɹ], and their growing presence at
university and in the professions may have contributed to its increased accep-
tance. In regions where it is native – such as the environs of the city of Piracicaba
in the state of São Paulo – it occurs in the speech of most people, regardless of
their level of formal education. The actual distribution of [ɹ], however, varies
somewhat regionally. For example, according to Ferreira Netto (2001:99–100),
in western São Paulo one hears [ɹ] after vowels (porta [pɔɹtɐ] ‘door’) and
in consonant clusters (prato [pɹatu] ‘dish’), whereas in other areas, such as
7.3 Main features of Brazilian Portuguese 225
northeastern São Paulo, [ɹ] occurs after vowels (porta [pɔɹtɐ] ‘door’) but not
in consonant clusters (prato [pɾatu] ‘dish’).
Far less accepted socially, however, are certain phonological processes that
yield vernacular pronunciations traditionally associated with low educational
levels. One is rhotacism, that is the replacement of /l/ by /r/, phonetically [ɹ].
It may happen in syllable-final position, as in calma [kaɹmɐ] ‘calm,’ alma
[aɹmɐ] ‘soul,’ soldado [soɹdadu] ‘soldier,’ alguma [aɹgumɐ] ‘some,’ calça
[kaɹsɐ] ‘pants,’ papel [papεɹ] ‘paper,’ mal [maɹ] ‘evil.’ Rhotacism is also
responsible for the replacement of /l/ by the vibrant /ɾ/, phonetically [ɾ] or even
[ɹ] in clusters:
planta [pɾɐ̃tɐ] ∼ [pɹãtɐ] ‘plant’
Cláudia [kɾawjɐ] ∼ [kɹawja]
Clóvis [kɾɔvis] ∼ [kɹɔvis]
reclame [hekɾɐmi] ∼ [rekɹɐmi] ‘ad’
Also frowned upon is the loss of /l/ in word-final position, as in avental [av ẽta]
‘apron,’ papel [papε] ‘paper,’ or in clusters, as in caboclo [kaboku] ‘country
dweller,’ arreglo [ahegu] ‘arrangement.’
Likewise regarded as an indicator of lack of education is the substitution of
the glide /j/ for the lateral palatal /ʎ/ as in malha [maja] ‘sweater,’ olho [oju]
‘eye,’ galho [gaju] ‘branch.’
A common phonotactic◦
process involving consonant sequences other than
clusters of stop + liquid or /f/ + liquid consists in separating those two
consonants by inserting /i/, as in psiquiatra [pisikiatrɐ]. Some words have
alternative pronunciations with [i] or [e], such as advogado [adevogadu] ∼
[aivogadu] ‘lawyer’ or pneu [pinew] ∼ [penew] ‘tire’ (Câmara 1972:48).
Though widespread, this extra /i/ may lead to pronunciations that at least some
educated speakers would frown upon. Thus opção ‘option’ may be [opsɐ̃]
in monitored pronunciation and [opisɐ̃w̃] in casual speech. In certain formal
contexts, one’s communicative effectiveness or social acceptability would be
jeopardized by pronouncing the first person singular of the verb optar ‘to opt,’
opto ‘I opt,’ as [opitu] (rhyming with apito ‘I blow a whistle,’ from apitar)
instead of [ɔptu].
7.3.2 Morphology and syntax
Morphological and syntactic aspects of vernacular BP contrast not only with
European Portuguese but also with Brazilian standard usage. However, half a
century ago, Bueno (1955) showed that a number of features condemned by
prescriptive grammarians as popular Brazilianisms already existed in sixteenth-
century European Portuguese, and he suggested that those features may simply
have been preserved in Brazil, where they were excluded from formal usage
226 7 Brazilian Portuguese
and relegated to the vernacular. It should be kept in mind that morphological
and syntactic vernacular features tend to be relatively rare in public writing,
since newspapers and magazines have their own style manuals, editors, and
correctors, and consequently reflect educated usage more closely. Even so, a
substantial difference can be noticed between the language of editorials, usually
more conservative, and that of feature articles, some of whose writers favor a
style closer to the spoken language.
7.3.2.1 Non-agreement in the noun phrase Standard nominal agree-
ment (4.1.1) requires pluralization of adjectives and determiners accompany-
ing a plural noun. In the vernacular, however, pluralization is more erratic;
in the extreme case, the plural marker is moved to the leftmost determiner
and the noun and other accompanying formants remain in the singular, as in
1a–1d.
(1) a. As mulher (st. as mulheres).
‘The women.’
b. As primeira chuva (st. as primeiras chuvas).
‘The first rains.’
c. Aquelas coisa (st. aquelas coisas).
‘Those things.’
d. Esses quatro caixote (st. esses quatro caixotes).
‘Those four crates.’
Although lack of agreement is strongly condemned by prescriptive gram-
mars, examples from educated speakers (2a–2c) show that application of the
pluralization rule tends to vary according to the level of formality (Campos and
Rodrigues 1999:129), as seen in these examples from an informal conversation:
(2) a. Logo mais a gente vai comer umas pizza e tomar umas cerveja
por aı́. (st. umas pizzas, umas cervejas)
‘Later on we’ll go and eat some pizzas and drink some beers
somewhere.’
b. Prova uns docinho . . . (st. uns docinhos)
‘Try a few sweets . . .’
c. Aquelas revista que eu te emprestei, você já leu? (st. aquelas
revistas)
‘Those magazines I lent you, have you read them?’
7.3.2.2 Non-agreement in the verb phrase Standard verbal agree-
ment (4.1.1) requires a conjugated verb to match its subject in person and
7.3 Main features of Brazilian Portuguese 227
number. Non-agreement in VBP is related to the reduction of verb paradigms
to three, two, or even a single form, as shown in Table 7.3. This process is
responsible for constructions like 3a–3c:
(3) a. VBP Vocês vai lá e fala com ele (st. vocês vão lá/falam).
‘You go there and talk to him.’
b. VBP As casa (es)tava suja demais da conta (st. As casas estavam
sujas).
‘The houses were way too dirty.’
c. VBP Quando é que eles chegou? (st. Quando é que eles
chegaram?)
‘When did they arrive?’
Some vernacular varieties extend the first person plural ending -emo(s) of
-er/-ir verbs to verbs in -ar, as in 4a–4b:
(4) a. VBP Nós falemo ontem (st. nós falamos).
‘We talked [to them] yesterday.’
b. VBP Nós cheguemo aqui tudo dia de madrugada (st. nós
chegamos).
‘We arrive here every day at dawn.’
Although cooccurrence of verbal non-agreement and nominal non-agreement
is strongly condemned by prescriptive grammars, it occurs in the colloquial
speech of educated informants, as in 5a–5c:
(5) a. VBP Eles era grosso, não tinha condições (st. Eles eram grossos,
não tinham condições).
‘They were rude, they were unprepared’ [an engineering student].
b. VBP Nessas hora – te deixava os amigo – te deixava os
conhecido – te deixava até os parente (st. Nessas horas te
deixavam os amigos, te deixavam os conhecidos, te deixavam até
os parentes).
‘At those times you got dumped by friends, by acquaintances,
even by relatives.’
c. VBP Quando é que chega as visitas? (st. chegam)
‘When will the guests arrive?’
In such constructions, variability in verbal agreement in casual speech seems
to be encouraged by the low phonological contrast between forms such as P3sg
fala vs. P3pl falam. Postponement of the subject also seems to play a role, even
if the phonological contrast is more salient, as in 6a–6b:
228 7 Brazilian Portuguese
(6) a. VBP Ontem só veio o Paulo e a Délia (st. só vieram).
‘Only Paulo and Délia came yesterday.’
b. VBP Os organizadores vai ser o Professor X e eu (st. vamos ser).
‘The organizers will be Professor X and I.’
Another point of variation in subject–verb agreement involves subjects rep-
resented by a singular collective noun, e.g. pessoal ‘people,’ turma ‘gang (of
friends, or workers),’ or partitive expressions such as uma porção de ‘a number
of,’ uma parte de ‘a part of.’ In a sentence like 7a, prescriptive grammars insist
on agreement with the singular noun uma porção ‘a number of,’ which is the
nucleus of the subject noun phrase. Such constructions, however, often occur
in educated speech with the verb in the plural, in agreement with the collective
notion expressed here by alunas ‘students (f.)’ (Bueno 1955:216):
(7) a. [Ele] disse que uma porção de alunas estavam te procurando
porque queriam falar com você.
‘[He] said that a number of students were looking for you because
[they] wanted to talk to you.’
b. Olha, tem um pessoal aı́ que disseram que isso não pode ser.
‘Look, there are some people here who said this can’t be done.’
c. A turma quer começar mais tarde, falaram que dez horas é muito
cedo.
‘The guys want to start later, [they] said ten o’clock is too early.’
7.3.2.3 Pronouns Table 3.5 shows all pronoun forms that func-
tion as subject or object. It includes the lexicalized forms of direct address
você, o/a senhor/a and a gente, which take a third person verb form (falava,
falavam). We will first consider the personal pronoun system in BP, then the
patterns of occurrence or non-occurrence of subject and object pronouns, and
finally the placement of object pronouns in relation to the verb. Since posses-
sives also refer to the persons of speech, they are included in the following
discussion.
Noticing that the frequency of overt subjects in BP has increased since the
second half of the nineteenth century, linguists have linked this phenomenon
to an increase in the occurrence of null object clitics◦
(Tarallo 1983; Galves
1993; Morais 2003). The dialog in (8a) illustrates the contrast between the BP
tendency to use null objects and the EP preference for null (or covert) subjects
whose referent is understood from the verb morphology or the communicative
context. (Raposo 1986). Use of a subject pronoun in BP is more than a matter of
clarity; in direct address, a question like 8b, without the subject pronoun, may
be perceived as more intimate than 8c, which is more deferential. Consequently,
omission of o senhor in such cases might sound disrespectful.
7.3 Main features of Brazilian Portuguese 229
(8) a. – Você me chamou? (cf. EP Chamou-me?)
– Eu chamei porque eu precisava falar com você.
(cf. EP Chamei-o porque precisava falar consigo.)
‘Did you call me?’
‘I called because I needed to talk to you.’
b. Como vai?
‘How are you?’
c. Como vai o senhor?
‘How are you, sir?’
There seems to be a link between use of overt subjects in BP and the mor-
phological reduction of verb paradigms to forms whose ending does not readily
identify the subject. Whereas in a sentence like 9a the subject is clearly tu, in
9b the subject of falou can be either the listener (você/o senhor/a senhora) or
a third party (ele/ela). BP precludes such ambiguity by using overt subjects as
in 9c.
(9) a. Falaste com o chefe?
‘Did you talk to the boss?’
b. Eu quero saber se falou com o chefe.
‘I want to know if you/he/she talked to the boss.’
c. Eu quero saber se você falou com o chefe.
‘I want to know if you talked to the boss.’
Overt subjects are favored in BP even when the verb form redundantly indi-
cates the subject, as in the dialogue fragment in 10, where in six out of seven
cases a subject pronoun (eu) is used:
(10) Eu fiquei pensando assim em ganhar dinheiro . . . então eu achei que
Letras . . . eu podia lecionar . . . quer dizer – eu podia sair . . . então
eu falei – ah – então eu vou escolher Letras mesmo. E escolhi por
causa disso. (Recorded interview)
‘I thought about making money . . . then I thought about (the course
of) Letters . . . I could teach . . . that is – I could go out . . . then I – said
ah – then I’m going to choose Letters. And that’s why I chose [it].’
The pronouns eu and nós occur in vernacular usage in direct object function
(11a–11b). In addition, eu occurs as the object of a preposition (12a) and nós as
theobjectoftheprepositioncom‘with’(12b),thestandardformswithcombeing
comigo ‘with me’ and conosco (EP connosco) ‘with us.’ As 13a–13b show, eu
also occurs as the object of other prepositions in the vernacular (Galves and
Abaurre 1996:288).
230 7 Brazilian Portuguese
(11) a. O tenente falou que viu eu fumando maconha (st. me viu).
‘The lieutenant said he saw me smoking pot.’
b. Será que ele não viu nós? (st. Será que ele não nos viu?)
‘Maybe he did not see us?’
(12) a. Ela não quer brincar com eu (st. comigo).
‘She does not want to play with me.’
b. Ela não fala mais com nós (st. conosco).
‘She doesn’t talk to us anymore.’
(13) a. Isso aı́ é pra ele ou pra eu? (st. para ele ou para mim).
‘Is that for me or for him?’
b. . . . (es) tava contra eu (st. contra mim).
‘[he] was against me.’
Use of a gente for nós or eu is can be a device of self-effacement (for modesty,
self-protection, and the like). The general trend, however, is simply for a gente
to function as replacement for nós (Ilari et al. 1996:97) in referring to the
speaker, either alone (14a) or with someone else (14b), or as a vague reference
to an indeterminate actor (14c). A gente appears with this function in sixteenth-
century documents, although the process was not completed until the nineteenth
century according to Lopes (2002:44). Data from Rio de Janeiro speech show
an incidence of 59% for a gente against 47% for nós. More conservative usage
is reflected in data from Porto Alegre, in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, with
72% for nós and 28% for a gente (Leite and Callou 2002:54). If a gente has a
plural referent it may appear in the vernacular with a plural verb as in 15. This
construction, which also occurs in popular EP, can be found in sixteenth-century
writings (Bueno 1955:214), but is considered non-standard nowadays.
(14) a. Se o senhor mandar, a gente faz.
‘If you give the order I’ll do it.’
b. A Martinha e eu querı́amos convidar você para vir jantar com a
gente amanhã.
‘Martinha and I would like to invite you to have dinner with us
tomorrow.’
c. Agora, se a gente tenta aprender da noite para o dia, não dá.
‘Now if one tries to learn [it] overnight, it isn’t possible.’
(15) a. Amanhã a gente não podemo vim (st. a gente não pode).
‘Tomorrow we cannot come.’
b. A que hora a gente chegamos? (st. a gente chega).
‘At what time will we arrive?’
c. Se o sior (st. senhor) quer, a gente trazemo ele (st. a gente traz).
‘If you want we’ll bring it.’
7.3 Main features of Brazilian Portuguese 231
Use of você, o senhor/a senhora, a gente in object function, as in (16), is
universal:
(16) a. Eu vi você no teatro ontem.
‘I saw you [sg.] at the theater yesterday.’
b. Pode deixar que eu acordo o senhor às oito.
‘Don’t worry, I’ll wake you up at eight.’
c. Deixa a gente ir lá trás?
‘[You’ll] let us ride in the back?’
Although the second person pronoun você has largely replaced tu in BP,
the corresponding third person pronouns (o/a, lhe) and possessives (seu/sua)
have not fully replaced te, teu. Instead, você cooccurs with te, teu in colloquial
usage, generating constructions like 17a, condemned by traditional grammars
as “mixture of pronouns.” Available evidence, however, suggests that a re-
arrangement of the pronoun system has created a new norm in BP (Galves and
Abaurre 1996:288).
(17) a. Você não quer me emprestar o teu guarda-chuva? Amanhã eu
te devolvo.
‘Won’t you lend me your umbrella? I’ll return [it] to you
tomorrow.’
b. Você tem um minutinho? Eu precisava te dizer uma coisa.
‘Have you got a moment? I needed to tell you something.’
The prepositional pronoun ti (as in para ti ‘for you,’ de ti ‘from you’), used
in regions where tu occurs, has been replaced elsewhere by você, as in 18a.
(Note that use of preposition + si (where si = ‘you’), habitual in EP as in
18b, is unusual in BP.) Although the lexicalized form contigo ‘with you’ can be
heard (18c), it is infrequent. Furthermore, consigo is widely used in EP with the
meaning ‘with you’ as in 18d, where it functions as a neutral option between
less formal com você and formal com o senhor (18d). Though less common
than in EP, this usage occurs, with a connotation of courtesy, in BP (18e); if
reflexivity is intended, however, it tends to be signaled by mesmo/mesma ‘self’
as in 18f:
(18) a. BP Esse sanduiche é para você.
‘This sandwich is for you.’
b. EP Desculpe, creio que isto é para si.
‘Excuse me, I think this is for you.’
c. BP Então, até depois. Olha aı́, contamos contigo, hem!
‘So long then. Look, we are counting on you, eh!’
d. EP Estava preocupada consigo.
‘I was worried about you.’
232 7 Brazilian Portuguese
e. BP Ah, então eu quero ir consigo!
‘Oh, then I want to come along with you!’
f. BP Ele andava falando consigo mesmo.
‘He used to talk to himself.’
As mentioned in 5.3.3, the third person subject pronouns ele/ela originated
from anaphoric demonstratives whose referent was neither the speaker nor
the addressee. According to Bueno (1955:210–212), use of ele/ela as a direct
object has been in the language for centuries. Though condemned by prescrip-
tive grammars, this conspicuous vernacular feature is frequent in unmonitored
educated speech, as in 19a–19b.
(19) a. VBP Você já chamou eles? (st. já os chamou).
‘Have you already called them?’
b. VBP Passa ela para cá (st. passe-a).
‘Hand it over.’
Further, ele/ela, as well as eu and nós, tend to occur in structures like 20a–20b
where the pronoun functions both as the direct object of a preceding verb and
as the subject of an infinitive.
(20) a. VBP O professor deixou ele sair mais cedo. (st. deixou-o sair).
‘The professor let him leave early.’
b. VBP Por que você não deixa eu cuidar disso? (st. não me deixa
cuidar).
‘Why don’t you let me take care of that?’
c. VBP O Seu João quer fazer nós trabalhar no domingo mas nós
não quer não (st. quer fazer-nos trabalhar; st. nós não queremos).
‘Mr. João wants to make us work on Sunday but we don’t want to.’
Bagno (2000) has linked this use of stressed pronouns as objects with the
tendency of Brazilian Portuguese to use overt subjects. He analyzed a corpus of
speech transcriptions culled from newspaper texts and determined that in 85.7%
of the occurrences of command forms deixa or deixe (‘let’), the following object
pronoun was one of the pronouns eu/ele/ela(s), whereas in written texts the
proportions were reversed, that is, the non-standard object eu/ele/ela(s) were
2.3 times less frequent than the standard forms (Bagno 2000:212–218).
As we saw in Chapter 4, there is a strong preference in BP for placing clitics
to occur in proclitic◦
position, that is before the verb, as in 21a. This placement
contrasts with EP, where the default position is enclitic◦
, or after the verb, as
in 21b, which would be considered more formal in BP.
7.3 Main features of Brazilian Portuguese 233
(21) a. BP O Paulo me viu.
‘Paulo saw me.’
b. EP O Paulo viu-me.
‘Paulo saw me.’
Probably because prescriptive grammars insist that unstressed pronouns
should not occur in sentence-initial position, enclisis is slightly more common
in that position in monitored speech (Schei 2003:58). Even so, unmonitored BP
favors proclitic placement even in sentence-initial position, in statements (22a)
or requests (22b). Actually, this construction is found with some frequency even
in the popular press (22c).
(22) a. BP Me parece que ele não vai chegar (cf. EP/ formal BP
Parece-me que ele não vai chegar).
‘It seems to me he will not arrive.’
b. BP Me dá um café e um copo dágua aı́, chefe?
‘Give me a cup of coffee and a glass of water, buddy?’
c. BP Se dá mal ao tentar fugir.
‘[Inmate] was unlucky in trying to escape.’ (Newspaper
headline – A Gazeta – Acre, October 26, 2002)
As in EP, proclitic placement is usual in BP when the verb is preceded by a
relativepronoun(23a)ornegativeorlimitingwordslikenão‘no,’nunca‘never,’
ninguém ‘nobody’s,’ só ‘only,’ and others (23 b–23 d) (Perini 2002a:389;
Raposo 1995:459).
(23) a. . . . a garota que me chamou.
‘. . . the girl that called me.’
b. Ninguém me entregou chave nenhuma.
‘Nobody gave me any key.’
c. Eu nunca te disse?
‘Didn’t I ever tell you?’
d. Só me dói assim.
‘It only hurts me in this way.’
With two-verb constructions like perfect tenses (ter + participle) or con-
tinuous tenses (estar + gerund), BP favors a proclitic pronoun phonetically
linked to the second verb like an initial unstressed syllable, as in 24. Thus in the
following four-line stanza, each line scans in four beats, as shown by dashes:
Vo-cê-ti-nha ‘you had
me-cha-ma-do called me
de-ban-di-do, a criminal,
de-ta-ra-do. a pervert.’
234 7 Brazilian Portuguese
This placement contrasts with EP, where the clitic me would become a final
unstressed syllable attached to the auxiliary (hyphenated in spelling): tinha-me
chamado ‘P3sg had called me.’ Proclisis to the auxiliary (25) is also a possibility
in BP, albeit a less usual one.
(24) a. BP Ele tinha me chamado (cf. EP Ele tinha-me chamado).
‘He had called me.’
b. BP Ele estava me chamando (cf. EP Ele estava-me a chamar).
‘He was calling me.’
(25) a. BP Ele me tinha chamado.
‘He had called me.’
b. BP Ele me estava chamando.
‘He was calling me.’
Likewise in combinations made up of a modal and an infinitive (queria
visitar ‘wanted to visit’), the default solution in BP is a pronoun proclitic to
the infinitive (26a). Proclisis to the modal (26b) is also possible, although a
little less usual, whereas enclisis to the infinitive (26c) or to the modal (26d)
are formal variants.
(26) a. Ele queria me visitar.
‘He wanted to visit me.’
b. Ele me queria visitar.
‘He wanted to visit me.’
c. Ele queria visitar-me.
‘He wanted to visit me.’
d. Ele queria-me visitar.
‘He wanted to visit me.’
Given the tendency in BP to use subject pronouns as direct objects, the range
of occurrence of clitics in unmonitored speech is more limited than in formal
speech or in writing. The clitics o/a(s) do occur in educated speech, nonetheless,
particularly if linked to an infinitive in subordinated clauses, as in não seria
conveniente mudá-lo ‘it wouldn’t be practical to change it’ (Galves and Abaurre
1996:289).
Use of clitics is further limited by a tendency to omit anaphoric◦
object
pronouns whose referent is either explicit in the discourse or can be understood
from the context (Raposo 1986; Schwenter and Silva 2002). Clitic omission is
exemplified in 27a–27e, where the subscript i stands for an omitted anaphoric
clitic in a reply to a question where its referent is explicit:
(27) a. – Você encontra muito contraste entre os alunos?
– Bom, toda classe tem i, não é? Toda classe temi muito.
7.3 Main features of Brazilian Portuguese 235
‘Do you find many contrasts among the students?’
‘Well, every class has [them], doesn’t it?’
b. – Você sabe se já trouxeram as caixas?
– Entregaram i hoje de manhã e o zelador pôsi no apartamento.
‘Do you know if they’ve brought the boxes?’
‘They delivered [them] this morning and the janitor put [them] in
the apartment.’
c. – Você não trouxe passaporte?
– Aı́ é que está, eu trouxei mas como não precisei mostrari deixeii
no hotel.
‘Haven’t you brought [your] passport?’
‘That’s the point, I did, but since I didn’t have to show [it], I left
[it] at the hotel.’
d. – Você não me viu na platéia?
– Vii, mas como você estava acompanhado, não quis incomodari i.
‘You didn’t see me in the audience?’
‘I did, but since you had company, I didn’t wish to disturb you.’
e. – Aı́ eu falei para ela, se você quiser, comprai e dái de presente
para ele.
‘Then I said to her, if you wish, buy [it] and give [it] to him as a
gift.’
Such verbs are understood as having a covert or null object which is retrieved
by the listener. In 28a–28b, however, the omitted clitici has no overt antecedent
and is interpreted contextually as referring to something that has either been
mentioned in an earlier utterance or is evident from the context (e.g. compre-a
‘buy it,’ faça-o / faça isso ‘do it/do that’).
(28) a. Se você acha que vale a pena ir lá, façai.
‘If you think going there is worth your while, do [it].’
b. Olha, você quer saber duma coisa? Eu vou comprari, e o cartão
que se dane.
‘You know what? I’m going to buy [it], and damn the credit card.’
An indirect object may be signaled either by a clitic as in 29a or, more
commonly, introduced by the preposition para (or a) followed by a prepositional
pronoun (29b). This feature creates contrast with the preference shown by EP
for clitic indirect objects, as in BP Vou perguntar para ela vs. EP Vou-lhe
perguntar ‘I’m going to ask her.’ Only the strong pronouns mim and ti are
exclusively prepositional; as mentioned earlier, ti is usually limited to regions
where tu is used. The clitics lhe and nos are uncommon in indirect object
function in casual speech (Galves and Abaurre 1996:288), which favors the
preposition para followed by a stressed pronoun, as in 29c–29e.
236 7 Brazilian Portuguese
(29) a. Ele não te ofereceu um lugar?
‘He didn’t offer you a seat?’
b. A Rose entregou o cedê para mim.
‘Rose gave me the CD.’
c. Depois papai dá procê (< para você).
‘Daddy will give it to you later.’
d. Quando o Dr. Gláucio chegar você entrega esse envelope para ele.
‘When Dr. Gláucio arrives you’ll give him this envelope.’
e. Você não quer comprar isso para a gente?
‘Won’t you buy this for us?’
One consequence of preference for the indirect object expressed as para +
NP is that the third person pronoun lhe is relatively rare in casual speech. When
it does occur (as in 30a), it refers invariably to the hearer, not to a third party.
Although this is condemned by prescriptive grammars, lhe also occurs as a
direct object, as in 30b–30d, even in the speech (and sometimes in the writings)
of educated speakers (Thomas 1969:100).
(30) a. Eu tenho um presente para lhe dar.
‘I have a gift to give you.’
b. Depois eu quero lhe ouvir (st. eu quero ouvi-lo / ouvir você).
‘I want to hear you later.’
c. A gente queria lhe convidar para a festa, doutor (st. queria
convidá-lo/convidar o senhor).
‘We wanted to invite you to the party, doctor.’
d. Eu lhe contatei para falar de um assunto muito importante (st. Eu
o contatei/contatei você).
‘I contacted you to talk about a very important subject.’
Indirect object clitics may be also be omitted, though less commonly than
direct object clitics (Cyrino 1999:615), as in 31, where a subscript i stands for a
direct object clitic and e for an indirect object clitic. Omission of such anaphoric
indirect object pronoun is particularly common when it may be recovered from
the communicative context:
(31) – Você quer entregar as entradasi para os alunose agora?
‘Do you want to hand out the tickets to the students now?’
– Eu entrego [i, e] quando a gente chegar lá, senão eles perdemi e
vai dar problema.
‘I will hand [themi] out [to theme] when we get there, otherwise they
will lose [them] and there will be trouble.’
Although some speakers (like the present writer) acquire the clitic o (and its
variants shown in Table 3.5) naturally, from growing up in a home environment
7.3 Main features of Brazilian Portuguese 237
where standard forms are insisted upon, it is a fact that such pronouns are
rather rare in unmonitored BP and virtually non-occurring in the vernacular.
Consequently, it makes sense to regard their occurrence in BP as a whole as
resulting primarily from formal learning rather than native language acquisition.
Infact,ithasbeensuggested(GalvesandAbaurre1996)thatthedemiseofclitics
reflects a qualitative change in BP in relation to EP. Be that as it may, learners
would do well to master the rules of clitic usage, since they occur in all varieties
of EP and in the more formal varieties of BP. Familiarity with contractions like
mo, to, lho (Table 3.6) is likewise useful, since they occur in EP as well as in
Brazilian literary texts up to until the first two or three decades of the twentieth
century.
7.3.2.4 The vanishing reflexive As we saw in Chapter 4, some verbs
are conjugated with a reflexive clitic that does not denote a truly reflexive
action that has the subject as both actor and patient), e.g. levantar-se ‘to get
up,’ sentar-se ‘to sit down,’ lembrar-se (de) ‘to remember,’ esquecer-se (de) ‘to
forget,’ queixar-se ‘to complain’ (4.6). In BP such verbs occur without a clitic,
as in 32a–32c. Omission of the clitic may be compensated for by a different
construction, as in 32d, where the verb ficar combined with the participle stands
for preocupar-se ‘to worry.’
(32) a. Não quer entrar e sentar? (st. se sentar).
‘Don’t you want to come in and sit down?’
b. Eu esqueci de trazer a pastinha (st. me esqueci).
‘I forgot to bring the folder.’
c. Eu não agüento, ela queixa demais (st. se queixa).
‘I can’t stand it, she complains too much.’
d. Não precisa ficar preocupado com isso (st. se preocupar).
‘Don’t worry about that.’
Research has shown not only that reflexive clitics are rare in the vernacular,
but also that speakers of this variety do not find it easy to understand clitics when
they hear them (Veado 1982:45; Bortoni-Ricardo 1985:227). Loss of awareness
of the function of the clitic accounts for the vernacular tendency to amalgamate
the pronoun se with the infinitive, as in 33a. This feature, however, occurs more
than just sporadically in colloquial educated speech, as in 33b. This vernacular
feature also occurs in popular EP (Mota 2001:32).
(33) a. Eu não consigo se esquecer do que ele fez para a minha mãe
(st. me esquecer).
‘I can’t forget what he did to my mother.’ [Rural informant]
b. Agora nós temos que ir se trocar (st. nos trocar).
‘Now we need to go and change.’
238 7 Brazilian Portuguese
7.3.2.5 Actor indeterminacy, the pronoun se, and se-deletion As
we have seen (4.9), Portuguese has several ways to indicate an indeterminate
semantic actor. One of these, the indeterminate se, is relatively infrequent in
spoken BP in general and even more so in the vernacular, except perhaps in set
phrases like isso não se diz/faz ‘one doesn’t say/do that.’ A less formal version
of the recipe quoted in section 4.9 would simply use infinitives, as in 34a, and
if given orally, would likely use você (usually shortened to cê), as in 34b:
(34) a. Amassar bem meio limão, acrescentar cachaça, adicionar gelo
moı́do, adoçar a gosto e então disfrutar em boa companhia.
‘Crush half a lime, add in sugar cane brandy, add crushed ice,
sweeten [it] to taste and then enjoy [it] in good company.’
b. BP (Vo) cêamassa . . . acrescenta. . adoça . . . adiciona . . .
disfruta . . .
BP makes extensive use of (vo)cê as an indeterminate actor (very much like
unstressed you ‘someone in general’), as in the following dialogue segment
about the requirements for winning an election, an activity in which neither
interlocutor was involved:
(35) . . . Eles têm que fazer assim – você não vai ganhar uma eleição sem
dinheiro, então você têm que conseguir o dinheiro, e aı́ você faz de
tudo para conseguir.
‘They have to act like that, you aren’t going to win an election
without money, and so you’ve got to get the money – and then you’ll
do anything to get [it].’
A more drastic reduction omits any reference to an indeterminate semantic
actor, resulting in constructions with a third person singular verb without a
subject, as in 36:
(36) a. Como é que sai da estação? (st. Como é que se sai . . .).
‘How does [one] get out of the station?’
b. Onde é que toma o ônibus de Valinhos? (st. que se toma . . .).
‘Where does [one] take the bus for Valinhos?’
7.3.2.6 Verbs Two striking features of verbs in BP are the stream-
lining of the conjugation paradigm through reduction of forms, and the low
frequency of certain verb tenses.
The tenses shown in the conjugation paradigms seen in Chapter 3 represent
the theoretical possibilities of the language, but in actual speech some restruc-
turing takes place. The forms corresponding to vós have long ceased to be used
except in formal oratorical styles. Furthermore, the forms corresponding to tu
are limited to certain regions in the south (Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina),
north, and northeast, and tend to alternate with third person forms (e.g. Tu
vai?/Tu vais).
7.3 Main features of Brazilian Portuguese 239
Table 7.3 Standard and vernacular verb paradigms in Brazilian Portuguese
-AR -ER -IR PÔR
Present
Standard P1sg falo bebo parto ponho
P2/P3sg fala bebe parte põe
P1pl falamos bebemos partimos pomos
P2/P3pl falam bebem partem põem
Vernacular P1sg falo bebo parto ponho
P2/P3sg fala bebe parte põe
P1pl falemo/fala bebemo/bebe partimo/parte ponhemo/põe
P2/P3pl fala bebe parte põe
Preterit
Standard P1sg falei bebi parti pus
P2/P3sg falou bebeu partiu pôs
P1pl falamos bebemos partimos pusemos
P2/P3pl falaram beberam partiram puseram
Vernacular P1sg falei bebi parti pus [pujs]
P2/P3sg falô bebeu partiu pôs [pojs]
P1pl falemo/falô bebemo/bebeu partimo/partiu ponhemo/pôs [pojs]
P2/P3pl falaro/falô bebero/bebeu partiro/partiu ponharo/pôs [pojs]
Imperfect
Standard P1sg falava bebia partia punha
P2/P3sg falava bebia partia punha
P1pl falávamos bebı́amos partı́amos púnhamos
P2/P3pl falavam bebiam partiam punham
Vernacular P1sg falava bebia partia punha/ponhava
P2/P3sg falava bebia partia punha/ponhava
P1pl falava bebia partia punha/ponhava
P2/P3pl falava bebia partia punha/ponhava
A comparison of standard and vernacular verb paradigms (Table 7.3) shows
that in VBP tenses with four forms are reduced to three, two, or even a single
form for all persons. The contrast between P2sg and P3sg, on the one hand,
and that between P2pl/P3pl on the other, are lost in the present indicative, and
the resulting system shows a three-way distinction. In other tenses, a two-way
contrast remains. There is also sharp reduction of contrasts in the preterit, from
four forms to three or two. The forms of the imperfect are reduced from three
to a single one. The verb pôr appears in the vernacular with an allomorph in
ponh- derived from the first person singular (ponho).
In unmonitored educated speech, contrasts of the type fala/falam are more
likely to be neutralized than salient contrasts involving different morphemes
such as é/são (Guy 1981:260). Even so, salient contrasts may be partially lost.
Theoccurrenceofvernacularformsinunmonitorededucatedspeechshowssuch
240 7 Brazilian Portuguese
speakers have at their disposal the grammar of both the standard and the vernac-
ular varieties of the language. The rules of verbal agreeement, which are manda-
tory in the standard, become variable in unmonitored educated speech, and thus
closer to the vernacular. Since passive exposure to the standard norm may favor
the acquisition of salient contrasts, one would expect to find fewer P3sg vs.
P3pl contrasts in the vernacular spoken in more isolated communities than in
that of urban environments where normalizing factors are at work, such as
formal schooling, the media, and direct contact with speakers of standard BP.
Statistical analyses (Pontes 1973; Hutchins 1975) show certain tenses occur
very infrequently in speech. Using a corpus of spontaneous conversations
recorded on amateur radio frequencies, Hutchins determined that, out of 81,091
verb forms, the most frequent inflected tenses were the present indicative
(39.54%) and the preterit indicative (15.18%). The future indicative accounted
for only 1.96% of tokens, contrasting with the future construction ir + infinitive,
with 4.14%.
These findings dovetail with Pontes’s comment (1973:93) that the future
indicativeis“extremelyrareinspeech”andthatbesidesthe“stereotypedexpres-
sion será que” “I wonder if” all examples in (her) corpus do not convey futurity
as such but rather an element of doubt or unreality. Thus a question like A
Maria virá amanhã? ‘Will Maria come tomorrow?’ would likely be interpreted
as suggesting doubt about Maria’s arrival, whereas A Maria vem amanhã? is a
straight request for information.
The conditional occurs in eight out of 1500 tokens in Pontes’s corpus and in
0.92 of Hutchin’s tabulation. These findings confirm the trend to replace it by
the imperfect indicative, as in 37:
(37) a. Tendo tempo, a gente podia chegar até lá (st. poderia chegar).
‘If there is time we could go there.’
b. Com um pouco mais eu comprava um Tercel (st. compraria).
‘With a little more I would buy a Tercel.’
In Hutchins’s study all subjunctive forms accounted for less than 5% of
the total. Most cases of the future subjunctive (1.92%) occurred with verbs
that have an irregular stem in that tense (querer/quiser, poder/puder, ter/tiver,
ser/for, estar/estiver, ir/for, vir/vier, haver/houver). This datum suggests that
the persistence of these future subjunctive forms may be due to the fact that
irregular forms are more resistant to loss than regular ones. For regular verbs,
however, there are only three forms (P1/P2/P3sg chegar, P1pl chegarmos, P3pl
chegarem), which are reduced to just P1sg and P3pl when a gente is substi-
tuted for nós. Vernacular examples show that the contrast P1sg/P2sg in regular
verbs is easily neutralized by loss of the -em (phonetically [ẽj]) desinence, as in
38a–38b. In vernacular speech, the present indicative may occur in the subor-
dinate clause instead of the subjunctive, as in 38c:
7.3 Main features of Brazilian Portuguese 241
(38) a. Se eles precisar (st. precisarem) da gente, aı́ a gente vai lá.
‘If they need us, then we’ll go there.’
b. Quando (v)ocês chegar (st. chegarem) em Miami, dá um toque pra
gente.
‘When you (pl.) arrive in Miami, give us a call.’
c. Se a senhora paga (st. pagar) um pouco mais nós limpa
(st. limpamos) a varanda também.
‘If you pay a little more we clean the porch too.’
In fact, although the contrast between indicative and subjunctive (4.12) holds
well in monitored educated speech and in written styles, it may easily be neu-
tralized in casual educated speech and in the vernacular (Martins and Medeiros
1998). This suggests there is a tendency to use the indicative even in construc-
tions where the matrix clause has a verb expressing volition, a belief, or a
presupposition, as in 39:
(39) a. A gente quer que vocês vêm jantar lá em casa amanhã
(st. venham).
‘We want you (pl.) to come and have dinner at our place
tomorrow.’
b. Eu estou muito contente que você passou no concurso (st. tenha
passado).
‘I’m very happy that you passed the contest.’
There are also alternate constructions that make it possible to avoid the
subjunctive, like the use of constructions with para + NPsubject + infinitive
(40a) or with the infinitive (40b):
(40) a. O gerente disse para a gente ficar aqui (st. O gerente disse que a
gente ficasse aqui).
‘The manager said for us to stay here.’
b. Ela me mandou trazer o pacote (st. mandou que eu trouxesse).
‘She told me to bring the package.’
Another strategy, common in contrary-to fact-sentences, involves switching
the narrative to the present even though the events focused on are in the past,
as in 31.
(31) Que pena, se o senhor fala com a gente antes a gente trazia a serra
elétrica sem problema (st. se o senhor tivesse falado . . . a gente teria
trazido).
‘What a shame, if you had talked to us earlier we’d have brought the
electric saw, no problem.’
Although prescriptive grammars require a subjunctive form for commands
related to você, the third person singular of the present indicative “is half again
242 7 Brazilian Portuguese
as common . . . as the standard third person command” (Hutchins 1975:63), as
in 32:
(32) a. Entrega esse envelope para a secretária e depois vem aqui de
novo que eu preciso falar com você (st. entregue . . . venha).
‘Give this envelope to the secretary and then come back here for I
need to talk to you.’
b. Põe esse dinheiro no bolso que aqui você não paga nada
(st. ponha).
‘Put that money back in your pocket because here you don’t pay
for anything.’
7.3.2.6.1 Double negation. In all varieties of Portuguese, the default way of
negating a verb consists in placing não ‘no’ before it (33a). As pointed out in
section 4.3, double (or even triple) negatives are normal in BP. In replying to a
question, a single negative (33b), while correct, may be perceived as less cour-
teous than a double one (33c). This não . . . não construction also occurs in EP.
Negation by a single não postposed to the verb (33d), however, is widespread in
VBP. Furthermore, the postposed não may be replaced by nada ‘nothing’(33e)
or reinforced by it (33f).
(33) a. Desculpe, eu não falo inglês.
‘I’m sorry, I don’t speak English.’
b. – Você quer mais sobremesa?
– Não quero, obrigado.
‘Do you want more desert?’
‘No, I don’t (want it), thank you.’
c. – Você quer mais sobremesa?
– Não quero não, obrigado.
‘Do you want more desert?’
‘No, I don’t (want it), thank you.’
d. – Tem correspondência para mim, seu Pedro?
– Tem não, doutor.
‘Is there mail for me, Mr. Pedro?’
‘No, doctor, there isn’t.’
e. Ele não sabe andar a cavalo nada!
‘He can’t ride a horse at all!’
f. Eu não acredito que ela dormiu com ele nada não, ela estava é
com conversa.
‘I don’t believe she slept with with him at all, she was just
babbling.’
7.3 Main features of Brazilian Portuguese 243
Double negatives are an old feature of the language and can be found in
old Portuguese texts, as pointed out by Bueno (1955:225), who listed several
examples, as in 34a. Amaral (1920:65) lists the double negative ninguém não
(pronounced num [nũ]) as common in rural VBP:
(34) a. A ninguém não me descubro.
‘I do not doff my hat to anyone.’
b. Ninguém num viu.
‘Everybody saw.’
7.3.2.6.2 The gerund. A more recent use of the gerund in BP involves con-
structions like 35a–35b, which apparently became widespread in business cir-
cles at the end of the twentieth century. This practice, dubbed gerundismo, has
generated an adverse reaction among grammarians far out of proportion to its
importance. In the absence of detailed studies, however, there is no basis to
determine whether it is, as some have suggested, a calque from English, or
simply a spontaneous creation which may or may not be retained.
It is interesting to note that marginal gerund constructions have played a role
as indicators of specific nuances, as in the reply in 35c, where não estou tendo
conveys a connotation of a temporary state that would be absent if the simple
present were used.
(35) a. Eu vou estar transferindo a sua ligação (for vou transferir).
‘I’ll be transfering your call.’
b. Nós vamos estar mandando uma circular para todos os clientes
(for vamos mandar).
‘We’ll be sending a circular to all clients.’
c. – Cê num tem cerveja preta?
– Cê sabe que eu não estou tendo?
‘Have you got dark beer?’
‘You know I don’t have it (right now)?’
7.3.2.6.3 Haver and ter. A great deal of variation is found in the agreement
of the verbs haver and ter. Although both verbs should be invariable when used
impersonally in the sense of ‘to exist,’ in VBP they often occur in the plural,
possibly because speakers reinterpret the direct object noun phrase as a subject,
as in 36a–36b
(36) a. Houveram muitas causas para esse problema (st. houve).
‘There were many causes for that problem.’
b. Tinham vários jeitos de resolver a questão (st. tinha).
‘There were several ways to solve that question.’
244 7 Brazilian Portuguese
Grammars and usage manuals have systematically insisted on prescriptive
use of haver and condemnation of ter, although for no good reason. Use of
impersonal ter to indicate existence has been documented in old Portuguese
(Bueno 1955). Callou and Avelar (2002) found a proportion of 22% instances
of ter against 78% instances of haver in their analysis of ninetenth-century
newspaper adverts, which in their view suggests a much higher incidence of ter
in the spoken language.
7.3.2.7 Resumptive and clipped relative clauses The use of rela-
tive constructions shows sharp differences between unmonitored and moni-
tored speech. Spoken BP has long used que as an all-purpose relative pronoun
(Amaral 1920:63; Bechara 1999:200) and limits the other relative pronouns to
semi-formal and formal styles. This is particularly noticeable in cases where
in standard usage a relative pronoun would be preceded by a preposition (com,
de, para), as in 37a, 38a, 39a. Such constructions, perfectly possible in for-
mal conversation, are far less common than the alternative construction, called
a resumptive◦
relative (37b, 38b, 39b). In this construction the antecedent of
que is represented by a resumptive third person pronoun whose referent is the
antecedent of que.
Another alternative, called the clipped relative (37c, 38c, 39c), involves elim-
ination of the resumptive pronoun (Kato 1993:224). In the absence of any
explicit reference to the antecedent of que, this latter kind of sentence requires
a contextual interpretation.
(37) a. O funcionário com quem eu conversei não tinha nenhuma
informação.
b. O funcionário que eu falei com ele não tinha nenhuma
informação.
c. O funcionário que eu falei não tinha nenhuma informação.
‘The official with whom I talked didn’t have any information.’
(38) a. A casa de que eu te falei já foi vendida.
b. A casa que eu te falei dela já foi vendida.
c. A casa que eu te falei já foi vendida.
‘The house I told you about has already been sold.’
(39) a. A cachaça de que eu mais gosto é a de alambique velho.
b. A cachaça que eu mais gosto dela é a de alambique velho.
c. A cachaça que eu mais gosto é a de alambique velho.
‘The sugar cane brandy that I like best is that from an old-style
still.’
7.3 Main features of Brazilian Portuguese 245
Combinations of preposition and the locative relative onde ‘where’ are
likewise replaced by que, combined with the place adverb lá ‘there’ as in
40 and 41:
(40) a. O departamento para onde eu tinha que escrever mudou.
b. O departamento que eu tinha que escrever para lá mudou.
c. O departamento que eu tinha que escrever mudou.
‘The department (which) I had to write to has moved.’
(41) a. A cidade de onde eles vieram não tinha nada.
b. A cidade que eles vieram de lá [= dela] não tinha nada.
c. A cidade que eles vieram não tinha nada.
‘The town they had come from had nothing.’
The disappearance of the relative cujo ‘whose’ (4.11.4) from unmonitored
speech seems to entail restructuring of relative clauses, as shown in 42b–42c
and 43b–43c:
(42) a. Eu conheci uma brasileira cujo filho é bolsista.
b. Eu conheci uma brasileira que o filho dela é bolsista.
c. Eu conheci uma brasileira que o filho é bolsista.
‘I met a Brazilian woman whose son is a scholarship-holder.’
(43) a. Vou consertar aquele livro cuja capa está rasgada.
b. Vou consertar aquele livro que a capa dele está rasgada.
c. Vou consertar aquele livro que a capa está rasgada.
‘I’m going to fix that book whose cover is torn.’
Besides agreeing in gender and number with the noun it modifies (filho), cujo
in 42a associates a possessive function with its antecedent (uma brasileira).
When que replaces cujo, the possessive function is expressed, if at all, by
the preposition de combined with a pronoun (ela), endowed with an anaphoric
function and the same features of person, gender, and number as the antecedent,
as in 42b. Thus in 42b if the antecedent were changed to um brasileiro, the
relative clause would be que o filho dele. The relative construction exemplified
by 42c, in turn, leaves unmarked the relationship of possession between filho
and brasileira, which has to be retrieved from the context: the listener assumes
the woman in question is the mother of the person referred to as filho. Likewise
the link between capa and livro is expressed by cuja in 43a, by dele in 43b
and solely by the contex in 43c. In 44b a similar relationship is expressed
between escritor ‘writer’ and livro ‘book,’ but in 45a–45b there is no necessary
relationship between cara ‘guy’ and livro, and consequently such sentences
appear less likely to occur unless, as in this example, they are clarified by the
context.
246 7 Brazilian Portuguese
(44) a. Tem muito escritor que os livros dele não vendem.
b. Tem muito escritor que os livros não vendem.
‘There are many writers whose books don’t sell.’
(45) a. Tem muito cara que os livros dele não vendem.
b. Tem muito cara que os livros não vendem.
‘There are many guys that the (= whose) books don’t sell.’
In BP the clipped relative is more common than the resumptive relative
among educated speakers (Tarallo 1983:120 ff.; Bagno 2000:195). Despite their
high frequency in BP, however, neither construction is a Brazilianism. The
resumptive relative goes back to popular Latin (Ilari 1992:113), and resumptive
and clipped relatives also occur in EP (Peres and Móia 1995:276–277, 288).
7.3.2.8 Regency Verbs expressing movement such as ir, vir, chegar
are systematically construed with em instead of with a as required by prescrip-
tive grammars. This use of em seems to go back to Latin and its occurrence in
BP, shown in 46, may be a survival from sixteenth-century language (Bueno
1955:214).
(46) a. Que hora que a gente chega em Campinas?
‘What time do we arrive in Campinas?’
b. Você não quer ir na casa dele escutar uns discos?
‘Don’t you want to go to his place to listen to some records?’
c. Vamos lá na fazenda domingo?
‘Shall we go to the farm on Sunday?’
A series of verbs that require a preposition in prescriptive usage is systemat-
ically construed without that preposition not only in the vernacular but also in
unmonitored educated usage. A sample of such verbs follows:
Agradar (a) A fala do presidente desagradou os gramáticos
(for desagradou aos).
‘The president’s speech displeased the grammarians.’
Aspirar (a) Eu ainda aspiro chegar a chefe (for aspiro a chegar).
‘I still hope to get to be the boss.’
Assistir (a) Nós fomos assistir uma apresentação (for assistir
a uma).
‘We went to attend a presentation.’
Comparecer (a) Aquela reunião que você não compareceu (for à qual
você).
‘That meeting you didn’t show up for.’
Gostar (de) Ela faz o que ela gosta (for faz o de que ela gosta).
‘She does what she likes.’
7.3 Main features of Brazilian Portuguese 247
Obedecer (a) Ela não obedece ninguém (for obedece a).
‘She does not obey anyone.’
Perdoar (a) O presidente perdoou os prisioneiros (for perdoou aos
prisioneiros).
‘The president pardoned the prisoners.’
Responder (a) Você não vai responder o que ele perguntou? (for
responder ao que).
‘Aren’t you going to answer what he asked?’
Suceder (a) Vamos ver quem vai suceder o presidente (for
suceder ao).
‘Let’s see who will succeed this president.’
Visar (a) Essas medidas visam o barateamento dos alimentos
(for visam ao).
‘These measures aim at lowering the price of food.’
Other verbs, on the contrary, are used with prepositions not required in the
prescriptive language:
Preferir Eu prefiro mais dançar do que caminhar (for prefiro dançar a
caminhar).
‘I prefer dancing to walking.’
Chamar Chamou o presidente de ladrão (for chamou o presidente
ladrão).
‘He called the president a thief.’
Namorar O meu filho estava namorando com a filha da vizinha
(for estava namorando a filha).
‘My son was going out with the neighbor’s daughter.’
7.3.2.9 Word order and topicalization As discused in section 4.15,
an utterance provides a frame for organizing bundles of information in the
format of a full sentence (which has a verb), or a phrase or a sentence frag-
ment (which have no verb). In a sentence like Eu estou cansado desse projeto
‘I am tired of this project’, that information is organized by means of syn-
tactic functions such as a subject (eu) and a predicate (estou cansado desse
projeto).
Word order reflects the relative informativeness of the sentence elements.
The general principle is that background information tends to be presented first
so as to pave the way for relatively more important information. As shown by
Pontes (1987), the default or unmarked word order in declarative sentences
in BP is subject + verb + direct object (SVO), found in neutral statements,
that is, those that are neither contrastive nor emphatic. The order verb + sub-
ject (VS) is marked, and used when the subject is felt to be more informative
248 7 Brazilian Portuguese
than the verb, to provide information that is either contrastive, or emphatic, or
simply new.
Thus in the context of a question such as Quem chegou?, in the reply Chegou
o meu pai the verb chegou simply echoes the question, while the actual informa-
tion is contained in o meu pai, which might, in fact, constitute a full reply. As an
answer to an open-ended question such as O que aconteceu?, however, either
ordering would do, depending on whether the information focus was on the
arrival (O meu pai chegou) or on the person who arrived (Chegou o
meu pai).
Distribution of information in an utterance may be analyzed in terms of a
topic◦
followed by a commentary◦
. The topic contains information on what the
utterance is about (Matthews 1997:380) and consequently it tends to come at
the beginning, announcing what is going to be said. In a sentence like 47a, top-
icalization is brought about by the passive construction. Here the commentary
coincides with the predicate (foi morto pela polı́cia), while the topic coincides
with the subject (o chefe da gangue).
Passives, however, are relatively uncommon in unmonitored BP, and there
is no reason why their topic need be the subject: in 47b–47c the subject is a
polı́cia and the topic is o chefe da gangue. The difference is that unlike in 47a,
in 47b ele is an anaphoric direct object that refers to the topic o chefe da gangue.
As for 47d, though it is theoretically possible, the low frequency of the clitic
o/a makes it unlikely except in formal styles.
(47) a. O chefe da gangue foi morto pela polı́cia de madrugada.
‘The gang leader was killed by the police at dawn.’
b. O chefe da gangue, a polı́cia matou ele de madrugada.
‘The gang leader, the police killed him at dawn.’
c. O chefe da gangue, a polı́cia matou de madrugada.
‘The gang leader, the police killed at dawn.’
d. O chefe da gangue, a polı́cia matou-o de madrugada.
‘The gang leader, the police killed him at dawn.’
The topicalized element may have a variety of syntactic functions, such as the
direct object (48a), or the complement of a preposition (48b), or a predicative
complement (48c), or an adverbial complement (48d). In all of these cases,
as in 47b–47d, the topic is said to be left-dislocated, meaning that its natural
place would have been somewhere to the right (in the place indicated by a
wedge ▲):
(48) a. Essa moto eu comprei ▲ em Santos.
‘This motorcycle I bought (it) in Santos.’
b. Com ela, eu dançava ▲ a noite toda.
‘With her, I’d dance all night.’
7.3 Main features of Brazilian Portuguese 249
c. Zangada ela ficou ▲, mas que é que eu vou fazer.
‘Mad she got, but what can I do.’
d. Aqui, ele não põe mais os pés ▲.
‘Here, he won’t set foot again.’
Placing an element at the head of the sentence is one way of topicalizing it.
Another is to split the sentence by inserting in it a frame made up of the verb
ser + que, thus creating a cleft sentence◦
as in (49):
(49) a. É ele que quer falar com o senhor.
‘He is the one who wants to talk to you.’
b. É com o senhor que ele quer falar.
‘It’s with you that he wants to talk.’
c. É falar com o senhor que ele quer.
‘To talk to you is what he wants.’
Topicalization is not unique to BP; rather, it may be seen as a further devel-
opment of processes that occur regularly in EP, as studied by Duarte (1996). In
discursive topicalization (Perini 2002a:542), the topicalized element does not
have a clear syntactic relationship with the rest of the sentence. In some cases
it operates as an antecedent to an anaphoric pronoun that may function either
as subject (50a), direct object (50b), or indirect object (50c).
(50) a. A Susana, eu acho que ela não gosta muito disso não.
‘Susan, I think she doesn’t like that very much.’
b. Essa moto, eu comprei em Santos.
‘This motorcycle I bought (it) in Santos.’
c. A minha mãe, eu dou um presente para ela todo Natal.
‘My mother, I give her a gift every Christmas.’
In other cases, there is no such resumptive pronoun to link the sentence to the
topic, which simply provides a background for the information in the sentence,
and the relationship between the two must be interpreted from the context, as
in 51a–51b.
(51) a. O Lula presidente, você acha que as coisas estão melhorando?
‘Lula [being] president, do you think things are getting better?’
b. Horário de verão, eu nunca lembro de acertar até alguém me
dizer.
‘Daylight saving time, I never remember to set (my watch) until
someone tells me.’
250 7 Brazilian Portuguese
7.4 The creole hypothesis
Having identified some of the main features of Brazilian Portuguese, including
its vernacular variety, we are now in a position to briefly review the question of
its possible origins.
African slaves started arriving in Portugal in 1441 (Teyssier 1957:228) and
communication between Portuguese navigators and Africans was facilitated
by a Portuguese-based pidgin which, according to Naro (1978:341), had orig-
inated “with the officially instituted training of translators” established by the
Portuguese. That pidgin was “later extensively used throughout West Africa”
as a reconnaissance language and African characters speaking it “began to
appear in the popular literature.” In fact, the literary representation of pidgin-
or creole-speaking Africans first appeared in Garcia de Resende’s Cancioneiro
Geral, published in 1516 (1.2). Gil Vicente’s plays depict it in a stylized manner,
as shown by the following brief sample:
Que inda que negro soo Although I am black,
bosso oyo he tam trabessa, your eye is so mischievous,
tam preta, que me matoo. so dark, that it has killed me.
Senhora, quem te frutasse Lady if one could enjoy you
por o quatro dia no maas for four days, no more
e logo morte me matesse, and then death might kill me
que mas o dia nam durasse that more the day would not last
pollo vida que boso me das. for the life you give me.
(Gil Vicente, Frágua de Amor, p. 146)
Though stereotyped, such representation gives an idea of salient phonological
features of that speech. Use of b for v (bosso for vosso ‘yours,’ bos for vós ‘you’)
suggests underdifferentiation of the phonemes /b/ and /v/, a feature found in
Northern EP (6.2). Other features are shared by creoles and VBP (7.3.1.2), such
as [j] instead of [ʎ], as indicated by lh replaced by i (olho > oyo).
Metathesis◦
, that is an alteration in the normal position of sounds, as in the
case of r and u in furtasse > frutasse, is common in VBP (e.g. caderneta >
VBP cardeneta ‘notebook,’ ‘problem,’ estupro > VBP estrupo ‘rape’). The
same goes for monophthongization◦
of ou [ow] > o [o] (7.3.1.1), represented
by oo as in sou > soo, matou > matoo. Morphological features include lack
of nominal agreement (7.3.2.1), as in o quatro dia for os quatro dias; oyo . . .
trabessa for oyo travesso, pollo vida for polla vida.
TheoccurrenceofsimilarfeaturesinbothVBPandAfricanPortuguese-based
creoles has given rise to the idea – apparently first suggested by the Portuguese
scholar Adolpho Coelho (1880–1886) – that VBP might have roots in one
or more creoles spoken by African slaves in colonial times. This hypothesis
has since been revisited by several linguists, including Machado (1940), Silva
Neto (1976), Câmara (1975), Jeroslow (1974), Melo (1971), Holm (1987, 1989,
7.4 The creole hypothesis 251
1992, 2004), Guy (1981, 1989), Baxter and Lucchesi (1997), and Baxter (1998).
Melo (1971:75) stated that there may have existed in colonial times a Yoruba-
type creole and a Bantu-type creole, both of which disappeared as successive
generations acquired Portuguese. Guy (1981) has suggested that a creole might
have been widespread among the colonial lower classes and that VBP would
be the result of a decreolization process that took place under the influence of
the standard variety spoken by both native speakers of EP and the educated
Brazilian-born minority.
Other scholars (Naro 1978; Naro and Lemle 1976; Naro and Scherre 1993;
Scherre and Naro 1993, 2000), however, have rejected the creole-origin hypoth-
esis, suggesting that VBP can be explained as resulting from diachronic change
undergone by the language spoken by sixteenth-century settlers. One factor
influencing the later development of a specifically Brazilian variety of Por-
tuguese would be the presence of the metropolitan standard, related to increased
immigration from Portugal in the eighteenth century. Another factor would be
the arrival of the Portuguese court in 1808, with a following of some ten thou-
sand speakers of EP whose presence constituted a powerful model of prestigious
speech.
The view of the non-creole origin of VBP finds support in McWhorter’s
(2000) Afrogenesis hypothesis, according to which New World creoles grew
out of pidgins which originated in West African trade settlements and were
brought over by slaves who had learned them in Africa. The fact that VBP is not
a creole, but “at best lightly ‘semicreolized,’” suggests that the slaves who came
to Brazil originally were not speakers of a Portuguese-based pidgin. Once in
Brazil, they could have learned “a relatively full [that is, non-creolized] variety
of Portuguese despite massive disproportion of black to white” (McWhorter
2000:204–205).
Scherre and Naro (2000) further point out that the notion of creolization in
Brazil cannot be linked to any specific ethnic group. In their view, the recently
reportedspeechofsmallcommmunitiesofAfricandescentlivinginhamletslike
Helvécia in the state of Bahia (Megenney 2002), or Cafundó in the state of São
Paulo (Vogt and Fry 1996, 2000), should be analyzed as varieties of rural VBP,
relexified◦
to a certain extent with words of African origin. Scherre and Naro
“reject the position that BP has a creole history, is a semi-creole, or has a light
underlying creolization,” suggesting instead that the features and structures of
present-day vernacular BP were already “present from the beginning. The basic
change was in the general tendency of the frequency of the forms” (2000:8).
This is not to say that creoles did not exist in colonial Brazil, but that their
range was likely geographically limited. A widespread creole variety could
hardly have been so thoroughly decreolized without leaving behind a post-
creole continuum of the kind found in areas such as Jamaica (Le Page and
De Camp 1960). In that case we would expect to find a stratified situation
252 7 Brazilian Portuguese
with an acrolect (standard Portuguese) at the top, a basilect (that is, one or
more creole varieties) at the bottom, and a series of mesolects, or intermediate
varieties, connecting those two extremes. This situation, however, does not
obtain in Brazil, where no extant creole variety has been identified, despite
features shared by VBP with creoles of Cape Verde and São Tomé (Mello 1996;
Holm 2004).
According to an alternative hypothesis put forth by Holm (2004), BVP would
be the outcome of a process of partial restructuring that took place in a language
contact situation. The languages or language varieties involved were the EP
spoken natively by settlers, the creole brought over in the sixteenth century
by slaves, and several African languages which “continued to be spoken by
large numbers of people . . . during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries”
(Holm 2004:56). According to this view, a morphologically and syntactically
partially restructured variety of Portuguese progressively replaced the Lı́ngua
Geral (7.2.2) spoken in sugar plantations located in coastal regions. A similar
process took place in the areas touched by the rush for the gold and diamond
mines discovered in today’s states of Minas Gerais, Mato Grosso, and Goiás,
which lasted from the last decade of the seventeenth century through the first
half of the eigthteenth (Prado Junior 1945: 33–34).
The mining rush, which fostered an intense, if short-lived, cultural revival in
the mining area of Minas Gerais in the late eighteenth century, attracted many
EP speakers from Portugal. Mining labor requirements caused caused massive
importation of slaves, who likely learned Portuguese, albeit imperfectly. When
the mines were exhausted by the middle of the eighteenth century, the region
in question,
which corresponds to the whole kernel of today’s Brazilian territory, encompassing the
states of Minas Gerais, Goiás, part of Mato Grosso, and a portion of Bahia . . . [had]
[a]pproximately 600,000 inhabitants, that is a little less than a fifth of the colony’s total
population occupied this area at the beginning of the nineteenth century. (Prado Junior
1942:50)
According to Holm’s hypothesis, assuming that substantial linguistic leveling
took place among this population during the decades of the mining rush, a
vernacular variety could have developed which, once it had spread outside its
region of origin, would have “probably played a key role in spreading a newly
leveled variety of Portuguese” which would be the source of today’s VBP. This
view is compatible with Megenney’s hypothesis (2002) that, even if there never
was a generalized creole spoken all over colonial Brazil, there may have existed
small creole-speaking pockets which, before vanishing completely, had some
effect on VBP. This resulting partially restructured variety, neither a creole nor
a semi-creole but bearing some creole-like features, would be constantly under
presssure from the standard language, made mandatory in education and public
7.5 More border talk 253
administration in 1758 (7.2.2), and reinforced by the arrival of the Portuguese
court in 1808.
While these influences likely checked the vernacular from drifting further
away from the standard variety, other forces were shaping Brazilian Portuguese.
From the nineteenth century on an increasing number of Brazilians underwent
a process of first language acquisition characterized by several unique features.
First, they acquired Portuguese from Brazil-born parents whose speech already
differed markedly from EP. Second, even upper-class children grew up in close
contact with speakers of vernacular varieties, be they White, Negro, or eth-
nically mixed. Throughout the nineteenth century (and in some regions into
the twentieth as well) many White children had Negro wet-nurses and played
with children of African or mixed ancestry. Even nowadays, in small towns
children of all socioeconomic groups attend public schools where the teachers’
standard or semi-standard Portuguese coexists with vernacular varieties. It is
in such schools that children have traditionally been initiated into the art of
switching from “classroom Portuguese,” which they come to associate with
school, books, and formal learning in general, to the various levels of Brazil-
ian Portuguese spoken at home and in most other situations. For middle-class
children with parents keen on language correction as a prestige marker and a
step toward a college education, dialect switching becomes natural, although
tinged by the ambivalence already referred to (7.1): familiar and comfortable as
it may be, the vernacular evokes a vague feeling of guilt for saying something
that is not quite “correct,” and which, uttered at the wrong time and in the
wrong place, may elicit reproach or derision, or worse yet, bar access to desir-
able jobs or influential positions. Until a solution is found for this dilemma, the
relationship between standard and vernacular Brazilian Portuguese will remain
conflictive for native speakers and foreign learners alike.
7.5 More border talk
A restructuring process may also be involved in certain varieties developed in
situations of language contact, particularly when the languages involved are as
closely related as Portuguese and Spanish. Along the Brazil–Uruguay border, in
areas such as the twin towns of Sacramento (Brazil) and Rivera (Uruguay), there
is a variety traditionally called [Sp] fronterizo/[Pg] fronteiriço, and known to
contemporarylinguistsasDPUsordialetosportuguesesdoUruguai‘Uruguay’s
Portuguese Dialects’ (Rona 1965; Hensey 1972, 1982; Elizaincı́n et al. 1987;
Elizaincı́n 1992; Carvalho 1998, 2003).
In fact Portuguese was the language spoken in the northern regions of
Uruguay until late in the nineteenth century, when the Uruguayan government
began to enforce the use of Spanish in administration and education. Even
today, Portuguese is considered a heritage language in some bilingual border
254 7 Brazilian Portuguese
areas (Carvalho 2003:125). The basis of DPUs is essentially the popular Por-
tuguese spoken in Brazil. Morphological and syntactic structures are somewhat
simplified (although far less so than is the case with pidgins or creoles), and the
lexicon, made up of words from both languages, includes many hybrid forms.
Long regarded as unsystematic hybrids, DPUs have been cogently character-
izedbyCarvalhodialectsofPortuguese“whoseinternalvariationistheoutcome
of interference from Spanish, particularly at the lexical level, and the presence
of rural Portuguese markers.” She further postulates a “continuum of stylistic
and social variation” which would include “local forms” and “non-local forms”
which would be provided through contact with urban varieties of Brazilian Por-
tuguese through travel, the Brazilian media, and tourism. Rivera speech would
thus appear to be “a dialect transition zone” (2003:126–135).
Pronunciation features such as articulation of lh as either standard [ʎ] or
vernacular [j] (7.3.1.2) are clearly related to social and stylistic factors. The
higher a speaker’s socioeconomic standard, the higher is the incidence of the
standard allophone [ʎ], but the level of formality also plays a role: in all the
informants analyzed, there was a rate of 82% of cases of [ʎ] in formal contexts,
against only 39% in informal contexts (Carvalho 2003:136).
The everyday lexicon of Rivera Portuguese characteristically includes a large
proportion of Spanish loan words, some of which have completely displaced
the corresponding Portuguese terms, as shown in examples 52a–52e, all from
Carvalho (2003:139):
(52) a. Tinha un juez [Pg juiz] que trabaiava lá no hotel . . .
‘There was a judge who worked at the hotel . . .’
b. Quando a patrona [Pg patroa] vinha pa Rivera . . .
‘When the boss [f.] came to Rivera . . .’
c. Eu vou numa tienda . . . [Pg loja]
‘I go to a store . . .’
d. Eu cheguei na calle [Pg rua].
‘I came to the street . . .’
e. Ela tá trabaiando com a M. na panaderı́a [Pg padaria]
‘She is working with M. at the bakery . . .’
Another salient characteristic of Rivera Portuguese is codeswitching, that is
the practice of alternating languages during the same conversation, as in 53, or
even within the same utterance, as in 54, from Carvalho 2003:140:
(53) [Sp] Trabajaba, trabajaba, no sacaba ni los dı́as, ni los dı́as que dan
para uno después de cuatro años son cinco dı́as mas yo no sacaba.
Ah, [Pg] eu vô deixá de sê boba, vivo tão cansada. [Sp] Sacaba de
vez en cuando, sacaba un dı́a para ir a Rivera.
7.5 More border talk 255
‘I worked, worked, I didn’t even take off the days they give you after
four years, that’s five days, but I didn’t take them off. Oh, I’m going
to quit being silly, I’m always so tired. I’d take a day off every now
and then, to go to Rivera.’
(54) a. [Sp] Yo hablo español, a veces me equivoco y [Pg] falo brasileiro.
‘I speak Spanish, sometimes I make a mistake and speak
Brazilian.’
b. [Sp] Yo era la limpiadora, fazia todo trabaio, [Pg] limpava tudo.
‘I was the cleaning woman, I did all the work, I cleaned
everything.’
It is anybody’s guess to what extent DPU speakers will be able to resist the
double pressure to learn official Spanish, taught in schools and used in dealing
with the Uruguayan administration, and to bring their own variety of popular
Portuguese closer to the prestigious urban model that reaches them from the
other side of the border. It would be regrettable if DPUs were to disappear, as
they illustrate very vividly the resilience with which a language can survive and
adjust itself to a variety of circumstances and yet retain something essential that
provides continuity among its varieties.
In border regions as well as all over Brazil, the widespread occurrence of ver-
nacular forms in the unmonitored speech of educated persons presents learners
with a difficult – though no means insuperable – problem that can be defined
succintly: in order to learn Portuguese to the point of being fully functional in
Brazilian society, a degree of mastery of the vernacular is essential. The reason
is that functionality requires being able to switch back and forth between the
two varieties in order to interact not only with different persons, but also with
the same interlocutors, who will effect that switch instinctively, depending on
the degree of formality of a given communicative context.
To accomplish that goal learners have to learn to distinguish between what
is standard and what is vernacular. This is not necessarily simple, since clues
are not always evident, except in the more obvious cases, such as nominal or
verbal agreement. Secondly, they have to acquire a feel for how and when a
vernacular form should be used to avoid sounding stilted, and when one should
switch to the standard form so as not to sound inappropriately casual, or even
churlish. Developing such a feel is not made easier by the contradictory views
and attitudes toward phenomena of language variation held by many educated
native speakers, ranging from strict defense of prescriptive norms to enthusiastic
acceptance of vernacular forms – in either case often for ideological reasons
that have little to do with language per se.
8 Sociolinguistic issues
If languages were uniform and invariable, they might be easier to learn and
to use, but their communicative and expressive resources would probably be
rather limited. We can only wonder whether such a language would suffice
for linguistically creative literary works like João Guimarães Rosa’s Grande
Sertão: Veredas, or António Lobo Antunes’s A Hora dos Lobos, or Mia Couto’s
Terra Sonâmbula. More likely, a uniform language would be to real language as
tic-tac-toe to chess: both games are governed by rules, but chess offers plenty
more room for variation.
Language, in fact, is more like a game of chess played by multiple partners
who, while abiding by the same general rules, use variants that all along require
reinterpretation and accommodation if the game is to proceed. At times the
rules in use diverge so sharply – as if some players suddenly decided to try
out checker rules – that the game breaks down. More often than not, however,
adjustments are made here and there and the match goes on.
It is only by reducing a language to a theoretical construct that we can create
the illusion of immutability. Real language varies in time, in geographical space,
and in the omnipresent social spectrum. Accordingly, throughout this book we
have tried to complement a generic presentation of Portuguese with specific
instances of variation. This chapter will take a closer look at how the use of the
language relates to social variables.
8.1 Attitudes to language variation
One of our most stubborn myths about language is the notion that some forms –
words, phrases, or constructions – are intrinsically “better” or “more correct”
than others. We are haunted by the nagging suspicion that whenever there
are two or more alternate ways of saying something, only one of them can
be right, and all the others must be wrong. In fact, as the Appendix Probi
(5.1) attests, “right vs. wrong” is a model for linguistic thinking which has
been in vogue since ancient times. Forms considered correct conform to the
norms spelled out in prescriptive grammars and carry a high degree of overt
prestige. Forms considered incorrect are relegated to poorly understood and
256
8.1 Attitudes to language variation 257
unprestigious categories such as “vulgar speech,” “slang,” “street language,”
or worse. What could be simpler than that?
One of the reasons for such misguided beliefs is social differences. As we saw
in Chapter 7, Vernacular Brazilian Portuguese (VBP) grew as a popular variety,
spoken by a largely illiterate or semi-literate majority of persons of low socio-
economic condition. Among those people there were many slaves who, upon
being liberated in 1888, found themselves disenfranchised and at the bottom of
the social ladder. Another segment of that group was made up of poor peasants,
either white or ethnically mixed. Since language is a powerful tool for mark-
ing social differences, usage considered correct increasingly became socially
prestigious, while the notion of “incorrect Portuguese,” equated with popular
or vernacular speech, became associated with certain shibboleths regarded as
errors to be avoided in proper usage.
A case in point is the use of ele/ela as an anaphoric direct object (7.3.2.3),
which, although widespread in the colloquial speech of the educated, has tra-
ditionally been used in literature to identify ignorant lower-class characters.
In the following well-known passage by the Brazilian novelist Machado de
Assis (1839–1908), a freed slave’s use of ele as direct object contrasts with his
former master’s careful diction, which is marked by the normative use of the
verb perdoar ‘to forgive’ with an indirect object represented by the clitic lhe.
(In all likelihood, the former slave would say instead eu perdôo ele ‘I forgive
him’):
– É um vadio e um bêbado muito grande. Ainda hoje deixei ele na quitanda, enquanto
eu ia lá em baixo na cidade, e ele deixou a quitanda para ir na venda beber.
– Está bom, perdoa-lhe, disse eu. (Machado de Assis, Memórias Póstumas de Braz
Cubas, Ch. 68)
“He’s a great lazybones and drunkard. Even today I left him at the greengrocery while
I went downtown, and he left the greengrocery to go and drink at the store.”
“That’s all right, forgive him, I said.”
Likewise, in the following passage by the Brazilian regionalist author
Cornélio Pires (1884–1958), a peasant’s speech is marked by several non-
standard features:
Vai pra muitos ano, eu se ajustei cumo arriero de um tropero que ia pro Sur. Eu quiria
cunhecê o Brasir e lá se fomo . . . Magine que um dia, no campo aberto, era tanto
o friu, que o patrão mandô nóis pará e sortá os alimar. (Cornélio Pires, Continuação
das Estrambóticas Aventuras do Joaquim Bentinho. São Paulo: Companhia Editora
Nacional, 1929, 82–83.)
(Standard:) Vai para muitos anos, eu me ajustei como arrieiro de um tropeiro que ia
para o Sul. Eu queria conhecer o Brasil e lá nos fomos . . . Imagine que um dia, no
campo aberto, era tanto o frio, que o patrão nos mandou parar e soltar os animais.
258 8 Sociolinguistic issues
Many years ago I got hired as a mule driver by a drover who was going down south. I
wanted to know Brazil and there we went . . . Just imagine that one day, out in the open
country, it was so cold that the boss told us to stop and release the animals.
Comparing the original with the standard version, we notice several vernacu-
lar features. Rhotacism appears in Brasir (Brasil), Sur (Sur) and alimar (animal;
alimal is a regional variant of st. animal). There is also diphthongization◦
of
the hiatus◦
in frio [friu] > friu [friw], and diphthongization of the stressed
vowel followed by /s/ in nós > nóis [n js] (7.3.1.1).
Other devices involve instances of “eye dialect,” which consists in modifying
ordinary spelling to highlight a phonetic feature which, more often than not,
corresponds to normal pronunciation, as writing he sez or I wuz for he says, I
was. For example, conhecer and queria appear as cunhecê and quiria, to show
that the pretonic vowels are respectively [u] and [i] rather than [o] and [e] as
suggested by the standard spelling. However, the usual pronunciation in BP is
precisely with [u] and [i]. Likewise a simple vowel e instead of a diphthong is the
usual way of pronouncing ei in unmonitored speech, as opposed to monitored
speech which can have [ej]. Underlying the misspellings tropero and arriero (for
st. tropeiro, arrieiro) or pará and soltá (for st. parar, soltar) is the myth that such
pronunciation features are found only among speakers of low socioeconomic
status, when in fact they are widespread across the social spectrum.
Morphological phenomena involve the shortened form magine (for st. imag-
ine); in eu se ajustei, the clitic se has lost its reflexive value and become an
extra syllable to the verb. Syntactic features involve lack of nominal agreement:
muitos ano, os alimar (for muitos anos, os alimares) and the pronoun nós used
as a direct object: mandô nóis instead of nos mandou or mandou-nos.
What is puzzling for the foreign learner, however, is that normative forms
tend to be eschewed in informal speech because even educated speakers prefer
the less prestigious forms, as in 1a–1b. Both examples come from the same
dialogue with a middle-aged male lawyer from São Paulo. In 1a, there was a
lot of banter going on while the conversation centered on hunting weapons,
but in 1b, where the normative pronoun lo occurs, the conversation had taken a
slightly more serious turn.
(1) a. BP E a doze? Cê já limpou ela?
‘What about the twelve [-gauge shotgun]? Have you already
cleaned it?’
b. BP Bom, aquele jipe, eu acho que nós vamos trazê-lo a semana
que vem.
‘Well, that jeep, I think we’re going to bring it next week.’
The reason is that using certain normative forms such as o/a or its vari-
ants lo/la, no/na in an informal conversation is considered pedantic, that is,
8.2 Diglossia 259
conversationallyinappropriate.Useofvernacularforms,thoughlabelled“incor-
rect” by traditional grammarians, lessens the distance and reinforces solidarity
between interlocutors. Such forms carry covert prestige, defined as the positive
value ascribed to forms which speakers habitually use even while professing
to condemn and avoid them. (Matthews 1997:81). In other words, the relaxed
style that includes so many vernacular forms is considered a mode implying
more solidarity and is therefore more conducive to effective communication in
all but formal contexts. This situation points to a tension between perceptions
of grammatical propriety and communicative appropriateness. Such tension is
not unusual, but when it interferes with communication – for example, when it
makes speakers insecure about the correctness of their speech – then tension is
a sign of conflict between the language varieties involved.
8.2 Diglossia
Until the first half of the twentieth century the majority of the population of
Brazil had limited or no access to formal education and lived in rural environ-
ments with little exposure to educated speech. Over the second half century,
however, the country became increasingly urbanized: whereas in 1940 some
31% of the population lived in urban areas and 69% in rural areas, by 1996
that proportion was about 78% urban to 22% rural. The 2000 census showed a
proportion of 81% urban to 19% rural. Reportedly, since the 1950s increased
access to school has reduced illiteracy, from 56% in 1940 to 26% in 1980
(Bortoni-Ricardo 1985:21) and from 22.6% in 1996 to a still high rate of 15.6%
in 1999 (IBGE). Nonetheless, such data should be taken with a grain of salt in
view of recent reports of widespread functional illiteracy among adolescents
(Correio Braziliense, 07/01/2003), pegged at a rather high 30.5% (Almanaque
Abril 2002a:184).
Be that as it may, such data suggest that the traditional distinction between
rural and urban speech, which goes back to the ancient Romans (5.1), is no
longer as functional as it used to be. Proximity to urban centers and the ubiq-
uitousness of radio and television combine to expose vernacular speakers to
educated speech. The result of such changes has been the growth of “non-
standard varieties that might be labelled ‘rurban’. . . spoken by lower-class
illiterate or semi-literate people who live in the cities but who, in most cases,
have rural backgrounds, or by the population living in modernized rural areas”
(Bortoni-Ricardo 1985:9).
As the number of such speakers has increased from one generation to the
next among the majority of the population, the gap between the vernacular and
the standard (not to mention the prescriptive norm) has widened. It is useful
to look at the contrast between standard and non-standard varieties in terms of
the concept of diglossia◦
, originally defined by Ferguson (1959; see Schiffman
260 8 Sociolinguistic issues
1997 for an update) as a situation in which two or more varieties of a language
are used complementarily in the same community in terms of relative prestige
and power, so that
in addition to the primary dialects of the language (which may include a standard or
regional standards), there is a very divergent, highly codified (often grammatically more
complex) superimposed variety, either of an earlier period or in another speech com-
munity, which is learned largely by formal education and is used for most written and
formal spoken purposes but is not used by any sector of the community for ordinary
conversation. (Ferguson 1959:336)
In such a situation the superposed or high variety (H) and the low variety
or varieties (L) have different communicative functions and are used in differ-
ent contexts. In speech, the H variety is required for communication in formal
circumstances – such as parliamentary activity, formal addresses, lecturing,
news broadcasting – while L is used in casual conversation and informal pub-
lic contexts such as popular radio and television programs. In writing, the H
variety is required for formal written communication, as in drafting admin-
istrative reports, parliamentary bills, paperwork involved in making laws and
administering justice, news broadcasting, newspaper editorials or major news
articles, didactic materials and other publications carrying responsibility, and
of course literature regarded as serious. L varieties, if written at all, are used in
folk literature, comic books, cartoons, and other forms of light entertainment.
Since the H variety has to be acquired through formal schooling, opportunities
to learn and practice it regularly are essential for the acquisition of fluency.
Because of their low socioeconomic standing, however, most L speakers find
themselves doubly jeopardized: on the one hand they cannot accede to certain
activities, such as jobs regulated by entrance exams requiring knowledge of the
H variety, and on the other they cannot obtain the necessary instruction in H,
because either it is too expensive, or too scarce, or both.
The relationship between VBP and the formal prescriptive variety fulfills the
basic conditions of Ferguson’s definition. Whereas vernacular speakers come
from an essentially oral subculture, the formal standard reflects a sophisticated
literate culture in which they do not participate. For vernacular speakers, learn-
ing the standard is tantamount to learning a code that plays no part in their
communicative activities.
In contrast, educated speakers who have acquired the prescriptive norm
through formal schooling may use vernacular features in casual conversation
with peers or subordinates (Azevedo 1989). It is quite true, as Perini (1997:37)
points out, that the two codes
in practice, do not interfere with each other. The vernacular is used in informal speech
and in certain written texts, such as theater plays, where realism counts. [Prescriptive]
Portuguese is used in formal writing, and is only really spoken in formal situations such
as graduation speeches or when being invested of a public function.
8.3 Styles and registers 261
The point, however, is that whereas educated speakers can switch between
H and L as required by circumstances, vernacular speakers only use the L
variety, and thus find themselves at a disadvantage in situations in which H is
required.
Considering how intensely vernacular features pervade BP, it makes sense
to regard them as part of the language, rather than something to be avoided,
corrected or, worse yet, ignored. In fact, considering its importance for effective
communication, the role of the vernacular in Brazilian society looms as a crucial
sociolinguistic issue with ramifications in possibly every aspect of social life.
Even assuming it might be possible to offer effective instruction in the H variety
to speakers of the L variety, this might not be a solution. One reason is that the
L variety is associated with values of social identity which its speakers may
be reluctant to give up, as shown by Bertoni-Ricardo in her landmark study of
vernacular speakers who had relocated from rural Minas Gerais to the urban
environment of the country’s capital, Brası́lia. Further resistance may come
from a reluctance to acquire H features perceived as typical of higher social
groups with whom L speakers do not identify (Bortoni-Ricardo 1985; Possenti
2002:317).
8.3 Styles and registers
Besides differences like those involving vernacular and standard varieties, the
study of social variation takes into account the differences among styles used
in speaking and writing. Joos (1967) proposed a simple classification of five
styles (in principle for English but applicable, mutatis mutandis, to Portuguese
as well) ranging along an axis of formality, namely frozen, formal, consultative,
casual, and intimate.
Frozen style, the least spontaneous and most monitored, approaches written
language in syntax and lexicon. It is mostly used in solemn speeches, admin-
istrative communication, and legal pronouncements and texts. Its syntax and
vocabulary may be somewhat archaizing at times (as in legal language), and so
require specialized training. It often represents the voice of anonymous author-
ity – hence its impersonality as in announcements or posted notices (2a–2d),
even when disguised as requests:
(2) a. O Exmo. Sr. Secretário somente receberá com hora marcada.
‘His Excellency the Secretary will receive only by appointment.’
b. Proibida a entrada.
‘No entry.’
c. Pede-se não fumar.
‘Please do not smoke.’
d. Favor usar a outra calçada. Pedimos desculpas pelo incômodo.
‘Please use the other sidewalk. We regret the inconvenience.’
262 8 Sociolinguistic issues
Formal style allows for some interaction and is a little more relaxed, but it is
still closely monitored and stays within recognizable boundaries of prescriptive
syntax and vocabulary. In the following passage, from a radio interview, double
dashes indicate longer pauses and single dashes mark short pauses:
[1] Respondendo a sua pergunta – eu diria que essa atividade – embora constituida por
um grupo bastante seleto – preparado ao longo de vários anos – ainda é uma coisa
muito pequena – quando comparada com o cenário nacional – em pesquisa não só
tecnológica mas também cientı́fica – – (42 words)
[2] O – – o que se faz é muito pouco – em relação ao que se deveria fazer – tendo em
vista os objetivos e os benefı́cios que o paı́s poderia auferir nessa área de pesquisas – –
(32 words)
[3] A principal razão disso é que a instituição conta somente com umas mil pessoas –
das quais quinhentas têm curso superior – e mais de cem têm curso de pós-graduação
a nı́vel de mestrado ou doutorado – – (34 words)
[4] Ainda assim – isso é pouco – – (5 words)
[5] Acontece que o paı́s é carente de recursos humanos qualificados – – (10 words)
[6] A ciência no Brasil é uma coisa muito restrita – limitada a grupos pequenos de
pesquisadores – – (15 words) (Radio interview from the late 1980s. Author’s files.)
[1] To answer your question – I would say that that activity – although formed by a
rather select group – prepared over many years – is still something rather small – when
comparedwiththenationalscene–notonlyintechnologicalresearchbutalsoinscientific
research – –
[2] What – – what is done is still very little – compared to what should be done – keeping
in mind the goals and the benefits which the country could derive from that research
area – –
[3] The main reason for that is that our institution has only some one thousand people
– five hundred of whom are university graduates – and more than a thousand have a
graduate degree at the masters or doctoral level – –
[4] Even so – that is too little – –
[5] The truth is that in this country there is a shortage of qualified human resources – –
[6] Science is still something very restricted in Brazil – limited to small groups of
researchers – –
Despite the fact that this is a spoken text, its syntactic and lexical charac-
teristics, as well as its thematic organization, bring it close to written styles.
The longest segments (comparable to sentences if it were a written text)
have 42, 34 and 32 words, and the shortest ones 15, 10 and 5. Except for a
brief hesitation in segment [2], namely O – o, phonetically [o: – o:], speech
flows in orderly fashion, suggesting the speaker is used to expounding com-
plex ideas to sophisticated audiences. Other than the simple utterance (4), all
others include one or more embedded clauses. The lexicon is standard, show-
ing only one word might be considered a bit uncommon (auferir ‘garner’)
and several terms pertaining to higher education (mestrado, doutorado, curso
superior).
8.3 Styles and registers 263
The remaining three styles, consultative, casual, and intimate, are the natu-
ral range of oral interaction. Consultative style ranges between formality and
intimacy, and is characterized by an intention of clarity which favors every-
day vocabulary, relatively monitored pronunciation and syntax, absence of
technical terms or neologisms, and few, if any, slang terms or swear words.
Syntax eschews complex constructions with multiple embedded sentences to
avoid overloading the interlocutors’ memory, thus contributing to intelligi-
bility. These features are apparent in the following segment of a conversa-
tion about literature in which there is a clear intention to favor exchange of
information:
A: [1] Porque eu sempre fui muito relaxado para correspondência – – [2] ele não –
ele era muito correto – – [3] mas eu tenho uma carta dele muito importante – [4] em
que ele desenvolve – [5] em tom epistolar – [6] aquelas mesmas idéias que ele tratou
naquela conferência – – [7] que você deve conhecer – – [8] e se não conhece é urgente
que conheça – – [9] porque toda a explicação da experiência lingüı́stica dele está
lá – sabe?
B: sim – sim – eu conheço – – inclusive há poucos dias eu li outra vez para um trabalho
que eu estou escrevendo – – ele deve ter sido um sujeito excepcional – –
A: aaah – fabuloso – – uma presença que a gente via que era um homem fora do
comum – – (Conversation in Belo Horizonte, 1985. Author’s files)
A: [1] Because I have always been too lazy about my correspondence – – [2] he wasn’t
– he was very correct – – [3] but I have a very important letter from him – [4] in which
he develops – [5] in an epistolary tone – [6] those same ideas which he dealt with in that
lecture – – [7] which you must know – – [8] and if you don’t it’s urgent that you get to
know it – – [9] because the whole explanation of his linguistic experience is there – you
know?
B: yes – yes – I know it – – just a few days ago I read it again for a paper I’m
writing – – he must have been an exceptional fellow – –
A: aaah – fabulous – – a presence that you could see he was a man out of the
ordinary – –
Although ideas are developed sequentially, there is a sense of improvisation
that is absent in the preceding formal radio interview. The utterance begins with
a subordinating conjunction ([1] porque) unconnected to any preceding matrix
clause, just as mas [3] seems to function as a milder attention-getter; the short
pauses at the beginning of [4], [5], and [6], and particularly the intercalated
sentence [8] (e se não conhece é urgente que conheça) add to the impression
that the utterance is unplanned, as is the last segment, with its anacoluthon◦
(uma presença que a gente via que era um homem).
Interactions in casual or intimate styles frequently favor phatic◦
communi-
cation, promoting a relaxed atmosphere and encouraging banter and humor,
as in the following fragment of dialog among three people, introductory to a
joke-telling event:
264 8 Sociolinguistic issues
A: conta uma piada aı́ – aquela que uma vez você me contou – –
B: qual? [laughter] – –
A: uma da mamãe – eu não sei ela até hoje – mas eu achei – só o que eu
ouvi – cê estava contando para as outras pessoas – [laughter] você
contou só eu que ouvi – mas achei espetacular – [laughter] mas é
super-forte também – dessas – –
C: mas as piadas dele são de indecentes para cima – –
A: ou para baixo [laughter] – – (Conversation in São Paulo, 1991.
Author’s archives.)
A: tell a joke – that one you told me once – –
B: which one? [laughter] – –
A: the one about mom – I still don’t know it, even today – but I thought
– only what I heard – you were telling it to other people – [laughter]
you told [it] only I heard – but I loved it – [laughter] but it’s too
strong too – one of those – –
C: but his jokes are indecent or worse – –
A: or below [laughter] – –
Occurrence of ela as direct object (não sei ela), clipped phrases (mas eu
achei – só o que eu ouvi, só eu que ouvi), and information added through
coordination (mas . . . mas . . . mas . . .) suggest absence of monitoring or
planning in a context in which all participants improvise as they go along.
Registers◦
have been characterized by sociolinguists as “sets of language
items associated with discrete occupational or social groups” (Wardhaugh
2002:51). A book like the present one, for example, contains many items from
the register of language specialists, which uses a certain vocabulary and a cer-
tain argumentation style as a metalanguage for talking about language. In the
following text, however, a linguist uses another register combining slang terms
and soccer jargon to describe his team’s poor performance:
Os caras fizeram um puta papelão – – o goleiro engoliu um puta frango – o B tentou
driblar e acabou pisando na bola – o C tentou uma bicicleta e não conseguiu – o D
cobrou mal aquele pênalti – – levaram cinco cartões amarelos e um vermelho – teve
erros de passe até não poder mais – só podia acabar do jeito que acabou – – um puta
papelão – (From a conversation on a soccer game. (Players’ names have been replaced
by capitals B, C, D. Author’s files.)
The guys were such a damn fiasco – the goalkeeper failed to stop such a damn easy
ball – B tried to dribble and ended up stepping on the ball – C tried a bicycle kick but
didn’t manage it – D did poorly on that penalty shot – they got five yellow cards and a
red one – they made made all sorts of mistakes in passing – it could only end up the way
it did – a damn fiasco –
8.4 Forms of address 265
Soccer jargon terms include driblar ‘dribble’; bicicleta (lit. ‘bicycle’), a move
in which a player, with his back to the goal, does a somersault and kicks the ball
backward over his head; engolir frango (lit. ‘to swallow a chicken’) describes
a goalkeeper’s letting an easily defensible ball into the goal; cobrar pênalti is
to make a direct kick for goal, after a foul; levar cartão is to be reprimanded
by the referee (by being shown a yellow card) or to be expelled from the field
(a red card). Terms like cara ‘guy’ and papelão ‘fiasco,’ or the intensifier puta
‘big’ (from puta ‘whore;’ see section 8.7) are not limited to sports talk, or to any
other register for that matter, but rather fall into the generic and somewhat vague
category of slang. This is a widely shared non-standard colloquial register that
includes many terms originally from the speech of low socioeconomic groups
and other marginalized communities.
8.4 Forms of address
A different kind of variation concerns pronouns and other forms which speakers
must choose from to address each other. It is customary to analyze these choices
in terms of a framework proposed by Brown and Gilman (1960), based on two
parameters, namely power and solidarity. This framework follows an infor-
mal/formal binary contrast represented as T/V, where T stands for the informal
pronoun (Fr tu, Sp tú, Ger du, It tu) and V for the formal pronoun (Fr vous, Sp
usted, Ger Sie, It Lei). Generally speaking, relationships based on power entitle
the more powerful interlocutor to receive V and to use either T (thus showing
power) or V (implying solidarity); the less powerful interlocutor, however, has
no such choice and must use V in addressing the more powerful one. In a rela-
tionship based on solidarity, the interlocutors use either T or V reciprocally. In
Portuguese – and particularly in EP – several other factors intervene to make
the choice of a form of address particularly complex.
It will be useful to review the development of the address system. The original
pronouns of address inherited by the Romance languages from Latin included
two second person forms, namely tu (< Lat tu) for a single addressee and vós
(Lat vos) for either a plural addressee or a single addressee entitled to special
courtesy. A traditional explanation is that the latter practice developed after the
division of the Roman Empire (395 AD) into a Western Empire and an Eastern
Empire: use of vos was a deferential way to acknowledge that addressing one
of the two emperors was equivalent to addressing both of them.
While the criteria of power and solidarity are applicable, not all choices are
binary like Fr tu/vous or Sp tú/usted. EP in particular seems to operate along a
rather nuanced gradient from informal to formal. In the singular the informal
mode goes from intimate tu to a set of informal but non-intimate forms of
address in the third person; in all, we can recognize several levels of increasing
266 8 Sociolinguistic issues
formality, namely (a) tu, (b) third person verb with no pronoun, (c) third person
verb with the interlocutor’s name preceded by a definite article, and (d) third
person verb with definite article + title + noun, as exemplified in 2a–2d. An
additional level is represented in 2e, showing the extremely deferential Vossa
Excelência ‘your excellency’; still in use in the 1970s it now seems to be
increasingly rare, at least in major urban areas such as Lisbon.
(2) a. Tu vais sair?
‘Are you leaving?’
b. Vai sair?
‘Are you leaving?’
c. O João vai sair?
‘Are you leaving, João?’
d. O Sr. João vai sair?
‘Are you leaving, Mr. João?’
e. Será como Vossa Excelência quiser.
‘It will be as your excellency may wish.’
In EP reciprocal tu is reserved for close friends, siblings, same-generation
relatives, and, more recently (though not universally), parents. On the other
hand, the pronoun você – to the surprise of those familiar with its informal
connotation in BP – conveys more deference.
Although a large-scale study of the distribution of address forms in EP has yet
to be carried out, available data and informal inquiries suggest that educated
middle-class Lisbon children and teenagers nowadays are likely to be on a
reciprocal tu basis with their parents. Some of the latter, however, report using
você in the traditional manner when addressing their own parents (Hammer
Müller 1984:158), who in turn call them tu. Thus the trend seems to be for
the new generations to use intimate tu with their parents, instead of the more
formal você. A father in his late forties, who insisted he would never dream of
calling his own parents anything other than você, expressed resignation about
this trend: “Times have changed, you have to accept the new ways.” Some
grandparents who are called você by their adult children, however, do not seem
to mind being called tu by their grandchildren.
Thingsare actuallymore complexthan theabove examplessuggest. Formany
EP speakers, calling someone você actually implies not using this pronoun at
all, but rather what might be called “zero pronoun address” as in 2b, where a
third person verb form is used without an overt subject pronoun. This is the case
in 3a, a perfectly normal question in EP which bypasses the issue of having
to choose among você, o senhor, or article + noun. In BP, however, 3a could
easily be interpreted as a question about a third party, for which reason the
quesion would likely be worded as in one of the choices shown in 3b. This is a
8.4 Forms of address 267
question of pragmatics: either construction is grammatically possible in either
variety, but whereas the pattern in 3a is commonly used in EP, which favors
null subjects, in BP the choice falls on the pattern in 3b, with an overt subject.
(3) a. EP É brasileiro?
‘Are you Brazilian?’
b. BP O senhor/você é brasileiro?
‘Are you Brazilian?’
A widespread neutral (that is, neither formal nor intimate) form of address
in EP consists in using a noun phrase made up of a definite article combined
with the interlocutor’s name, as in 2c and 4a. Speakers of BP tend to interpret
this construction as referring to a third party, which may lead to non-sequitur
replies, as in the dialogue in 4b:
(4) a. EP A – A Fernanda aceita vinho?
‘Will you have some wine, Fernanda?’ (lit. ‘Does Fernanda accept
wine?’)
EP B – Aceito, muito obrigada.
‘Yes, thank you.’
b. EP A – O Milton pensa assistir ao congresso?
‘Does Milton [the interlocutor] intend to attend the congress?’
BP B – Não sei, vamos ter que perguntar para ele.
‘I don’t know, we’ll have to ask him.’
In fact, this construction is simply an extension of the generic construction
article + noun which has coined the lexicalized◦
deferential forms o senhor/a
senhora. This is the usual option in formal contacts between adult strangers,
as when asking for information at an office, or dealing with a bank, a travel
company, and so on. Other stereotyped formulae include o doutor/a doutora,
literally ‘the doctor,’ a courtesy title given to anyone who holds, or seems to
hold, a university degree. O amigo, literally ‘the friend,’ helps to establish a
relationship of solidarity between men. A menina, lit. ‘the girl,’ is a courteous
way of addressing a young woman.
Even within the same setting, such as a university environment, usage varies.
While some professors prefer to address their students as tu, others feel more
comfortable with the more deferential você. Students, in turn, may address a
professor, in order of increasing deference, as o professor (a professora), o
senhor professor (a senhora professora), o senhor professor doutor (a senhora
professora doutora). Due to reduction or elimination of unstressed vowels in EP
(2.3), these formulae are conveniently reduced to a brief whisper: [usjoɾ
pfsoɾ
],
[usjoɾ
pfsoɾ
dtoɾ
].
268 8 Sociolinguistic issues
Though non-intimate, você is courteous enough to be used with people one
calls by name, as in example 5, from a call-in radio program (Lisbon, 2000):
(5) EP Manuel, então você acha que . . .
‘Manuel, so you think that . . .’
In addressing two or more persons, the contrast between tu, você, and the
other third person choices is neutralized. Although os senhores is appropriate in
formal address, zero pronoun with a third person plural verb form constitutes a
less formal alternative. In this case, corroborating evidence of a reorganization
of the pronoun system (Tláskal 1981:39–41), the possessive used is vosso/a, as
in 6a, said by a university official greeting congress participants (Évora, 2000),
or in 6b, said by a man addressing a visiting couple:
(6) a. EP Eu queria aproveitar o vosso tempo para cumprimentar os
participantes do congresso.
‘I’d like to take advantage of your time to greet the participants in
this congress.’
b. EP Onde deixaram o vosso carro?
(Cf. BP Onde vocês deixaram o carro?)
‘Where did you leave your car?
In BP the choice is simpler, involving an informal mode with você (or, in a
few regions, tu) and a formal mode that requires o senhor/a senhora combined
with a third person verb form. Address pronouns also have their corresponding
object pronouns and possessives, but selection of these elements shows some
variation as well. As in EP, a basic principle in this choice is the tension between
the power differential that separates interlocutors and the degree of solidarity
that brings them together. In a hierarchical relationship, in BP a superior may
call a subordinate você and expect to be called o senhor/a senhora. Actually, in
some hierarchies, like the military, this practice is spelled out by regulations.
In the Brazilian military subordinates address their superiors as o senhor/a sen-
hora while receiving você. In the Portuguese military, in contrast, subordinates
address their superiors with a third person formula made up of a definite article
and a possessive followed by a rank: BP O senhor me chamou, capitão? EP O
meu capitão chamou-me? ‘Did you call me, Captain?’
There may be reasons for a speaker of BP to choose to address a subordinate
as o senhor/a senhora: to increase the distance (that is, to decrease solidarity)
between them, or to show a degree of deference (to an employee’s age, for
example, implying greater solidarity), or as a differentiating factor, as when a
business owner/director gives o senhor to a mid-level manager or staff profes-
sional such as a senior accountant, while addressing the clerks and secretaries
as você. If differences of social standing are not great, a superior may initiate
8.4 Forms of address 269
reciprocal você with subordinates, but a situation in which a superior received
você while calling subordinates o senhor/a senhora would be rather unusual, if
possible at all.
Substitution of você for tu in BP seems to date from the second half of
the nineteenth century. It is far from complete, for tu is still used in the two
southernmost states of Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul, in areas of the
north and the northeast, and, due to massive migration from the latter area, it
is heard in urban areas such as the cities of São Paulo and Rio. The recessive
status of tu is underscored by the fact that it alternates with você and is often
used with third-person verb forms, as in 7a–7b.
(7) a. BP Onde é que tu vai [for vais] agora?
‘Where are you going now?’
b. BP Tu não deve [for deves] fazer assim que o gerente dana com
você [kose].
‘You shouldn’t do that or the manager will get mad at you.’
As mentioned earlier (7.3.2.3) clitics and possessives associated with tu have
continued to be used with você. Far from being the “pronoun mixture” purists
moan about, this usage corroborates two important points about BP. First, since
BP favors using overt subjects, the marked choice for direct address is between
formal o senhor/a senhora and informal você. Beyond that, it is immaterial
which clitics are used, provided deference is overtly marked when necessary.
For some speakers (Azevedo 1981b), você combined with te/teu connotes more
intimacy than if o/a/seu/sua are used instead, but other speakers hardly ever use
o/a and make no distinction, insofar as intimacy is concerned, between te/teu
and seu. For such speakers seu/teu alternate if você is chosen, and if o senhor
is chosen, deference may be indicated by using the possessive construction do
senhor/da senhora (8a–b), or by combining seu and o senhor/senhora (8c):
(8) a. BP Por favor, o ticket do senhor, por gentileza?
‘If you please, may I have your ticket, sir?
b. BP Agora ele vai trazer o [carro] da senhora.
‘He’s now bringing your car, ma’m.’
c. BP O seu passaporte, por gentileza? Obrigado. O senhor faz
favor de aguardar um instante?
‘Your passport, please? Thank you. Would you please wait a
minute?’
The rules governing forms of address in BP seem to be in a state of transition,
but the general trend is clearly an increase in the use of você. Regarding the
use of address forms in the family circle, for example, the general picture is as
follows. Until the 1960s, approximately, the general norm was that children and
270 8 Sociolinguistic issues
youngsters would use o senhor/a senhora in addressing their parents, grandpar-
ents, uncles, and aunts, who in turn would call them você. At primary school
students called teachers o senhor/a senhora and were called você (being called
o senhor/a senhora spelled trouble). In secondary school and beyond students
continued to call teachers o senhor/a senhora and received the same treatment,
although some teachers used non-reciprocal você.
The trend to use reciprocal você in the family circle in BP seems have begun
among the middle class in large cities and since the 1960s it has increased at
rates varying from one region to another. In a landmark study Head (1976)
determined that the overall rates of reciprocal informal address (você) between
middle-class strangers of similar social standing were about 80% in Rio de
Janeiro and São Paulo, but under 50% in the cities of Salvador (state of Bahia)
and Porto Alegre (state of Rio Grande do Sul, where the informal address form
was tu). In the family circle, parents and their offpsring were somewhat more
likely to use intimate reciprocal você in the city of Rio de Janeiro (58.3%) than
in the city São Paulo (50%), whereas in the interior of the state of São Paulo
non-reciprocal você vs. senhor/a senhora reached 96.7% as used by children
and parents, respectively.
Among strangers, unless a clear hierarchical situation or significant differ-
ences in age or socioeconomic standing are involved, the general trend seems
to be reciprocal você as a default mode of address. Otherwise, choice between
você and o senhor/a senhora hinges on a delicate combination of their rela-
tive (actual or perceived) socioeconomic standing, age, sex, and the context in
which the interaction takes place. A fleeting exchange between adults of the
same sex may begin and end with mutual o senhor/a senhora, but a more pro-
longed conversation, particularly if the interlocutors are relatively young, may
quickly switch to reciprocal você. In certain business places (such as banks or
government offices) house rules may direct employees to address customers as
o senhor/a senhora, and in such cases the customer has a choice whereas the
employee does not.
In addressing two or more people, things change somewhat. Vós, the histor-
ical plural counterpart of tu, only occurs in very formal rhetorical styles, and
persons addressed individually as tu will be called vocês if addressed together,
just like persons individually addressed as você. In all regions studied by Head
(1976) the frequency of vocês was higher than that of você, showing that a sig-
nificant proportion of speakers who addressed their parents or social superiors
individually as o senhor/a senhora tended to address them collectively as vocês.
This suggests that the plural forms os senhores/as senhoras are perceived as
more formal (and thus more distant or less indicative of solidarity) than their sin-
gular counterparts. The possessive form of vocês is simply de vocês, although in
rural areas in São Paulo and Minas Gerais vosso can be heard (Azevedo 1981b:
273).
8.4 Forms of address 271
Table 8.1 Deferential forms of address
Abstract quality Portuguese form Approximate equivalent
majesty Vossa Majestade Your Majesty
highness Vossa Alteza Your Highness
grace Vossa Graça Your Grace
excellency Vossa Excelência Your Excellency
mercy, grace Vossa Mercê Your Grace
Sanctity, Holiness Vossa Santidade Your Holiness
honor – Your Honor
lord/ladyship Vossa Senhoria Your Lord/Ladyship
In early days of Portuguese choice of pronoun was not reciprocal when a
social difference was involved. An upper-class person would address a social
inferior as tu and expect to be addressed as vós. Upper class equals would use
reciprocal vós, while lower-class individuals would address each other as tu.
Around the beginning of the sixteenth century, however, deference began to be
shown by combining the possessive vossa with a noun suggestive of an abstract
quality supposedly held by the interlocutor, such as highness, grace, or majesty.
The same mechanism was at work in other European societies and generated
comparable expressions in English, as shown in Table 8.1.
These lexicalized forms share a mechanism of indirectness, whereby the
speaker addresses a social superior indirectly by referring to the latter’s
supposed quality rather than to the individual. Cintra (1972) lists the forms
Vossa Alteza and Vossa Excelência as originally applicable to the king alone;
VossaSenhoriawasapplicabletoboththekingandthehighnobility,whileVossa
Mercê, which appears in the early fourteenth century as a royal form of address,
became generalized to persons of quality in the sixteenth century. Some of these
forms (majestade, alteza) fell into disuse for lack of suitable interlocutors with
the end of monarchy in Brazil (1889) and in Portugal (1910). Other forms sub-
sist, regulated by protocol, in the rarefied glasshouse of ceremonial usage. Thus
in Brazil (MRPR 2002) the President, Vice President, Ministers, Governors,
Mayors, Representatives, Senators, Ambassadors, and officers with the rank of
General are entitled to Vossa Excelência, while lesser functionaries, such as
consuls, get only Vossa Senhoria. This latter form is used in formal par-
liamentary address and, either in full or abbreviated as V. Sa., in business
letters.
Though most speakers never have an opportunity to do so, the Roman
Catholic Pope, should he be addressed in Portuguese, is entitled to Vossa San-
tidade, cardinals and bishops to Vossa Eminência Reverendı́ssima or just Vossa
Eminência, and plain priests to a modest Vossa Reverência, although in prac-
tice seu Padre ‘Mr. Priest’ or Padre Fulano ‘Father So-and-So’ are more likely
272 8 Sociolinguistic issues
to be heard. Judges are formally addressed as Meritı́ssimo (abbreviated MM.),
coined from Lat meritissimus ‘most worthy,’ which popular pronunciation con-
verts, either by metathesis◦
or by some convoluted association with meretriz
‘whore,’ into the irreverent meretrı́ssimo ‘most meretricious.’ From the Latin
title Rector Magnificus (still used for the heads of Germanic universities) was
forged Magnı́fico Reitor, used at universities in Portugal and Brazil along with
the corresponding address form Vossa Magnificência ‘Your Magnificence.’ A
quaintness of epistolary style is the use, before the addressee’s name, of the
courtesy initials Ilmo. Sr./Ilma. Sra., meaning Ilustrı́ssimo/a Senhor/a ‘most
illustrious Mr./Ms.,’ or Exmo. Sr./Exma. Sra. for Excelentı́ssimo/a Senhor/a
‘Most excellent Mr./Ms.’
Of the profusion of forms patterned after vossa + noun only a few have
survived. A series of phonetic changes has changed the original vossa mercê
into the deferential forms vancê, vassuncê or vosmecê (> mecê), which was
petering out in the early twentieth century (Amaral 1920:56) and seems to
lead a ghostly existence among older speakers in fast-shrinking rural envi-
ronments. Hammermüller (1984:158) registers vossemecê in the speech of a
68-year old Portuguese informant. The true heir of vossa mercê, however, is
você, which in BP is shortened, in casual pronunciation, to ocê [ose] or just
cê [se].
Names play a major role in direct address. Informal address – what is known
as “first-name basis” in English-speaking societies – involves a name, though
not necessarily the first or given name, without a title. Formal address, in turn,
consists of combining a title (such as senhor, doutor, professor) with a name –
again, not necessarily the last or family name. A man named José Ferreira
Antunes may be known as José to his family but as either José, Ferreira, or
Antunes by his friends. In fact, friends made under some circumstances – at
school, for example – may call him José, while others may call him Antunes
or Ferreira, or the other way around. Perhaps when he started his military ser-
vice his company sergeant put down Ferreira or Antunes to distinguish him
from the other recruits named José, which is a rather frequent name. Con-
sequently those who served with him may remember him as such and thus
address him if they run into him years later. Another recruit named Nelson
Silva, on the other hand, might be known as Nelson (to distinguish him from
the other Silvas in his company). If those men decided to have a career in the
army they might become Cadete Ferreira or Cadete Nelson, and eventually
get to be Coronel Ferreira or General Nelson. If José Ferreira Antunes goes
into medicine, he will be eventually addressed as Doutor José or Doutor Fer-
reira, or Doutor Antunes, depending largely on his choice. But on seeing his
full name on his shingle or call card, in Brazil people would tend to call him
Doutor José unless told otherwise. If Nelson Silva does not get a university
8.4 Forms of address 273
degree, he will likely be given the courtesy title of senhor, which in BP is collo-
quially shortened to seu, thus combining courtesy with a touch of informality,
as in example 9:
(9) a. BP Seu Nelson, o senhor viu se tem correio pra mim?
‘Mr. Nelson, have you seen if there’s mail for me?’ [Female
condominium owner addressing the janitor]
For women, choices are slightly different. A young woman named Beat-
riz Oliveira will be informallly called Beatriz, but when she reaches adult
age she will be formally referred to and addressed as Dona Beatriz (Dona
Bia or Dona Biá would be intimate but respectful possibilities, particularly in
small towns, if she uses a nickname at all). If she is a lawyer, a physician,
or a dentist, she will be called and referred to as Doutora Beatriz, and if she
is a teacher or a professor she will be known as Doutora/Professora Beatriz
rather than Doutora/Professora Oliveira. In recent years, referring to profes-
sional women by their last name has become common in some professional
journals.
Dom, the masculine counterpart of Dona, is only used with the first name
of Roman Catholic bishops or cardinals (Dom Hélder, Dom Francisco) or in
referring to former Portuguese kings (Dom João) or Brazilian emperors (Dom
Pedro), although the habit persists in referring to would-be nobility in the hot-
house context of social columns. Senhorita, once widespread, has fallen into
disuse as a title (Senhorita Maria), although it is heard in Brazil in contexts
where a server–client relationship is involved, as in A senhorita deseja mais
chá? ‘Would you like more tea, miss?’ (cf. EP a menina, above).
As with pronouns of address, the use of names and titles in EP is more fine-
grained than in BP. While both varieties use dona + first name to address a
woman, and in fact this is the only possibility in BP, in EP it used to be that
some thirty years ago this form of address, while appropriate for talking to
the concierge, was not enough for addressing a middle- or upper-middle-class
woman, who would expect to be called a senhora dona Francisca, although the
latter construction seems to be considered too formal nowadays.
Whereas in BP only one title is used, alone or in combination with a name
in direct address (Senhor/Seu José, Dona Maria, Doutora Joana, Professor
Cardoso), in EP social convention requires combining titles. Thus, whereas o
senhor/a senhora is the basic formal form, in addressing someone who has a
title such as doutor/doutora one would say o senhor doutor/a senhora doutora,
often clipped to sotor [stoɾ] or sotora [stoɾɐ], respectively. Professional titles
or titles indicative of rank are also combined with senhor/senhora, and so an
engineer is likely to be referred to and addressed as o senhor engenheiro, a civil
274 8 Sociolinguistic issues
service official as a senhora directora, and a military officer o senhor coronel,
as in example 10.
(10) a. EP Se o senhor doutor quiser, pode-se fazer.
‘If you want it, sir, it can be done.’
b. EP O senhor doutor tem reserva?
‘Do you have a reservation, sir?’
c. EP O senhor director ainda não chegou.
‘The director has not arrived yet.’
d. EP Está lá o senhor engenheiro?
‘Is the engineer there?’
Traditionally, a university instructor who has a doctorate (not all do, given
the practice of obtaining it after several years in the profession) would be
addressed as o senhor professor doutor or a senhora professora doutora and
referred to as o senhor professor doutor Cintra or a senhora professora doutora
Silva. According to informants from universities in Lisbon and elsewhere, this
practice seems to be moving toward a more relaxed senhor professor/senhora
professora – which, however, would be considered rather formal in BP. Some
nuances are reflected in writing: whereas in EP anyone with a university degree
(licenciatura)receivesthecourtesytitleofdoutor/doutora,inwritingthatwould
appear as Dr./Dr.a
, the full form being reserved for those having an actual
doctorate. Thus the hierarchy is clearly displayed on name tags on office doors:
whereas Prof.a
Dr.a
Maria Silva only has the basic licenciatura, Prof.a
Doutora
Teresa Silva has a Ph.D.-level degree.
Such linguistic changes may be the result of social changes that have taken
place after the revolution that put an end to the dictatorial regime (1928–1974).
Soon after the revolution, there was a noticeable increase in tuteio – calling
one another tu – and although the initial enthusiasm for it has dwindled, some
changes are apparent. As mentioned above, among the middle class, whereas
in the past parents called their children tu and received você while siblings
used reciprocal tu, nowadays reciprocal tu is used in both cases, suggesting the
relationship between parents and their children has shifted away from a referent
ofpowertooneofsolidarity(foranupdatedanalysis,seeOliveira,forthcoming).
Household servants, on the other hand, continue to address their employers as
o/asenhor/a,butwhereasinthepasttheyusedtobecalledvocê,insomefamilies
they are now called tu, which again suggests a shift (albeit a unilateral one)
toward solidarity. The resulting scene, far from uniform, has yet to be analyzed
in detail, as it will probably be as sociolinguistic studies develop in Portugal
(Castro 2001:24). At any rate, even informal inquiries suggest there is a great
deal of diversity in the contacts outside the circle of family or intimate friends.
A middle-aged female professor from Lisbon commented that “nowadays it is
8.5 Influence from other languages 275
difficult to know how to address people, particularly in restaurants and public
services.” This comment echoed remarkably a remark by a female Brazilian
informant in her early fifties:
This matter of forms of address is so confusing nowadays, and the problem has to do
with o senhor/a senhora. Some of my son’s friends call me D. Maria/a senhora, others
call me Maria/a senhora. His girl friend calls me Maria/você. He has always called me
você, but I still say o senhor/a senhora to my parents and my uncles and aunts. I don’t
see how a foreigner can learn to speak in such a confusion.
8.5 Influence from other languages
An often polemicized issue involving variation concerns the use of words and
phrases borrowed from other languages. Some languages, like English, are quite
open to wholesale admission of foreign terms, which are quickly adapted to its
phonological patterns, to the point of becoming unrecognizable to the ears of
speakers of the donor languages. The beneficial non-existence of regulatory
agencies, such as a language academy, allows this process to occur naturally
and as a constant source of expressive enrichment for the lexicon.
While speakers of Portuguese seem quite willing to adopt loan words and loan
expressions, they have to contend with organized resistance from institutions
or individuals who see such borrowing as a deleterious process. This attitude
flies in the face of the fact that, as seen in Chapter 5, borrowing has promoted
language growth since the time when speakers of Germanic dialects or Arabic
started settling in the Iberian Peninsula. French influence, substantial since the
early days of Portugal’s history, contributed loan words, particularly in the
nineteenth century, under the influence of developments in France in areas of
literature, social sciences, and experimental science.
French presence was welcome in Brazil, where in 1816 King John VI spon-
sored the arrival of a group of artists historically known as the Missão Francesa
‘French Mission,’ who founded the Academia de Belas-Artes ‘Academy of
Fine Arts’ in Rio de Janeiro, which for decades set norms for the plastic arts.
At the turn of the twentieth century, when French impregnated Brazilian social
life (Needell 1987; Azevedo 2003:96–99), dozens of French terms were glibly
used in the press and other publications. Lists of gallicisms to be avoided were
included in grammars; dictionaries were published (such as Goes 1940); and
substitute terms were coined, and although a number of French loan words
have been permanently incorporated into the lexicon, most eventually faded
into oblivion. Through the first half of the twentieth century French culture was
avidly sought after and it left its mark on the University of São Paulo, created
in 1934, whose initial faculty included a number of French social scientists.
French influence faded after the Second World War as English fast became
276 8 Sociolinguistic issues
the international language of business, science, technology, and entertainment.
A cursory glance at news, business and technical magazines reveals a variety
of English words and expressions that contribute, sometimes as part of larger
expressions, to some perceived communication need:
armazenamento on
demand
sistema push de vendas sistema pull
o papel de coach dos
lı́deres
middle market background
brainstorming bancos de design
esportivo
design exclusivo
Such loan words are invariably adapted to Brazilian pronunciation, and many
items have been orthographically adjusted to Portuguese:
leader > lı́der check > checar fan > fã
cartoon > cartún dandy > dândi roastbeef > rosbife
drink > drinque bluff > blefe knock out > nocaute
Others, however, remain in the original:
fanzine freelancer full time boom
background ferry/ferry boat flashback zoom
Some attempts at adapting English terms strike the eye as odd (layout >
leiaute, living > lı́vingue, scanner > escâner, site > sait, shopping [center]
> xópin, show > xou, cheeseburger > X-burger, egg-cheeseburger > egue-X
burger), but there is no telling whether they will eventually be adopted. The
point, however, is that borrowing is a perfectly normal process.
Even so, there are those who regard use of foreign terms as a threat to the
language and national culture. A recent manifestation of this view has been a
bill, cogently criticized by linguists (Faraco 2001), submitted to the Brazilian
Congress and intended for the “protection of the Portuguese language against
attacks provoked by unnecessary foreign words or expressions” (Rebelo 1999).
If passed into law, this bill would make Portuguese mandatory in a variety of
situations such as education, the workplace, the law, the media, labeling and
reference to consumer goods and services, and advertising. With the exception
of loan words already incorporated in the language, “any and every use of a
word or expression in a foreign language . . . will be considered harmful to
the Brazilian cultural patrimony and punishable as determined by the law”
(Article 4).
Top-down approaches to language planning are not new in the Luso-Brazilian
tradition. Early instances include the royal decrees (1757, 1758) mandating the
use of Portuguese in all official acts and banning Indian languages from educa-
tion in Brazil (7.2.2). In 1770 a decree mandated the use in schools of Antonio
8.6 Communicative strategies 277
José dos Reis Lobato’s Arte da Grammatica Portuguesa, which had more than
forty editions in over two hundred years (Assunção 1998, 2000). Brazilian
schools are supposed to use an official grammatical terminology issued in 1959
by the Education Ministry (Portaria [Executive Order] 36, January 28, 1959).
Since 1911, spelling reforms have periodically been the subject of government
decision (Estrela 1993).
Attempts to protect a language from perceived foreign threats are usually
based on a misconception of how language operates. Most instances of borrow-
ing – as exemplified by English loan words in BP – take place at the lexical
level, and very rarely affect the grammatical core that defines a language’s
structure. If history is any guide, there is reason to think that while some of the
loan words currently in use may stay in the language, others will be short-lived
and vanish without any need for official regulation. Similar recent campaigns
in other countries with a tradition of linguistic protectionism, such as France,
suggest that such laws, for all the hot air they generate, tend to quickly turn into
dead letter.
8.6 Communicative strategies
Outside of elementary textbook dialogs that unfold with the precision of an
error-free ping-pong match engaged in by ideal players, real conversation
involves false starts, self-correction devices, reiteration, and a great deal of
hemming and hawing cast in apparently meaningless phrase fragments which
are actually essential to keep the interaction going. To communicate with a
maximum of efficiency and a minimum of friction we resort to an arsenal of
socially accepted strategies to greet, make requests, issue commands, express
assent or negation, clarify, negotiate, and eventually bring the interaction to a
close by indicating we have nothing to add, at which point interlocutors take
leave of each other, hopefully without loss of face to anyone. Some such com-
municative strategies, which are the concern of the still poorly explored field
of pragmatics, will be dealt with in the following sections.
8.6.1 Greetings
A greeting is a formula for acknowledging someone’s presence or arrival and
it may involve a single word (Olá! ‘hello’ or BP Oi! ‘hi’); a set phrase (boa
tarde ‘good afternoon’); or a ritualized combination thereof. Deference usually
requires acknowledging the interlocutor’s identity by mentioning his or her
name or title, or title and name, as the case may be. In cases (as at a restaurant
or store) when the newly arrived customer’s name is not known, a courtesy title
(senhor, senhora, doutor) is used as in 11a–11b. Except in situations of power
differences, greetings tend to be reciprocated at the same level of courtesy, as
278 8 Sociolinguistic issues
in 12 and 13. In 14 we have a banter exchange of extremely formal greetings
between two academic friends, but the point is that B uses the same level of
mock formality to signal willingness to participate in the word play.
(11) a. BP – Boa tarde, senhor.
‘Good afternoon, sir.’ (Clerk at a store in São Paulo)
b. EP – Bom dia, senhora professora doutora.
‘Good morning, (lit.) Ms. Professor Doctor (f.)’ (Young professor
greeting a senior colleague at a university in Viseu)
(12) BP (Resident) – Bom dia, seu Tonho. Tudo bem?
(Janitor) – Bom dia, Dona Maria. Tudo jóia.
‘Good morning, Mr. Tonho. Everything all right?’
‘Good morning, Ms. Maria. Everything ok.’ (At a condominium in
São Paulo)
(13) BP (Woman A) – Oi querida, tudo bem?
(Woman B) – Oi meu amor, tudo. E ocê, tá boa?
‘Hi darling, everything ok?’
‘Hi love, everything. What about you, are you ok?’ (At a smart
restaurant in São Paulo)
(14) BP A – Excelentı́ssimo professor, como vai vossa senhoria?
B – Minha senhoria vai muito bem, prezado colega. E a vossa?
‘Most honorable professor, how is your lordship?’
‘My lordship is fine, my dear colleague. What about yours?’
(Two male professors in São Paulo, using a mock-formal style)
8.6.2 Requests, orders, assent, and negation
Except when exchanged in passing, greetings signal the opening of a longer
exchange. If this involves an attempt to get the other person to do something,
some sort of verbal negotiation takes place. It may be minimal in situations
involving patterned behavior, as in a fast-food place where verbal exchanges
are very brief and impersonal. In 15 the server at a bar counter uses the formula
pois não? (‘may I help you?’) to acknowlege a customer’s presence and to
indicate readiness to take an order. In 16, where the customer is sitting at a
table,theexchangeislikelytobesomewhatlonger,whichjustifiesthereciprocal
greeting boa tarde, followed immediately by the question and answer, O senhor
deseja?/Pode ser um bauru e um chopinho? Although neither customer used the
formula por favor ‘please,’ in both cases the request was appropriately polite
by being worded as a question. Furthermore, in 16 the request is signaled by
the courtesy form pode ser . . .?, roughly equivalent to what about . . .?.
8.6 Communicative strategies 279
(15) BP A (Server, at counter) – Pois não?
B (Customer) – Me dá uma garapa e um pastel?
‘Can I help you?’
‘May I have a glass of sugar cane juice and an empanada?’ (At a bar
counter in São Paulo)
(16) BP A (Waiter, standing by the table) – Boa tarde, senhor. O senhor
deseja?
B (Customer) – Boa tarde. Pode ser um bauru e um chopinho?
A – Pois não, agora mesmo.
‘Good afternoon, sir. What would you like?’
‘Good afternoon. What about a hot ham and tomato sandwich and a
draft?’
“Sure, right away.” (At a snack bar in São Paulo)
Directives, that is verbal attempts at influencing an addressee’s behavior,
may take various shapes, such as orders, assertions and suggestions, requests,
hints, or avoidance of the directive or the issue at hand (Koike 1992:36–43).
Choosing among these strategies is influenced by a variety of factors and, except
in the case of direct orders (which require a degree of authority and power),
involves politeness markers (Koike 1992:29). These may be set forms such as
(por favor, BP faz favor, por obséquio, EP se faz favor, por gentileza, ‘please’)
or constructions with poder or dar, as in 16 above or 17a–17c:
(17) a. BP Podia me emprestar o lápis, por favor?
‘Could you lend me the pencil, please?’
b. BP Daria para vocês chegarem às sete?
‘Could you arrive at seven?’
c. BP Será que dava para você me emprestar cinco reais?
‘Would it be possible for you to lend me five reais?’
Depending on circumstances and the participants involved, the same wording
may be polite or not. As Stewart (1999:170) points out, the concept of politeness
refers“tothewaysinwhichspeakersuselanguagetocreate,maintain,ormodify
interpersonal relationships.” Politeness norms are closely related to the notion
offacewants(Yule1996:61),thatisanindividual’sneedtobefreeofinjunctions
from others (negative face) and to be accepted by others (positive face).
Since face wants are relative, the degree of politeness required at a fast-food
place is considerably less than that expected at a restaurant where customer–
server interaction will likely involve several exchanges over a longer period
of time. In 18 there is a clear power difference, since B addresses A by a
combination of title + name and o senhor, while being called by his name and
você in return. A’s initial question is a purely rhetorical way of announcing his
280 8 Sociolinguistic issues
presence, since he had been told to report to B’s office. B’s question, in turn, is
a command disguised as a question (B had ordered A to write a report and now
he expected to receive it). Furthermore, A apparently knew why he had been
summoned, and consequently had brought the report along.
(18) BP A – O senhor chamou, Doutor Paulo?
‘Did you call, Mr. Paulo?’
B – Ô Marcos, você aprontou aquele relatório pro [= para o]
Banco?
‘Marcos, have you prepared that report for the Bank?’
A – Ah sim, está pronto. Olha ele aqui, Doutor.
‘Yes, it’s ready. Here it is, sir.’
Politeness norms function as face-saving acts – more or less ritualized formu-
lae for protecting the interlocutors’ “face.” In a situation where someone’s job
is to serve, use of polite forms such as question intonation, expressions such as
por favor, EP se faz favor, or indirect requests couched as questions introduced
by expressions like Pode ser . . .? function as face-saving acts by creating the
purely linguistic fiction that one is requesting as a favor what one is entitled
to on account of a business deal, or an employer–employee relationship, or the
like.
8.6.3 Closures
Bringing a conversation to an end is signaled by indicators that precede farewell
terms.Termslikeentão,entãoéisso,entãoficamosassim,poiséisso,poisentão,
BP é isso aı́, EP pois, indicate that a measure of agreement has been reached
and are usually replied to by an echo response which prepares the ground for
a farewell formula, as in the closure of a telephone conversation between two
Brazilian men (19):
(19) A – então é isso – amanhã à noite lá em casa
‘so that’s it – tomorrow evening at our place’
B – certo – amanhã a gente se vê
‘right – tomorrow we’ll see each other’
A – e lembra – pode estacionar em frente – hem.
‘and remember – you can park in front – huh.’
B – tá – pode deixar – até amanhã – um abraço –
‘yeah – don’t worry – until tomorrow – so long [lit. ‘a hug’] –
A – outro – até amanhã então – ciao!
‘same to you – until tomorrow then – ciao!
B – ciao – até amanhã
‘ciao – until tomorrow.’
(Author’s files.)
8.6 Communicative strategies 281
While closures can be shorter or far more elaborate than this example, the
exchange in example 19 includes several elements usually found in closures,
to wit:
(a) an indication of intention to bring the conversation to an end (então é isso),
(b) a signal of agreement from the interlocutor (certo)
(c) a recap of the agreement reached (amanhã à noite lá em casa, amanhã a
gente se vê)
(d) some reiteration of an important item in the conversation (pode estacionar
em frente), usually preceded by a warning (e lembra) and followed by a tag
(hem [ẽ˜
])
(e) an exchange of farewells: ciao (an Italian loan word), até amanhã, até
amanhã, um abraço, outro)
8.6.4 Discourse markers
The term “discourse marker” does not refer to a specific morphological category
but rather serves as an umbrella label for a variety of elements that regulate the
interaction between the interlocutors in a dialog by performing several prag-
matic functions. They provide sequencing, request or offer feedback, indicate
hesitation, signal the end or beginning of a conversation turn, and highlight the
relative import of the different parts of an utterance, emphasizing certain ele-
ments and providing clues about their contribution to the message. Discourse
markers are typical of oral language, and in informal styles in BP they may
make up as much as 25% of the words (Marcuschi 1989:281); nevertheless,
they have received little attention from traditional grammars (Silva and Macedo
1991:235).
Regarding form, discourse markers range from single words to phrasal
compounds of varying degrees of lexicalization, as shown in 20 and 21:
(20) A – Me diga uma coisa – bom – que você é paulista eu já sei – mas –
você é paulistana mesmo?
B – Olha – sou quase / eu nasci em Jundiaı́ – né? / e aı́ eu vim pra
São Paulo aos seis meses.
A – Aos seis meses? Então – muito bem – e você sempre viveu aqui?
B – Sempre.I
A – Tell me something – well – that you are from São Paulo I already
know – but – are you really from the city of São Paulo?
B – Look – I’m almost / I was born in – you know? / and then I
came to São Paulo when I was six months old.
A – Six months? Then – all right – and have you always lived here?
B – Always.
(Recorded interview, ca. 1985)
282 8 Sociolinguistic issues
(21) Você sobe a rua Bahia – ela é Bahia até Contorno – sabe como é?
[sakumε] – aı́ de Contorno em diante ela tem o nome de Carangola
– compreende?
You go up Bahia street – it’s called Bahia as far as Contorno
(Avenue) – you know how it is? – then from Contorno on it’s called
Carangola – understand? (Recorded interview, ca. 1985)
In the first line of example 20, the discourse markers bom and mas ensure
sequencing, by providing a brief pause that informs B that something is to
follow. In the reply, olha is an attention-getter, whereas né? (< não é?) is a
generic request for positive feedback. Aı́, in turn, provides sequencing, in this
instance of a temporal kind, connecting the two narrated events eu nasci em
Jundiaı́ and eu vim para São Paulo. In the next line, então and muito bem
are basically place holders, announcing that A has something to add, which
A in fact does by asking another question (e você sempre viveu aqui?). In 21
the questions sabe como é? [sakumε] and compreende? are purely rhetorical
requests for feedback which need not be more elaborate than a one-syllable
discourse marker such as sei, or even a nod with the head, since the speaker is
not really requesting a reply but only making sure he has the listener’s attention.
Prosodic discourse markers (Travaglia 1999:76–130) are formed by certain
variations in intonation or pitch or by pauses interpreted as signalling hesita-
tion. Although there is no standardized way of representing prosodic discourse
markers in writing, linguists tend to use combinations of larger type and bold-
face to suggest higher pitch, repeated letters to show vowel length, hyphens
for emphatic syllabification and short pauses, and slashes for longer pauses, as
in 22:
(22) BP . . . bom / E-la disse que queria . . . mas NÓS acabamos /
achando / bom / RE-solvendo que não DAva MEEESMO para a
gente vir / de JEI-to nenhum, sabe?
. . . well / she said she wanted – but we ended up / thinking / it was
ok / decided there was no way we could come / no way, you know?
(Recorded interview, ca. 1985)
Discourse markers perform the crucial phatic function of creating or strength-
ening links between the participants in a conversation. A passage like the fol-
lowing, if delivered orally as written, might be perceived as a short lecture, in
which the speaker gives information without interacting with his listeners.
(BP) É a festa da imagem milagrosa, o Bom Jesus. O pessoal vem nessa ocasião cumprir
promessa, visitar, dar esmola aos pobres. Nessa ocasião vêm muitos pobres de fora para
aqui, para ganhar esmola. Ou se aproveita para fazer compras. É uma boa época de
fazer compras, porque essa rua aqui, daqui até lá em baixo, fica cheia de comerciantes,
vem muita gente do Rio, São Paulo, Belo Horizonte, diversos lugares, vem muita gente.
8.6 Communicative strategies 283
It is the festival of the miraculous image, the Holy Jesus. At that time people come to
keep their promises, to visit, to give alms to the poor. At that time many poor people
come here from other places, to get their alms. Or then they just go shopping. It’s a
good time to go shopping, because this street, from here all the way down there, is full
of tradesmen, many people come from Rio, São Paulo, Belo Horizonte, from several
places, many people come here.
This passage, however, is an edited version of a recording in which a man
explains the significance of a holy feast and pilgrimage in honor of the image
of Christ named Bom Jesus. A transcription of the recording, with hyphens and
slashes indicating short and long pauses respectively, is given in the following
passage:
É – é – é festa da imagem milagrosa – o Bom Jesus – né? / que é a imagem milagrosa /
e então – o pessoal vem nessa ocasião cumprir promessa – né? / visitar – dar esmola
aos pobres – nessa ocasião vêm muito pobre de fora pra aqui pra ganhar esmola – e
vêm – ou se aproveita pra – fazer compras – né? / é uma boa época de fazer compra
porque essa rua – aqui / daqui até lá em baixo – fica cheia de comerciantes – né? / vem
muita gente do Rio – São Paulo – Belo Horizonte – diversos lugares – vem muita gente –
(Recording in Congonhas do Campo, state of Minas Gerais, ca. 1991. Author’s archive)
It’s – it’s – it’s the festival of the miraculous image – the Holy Jesus – you know? / which
is the miraculous image – and so / people come on that occasion to pay their vows –
you know? / to visit / to give alms to the poor – on that occasion many poor people
come from other places to get alms – and they come – or one just – goes shopping /
you know? / it’s a good time to go shopping because you see this street – here – from
here all the way down there – it gets crowded with merchants – you know? / lots of
people come from Rio – São Paulo – Belo Horizonte – several places – lots of people
come –
In this brief passage there are five discourse markers, strategically distributed
to create four opportunities for asking the rhetorical question né? (< não é?) and
one for the rejoinder e então, thus providing five occasions for addressing the
listener and thus creating the impression that what was actually a description –
one might say a miniclass – was a dialog.
As interlocutors take turns in the roles of speaker and listener during a con-
versation, discourse markers perform a variety of functions. Listener-produced
discourse markers tend to be brief and typically provide positive feedback in the
form of agreement or encouraging the speaker to go on talking (23), or negative
feedback in the form of disagreement (24):
(23) a. BP A – eu disse para ele que isso não era possı́vel
‘I told him that wasn’t possible’
B – claro –
‘sure’
A – porque não estava previsto no orçamento
‘because it was not included in the budget’
284 8 Sociolinguistic issues
B – é –
‘yeah’
A – e então não tinha jeito mesmo.
‘and so there was really no way.’
b. BP A – sabe, eu queria deixar para entregar semana que vem –
‘you know, I wanted to put off submitting [my paper]
next week’
B – sim mas –
‘yes but’
A – por que esta não vai dar tempo mesmo sabe?
‘because this [week] there won’t be any time you
know?’
Speaker-generated discourse markers can be more abundant, since the
speaker holds the floor, and perform a variety of functions, e.g. statement open-
ers (24), attention-getters (25), reiterators (26).
(24) BP a. A – Você entende de computador?
‘Do you know about computers?’
B – Muito não, sabe como é [sakumε], mas dá para quebrar
o galho, né?
‘Not much, you know how it is, but enough to get by, you
know?’
BP b. A – Quando é que você me entrega?
‘when will you return [it]?’
B – Bom, lá por quarta ou quinta?
‘Well, around Wednesday or Thursday?’
(25) A – Você quer alguma coisa de lá?
‘Do you want something from there?’
B – Olha, tem um livro que eu estou precisando dele.
‘Look, there’s a book I need’
(26) . . . eu tenho que entregar o trabalho que eu ainda nem comecei – e
tem mais – ainda nem não fiz as malas – sabe? – de modo que não
vai dar para ir na tua festa não – sinto muito –
‘I need to hand in the paper which I haven’t even started – and
there’s more – I haven’t even packed – you know? – and so I won’t
be able to come to your party – I’m sorry.’
Interrogative discourse markers often have the phatic function (Urbano 1999)
of eliciting feedback, agreement, or support, or simply ensuring the listener’s
attention, as in (27):
8.7 Profane language: Swearing and insults 285
Table 8.2 Discourse markers
Simple Compound Phrase/Sentence
ah ‘ah’ sim mas ‘yes but’ acontece que ‘what happens is’
mas ‘but’ mas isso ‘but that’ o problema é que ‘the problem is that’
claro ‘of course’ pois então ‘well then’ BP sabe como é [sakumε] ‘you know
what it’s like’
agora ‘now’ por exemplo ‘for example’ vamos dizer ‘let’s say’
então ‘then, so’ ou seja ‘in other words’ vamos ver ‘let’s see’
assim ‘so’ quer dizer ‘that is’ sabe? não sabe? ‘you know? don’t
you know?’
bom/bem ‘well’ EP pois pois ‘so’ EP percebe? ‘you get it?’
olha/olhe ‘look’ BP (es)tá bom mas ‘all right but’
agora ‘now’ é isso ‘that’s it’
BP não sabe não? ‘don’t you know?’
(27) eu – eu tenho tomado muito remédio – ainda mais quando eu tomo
remédio não tomo nada de álcool – não é? – porque senão perde o
efeito – não é então? – então eu – olha – eu fiquei duas semanas sem
tomar nada nada – sabe como é? – tomei umas injeções de – dum
antibiótico e –
‘I – I have been taking a lot of medicine – even so when I take
medicine I don’t drink any alcohol – isn’t it? – because otherwise it
doesn’t work – isn’t that so? – so I – look – I went for two weeks
without taking anything – you know how it is? – I took some
injections of – of an antibiotic and –
As these examples reveal, the same discourse marker can perform different
functions, as listed in Table 8.2.
8.7 Profane language: Swearing and insults
The last text transcribed in section 8.3 includes the intensifier puta ‘damn,’
sometimes thinly disguised as puxa, derived from the vernacular noun puta
‘whore.’ In recent decades, this and many other off-color terms have become
more frequent in public discourse – in conversation as well as in print and on
television and radio – following what seems to be a common trend in the western
world (Hughes 1998:188). Eschewed by some, and used by many, profanity,
in all of its forms, pervades the language, and consequently serious learners,
whether or not they intend to use it, would be well advised to learn to navigate
its murky waters.
Profanity includes off-color words used as expletives or intensifiers, often
intended to vent anger or to signal annoyance, impatience, or even enthusiasm,
286 8 Sociolinguistic issues
again depending on one’s frame of mind and context, as in 28a–28d. Some
off-color words do double duty, e.g. the expletive porra, which from its former
meaning of ‘cudgel, nightstick’ (which it still has in Spanish) has acquired
the slang meaning of ‘sperm’ and is otherwise used as an emphasizer, as in
28c and 28d. Particularly, though not only among men, porra is widely used
(often reduced to pô, or, slightly diphthongized, pôa [poɐ]), as a marker of
masculine “tough talk,” though overuse tends to make it no stronger than damn
or blooming, as in the following passage from a conversation between two
Brazilian friends (28e):
(28) a. Merda! Esse gravador está quebrado!
‘Shit! This tape-recorder is broken!’
b. Comprei uma coleção de CD do caralho!
‘I’ve bought a damn good [lit. ‘of the prick’] cd collection.’
c. Essa porra de laptop quebrou de novo!
‘This shitty laptop broke down again!’
d. Ele não fez porra nenhuma.
‘He didn’t do shit.’
e. Pô, cê ainda tá escrevinhando essa porra desse livro? E aquela
porra do nosso projeto, como é que fica? Pôa, nêgo, vê se acaba
com essa porra logo. Cê já está nisso tem não sei quanto tempo,
porra!I
‘Dammit, you’re still scribbling that damn book? And what about
our damn project, what’s gonna become of it? Dammit man, see
you finish that damn thing fast. You’ve been at it I don’t know
how long, damn it!’
The pattern preposition + NP in 28b–28c, in which NP is a swear noun, is
also very productive to generate insults directed against persons or institutions
(29a–29b):
(29) a. Mas o que esse filho da puta quer de mim a essa hora?
‘But what does this son of a bitch want from me at this hour?’
b. Esse governo do cacete vai foder o paı́s de uma vez.
‘This damn government [lit. ‘government of the prick’] is going to
fuck up the country once and for all.’
Taboo language arises from restrictions a community imposes on certain words
or expressions, usually related to topics deemed inappropriate in certain con-
versational contexts. A major difference between English and Portuguese-
speaking societies has to do with blasphemy, which involves religious terms and
concepts. In Anglo-Saxon tradition, using names such as God, Devil, or Hell
used to be – and in certain circles still is – considered blasphemous, whereas
8.7 Profane language: Swearing and insults 287
in Portuguese (and other Romance languages) uttering the equivalent terms is
often regarded as pious. Thus, whereas “My God!,” “Jesus Christ!,” or “Holy
Mary!” may be frowned upon, Meu Deus!, Jesus!, Minha Nossa Senhora! are
routinely uttered by the most devout church-goers. Likewise, whereas asking
“What the devil is that?” may be regarded in poor taste, the question Que diabo
é isso?, while colloquial, will hardly raise an eyebrow, and if a sweet old lady
says her granddaughter é uma menina levada do diabo (lit. ‘is a girl carried by
the devil’) she probably means simply the young woman is a bit too lively, but
by no means possessed.
As a word acquires a profane meaning, it is usually removed, partially or
totally, from its former use. Thus in BP the word veado ‘deer’ is a slang (and
derogatory) term for ‘homosexual’ and consequently is often replaced by cervo
‘deer’ (Taylor 1963:635), though it persists in compounds like veado-campeiro
‘pampas deer’ or veado-galheiro ‘marsh deer.’ Some fifty years ago, bicha
meant a line of people, but as it became a derogatory term for ‘homosexual’
in Brazil it was replaced by fila. The word boceta, which originally meant
‘a small box’ (as in boceta de rapé ‘snuff box’) and was still used with that
meaning (which it retains in EP) in Brazilian literary works at the turn of the
twentieth century, has become a coarse term for ‘vagina,’ and consequently it
has been dropped in its original meaning, and the expression boceta de Pandora
‘Pandora’s box’ was replaced by caixa de Pandora. Porra, already mentioned,
retains its original meaning in derived nouns like porrada ‘a blow with a stick;
a punch’ or porrete ‘a cudgel.’ Likewise, while pau ‘stick, any piece of wood’
and cacete ‘stick, cudgel’ have become generic slang terms for ‘penis,’ the
derived forms paulada and cacetada are still used to mean ‘a blow with a
stick.’
As we move from one variety of Portuguese to another, we have to deal with
the fact that a perfectly innocent term in one variety may connote profanity in
the other, just like bloody, which is a swear word in Britain but not in America,
or faggot, which is a slang (and derogatory) term for ‘male homosexual’ in the
United States but the name of a baked or fried ball of chopped liver in Britain.
Table 8.3 gives a sample of terms that fall in the range of sexual taboo words
in one variety but not in the other.
Social as well as regional variables should be taken into account when dealing
with profanity, and not only across the Atlantic. A female Portuguese linguist
(who prefers to remain anonymous) indicated that generally speaking, swearing
is far more used and acceptable in everyday conversation in the north of Portugal
than in the south. That colleague submitted that an utterance like 30a, using the
noun foda ‘fuck,’ or 30b, with the verb foder ‘to fuck,’ would be acceptable
in at least certain circles of “polite company” in Minho, though not in Lisbon,
where 30c, with the noun seca ‘bore’ and 30d, with the verb chatear ‘to annoy,’
would be far preferable:
288 8 Sociolinguistic issues
Table 8.3 Slang and non-slang meanings of some words in European
and Brazilian Portuguese
Slang EP meaning Non slang BP meaning
breque ‘fart’ ‘brake’ (< Eng. brake)
broche ‘fellatio’ ‘brooch, clasp’
paneleiro ‘male homosexual’ ‘pan maker/seller’
paninho ‘effeminate man’ ‘small rag’
Slang BP meaning Non slang EP meaning
bicha ‘male homosexual’ ‘line, que’
cacete ‘penis’ ‘small loaf of bread’
fresco ‘male homosexual’ ‘fresh’ (adj.)
pica ‘penis’ ‘injection’
puto ‘male prostitute’ ‘child’
saco ‘scrotum’ ‘handbag’
veado ‘male homosexual’ ‘deer’
(30) a. EP O discurso foi uma foda!
‘The speech was damn boring!’
(lit. ‘the speech was a fuck!’)
b. EP Não me fodas a cabeça!
‘Don’t bother me!’
(lit. ‘don’t fuck my head!’)
c. EP O discurso foi uma seca!
‘The speech was dreadfully boring.’
d. EP Não me chateies!
‘Don’t annoy me!’
Even in tolerant environments, learners would do well to put off using swear
words until they have developed full proficiency, for swearing, like telling
jokes, requires native-like ability to be effective. They would do well, on the
other hand, to systematically observe the various ways in which words with
unpleasant connotations are replaced by neutral synonyms or euphemisms.
Instead of saying that someone morreu ‘died,’ it may be socially preferable to
use a verb like falecer ‘to pass away,’ or, more piously, descansar ‘to rest.’
Delicacy, or perhaps a lingering belief in word magic, prevents some people
mentioning certain diseases by name, and so it may take discreet research to
understand that EP Fulano tem uma fraqueza pulmonar ‘So-and-so has a lung
weakness’ means he is suffering from tuberculosis, or that EP Ela faleceu de
uma coisinha má ‘She passed away from a little bad thing’ is a reference to
a death from cancer. Table 8.4 provides a thumbnail comparison of standard
terms, their slang equivalents, and related euphemisms.
8.7 Profane language: Swearing and insults 289
Table 8.4 Euphemisms and slang terms
Standard Colloquial1 Euphemism
to have sexual
relations
ter relações sexuais Foder+ BP transar, BP
trepar,+ BP tirar o
atraso, BP dar uma
bimbada
fazer amor, ficar junto(s)
ter relações
to defecate defecar cagar,+ BP fazer cocô, EP
fazer cocó
BP ir ao banheiro, fazer
um barro, BP passar
um telegrama, fazer
necessidades
to urinate urinar mijar,+ fazer xixi BP trocar a água do
canário, EP verter
águas
to masturbate masturbar-se BP pelar o galo, EP bater
uma pı́via+ bater
punheta,+ BP afogar o
ganso
praticar o onanismo
to pass gas soltar gases BP soltar um pum,
EP dar um pum,
peidar+
BP soltar gás,
EP descuidar-se
to menstruate menstruar estar com o chico BP estar incomodada,
EP estar com as
regras
buttocks a(s) nádega(s) BP bumbum, bunda, EP cu traseiro
anus o ânus BP cu,+ rabo,+ olho do
cu+
olho (do cu) +
penis o pênis BP pinto, BP pica,+ EP
pixota, caralho+
o órgão sexual
masculino
vagina a vagina BP xoxota, boceta+
racha+ EP cona+
o órgão sexual feminino
to get drunk embriagar-se BP encher a cara, tomar
um fogo
BP ficar alto, ficar
alegre
to meddle intrometer-se BP meter o bedelho BP ir onde não é
chamado
unintelligent pouco inteligente burro BP (ser) sem noção
drugged drogado BP chapado BP meio doido
senile senil caduco BP (estar) esquecido
to die morrer, falecer BP bater as botas+ BP descansar
1 Items marked + are considered inappropriate in polite conversation by many speakers.
Less innocent than expletives are everyday words and expressions whose
origin contains a derogatory element. A case in point is the verb judiar (from
judeu ‘Jew, Jewish’ plus the verb-forming suffix -iar), which, from the original
meaning ‘to adopt Jewish practices’ (in which case it was synonymous with
judaizar), acquired the meanings of ‘to mock’ or ‘to mistreat physically or
290 8 Sociolinguistic issues
morally, to torment’ (Houaiss 2001, s.v. judiar). Nevertheless, a significant
degree of ambivalence pervades the use of such terms, which to most speakers
are so lexicalized as to be devoid of ethnic connotations, as in 31a, where judiar
means simply to mistreat, or in 31b, where the derived noun judiação is no more
than a pious expression of sympathy:
(31) a. BP Uma vez o meu velho me pegou judiando do gato e deu uma
puta coça em mim pra eu aprender.
‘Once my old man caught me mistreating the cat and he beat the
crap out of me to teach me a lesson.’
b. BP Que judiação, a Fátima não passou no vestibular.I
‘What a shame, Fátima hasn’t passed her college-entrance exam.’
Ethnic prejudice is also at the root of derogatory nouns derived from
negro (n./adj.) ‘black, negro,’ such as negrice ‘action supposedly typical of
a black person’ or negrão/negão ‘(big) black man’ and its feminine counterpart
negrona/negona ‘(big) black woman,’ recurring protagonists of a genre of eth-
nic jokes significantly known as piada de negão ‘black man jokes.’ Even such
terms, however, can be employed without ethnic connotations: both negão and
the shortened variants nêgo/nêga and their diminutives neguinho/neguinha are
widely used as terms of endearment, irrespective of the interlocutors’ ethnicity,
with the approximate meaning of ‘honey’ or ‘buddy,’ as in 32a, where a man
thanks his wife for a surprise gift, or in 32b, where a man addresses a close
friend:
(32) BP a. Ô neguinha, que que é isso? Não precisava, muito obrigado.
‘Hey honey, what’s that? There was no need, thank you very
much.’
BP b. Como é, negão? Vai mais um uı́sque aı́?
‘How about it, pal? Can I pour you another whisky?’
Speakers’ reactions to such controversial matters as swearing and so-called
bad language cover an ample gamut, from offended rejection to amused toler-
ance, passing through benign indifference or enthusiastic acceptance. Clearly,
it is not the words in themselves that are good or bad, but the intention with
which they are uttered and the effect they may have on those the receiving end.
Research on negative language (Preti 1984; Stephens 1999, 2002) has led some
scholars to make a case for intentional use of positive language as a strategy
to improve communication, and ultimately, one would hope, human relations
(Gomes de Matos 1996, 2002). Whether such efforts can be effective as a tool
for social change is an open empirical question.
On the other hand, tolerance for actual ethnic-based insults seems to be
decreasing, albeit slowly. In January 2004 a news item on an electronic bulletin
(Migalhas 2004) reported that a court of law had sentenced a building company
8.7 Profane language: Swearing and insults 291
in the interior of the state of São Paulo to pay a former employee 50,000 reais
(ca. US$17,000) moral damages, as a result of his complaint that for six months
his foreman had insisted on calling him nego burro ‘dumb blackie’ and nego
fedido ‘stinking blackie.’ According to the report, “the Court did not accept
the company’s argument that the verbal attacks took place between the two
employees, without the company’s knowledge.” Maybe that is a sign of an
overdue change.
Attitudes towards so-called bad language can be seen as just one piece in an
ample mosaic of attitudes towards diversity in language. Maybe in an ideal
world language variation would be regarded with tolerance, regional or social
dialect differences would be accepted as the natural things they are, no accent
would be considered more or less prestigious than any other, and – one might
add to the wish list – insults and swear words would be unnecessary. Such
a world, unfortunately, neither exists nor seems likely to come about in the
foreseeable future. Every speech community possesses a body of opinions –
most of them preconceived and completely lacking any objective foundation –
about language in general and its own language in particular. Such opinions are
actually part of the language, in the sense that they cover not only the lexicon
and the grammar, but also a multidimensional cultural complex that pervades
every aspect of the life of people who speak it. By shaping the culture and
giving it a synchronic voice and a diachronic projection, the language, in a
broad sense, is the culture, and opinions about language are part of that culture.
Whilst native speakers can – some more successfully than others – navigate
such largely uncharted waters, non-native learners, in order to communicate
successfully within a cultural context, need to take those opinions into account
and develop the instinct that will enable them to automatically decide, at any
given moment, which of two or more options is pragmatically more appropriate
for their communicative goals.
Acquiringsuchafeelrequiresbothacceptinglanguagevariationassomething
natural and acquiring the habit of relating apparently competing linguistic forms
to the various communicative contexts appropriate to them. This book has
attempted to contribute to the development of such a feel not by looking at
the language as a homogeneous object but rather from a perspective in which
variation appears as a constant reminder that Portuguese is a plural entity.
With some practice, this approach can lead to a heightened awareness of such
variation and an understanding that, far from being a cause for concern, it is
a sure sign of the language’s vitality. At a time when diversity, linguistic or
otherwise, is praised as something positive, it would seem that understanding,
appreciating, and celebrating such vitality is a goal worth pursuing.
Suggestions for further reading
Besides the works mentioned in the text, several others of a general character which
provided background information for one or more chapters have been added to the list
below. An asterisk indicates that an item requires some familiarity with linguistic theory.
REFERENCE WORKS AND MANUALS
(a) introduction to linguistics in portuguese
Faria, Isabel Hub, Emı́lia Ribeiro Pedro, Inês Duarte, and Carlos A. M. Gouveia. 1996.
Introdução à Lingúı́stica Geral e Portuguesa. Lisboa: Editorial Caminho.
Mussalim, Fernanda and Anna Christina Bentes, eds. 2001. Introdução à Lingúı́stica.
Domı́nios e Fronteiras, 2 vols. 2nd edition. São Paulo: Cortez Editora.
(b) introduction to portuguese linguistics
* Câmara, Joaquim Mattoso, Jr. 1972. The Portuguese Language, trans. Anthony J. Naro.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
(c) linguistically oriented grammars
Luft, Celso Pedro. 1996. Moderna Gramática Brasileira. São Paulo: Editora Globo.
Neves, Maria Helena de Moura, 2000. Gramática de Usos do Português. São Paulo:
Editora UNESP.
Neves, Maria Helena de Moura, 2003. Guia de Uso do Português: Confrontando Regras
e Usos. São Paulo: Editora UNESP.
(d) prescriptive grammars based on literary usage
Bechara, Evanildo. 1999. Moderna Gramática Portuguesa. 37th edition. Rio de Janeiro:
Editora Lucerna.
Cunha, Celso and Luı́s Filipe Lindley Cintra. 1985. Nova Gramática do Português
Contemporâneo. 2nd edition. Rio de Janeiro: Editora Nova Fronteira.
(e) comparative grammars
Vázquez-Cuesta, Pilar and Maria Albertina Mendes da Luz. 1987. Gramática por-
tuguesa, 2 vols. 3rd edition. Madrid: Gredos (in Spanish).
292
Suggestions for further reading 293
(f) dictionaries
Biderman, Maria Tereza Camargo. 1998. Dicionário Didático de Português. São Paulo:
Editora Ática.
Borba, Francisco da Silva, ed. 1990. Dicionário Gramatical de Verbos do Português
Contemporâneo do Brasil. São Paulo: Editora da UNESP.
Borba, Francisco S. 2002. Dicionário de Usos do Português do Brasil. São Paulo: Editora
Ática.
Ferreira, Aurélio Buarque de Holanda. 1986. Novo Dicionário Aurélio da Lı́ngua Por-
tuguesa. Rio de Janeiro: Nova Fronteira.
Houaiss, Antônio. 2001. Dicionário Houaiss da Lı́ngua Portuguesa. Rio de Janeiro:
Editora Objetiva.
Houaiss, Antônio. 1982. Dicionário Inglês–Português. Rio de Janeiro: Editora Record.
Taylor, James L. 1970. Portuguese–English Dictionary. Rio de Janeiro: Editora
Record.
(g) spelling
Bergström, Magnus and Neves Reis. 1999. Prontuário Ortográfico e Guia da Lı́ngua
Portuguesa. Lisboa: Notı́cias Editorial (European Portuguese).
Estrela, Edite. 1993. A Questão Ortográfica. Reforma e Acordos da Lı́ngua Portuguesa.
Lisbon: Editorial Notı́cias.
Luft, Celso Pedro. 2003. Novo Guia Ortográfico. Rio de Janeiro: Editora Globo
(Brazilian Portuguese).
THEMATIC READINGS
(a) general works
Ferronha, António Luı́s, ed. 1992. Atlas da Lı́ngua Portuguesa na História e no Mundo.
Lisbon: Imprensa Nacional – Casa da Moeda.
Fonseca, Fernando Venâncio Peixoto. 1985. O Português entre as Lı́nguas do Mundo.
Coimbra: Livraria Almedina.
Lopes, David. 1969. A Expansão da Lı́ngua Portuguesa no Oriente durante os Séculos
XVI, XVII e XVIII. 2nd edition revised by Luı́s de Matos. Lisbon: Portucalense
Editora.
(b) phonetics and phonology
*Bisol, Leda, ed. 1996. Introdução a Estudos de Fonologia do Português Brasileiro.
Porto Alegre: EDIPUCRS.
*Ferreira Netto, Waldemar. 2001. Introdução à Fonologia da Lı́ngua Portuguesa. São
Paulo: Editora Hedra.
Leite, Yonne and Dinah Callou. 2002. Como Falam os Brasileiros. Rio de Janeiro: Jorge
Zahar Editor.
Perini, Mário A. 2004. Talking Brazilian. A Brazilian Portuguese Pronunciation
Workbook. New Haven: Yale University Press.
Silva, Thaı̈s Cristófaro. 1998. Fonética e Fonologia do Português: Roteiro de Estudos e
Guia de Exercı́cios. São Paulo: Editora Contexto.
294 Suggestions for further reading
(c) morphology and syntax
*Costa, João, ed. 2000. Portuguese Syntax. New Comparative Studies. Oxford University
Press.
* Mira Mateus, Maria Helena, Ana Maria Brito, Inês Silva Duarte, and Isabel Hub Faria.
1983. Gramática da Lı́ngua Portuguesa. Coimbra: Livraria Almedina.
*Modesto, Marcello. 2001. As Construções Clivadas no Português do Brasil: Relações
entre Interpretação Focal, Movimento Sintático e Prosódia. São Paulo: Humanitas–
FFLCH/USP.
Monteiro, José Lemos. 1991. Morfologia Portuguesa. Campinas: Pontes Editores.
Perini, Mário A. 2002a. Modern Portuguese. A Reference Grammar. New Haven: Yale
University Press.
*Perini, Mário A. 1998a. Gramática Descritiva do Português. 3rd edition. São Paulo:
Editora Ática.
*Perini, Mário A. 1998b. Sintaxe Portuguesa. Metodologia e Funções. São Paulo:
Editora Ática.
Sandalo, Maria Filomena Spatti. 2000. “Morfologia.” In Introdução à Lingúı́stica.
Domı́nios e Fronteiras, vol. 1, ed. Fernanda Mussalim and Anna Christina Bentes.
São Paulo: Cortez Editora, 181–206.
Sandmann, Antônio José. 1996. Formação de Palavras no Português Brasileiro Con-
temporâneo. 2nd. edition. Curitiba: Editora da UFPR.
(d) history of the language
*Ali, Manuel Said. 2001 [1921]. Gramática Histórica da Lı́ngua Portuguesa. 8th edi-
tion, revised by Mário Eduardo Viaro. São Paulo: Companhia Melhoramentos and
Brası́lia: Editora Universidade de Brası́lia.
*Castilho, Ataliba Teixeira de, ed. 1998. Para a História do Português Brasileiro,
vol. 1: Primeiras Idéias. São Paulo: Humanitas–FFLCH/USP.
*Duarte, Maria Eugênia Lat and Dinah Callou, eds. 2002. Para a História do Por-
tuguês Brasileiro, vol. 4: Notı́cias de Corpora e Outros Estudos. Rio de Janeiro:
UFRJ/Letras, FAPERJ.
*Ilari, Rodolfo, 1992. Lingüı́stica Românica. São Paulo: Editora Ática.
*Silva, Rosa Virginia Mattos e, ed. 2001. Para a História do Português Brasileiro,
vols. 2 and 3: Primeiros Estudos. São Paulo: Humanitas–FFLCH/USP.
Tarallo, Fernando. 1990. Tempos Lingüı́sticos. Itinerário Histórico da Lı́ngua
Portuguesa. São Paulo: Editora Ática.
Teyssier, Paul. 1994. História da Lı́ngua Portuguesa, trans. Celso Cunha. Lisbon:
Livraria Sá da Costa.
*Williams, Edwin B. 1968. From Latin to Portuguese. 2nd edition. Philadelphia:
University of Pennsylvania Press.
(e) pidgins and creoles
Holm, John. 2000. An Introduction to Pidgins and Creoles. Cambridge University Press.
*Holm, John. 2004. Languages in Contact. The Partial Restructuring of Vernaculars.
Cambridge University Press.
Tarallo, Fernando and Tania Alkmin. 1987. Falares Crioulos. Lı́nguas em contato. São
Paulo: Editora Ática.
Suggestions for further reading 295
(f) brazilian portuguese
Amaral, Amadeu. 1920. O Dialecto Caipira. São Paulo, Casa Editora “O Livro.”
Bagno, Marcos. 1999. Preconceito Lingüı́stico. O que é, como se faz. São Paulo: Edições
Loyola.
*Bagno, Marcos. 2000. Dramática da Lı́ngua Portuguesa. Tradição Gramatical, Mı́dia
e Exclusão Social. São Paulo: Edições Loyola.
Bagno, Marcos, ed. 2002. Lingüı́stica da Norma. São Paulo: Edições Loyola.
*Bortoni-Ricardo, Stella Maris. 1985. The Urbanization of Rural Dialect Speakers: A
Sociolinguistic Study in Brazil. Cambridge University Press.
Cardoso, Suzana Alice Marcelino. 1999. “A Dialectologia no Brasil: Perspectivas.”
DELTA: Documentação de Estudos em Lingüı́stica Teórica e Aplicada, 15, special
number, 233–255.
Cardoso, Suzana Alice Marcelino. 2001. “Dialectologia: Trilhas Seguidas, Caminhos a
Perseguir” DELTA: Documentação de Estudos em Lingüı́stica Teórica e Aplicada,
17, special number, 25–44.
*Cardoso, Suzana and Carlota Ferreira. 1994. A Dialetologia no Brasil. São Paulo:
Editora Contexto.
Castilho, Ataliba Teixeira de. 1992. “O Português do Brasil.” In Ilari 1992, 237–272.
Castilho, Ataliba Teixeira de. 2000. A Lı́ngua Falada no Ensino de Português. São Paulo:
Editora Contexto.
*Castilho, Ataliba Teixeira de, ed. 1989b. Português Culto Falado no Brasil. Campinas:
Editora da Unicamp.
*Castilho, Ataliba Teixeira de, ed. 1990a. Gramática do Português Falado, vol. 1: A
Ordem. Campinas: Editora da Unicamp; São Paulo: FAPESP.
*Castilho,AtalibaTeixeiradeandMargaridaBasilio,eds.1996.GramáticadoPortuguês
Falado, vol. 4: Estudos Descritivos. Campinas: Editora da Unicamp; São Paulo:
FAPESP.
Fiorin, Jusé Luiz. 1998. Linguagem e Ideologia. 6th edition. São Paulo: Editora Ática.
Leite, Yonne and Dinah Callou. 2002. Como Falam os Brasileiros. Rio de Janeiro: Jorge
Zahar Editor.
Paiva, Maria da Conceição de and Maria Marta Pereira Scherre. 1999. “Retrospectiva
Sociolingüı́stica: Contribuições do Peul.” DELTA Documentação de Estudos em
Lingüı́stica Teórica e Aplicada, 15, special number, 201–232.
Perini, Mário A. 1997. Sofrendo a Gramática. Ensaios sobre a Linguagem. São Paulo:
Editora Ática.
Preti, Dino. 1984. A Linguagem Proibida. Um Estudo sobre a Linguagem Erótica. São
Paulo: T. A. Queiroz, Editor.
Preti, Dino. 1994. Sociolingüı́stica. Os Nı́veis da Fala. 7th edition. São Paulo: EDUSP.
Preti, Dino, ed. 1997. O Discurso Oral Culto. São Paulo: Humanitas–FFLCH/USP.
*Roberts, Ian and Mary A. Kato, eds. 1993. Português Brasileiro. Uma Viagem
Diacrônica. Campinas: Editora da Unicamp.
Thomas, Earl. 1969. The Syntax of Spoken Brazilian Portuguese. Nashville: Vanderbilt
University Press.
Glossary
A star (∗
) indicates of a cross-reference to another term that appears as an entry in this
glossary.
Accent A term used to refer to pronunciation features that identify a speech variety
as typical of a given region, social group, or the like. Cf. ∗
dialect.
Accusative In Latin, a ∗
case related to ∗
direct object complements.
Actor The semantic component of a sentence which refers to the entity that performs
an action expressed by a verb. Syntactically, the formant of a passive construction (usu-
ally introduced by por ‘by’) that refers to the semantic actor (esse quadro foi pintado
por João ‘that picture was painted by John’).
Affix A bound ∗
morpheme attached at the beginning (∗
prefix) or at the end (∗
suffix) of
a word to form a new word, as in pré-história ‘pre-history’ or social + ista > socialista
‘socialist.’
Agreement A morphosyntactic process whereby features of a sentence component,
such as a noun, are replicated in other elements, such as articles or adjectives. Agreement
in person and number also takes place between a ∗
subject and its verb.
Allomorph An actual manifestation of a ∗
morpheme, e.g. -s in canetas ‘pens,’ or -es
in senhores ‘gentlemen,’ both representing the morpheme ‘plural.’
Allophone An actual manifestation of a ∗
phoneme through a ∗
phone. Thus in Por-
tuguese [t] and [] are allophones of the phoneme /t/ as in tia /tiɐ/ or /iɐ/ ‘aunt.’ See
also ∗
phone, ∗
phoneme.
Anacoluthon A syntactic switch in midsentence, as in Ela telefonou, e será que eu
podia ir ao aeroporto? ‘She called up, and would it be possible for me to go to the
airport?’
Anaphora, anaphoric A reference to something already mentioned, as ela in Minha
prima chegou ontem e ela vai ficar até a semana que vem ‘My cousin arrived yesterday
and she’s going to stay until next week.’
Aspect A verbal category related to the speaker’s perception of the manner in which
a verbal action is carried out. Aspect is manifested in contrasts between the preterit (a
past action seen as finished, as in Maria serviu o café às oito ontem ‘Maria served coffee
at eight yesterday’) and the imperfect (a past action seen as going on as in Cheguei
quando fechavam o bar ‘I arrived as they were closing the bar,’ or as habitual, as in
296
Glossary 297
Naquele tempo fechavam o bar à meia noite ‘In those days they used to close the bar at
midnight’).
Assimilation A phonological process whereby a sound becomes more like a neigh-
boring sound by acquiring one or more of its features.
Auxiliary verb A verb such as ter or haver which combines with another (called the
main verb) to form a compound tense, as in eu tinha/havia falado ‘I had spoken.’
Benefactive A semantic component of a sentence referring to someone or something
who/thatreceivessomething(whetherornotarealbenefitisinvolved).InDeiodinheiroa
Daniel ‘I gave the money to Daniel,’ the noun Daniel stands for the semantic benefactive,
which in this case is the syntactic ∗
indirect object.
Borrowing A process whereby a language adopts elements from another language,
e.g. Eng stress > Pg estresse.
Caipira Of, or pertaining to, a rural subculture associated with the hinterland of the
state of São Paulo and part of the state of Minas Gerais in Brazil as in dialeto caipira
‘Caipira dialect.’
Carioca Referring to (adj.) or a native of (n.) Rio de Janeiro.
Case A category related to syntactic functions which in languages like Latin are
overtly signaled by a specific ending that characterizes a noun as being the ∗
subject
(nominative case), the ∗
direct object (accusative case), or the ∗
indirect object (dative
case), and so on.
Clitic A morphologically unstressed free ∗
morpheme that only occurs linked to
another word, with which it forms a phonological unit. Said particularly of Portuguese
unstressed pronouns such as o, a, os, as, se: – E essa garrafa? – Eu a trouxe de Minas.
– Quer vendê-la? “What about this bottle?” “I brought it from Minas.” “Do you want
to sell it?”
Code-switching The habit of switching in conversation from one language to another,
or from one variety of the same language to another.
Commentary That part of a statement which completes the ∗
topic. Thus in O que eu
quero é que chova ‘What I want is for it to rain,’ the segment é que chova serves as a
commentary to the topic o que eu quero.
Conjugation (1) Changes in a verb form to show tense, voice, mood etc. (2) The
class to which a particulars verb belongs. Portuguese has three conjugations, ar, er,
and ir.
Conjugation vowel See ∗
theme vowel.
Creole A full-fledged language that originates from a ∗
pidgin when it becomes the
first language of the offspring of pidgin-speaking parents.
Declension A morphological category found in Latin (and other inflected languages)
consisting of a set of ∗
case endings for nouns, adjectives, pronouns, and determinants,
which change them according to their syntactic function in a sentence. A declension is
also a morphological class to which belong the names and other words sharing the same
298 Glossary
set of case endings. Latin had five declensions, which disappeared in the formation of
the Romance languages.
Deictic From deixis (n.), a signaling process whereby a term (such as a demonstrative)
indicates the position of something in relation to the speaker: este livro ‘this book’ vs.
aquele livro ‘that book.’
Devoicing Loss of the phonetic feature ∗
voicing, caused by a cessation of the vibration
of the vocal cords.
Diachronic Relating to or taking into account the passing of time, as in diachronic
linguistics, which considers language forms from the viewpoint of the changes suffered
by them through time. Cf. ∗
synchronic.
Diacritic An extra sign placed over a letter, such as an accent (á, à, ã, â), or below,
such as the cedilla (ç), to represent a specific sound.
Dialect A term designating a distinct variety of a language, often one contrasting
with that taken as the standard (which technically is also a dialect). As used since the
end of the nineteenth century, the term “dialect” tends to designate a geographically or
regionally defined variety. When social variables intervene, social dialect or ∗
sociolect
is used. The more generic term language variety covers both kinds. In common parlance,
the term “dialect” often has negative connotations, which are totally absent from its use
in linguistics. Cf. ∗
lect, ∗
sociolect.
Dialect leveling A process whereby the contrast between features from two or more
language varieties represented in the same community is ironed out.
Diglossia, diglossic A situation in which two forms of the same language, or two
different languages, are used in the same community for different purposes. One form,
characterized as “high” or H (e.g.: Classical Arabic in Arab countries, Standard German
in Switzerland, Spanish in Paraguay) is learned at school and used in formal situations,
public administration, and the more formal sectors of the media, while the other form,
characterized as “low” or L (e.g. popular spoken Arabic, Swiss German, Guaranı́) is
learned informally and used in ordinary conversation, popular literature, and other such
informal situations.
Digraph A combination of letters that stands for a single sound, e.g. ch in English
(cheap) or in Portuguese (chato ‘boring’).
Diphthong Phonetically, a combination of a vowel and a glide, or a glide and a
vowel, standing together in the same syllable, e.g. Pg ai [aj] ‘ouch’ or ua [wa] in quatro
‘four.’
Diphthongization A phonological process whereby a vowel develops into a diph-
thong by adding a glide, as in BP mas ‘but’ (phonologically /mas/ and phoneti-
cally [majs]), rhyming with mais (phonologically /majs/ and phonetically [majs])
‘more.’
Direct object The direct object (DO) is the syntactic complement of a ∗
transitive
verb, e.g. um carro in Daniel comprou um carro ‘Daniel bought a car.’
Glossary 299
Ditransitive verb A verb requiring both a direct object and an indirect object, e.g. dar
‘to give,’ oferecer ‘to offer,’ entregar ‘to deliver,’ e.g. Ele ofereceu as flores à enfermeira
‘He offered the flowers (DO) to the nurse (IO).’
Embedding A syntactic process whereby one sentence is inserted into another
by means of a connector such as the relative pronoun que ‘that, who’: Aquele
homem veio ontem. Aquele homem é encanador. > Aquele homem que veio ontem
é encanador ‘That man who came yesterday is a plumber.’ Also referred to as
∗
subordination.
Enclitic An unstressed pronoun or ∗
clitic placed after a verb, as in chamou-me ‘he
called me.’ Cf. ∗
proclitic.
Form A generic term (as in linguistic form) referring to any ∗
morpheme, word, phrase,
sentence, and the like.
Gentile Said of a noun or adjective referring to a nation, country, or region, such as
brasileiro, português, americano, etc.
Hiatus A sequence of two contiguous vowels in different syllables, as in álcool (ál-
co-ol) ‘alcohol’ or viúva (vi-ú-va) ‘widow.’ Cf. ∗
diphthong.
Inpersonal verb A verb that occurs only in the third person singular, such as verbs
referring to atmospheric events: Quando não neva, chove ‘When it doesn’t snow, it
rains.’
Indirect object The indirect object (IO) is one of the syntactic complements of a
∗
ditransitive verb, e.g. ao vizinho in Daniel deu um presente ao vizinho ‘Daniel gave a
gift to the neighbor.’ It usually corresponds to the semantia ∗
benefactive.
Indirect transitive verb A verb requiring an ∗
indirect object (IO) but not a ∗
direct
object (DO), such as assistir in the sense of ‘attend,’ as in Assistimos ao concerto ‘We
attended the concert.’
Intervocalic Said of a sound between two vowels, e.g. r [ɾ] in cara ‘face.’
Intransitive verb A verb that requires no complement, e.g. nascer, viver, morrer:
João nasceu, viveu e morreu sem pena nem glória ‘João was born, lived, and died
without suffering or glory.’
Koine A spoken variety of a given region that is used as a ∗
lingua franca or a standard
among related varieties, usually as the result of leveling differences among them.
Lect A generic term designating any language variety, whether defined regionally,
socially, or otherwise.
Lenition A phonological process causing a softening of the articulatory effort.
Leveling A process whereby in a situation where speakers of several dialects are
in constant contact with one another, dialectal differences tend to be reduced, thus
fostering a more homogeneous speech in phonology, morphology, syntax, and the
lexicon.
Lexical Having to do with the lexicon, that is the set of words of a language.
300 Glossary
Lexicalized form See ∗
lexicalization.
Lexicalization A process whereby a linguistic form, usually a construction of two or
more words, functions very much like a single word, e.g. o senhor ‘you (sg., formal).’
Lingua franca Generic name for a language used for purposes of communication
among individuals or communities that do not share another language, as with as the use
of English worldwide. The original Lingua Franca (‘language of the Franks, meaning
Europeans, as opposed to other ethnic groups’) was a ∗
Romance-based ∗
pidgin, also
known as Sabir (from Pg/Sp saber ‘to know’) used around the Mediterranean in the
Middle Ages.
Loan word A word taken from another language by a process called ∗
borrowing, as
Pg futebol (from Eng football).
Macrodialect A generic term for a language variety which encompasses several other
subvarieties, such as Brazilian Portuguese.
Marked See ∗
unmarked.
Metaphony A phonological process involving a change in the phonetic features of a
vowel, as in the formation of certain plurals such as corvo [koɾvu] /corvos [kɔɾvus].
Metathesis A phonological process involving changing the normal order of sounds,
as in estrupo for estupro ‘rape’, or fletro for feltro ‘felt’, in popular Brazilian Portuguese.
Mineiro Relative to or pertaining to the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil; the variety of
Brazilian Portuguese spoken in that region.
Minimal pairs Sound sequences that differ by a single ∗
phone which signals a differ-
ence in meaning, e.g. pato [patu] duck vs. gato [gatu] ‘cat.’ In such pairs the contrasting
phones are said to represent different ∗
phonemes.
Modal verb Traditionally the term for verbs like can, may, must, ought to, which
express an attitude of the speaker (possibility, permission, necessity) toward the action
represented by an accompanying verb; by extension the label is applied to similar verbs
in other languages, e.g. Pg dever, querer, poder, which combine with another verb
(typically in the infinitive form), e.g. Ele queria comprar o carro mas não podia pagar
o preço ‘He wanted to buy the car but could not pay the price.’
Monophthongization A phonological process consisting in the reduction of a diph-
thong to a vowel, as in /ei/ > [e], e.g., madeira [madeɾɐ] instead of [madej ɾɐ].
Moor N. and adj. derived from Mauri, the name of the inhabitants of Mauritania in
Roman North Africa; traditionally used to designate the Islamic peoples who invaded
the Iberian Peninsula in 711. Though the invaders included more Berbers than Arabs,
expressions like “Arab invasion” and “Arab domination” are used.
Morpheme The basic distinctive form, smaller than a word, which cannot be further
subdivided without losing its meaning. Morphemes are the building blocks of words; a
word may have a single morpheme, e.g. eu ‘I,’ but a morpheme need not be a full word,
e.g. compr- in comprar ‘to buy.’
Glossary 301
Mozarabic (from Ar musta‘rib ‘Arab-like’). There is very little consensus about the
actual form of Mozarabic dialects, and some scholars question whether they existed as
an individualized form of Romance. As Islamic-held lands were reconquered, surviving
Mozarab groups eventually became integrated in the newly formed communities.
Nominalization A process whereby a word (such as an adjective or a verb) is nom-
inalized, that is, made into a noun, usually by using it in a noun phrase preceded by
the article o ‘the’: O bom dessa greve é que amanhã não temos aula ‘The good thing
about this strike is that tomorrow we won’t have classes’; O muito falar e o pouco
dormir fazem mal à saúde ‘Too much talking and too little sleeping are bad for your
health.’
Normative Having to do with norms or rules. Said of grammars that provide norms for
language use instead of describing language as it actually occurs. Synonym: prescriptive.
Object pronouns Pronouns such as me, te, se, o, a, etc., which stand for a ∗
direct
object or an ∗
indirect object.
Oxytone A word stressed on the last syllable, e.g., falarei ‘I will talk.’
Paroxytone A word stressed on the penult or next-to-last syllable, e.g. casa ‘house.’
Patient A semantic component of a sentence that refers to the entity which receives
the action of the verb, as carta ‘letter’ in either Maria queimou a carta or A carta foi
queimada por Maria.
Patronymic Term used to indicate names derived from the name of one’s father or
ancestor; also, a word or part of a word, such as a ∗
suffix, that indicates such derivation,
e.g. Pg -es (Rodrigues = son of Rodrigo) or Eng -son (Peterson = son of Peter), or
a ∗
prefix such as Eng Fitz (Fitzgerald = son of Gerald) or Irish O’ (O’Connor = son
(originally grandson) of Connor).
Paulista Relative to or pertaining to the state of São Paulo, Brazil; the variety of
Brazilian Portuguese spoken in that region.
Periphrasis (Also periphrastic construction) A verbal construction functioning as
a single verb tense and made up of an ∗
auxiliary verb and a main verb, e.g. tenho falado
‘I have spoken,’ terei falado ‘I will have spoken.’
Phatic Relative to language used for sociability and banter rather than factual com-
munication.
Phone Any speech sound, as opposed to other sounds made by the vocal apparatus
which do not participate in speech.
Phoneme A basic element in the sound system of a language, represented by a sign of
the phonetic alphabet between slashes (e.g. /b/) and capable of signaling a difference in
meaning, as in /b/ in bala ‘bullet’ vs. /m/ in mala ‘suitcase. See also ∗
allophone, ∗
phone.
Phonetic alphabet A system of letters and other signs for representing phones in
writing. E.g. the International Phonetic Alphabet (I.P.A. or IPA).
Phonological phrase A group of words pronounced in the same breath group.
302 Glossary
Phonotactics The set of language-specific rules describing how the phonemes of a
language can organize to form syllables and words.
Phrase A coherent syntactic unit less complex than a sentence, such as Proibida a
entrada ‘Entry forbidden’ or Para levar ‘To take home.’
Pidgin A simplified hybrid language developed when speakers of two or more lan-
guages try to communicate (as in trade situations) using elements from their respective
languages. Portuguese-based pidgins were widespread in coastal regions of Africa and
Asia in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. A pidgin is not anyone’s native language,
but when the young of a pidgin-speaking community grow up speaking it as their first
language, it becomes a ∗
creole (See also ∗
lingua franca.)
Post-vocalic Said of a speech sound or a phoneme occurring after a vowel, e.g. /ɾ/ in
quarto ‘room.’ Cf. ∗
pre-vocalic.
Predicate The segment of a sentence that stands for what is stated, or predicated, of
the ∗
subject, e.g. morreram ‘died’ in as árvores morreram ‘the trees died.’
Prefix See ∗
affix.
Prescriptive See ∗
normative.
Pre-vocalic Said of a speech sound or a phoneme occurring before a vowel, like /l/
in lado ‘side.’ Cf. ∗
post-vocalic.
Proclitic An unstressed pronoun or ∗
clitic placed before a verb, as in me chamou ‘he
called me.’ Cf. ∗
enclitic.
Proparoxytone A word stressed on the antepenult or second-from-last syllable, e.g.
lâmpada ‘lamp.’
Raising A phonological process that causes a vowel to be articulated one level higher
on the scale represented by the vowel phoneme (see Table 2.4).
Referent The non-linguistic entity to which a linguistic form or expression refers.
Reference, or referential meaning, is the relationship between e.g. the linguistic form
Daniel and the referent, that is the individual so named.
Register A language variety (or the set of linguistic elements that comprise it) defined
in terms of social parameters, such as a trade, occupation, profession, hobby, and so on.
Relexified, Relexification The process of replacing the lexicon of a language variety
by the lexicon of another.
Resumptive Said of a word, such as a pronoun, that repeats the information contained
earlier in the same sentence, as in ele in VBP a moça que eu saı́ com ela ‘the young
woman that I went out with (her),’ used for st. a moça com quem eu saı́ ‘the young
woman with whom I went out.’
Romance (or Neo-Latin) languages. A family of languages derived from Latin.
Romance languages with national official status include Catalan (in Andorra), French,
Italian, Portuguese, Rumanian, Rumansh (in Switzerland), and Spanish. Catalan and
Galician enjoy regional coofficial status in their respective regions in Spain. Other
Romance languages that have limited or no official recognition include Aragonese,
Asturian, Corsican, Occitan, Piedmontese, Sardinian, and Sicilian.
Glossary 303
Semantic actor See ∗
actor.
Sociolect A language variety, or dialect, defined in terms of social features, such as
the sex, age, or social class of the speaker. See also ∗
dialect, ∗
lect.
Stem That part of a word which carries its lexical meaning, e.g. cas- in casa ‘house’
and casas ‘houses’; fal- in falarei ‘I’ll speak,’ falei ‘I spoke.’
Subject A syntactic component of a sentence of which something is predicated, as in
Pedro saiu ‘Peter went out,’ where the verb form saiu ‘went out’ constitutes a statement
about Pedro. The subject is said to govern the verb of the sentence, which must agree
with it in person and number, e.g. eu saı́ ‘I went out’ but nós saı́mos ‘we went out.’ Cf.
∗
predicate.
Subordination The process of inserting one sentence (called the subordinate clause)
into another (called the main clause, or matrix) by means of a relative pronoun or a
subordinating conjunction. Cf. ∗
embedding.
Suffix See ∗
affix.
Syllable A sequence of ∗
phones forming a phonological unit and made up of a
nucleus, which in Portuguese may be a vowel or a diphthong. This nucleus may be
preceded by an onset (a consonant or a cluster of consonants such as /pl/, /br/, etc.) and
followed by a coda (a consonant). An open syllable ends in the nucleus vowel: ba-ta-ta
‘potato,’ while a closed syllable ends in a consonant: par-tes ‘you leave.’
Synchronic Said of a linguistic analysis that considers language forms from the view-
point of their structure but takes into account neither the passing of time nor considera-
tions of a historical nature. Cf. ∗
diachronic.
Theme vowel (1) A vowel used as a noun-forming element, e.g. -a, -o, -e in cas- +
-a> casa ‘house,’ cas- + - o> caso ‘case,’ gent- + e>gente ‘people.’ (2) A vowel added
to a verb stem which indicates the class or ∗
conjugation to which the verb belongs, e.g.
-a, -e, -i in falar ‘to speak,’ comer ‘to eat,’ partir ‘to leave.’
Topic That part of a statement, whether a phrase or a full sentence, that contains
information on what the statement is all about. Thus in lá em casa não tem dessas coisas
‘at home they don’t have those things’lá em casa may be seen as the topic, wheras não
tem dessas coisas is the ∗
commentary.
Topicalization A syntactic process consisting in placing a sentence element in a
position, usually at the beginning, where it may serve as its ∗
topic, as in verbos, eu
detesto ter que estudar, ‘verbs, I hate having to study.’
Transitive verb A verb requiring a ∗
direct object (DO), such as comprar ‘to buy’or
fazer ‘to make,’ e.g. Ele compra farinha e faz pão ‘He buys flour (DO) and makes bread
(DO).’
Unmarked A term used to designate the generic member of a pair or series
of linguistic items. The word order subject – verb – direct object (as in Eu comi
o hambúrger ‘I ate the hamburger’) is considered unmarked and thus unexcep-
tional. The order verb – subject – direct object (Comi eu o hambúrger) or direct
object – subject – verb (O hambúrger eu comi), in turn, are considered marked, since
they present a less common distribution of information.
304 Glossary
Vernacular (from Lat vernaculus ‘native, domestic’) The native language of a com-
munity, in contrast to a language acquired through instruction, formal or otherwise.
The ∗
Romance languages, which developed from spoken Latin in the Middle Ages, are
considered vernaculars in relation to Classical Latin, which required formal training.
Voicing A quality imparted to a speech sound by the vibration of the vocal cords.
Vowel harmony A phonological process whereby a vowel displays a feature that
approximates it to another vowel in the same word, as when the first vowel of a word
like menino is pronounced as [i], like the stressed vowel in the syllable ni.
Bibliography
This bibliography includes some reference works consulted, but not directly cited in the
text.
Abaurre, Maria Bernadete M. and Angela C. S. Rodrigues, eds. 2002. Gramática
do Português Falado, vol. 8: Novos Estudos Descritivos. Campinas: Editora da
Unicamp.
Abreu, Maria Isabel and Clea Rameh. 1972. Português Contemporâneo 1. Washington,
DC: Georgetown University Press.
Abreu, Maria Isabel and Cléa Rameh. 1973. Português Contemporâneo 2. Washington,
DC: Georgetown University Press.
Afonso, Elisabete Vaz. 1998. “Problemas de Reintegração Linguı́stica e Social de Emi-
grantes de Segunda Geracão.” In Linguı́stica e Educação. Actas do Encontro da
Associação Portuguesa de Linguı́stica, ed. Rui Vieira de Castro and Maria de Lour-
des Sousa. Lisbon: Edições Colibri, 6–13.
Aguilera, Vanderci de Andrade. 1994. Atlas Lingüı́stico do Paraná. Curitiba, PR:
Imprensa Oficial do Paraná.
Ali, Manuel Said. 2001 [1921]. Gramática Histórica da Lı́ngua Portuguesa. 8th edi-
tion, revised by Mário Eduardo Viaro. São Paulo: Companhia Melhoramentos and
Brası́lia: Editora Universidade de Brası́lia.
Alkmin, Tania Maria, ed. 2002. Para a História do Português Brasileiro, vol. 3: Novos
Estudos. São Paulo: Humanitas–FFLCH/USP.
Allen, Joseph H. D. 1941. Portuguese Word-Formation with Suffixes. Baltimore:
Linguistic Society of America.
Almanaque Abril. 2002a. Brasil. São Paulo: Editora Abril.
Almanaque Abril. 2002b. Mundo. São Paulo: Editora Abril.
Almeida, Napoleão Mendes de. 1967. Gramática Metódica da Lı́ngua Portuguesa. São
Paulo: Edições Saraiva.
Almeida, Onésimo T. 2001. “Two Decades of Luso-American Literature: An Overview.”
In Global Impact of the Portuguese Language, ed. Asela Rodriguez de Laguna. New
Brunswick and London: Transaction Publishers, 231–254.
Altman, Cristina. 1998. A Pesquisa Lingüı́stica no Brasil (1968–1988). São Paulo:
Humanitas–FFLCH/USP.
Alves, António Bárbolo, ed. 1999. Lhiteratura Oral Mirandesa. Recuôlha de Textos an
Mirandés. Porto: Granito Editores e Livreiros.
Alves, Francisco. n/d. Revivendo Francisco Alves, CD-001. Rio de Janeiro: Revivendo
Músicas Comércio de Discos Ltda.
305
306 Bibliography
Amaral, Amadeu. 1920. O Dialecto Caipira. São Paulo, Casa Editora “O Livro.”
Andrade, Mario de. [1928] 1978. Macunaı́ma (O Herói sem Nenhum Caráter). São
Paulo: Livraria Martins Editora.
Aragão, Maria do Socorro and Cleusa Menezes. 1984. Atlas Lingüı́stico da Paraı́ba.
Cartas Léxicas e Fonéticas. Brası́lia: Universidade Federal da Paraı́ba, Conselho
Nacional de Pesquisas.
Araujo, Antonio Martins de. 1995. “Breve Notı́cia da Ortografia Portuguesa.” In
Miscelânea de Estudos Lingüı́sticos, Filológicos e Literários in Memoriam
Celso Cunha, ed. Cilene da Cunha Pereira and Paulo Roberto Dias Pereira. Rio de
Janeiro: Editora Nova Fronteira, 431–448.
Assunção, Carlos Costa. 1998. “O Poder e a Gramática com Base num Exemplo.”
In Linguı́stica e Educação. Actas do Encontro da Associação Portuguesa de
Linguı́stica, ed. Rui Vieira de Castro and Maria de Lourdes Sousa. Lisbon: Edições
Colibri, 15–34.
Assunção, Carlos Costa. 2000. “A Arte da Grammatica da Lı́ngua Portugueza” de
António José dos Reis Lobato. Critical edition and study. Lisbon: Academia de
Ciências.
Augel, Moema Parente. 1998. “O Crioulo como Lı́ngua Literária?” A Nova Literatura
da Guiné-Bissau. Bissau: Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisa, 27–53.
Azevedo, Milton M. 1974. “On the Semantics of estar + participle Sentences in
Portuguese.” Linguistics 135, 25–33.
Azevedo, Milton M. 1976. “Thematic Meaning, Word Order, and Indefinite Actor
Sentences in Portuguese.” In Georgetown University Round Table on Language
and Linguistics ed. Cléa Rameh. Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press,
217–235.
Azevedo, Milton M. 1980. Passive Sentences in English and Portuguese. Washington,
DC: Georgetown University Press.
Azevedo, Milton M. 1981a. A Contrastive Phonology of Portuguese and English.
Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press.
Azevedo, Milton M. 1981b. “Sobre o Emprego de você no Português Brasileiro Atual.”
Hispania 64: 273–278.
Azevedo, Milton M. 1989. “Vernacular Features in Educated Speech in Brazilian
Portuguese.” Hispania 72:4, 862–872.
Azevedo, Milton M. 2003. Vozes em Branco e Preto. A Representação Literária da Fala
Não–Padrão. São Paulo: Editora da Universidade de São Paulo.
Azevedo Maia, Clarinda de. 1975. Os Falares do Algarve. Inovação e Conservação.
Coimbra: Separata da Revista Portuguesa de Filologia, Vol. 17, 1–2.
Bagno, Marcos. 1999. Preconceito lingüı́stico. O que é, como se faz. São Paulo: Edições
Loyola.
Bagno, Marcos. 2000. Dramática da Lı́ngua Portuguesa. Tradição Gramatical, Mı́dia
a Exclusão Social. São Paulo: Edições Loyola.
Bagno, Marcos, ed. 2002. Lingüı́stica da Norma. São Paulo: Edições Loyola.
Barbadinho Neto, Raimundo. 1972. Tendências e Constâncias da Lı́ngua do Mod-
ernismo. Rio de Janeiro: Livraria Acadêmica.
Barbadinho Neto, Raimundo. 1977. Sobre a Norma Literária do Modernismo.
Subsı́dos para uma Revisão da Gramática Portuguesa. Rio de Janeiro: Ao Livro
Técnico.
Bibliography 307
Barbeitos, Arlindo. 1985. “2a. Mesa-Redonda.” In Actas do Congresso sobre a Situação
Actual da Lı́ngua Portuguesa no Mundo (1983). Lisbon: Instituto de Cultura e
Lı́ngua Portuguesa, 421–422.
Barros, Agnela. 2002. “A Situação do Português em Angola.” In Uma Polı́tica de Lı́ngua
para o Português, ed. Maria Helena Mira Mateus. Lisbon: Edições Colibri, 35–44.
Barros Ferreira, Mário de. 1988. “Vacanças, Retrete e Companhia Ilimitada. O Fran-
tuguês Tal Qual o Falamos.” Peregrinação. Artes e Letras da Diáspora Portuguesa
19, 16–29.
Batalha, Graciette. 1985. “Situação e Perspectivas do Português e dos Crioulos de
Origem Portuguesa na Ásia Oriental (Macau, Hong Kong, Malaca, Singapura,
Indonésia.” In Actas do Congresso sobre a Situação Actual da Lı́ngua Portuguesa
no Mundo (1983). Lisbon: Instituto de Cultura e Lı́ngua Portuguesa, 287–303.
Baxter, Alan N. 1988. A Grammar of Kristang (Malacca Creole Portuguese). Canberra:
Research School of Pacific Studies, The Australian National University.
Baxter, Alan. 1990. “Some Observations on Verb Serialization in Malacca Creole
Portuguese.” Boletim de Filologia 31 [1986–1987], 161–184.
Baxter, Alan N. 1998. “Morfossintaxe.” In América negra: panorámica actual de
los estudios lingüı́sticos sobre variedades hispanas, portuguesas y criollas, ed.
Mattias Perl and Arnim Schwegler. Lengua y Sociedad en el Mundo Hispánico,
97–137.
Baxter, Alan N. and Dante Lucchesi. 1997. “A Relevância dos Processos de Pidginização
e Crioulização na Formação da Lı́ngua Portuguesa no Brasil.” Estudos Lingüı́sticos
e Literários 19, 65–84. Salvador: Universidade Federal da Bahia, Programa de Pós-
graduação em Letras e Lingüı́stica.
Bechara, Evanildo. 1999. Moderna Gramática Portuguesa. 37th edition. Rio de Janeiro:
Editora Lucerna.
Bendiha, Urbana Pereira. 1998. “Lı́ngua(s), Emigração e Retorno.” In Linguı́stica e
Educação. Actas do Encontro da Associação Portuguesa de Linguı́stica, ed. Rui
Vieira de Castro and Maria de Lourdes Sousa. Lisbon: Edições Colibri, 35–41.
Bento, Pedro 1998. “Para onde caminha o Português?” Portuguese Post (New Jersey),
http://portal.com.pt/lusofore/4.htm.
Biderman, Maria Tereza Camargo. 1972–1973. “Formas de Tratamento e Estruturas
Sociais.” ALFA 18/19, 339–382.
Bisol, Leda. 1992. “Sândi Vocálico Externo: Degeminação e Elisão.” Cadernos de Estu-
dos Lingüı́sticos 23, 83–101.
Bisol, Leda. 1996. “O Sândi e a Ressilabação.’ Letras de Hoje 104, 159–168.
Bisol, Leda, ed. 1996. Introdução a Estudos de Fonologia do Português Brasileiro. Porto
Alegre: EDIPUCRS.
Bloemraad, Irene. 1999. “Portuguese Immigrants and Citizenship in North America.”
In Lusotopie. Enjeux contemporains dans les espaces lusophones. Paris: Editions
Karthala, 103–120.
Borba, Francisco da Silva, ed. 1990. Dicionário Gramatical de Verbos do Português
Contemporâneo do Brasil. São Paulo: Editora da Unesp.
Borba, Francisco S. 2002. Dicionário de Usos do Português do Brasil. São Paulo: Editora
Ática.
Borges, Diniz. 2001. “Falar Português, na Califórnia.” Portal da Lusofonia
(www.portal.com)
308 Bibliography
Borges, Nair Odete da Câmara. 1960. Influência Anglo-Americana no Falar da Ilha de
S. Miguel (Açores). Suplemento II da Revista Portuguesa de Filologia. Coimbra:
Universidade de Coimbra. Instituto de Estudos Románicos.
Bortoni-Ricardo, Stella Maris. 1985. The Urbanization of Rural Dialect Speakers: A
Sociolinguistic Study in Brazil. Cambridge University Press.
Bortoni-Ricardo, Stella Maris. 2002. “Um Modelo para a Análise Sociolingüı́stica do
Português do Brasil.” In Bagno 2002, 333–350.
Brandão, Cláudio. 1963. Sintaxe Clássica Portuguesa. Belo Horizonte: Imprensa da
Universidade de Minas Gerais.
Brasilians, The. 2003. Monthly newspaper. 21 West 46th Street, Suite 203, New York,
NY 10036. www.thebrasiliansonline.com.
Brito, Ana Maria. 1999. “Concordância, Estrutura de Frase e Movimento do Verbo no
Português Europeu, no Português Brasileiro e no Português de Moçambique.” In
Lindley Cintra. Homenagem ao Homem, ao Mestre e ao Cidadão, ed. Isabel Hub
Faria. Lisbon: Edições Cosmos, 333–365.
Britto, Luiz Percival Leme. 2002. “Lı́ngua e Ideologia. A Reprodução do Preconceito.”
In Bagno 2002, 135–154.
Brittos, Valério Cruz. 2001. “A Influência da Globo na Televisão Portuguesa.”
www.iuperj.br/Lusofonia/papers/valerio.
Brown, Roger and Albert Gilman. 1960. “The Pronouns of Power and Solidarity.” In
Style in Language, ed. Thomas A. Sebeok. New York: John Wiley, 253–276.
Bueno, Francisco da Silveira. 1951. Tratado de Semântica Geral Aplicada à Lı́ngua
Portuguesa do Brasil. Segunda Edição Aumentada com a Polêmica. São Paulo:
Edição Saraiva.
Bueno, Francisco da Silveira. 1955. A Formação Histórica da Lı́ngua Portuguesa. Rio
de Janeiro: Livraria Acadêmica.
Bueno, Francisco da Silveira. 1965. Tratado de Semântica Brasileira. 4th edition. São
Paulo: Edição Saraiva.
Burns, Anne and Caroline Coffin. 2001. Analysing English in a Global Context. A
Reader. London and New York: Routledge.
Cagliari, Luiz Carlos. 1999. Acento em Português. Campinas: Edição do Autor.
Cagliari, Luiz Carlos and M. B. M. Abaurre. 1986. “Elementos para uma Investigação
Instrumental das Relações entre Padrões Rı́tmicos e Processos Fonológicos no
Português Brasileiro.” Cadernos de Estudos Lingüı́sticos, 10. Campinas. Unicamp/
IEL.
Cahen, Michel. 1994. “Mozambique, histoire géopolitique d’un pays sans nation.” Luso-
topie. Enjeux Contemporains dans les Espaces Lusophones 1-2, 213–266.
Cahen, Michel, Déjanirah Couto, Peter Ronald Desouza, Louis Marrou, and Alito
Siqueira. 2000. “Problématiques des lusophonies et lusotopies asiatiques.” In Luso-
topie 2000. Lusophonies asiatiques, Asiatiques en lusophonies. Paris: Editions
Karthala, 137–158.
Callou, Dinah and Juanito Avelar. 2002. ‘Estruturas com ter e haver em Anúncios
do Século xix.” In Para a História do Português Brasileiro, vol. 3:
Novos Estudos, ed. Tania Maria Alkmin. São Paulo: Humanitas–FFLCH/USP,
47–67.
Câmara Jr., Joaquim Mattoso. [1963] 1975. “Lı́nguas Européias de Ultramar: O Por-
tuguês do Brasil.” In Dispersos. Rio de Janeiro: Fundação Getúlio Vargas, 71–87.
Bibliography 309
Câmara Jr., Joaquim Mattoso, 1972. The Portuguese Language, trans. Anthony J. Naro.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Campos, Odette G. L. A. de S. and Ângela C. S. Rodrigues. 1992. “Flexão Nominal:
Indicação de Pluralidade no Sintagma Nominal.” In Gramática do Português
Falado, vol. 2: Nı́veis de Análise Lingüı́stica, ed. Rodolfo Ilari. Campinas: Edi-
tora da Unicamp, 111–134.
Cardoso, Suzana Alice Marcelino. 1999. “A Dialectologia no Brasil: Perspectivas.”
DELTA: Documentação de Estudos em Lingüı́stica Teórica e Aplicada, 15, special
number, 233–255.
Cardoso, Suzana Alice Marcelino. 2001. “Dialectologia: Trilhas Seguidas, Caminhos a
Perseguir.” DELTA: Documentação de Estudos em Lingüı́stica Teórica e Aplicada,
17, special number, 25–44.
Cardoso, Suzana and Carlota Ferreira, 1994. A Dialetologia no Brasil. São Paulo: Editora
Contexto.
Carreira, Maria Helena de Araújo. 1995. “Contribuição para o Estudo das ‘Formas de
Tratamento’ em Português: Uma Abordagem da Expressão Linguı́stica da Área
Nocional de ‘Proximidade.’” In O Amor das Letras e das Gentes. In Honor of
Maria de Lourdes Belchior Pontes, ed. João Camilo dos Santos and Frederick G.
Williams. Santa Barbara: Center for Portuguese Studies, 447–454.
Carvalho, Ana Maria. 1998. “The Social Distribution of Spanish and Portuguese Dialects
in the Bilingual Town of Rivera, Uruguay.” Ph.D. dissertation, University of
California, Berkeley.
Carvalho, Ana Maria. 2003. “Rumo a uma Definição do Português Uruguaio.” Revista
Internacional de Lingüı́stica Iberoamericana, 1/2, 125–149.
Castilho, Ataliba Teixeira de. 1989a. In Castilho 1989b, 57–63.
Castilho, Ataliba Teixeira de, ed. 1989b. Português Culto Falado no Brasil. Campinas:
Editora da Unicamp.
Castilho, Ataliba Teixeira de, ed. 1990a. Gramática do Português Falado, vol. 1: A
Ordem. Campinas: Editora da Unicamp/FAPESP.
Castilho, Ataliba Teixeira de. 1990b. “Apresentação do Projeto de Gramática do
Português Falado.” In Castilho 1990a, 7–27.
Castilho, Ataliba Teixeira de. 1990c. “Português Culto Falado no Brasil: história do
Projeto NURC/BR.” In A Linguagem Falada Culta na Cidade de São Paulo, vol. 3,
ed. Dino Preti and Hudinilson Urbano. São Paulo: TAQ/FAPESP, 141–202.
Castilho, Ataliba Teixeira de. 1992. “O Português do Brasil.” In Ilari 1992, 237–272.
Castilho, Ataliba Teixeira de. 1995. “Para uma Gramática do Português Falado.” In
Miscelânea de Estudos Lingüı́sticos, Filológicos e Literários in Memoriam Celso
Cunha, ed. Cilene da Cunha Pereira and Paulo Roberto Dias Pereira. Rio de Janeiro:
Editora Nova Fronteira, 79–101.
Castilho, Ataliba Teixeira de, ed. 1998. Para a História do Português Brasileiro, vol. 1:
Primeiras Idéias. São Paulo: Humanitas–FFLCH/USP.
Castilho, Ataliba Teixeira de. 2001. “Proposta de Agenda para uma Poı́tica Lingüı́stica.”
InAsLı́nguasdaPenı́nsulaIbérica,ed.MariaHelenaMiraMateus.Lisbon:Edições
Colibri, 119–133.
Castilho, Ataliba Teixeira de and Margarida Basilio, eds. 1996. Gramática do Português
Falado, vol. 4: Estudos Descritivos. Campinas: Editora da Unicamp; São Paulo:
FAPESP.
310 Bibliography
Castilho, Ataliba Teixeira de and Dino Preti, eds. 1987. A Linguagem Falada Culta na
Cidade de São Paulo, vol. 2: Diálogos Entre Dois Informantes. São Paulo: FAPESP.
Castro, Ivo, 1991a. Curso de História da Lı́ngua Portuguesa. Lisbon: Universidade
Aberta.
Castro, Ivo, ed. 1991b. Curso de História da Lı́ngua Portuguesa. Leituras Comple-
mentares. Lisbon: Universidade Aberta.
Castro, Ivo. 1999. “O Português Médio segundo Cintra (Nuga Bibliográfica).” In Lindley
Cintra. Homenagem ao Homem, ao Mestre e ao Cidadão, ed. Isabel Hub Faria.
Lisbon: Edições Cosmos.
Castro, Ivo. 2001. “Diversidade Lingüı́stica.” In Mais Lı́nguas, Mais Europa: Celebrar
a Diversidade Linguı́stica e Cultural da Europa, ed. Maria Helena Mira Mateus.
Lisbon: Edições Colibri, 23–25.
Castro, Rui Vieira, Maria de Lourdes Dionı́sio, and Orlanda Gomane. 2001. “O Ensino
do Português em Moçambique. Contexto Linguı́stico, Polı́ticas de Lı́ngua e
Orientações Curriculares.” Revista Portuguesa de Humanidades, 5, 233–
253.
Castro, Yeda Pessoa de. 1980. Os Falares Africanos na Interação Social do Brasil
Colônia. Salvador: Universidade Federal da Bahia.
Castro, Yeda Pessoa de. 1983. “Das Lı́nguas Africanas ao Português Brasileiro.”
Afro-Ásia, 14, 81–106.
Castro, Yeda Pessoa de. 1997. “Lı́nguas Africanas como Objeto de Estudo no Brasil.”
Lusorama, 34, 52–60.
Charpentier, Jean Michel. 1992. “La survivance du créole portugais ‘makaista’ en
Extrème-Orient.” In Actas do Colóquio sobre Crioulos de Base Lexical Portuguesa,
ed. Ernesto d’Andrade and Alain Kihm. Lisbon: Edições Colibri, 81–95.
Cintra, Geraldo. 1983. “Mente: Sufixo adverbial?” Cadernos de Estudos Lingüı́sticos,
5, 73–83.
Cintra,Luı́sFilipeLindley.1971.“NovaPropostadeClassificaçãodosDialectosGalego-
Portugueses.” Boletim de Filologia, 22, 81–116. Reprinted in Cintra 1995, 117–
163.
Cintra, Luı́s Filipe Lindley. 1972. Sobre ‘Formas de Tratamento’ na Lı́ngua Portuguesa.
Lisbon: Livros Horizonte.
Cintra, Luı́s F. Lindley. 1986/1987 (publ. 1990). “Sobre o Mais Antigo Texto Não-
literário Português: A Notı́cia de Torto (Leitura Crı́tica, Data, Lugar de Redacção
e Comentário Linguı́stico).” Boletim de Filologia, 31, 21–77.
Cintra, Luı́s Filipe Lindley. 1995. Estudos de Dialectologia Portuguesa. 2nd edition.
Lisbon: Livraria Sá da Costa Editora.
Cintra, Luı́s Filipe Lindley. 1999a [1981]. “Situação Actual da Lı́ngua Portuguesa no
Mundo.” In Lindley Cintra. Homenagem ao Homem, ao Mestre e ao Cidadão, ed.
Isabel Hub Faria. Lisbon: Edições Cosmos, 289–300.
Cintra, Luı́s Filipe Lindley. 1999b [1971]. “Tu e vós, como Formas de Tratamento de
Deus, em Orações e na Poesia em Lı́ngua Portuguesa.” In Lindley Cintra. Home-
nagem ao Homem, ao Mestre e ao Cidadão, ed. Isabel Hub Faria. Lisbon: Edições
Cosmos, 241–268.
Cintra, Luı́s Filipe Lindley. Forthcoming. “Os Dialectos da Ilha da Madeira no Quadro
Geral dos Dialectos Galego-Portugueses.” Paper given at the II Congresso da
Cultura Madeirense (1990). Boletim de Filologia 30 (cited in Cruz and Saram-
ago 1999).
Bibliography 311
Clements, J. Clancy. 1992. “Foreigner Talk and the Origins of Pidgin Portuguese.”
Journal of Pidgin and Creole Languages, 7:1, 75–92.
Clements, J. Clancy. 2000. “Evidência para a Existência de um Pidgin Português
Asiático.” In Crioulos de Base Portuguesa, ed. Ernesto d’Andrade, Dulce Pereira,
and Maria Antónia Mota. Lisbon: Associação Portuguesa de Linguı́stica, 185–200.
Coelho, F. Adolpho. 1880–1886. “Os Dialectos Românicos ou Neolatinos na Africa,
Asia e América.” Boletim da Sociedade de Geographia de Lisboa. Reprinted 1967
in Estudos Linguı́sticos Crioulos, ed. J. Morais Barbosa. Lisbon: Academia Inter-
nacional de Cultura Portuguesa.
Correio Braziliense. 2003. “Mais da metade dos estudantes brasileiros não compreende
o que lê.” www.theworldpress.com July/1st.
Costa, Lluı́s. 1995. “O Português em Timor e o Português de Timor.” Revista Interna-
cional de Lı́ngua Portuguesa, 14, 5–6.
Coutinho, Ismael de Lima. 1962. Gramática Histórica. 5th edition. Rio de Janeiro:
Livraria Acadêmica.
Couto, Hildo Honório do. 1991. “A Situação da Lı́ngua Portuguesa na Guiné-Bissau.”
Revista Internacional de Lı́ngua Portuguesa, 5/6, 114–124.
Couto, Hildo Honório do. 1994. O Crioulo Português da Guiné-Bissau. Hamburg:
Helmut Buske Verlag.
Couto, Hildo Honório do. 1999. “A Reduplicação em Português.” Lusorama, 40, 29–49.
Cruz, Maria Luı́sa Segura da and João Saramago. 1999. “Açores e Madeira: Autonomia
e Coesão Dialectais.” In Lindley Cintra. Homenagem ao Homem, ao Mestre e ao
Cidadão, ed. Isabel Hub Faria. Lisbon: Edições Cosmos, 707–738.
Cruz, Maria Luı́sa Segura da, João Saramago, and Gabriela Vitorino. 1994. “Os
Dialectos Leoneses em Território Português: Coesão e Diversidade.” In Variação
Linguı́stica no Espaço, no Tempo e na Sociedade. Lisbon: Associação Portuguesa
de Linguı́stica/Edições Colibri, 281–293.
Cruz-Ferreira, Madalena. 1999. “Portuguese (European).” In Handbook of the Inter-
national Phonetic Association. A Guide to the Use of the International Phonetic
Alphabet. Cambridge University Press, pp. 126–130.
Crystal, David. 1994. An Encyclopedic Dictionary of Language and Languages. London:
Penguin Books.
Crystal, David. 1997. The Cambridge Encyclopedia of Language, 2nd edn. Cambridge
University Press.
Crystal, David. 1998. The Cambridge Encyclopedia of The English Language. Cam-
bridge University Press.
Cunha, Antônio Geraldo da. 1998. Dicionário Histórico das Palavras Portuguesas de
Origem Tupi. São Paulo: Companhia Melhoramentos.
Cunha, Celso. 1985. A Questão da Norma Culta Brasileira. Rio de Janeiro: Tempo
Brasileiro.
Cunha, Celso and Luı́s Filipe Lindley Cintra. 1985. Nova Gramática do Português
Contemporâneo. 2nd edition. Rio de Janeiro: Editora Nova Fronteira.
Cunha, Isabel Ferin. 2002. “As telenovelas brasileiras em Portugal.” http://www.bocc.
ubi.pt/pag/cunha-isabel-ferin-telenovelas-brasileiras.pdf.
Cyrino, Sonia Maria L. 1999. “Elementos Nulos Pós-verbais no Português Brasileiro
Oral Contemporâneo.” In Gramática do Português Falado, vol. 7: Estudos
Descritivos, ed. Maria Helena de Moura Neves. Campinas: FAPESP/Unicamp/
Humanitas; São Paulo: FAPESP, 595–625.
312 Bibliography
Daneš, František. 1966. “A Three-Level Approach to Syntax.” Travaux Linguistiques
de Prague, 1, 225–240.
Demasi, Maria do Socorro. 1995. “O -l- Pos-vocálico na Fala Culta do Rio de Janeiro.” In
Miscelânea de Estudos Lingüı́sticos, Filológicos e Literários in Memoriam Celso
Cunha, ed. Cilene da Cunha Pereira and Paulo Roberto Dias Pereira. Rio de Janeiro:
Editora Nova Fronteira, 115–143.
Diálogo com as Ilhas. Sobre Cultura e Literatura de São Tomé e Prı́ncipe. Lisbon:
Edições Colibri, 33–34.
Dias, Eduardo Mayone. 1989. Falares Emigreses. Uma Abordagem ao Seu Estudo.
Lisbon: Instituto de Cultura e Lı́ngua Portuguesa.
Dias-Tatilon, Manuela. 2000. “Influences on Portuguese Spoken in Montreal.” In
Teixeira and da Rosa 2000, 145–157.
Dietrich, Wolf. 1980. Bibliografia da Lı́ngua Portuguesa do Brasil. Tübingen: Gunter
Narr Verlag.
Duarte, Inês. 1996. “A Topicalização em Português Europeu: Uma Análise Compa-
rativa.” In Actas do Congresso Internacional sobre o Português, vol. 1, ed. Inês
Duarte and Isabel Leiria. Lisbon: Edições Colibri, 327–360.
Duarte, Inês. 2002. “Português Europeu. A Lı́ngua Portuguesea e a Sua Variedade
Europeia.” In As Lı́nguas da Penı́nsula Ibérica, ed. Maria Helena Mira Mateus.
Lisbon: Edições Colibri, 101–118.
Duarte, Maria Eugênia L. and Dinah Callou, eds. 2002. Para a História do Por-
tuguês Brasileiro, vol. 4: Notı́cias de Corpora e Outros Estudos. Rio de Janeiro:
UFRJ/Letras, FAPERJ.
Elcock, W. D. 1940. The Romance Languages. London: Faber & Faber.
Elizaincı́n, Adolfo. 1992. Dialectos en contacto. Español y portugués en España y
América. Montevideo: Arca Editorial.
Elizaincı́n, Adolfo, Luis Behares, and Graciela Barrios. 1987. Nos Falemo Brasilero.
Montevideo: Editorial Amesur.
Ellison, Fred P., Francisco Gomes de Matos, et al. 1971. Modern Portuguese. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf.
Endruschat, Annette. 1995. “Acerca da Colocação dos Pronomes Clı́ticos no Português
de Angolanos e Moçambicanos, Sua Problemática no Contexto dos Diferentes
Registos e na Aquisição da Linguagem.” In Actas do 4◦
Congresso da Associação
Internacional de Lusitanistas. Lisbon: Lidel, 95–102.
Endruschat, Annette. 2001. “Lusitanistisches Lehrangebot deutschsprachiger Univer-
sitäten im Sommersemester 2001.” Lusorama, 46, 95–119.
Eslava-Galán, Juan. 1995. La historia de España contada para escépticos. Barcelona:
Editorial Planeta.
Esling, John H. 1998. “Everyone Has an Accent Except Me.” In Language Myths, ed.
Laurie Bauer and Peter Trudgill. London: Penguin Books.
Espı́rito Santo, Carlos. 1985. “Situação Actual da Lı́ngua Portuguesa nas Ilhas de
S. Tomé e Prı́ncipe.” In Actas do Congresso sobre a Situação Actual da Lı́ngua
Portuguesa no Mundo (1983). Lisbon: Instituto de Cultura e Lı́ngua Portuguesa,
253–263.
Estrela, Edite. 1993. A Questão Ortográfica. Reforma e Acordos da Lı́ngua Portuguesa.
Lisbon: Editorial Notı́cias.
Faraco, Carlos Alberto. 2002. “Norma-Padrão Brasileira. Desembaraçando Alguns
Nós.” In Bagno 2002, 37–61.
Bibliography 313
Faraco, Carlos Alberto, ed. 2001. Estrangeirismos. Guerras em Torno da Lı́ngua. São
Paulo: Parábola Editorial.
Faria, Isabel Hub, Emı́lia Ribeiro Pedro, Inês Duarte, and Carlos A. M. Gouveia. 1996.
Introdução à Linguı́stica Geral e Portuguesa. Lisbon: Editorial Caminho.
Ferguson, Charles A. 1959. “Diglossia.” Word, 15, 325–340.
Fernández Rodrı́guez, M. A. et al. 1996. Lingua Inicial e Competencia Lingüı́stica en
Galicia. Vigo: Seminario de Sociolingüı́stica, Real Academia Galega.
Ferreira, Carlota. 1995. “Um Panorama da Dialectologia no Brasil.” Revista Interna-
cional de Lı́ngua Portuguesa, 14, 91–105.
Ferreira, Carlota et al. 1987. Atlas lingüı́stico de Sergipe, vol. 1. UFBA/Fundação
Estadual de Cultura do Estado de Sergipe.
Ferreira, Manuel. 1988. Que Futuro para a Lı́ngua Portuguesa em África? Uma
Perspectiva Sociocultural. Linda-a-Velha: ALAC, África–Literatura, Arte e
Cultura Ltda.
Ferreira, Manuela Barros. 1992. “Dialectologia da Área Galego-Portuguesa.” In
Ferronha et al. 1992, 30–37.
Ferreira, Manuela Barros. 1994. “A Limitrofia do Sendinês.” In Variação Linguı́stica
no Espaço, no Tempo e na Sociedade. Lisbon: Associação Portuguesa de
Linguı́stica/Edições Colibri, 35–42.
Ferreira, Manuela Barros. 2002. “O Mirandês, Lı́ngua Minoritária.” In Uma Polı́tica de
Lı́ngua para o Português, ed. Maria Helena Mira Mateus. Lisbon: Edições Colibri,
137–145.
Ferreira Netto, Waldemar. 2001. Introdução à Fonologia da Lı́ngua Portuguesa. São
Paulo: Editora Hedra.
Ferronha, António Luı́s et al. 1992. Atlas da Lı́ngua Portuguesa na História e no Mundo.
Lisbon: Imprensa Nacional–Casa da Moeda.
Firmino, Gregório. 1995a. “Revisiting the ‘Language Question’ in Post-Colonial Africa:
the Case of Portuguese and Indigenous Languages in Mozambique.” Ph.D. disser-
tation, University of California, Berkeley.
Firmino, Gregório. 1995b. “O Caso do Português e das Lı́nguas Indı́genas de
Moçambique (Subsı́dios para uma Polı́tica Linguı́stica).” Revista Internacional
de Lingua Portuguesa, 13, 33–41.
Freitas, Judith. 1995. “Nós e a gente em elocuções formais.” In Miscelânea de Estu-
dos Lingüı́sticos, Filológicos e Literários in Memoriam Celso Cunha, ed. Cilene
da Cunha Pereira and Paulo Roberto Dias Pereira. Rio de Janeiro: Editora Nova
Fronteira, 155–163.
Gadet, Françoise. 1997. Le français populaire. Deuxième édition corrigée. Paris: Presses
Universitaires de France.
Galves, Charlotte C. 1993. “O Enfraquecimento da Concordância no Português
Brasileiro.” In Roberts and Kato 1993, 387–408.
Galves, Charlotte and Maria Bernadete Marques Abaurre. 1996. “Os Clı́ticos no
Português Brasileiro: Elementos para uma Abordagem Sintático-Fonológica.” In
Castilho and Basilio 1996, 273–319.
Goes, Carlos. 1940. Dicionário de Galicismos.
Gomes de Matos, Francisco. 1996. Pedagogia da Positividade. Recife: Editora da
Universidade Federal de Pernambuco.
Gomes de Matos, Francisco. 2002. Comunicar para o Bem. Rumo à Paz Comunicativa.
São Paulo: Editora Ave Maria.
314 Bibliography
Gonçalves, Perpétua. 1985. “Situação Actual da Lı́ngua Portuguesa em Moçambique.”
In Actas do Congresso sobre a Situação Actual da Lı́ngua Portuguesa no Mundo.
Lisboa 1983, vol. 1, 243–252.
Gonçalves, Perpétua. 1996. Português de Moçambique. Uma Variedade em Formação.
Maputo: Livraria Universitária e Faculdade de Letras da Universidade Eduardo
Mondlane.
Greenough, J. B. et al. 1903. New Latin Grammar. Boston: Ginn & Company.
Guy, Gregory R. 1981. “Linguistic Variation in Brazilian Portuguese: Aspects of the
Phonology, Syntax, and Language History.” Ph.D. dissertation, University of
Pennsylvania.
Guy, Gregory R. 1989. “On the Nature and Origins of Popular Brazilian Portuguese.” In
Estudios sobre Español de América y Lingüistica Afroamericana. Bogotá: Instituto
Caro y Cuervo, 226–244.
Hammermüller, Gunther. 1984. “ ‘Tu, é cachorro’?–Bemerkungen zum Duzen in Por-
tugal.” In Umgangssprache in der Iberoromania, ed. Günter Holtus and Edgar
Radtke. Tübingen: Gunter Narr Verlag, 153–164.
Head, Brian F. 1973. “O Estudo do ‘r-caipira’ no Contexto Social.” Revista Vozes, 67:8,
43–49.
Head, Brian F. 1976. “Social Factors in the Use of Pronouns for the Addressee in Brazil-
ian Portuguese.” In Readings in Portuguese Linguistics, ed. J. Schmidt-Radefeldt.
Amsterdam: North-Holland Publishing Company, 289–348.
Head, Brian F. 1994. “O ‘Dialecto Brasileiro’ segundo Leite de Vasconcellos.” In
Variação linguı́stica no espaço, no tempo e na sociedade. Lisbon: Associação
Portuguesa de Linguı́stica/Colibri–Artes Gráficas, 297–315.
Head, Brian F. 1996. “Os Parâmetros da Variação Dialectal no Português do Brasil.” In
Actas do Congresso Internacional sobre o Português, vol. 3, ed. Inês Duarte and
Isabel Leiria. Lisbon: Edições Colibri, 141–165.
Helms-Park, Rena. 2000. “Two Decades of Heritage Language Education.” In Teixeira
and da Rosa 2000, 127–144.
Henriques, Maria Augusta. 1985. “Situação e Perspectivas do Português na Guiné-
Bissau.” In Actas do Congresso sobre a Situação Actual da Lı́ngua Portuguesa
no Mundo (1983). Lisbon: Instituto de Cultura e Lı́ngua Portuguesa, 234–
241.
Hensey, Frederick. 1972. The Sociolinguistics of the Brazilian-Uruguayan Border. The
Hague, Mouton.
Hensey, Frederick. 1982. “Spanish, Portuguese and Fronteiriço: Languages in Contact
in Northern Uruguay.” International Journal of the Sociology of Language, 34,
9–23.
Holm, John. 1987. “Creole Influence on Popular Brazilian Portuguese.” Pidgin and
Creole Languages: Essays in Memory of John E. Reinecke. Honolulu: University
Press of Hawaii, 406–430.
Holm, John. 1989. Pidgins and Creoles, 2 vols. Cambridge University Press.
Holm, John. 1992. “Vernacular Brazilian Portuguese: A Semi-Creole.” In Actas do
Colóquio sobre “Crioulos de Base Lexical Portuguesa,” ed. Ernesto d’Andrade
and A. Kihm. Lisbon: Colibri, 37–66.
Holm, John. 2000. An Introduction to Pidgins and Creoles. Cambridge University
Press.
Bibliography 315
Holm, John. 2004. Languages in Contact. The Partial Restructuring of Vernaculars.
Cambridge University Press.
Houaiss, Antônio. 1960. Sugestões para uma Polı́tica da Lı́ngua. Rio de Janeiro:
Ministério da Educação e Cultura, Instituto Nacional do Livro.
Houaiss, Antônio. 1985. O Português no Brasil. Rio de Janeiro: Unibrade.
Houaiss, Antônio. 2001. Dicionário Houaiss da Lı́ngua Portuguesa. Rio de Janeiro:
Editora Objetiva.
Huber, Joseph [1933] 1986. Gramática do Português Antigo, trans. Maria Manuela
Gouveia Delille. Lisbon: Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian.
Hughes, Geoffrey. 1998. Swearing. A Social History of Foul Language, Oaths, and
Profanity in English. London: Penguin Books.
Hutchins, John A. 1975. “Use and Frequency of Occurrence of Verb Forms in Spoken
Brazilian Portuguese.” Hispania, 58:1, 59–67.
IBGE–Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatı́stica. www.ibge.gov.br.
IBGE (Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatı́stica) 2000. Brasil: 500 Anos de Povoa-
mento. Rio de Janeiro.
Ilari, Rodolfo, 1992. Lingüı́stica Românica. São Paulo: Editora Ática.
Ilari, Rodolfo. 1996. “A Categoria Advérbio na Gramática do Português Falado.” In
Actas do Congresso Internacional sobre o Português, vol. 1, ed. Inês Duarte and
Isabel Leiria. Lisbon: Edições Colibri, 107–139.
Ilari, Rodolfo, Carlos Franchi, Maria Helena de Moura Neves, and Sirio Possenti. 1996.
“Os Pronomes Pessoais do Português Falado: Roteiro para a Análise.” In Castilho
and Basilio 1996, 79–166.
IPA. 1999. Handbook of the International Phonetic Association. A Guide to the Use of
the International Phonetic Alphabet. Cambridge University Press.
Jensen, John B. 1981. “Forms of Address in Brazilian Portuguese: Standard European or
Oriental Honorifics?” In From Linguistics to Literature. Romance Studies Offered
to Francis M. Rogers, ed. Bernmard H. Bichakjian. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
45–61.
Jensen, John B. 1977. “A Investigação de Formas de Tratamento e a Telenovela: A
Escalada, parte I.” Revista Brasileira de Lingüı́stica, 4:2, 45–73.
Jensen, John B. n.d. Não Me Chame de Senhor: Aspectos de Formas de Tratamento no
Português do Brasil. Printout.
Jeroslow [McKinney], Elizabeth Helen. 1974. “Rural Cearense Portuguese: A Study
of One Variety of Nonstandard Brazilian Speech.” Doctoral dissertation, Cornell
University.
Joel, António Augusto. 2000. “Literature of Portuguese Background in Canada.” In
Teixeira and da Rosa 2000, 223–235.
Joos, Martin. 1967 [1961]. The Five Clocks. A Linguistic Excursion Into The Five Styles
of English Usage. New York: Harcourt, Brace & World.
Katamba, Francis. 1993. Morphology. New York: St. Martin’s Press.
Kato, Mary. 1993. “Recontando a História das Relativas em uma Perspectiva
Paramétrica.” In Roberts and Kato 1993, 223–261.
Katupha, J. M. M. 1994. “The Language Situation and Language Use in Mozambique”
In African Languages, Development and the State, ed. Richard Fardon and Graham
Furniss. London: Routledge, 89–96.
Kehdi, Valter. 1990. Morfemas do Português. São Paulo: Editora Ática.
316 Bibliography
King, Brian. 2001. “Na Kal Lı́ngua Ke Bu Na Skirbi Nel? Linguistic Conflict and
Narrating the Nation in Guinea-Bissau.” Graduate paper, University of California,
Berkeley. Published as King 2004.
King, Brian. 2004. “Conflicto Linguı́stico e Narrativa da Nação.” Soronda. Revista de
Estudos Guineenses. Nova Série, 7, 113–172.
Koike, Dale A. 1992. Language and Social Relationship in Brazilian Portuguese. The
Pragmatics of Politeness. Austin: University of Texas Press.
Ladefoged, Peter. 2001. A Course in Phonetics. 4th edition. Fort Worth: Harcourt College
Publishers.
Larsen, Ingmar. 2003. “O império português responde por escrito ou estamos numa nice–
sobre situaçao luso-africana na perspectiva dos estudos de pós-colonialismo.”
Unpublished ms.
Lee, Seung-Hwa. 2000. “Sobre os Compostos do PB.” DELTA: Documentação de Estu-
dos em Lingüı́stica Teórica e Aplicada, 13:1, 1–15.
Leite, Yonne and Dinah Callou. 2002. Como Falam os Brasileiros. Rio de Janeiro: Jorge
Zahar Editor.
Le Page, R. and David De Camp. 1960. Jamaican Creole. London: Macmillan.
Lessa, Luiz Carlos. 1966. O Modernismo Brasileiro e a Lı́ngua Portuguesa. Rio de
Janeiro: Fundação Getúlio Vargas. 1976. 2nd edition. Rio de Janeiro: Grifo.
Lipski, John. 1975. “Vowel Nasalization in Brazilian Portuguese.” Canadian Journal of
Linguistics, 20, 58–67.
Lopes, Armando Jorge. 1997a. Language Policy. Principles and Problems. Maputo:
Universidade Eduardo Mondlane.
Lopes, Armando Jorge. 1997b. “Language Policy in Mozambique: A Taboo?” In African
Linguistics at the Crossroads: Papers from Kwaluseni, ed. R. K. Herbert. Cologne:
Rüdiger Köppe, 485–500.
Lopes, Armando Jorge. 2002a. “Em Direcção ao Primeiro Léxico de Usos do Português
Moçambicano.” www.fortunecity.com.
Lopes, Armando Jorge. 2002b. “O Português Como Lı́ngua Segunda em África: Prob-
lemáticas de Planificação e Polı́tica Linguı́stica.” In Uma Polı́tica de Lı́ngua para
o Português, ed. Maria Helena Mira Mateus. Lisbon: Edições Colibri, 15–31.
Lopes, Armando Jorge. 2002c. “Alguns Dados sobre a Situação do Português em
Moçambique.” In Uma Polı́tica de Lı́ngua para o Português, ed. Maria Helena
Mira Mateus. Lisbon: Edições Colibri, 51–54.
Lopes, Armando Jorge, Salvador Júlio Sitoe, and Paulinho José Nhamuende. 2002.
Moçambicanismos: Para um Léxico de Usos do Português Moçambicano. Maputo:
Livraria Universitária, Universidade Eduardo Mondlane.
Lopes, Célia Regina dos Santos. 2002. “De gente para a gente: O Século xix como Fase
de Transição.” In Para a História do Português Brasileiro, vol. 3: Novos Estudos,
ed. Tania Maria Alkmin. São Paulo: Humanitas–FFLCH/USP, 25–46.
Lopes, David. 1969. A Expansão da Lı́ngua Portuguesa no Oriente Durante os Séculos
XVI, XVII e XVII. 2nd edition revised by Luı́s de Matos. Porto: Portucalense Editora.
Lorenzino, Gerardo Augusto. 2000. “Uma Avaliação Socio-linguı́stica sobre São Tomé
e Prı́ncipe.” In Crioulos de Base Portuguesa, ed. Ernesto d’Andrade, Dulce Pereira,
and Maria Antónia Mota. Lisbon: Associação Portuguesa de Linguı́stica, 435–451.
Lucchesi, Dante. 2002. “Norma Lingüı́stica e Realidade Social.” In Bagno 2002,
63–92.
Bibliography 317
Machado, Aires da Mata, Filho. 1940. O Negro e o Garimpo em Minas Gerais. Published
as offprint (separata) of Revista do Arquivo Municipal (São Paulo). 1964 2nd
edition, Rio de Janeiro: Editora Civilização Brasileira.
Magalhães, Erasmo D’Almeida. 1983. “Notas aos Estudos sobre o Português Falado no
Brasil.” In III Encontro de Professores de Lı́ngua Portuguesa. O Português falado
no Brasil. Contribuição para Seu Estudo. Taubaté: Universidade de Taubaté, 5–42.
Magalhães, Erasmo D’Almeida and Maria Resende San-Martin. 1983. “Seleção Bib-
liográfica e Comentários sobre o Português Falado no Brasil.” In III Encontro de
Professores de Lı́ngua Portuguesa. O Português Falado no Brasil. Contribuição
para Seu Estudo. Taubaté: Universidade de Taubaté, 43–105.
Mann, Charles and Gabriella Wong. 1999. “Issues in Language Planning and Language
Education: A Survey from Macao on Its Return to Chinese Sovereignty.” Language
Problems & Language Planning, 23:1, 17–36.
Marcos Marı́n, Francisco A. 2002. “El Español: Variantes Europea y Americana.” In As
Lı́nguas da Penı́nsula Ibérica, ed. Mira Mateus. Lisbon: Edições Colibri, 35–48.
Marcuschi, Luiz Antônio. 1989. “Marcadores Conversacionais do Português Brasileiro:
Formas, Posições e Funções.” In Castilho 1989b, 281–321.
Marques, Maria Helena Duarte. 1995. “Subordinação e Complexidade Sintática.” In
Miscelânea de Estudos Lingüı́sticos, Filológicos e Literários in Memoriam Celso
Cunha, ed. Cilene da Cunha Pereira and Paulo Roberto Dias Pereira. Rio de Janeiro:
Editora Nova Fronteira, 277–287.
Marques,IreneGuerra.1985.“AlgumasConsideraçõessobreaProblemáticaLinguı́stica
em Angola.” In Actas do Congresso sobre a Situação Actual da Lı́ngua Portuguesa
no Mundo. Lisboa 1983, vol. 1, 204–224.
Marroquim, Mário. 1934. A Lı́ngua do Nordeste (Alagoas e Pernambuco). São Paulo:
Companhia Editora Nacional.
Martin, John. 1976. “Tense, Mood, and the ‘Inflected Infinitive’ in Portuguese.” In
Readings in Portuguese Linguistics, ed. Jürgen Schmidt-Radefeldt. Amsterdam:
North Holland.
Martinho, Ana Maria. 1991. “Notas sobre o Ensino do Português em Angola–Rumos e
Desvios.” Revista Internacional de Lı́ngua Portuguesa, 5/6, 165–168.
Martins, Ana Maria. 1999. “Ainda ‘os mais antigos textos escritos em português.’ Docu-
mentos de 1175 a 1252.” In Lindley Cintra. Homenagem ao Homem, ao Mestre e
ao Cidadão, ed. Isabel Hub Faria. Lisbon: Edições Cosmos, 491–534.
Martins, Cristina. 1995. “O Desaparecimento do Mirandês na Cidade de Miranda do
Douro: Uma Leitura dos Estudos de Filologia Mirandesa de José Leite de Vas-
concelos.” In Variação Linguı́stica no Espaço, no Tempo e na Sociedade. Lisbon:
Associação Portuguesa de Linguı́stica/Edições Colibri, 95–105.
Martins, Eleni Jacques. 1989. “Pronomes Pessoais Complementos de 3a
Pessoa: Uma
Revisão de Conceitos e Normas.” In Castilho 1989b, 103–118.
Martins, Helena and Vanise Medeiros. 1998. “Considerações Sobre a Flutuação no
Emprego do Subjuntivo no Português do Brasil e Seu Impacto no Ensino de Alunos
de Português como Segunda Lı́ngua.” In Actas do Quinto Congresso da Associação
Internacional de Lusitanistas, ed. T. F. Earle. Oxford/Coimbra: Edições Técnicas,
169–175.
Mascherpe, Mário. 1970. Análise Comparativa dos Sistemas Fonológicos do Inglês e
do Português. Assis: Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciências e Letras de Assis.
318 Bibliography
Massini-Cagliari, Gladis. 1992. Acento e Ritmo. São Paulo: Editora Contexto.
Mata, Inocência. 1998. “Um Olhar sobre Duas Lı́nguas Minoritárias.” In Diálogo com as
Ilhas. Sobre Cultura e Literatura de São Tomé e Prı́ncipe. Lisbon: Edições Colibri,
33–34.
Matos, I. A. 1991. “Le bilinguisme des jeunes issus de l’immigration portuguaise en
France.” Doctoral dissertation. C.D.L, Université Stendhal, Grenoble III.
Matthews, Peter. 1997. The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Linguistics. New York: Oxford
University Press.
Matusse, Renato. 1997. “The Future of Portuguese in Mozambique.” In African Lin-
guistics at the Crossroads: Papers from Kwaluseni, ed. R. K. Herbert. Cologne:
Rüdiger Köppe, 541–554.
McArthur, Tom. 1992. The Oxford Companion to the English Language. Oxford
University Press.
McWhorter, John H. 2000. The Missing Spanish Creoles: Recovering the Birth of
Plantation Contact Languages. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Megenney, William W. 1986. El palenquero: un lenguaje post-criollo de Colombia.
Bogotá: Instituto Caro y Cuervo.
Megenney, William W. 2001. “A Penetração de Influências Africanas no Brasil.”
Lusorama, 47–48, 94–105.
Megenney, William W. 2002. “(H)ouve um Linguajar Crioulo Panbrasileiro?” Hispania,
85:3, 587–596.
Mello, Heliana Ribeiro de. 1996. “Contato Linguı́stico na Formação do Português
Vernáculo do Brasil.” In Actas do Congresso Internacional sobre o Português,
vol. 3, ed. Inês Duarte and Isabel Leiria. Lisbon: Edições Colibri, 353–367.
Melo, Gladstone Chaves de. 1971. A Lı́ngua do Brasil. 2nd edition. Rio de Janeiro:
Fundação Getúlio Vargas.
Mendonça, Luı́s. 2000. História dos Açores. Visāo Geral (sécs. XV–XX). São Miguel:
Nova Gráfica.
Mesquita, A. 1986. “Educação Bilingue para Filhos de Emigrantes,” Jornal de Psicolo-
gia, 5/2, 12–16.
MICS (Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys) 1997. Inquérito de Indicadores Múltiplos.
Luanda: INE/Unicef.
Migalhas (migalhas.migalhas@uol.com.br). 2004. “Racismo.” January 16, # 844.
Mingas, Amélia. 2000. Interferência do Kimbundo no Português Falado em Lwanda.
Oporto: Campodas Letras Editores.
Mingas, Amélia. 2002. “Ensino da Lı́ngua Portuguesa no Contexto Angolano.” In Uma
Polı́tica de Lı́ngua para o Português, ed. Maria Helena Mira Mateus. Lisbon:
Edições Colibri, 45–50.
Morais, Maria Aparecida C. R. Torres. 2003. “EPP Generalizado, Sujeito Nulo e Lı́nguas
de Configuração Discursiva,” Letras de Hoje, 38:1, 71–98.
Mota, Maria Antónia. 2001. “Variação e Diversidade Linguı́stica em Portugal.” In Mais
Lı́nguas, Mais Europa: Celebrar a Diversidade Linguı́stica e Cultural da Europa,
ed. Maria Helena Mira Mateus. Lisboa: Edições Colibri, 27–34.
MRPR, 2002. Manual de Redação da Presidência da República. 2nd edition. Brası́lia:
Presidência da República, Casa Civil, Subchefia para Assuntos Jurı́dicos.
Naro, Anthony J. 1978. “A Study on the Origns of Pidginization,” Language, 54:2,
315–347.
Bibliography 319
Naro, Anthony J. 1981. “Portuguese in Brazil.” In Trends in Romance Linguistics and
Philology, vol. 1: Romance Comparative and Historical Linguistics, ed. Rebecca
Posner and John N. Green. The Hague: Mouton Publishers, 413–462.
Naro, Anthony J., ed. 1976. Tendências Atuais da Lingüı́stica e da Filologia no Brasil.
Trans. Maria Candida J. Bardenave and Marilda Winkler Averbug. Rio de Janeira:
Livraria Francisco Alves Editora.
Naro, Anthony J. and Miriam Lemle. 1976. “Syntactic Diffusion.” In Papers from the
Parasession on Diachronic Syntax. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society, 22l–140.
Naro, Anthony J. and Maria Marta Pereira Scherre. 1991. “Variação e Mudança
Lingüı́stica: Fluxos e Contrafluxos na Comunidade de Fala,” Cadernos de Estudos
Lingüı́sticos, 20, 9–16.
Naro,AnthonyJ.andMariaMartaPereiraScherre.1993.“SobreasOrigensdoPortuguês
Popular do Brasil,” DELTA Revista de Documentação de Estudos em Lingüı́stica
Teórica e Aplicada 9, special number, 437–454.
Naro, Anthony J. and Maria Marta Pereira Scherre. 2000. “Variable Concord in
Portuguese: The Situation in Brazil and Portugal.” In Language Change and Lan-
guage Contact in Pidgins and Creoles. ed. John McWhorter. Amsterdam: Ben-
jamins, 235–255.
Nascentes, Antenor. 1922. O Linguajar Carioca. Rio de Janeiro: Sussekind de Men-
donça. 2nd edition 1953. Rio de Janairo: Organização Simões.
Needell, Jeffrey D. 1987. A Tropical Belle Epoque. Elite Culture and Society in Turn-
of-the-Century Rio de Janeiro. Cambridge University Press.
Neves, Maria Helena de Moura, 2000. Gramática de Usos do Português. São Paulo:
Editora UNESP.
Neves, Maria Helena de Moura, 2003. Guia de Uso do Português: Confrontando Regras
e Usos. São Paulo: Editora UNESP.
Neves, Maria Helena de Moura, ed. 1999. Gramática do Português Falado, vol. 7: Novos
estudos. São Paulo: Humanitas/FFLCH/USP; Campinas: Editora da Unicamp.
Noivo, Edite. 2000. “Diasporic Identities at Century’s End.” In Teixeira and da Rosa
2000, 158–171.
Nooteboom, Sieb. 1997. “The Prosody of Speech: Melody and Rhythm.” In The Hand-
book of Phonetic Sciences, ed. William J. Hardcastle and John Laver. London:
Blackwell Publishers, pp. 640–673.
Nunes, Fernando. 1998. Portuguese-Canadians from Sea to Sea. A National Needs
Assessment. Toronto: Portuguese-Canadian National Congress.
Oliveira, Fernão de. [1536] 2000. Gramática da Linguagem Portuguesa, ed. Amadeu
Torres and Carlos Assunção. Lisbon: Academia das Ciências de Lisboa.
Oliveira, Gilvan Müller de. 2003. “Lei de Co-oficialização de Lı́nguas Indı́genas.”
E-mail message to the Comunidade Virtual da Linguagem (CVL), http://groups.
yahoo.com/group/CVL, dated November 3, 2003. Also in Informe 2003/01, “Lei de
Co-oficialização de Lı́nguas Indı́genas,” IPOL–Instituto de Investigação e Desen-
volvimento em Polı́tica Lingüı́stica (www.ipol.org.br).
Oliveira, M. António F. de. 1991. “Quimbundismos no Português Literário do Século
xviii nas Áreas Angolana e Brasileira,” Revista Internacional de Lı́ngua Por-
tuguesa, 5/6, 148–160.
Oliveira, Mário de. “Fórmula 1.” Minas Gerais, Suplemento Literário 519, August 28,
1976, p. 4.
320 Bibliography
Oliveira, Sandi Michele de. Forthcoming. “A Retrospective on Address in Portugal
(1982–2002).”
Paiva, Maria da Conceição de and Maria Marta Pereira Scherre. 1999. “Retrospectiva
Sociolingüı́stica: Contribuições do Peul.” DELTA Documentação de Estudos em
Lingüı́stica Teórica e Aplicada, 15, special issue, 201–232.
Pap, Leo. 1949. Portuguese-American Speech. New York: King’s Crown Press.
Penny, Ralph. 1991. A History of the Spanish Language. Cambridge University Press.
Pereira, Dulce. 2000. “Um Crioulo de Outro Planeta.” In Crioulos de Base Portuguesa,
ed. Ernesto d’Andrade et al. Lisbon: Associação Portuguesa de Lingüı́stica, 27–
46.
Pereira, Zélia. 2000. “Os Jesuı́tas em Moçambique.” In Lusotopie 2000. Lusophnies
asiatiques, Asiatiques en lusophonies. Paris: Editions Karthala, 81–105.
Peres, João Andrade and Telmo Móia. 1995. Áreas Crı́ticas da Lı́ngua Portuguesa.
Lisboa: Editorial Caminho.
Perini, Mário A. 1997. Sofrendo a Gramática. Ensaios Sobre a Linguagem. São Paulo:
Editora Ática.
Perini, Mário A. 1998. Gramática Descritiva do Português. 3rd edition. São Paulo:
Editora Ática.
Perini, Mário A. 2002a. Modern Portuguese. A Reference Grammar. New Haven: Yale
University Press.
Perini, Mário A. 2002b. “A Lı́ngua do Brasil Amanhã.” (www.linguanet.hpg.com.br).
Perini, Mário A. 2004. Talking Brazilian. A Brazilian Portuguese Pronunciation Work-
book. New Haven: Yale University Press.
Pessoa, Marlos de Barros. 1998. “Proposta de Periodização para a História do Por-
tuguês Brasileiro.” In Actas do Quinto Congresso da Associação Internacional de
Lusitanistas, ed. T. F. Earle. Oxford/Coimbra: Edições Técnicas, 229–245.
Pinto, Edith Pimentel, ed. 1978. O Português do Brasil. Textos Crı́ticos e Teóricos, vol. 1:
1820/1920. Fontes para a teoria e a história. Rio de Janeiro: Livros Técnicos e
Cientı́ficos.
Pinto, Edith Pimentel, ed. 1981. O Português do Brasil. Textos Crı́ticos e Teóricos, vol. 2:
1920/1945. Fontes para a teoria e a história. Rio de Janeiro: Livros Técnicos e
Cientı́ficos.
Ploae-Hanganu, Mariana. 1998. “A Dinâmica Lexical do Crioulo Português da África.”
In Actas do Quinto Congresso da Associação Internacional de Lusitanistas, ed.
T. F. Earle. Oxford/Coimbra: Edições Técnicas, 255–265.
Pontes, Eunice Souza Lima. 1973. Estrutura do Verbo no Português Coloquial. 2nd
edition. Petrópolis: Editora Vozes.
Pontes, Eunice Souza Lima. 1987. O Tópico no Português do Brasil. Campinas: Pontes
Editores.
Pontı́fice, Fernanda. 1991. “A Lı́ngua Portuguesa no Ensino,” Revista Internacional de
Lı́ngua Portuguesa, 4, 86–90.
Pontı́fice, Fernanda. 2002. “S. Tomé e Prı́ncipe: Breve Caracterização do Quadro
Linguı́stico.” In Em Uma Polı́tica de Lı́ngua para o Português, ed. Maria Helena
Mira Mateus. Lisbon: Edições Colibri, 55–60.
Possenti, Sı́rio. 2002. “Um Programa Mı́nimo.” In Bagno 2002, 317–332.
Prado Junior, Caio. 1942. Formação do Brasil Contemporâneo. São Paulo: Livraria
Martins Editora.
Bibliography 321
Prata, Mario. 1994. Dicionário de Português: Schifaizfavoire. Crônicas Lusitanas. Rio
de Janeiro: Editora Globo.
Preti, Dino. 1984. A Linguagem Proibida. Um Estudo sobre a Linguagem Erótica. São
Paulo: T. A. Queiroz, Editor.
Preti, Dino, ed. 1997. O Discurso Oral Culto. São Paulo: Humanitas–FFLCH/USP.
Público. 2000. “ ‘Portunhol’ Será a Lı́ngua Brasileira dentro de 300 Anos.” April 4, 7.
Rameh, Clea A. S. 1962. “Contrastive Analysis of English and Portuguese Intonation.”
M.S. Dissertation No. 2118. Georgetown University.
Ramos, Belmiro. 1985. “Situação Actual da Lı́ngua Portuguesa em Cabo Verde.” In
Actas do Congresso sobre a Situação Actual da Lı́ngua Portuguesa no Mundo
(1983). Lisbon: Instituto de Cultura e Lı́ngua Portuguesa, 225–232.
Raposo, Eduardo. 1986. “On the Null Object in European Portuguese.” In Studies in
Romance Linguistics, ed. Osvaldo Jaeggli and Carmen Silva-Corvalán. Dordrecht:
Foris, 373–390.
Raposo,Eduardo.1995.“Próclise,Ênclise,eaPosiçãodoVerboemPortuguêsEuropeu.”
In O Amor das Letras e das Gentes. In Honor of Maria de Lourdes Belchior Pontes,
ed. João Camilo dos Santos and Frederick G. Williams. Santa Barbara: Center for
Portuguese Studies, 455–481.
Rebelo, Aldo. 1999. Projeto de Lei 1676/1999. http://www.camara.gov.br/aldorebelo.
Ribeiro, Ilza. 1993. “A Formação dos Tempos Compostos: A Evolução Histórica das
Formas ter, haver e ser.” In Roberts and Kato 1993, 343–386.
Ribeiro, João. 1921. A Lı́ngua Nacional. Notas Aproveitáveis. São Paulo: Editora da
Revista do Brasil.
Ribeiro, José et al. 1977. Esboço de um Atlas Lingüı́stico de Minas Gerais vol. 1. Rio
de Janeiro: MEC/Fundação Casa de Rui Barbosa, Universidade de Juiz de Fora.
Rı̈ı̈ho, Timo. 1999 [1990]. “Entrevista com Luı́s Filipe Lindley Cintra.” In Lindley
Cintra. Homenagem ao Homem, ao Mestre e ao Cidadão, ed. Isabel Hub Faria.
Lisbon: Edições Cosmos, 57–71.
Risso, Mercedes Sanfelice. 1996. “O Articulador Discursivo ‘então.’” In Castilho and
Basilio 1996, 423–451.
Risso, Mercedes Sanfelice. 1999. “Aspectos Textuais-Interativos fos Marcadores Dis-
cursivos de Abertura bom, bem, olha, ah, no Português Culto Falado.” In Gramática
do Português Falado, vol. 7: Novos Estudos, ed. Maria Helena de Moura Neves.
Campinas: Humanitas FFLCH/USP, 259–296.
Roberts, Ian. 1993. “O português brasileiro no contexto das lı́nguas românicas,” In
Roberts and Kato 1993, 409–425.
Roberts, Ian and Mary A. Kato. 1993. Português Brasileiro. Uma Viagem Diacrônica.
Campinas: Editora da Unicamp.
Rocha-Trindade, Maria Beatriz. 2000a. “The Portuguese Diaspora.” In Teixeira and da
Rosa 2000, 15–33.
Rocha-Trindade, Maria Beatriz. 2000b. “Uma imigração retribuı́da. A presença dos
brasileiros em Portugal.” Camões – Revista de Letras e Culturas Lusófonas
(October–November), 120–127.
Rodrigues, Ada Natal. 1974. O Dialeto Caipira na Região de Piracicaba. São Paulo:
Editorial Ática S.A.
Rodrigues, Aryon D. 1986. Lı́nguas Brasileiras: para o Conhecimento das Lı́nguas
Indı́genas. São Paulo: Loyola.
322 Bibliography
Rodrigues, Aryon D. 2001. “As Lı́nguas Gerais Sul-Americanas.” www.unb.br/il/lali/
lingerais.htm.
Rodrigues, Maria de Lourdes Bravo da Costa. 2000. “The Status of Portuguese Language
and Some Cultural Aspects in Goa.” In Lusotopie 2000. Lusophonies asiatiques,
Asiatiques en lusophonies. Paris: Editions Karthala 597–609.
Rogers, Francis M. 1946. “Insular Portuguese Pronunciation: Madeira,” Hispanic
Review, 14: 235–253.
Rogers, Francis M. 1948. “Insular Portuguese Pronunciation: Porto Santo and Eastern
Azores,” Hispanic Review, 16: 1–23.
Rogers, Francis M. 1949. “Insular Portuguese Pronunciation: Central and Western
Azores,” Hispanic Review, 17: 47–70.
Rogers, Francis M. 1979. Atlantic Islanders of the Azores and Madeiras. North Quincy,
MA: The Christopher Publishing House.
Rohlfs Gerhard. 1960. La diferenciación léxica de las lenguas románicas. Publicaciones
de la Revista de Filologia Española, 14. Madrid: CSIC.
Rona, Pedro. 1965. El dialecto fronterizo del Norte del Uruguay. Montevideo: Adolfo
Linardi.
Rosa, João Guimarães. 1987. Grande Sertão. Aus dem brasilianischen Portugiesisch
von Curt Meyer-Clason. Cologne: Verlag Kiepenheuer & Witsch.
Rosa, João Guimarães. 1990. Grande Sertão. Traduzione dal brasiliano e glossario di
Edoardo Bizzarri. 4th edition. Milan: Feltrinelli.
Rosa, João Guimarães. 1991. Diadorim. [Grande Sertão: Veredas.] Traduit du brésilien
par Maryvonne Lapouge-Pettorelli. Paris: Albin Michel.
Rossi, Nelson et al. 1963. Atlas Prévio dos Falares Baianos. Rio de Janeiro: MEC/INL.
Sampaio, Mário Arnaud. 1995. Palavras Indı́genas no Linguajar Brasileiro. Porto
Alegre: Sagra–D. C. Luzzatto.
Sandalo, Maria Filomena Spatti. 2000. “Morfologia.” In Introdução à Lingúı́stica.
Domı́nios e Fronteiras, vol. 1, ed. Fernanda Mussalim and Anna Christina Bentes.
São Paulo: Cortez Editora, 181–206.
Sandemann, Antônio José. 1986. Wortbildung im heutigen brasilianischen Por-
tugiesisch. Bonn: Romanistischer Verlag.
Sandemann, Antônio José. 1995. “A Composição no Português Falado.” In Gramática
do Português Falado, vol. 3: As Abordagens, ed. Ataliba Teixeira de Castilho.
Campinas: Editora da Unicamp/FAPESP, 398–404.
Santos, Maria José de Moura. 1964–1965. “Os Falares Fronteiriços de Trás-os-Montes,”
Revista Portuguesa de Filologia, 13, 1–2, 57–253.
Santos, Valdete Pinheiro. 1991. “Os Vocábulos de Origem Africana no Espaço Literário
de Lı́ngua Portuguesa: Expresão de Variantes,” Revista Internacional de Lı́ngua
Portuguesa, 5/6, 136–147.
Sapir, Edward. 1921. Language. An Introduction to the Study of Speech. Nova York,
Harcourt, Brace.
Saraiva, José Hermano. 1997. Portugal: A Companion History. Edited and expanded by
Ian Robertson and Lat C. Taylor. Manchester: Carcanet Press Limited.
Schei, Ane. 2003. “Algumas observações sobre a colocação dos pronomes clı́ticos no
português brasileiro falado.” Studia Neophilologica 75: 58–70.
Scherre, Maria Marta Pereira and Anthony J. Naro. 1993. “Duas Dimensões do Para-
lelismo Formal na Concordância Verbal no Português Popular do Brasil.” DELTA
Bibliography 323
Revista de Documentação de Estudos em Lingüı́stica Teórica e Aplicada 9:1,
1–14.
Scherre, Maria Marta Pereira and Anthony J. Naro. 2000. “Garimpando as Origens
Estruturais do Português Brasileiro.” Paper presented at the International Congress
on 500 Years of the Portuguese Language in Brazil (May 2000). Universidade de
Évora, Portugal (www.linguanet.hpg.com.br).
Schiffman, Harold F. 1997. “Diglossia as a Sociolinguistic Situation.” The Handbook
of Sociolinguistics, ed. Florian Coulmas. Oxford: Blackwell.
Schwegler, Armin and John Lipski. 1993. “Creole Spanish and Afro-Hispanic.” In Bilin-
gualism and Linguistic Conflict in Romance. Trends in Romance Linguistics and
Philology, 5, ed. John N. Green and Rebecca Posner. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyer,
407–432.
Schwenter, Scott A. and Gláucia Silva. 2002. “Overt vs. Null Direct Objects in Spoken
Brazilian Portuguese: A Semantic/Pragmatic Account,” Hispania, 853: 577–586.
Silva, David. 1988. “The Sociolinguistic Variance of Low Vowels in Azorean Por-
tuguese.” In Linguistic Change and Contact. Proceedings of the 16th Annual Con-
ference on New Ways of Analyzing Variation in Language, ed. Kathleen Ferrara et
al. Austin, TX: University of Texas, Department of Linguistics, 336–344.
Silva, Giselle M. de Oliveira e and Alzira Tavares de Macedo. 1991. “Discourse Markers
in the Spoken Portuguese of Rio de Janeiro,” Language Variation and Change, 4,
235–249.
Silva, João Gomes da. 1991. “Interferência e Variante Linguı́stica. Algumas Conside-
rações Sociolinguı́sticas sobre o Português Falado em Moçambique,” Revista Inter-
nacional de Lı́ngua Portuguesa, 5/6, 101–105.
Silva, Myriam Barbosa da and Rosa Virgı́nia Mattos e Silva. 1980/81. “Manifestações
do Processo de Simplificação em um Dialecto de Contacto,” Boletim de Filologia,
26, 125–137.
Silva, Rosa Virgı́nia Mattos e. 1995. “Variação e Mudança no Português Arcaico: ter ou
haver em Estruturas de Posse.” In Miscelânea de Estudos Lingüı́sticos Filológicos
e Literários in memoriam Celso Cunha, ed. Cilene da Cunha Pereira and Paulo
Roberto Dias Pereira. Rio de Janeiro: Editora Nova Fronteira, 299–311.
Silva, Rosa Virginia Mattos e. 1996. “O Português São Dois (Variação, Mudança, Norma
e Questão do Ensino do Português no Brasil).” In Actas do Congresso Internacional
sobre o Português, vol. 2, ed. Inês Duarte and Isabel Leiria. Lisbon: Edições Colibri,
375–401.
Silva, Rosa Virginia Mattos e, ed. 2001. Para a História do Português Brasileiro, vols. 2
and 3: Primeiros Estudos. São Paulo: Humanitas–FFLCH/USP.
Silva, Thaı̈s Cristófaro. 1998. Fonética e Fonologia do Português: Roteiro de Estudos e
Guia de Exercı́cios. São Paulo: Editora Contexto.
Silva-Corvalán, Carmen. 2001. Sociolingüı́stica y pragmática del español. Washington,
DC: Georgetown University Press.
Silva Neto, Serafim da. 1970. História da Lı́ngua Portuguesa. 2nd augmented edition.
Rio de Janeiro: Livros de Portugal.
Silva Neto, Serafim da. 1976. Introdução ao Estudo da Lı́ngua Portuguesa no Brasil.
3rd edition. Rio de Janeiro: Presença.
Silveira [Álvaro F.], Sousa da. [1923] 1952 [issued in 1958]. Lições de Português. 5th
edition. Coimbra: Atlântida / Rio de Janeiro: Livros de Portugal.
324 Bibliography
Sitoe, Bento. 1991. “Empréstimos Lexicais do Português no Tsonga,” Revista Interna-
cional de Lı́ngua Portuguesa, 5/6, 106–113.
Smith, Ian R. 1978. Sri Lanka Creole Portuguese Phonology. Vanchiyoor, Trivandrum
(India): Dravidian Linguistics Association.
Sousa-Möckel, Filomena de. 1995. “O Comportamento Linguı́stico dos Portugueses
Residentes na Alemanha.” In Actas do 4◦
Congresso da Associação Internacional
de Lusitanistas. Lisbon: Lidel, 257–264.
Souza, Constância Maria Borges de. 1989. “A Concordância Sujeito/Verbo num Dialeto
Baiano.” In Castilho 1989b, 89–101.
Staub, Augustine. 1956. “Comparative Study of English and Portuguese Intonation.”
M.S. Dissertation No. 1354. Georgetown University.
Stefanova-Gueorguiev, Irena. 2000. “Español y portugués en la Penı́nsula Ibérica y en
América Latina: dos situaciones de contacto lingüı́stico.” MA dissertation, Simon
Fraser University (www.analitica.com/bitbliotteca/irena stefanova/tesis.pdfeca).
Stephens, Thomas M. 1989. “Language Maintenance and Ethnic Survival: The Por-
tuguese in New Jersey,” Hispania, 72/3, 716–720.
Stephens, Thomas M. 1999. Dictionary of Latin American Racial and Ethnic Terminol-
ogy. 2nd edition. Gainesville: University Press of Florida.
Stephens, Thomas M. 2002. A Game of Mirrors. The Changing Face of Ethno-
Racial Constructs and Language in the Americas. New York: University Press of
America.
Stewart, Miranda. 1999. The Spanish Language Today. London and New York: Rout-
ledge.
Stroud, Christopher and Perpétua Gonçalves, eds. 1997–1998. Panorama do Por-
tuguês Oral de Maputo, vol. 1, Objectivos e Métodos; vol. 2, A Construção
de Um Banco de ‘Erros.’ Maputo: Instituto Nacional do Desenvolvimento da
Educação.
Tarallo, Fernando. 1983. “Relativization Strategies in Brazilian Portuguese.” Doctoral
dissertation, University of Pennsylvania.
Tarallo, Fernando. 1993. [1986] “Sobre a Alegada Origem Crioula do Português
Brasileiro.” In Roberts and Kato 1993, 35–68.
Taylor, James L. 1963. Portuguese–English Dictionary. Rio de Janeiro: Distribuidora
Record.
Teixeira, Carlos and Victor M. P. da Rosa, eds. 2000. The Portuguese in Canada. From
the Sea to the City. Toronto: University of Toronto Press.
Teyssier, Paul. 1959. La langue de Gil Vicente. Paris: Librairie C. Klincksieck, 1959.
Teyssier, Paul. 1985. “Lição final.” In Actas do Congresso sobre a Situação Actual
da Lı́ngua Portuguesa no Mundo, vol. 3. Lisbon: Instituto de Cultura e Lı́ngua
Portuguesa, 45–55.
Teyssier, Paul. 1994. História da Lı́ngua Portuguesa, trans. Celso Cunha. Lisbon:
Livraria Sá da Costa.
Theban, Laurentiu. 1985. “Situação e Perspectivas do Português e dos Crioulos de
Origem Portuguesa na Índia e no Sri-Lanka.” In Actas do Congresso sobre a
Situação Actual da Lı́ngua Portuguesa no Mundo (1983). Lisbon: Instituto de
Cultura e Lı́ngua Portuguesa, 269–285.
Thomas, Earl. 1969. The Syntax of Spoken Brazilian Portuguese. Nashville: Vanderbilt
University Press.
Bibliography 325
Tláskal, Jaromı́r. 1981 “Dynamique du système du portugais parlé au Brésil,” Boletim
de Filologia (Lisbon), 26/1, 29–37.
Tolman, Jon M., Ricardo M. Paiva, John B. Jensen, and Nivea P. Parsons. 1988. Tra-
vessia 1. A Portuguese Language Textbook Program. Textbook, Workbook, and
Laboratory Manual. Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press.
Tolman, Jon M., Ricardo M. Paiva, John B. Jensen, and Nivea P. Parsons. 1989. Tra-
vessia 2. A Portuguese Language Textbook Program. Textbook, Workbook, and
Laboratory Manual. Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press.
Tomás, Maria Isabel. 1992. “A Presença Africana nos Crioulos Portugueses do Oriente:
O Crioulo de Damão.” In Actas do Colóquio sobre Crioulos de Base Lexical Por-
tuguesa, ed. Ernesto d’Andrade and Alain Kihm. Lisbon: Edições Colibri, 97–107.
Trask, R. L. 1999. Key Concepts in Language and Linguistics. London and New York:
Routledge.
Travaglia, Luiz Carlos. 1999. “O Relevo no Português Falado: Tipos e Estratégias,
Processos e Recursos.” In Gramática do Português Falado, vol. 7: Novos Estudos,
ed. Maria Helena de Moura Neves. Campinas: Humanitas–FFLCH/USP, 76–130.
Trudgill, Peter and Jean Hannah. 2002. International English. A Guide to the Varieties
of Standard English. 4th edition. London: Arnold.
Urbano, Hudinilson. 1999. “Aspectos Basicamente Interacionais dos Marcadores Dis-
cursivos.” In Gramática do Português Falado, vol. 7: Novos Estudos, ed. Maria
Helena de Moura Neves. Campinas: Humanitas–FFLCH/USP, 194–258.
Väänänen, Veikko. 1966. Le latin vulgaire des inscriptions pompéiennes. 3rd edition.
Berlin: Akademie-Verlag.
Väänänen, Veikko. 1981. Introduction au latin vulgaire. 3rd edition. Paris: Editions
Klincksieck.
Vasconcellos, J. Leite de. [1901] 1970. Esquisse d’une dialectologie portugaise. Thèse
pour le Doctorat de l’Université de Paris. 2nd edition ed. Maria Adelaide Valle
Cintra. Lisbon: Centro de Estudos Filológicos.
Vaz, Katherine. 2001. “Songs of Fate: Portuguese Writing in America.” In Global Impact
of the Portuguese Language, ed. Asela Rodriguez de Laguna. New Brunswick and
London: Transaction Publishers, 221–230.
Vázquez-Cuesta, Pilar and Maria Albertina Mendes da Luz. 1987. Gramática por-
tuguesa, 2 vols. 3rd edition. Madrid: Gredos.
Veado, Rosa Maria Assis. 1982. Comportamento Lingüı́stico do Dialeto Rural – MG.
Belo Horizonte: Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais.
Vilhena, Maria da Conceição. 1995. “Falares Portugueses em Território Castelhano:
Herrera de Alcântara.” In Miscelânea de Estudos Lingüı́sticos, Filológicos e
Literários in Memoriam Celso Cunha, ed. Cilene da Cunha Pereira and Paulo
Roberto Dias Pereira. Rio de Janeiro: Editora Nova Fronteira, 417–428.
Villar, Mauro. 1989. Dicionário Contrastivo Luso-Brasileiro. Rio de Janeiro: Editora
Guanabara.
Viudas Camarasa, Antonio. 2001. “A fala, habla fronteriza con Portugal.” Hablas de
Extremadura en la Red. http://www.galeon.com/habla-fronteriza.
Vogt, Carlos and Peter Fry. 1996. Cafundó: A África no Brasil. Linguagem e Sociedade.
São Paulo: Companhia das Letras.
Vogt, Carlos and Peter Fry. 2000. “A descoberta do Cafundó e o Kafundó descoberto.”
http://www.comciencia.br.
326 Bibliography
Wardhaugh, Ronald. 2002. An Introduction to Sociolinguistics. 4th edition. Malden,
MA: Blackwell Publishers.
Weinberg, Monica. 2003. “A Média Foi só 3,6,” Veja 36/50 (December 17), 74.
Whinnom, Keith. 1965. “Contacts de langues et emprunts lexicaux,” Orbis, 14/1, 509–
517.
Whitley, M. Stanley. 2002. Spanish/English Contrasts. A Course in Spanish Linguistics.
2nd edition, Washington, D.C.: Georgetown University Press.
Williams, Edwin B. 1968. From Latin to Portuguese. 2nd edition. Philadelphia: Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania Press.
Yule, George. 1996. Pragmatics. Oxford University Press.
Index
Asterisked page entries refer to terms explained in the glossary. Emboldened page references
refer to main sources of information within a run of several page references. Under the heading
‘Portuguese,’ entries from Latin source to future prospects referring to the history of the language
are arranged in chronological order and entries from Brazilian to varieties are arranged in
alphabetical order.
A Fala 189
a gente 230
a (la/na) 113
accents 150, 183, 296*
accusatives 296*
acronyms 97
active voice 165
actor see semantic actor
actor indeterminacy 123–125
Brazilian Portuguese 238
address see forms of address
adjective clauses see relative clauses
adjectives 56–63
change over time 159–160
feminine 61
invariable gender 60
plurals 62, 95–96
adverbial clauses
subjunctive 138–141
subordination 130–131
adverbial phrases 105, 106–107
adverbs 77–83
change over time 166
deictic 81
locative 81
modal 82–83
origin 168
proclisis 112
time 82
adversative conjunctions 85
affixes 296*
affricates 33
Africa 192–202
Brazilian Portuguese 218–220
European Portuguese 21, 192–202
PALOP 16
agents 115
agreement 59, 100–101, 296*
Brazilian noun phrases
Brazilian verb phrases 226–228
nominal 100
participles 131
verbal 100
agreement rules 119
allomorphs 55
allophones 30–31, 34, 35
alphabet 24
alternative conjunctions 85
alveolar 33
anacoluthon 296*
analogous constructions 120–121
anaphora 296*
Angola 16, 195, 196, 199
anomalous verbs 78–79
apheresis 157, 161
apocope 157
Appendix Probi 148–149
Arabic 172
augmentative suffixes 87, 90
articles 63, 158, 159
articulation
manner 32
phones 27–35
place 33, 43, 152
as 113
as (las/nas) 113
Asia 202–204
aspect 163, 296*
aspiration 44
assent 279
assimilation 38, 150, 297*
asterisk 99
327
328 Index
Atlantic Islands 189–192
attitudes 256–259
attrition 205
Australia 205
auxiliary verbs 297*
Azores 15, 189–192
Barlavento do Algarve
benefactive see semantic benefactive
bilabials 33
bilingualism 179, 196, 198
blends 202
border talk 187–189, 253–255
borrowing 297*; see also loan words
bound forms 56
Brazilian Portuguese (BP) 3, 17–18,
211–239
development 21, 215–222
lexical differences from EP 217
main features 222–249
research 214–215
verb paradigms 239
words from indigenous languages 219
caber 75
Caipira 297*
Canada 205, 209
Cape Verde 16, 197
case 147, 148, 150, 152, 297*
Castelo Branco–Portalegre 186
casual style 263–264
categorical process 36
Center–Southern dialect 185, 186
Classical Latin
adverbs 166
consonants 149–157
demonstratives 158
diphthongs 151
plural neuter nouns 160
vowels 151
clauses see adverbial, independent, nominal,
relative
cleft sentences 145
clipped relative clauses (BP) 244–246
clipping 96–97
clitics 67, 68, 109–116, 161, 232, 297*;see
also enclitics, mesoclitics, proclitics, se
closures 280–281
coda 47
codeswitching 208, 213, 254, 297*
colloquial usage 99
colonial enterprise 14, 216–218
colonization 175
commentary 144, 248
communicative strategies 277–285
Community of Portuguese Language
Countries 18–19
comparative conjunctions 86
compound adjectives
plurals 95–96
types 94
compound nouns
plurals 93–96
types 94
compound tenses 80, 121
compounding 91–98
conditional tense 72, 73, 150, 164
conditions 140
conjugation (theme) vowels 57, 68, 69, 297*
conjugations 68, 69–70, 162
conjunctions 84–86
change in time 166
subordinate adverbial clauses 138–140
connectors 83–86, 122
change in time 166
origin 169
subordinate clauses 128, 131
consonants 32–35
Brazilian Portuguese 223–225
Classical Latin 149–157
clusters 47, 48, 50, 50, 152
comparison with English 44, 47
Portuguese vs. English 42
Portuguese vs. Latin 153
see also palatalization
consultative style 263
contact see language contact
content words see lexical words
continental Portugal 185–187
continuous tenses 77, 80
coordinate compounds 91
coordinating conjunctions 84
additive 125
adversative 126
disjunctive 126
explicative 126
coordination 84, 102, 125–126
covert prestige 259
creoles 14–15, 209, 297*
Africa 193–195, 200
Asia 203
Brazilian Portuguese 250–253
cujo 132
dar 75
declensions 147, 152, 159, 160, 298*
deference 266, 271–272
deictics 81, 298*
demonstratives 64, 158, 159, 161
dental 33
Index 329
derivation 87–91
derivative suffixes 87
derogatory language 289
desinences 69, 165
determinants 63–65
change in time 158–159
origin 159
devoicing 51, 298*
diachronic change 147, 184, 298*
diacritics 25, 298*
dialect 183, 185–192, 258, 298*
leveling 298*
dialectal zones 185–192
didactic works 12, 148
diglossia 188, 198, 259–261, 298*
digraphs 24, 298*
diminutive suffixes 87, 90
diphthongization 46, 51, 222, 258,
298*
diphthongs 29–32, 298*
Classical Latin 151
comparison with English 43, 46
Latin 151
nasal 31
oral 30
direct object 108, 115, 119, 298*
pronouns 67, 68
directives 279
discourse markers 281–285
ditransitive verbs 108, 299*
dizer 75
Dom 273
Dona 273
double negation (BP) 242
double participles 77, 81
drift 182
East Timor 5, 15, 19, 203
education 18, 21
ele/ela/eles/elas 113, 232, 257
embedding 127, 299*
emigration see immigrant communities
Emigrese 204
enclitics 109, 110–112, 113, 299*
English
loan words 176, 276
phonemic comparison 43–47
subjunctive 134
epenthesis 156
estar 75
eu 229
euphemisms 289
European Portuguese (EP) 182–210
lexical differences from BP 217
exhortative sentences 135
exocentric compouns see subordinate
compounds
explicative clauses see restrictive vs.
non-restrictive relative clauses
expositive style 123
extension 201, 208
eye dialect 258
face-saving acts 279–280
fazer 75
form 299*
formal style 262
forms of address 265–275
fossilized expressions 170
France 204
free forms 56
French 173, 175, 204–205, 275
French culture 10
fricatives 33, 44, 223
frozen style 261
future indicative 69, 73
future perfect 164
future subjunctive 73
future tense 72, 163
Galicia 6, 151, 176
Galician 11, 13, 15, 176–179, 185, 187
gender 57–60, 159
invariable (adjectives) 60
generalization 171
gentile 299*
Germanic languages 172
Germany 204
gerunds 70, 121, 165, 166
Brazilian Portuguese 243
glides 29, 30–31, 152–154
glottal (stop) 35
glottis 27, 35
graffiti 148, 156
grammars 12, 13, 180–181, 211, 213, 221
grammatical categories 162
grammatical words 56, 101–102
Greek 172–176
greetings 277–278
Guinea-Bissau 16, 195, 195, 196–197,
200
haver 75, 243
Hebrew 173
hiatus 29, 299*
high/low varieties 260–261
Hispania
Islamic 9–10
Roman 6–8
Visigothic 8–9
330 Index
homo 170
Hong Kong 203
hybridism see linguistic hybridism
hyphenation 91
Icelandic 183
immigrant communities 16–17, 18,
204–210
imperatives 70, 71, 164
imperfect tense 71, 72
imperfective forms 163
impersonal constructions 77, 118, 137
Independence 18, 179, 220–222
independent clauses 141
indeterminate constructions 170
India 203, 218–220
indicative tenses 71, 135
future 69, 73
present 69, 71
indirect object 108, 109, 114, 299*
pronouns 67, 68
indirect transitive verbs 109, 299*
Indo-Portuguese 15
infinitive markers 68
infinitives 70, 112, 165
inflected 70
and modals 121, 122
inflection 56, 160
infinitives 70, 141–143
subjunctive 142
influence from other languages 275–277
information distribution 129, 139, 143–146,
248
inherent syntactic information 102
insults see profane language
interdental 33
International Phonetic Alphabet 26
interrogative words 83, 112
intervocalic 299*
intimate style 263–264
intonation 53
intransitive verbs 108, 116, 299*
ir 75
irregular verbs 73–76, 77
Islamic Hispania 9–10
Italian 173
Japanese 175
jargon (soccer) 264
koine 218, 299*
labio-dentals 33
language contact 172–176, 204–210, 253
language planning 194–195, 199, 276
language variation 182–184
attitudes 256–259
Brazilian Portuguese 211–215
social 148
laterals 33
Latin 147–149, 151, 153, 173–175
see also Classical Latin, popular Latin
learned doublets 175
lect 299*
left-dislocation 145
lenition 43, 44, 51, 154, 223, 299*
Leonese 15, 187
leveling 182, 215, 298*, 299*
lexical meaning 55, 299*
lexical words 56
lexicalization 89, 300*
lexicon 171–176, 216
lexifier 193, 194
lhe/lhes 114, 236
linguistic hybridism 189
Lingua Franca 192, 193, 300*
Lı́ngua Geral 218
linguistic insecurity 213
linguistic protectionism 275, 276–277
liquids 45, 224
literature 148
loan translations 207
loan words 172, 201, 204, 207, 300*
locative adverbs 81
loss of duration 151, 152
Lusitania 6
Macao 15, 203
macrodialect
Madeira 15, 189–192
Malacca 15, 203
Malay 175
Malayo-Portuguese 15
Mandarin 175
maritime expansion 175
marked order 169
me 110
media 20
melioration 171
mesoclitics 109
metaphony 59, 300*
metathesis 250, 300*
Mineiro 39, 40, 43, 300*
minimal pairs 35, 301*
Miquelense 190
Mirandese 187–188
modal adverbs 82–83
modal verbs 82, 111, 121–122, 300*
modifying suffixes 87–89
monophthongization 51, 300*
Index 331
moods 70
Moor 300*
morphemes 55–56, 300*
morphological change 158–168
morphology 55
Brazilian Portuguese 225–249
Mozambique 16, 195, 196, 199,
201–202
Mozarabic 301*
names 272–273
nasal phonemes 45
nasal vowels 32, 48
nasalization 33, 37–38, 150
national language 18
negation 279
negative words 112
nominal agreement 100
nominal clauses 127–128,
134–137
nominalization 301*
normative 301*
Northern dialect 185
nós 110, 229
notarial report 177
noun + noun 170
noun + preposition + noun 169
noun phrases (BP)
nouns 56–63
change in time 159–160
in -o 63
plurals 62, 93–96
nucleus 47
null subjects 118–119
o (lo/no) 113, 114
o que 133
o senhor/a senhora 231, 268, 269, 270,
274
o/a qual/os/as quais 132
object pronouns 67, 68, 301*;see also direct
object, indirect object
obsolescence 171
occlusives 223
official language 5, 13, 192
onde 133
onset 47
orders 279
orthography 3
os (los/nos) 113
oxytones 52, 301*
palatalization 36, 152–156
comparison with English 44, 45
consonants 152–156
palatals 35
PALOP (Paı́ses Africanos de Lı́ngua Oficial
Portuguesa) 192
paroxytone 52, 301*
participles 70, 120, 131
parts of speech 56
passive voice 115, 119–121, 122,
165, 170, 248
past perfect 72, 72, 164
past subjunctive 73
past tenses 71, 72, 165
patient see semantic patient
patrimonial words 171, 174
patronymics 301*
Paulista 301*
pejoration 171
perfect tenses 77, 80
perfect continuous tenses 80
perfective forms 163
periphrasis 119, 163, 164, 165, 166,
301*
personal letters 148
personal pronouns 65–69
phonemes 34, 35, 37–43
addition 36, 156–157, 158
loss 36, 157, 158
nasal 45
phones 24, 301*
articulation 27–35
representation 24–27
phonetic alphabet 301*
phonetic transcription 26, 27
phonological phrases 52, 302*
phonological processes 36, 51,
150
phonology 35–36
Brazilian Portuguese 222–225
phonotactics 47, 48, 49, 225, 302*
phrases 302*
pidgin 14–15, 193–195, 302*
pitch 53, 54
plurals
adjectives 60–62, 63
compounds 93–96
nouns 60–62, 63
suffixes 55
poder 75
popular Latin 148, 158
adverbs 166
declensions 160
inflection 148
prepositions 148, 169
pronouns 161
sound changes 150, 152
word order 148
332 Index
Portuguese
Latin source 147–149
Old language (from ca. 1325 to 1536)
170–171, 179–180
twelfth century onwards 176–181
early thirteenth century to ca 1325
176–179
Classical language from mid-sixteenth
century to mid-eighteenth century
180–181
Modern language 181
formation and expansion 6–14,
15–16
future prospects 198–202
growth see formation and expansion
Brazilian 17–18, 21, 211–239
European 182–210, 217
lexicon 171–176
morphological change 158–168
Prescriptive 212, 260
sound change 149–157
spread see formation and expansion
syntactic changes 168–171
varieties 19–23
Portuguese Vowel Shift 186, 190
possessives 64, 159
post-vocalics 302*
pragmatics 3
predicates 107–116, 143
prefixes 87, 88, 302*
prepositional phrases 105, 106–107
prepositional pronouns 110, 114–116
prepositions 83, 84, 112
change in time 166, 169
popular Latin 148
prescriptive 302*
present indicative 69, 71
present perfect 164
present subjunctive 71
present tenses 70
press 213
preterit 71, 72
pre-vocalics 302*
Prı́ncipe 16, 197, 198
Probus, Appendix see Appendix Probi
proclitics 109, 110–112, 113, 232–234,
302*
profane language 285–291
pronouns
Brazilian Portuguese 228–243
change over time 160–162
direct object 67
indirect object 67
origin 162
personal 65–69
prepositional 114–116
relative 129, 132–134
unstressed 110, 113
zero in terms of address 266
pronunciation 20, 27
proparoxytone 52, 302*
prose 176–179
prosody 51–54, 282
protectionism see linguistic protectionism
prothesis 156
Provençal 173
pseudo-cleft sentences 145
quando 139
que/quem 132, 133
querer 75
raising 41, 302*
reciprocity 117–118
reduplication 97
referent 55, 302*
reflexive constructions 116–118
Brazilian Portuguese 237
reflexivity 117, 161
Reformation 12
regency (BP) 246–247
regional accents 150
register 261–265, 302*
relative clauses 128
Brazilian Portuguese 244–246
restrictive vs. non-restrictive 130
subjunctive 137–138
relative pronouns 112, 129, 132–134
relexification 302*
religious works 148
Renaissance 12, 173
requerer 75
requests 278–279
restrictive vs. non-restrictive relative
clauses 130
resumptive relative clauses (BP) 244–246,
302*
resyllabification 49–50
retroflex 33
rhotacism 225, 258
rhythm 54
Rivera 253, 254–255
Roman Empire 6–8, 147, 148
Roman Hispania 6–8
Romance 8, 302*
r Paulista (retroflex r) 224
saber 75
Sabir 193
São Tomé 16, 197, 198
Index 333
se 110, 123–125, 170
deletion in Brazilian Portuguese 238
subjunctive with 140–141
semantic actor 103, 117, 120, 296*
semantic benefactive 108, 297*
semantic patient 103, 117, 120, 301*
semantic roles 102–103, 104
sentences 99–139
constituents 105
types 104–105
ser 75
si 115
simple tenses 80
slang 265, 288, 289
soccer jargon 264
social stratification 184
social variation 148
sociolect 183, 303*
sociolinguistic issues 256–289
sound change 149–157
sounds 24–50
South Africa 205
speakers 17, 18, 22
speech organs 26
standards/standardization 19, 20, 21, 180, 200,
212
stem 55, 69, 75
stops 32, 44
stress 51, 52–53, 151
stressed pronouns 110
stressed vowels 38, 43, 151
styles 261–265
subjects 107–116, 118–119, 143, 228–229,
232, 303*
subjunctive 71, 73, 134–141
adverbial clauses 138–141
English 134
future 73
independent clauses 141
inflected 142
Latin 164
nominal clauses 134–137
past 73
present 71
relative clauses 137–138
with se in contrary-to-fact adverbial clauses
140–141
tenses 135
subordination 102, 127–134, 303*
adverbial clauses 130–131
compounds 93
conjunctions 86, 112, 139
relative clauses 128
suffixes 87–89
argumentative 87, 90
derivative 87
diminutive 87, 90
modifying 87, 90
plural 55
superlative 90
transforming 89, 92
see also affixes
superstrate language see lexifier
suprasegmentals see prosody
SVO (subject – verb – object) 168
swearing see profane language
syllables 47–49, 303*
division 50
resyllabification 49–50
types 50
synchronic perspective 147, 303*
syncope 157
syntactic changes 168–171
syntactic devices 100–102
syntactic functions 102–103, 104
syntax 225–249
syntaxis 100
synthetic formation 98
taboo language 286
te 110
tenses 68
Brazilian Portuguese 238
origin 167
ter 243
theme(conjugation)vowels 57, 68, 69, 69, 297*
ti 231
time adverbs 82
titles 273–274
topicalization (BP) 144, 247–249
topics 248
trading posts 15
transcription see phonetic transcription
transforming suffixes 89, 92
transitive verbs 108, 116, 303*
trazer 75
triphthongs 32
troubadour tradition 176, 179
tu 265, 266, 269, 271
unconditioned change 151
unipersonal verbs 107, 128, 299*
United States 205–210
unmarked order 169, 303*
unstressed pronouns 109, 110
third person 113
unstressed vowels 39–43
comparison with English 43
final position 39
pre-stressed position 40–41
334 Index
Uruguay 253
uvular 35
variable process 36
variation see language variation
velarization 35, 45
verb complements 108–109
verb phrases 106
more than one verb 119–122
non-agreement in Brazilian Portuguese
226–228
verbal agreement 100
verbs 68–77
-ar 73
-er 74
-ir 74
anomalous 78–79
Brazilian Portuguese 238–244
change in time 162–166
ditransitive 108
intransitive 108
irregular 76
perception 142, 143
regular formation 70–73
stem 69
suasion 142
theme vowels 69
transitive 108
unipersonal 107
vernacular speech 211, 212, 213, 222, 255,
257, 259, 260, 304*
vibrant 33
Visigothic Hispania 8–9
você 231, 266, 269, 270, 274
voice see active voice, passive voice
voicing 28, 32, 34, 36, 44, 150, 151, 304*
volition verbs 135
vós 110–271
Vossa Excelência 266, 271
Vossa Magnificência 272
vowel harmony 40, 304*
vowels 28
Brazilian Portuguese 222–223
comparison with English 43–44
Latin 151
main allophones 30–31
nasal 31, 32, 48
oral 30
palatalization
post-stressed non-final position 41
stressed 38, 43, 151
theme 57, 68, 69
unstressed 39–43
verb stems 69
word formation 86–98
word order 101
Brazilian Portuguese 247–249
change in time 168–170
information distribution 129, 139,
143–146
popular Latin 148
words 55–94
written code 181
zero pronoun address 266
