On the complex structure of pronouns 
(5) Person revisited11
[+ASE] [–ASE]
[+PSE] 1st person 2nd person
[–PSE] 1st person exclusive 3rd person
Observe that what we call ‘3rd person’ is actually a lack of any Person fea-
tures,12 in line with Benveniste’s observations. As the presence of a “3rd per-
son feature” would be redundant on all the thousands of DPs that serve as R-
expressions in languages that trigger agreement with ‘3rd person’ – usually of
a default nature – like Italian, Hungarian13 or Russian, this is a welcome re-
sult. It follows that ‘3rd person’ is the ‘default’ member of the set, apart from
being overwhelmingly the most frequent. Henceforth, the term “non person” is
to be understood as what is traditionally known as‘3rd person’.
Having decided the actual feature representation of Person, we must now
identify the locus of Person features. Recall that all pronouns where Person is
marked are claimed to be (at least) overt pronominal determiners, so I pre-
sume that the zero hypothesis would be to locate Person features ([ASE] and
[PSE]) on D heads; this has been the standard assumption, too (Abney
1987:283; Ritter 1995:420–421; but see Rouveret 1991). This intuitively natu-
ral assumption can be made robust if one considers (1) once more, repeated
below for convenience:
(1) [DP We linguists] tend to be quite parsimonious.
The constituent linguists, a NumP as will be seen in the following section,
cannot plausibly be claimed to encode Person, although it encodes plural
number and – of course – the concept ‘linguist’. It takes the D we versus, say,
the or these to decide the person (1st) of the DP. We can then safely assert that
Person, in the form of [ASE] and [PSE] features, is encoded on D.
An additional argument towards this assertion could well be Ritter’s
(1995:421) observation that Person entails deﬁniteness, but not the other way
round; we know that deﬁniteness is located on determiners, perhaps in the
form of a feature [Def]. Indeed, Bloomﬁeld (1938:225–226) considers deﬁnite-
ness and person to be mutually exclusive. I think that we could plausibly claim
that [ASE] and [PSE] are associated with ostension/deixis and seem to belong
to the same natural class with deﬁniteness and deictic features, all located on
Determiners (Panagiotidis 2000b): consider the aﬃnity among [ASE]14 D we,
deﬁnite D the and deictic D these as just hinted with reference to (1).
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

. On the locus of Number features inside the DP
Number features cause an interesting ‘interpretational twist’ on pronouns,
when interacting with Person features. This in turn provides an important di-
agnostic for Number features not being encoded on D – as Abney’s claim
would be. Before getting to this point, we should determine the locus of
Number features.
Chomsky (1995:235–241) divides grammatical features into intrinsic and
optional. Intrinsic features are features that are an inseparable part of a lexical
entry, whereas optional features are speciﬁed by the operation that forms the
numeration. Number features certainly belong to this second class, they are
optional in other words. Let us ﬁrst adumbrate this in a clearer fashion by giv-
ing an example of the intrinsic versus optional distinction. In a language like
Italian, the lexical item pellicola comes obligatorily with a [feminine] gender
speciﬁcation, as is obvious in cases of agreement with D and A: la vecchia pel-
licola and not *il vecchio pellicola, where both article and adjective fail to show
agreement with the noun. On the other hand, a lexical item like pellicola can,
of course, be in the singular or in the plural, i.e. either of the two numbers
available in that language: singular pellicola vecchia or plural pellicole vecchie.
Turning to the question of where Number features are actually encoded,
Chomsky oﬀers two possible options. A ﬁrst one is that optional features are
selected and “assigned to the word as it enters the numeration” – in other
words, we do not need an extra functional head to host them: Number fea-
tures will be added on the N head as it enters the numeration. An extra func-
tional Num head is a second option: Number features sit on a head of their
own. (6) and (7) illustrate the two options for the noun pellicola, assuming
here for reasons of exposition, that a [Sing] feature encodes singular number
and a [Plu] one plural.15 In (6), the version in which optional Number fea-
tures are added on the N head is illustrated, in (7) the version in which num-
ber features are features on a special functional head.
(6) pellicola
FILM
[Fem]
[Sing]
pellicole
FILM
[Fem]
[Plu]
N N
On the complex structure of pronouns 
(7) NumP
Num N
NumP
Num N
pellicola
FILM
[Fem]
pellicole
FILM
[Fem]
[Sing] [Plu]
There seems to exist some independent evidence to support the more
‘conﬁgurational’ view, the one illustrated in (7), where number features are
encoded on a separate head, Num, which merges with the N as part of the
syntactic computation, after the numeration. Ritter (1991) shows that only
the postulation of an intermediate Num head between D and N can fully cap-
ture the complex relationship between ‘free state’ and ‘construct state’ struc-
tures in Hebrew. Moreover, an intermediate Num head could be one possible
landing site for Romance ‘partial N-movement’ as discussed in Cinque
(1994). Panagiotidis (2000b) claims that strength of Num in Modern Greek is
the key to explaining the behaviour of demonstrative positioning when not
DP-initial.
Crucially, if number features can be optionally added to nouns, as in (6)
above, then nothing would prevent them from being optionally added to D,
or to any other head inside the DP, in principle. On the other hand, if number
features are encoded on a Num head, then this is not an option and number
marking on determiners must be a result of agreement with Num. In order to
reﬁne this view, we have to state that number features cannot be interpretable
on D even when they appear to be somehow marked there, like on these com-
pared to this; the fact that this and these are marked for number is the result
of agreement with Num, which bears the interpretable number features.
A careful reader will notice that the implication throughout the discus-
sion so far is that interpretable semantic features are encoded exclusively on
certain heads. Such an assumption about grammar goes at least back to Hel-
lan (1986), see also Muysken & Van Riemsdijk (1986:25). On the other hand,
uninterpretable (Chomsky 1995) or unvalued (Chomsky 1998) versions of
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

semantic features can appear on other heads, as well. So, the locus of inter-
pretable Number features is Num, although uninterpretable Number features
may well be encoded on other heads, such as D, and are probably responsible
for agreement phenomena. Additionally, as we saw, there seems to exist em-
pirical evidence for a Num head, which is consistent with the idea that inter-
pretable features have ﬁxed loci, an idea that will be a working hypothesis
throughout this study (see Section 2.2.1 of the Introduction).
Another very interesting observation relevant to the discussion above
would be that uninterpretable versions of formal features show up on heads
that c-command the head that encodes the interpretable version. So, D en-
codes uninterpretable number features but not N. We will, hopefully, put this
observation in perspective in Chapter 5.
. Interaction of Number with Person: plural indexicals
The presence of Number on pronouns poses a long recognised problem
(Sasse 1993:670–671; Harley & Ritter 1997, 2000). Consider:
(8) (on some TV debate)
a. Speaker A: I represent the Militia for the Liberation of the Confed-
eration.
b. Speaker B: You represent racist killers.
c. Speaker A: We only target social parasites.
d. Speaker B: I’d rather you were country singers, then.
In this civil exchange of views above, we can observe a well-known but still very
interesting anomaly with respect to reference of person pronouns. First, observe
the contrast between (8a–b) and (8c–d): the latter are not ‘the plural’ of the
former in any way. Though (8a) encodes the Speaker, (8c) does not encode a
multitude of speakers; in fact in both cases the Speaker is the same and singular.
Less clearly but similarly, singular you in (8b) refers to the Addressee (dubbed
‘Speaker A’) but plural you in (8d) does not refer to a multitude of addressees: it
refers to the ‘Militia for the Liberation of the Confederation’ and it is highly
unlikely that the whole of the Militia is present in order to be addressed. In (8c),
we means ‘Speaker and others’, in (8d) plural you means ‘Addressee and others’.
Plural number does not multiply the entities that [ASE][PSE] and [PSE] refer
to, but rather makes those entities part of a larger group.
Let us consider this issue in more detail: I in (8a) is speciﬁed for both
[ASE] and [PSE] features and singular you in (8b) for a [PSE] one. Moving to
On the complex structure of pronouns 
(8c), we observe that the [ASE] feature and the apparent [plural] number fea-
ture do not jointly deﬁne the reference of we: number features do not modify
person features; we refers to the speaker plus other people. Put diﬀerently, at
least one member of the set of referents for we must fulﬁl the [ASE] speciﬁ-
cation. In the case of (8d), the [PSE] feature is not modiﬁed by the plural fea-
ture in order for a multitude of addressees to be the actual referent of plural
you. This seems to be the usual situation regarding the referents of plural you
and it is not always true that all its referents are participating in the speech
event. In both (8c) and (8d), a plural number speciﬁcation just adds referents
next to the referent speciﬁed by the [ASE] and [PSE] features.
Now, in the real world, a group of speakers is a highly implausible situa-
tion, while a group of addressees is no such rarity. That is why Sasse (1993:
671) and Harley & Ritter (1997) assume a diﬀerent status for we and plural
you. The idea is that, whereas we always means ‘speaker and other individuals’,
you can mean either ‘addressee and other individuals’ or ‘many addressees’.
Notice that the ‘many addressees’ situation is actually a subset of the ‘ad-
dressee and other individuals’ one and that no grammatical system is known
that distinguishes between these two situations. Interestingly, we can also
mean ‘many speakers’ in very speciﬁc cases: Imagine some Greek tragedy (or
even a play by T.S. Eliot, for the sake of exposition) with the chorus split in
two and conversing (in chorus, of course). The ﬁrst semichorus addresses the
second and the we of this ﬁrst semichorus is indeed one that means many
speakers. Similar facts hold about their addressees, the second semichorus:
you here means ‘many addressees’. It becomes evident that even this very spe-
cial and certainly rare situation does not contradict the formulation of both
we and you as referring to sets of people with at least one speaker or addressee
as a member: in the semichorus of speakers it still holds that they are a group
and that there exists at least one speaker therein,16 the same for the semicho-
rus of addressees.
The point that must be stressed here is that person and number features
do not interact with each other in order to jointly deﬁne the potential refer-
ents of plural 1st and 2nd person pronouns. Recall that this is roughly what
happens between person features, as shown in the table under (5). An [ASE]
[PSE] feature speciﬁcation does not refer to, say, the author of speech event
plus a participant but to Speaker: the two features interact and co-operate to
give a ‘joint’ referent, their meaning is a joint ‘eﬀort’. On the other hand, per-
son and number combine in a compositional fashion. Thus, the referents of
plural indexicals (we and you) are not sets of speakers and addressees respec-
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

tively but rather sets of people with at least one speaker or addressee as a
member: Number features interact with [ASE] and [PSE] features in a way
entirely diﬀerent to the way [ASE] and [PSE] features interact with each
other.
If person and number features lead separate lives and combine composi-
tionally through syntax, it can reasonably be proposed that they are located
on diﬀerent syntactic heads, a hypothesis that would make the idea that LF
interpretable number features are encoded on Num and not D more robust.
The morphology of most languages does not clearly reﬂect this generalisa-
tion, although exceptions, cases of morphological dissociation between per-
son and number, do exist. An interesting example of such a dissociation17 be-
tween number and person can be found in Potawatomi, an Algonquian
language. Consider the following examples, from Halle & Marantz (1993:
143):18
(9) a. k-wapm-a
thou-see-him
‘thou see him’
b. k-wapm-a-wa
thou-see-him-
‘you see him’
What we have here is the person morpheme k- separated from the one for
Number (-wa), not just by the V, but by an object clitic/agreement marker as
well. Still, the interpretation of the distant k…wa morphemes amounts to a
plural ‘you’.
Summarising: person and number neither behave in a unitary fashion
nor interact with each other to yield a single meaning – a situation contrast-
ing to the way the two features [ASE] and [PSE] that encode person ‘co-
operate’. Person supplies discourse information and Number information
about multitude; their combined interpretational outcome is compositionally
deﬁned, a matter of LF, and possibly pragmatic enrichment of LF (as in the
semichoruses situation above). Person and Number are not indistinguishably
tied together through the computation. Number [plural] features just add
meaning to that of person and do not modify it. Crucially, this is a natural
consequence of number and person being located on distinct heads (Num
and D respectively, in the nominal domain – see Alexiadou (2000) and Chap-
ter 4 here for a similar situation inside the verbal domain). Accordingly, plural
person pronouns comprise a ‘loose’ combination between Person and Num-
On the complex structure of pronouns 
ber features, as seen in their semantics and the morphology of languages like
Potawatomi in (9).
. Gender as an intrinsic feature of nouns
Gender can usually be seen marked morphologically on the noun in most
languages that exhibit it. Consider the following Modern Greek example,
with both nouns belonging to the -a declension:
(10)
Masculine Feminine
nominative patera-s kithara
genitive patera kithara-s
The way nominative and genitive are formed diﬀers minimally with gender as
the sole criterion. On the other hand this is not of course true for all lan-
guages with rich gender systems; French and – primarily – German are two
examples of languages where gender is not typically morphologically marked
on the noun. Despite this diversity regarding the surface manifestation of
gender marking inside the DP, there are good reasons to believe that gender
features form an inextricable part of lexical entries for nouns. Some of these
reasons are discussed in detail in Corbett (1991) and Harris (1991).
First of all, gender is always related to semantic properties of the noun:
animacy, sex and so on – where applicable. There are no languages attested
with gender systems of a purely formal nature, that is where the actual seman-
tic properties of nouns are completely irrelevant.19 Second, there are lan-
guages – Slavic is a case in point – that have no overt articles, but still exhibit
a rich gender system involving agreement not only with adjectives but with
verb forms as well.20 Third, adjectives can agree in gender with nouns in the
absence of a determiner: consider the lack of contrast between the two in-
stances of the Italian example below:
(11) a. la pellicola vecchia
the. ﬁlm. old.
b. pellicola vecchia
ﬁlm. old.
We can then reasonably assume that gender is not a feature primarily en-
coded on Determiners, the same way it is not primarily encoded on adjec-
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

tives. In more technical parlance, gender features are not interpretable on ei-
ther D or A, gender can be marked there only as the result of agreement – the
checking of uninterpretable features by interpretable ones, according to our
framework here. Roughly, gender agreement in (11) is somehow related to the
checking of uninterpretable/unspeciﬁed gender features on D la and A vec-
chia by the interpretable feature on pellicola.
A natural question here, given also the discussion in 3.2 about number fea-
tures, is whether Gender can also be claimed to be encoded on a separate func-
tional head. Indeed, this is the stand some researchers have taken (Picallo 1991).
However there are good reasons to think this is not the case. To start with, gen-
der features are very good candidates for intrinsic features of N heads, in fact we
have already assumed them to be intrinsic features of N heads – cf. (6) and (7).
This is not without justiﬁcation: a noun’s gender has to be learned and is inti-
mately related to the actual lexical entry of the noun. In order to make this
clearer, let us compare gender with number features. Any given noun can have
any number speciﬁcation available in the grammar: singular, plural, dual, pau-
cal… This is not so with gender, nouns come speciﬁed for gender. Moreover,
even nouns like mass nouns that, at least in principle, should resist
modiﬁcation by an expressly singular or plural Num, show a robust cross-
linguistic tendency to allow this with a simultaneous shift in meaning. Nouns
such as coﬀee and tea are cases in point: in coﬀee is good for you a default mass
interpretation is encoded, an interpretation that can be ‘destroyed’ when the
noun coﬀee actually combines with a Num: a coﬀee for me and three teas for our
English friends here – by now coﬀee means ‘cup of coﬀee’ or similar and identical
facts hold for three teas. We will revisit this phenomenon in Chapters 2 and 3
but, for the time being, suﬃce it to say that number features, encoded on Num
by hypothesis, combine relatively freely with nouns, even nouns they would not
be expected to combine with. This is not the case with gender features. When
there is some ‘free’ combination of gender features with a noun, we are better
oﬀ arguing that there are two diﬀerent lexical entries for the noun in question.
For instance, take poste (masc.), meaning ‘TV/radio set’, and poste (fem.) mean-
ing ‘post’ in French. If gender is encoded on a separate Gen head here, then this
Gen head has two very peculiar properties:
a. In the vast majority of cases it can only select some lexical entries but not
others, on either completely idiosyncratic criteria (feminine tables, neuter
girls, masculine weather and so on) or very transparent lexical semantic
ones (feminine mothers, neuter things, masculine uncles).
On the complex structure of pronouns 
b. When this Gen head can select a noun freely, it can also assign a com-
pletely diﬀerent meaning to it. Unless, of course, the noun has an animate
referent (cf. il gatto versus la gatta, male versus female cat, in Italian).
Hence, selectional properties of Gen heads involve a tremendous amount of
complexity and seem to be overwhelmingly idiosyncratic. Of course, this is
no reason to refute their existence, even though idiosyncrasies are assumed in
grammatical theory to be the job of the lexicon. What makes the existence of
Gen heads even more suspect is the fact that Gender seems to be inextricably
blended with declension class features and their realisations in heavily
inﬂected languages. Take the Greek examples in (10) as discussed in the be-
ginning of this section: even though both nouns in the table belong to the
same declension class, in which occasions the ﬁnal -s actually occurs reduces
to the gender of the noun. In order to correctly inﬂect the noun for case, in-
formation about both class and gender are required. On fairly standard as-
sumptions about morphosyntax, one might want to assume that these two
kinds of features are encoded on the same head, N, and have to be learned to
a large extent.21
. The nature of gender and the gender of English
Our having shown that gender features in a DP are encoded on an N head is
crucial for our argument throughout this study. That’s why we need to
deepen and further strengthen our arguments in favour of such a view. In or-
der to do so and, prima facie, paradoxically enough we are going to inquire
into gender in the grammar of English. The characterisation ‘paradoxically’
can be justiﬁed given the scarcity of gender marking on nouns in English:
only singular non-person pronouns and some animate nouns are marked for
gender. Moreover, no gender agreement takes place inside the DP (Corbett
1991),22 no “morphological assignment” in Corbett’s terms. Gender in Eng-
lish is directly related to sex (masculine and feminine – for males and fe-
males) and inanimacy (neuter), although “English formerly had a morpho-
logical assignment system” (Corbett 1991:101).
In previous work (Panagiotidis 1998) I have argued that English gender
features are radically diﬀerent to those in languages like Romance, Slavic,
Bantu etc. The argument there was that gender features are syntactically inac-
tive until LF in English, thus not formal but purely semantic. Nevertheless, it
is important to clarify why gender features in English are syntactically inac-
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

tive. In a checking framework the answer would be: because nothing else car-
ries uninterpretable gender features inside the DP and/or the clause. Thus, no
checking operations are triggered. In principle, interpretable gender features
in English are no diﬀerent than gender features in Kiswahili, German or
Tamil: they are noun classiﬁcatory features (Corbett 1991; Spencer 2000).
English can thus oﬀer us a window into the nature of gender features. Let
us concentrate on nouns marked for gender in English.
(12) actor actress
hero heroine
wolf she-wolf
%manager manageress
(13) boy boyhood
slave slavery
bore boredom
Gender morphology is derivational morphology: idiosyncratic, with gaps and
(more or less) semantically translucent. In fact, there exists some interesting
evidence from neurolinguistic research for the ‘derivational’ nature of English
gender. Druks & Froud (in press) discuss a case of agrammatism manifesting
itself as ‘(formal) feature blindness’. An English-speaking agrammatic patient
has been observed to constantly fail to recognise grammatical aﬃxes and –
generally – inﬂectional morphology. Nevertheless, he is reported to encounter
no problems whatsoever with gender aﬃxation. As Druks & Froud note (p. 41):
“Derivation, being a purely lexical process, is said to be better preserved in
agrammatism than inﬂection, which is syntactically relevant aﬃxation. […]
in English: the diﬀerence between actor and actress has no grammatical rele-
vance and, therefore, gender aﬃxation in English is derivational.”
Having established that (English) gender is derivational, suppose we re-
verted to the hypothesis for a Gender head. Then we would also be hard-
pressed to assign ‘head’ status to the features that trigger the derivational
morphemes in (13) and that could be classiﬁed under a ‘State’ label (boyhood
being the state of being a boy etc.). Such a thing would be undesirable as the
role of (functional) heads would be trivialised.
I believe to have demonstrated that gender features are intrinsic features
of N heads. Their aﬃnity with declension class and other ‘derivational mor-
phology’ features has been touched upon. Whether we are correct or not to
believe that the ‘formal-semantic’ distinction of features is not a primitive but
On the complex structure of pronouns 
rather a question of distribution of (un)interpretable features, it should be
clear that gender is located on N.
. Summary
So far I have tried to establish that the rich φ speciﬁcation of pronouns in a
lot of the world’s languages is a result of DP-internal structure comprising at
least one more head besides the fairly uncontroversial D. Based on the above
discussion, we can adopt the following loci for the features that manifest
themselves on pronoun forms:
(14)
Person
(1st & 2nd)
Number Gender
D (‘pronominal determiner’) ü
Num ü
N ü
The surprising result is that some sort of noun is involved in all those pro-
nominal forms that encode gender. In the case of English, if she encodes a
feminine gender feature, it is one identical to that of the nouns in (12) – there
is a noun hidden somewhere in she, next to a Num head (she is singular) and
– possibly – a Determiner.23 Natural questions are:
a. Are these ‘pronominal’ nouns ever made manifest via ‘derivational mor-
phology’ features other than gender? This is going to be answered in the
next section.
b. Are pronominal nouns only parts of pronouns? Can they appear in other
syntactic environments? This is investigated in the next chapter.
c. What exactly and how many pronominal nouns are? What is their func-
tion? This issue will be discussed in Chapter 3.
d. Do pronominal nouns always form parts of pronouns? Why? This ques-
tion is going to be addressed and answered in Chapters 4 and 5.
. Nouns as pronouns
Abney’s intransitive D hypothesis can cater in a very straightforward way for
those pronominal systems that form closed classes, i.e. for those pronominal
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

systems that have a limited number of members to which no new additions can
be made (cf. Emonds 1985:Ch. 4; Abney 1987:64–65). At the same time, there
are numerous languages reported that seem to possess an open pronominal sys-
tem: Japanese (Fukui 1987; Noguchi 1997; Nolan 2000), Thai (Cooke 1968),
Burmese (Cooke 1968), Malay (Wong Bee Eng, p.c.). We are also going to dis-
cuss the behaviour of a nominal that behaves pronominally in a language that
possesses Determiner pronouns: the English pronominal noun one.
. Open pronominal classes
The discussion in this section will be mainly illustrated with examples from
Japanese, by far the best studied language with an open pronominal system,
and Thai, due to some extraordinary characteristics its pronominal system
exhibits. In order to get ‘hands-on’ experience of what it means for a pro-
nominal system to be open, consider the Table 1 from Cooke (1968) listing
only a fraction of the pronominal paradigm of Thai, namely 1st person (sin-
gular) pronouns:24
(15) First person pronouns
Of course, this table – the result of extensive ﬁeldwork – is not fully endorsable
for a variety of reasons. First of all, the assignment of multiple values to features
(‘++’ meaning intensely positive, ‘+’ meaning positive, ‘/’ meaning unmarked
and ‘–’ meaning negative) is questionable on both theoretical and empirical
grounds. For instance, the simplest of the empirical problems is that there do
not seem to exist minimal pairs contrasting only with respect to a ‘++’ versus
a ‘+’ or a ‘/’ feature values in (15) above. Second, some of the characteristics of
individual lexical entries are clearly pragmatic and relate to their usage and
are not grammatically encoded: this seems to be the case regarding the ‘con-
trast’ between raw′ (1) and raw′ (2) for instance. To provide an analogue of
the situation as portrayed in (15), imagine a grammar of French that would
go into some detail regarding the exact ‘speciﬁcation’ (including discourse
and other external factors) of polite vous.
Of course, the sheer size and complexity of the 1st person paradigm is
enough to invalidate beyond remedy an account along the lines of all the
eighteen pronouns in (15) being (intransitive) Determiners. Moreover, at
least some of Cooke’s “semantic features” seem to be grammatically encoded,
most probably as a sort of ‘derivational morphology’ features on the lexical
entry, similar to the feature responsible for -hood in boyhood.
On the complex structure of pronouns 
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

There are three very intriguing characteristics of Thai pronouns. The ﬁrst
is that some forms are actually ambiguous for person. So, raw′ can be either
1st or 2nd person, khaw can be either 1st or non-person. This property is as-
tonishing; given the discussion in Section 3.1, we expect pronominal para-
digms to encode person if nothing else. How can a pronoun be ambiguous
between an indexical (1st and 2nd person) and a non-person reading? We will
return to this issue in Section 5.1 when the nature of pronominal reference
will be discussed. For the time being, note that this intriguing property be-
comes less surprising when we look at lexical items like one, as in the ‘royal’
one feels compelled to… to refer to oneself or ‘impersonal’ you as in you never
know what kind of people will read your papers.
The second oddity is that there exist pronouns that are loanwords – ‘úa′
and ‘aj in (15), from Chinese and English respectively. Both are 1st person
pronouns, although felicitous in only very speciﬁc discourse situations. Only
members of open classes, especially nouns and adjectives, can usually be
loanwords and, probably, never functional items. The possibility of borrow-
ing lexical items into a lexical class is then highly suggestive of this class being
an open one – like nouns and adjectives.
Finally, Thai pronouns can be modiﬁed like nouns, by demonstratives
and numerals. So, the following (from Cooke 1968:10) is grammatical in
Thai:
(16) phőm′ nîi
me this
In a similar fashion, Japanese pronouns (another language that shares the ﬁrst
and third property above with Thai) are modiﬁable by adjectives (17a), pos-
sessives (17b) and demonstratives (17c):25
(17) a. tiisai kare
small he
b. watasi-no kare
my he
c. kono kare
this he
Pronouns in these and other languages thus display typical syntactic character-
istics of nouns. First, they form an open class and fulﬁl the non theory-internal
criteria Emonds (1985:Ch. 4) posits for open class membership: there are a lot
more than thirty of them,26 new lexical items can be borrowed, a number of
On the complex structure of pronouns 
lexical items exist that roughly express the same semantic content and cannot
be distinguished from each other on purely syntactic criteria. So, the lexical
items in (15), all meaning ‘speaker’, are probably diﬀerentiated among them-
selves the way the members of the trio freedom-ﬁghter, guerrilla, terrorist are,
certainly not according to syntactic criteria as is the case for I (nominative)
versus me (accusative) or je (nominative clitic/weak pronoun) versus me (ac-
cusative clitic/weak pronoun) versus moi (strong pronoun) in French.
The criteria that determine the ‘correct’ choice from the list in (15) are
stylistic and pragmatic. The same is true for Japanese pronouns (Fukui 1987;
Noguchi 1997) and, by extrapolation, for all open pronominal systems.
Second, they are modiﬁable by the usual nominal modiﬁers as we saw in
(16) and (17). In fact, this very piece of evidence leads Fukui (1987) and No-
guchi (1997) – following an insight of Kuroda’s – to assert that pronominal
forms are nouns in Japanese. Again, we can extrapolate to all pronouns be-
longing to open systems and consider them all nouns.
. An overt pronominal noun in English
It could be argued that the fact that Thai and Japanese pronouns are really
nouns, say NPs, proves nothing about pronouns in general. Perhaps some
languages use (intransitive) determiners and some nouns to express pro-
nominal reference. This cannot be true if Abney’s construal of pronominality
as ‘lack of descriptive content’ holds; from his perspective nouns must have
descriptive content. Nevertheless, if we relax this construal a bit and admit
that nouns can lack descriptive meaning, maybe we have a way forward. Per-
haps there are languages with D-pronouns and languages with N-pronouns
(an idea also discussed in Noguchi 1997), a matter of parameter setting.
Even if such a parameter exists, it cannot be of the ‘on/oﬀ’ sort: there exist
N-pronouns in languages with a fully ﬂedged D-pronoun system. One of
them is English and the pronominal noun in question is one. One possesses at
least the following two interesting properties that identify it with pronominal
nouns (N-pronouns) like those of Thai and Japanese.
First, one can appear inside the complement of a determiner (18a), be
modiﬁed by an adjective (18b), and be marked for plural (18c) – like any
other nominal. So, for instance, we could substitute one for a noun, say paper
or cat, in the examples below and still get grammatical sentences. Predictably,
the standard analysis is that one is a nominal (Jackendoﬀ 1977; Emonds 1985;
Kayne 1994).27
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

(18) a. [This one] is from New Jersey.
b. [A new one] is sometimes a challenge.
c. You should carefully ﬁle [the new ones]!
Second, the DP containing one has no ﬁxed referent, like pronouns. It can re-
fer to contextually salient entities but it lacks descriptive meaning. This
should be obvious from examples (18) above, where DPs containing one(s)
could refer to anything either animate or inanimate, as long as this entity is
countable: one is a “pronominal count noun” according to Radford (1993:
102). Take a new one in (18b), for instance; this nominal phrase can have any
‘singular’ referent pace the restrictions imposed by the indeﬁnite article a and
the adjective new. One essentially behaves like the lesser-marked members of
the Thai and Japanese pronominal paradigms.
. A noun inside every pronoun
So far we have seen that pronouns have a complex structure, they are not in-
transitive determiners. In fact, some pronominal expressions, like the DP con-
taining one in (18c), have a very transparent internal structure. Other pro-
nominals, like Thai and Japanese ones, consist of at least a noun and involve
determiners only under very speciﬁc theory–internal assumptions. Moreover,
we proposed here that LF interpretable features are encoded on speciﬁc heads
and not just anywhere available (contra the spirit of Ritter 1995), as heads are
not primitives, but bundles of features. Especially in the case of functional
heads, this must always be kept in mind, as Emonds (1985:Ch. 4) shows and
will be discussed in detail in Chapters 3 and 5. So, what makes a Num head is
not some special categorial status but the fact that it hosts number features. If
number features can appear freely as part of D or N or some other functional
head, then we are looking at a very diﬀerent – and more complex to learn –
model of grammar, where number can be either interpreted on the noun/Num
in we linguists, our (1), or straight from the Determiner in (2), when we ap-
pears on its own…
Given the discussion in Section 3, whose conclusion is summarised under
(14), if features make heads, any pronominal form that encodes number is a
nominal phrase involving a Num head. Moreover, when gender or other
‘derivational morphology’ features are encoded on a pronominal form, a
noun is there as well.28 This noun can be either phonologically null (as in
On the complex structure of pronouns 
Postal’s 1969 analysis) or overt (like in Thai and Japanese pronominals as well
as English DPs involving one).
. What is pronominality?
Let us now return to one of the key questions we set out to answer in this
chapter, namely what makes pronouns pronominal. Recall that Abney’s solu-
tion, that is ‘the radical absence of an NP projection that carries the concept-
denoting (or ‘descriptive’) features of the DP’ is unattainable at least for pro-
nominal DPs with overt nouns (DPs with one, as well as Thai and Japanese N-
pronouns) and pronouns encoding gender or other ‘derivational morphol-
ogy’ features. Recall also that Postal (1969) in essence argues for the presence
of a pronominal noun in every pronominal DP (interpreting his proposal
from a contemporary perspective).
The answer to the question therefore appears to be that Postal was right,
after all: a pronominal noun inside a nominal phrase causes this nominal
phrase (DP) to be interpreted as a semantic variable at LF and beyond. The
presence of a pronominal noun is exactly what uniﬁes determiner headed
pronouns and N-pronouns, including DPs with one.
The next question is then why pronominal nouns trigger such an inter-
pretation at LF. A ﬁrst approximation is to posit a [pronominal] feature on
those special nouns. Descriptively, this is suﬃcient. Let us illustrate this hypo-
thetical state of aﬀairs by giving the rough structures at Spell Out as well as
some features29 for the indexical we (19a), she (19b), a DP headed by one
(19c) and the Japanese pronoun kare (19d).
(19) Some pronouns
a. DP
D NumP
we
[ASE]
[*plu]
Num
[plu]
NP
e
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

b. DP
D NumP
she
[*sing]
[*fem]
Num
[sing]
NP
e
[fem]
[def]
c. DP
D NumP
the
[def]
Num
[plu]
NP
ones
AP
new
d. DP
D NumP
e
[def]
Num
[sing]
NP
kare
[masc]
In (19a) we is nothing more than a determiner encoding ‘speaker’ and an un-
interpretable number feature – the determiner we agrees in number with
Num. The null pronominal noun, marked with an e, is responsible for the
pronominal reference of the DP in (19a): recall that there is nothing pro-
On the complex structure of pronouns 
nominal about we linguists. The presence of the pronominal noun is forced at
least by selectional properties of we. In (19b), we take the phonologically
overt form she to be an agreeing D30 but nothing follows from this. It could
well be a pronominal noun raised to D, as in Zwarts (1993), Cardinaletti
(1994), Panagiotidis (1998). We opt for she as a D for reasons of parsimony;
none of the analyses quoted provides fully convincing evidence for an N-to-D
movement (à la Longobardi 1994) taking place in this and similar cases. In
any event, the locus of the interpretable gender feature [fem] is inside the NP.
In (19c) we position the AP at the speciﬁer of Num – this is nothing more
than shorthand here, though (see also Chapter 2; for discussion: Kester 1996).
Similarly, we put ones fully inﬂected in the phrase marker but, again, nothing
follows from this. Finally, we posit a DP shell for Japanese kare as in Noguchi
(1997) but contra Fukui (1987). The motivation is theory-internal and might
well be on the wrong track: we take DPs to be referential/arguments and
NPs/NumPs to be predicative (Stowell 1991; Longobardi 1994) – more about
this assumption in Chapter 4. In our (19d), kare being deﬁnite perhaps sup-
ports the case for a DP shell, too. In all examples under (19) we refrain from
giving a detailed label for the pronominal nouns, simply dubbing them all
‘NP’. This will be rectiﬁed in Chapter 3.
Now, let us say that e in (19a–b), one in (19c) and kare in (19d) encode a
[pronominal] feature (cf. Noguchi 1997:783). This triggers pronominal in-
terpretation of the respective DPs. Nevertheless, a careful reader will not fail
to observe another common trait running through these pronominal nouns:
they do not seem to encode any concept related to the real world like cat, bliss,
hammer or republic, the way ‘ordinary’ nouns do. Pronominal nouns are de-
void of ‘descriptive’ features, encoding ‘minimally’ semantic ones – like gen-
der – at best.
Let us now conduct a thought experiment, originally in Panagiotidis
(2000): take a DP that is a Referential (R–) expression, say the cat. According
to the assumption that a [pronominal] feature exists, the cat could reasonably
be claimed to bear a [–pronominal] feature (say, on N). This creates a para-
dox:
1. the lack of descriptive content of pronouns is the result of the positive set-
ting of a [pronominal] feature on a noun (e, one, kare), which has no de-
scriptive content anyway;
2. the fact that R-expressions do have descriptive content is relevant/due to
the negative setting of the same [pronominal] feature.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

In other words, when a DP contains a [+pronominal] feature at LF, it is inter-
preted as a semantic variable. If, on the other hand, a [–pronominal] feature
is encountered, the reference of the nominal expression (DP) is decided on
the basis of the concept(s) that the descriptive features it contains encode. So,
the cat will have its reference decided by virtue of (among other things) its
feature encoding the concept CAT.
Having said that, we cannot fail to notice two more logically possible, but
rather exotic, options:
a. an R-expression that has no descriptive features. This would be marked as
[–pronominal] but bear no descriptive features;
b. a pronoun that encodes a concept. This would be marked as [+prono-
minal] and also denote an object, e.g. a pronoun that also means “the cat.”
Both a. and b. could be fairly characterised as oxymora. Eventually, the model
that seeks to deﬁne pronominality by virtue of a [pronominal] feature fails
for the reason that this feature, being ultimately independent of the descrip-
tive/concept-denoting features on a noun, could lead to the generation of
non-descriptive R-expressions, as in a. above. These would be only vacuously
‘referential’ and their LF representation would most probably be indistin-
guishable from that of a pronoun. As for “descriptive pronouns” of b., they
could perhaps be identiﬁed with epithets like the fool or the jerk which seem to
share binding properties of both pronominals and R-expressions. This would
be in the spirit of Lasnik (1991:16) who makes a very similar claim. Again,
the problem would be why epithets as “descriptive pronouns” cannot be
composed from any descriptive features, like CAT for instance, with an added
[+pronominal] feature. I have no explanation to oﬀer for this.
Consequently, in the face of the undesirable redundancy the [pronomi-
nal] feature introduces and in order not to have it discarded, we would need
to establish a condition where a [–pronominal] value of it would entail
obligatory presence of descriptive features and, probably, vice-versa. Such a
condition would only increase redundancy and is undesirable for that reason.
Ultimately, what we would like to capture is the fact that descriptive con-
tent and pronominality are mutually exclusive: an R-expression is such by vir-
tue of the fact that it denotes a concept, a pronoun is such by virtue of the
fact that it does not denote anything but, rather, it is a semantic variable. In
other words, denotation or lack thereof of DPs is intrinsically dependent on
the descriptive content or lack thereof of the noun. Pronominality is nothing
but the lack of descriptive content of a noun. Pronominal reference is a last
On the complex structure of pronouns 
resort interpretive strategy when C–I systems can see no concept encoded on
the noun of a DP. In a way, this conclusion completes the circle: Abney was
right and Postal was right, too: Pronominal reference is the lack of descriptive
content, as in Abney (1987), but lack of descriptive content does not necessar-
ily entail radical absence of a noun but, rather, the presence of an impover-
ished noun, as in Postal (1969). Crucially, this noun does not denote a concept.
To put it generally:
(20) Pronominal DPs include a noun that denotes no concept
The grammatical nature of these ‘pronominal’ nouns is what we are going to
focus on for the rest of this study. We will inquire into their semantic proper-
ties and their X′ status. Moreover, we will examine the relationship between
the phonologically null variety of such pronominal nouns with pro – the null
subject of verbs – and phenomena of ellipsis. Properties of Num and D will
be touched upon only to the extent that they interact with those pronominal
nouns.
. Appendix: Delineating the data
. Complementation versus Apposition
Consider the following examples that involve material to the right of the pro-
noun:
(i) We linguists tend to be quite parsimonious (=1)
(ii) We, linguists, tend to be quite parsimonious
(iii) We, the linguists, tend to be quite parsimonious
As the punctuation indicates, (ii) and (iii) involve intonational breaks, not
only after the pronoun but also after the constituent to its right. This con-
stituent can either be an NumP31 (ii) or a DP (iii). Moreover, (ii) and (iii) can
be roughly translated as (iv) and (v) respectively, preserving the meaning:
(iv) We, that is linguists, tend to be quite parsimonious.
(v) We, that is the linguists, tend to be quite parsimonious.
The above contrast readily with the ungrammatical:
(vi) *We the linguists tend to be quite parsimonious.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

(vii) *We that is the linguists tend to be quite parsimonious.
Now, in traditional terms, the NP in (i) is restrictive in the sense that it re-
stricts the group of ‘the speaker and others’ we signiﬁes, whereas all the loose
constituents that follow the pronoun in (ii–vii) only provide additional in-
formation on the already given set of individuals (linguists here) that we re-
fers to by itself.32 This subtle semantic distinction corresponds to diﬀerent
syntactic structures which – in turn – are distinctively mapped to PF.
In examples (ii–iii) we is a pronominal DP that lacks a head-complement
syntactic relationship with an overt constituent; the DP containing linguists in
this examples forces the appositive interpretation somewhere after LF, as there
is perhaps nothing in the grammar to tell us that pronoun and phrase are in-
deed co-referential.
. Exclamations and nominalisations
Exclamatory, vocative and interjective contexts were excluded from the dis-
cussion of which determiners are ‘intransitive’, because they seem to allow a
variety of combinations not attested in ‘declarative’ contexts:
(viii) a. You silly sods!
b. You silly sod!
c. Lucky her!
(ix) Lucky you!
If we consider (viii) and (ix) as valid sets of data along with everything else,
we are faced with quite a few contradictions. Thus, (viii a–b) could be said to
illustrate you in plural and singular as a D with NP complements and (viii c)
to present sound evidence of non-person forms being merged as Ns and,
thus, naturally following an adjective, recall the discussion of (19c). On the
other hand, (ix) would amply falsify our ﬁrst claim, namely that you is a D, as
you follows an adjective. Therefore, we leave those environments aside. As for
how (viii) and (ix) are explained, we can follow Progovac (1998:174) and
claim they are small clauses of some sort.
Moving on to example (x), we realise that such expressions are also a red
herring for our discussion. Evidently, the phrase in (x) is akin to those in (xi):
nominalisations, unless we would want to claim that adverbials (xi a–b), and
inﬂected verbs (xi c) can appear in N position.
On the complex structure of pronouns 
(x) Discover the new you
(xi) a. The whys and wherefores of the problem. English
b. Le demain de l’ humanité French
The tomorrow of.the humanity
c. Ta pistevo Greek
the-. believe-1st
Notes
. See also Appendix (Section 6.1).
. Demonstratives not unanimously so: Brugè (1996), Giusti (1997), Tsimpli & Stavrakaki
(1999), Panagiotidis (2000b).
. Ellipsis will be dealt with in some detail in Chapter 2.
. See the Appendix (Section 6.2) about our choice of data.
. But see (16) and Section 4.
. (i) Du Sprachwissenschaftler hast es bewiesen German
You linguist have it proved
(ii) Jij saaie taalkundige leest alleen maar Dutch
You boring linguist read only
. I am grateful to Neil Smith for pointing this out to me.
. I consider English demonstratives D heads (Panagiotidis 2000b).
. The general idea that Person is only marked as “1st” and “2nd” person can be traced
back to Bloomﬁeld’s Language (1938:225–226). From a typological point of view, Forch-
heimer (1953:6) makes the following generalisations towards the non-person status of ‘3rd
person’: 3rd person agreement is often zero, whereas 1st and 2nd person agreement is
overt; many languages have no (nominative) 3rd person pronoun or use demonstratives
instead; 1st and 2nd person are often similar in form and inﬂection but dissimilar from
that of 3rd person.
. Ingram (1978), Silverstein (1986) and Harley & Ritter (1997, 2000) argue for [±Ad-
dressee] instead of [±PSE].
. Languages like Ghomala (Sasse 1993:670) have systems with a much richer directory
of person speciﬁcations. Silverstein (1986) and Harley & Ritter (1997, 2000) convincingly
argue that such rare and rich systems combine Number and Person features in intricate
ways to give the surface eﬀect of possessing more than four person speciﬁcations, see also
3.2 and 3.3 below.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

. Throughout this study, I will take a minus speciﬁcation for a feature to actually stand
for “absence of feature.” This is in the spirit of Ingram (1978:224), who has done the same
in order to capture the typological diversity of pronominal systems. The consequences of
that with respect to checking theory remain to be attested, but I ﬁnd it rather improbable
that ‘negatively speciﬁed’ features can be checked or check; see Alexiadou (2000) for a pro-
posal. More on ‘3rd person’ as non-person: Corver & Delﬁtto (1999), Harley & Ritter
(2000).
. See Den Dikken (2000).
. We can be either exclusive or inclusive, so [PSE] must be unspeciﬁed.
. Harley & Ritter (1997, 2000) on how number (more accurately: ‘individuation’) is en-
coded in language, the reader is referred there for a more substantial discussion.
. Rather than vice-versa, possibly a tell-tale sign that Num is c-commanded by D.
. Also argued for by Rouveret (1991:362–363) for Welsh pronouns and verbal agree-
ment.
. They should be viewed with caution, though, as the morphosyntactic status of the ex-
amples cited is far from clear. Nevertheless, the fact that Number and Person appear as
separate ‘morphemes’ is uncontroversial, even though they combine ‘semantically’ to give
an interpretation equivalent to you (pl).
. Corbett (1991:63).
. ibid. p.125–126.
. For an additional argument, see Giannakidou & Stavrou (1999:11, 37). Ritter (1993:
795) makes the claim that “gender is a feature on Num in Romance languages and on N in
Hebrew” and that an amount of parametric variation is entailed. Her main argument is
that in Romance languages Gender is realised together with Number (an optional feature),
mainly based on Walloon data. Nevertheless, the question of why gender is still not op-
tional (no matter what the morphological rules are) is not addressed. Thus, we will con-
tinue assuming that gender is a, stricto sensu, nominal feature.
. We will not discuss anaphor agreement here (Beowulf admires himself/*herself).
. Ritter (1995), Koopman (2000) and, taken in a strict fashion, Alexiadou (2000) pro-
vide evidence against a D in non-person pronouns. Here, I will side with Stowell (1991)
and Longobardi (1994), taking all arguments to be DPs – see Section 3.3 in Chapter 4 for
discussion.
. I am grateful to Pattama Viriyasirikul for discussing with me the pronouns of her na-
tive language in such a careful, detailed and patient manner. Much of the following discus-
sion is the result of these discussions. The usual disclaimers apply.
. For discussion: Fukui (1987); Noguchi (1997); Panagiotidis (to appear).
On the complex structure of pronouns 
. Emonds (1985:159) considers 30 to roughly be the maximum number of members for
closed classes. This is not a stipulation but a consequence of his Unique Syntactic Behav-
ior – more about the issue in Chapter 3.
. But see Kester (1996) who argues it is a functional head above N.
. These statements are only accurate for clitic pronouns if they originate from some sort
of nominal phrase (Kayne 1989; Kayne 1991; Laenzlinger & Shlonsky 1997; Cardinaletti &
Starke 1999; Corver & Delﬁtto 1999 and Den Dikken 2000): clitics are raised D heads that
leave behind the rest of a DP – this view we follow here. See Chapters 2 & 3 for details.
. Starred features will signify LF uninterpretable features henceforth.
. See Koopman (2000) for a diﬀerent and very interesting analysis.
. But see Section 5.1 and Chapter 4.
. See also Postal (1969:218–219). Abney (1987:282, ftn. 86) remains agnostic on whet-
her examples like (i) pattern up with the appositives in (ii–vii), which is strange.
C 2
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns
. Preamble 
. Adjectives and pronominal nouns 
. Pronominal clitics and null nouns 
. Radical ellipsis: Empty arguments 
. A Grand Uniﬁcation? 
. Appendix: Nominalisation versus noun ellipsis 
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

. Preamble
In the previous chapter I restated my assumptions and we saw where they led
us in relation to the presence of non-descriptive nouns inside pronominal
DPs. Recall that these assumptions were the following: LF interpretable fea-
tures are encoded on speciﬁc heads, although agreement-inducing uninter-
pretable versions of the same features can be encoded elsewhere within the
extended nominal projection; thus, person features are encoded on D, num-
ber features on Num and gender as well as ‘derivational morphology’ features
on N. A second key assumption was that selection in grammar, however for-
mulated, is obligatory; this is stated under (4) in the previous chapter. When
applied to pronominals, obligatory selection entails the impossibility of
(functional) heads optionally taking a complement or being ‘intransitive’;1 at
the same time, pronominals marked for number must have at least a NumP
shell and those encoding gender an NP one. On the other hand, Ds like we/us,
although not marked for gender, must also involve a NumP and an NP con-
stituent when superﬁcially ‘intransitive’ because, by (4) in the previous chap-
ter, they must select one; such NPs sometimes surface overtly, as examples like
we linguists illustrate.
Having argued for the presence of an NP constituent in virtually all pro-
nominals, we further identiﬁed this ‘pronominal noun’ as the source of pro-
nominality. Non-descriptive (that is, non concept-denoting) nominals trigger
pronominal reference of their DP beyond LF; they can be either phonologi-
cally overt (like Japanese kare or English one) or not (like the null nominal in
‘pronominal’ we, he/him etc.).
This chapter will expand the discussion of ‘pronominal nouns’ in
signiﬁcant ways. First, we are going to review other cases of DPs where pro-
nominal nouns show up. This is a non-trivial task to undertake: if non-
descriptive nouns are conﬁned to appearing inside personal pronoun DPs,
the case for their existence is considerably weakened and the whole hypothe-
sis acquires an ad hoc ﬂavour: if non-descriptive nouns are idiosyncratic enti-
ties associated with personal pronouns only, then they are probably not syn-
tactically represented and their position is in the lexicon along with the rest of
grammatical idiosyncrasies. This is why it will be shown that pronominal
nouns also appear in noun ellipsis (Section 2), play a crucial role in the
strange life of pronominal clitics (Section 3) as well as some forms of null ar-
guments (Section 4). Second, it will emerge that a uniﬁcation between pro-
nouns and kinds of ellipsis is possible and indeed straightforward if non-
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
descriptive nouns are situated at the heart of all such expressions and their
diﬀerent syntactic and interpretive behaviours are the eﬀect of features of
functional heads inside the DP.
. Adjectives and pronominal nouns
Let us take a closer look at examples (18b–c) from the previous chapter, re-
peated here for convenience as (1a–b). In order to fully illustrate the phe-
nomena to be looked into below, (1c) is added.
(1) a. [A new one] is sometimes a challenge.
b. You should carefully ﬁle [the new ones]!
c. [The new one] makes a lot of people feel insecure.
We have analysed the bracketed DPs in (1a–b), and – by feasible extension –
(1c), as involving a pronominal (= ‘non concept-denoting’) noun one, in line
with the standard analyses on the issue (cf. Jackendoﬀ 1977; Emonds 1985;
Kayne 1994). The reference of the DP the new ones in (1b) is pronominal in
the sense of it being restricted by singular number, the property ‘new’ and
deﬁniteness, contributed by the singular Num, the AP new and the D the re-
spectively, but being otherwise free to range over any individual abiding by
the restrictions above. In this sense, it is very close to she/her,2 restricted in
turn by the feminine gender on its N, the singular number on its Num and
the deﬁniteness of its D.3 Furthermore, as in the case of pronouns, the usual
contextual restrictions apply. In a way, we can claim that pronominal nouns
like one have the property of turning every DP they occur inside into a pro-
noun.
Let us now turn to some cases where adjectives do not modify an overt
noun. Is it the case that all those adjectives have been nominalised, possibly
pre-syntactically? Or are there cases where pronominal nouns, phonologically
null versions of one, can sometimes be involved? Recall that throughout this
study we will be assuming that adjectival phrases (APs) modifying a noun are
speciﬁers of a functional head between N and D, either a little n or Num, as in
Bernstein (1993), Cinque (1994), Kester (1996), Stavrou (1999), Carstens
(2000) and Panagiotidis (2000b).4 Because the scope of our discussion cannot
extend to include a reasonably coherent account of the structural position of
modifying APs, we will have to be content to adopt the above view; we will
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

thus conventionally place modifying APs in the speciﬁers of Num in our
phrase markers, but few things hinge on this particular choice here.
. Noun ellipsis
Ellipsis is a complex phenomenon that has been the object of considerable
study and controversy within grammatical theory for at least the last 30 years.
Very informally, ellipsis is a label for the grammatical phenomenon that in-
volves the elision of a constituent – unlike gapping and stripping that do not
involve elision of constituents (see Chao 1988 and Lobeck 1995, among oth-
ers, for detailed discussion). Some examples will make the point:
(2) Ellipses:
a. VP Ellipsis: Politicians can’t rule this country, hence the army
will [VP e].
b. Noun Ellipsis: Bertie’s [NumP e] was ﬂagrantly opposed to
violence but her group was indiﬀerent.
c. Sluicing: They know he’s hiding, but they don’t know where
[IP e].
Gapping: They shot Lorca in Andalucia and _ the rest in Barcelona.
Stripping: Ali loves to study Hebrew but not _ Arabic.
In this section we are only going to look into noun ellipsis and we are
speciﬁcally going to focus on noun ellipsis that co-occurs with adjectives. It
will be assumed without discussion that ellipsis involves ‘base-generated’
empty constituents, as in Chao (1988), Lobeck (1991, 1995, 1999), Sleeman
(1993), Kester (1996, 1996b), Lightfoot (1998) and Boeckx (2000) among
others. There is also a competing concept of ellipsis which views the phe-
nomenon as a process that deletes contextually salient constituents at PF, but
it arguably fails to capture the quasi-pronominal behaviour of elliptical con-
stituents; see Lobeck (1995:30–35) and especially Lobeck (1999) for argu-
ments against a PF deletion analysis.5 The quasi-pronominal behaviour of –
at least – noun ellipsis will be captured in terms of elliptical DPs involving
what we have called a ‘pronominal noun’ and further discussed in Section
2.1.2. For the time being, suﬃce it to say that unlike gapping and stripping,
ellipsis of all three kinds is constrained by the Backwards Anaphora Con-
straint: elliptical constituents can precede – as in (2b) – but not c-command
their ‘antecedents’ (Lobeck 1995:20–28). Again, the interested reader is re-
ferred to Chao (1988) and Lobeck (1995, 1999) for more details.
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
.. The form of noun ellipsis
Here are some examples of noun ellipsis from a variety of languages:
(3) a. J’ aime les grises eN. French
I love the. grey..
b. Amo le grigie eN. Italian
love.1st. the.. grey..
c. Quiero las grisas eN. Spanish
love.1st. the.. grey..
d. Aghapo tis grizes eN. Greek
love.1st. the.. grey..
‘I love the grey ones’
As is known, adjectives in the languages above agree in gender and number
with the noun of the DP. Assume that agreement is – ultimately – the result of
constituents with matching features being positioned in a Spec–Head (or
other) matching conﬁguration with each other before or at LF (cf. Chomsky
1995; Carstens 2000). If this is roughly accurate, gender agreement on adjec-
tives is mediated by the functional head they are the speciﬁers of – say Num.
This is illustrated in the phrase marker under (4):
(4) NumP
AP
[*number]
[*gender]
Num
Num
N
[gender] [number]
A NP
…N…
At some stage in the derivation, the noun, bearing the gender features, adjoins
to the Num head, which, in turn, carries number features. An appropriate
Spec–Head conﬁguration with the AP speciﬁer of Num is established and
thus the uninterpretable number and gender features of the adjective are
checked, this somehow manifesting itself as agreement. For the N to Num (to
D) movement see Delﬁtto & Schroten (1991), Bernstein (1993), Longobardi
(1994), Carstens (2000) and Panagiotidis (2000b).
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

Given that in all instances of (3) number agreement is marked on the D
and, at least in (3b–d), the adjective, the presence of a Num is made manifest,
even if our hypothesis about the position of APs is inaccurate. The same is
true for gender: both D and A in all instances of (3) are marked for gender. If
there is no pronominal noun, the phonologically null version(s) of which we
will henceforth dub eN, as in (3), then there is nothing for the adjectives and
the articles to agree with in gender. German is a language that beautifully ex-
empliﬁes this: in the examples under (5), adapted from Kester (1996), only
modifying adjectives show agreement morphology, not predicative ones.
Quite expectedly, the adjective in the equivalents of (3), namely in (5b), pat-
terns with the cases where an adjective modiﬁes a full noun (5a) and not
predicative adjectives (5c).
(5) a. Gute Suppe macht glücklich
good. soup makes happy
‘Good soup makes you happy’
b. Gute eN macht glücklich
good. makes happy
‘A good one makes you happy’
c. Diese Suppe ist gut
this. soup is good
‘This soup is good’
.. On the interpretation of noun ellipsis
Reverting to the examples in (3) and (5b), we observe that, as far as interpre-
tation is concerned, similar facts to those that hold for (1) are true here as
well. Starting from the nominal phrase in (5b), that is gute eN, it can refer to
anything good. This brings it very close to the nominal phrase a new one in
(1a). Turning to (3), all the nominal phrases can refer to anything feminine in
grammatical gender, inanimate, animate or human: stones, whales or women.
Given that noun ellipsis is a very productive process, not only in lan-
guages like Romance,6 Greek and German but also Slavic (Spencer (2000) for
Russian), Germanic and Finno-Ugric languages (Kester 1996, 1996b), it seems
very unlikely that it involves nominalisations. Of course, as Spencer (2000)
and Giannakidou & Stavrou (1999) show for Russian and Greek respectively,
some adjectives are nominalised. We will return to criteria that tell noun el-
lipsis from nominalisations in the appendix of this chapter.
Let us now compare personal pronouns with noun ellipsis in order to
sketch in more detail their similarities and diﬀerences. Before doing so it is
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
worth pointing out that the same observations hold for those English DPs
that include one. This should come as no surprise if personal pronoun DPs,
one DPs and noun ellipsis all involve some non-descriptive noun. Much of
the discussion below is based on Lobeck (1995) and Kester (1996).
First of all, DPs displaying noun ellipsis can have pragmatic antecedents
and refer back to antecedents over utterance boundaries, either implicit or
not. The same is true of pronouns, of course.
(6) a. Speaker A: I wish I had a car of my own
b. Speaker B: How are you going to pay for it?
c. Speaker A: Well, I guess [my mother’s e] is all right, then
It in (6b) refers back to a discourse antecedent in (6a) and it is ultimately dis-
ambiguated pragmatically: it can very well refer to the car itself or even a con-
textually salient loan Speaker A would have to take in order to buy a car. Iden-
tical facts hold for the referent of the DP my mother’s – supposing Speaker A’s
mother has already got a loan, and so on. Another characteristic shared by
both pronouns and elliptical DPs is their ability to take split antecedents –
this eventually being a consequence of the fact that they can take contextually
salient antecedents and not only DPs in some previous utterance.
(7) a. Jules: J’ai beaucoup de chapeaux belges.
I have many of hats belgian
‘I have got a lot of Belgian hats’
b. Jim: Tous mes chapeaux, je les ai achetés moi-même.
All my hats I them have bought myself
‘I have bought all my hats myself’
c. Tom: Donnez-moi les blancs e.
give-me the. white
‘Give me the white ones’
d. Luc: Donnez-les moi!
Give-them to.me
‘Give them to me’
In the French dialogue above, the (clitic) pronoun les in (7d) can refer to both
the Belgian and Jim’s hats. Similarly, the set of white hats in (7c) is – under
the right circumstances – made up from hats from both sets: the Belgian ones
and those that Jim bought himself.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

A last point about the similarity between pronouns and elliptical DPs is
that they can both have sloppy readings. Consider ﬁrst the potentially ‘lazy
pronoun’ reading in the Greek example (8a) below:
(8) a. O Kostas estile ta vivlia tu stin Kuva
the Kostas sent the books his to.the Cuba
ala I Aliki ta dhorise stus Kurdhus.
but the Alice them donated to.the Kurds
‘Costas sent his books to Cuba but Alice donated them to the Kurds’
b. O Kostas estile ta vivlia tu stin Kuva
the Kostas sent the books his to.the Cuba
ala i Aliki dhorise ta palia e stus Kurdhus
but the Alice donated the old to.the Kurds
‘Costas sent his books to Cuba but Alice donated the old ones to the
Kurds’
In (8a), two readings are possible. According to the strict one, Costas sent his
books to Cuba and then Alice intervened somehow and subsequently had
them donated to the Kurds. The other reading is the ‘sloppy’ one: Costas sent
his books to Cuba and Alice donated her own books to the Kurds. Now, the
same state of aﬀairs is available for (8b) as well as its English translation (ap-
propriately contextualised, Bob Borsley, p.c.): under a strict reading, Costas
sent his books to Cuba and Alice had a subset of old books thereof donated to
the Kurds. Under a sloppy reading, Costas sent his books to Cuba and Alice
donated her own old books to the Kurds.
Having delved into the similarities between pronouns and elliptical DPs,
we cannot fail to spot two crucial diﬀerences between them: ﬁrst, pronouns
can be bound; elliptical DPs cannot and they behave as R-expressions. Con-
sider:
(9) [The men] think that women are staring at [them eN].
(10) [The men] think that women are staring at [John’s eN].
In (9) the men and the pronominal DP them can refer to the same men,
something also predicted by Principle B of the binding theory in its classic
formulation: the men c-commands them but the pronoun has no antecedent
inside its binding domain. In (10), though, the men and elliptical DP John’s
cannot refer to the same men, even if this group of men is indeed John’s
(imagining that John is a sergeant, a gang leader, or similar). The elliptical
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
consituent John’s eN behaves as an R-expression and does not tolerate any c-
commanding antecedent.
A second very curious but telling fact, is the following: consider again
(6b–c) and (7c–d): whereas the pronoun it in (6b) can refer to the desired
new car in (6a), the elliptical DP in (6c) can only refer to another car. Simi-
larly, Tom in (7c) asks for all the hats, both the Belgian ones and Jim’s by us-
ing the clitic pronoun les, but Luc in (7d) refers to the subset of white hats –
out of Belgian and Jim’s hats combined: it seems that pronouns and noun el-
lipses have diﬀerent ‘referential’ properties.
Do these facts compromise the validity of our analysis? I believe they do
not. A ﬁrst point is that pronouns, at least in English, are conveniently
underspeciﬁed and thus can accommodate a DP antecedent, and after LF,
antecedent and pronoun can be construed as referring to the same entity. On
the other hand, elliptical DPs already contain some sort of concept-denoting
modiﬁer, such as an adjective or a referential modiﬁer, such as a possessor DP.
Thus, the problem of ‘non co-reference’ is not in principle one of elliptical
DPs as a class but, rather, of what the semantic import of adjectives, posses-
sors and determiners inside the elliptical DPs is with respect to binding re-
strictions. In order to illustrate this point, consider the following two German
examples (from Lobeck 1995:112–113):
(11) a. Hans sagt der Mann war gestern nicht hier, aber den eN
Hans said the man was yesterday not here but the.
habe ich gestern gesehen.
have I yesterday seen
‘Hans said the man was not here yesterday, but I saw him yesterday’
b. Peter und ich haben die Männer gesehen, und ich habe
Peter and I have the men seen and I have
einen eN sogar fotograﬁert.
a. even photographed
‘Peter and I have seen the men, and I have even photographed one’
Observe the interpretational contrast between the elliptical DP den eN in
(11a) and einen eN in (11b). den eN is indistinguishable from a pronoun, at
least in terms of interpretation, and it refers back to the very man Hans saw
yesterday. On the other hand, the elliptical DP in (11b) has the partitive ‘feel’
of examples like (7c) and (8b). As the example above clearly shows, though,
this ‘co-referent versus partitive’ contrast has nothing to do with choice of the
pronominal noun (eN) but, rather, with the semantics of the determiners
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

heading the elliptical DPs:7 deﬁnite der versus ‘indeﬁnite’ einen. In addition,
if, roughly speaking, binding principles8 apply to referential expressions in ar-
gument positions only (Cinque 1990; Rizzi 1990; Reinhart & Reuland 1993),
it is only natural that constituents below DP, especially nouns, are not visible
to binding principles. Nouns, as is known, are not themselves referential
(Higginbotham 1985; Chierchia 1996) or, a fortiori, arguments – so binding
cannot be relevant in deciding their distribution, anyway.9
Even when the pronominal noun (eN) has some recognisable antecedent
in the utterance or discourse, it will be one below the NumP level, a noun.
Consider a situation in which (12b = 3a) could be a suitable answer:
(12) a. Tu aimes cette robe -là?
you like this. dress there
‘Do you like that dress over there?’
b. J’ aime les grises eN.
I love the. grey..
‘I like the grey ones’
The ‘real’ antecedent of eN in (12b) here is the feminine noun robe in (12a); it
is neither the noun plus the singular Num – the number in the DP under
(12b) is plural – nor the noun plus the singular Num plus the demonstrative
D. Note also that in no reasonable way is the referent of the elliptical DP in
(12b) a subset of the individual referent in (12a) – see also endnote 7.
I hope that it has been shown that elliptical DPs behave like pronouns, to
the point of being indistinguishable from them in instances like (11a) in both
form and interpretation. In all cases, both classes of DPs are built ‘around’ a
noun that denotes no concept: both kinds of DPs are then semantic variables
in the sense of Heim & Kratzer (1998). The referents of these DPs are decided
according to the semantic restrictions imposed by features on the heads in-
side them, like gender, deﬁniteness, number as well as the descriptive features
of adjectives or the referents of possessors. Pronouns are easier to make co-
referent with other material, compared to most elliptical DPs. This is not be-
cause of some inherent ‘pronominal’ property but because of the ‘under-
speciﬁcation’ of the pronouns in European languages and, possibly, para-
metrisation of binding: according to Lasnik (1991), both (9) and (10) are ﬁne
with the two DPs co-referent in Thai.10
As for the ‘underspeciﬁcation’ factor, the interpretation of most (non-
person) Indo-European pronouns is restricted by only two or three features:
deﬁniteness, number, gender… Following the discussion above, one would
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
predict that N-pronouns of languages like Japanese (see previous chapter)
that carry many more features (Nolan 2000), including what we dubbed
‘derivational morphology’ features, should be harder to make co-referent
with, like elliptical DPs in (6c) and (10). The prediction appears to be borne
out (Shiro Ojima, p.c.; Stephen Nolan, p.c.): it is very diﬃcult11 to interpret
most Japanese pronouns as bound by nominal phrases. This is probably not
because of their being bare NPs (as Noguchi 1997 argues) but rather because
of the number of ‘derivational morphology’ features they encode, like honor-
iﬁc, gender and politeness (Nolan 2000).
. English: noun ellipsis versus one
So far we have brought under a uniﬁed analysis noun ellipsis, DPs with one
and pronouns. They all involve non-descriptive nouns, what we have also
dubbed ‘pronominal nouns’, one or phonologically empty nouns (eN). In-
triguingly, we have presented hardly any instances of noun ellipsis with adjec-
tives in English: (2b), (6c) and (10) all involved noun ellipsis with a possessor.
We will not have anything more to say about noun ellipsis with a possessor or
quantiﬁers as it is not clear what category the null constituent belongs to in
these cases. Before proceeding, though, it must be stated that this exclusion is
not on theoretical but, rather, technical grounds; in other words, we will not
claim that adjectives play a privileged role in licensing noun ellipsis.12 The
reason we chose to focus on noun ellipsis occurring with adjectives here has
just been implied: if APs are speciﬁers of a NumP, then the elided material in-
side the DP apparently involves the limited ‘space’ of Num and NP, thus con-
straining possible hypotheses and rendering them more readily testable.
As Lobeck (1991, 1995) and Kester (1996) point out, noun ellipsis with
adjectives is very restricted in English and elliptical DPs with adjectives have
only a very narrow choice of interpretive options, unlike what we saw with re-
spect to Romance languages (3) and German (5b). Why should this be so?
Consider ﬁrst the instances in which elliptical DPs with adjectives are
possible in English in the following section.
.. Instances of noun ellipsis with adjectives in English
We can distinguish three kinds of noun ellipsis with adjectives in English’:
‘human’, ‘mass’ and ‘superlative’.13 There also seems to exist an ‘abstract’ sort
(e.g. the land owners were afraid of the new, tales of the unexpected), where the
DP stands for the abstract notion the adjective expresses, but elliptical DPs
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

with abstract interpretation are not very productive in English, unlike the
situation in Dutch and German (Kester 1996:227–257). In other languages,
like Greek, they seem to be the result of nominalisations (Giannakidou &
Stavrou 1999) – which certainly seems to be the case for English, as well
(Quirk & Greenbaum 1982:242).
... ‘Human’ noun ellipsis. In these constructions, the elliptical DP can
only be interpreted as plural generic with human referents. Examples of ‘hu-
man’ noun ellipsis are the given in (13a):
(13) a. the (very) poor eN
the (almost) undecided eN
the (rarely) parsimonious eN
b. *the poors
*the undecideds
*the parsimoniouses
c. *a poor
*an undecided
*a parsimonious
d. a poor one/poor ones
an undecided one/undecided ones
All instances of (13a) are interpreted as referring to a non-speciﬁc group of
rich, undecided and parsimonious people respectively. They cannot be nomi-
nalisations, like, say, the Reds, because they are unable to carry plural mor-
phology (13b), a sure sign of them not being nouns. Moreover, they can be
modiﬁed by grade and other adverbs (13a), this being a property of adjec-
tives. Moreover, they cannot appear in the singular (13c), something that has
led Lobeck (1991) and Kester (1996), respectively, to assume that the null
noun is either licensed by a [+plural] D or inherently speciﬁed for the fea-
tures [+human][+generic][+plural] (cf. Rizzi 1986). We will see that this is
not necessary. Note that when one(s) is used instead of eN (13d), then the ref-
erent(s) of the respective DPs have no interpretive restrictions: they can be
animate, inanimate, generic, speciﬁc or deﬁnite – pace pragmatic factors and
the choice of determiners, adjectives and so on: (13d) appears to be the ‘real’
parallel of noun ellipsis in other languages.
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
... ‘Mass’ noun ellipsis. Another environment where noun ellipsis with
adjectives is possible in English is when the DP refers to an uncountable or
mass entity. Consider the following examples (adapted from Kester 1996:
268):
(14) a. Which mustard do you prefer, [English eN] or [French eN]?
b. This recipe requires plain ﬂour, not [self raising eN].
c. You should never mix old wine with [new eN].
In all examples under (14), the bracketed elliptical DPs refer to mass entities.
No singular or plural readings are possible as the entities referred to are un-
countable and, crucially, none of these examples involves any overt material
with partitive interpretation. This last point is important in the light of Slee-
man’s (1993) analysis of ellipsis (see also endnote 7), according to which eN
must be licensed by a quantiﬁcational or partitive speciﬁer, either AP or QP. It
is not the case that any of the adjectives in (14) has non-trivial quantifying
properties. At the same time, a partitive quantiﬁer like some is of course com-
patible with eN as the ‘mass’ reading of the grammatical DP in (15) demon-
strates:
(15) This cake looks delicious, can I have [some eN]?
Notice that if one is substituted for eN, the examples under both (14) or (15)
become ungrammatical under the intended readings. This is a well-known
fact, cf. Radford’s (1993:102) characterisation of one as a ‘pronominal count
noun’.14
... ‘Superlative’ noun ellipsis. Building on Kester (1996:Ch.5), let us now
review instances of noun ellipsis in English that co-occur with superlative ad-
jectives. Note also the fact that – in these cases only – eN and one are both
possible.
(16) a. Joe’s staging of the ‘Tempest’ is [the most interesting eN/one].
b. Which shoes did you buy? [The most expensive eN/ones].
c. As for ampliﬁers, these are [the loudest eN/ones].
This apparent optionality sets ‘superlative’ noun ellipsis apart from ‘human’
and ‘mass’ noun ellipsis. Apparently, the D and Num shells in ‘superlative’
noun ellipsis behave in a manner parallel to that of demonstrative Ds: besides
descriptive complements, they can also take either a null complement or
one(s). Related to this, notice also that demonstratives are the only English Ds
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

that agree in number with Num. This observation will provide the entry
point for our investigation of why noun ellipsis is so restricted in English.
.. An account
As stated already, noun ellipsis with adjectives involves material in the NP
projection as well as the Num head itself, under the working hypothesis that
modifying APs are situated at SpecNumP. The relevance of number features
should not be underestimated, as far as which interpretations for noun ellip-
sis with adjectives are available in English. So, the ‘human’ construction in
English involves an overt deﬁnite determiner and plural number (not marked
on the adjective, of course); the ‘mass’ construction involves no overt deter-
miner and – trivially – no possibility of plural number (plural is incompatible
with a ‘mass’ reading). The ‘superlative’ construction involves either a singular
or plural interpretation and a deﬁnite D.
(17)
Det the? Number one possible?
‘Human’ noun ellipsis yes plural no
‘Mass’ noun ellipsis no neither no
‘Superlative’ noun ellipsis yes either yes
Kester (1996) argues that ‘human’ noun ellipsis involves a null noun marked
with the default [+human][+generic][+plural] features (p. 229), whereas the
‘mass’ construction a null noun with a default [+mass] feature (p. 279–280).
At the same time, the empty noun in the superlative construction is licensed
by adjectival inﬂection, according to her analysis. We consequently have a
proliferation of features on empty nouns here, which apparently means that
the empty noun in the human construction is a diﬀerent lexical entry than
that in the mass construction. Of course, there is nothing wrong in principle
with diﬀerent lexical entries for null nouns; in fact we are going to discuss the
constraints that govern their number and distribution in the next chapter.
Given the analysis throughout this study, many lexical entries for phonologi-
cally null non-descriptive nouns is a fact of life, also forced on us by the dis-
cussion in the previous chapter: a masculine null noun is involved in he/him
and a feminine one in she/her; the one in it and they/them does not have a
gender speciﬁcation.
What seems wrong in positing such inherent features for the empty noun
in cases of noun ellipsis constructions in English is, ﬁrst of all, that we can
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
possibly do without them. Moreover, a [±mass] feature is about individuation
(Harley & Ritter 1997, 2000) and cannot be feasibly assumed to form part of
the lexical entry of N, if Num exists. Finally, where else is a formal [±human]
feature operative in English grammar? Isn’t stipulating it an ad hoc solution
here? Let us persist in our hypothesis that features have ﬁxed loci and see if
we can account for the facts.
Essentially following Delﬁtto & Schroten (1991) and Cheng & Sybesma
(1999), let us assume [mass] to be a speciﬁcation on Num, not just a special
interpretation of singular number with certain nouns. Less widely spoken
Romance languages provide plenty of evidence for this: in Servigliano, the
(count) singular for ‘ﬁsh’ is lu peššu, the mass is lo peššo – notice also the
agreement on D for number; similarly, in Asturian we have pelo for ‘hair’ ver-
sus pilu for ‘a hair’. In these and other cases, the ‘mass’ morphology is of a de-
fault nature (Delﬁtto & Schroten 1991:181–183). Given this and embracing
Delﬁtto & Schroten’s assertion that the mass-singular distinction is not a pe-
ripheral one, we can perhaps assume an un(der)speciﬁed Num to receive a
‘mass’ interpretation.
Building on Longobardi (1994), let us now adumbrate the interaction be-
tween Num, on the one hand, and Ds the and Ø on the other in English.15
(18)
I. the + NumSing Þ deﬁnite
‘The lion sleeps tonight’
II. the + NumPlur Þ deﬁnite set
‘The lions in this park are very friendly’
III. the + Numzero Þ *
IV. Ø + NumSing Þ *
V. Ø + NumPlur Þ generic
‘Lions are man’s best friends’
VI. Ø + Numzero Þ mass
‘Eating lion makes you a carnivore’
Let us now take the state of aﬀairs in (18) and substitute English non-
descriptive nouns (one and eN) for concept-denoting lion. Boxes of the same
shade receive the same interpretation after LF. Crossed-out cases are not ac-
ceptable.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

(19)
eN one AP + eN AP + one
I: the+NumSING+ N it the one the dead the dead one
II: the+NumPLU+ N they the ones the dead the dead ones
V: ØD+NumPLU+ N * ones→ people dead dead ones
VI: ØD+NumMASS+ N * * dead *
Let us now cautiously explicate (19). The ﬁrst column gives the licit combina-
tions of D and Num with eN in the complement of Num.16 One behaves like
lion in (18) – except for the fact that it cannot be selected by a ‘mass’ Num.
Similar facts hold for the DPs made up of an AP and one. A plural generic
type *ones is idiosyncratically out, probably suppleted by people as in people
say that you’re no good for me – the quintessentially human generic DP.
Up to this point, the armamentarium of English non-descriptive nouns
can be used in ‘elliptical’ DPs in order for them to refer to deﬁnite individuals
and deﬁnite sets of individuals, in the form of the (AP) one and the (AP) ones
respectively. People oﬀers a ‘pronominal’ substitute for bare plurals with hu-
man referents – whatever their actual interpretive role. People, apparently lexi-
cally speciﬁed as human, sets a ‘bad’ precedent for what follows.
Here we must note a problem with Num + eN DPs. More speciﬁcally, the
problem seems to be with Num here: whether un(der)speciﬁed (‘mass’) or
plural, this distinction and Num itself are invisible at PF. Furthermore, notice
that the whole Num projection is radically invisible, as there is no material in
SpecNumP either.
Moving to combinations of an AP with eN, we notice a similar problem:
although now the AP, as a speciﬁer of NumP, makes NumP as a projection
visible, morphology gives us no clue regarding the actual feature speciﬁcation
of the Num head. Assume now that in English Num must be spelled out
(Doetjes 1996; Cheng & Sybesma 1999:517 – cf. also Kayne 1995:162). What-
ever the source of such a requirement, it plausibly entails that an elliptical DP
dead eN will end up with a ‘mass’ reading – exactly the un(der)speciﬁed value
for Num. This in turn excludes the usage of the phonologically identical dead
eN (with a plural value for Num) as a generic. The burden of an AP-
modiﬁable equivalent for people falls on the AP eN, where Num is made visible
by the AP and an un(der)speciﬁed (‘mass’) value for Num is blocked by the
(for discussion: Longobardi 1994; Kester 1996:274–283; Giannakidou & Stav-
rou 1999:315–319). The result is illustrated in the table under (19): the com-
binations in the shaded area have all a generic interpretation.
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
We thus derive the fact that the AP eN has a human, plural generic mean-
ing, the ‘human’ construction, as well as the ‘mass’ construction. Of course,
even the less than careful reader will rightfully react against such proposals:
this is not how the grammar of human language works, by elimination. That
is certainly true. What has been described as the ‘explication’ of (19) is in fact
a rough depiction of a conspiracy between morphology and pragmatics. This
is to say that, in principle, English grammars can generate the full set in (19),
including ones and the dead with a singular Num. It is the responsibility of
pragmatics that such and such construction is assigned such and such an in-
terpretation, or blocked altogether under a particular interpretation.
What I claim is that there is nothing in the grammar of English to exclude
a DP of the form AP eN with a singular Num or a singular deﬁnite version of
the AP eN. In fact, such and other readings are possible and may emerge if
properly contextualised. In other words, the interpretation of the AP eN as
‘human’ and AP eN as ‘mass’ are cancellable:
(20) a. I like the blue eN/one, do you like the red eN/one?
b. Speaking of ties, I would rather put the striped eN/one on instead of that.
c. We first put in the liquid ingredients and then the dry eN/ones.
If the one/eN alteration in environments of noun ellipsis with adjectives was
regulated by grammar, all instances of (20) with eN should be impossible but,
eventually, they can behave like ‘proper’ noun ellipsis as discussed in Section
2.1.2.
Of course, this is half the truth. We discussed a ‘conspiracy between mor-
phology and pragmatics’ above. The part played by morphology is, again, laid
out in (19): the lack of adjectival morphology makes Num speciﬁcations in-
visible. This in turn causes the ‘congestion’ under the ‘AP + eN’ column that
calls for pragmatic resolution. Turning to the superlative morphology on an
adjective, we see that it not only enables a the AP eN DP to signify either a
deﬁnite individual or a deﬁnite set – according to its number speciﬁcation –
but also permits an alteration between eN and one – a bit like (20). The reason
behind this seems to be that the superlative inﬂection (most/-est) spells out
individuation features of Num, thus an un(der)speciﬁed ‘mass’ interpretation
is avoided.
To summarise so far, non-descriptive nouns are behind all the instances
of noun ellipsis reviewed. Focusing on noun ellipsis with adjectives cross-
linguistically, this conclusion oﬀers us the means to unify the interpretive im-
port of noun ellipsis with that of pronouns: noun ellipsis behaves like a very
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

restricted pronominal at LF. The interaction between non-descriptive nouns
and Num speciﬁcations oﬀers the full range of the more ‘special’ interpreta-
tions noun ellipsis can acquire. But it is time to review other instances where
null nouns play a central role.
. Pronominal clitics and null nouns
In a lot of languages that possess both, there exist striking similarities be-
tween the morphological paradigms of pronominal clitics and determiners,
deﬁnite articles in particular (Uriagereka 1995; Corver & Delﬁtto 1999; Car-
dinaletti & Starke 1999). Furthermore, there are cases of languages like Ger-
man, Dutch, Romance and Greek where the two paradigms extensively over-
lap. Although we should always be cautious about surface similarities when
trying to understand the underlying workings of grammar, a plausible hy-
pothesis in this particular case could be that the similarity between determin-
ers and pronominal clitics is not accidental.
In practice, the hypothesis that pronominal clitics are D heads17 is widely
accepted: cf. Cardinaletti (1994), Uriagereka (1995), Chomsky (1995:337),
Corver & Delﬁtto (1999). Here we will assume without discussion a move-
ment analysis for pronominal clitics, where the clitic is generated as a D head
within a DP. This DP is merged where ordinary referential and pronominal
DPs are merged and subsequently moves to an intermediate speciﬁer, say Spec-
AgrOP18 (Shlonsky 1997:178–179; Laenzlinger & Shlonsky 1997:160; Cardi-
naletti & Starke 1999:196). From there, the D head moves and attaches itself
to the closest c-commanding head (Shlonsky 1997:178) somewhere within
the Inﬂ functional complex (Kayne 1989, 1991, 1994), perhaps T sometimes
(Terzi 1999). This ‘two-step movement’ (Corver & Delﬁtto 1999:805–808) of
the clitic, ﬁrst as an XP and then as X0, appears to be a sort of necessary evil,
as will be discussed in detail in Section 3.2. For the time being, and for the
sake of completeness, notice that if only the ﬁrst step applies (XP movement),
the pronominal DP surfaces as a weak pronoun in the sense of Cardinaletti &
Starke (1999); see also Laenzlinger & Shlonsky (1997), Shlonsky (1997) and
Corver & Delﬁtto (1999).
An intriguing point in the account for clitic movement sketched above is
the following: pronominal clitics are assumed to be intransitive determiners
(Cardinaletti 1994), even more so than ‘strong’ pronouns. Below is how this
idea is spelled out by Chomsky (1995:337):
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
Clitics […] are bare Ds without complements […] We therefore expect to
ﬁnd two kinds of pronominal (similarly, demonstrative) elements, simple
ones that are morphologically marked as aﬃxes and must cliticize, and com-
plex ones with internal structure, which do not cliticize: in French, for ex-
ample, the determiner D (le, la, etc.) and the complex element lui-même
‘himself’.
Now, Sportiche (1996), although assuming a substantially diﬀerent analysis
for pronominal clitics, aﬃrms that it is not pronominal clitics (i.e. the D heads
in the analysis we follow here) that function pronominally but rather the
‘pronominal empty category’ they are associated with. This will be shown to
be in concord with what we have been asserting in this study regarding the
nature of pronominality – pronominal clitics should be no diﬀerent. More-
over, Uriagereka (1995) and Corver & Delﬁtto (1999) argue for an ‘NPpro’ to
complement clitic D at the base position.
Within an account for cliticisation that involves movement, the question
that emerges now is which analysis we are to prefer: Chomsky’s intransitive D
analysis (‘D = DP’), as summarised above, or one according to which clitics
originate as DPs with a complement that includes a null noun? In the follow-
ing two sections we will attempt to demonstrate the superiority of an account
without intransitive determiners on grounds of simplicity, consistency and
learnability.
. Features of clitics
A ﬁrst argument against pronominal clitics as intransitive determiners is es-
sentially a reapplication of our arguments against strong pronouns as intran-
sitive determiners: in most languages that possess them, pronominal clitics
are marked for features like number and gender which, if we are correct, can-
not be encoded on just any head inside DP and, certainly, not both of them
can be encoded on D.19
Recall that we posit formal features, their interpretable versions in par-
ticular, to be encoded on ﬁxed heads; person ([ASE] and [PSE]) on D, num-
ber on Num and gender on N. Uninterpretable versions of these or other fea-
tures can appear on other heads of course, inducing agreement; for example,
an uninterpretable [plu] feature on the D they/them is hypothesised, respon-
sible for the fact that this particular form agrees in number with its embed-
ded Num, contrary to the.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

If we take clitics to be displaced pronominal forms – and not some kind
of agreement morphology (cf. Jaeggli 1981; Borer & Grodzinsky 1986; Spor-
tiche 1996; Manzini & Savoia 1999) – the fact that they host all the aforemen-
tioned features must be explained. If they start oﬀ as DPs, we have a way to
capture this.
Let us consider Spanish pronominal clitics la and las. Their forms are
identical to that of the corresponding deﬁnite articles and their semantic con-
tribution is quite similar: pronominal clitics encode deﬁniteness, a [Def] fea-
ture perhaps, or speciﬁcity (Anagnostopoulou 1994; Uriagereka 1995; Spor-
tiche 1996). This should be enough evidence for the presence of a D head or
even that the clitic form itself is a D. Moreover, both la and las encode both
feminine gender and number: la is the singular and las the plural form. In
other words, clitics start as DPs speciﬁed for number and – where applicable –
gender. If our approach is correct, it must be then that this DP contains, apart
from the clitic D head, a NumP, on the head of which number is encoded, as
well as a noun. Thus, the resulting DP must look something like (21) after it
is merged.
(21) DP
D NumP
Num NP
la
[Sing]
[Fem]
[Def]
[*Fem]
[*Sing]
Of course, the feature speciﬁcations in the phrase marker above cannot be the
whole story, as there exists a strong pronoun variant in Spanish, namely ella.
According to our account here, ella would have exactly the same structure
with la and the two forms would only be diﬀerentiated in the choice of de-
terminer (that is la versus ella). Apparently the two Ds, la and ella, are distin-
guished by some other feature, not indicated in (21).
Let us now consider learnability. If ella is a fully ﬂedged pronoun with a
structure like (21)20 and la is an intransitive determiner, then the learner of
Spanish must learn the following:
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
a. la and ella have identical φ feature speciﬁcations
b. la, homophonous to a deﬁnite feminine singular article, can have all its φ
features encoded on D,21 whereas ella has a fully-ﬂedged structure with
each of the φ features in their ‘proper’ place: number on Num and gender
on N
c. la has on D a feature ella does not: la moves, ella stays in situ
d. this is either a feature F or ‘strength’ of F
On the other hand, if la and ella have both internal structure, as we wish to
claim here, then the following have to be learned:
a. la and ella have identical φ feature speciﬁcations
b. la has on D a feature that ella does not:22 la moves, ella stays in situ
c. this is either a feature F or ‘strength’ of F
Let’s see whether this more restrictive view makes any diﬀerence regarding the
two-step analysis of clitic movement.
. The ‘two-step’ movement of clitics
Clitic movement creates a problem that the two-step approach is an attempt
to solve: the following quote from Chomsky (1995:249) states the problem.
Under the DP hypothesis, clitics are Ds. Assume further that a clitic raises
from its θ-position and attaches to an inﬂectional head. In its θ-position, the
clitic is an XP; attachment to a head requires that it be an X0 (on fairly stan-
dard assumptions). Furthermore, the movement violates the Head Move-
ment Constraint (HMC), indicating again that it is an XP, raising by XP-
adjunction until the ﬁnal step of X0 adjunction. Clitics appear to share XP
and X0 properties, as we would expect on minimalist assumptions.
Chomsky’s answer to the observation that ‘clitics appear to share XP and X0
properties’ is radical, as expected: “an item can be both an X0 and an XP”
(ibid.), a natural consequence of his Bare Phrase Structure, the X0-XP distinc-
tion is ultimately irrelevant for Syntax.
Backtracking a bit, let us ponder on whether a head versus phrase distinc-
tion is stateable, or desirable, even in a minimalist23 model. The truth is that
only clitics seem to allegedly share XP and X0 properties. Under standard
analyses, everything else in grammar – including constraints on movement –
seems to capitalise on the X0-XP distinction.24 If the X0–XP distinction is in-
deed irrelevant for Syntax, then heads blocked under HMC eﬀects would
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

move ﬁrst as XPs, bypassing any intervening heads, to head-move only during
a second step. This is not what happens. I therefore propose that we both have
to and can restate the X0 versus XP distinction. A way to do so is as follows:
(22) Heads (X0) are listed in the lexicon and enter the Numeration, phrases
(XP) are syntactic objects constructed from other syntactic objects,
whether heads or phrases.25
Of course, no constraint prevents a head from behaving as a phrase, i.e. there
is no principle stating that a phrase must be made up of at least two syntactic
objects (see also Section 2.2.1 of the Introduction). Let us then suppose for a
minute that clitics are of the D = DP form. Given that this head, say la, carries
all the features (φ and other) of its single-membered DP, what is the empirical
point in assuming that it moves in two steps, ﬁrst as an XP and then as an X0?
If a clitic is a DP consisting of a single D, it moves to SpecAgrOP and then the
D of this DP moves to the closest c-commanding inﬂectional head. This is
paradoxical, as nothing distinguishes the ﬁrst step from the second: in both
instances, it was the same D that moved anyway! In other words, in both the
XP and the X0 step of clitic movement, it was exactly the same interpretable
features that were copied, those of the D. Wasn’t then the ﬁrst, allegedly XP,
step a theory-internal gimmick to render it both long-distance and with an X0
position as a landing site? It would appear to be so.
Let’s then posit a diﬀerent state of aﬀairs: the clitic is merged in a fully-
ﬂedged DP, complete with full Num and NP constituents, albeit phonologi-
cally empty ones, as under (21). First, the whole DP moves to SpecAgrOP. Ap-
parently, it is the D that is responsible for this operation (see Section 3.1 and
endnote 22) but the NumP, carrying interpretable number and gender fea-
tures (inside an elementary noun), is pied-piped as well. Thus, already before
Spell Out, copies of the interpretable number and gender features inside the
DP that contains the clitic are situated at SpecAgrOP.26 Subsequently, the D
head moves further up to the closest c-commanding head, apparently one in-
side the inﬂectional complex (let’s unimaginatively call this head F), but the
number and gender features remain at SpecAgrOP. See below for the resulting
phrase marker, where only the relevant features and projections are indicated:
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
(23)
FP
F
F
D
V F
AgrOP
DP
AgrO VP
D NumP
[number]
[gender]
Assumptions about antisymmetry (Kayne 1994:38, 50–52) regarding left ad-
junction of heads under head movement have been adhered to. Verb move-
ment has been sketchily represented as a V to AgrO to F head movement, ab-
stracting away from individual languages.
. Empty nouns and the XP step of clitic movement
So far it has been shown that if clitics have a phonologically null NumP con-
stituent, it is exactly this constituent that remains stranded at the landing site
of the XP step of their movement, along with a silent copy of the clitic D head
itself, of course. Number and gender features are not carried all the way up to
F0, where the clitic D head ends up adjoined to. This is important for a subtle
but very important reason, namely the duality of the function clitics seem to
perform. Clitics function as pronominal arguments;27 they are also speciﬁed
for φ features. Thus, they play an aspectual (related with ‘referentiality’ and
Case) role as well as that of nominal inﬂection at the same time (Manzini &
Savoia 1999; cf. also Borer 1994). Suppose once more that clitics are unitary
(D = DP) entities, encoding both the referential/aspectual function – nor-
mally associated with D (Stowell 1991; Longobardi 1994) – and the ‘agree-
ment’ function on the same XP/X0. The result is that when the clitic merges
(either after movement or not) with F, the by hypothesis ultimate landing site
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

of its movement, it carries with it ‘junk’ as well: the φ features that are irrele-
vant to the supposedly speciﬁcity-related/aspectual function the clitic has to
play in F (Michael Brody, p.c.): the φ features have no speciﬁcity-relat-
ed/aspectual role to play and should have been ‘left behind’, at AgrOP, as is the
case with full pronominal and other object arguments.
Hence, if the φ features of the clitic are in fact encoded within the NumP,
then we have a way to capture the dual function of clitics, as illustrated in
(23): the non-trivial DP, is made up of a D and its NumP complement. The
fact that D agrees with features inside the NumP (number and gender) is a re-
sult of its being a D, like articles agree. This D also encodes a feature that trig-
gers movement. It is pied piped with the NumP to SpecAgrOP, where the φ
features inside the phrase check uninterpretable ones of AgrO, and then the D
head moves alone to F for ‘specificity’. No interpretable φ features reach F be-
fore or at LF.
There is also another point that makes a case for an XP step of clitic mo-
vement to SpecAgrOP. Notice that clitic movement seems to depend on the
possibility of verb movement (Kayne 1989, 1991; Uriagereka 1995). If clitic
movement were a long-distance head movement or a hybrid XP/X0 move-
ment directly to F, this co-occurrence would not be possible to capture easily.
Towards this, notice that some Germanic languages appear to have verb
movement but not clitics (Holmberg & Platzack 1996; Sportiche 1996; Cardi-
naletti & Starke 1999). What they do sometimes have is weak pronouns or ob-
ject shift of pronominals (Holmberg 1986; Sportiche 1996; Laenzlinger &
Shlonsky 1997; Corver & Delﬁtto 1999; Cardinaletti & Starke 1999). The
situation is summarised below:
(24)
Weak pronouns possible? Clitics possible?
V- movement Yes Yes
No V-movement No No
Verb movement is a necessary condition for either type of ‘mobile’ pronomi-
nals. If movement of both weak pronouns (which are XPs) and of pronomi-
nal clitics involve an XP step, this can make sense. As far as object pronomi-
nals (weak or clitic) are concerned,28 a version of ‘Holmberg’s Generalisation’
seems to hold: no object DP can leave the VP if the V has not moved out of it
(Kayne 1989:240; Chomsky 1993:18). This generalisation in turn boils down
to notions of ‘extended domains’: if (weak/clitic) object pronominal DP
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
movement is to SpecAgrOP, then V must have adjoined to AgrO ﬁrst, in order
to render SpecvP and SpecVP equidistant from the landing site of SpecAgrOP
(see Chomsky 1995 for further discussion). Thus, in order for DPs to move
out of VP, V must have left the VP ﬁrst. If this DP is pronominal and stays in
its landing site until Spell Out, it surfaces as a ‘weak pronoun’. If its D is fur-
ther extracted and head-moved higher, this D head surfaces as a ‘pronominal
clitic’. In both cases, V movement is a prerequisite.
The picture that ﬁnally emerges is the following: number is always located
on Num and gender on nouns. Suppose a null noun in a NumP is ‘selected’
by a ‘clitic’ D head: the whole DP is pied piped by the D and leaves the base
position for SpecAgrOP – or the equivalent thereof – before Spell Out, as the
‘clitic’ D head attempts to be positioned right below the attracting F head.
The clitic D cannot move as a head from the position it is merged as it is go-
ing to be blocked by one of the heads intervening between it and F, by some
version of the Head Movement Constraint. This XP movement to SpecAgrOP
will also be blocked if the verb has not moved out of the VP and through
AgrO. The DP checks uninterpretable φ features at SpecAgrOP. From there,
the D head leaves the NumP behind and eventually adjoins to F alone,
probably for reasons related to aspect or speciﬁcity. If the D does not leave
SpecAgrOP before LF, then we deal with what we call ‘weak pronouns’ (Laen-
zlinger & Shlonsky 1997:158–162).
Although a host of issues remains far from resolved, I hope to have out-
lined the fact that the hypothesis of a pronominal noun (inside a NumP) sub-
stantiates the assumption that clitics move in two steps, XP and X0, as in each
step diﬀerent features are involved. As a result, we can maintain a distinction
between heads and phrases, given that pronominal clitics are the only ele-
ments in grammar to have needed a dual XP/X0 nature postulated regarding
their phrasal status.
. Radical ellipsis: Empty arguments
We have so far seen phonologically empty non-descriptive nouns (eN) inside
NumPs that formed complements to overt (clitic) determiners and/or had an
AP at SpecNumP. Is it the case that NumPs featuring an instance of eN can be
complements of phonologically empty determiners? In principle, it should not
be impossible. Moreover, such a possibility seems to be instantiated in lan-
guages like Modern Greek.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

. Indeﬁnite Argument Drop involves an empty noun
Giannakidou & Merchant (1996) discuss an additional type of empty pro-
nominal which only appears in indeﬁnite direct and indirect object positions
in Modern Greek. They dub the whole phenomenon Indeﬁnite Argument
Drop. Consider the following sentence (adapted from Giannakidou & Mer-
chant):
(25) I Nena puluse [ftina isitiria]i ki o Aris aghoraze ei/j
the Nena was.selling cheap tickets and the Aris was.buying
‘Nena was selling cheap tickets and Aris was buying some’
The empty object e above can either refer to cheap tickets – but not those that
Nena was selling – or just tickets in general. The situation is similar to that of
noun ellipsis with an adjective as discussed in Section 2.1.2. Compare (25)
with (7a–c), repeated below for convenience:
(7) a. Jules: J’ai beaucoup des chapeaux belges.
I have many of hats belgian
‘I have got a lot of Belgian hats’
b. Jim: Tous mes chapeaux, je les ai achetés moi-même.
All my. hats I them have bought myself
‘I have bought all my hats myself’
c. Tom: Donnez-moi les blancs e.
give-me the. white
‘Give me the white ones’
In both (25) and (7a–c), the empty (elided) constituent is non-referential
and, consequently, cannot be co-referent with the DP that contains its ‘ante-
cedent’: ftina isitiria in (25), des chapeaux belges and tous mes chapeaux in (7).
So, eN in (7c) is about hats, neither Belgian hats nor Jim’s hats. Similarly, e in
(25) is about ‘(cheap) tickets’ but not the tickets Nena was selling. Like in el-
lipsis, Indeﬁnite Argument Drop ‘antecedents’ are below the level of DP.29
Before proceeding, it is essential to make clear that these empty argu-
ments cannot be construed as instances of VP ellipsis, object pro (Y. Huang
1995) and arbitrary pro (Rizzi 1986)30 or as variables bound by a null topic
(Huang 1984; Raposo 1986; Campos 1986). Giannakidou & Merchant (1996)
argue against all the above possibilities and we will largely follow their argu-
ments here.
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
.. Not VP ellipsis
Let’s start from the possibility of Indeﬁnite Argument Drop being an instance
of VP-ellipsis: suppose that in V-raising languages like Modern Greek, V can
be stranded in Inﬂ, while the VP containing the trace of V, erases (McCloskey
1991). Such an analysis would make sense in an ellipsis-as-PF-deletion
framework (cf. Chomsky 1995). Example (25) and its interpretation provide
us with two arguments against such an analysis: ﬁrst, if (25) involves an in-
stance of VP ellipsis it is a very strange kind of VP ellipsis as the verbs
‘stranded’ at the respective Inﬂ nodes are not identical, poulouse (‘was selling’)
and aghoraze (‘was buying’). Second, a reading with e as deﬁnite is impossible
if the ‘antecedent’ is deﬁnite, as is the case under (26a), and a clitic must be
used instead. Of course, exclusion of deﬁnite arguments inside an elided con-
stituent is not something that should normally happen in the context of VP
ellipsis; hence, in (26b), an interpretation where Aris should buy all the cheap
tickets is possible.
(26) a. *I Nena puluse [ola ta ftina isitiria] ki o Aris aghoraze e
‘Nena was selling all the cheap tickets and Aris was buying’
b. Nena was selling all the cheap tickets and Aris should e, too.
.. Not pro
As far as pro is concerned, given that, at least in subject position, pro (in Mod-
ern Greek and everywhere else) is deﬁnite, then the obligatorily indeﬁnite
reading of e in (25) would be untenable. Now, as far as Rizzi’s (1986) arbi-
trary pro is concerned, its interpretation is argued to be driven at least by the
features [+human, +generic] (Rizzi 1986:509–512). Tickets in (25) hardly
qualify as either. Moreover, arbitrary pro does not seem to be a possibility in
Modern Greek, unlike Italian (example from Giannakidou & Merchant 1996):
(27) a. Questo esercizio mantiene proarb sani
this exercise keeps healthy.
b. *Afti i askisi kratai proarb iyii(s)
this the exercise keeps healthy(.)
‘This exercise keeps one healthy’
.. Not variables bound by null topics
Finally, Indeﬁnite Argument Drop cannot be captured in terms of its involv-
ing a variable bound by a null topic. To start with, null deﬁnite topics cannot
bind a variable in Modern Greek, unlike the situation in Chinese (Huang
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

1984), Portuguese (Raposo 1986) and other languages. Nevertheless, Spanish,
as discussed in Campos (1986), permits only null indeﬁnite topics to bind
variables in object position.31 Could it be that Indeﬁnite Argument Drop in
Modern Greek is also an instance of a null indeﬁnite topic binding a variable,
like in Spanish? Dimitriadis (1994a) has shown that this is not the case and
that indeﬁnite null arguments in MG all fail the standard tests for variables
discussed by Raposo (1986). So, variables cannot be licensed by topics inside
Complex NP islands (p. 381), sentential subjects, adjuncts, wh-islands
(p. 382). Moreover variables bound by a null topic can license parasitic gaps
(p. 383). The mirror image of this situation holds for Greek Indeﬁnite Argu-
ment Drop: it can be ‘licensed’ in all the above environments and does not li-
cense parasitic gaps:32
(28) a. Complex NP islands
Port.: *Eu informei a policia da possibilidade de
I informed the police of.the possibility that
o Manel ter t no cofre
the Manel has in.the safe
‘I informed the police of the possibility that M. has
it/them/one/some in the safe’
MG: Ipa sti Nena ya to endhehomeno na
I. said to.the Nena about the possibility NA
ferun i ali e
bring.3rd the others
‘I told Nena about the possibility of the others bringing
one/some’
b. Sentential Subjects
Port: *Que a IBM venda t a particulares supreende-me
that the IBM sells to individuals surprises.me
‘That IBM sells it/them/one/some to individuals surprises
me’
MG: To oti tha ferun i ali e me ekplisi
the that will bring.3rd the others me surprises
‘That the others will bring one/some surprises me’
c. Adjuncts
Port: *o pirata partiu depois de ter guardado t no cofre
the pirate left after that have kept in.the safe
‘The pirate left after he kept it/them/one/some in the safe’
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
MG: Dhen pigha sta maghazia yati ihes
not went.1st to.the shops because had.2nd
ﬁlaxi e esi
kept you
‘I didn’t go to the shops because you had kept one/some’
d. Wh islands
Port: *eu sei [em que cofre]i Manel guardou tj ti
I know in which safe Manel keeps
‘I know in which safe Manel keeps it/them/one/some’
MG: ksero [se pion]i pliroses e ti
know.1st to whom paid.2nd
‘I know to whom you paid one/some’
e. Parasitic gaps
Port: vi t na TV sem reconhecer eparasitic
saw.1st  in.the TV without recognise
‘I saw it/them/one/some on TV without recognising it/them’
MG: *idha e stin tileorasi horis na anaghnoriso eparasitic
saw.1st in.the TV without NA recognise
‘I saw one/some on TV without recognising it/them’
.. Radical ellipsis
Given the aﬃnity of the phenomenon of Indeﬁnite Argument Drop with
noun ellipsis, one is tempted to attribute to e in the examples above a similar
structure to that of noun ellipsis. In fact, this is exactly what Giannakidou &
Merchant claim, as they decompose null indeﬁnite arguments in Modern
Greek into the following structure:
(29) [DP Ø [NP e]]
We have established the existence of null nouns (dubbed eN) throughout this
chapter, mainly drawing from instances of noun ellipsis with adjectives. We
have also seen that the form and presence of the determiner in elliptical DPs
are those required for LF reasons in ordinary DPs, as well: there don’t seem to
exist any special requirements for determiners when a eN instead of an ordi-
nary noun is inside the DP – with the sole exception of elliptical DPs, like the
dead eN, which is interpreted as human generic despite being headed by the
deﬁnite article the and which we looked into in some detail in Section 2.2.2.
The German example (5), repeated below for convenience, clearly makes this
point:
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

(5) a. Gute Suppe macht glücklich
good. soup makes happy
‘Good soup makes you happy’
b. Gute eN macht glücklich
good. makes happy
‘A good one makes you happy’
Ordinary ‘mass’ DPs, like (5a), take a null D in German, as in English. Accord-
ingly, a ‘mass’ DP with an eN also takes a null D, as illustrated under (5b). Ex-
actly the same state of aﬀairs holds for English, as we saw in Section 2.2.1. Now,
given that indeﬁnite arguments in both singular and plural are headed by a null
D in Modern Greek, the fact that a phonologically null indeﬁnite argument
should also be headed by a null D, as illustrated in (29), follows naturally.
. Indeﬁnite Argument Drop and pronominal clitics
If the analysis, as epitomised in (29), that Giannakidou & Merchant give for
null indeﬁnite arguments in Modern Greek is the correct one, then two very
interesting consequences follow. First, as Giannakidou & Merchant (1996)
have observed themselves, Indeﬁnite Argument Drop and noun ellipsis are
uniﬁed: in fact, Indeﬁnite Argument Drop can be claimed to constitute a case
of ‘minimal’ noun ellipsis that involves neither adjectives or possessors, nor
even overt Ds. The theoretical repercussions of the existence of such a radical
kind of ellipsis are going to be explored in the next chapter. A second conse-
quence of accepting (29) as the structure for Indeﬁnite Argument Drop is re-
garding its relationship with the structure of the clitic DP, as merged in its ar-
gument position. Compare (30a), the notational variant of the structure we
gave for clitic DPs in (21), with (30b), the fully ﬂedged structure of a null in-
deﬁnite DP:
(30) a. Clitic DP: [DP Dclitic [NumP Num [NP eN]]]
b. Null indeﬁnite DP: [DP Dindef [NumP Num [NP eN]]]
Comparing (30a) with (30b), we realise that the two structures are identical
save for a single feature [Def] on the determiner.33 The fact that the pro-
nominal clitic agrees with Num and [Gender] of eN is a result of it being
overt, contrary to the phonologically null indeﬁnite D. Can the parallelism
depicted in (30) be supported by a parallel syntactic behaviour of pronominal
clitics and null indeﬁnite arguments? I believe the answer is positive and the
rest of this section will be devoted to demonstrate this.
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
.. The complementary distribution of clitics and null indeﬁnite arguments
Dimitriadis (1994a, 1994b) has, to the best of my knowledge, ﬁrst observed
that pronominal clitics and null indeﬁnite arguments behave in an identical
fashion in various environments. Before moving into this, though, observe
the fact that pronominal clitics and null indeﬁnite arguments appear in com-
plementary distribution. For the sake of concreteness, consider the gram-
matical answers to the questions “did you get the coat?” in (31a) versus those
of “did you get a coat” in Modern Greek under (32a). In the ﬁrst case, the ob-
ject is deﬁnite, in the second indeﬁnite.
(31)34 a. Pires to palto?
Took.2nd the coat
b. to pira
 took.1st
c. #pira
took.1st
(32) a. Pires palto?
Took.2nd coat
b. #to pira
 took.1st
c. pira
took.1st
The generalisation emerging from (31) and (32) is that pronominal clitics
substitute for deﬁnite DPs and null indeﬁnite arguments for indeﬁnite ones.35
Hence, descriptive nouns in DPs (like palto in [DP to palto] and [DP Ø palto]
above), have the same behaviour with eN in Modern Greek: if they appear in a
deﬁnite DP, then they will be headed by an ordinary overt deﬁnite D; if they
appear in an indeﬁnite DP, then they will be headed by an ordinary null in-
deﬁnite D.
Moreover, one would be tempted to point out that Indeﬁnite Argument
Drop and clitic constructions seem to be exactly the same phenomenon in
languages that possess them both, like Brazilian Portuguese, Quiteño Spanish,
Modern Greek and Bulgarian.36 Dimitriadis (1994a, 1994b) claims that in
both cases, the D cliticises. In the case of Indeﬁnite Argument Drop this, al-
though an attractive hypothesis, is impossible to prove in a direct fashion.
Nevertheless, Indeﬁnite Argument Drop, at least in Greek, can trigger Clitic
Left Dislocation (also known in the literature as CLLD).
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

.. CLLD
We will only sketch the bare essentials of CLLD here, in order to show that
Indeﬁnite Argument Drop can trigger it. It is outside the scope of this study
to review the matter in depth here; the interested reader is referred to Cinque
(1990), Anagnostopoulou (1994) and Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou (1999).
For our purposes here, let us say that CLLD is a conﬁguration in which a clitic
can license a topic at the left periphery of the clause. A standard case of CLLD
in Modern Greek is given in (33a). Absence of the clitic results in ungram-
maticality (33b). The only way to have an non-doubled deﬁnite DP in the left
periphery is Focus, in capitals indicating stress in (33c). Finally, a focused
phrase is ungrammatical when doubled by a clitic (33d), see also Tsimpli
(1995):
(33) a. To palto to aghorase o Kostas
the coat  bought the Kostas
b. *To palto aghorase o Kostas
the coat bought the Kostas
c. TO PALTO aghorase o Kostas
the coat bought the Kostas
d. *TO PALTO to aghorase o Kostas
the coat  bought the Kostas
The situation in (33) seems to be the following: the deﬁnite DP to palto can
appear fronted in two conﬁgurations only. It can either move to a Focus posi-
tion, leaving a copy/trace behind (33c), by a kind of what we traditionally dub
A′-movement (see Brody 1990; Agouraki 1990 for analyses). Because the ob-
ject position in this case is already occupied by the copy/trace of to palto, the
presence of a clitic DP would violate any version of the θ criterion, thus the
ungrammaticality of (33d). Alternatively, in (33a), a base-generated topic to
palto agrees with the argument clitic DP (Cinque 1990). This topic cannot be
itself the argument of the verb aghorase, that is why (33b) is ill-formed. To
summarise, the presence of the clitic argument in (33a) licenses the presence
of a base-generated topic at the left periphery of the clause (perhaps a
TopicP – see Rizzi 1997b). Now, Indeﬁnite Argument Drop has a similar li-
censing eﬀect:37
(34) a. palto aghorase o Kostas
coat bought the Kostas
b. *palto to aghorase o Kostas
coat  bought the Kostas
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
As illustrated, in (34a), an indeﬁnite DP (Ø palto) can also appear in the left
periphery: as Dimitriadis (1994a, 1994b) observes, this indeﬁnite topic has
not moved leaving a variable behind (there appears to be no topic movement
in Modern Greek), but is rather a base-generated topic licensed by a clitic-like
element. Moreover, topic and argument clitic DP must agree in deﬁniteness,
as illustrated in (34b). The fact that null indeﬁnite arguments can license an
indeﬁnite topic at the left periphery of a clause makes perfect sense in the
light of the discussion so far: null indeﬁnite arguments not only are present
but also have a similar structure to clitic DPs. If Dimitriadis is correct in as-
suming that the zero D of null indeﬁnite arguments cliticises, then Indeﬁnite
Argument Drop and Cliticisation are fully parallel, diﬀering only in the value
of the deﬁniteness on the D involved.38 Lightfoot (1998) has made a similar
claim, claiming all instances of VP ellipsis and gapping in English to be clitics
(of an XP and an X0 level respectively). Finally, Boeckx (2000) also treats el-
lipsis as clitics juxtaposing ‘neuter’ clitic French le, that can substitute for
phrases, with the availability of ellipsis in English.
.. A note on the interpretation of null indeﬁnite arguments
There is a question that arises from our treatment of null indeﬁnite argu-
ments as DPs made up of a null D and a null noun. If we assume our analysis
that a null noun is also present in pronominals (strong, weak and clitic ones)
and noun ellipsis, then an interpretive twist emerges. Recall Section 2.1.2
where we argued that both pronominals and noun ellipsis are pronominal in
terms of interpretation, in the sense that they do not refer to entities by virtue
of denoting but that they have their referent disambiguated contextually, this
being down to their empty noun. The diﬀerences between pronouns and el-
lipsis are due to the restrictions imposed on their potential referents by APs,
Possessors and their Determiner heads. So, in the case of the strong pronoun
ella and its clitic counterpart la in Spanish, the referent is restricted by the
feminine feature on eN, a singular feature on Num and a deﬁniteness feature
on D; in the case of the Italian le grigie eN, the referent is restricted by the
feminine feature on eN, a plural feature on Num, a deﬁniteness feature on D
as well as the AP grigie. If this thread of explanation is followed to its conse-
quences, it would appear that the conﬁguration of null indeﬁnite arguments,
being unrestricted should be able to refer back to practically anything. So,
(31c) could be the answer to a question about something deﬁnite, like (31a).
Of course, this is not so because the null D in a null indeﬁnite subject is not
unspeciﬁed for deﬁniteness but, rather, speciﬁed for indeﬁniteness. Thus, its
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

referent is in fact restricted, probably by an [indef] feature marked on D, see
also (30b). Hence, the fact that null indeﬁnite arguments act ‘pronominally’
only for indeﬁnite discourse topics, provides us with some evidence towards
indeﬁniteness being encoded by a feature (value) and not consisting an un-
marked or default option (cf. Deﬂitto & Schroten 1991:159, regarding exis-
tential readings).
Having said so, one might still wonder why the following situation does
not seem to hold for any natural languages: suppose that a variety of null D
existed, radically impoverished. This hypothetical D would mark no features
and impose no restrictions whatsoever on the referent of the DP, perhaps
similarly to eN that encodes no concept. Yet, such entity is impossible and DPs
of the form depicted below do not exist:
(35) Null unrestricted DP: *[DP ØD [NumP Num [NP eN]]]
As to why this is so, an answer along the lines with Emonds’s (1985) Unique
Syntactic Behavior as a starting point will be oﬀered in the next chapter.
. A Grand Uniﬁcation?
We have shown that noun ellipsis, exempliﬁed in cases of noun ellipsis with
adjectives, and English DPs involving the non-descriptive noun one all involve
nouns that do not denote concepts, phonologically overt (one) or not (eN).
Then, we proceeded to show that pronominal clitics start oﬀ as XPs that move
and out of which the clitic D head is subsequently extracted to adjoin to an
inﬂectional head (dubbed F, perhaps diﬀering cross-linguistically). We have
demonstrated that if we assume that the DP of which the clitic is initially the
head contains a Num and a null noun, this ‘two-step’ operation is given sub-
stance, as in each step diﬀerent heads (and their features) are involved: D,
Num and the noun in the ﬁrst (XP) step, just D in the second (X0).
The next step was to look into the phenomenon of Indeﬁnite Argument
Drop as it occurs in Modern Greek. We have shown it to involve an ordinary
indeﬁnite DP, albeit with an eN instead of a descriptive noun – thus unifying
this phenomenon with noun ellipsis: subsequently, Indeﬁnite Argument Drop
was described as a ‘radical’ form of noun ellipsis. Moreover, given that – ac-
cording to our analysis – the form of the clitic DP, at the point at which it is
merged as an argument, and that of a null indeﬁnite argument DP diﬀer only
with respect to deﬁniteness, as both involve null empty nouns, we assumed
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
that they should be in complementary distribution and trigger the same
range of phenomena. Both predictions are borne out.
The picture that emerges so far is the following: almost all nominal pro-
forms are DPs involving a non concept-denoting noun. This statement covers
D-pronouns and N-pronouns (as discussed in Chapter 1) but also noun ellip-
sis, pronominal clitics and Indeﬁnite Argument Drop. It does not cover
pro/PRO and variables bound by null topics. Although we will have nothing
to say about variables bound by null topics here, the question of pro will be
discussed in Chapter 4.
Before this, though, and given the scope of our proposals, it is time to in-
quire into the phrasal status of non-descriptive nouns and their nature. This
task, and, especially, the nature of phonologically null non-descriptive nouns
(eN) will be an area we will investigate in the next chapter.
. Appendix: Nominalisation versus noun ellipsis
Giannakidou & Stavrou (1999) set out empirical criteria for distinguishing
between noun ellipsis (or nominal subdeletion) and nominalisations. Let us
once more claim that noun ellipsis involves a null noun (dubbed eN here) (as
Giannakidou & Stavrou 1999:302–305 also do), whereas nominalisation would
involve a categorial shift from A to N that takes place either in the lexicon or
syntactically (ibid. 312–316). Because their criteria are primarily devised for
Modern Greek, we will adapt them for our purposes here, making them a bit
more abstract.
. Noun ellipsis
Noun ellipsis (p. 299–302).
a. Involves surface constraints (namely, the presence of discourse antece-
dents) but does not necessarily refer to animate entities (see also Section
2.1.2).
b. Tolerates gender variation. In our analysis this is a consequence of the
freedom to choose an ‘appropriate’ null noun.
c. Is a productive process. This is also made apparent in Section 2.1.2.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

. Nominalisation
Nominalisation is pretty much the reverse situation (p. 305–312). In nomi-
nalisation:
a. Gender (and in some cases, number) remains invariable.
b. Modiﬁcation by adjectival modiﬁers like grade adverbs and so on is
hardly tolerated. Contrast the inexorably rich eN to *the inexorably Reds.
c. No comparatives and superlatives are available.
d. Co-ordination with other nouns is possible. Moreover, in languages like
English or Dutch (as in Kester 1996:234–236), special noun morphology
(like plural -s and diminutive -tje respectively) is permitted.
Notes
. But this is not necessarily an argument against the existence of intransitive determiners,
like, say, I/me. Discussion of this issue is deferred until Chapter 5.
. Except for binding, as we will see in Section 2.1.2.
. Pragmatic factors like (1c) being infelicitous for human referents (Andrew Radford,
p.c.) or she for someone present are apparently irrelevant to the semantic representations
of either DP.
. Contra Abney (1987) and Radford (1993) who analyse adjectival heads as taking NPs as
their complements. Carstens (2000) brieﬂy discusses the parallelism between adjectives
and adverbs, a very promising line of research I have nothing substantial to comment on.
. But see Heim & Kratzer (1998:Ch.9). Lasnik (1999) argues for a strength-related move-
ment analysis of VP ellipsis – see Boeckx & Stjepanovic (1999) and Boeckx (2000) for ar-
guments against it.
. For restrictions in French noun ellipsis, see Sleeman (1993).
. Sleeman (1993) argues that empty nouns in elliptical DPs in French (and English) are
base-generated variable pro constituents, bound by a quantiﬁcational adjective or a quan-
tiﬁer within DP. She argues that, among the not straightforwardly quantiﬁcational adjec-
tives, only those that have a ‘partitive’ reading can license ellipsis. We will brieﬂy come back
to this analysis in Section 2.2.1.2.
. Or whatever decides ‘co-reference’, see Heim & Kratzer (1998:Ch.10) for insightful dis-
cussion.
. For a diﬀerent formulation of this, see Noguchi (1997).
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
. Although the proper construal of binding principles is well beyond the scope of this
study, a comment is perhaps in order here. Lasnik (1991) argues that principle C should be
reformulated as a ban on a ‘more referential’ expression (say, a full DP) being bound by a
less referential one (a pronoun or an epithet); this being amenable to parametrisation.
Heim & Kratzer (1998:269–274) build on Reinhart (1983) in order to refute the role of
grammar in establishing co-reference that does not follow from variable binding. The
spirit of their proposal is that binding principles are pragmatic.
. But not impossible, as Fukui (1987) and Noguchi (1997) claim. I wish to thank Shiro
Ojima and Stephen Nolan for raising this point and discussing it with me.
. Which is grosso modo Kester’s (1996, 1996b) working hypothesis.
. The terms ‘human’, ‘mass’, ‘superlative’ and ‘abstract’ to label elliptical DPs are after
Kester (1996).
. As to why this should be so, apparently this is an idiosyncratic (lexical) property of
one.
. In other languages, diﬀerent states of aﬀairs hold. The indeﬁnite article was not in-
cluded in the schema under (18) because it is irrelevant for noun ellipsis environments
(see also Lobeck 1995:93–96).
. The ‘suppletion’ of pronouns for the relevant feature combinations can either mean:
(a) that a DP headed by a deﬁnite D and containing a singular Num and eN is spelled out
by morphology as it, whereas its plural version is spelled out as they/them. This way to view
things essentially follows Postal’s (1969) treatment of the complementary distribution be-
tween the and non-person pronouns. (b) or that the complementary distribution between
the on the one hand and it & they/them on the other has to do with some uninterpretable
feature on the D the that null nouns cannot check. Alternatively, it & they/them bear a fea-
ture that phonologically overt nouns – even if they denote no concept, like one – cannot
check… I feel that the ﬁrst option is the most realistic but I have no further comments to
oﬀer on the issue.
. Additional evidence towards the categorial uniformity between articles and, at least
non-person, clitics is provided in Tsimpli & Stavrakaki (1999): Greek children with Spe-
ciﬁc Language Impairment (SLI) that have problems producing determiners show almost
the same rate of failure in producing clitics.
. This is not to say that agreement projections are endorsed – see also Chapter 4. The la-
bel here and in Section 3.2 is just for reasons of exposition and for lack of a more acc-
urate one.
. In the discussion here, like in the previous chapter, we gloss over Case features. A rea-
son for this is that it still remains unclear whether they are situated on D, N or a K projec-
tion above D. See Giusti (1995), Mallén (1997), Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou (1998) and
Cardinaletti & Starke (1999) for suggestions and discussion.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

. Cardinaletti & Starke (1999) claim that strong pronouns are made up of more func-
tional layers than pronominal clitics. Given that ella in an object position appears in the
form a ella, this would be a plausible hypothesis to make for Spanish but, here, few things
hinge on it: whether strong pronouns involve more functional layers than clitics and weak
pronouns or not, both strong pronouns and ‘defective’ ones involve a DP, a NumP and an
NP layer.
. There is a further paradox with la the clitic encoding all its interpretable φ features on
D: while the D (of) ella is exactly like the article la in that it agrees with a Num head for
number and an N head in gender, la the clitic and la the article are radically diﬀerent: the
ﬁrst encodes all φ features on D whereas tha article agrees with a complement…
. The NumPs complementing D are apparently identical.
. Minimalism is not a grammatical theory but rather the commitment to rigidity and
parsimony in constructing a grammatical theory (Chomsky 1998:5).
. An obvious example is locality constraints and the latest trend (cf. Chomsky 1998,
1999; Mahajan 2000) to eliminate head movement.
. Hopefully, there is another distinction somehow related to this one: “Morphology
deals only with X0 categories and their features” (Chomsky 1995:319). Bob Borsley (p.c.)
pointed out to me that this deﬁnition, as it stands, would result to zero maximal projec-
tions (i.e. heads that have another head adjoined to them) behaving as XPs, because they
are constructed in Syntax. This does not appear to be true, but I unfortunately have no
sensible solution to oﬀer to this problem.
. Recall that under fairly standard assumptions, the features of the object DP would
have been attracted to AgrOP by LF anyway (Chomsky 1993, 1995). See also endnote 18 for
a disclaimer about the identity of ‘AgrO’.
. We abstract away from benefactive and ethical clitics, as well as cases of possessive cli-
tics from within the object attaching to Inﬂ here. See Borer & Grodzinsky (1986) for an
account.
. And object scrambling, too, if Sportiche’s (1996) analysis is on the right track.
. In both (7c) and (25), the elliptical DP can be contextually forced to ‘co-refer’ with
some antecedent – consider a continuation of (7c) like “…but, of course, both the Belgian
and Jim’s hats are white.” This is pragmatically induced, see Giannakidou & Merchant
(1996) for discussion.
. Authier (1989) for an analysis of ‘arbitrary pro’ as a variable unselectively bound by an
empty operator.
. Campos dubs this phenomenon“Indeﬁnite Object Drop.”
. Portuguese examples from Raposo (1986:381–383). Recall that the variables (mar-
ked t) in the Portuguese examples can accommodate either a deﬁnite or an indeﬁnite in-
terpretation.
Pronominal nouns beyond pronouns 
. Here we gloss over the feature that actually drives clitic movement. If clitics were ordi-
nary deﬁnite articles, then the head F that attracts them should also overtly attract deﬁnite
articles out of ordinary DPs, having driven them to SpecAgrOP (see previous section)…
Notice that the fact that the two paradigms (of deﬁnite articles and pronominal clitics) are
in no language completely identical could be a reﬂex of the phonological status of their
complements (like the vs. it – see Section 2.2 in Chapter 1). Another possibility is that cliti-
cisation is a PF-induced phenomenon related to the phonological ‘emptiness’ of the com-
plement of D (cf. Cardinaletti & Starke 1999). If Uriagereka’s (1996) analysis of Galician in
which Ds with overt complements can also cliticise is correct, then matters are complicated
signiﬁcantly. I will have nothing more to say on this issue here. For completeness, notice
that Dimitriadis (1994a, 1994b) claims that null indeﬁnite arguments ‘cliticise’ as well (see
the rest of Section 4.2).
. Hash (#) indicates answers that are grammatical in principle but infelicitous as an-
swers to the speciﬁc questions.
. For discussion of what happens with quantiﬁer topics see Cinque (1990), Dimitriadis
(1994a).
. According to Dimitriadis (1994b) who focuses on Modern Greek and Bulgarian.
. A distinct focused version of (34a) is also available – with a focus intonation on palto.
. See also endnote 33.
C 3
On the nature of empty nouns
. Open issues 
. Empty nouns are not phrases 
. Empty nouns and pro 
. A theory of empty nouns 
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

. Open issues
We have so far made a case for the presence of non-descriptive nouns inside a
variety of DPs and we have argued that they are ‘pronominal’ in a fundamen-
tal sense. The careful reader might have noticed that I deliberately swept dis-
cussion of the phrasal status of these null nouns under the carpet: are they
heads (N0), intermediate projections (N′), or phrases (NP)? Given that some
discussion of the issue exists in the literature and that there are clear and re-
current phenomena related to it that have to be accounted for, the ﬁrst part of
this chapter will be devoted to discussion of the phrasal status of non-
descriptive nouns, both phonologically overt and null.
Another very important problem is that of how empty nouns ﬁt into a
typology of empty categories, if at all. We have talked of empty nouns encod-
ing gender on more than one occasion and a natural question that arises is
how this is compatible with a theory of licensing and identiﬁcation of empty
categories – pro, more speciﬁcally. In Section 3 we will try to show that empty
nouns are not instances of pro.
In its strongest version, a ‘pro module’ in a theory of grammar would
predict that only one invariable empty category exists, which has to be li-
censed and contextually identiﬁed; thus, if we are to maintain what we said
about empty nouns, a major rethinking of empty categories and the theory
that underlies them is in order. In the context of empty nouns, this will be at-
tempted in Section 4 of this chapter, building on Emonds’ concept of ‘gram-
matical nouns’ and his ‘Unique Syntactic Behavior’.
. Empty nouns are not phrases
. Empty nouns do not tolerate complements
It appears that empty nouns, both overt and null, behave like phrases rather
than heads. This observation goes back to at least Jackendoﬀ (1977) as far as
one is concerned.1 So, as Jackendoﬀ (1977:58–60) and Kayne (1994:103–105)
point out, one does not tolerate of-phrases usually identiﬁed as complements
of N. This is illustrated in (1) below.
(1) *The students of Physics are taller than the ones of chemistry.
On the nature of empty nouns 
Jackendoﬀ oﬀers what is the standard explanation for this diﬀerence of be-
haviour between students, an ordinary descriptive noun, and ones. This is
that, unlike ordinary nouns, which are heads (N0), one is of N′ level. So, *the
ones of chemistry in (1) is ungrammatical because the ‘place’ of the phrase of
chemistry is ‘taken up’ in a sense by ones. In other words, the N0 students
forms an N′ constituent along with its complement of chemistry. If one is al-
ready of an N′ level, it somehow ‘occupies’ both the head and the complement
positions by itself.
An explanation along these lines is consistent with the mechanisms of X′
theory.2 Nevertheless, it has an ad hoc ﬂavour. A basic problem with such an
account would be how recent versions of X′ theory can accommodate the fact
that some lexical entries – just one so far from category N: one – are speciﬁed
as X′ (or phrasal) elements, possibly being heads at the same time. This is
most probably an idiosyncrasy of the lexical item in question and, conse-
quently, has to be encoded in the lexicon, “a list of exceptions, whatever does
not follow from general principles” (Chomsky 1995:234). One cannot help
feeling that a special X′ status for just one lexical item is a dubious matter.
Now, if the X′ level status of one is encoded in the lexicon, then this is an arbi-
trary property of the particular lexical item and it is surprising that no other
nominals share it: what could prevent the noun politics being represented as
an X′ or phrasal element in the lexicon? Closer to home, if a lexical entry can
have phrasal status, then the generalisation sketched in the previous chapter,
repeated below as (2) for convenience, is refuted:
(2) Heads (X0) are listed in the lexicon and enter the Numeration, phrases
(XP) are syntactic objects constructed from other syntactic objects,
whether heads or phrases.
Corver & Delﬁtto (1999:802–804) discuss the fact that null nouns exhibit a
behaviour identical to that of one in (1). Consider the example below, adop-
ted from them:
(3) a. We students of Physics like quasars very much.
b. *We eN of Physics like quasars very much.
Based on the above, as well as instances of ellipsis (see previous chapter), they
explicitly claim null nouns to be ‘NP level pro-complement[s]’. Similarly,
Uriagereka (1995:81) argues that “the pro [that complements pronominal
Ds] is not a DP in the speciﬁer position of D, but rather the NP complement
of D, which is analogous to one.”
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

The above is potentially good news: we now posit XP status for the lexical
entries of not just one, but null nouns like eN, too. Perhaps we can now claim
that non-descriptive nouns come as XPs from the lexicon. But the fact that
these nouns do not denote a concept is not necessarily an idiosyncrasy irrele-
vant to their ‘peculiar’ phrasal status. Perhaps ‘pronominality’ and special X′
behaviour are related in a non-idiosyncratic manner that does follow from a
general and simple principle. This will be a claim we will attempt to justify in
the following subsection.
. Empty nouns as N0 heads
.. Complements of N
Radford, to the best of my knowledge, was the ﬁrst to link pronominality with
the peculiar phrasal status of one, via the inability of pronominals to assign θ
roles. In unpublished work (1989), he only discusses one, but it is possible to
extrapolate his analysis to eN as well without further assumptions. Radford
claims that one is of N0 level, a head, neither N′ nor NP. The fact that it does
not tolerate complements is attributed to the inability of one to assign θ roles
and not some special X′ status for it. He further links this inability of one to
θ-assign to its being a pronominal noun; in other words, he relates the pro-
nominality of one to its inability to θ mark complements. If the reason for the
special phrasal status of one is its pronominality, then an analysis that derives
the XP status of one from what we here identify as lack of descriptive content
can be aptly extended to eN as well.
Radford turns to examples like (4), where an of phrase following one
makes up a well formed constituent, and juxtaposes it to the likes of (1), re-
peated below for convenience. For the sake of completeness, in (4b) and (5b)
we illustrate the situation for eN, which is similar.3
(1) *The students of Physics are taller than the ones of chemistry.
(4) a. The portrait of the Queen is lower than the one of the Vice-
Chancellor.
b. John’s eN of the Queen is lower than Jack’s portrait of the Vice-
Chancellor.
(5) a. The ones from New York are taller than the students from New Jersey
b. Virgin eN from Tuscany is better than watery olive oil from Spain.
He claims that the grammaticality of (4) would be explained if we assimilate
its status to that of (5): in both (4) and (5), the preposition (of and from re-
On the nature of empty nouns 
spectively) licenses its own complement itself. This is not the case for (1), al-
though both (1) and (4) involve an of-phrase, a complication to which we re-
turn below. Radford further argues that of in (4) and from in (5) are thematic
prepositions, whereas the variant of of in (1) is non-thematic. If one is unable
to provide external θ licensing to this non-thematic prepositional phrase,
then the whole phrase is ungrammatical. In order to illustrate that the of
phrases in (4) and the from phrases in (5) are headed by a thematic P head
whereas in (1) by a non-thematic preposition, Radford employs a number of
tests, which are brieﬂy reproduced below:
(6) Only thematic of can be the head of a predicate phrase.
a. thematic: My favourite picture is [ t [of the Vice-Chancellor]]
b. non-thematic: *My favourite student is [ t [of Chemistry]]
(7) Only thematic of PPs can be extraposed.
a. thematic: [A photo _ ] was found [of the VC drinking absinthe]
b. non-thematic: *[A student _ ] was jailed [of Chemistry]
(8) Only non-thematic of PPs have a prenominal counterpart.
a. thematic: A (*Vice-Chancellor) picture (of the Vice Chancellor)
b. non-thematic A (Chemistry) student (of Chemistry)
Independently, Oga (2000) has reached the same conclusion, namely that
there are indeed two types of of. The ﬁrst (dubbed thematic here) she assumes
to be a θ assigning lexical head. The projection of a lexical/thematic P head
does not have to be adjacent to the N and can extrapose (7). The reverse is
true for functional (‘non-thematic’) P and its projection: its licensing de-
pends on whether the N can assign a θ role to it.
The idea that there exist two classes of prepositions, thematic/lexical and
non-thematic/functional, is widely held and supported by independent evi-
dence. According to it, the categorial label P should be restricted to thematic
Ps, as they are predicative, like the other lexical categories V, A and N – see (6)
above, as well. Thus, they neither need nor tolerate ‘external’ licensing. On the
other hand, non-thematic (or ‘dummy’) prepositions can safely be argued to
be functional heads: they fail to θ mark, they are not predicative and their
main role seems to be to make manifest the oblique case of the DP in their
complement.4 Phrases headed by a non-thematic preposition inherit the ref-
erential status of the DP in their complement and that is why they need to
carry a θ role.5
To sum up, the contrast between (1) and (4) boils down to a contrast be-
tween the non-thematic versus the thematic variant of the preposition of. One,
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

by hypothesis, cannot θ mark its complement or anything else. If the PP
modifying one is headed by a thematic P, like in (4), the complement of P is
licensed by the P itself and the whole phrase is merged in a higher position
(cf. Jackendoﬀ 1977:59), possibly reserved for predicative constituents inside
the DP, like a thematic/lexical PP is.
Thus, the co-occurrence of one (and eN) with PPs headed by a thematic P
does not entail θ marking abilities on behalf of the N. At the same time, PPs
headed by a non-thematic preposition need an external θ assigner and one
cannot provide it. So, instead of postulating a special X′ status for one and eN,
all we have to say now is that NPs headed by non-descriptive nouns cannot
have arguments, as their N heads cannot θ license them.
This raises a natural but intriguing question: why can non-descriptive N
heads not assign θ roles?
.. θ assignment & predicates
As a ﬁrst step towards explaining why non-descriptive N heads, like one and
eN, cannot assign θ roles, recall that they denote no concept and that, conse-
quently, their feature make-up consists entirely of non-descriptive features.
Now, let us suppose that empty nouns cannot assign θ roles exactly for this
reason: because they do not denote any concept at all. Unlike descriptive
nouns and like functional heads they do not denote predicates. For the sake
of exposition, take the noun picture. It can potentially assign at least two θ-
roles, informally tagged as Agent and Theme.6
(9) a. a picture [AGENT of Vermeer] (cf. Vermeer pictured X)
b. a picture [THEME of Ginevra] (cf. X pictured Ginevra)
We assume that these two θ roles, Agent and Theme, must be assigned to
phrases, of Vermeer and of Ginevra here, merged within the NP projection of
picture.7 Now, the fact that picture, unlike ball, can assign two θ roles can
plausibly be assumed to be a semantic property of the speciﬁc lexical item as
it is drawn from the lexicon. It can further be assumed that the number and
type (e.g. Theme, Goal etc.) of θ roles that a lexical item can assign is directly
related to the logical properties of the predicate it denotes. This is ultimately
an extra-linguistic property deﬁned by the conceptual systems: the fact that
the verb put denotes a three-place predicate is neither dependent on UG re-
quirements nor an arbitrary ‘internal aﬀair’ of the lexicon (like ‘strength’ of
features etc.). Now, this is a simple, actually oversimpliﬁed, approach to the
so-called ‘mapping’ problem: we plainly assume here that logical properties of
On the nature of empty nouns 
predicates are carried over into grammar by the lexical heads that denote
them. Of course, this can certainly not be anything near the whole story, given
complications like the fact that the projection principle does not seem to hold
for nouns, contrary to verbs (for discussion: Grimshaw 1990): the Agent re-
mains unexpressed in (9b) and the Theme in (9a). Even so, it is a natural
claim to make that a lexical head denoting no predicates – which is the case of
non-descriptive nouns – has an adicity (in the sense of Williams 1994:26) of
zero: one and eN denote no predication function, thus the number of argu-
ment XPs they can take is the number of logical arguments for this (trivial)
function: zero.
.. Constructing NPs
Let us hypothesise that the ability of complements and speciﬁers to be
merged inside a lexical projection, say NP, is a result of conceptual properties
of the lexical head: they must be (θ-)licensed by the head noun. If only argu-
ments of the function denoted by the lexical head can be merged as this
head’s complement or speciﬁer, then empty nouns, that denote no concept,
can license neither a complement of N or SpecNP. The resulting picture is,
trivially, of one and eN being of NP level; nevertheless, this is a consequence of
Syntax not sanctioning the merging of any phrases with these heads, rather
than one and eN being speciﬁed as XPs in the lexicon. It could also be noted
that there is no problem of a ‘communicative’ nature in producing and un-
derstand examples like (1) or (3) as standard ellipses – the problem lies exclu-
sively within grammar.8
Further dwelling on this point and abstracting away from English, the in-
ability of non-descriptive nouns to take arguments/tolerate material inside
their NP can be illustrated even in languages with eN being the standard con-
stituent inside elliptical DPs (instead of overt one, as is the case in English –
see Section 2.2 in the previous chapter). Consider Modern Greek once more:
(10) *I ﬁtites Fisikis ine psiloteri apo aftus eN Himias
the students physics. are taller from these chemistry.
‘The students of Physics are taller than those of Chemistry’
(11) *Idha ametanoitus ipokinites (ton) ematiron
I.saw unrepenting instigators (the) bloody.
praxikopimaton ke ghnorisa afelis eN
coups. and I.met naïve.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

(ton) anepitihon epanastaseon
(the) unsuccesful. revolutions.
‘I saw deﬁant instigators of (the) bloody coups and I met naïve ones of
(the) unsuccessful revolutions’
(12) Tha epina aromatiko kafe apo tin Ollandia
will I.was.drinking fragrant coﬀee from the Holland
ala pino anosto eN apo tin Anglia
but I.drink tasteless from the England
‘I would drink fragrant coﬀee from Holland, but I drink tasteless
<coﬀee> from England’
The above examples illustrate that ‘rich agreement’, ‘communicative salience’
or ‘availability of null elements’ does not prevent MG from behaving exactly
like English. So, (10) is parallel to (1) and (3): there is no θ role assignment to
the argument of eN Himias (‘of Chemistry’). Given the possible objection that
articleless genitives might form some sort of compound with the noun ﬁtites
that renders them inseparable, (11) illustrates the point with DPs as argu-
ments of the noun ipokinites (‘instigators’) and eN. What emerges is that,
whether these DPs are headed by an overt deﬁnite article or a null indeﬁnite
one, they cannot be θ marked by eN (as they can by ipokinites) and are thus
impossible as its arguments: all variations of (11) are bad.9 The example in
(12) reproduces the situation in (5): (lexical/thematic) PPs do not depend on
θ assignment by the head of an NP and can appear freely inside a DP with an
empty noun.
Another interesting suggestion that emerges from treating empty nouns
(either overt or null) as trivial functions with zero adicity and, consequently,
no arguments is that Possessor DPs are not arguments of the noun (cf. Grim-
shaw 1990; Kratzer 1996 and endnote 6). Rather, Possessor is akin to Agent
(cf. Szabolcsi 1994) and has the status of external arguments in the most radi-
cal of senses. If Kratzer (1996) is correct in severing the external argument
from its verb, positing it a speciﬁer of a Voice (or ‘little v’) Phrase, similar
claims could be made for external arguments of the noun. Both (verbal) Agent
and Possessor θ roles would then be not assigned by V and N respectively but
v/Voice and n (Radford 1999)/Poss (Kayne 1994). Whether this parallelism is
accurate or not, Possessor is fully compatible with empty nouns. Observe:
(13) English
a. I have taken William’s razor but not Fred’s eN
b. #I have taken William’s razor but not John’s one.10
On the nature of empty nouns 
Modern Greek
Tha epina vari kafe tu Ari
will I.was.drinking strong coﬀee of.the Aris
ala pino anosto eN tu Pari
but I.drink tasteless of.the Paris
‘I would drink Aris’s strong coﬀee, but I drink Paris’s tasteless
<coﬀee>’
To recapitulate: we follow the view that θ assignment completely and solely
deﬁnes the structure of lexical projections. The descriptive features of a lexical
head (a noun, in our case) denote predicates and θ roles assigned by the head
reﬂect in a straightforward fashion the logical arguments the predication can
range over. Lack of descriptive features, as is the case with empty (non-
descriptive) nouns, means that no predicate is denoted. This in turn entails
impossibility of θ assignment on behalf of this non-descriptive head. The pic-
ture that emerges is that empty nouns, accommodating no arguments, have
an N = NP appearance at Spell-Out and LF.
. Empty nouns and pro
So far we have established a natural class for all empty (non-descriptive) nouns,
whether they appear as complements of pronominal Ds (in strong and clitic
pronouns or as N-pronouns) or in elliptical environments (one and various
instances of noun ellipsis, including Indeﬁnite Argument Drop). All instances
of empty nouns are N0 heads, their superﬂuous NP status being a result of
their zero adicity (i.e. their inability to assign θ roles and, consequently, to li-
cense a complement or a speciﬁer). Although both overt empty nouns (such
as one or Japanese kare) and various instances of (phonologically) null nouns
(our eN) seem to behave alike, there is now a severe theoretical complication
emerging. On the one hand, we here have the notion of null nouns encoding
ϕ features such as gender, on the other hand a standard approach to empty
categories claims them all to be instances of an invariant empty category that
is contextually (i.e. in the syntactic context) deﬁned as a pronominal, anaphor
etc. A tension between these two approaches is a real issue and appears inevi-
table – as is the case for the analysis of arbitrary pro in Rizzi (1986) and that
of null nouns licensed by adjectival inﬂection in Kester (1996).
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

To limit the question as far as null nouns are concerned: are null nouns
lexical entries in the lexicon, subject to the restrictions of their overt counter-
parts? In other words, are there in English a masculine eN, a feminine eN and
an unspeciﬁed eN next to one and people? Or is it the case that all null nouns
are just a single (phonologically) null lexical entry that has to be formally li-
censed and identiﬁed? Moreover, is a compromise between these two ap-
proaches possible?
. Introduction: a brief history of pro
.. The age of reason
At the beginning of the 80s, Chomsky (1981, 1982) introduced and to a cer-
tain extent established two ideas with respect to empty categories. The ﬁrst
was that properties of empty categories are identical to those of overt ones,
thus they can be classiﬁed under such labels as ‘pronominal’ and ‘anaphor’,
can receive θ roles and so on.11 The second was that they can be (perhaps
solely and completely) deﬁned functionally from general principles of gram-
mar. Consider:
(14) Who did the shark attack e?
The presence of e is forced by the Projection Principle: the Theme θ role as-
signed by the verb attack must be present at all the levels of representation. As
to its identity, e cannot be an anaphor: it lacks an antecedent to bind it locally.
e cannot be a pronominal, either, as an example like the following was
deemed ungrammatical (a weak crossover violation):
(15) *Whoi did the shark next to Johni attack ei?
So, e in (14) and (15) cannot be bound outside its binding domain (thus
[–pronominal]) and must have no binder inside its binding domain (thus
[–anaphor]). It qualiﬁes as a variable then and displays properties identical to
overt R-expressions: we can substitute the diver for e in both (14) and (15) for
an illustration.
The theory can be summarised as follows (quoted from Chomsky 1982:34):
This property of E[mpty] C[ategories] surely implies that there is only one
type of [Empty Category] and that the status of a particular occurrence of an
E[mpty] C[ategory] as PRO, NP-trace, or variable is functionally deter-
mined, that is, determined by the E[mpty] C[ategory]’s role in derivations
and representations.
On the nature of empty nouns 
The literature on empty categories has grown exponentially ever since. A
fourth empty category introduced in Chomsky (1982) was pro, an empty
pronominal. This empty category has attracted a great deal of attention. As to
its distribution, pro is, by hypothesis, the null subject in sentences like those
under (16) (grammatical only in “null subject languages,” named after this
particular property of theirs). pro presented the theory with a variety of chal-
lenges, most of which still await solutions. A ﬁrst taste of what these chal-
lenges are is already given in Chomsky (1982:85):
We may continue to refer to the element [+pronominal, +anaphor] as PRO
and to the element [+pronominal, -anaphor] as pro, taking each of these to
be a cover term for various combinations of the “grammatical features” per-
son, gender, number – and possibly also Case.
Intense debate and extensive exchange of views has followed these initial at-
tempts to capture the distributional properties of pro. What already emerges
is a hint of the tension we referred to earlier in upholding the idea of a single
empty category when pro12 is included in the picture: If pro is an ‘ordinary’
pronominal, then it must somehow be speciﬁed for diﬀerent combinations of
features in diﬀerent instances, the same way as overt pronominals are. Con-
sider Italian, for instance
(16) a. Io/pro sono
1st. am
b. Tu/pro sei
2nd. are.2nd
c. Noi/pro siamo
1st. are.1st
In the example (16) above, we have to explain how the verb agrees with its pro
subject the same way it does with the overt pronominal ones. If it is the case
that “various feature combinations” exist for pro, as seems plausible here, then
it cannot be that only one instance of an empty (nominal) category that is
functionally determined exists.
An alternative solution would be to include some sort of condition that
will enable us to determine a particular instance of pro without assuming as
many instances of pro as there are feature combinations of person, number,
gender and Case. Up to here only the (Extended) Projection Principle and
Binding Theory have been invoked. A solution in this spirit was expressed in
Rizzi (1986): Rizzi argues that the presence of pro, forced by the (Extended)
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

Projection Principle, is subject to two conditions: a licensing condition by a
(parametrically deﬁned) head and an identiﬁcation condition.13
Licensing is about what head can permit a pro within its governing do-
main: Italian Inﬂ can, English Inﬂ cannot and so on. More explicitly, Rizzi
(1986:524) speciﬁes the licensing of pro as Case-marking by that head, not
just government.
Identiﬁcation is the process of recovering the (φ-)feature combination a
pro ‘stands for’, in an invariable pro analysis (or, alternatively, the (φ-)feature
combination a pro encodes). In the case of most Romance languages, as in
(16), the Inﬂ head that licenses pro by assigning Case to it also identiﬁes its
content by somehow ‘copying’ its own φ-features onto pro: thus, in (16b) for
instance, the Inﬂ speciﬁed for 2nd person and singular number ‘copies’ these
features onto pro, in (16c) it copies its 1st person and plural number, and so
on. Although in that particular paper Rizzi assumes that the licenser and the
identiﬁer must be the same head, he has later revised this position in the face
of evidence from a number of languages. Thus, in Rizzi (1997:282) it is noted
that if the licenser fails to identify pro, then either Control or discourse
identiﬁcation could be forced, both options available by UG. In any case, per-
haps we would not be wrong to claim that identiﬁcation mechanisms are re-
stricted to associating pro with exactly the φ-features ‘necessary’ for the overt
pronouns in a given language. Thus, we would not expect a Mandarin identi-
ﬁer of a pro to ‘copy’ any Gender features onto it14 and certainly nothing more
than the relevant φ-features.
Returning to the case where the identiﬁer and the licenser are the same
head, we now have a mechanism that enables us to uphold the assumption
that there is only one kind of empty category, as the licensing and identifying
conditions, available by UG, can ‘functionally’ fully determine a pro. Interest-
ingly, because identiﬁcation and licensing are kept distinct, it may well be the
case that a language possesses licenser(s) for pro but no identiﬁers – this
would restrict pro to expletive uses, as seems to be the case with Icelandic
(Rizzi 1997:274). Accordingly, it is parameters, their settings and functional
heads that vary cross-linguistically or within diﬀerent instances in the same
language, not the null element pro itself.
.. Ageing reasons
Although the theory of pro appears to be an adequate framework that can ac-
commodate a version of the functional determination of empty categories
On the nature of empty nouns 
while reaﬃrming their aﬃnity with their overt counterparts, this licensing/
identiﬁcation mechanism runs into a series of problems.
... The demise of a binding-related deﬁnition for empty categories. The
inventory of empty categories was formulated along the plus/minus settings
of the two features ([±pronominal] and [±anaphor]) in Chomsky (1982).
These features were relevant to the binding behaviour of the elements (both
overt and null) encoding them: a [+pronominal] [–anaphor] element abides
by Condition B: it must be free within its binding domain, and so on. While
the overt members of this inventory appear not to be amenable to a
[±pronominal] [±anaphor] classiﬁcation any more (Enç 1989; Lasnik 1991
among others), the inventory has also lost most of its null members by now:
traces are now considered to be copies of the moved elements (Chomsky 1995,
1998; Sauerland 1998), the PRO theorem can no longer be derived from in-
dependent principles and there is much debate about PRO’s (lack of) Case
(cf. Chomsky 1995).15 pro seems to be the last (nominal) empty category.
... A richer variety of bar-levels and categorial labels for empty categories.
Moreover, continuous research has revealed a number of empty categories
that come under more categorial labels than that of nominals. Apart from
empty noun heads, there is by now solid evidence for empty Complementis-
ers (Rizzi 1990), empty ‘generic’ determiner heads (Longobardi 1994) and el-
liptical null elements that can be of the category N, V and even Inﬂ (Lobeck
1991). If these are set against XP level pro and PRO and empty operators of
various sorts (Chomsky 1981; Huang 1984; Authier 1989b; Brody 1995;
Mathieu 1999; Panagiotidis 2000b) are added, the emerging picture seems to
become increasingly complicated: empty categories appear to come at both
X0 and XP levels, as well as a variety of lexical and functional categorial labels.
One must also note here that, since we cannot avail ourselves of radically
empty nodes (cf. Chao 1988 and references therein) any more, a detailed the-
ory for all the empty elements mentioned above is required – they certainly
haven’t got an unlimited distribution. In other words, the models of grammar
currently being developed do not involve a template-like phrase structure that
has to be ‘ﬁlled’ with terminal nodes, but construct representations by ‘put-
ting together’ lexical items, one of which projects, in a bottom-up fashion
(Chomsky 1995). Hence, the option of a radically empty node is not available,
there is either an element to merge with a syntactic object, or there is not.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

... The need for a more articulated licensing/identiﬁcation mechanism. It
is true that in most of the work mentioned in the context of noun ellipsis (see
previous chapter) empty elements are always taken to be licensed by some
sort of mechanism, usually involving a functional head. For instance, Lobeck
(1991:98) proposes the following Ellipsis Licensing Principle for elliptical e –
whichever its category. This is a bold attempt indeed, as the proposed princi-
ple is – to the best of my knowledge – the ﬁrst attempt to devise a condition
for empty constituents that can be of categories other than the nominal one.
[e] must be canonically governed by a functional head speciﬁed as [+Kase],
[+Number] or [+Q].
This proposed ‘Principle’ either is an independent condition (a real Principle)
or reduces to other Principles of grammar. Unfortunately, if the former were
true, the Ellipsis Licensing Principle hardly comes anywhere close to the ‘ba-
sic’ status of the EPP, binding theory or even Rizzi’s licensing condition on
pro. One reason for this is that it refers to speciﬁc features that do not prima
facie seem to belong to a natural class – compare this, for instance, to licens-
ing as Case assignment to pro (Rizzi 1986): we expect nominals to be assigned
Case, anyway… For the same reasons, it is hard to see what independent
principles the Ellipsis Licensing Principle could reduce to. Moreover, the pre-
dictions it makes are not accurate crosslinguistically, and this is why Lobeck
(1995) reformulates it in a more parametric and ‘relational’ fashion (Lobeck
1995:Ch. 4).16
The emerging situation seems to be that it is impossible to maintain that
an invariable empty category deﬁned exclusively via licensing and identiﬁ-
cation can appear in such a multitude of environments under conditions
that approach idiosyncrasy. Towards this, the analysis in Kester (1996) is a
good example: she claims that adjectival inﬂection is the reﬂex of a func-
tional head F17 inside the DP, at the speciﬁer of which APs are situated. She
then correlates the availability of null nouns (our eN) with the richness of
adjectival inﬂection in a particular language. Thus, Dutch possesses adjecti-
val inﬂection -e and null nouns are licensed widely (Kester 1996:Ch. 4),
English does not and one is used instead (Kester 1996:266–268); Afrikaans
diachronically acquired an element like one when it lost its adjectival
inﬂection. Still, not all instances of noun ellipsis are consistent with main-
taining an invariable pro and Kester has to state that “diﬀerent instances of
pro may have quite diﬀerent X-bar and categorial properties” (1996:189),
and subsequently argues explicitly that pro can sometimes “ha[ve] inherent
On the nature of empty nouns 
features.” A detailed discussion and criticism of licensing and identiﬁcation
conditions is deferred until Section 3.2.
... At odds with checking theory. Furthermore, with the introduction of
checking theory, the mere existence of pro is doubtful. Take, for instance, the
par excellence position of pro: that of a subject in null subject languages. Some
Inﬂ element, say AgrS or T, licenses pro and licensing boils down to Case as-
signment (Rizzi 1986:524). This is ﬁne in GB/P&P18 terms where Case as-
signers actually “assign” Case. Checking theory forces us to posit some sort of
Case feature on pro itself: an uninterpretable [Nom] feature in Chomsky’s
(1995) framework.
(17) AgrSP
pro AgrS′
AgrS
[NOM]
?
VP
Whether pro encodes a [Nom] feature or just an unspeciﬁed Case feature
(which could potentially accommodate pro showing up in other argument
positions), the result is that pro now becomes incompatible with all positions
that cannot be part of a Case Chain. At least two areas where this would pose
a problem is theories for the base generation of clitics (but see Section 3 in
the previous chapter) as well as non-nominal ellipsis. If a pronominal clitic is
a base generated entity that absorbs accusative Case and licenses a pro in ob-
ject position (Borer 1984, 1986; Jaeggli 1982, 1986; Sportiche 1996), what
happens to the Case feature of pro?19 Furthermore, non-nominal ellipsis
(Lobeck 1991, 1995) goes completely beyond an explanation along the lines
of the presence of a pro if this null category is speciﬁed or needs to be
speciﬁed for Case.
... The categorial status of subject pro. Under the DP-hypothesis (Abney
1987; et al.), the categorial status itself of a subject pro becomes a problem. If
we are correct that pronominality is not a grammatical primitive, it is not in-
herently expressed in pro, say in terms of a [+pronominal] feature. Suppose
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

also that instances of empty categories under a variety of categorial labels ex-
ist, as in Section 3.1.2.2 above.
Consider now pro in a subject position: if Stowell (1991) and Longobardi
(1994) are correct that arguments must be DPs, then pro must be identiﬁed as
a DP by Inﬂ – in other words Inﬂ must contain a D feature (as in Chomsky
1995). If pro has a Case feature, this is rather straightforward. Compare now
this to nominal pro (eN) licensed and identiﬁed in the complement of the
trace of a D head (say, a pronominal clitic D in the analysis adopted here20) or
the complement of a functional head F with an adjective in its Spec, as in Ke-
ster: the D feature of Inﬂ will identify pro in its speciﬁer as of category D,
while that of a clitic D trace or F will identify the one inside its complement
as of category N (cf. Ritter 1991, 1995; Koopman 2000). By now, the intricate
licensing/identiﬁcation system should also include a mechanism that distin-
guishes between speciﬁers and complements. Moreover, this licensing/iden-
tiﬁcation mechanism can actually deﬁne the categorial status of the empty
category. Notice that this is a problem even if we reject checking theory.
. Against licensing and identiﬁcation for null nouns
In what follows I will try to ﬂesh out the technical objections against licensing
and identiﬁcation for null nouns in the previous section by appealing to em-
pirical evidence. I understand that these objections could hold for empty
categories in general but we shall restrict ourselves to eN here.21
In order to do so, we will review all the instances where null nouns show up
in a DP as reviewed in Chapters 1 and 2: pronouns and pronominal clitics,
noun ellipsis and Indeﬁnite Argument Drop. We will then see how the licensing
and identiﬁcation theory works in explanatory terms and compare it with the
approach that emerges from this study, namely that null nouns are stored in the
lexicon as separate lexical entries, as is the case with overt empty nouns like one.
.. Licensing of eN
In order to make our argument against licensing/identiﬁcation of eN, we will
attempt to capture all instances of eN using a licensing/identiﬁcation model.
To this end, we are going to use Lobeck’s “Licensing and identiﬁcation of pro”
(1995:52; see also Section 3.1.2.3). The reasons we do so is that Lobeck essen-
tially adopts Rizzi’s (1986) licensing/identiﬁcation model, which she extends
to cover all instances of what she considers to be pro. Moreover, Lobeck ac-
cepts an articulated structure for DPs (one that includes a NumP, as well;
On the nature of empty nouns 
Lobeck 1995:Ch. 3) and she extensively applies the consequences of her li-
censing principle and her Ellipsis Identiﬁcation Parameter to instances of
noun ellipsis (Lobeck 1995:Ch. 4). I hence feel that Lobeck oﬀers the most ar-
ticulated formulation of how eN could be captured as pro. The proposed Prin-
ciple and Parameter are the following:
Licensing and Identiﬁcation of pro: An empty, non-arbitrary pronominal
must be properly head-governed, and governed by an X0 speciﬁed for strong
agreement (1995:52)
Ellipsis Identiﬁcation Parameter: The number of strong agreement fea-
tures in DET and NUM that is required to identify an empty, pronominal
NP is proportional to the number of possible strong agreement features in
the agreement system of noun phrases in the language (1995:135)
Elaborating, the ‘Licensing and Identiﬁcation of pro’ principle predicts that
only (functional) heads that are speciﬁed for strong agreement – however
deﬁned – can license pro, including our eN. The Ellipsis Identiﬁcation Pa-
rameter relates the number of features required to identify pro to the number
of possible strong features available in a given grammar. Thus, English will
need fewer features to identify pro (once this is licensed, of course), whereas
German, which is heavily inﬂected, will need more.
... Pronominal eN. Indexicals contain a D that is marked for [ASE] and
[PSE] (‘person’). Apparently, Ds speciﬁed for person features show ‘agre-
ement’ enough and can both license and identify pro/eN. As far as non-person
pronouns are concerned, case and gender agreement on pronominal Ds both
license and identify the eN in the complement of Num.22 Given that, nor-
mally, only number agreement exists within the English DP, case and gender
are enough to identify a pro.
Under this account, the pronoun it would be assumed to be speciﬁed for
some feature the is not speciﬁed for (the cannot take empty complements/
identify pro/eN). This could be neuter/inanimate gender, although this analy-
sis seems hardly convincing (cf. Section 3.5 of Chapter 1). Even if it were
speciﬁed for gender, the major ﬂaw of the way things work in this account
would be that gender is taken to be a feature on D (Lobeck 1995:112–113) –
something that does not appear to be correct (see Section 3.4 of Chapter 1).
... Pronominal clitics and eN. Moving to eN as ‘licensed’ by a clitic D, we
encounter more diﬃculties. Recall the discussion of Spanish Ds in Section 2.1
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

of Chapter 2. The strong pronoun ella, the clitic pronoun la and the deﬁnite
article la all mark the same set of features, informally given here as (at least)
[fem] [sing] [def]. On top of that, all Ds in Spanish agree for number and
gender. In the spirit of the Ellipsis Identiﬁcation Parameter, it should be the
case that either of the following holds:
a. As the number of possible strong agreement features in the agreement
system of noun phrases in Spanish is high, more strong agreement fea-
tures on D are required to identify pro. So, we would expect that ella and
la would not be able to identify a nominal pro but that ellas and las
(speciﬁed for plural, possibly a strong agreement feature)23 or mi (speci-
ﬁed for [+poss] [ASE] [PSE]) should be able to. This is not correct: la is a
clitic and has, by deﬁnition, a null complement (see Section 2 of Chapter
2).24 Moreover, even article la can license and identify pro/eN: consider la
eN del rio (‘the from the river’).
b. If gender and number are enough to identify pro/eN in Spanish, all deter-
miners should license and identify elliptical pro in this language. Should
this be accurate, it would capture the Spanish facts but trivialise the Ellip-
sis Identiﬁcation Parameter. In French and Italian, for instance, the num-
ber of possible strong features in the agreement systems of noun phrases
in these two languages is the same as that of Spanish (including number
and gender), but French and Italian articles, identically speciﬁed for
number and gender, cannot license and/or identify pro/eN; the equivalents
of la eN del rio are ungrammatical in both French (*la eN du ﬂeuve) and
Italian (*la eN della ﬁume).
... Noun ellipsis. Lobeck’s analysis is designed on the basis of noun ellip-
sis and, expectedly, it accounts for the phenomenon in a satisfactory way. To
illustrate this, consider the scarcity of eN in English. According to the Ellipsis
Identiﬁcation Parameter, only a small number of strong agreement features in
D and Num are required to identify an eN, given the paucity of possible
strong agreement features in English noun phrases. Nevertheless, eN is scarce
in English and one has to ‘take over’ because D and Num show hardly any
strong agreement in most cases; hence, they cannot license eN. On the other
hand, a Num speciﬁed for [plu] or a D speciﬁed for [partitive] or [poss] fea-
tures are adequately “speciﬁed for strong agreement.” Lobeck’s account pre-
dicts that in exactly these environments a null nominal is licensed.
On the nature of empty nouns 
Nevertheless, the account does not run smoothly. A [plu] feature is clearly
marked in English by the /-z/ form on nouns and, in a sense, is enough to ren-
der Num ‘strong’. Similar facts can be said to hold for possessive D and the ’s
form on possessors in SpecDP (Lobeck 1995:89–91). From here on we run
into a host of problems: an English [mass]/[partitive] feature (whether on D
or Num) is not morphologically marked in any non-trivial sense.25 How is
then eN licensed and identiﬁed? Even if one claimed that a [mass]/[partitive]
feature is present on either D or Num (see also the discussion in Section 2.2.2
of Chapter 2), it is not a “strong agreement” feature, whatever ‘strong agree-
ment’ would mean. A second problem is what Lobeck’s analysis (1995:87–88)
predicts for this and that, both singular Ds: they are predicted not to license eN
and the following example is supplied for illustration (from Lobeck 1995:88):
(18) *Although John doesn’t like [DP this [e] that he got at K-Mart]…
Whatever the explanation for the unacceptability of (18) is, it is also true that
the following are grammatical:
(19) a. I like this/that eN
b. I don’t like this scarf from Paris but I like that eN from Prague
Even if – against our discussion in Chapter 1 – we assume for a moment that
this and that in (19a) are ‘intransitive Ds’, (19b) looks like a genuine example
of noun ellipsis with that. Is it the case that a [Deictic] feature (Panagiotidis
2000b) on this and that can possibly count as ‘strong agreement’? Moreover,
in both instances of (19), one can substitute for eN. The same is true for what
we dubbed ‘superlative noun ellipsis’ in the previous chapter. How is the op-
tionality of one explained in these particular cases, but not elsewhere? As seen
several times so far, one is not always freely available.
A more serious problem is that a licensing/identiﬁcation model fails to
capture ‘human noun ellipsis’ without auxiliary assumptions. Lobeck (1995:
67) oﬀers a footnote in which Rizzi’s (1986) proarb is tentatively equated to the
null noun of expressions like the rich. This leads to a serious complication, for
the following reason:
Rizzi’s proarb is an argument and thus, in more up-to-date terms, a DP
pro-form. How can it be licensed as a noun? One could possibly claim that
this is exactly a strong argument for a single, invariable pro: the same way V
or Inﬂ licenses a proarb by default, the ‘weak’ D the and the singular Num in
the rich license, by default, a proarb. Both instances of proarb have a [+human,
+generic, plural] speciﬁcation. Apart from the obvious questions (why proarb
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

isn’t licensed in English in environments outside noun ellipsis and so on), this
account is virtually untenable if we consider that noun ellipsis in English is
impossible with just the overt. Consider:
(20) a. [D the [NumP rich [Num plu] eN]]
b. *[D the [Num plu] eN]
Two equally ‘strong’ Num heads (both ‘plural’) and two equally ‘weak’ D
heads (the) can license/identify proarb (20a) or not (20b), depending on the
presence of an AP at SpecNumP (or elsewhere inside the DP). If the presence
of an AP at SpecNumP constitutes a manifestation of “strong agreement fea-
tures” on D or Num, these features are at best elusive.
... Indeﬁnite Argument Drop. Our criticism so far is mainly on the
speciﬁc licensing/identiﬁcation model for nominal pro. Apart from the ques-
tion of gender on D – which seems to be essential to any licensing/
identiﬁcation mechanism that would seek to justify the existence of a pro in
non-person pronouns of languages like English, it could be the case that a
better model than that proposed by Lobeck (which in turn heavily relies on
Rizzi’s) can get the facts straight. I will now present evidence that there is a se-
rious ﬂaw in any licensing/identiﬁcation model for nominal pro.
This evidence against eN being an instance of pro that gets licensed and
identiﬁed by an appropriate head concerns Indeﬁnite Argument Drop. Recall
the discussion in the previous chapter26 in which it was clearly shown that
null indeﬁnite arguments are not instances of either VP ellipsis or proarb or
variables bound by a null topic. Moreover, they were shown to share crucial
properties with both noun ellipsis and clitic pronouns.
Now, suppose that – against this evidence – we attempt to formulate an
account by which the whole null indeﬁnite argument is an instance of pro li-
censed and identiﬁed by a head – or two heads together. Rizzi (1986) was able
to pursue such an account for proarb because of its ‘default’ nature and its
ﬁxed ‘arbitrary’ referent.27 So, in the case of (21), repeated from Chapter 2,
the licenser of proarb is V and its identiﬁcation is claimed to be down to “a rule
of arbitrary interpretation” (Rizzi 1986:522).
(21) a. Questo esercizio mantiene proarb sani
this exercise keeps healthy.
Let us now suppose that V in Modern Greek can license pro in object posi-
tion. Three problems now emerge:
On the nature of empty nouns 
a. All pro arguments in subject position are deﬁnite in MG but all pro ar-
guments in (direct and indirect) object position are indeﬁnite in MG.
How is this exactly instantiated?
b. Both null subjects and null objects can be identiﬁed for all combinations
of gender and number28 in MG, according to Rizzi proarb is strictly
[+human, +generic].
c. Subject pro can be argued to be identiﬁed by the φ features of ‘AgrS’. No
such identiﬁer exists for object pro in MG. Recall that it cannot be the
case that V or (morphologically null) ‘AgrO’ identify an object pro in MG:
content of pro “must be fully recoverable from the overt linguistic con-
text…” (Rizzi 1986:520).
Let us now concede to a recent ‘extension’ of the identiﬁcation convention, as
it appears in Rizzi (1997:282): if the licenser fails to identify pro, then either
Control or discourse identiﬁcation could be forced, both available by UG.
This extension does not come without a theoretical price to pay: identiﬁ-
cation in terms of features encoded on a head (whether the licenser or not),
can be reasonably claimed to constitute a grammar-internal operation; simi-
larly if identiﬁcation via Control is available by UG. On the contrary, iden-
tiﬁcation by context, i.e. ‘after grammar’, weakens the identiﬁcation conven-
tion qua a grammatical operation to virtual elimination. But let us say
discourse identiﬁcation is an option; if we need to uphold a licensing/
identiﬁcation of pro model for null indeﬁnite arguments we are forced to do
so: null indeﬁnite arguments do not even need overt antecedents.
Even so, a diﬃculty arises, point a. above: Why is it the case that object
pro in MG can never be identiﬁed as deﬁnite, even in the presence of a deﬁnite
discourse antecedent? Recall the example from the previous chapter, repeated
below as (22) and (23):
(22) a. Pires to palto?
Took.2nd the coat
b. to pira
 took.1st
c. #pira
took.1st
‘Did you take the coat?’‘I took it’
(23) a. Pires palto?
Took.2nd coat
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

b. #to pira
 took.1st
c. pira
took.1st
‘Did you take a coat?’‘I took one’
If ‘object pro’ was identiﬁed by context, (22c) would be ﬁne as a reply to (22a) –
it is not. Notice here that although the infelicitous use of (23b) as a reply to
(23a) could be claimed to be amenable to some sort of pragmatic economy
principle (say,‘least eﬀort’), this cannot be so for (22c) versus (22b).
Let us now suppose that, while insisting on pursuing an account of null
indeﬁnite arguments as involving pro, we nevertheless recognise the aﬃnity
they display to the clitic DPs and noun ellipsis DPs. Along these lines, we
would be led to assume that null indeﬁnite arguments involve a pro the way a
clitic DP or a noun ellipsis DP would: in this case, we would assume a pro of
category N that is the complement of Num. The D would be null: the null
indeﬁnite D in Greek. This would capture the behaviour of Indeﬁnite Argu-
ment Drop qua cliticisation (they both license CLLD – see Section 3.2.2 of the
previous chapter) and qua noun ellipsis: all these phenomena involve an eN –
which would now be shorthand for pro identiﬁed as a noun.
It would follow that any D can license a nominal pro in MG, even the null
variety.29 Even under this scenario, the diﬃculty in ﬁnding an appropriate
identiﬁer for this nominal pro is as great as before. There is no overt material
inside the null indeﬁnite DP whatsoever to identify the pro in noun position,
as both D and Num are phonologically null.
... Summary: eN is not pro. From the discussion in this section it has
emerged that an account of eN as pro licensed and identiﬁed is untenable; if
non-person pronouns involve one, then their gender (like in English he and
she) is either a mystery or the result of identiﬁcation from a D or a Num head.
In the case of clitics, some complex mechanism would be required to prevent
articles from identifying nominal pro, whereas identically speciﬁed for ϕ fea-
tures clitic Ds must still be permitted to. As far as noun ellipsis is concerned,
the speciﬁc interpretations of various kinds of it in English remain unac-
counted for (see next section, too). Finally, the phenomenon of Indeﬁnite Ar-
gument Drop appears to be beyond the explanatory mechanisms of a licens-
ing/identiﬁcation model. These problems, along with the more general ones
outlined in 3.1 render untenable the existence of a single invariable pro that
On the nature of empty nouns 
appears wherever a ‘special’ licenser can govern it and that can ‘take up’ a va-
riety of roles according to its identiﬁers – at least in its nominal ‘incarnation’
(see also Brody 1986).
.. Inherent features on pro
A way to overcome the diﬃculties of positing eN to be an instance of pro is to
assume a null noun can bear inherent features. Of course, this null noun is
not an instance of ‘Rizzi-style’ pro any more, although accounts according to
which diﬀerent instances of pro encode diﬀerent sets of features are abundant.
On the other hand, this null noun is not fully speciﬁed and still in need of li-
censing and identiﬁcation. Roughly, this is the ‘middle way’ researchers like
Kester (1996) follow.
Kester (1996:Ch. 4) realises that the whole gamut of noun ellipsis cannot
be captured just by positing a single invariable pro licensed and identiﬁed in
diﬀerent (nominal) environments. For instance, observe the contrast between
the following minimal pair of instances of noun ellipsis (adapted from Kester
1996:246):
(24) a. de besprokene eN
the.COMMON talked.about
‘the person talked about’
b. het besprokene eN
the.NEUTER talked.about
‘the matters talked about’
Descriptively, (24b) is an instance of ‘abstract noun ellipsis’ and (24a) of ‘hu-
man noun ellipsis’, albeit in singular. Both options are grammatical in Dutch.
Kester (1996:242–247) claims that, in (24a), the eN (her pro) is speciﬁed as
[+human], whereas in (24b) it is speciﬁed as [–animate] [–count].30 These
inherent features are in turn identiﬁed by the gender on D: common gender
(24a) identiﬁes a [+human] feature on pro, whereas neuter gender (24b) a
[–animate] feature on pro. In Kester (1996:Ch. 5) the relevance of [±mass]
features and [±count] features on nominal pro is also discussed. Simplifying
somehow and restricting ourselves to the instances of noun ellipsis reviewed
here, Kester assumes that nominal pro is always licensed by a DP-internal
functional head F and that features on a nominal pro are identiﬁed either by
the context or by appropriate features on either D or F. The following table
summarises how this applies in Dutch.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

(25) Some types of nominal pro according to Kester
identiﬁed by inherent features
elliptical pro context Ø
human pro (plural morphology on F)/common gender on D [+human]([+plural]
[+generic])
mass pro default F [+mass]
abstract pro non-plural morphology on F/neuter gender on D [–animate] [–count]
The situation in English would be either identical (as is the case for ‘mass
pro’) or very similar with only the identifying features being diﬀerent (so, a
human pro is always identiﬁed as [+plural] [+human] [+generic] by the D the
(Kester 1996:273–275).
Before commenting on Kester’s analysis based on pro with inherent fea-
tures, let us point out how ﬂexible a system it is. Of course, there are at least
four diﬀerent lexical entries for eN in (25), the underlying assumption by now
is that empty categories have some inherent content – for instance, it would
not be too far fetched to extrapolate an inherent categorial feature [N] for all
instances of ‘nominal pro’ in (25) above.
Observe that prima facie Kester’s account as sketched above is very similar
to the one we gave for noun ellipsis in English in Chapter 2 (Section 1.2). If
anything, the spirit is the same: a degree of lexical idiosyncrasy, expressible in
terms of grammatical features on the null noun, is necessary to capture the
distribution and function of null elements (in the nominal domain). This ap-
proach is theoretically preferable, if the alternative is the formulation of com-
plex identiﬁcation principles or positing licensing heads that hardly form a
natural class but can nevertheless deﬁne the category of the licensee. More-
over, it can be rendered explanatorily superior.
On the other hand, the idea that features on functional heads (inside the
DP) identify the inherent ones on eN is a bit too much on the ‘baroque’ side;
at the same time, some aspects of it are untenable in our framework of ﬁxed
loci for interpretable features and our analysis of gender as a feature of N. In
order to illustrate this, let us compare the accounts of Kester’s approach, with
that of our Chapter 2 (Section 1.2)31 on (24).
Kester, as we saw above, assumes that a functional head F licenses both in-
stances of pro. In the case of (24a), a common gender feature on D de identi-
ﬁes the [+human] feature of pro; in (24b) a neuter gender feature on D het
identiﬁes the [–animate] feature of pro. In both (24a & b), the aﬃx -e on the
adjective is the manifestation of a head F and identiﬁes the non-plural feature
On the nature of empty nouns 
speciﬁcation of pro: as [–plural] in (24a) and as [–count] in (24b). Notice
that by some ‘redundancy rules’ (1996:243) common gender entails a
[+human] feature on the nominal pro and so on. Moreover, a pro speciﬁed as
[+human] [+plural], appropriately identiﬁed, is the nominal element in the
plural version of (24a) de besprokenen (‘the ones talked about’).
Let us now set up an account according to the assumptions so far in this
study. In (24a), the D de agrees in gender with the common gender feature on
eN, in (24b) the D het with the neuter/unspeciﬁed for gender eN. In (24a)
Num is speciﬁed as singular and in de besprokenen as plural, the same eN is in-
volved in both cases. Common gender on eN entails a ‘human’ interpretation,
absence of it a non-human one, no [±human] feature is necessary. The situa-
tion is similar with English and Dutch non-person pronouns: he & she and
hij (= ‘he’) & zij (= ‘she’): although in Dutch gender agreement exists, zij can-
not refer to an inanimate feminine entity: in both languages gender on eN di-
rectly triggers ‘animacy’ or ‘human’ status at or beyond LF,32 not by identify-
ing a [+human] feature.
Comparing the two accounts we observe that our account dispenses with
identiﬁcation altogether; for instance, the gender marking on D is a result of
agreement and so on. Of course, we can informally say that agreement makes
visible the features interpreted on other heads: a number marking on D
makes visible the number speciﬁcation of Num in these eN or them eN but ob-
serve that number marking is there anyway, identiﬁcation of eN is not its pur-
pose: these hooligans, #them days, #them ones. Agreement can be absent alto-
gether, as is the case in Indeﬁnite Argument Drop.
In the following section we will attempt to oﬀer a coherent account of
what empty nouns are and in how many guises they can appear. To this end,
we will further spell out the approach on empty nouns, only sketched so far.
. A theory of empty nouns
The key concept behind an approach to empty nouns that can capture all
their diﬀerent types and behaviours (as discussed in the ﬁrst two chapters) is
that they are all listed in the lexicon as heads of the category N0. That is, empty
nouns, whether overt (like one, kare etc.) or null (eN) are listed in the lexicon.
They are all heads (as shown in Section 2) and their crucial property is that
they do not denote concepts, they are devoid of descriptive features. This was
shown to be their one signiﬁcant characteristic that sets them apart from de-
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

scriptive nouns and deﬁnes them as a natural class. Recall that one common
characteristic of all empty nouns is their inability to assign θ roles/lack of ar-
gument structure. Another one is that they trigger pronominal (i.e. ‘semantic
variable’) interpretation of the DP they form part of, an interpretation only as
restricted as the material inside the DP: semantic33 features on the N itself, φ
and other features on Num and D, APs at SpecNumP, possessors at SpecDP.
Both characteristics derive from empty nouns being non-descriptive.
The fact that both overt and null empty nouns are listed in the lexicon
and that no (special) licensing and identiﬁcation is claimed to be required for
the members of the null variety should be straightforward. Apart from tech-
nical (Section 3.1) and empirical (Section 3.2) problems there are also con-
ceptual ones regarding the ‘need’ for empty categories to be licensed and
identiﬁed.
Take licensing ﬁrst. The licensing condition for ‘DP’ pro in Rizzi (1986) is
that it must be Case-marked by an appropriate X0. On reﬂection, this ‘condi-
tion’ is no diﬀerent from the Case ﬁlter: all DPs must be Case marked. At the
same time, the requirement that pro be Case marked from only designated
heads in each grammar (none in English, Inﬂ and V in Italian etc.) seems
completely arbitrary: the licensing heads per grammar form an ad hoc set and
do not belong to a natural class. Ultimately, the place of such an idiosyncrasy
is in the lexicon – somehow (see also the next chapter).
In this vein, Speas (1996:201) notes that a licensing condition for empty
categories “necessitates that Grammar allow some heads to be designated as
licensers of a category with particular phonological properties (namely, the
property of being unpronounced). There are no equivalent designations in
other components of syntax involving other phonological properties.”
The above criticism also works the other way round (ibid.): a licensing
condition “necessitates that a particular lexical entry, pro, is subject to a spe-
cial requirement in virtue of its phonological status. […] there are no other
lexical items whose phonological properties cause them to be subject to some
special syntactic requirement.”
As far as identiﬁcation is concerned, it has by now been shown to be too
broad an operation that can be carried either in grammar or beyond gram-
mar altogether. Even if we adhere to identiﬁcation in grammar, further com-
plications emerge:
On the nature of empty nouns 
a. It is not always the case that (all) features for a postulated single invari-
able pro can be copied onto it by the identifying head, cf. Indeﬁnite Ar-
gument Drop.
b. It hardly seems to be the case that the features on the ‘identifying head’
belong (= are interpreted) there, cf. number on D.
c. Usually features are marked on the ‘identifying head’ whether they are
needed (for identiﬁcation of pro) or not (i.e. when there is an overt con-
stituent instead of pro). This is illustrated in (16) and (26) below.
d. Once we have abandoned the idea of a single invariable pro, identiﬁcation
boils down to features on the ‘identifying head’ making manifest inherent
features on pro. Although this is assumed by a number of researchers, it
nevertheless is a mechanism with a ‘redundancy’ ﬂavour.
Thus, we are better oﬀ claiming that in (26a) the plural marking on D is no
diﬀerent to that on (26b) or (26c): it does not identify anything but, rather,
agrees with the speciﬁcation of Num:
(26) a. These eN
b. These ones
c. These dogs
On top of that, dog, one and eN are all N0 constituents listed in the lexicon. Let
us now turn to the details of this proposal.
. Grammatical nouns and Unique Syntactic Behavior
The number and type of features that can appear on empty nouns, by deﬁni-
tion, excludes descriptive features: the features that encode the concepts
ordinary nouns denote. So, empty nouns cannot carry features that denote
concepts like CAT, FAX or SKY. This certainly restricts the number of features
that empty nouns can encode to the following:
a. Phonological features.
b. Semantic features that canonically appear as derivational morphology,
like gender or honoriﬁc features (recall the discussion of Japanese ‘N-
pronouns’ in the previous chapters).
The intuition here would be that empty nouns, in the face of their lack of de-
notation, are learned and distinguished from each other by virtue of their
phonological or semantic features. In other words, we would be surprised to
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

ﬁnd a language which contains two empty nouns speciﬁed for, say, feminine
gender and [+honoriﬁc] while both having a phonological representation
such as /vuz/ or zero. This intuition is captured, elaborated and formalised by
Emonds’ (1985:165) Unique Syntactic Behavior without any additional stipu-
lations. At the same time, Unique Syntactic Behavior makes a very interesting
prediction regarding the number of possible empty nouns.
.. Unique Syntactic Behavior
Emonds (1985) starts oﬀ with the generalisation that “the only possible open
categories are the major lexical categories.” This leaves functional categories
as closed classes, but not exclusively. In fact, as he makes explicit, there are in-
deed members of lexical categories that actually form closed classes. These
closed classes, subsets of the members of lexical categories, are governed by
the following deﬁnition and principle (Emonds 1985:165):
Deﬁnition: A feature with semantic content not used in any syntactic rule is
called a (purely) semantic feature.34
Unique Syntactic Behavior: Lexical items in the closed categories cannot be
diﬀerentiated from each other solely by purely semantic features.
Emonds discusses the nature of syntactic features and asserts that a ‘syntactic
rule’ is any operation that applies in what we today call ‘narrow syntax’ (i.e.
the Numeration to LF component). Before proceeding, we must point out
that the notion ‘semantic’ feature in the deﬁnition above is essentially that of
a non-descriptive feature with some LF interpretation. Limiting our discus-
sion here to nouns, Unique Syntactic Behavior does not apply to descriptive
nouns. This is so because, ﬁrst of all, it would make the wrong predictions:
the nouns pen (‘writing instrument’) and pen (‘fenced area’) have identical
phonological and ‘syntactic’ features and diﬀer only with respect to their se-
mantic feature, albeit one encoding a concept, a descriptive one. In other
words, all other things being equal, a contrast in terms of descriptive semantic
features can sanction the existence of a minimal pair of lexical entries, by vir-
tue of the diﬀerent concepts denoted. This is not the case with other semantic
features like gender or ‘agent’ (expressed by the -er suﬃx in English) and so
on. There is indeed a clear intuition about the diﬀerence between semantic
features that encode concepts, like CAT and FAX, and semantic features that
do not, like gender and [honoriﬁc]. This diﬀerence is possibly a not merely
quantitative one, but I have no more to say on this issue. What is important
here is that descriptive (concept-denoting) features can ‘make’ a distinct lexi-
On the nature of empty nouns 
cal entry, where ‘purely semantic’ ones cannot. Given that concepts are, possi-
bly, inﬁnite in number, concept-denoting lexical entries form open classes as
well. On the other hand, non-descriptive lexical entries must form closed
classes.
Emonds (1985:165–168) explains the fact that both functional and closed
lexical categories are closed classes: both lack concept-denoting semantic fea-
tures. Both functional and closed substantive categories, lacking descriptive
features can, apparently, have their lexical entries distinguished only on the
basis of formal features. In the case of nouns, next to the open class of de-
scriptive nouns, there is a closed class of grammatical nouns the members of
which can be diﬀerentiated from each other only by virtue of their ‘formal’
features. As should be obvious by now, the following holds:
(27) Empty nouns are grammatical nouns
To recapitulate, Unique Syntactic Behavior predicts the following:
a. Members of closed lexical categories (‘grammatical’ nouns, verbs and so
on) can be of a limited number only.
b. The above is a consequence of their lack of (descriptive) semantic fea-
tures.
As here we do not support the idea that functional categories are non-
projecting (Emonds, ibid.; Fukui & Speas 1986), we will have to establish the
diﬀerence between ‘grammatical’ lexical categories (to which, clearly, empty
nouns belong) and functional categories along the lines of their categorial
features. So, for instance, ‘grammatical’ nouns like one, according to standard
views,35 will behave like all other nouns in terms of their syntactic behaviour:
they will inﬂect for number, can be modiﬁed by APs and so on. More on this
in Chapter 5.
.. Elementary lexical entries
Let us now look into our ﬁndings of Chapters 1 and 2 in some detail, in the
light of (27). Empty nouns are grammatical nouns and do not denote con-
cepts. Moreover, grammatical nouns can be diﬀerentiated from each other
only by virtue of diﬀerent formal features, not purely semantic ones. What
does this exactly mean, though? What are the implications for the learnability
and distribution of empty nouns?
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

... Formal features. The concept of a ‘formal’ or ‘syntactic’ feature can-
not resist much scrutiny in a model of grammar where only interface condi-
tions hold. So, a feature must be either LF interpretable (‘semantic’) or PF in-
terpretable (‘phonological’). Of course, there seem to exist uninterpretable
versions of features, at least of semantic ones.
Now, suppose we are correct in our assumption that agreement is one of
the eﬀects of feature checking. We can now see Emonds’s ‘Deﬁnition’ and
‘Unique Syntactic Behavior’ at work. Take two hypothetical lexical entries of
the eN variety in English. One is eN speciﬁed for feminine gender and the
other is eN speciﬁed for an ‘agent’ feature, the null variant of the noun doer.
The ‘feminine’ eN exists, it takes part in at least one syntactic operation:
checking the uninterpretable feminine gender feature on the D she. On the
contrary, the eN speciﬁed for an ‘agent’ feature does not exist, there is no syn-
tactic operation it takes place in: the feature ‘agent’ does not appear anywhere
as an uninterpretable one inside the DP. As discussed in the previous chapter,
there is nothing inherently ‘formal’ in features such as gender: it is a ‘purely’
semantic feature on actress in DPs like the Italian actress but a syntactically ac-
tive one on eN in DPs like she eN as it checks an uninterpretable gender feature
on D she. The fact that in Romance and other languages gender is more
‘grammatically active’ has nothing to do with the interpretable gender feature
on N as such but, rather, with the distribution of uninterpretable gender fea-
tures inside the DP: on Ds, APs etc.
... An alternative to identiﬁcation of null nouns. Unique Syntactic Be-
havior, as reinterpreted above, is no more than an accurate description of
what factors condition the learnability of null nouns, namely agreement on
D, Num and APs inside the DP. An eN speciﬁed for an ‘agent’ feature does not
exist because it would be diﬀerentiated by an eN without one solely by virtue
of this ‘agent’ feature. Now, it is reasonable to assume the existence of such a
feature, compare (a) print to (a) printer, (a) ride to (a) rider and so on, in
principle an eN speciﬁed for this feature should be possible.
Because human languages are not abstract formal entities but must be
learnable, the learner needs some indication of the feature makeup of silent
grammatical nouns (and other silent lexical entries). An eN speciﬁed for an
‘agent’ feature is not learnable, as there are no clues inside the DP for the
presence of such features on eN. Such clues could only be uninterpretable
‘agent’ features on, say, D that would trigger a checking operation either
overtly or covertly (manifested as agreement). It is only in this sense that null
On the nature of empty nouns 
nouns are ‘identiﬁed’ by the overt linguistic context: once, in order to have
their feature makeup learnt.
Consider Indeﬁnite Argument Drop once more. The phonologically null
D does not need to ‘identify’ the eN in its complement, an eN merges with
Num and then with D like any other N head. On the other hand, this eN exists
in the mental grammar of speakers of Modern Greek because it was learnt
and it was learnt because in some environment its gender speciﬁcation was
made visible by an agreeing D and/or adjective.
.. Summing it up
In the absence of descriptive features, lexical items (whether functional or
substantive) can only be distinguished on the basis of the ﬁnite and restricted
set of (non-descriptive) semantic features that they carry. These features are
language-speciﬁc, drawn from a small pool that UG makes available. So, to
better illustrate the point, if there were only two features (besides the cate-
gorial one [N]), say α and β, available in a particular language for the nominal
domain, there would be just four possible grammatical nouns:36
(28)
+α -α
+β [N][α][β] [N][β]
-β [N][α] [N]
A lexical item like the one in the bottom right corner of the table would be
deﬁned solely on the basis of its categorial feature.37 So, an elementary head
can in principle consist of a categorial feature only – let’s assume this to be
true for both lexical and functional categories for the time being.
Having said that, we should not fail to add that if a feature, say [β], has no
uninterpretable counterparts inside the DP that could trigger syntactic opera-
tions like agreement, it cannot be learnt as a feature on null empty nouns. If
this is true, then the [±β] distinction in (28) is eventually neutralised and
only the following null grammatical nouns are possible in this language: [N]
and [N] [α].
. The theory at work
The theory developed above considers empty nouns to be grammatical
nouns. Grammatical nouns are combinations of features and are listed in the
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

lexicon but do not denote concepts. The grammatical nouns available in a
given grammar are the learnable subset of the possible feature combinations
of ‘nominal’ features – as captured by Unique Syntactic Behavior.
Let us now see what kind of predictions this theory makes. In order to do
so, we will review all the instances of pronominals and noun ellipsis dealt
with in the previous two chapters.
.. English
English is a very interesting language as far as empty nouns are concerned: it
displays a limited number of ‘nominal’ features and even fewer instances of
agreement with such features. So, the following instances of eN seem to exist
in English:
a. An eN speciﬁed for [N] and masculine gender, its occurrence restricted to
the complement of the agreeing D he. A [human] feature is not necessary;
recall that, ceteris paribus, gender on eN entails animacy.
b. An eN speciﬁed for [N] and feminine gender, its occurrence also restricted
to the complement of the D she.
c. An eN speciﬁed for just the categorial feature [N]. This dramatically
underspeciﬁed eN occurs in all instances of noun ellipsis in English. Its
impoverishment could also be a deﬁning factor in the interpretation of
elliptical material within a DP (see Section 2.2 in the previous chapter). It
also appears in the complements of the remaining personal pronouns38 as
well as with possessive forms like mine, yours etc.
d. At least one overt empty noun, one, speciﬁed for [N] as well as some fea-
ture that is matched only by a ‘countable’ Num. Alternatively, we can say
that the impossibility of one as a complement of a mass (under)speci-
ﬁcation of Num is the result of some ‘lexical economy’ requirement, simi-
lar to the one that bans #we ones in most dialects of English. This second
option avoids the suspect underlying assumption that lexical heads can
have features that need checking but would entail that grammatical
nouns can be diﬀerentiated on the basis of phonological features (see Sec-
tion 4.2.3 for discussion).
The four lexical entries above are suﬃcient to account for the range of occur-
rences of empty nouns in English.39 Of course, given the discussion in Section
1.2 of Chapter 2, not all combinations of empty nouns with diﬀerently
speciﬁed Num heads and Ds are possible – the scant DP-internal morphology
of English triggering the complications that have already been dealt with. To
On the nature of empty nouns 
this end, recall that a DP like [DP the [NumP [AP] Numsing [N eN]]] can be gen-
erated by syntax – and sometimes is – but given its highly ambiguous mor-
phological form, a variant [DP the [NumP [AP] Numsing [N one]]] is preferred.40
Note that the minimally speciﬁed41 eN in a structure [DP the [NumP [AP] Num
[N eN]]] does not need to be specially licensed or ‘identiﬁed’ – it is merged
there like any other noun that is listed in the lexicon.
.. Languages with richer DP morphology
In order to see how empty nouns can operate let us now have a look at lan-
guages in which ‘morphological ambiguity’ is not so great a problem.
First of all, in most Romance, Slavic and Germanic languages as well as
Balkan languages (like Modern Greek, Albanian, Macedonian and Bulgarian),
gender agreement usually appears on the D and/or the adjective. This pro-
vides evidence to the learner for a repertory of grammatical nouns containing
at least the following entries:
a. An eN speciﬁed just for the categorial [N] feature (and the default gender).
b. Entries of eN speciﬁed for the other gender(s).
Observe that the state of aﬀairs is very similar to that in English, as European
languages do not mark agreement for any other semantic features of the N in-
side the DP or on the verb; according to Unique Syntactic Behavior, gram-
matical nouns speciﬁed for any other of these features are unlearnable. Overt
grammatical nouns like one are only found in dialects of Mainland Scandina-
vian, Frisian and Afrikaans that lack gender agreement inside DP and, thus,
suﬀer from the ‘morphological ambiguity’ of English (Kester 1996:266–268).
In all other cases, diﬀerent lexical entries for eN ‘serve’ in both pronominals
and noun ellipsis. Languages like Brazilian Portuguese, Quiteño Spanish,
Modern Greek and Bulgarian (see also Section 3.2 in the previous chapter),
which possess null indeﬁnite determiners, have also the option of what was
here tagged Indeﬁnite Argument Drop, after Giannakidou & Merchant
(1996).42
.. Overt empty nouns and Unique Syntactic Behavior
We have seen that a null empty noun (a silent combination of non-descrip-
tive features of category [N]) is not learnable unless its feature content can be
identiﬁed via agreement somewhere in the input the language learner re-
ceives. What is the situation like when it comes to phonologically expressed
combinations of non-descriptive features of category [N], overt empty nouns?
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

Emonds (1985) includes nouns like thing, person and so on in the class of
grammatical nouns, not just one that we discussed here. Given this (possibly
correct) assumption, consider ‘N-pronouns’ of languages like Japanese and
Thai – they are roughly similar to English nouns like thing, person and so on,
albeit speciﬁed for other features, like honoriﬁc, politeness, deference and so
on as well. A look at the table of 1st person Thai pronouns in Chapter 1 could
possibly be enlightening towards this, even though it appears that not all the
features distinguished there are grammatically encoded on the lexical items
themselves.
Now, in languages like Japanese, politeness, honoriﬁc and gender features
sometimes trigger agreement on the verb (Nolan 2000);43 in terms of the
wording of the Deﬁnition preceding Unique Syntactic Behavior they appear
to be “feature[s] with semantic content […] used in […] syntactic rule[s].”
On the other hand, this is not the case for Thai – there is no agreement inside
the nominal phrase, or elsewhere, for any of the features its N-pronouns en-
code (P. Viriyasirikul, p.c.). Thus, we would be led to deduce that Unique Syn-
tactic Behavior does not hold for overt empty nouns. This is not entirely ac-
curate. If Unique Syntactic Behavior is a condition on learnability, semantic
features not agreed with are legitimate when marked on overt empty nouns,
as they are visible in a direct way.
To elaborate: what seems to be crucial about the learnability of a lexical
item (thus: its inclusion in the mental lexicon) is the possibility for the learner
to retrieve its feature combination from the input. Overt empty nouns possess
phonological content, so they are apparently learnt like all other nouns in the
language:44 their feature content is in a sense marked on their phonological
content. When it comes to null empty nouns, learning them becomes a more
complex matter. The learner has to retrieve their feature makeup by agreeing
functional heads inside (or also, perhaps, outside) the DP. This is the only
‘identiﬁcation’ eN needs. On top of that, Unique Syntactic Behavior accurately
predicts that a language like Dutch, which marks only gender on the D (= has
uninterpretable gender features on D), cannot possess an empty noun marked
as [+distant] in the lexicon or, a fortiori, diﬀerentiate between two empty
nouns one marked as [N][+distant] and the other as just [N].
. Conclusion
Empty nouns, whether overt or null, are noun heads (N0). Their lack of ar-
guments and consequent surface appearance as NPs is the result of their not
On the nature of empty nouns 
denoting a predicate and the resulting inability to sanction arguments (either
by θ assignment or otherwise – cf. Grimshaw 1990).
A uniﬁed treatment of both overt and null empty nouns as grammatical
nouns, in the sense of Emonds (1985), was oﬀered. There are no (special) li-
censing and identiﬁcation conditions for null empty nouns (eN): not only are
such conditions technically unattainable, but they also fail to capture the em-
pirical facts (with Indeﬁnite Argument Drop being the most evident case)
and are theoretically undesirable. All empty/grammatical nouns are listed in
the lexicon and can be freely merged as the ‘semantic’ heads of DPs (Abney
1987; more on this in Chapter 5). The resulting DPs, that come under the de-
scriptive labels of “noun ellipsis,” “pronouns,” “pronominal clitics” or “null
indeﬁnite arguments” all receive a semantic variable interpretation at LF re-
stricted by the various features inside the DP. Some instances of DPs with eN
can be blocked in particular languages because of independent constraints,
one of which, morphological ambiguity, we looked into here.
Although overt empty nouns are learned like all the other words of a lan-
guage, lexical entries for eN must be learned obliquely; because they have no
phonological content, their feature makeup can be only learned via agreeing
functional heads (inside the DP or elsewhere).
Notes
. The discussion in Section 2 closely follows and expands Panagiotidis (2000).
. Let us gloss over the implausibility of intermediate (X′) level entries in the lexicon and
assume X′ and XP equivalent (as in Speas 1991).
. ‘Similar’ instead of ‘identical’ because of the bizarre behaviour of few constructions like
those eN of Chemistry, which are acceptable and which I have no explanation whatsoever for.
. The categorial label for functional prepositions is a matter of debate. Emonds (1985:
Ch.6) has discussed the relationship between Complementisers (C heads) and (functional)
prepositions. Starke (1995) and Kayne (1998) explicitly assume them to be C heads. On
the other hand, the fact that case is marked on functional prepositions has led some re-
searchers to label them K(ase), related to Determiners (cf. Giusti 1995).
. The fact that the thematic/non-thematic dichotomy cuts through the instances of of is
only prima facie surprising. See also Oga (2000) for more arguments supporting the exis-
tence of two types of of, related to (in)alienable possession. Tremblay (1996) shows exactly
the same to be the case with with.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

. We leave Possessor aside in our discussion. If this θ role is parallel to that of (verbal)
Agent (cf. Grimshaw 1990), then it is either assigned by a light n (assuming a Larsonian
shell) or Kayne’s (1994) Poss functional head, cf. Kratzer (1996). In the ﬁrst case, we can
relate the ability of all (?) Ns to license a possessor to their categorial status, as in Tremblay
(1996).
. Whether one or both of these arguments of N moves out of the NP later in the deriva-
tion is not a matter of concern. In any case, argument chains of N, trivial or not, have
their foot inside NP, on a par with argument chains of θ assigners like Vs, as standard
analyses go.
. Perhaps this could be another implicit piece of evidence in support of the notion of a
‘maladaptive’ grammar? (Reuland 1998; Lightfoot 1999, who uses the term).
. The limited acceptability of
idha ipokinites praxikopimaton ke ghnorisa _ epanastaseon
I.saw instigators coups. and I.met revolutions.
must be attributed to this example being an instance of gapping – which does not seem to
involve empty constituents but some form of PF elision (see references in Section 2 of the
previous chapter).
. The ban on expressions like John’s one in some dialects of English probably has to do
with some sort of “lexical economy”: as the alternative elliptical John’s is also available. In
any case, the deviance, in the dialects where it constitutes one, is milder than that of, say,
(1) and only (1) and the like seem to violate a syntactic principle.
. The implicit background assumption was that all empty categories were nominals of a
phrasal level. This would distinguish them from both radically empty nodes in a tree and
things like empty Complementisers as in I know that/Ø I will have to go. See also Section
3.1.2.2.
. I will hardly discuss features of PRO here. See Saﬁr (1996), Quicoli (1996) and
Manzini & Roussou (2000) for discussion.
. ‘Interpretation’ condition originally: Rizzi (1986:521).
. A point of view that (tacitly) assumes universality of φ-features (cf. Chomsky 1998) is
against this premise.
. If PRO does exist, that is: Borer (1994), Manzini & Roussou (2000).
. See also Section 3.2.1.
. Not our F in Section 2 of the previous chapter, just lack of imagination on my behalf.
. Or within the Chomsky (1998) framework where this operation is asymmetric and
Case features of nominals are unspeciﬁed, ‘waiting’ to take up the speciﬁcation from the
relevant head: Nominative from T, Accusative from v and so on… Rizzi (1997:282) argues
that “head government continues to be needed […] for many cases in which a head enters
On the nature of empty nouns 
into some kind of ‘action at a distance’ with the speciﬁer of its complement (for case as-
signment/checking or the licensing of ec’s).”
. We do not want Case to be transmitted to the pro in the object position via the chain:
if there is a full DP in object position (a double) it would not need Case from elsewhere
and Kayne’s generalisation (but see endnote 7 in Chapter 4) would be lost, at least for the
languages that it seemingly holds (e.g. Spanish and Romanian).
. Things become even more complicated in a long-distance licensing mechanism for pro
by a clitic base-generated in the verbal domain (see also endnote19). This is why Sportiche
(1996) is forced to postulate movement of pro; Koopman (2000) likewise.
. With consequences for subject pro, in Chapter 4.
. D governs pro/eN by a version of Baker’s (1988) Government Transparency Corollary
(Lobeck 1995:85–93). Chomsky (1993:18) oﬀers a reinterpretation of Government Trans-
parency Corollary as head raising, see also Chapter 5.
. At least according to Lobeck (1991): she only considers elements marked for plural to
be [+Num], cf. her Ellipsis Licensing principle in Section 3.1.2.3.
. It could be claimed that the extra feature that drives clitic movement could be the
‘identifying’ feature but it is not morphologically marked anyway.
. This is not necessarily the case in languages like Dutch (Kester 1996:Ch. 5), where, ar-
guably, a [mass]/[partitive] feature is morphologically marked on the adjective’s schwa
aﬃx in an elliptical DP.
. Chapter 2, Section 4.1.
. This is challenged by Cinque (1988) who distinguishes two types of arbitrary pro. See
also Shlonsky (1997:134–137) for some discussion.
. Person is irrelevant: DPs marked for [ASE] [PSE], these having ‘indexical’ properties,
cannot be indeﬁnite; see Chapter 1, Section 3.1.
. The consequences of such an analysis would be complex and far-reaching. To mention
but one, we would have to account for the impossibility of a deﬁnite D in nominative to
take a null complement as well as the extremely limited productivity of the [D Num eN
PP] (e.g. los del rio) construction.
. Kester does not posit a Num head and so number and mass features are situated on
N/nominal pro according to her.
. To be ﬂeshed out, elaborated and generalised in the next section.
. Apparently it and het (the neuter variants) are not speciﬁed for gender, [neuter] is
probably not a feature speciﬁcation in these languages. Towards this, recall that both it and
het have expletive uses.
. What we previously dubbed ‘derivational morphology’ features.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

. Chomsky (1995:230–231) for a reconﬁrmation of this distinction. This deﬁnition shall
be clariﬁed in what follows.
. Postal (1969), Emonds (1985), Radford (1993), Kayne (1994).
. The tacit assumption below is again that of a privative/unary feature system: [–X]
means no X.
. A famous case of such an item, in the domain of determiners, could be expletive there.
Chomsky (1995:287) says that “the expletive has neither Case nor φ-features. FF(there)
contains only D […] the expletive has no formal features apart from its category.”
. The cases of I and you (.) are tricky. These two pronouns never take overt com-
plements and, thus, obligatoriness of selection is not a valid argument towards positing a
complement for them. Moreover, the Num shell also seems redundant, as both these pro-
nouns can be fully speciﬁed at LF by their [ASE] and [PSE] features. We will return to
them in Chapter 5.
. A puzzling question here would be why Indeﬁnite Argument Drop is impossible in
English (why the DPs ‘ØD+NumPLU+eN’ and ‘ØD+NumMASS+eN’ are impossible). There ex-
ists some non-trivial degree of idiosyncrasy with respect to where concept-denoting nouns
are necessary (as opposed to grammatical ones): los eN del rio (‘the ones from the river’) is
grammatical in Spanish, its equivalents in Modern Greek are not. Given the discussion in
Section 2, they should in principle be possible, as PPs are not arguments of the noun. Ap-
parently, some similar (morphological?) constraint bans phonologically null objects in
English. More research into these morphological constraints (as well as those of the
“the+eN → it” kind) would shed more light into the intricacies of where exactly null
grammatical nouns are possible. See also endnote 42 for a similar situation in Spanish and
Portuguese.
. This is highly unlikely to be an instance of ‘global economy’: we would not want mor-
phological ambiguity to be a criterion by which the computational system compares deriva-
tions.
. Apparently an eN speciﬁed for gender will not be inserted there under some version of
the Elsewhere condition.
. I have no answer why European Portuguese (Raposo 1986) and Castilian Spanish (Cam-
pos 1986) do not permit the combination of a null indeﬁnite D and eN, but seek recourse
to operator-variable conﬁgurations for null arguments (see also Section 4.1.3 in the previ-
ous chapter). See also endnote 39 for a similar problem in English.
. I am grateful to Stephen Nolan for discussing his work in progress with me.
. For an excellent review: Bloom (2000). See also Oshima-Takane (1988, 1999) on how
pronouns are learnt.
C 4
Pro and empty pronouns
. The situation so far 
. Why pro is not composed out of (at least) a null noun 
. EPP and head movement 
. On verbal D (DV) and verbal Num 
. Summary 
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

. The situation so far
In the previous three chapters it has been shown that elementary lexical en-
tries can consist of as little as a categorial feature. Some null nouns are such
elementary lexical entries on the lexical category side, expletives like there
(bearing a D feature only) probably exemplify elementary lexical entries on
the functional category side.
Moreover, we have shown that empty nouns can head trivial NPs com-
plementing ‘pronominal’ Ds cross-linguistically (strong pronouns and pro-
nominal clitics alike) and are even used as pronouns “on their own.” The lack
of descriptive content of these nouns has been argued here to trigger what is
understood as ‘pronominality’. On top of that, we have demonstrated that one
and other ‘phrasal’ nominals reduce to NPs headed by an empty noun, either
phonologically null (like eN in pronominals and instances of noun ellipsis) or
overt (one itself). Again, the fact that empty nouns denote no concept is their
deﬁning property.
In the previous chapter we have explicitly argued against elaborate li-
censing and identiﬁcation mechanisms in grammar. We have shown a li-
censed and identiﬁed empty noun qua an empty category to be undesirable
on conceptual, theory-internal and empirical grounds. From that discussion
it should have been made obvious that the arguments against an ‘NP-pro’ in
the previous chapter mutatis mutandis carry over to ‘DP-pro’, the empty
pronoun itself; hence, the next candidate for elimination is pro that serves as
subject or object. Note that this is not an easy matter, for a series of reasons
that will become clear later, and that the incompatibility of pro with mini-
malist assumptions and methods already underlies ‘anti-pro’ studies such as
Manzini & Savoia (1997, 2001) and Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou (1998).
One might be tempted to pursue an idea already in Radford (1993),
Corver & Delﬁtto (1999) and – to a certain extent – Koopman (2000) and
claim that pro is a null DP with a structure similar to that of null indeﬁnite
arguments: a null noun complementing a null D. There is a number of rea-
sons why this cannot be possible for most languages, to be discussed in Sec-
tion 2. In Section 3 we will review, comment and expand on Alexiadou &
Anagnostopoulou (1998), who oﬀer an alternative account of pro as a D head.
In Section 4 we oﬀer an account of null subjects that capitalises on the exis-
tence of verbal Ds (as in Ritter 1995), while building on concepts and success-
ful analyses in Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou (1998).
Pro and empty pronouns 
Brieﬂy, this chapter will serve two purposes: ﬁrst, it will establish the fact
that licensed and identiﬁed null pronominals such as pro have no position in
a parsimonious theory of grammar; second, it will explore the limits of the
distribution of empty nouns and their triggering pronominal reference, as it
is to be argued that agreement markers do not involve an empty noun.
Throughout this chapter, our attention will be focused on pro in subject
position. This is partly for methodological and descriptive, and partly for
theoretical reasons. As far as the descriptive reasons are concerned, subject
pro has been massively discussed and analysed since the postulation of this
empty category (Chomsky 1982), in a far more thorough and detailed as well
as intriguing manner than object pro (Y. Huang 1995:1102–1112 for a review
of null objects). As for the theoretical reason, it seems to be the case that null
subjects are more widespread than empty objects, and this seems to be for a
real reason: null objects do not seem to involve a pro or whatever pro stands
for: we have already examined in detail null indeﬁnite objects and variables in
object position. As will have become clearer by the end of this chapter we will
assume without discussion that null objects never involve a pro.
. Why pro is not composed out of (at least) a null noun
As is known (e.g. Rizzi 1997) subject pro is always deﬁnite.1 As we have seen
in Chapter 1, this would be expected anyway as far as 1st and 2nd person pro
is concerned; if pro is somehow speciﬁed for person, that is [ASE] and [PSE]
features, deﬁniteness is entailed. Now, as far as its grammatical representation
is concerned, even non-person pro is definite; of course such a thing as an
‘arbitrary 2nd person’ schema exists in both null subject (1b) and non-null
subject (1a) languages. This can be safely assumed to result from a pragmatic,
or at least post-grammatical, mechanism:
(1) a. You never know…
b. Pote dhen pro xeris… Modern Greek
never not know.2nd
‘You never know…’
Let us now consider non-person pro. pro behaves like overt personal pro-
nouns in that it is deﬁnite, this being one of the diﬀerences between pro and
PRO in its arbitrary interpretation.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

(2) pro fuma Italian
smokes
‘He/she/it smokes’
The example above means “he/she/it smokes”, as glossed, but not “someone
smokes” or “people smoke” etc.; pro in (2) cannot take an indeﬁnite or arbi-
trary interpretation. Italian is a very interesting language because the clitic si
must be used instead of ‘arbitrary’ pro in subject positions (Manzini 1986;
Rizzi 1986); null subject languages like Greek and Spanish must either use an
overt indeﬁnite expression or employ a strategy similar to the one illustrated
in (1) and use a non-person plural pro.
The deﬁnite character of pro in languages with overt deﬁnite D heads, like
Italian above, already constitutes evidence against pro as a phonologically null
DP consisting of a null determiner and a null noun. In Italian, more or less as
is the case in English, a null D only heads those DPs with an existential or ge-
neric reading (pace Delﬁtto & Schroten 1991 and Longobardi 1994). It does
not take much theorising to establish that postulating a null D to head a
deﬁnite pronominal such as subject pro, is at least problematic, while deﬁnite
pronominals with an overt D at object positions do exist in these languages:
pronominal clitics.
More evidence for the implausibility of pro as a DP headed by a null D
comes from Modern Greek. In MG, DPs with an existential or generic reading
are also headed by the ‘deﬁnite’ article2 and there are no instances of speciﬁc
or deﬁnite DPs headed by null Ds: even proper names take obligatory articles
when used as arguments. It goes without saying that MG has also Ds cliticised
on Inﬂ when an object DP contains a null noun: pronominal clitics. A null
pronominal with a null D and eN would stand as an indeﬁnite argument,
which is exactly what happens.
For the same reasons, an idea that argument pro in languages like Italian
or Greek is a bare trivial NP (or NumP) without the DP shell is also unten-
able. First of all, if only DPs can be arguments (Stowell 1991; Longobardi
1994), this option is automatically out: pro can be an argument. On top of
that, a bare NP/NumP would receive either a predicative or an ‘indeﬁnite’ in-
terpretation, but pro is always deﬁnite. An extra complicating factor would be
that overt generics in subject position force the presence of a D in Italian and
MG (Longobardi 1994 and endnote 2 on the identity of this D).
Thus, a structure [DP Ddef [NumP Num [NP eN]]], where D is deﬁnite is an
impossible structure for pro in null subject languages like Italian and MG: in
Pro and empty pronouns 
these languages null articles are indeﬁnite; moreover, they also possess overt
deﬁnite determiners that can combine with eN in the context of ‘pronominal
clitics’; ﬁnally, they are generally resistant to subject DPs without an overt de-
terminer. Having said that, nothing should prevent us in principle from pos-
tulating [DP Ddef [NumP Num [NP eN]]] as the null pronominal subject of lan-
guages like Japanese. Recall that Japanese, in the best of cases, will only
possess null articles (if at all, cf. Fukui 1987) and demonstratives (Noguchi
1997:786) as D heads. We will brieﬂy return to languages like Japanese in Sec-
tions 3.1 and 4.4.5.
. EPP and head movement
As we have seen in the previous chapter discussing eN as an instance of pro,
the licensing/identiﬁcation approach for (pronominal) empty categories is
problematic in a minimalist system. Even if we restrict our attention to sub-
ject pro, recall that, by hypothesis, a range of identiﬁers for it are made avail-
able by UG: rich inﬂection, control, discourse antecedents – the last group be-
ing clearly pragmatic (Huang 1991; Rizzi 1997:282). These and other con-
cerns, lengthily discussed in the previous chapter (especially Section 3.1.2),
have led to the emergence of (at least) two alternatives to pro. The ﬁrst is
based on a theory of aspectual features as in Borer (1994), Arad (1996, 1998),
Manzini & Savoia (2001) and correlates the presence or absence of an overt
subject to the strength of a relevant aspectual ‘subject’ head. The second one,
a modiﬁed version of which we will discuss and to some extent adopt here,
postulates that the EPP feature on T (cf. Chomsky 1995, 1998) is always
strong but that non-null subject languages have to check it in a Spec-Head
conﬁguration by movement of a DP to SpecTP, whereas null subject lan-
guages have the (more economical somehow) alternative of head-moving an
appropriate head to the locus of EPP, say T (Pollock 1997; Alexiadou & Anag-
nostopoulou 1998). Here we will build on the analysis of Alexiadou & Anag-
nostopoulou, a brief sketch of which follows.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

. Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou (1998)
As is known, three kinds of ‘DP pro’ are distinguished (Rizzi 1986:540–543):
a. referential pro, which is a proper argument. It refers to real world entities,
pace its pronominality of course. It must be identiﬁed for both person
and number features.
b. (quasi)argumental pro, that can only receive an ‘atmospheric’ θ role and
is identiﬁed for number only.
c. expletive pro, a null variety of expletives like it and there and English; it
does not receive a θ role, it is identiﬁed for no φ features and the sole
purpose for its presence is satisfying the Extended Projection Principle
(EPP): all clauses must have a subject.
The following table summarises the state of aﬀairs according to Rizzi:
(3)
Type of pro Interpretation Speciﬁed for Italian examples
referential pro referential, argumental person, number pro fuma (= 2)
(quasi) argumental pro argumental
(‘atmospheric’)
number pro piove
(‘it rains’)
expletive pro expletive Ø pro sembra che…
(‘it seems that…’)
The point of departure of Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou’s analysis is the fol-
lowing twist: null subject languages permit – with a varying degree of free-
dom – postverbal subjects to be realised. Consider again Italian.
(4) a. Telefona Rico
phones Rico
b. Rico telefona
Rico phones
‘Rico phones’
A number of studies have assigned to (4a) a structure similar to that of an ex-
pletive-associate3 construction, exempliﬁed by (5a):
(5) a. There arrived a man
b. A man arrived
The equivalent of there in (5a) was assumed to be an expletive pro in exam-
ples with a post-verbal subject like (4a). (4b) would be parallel to (5b), where
Pro and empty pronouns 
the associate moves to SpecAgrP and satisﬁes EPP. Now, Manzini & Savoia
(1997:303) point out that
Since Case, Agreement and thematic properties are all borne by [Rico], it is
diﬃcult to see how expletive pro can be justiﬁed except on strict theory-
internal grounds, notably with respect to the Extended Projection Principle
(EPP) of Chomsky (1981).
Manzini & Savoia, as is clear from the extract above, assume then that null
subject languages either have a weak EPP feature or satisfy it in a fashion
diﬀerent than that of non-null subject languages. Alexiadou & Anagnosto-
poulou (1998:516) essentially agree with this statement and opt for the sec-
ond option: they propose that EPP is universally strong (it must be satisﬁed
before Spell Out) but that in null subject languages it can be satisﬁed by head
movement instead of XP movement of the DP subject, a proposal reminiscent
of Pollock (1997). A key assumption here introduced by Alexiadou & Anag-
nostopoulou is that X0 movement pre-empts both XP movement, as in (5b),
and also the merger of an expletive, as in (5a). As far as the preference of X0
versus XP movement for EPP is concerned, a case for it could be made fairly
uncontroversially for ‘non-conﬁgurational’ languages, given that they only
have clitics and agreement markers, heads, for arguments and never XPs
(Jelinek 1984, 1996). Nevertheless, although there have appeared studies that
discuss cases where certain types of Move pre-empt certain types of Merge
(Aoun, Hornstein & Choueiri 1998; Shima 2000), it is no trivial task to prove
that head movement can pre-empt merger of an expletive. We will neverthe-
less not discuss it any further here.4
Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou’s proposal capitalises on the long-
discussed correlation between richness of verbal agreement and availability of
null subjects (cf. Taraldsen 1978; Rizzi 1986). Here, verbal agreement is
viewed as having “the categorial status of a pronoun in pro-drop languages”
(Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou 1998:517) and is assumed to merge directly
on the lexical verb (ibid.). As far as the feature makeup of verbal agreement is
concerned, Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou mention “[+D, +interpretable φ-
features, potentially, +Case]” (p. 516). As Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou only
discuss the elimination of expletive pro, they argue for this D-aﬃx as an EPP
checker, leaving the subject XP, like Rico in (4), as the recipient of the Agent θ
role. We will present their account and move on to examine the delicate issue
of θ assignment in the next section.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

A split Inﬂ (à la Pollock 1989) is assumed, consisting of AGR(eement)
and T(ense). T is the locus of Tense features but also of an uninterpretable
[V] feature, quite uncontroversially so (cf. Chomsky 1993). Alexiadou &
Anagnostopoulou argue that T is also speciﬁed for an [N] feature “which has
to do with [nominative] Case” (p. 525). Uninterpretable [V] and [N] on T
can be either strong or weak. On the contrary, AGR is taken to be the locus of
a strong uninterpretable [D] feature, the EPP feature in Chomsky (1998);
moreover, this uninterpretable [D] feature is universally strong. Alexiadou &
Anagnostopoulou (p. 519) put it thus: “As argued extensively in Chomsky
(1995), there is no reason for AGR to exist, unless it is strong, given that AGR
is not relevant for the LF interface like all other functional categories.” A
problem here, to which we come back later, is that exactly because ‘AGR is not
relevant for the LF interface’, it is conceptually undesirable whether strong, i.e.
eliminable before Spell Out, or weak, i.e. eliminable after Spell Out – as ar-
gued extensively in Chomsky (1995). Moreover, AGR is undesirable for em-
pirical reasons as well: see Iatridou (1990), Ritter (1995), Petros (1996) – to
name but a few analyses seeking to eliminate AGR from the theory of gram-
mar. For the sake of exposition, it will be assumed that the EPP feature,
whether [D] or something else, is on AGR for the time being.
Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou argue that the D aﬃx that eventually
checks EPP on AGR can be merged either on V or on AGR. The ﬁrst option,
the D aﬃx merged on V, will naturally force V to head-move to AGR (that
bears a strong [D] feature), via T apparently, deriving the fact that all null
subject languages display verb-raising.5 The second option, the D aﬃx
merged on AGR, gives us North Italian dialects like Trentino and Fiorentino,
where the D aﬃx is realised as a subject clitic (Rizzi 1986b; Brandi & Cordin
1989 for discussion).
It is further assumed that if the D head can check Nominative Case on T
on its way to AGR, then the lexical XP subject can stay in SpecvP where it is
merged (cf. Koopman & Sportiche 1991; Kratzer 1996) – this is exactly the
case of Modern Greek. On the other hand, if this D head does not bear a
Nominative Case feature that would check the strong [N] feature on T, then
the XP subject will have to raise to SpecTP, as in Celtic languages and Arabic.
It should be noted that Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou’s account does not
presuppose ‘morphological’ richness of this D head – a fact that can poten-
tially accommodate null subject languages without any verb morphology for
person and number, like Mandarin and Japanese. All that is needed for the
language learner in order to set the EPP parameter to ‘checking by head-
Pro and empty pronouns 
movement’ is three straightforward word order criteria: availability of null
subjects, availability of VSO and – consequently – verb-raising, lack of Deﬁni-
teness Restriction Eﬀects (Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou 1998:523), i.e. the
grammaticality of the equivalent of structures like *there stays the police-
woman in the jail.
What Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou present us with is a stimulating and
coherent way to eliminate expletive pro. But what about referential pro, an
empty pronominal as a recipient of a θ role? Before addressing this complex
issue in Section 3.3, it is necessary to review the relationship between clitics
and agreement markers on one side and XP arguments on the other.
. Clitics, agreement markers and XP arguments
.. If pro is eliminated: null subject languages
as non-conﬁgurational languages
Regarding the example (4a) above, we followed Alexiadou & Anagnostopou-
lou (1998) and replaced expletive pro with verbal agreement -a of verbs like te-
lefona as a checker for the EPP feature on AGR. The θ role of Agent can still
be assumed to be assigned to Rico, the lexical subject.
Suppose now that we wish to extend the head movement analysis to the
cases of referential pro, like in (2), as well. The question would then be what
constituent the θ role is assigned to. Unless we want to radically recast or
scrap θ theory like, say, Borer (1994, 1996) and Manzini & Roussou (2000), in
the latter case in order to be able to do away with PRO, there seems to exist no
easy way out.
Let us then say that verbal agreement -a can be an argument itself and re-
ceive the Agent θ role.6 Why this should be so and how it can be done is fur-
ther discussed in Section 3.3. Now, if verbal agreement can receive θ roles in
null subject languages, this immediately brings them very close to non-
conﬁgurational languages, which arguably satisfy the θ criterion morphologi-
cally and not syntactically (Jelinek 1984) and where all XPs are either modi-
ﬁers or adjuncts (Ouhalla 1994; Jelinek 1996). Nevertheless, we deﬁnitely do
not want to claim that null subject languages are non-conﬁgurational lan-
guages: such a claim would conﬂict with a number of manifestations of con-
ﬁgurationality in these languages. For instance, notions like ‘speciﬁer of’ and
‘complement of’ do matter for XP arguments in null subject languages, a
well-known example being ne cliticisation in Italian, which is only possible
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

out of deep objects (Burzio 1986), that is complements of V (or speciﬁers of
V in a Larsonian shell).
In any case, construing all null subject languages as non-conﬁgurational
would take us really far aﬁeld, partly because the notion “non-conﬁgura-
tional” itself is hardly accurately delineated (Baker 1996 and Alexiadou &
Anagnostopoulou 1999 for discussion) and partly because, to put it infor-
mally, we do not want to assume ‘free-word order’ (another dangerously
murky concept and, at the same time, a straightforward consequence of non-
conﬁgurationality) to the same degree for Italian, Spanish and Greek, all null
subject languages.
Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou (1998) as well as most studies on null
subject languages appeal to some sort of ‘macroparametrical’ variation (in the
sense of Baker 1996), according to the familiar conception of parameters as
‘on/oﬀ switches’ (Chomsky 1986). Thus, to simplify, the claim here is stated in
terms of a grammar having the θ criterion or EPP satisﬁed by either XPs or X0
(‘morphology’); the grammar learner is assumed to make a single, one-oﬀ,
‘on/oﬀ’ choice that will run across the board with far-reaching consequences.
In this case, s/he will have to choose between either an XP-checking option
for EPP across the board or an X0 one. In order to see whether this is accurate
and adequate, we might want to take a closer look at the relationship between
‘non-conﬁgurational’ arguments such as agreement markers and clitics when
they co-occur with XPs.
.. Subject–Object (partial) symmetries
Recall the analysis of pronominal (object) clitics we adopted and explored in
the previous chapters. Pronominal clitics are merged as DPs with the follow-
ing structure: [DP Dclitic [NumP Num [NP eN]]]. In a number of languages,
though, the object clitic can be doubled by a full DP object. This is illustrated
below:
(6) a. Lo visto a Juan River Plate Spanish
 saw.1st A Juan
b. Ton idha ton Yani Modern Greek
 saw-1st the Yanis
‘I saw John’
In (6) the direct object (the ‘double’) and the direct object clitic co-occur.
There is robust evidence that the direct objects in (6) are not adjuncts but
proper objects (Jaeggli 1986; Sportiche 1996). Contrary to common assump-
Pro and empty pronouns 
tions widely known under the label ‘Kayne’s generalisation’, in both instances
of (6), the double ‘shares’ in a sense its Case with the pronominal clitic.7 One
way to capture the fact that clitic and double ‘share’ Case (and θ role) is the
proposal in Uriagereka (1995:81) and Torrego (1998:216–217) that the dou-
ble is merged at the speciﬁer of the pronominal clitic DP and thus in Spec-
Head relationship with the D trace: the pronominal clitic and its double are
merged as a single constituent: [DP [DP double] Dclitic [NumP Num [NP eN]]].
The DP that is made up by the clitic D and the trivial NP eN is the actual re-
cipient of the verb’s θ role, whereas the double seems to be able to be θ li-
censed only because it is dominated by the projection of D and because their
Case and φ features match.
Alternatively, we can establish the relationship between clitic and double
as one similar to that of an expletive to its associate, like in Manzini & Savoia
(1999). According to them, an element is interpreted as an expletive when it
forms a chain/ordered pair with an associate, i.e. as the result of the deriva-
tion it occurs in. In other words the very same item can be interpreted diﬀe-
rently depending on the derivation: a clitic on its own will be the θ and Case
recipient; when doubled by an XP object, it will behave as an ‘expletive’. Nei-
ther of the accounts nuanced here is without problems: an account that estab-
lishes identity between clitic and double by virtue of their matching features
and their being merged inside the same D projection is not empirically un-
complicated; one that treats clitics in clitic doubling environments as exple-
tives does not do full justice to the semantics of clitic doubling, as this is not
straightforwardly reducible to that of expletive-associate Chains (Anag-
nostopoulou 1994 and Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou 1999 for discussion).
Let us now suppose that the coexistence of X0 and XP subject in null sub-
ject languages, as under (4), is a kind of doubling (cf. Torrego 1998). This
would not mean that all instances of such coexistence are identical, or – a for-
tiori – that they are all the mirror image of object clitic doubling. All we
would like to claim about -a and Rico in Rico telefona, and the like, is that it is
possible that the XP Rico shares the θ role of the X0 and that Rico it is not
merely an adjunct (Jelinek 1984) or a ‘modiﬁer’ (Ouhalla 1994). The intricate
relationship(s) between an X0 and an XP subject will be explored in more de-
tail in Sections 3.3 and 3.4. Regarding the nature of these X0 subjects, we are
now going to take a very brief look at the similarities between agreement
markers and clitics.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

.. Agreement markers and clitics
Agreement markers and clitics seem to display interestingly similar but not
identical behaviours. Our focus here being doubling options, consider the fol-
lowing table (adapted from Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou 1999):
(7)
Co-occurrence pattern Subject agreement Object clitics
with DPs or pronouns Spanish River Plate Spanish
with pronouns only Welsh, Moroccan Arabic Peninsular Spanish
No co-occurrence Irish, Koranic Arabic French
Two things are striking about the table above: First, subject agreement markers
(assuming for the moment that subject agreement in all Spanish, Welsh, Mo-
roccan Arabic, Irish and Koranic Arabic is expressed by agreement marker X0
heads, not a straightforward matter) and object clitics display identical co-
occurrence patterns: with everything, only pronouns or nothing. On the other
hand, a language like Peninsular (Castilian) Spanish has object clitics that can
co-occur with (‘be doubled’ by) pronouns only, whereas its subject agreement
markers can co-occur with everything: it is not the case that clitics and agree-
ment markers behave in an identical pattern, but at the same time, there are no
co-occurrence patterns that restrict themselves to subjects or objects.
Here, space and scope restrictions preclude a detailed look at (or even re-
view of) the discussions of the similarities and diﬀerences between pronomi-
nal clitics and agreement markers and whether they are represented distinctly
in mental grammars. However, we can assume as a working hypothesis that
[agreement markers] are base generated on the designated heads, while [cli-
tics] are generated in the lexical domain and are moved to the designated
heads. (Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou 1999:19)
The above is consistent with our treatment of clitics in this and the previous
chapter, namely as determiners that move ‘upwards’ into the Inﬂ domain with
a null NumP complement. As Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou point out else-
where:
[…] strong agreement aﬃxes have separate lexical entries[,] they are inde-
pendent, clitic-like pronominal elements, thus having a categorial feature
[+D]. This means that the verbal root and the aﬃx are both in the numera-
tion, independently from one another. In principle, there are two options for
the [+D] aﬃx. (i) If it is merged with the verbal root at an early stage […]
the verb will project and the complex element in turn will be merged with
Pro and empty pronouns 
some larger structure. (ii) Alternatively, the [+D] aﬃx can be merged directly
on AGR head and when the verb moves to AGR, AGR projects […] Poten-
tially, the diﬀerence between the two options can give us the diﬀerence be-
tween agreement aﬃxes and [subject] clitics (cf. the diﬀerences between
Trentino/Fiorentino and Greek […]).
(Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou 1998:522; emphasis mine)
We can take the above as our point of departure, although a number of open
questions and a series of puzzling issues remain, and pursue our objective: to
show that in all languages (either null or non-null subject ones) the θ role re-
cipient, whether heading a DP or not, is always a [+D] head. This head can ei-
ther ‘stand alone’ (without being an ‘intransitive determiner’ though) or head
a DP subject.
. θ assignment is to D heads
Already in Stowell (1991:209), the following distinction, in the spirit of
Higginbotham (1985), is made explicit:
(8) a. A predicative category may not function as an argument
b. Only a referential category may function as an argument
(9) A lexical predicate may not be the head of an argument
Both (8) and (9) apply at LF and what they exclude is the possibility of a bare
NP functioning as an argument, as its head, N0, is a predicative category, like
all lexical categories. It was in subsequent research that the category D was
explicitly identiﬁed as the ‘referential’ category in (8b). Longobardi (1994)
stands out in this line of research and his interpretation of (8) and (9) is given
below as (10) and (11):
(10) A “nominal expression” is an argument only if it is introduced by a cate-
gory D. (Longobardi 1994:620)
(11) DP can be an argument, NP cannot (ibid. p. 628)
In principle, N and its projection are irrelevant as θ recipients. N is a lexical
category that denotes a concept and it is predicative. Even if it is devoid of de-
scriptive features that, by hypothesis, ‘carry’ its denotation (as is exactly the
case with empty nouns), the DP containing it can still be θ marked, like pro-
nouns are. Whether a phrase has descriptive content or not does not interact
with whether this phrase can carry a θ role; what is important for the purpose
of θ marking is for this phrase to be headed by a determiner: as long as a
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

nominal expression is referential, it can bear a θ role, regardless of the content
(or lack thereof) of its N. This idea is also compatible with Rizzi’s (1986:543)
observations summarised under (3) that only nominal expressions speciﬁed
for person and number are referential whereas those speciﬁed for number
only are argumental (i.e. quasi-referential like meteorological subjects): if
person is located on D and number on Num (see Chapter 1), then referential
arguments are DPs and ‘meteorological’ ones bare NumPs.8 Whatever the de-
tails, in order for a (nominal) expression to receive a θ role, D or a feature on
D is necessary. We can formulate our conclusion as follows:
(12) θ assignment from a predicate is to a D head.
In languages like English, where no aﬃxal Ds, like agreement markers and cli-
tics, exist, (12) makes exactly the same predictions with (10) & (11): all argu-
ments, whether subjects or objects, are headed by a D, they are DPs. Never-
theless, when it comes to null subject languages and, generally, languages that
do possess aﬃxal Ds (clitics and agreement markers), (12) makes testable
predictions: namely, that these languages can have both X0 and XP arguments
(D0 and DP, respectively). We will try to demonstrate this by calling upon evi-
dence from Modern Greek once more.
. Greek arguments
Given our discussion of the nature of clitics and agreement markers we can
proceed to test (12). Recall that we assume the Spell Out representation of cli-
tic objects to be the following:
(13) [DP ([DP double]) Dclitic [NumP Num [NP eN]]]
For the time being and for the sake of exposition, we can follow a version of
Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou’s account and assume the Spell Out represen-
tation of the verb and the agreement marker in a VSO null subject language,
like Modern Greek, to be more or less like that in (14); I here simplify a Lar-
sonian shell to a “simple”VP, hence the subject is at SpecVP:
(14) [[T [V [V verb] [D agr. marker]] T] … [VP DPsubj [V [V verb] [D agr. marker]]]]
So, following the above rough representations and (12), let us see how θ as-
signment works in MG. Consider the following simple examples:
(15)9 a. ta ferame
.. brought.1st
Pro and empty pronouns 
b. ta ferame ta vivlia
.. brought.1st the.. books
c. ferame ta vivlia
brought.1st the.. books
d. (ta) ferame emis ta vivlia
.. brought.1st we the.. books
‘We brought them/the books’
Let us now take the cases one by one and examine θ assignment without pro
can be done. In (15a) the V10 fer- assigns the Agent θ role to the D0 -me, an
agreement marker. In other words, -me acts as the verb’s subject. The Theme
θ role is assigned to the D ta, a clitic, moved somewhere in the Inﬂ domain
from within the V-shell; ta is the direct object. So far, the non-conﬁgurational
story and (12) yield exactly the same results: θ roles are assigned to ‘mor-
phemes’ (X0 heads) in null subject languages.
In (15b), a case of object clitic doubling, things are exactly the same, the
double – at SpecDP according to (13) – is at the same time a ‘modiﬁer’ (as the
non-conﬁgurational story would go) but dominated by the base projection of
the clitic argument D. Essentially, the Theme θ role will be assigned to a D0,
the clitic ta, again.
A case of ‘subject doubling’ is presented under (15d). The D -me, an agre-
ement marker, is the Agent argument whereas the lexical subject in SpecvP
forms a chain with it. This position is arguably not subcategorised in null sub-
ject languages (Ouhalla 1994 and references therein) and I leave a loose end
here. In any case, if object and subject doubling involve θ assignment to a D0,
the non-conﬁgurational analysis can carry through.
Now, (15c) is the really important case. Although the Agent role is again
assigned to the agreement marker, the Theme here is assigned ‘conﬁgura-
tionally’ to the DP ta vivlia.11 This DP, occupying the ‘canonical’ direct object
position in ‘conﬁgurational’ languages and being headed by a D is a legitimate
recipient for the relevant θ role, Theme here, according to (12). No clitic or
object agreement marker appears in the numeration of (15c), the very same V
has assigned its Theme role to a D heading a nominal phrase and its Agent
one to an aﬃxal one. Moreover, the same V has assigned its Theme role to a
clitic in (15a) and (15b) and to a DP in (15c). At least as far as the assignment
of Theme roles in Modern Greek is concerned, ‘macroparametric’ statements
are irrelevant: either a D0 clitic (available in the lexicon) or a whole DP can be
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

objects. In the next section we will review Yagua, a language where a verb can
assign a ‘subject’ θ role to either an “agreement marker” or a full DP.
Whereas traditional θ role assignment to phrases (DPs) relies heavily on
the existence of pro as potential null phrasal arguments, an account that dis-
penses with pro but upholds ‘on/oﬀ’ parameters falls short of explaining why
Modern Greek can assign a Theme role to either a D or a DP or similar phe-
nomena in a lot of languages.12 On the other hand, armed only with the as-
sumption that θ assignment is to D heads, whether they are base generated
aﬃxes or clitics or heads of full DPs, captures the whole range of phenomena.
Nevertheless, for the theory developed in the previous chapters, a real
problem lies ahead.
. On verbal D (DV) and verbal Num
We saw that Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou’s account of null subject lan-
guages satisfying EPP by head movement can put us on the right track to-
wards eliminating pro as a null subject. When this account is combined with
the idea that D heads – being ‘referential’ – are the recipients of θ roles as well
as a generalised notion of doubling of pronominals (see Section 3.2.3), it can
make the correct predictions for a number of typologically unrelated lan-
guages. Nevertheless, there remain two serious problems: the ﬁrst is the con-
ceptual undesirability of an AGR head as well as the empirical evidence
against its existence. The second one is the following: in this account, agree-
ment markers are themselves the checkers of uninterpretable φ features on
Agr; there is no pro in SpecAgrP in a head-movement model. Now, if agree-
ment markers are D heads, the fact that they can host – cross-linguistically –
interpretable φ features is in direct conﬂict with the ﬁndings in Chapter 1. We
saw there that determiners do not host interpretable φ features other than
person ([ASE] and [PSE]); interpretable number features are encoded on
Num and gender features on N. Hence, a D ‘super-head’ that would encode
number (and gender) and that surfaces as a verbal aﬃx in null subject lan-
guages and a subject clitic in North Italian dialects would consist a strong
counter-argument to the whole analysis presented there.
Fortunately, both issues seem amenable to a uniﬁed account if we seek re-
course to Ritter’s (1995) analysis of Hebrew verbal agreement.
Pro and empty pronouns 
. Hebrew in Ritter (1995)
Ritter (1995) proposes an analysis for Hebrew verbal agreement that takes it
essentially to be pronouns lexically aﬃxed on the verb. So far, the similarities
with Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou’s account are evident, where D-aﬃxes
and D-clitics only diﬀer with respect to the level (lexicon versus syntax re-
spectively) at which they attach to their host.
Nevertheless, Ritter departs from the assumption that a single AGR node
exists for a series of reasons, both empirical and conceptual. A ﬁrst empirical
problem with Hebrew possessing a single AGR head is that verbs are inﬂected
for both person and number only in the Past and Future tenses, present (or,
more correctly: ‘Benoni’, see Shlonsky 199713) forms are only inﬂected for
number. Second, the morphological aﬃnity (Ritter 1995:422–431) between
pronouns and verbal inﬂection throughout the paradigm is too evident for
this to be the result of mere coincidence. The close relationship between He-
brew pronouns and agreement markers becomes strikingly clear in a sort of
‘small clause’ construction Hebrew possesses: ‘nominal sentences’:14
(16) a. Dan hu xaxam
Dan he smart
b. Sara hi xaxam-a
Sara she smart-
‘Dan/Sara is smart’
c. Sara ve Dan hem xaxam-im
Sara and Dan they smart-
‘Sara and Dan are smart’
The forms hu, hi and hem are the pronouns ‘he’, ‘she’ and ‘they’ – as the
glosses show. They have been analysed as an overt manifestation of Inﬂ by
Doron (1986) and Rapoport (1987), as AgrS by Shlonsky (1997:14).15 As
Doron (1986) and Shlonsky (1997:88) further argue ‘verbal pronouns’ like
those in (16) are impossible to construe with Benoni forms, something that
keeps them in line with the rest of Present tense forms, as inﬂection for per-
son is impossible with all Present tense forms. According to Doron, a Benoni
as a verb and a ‘verbal pronoun’ compete for the Inﬂ position. If a ‘verbal
pronoun’ and a Benoni form do co-occur, the Benoni is interpreted as a parti-
ciple unable to assign accusative Case (from Shlonsky 1997:88):
(17) a. Daniela (hi) manhigat ha-kita
Daniela she leading the-class
‘Daniela is the leader of the class’
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

b. Daniela (*hi) manhigat ‘et ha-kita
Daniela she leading  the-class
‘Daniela leads/is leading the class’
A conceptual problem with a unitary AGR head in the verbal complex for
Ritter is that she takes D to be the locus of Person and Num that of number,
as we saw in Chapter 1. Ritter (1995) has also shown Hebrew pronouns to be
constructed out of DPs with a NumP complement. Thus, an AGR head that
comprises both Person and Number features, being identical to pronouns, is a
problem.
An additional piece of evidence has to do with the fact that null subjects
are allowed in Hebrew only in the presence of a D/person aﬃx (cf. Shlonsky
1997: Ch. 7). So, even in Future and Past, ‘3rd person’ aﬃxes do not license a
null subject – a predictable result under the light of ‘3rd person’ as non-
person. More interestingly, in colloquial Hebrew there occurs an assimilation
of the 1st person verb form to that of the 3rd person in the Future; in other
words, the aﬃx for 1st person is dropped and the verb becomes identical to
the 3rd person form that involves a zero aﬃx. In this case, subject drop be-
comes impossible with 1st person forms, too.
(18) a. ‘ani/hu yoxal ‘et ha-banana
I/he will.eat.  the-banana
b. *pro yoxal ‘et ha-banana
will.eat.  the-banana
‘I/he will eat the banana’
Brieﬂy, some instantiations of Inﬂ are morphologically identical to pronouns
and a null subject is available only with overt Person marking in Hebrew. In
the face of this evidence, Ritter explicitly argues that AgrS is in fact two pro-
jections: a D and a Num projection (Ritter 1995:425). Although she does not
follow a checking framework in the paper under consideration, her idea that
AGR is in fact a DP and an NumP is not without interesting implications,
even when required to work together with a mechanism that accounts for
null subjects by invoking head movement. We will adopt and build on the
idea that verbal D and Num exists, for the following reasons:
a. We hence dispense with AGR while replacing it with familiar and better
deﬁned categories with LF interpretation.
b. We capture the generalisation about the morphological aﬃnities between
determiners and verbal agreement morphology. Such similarities are not
restricted to Semitic languages; for instance, in the diachrony of Greek,
Pro and empty pronouns 
there is a clear tendency to create subject agreement markers that are
identical to determiners.
c. We capture the fact (Harley & Ritter 1997, 2000) that person agreement
presupposes number agreement but not vice versa, just by positing that D
always selects a NumP, although Num is not necessarily shelled by a DP
(as can perhaps be the case with meteorological quasi-arguments in the
nominal domain).
d. We avoid the complication of positing D aﬃxes that can be aﬃxed either
in the lexicon or in the syntax but that do not project in either case (cf.
Section 3.2.3) unlike T or Asp aﬃxes, which have a ﬁxed position in the
phrase marker and always project.
Having said that, an attempt to unify Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou’s model
with Ritter’s intuition that there exist two loci of agreement above VP is not
without problems. A ﬁrst problem is that if Ritter’s D above T is the locus of
EPP, what exactly checks EPP? (Ritter does not address this issue). Neverthe-
less, as we will try to show in the rest of this chapter, a uniﬁcation is not im-
possible and not without beneﬁts.
. There is no AGR
Everett (1989) presents evidence from Yagua, an Amazonian language studied
by Tom and Doris Payne. The aspect of Yagua that is of interest here is its
word order alterations and what triggers them. Consider the following exam-
ples adapted from Everett (1989):16
(19) a. Pauro púúchi-níí
Paul carries-3rd..
b. Sa- púúchi Pauro-níí
s/he-carries Paul-3rd..
c. *Pauro sa-púúchi-níí
Paul s/he-carries-3rd..
‘Paul carries him/her’
(20) a. Anita sííy
Anita runs
b. Sa-sííy
s/he-runs
c. *sííy
runs
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

d. *sííy Anita
runs Anita
‘(Anita) runs’
As illustrated in (19), the word order is SV when sa- is not present and VS
when sa- is aﬃxed on the verb. In (20), we see that subject drop is only avail-
able when sa, a ‘subject clitic’ according to Everett, is aﬃxed. Note that, as
(19b) illustrates, doubling of the subject is an option when the order is VS,
but not when it is SV (19c). Moreover, subject drop is not available in (20c)
when neither a lexical subject, as in (20a), or a clitic (20b) are present. Finally,
a VS order without sa is impossible (20d).
The data can be readily captured by the Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou
model: Yagua can have the EPP feature (say, strong [D]) on AGR checked by
either XP movement (19a), like English, resulting in an SV order, or by an X0
aﬃx resulting in VSO – apparently having the lexical subject lower than the
surface position of the verb, either in SpecTP (like in Celtic and Arabic) or
SpecvP (like in Spanish and Greek). Furthermore, a D head like sa- is neces-
sary and suﬃcient to satisfy EPP, as the grammaticality of (19b) and the un-
grammaticality of (20c) show. Moreover, in (20d), where no sa is present and
where the subject DP has not raised, a violation of EPP ensues. Yagua oﬀers
an example of a language where an Agent θ role can be assigned to either a
clitic (a D aﬃx like sa) or a whole DP. In this sense, Yagua does for subjects
what MG can do for objects, as under (15) and the subsequent analysis. A dis-
cussion of conﬁgurationality would be irrelevant here: Yagua happens to have
a subject ‘morpheme’ that can be θ marked and satisfy EPP. Its presence pre-
empts movement of the subject DP – if present – and this results in a VS order.
If we are correct in our assumption that Yagua possesses both options of
XP and X0 checking of EPP, then we are led to adopt an account of para-
metrisation – at least for the null subject parameter – that reduces to the
(non-)availability of certain lexical entries, a certain class of determiners in
particular, in a given language (see Borer 1984; Wexler & Manzini 1987; Ou-
halla 1991 etc.). Moreover, whether a particular sentence is well-formed or
not crucially depends on whether there is at least one EPP ‘checker’ present in
the numeration, either sa or a DP in the case of Yagua.
Elaborating on the evidence drawn from Yagua and departing from Alex-
iadou & Anagnostopoulou’s account, we can now suppose that the head that is
relevant for EPP is not AGR, a head carrying only uninterpretable features, but
Ritter’s (1995) ‘verbal determiner’, DV henceforth. DV is in turn complemented
by a verbal NumP, as Ritter (1995) argues. The proposed hierarchy is either
Pro and empty pronouns 
DV…Num…T…, as in Ritter (1995:429), or DV…T…Num… (as in Kayne
1995, as far as the T…Num part is concerned) – the correct representation is a
matter of further research and we will have little more to say about it here.
What interpretable features does DV carry, then? Apparently person,17
where applicable, next to an uninterpretable strong [V] in languages where it
is an aﬃx, like in Greek and Spanish, and not a ‘subject clitic’ like Yaguan sa.
Before we set Yagua aside, let us see what this uniﬁed account that combines
the XP and X0 option for the satisfaction of EPP with the presence of DVP and
NumP in the verbal functional complex entails for that particular language.
. Two interpretable ‘AGR’ projections
.. DV
Suppose that DV can encode an interpretable person feature, like its nominal
D counterparts. We can now recapture the situation in Yagua as follows: in
Yagua, there exist two DV heads:
a. a null DV that attracts the DP subject to its Spec, as in (19a) and (20a), to
check its own strong ([D]?) feature, like in English.
b. sa. This is either merged to the null DV, speciﬁed for person, to check its
strong feature or is itself the DV. Let us opt for the second option: sa is an
overt DV head.
Recall now that the presence of sa is suﬃcient to satisfy EPP, enabling subject
drop or, if a DP subject is present, rendering its movement (and the resulting
SV order) unnecessary. What this could entail is that EPP is not the result of
the presence of a special EPP feature, whether strong [D] or other; rather,
EPP can be recast as the obligatory presence of a DV in the numeration. This
formulation of the EPP is as stipulative as, say, the obligatoriness of Case fea-
tures on some verbal functional heads like T and v. Hopefully, both the oblig-
atory presence of DV (EPP) and Case would be able to be shown to reduce to
an LF requirement.
Regarding EPP as the obligatory presence of a DV in the numeration,
Roger Hawkins (p.c.) proposes an explanation along the following lines: Sup-
pose determiners, both ‘nominal’ and ‘verbal’ ones, encode or entail ‘referen-
tiality’ at LF. Thus, as discussed in Section 3.3, a (nominal) D will render the
nominal phrase it heads referential, make it refer to an entity (type <e>). In
the same vein, a DV will make the event denoted by the TP it c-commands
able to take a truth value (type <t>) and refer to an event in the real world.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

Such a formulation would open the way in severing ﬁniteness from T (as in
Rizzi 1997b), by construing ﬁniteness as the result of/related to the presence
of DV rather than T.18
To return to our discussion, Yagua possesses both a null strong DV that
attracts DP subjects and overt DV sa. Let us reinterpret the examples under
(19) and (20), repeated below for convenience, given this new hypothesis.
(19) a. Pauro púúchi-níí
Paul carries-3rd..
b. Sa- púúchi Pauro-níí
s/he-carries Paul-3rd..
c. *Pauro sa-púúchi-níí
Paul s/he-carries-3rd..
‘Paul carries him/her’
(20) a. Anita sííy
Anita runs
b. Sa-sííy
s/he-runs
c. *sííy
runs
d. *sííy Anita
runs Anita
‘(Anita) runs’
In (19a), (20a), (20c) and (20d), the null strong19 DV is merged. In (19a) and
(20a), its strength is checked by a DP and SV order ensues. In (20c) such a
checker is absent and in (20d) a potential checker, the DP, remains in situ: in
both these cases the derivation crashes. On the other hand, in (19b), (19c)
and (20b) the DV sa is merged and this is suﬃcient to satisfy EPP. Thus, the
DP Pauro in (19b) remains in situ and moving it, as in (19c), is unmotivated
and, consequently, ungrammatical.
The straightforward conclusion here would be that languages like English
have only null ‘strong’ DVs. On the other hand, null subject languages like
Spanish and Greek have overt DVs like sa. In the case of Spanish and Greek,
these overt DV heads also encode a strong [V] feature that makes them behave
as suﬃxes with the verb left-adjoining to them: compare the attachment of sa
in (19a) with subject agreement markers in (4) and (15). If Kayne (1994) is
right that only left adjunction exists, then sa is a phonological clitic whereas
Pro and empty pronouns 
MG and Spanish agreement markers are syntactic aﬃxes. The illustrations be-
low should be of some help clarifying the proposed state of aﬀairs:20
(21) EPP: include a DV in the numeration
Strong DV? Strong [V] on DV? Examples of DV
Yes No English Ø, Yagua Ø
Yes Yes French Ø, Icelandic Ø
No No Yaguan sa
No Yes Spanish, Greek verb suﬃxes
a. Non-aﬃxal null strong DV
DV
DVP
DP
VP
‘subject’
DP V
Ø
…
D
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

b. Aﬃxal (strong [V]) null strong DV
DV
DVP
DP
VP
‘subject’
DP V
Ø
…
D
V
V DV
c. Non-aﬃxal overt DV
DV
DVP
VP
DP V
sa
…
Pro and empty pronouns 
d. Aﬃxal (strong [V]) overt DV
DV
DVP
VP
DP V
‘suffix’
…
V
V DV
The rest of this chapter will be devoted to illustrating how the DV hypothesis
can account for the various instances of subject drop, agreement patterns and
their interrelation with verb movement. Before this, it is worth dedicating a
couple of words to verbal Num.
.. Verbal Num
Verbal Num is posited by Ritter (1995) in the face of the pronominal nature
of Agreement in Hebrew. Moreover, given that verb morphology in languages
like Spanish and Italian mark number (next to person), it is reasonable to as-
sume that verbal Num will be the source of interpretable number features,
e.g. singular in the verbal aﬃx -a in fuma under (2) or telefona under (4).
Moreover, Kayne (1995), departing from diﬀerent assumptions, argues for the
existence of verbal Num in English, as well. He argues that the -s verbal suﬃx
in English, like in she sleeps, is a verbal Num head. Observe how this ﬁts into
our own analysis here, as the English -s is not an EPP relevant head: *sleeps.
Now, according to Kayne, the speciﬁer of this verbal NumP can serve as an in-
termediate adjunction site for extracted elements in a number of American
English varieties yielding examples like (22a), adopted from Kayne (1995:
160), the representation of which looks something like (22b):
(22) a. the people [who the boy think who are in the garden]
b. [CP who C [DVP the boy DV [TP [NumVP who Num [vP think who are
in the garden]]]]]
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

Verbal Num apparently agrees with the copy of who in its speciﬁer, on a par
with participle agreement triggered by a ‘passing’ clitic in the XP step of its
movement (cf. Kayne 1989, 1991 and Chapter 2), and not the subject the
boy.21
A last piece of evidence for the existence of two instead of one ‘Agr’ pro-
jections comes from North Italian dialects. North Italian dialects possess a va-
riety of subject clitics, as will be discussed below. A generalisation relevant
here is drawn in Poletto (2000:Ch. 2): in a group of North Italian Dialects,
subject clitics encoding person features as well as expletive ones precede nega-
tion whereas those encoding number follow it. If anything, this is robust evi-
dence for at least two distinct projections in the place of a unitary AGR, as
Poletto herself shows. The fact that ‘person’ and ‘number’ subject clitics, at DV
and verbal Num heads respectively, sandwich Neg could either reﬂect the hi-
erarchical order DV…T…Num… argued for by Ritter (see Section 4.2), or
could be down to some morphological intricacy. Towards this second point,
the fact quoted in Poletto (ibid.) that in another group of North Italian dia-
lects, a subset of ‘person’ clitics group together with ‘number’ clitics is enlight-
ening; in Hebrew, ‘verbal pronouns’ (16), also candidates for DV/verbal Num
membership, always precede negation lo (Shlonsky 1997:14). Hence, whether
the correct hierarchy is DV…T…Num… or DV…Num…T… cannot be de-
cided by examining just the PF order. In any case, the above consists ample
evidence for two (interpretable)22 “AGR” heads instead of a single one, one
‘for person’ and one ‘for number’, exactly as in Taraldsen (1995).
Our revised model of EPP as a statement that DV must always appear in
the functional complex of the verb has no consequences for T as an assigner of
nominative Case. As Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou (1998) explain, strength
of the Case feature, whatever its proper description is, on T can be either
strong or weak: if the Case feature is strong, it will trigger XP movement of
the subject to SpecTP, if not, this feature can wait to be checked by feature
movement after Spell Out. Moreover, our account eliminates pro while corre-
lating person morphology and strength in an inverse fashion (on null mor-
phology being strong: Panagiotidis 2000b) and dispensing with AGR. It fur-
ther avoids the need to posit lexical versus syntactic aﬃxation, as Ritter
(1995) and Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou (1998) are forced to do and does
not assume that the verb has to encode a D and interpretable φ-features, both
of ‘nominal’ nature, at the foot of its X0 chain.
Regarding ‘Agr1’ and ‘Agr2’ (Cardinaletti 1997 and references therein, also
Taraldsen 1995) as encoding person and number respectively, Alexiadou
Pro and empty pronouns 
(2000) has reached similar conclusions on independent grounds: according to
her, person is a feature on T, whereas number is on Asp. Although independ-
ent DV and verbal Num projections are not posited, elimination of AgrS and
separate loci for person and number features inside the extended verbal pro-
jection are established.
.. DV and control of PRO in Modern Greek
Concentrating on DV, there is another group of arguments against AGR and
for an element that acts as a subject and that is situated high in the clause hi-
erarchy. The arguments in this section closely follow Philippaki-Warburton &
Spyropoulos (1999) and their criticism of the account proposed by Alexiadou
& Anagnostopoulou (1998). These arguments are again based on evidence
from Modern Greek.
MG has no inﬁnitives and the only candidates for a sort of ‘inﬁnitival’
status are gerunds, which appear exclusively in ‘adverbial’ adjunct clauses.
Their subject, apparently PRO,23 must be controlled by a c-commanding ar-
gument, typically the subject but not the object, of the main clause (23a).
That is exactly the case with the subject of the inﬁnitival clause in (23b). This
is a well-known fact about controlled null subjects (Chomsky 1981; Manzini
1983). Here, indices are used for convenience and do not represent a theoreti-
cal statement:
(23) a. Idhan i ghonisi ta pedhiaj [PROi/*j pezondas skaki]
saw.PL the parents the children play. chess
‘The parents saw the children while the parents were playing chess’
b. Sergiusi promised Bacchusj [PROi/*j to buy grapes].
Criticising Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou’s analysis, Philippaki-Warburton &
Spyropoulos (1999) observe that if the D aﬃx -an of idhan in (23a), attached
on the verb in the lexicon, is the controller of PRO, it is atypically so, since it
is too embedded and fails to c-command it. In order to account for this and
other problems with Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou’s analysis, Philippaki-
Warburton & Spyropoulos (1999) oﬀer an alternative along the lines of verbal
inﬂection licensing and identifying a null XP clitic at SpecTP which, in turn,
forms a chain with a pro or full DP in the θ position, at SpecvP. Without en-
tering into details here, our account, along the lines of a highest DV being al-
ways the actual subject in null subject languages, can account for the situation
under (23a) without the need for null clitics licensed and identiﬁed by inﬂec-
tion: DV will invariably c-command the embedded PRO.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

.. French, German and Icelandic:
V movement does not entail null subjects
In Vikner (1997) and Rohrbacher (1999) the correlation between V to Inﬂ
movement, morphologically rich manifestation of Inﬂ and availability of null
subjects is discussed. This correlation is expressed by means of a two-way en-
tailment in Rohrbacher (1999): rich morphology triggers V to Inﬂ movement
and null subjects; V to Inﬂ movement and null subjects entail that Inﬂ will be
morphologically rich. Towards this, Rohrbacher argues that French, German
and Icelandic do not move V to Inﬂ, because they permit no null subjects
and, controversially, their Inﬂ morphology is not rich enough.24 On the other
hand, there is ample evidence (Emonds 1978; Pollock 1989; chapters in Horn-
stein & Lightfoot 1994; Zwart 1997; Vikner 1997 – to name but a few) that
these three languages do move V to ‘Inﬂ’ while having the SpecIP (our
SpecDVP) ﬁlled. Rohrbacher’s view is discussed because of its prima facie kin-
ship with the account being developed here: according to it, as also sketched
under (21) and in endnote 19, a DV (Inﬂ) that is morphologically overt is not
strong and does not need a D element (‘subject’) to be moved overtly from
SpecvP, thus enabling null subjects.
At the same time, if the D aﬃx was attached to V at the lexicon, as in
Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou (1998), then the strong [D]/EPP feature on
the unitary Inﬂ/AGR would be checked as a ‘free rider’ once the verb adjoined
to it. This is not the case: neither French nor German nor Icelandic are null
subject languages and Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou (1998:525–527) are
thus forced to deduce something along the lines of the verbal aﬃx in French
and German not encoding a D feature. On the other hand, if the account here
that only non-null DV heads enable null subjects is accurate, why is it the case
that French and Icelandic do not?
There are two ways to address the problem: we can either say that V
moves to a head lower than DV, perhaps verbal Num or T, in the spirit of
Rohrbacher. Alternatively, we can develop the idea illustrated under (21b):
French, German and Icelandic possess only a null DV, which also happens to
have a strong [V] feature, to be aﬃxal in other words.
Given that verbal inﬂection in French, German and Icelandic arguably
marks person speciﬁcations, we can presume this to be the result of either
verbal Num or T encoding uninterpretable [ASE] and [PSE] features and
thus agreeing in person with the null DV, the locus of interpretable person
features; the argument here could run parallel to that about number and gen-
Pro and empty pronouns 
der inﬂection on German articles not entailing that D encodes interpretable
versions of number and gender features.
. The return of eN: cliticisation on DV
.. More ways to check a null DV: North Italian dialects
North Italian dialects provide more evidence that a null DV does not necessar-
ily entail impoverished subject agreement morphology. Towards this end, evi-
dence from North Italian dialects like Basso Polesano (Poletto 1996, 2000:Ch.
2), Rovignese (Poletto 1995), Paduan (Poletto 2000:Ch. 2), Fiorentino and
Trentino (Brandi & Cordin 1989; Poletto 2000:Ch. 2) is indeed enlightening.
Although there is a lot of variation involved regarding the positioning of sub-
ject clitics among these dialects, and some of it can be attributed to morpho-
logical intricacies, it must indeed be the case that both null DVP heads and
morphologically overt ones are available in these dialects. Recall, that this runs
counter to Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou’s analysis, according to which sub-
ject clitics are invariably D heads adjoined to Agr at the lexicon.
We are forced to hypothesise that some of the subject clitics in North Ital-
ian dialects are indeed clitics, instead of overt DV heads. This is so because
some of them are actually marked for gender. Person and number features
marked on or ‘close to’ the verb are interpretable and encoded on DV and ver-
bal Num heads respectively. If DV hosts person features and verbal Num
number features, where is gender encoded? A ﬁrst attempt to tackle this
thorny issue would be to posit a Gender projection below verbal Num. Ritter
(1995:426) quotes unpublished work by Shlonsky, where exactly this is pos-
ited. Nevertheless, as discussed in length in Chapter 1, gender features are in-
herently nominal, in the sense that they ‘classify’ N heads, and one can hardly
separate them from an N head, or – at least – an [N] feature. If this would
force us to entail that an NP projection can dominate a VP we would be faced
with a deﬁnitely undesirable complication on empirical terms and a concep-
tually awkward combination – impossible, if the discussion in the next chap-
ter is on the right track.
Another way to get round this problem would be to assume that Gender
features can appear on Num (nominal or verbal) either when this is lexically
speciﬁed thus, as in Ritter (1993), or when an N projection in missing alto-
gether, as in Ritter (1995). This idea is in the spirit of Bobaljik & Thráinsson
(1998) that functional projections are not present in a grammar if no evi-
dence is available to the language learner that they are indeed present. Never-
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

theless, such an account would compromise our position that functional
heads are bundles of features and not slots that can host a subset of ‘relevant’
features. Moreover, what ‘noun’ would a gender feature on verbal Num clas-
sify or belong to?
Now, suppose for the sake of parsimony that only North Italian subject
clitics that are marked for gender have a derivational history similar to that of
our more familiar object clitics. Thus, they would be merged in SpecvP as D
heads with a null NumP complement, with an NP headed by eN. The D head
can agree for number and gender with Num and eN respectively. Like in the
case of (object) clitic clusters, morphology will have the deﬁnitive word in de-
ciding their surface position, especially with regard to Neg, (cf. Poletto 2000:
Ch. 2). Thus, contra Rizzi (1986b), Brandi & Cordin (1989) and Alexiadou &
Anagnostopoulou (1998), let’s hypothesise that subject clitics marked for
gender are Ds that have left the rest of their projection behind and have at-
tached to DV, the exact mirror images of object clitics. Their derivation should
look something like (24) below:
(24) 25
DVP
DV TP
DP
VP
T
D NumP
DP V′
el
magna
Ø
At the same time, person subject clitics (not marked for gender in any North
Italian dialect) as well as expletive clitics, need not be assumed to be anything
else but morphologically overt DV, this would be the zero hypothesis anyway.
Pro and empty pronouns 
So, North Italian dialects would be a bit like Yagua, availing themselves both a
null strong DV (with non-person clitics proper, as above) and morphologi-
cally overt DV heads (person and expletive ‘clitics’) with the only diﬀerence
that non-person Ds can check a null strong DV by head-adjoining to it.
Some Veneto-Istrian dialects like Rovignese and Basso Polesano resemble
Yagua even more in that a DP subject at SpecDVP checking the strength of a
null DV and a subject clitic proper (or an overt DV, of course) are mutually
exclusive, although clause-initial Topics are available. What is more, as Poletto
(1996:276) notices “subject clitics seem to be in complementary distribution
with subject NPs, not only when the subject is in the preverbal position, but
also when it is in a postverbal one.” This is perhaps evidence of full DPs and
clitics being generated in the same position, SpecvP. Moreover, the class of
non-expletive subject clitics in Basso Polesano is identical to deﬁnite articles
and as Poletto (ibid.) again notices, “subject clitics in Basso Polesano behave
like object clitics.” At the same time, those clitics proper display a diﬀerent
behaviour to the ‘subject clitic’ form a. Consider the Polesano examples below
(all examples from Poletto 1996, 2000:Ch. 2):
(25) a. Expletive DV:
*(a) ze morto do ﬁole
. is dead.. two girls..
‘There died two girls’
*(a) magno
. eat.1st
‘I eat’
b. Clitic movement to DV:
el magna
.. eats
‘He eats’
c. SpecDP of a null strong DV:
Mario magna
Mario eats
‘Mario eats’
*El/A magna qualchedun, qua
⁄. eats somebody here
‘Somebody eats here’
In (25b) and (25c), a null strong DV forces movement of clitic el (X0 move-
ment and adjunction) and Mario (XP movement and ‘substitution’) respec-
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

tively from SpecvP. As Polesano obviously does not permit (subject) clitic
doubling, both a clitic proper like el and a DP cannot be present. This is illus-
trated in the second example under (25c): a subject quantiﬁer26 remains in
situ and EPP is satisﬁed by a, a base generated DV. Given that SpecvP is al-
ready occupied by the quantiﬁer, el cannot be generated there (and then be
moved) either. At the same time, in (25a) a, a DV, satisﬁes EPP. Although the
verb form magno (‘eat’) in the ﬁrst example makes person and number mani-
fest, this is apparently through agreement, as dropping of a is ungrammatical.
The second example under (25a), a ze morto do ﬁole (‘there died two girls’), is
even more intriguing: a heads the clause but does not agree in gender or
number with the postverbal subject. This is reminiscent of constructions like
there’s six million bacteria in a drop of water in most dialects of English and
consists strong evidence for both the base generation of a and the irrelevance
of the postverbal ‘subject’ do ﬁole for EPP purposes. In Paduan, a is also used
as a quasi-argumental (‘meteorological’) expletive as in a piove (‘it rains’).
This complementarity between moved D/DP subjects and base generated
DV heads is not as exotic and stipulative as it may seem. Consider the English
expletive there. There is no reason to assume that it occupies a SpecDVP posi-
tion, rather than being a DV itself: if it bears only a [D] feature (as in Chom-
sky 1995:287)27 it is not plausible to consider it a phrase; moreover it is the
only element in English that can co-occur with associates, which brings it
very close to Basso Polesano a. At the same time, it seems to be plausible to
assume that expletive it is base generated in SpecvP and then moved to
SpecDVP – even if it’s just because it does not tolerate associates: English is
also a ‘non-doubling’ language and it could not co-occur with an associate, as
both would originate in SpecvP. In this respect it, as an expletive or as a refer-
ential pronoun, is close to el in Basso Polesano, although it is an XP and el a
head at the point of attachment.
.. Arabic
Another language28 that displays agreement for gender is Arabic. Given this
fact, according to our analysis here, we are forced to posit that ‘verb agree-
ment’ in Arabic is in fact subject clitics. Koranic Arabic has either ‘verb
inﬂection’ for person, number and gender or a full lexical subject; like in
Basso Polesano, DP subjects and ‘verb inﬂection’ are in complementary
distribution. For illustration, compare (26a), where there is an overt singular
subject, with (26b), where the overt subject is in plural: in both cases, the
Pro and empty pronouns 
verb is the identical uninﬂected form akal. This contrasts with fully inﬂected
akaluu in (26c).
(26) a. akal Ali-un al-tofaha-ta
ate Ali. the-apple-
‘Ali ate the apple’
b. akal al-tullab-u al-tofaha-ta
ate the-students-. the-apple-
‘The students ate the apple’
c. akal-uu al-tofaha-ta
ate-‘3rd.’ the-apple-
‘He ate the apple’.
The rest of the analysis in the previous section should carry over to Koranic
Arabic as well: either a subject clitic DP or a full referential DP can be merged
in SpecvP, there exists only a null strong DV in this language, like in English
(pace expletive there). DV in Koranic Arabic can attract any D constituent
from SpecvP, either a clitic or a whole DP. Given that in Koranic Arabic gen-
der agreement shows up on the verb with both subject clitics and overt sub-
jects, an uninterpretable gender feature must be encoded either on DV or on
verbal Num that needs checking by the gender feature of either the descrip-
tive noun or the eN associated with the subject clitic. Compare (26a) with
(27): although the verb akal is still in its citation form, gender agreement -at
is now aﬃxed to it.
(27) akal-at Fatima-tun al-tofaha-ta
ate- Fatima- the-apple-
‘Fatima ate the apple’
Complications in Arabic include the fact that this subject clitic, instead of be-
having like an aﬃx, rather ﬁlls in the rhyme slots in an onset stem like the
well-known k-t-b (‘write’). The word order facts are even harder to explain: if
DV is strong, it will attract either the subject clitic or the full DP subject, this
one to its speciﬁer. Thus, whether its [V] feature is strong or not, this would
yield an SVO order. Nevertheless, Koranic Arabic is VSO in both embedded
and main clauses (Ouhalla 1991:116, among others). Sproat (1985) attempts
to explain the VSO order of Celtic languages assuming a V to I to C move-
ment. Perhaps an analysis according to which the verb would subsequently
move to a head in the lower complementiser ﬁeld (Rizzi 1997b) can account
for the word order facts. This C head could well be Rizzi’s Fin(iteness), but
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

see our attempt to identify DV with Fin in endnote 18. This would anyway tie
in very well with the fact that there are no inﬁnitives in Arabic (Mohammed
Al-Hammad, p.c.).
Classical Arabic,29 also a null subject language, displays agreement for
person, number and gender with overt subjects, as well, thus it is a ‘subject
doubling’ language (unlike Koranic Arabic, see next section). Crucially, in
Classical Arabic the verb agrees with an overt subject but only when it is post-
verbal. This can be taken by both the language learner and the linguist as a
clue for the Topic status of preverbal subjects in (Clasical) Arabic, irrelevant
to EPP. Given that the verb and the postverbal subject display strict adjacency,
we are led to posit the following structure for Classical Arabic.
(28)
TopP
Top0
DP
‘preverbal
subject’
FinP
Fin0
Fin0
DV
0
DV
0
V
DV
0
DVP
DV
0
V
TP
DP
‘postverbal
subject’
…
The postverbal subject is in TP (Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou 1998:524–
525) and adjacency with the verb (in Fin) is explained: only the DVP projec-
tion intervenes, but given that the clitic D has checked the strong feature of
DV, SpecDVP will not project.
The important question here is where the clitic came from. The obvious
answer is SpecTP, as there would ensue a violation of Head Movement Con-
straint if it attempted to move over another head, say T. Let’s see how this
comes to be in more detail.
.. Subject clitic doubling
Although in Basso Polesano and Koranic Arabic subjects and subject clitics
are mutually exclusive, it is also the case that subject clitics (comprising ‘verb
Pro and empty pronouns 
inﬂection’ marked for gender) can co-occur with subjects in Classical Arabic.
How is subject clitic doubling (Torrego 1998:211) made possible?
Observe that, if subject clitic doubling exists, the behaviour of subject cli-
tics is brought to a complete parallelism with that of object clitics. Next to
Classical Arabic, another language that illustrates this is, possibly, Hebrew.
In Hebrew, Past and Future 2nd person subject agreement morphology is
marked for gender and Past and Future 1st and 2nd person are the only verb
forms that allow null subjects. Null subjects are not permitted with Present
(‘Benoni’) verb forms. An added twist is, as Doron (1988) points out, that
pronouns cannot co-occur with Past and Future 1st and 2nd person forms.
Recall that verb inﬂection and pronouns are morphologically identical in He-
brew (Ritter 1995). How can our account capture these facts?
Suppose, ﬁrst of all, that all subject agreement aﬃxes that are marked for
gender are subject clitics, as well as an analysis that takes Benoni forms to be
distinct from ‘real verb’ (i.e. Past and Future) forms, cf. Shlonsky (1997:
Part 1). Benoni forms need invariably an overt subject: they apparently take
an English-like null strong DV and subject clitics cannot co-occur with a Be-
noni form (this will have to be stipulated in our account).
Now, with Past and Future forms, a 2nd person clitic can move and check
a null strong DV. On the contrary, if Ritter (1995:423) is correct in that non-
person subject clitics are Num heads without a D-shell, then non-person cli-
tics cannot check DV: a DP subject must be merged, moved to its Spec and
check it. This apparently presupposes that both the full DP subject (the ‘dou-
ble’) and the clitic DP must be merged under SpecvP, say in a conﬁguration
like [DP [DP double] [D [Num eN]]]. The incompatibility of subject clitics
with pronouns could be a sort of a ban on merging a speciﬁer (the pronoun
‘double’) identical to the rest of the phrase (the ‘clitic’). The double of course
can be any other DP.
Returning to Classical Arabic and (26), the label ‘postverbal subject’ in
fact stands for the [DP [DP double] [D [Num eN]]] conﬁguration. The clitic
head D moves locally to DV and is spelt out as the ‘inﬂection’ of the verb by
morphology. The speciﬁer, the double, stays in SpecTP.
.. Why not a strong DV throughout?
Returning to North Italian dialects, Trentino and Fiorentino as discussed in
Rizzi (1986b) and Brandi & Cordin (1989) also seem to permit doubling of
subject clitics.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

Now, if subject clitics can be doubled, as seen above, then we lose one ar-
gument for the existence of DV heads other than the strong null one: a DP
subject and a D0 one can co-exist without the second being a DV. Why can’t
we posit a DV that is universally null and strong and assume all pieces of sub-
ject inﬂection to be subject clitics originating somewhere in SpecvP? This
would make Spanish and Greek like Trentino, Fiorentino and Classical Ara-
bic: subject clitic doubling languages.
A conceptual advantage of treating all subject inﬂection as subject clitics
would be simplicity. Moreover, an empty noun, eN in this case, would be
shown to underline all instances of pronominality in natural language, in-
cluding subject agreement morphology. All subject agreement as pronominals
(cf. Taraldsen 1978) would unify all ‘non-R-expressions’ as DPs containing an
empty noun (and this would reﬂect quite well on this particular piece of
work…).
At the same time, we would be forced to concede that DV and verbal Num
cannot encode person and number features respectively, as this would be so
on the subject clitics themselves. At the end of the day, DV and verbal Num
would be nothing more than Agr1 and Agr2, with Agr1 universally strong, al-
most as in Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou (1998). Our proposal would cap-
ture everything at the expense of being identical to a previous and better ar-
ticulated one.
There also appear to exist other arguments against arguing that all subject
inﬂection is subject clitics. Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou (1998:531) men-
tion phenomena that are sensitive to object clitics but not subject inﬂection,
like Focus. This is exactly the case in languages like Modern Greek (see Chap-
ter 2, Section 3.2.2). Moreover, if a piece of inﬂection does not mark gender
or features other than person and number, why assume that it has been
moved instead of base generated, if DV and verbal Num are real? Generally,
we would like to have a mechanism that distinguishes between agreement
inﬂection and pronominals (including pronominal clitics) for a number of
reasons; to allude to just one, object clitic doubling and subject agreement
doubling in Modern Greek have hardly comparable eﬀects (Anagnostopoulou
1994; Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou 1999). Thus, morphologically overt DV
heads in languages like Spanish and Italian must stay so, distinct from subject
clitics. So, the distinction between an overt subject DV and subject D clitics
must remain.
It would now be useful to sketch how strength of DV and its aﬃxal status
are acquired: the language learner looks out for DV (person) morphology on
Pro and empty pronouns 
the verb. If this is completely absent, as in some Scandinavian dialects and
English (Kayne 1995), then s/he deduces strength of null verbal D and that is
the end of the story: EPP can only be checked by DPs at SpecDVP or subject
clitic heads, if available in the lexicon. If s/he encounters some sort of person
agreement morphology, s/he then will attempt to deﬁne strength of DV. If
SpecDVP is not always ﬁlled (i.e. if there exist null subjects) then the language
learner scans ‘person agreement morphology’. If it encodes gender (like Ar-
abic and Hebrew ‘inﬂection’ and North Italian clitics like el), s/he analyses it
as subject clitics, otherwise s/he acquires it as DV heads (as in Spanish, Greek,
Italian and the case of Yaguan sa). Regarding the (non-)aﬃxal properties of
DV, strength of [V] on DV will be decided according to the relative position of
the verb: the availability of postverbal subjects and adjacency, or lack thereof,
between verb and preverbal (French) or postverbal (Classical Arabic) subject.
Finally, co-occurrence of ‘person agreement morphology’ encoding gender
and a DP subject, will force the learner to assume a subject clitic doubling
structure (as in Hebrew, Classical Arabic, Trentino and and unlike Koranic
Arabic, Basso Polesano and Rovignese).
.. Japanese and other East Asian languages
Contrary to the rest of null subject languages discussed here, Mandarin and
Japanese do not possess overt articles. Thus, nothing in principle prevents
them to have null phrasal subjects of the form [DP Ø [NumP e [eN]]], whether
these further topicalise or not (cf. Huang 1984).30 Should this analysis for null
subjects in Mandarin (Huang 1984, 1989) and Japanese and Thai (cf. Huang
1991; Speas 1996 and references therein) be correct, it would capture the
diﬀerent behaviour of null subjects in languages where they are associated
with verb inﬂection from that in Eastern Asian languages.
In the case of Japanese, we have a way to shed a bit more light on the na-
ture of its null subjects and support a structure like [DP Ø [NumP e [eN]]] for
them. Let’s assume along with Nolan (2000) that Gender, Honoriﬁc and Po-
liteness features are encoded on Japanese pronouns, apparently on their eN,
locus of noun classiﬁcation features such as gender. Let us further extrapolate
that [DP Ø [NumP e [eN]]] is a null Japanese pronoun that, in principle, can be
speciﬁed for these three φ (?) features. If Japanese is like English, possessing a
null DV only, Gender, Honoriﬁc and Politeness on the verb can then be cap-
tured as syntactic agreement with a pronoun at SpecDVP, like with overt pro-
nouns (but see Namai (2000) for arguments against a feature checking ac-
count of subject honoriﬁcation in Japanese).
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

. Summary
. A typology of null subject languages
In this chapter we have taken our desire to eliminate a single invariable pro-
nominal empty category one step further. Not only empty (‘grammatical’)
nouns exist stored in the lexicon but also the null subject pronoun pro is
epiphenomenal.
EPP is recast as the obligatory presence of a DV in a clause.31 Languages
that do not permit null subjects across the board, like English, only possess
the null strong variety which attracts an XP from SpecvP. Null subject lan-
guages can be of four kinds:
a. Some null subject languages possess a null strong DV, like English does.
On the other hand, they also possess nominative Ds that can take eN in-
side their complement: ‘subject clitics’. Thus, either a full DP or a clitic DP
can check the strong DV. This case is exempliﬁed by North Italian dia-
lects, Arabic and Hebrew. These languages can show a complementary
distribution between ‘subject morphology’ (the subject clitic) and a full
subject DP, as both originate in SpecvP (Basso Polesano, Rovignese and
Koranic Arabic) or permit subject clitic doubling (Trentino, Fiorentino,
Classical Arabic, Hebrew). They can mark gender agreement on the verb,
as there is an eN involved in the subject and it is the locus of the interpret-
able gender feature, like in object clitics.
b. Some null subject languages possess a null strong DV, but have only
demonstratives (Noguchi 1997; Panagiotidis 2000b) as overt Ds. Thus, an
empty pronominal of the form [DP Ø [NumP e [eN]]] can be merged to
SpecvP and then move to SpecDVP. Japanese, Mandarin Chinese and Thai
seem to fall under this category.
c. ‘Genuine’ null subject languages like Spanish, Italian and Modern Greek
possess only overt DV heads. As DVP heads are base generated in these
languages, there will be no gender subject agreement and co-occurrence
with DP subjects, generated in SpecvP, will be possible. A DP, if present,
will not be attracted to DV but either stay in situ or move to SpecTP,
yielding a VSO surface order.
d. Finally, a language like Yagua possesses both overt DV heads, like sa, and a
null strong one. When a null strong DV is merged, it will attract the DP
subject (which must be present in the numeration – otherwise the deriva-
tion will crash) yielding SVO and no ‘subject clitic’ will be present. When
Pro and empty pronouns 
sa is merged, a DP subject is optional but stays low, possibly in SpecvP, as
nothing will attract it.
. Further implications
What emerges is that variation is down to the lexicon and on/oﬀ structural
parameters or, even more problematically, macroparameters cannot capture
cross-linguistic variation without introducing complex mechanisms in the
grammar.
It is made apparent from the discussion in this chapter that ‘pronominal-
ity’ is not a grammatical primitive. Moreover, an empty noun inside a DP will
result in this DP being interpreted ‘pronominally’ but, crucially, ‘pronominal-
ity’ does not necessarily entail the presence of an empty noun: a DV-verbal
Num cluster dominating TP will eventually be interpreted ‘pronominally’, as a
pronominal argument.
If ‘pronominality’ is the property of being a semantic variable at LF, then
‘pronominality’ is a continuum rather than the mirror image of ‘anaphoricity’
(cf. the typology in terms of [±pronominal] [±anaphor] in Chomsky 1982).
A semantic variable may be the trace of an operator, the A-trace of an ana-
phor (assuming a Reinhart & Reuland 1993; Chomsky 1995 movement analy-
sis for anaphors), a DV-verbal Num, or a DP containing an empty noun in
Syntax. From this point on, the restriction – an operator, the moved anaphor,
φ features – imposed on this semantic variable decides its ‘role’. That is why
the trace of an empty Topic operator can range over almost as many entities
in its possible interpretations as a non-person pro and why anaphors are as
restricted as a DV-verbal Num that co-occurs with a DP subject – although in
syntactically diﬀerent ways.32
Notes
. Expletive pro does not necessarily contradict this statement: overt expletives like it or
Dutch het and French il are identical to deﬁnite determiners.
. Expletive D according to Roussou & Tsimpli (1994), Longobardi (1994) and Tsimpli &
Stavrakaki (1999); an intensionalisation semantic operator according to Giannakidou &
Stavrou (1999). Nothing follows from which the correct characterisation is here.
. This is not 100% accurate: the correct analogy would be Icelandic-style Transitive Ex-
pletive Constructions, where – arguably – an expletive is merged in SpecAgrP and the DP
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

subject moves only as far as SpecTP. For the purposes of exposition here, we can remain
agnostic in relation to the diﬀerences between Expletive-Associate and Transitive Expletive
Constructions.
. If Groat (1999), following analyses by Moro and DenDikken, is correct in that EPP can
never be satisﬁed by Merge and that in cases like (5a) the expletive there has actually
moved, and not merged, to its surface position to satisfy EPP, then the problem restricts it-
self to whether X0 movement is more economical than XP movement.
. But not necessarily vice-versa: see Section 4.3.4. Moreover, Mandarin Chinese does not
seem to move V to AGR (or T), more on this in Section 4.4.5.
. The discussion in this paragraph is based on Alexiadou & Anagnostopoulou (1998:
531–533).
. According to ‘Kayne’s generalisation’, the clitic in (6a) is assigned accusative Case by
visto and the double has it assigned by the particle a; alternatively (cf. Jaeggli 1986), a
‘transmits’ accusative Case to the double. Given that a is necessary even without a clitic
(visto a Juan) and seems to be irrelevant to Case, the Case of the double in (6a) is as ‘mys-
terious’ as that of (6b), where no allegedly dummy particles are present. See Suñer
(1988:398–402) on the irrelevance of a for Case.
. Or maybe DPs lacking some sort of a [Ref] feature on D, as we have shown it to be a D
anyway.
. Object-related material is in boldface and subject-related material in italics. -a- in
ferame is Tense and Aspect related morphology.
. The v (‘Voice’) head in a Kratzer (1996) style account. Nothing hinges on this right
here.
. As shown in (6) above, Irish and Koranic Arabic have this option for subjects, too, as
agreement marker and DP subjects are in complementary distribution.
. Some of them to be discussed in Section 4; see also Jelinek (1996:293) and references
therein.
. Benoni is, very roughly, a verb participle that may function as the standard ‘Present’
form. Shlonsky (1997) also argues that at least AgrS and AgrPart are required for Hebrew.
. This is not an idiosyncratic peculiarity of Hebrew: e.g. Russian, Irish and Gaelic pos-
sess the same construction (Pereltsvaig 2000; personal communication).
. Rizzi (1986b) and Brandi & Cordin (1989) argue that North Italian subject clitics are
the overt manifestation of Inﬂ heads; we will discuss this later.
. The convention of marking subject material in italics and object material in boldface
(see also endnote 9) is followed.
. All accounts that relate person speciﬁcation to the availability of null subjects (Rizzi
1986; Kenstowicz 1989; Ritter 1995; Shlonsky 1997; Vainikka & Levi 1999; Alexiadou
Pro and empty pronouns 
2000 – to name but some) suﬀer from the straightforward assumption that ‘3rd person’ is
no person. Alternatives like animacy and/or deﬁniteness (A. Alexiadou, p.c.) as the relevant
feature for ‘3rd person’ make perfect sense in the context of null subjects: ‘pro’ is always
deﬁnite.
. Although such a discussion is way beyond the scope of this study, linking DV with
Rizzi’s Fin(iteness) head looks promising. Consider for instance Haegeman’s (1992) ac-
count of subject drop in West Flemish under an agreeing C head, which it could now be
recast as follows: the agreeing complementisers are DV/Fin heads that are ‘enough’ for EPP
purposes, like Yaguan sa.
. In principle, EPP satisﬁed by the mere presence of a null DV. Its strength should not be
related to EPP and could be taken to be relevant to its phonological impoverishment. The
implicit notion is that strength is the result of a need for ‘morphological support’ and it is
put to work in Panagiotidis (2000b) to explain peculiarities of the Modern Greek DP, see
also references therein. Even if this formulation of strength is inaccurate, we will assume
for exposition null DV to be universally strong.
. The phrase structures are simpliﬁed and subjects are shown as merged at SpecVP (in-
stead of SpecvP) for simplicity. Strong features appear in boldface, unbracketed.
. The implication would be that verbal Num in English encodes an uninterpretable
number feature. Given that DV is strong in English and does not seem to encode (inter-
pretable) person features, unlike the overt DV in Spanish and Italian, Num would reduce to
something like an ‘Agr2’ position (DV would still encode reference to an event). This is a
problem that here I have no reasonable solution to.
. Because subject clitics are, of course, proper arguments.
. A lot hinges on what our assumptions about ‘adjuncts’ will be: are they speciﬁers of a
relevant head, like adverbs (Alexiadou 1997; Cinque 1999) or ‘classic’ adjuncts?
. Rohrbacher claims that German and Icelandic possess a version of long head move-
ment directly from V to C.
. The verbal NumP node is omitted for simplicity. The ﬁrst XP step has been deduced be
to SpecTP for “HMC” reasons – see also discussion of object clitics in Section 3.3 of Chap-
ter 2.
. A quantiﬁer is used in this example (from Poletto 1996:277), because quantiﬁers can-
not be dislocated, as in Rizzi (1986b).
. I quote: “the expletive has neither Case nor φ-features. FF(there) contains only D […]
the expletive has no formal features apart from its category.” See Groat (1999) for a case for
there movement.
. I am grateful to Mohammad Al-Hamad and Eidah Al-Malki for discussing and elabo-
rating the facts about Arabic.
. By the term ‘Classical Arabic’ the akaluni al baragheeth ‘dialect’ is signiﬁed.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

. Claiming that a phonologically empty [DP Ø [NumP e [eN]]] can topicalise, would not
entail that all null topics have this structure, as German (Huang 1984) and Portuguese
(Raposo 1986) possess both null deﬁnite topics and deﬁnite articles. However, Spanish
evidence (Campos 1986), where only indeﬁnite null topics exist, might help us achieve a
uniﬁcation of them with null indeﬁnite arguments à la Greek: it could be claimed that null
indeﬁnite arguments have the structure discussed in Chapters 2 and 3 (especially Section
3.2 of Chapter 2): in Modern Greek and similar languages, the null indeﬁnite D cliticises,
whereas in Spanish, the whole indeﬁnite argument undergoes A′ movement to the Topic
phrase.
. This also holds for Small Clauses, a kind of DV being apparently the elusive functional
head F that c-commands the predicate lexical phrase of small clauses (Chomsky 1986b;
Kayne 1994).
. Towards this, consider, for instance, the interaction between Operator-variable chains
and clitic chains, as in Suñer (1992), Dobrovie-Sorin (1990) and Tsimpli (1999).
C 5
Licensing and the categorial
features of functional categories
. A propos of eN 
. Semantic licensing of eN 
. The functional-lexical distinction 
. Selection and licensing 
. Notational variants and conclusion 
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

. A propos of eN
. Is eN necessary? DV and DP pronominals
Although we have seen that eN is the lexical part in all ‘pronominal’ DPs like
strong pronouns, (subject and object) clitic pronouns and elliptical DPs, we
have also discussed languages like Italian, Spanish and Greek that possess
overt DV heads. These DV heads agree with a verbal Num and function as
pronouns; their diﬀerent status from the very similar subject clitics can be de-
tected by both the child learner and the linguist via tests such as interaction
with Focus and doubling and, primarily, the features they are marked for. As
brieﬂy sketched at the end of the last chapter, the presence of an eN triggers
pronominal reference of the DP it forms the lexical material of, but pronomi-
nality is not necessarily the result of the presence of eN.
Crucially, the hypothesis for the existence of eN rests on two assumptions:
selection is obligatory and gender (and similar ‘derivational morphology’ fea-
tures) are encoded on lexical heads such as nouns. Additional evidence cor-
roborating the hypothesis that eN is a real member of the mental lexicon is
the existence of a series of phonologically overt empty (‘grammatical’) nouns
such as one. At the same time, in the face of DV heads functioning as pro-
nominals without the involvement of eN, isn’t the whole case for eN consid-
erably weakened? If a θ recipient can c-command a TP, why can’t another θ
recipient not c-command anything at all, why can’t there be any intransitive
Determiners?
A more serious problem is the one related to indexicals and especially 1st
person singular pronouns. First of all, they resist complementation cross-
linguistically, contrary to we (stockbrokers) or du (Sprachwissenschaftler); thus,
the argument about selection being obligatory does not apply here: I/me
never selects anything and it is highly dubious that number is relevant to its
interpretation either (Kayne 1995; cf. Harley & Ritter 1997; but Taraldsen
1995 for arguments for the opposite). This leads us to a second problem
about I/me and the like being Ds with an eN complement: they do not encode
gender or similar features – even in Semitic languages where gender agree-
ment seems ubiquitous (e.g. 2nd singular pronouns encode gender in both
Hebrew and Arabic): why should I/me be anything more than Ds encoding an
[ASE] and/or a [PSE] feature? That is, why can’t I/me be an intransitive de-
terminer? Similar questions can be asked for it – why is anything other than D
and Num relevant if it bears no gender?
Licensing and the categorial features of functional categories 
. What is the role of eN at LF?
A by far more serious issue regarding the existence of eN is its role at LF. In a
nutshell, if pronominal reference results from the lack of descriptive content,
why is eN necessary? We saw in Chapter 4 that DV need not be associated with
an eN in order for it to behave pronominally. The natural question would then
be why eN should be present in DPs like we if it is the lack of descriptive con-
tent in this DP that makes it pronominal and not some (‘pronominal’) fea-
ture on eN.
This problem is not merely one of methodological parsimony and ele-
gance. Neither should it be seen merely as yet another step in the ‘trimming
down’ that linguistic theory has been undergoing in its minimalist phase.1 A
‘useful’ theoretical concept like ‘construction-speciﬁc transformation’ or
‘chain’ can be a gratuitous abstraction or indeed represent something real; it
can be anywhere in the continuum between ‘phlogiston’ or ‘atom’.2 The only
way to tell which end this useful concept is closer to is an empirical issue ul-
timately. Minimalist enterprises need to keep the distinction between baby
and bath water in perspective.
Hence, in principle eN should not be undesirable because it is more than
nothing (i.e. intransitivity for some determiners). At the same time, its being
the empty counterpart(s) of one and the like does not automatically make it
desirable. Nevertheless, there can arise a very serious conceptual problem with
eN, irrespective of methodological and theoretical trends. If eN and nothing at
all receive the same interpretation at LF, why should we bother positing eN
wherever empirical evidence (such as marking for gender) is not involved?
Moreover, if Chomsky (1998) is correct in positing that the language module
is the optimal solution that links thought and sounds or signs, conceptual-
intentional and articulatory-perceptual systems, the manipulation of eN by
the computational system for human language becomes suspicious: eN has no
PF interpretation and presumably no LF interpretation either.
In order to provide convincing arguments that eN does exist we will have
to look into three superﬁcially unrelated issues: the role of empty nouns at LF
and beyond, the lexical-functional distinction in grammar and the role an
empty noun plays inside an Extended Projection (Grimshaw 1991). Finally,
we will explore the implications the existence of empty nouns has for the
categorial status of functional heads, head movement and the notion of
licensing in grammar.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

. Semantic licensing of eN
. The semantic type of determiners
In order to begin understanding what role all empty nouns, including eN of
course, play at LF, we must ﬁrst discuss the semantic function of determiners.
This is so because if we show that in principle intransitive determiners are un-
desirable at LF, then we have a strong case for the reality of eN and an LF in-
terpretation for empty nouns.
Intricacies concerning deﬁnite descriptions and related matters aside (for
recent reviews from a linguistic point of view see Uriagereka 1998; Lyons
1999), we can follow Heim & Kratzer (1998:52–53) and take determiners to
be of the semantic type <<e,t>,e>: they take a predicate, type <e,t>, (the
nominal expression, let’s say the NumP for concreteness) and yield an indi-
vidual, type <e>. Illustrating, a determiner like the takes a predicate like key,
true for all keys, and yields the individual referred to by the expression the
key.3 The determiner thus denotes the function <<e,t>,e>. We can plausibly
claim that the function the determiner denotes is satisﬁed at LF, in line with
Heim & Kratzer (1998:49). According to their Principle of Interpretability
(ibid.) all functions must be satisﬁed at LF. In this sense, the Principle of
Identiﬁcation is an ‘extended’ θ-criterion that applies at LF. Crucially, if de-
terminers denote functions that yield individuals, roughly expressions that re-
fer to objects in the real world, we can derive why determiners are referential,
as expressed in studies like Longobardi (1994), and why determiners are θ
recipients.
Given that not all predicates ‘pair up’ with determiners (see also endnote
4), we can follow Higginbotham’s (1985) account that speciﬁcally discusses
the relationship between a noun and its determiner: a noun like key is a predi-
cate that has an open position, a sort of referential θ role that needs to be dis-
charged. It is exactly the determiner (the or other) that receives this θ role.
Let us now suppose that a determiner like it or I/me can stand on its own,
that it can be an ‘intransitive determiner’. The existence of an intransitive de-
terminer at LF would result in a violation of principles in either analysis. Fol-
lowing Heim & Kratzer’s story, the function an intransitive determiner de-
notes would remain unsaturated due to the radical absence of a predicate (the
<e,t> part), ultimately denoted by a noun. According to Higginbotham’s
treatment, the determiner would not be θ marked by an N head and would
thus not be licensed. Observe that ‘external’ licensing is not relevant here: the
Licensing and the categorial features of functional categories 
key and me both externally receive θ roles from, say, verbs. What is important
for the time being is that whichever treatment is the most accurate, an intran-
sitive determiner would be an oﬀending element at LF. An intransitive deter-
miner would either be an unlicensed constituent (by an N head) or denote a
function unsaturated at LF. Thus, intransitive determiners must be impossible
at LF.
Let us see now why an elementary noun, whether speciﬁed for formal fea-
tures like gender or not and whether null (eN) or overt (say, one), enables a
seemingly ‘intransitive’ determiner to stand alone. In a Heim & Kratzer style
analysis, an empty noun would denote a ‘trivial’ predicate function of the
type <e,t>. This predicate would take any individual and yield a ‘true’ value
for it, it would be true for all individuals in the universe of discourse and
from this perspective, as well, it is easy to see why the presence of such an
empty noun in a DP would consequently trigger pronominal reference at LF.
Similarly, according to Higginbotham’s story now, an elementary noun would
assign just the one θ role4 and thus license a seemingly ‘intransitive’ deter-
miner, like me or it. The grammatical noun’s lack of descriptive content and,
consequently, lexical semantics would trigger a ‘pronominal’ reference at LF.
Again, the non-descriptive noun would denote a ‘trivial’ predicate that would
be true for any individual.
. Determiners as functional heads
The elimination of the concept of ‘intransitive determiners’ from a theory of
grammar presents another conceptual advantage: Abney (1987:285, see also
Section 1.1 of Chapter 1), discussing the oddity of the concept of ‘intransitive
determiners’ notices that
determiners diﬀer from other functional elements [as] determiners some-
times appear without a complement […] the appearance of functional ele-
ments as “intransitives,” in a pronominal usage, constitutes a systematic ex-
ception to the otherwise general requirement that they take an obligatory
complement.
If intransitive determiners do not exist and all determiners are ultimately
complemented by a noun, meaningful or empty, null or overt, then determin-
ers are no diﬀerent from the rest of functional categories that obligatorily take
a lexical head somewhere in their complement (more on this issue in Section
3.3 and 3.4). Hence, a source of anomaly caused by a handful of lexical entries
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

within the functional category of Determiner, intransitive determiners, can be
dispensed with.
The above sketch justiﬁes the existence of eN and other empty nouns at
LF: a function like that denoted by determiners needs to range over predicates
and (empty) nouns provide exactly these (trivial) predicates. Thus, in a sense,
a raison d’ être for empty nouns at LF can now be formulated: eN and the rest
of empty nouns are interpreted at LF as trivial predicates. The natural ques-
tion is now whether this LF interpretation amounts to eN and the other
empty nouns being thus licensed by a determiner.
I wish to argue here that this is not the proper way to formulate the state
of aﬀairs that emerges naturally with the elimination of intransitive deter-
miners, namely that a lexical head must be obligatorily present inside the com-
plement of every functional head. I am going to propose that it is not lexical
heads, even grammatical nouns, that need licensing from functional heads
but functional heads that need to be licensed by lexical heads in their com-
plement instead. It is the unavailability of intransitive determiners that ex-
actly provides us with a window into this aspect of grammar, with far-
reaching implications to be partially explored later in this chapter.
. The functional–lexical distinction
. Promotion to X′ status at a cost
The distinction between lexical and functional elements in grammar is one
present in most traditional grammars and in the majority of post-1957 ap-
proaches. In the generative literature, this contrast was formerly partially cap-
tured as a diﬀerentiation between projecting categories (lexical categories)
and non-projecting functional categories (cf. Jackendoﬀ 1977; Emonds 1985
and chapters in Muysken & Van Riemsdijk 1986). The realisation that a
model in which functional categories also project has arguably a greater ex-
planatory capacity and the ensuing revolution (cf. Chomsky 1986b) led to a
uniﬁed X′ schema for all categories and the abandonment of non-
endocentric projections like S (= IP) and S′ (= CP). At the same time a uni-
form X′ for both lexical and functional categories led to three undesirable
consequences:
a. The intuitive idea that the head of a phrase is what this phrase is about
(as originally in Chomsky 1970 and as recently as in Pinker 1994:106–
Licensing and the categorial features of functional categories 
107) cannot be captured any longer in a straightforward fashion. For in-
stance, the keys of heaven (ultimately about keys, a sort of keys) was for-
merly described as an NP headed by the N keys and complemented by the
PP of heaven with Det the as its speciﬁer. After the DP hypothesis, it
would be a DP with the as the head of the whole phrase. Hence, the head
of a phrase is not what the phrase ‘is about’ anymore.
b. The empirical observation that the majority of functional heads in hu-
man languages are both aﬃxal or phonologically dependent and semanti-
cally dependent on a lexical one is now harder to capture. Italian [lege-va-
no la gazetta] (‘read-PAST-3rdPLU the newspaper’), formerly readily ana-
lysable as a VP with an Inﬂ speciﬁer and an NP complement (the Theme
object) has now to be accounted for in terms of its being an AgrSP
(Chomsky 1993) or TP (Chomsky 1995). The aﬃxal status of the T head
(say, -va-) and the AgrS (our DV) head (say, -no) is reduced to a curiosity
of morphology, independent from the fact that they ‘aﬀect’ the event of
reading.
c. As implicit above, if lexical projections are in the complement of func-
tional ones, they apparently have to be selected by them. Even conceding
by this, if all selection is local, Ds select Nums that will select NPs. In lege-
vano, AgrSP -no will not select the VP, but the TP -va- which will select
the vP which will (perhaps) select the VP. Hence, a C, which is less related
to the actual verb of a clause, will ‘select’ this verb as (in)directly as this
verb’s Tense aﬃx/operator (cf. Laka 1990; Stowell 1996).
On the other hand, an X′ analysis of functional categories makes a lot of sense
and this is why it is almost unanimously adopted. Perhaps we can resolve the
three paradoxes sketched above by ﬁrst taking a look at the diﬀerences be-
tween lexical and functional categories and then examining their relationship
inside derivations.
. Functional versus lexical categories
Most researchers cite or allude to the following criteria (in Abney 1987:64–
65) to diﬀerentiate between lexical and functional categories:
1. Functional elements constitute closed […] classes.
2. Functional elements are generally phonologically and morphologically
dependent. They are generally stressless, often clitics or aﬃxes, and some-
times phonologically null.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

3. Functional elements permit only one complement, which is in general
not an argument […].
4. Functional elements are usually inseparable from their complements.
5. Functional elements lack […] “descriptive content.” Their semantic con-
tribution is second order, regulating or contributing to the interpretation
of their complement […].
Given the existence and properties of grammatical lexical heads, such as
empty nouns, Abney’s criteria 1 and 5 (lack of descriptive content) are not ex-
clusive characteristics of functional categories. As far as morphophonological
(criterion 2) and semantic dependence (in criterion 5) are concerned, these
are phenomena requiring an explanation rather than primitives. Given that
criterion 3 is also pretty irrelevant under more up-to-date views on phrase
structure, we are left with no clear or single factor that distinguishes lexical
from functional categories in grammar.
Harley & Noyer (1998) describe the diﬀerence between lexical and func-
tional heads within the framework of Distributed Morphology (Halle & Ma-
rantz 1993; Halle 1997) roughly as follows: functional heads are “feature bun-
dles for which the speaker normally has no choice as regards vocabulary
insertion,” whereas for lexical heads “a speaker’s choice of V[ocabulary]
I[tem] […] is not determined in advance and has truth conditional force”
(Harley & Noyer 1998:120). The above ﬂeshes out an intuition already pre-
sent at least in the structuralist tradition that is illustrated in (1):
(1) a. Batman intercepted a bald mouse.
b. The bald mouse intercepted Batman.
c. A bald mouse intercepted Batman.
The speaker is free to choose among Batman, the bald mouse or anything else
regarding who intercepted whom. On the other hand, grammatical features
such as [deﬁnite], [indeﬁnite] or [past] completely determine the forms the, a
and -d and the speaker has no choice with respect to this.
. Biuniqueness: elective aﬃnities
So far, it is clear that functional categories are dependent on lexical ones in
more than one way. It further emerges that not any functional head can have
any lexical one in its complement. In pre-theoretical terms this can be stated
as the fact that nouns do not tolerate modals, tense or verbal ‘agreement’ and
Licensing and the categorial features of functional categories 
that verbs are not inﬂected for Case and do not tolerate determiners (already
observed by Aristotle in his Rhetoric).
This selectiveness of functional categories has been lately explained
within the framework of Distributed Morphology in a novel and interesting
fashion. Marantz (1997), Harley & Noyer (1998) and Embick (2000), among
others, argue, regarding lexical heads, that only roots exist and not distinct
categories such as N or V. Nouns and verbs are constructions of morphology
(a level after Syntax) that takes into consideration what functional head se-
lects the root. In the case of the root walk, it is going to surface as a verb
(walked, walks) when selected by T and/or v; similarly a walk or the walks is
the result of the root having been selected by D and/or Num. Observe that, at
least in a language like English, such an analysis is parsimonious (but see Ma-
rantz 1997) and straightforward. It can also be put to work in order to ac-
count for complex phenomena such as the lexically encoded verb/particle
(apparently an ‘adjective’) alteration in Latin deponent verbs, where the labels
‘verb’ and ‘particle’ are irrelevant to narrow syntax (Embick 2000).
Without entering into a detailed criticism of the thesis that only roots ex-
ist as far as lexical heads are concerned, I will attempt to demonstrate that
categorial features are active in Syntax and that biuniqueness, captured as a
unique relationship between certain functional and certain lexical categories,
can help us shed light on both the diﬀerences between these two classes and
the question of licensing of grammatical (empty) nouns.
.. Why categorial features are necessary before morphology
Let us ﬁrst consider the functional head T(ense).5 It has been commonly as-
sumed that T must select an event and c-command it at LF (cf. Laka 1990),
or – alternatively – that it expresses the event argument of a predicate (cf.
Higginbotham 1985; Stowell 1996). In the spirit of the analyses above, let us
take a root expressing an ‘inherently’ eventive concept, like walk and see
whether a Tense head can (ultimately)6 select it.
(2) a. [Our walk home by the river] had a therapeutic eﬀect
b. We walked home by the river
Morphological intricacies of English aside, we see that (2b) is grammatical:
not only did tense morphology show up aﬃxed to the root walk, but also the
speciﬁer of a T head7 – the ‘subject’ we – is present. Neither of these is the
case in (2a), where no T occurs in the bracketed clause and the root walk has
been selected by the D our. We can further observe that in both examples
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

under (2), walk has kept its ability to license home, however this is done. An
analysis like that of Marantz (1997), captures the state of aﬀairs with no re-
course to syntactic lexical categories like ‘noun’ and ‘verb’: a root selected by a
Determiner, as in (2a), will be a ‘noun’, one selected by T, as in (2b), will be a
‘verb’.
Nevertheless, the situation in (2) cannot be the full story. Consider (3)
and (4):
(3) a. Jonathan booked two seats for the Tempest.
b. Jeremy’s book is heavy, after all it is 626 pages long.
c. Prospero’s book makes a brilliant textbook on alchemy.
d. *Prospero booked his knowledge of alchemy.
(4) a. The Austrian chancellor’s ball was less than successful.
b. *The Austrian chancellor balled (his guests) less than successfully.
The root book encodes a quite diﬀerent concept when selected by a T in (3a),
when it is a verb in other words, and when selected by a D (3b–c), that is, as a
noun. This may mean that T can play a considerable role in actually deﬁning
the meaning of the root it selects (‘hold a seat’ versus ‘set of pages fastened to-
gether’), which is at least implausible. Alternatively, there are at least two
diﬀerent entries, two roots that encode diﬀerent concepts, for book, each of
which can behave only as a verb or as a noun “at morphology.” This option
trivialises the idea of roots being selected by functional categories in a pro-
ductive way.
A possible solution to such a dead-end could be constructed as follows, in
the spirit of Hale & Keyser (1993): the concept & is the ‘basic’ meaning of
the stem, but given its ‘non-eventive’ nature, it shifts meaning when selected
by a T – and the rest of the verbal functional complex, including v – so as to
eventually take an abstract meaning along the lines of “to ROOT = to put
something on a ROOT.” Such an analysis would provide a way to express the
relationship between the verb in (3a) and the noun in (3b), deﬁnitely non-
eventive, as it is contextually forced to denote a book as a physical entity. Nev-
ertheless, despite the ‘quasi-eventiveness’ of book in (3c), where a book is the
result of an ‘authoring event’, book under this meaning is still not available as
a verb, for selection by T, as (3d) illustrates, even by a condition like “to
ROOT = to put something on a ROOT.” Moreover, to book hardly means ‘to
put something on a book’, in Modern English anyway. We wish to claim here
that the reason for this idiosyncratic behaviour is that nouns and verbs are
pre-syntactic entities that are manipulated in Syntax as such, not morphologi-
Licensing and the categorial features of functional categories 
cal epiphenomena. In English mental grammars there are two lexical entries
with the phonological form /bυk/: one meaning &, invariably a noun and in
the company of D and Num and one meaning ‘to hold a seat’, invariably a
verb and in the company of DV, T etc. This is not an isolated exception but
holds of a large number of verbs produced by ‘zero derivation’ from roots
homonymous with nouns: Vchair–Nchair, Vship–Nship, Vcastle–Ncastle.
The fact that T selects only verbs in Syntax, not just any root denoting an
event, is more lucidly illustrated under (4). There, we see that, not only T seems
to restrict itself to verbs when it comes to selecting, but also that not all event
roots (4a) can be ‘made into’ verbs,8 intransitive or not: cf. the two versions of
(4b), transitive and non-transitive respectively. Within Distributed Morphology
assumptions that nouns and verbs do not exist in Syntax, such a gap is a mys-
tery: is (4b) ruled out by some quirk of the morphological component? Is a
root roughly meaning ‘dance’ unavailable to be selected by v and T? This is
highly implausible, until more evidence of such “quirky” constraints is discov-
ered. If nothing else, the fact that some stems cannot appear as verbs, even in
English, entails at least that idiosyncrasies exist with respect to which stems can
be selected by a functional head like T and which cannot. This in turn looks as
something to be stated in the lexicon, “a list of exceptions, whatever does not
follow from general principles”(Chomsky 1995:234).
The points made above for English can be made much more conspicu-
ously in languages where special verbal morphology (of the ‘derivational’ sort
and not associated with tense or aspect) marks verbs. In these languages, only
lexical heads morphologically marked as verbs can be selected by T. This is
brieﬂy illustrated in (5) below.
Loan words in Modern Greek can be readily made into nouns or adjectives,
modulo phonological adaptation only. In order for them to function as verbs,
though, a special verb morpheme is required, -ar- in the examples below.
(5) a. Nrok Akul
‘rock’, as in ‘rock music’ ‘cool’, as in ‘cool guys’
b. *Vrok-o *Vkul-o
rock-1st. cool-1st.
‘I rock’ ‘I calm down’
c. Vrok-ar-o Vkul-ar-o
rock-AR-1st. cool-AR-1st.
‘I rock’ ‘I calm down’
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

In (5a) we have the noun rok, a rendering of English rock that abides by Mod-
ern Greek phonology, and the adjective kul, similarly borrowed. Under (5b),
we have failed attempts to construct verbs out of the stems rok and kul by just
adding the -o aﬃx that encodes 1st person singular agreement and Tense.9
Our attempt would be equally unsuccessful with any other aﬃx for agreement
and Tense. The correct and existent versions appear in (5c): they involve the
stem (rok- and kul-), the -o aﬃx and an -ar- form simply encoding ‘verbness’.
Similar forms encoding only category, usually verbal, exist in a number of
languages (Andrew Spencer, p.c.).
.. Deriving the selectional properties of (functional) categories
So far we have tried to establish that biuniqueness is not an epiphenomenon.
Thus, (most) functional categories (ultimately) select speciﬁc lexical catego-
ries: T will only (ultimately) select V, D will only (ultimately) select N and so
on. It is very important to make clear that biuniqueness is a property of cate-
gories, not individual lexical entries. For example, the property of T as a cate-
gory to (ultimately) select verbs only is thus kept distinct from selectional
properties individual lexical entries of Tense (e.g. past, non-past, present etc.)
might possess.
Towards an explanation of biuniqueness, Ouhalla (1991) hypothesises
that functional heads bear the categorial feature of the lexical head in their
complement. In other words, D has an [N] feature, T a [V] feature and so on.
To further illustrate Ouhalla’s idea, if ball in (4) encodes an [N] feature, it will
be unavailable for selection by T, which carries a [V] feature and a sort of fea-
ture mismatch takes place in (4b) that cancels the derivation. A similar hy-
pothesis is made by Chomsky (1993, 1995): (at least some) functional catego-
ries carry the categorial feature of the lexical head inside their complement.
The problem now is which lexical head? Consider the following:
(6) the [little town savagely bombed by its liberators] was called …
The complement of the D above, quite uncontroversially, contains ﬁve lexical
heads: two nouns (town and liberators), an adjective (little), a verb (bombed)
and an adverb10 (savagely). Which of these does D bear the categorial
speciﬁcation of? The intuition of course is that town is the relevant lexical
head here but, as discussed in Section 3.1, this cannot be expressed in a fash-
ion as straightforward as one might think. For instance, take ‘embeddedness’
as a telling criterion and assume that D bears the categorial feature of the
least embedded lexical head; such an assumption cannot be upheld if Kayne’s
Licensing and the categorial features of functional categories 
(1994) analysis of relative clauses is correct: according to it, the noun town
was merged in a very embedded position. In a similar context, Abney (1987)
discusses the notion of the semantic head of a projection: the plus its com-
plement are, ultimately, about a town (again, see Section 3.1). Grimshaw
(1991) ﬂeshes out this idea by positing the notion of Extended Projection,
deﬁned as follows:
(7) y is an Extended Projection of x iﬀ:
a. y dominates x
b. y and x share all categorial features
c. all nodes between x and y share all categorial features
d. For Fn(x) and Fm(y), n ≤ m
Her feature F0…2 is taken to be encoded on every lexical entry and deﬁnes this
entry’s position in the Extended Projection it belongs to: lexical heads, that
head Extended Projections, are speciﬁed as F0, Inﬂ and Det as F1, Comp and P
as F2. Crucially, functional heads are speciﬁed for the categorial feature of the
head of their Extended Projection, as expressed in (7b–c) above. Biuniqueness
is thus derived: T heads will always be inside the Extended Projection of a
verb, and Ds inside that of a noun because they are speciﬁed for the categorial
feature of a verb and a noun respectively. In (6), town is the head of the Ex-
tended Projection that has the D the as its syntactic head.
The notion of Extended Projection is conceptually very attractive and has
been tacitly adopted by a majority of syntacticians. First of all, it provides a
new way to capture the intuition that DPs like in (6) are about a town: town is
the head of the Extended Projection that comprises at least D, Num, N and
their projections. Hence, DPs are Extended Projections of N and N has a
privileged position in them, TPs of V and so on. Second, it is a way to materi-
alise the intuition that functional heads like T do not select Asp/verbal Num/v
and only remotely the lexical verb. The aﬃliations of functional heads are de-
termined by their categorial feature, functional heads form part of the lexical
head’s ‘court’ and, as Abney (1987:65) observed “their semantic contribution
is second order, regulating or contributing to the interpretation of [the head
of the Extended Projection].”
. Categorial features at LF
In both Ouhalla’s and Grimshaw’s analyses a potential conceptual ﬂaw dis-
creetly lurks. Stated in Grimshaw’s terms, in an Extended Projection with, say,
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

ﬁve heads, ﬁve sets of categorial features identically speciﬁed are encoded. Let
us illustrate such a case with a concrete English example:
(8) I will not have ﬁnished
Assume informally that in (8), an Extended Projection of the verb ﬁnished, we
have a DV head, with I at its speciﬁer, a T head11 will, a Neg head not and an
Asp head have. Whether this is 100% accurate or whether the surface order
does not reﬂect the order these functional heads are merged in is not impor-
tant here. What is important is the fact that, according to Ouhalla and Grim-
shaw, all DV, T, Neg, Asp and V are speciﬁed for a categorial [V] feature. What
is the role of ﬁve instances of a feature [V] at LF? What is the LF interpreta-
tion of categorial features? Recall that, under plausible minimalist assump-
tions, no features uninterpretable at an interface level (PF or LF) must reach
there, or the derivation will crash. As it is not obvious that categorial features
are PF-related features, one wonders what their role at LF can be. Presumably,
they will have to be eliminated somehow before LF and the apparent way to-
wards this is feature checking. How can this be done?
Let us try to address this problem by ﬁrst speculating on the nature of
categorial features. Suppose that it is in the lexicon where roots expressing
concepts combine with abstract derivational morphemes – or a notational
variant thereof – into lexical entries. So, nail combines with either [V] or [N],
yielding Vnail and Nnail; book1 and ball combine with the morpheme encod-
ing [N] (which also encodes classiﬁcatory features like ‘gender’ in a number
of languages) to yield Nbook and Nball but not with the morpheme encoding
[V] – one version of which in Modern Greek is -ar-. It is with this morpheme
encoding [V] that book2 combines to yield Vbook, but not with the one encod-
ing [N] and so on. The presence of a [V] feature on a lexical head will lead to
the building of an Extended Projection that is clausal (this probably meaning:
able to be given a truth value beyond LF), whereas the presence of an [N] fea-
ture to the building of an Extended Projection that is referential (or rather:
able to function as of type <e> beyond LF, cf. Chomsky 2000). There are two
diﬀerences here with the traditional interpretation of what categorial features
encode (cf. Muysken & Van Riemsdijk 1986): [V] is not taken to encode pre-
dicativity, all lexical heads are predicates ‘in isolation’ (Higginbotham 1985),
but rather ‘truth evaluativity’; similarly, [N] is not taken to be referential per
se but it leads to the lexical head being selected by a ‘referential’ functional
head (D), itself standing for something like ‘objectivisation’.12
Licensing and the categorial features of functional categories 
Let us now look more closely at the categorial features. We agree with
Ouhalla (1991), Grimshaw (1991), Chomsky (1993) and the somewhat less
explicit claims in Chomsky (1995) that functional heads have the categorial
speciﬁcation of the head of their Extended Projection. Nevertheless, if we
now assume that categorial features have some LF import, we cannot prolif-
erate their numbers inside Extended Projections. The obvious solution within
a checking framework is the following: the categorial features of functional
heads are uninterpretable at LF. Let us see what kind of conceptual and em-
pirical predictions such a proposal makes in a checking framework.
.. Heads of Extended Projections and categorial features
Abstracting away from how many and which categorial features are made
available by UG, assume that they encode fundamental properties at LF, such
as objectivisation. Even if an Extended Projection contains a number, re-
stricted or large, of functional heads at LF, it will still encode only one cate-
gorial feature, that of the lexical head, of the head of the Extended Projec-
tion. Let us go by the minimalist assumption that grammatical structures are
assembled via the merger of heads present in the numeration and that they
are not templates ﬁlled with lexical items. Thus, the bracketed Extended Pro-
jection of the noun in (9a) will be a predicative NumP but in (9c) a referen-
tial DP
(9) a. They all want to become [NumP monks]
b. They all want to become [AP monkish]
c. [DP The monks] enjoy reading Camus and Chomsky
Although the NumP in (9a) and the DP in (9c) fulﬁl two very diﬀerent func-
tions, they are both Extended Projections of N. Thus, the ‘objectivisation’ en-
coded by the categorial feature of N ‘characterises’ both these phrases and
renders them unsuitable to become attributive modiﬁers, compare *monk be-
haviour (under the interpretation of monk as modiﬁer) to monkish behaviour.
Moreover, (9a) is diﬀerent from (9b) in a subtle but real manner: you can be
monkish without being a monk and vice versa… In any case, both the nomi-
nal phrases in (9a) and (9c) are about monks, whether they function predica-
tively or referentially. This can be captured by the fact that both Extended
Projections DP and NumP have the same set of categorial features on their
heads.
Under the assumption that the lexical head of an Extended Projection is
the sole source of categorial features at LF, we can clarify Abney’s notion of
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

‘semantic head’: the semantic head of a phrase, whether a ‘maximal’ Extended
Projection or not, is the lexical head whose categorial features match those of
the (functional) head of this projection: DVP, TP, vP for instance will have a V
as their semantic head. In (6), repeated below for convenience, the semantic
head will be the N town because the DP is the Extended Projection of an N,
although other lexical heads are merged in it, of course.
(6) the [little town savagely bombed by its liberators] was called …
At a more practical level, the uninterpretability of categorial features on func-
tional heads entails that they cannot be heads of Extended Projections them-
selves and this is a most desirable consequence. In order to clarify how this
follows, consider what would happen if an Extended Projection were headed
by a functional head. This Extended Projection would feature only uninter-
pretable categorial features at LF and the derivation would unceremoniously
crash. Moreover, suppose that this hypothetical Extended Projection is in ob-
ject position with uninterpretable [N] features on all its head positions; the
closest checker would be the interpretable categorial feature of the verb, [V],
and checking would be impossible under feature mismatch. Consequently,
functional heads can only ‘grow’ around a lexical head that matches their un-
interpretable categorial features, the head of the Extended Projection they
eventually belong to.
If only lexical heads encode interpretable categorial features, the distinc-
tion between functional and lexical can now be easily stated. Functional and
lexical heads will no longer be situated at the two ends of a continuum: only
lexical heads can head Extended Projections. The informational content or
salience of a lexical head is irrelevant for grammatical competence; whether a
noun denotes complex concepts (like transubstantiation or quantum) or no
concept at all, like grammatical nouns and verbs, it is a legitimate head for a
‘nominal’ Extended Projection, in a way that a determiner is not. At the same
time, Mood, Tense, Asp and v heads will build around a V because V is a lexi-
cal head, whether it is get13 or cognise. A lexical head is such by virtue of its
categorial speciﬁcation (sometimes, like with impoverished eN, just by that), a
functional head is such by virtue of the uninterpretability of its categorial fea-
ture(s).
Licensing and the categorial features of functional categories 
.. Morphological and phonological dependence:
generalised lexical X0 movement
The idea that functional categories have uninterpretable categorial features
provides a straightforward way to derive the ‘intimacy’ displayed between
functional heads and the lexical head of their Extended Projection.
If categorial features of functional heads are uninterpretable, they must
not reach LF, because they will induce crash of the derivation. Thus, uninter-
pretable features on functional heads must follow the way of all uninter-
pretable features in grammar (as in Chomsky 1995) and will have to be
checked by a matching interpretable one by LF. The lexical head of the Ex-
tended Projection does bear an LF interpretable categorial feature and is an
appropriate checker for the uninterpretable categorial features of the func-
tional heads inside its Extended Projection. Consequently, by LF, this lexical
head (or its categorial feature) must have moved all the way up its Extended
Projection. For the part after application of Spell Out, this can be plausibly be
done by feature movement (X0 movement minus the phonological features).
Feature movement of the interpretable categorial features through all the
functional heads will result to a single set of categorial features per Extended
Projection at LF.
Does the above consequence of the uninterpretability of categorial fea-
tures on functional heads relate to any empirical phenomena? In fact, it
clearly does. Chomsky (1993, 1995) discusses the strange habit of lexical
heads to tend to climb up on what we established here to be their Extended
Projection. Hence, consider instances of overt head movement of N to Num
(Ritter 1991), N to D (Longobardi 1994),14 V to v (Larson 1988; Chomsky
1995), V to T (Pollock 1989; Chomsky 1993, 1995; Pollock 1997; Rohrbacher
1999), V (to I) to C (Den Besten 1983; Rohrbacher 1999; et al.).
Chomsky (1993, 1995) attributes overt head movement of the lexical head
to one of the functional heads inside its Complete Functional Complex15 to a
strong categorial feature on the attracting functional heads. So, in the case of V
to T, T encodes a strong [V] feature. By extrapolation, N to D movement in-
volves a strong [N] feature on D. Notice that strong categorial features cannot
be located on lexical heads, especially if strength of a feature somehow entails
its uninterpretability as well. Even if ‘strength’ is itself a feature,16 the ‘viral’
feature of Lasnik (1999), there are reasons to side with Chomsky (1995, 1998)
that such features cannot encoded on lexical heads.
Without getting into the details of the syntax-morphology interaction, it
would be feasible to relate head movement or a notational variant thereof and
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

the aﬃxal status of a large number of functional heads, in the spirit of Pollock
(1989). Consider legevano once more: (a) it could be assembled by X0 move-
ment of the V to T and DV where it picks up the aﬃxes; (b) it could be fully
inﬂected and check strong features on its way to T and DV; (c) or it could be
merged in DV as the head of a chain with lower positions T and V. In all three
scenarios, the correlation between aﬃx status and categorial feature uninte-
pretability (and “strength”) can now be readily expressed. As for the phono-
logical dependence of non-aﬃxed functional heads like might, this could
again be related to their membership of a particular Extended Projection.
Whatever motivates overt movement, it is surely a peculiarity of a given
instantiation of UG, a given grammar. More intriguingly, there are instances
of head movement of a lexical head inside its Extended Projection that are as-
sumed to be universal. V to Agr/T (Chomsky 1993, 1995) and N to D (Longo-
bardi 1994; Brugè 1996) are two cases in point. Naturally, in languages like
English where these movement operations are never overt, they have to take
place after Spell Out and, consequently, as movement of features. Thus, overt
movement of, say, V to T or N to D will be the one way to ‘do’ a universal op-
eration, the other being feature movement after Spell Out. The obvious ques-
tion is what triggers covert (post Spell Out) V to T and N to D in languages
like English? Apparently, factors related to LF interpretation.
In order to foreground the peculiarity of the situation, it is interesting to
observe that no movement of N to T or D to (a higher) V is attested17 either
overtly or covertly – this is reminiscent of biuniqueness and is in fact a conse-
quence of biuniqueness: uninterpretable categorial features only attract
matching interpretable ones. To summarise so far, lexical heads tend to move
up inside their Extended Projections overtly. Moreover, there is strong evi-
dence that (at least some of) these movements must have covert counterparts
in grammars not displaying them. N to D is universal, V to T, as well.
This state of aﬀairs can be explained away by the account sketched here.
Lexical heads have to climb up to the highest head of their Extended Projec-
tion by LF in order to check all the uninterpretable categorial features on its
functional heads. Thus, crash of the derivation is prevented. Which part of
this climbing process must be completed by Spell Out is of course down to
grammar speciﬁc properties. Thus, regarding verbal Extended Projections,
English verbs make it as far as v before Spell Out, French ones to T, in V2 lan-
guages possibly all the way to the C complex. At the same time, given the un-
interpretable [V] features on every head inside verbal Extended Projections,
the [V] feature of the verb must have reached the C complex (or DV, if no C
Licensing and the categorial features of functional categories 
heads are merged) by LF. This account of ‘generalised head movement’ can
help us dispense with category-speciﬁc requirements, like the one in Longo-
bardi (1994), which states that N-to-D movement must have taken place by
LF for ‘referentiality’ to be checked: the categorial features of lexical heads
must have checked the uninterpretable one(s) at the highest functional head
inside their Extended Projection in all cases, the rest of the lexical head’s fea-
tures will be pied-piped to the point where strong features exist:
(10) English V-movement inside its Extended Projection
DVP
DP
DV
DV
[V]
TP
T
[V] T
…
vP
DP
v
V v
VP
DP V
As illustrated in (10) above, the V head moves to v, and this is where Spell
Out ﬁnds it. Its categorial feature, say a feature [V], will have climbed up to
DV by LF and have checked all the uninterpretable [V] features.
If the above are accurate, then functional heads are not only relational to
lexical ones (Grimshaw 1991), they are also parasitic on them – perhaps in-
ternal peculiarities of the language module: they cannot exist without a lexi-
cal head to check their oﬀending categorial features. After some thought, one
can also reach the conclusion that semantic, morphological and phonological
dependence of functional categories on lexical ones is the manifestation of
functional heads being impossible outside the Extended Projection of a lexi-
cal head, either as heads of their own Extended Projection or, even, as heads
of a phrase (like ‘intransitive determiners’): in both cases, such syntactic ob-
jects would be illegitimate at LF.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

. Selection and licensing
The discussion above has sweeping implications regarding the notions of se-
lection and licensing, as well. While selection can be shown to reduce to either
s-selection or feature checking, it also ﬁnally emerges that it is lexical heads
that license the functional heads in their Extended Projections. The implica-
tions of this regarding the licensing model for empty categories (null nouns
like eN and the rest) will be explored.
. Selection
Within a theory of grammar that, in principle, seeks to derive the selectional
possibilities of categories from their conceptual properties, functional catego-
ries can potentially constitute a puzzle. Adopting the framework and argu-
ments in Chomsky (1986), let us focus on the distinction between c-selection
(roughly, selection in terms of grammatical categories) versus s-selection (se-
lection in terms of meaning) and let us see ﬁrst how c-selection and s-
selection compare when applied to selection by a lexical head.
Take the lexical entry of the V realise. It does not have to encode an ex-
plicit statement that it can (c-)select either a CP or a DP as its Theme argu-
ment, as illustrated below:
(11) I realised [CP that my theory is good fun]
(12) I realised [DP this very important fact about Tarzan]
This must be so because an explicit c-selectional statement in terms of
grammatical category labels such as CP and DP predicts the grammaticality
of (11) and (12) but not the ungrammaticality of (13) under the intended
meaning:
(13) *I realised [DP Tarzan]
Chomsky goes on to argue that maybe all that needs to be stated in the lexi-
con for the case of verbs like realise is their s-selectional properties, namely
that they take a proposition as their Theme argument. In addition to this
statement, only the plausible assumption that CP (‘clause’) is the Canonical
Structural Realisation of a proposition is needed; this of course does not pre-
clude a DP from being assigned a Theme role by realise if it (abstractly) ex-
presses a proposition – as is the case in (12) – but it rules out (13), on the
grounds that the DP Tarzan cannot easily express a proposition.
Licensing and the categorial features of functional categories 
If it is true that s-selection is enough to express the selectional properties
of lexical heads, c-selection statements such as “realise selects either a DP or a
CP” are rendered superﬂuous. One could extrapolate, as Chomsky (1986:90)
himself does, and attempt to further reduce all selection in grammar to s-
selection. Moreover, we could perhaps advance Chomsky’s claim even further
and hypothesise that s-selection is ultimately in terms of logical properties of
the concepts denoted by selectors and selected items respectively, i.e. that the
source of selection in grammar is ultimately and essentially extra-gra-
mmatical. In other words, selectional properties are properties of concepts,
not the lexical entries that denote them: the verb give selects three arguments
with particular properties because of the logical properties of the concept
GIVE.
In Section 3.3.2 above we established selection by functional heads to be
the result of their categorial feature speciﬁcation. We further showed that s-
selection is irrelevant here: functional categories do not s-select, a T head will
not select an event denoted by a noun but only a verb, a grammatical category
neither isomorphic nor co-extensional with events. This situation is summa-
rised by Ouhalla (1991:14) as a provisional statement according to which
functional heads do not s-select but rather c-select. Further sharpening this
statement we should observe that s-selection seems to be a property of indi-
vidual lexical items (such as realise above), not categories (such as V or T).
Thus, no non-vacuous statement can be formulated regarding the s-
selectional properties of nouns or determiners. Having said that, one might
possibly be able to discern some sort of s-selection among diﬀerent lexical en-
tries for functional categories as well. Consider:18
(14) a. I don’t know if/whether all government is evil.
b. I cannot decide *if/whether to post it or not.
The next question is whether (14) illustrates a genuine case of (s-)selection.
The answer is most probably negative: if is barred from ‘selecting’ inﬁnitival
clauses not in terms of extra-linguistic properties of the concept denoted by if
(especially, as opposed to that denoted by whether); neither by virtue of the
concept inﬁnitival clauses denote as a class – as there should not exist such a
thing. Rather, the ‘if versus whether’ and similar asymmetries regarding selec-
tion by lexical entries that belong to functional categories seem to naturally
fall under syntactic requirements, such as feature checking.
Given that functional categories do not denote concepts, functional heads
are automatically excluded from the sets of both s-selectors and s-selectees.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

The C head that does not denote propositions but contributes in their gram-
matical encoding. This much is true for all functional heads.
The state of aﬀairs that emerges is the following: s-selection is extra-
grammatical and stems from conceptual properties of a given lexical item.
This prevents both grammatical heads (like empty nouns, see Section 2 in
Chapter 3) and functional heads from s-selecting or being s-selected. Fur-
thermore, categories (lexical or functional), being intra-grammatical entities,
are also irrelevant for s-selection. Some co-occurrence restrictions regarding
functional heads like the Italian D la and the English C if have to do with fea-
ture checking: la has an uninterpretable feminine gender feature, if a ﬁnite-
ness one.
Functional heads are irrelevant for any sort of selection altogether: being
bunches of features inexorably tied to a con-categorial lexical head by their
uninterpretable categorial feature, they have their presence conditioned en-
tirely by their feature makeup, their uninterpretable features more speciﬁcally.
Saying that T selects a verb or is selected by DV is extending the notion of se-
lection, by now an extra-grammatical one, to include feature checking and/or
c-command, purely grammar-internal operations and relations.
The next step will be a discussion of what this situation means for the ‘li-
censing’ of eN and the rest of empty nouns.
. Licensing
Let us now investigate into the implications of the parasitic nature of func-
tional heads regarding licensing of null nouns (as in Lobeck 1995 and Kester
1996 – see also Chapter 3).
Extended Projections are built from functional heads around a lexical
one, all of which are present in the numeration. The lexical head can denote a
concept or be a grammatical one. In principle, this is irrelevant for the pur-
poses of constructing a derivation; what is of ‘interest’ to Syntax is that this
lexical head bears a categorial feature so that, at LF, this feature will have
checked and eliminated the uninterpretable categorial features of the func-
tional heads in its Extended Projection. Additionally, if this lexical head does
denote a function, a predicate, this function must be saturated at LF, accord-
ing to some version of the θ criterion.
In the light of these, recall examples (1) and (2) from Chapter 1, pre-
sented again as (15a) and (15b) respectively:
Licensing and the categorial features of functional categories 
(15) a. [DP We linguists] tend to be quite parsimonious.
b. [D We] tend to be quite parsimonious.
The need for the ‘transitivity’ of we in (15b) was so far expressed in terms of
selection being obligatory: if we ultimately selects a noun in (15a), it must do
so in (15b) as well. Now that we saw that functional heads and functional
categories do not select, we can recast this as follows: we cannot be intransi-
tive because the derivation will crash: it thus needs a noun, its categorial fea-
ture more speciﬁcally, in order to be licensed. In the account here, categorial
features are the glue that holds Extended Projections together, as lexical
heads license the functional heads inside their Extended Projection by ena-
bling them to ‘survive’ at LF. At least in this case, licensing reduces to feature
checking.
Thus, in the account developed here, lexical heads sanction the presence
of a functional complex. In other words, it is lexical heads that license the
functional heads in their Extended Projection19 and not the other way round:
a lexical head of the category [V] will force v, Asp, T, DV and so on inside its
Extended Projection and not Num, D etc. The categorial speciﬁcation is an LF
interpretable feature on lexical heads but a ‘selectional’ feature on functional
ones, uninterpretable at LF. As one would expect of ‘selectional features’, they
have to be eliminated before LF (Cormack 1995).
Observe how syntactic licensing here, lexical heads licensing functional
ones by virtue of their categorial features, can incorporate Higginbotham’s
proposal discussed earlier, according to which a noun, a lexical head,‘semanti-
cally licenses’ a functional D head via θ-assignment. Here, a noun licenses a D
head syntactically by checking and eliminating its uninterpretable categorial
feature; this can take place either before Spell Out, like in Danish via overt N to
D movement (Santelmann 1993:159), or after Spell Out, like English.
To recapitulate, it was argued in this section that only s-selection exists,
relevant to the concepts individual lexical entries denote. At the same time,
the relationships between lexical and functional heads such as biuniqueness,
the formation of Extended Projections and the tendency of lexical heads to
X0-move inside their Extended Projection are the consequences of the cate-
gorial status of functional heads: functional heads encode LF-uninterpretable
categorial features. This, in turn, derives the fact the lexical heads are, at the
same time, heads of Extended Projections: they provide the sole interpretable
categorial feature in an Extended Projection.
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

. Notational variants and conclusion
Like the rest of this study, our discussion of the relationship between lexical
and functional heads within an Extended Projection is largely stated in terms
of Chomsky’s chapter Categories and Transformations in his Minimalist Pro-
gram (1995). While there is no guarantee of the validity of most of the discus-
sion herein outside a Principles & Parameters framework, I wish to claim that
the conclusions drawn do not hinge entirely on theory-internal constructs
but that they capture important generalisations about the nature of grammar.
In work that follows the Minimalist Program book, Chomsky (1998,
1999) moves away from both the notion of uninterpretable features driving
head-movement and that of feature movement. Moreover, he hints at head
movement being a PF-motivated process, as it does not seem to have an eﬀect
on the LF interface.20 Without entering into the technicalities of Minimalist
Inquiries (Chomsky 1998) and what follows it, we can observe the following.
To the extent that head movement of a lexical head inside its Extended
Projection is the visible step of a generalised process of categorial feature
‘climbing’, there is some justiﬁcation for pre-Spell Out head movement. Of
course, one can always assume head movement to be independent of cate-
gorial feature climbing and the two processes not sharing a common step be-
fore Spell Out. This would mean that overt head movement is not an instance
of pied piping triggered by strong (uninterpretable) categorial features on
functional heads. Concerns about parsimony aside, this is a valid option.
Moving to the idea that uninterpretable features do not exist, we are pre-
sented with an interesting way to test the limits of the hypothesis that func-
tional heads encode no LF-interpretable categorial features. The challenge is
more interesting in the face of the scrapping of feature movement (covert/LF
movement). Suppose that, in the spirit of Chomsky (1998), there are no unin-
terpretable features but only unspeciﬁed ones. Functional heads would be
bundles of features with unspeciﬁed categorial features. Thus a bundle of fea-
tures X, would be a D head when in the Extended Projection of an N and a
DV when in that of a V (both D heads are referential); Y would be a Poss head
(cf. Kayne 1994) inside the Extended Projection of an N and a v head inside
that of a V (both may license external arguments). The operation Agree
would replace feature movement, a possibly desirable development.
Among the advantages of such an approach, namely postulating unspeci-
ﬁed instead of uninterpretable categorial features on functional heads, one
can include the following: ﬁrst of all, the clause/DP distinction would now
Licensing and the categorial features of functional categories 
boil down to the categorial feature of the head (clauses and DPs being Ex-
tended Projections of V and N respectively). This is why ‘verbal’ functional
heads and ‘nominal’ functional heads are so similar: DV and D, verbal Num
and Num, Poss and v. The situation in Marantz (1997) would be reversed: it is
not a complex of functional heads (all of which must be somehow compatible
with each other) that decides the nature of a root, it is the root-cum-categorial
feature that decides the nature of the (possibly identical) functional complex
as verbal or nominal.
The main problem with such an approach turns out to be no other than
biuniqueness: it falls short of explaining why T and Asp (in most languages)
resist having their categorial feature speciﬁed as [N]. Recall from Section 3.3
that a ‘semantic’ explanation in terms of tense and aspectual features clashing
with the meaning of [N] at LF is not straightforward at all.
Whatever the most accurate account for the dependence of functional
heads on lexical ones is, it has to be acknowledged that such a dependence is a
real one and central in natural language. Before concluding, it is worth ob-
serving that, if functional categories encode uninterpretable categorial fea-
tures, maybe a range of phenomena relating to language acquisition can be
set against a more clearly deﬁned background. Radford (1990) and Tsimpli
(1997) discuss an early stage of language acquisition during which functional
categories and aspects of parametric syntax have not been acquired. Interest-
ingly, similar facts have been observed in the context of second language ac-
quisition (Vainikka & Young-Scholten 1998). Generally, it appears to be the
case that children (and learners of a second language) undergo a stage during
which they have either no or underspeciﬁed functional categories and, if all
parametrisation reduces to lexical properties of functional categories (Borer
1984; Wexler & Manzini 1987; Ouhalla 1991) this arguably aﬀects aspects of
their knowledge of parametric syntax. If the category of functional heads is
encoded as an uninterpretable feature, then this could make the task of ac-
quiring them harder either indirectly (due to the aﬃxal/phonologically weak
status this property usually entails) or directly (due to the presence of the un-
interpretable feature itself).
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

Notes
. Consider the undermining of the X0/XP distinction and that of speciﬁer and comple-
ment (Chomsky 1995), the elimination of government from narrow syntax (Sportiche 1995;
Chomsky 1995) and head movement (Chomsky 1998; Mahajan 2000), the elimination of
non-local economy (Collins 1997), the dismantling of the empty categories typology (Brody
1986; Chomsky 1993, 1995; Sauerland 1998; Manzini & Savoia 2001), the banishment of in-
termediate projections and XP-adjunction (Speas 1991; Kayne 1994) and so on.
. Observe that neither ‘chain’ nor ‘atom’ are ﬁnal solutions, although they are closer to re-
ality than ‘construction-speciﬁc transformation’ or ‘phlogiston’.
. Here, issues of individuation and plurality are set aside.
. Probably by virtue of its categorial feature [N], as empty nouns do not denote predi-
cates that could assign familiar θ roles such as Theme (see Chapter 3, Section 2).
. Chomsky (1998, 1999) considers it a lexical head, apparently for reasons relating to the
deﬁnition of phases. We will adhere to the standard assumption of T being a functional
head here. The material in the following sections has been presented as a talk in the Spring
2000 meeting of the Linguistics Association of Great Britain: I wish to thank the audience
for their comments and feedback. I am also grateful to Martin Atkinson for patiently and
insightfully discussing these issues with me.
. The caveat “ultimately” will henceforth accommodate the fact that other functional
heads (can) intervene between T (or D) and the lexical verb (or noun).
. As in Chomsky (1995) and contra Chapter 4 here.
. I am grateful to Neil Smith for pointing this out to me.
. ‘Non-past’, more accurately.
. On the categorial status of adverbs, see Alexiadou (1997:Ch. 1 & 7).
. Whether or not will marks Tense: Iatridou (2000) building on an analysis in Kamp &
Reyle (1993).
. See, for instance, Bloom (2000) on the prominence of object status in lexical acquisi-
tion.
. A grammatical V according to Emonds (1985:169).
. N to D was also claimed to derive non-person pronouns in Zwarts (1993), Cardinaletti
(1994) and Panagiotidis (1998).
. As ﬁrst deﬁned in Chomsky (1986), taken here to be equivalent to the notion of Ex-
tended Projection.
. Chomsky’s (1998, 1999) ‘EPP feature’.
Licensing and the categorial features of functional categories 
. Clitic movement is never to V: Kayne (1989, 1994). Moreover, Incorporation (Baker
1988, 1999) is irrelevant here and Stowell (1991b) discusses LF requirements Incorpora-
tion can satisfy.
. I am grateful to Eric Mathieu for discussing the if/whether contrast(s) with me.
. I am grateful to Jamal Ouhalla for discussing this point with me.
. This line of argumentation is taken up and pursued by Mahajan (2000). I wish to
thank Martin Atkinson and Neil Smith for discussing ‘minimalist’ head movement with
me. Alexiadou & Stavrou (1998) oﬀer a non-movement account for ‘N-climbing’ (Cinque
1994) in Romance languages.
Conclusion
. The bigger picture
This study has attempted to formulate the unifying factor that underlies all
non-descriptive nominal expressions in natural language. Towards this end, it
made a serious commitment to a Merge & Move model, refuting the claim
that grammatical features can be located ‘wherever convenient’ in a given
structural template. Through the development of a parsimonious account of
selection and licensing, we foregrounded the Extended Projection as an im-
portant locus of all grammar-internal licensing.
The picture that emerged is the following: functional heads can exist only
as relational to, or parasitic on, a lexical one inside derivations. Together they
form Extended Projections, the head of which is the lexical head. Extended
Projections have been shown not to be primitives in grammar but rather the
result of exactly the parasitic nature of functional heads. In this sense, lexical
heads license functional ones, as lexical heads provide the feature checker func-
tional heads need for their LF-uninterpretable categorial feature. It follows
that the lexical head in an Extended Projection constitutes its semantic head.
A straightforward consequence of the parasitic status of functional cate-
gories is the impossibility of intransitive determiners – or any intransitive
functional heads, for that matter. Focussing on nominal phrases, the unavail-
ability of intransitive determiners is prima facie contradicted by the apparent
determiner status of pronominals in a large number of languages. Neverthe-
less, in the face of the existence of overt empty nouns and ample empirical
evidence, one is forced to postulate null empty nouns as well. Empty nouns,
both overt and null, license the functional projections that make up pro-
nominal or elliptical nominal phrases; because they denote no concept, they
also trigger pronominality, with possible referents of the whole DP initially re-
stricted by features on both these empty nouns and the functional heads in-
side the DP. Hence, it follows that pronominality is not a primitive in syntax
Conclusion

(or anywhere), nor is it encoded in terms of a [+pronominal] feature. Pro-
nominality is usually the result of the (minimal) contribution of empty
nouns in an otherwise perfectly ‘normal’ DP.
The non-primitive status of pronominality is corroborated by the fact that
null subjects in languages like Italian, Spanish and Modern Greek do not in-
volve an empty noun. Null subjects (a DV in turn agreeing with a verbal Num
one) are ‘pronominal’ because there is no concept-denoting noun involved –
due to the radical absence of such, this time. Of course, DV and verbal Num
being functional heads belonging to the Extended Projection of a verb, they
are properly licensed having their uninterpretable categorial features checked
by that of the verb by LF.
In a nutshell, pronominality could indeed be always the result of the radi-
cal absence of a noun – but not in human languages. If it is determiners that
are referential, they will always need a matching lexical head (‘the head of
their Extended Projection’) to check their uninterpretable categorial feature,
as determiners are functional heads. In the case of DV, the verb is suﬃcient. In
the case of D, an empty noun is invariably necessary.
The resulting picture, if accurate, is yet another blow to a typology of
empty categories based on features like [±pronominal] and [±anaphor]. Not
only traces are not as ‘empty’ as previously thought, but also pro is an epiphe-
nomenal entity that can be either of the following: (a) a fully ﬂedged, but
phonologically null, DP (as in Japanese and Chinese) (b) a DV with no strong
features (like Yaguan sa and aﬃxes in Italian, Spanish and Modern Greek)
(c) an eN (null empty noun) licensing a displaced ‘subject clitic’. Such a ‘blow’
is only welcome in the context of a drive towards linguistic theories with
more explanatory power and fewer mechanisms to this very end. Thus, no ad
hoc licensing and identiﬁcation mechanisms are required for some pronomi-
nal entities, just because of their overall or partially (null) PF representation:
all of them involve items listed in the lexicon, whether phonologically overt
or null.
. Open questions and loose ends
The preceding discussion has left at least two loose ends, which I will now
brieﬂy address in turn.
The ﬁrst has to do with how “opaque” a DP is. We have argued through-
out for pronominals being ordinary DPs that diﬀer from R-expressions only
Conclusion 
by virtue of their noun head: R-expressions are headed by contentful nouns,
pronominals by empty ones. Nevertheless, binding can apparently distinguish
between R-expressions and pronouns and imposes diﬀerent conditions on
co-reference. If this particular aspect of binding, namely the contrast between
Principle B and Principle C, applies after LF, as opposed to at LF, this should
be no serious problem. Apparently, a diﬀerence between DPs containing emp-
ty nouns and DPs containing concept-denoting nouns is visible after LF, by
the Conceptual-Intentional systems.
A more serious problem is that of the distribution of pronominal expres-
sions in overt syntax, as a number of syntactic phenomena can diﬀerentiate
between R-expressions and pronouns. Consider the following very well-
known contrasts (alluded to at the beginning of Chapter 1), adapted from
Panagiotidis (2000):
(1) a. She likes [all the postmen].
b. She likes [all you postmen].
c. She likes [you all].
(2) a. It is raining, so I took (the chair) in (the chair).
b. It is raining, so I took (it) in (*it).
c. It is raining, so I took (the bamboo one) in (the bamboo one).
If the syntactic component is blind to the semantic or phonological features
of nouns inside DPs, then we have to deal with a serious problem in both (1)
and (2). In (1) it appears that movement of the D (or the whole DP) you de-
pends on the semantic content of the noun: postmen in (1a–b) versus eN in
(1c). The choice of determiner is irrelevant, considering (1a) and (1b). In (2),
phonologically overt ones in (2c), although as semantically empty as eN in
(2b), patterns up with the phonologically overt but concept-denoting chair in
(2a), as far as positioning possibilities of the DP they belong to are concerned.
The intransitive determiner hypothesis would make more straightforward
predictions here: the bare D in (1c) and (2b) obligatorily cliticises, possibly to
comply with the Linear Correspondence Axiom (Kayne 1994). Alternatively
we can pursue an analysis of it and you as weak pronouns (see also Section 3
in Chapter 2) as in Cardinaletti & Starke (1999); not an uncomplicated task.
Although, abstracting away from English, it is not the case that only DPs
with an empty/null noun exclusively undergo object shift or scrambling, I
agree that what makes the pronoun move in (1) and (2) is the impoverish-
ment of eN. Recall from Chapter 3 that the eN that complements indexicals,
they and it (unlike that in he and she), is utterly impoverished, possibly a mere
Conclusion

categorial feature. Putting this into the perspective oﬀered in Chapter 5, eN, or
rather a mere [N] feature, is present only to ‘support’ the φ features on Num
and D by checking the uninterpretable categorial features of these heads. It is
possible that this elementary noun incorporates to Num (and D) and that
this forces this ‘ultra-light’ DP to move.
A second loose end is the nature of DV. It appears that DV is referential in
that it can be assigned a truth value after LF. We also saw that Yaguan sa and
all the DV heads in Italian, Spanish and Modern Greek also refer to individu-
als, the subjects of the clause. Thus, a DV in Spanish can ultimately be of both
type <t> and type <e>! How is this made possible? A ﬁrst answer is by virtue
of the φ features of DV: the English-style null strong DV does not seem to en-
code any. Is then strength related to the presence of φ features? These ques-
tions are anything but trivial or easy to tackle but will have to remain open
for further research, as well.
Bibliography
Abney, S. P. 1987. The English noun phrase in its sentential aspect. Unpublished PhD Thesis.
MIT.
Agouraki, G. 1990. “On the projection of maximal categories: the case of CP and FP in
Modern Greek.” UCL Working Papers in Linguistics 2:183–200.
Alexiadou, A. 1997. Adverb placement: a case study in antisymmetric syntax. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Alexiadou, A. 2000. Locating nominative case features in the tree. Talk presented at the 2000
meeting of the DGfS, Marburg.
Alexiadou, A. & Anagnostopoulou, E. 1998. “Parametrizing Agr: word order, V-movement
and EPP-checking.” Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 16:491–539.
Alexiadou, A. & Anagnostopoulou, E. 1999. Clitic-doubling and (non-)conﬁgurationality.
Unpublished manuscript, University of Crete & ZAS, Berlin.
Alexiadou, A. & Stavrou, M. 1998. On the relation between ‘strength’ and morphological
richness: crosslinguistic asymmetries in noun movement. Unpublished manuscript,
ZAS-Berlin & Aristotelian University of Thessaloniki.
Anagnostopoulou, E. 1994. Clitic dependencies in Modern Greek. Unpublished PhD thesis,
University of Salzburg.
Aoun J., Hornstein N. & Choueiri, L. 1998. Bound pronominals. Hypertext document.
Available from http://mitpress.mit.edu/celebration
Arad, M. 1996. “A minimalist view of the syntax-lexical semantics interface.” UCL Working
Papers in Linguistics 8.
Arad, M. 1998. “Are unaccusatives aspectually characterised? (and other related ques-
tions).” MIT Working Papers in Linguistics 32:1–20.
Authier, J.-M. P. 1989. “Arbitrary null objects and unselective binding.” In The Null Subject
Parameter. Jaeggli, O. & Saﬁr, K. (eds.), 45–67. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Authier, J.-Marc P. 1989b.“Two types of empty operator.” Linguistic Inquiry 20:117–125.
Baker, M. 1988. Incorporation, a theory of grammatical function changing. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.
Baker, M. 1996. The polysynthesis parameter. Oxford: OUP.
Baker, M. 1999. “Clitic climbing and the boundedness of head movement.” In Clitics in the
Languages of Europe. Van Riemsdijk, H. (ed.), 369–373. Berlin: De Gruyter.
Benveniste, É. 1966. Problèmes de lingistique générale. Vol. 1. Paris: Gallimard.
Bernstein, J. 1993. “The syntactic role of word markers in null nominal constructions.”
Probus 5:5–38.
Bibliography

Bloom, P. 2000. How children learn the meanings of words. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Bloomﬁeld, L. 1938. Language. London: Allen & Unwin.
Bobaljik, J. D. & Thráinsson, H. 1998. “Two heads aren’t always better than one.” Syntax 1:
37–71.
Boeckx, C. 2000. Clipsis. Unpublished manuscript, University of Connecticut.
Boeckx, C. & Stjepanović, S. 1999. Head-ing toward PF. Unpublished manuscript, Univer-
sity of Connecticut.
Borer, H. 1984. Parametric Syntax. Dordrecht: Foris.
Borer, H. 1986. Introduction. In The syntax of pronominal clitics. [Syntax & Semantics 19].
Borer, H. (ed.), 1–11. Stanford: Academic Press.
Borer, H. 1994. “The projection of arguments.” University of Massachusetts Occasional
Papers 17:19–47.
Borer, H. 1996. “Passives without theta grids.” In Morphological Interfaces. Lapointe, Steve
(ed.). Stanford: CSLI.
Borer, H. & Grodzinsky, Y. 1986. “Syntactic cliticization and lexical cliticization: the case of
Hebrew dative clitics.” In The syntax of pronominal clitics. [Syntax & Semantics 19].
Borer, H. (ed.), 175–217. Stanford: Academic Press.
Brandi, L. & Cordin, P. 1989. “Two Italian dialects and the null subject parameter.” In The
null subject parameter. Jaeggli, O. & Saﬁr, K. (eds.), 111–142. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Brody, M. 1986. “On the complementary distribution of empty categories.” Linguistic
Inquiry: 505–546.
Brody, M. 1990. “Some remarks on the Focus ﬁeld in Hungarian.” UCL Working Papers in
Linguistics 2:201–225.
Brugè, L. 1996.“Demonstrative movement in Spanish: a comparative approach.” University
of Venice Working Papers in Linguistics 6(1):1–53.
Burzio, L. 1986. Italian Syntax. Dordrecht: Reidel.
Campos, H. 1986.“Indeﬁnite Object Drop.” Linguistic Inquiry 17:354–359.
Cardinaletti, A. 1994. “On the internal structure of pronominal DPs.” The Linguistic
Review. 11:195–219.
Cardinaletti, A. 1997. “Subjects and clause structure.” In The New Comparative Syntax.
Haegeman, L. (ed.), 33–63. London: Longmans.
Cardinaletti, A. & Starke, M. 1999. “The typology of structural deﬁciency. A case study of
the three classes of Pronouns.” In Clitics in the Languages of Europe. Van Riemsdijk, H.
(ed.), 145–233. Berlin: De Gruyter.
Carstens, V. 2000.“Concord in Minimalist Theory.” Linguistic Inquiry 31:319–355.
Chao, W. 1988. On Ellipsis. New York: Garland.
Cheng, L. L.-S. & Sybesma, R. 1999. “Bare and not-so-bare nouns in the structure of NP.”
Linguistic Inquiry 30:509–542.
Chierchia, G. 1996. Reference to kinds across languages. Unpublished manuscript, University
of Milan.
Chomsky, N. 1970. “Remarks on nominalization.” In Readings in English transformational
grammar. Jacobs R. & Rosenbaum P. (eds.), 184–221. Waltham, Mass.: Ginn.
Chomsky, N. 1981. Lectures on Government and Binding. Dordrecht: Foris Publications.
Bibliography 
Chomsky, N. 1982. Some concepts and consequences of the Theory of Government and
Binding. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 1986. Knowledge of language. New York: Praeger.
Chomsky, N. 1986b. Barriers. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 1993.“A Minimalist Program for linguistic theory.” In The view from Building
20. Hale, K. & Keyser, S.-J. (eds.), 1–52. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 1995. The Minimalist Program. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. 1998. “Minimalist inquiries: the framework.” MIT Occasional Papers in
Linguistics 15:1–56.
Chomsky, Noam 1999. Derivation by phase. Unpublished manuscript, MIT.
Chomsky, Noam 2000. “Language from an internalist perspective.” In New Perspectives in
the Study of Language and Mind, 134–163. Cambridge: CUP.
Cinque, G. 1988.“On si constructions and the theory of Arb.” Linguistic Inquiry 19:521–581.
Cinque, G. 1990. Types of A′ dependencies. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Cinque, G. 1994. “On the evidence of partial N-movement in the Romance DP.” In Paths
towards Universal Grammar. Cinque, Guglielmo et al. (eds.), 85–110. Washington
D.C.: Georgetown University Press.
Cinque, G. 1999 Adverbs and functional heads. Oxford: OUP.
Collins, C. 1997. Local economy. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Cooke, J. R. 1968. Pronominal reference in Thai, Burmese and Vietnamese. University of
California publications in Linguistics. Berkeley/Los Angeles: University of California
Press.
Corbett, G. 1991. Gender. Cambridge: CUP.
Corver, N. & Delﬁtto, D. 1999. “On the nature of pronoun movement.” In Clitics in the
Languages of Europe. Van Riemsdijk, H. (ed.), 799–861. Berlin: De Gruyter.
Cormack, A. 1995.“The semantics of Case.” UCL Working Papers in Linguistics 6:63–88.
Delﬁtto, D. & Schroten, J. 1991.“Bare plurals and the Number aﬃx in DP.”Probus 3:155–185.
den Besten, H. 1983. “On the interaction of root transformations and lexical deletive
rules.” In On the formal syntax of Westgermania. Abraham, W. (ed.), 47–131. Amster-
dam: John Benjamins.
Den Dikken, M. 2000. Agreement and the structure of object pronouns. The case of
Hungarian. Talk presented at the 2000 meeting of the DGfS, Marburg.
Dimitriadis, A. 1994a. “Clitics and island-insensitive object drop.” Studies in the Linguistic
Sciences 24:(2).
Dimitriadis, A. 1994b. “Clitics and object drop in Modern Greek.” MIT Working Papers in
Linguistics 23:95–115.
Dobrovie-Sorin, C. 1990. “Clitic doubling, wh-movement and quantiﬁcation in Roma-
nian.” Linguistic Inquiry 21:351–397.
Doetjes, J. 1996. “Mass and count: Syntax or Semantics?” Proceedings of Meaning on the
HIL [HIL occasional papers in Linguistics, 1], 34–52. HIL/Leiden University.
Doron, E. 1986. “The pronominal “copula” as agreement clitic.” In The syntax of prono-
minal clitics. [Syntax & Semantics 19] Borer, H. (ed.), 313–332. Stanford: Academic
Press.
Bibliography

Doron, E. 1988. “On the complementarity of subject and subject-verb agreement.” In
Agreement in natural language. Barlow, M. & Ferguson, C.A. (eds.), 201–218. Stanford:
SCLI.
Druks, J. & Froud, K., in press. “The Syntax of Single Words: evidence from a patient with
a selective function word reading deﬁcit.” Cognitive Neuropsychology.
Embick, D. 2000. “Features, syntax, and categories in the Latin Perfect.” Linguistic Inquiry
31:185–230.
Emonds, J. 1978.“The verbal complex V′-V in French.” Linguistic Inquiry 9:151–175.
Emonds, J. 1985. A uniﬁed theory of syntactic categories. Dordrecht: Foris.
Enç, M. 1989. “Pronouns, licensing, and binding.” Natural Language and Linguistic Theory
7:51–92.
Everett, D. L. 1989. “Clitic doubling, reﬂexives and word order alternations in Yagua.”
Language 65:339–372.
Felix, S. 1990.“The structure of functional categories.” Linguistische Berichte 125:46–71.
Forchheimer, P. 1953. The category of Person in language. Berlin: de Gruyter.
Fukui, N. 1987. Theory of projection in syntax. Stanford, Cal.: CSLI Publications.
Fukui, N. & Speas, M. 1986.“Speciﬁers and projections.” MIT Working Papers in Linguistics
8:128–172.
Giannakidou, A. & Merchant, J. 1996. “On the interpretation of null indeﬁnite objects in
Modern Greek.” Studies in Greek Linguistics. Proceedings of the 10th Annual Meeting of
the Department of Linguistics, Faculty of Philosophy, Aristotle Univeristy of Thessaloniki.
Thessaloniki: Kyriakidis.
Giannakidou, A. & Stavrou, M. 1999. “Nominalization and Ellipsis in the Greek DP.”
Linguistic Review 16:295–331.
Giusti, G. 1995. “A uniﬁed structural representation of (abstract) Case and article.” In
Studies in comparative Germanic Syntax. Haider, H., Olsen, S. & Vikner, S. (eds.), 77–
93. Kluwer, Dordrecht.
Giusti, G. 1997. “The categorial status of determiners.” In The New Comparative Syntax.
Haegeman, L. (ed.), 95–123. London: Longmans.
Grimshaw, J. 1990. Argument Structure. Cambrudge Mass.: MIT Press.
Grimshaw, J. 1991. Extended Projection. Unpublished manuscript, Brandeis University.
Groat, E. M. 1999 “Raising the Case of expletives.” In Working Minimalism. Epstein, S. D. &
Hornstein, N. (eds.), 27–43. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Haegeman, L. 1992. Theory and description in Generative syntax: a case study in West
Flemish. Cambridge: CUP.
Hale, K. & Keyser, S. J. 1993.“On argument structure and the lexical expression of syntactic
relations.” In The View from Building 20. Hale, Kenneth & Keyser, Samuel Jay (eds.),
53–109. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Halle, M. & Marantz, A. 1993. “Distributed morphology and the pieces of inﬂection.” In
The View from Building 20. Hale, K. & Keyser, S. J. (eds.), 111–176. Cambridge, Mass.:
MIT Press.
Halle, M. 1997. “Distributed Morphology: Impoverishment and Fission.” MIT Working
Papers in Linguistics 30:425–449.
Bibliography 
Harley, H. & Noyer, R. 1998. “Licensing in the non-lexicalist lexicon: nominalisations,
vocabulary items and the Encyclopaedia.” MIT Working Papers in Linguistics 32:
119–137.
Harley, H. & Ritter, E. 1997 Meaning in Morphology: motivating a feature-geometric analysis
of person and number. Unpublished manuscript, University of Calgary & University of
Pennsylvania.
Harley, H. & Ritter, E. 2000. Structuring the bundle: a universal morphosyntactic feature
geometry. Talk delivered at the 2000 meeting of the DGfS, Marburg.
Harris, J. W. 1991.“The exponence of gender in Spanish.” Linguistic Inquiry 22:27–62.
Heim, I. & Kratzer, A. 1998. Semantics in generative grammar. Oxford: Blackwell.
Hellan, L. 1986. “The headedness of NPs in Norwegian.” In Features and Projections.
Muysken, P. & Van Riemsdijk, H. (eds.), 89–117. Dordrecht: Foris.
Higginbotham, J. 1985.“On Semantics.” Linguistic Inquiry 16:547–593.
Holmberg, A. 1986. Word order and syntactic features in the Scandinavian languages and
English. Unpublished PhD thesis, University of Stockholm.
Holmberg, A. & Platzack, C. 1996. The role of inﬂection in Scandinavian syntax. New York:
OUP.
Hornstein, N & Lightfoot, D. (eds.). 1994. Verb movement. Cambridge: CUP.
Huang, C.-T. J. 1984. “On the distribution and reference of empty pronouns.” Lingusitic
Inquiry 15:531–574.
Huang, C.-T. J. 1989. “Pro-drop in Chinese: a Generalized Control theory.” In The null
subject parameter. Jaeggli, O. & Saﬁr, K. (eds.), 185–214. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Huang, C.-T. J. 1991. “Remarks on the status of null objects.” In Principles and parameters
in comparative grammar. Freidin, R. (ed.), 56–76. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Huang, Y. 1995. “On null subjects and null objects in generative grammar.” Language 33:
1081–1123.
Iatridou, S. 1990.“About AgrP.” Linguistic Inquiry 21:551–577.
Iatridou, S. 2000. “The grammatical ingredients of counterfactuality.” Linguistic Inquiry 31:
231–270.
Ingram, D. 1978.“Typology and universals of personal pronouns.” In: Universals of Human
Language. Greenberg, J. (ed.), 213–247. Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Jackendoﬀ, R. 1977. X′ Syntax: A Study of Phrase Structure. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Jaeggli, O. A. 1982. A government theory of object clitics. Dordrecht: Foris.
Jaeggli, O. A. 1986. “Three issues in the theory of clitics: case, doubled NPs, and
extraction.” In The syntax of pronominal clitics. [Syntax & Semantics 19.] Borer, H.
(ed.), 15–42. Stanford: Academic Press.
Jelinek, E. 1984. “Empty categories, case and conﬁgurationality.” Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory 2:39–74.
Jelinek, E. 1996. “Deﬁniteness and second position clitics in Straits Salish.” In Approaching
Second: Second position clitics and related phenomena. Halpern, A. & Zwicky, A. (eds.),
271–297. Chicago: CSLI publications.
Johnson, K. 1991.“Object positions.” Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 9:577–637.
Kamp, H. & Reyle, U. 1993. From discourse to logic. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Bibliography

Kayne, R. 1989.“Null subjects and clitic climbing.” In The null subject parameter. Jaeggli, O.
& Saﬁr, K. (eds.), 239–261. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Kayne, R. 1991. “Romance clitics, verb movement and PRO.” Linguistic Inquiry 22:647–
686.
Kayne, R. 1994. The antisymmetry of Syntax. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Kayne, R. 1995. “Agreement and verb morphology in three varieties of English.” In Studies
in comparative Germanic syntax. Haider, H., Olsen, S. & Vikner, S. (eds.), 159–165.
Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Kayne, R. 1998. A note on prepositions and complementizers. Hypertext document. Available
from http ://mitpress.mit.edu/celebration
Kenstowicz, M. 1989. “The null subject parameter in modern Arabic dialects.” In The null
subject parameter. Jaeggli, O. & Saﬁr, K. (eds.), 263–275. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Kester, E.-P. 1996. The nature of adjectival inﬂection. Utrecht: OTS.
Kester, E.-P. 1996b. “Adjectival inﬂection and the licensing of empty categories in DP.”
Journal of Linguistics 32:57–78.
Koopman, H. & Sportiche, D. 1991.“The position of subjects.” Lingua 85:211–258.
Koopman, H. 2000. “The Internal and External Distribution of Pronominal DPs.” In The
syntax of speciﬁer and heads, 77–118. London: Routledge.
Kratzer, A. 1996. “Severing the external argument from its verb.” In Phrase Structure and
the Lexicon. Rooryck, J. & Zaring, L. (eds.), 109–137. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Laezlinger, C. & Shlonsky, U. 1997. “Weak pronouns as LF clitics: clustering and adjacency
eﬀects in the pronominal systems of German and Hebrew.” Studia Linguistica 51 (2):
154–185.
Laka, I. 1990. Negation in Syntax. On the nature of functional categories and projections.
Unpublished PhD Thesis, MIT.
Larson, R. 1988.“On the double object contruction.” Linguistic Inquiry 19:335–391.
Lasnik, H. 1991. “On the necessity of binding conditions.” In Principles and parameters in
comparative grammar. Freidin, R. (ed.), 7–28. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Lasnik, H. 1999. “On feature strength: three minimalist approaches to overt movement.”
Linguistic Inquiry 30:197–217.
Lightfoot, D. 1998. Ellipses as clitics. Hypertext document. Available from
http://mitpress.mit.edu/celebration
Lightfoot, D. 1999. The development of language: acquisition, change, and evolution.
London: Blackwell.
Lobeck, A. 1991. “Phrase Structure of Ellipsis in English.” In Perspectives on phrase
structure. [Syntax and Semantics 25] Rothstein, Susan (ed.), 81–103. San Diego:
Academic Press.
Lobeck, A. 1995. Ellipsis: functional heads, licensing and identiﬁcation. Oxford: OUP.
Lobeck, A. 1999. “VP ellipsis and the Minimalist Program: some speculations and
proposals.” In Fragments: Studies in Ellipsis and Gapping. Lappin, S. & Benmamoun, E.,
98–123. Oxford: OUP.
Longobardi, G. 1994. “Reference and proper names: a theory of N-movement in Syntax
and Logical Form.” Linguistic Inquiry 25:609–665.
Lyons, C. 1999. Deﬁniteness. Cambridge: CUP.
Bibliography 
Mahajan, A. 2000. Eliminating head movement. Talk presented at GLOW 2000, Vitoria-
Gasteiz.
Mallén, E. 1997. “A minimalist approach to concord in noun phrases.” Theoretical
Linguistics 23:49–77.
Manzini, M.-R. 1983. Restructuring and reanalysis. PhD thesis, MIT.
Manzini, M.-R. 1986. “On impersonal si.” In The syntax of pronominal clitics. [Syntax &
Semantics 19]. Borer, Hagit (ed.). Stanford: Academic Press.
Manzini, M.-R. & Roussou, A. 2000. “A minimalist theory of A-movement and control.”
Lingua 110:409–447.
Manzini, M.-R. & Savoia, L. 1997. “Null subjects without pro.” UCL Working Papers in
Linguistics 9:303–313.
Manzini, M.-R. & Savoia, L. 1999. The internal articulation of the clitic string: evidence for
argument structure. Talk presented at UCL.
Manzini, M.-R. & Savoia, L. 2001. Parameters of Subject Inﬂection in Italian Dialects. In
Subjects, Expletives and the EPP. Svenonius, P. (ed.). Oxford: OUP.
Marantz, A. 1997. No escape from syntax: don’t try morphological analysis in the privacy
of your own lexicon. U. Penn Working Papers in Linguistics 4:201–225.
Mathieu, E., 1999. French WH in situ and its restrictions. Unpublished manuscript, UCL.
McCloskey, J. 1991. “Clause structure, ellipsis, and proper government in Irish.” Lingua 85:
259–302.
Muysken, P. & Van Riemsdijk, H. 1986. “Projecting features and Featuring Projections.” In
Features and Projections. Muysken, P. & Van Riemsdijk, H. (eds.), 1–30. Dordrecht:
Foris.
Namai, K. 2000.“Subject Honoriﬁcation in Japanese.” Linguistic Inquiry 31:170–176.
Noguchi, T. 1997.“Two Types of pronouns and variable binding.” Language 73:770–797.
Nolan, S. 2000. The semantic features of pronouns in Standard Japanese. Talk delivered at the
2000 meeting of the DGfS, Marburg.
Oga, K. 2000. “Two types of ‘of’ and theta role assignment by nouns.” In Newcastle and
Durham Working Papers in Linguistics 6. Akita, M. & Oga, K. (eds.), 95–108. University
of Durham.
Oshima-Takane, Y. 1988. “Children learn from speech not addressed to them: The case of
personal pronouns.” Journal of Child Language 15:94–108.
Oshima-Takane, Y. 1999. “The learning of ﬁrst and second person pronouns in English.” In
Language, logic, and concepts: Essays in honor of John Macnamara. Jackendoﬀ, R.,
Bloom, P. & Wynn, K. (eds.). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Ouhalla, J. 1991. Functional Categories and Parametric Variation. London: Routledge.
Ouhalla, J. 1994. The Syntactic Representation of Arguments. Unpublished lecture. Berlin:
ASG, Max-Planck Gesellschaft.
Panagiotidis, P. 1998. “The internal structure of English pronouns.” In The 12th
International Symposium on Theoretical and Applied Linguistics. Proceedings: Vol. 1.
Lambropoulou, S. (ed.), 84–94. Thessaloniki: Aristotle University of Thessaloniki.
Panagiotidis, P. 2000. “One, empty nouns and theta assignment.” In Newcastle and Durham
Working Papers in Linguistics 6. Akita, M. & Oga, K. (eds.), 109–121. University of
Durham.
Bibliography

Panagiotidis, Phoevos 2000b. “Demonstrative determiners and operators: the case of
Greek.” Lingua 110:717–742.
Panagiotidis, P. in press.“Pronouns and the Intransitive Determiner Hypothesis.” In PLUM 8.
Chisarik, E. & Sitaridou, I. (eds.). Manchester: University of Manchester.
Pereltsvaig, A. 2000. Are all small clauses created equal? Evidence from Russian and Italian.
Talk presented at the Spring meeting of LAGB, London.
Petros, D. 1996. “On the absence of AgrS: evidence from Ethiopian Semitic languages.” In
Conﬁgurations. DiSciullo, A.-M. (ed.), 129–160. Somerville: Cascadilla Press.
Philippaki-Warburton, I. & Spyropoulos, V. 1999. ‘Subject’ and EPP in Modern Greek: the
discontinuous subject hypothesis. Unpublished manuscript, University of Reading.
Picallo, C. 1991.“Nominals and nominalization in Catalan.” Probus 3:279–316.
Pinker, S. 1994. The language instinct. London: Penguin.
Poletto, C. 1995. “The diachronic development of subject clitics.” In Clause structure and
language change. Battye, A. & Roberts, I. (eds.), 285–322. New York: OUP.
Poletto, C. 1996. “Three kinds of subject clitics in Basso Polesano and the theory of pro.” In
Parameters and functional heads: essays in comparative syntax. Belletti, A. & Rizzi, L.
(eds.), 269–300. New York: OUP.
Poletto, C. 2000. The higher functional ﬁeld: evidence from Northern Italian Dialects.
Oxford: OUP.
Pollock, J.-Y. 1989. “Verb movement, Universal Grammar and the structure of IP.” Linguistic
Inquiry 20:365–424.
Pollock, J.-Y. 1997. “Notes on clause structure.” In Elements of Grammar. Haegeman, L.
(ed.), 237–279. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Postal, P. 1969.“On So-Called “Pronouns” in English.” In Modern Studies in English. Reibel,
D. and Schane, S. (eds.), 201–224. Prentice-Hall Inc.
Progovac, L. 1998. “Determiner phrase in a language without determiners.” Journal of
Linguistics 34:165–179.
Quicoli, A. C. 1996. “Inﬂection and parametric variation: Portuguese vs. Spanish.” In
Current issues in comparative grammar. Freidin, Robert (ed.), 46–80. Dordrecht: Klu-
wer.
Quirk, R. et al. 1985. A grammar of contemporary English. London: Longman.
Radford, A. 1989. Proﬁling Proforms. Unpublished manuscript., University of Essex.
Radford, A. 1990. Syntactic theory and the acquisition of English: the nature of early child
grammars of English. Oxford: Blackwell.
Radford, A. 1993. “Head-Hunting: on the trail of the nominal Janus.” In Heads in
grammatical theory. Corbett, Greville et al. (eds.), 73–113. Cambridge: CUP.
Radford, A. 1999. NP shells. Unpublished manuscript, University of Essex.
Rapoport, T. R. 1987. Copular, nominal and small clauses. A study of Israeli Hebrew. PhD
thesis, MIT.
Raposo, E. 1986. “On the null object in European Portuguese.” In Studies in Romance
Linguistics 24. Jaeggli, O. & Silva-Corvalán, L. (eds.), 373–390. Dordrecht: Foris.
Reinhart, T. 1983. Anaphora and semantic interpretation. London: Croom Helm.
Reinhart, T. & Reuland, E. 1993.“Reﬂexivity.” Linguistic Inquiry 24:657–720.
Bibliography 
Reuland, E. 1986. “A feature system for the set of categorial heads.” In Features and
Projections. Muysken, P. and van Riemsdijk, H. (eds.), 41–88. Dordrecht: Foris.
Reuland, E. 1998. Language and (im)perfection. Hypertext document. Available from
http://mitpress.mit.edu/celebration
Reuland, E. & Reinhart, T. 1995. “Pronouns, anaphors and Case.” In Studies in comparative
Germanic Syntax. Haider H., Olsen S. & Vikner S. (eds.), 241–268. Kluwer, Dordrecht.
Ritter, E. 1991. “Two functional categories in noun phrases: evidence from Modern
Hebrew.” In Perspectives on Phrase Structure: Heads and licensing. [Syntax and
Semantics 25]. Rothstein, Susan (ed.), 37–62. San Diego: Academic Press.
Ritter, E. 1993.“Where is Gender?” Linguistic Inquiry 24:795–803.
Ritter, E. 1995. “On the syntactic category of pronouns and agreement.” Natural Language
and Linguistic Theory 13:405–443.
Rizzi, L. 1986.“Null objects in Italian and the theory of pro.” Linguistic Inquiry 17:501–557.
Rizzi, L. 1986b. “On the status of subject clitics in Romance.” In Studies in Romance
Linguistics 24. Jaeggli, O. & Silva-Corvalán, L. (eds.), 391–417. Dordrecht: Foris.
Rizzi, L. 1990. Relativized Minimality. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Rizzi, L. 1997. “A parametric approach to comparative syntax: properties of the pro-
nominal system.” In The new comparative syntax. Haegeman, L. (ed.), 268–285.
London: Longman.
Rizzi, L. 1997b. “The ﬁne structure of the left periphery.” In Elements of Grammar.
Haegeman, L. (ed.), 281–337. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Roberts, I. & Roussou, A. 1997. Interface interpretation and the theory of movement. Talk
presented at SOAS.
Rohrbacher, B. W. 1999. Morphology-driven syntax. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Roussou, A. & Tsimpli, I.-M. 1994. “On the interaction of case and deﬁniteness in Modern
Greek.” In Themes in Greek Linguistics. I. Philippaki-Warburton, I., Nicolaidis, K., &
Siﬁanou, M. (eds.), 69–76. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Rouveret, A. 1991.“Functional categories and agreement.” Linguistic Review 8:353–387.
Saﬁr, K. 1996. “PRO and pro: comments on Quicoli.” In Current issues in comparative
grammar. Freidin, Robert (ed.), 81–90. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Santelmann, L. 1993. “The distribution of double determiners in Swedish: den support in
D0.” Studia Linguistica 47 (2):154–176.
Sasse, H. J. 1993. “Syntactic categories and subcategories.” In Syntax: an international
handbook of contemporary research. Jacobs, J. (ed.), 646–686. Berlin: de Gruyter.
Sauerland, U. 1998. On the making and meaning of chains. Unpublished PhD thesis, MIT.
Shima, E. 2000.“A preference for Move over Merge.” Linguistic Inquiry 31:375–385.
Shlonsky, U. 1997. Clause structure and word order in Hebrew and Arabic. Oxford: OUP.
Silverstein, M. 1986. “Hierarchy of features and ergativity.” In Features and Projections.
Muysken, P. & Van Riemsdijk, H. (eds.), 163–232. Dordrecht: Foris.
Sleeman, P. 1993.“Noun ellipsis in French.” Probus 5:271–295.
Speas, M. 1991. Phrase structure in natural language. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Speas, M. 1996. “Null objects in functional projections.” In Phrase Structure and the
Lexicon. Rooryck, J. & Zaring, L. (eds.), 187–211. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Bibliography

Spencer, A. 2000. Gender as an inﬂectional category. Talk presented at the Spring meeting of
LAGB, London.
Sportiche, D. 1995. “Sketch of a reductionist approach to syntactic variation and
dependencies.” In Evolution and revolution in linguistic theory. Campos, H. & Kemp-
chinsky, P. (eds.), 356–398. Washington D.C.: Georgetown University Press.
Sportiche, D. 1996. “Clitic Constructions.” In Phrase Structure and the Lexicon. Rooryck, J.
& Zaring, L. (eds.), 213–276. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Sproat, R. 1985.“Welsh syntax and VSO structure.” Natural Language and Linguistic Theory
3:173–216.
Spyropoulos, V. 1998. “The Structure of Small Clauses in Modern Greek.” In Themes in
Greek Linguistics II. Joseph, B., Horrocks, G. & Philippaki-Warburton, I. (eds.), 169–
196. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Starke, M. 1995. “On the format for small clauses.” In Small Clauses. [Syntax & Semantics
28] Cardinaletti, A. & Guasti, M. T. (eds), 237–269. San Diego: Academic Press.
Stavrou, M. 1999. “The position and serialization of APs in the DP: evidence from Greek.”
In Studies in Greek Syntax. Alexiadou, A., Horrocks, G. & Stavrou, M. (eds.), 201–225.
Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Stowell, T. 1991. “Determiners in NP and DP.” In Views on phrase structure. Leﬀel, K. &
Bouchard, D. (eds.), 37–56. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Stowell, T. 1991b. “Small clause restructuring.” In Principles and parameters in comparative
grammar. Freidin, R. (ed.). Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Stowell, T. 1996. “The phrase structure of Tense.” In Phrase Structure and the Lexicon.
Rooryck, J. & Zaring, L. (eds.), 277–291. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Suñer, M. 1988. “The role of agreement in clitic-doubled constructions.” Natural Language
and Linguistic Theory 6:391–434.
Suñer, M. 1992. “Two properties of clitics in clitic-doubled constructions.” In Logical
structure and linguistic structure: cross-linguistic perspectives. Huang, C.-T. J. & May, R.
(eds.), 238–251. Dordrecht:Reidel.
Szabolcsi, A. 1994. “The Noun Phrase.” In The syntax of Hungarian. [Syntax and Semantics
27] Kiefer, F. & Kiss, K. (eds.), 179–274. Stanford: Academic Press.
Taraldsen, T. 1978. On the NIC, vacuous application and the that-trace ﬁlter. Unpublished
manuscript, MIT.
Taraldsen, K. T. 1995. “On agreement and nominative objects in Icelandic.” In Studies in
comparative Germanic Syntax. Haider, H., Olsen, S. & Vikner, S. (eds.), 307–327. Kluwer,
Dordrecht.
Terzi, A. 1999. “Clitic combinations, their hosts and their ordering.” Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory 17:85–121.
Tomić, O. M. 1996. “The Balkan Slavic nominal clitics.” In Approaching Second: Second
position clitics and related phenomena. Halpern, A. & Zwicky, A. (eds.), 511–535.
Chicago: CSLI publications.
Torrego, E. 1998.“Nominative subjects and pro-drop Inﬂ.” Syntax 1:206–219.
Tremblay, M. 1996. “Lexical and non-lexical prepositions in French.” In Conﬁgurations.
DiSciullo, A.-M. (ed.), 79–98. Somerville: Cascadilla Press.
Bibliography 
Tsimpli, I.-M. 1995. “Focussing in Modern Greek.” In Discourse-conﬁgurational languages.
É-Kiss, K. (ed.), 176–206. Oxford: OUP.
Tsimpli, I.-M. 1997. The prefunctional stage of ﬁrst language acquisition. New York: Garland.
Tsimpli, I.-M. 1999. “Individual and functional readings for focus, wh- and negative
operators.” In Themes in Greek Linguistics II. Joseph, B., Horrocks, G. & Phippaki-
Warburton, I. (eds.). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Tsimpli, I.-M. & Stavrakaki, S. 1999. “The eﬀects of a morphosyntactic deﬁcit in the
determiner system: The case of a Greek SLI child.” Lingua 108:31–85.
Uriagereka, J. 1995. “Aspects of the syntax of clitic placement in Western Romance.”
Linguistic Inquiry 26:79–123.
Uriagereka, J. 1996. “Determiner clitic placement.” In Current issues in comparative
grammar. Freidin, R. (ed.). Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Uriagereka, J. 1998. “A note on rigidity.” In Possessors, Predicates and Movement in the
Determiner Phrase. Alexiadou, A. & Wilder, C. (eds.), 361–382. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Vainikka, A. & Levy, Y. 1999. “Empty subjects in Finnish and Hebrew.” Natural Language
and Linguistic Theory 17:613–671.
Vainikka, A. & Young-Scholten, M. 1998. “The initial state in the L2 acquisition of phrase
structure.” In The generative study of second language acquistion. Flynn, M.,
Martohardjono, G.& O’Neill, W. (eds.). Mahwoh, New Jersey: LEA Associates.
Vikner, S. 1997. “V0-to-I0 movement and inﬂection for person in all tenses.” In The New
Comparative Syntax. Haegeman, L. (ed.), 189–213. London: Longmans.
Wexler, K. & Manzini, M. -R. 1987. “Parameters and learnability in binding theory.” In
Parameter setting. Roeper, T. & Williams, E. (eds.), 77–89. Dordrecht: Reidel Publishing
Company.
Williams, E. 1994. Thematic Structure in Syntax. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Zwart, J.-W. 1997. “The Germanic SOV languages and the Universal Base Hypothesis.” In
The new comparative syntax. Haegeman, L. (ed.), 246–267. London: Longman.
Zwarts, J. 1993. “Pronouns and N-to-D Movement.” In OTS Yearbook 1993 Everaert, M. et al.
(eds.). Utrecht: Research Institute for Language and Speech.
Index
A
adjective 47
affix 14
agreement 22, 49, 101, 109
allomorphy 15
animacy 25
antecedent 51
AP 98, 104
Arabic 130, 154, 156, 157, 159, 166
arbitrary interpretation 71, 125, 126
argument 126, 131, 136
ASE feature 18
Asturian 59
B
Balkan 117
Basso Polesano 151, 153, 154, 156, 159
binding 10, 97
biuniqueness 173, 177, 182, 189
borrowing 32
Brazilian Portuguese 75
Bulgarian 75
Burmese 30
C
C(onceptual)-I(ntentional) systems 11, 39
case 99, 110, 130
category 170–183
c-command 22
Celtic 130
Chain 4, 133
checking 99
Chinese 10, 71, 130, 159
clitic 62–69, 74, 101
clitic movement 62
CLLD 75
closed class 29, 111–116
concept 111, 112
control 105
D
Danish 15, 188
declension class 27
definiteness 19, 125
definition of pronominality 11
definition of pronoun 11
deixis 18
demonstrative 12, 16, 41
derivational morphology 28
descriptive featuress 111
disambiguation 11, 13
Dogrib 10
doubling 132, 137, 142, 154, 156, 157
DP hypothesis 12
Dutch 15, 107
E
ellipsis 14, 17, 47–69, 102
empty operator 97
eN 50
English 27, 33, 55, 108, 116, 154,
159, 175
epithet 38
EPP 127, 128, 130, 141, 142, 143,
154, 156, 159
extended projection 167, 177, 179,
180, 184, 187
F
feature 63, 114
features of indexicals 22
Fiorentino 130, 151, 157, 159
Pronouns, clitics and empty nouns

French 25, 26, 49, 102, 150, 159
functional determination of empty
categories 94
functional head 13, 170–183
G
gapping 48
gender 25
gender features 26
German 15, 25, 50, 53, 101, 150, 151
Germanic 68, 117
Ghomala 41
Greek
see Modern Greek
H
head 66
Hebrew 139, 157, 159, 166
Holmberg’s Generalisation 68
human noun ellipsis 56
Hungarian 19
I
Icelandic 150
identification 96, 105, 110, 114
indefinite argument 126
Indefinite Argument Drop 70
indefiniteness 77
indexical 15, 16, 35, 101, 166
interpretable features 138
intransitive determiner 12, 13, 16,
62, 169
intransitive functional head 13
intrinsic feature 20
Italian 13, 19, 20, 25, 27, 49, 71, 95, 102,
126, 128, 131, 147, 158, 159, 171
J
Japanese 10, 30, 32, 118, 127, 130, 159
L
Latin 173
lexicon 94, 109
LF 11, 14
licensing 15, 110, 168, 169, 170, 187
licensing of empty categories 96
M
Malay 30
mass 59
mass noun ellipsis 57
mass nouns 26
minimal pair 30
Modern Greek 21, 25, 27, 49, 70, 71, 75,
91, 126, 136, 144, 149, 158, 159, 175
modification 32
morphology 61
N
nominalisation 50, 79
nominal theta roles 90
non-configurational 131, 137, 142
non-person 19
North Italian
see North Italian dialects
North Italian dialects 148, 151, 152, 159
noun ellipsis 51, 55, 74
NPpro 87
N-pronoun 17, 29, 33
null argument 104
null pronoun 10, Chapter 4
num 20, 21, 22
number 20, 22
number features 24
O
one 17, 30, 33, 47
open class 32
optional feature 20
P
Paduan 151, 154
parameter 132, 137, 142, 161
partitive 57
person 11, 18
person features 23
phonological clitic 14
placement of pronominals 10
Index 
plural indexical 22
Polesano 154
Portuguese 72
possessor 92
Potawatomi 24
preposition 89
principle 98
principle B 52
pro 71
PRO 79
pro 95, 98, 126
pronominal determiner 12, 17
pronominal feature 16, 35
pronominality 12, 13, 35, 38–39,
63, 167
pronominal noun 17, 29, 33
PSE 19
PSE feature 18
Q
Quiteño Spanish 75
R
restrictive 40
R-expression 19, 37
Romance 21, 117
Rovignese 151, 153, 159
Russian 19, 50
S
Scandinavian 159
selection 15, 17, 184–187
semantic variable 11, 35, 54
Serbo-Croatian 15
Servigliano 59
Slavic 25, 117
sloppy reading 52
Spanish 49, 64, 72, 102, 126,
134, 144, 147, 158, 159
Spec–Head 49
stripping 48
strong pronouns 11
superlative 57, 61
T
Thai 10, 30, 54, 118, 159
theta assignment 135
theta criterion 168
theta licensing 89, 90, 91
theta role 131, 133, 135, 168
topic 71
trace 14
Trentino 130, 151, 157, 159
Turkish 10
two-step movement 62, 65
U
uninterpretable feature 21
Universal Grammar 14
V
variable 71
verb agreement 95
verb movement 68, 71
VP ellipsis 71
W
weak pronoun 68
X
X0 movement 65, 181, 183
X′ theory 87
Y
Yagua 141, 143, 153, 159
