xxx Ρrosodic Phonology
Vogel, I. (in press a). The Morphology-Phonology Interface: isolating to
polysynthetic languages". In F. Kiefer and P. Siptar (eds.) Selected
Papers from the 12th
International Morphology Meeting. Special Is-
sue of Acta Linguistica Hungarica . Volume 54:2. Budapest, Hun-
gary.
Vogel, I. (in press b). Universals of prosodic structure. In S.Scalise,
E.Magni, E.Vineis, A.Bisetto (eds.) With more than Chance Fre-
quency. Forty Years of Universals of Language. Amsterdam, Sprin-
ger.
Vogel, I. (to appear). The status of the Clitic Group. In J. Grijzenhout
and B. Kabak (eds.) Phonological Domains: Universals and Devia-
tions. Berlin/ New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Vogel, I. and E. Raimy (2002). The acquisition of compound vs. phrasal
stress: the role of prosodic constituents. Journal of Child Language.
29:225-250.
Wheeldon, L and A. Lahiri (1997). Prosodic units in speech production.
Journal of Memory and Language. 37: 356-381.
Wheeldon, L and A. Lahiri (2002). The minimal unit of phonological
encoding: prosodic or lexical word. Cognition. 85: B31-B41.
Woodrow, H. (1951). Time perception. In S.S. Stevens (ed.) Handbook
of Experimental Psychology. New York. Wiley. 1224-1236.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
List of Abbreviations and Symbols
A adjective
adverb
abl. ablative
abs. absolutive
acc. accusative
ant anterior
AP adjective/adverb phrase
ART article
asp aspirated
AUX auxiliary
C clitic group
consonant
CL clitic
cons consonantal
cont continuant
cor coronal
dat. dative
DCL directional clitic
del rel delayed release
dim. diminutive
DTE designated terminal element
[e] empty category
fem. feminine
G glide
gen. genitive
ger. gerund
I intonational phrase
imp. imperative
inch. inchoative
inf. infinitive
L liquid
lat lateral
LF logical form
loc. locative
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
xxxii List of Abbreviations and Symbols
masc. masculine
Ν nasal
noun
nas nasal
nom. nominative
NP noun phrase
obstr obstruent
Ρ preposition
Φ phonological phrase
Pe person
pi. plural
PP prepositional phrase
PRE prefix
pres. present
PRON pronoun
purp. purposive
Q terminal syntactic node
R rhyme
RP Received Pronunciation
s strong
S sentence
a syllable
Σ foot
sg· singular
son sonorant
strid strident
SUF suffix
syll syllabic
t trace
U phonological utterance
V verb
vowel
vce voice
w weak
word
ω phonological word
W* word star
[+W] diacritic feature
WFC well-formedness condition
X X-bar
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Chapter 1
Preliminaries
1.0. Introduction
In early generative theory, phonology was characterized by a linear organi-
zation of segments and a set of phonological rules whose domains of
application were implicitly defined in terms of the boundaries of the
surface morpho-syntactic constituent structure (see Chomsky and Halle,
1968, henceforth referred to as SPE). Thus, the interaction of phonology
with the rest of the grammar was limited to an interface with syntax such
that the output of the syntactic component constituted the input to the
phonological component with the possible intervention of Readjustment
Rules. While such a model is appealing for its simplicity and has, indeed,
yielded many interesting results, it is our contention that this view of
phonology is fundamentally inadequate. That is, on the basis of develop-
ments in phonological theory over the past decade, it seems that the
phonological component cannot be considered a homogeneous system, but
rather must be seen as a set of interacting subsystems, each governed by
its own principles, such as the theories of the metrical grid, lexical phonol-
ogy, autosegmental phonology, and prosodic phonology.
The subsystem we will be concerned with in the present study is
the prosodic subsystem, and in particular, the theory of domains. Ac-
cording to prosodic theory, the mental representation of speech is divided
into hierarchically arranged chunks. In the typically continuous flow of
speech, such mental chunks, the prosodic constituents of the grammar,
are signaled by different types of cues ranging from actual segmental
modifications to more subtle phonetic changes. That is, each prosodic
constituent serves as the domain of application of specific phonological
rules and phonetic processes. The development of a theory that accounts
for such domains thus represents a change of focus in the study of phonol-
ogy similar to the change that has taken place in the study of syntax in
the last twenty years. That is, there is a shift away from the study of
systems of rules in the direction of the study of the principles that govern
the application of grammatical processes.
Within the model of prosodic phonology proposed in this book, not
only is each prosodic constituent characterized by the different rules
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
2 Prosodic Phonology
that apply in relation to it, but also by the different principles on the basis
of which it is defined. That is, each constituent of the prosodic hier-
archy draws on different types of phonological and nonphonological
information in the definition of its domain. While the principles that
define the various prosodic constituents make reference to nonphono-
logical notions, it is of crucial importance that the resulting prosodic con-
stituents are not necessarily isomorphic to any constituents found else-
where in the grammar. Specifically, the prosodic constituents built on the
basis of information contained in the morphological and syntactic com-
ponents are not necessarily in a one-to-one relation with any of the con-
stituents of the morphology or syntax. Since prosodic structure above the
word level reflects certain syntactic notions and relations, it can be used in
certain cases as a diagnostic tool in relation to problems of syntactic
analysis. That is, if it has been determined that a phonological rule applies
within a particular prosodic constituent, in the case that more than one
syntactic analysis of a given construction is possible, the application or
nonapplication of this phonological rule between two crucial words may
provide evidence in favor of one analysis or another (see also Nespor,
1977).
In relation to the difference between the morpho-syntactic and prosod-
ic hierarchies, it should be noted, furthermore, that the two differ not
only in the way they divide a given string into constituents. They also
differ with respect to depth. That is, since the rules that construct the
phonological hierarchy are not recursive in nature, while the rules that
construct the syntactic hierarchy are, the depth of phonological structure
is finite, while the depth of syntactic structure is, in principle, not finite.
A relation between the phonological and semantic components of the
grammar is also necessary in that certain types of information contained
in the semantic component must be made available to the phonology
at the highest levels of the prosodic hierarchy. Thus, the overall model of
the grammar must be such that there is an interaction between the two
interpretive components, as opposed to the more traditional model in
which the syntactic component generates structures that are separately
interpreted by the phonological and semantic components.
The remainder of this chapter is dedicated to a description of the
general theoretical framework we will assume and the material that forms
the empirical basis of this book. The inadequacy of the constituents of
the morpho-syntactic hierarchy as domains of application of prosodic
rules will be systematically demonstrated in Chapter 2. We will then dis-
cuss the different constituents of the phonological hierarchy, providing
for each of them both the principles that account for the mapping of
notions found in other parts of the grammar onto phonological structure,
and examples of phonological rules that apply in the domains thus de-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Preliminaries 3
fined. Specifically, the two units below the word level, that is, the syllable
and the foot, will be presented in Chapter 3, while the phonological word
will be treated in Chapter 4. The four phonological units above the word
level - the clitic group, the phonological phrase, the intonational phrase,
and the phonological utterance - are the topics of Chapters 5,β,Ί, and
8, respectively.
The fact that prosodic theory provides a unique set of grammatical
constituents, each of which may be signaled in the speech chain by specific
phonetic cues, suggests that it is precisely the set of prosodic consti-
tuents, rather than other types of constituents, that accounts for the
first level of processing in speech perception. The relevance of prosodic
phrasing for perception is borne out by the results of a test discussed in
Chapter 9, in which the possibility of disambiguating ambiguous sentences
was correctly predicted by the prosodic rather than by the syntactic struc-
ture of the sentences involved.
The relevance of prosodic constituent structure is also seen in another
area of language, that is, in verse, where prosodic categories can be seen to
provide the appropriate domains in the description of metrical conven-
tions. This will be discussed in Chapter 10, in relation to Dante's Divina
Commedia. The last chapter contains some concluding remarks and the
outline of a model of phonology that represents the interface between
the units of the phonological hierarchy and the other components of the
grammar.
1.1. Interface between phonology and the other components of the
grammar
Without looking very far for evidence, it is clear that a totally autonomous
phonological component is implausible. In fact, in traditional generative
phonology there are many cases in which the application of phonological
rules depends crucially on other than purely phonological information.1
Such information, however, was typically encoded in pseudo-phonological
terms by means of different types of boundary symbols. For example,
in order to account for the pronunciation of the sequence [rjg] before
er in words such as finger and longer, as opposed to the single segment
[η] before er in singer and at the end of the word sing, Chomsky and
Halle (1968:85) make crucial use of the distinction between word bound-
aries (#) and morpheme boundaries (+). The following representations
are thus posited for each of the words in question: /fingar/, /long+ar/,
/sing#ar/, /sing#/. The deletion of /g/ in the third and fourth words,
but not in the first and second words, can now be accounted for by a
simple rule that operates only before word boundaries: g -*• 0 / [+nas] #.
According to this formulation, ^-Deletion appears to be a purely pho-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
4 Prosodic Phonology
nological process, although this rule, in fact, encodes information of a some-
what different nature. That is, the specification of # in the structural
description of the rule provides more than phonological information; it
allows the rule to apply in specific morphological contexts but not in
others, even when the segmental phonological environments are the
same, for example before the -er of the agentive (si[ij]er) but not before
the -er of the comparative {lo[qg]er).
The nonphonological information required to account for phonological
processes is not only morphological in nature; there are also phonological
rules that are sensitive to information relating to syntactic structure. The
interface between phonology and syntax has in large part been treated in
traditional generative phonology in an analogous way to the interface
between phonology and morphology, that is, in terms of different types
of boundary symbols. For example, in the case of phonological phenom-
ena that operate across words, external sandhi processes in the Classical
Indian tradition, the application of a rule depends crucially on the syntac-
tic relation between the words in question. The way in which such infor-
mation was encoded in phonological terms was in terms of the distinction
between a single and a double word boundary, as illustrated by Selkirk's
(1972) analysis of Liaison in French. Thus the application of Liaison in
a sentence such as Π y a encore deuxjipres-midi 'There are still two
afternoons' and its lack of application in the same segmental environment
in the sentence II y en a encore deux / apres lui 'There are still two of
them after him' was accounted for by specifying that the rule applies
freely across a single word boundary found, for example, between a
specifier and its head (. . . deux#apres-midi), but is blocked across a
double word boundary found, for example, between two phrases
(. . . deux##apres lui).
Since in standard generative theory the input to the phonology con-
sisted solely of the output of the syntax, the implicit claim was made that
information of any type not contained in surface syntactic structure
could not affect the application of phonological rules. There are, however,
phonological rules that demonstrate that such a position is untenable.
One such rule is Linking-/" in the RP (Received Pronunciation) style
of British English, a rule that applies not only across words within a sen-
tence, but also across words that belong to different sentences, as in
There's my mothe[r]. I've got to go. Aside from the fact that there is
no syntactic constituent that groups two such sentences together, an
additional problem arises in accounting for the observation that Link-
ing-r does not apply between just any two sentences, as illustrated by its
failure to apply in There's my mothe[<j)\ I've got two cats, where the
segmental context is identical to the one in which the rule was seen to
apply above. While the two sentences in the second example are not relat-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Preliminaries 5
ed in any way, the sentences of the first example are crucially related by
the implicit semantic relation that holds between them, specifically,
'sentence j THEREFORE sentence2', an issue that will be discussed more
extensively in Chapter 8 (see also Vogel, 1986). Since such semantic
relations do not fall within the realm of the logical form component,
that is, they are not interpretations of structural syntactic relations, this
suggests that an interface between phonology and semantics must be
allowed in the theory of grammar.
The position taken in the present study is thus that an adequate theory
of phonology must provide a way of making reference not only to the
morpho-syntactic bracketings of the surface syntactic structure, but
also to other syntactic as well as semantic notions. This is achieved in
the model presented in this book by means of the mapping rules that
group the terminal elements of a string in a way that creates units that
are not necessarily in a one-to-one relation with the constituents of the
morpho-syntactic hierarchy. Such phonological units constitute the
domains of application of phonological rules and, to the extent that they
are not isomorphic to the morpho-syntactic constituents, they make a
theory of boundaries impossible to maintain. It is precisely the set of map-
ping rules that provides the interface between the phonology and the other
components of the grammar, since the rules that define the various prosod-
ic constituents make use of different types of grammatical notions for
each level of the hierarchy. The specific relations between the levels of
the prosodic hierarchy and the other components of the grammar, further-
more, are highly constrained. That is, whether a given mapping rule makes
use of a specific type of morphological, syntactic, or semantic information
is not a free choice. In particular, the lower constituents that make use of
nonphonological information take into consideration notions present at
the lower levels of the morpho-syntactic hierarchy. Higher constituents
in the prosodic hierarchy depend on notions incorporated at higher levels
of the syntactic tree, and the uppermost levels also make reference to
semantic notions. In addition, the generality of the type of nonphonolog-
ical notions used in the mapping rules increases as we proceed to larger
prosodic categories. Each prosodic category thus has a degree of varia-
bility across languages which is greater than that of the category directly
above it in the hierarchy; the last two categories, in fact, are those that
are the most universal in nature.
1.2. Theoretical framework
Since the theory of prosodic phonology advanced in this book is a formal
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
6 Prosodic Phonology
representation of the phonological interpretation of the linguistic ma-
terial generated by the morpho-syntactic component and interpreted by
the semantic component, it is important to clarify at the outset the posi-
tions we take with respect to a number of theoretical issues regarding the
organization of the grammar in general. We will first present our view of
the structure of the phonological component, and in particular, the pro-
sodic subsystem. We will then briefly discuss the aspects of the other
components that are relevant to the interaction of these components
with the phonology.
1.2.1. The phonological component
In recent years, the field of phonology has witnessed the development
of a number of new theories, including autosegmental theory, the theory
of the metrical grid, lexical phonology, and prosodic phonology. The
model developed in the present study falls under the general heading of
prosodic phonology in the sense of Selkirk's germinal proposal in On
prosodic structure and its relation to syntactic structure' (1978b) and an
extension of this proposal found in Nespor and Vogel (1982). As we men-
tioned earlier, the model presented here is a theory of phonological
domains, that is, a theory that organizes a given string of language into a
series of hierarchically arranged phonological constituents that in turn
form the contexts within which phonological rules apply. It is our con-
tention that such a prosodic theory forms a subsystem of the phonological
component of the grammar and interacts in interesting ways with other
subsystems represented by the different theories mentioned above. For
example, the most appropriate analysis of a number of harmony rules
seems to require an interaction between autosegmental theory, which ac-
counts for the way in which the rules operate, and prosodic theory, which
accounts for the domains in which the rules apply. Another type of inter-
action is found in the set of rules having to do with phenomena of relative
prominence and rhythm, which require a treatment in terms of grids as
far as the content of the rules is concerned and a treatment in terms of
prosodic theory as far as their domains are concerned. Thus, rules such as
those discussed by Hayes (to appear) that account for the metrical pat-
terns in English verse modify the grid representation of prominence within
domains specified by prosodic theory (see also Chapter 10).
A model of the prosodic subsystem of phonology differs crucially
from the traditional generative model of phonology in two fundamental
areas: the structure of the representations and the nature of the rules. In
this section, we briefly present the basic notions we will make use of
throughout this book, as well as the principles governing the representa-
tions and rules of the system.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Preliminaries 1
Phonological representations
In contrast with the linear representations of traditional generative
phonology, prosodic phonological representations consist of a set of pho-
nological units organized in a hierarchical fashion. The phonological units,
defined on the basis of mapping rules incorporating information from the
various components of the grammar, are grouped into hierarchical struc-
tures, or trees, in accordance with the following principles that establish
the geometry of such trees.
Principle 1. A given nonterminal unit of the prosodic hierarchy, Xp
,
is composed of one or more units of the immediately lower category,
χρ-1
.
Principle 2. A unit of a given level of the hierarchy is exhaustively
contained in the superordinate unit of which it is a part.2
Principle 3. The hierarchical structures of prosodic phonology are
n-ary branching.
Principle 4. The relative prominence relation defined for sister nodes is
such that one node is assigned the value strong (s) and all the other
nodes are assigned the value weak (w).
Given that the internal structure of each prosodic constituent is charac-
terized by the same geometrical configuration, the rules that construct
the trees of the different prosodic categories will all have the same form,
that of rule (1), which will thus have to be formulated only once in
Universal Grammar.
(1) Prosodic Constituent Construction
Join into an n-ary branching Xp
all Xp_1
included in a string
delimited by the definition of the domain of Xp
.
For the convenience of the reader, however, we will give the specific
rule for constructing the trees of each category in the respective chapters,
where the variables are replaced by the appropriate values. It should be
noted that the parallelism among the trees of all the prosodic categories
is analogous to the parallelism expressed by the X-bar convention in
syntactic theory, according to which it is also the case that the internal
geometry of all phrasal nodes is essentially the same.
The four principles given above, along with the rule in (1), allow us
to construct phonological representations of the abstract form given in
(2).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
8 Prosodic Phonology
(2)
XP-J XP-j XP-j XP-j XP-j
By the same token, each of the four structures in (3) is ruled out by
Principles 14, respectively.
(3) a. b.
d.
The first two principles and the type of restrictions they place on prosodic
tree structure are relatively uncontroversial, since a theory in which one
or both are lacking would allow a virtually unlimited number of possible
structures. The last two principles, on the other hand, are more contro-
versial, and in fact, the position we are taking here differs from that found
in earlier work (including our own) on prosodic phonology. In Principle
3, it is proposed that prosodic structures are n-ary branching, in contrast
with earlier claims that they are binary branching.3
The question of
binary vs. n-ary branching structures has received much attention in
various areas of generative linguistic theory, and it is likely to remain a
controversial issue for years to come, with respect to phonology as well
as to the other components of the grammar. At this time, however, it
seems most advantageous to posit n-ary branching structures for the pro-
sodic hierarchy for a number of reasons.4
First of all, n-ary branching structures are simpler than binary branch-
ing structures in the sense that the former are essentially flat, while the
latter allow, in principle, trees of unlimited depth, as illustrated below.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Preliminaries 9
Binary branching trees thus lead to the creation of a much richer internal
structure than do n-ary branching trees. This additional structure is not,
however, motivated phonologically. For example, in order to group three
elements into a binary structure, an intermediate node must be created,
as illustrated in (5b). No such intermediate structure exists in the n-ary
branching structure in (5a).
X i X 2 X 3 X i X 2 X 3
The extra (circled) node in the binary branching tree represents a level of
structure that does not correspond to any constituent in phonological
theory. That is, there do not seem to be any rules or other phenomena
that crucially need to refer to a constituent defined as a subpart of a
constituent Y in this way. This fact, although recognized, was minimized
in the past by claiming that only those nodes with category labels were
constituents with respect to the formulation and application of phonolog-
ical rules (see Selkirk, 1980b; Nespor, 1983).
Finally, it was suggested in Nespor and Vogel (1982) that the additional
constituent structure found in binary branching trees might have a role,
if not in specifying the domain of phonological rules, at least in account-
ing for restructuring of constituents under certain circumstances. It was
claimed, for example, that a very long constituent Y could be broken
into shorter constituents only in such a way that the Y that 'split off
from the original one was a constituent in the original structure, as seen in
(6a). Similarly, particularly short Xs could be regrouped into longer ones
only if the newly created X corresponded to a node in the original struc-
ture, as illustrated in (6b).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
10 Prosodic Phonology
(6) a. Y
Xx x2 x3 x4 x5 x6
Y1
X
1 X
2 X
3 X
4 X
5 X
6
b. Y Y
) ( = x 2 + x 3 )
Contrary to our original proposal, it seems now that restructuring cannot
be constrained in the way just seen. That is, while most cases seem to fol-
low such a constraint, there are some cases in which the constituent struc-
ture of binary branching trees makes incorrect predictions about which
units may be regrouped when a long Y is broken down into shorter ones,
and when short Xs may be grouped into larger ones (see Chapter 7).
The branching structure of phonological trees was originally argued
for also on the grounds of stress assignment. It is in relation to this point
that the fourth principle, too, differs from earlier assumptions of prosodic
and metrical phonology. It was originally claimed that the assignment
of strong and weak values of relative prominence depended on the struc-
ture of the trees, and specifically on such factors as whether or not a given
node branched and the direction of branching of the tree (see among
others, Liberman and Prince, 1977; Wheeler, 1981). It is interesting
to note that the binary structures and assignment of s and w to the sister
nodes in such structures have recently been rejected by several of their
original proponents in favor of another mechanism, the metrical grid (see
Prince, 1983; Selkirk, 1984b). In any case, it is clear that the principles
that assign stress to binary branching structures cannot be valid for the n-
ary structures we are adopting here. Instead, we propose to replace the
stress assignment rules with a simpler convention, Principle 4 above,
which specifies, for a given type of constituent in the prosodic hierarchy,
which sister is the strong one. For example, it might be stipulated that the
rightmost constituent X, in the constituent Y that immediately dominates
X, is strong. All other sisters of the strong node are weak. As will be seen
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Preliminaries 11
in the following chapters, some of the principles that determine the values
strong and weak are universal in nature, while others are language specific.
As far as the details of the patterns of relative prominence and the rules
that modify these patterns are concerned, however, a more complex sys-
tem will undoubtedly be needed, for example, one that combines the
properties of the grid with the domains of the prosodic hierarchy, as
was suggested above.
Turning now from the abstract structures to the specific units of the
phonology, we propose that the prosodic hierarchy consists of seven units,
each of which will be motivated in subsequent chapters. These seven units,
from large to small, are: the phonological utterance (U), the intonational
phrase (7), the phonological phrase (0), the clitic group (C), the phonolog-
ical word (ω), the foot (Σ), and the syllable (σ). While there is no a priori
reason that the phonology of a given language must include all seven units,
we will make the assumption here that this is the case, an assumption that
can be motivated on both general and theory-specific grounds. First of
all, a theory that requires all languages to have a specific set of phonolog-
ical units is stronger than one that allows some languages to have some
units and other languages to have other units. Secondly, given that one of
the central claims of the present proposal is that each level of the pho-
nological hierarchy is defined in terms of mapping rules representing the in-
terface between phonology and other components of the grammar, the ab-
sence of a phonological category X1
in some language would have as a
consequence that in that language there is no interface of a specific type
between the phonological component and the rest of the grammar, while
in another language, in which category X1
is present, this interface does
exist. Such a situation would be undesirable since it would allow grammars
to vary in such fundamental ways as the number and nature of the inter-
actions among the various components, leading, furthermore, to an in-
crease in the number of possible grammars. Of course, the issue of the
number of phonological categories in a given language is an empirical one.
It should be noted, however, that it does not suffice to say, as Selkirk
(1980a) suggests in her analysis of Sanskrit, that if we find no rules in a
given language that make reference to a phonological unit X1
, we can
conclude that X1
does not exist in that language. First of all, it is always
possible that a rule that refers to X1
exists but has not yet been discov-
ered. Secondly, and more importantly, the fact that there may be no pho-
nological rule whose domain of application is X1
does not necessarily
mean that X1
is not relevant for the overall phonological pattern of the
language. That is, it may still be necessary in order to define relative
prominence relations, or to account for other types of phenomena, such
as the commonly observed constituent-final lengthening which may occur
in positions determined in relation to X1
. If, on the other hand, it turned
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
12 Prosodic Phonology
out to be the case that all of the languages that appeared not to have pho-
nological rules that refer to X' shared some other feature as well, this would
be a more convincing type of evidence that X1
may be absent in a parti-
cular category of languages characterized by this feature. Thus far, how-
ever, we have not come across any such generalizations.
Finally, before we proceed to a discussion of the rules in prosodic
phonology, let us briefly return to our claim that the terminal category
of the prosodic hierarchy is the syllable, since a number of recent propos-
als have argued for the existence of internal structure within the syllable,
and in particular, for the relevance of the rhyme unit. It should be noted,
first of all, that saying that the syllable is the terminal category of the
prosodic phonological system does not mean that the syllable is not
further divisible or that it does not have internal structure. It is clear,
for example, that a syllable is at least divisible into segments. Further-
more, we do not exclude the possibility that the segments may be grouped
into other subsyllabic units, such as onsets and rhymes. We only wish to
exclude segments, onsets, and rhymes from the prosodic hierarchy, an ex-
clusion made on the grounds that these subsyllabic units are not organized
in accordance with the principles governing all the other units above the
syllable level, and do not serve as the domain of application of phonolog-
ical rules.
In considering the organization of the units within the syllable, we im-
mediately encounter conflicts with several of the principles proposed
above. For example, the division into onset and rhyme, as proposed by
Fudge (1969), and more recently by Halle and Vergnaud (1978), Kiparsky
(1979), and Selkirk (1980b), among others, does not conform to Principle
1 on two accounts. First, a syllable cannot be composed of 'one or more'
onsets, or 'one or more' rhymes; one of each is the maximum. Second,
it must be assumed that the units of a given level, such as the Xp_1
level
referred to in Principle 1, are all of the same type. This is clearly not the
case for onsets and rhymes, which are distinct types of units with distinct
characteristics.5
Furthermore, in the case of ambisyllabic segments, we
may find an element that is at the same time a member of the rhyme of one
syllable and the onset of another. In such cases, neither the rhyme nor the
onset is exhaustively contained in the superordinate unit, the syllable, in
violation of Principle 2 above. Principle 3 would also be violated by an analy-
sis of the syllable into onset and rhyme constituents, since such a division is
generally assumed to be binary in nature, as is the internal structure of
the onset and rhyme constituents themselves. This is illustrated by the
universal representation of syllable structure proposed by Kiparsky (1979:
432).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Preliminaries 13
(7) σ
w (onset) s (rhyme)
λ / w
w s s s s W.
Not only would the inclusion of onset and rhyme units in the prosodic
hierarchy introduce violations of the principles that govern without ex-
ception the other prosodic categories, it would also create constituents
that are different from all the others in that they do not crucially serve
as the domain of application of phonological rules. That is, while the onset
and rhyme units may be relevant in accounting for stress patterns and
certain phonotactic constraints, as shown for example by Harris (1983)
for Spanish, they are not needed in accounting for the domain of applica-
tion of (segmental) phonological rules. Any domain formulated in terms
of an onset or rhyme can be (at least) equally effectively formulated in
terms of a syllable (see Vogel, 1985). Thus, we are not claiming that
onset and rhyme constituents have no role in phonology, but rather that
they cannot, in any case, be considered constituents of the prosodic
hierarchy.
One last question that must be examined here is the possibility that the
segment be considered the lowest constituent in the prosodic hierarchy,
instead of the syllable. In fact, if we consider the following n-ary branch-
ing representation of a syllable divided into segments, it would seem that
the four principles given above are satisfied.
In the case of ambisyllabic segments, however, we encounter a violation
of Principle 2, a problem seen in relation to onsets and rhymes as well.
That is, we find a segment that is not exhaustively contained in the con-
stituent that immediately dominates it.
It might be possible to claim that the creation of ambisyllabicity
results from low-level phonetic processes, and therefore that such viola-
tions of the Strict Layer Hypothesis do not exist at the phonological level.
(8) a
segmentw segments segment
w w
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
14 Prosodic Phonology
While this does not seem totally unreasonable, there is reason to believe,
nevertheless, that such an account is unnecessary, and that there are,
instead, better arguments for not considering the segment part of the pro-
sodic hierarchy. Specifically, the existence of ambisyllabicity seems to be
part of a more general freedom of segments to be involved in relations that
do not conform to a notion of 'strict layers'. That is, not only may a single
segment be associated with two syllables, as in the case of ambisyllabicity,
but two (or more) segments may be associated with a single feature, as
in the case of harmony phenomena, as seen in (9).
(9) a. α a b . segment segment
The segment is, furthermore, fundamental to all of the subsystems of
phonology. That is, the segmental tier, or more abstract segmental skel-
eton, forms the core in the subsystem represented by autosegmental
theory, as illustrated by the typically autosegmental structures (9). The
basic units of metrical grid theory, syllables, also have as their terminal
elements units that generally coincide with segments (see Selkirk, 1984b),
and in lexical phonology, it is clear that segments constitute a crucial
part of the representation of the units of the system and of the phonolog-
ical rules. Thus, rather than looking for a way to justify the claim that
segments are constituents of the prosodic hierarchy, it seems more correct
to assume that segments, or at least their positions, are the central core
of phonological representations and that they are in fact the common unit
of all the subsystems, the point at which they intersect.
Phonological rules
In considering the rules relating to prosodic phonology, it is necessary
to distinguish between two basic types: the mapping rules that represent
the interface between the phonological component and the other com-
ponents of the grammar, and the phonological rules proper. The former
are the rules that define the units of the prosodic hierarchy and will be
discussed in the chapters on the various phonological units. In this section,
we will be concerned only with the latter type, that is, the rules respon-
sible for changes in the phonological pattern. We will limit ourselves
furthermore, to the formal properties of rules that modify linear sequences
of segments, as opposed to rules that modify prominence relations and
autosegmental associations. Examples of the various types of segmental
rules, as well as rules that affect prominence relations and autosegmental
associations, can be found throughout the discussion of the different
phonological constituents in relation to their domain of application.
segment feature
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Preliminaries 15
In a prosodic framework, as in a traditional generative framework,
phonological rules can carry out a specific set of operations that modify
sequences of sounds. The crucial difference between the rules in the two
frameworks is that in the traditional generative framework, phonological
rules operate in domains defined in terms of morpho-syntactic constitu-
ents, while in the prosodic framework, they apply in domains defined in
terms of the phonological hierarchy. Since in traditional generative pho-
nology the domain of application of most phonological rules was assumed
to be the word, the domain is often not explicitly expressed in rules. In
prosodic phonology, on the other hand, no such assumption can be made,
and the domain of application must be stated explicitly for all rules.
Selkirk (1980a) distinguishes three types of prosodic rules: domain
span, domain juncture, and domain limit rules. The same division is main-
tained in the present work. Thus, all segmental phonological rules, in order
to be considered well formed, must be formulated as one of these three
types, characterized as follows, where A and Β are segments, one of which
may be null; X, Y, and Ζ are strings of segments, all of which may be null;
and D. and D. stand for prosodic categories (see Selkirk, 1980a: 111-12):
(10) a. domain span:
A Β / [ . . . X _ Y . . . ] D
i
b. domain juncture:
0 A - Β / [ . . . [ . . . X _ Y ] D [Z...]D ...]D j
ii)A - β / [...[...X]D [ Y _ Z . . . ] D . . . ] D
j j i
c. domain limit:
i) A - β / [ . . . X _ Y ] D
ii)A - Β I [ X _ Y . . . ] D
Selkirk (1980b) makes reference, in addition, to prosodic transformations
which, at first glance, appear not to fall into any of the three categories
just given. For example, Selkirk (p.585) gives the following formulation
of Defooting in English:
( " > U S Ι σ ^ Ι σ Ϊ Σ · · . ] « - U a CV
]CT — L
W W W W
Closer examination of this rule reveals, however, that it can be reformulat-
ed as the third type of prosodic rule, that is, as a domain limit rule, in the
following way:
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
16 Prosodic Phonology
(12) [ [ c v y s - [ c v ] f f / [ _ . . . ] ω
w w
Since all of the prosodic transformations used by Selkirk can be rewritten
along the same lines, we see no need at this point to enlarge the set of
phonological rule types to include more than the original three. A more
general question can still be raised in relation to the types of phenomena
treated by prosodic transformations. That is, since they do not modify
strings of segments, but rather the phonological representation itself,
it is not clear that they should be treated by phonological rules at all.
We will not examine such phenomena further here, however, since we have
limited our discussion to those phonological rules that modify strings of
segments.
As we have mentioned, the prosodic subsystem of the phonology
consists of seven units and three basic rule types. It is not the case, how-
ever, that all seven units may freely constitute the domains, D. and D.,
referred to in the rules, as can be seen in Table 1, where '+' indicates that
a given combination of prosodic unit and rule type is possible, and ' - '
indicates that it is not possible.
Table 1. Phonological constituents and phonological rule types
SPAN JUNCTURE (DOMAIN D.) LIMIT
σ Σ ω C φ I U
DOMAIN (D.)
syllable (σ) +
foot (Σ) +
phonological word (ω) +
clitic group (C ) +
phonological phrase (φ) +
intonational phrase (/ ) +
phonological utterance (U) +
+ + + - - - -
+ + + +
+ + + + + - -
+ + + + + + -
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
What Table 1 shows is that all seven of the prosodic categories may, in
principle, serve as the domain (D.) in span rules, as indicated by the plus
signs in the first column. The same is true for limit rules, as indicated by the
plus signs in the last column. The situation with juncture rules, however,
is somewhat more complex, since these rules make reference to two cate-
gories: the category of the adjacent units involved in the juncture (D.),
and the unit within such a juncture must occur in order for the rule
to apply (D.). Since the prosodic categories are organized hierarchically,
it follows that the juncture of two units of a particular type can only oc-
cur within a larger unit that comprises the two units in question. We must
thus exclude a priori any domain juncture rule in which D., the domain
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Preliminaries 17
of juncture, is not smaller than D., the domain within which the juncture
occurs. Such cases are indicated by the minus signs in the columns under
the juncture rules. Thus, of the 63 ways of combining prosodic categories
and rule types, only 35 are logically possible. It may turn out that not all
of these 35 logical possibilities are in fact real possibilities for prosodic
rules, but we will not enter into a discussion of this issue here.6
1.2.2. The other components
One of the central aspects of prosodic phonology, as we have said
above, is the interaction between phonology and the other components
of the grammar. Since we make use of a number of nonphonological
notions throughout this book, we will briefly outline here those charac-
teristics of the morphological, syntactic, and semantic components that
are relevant to our discussion of phonology, as well as certain problems
regarding the interaction between the phonological and the other compo-
nents of the grammar.
Morphology
In recent years there has been much discussion about the nature of
morphological representations and processes of word formation within
generative grammar.7
Whether the forms represented in the lexicon are
primarily morphemes (as proposed, for example, by Halle 1973) or words
(as proposed, for example, by Aronoff 1976) is of relatively little impor-
tance to the model of phonology we propose here. The same can be said
about the nature of the word formation processes; that is, nothing in our
model of phonology depends crucially on whether words are built by word
formation rules of the type proposed by Aronoff (1976), by rewriting
rules analogous to those in X syntax, as proposed by Selkirk (1982),
or by some other type of mechanism. This is not to say, however, that
the choices made in relation to these issues have no implications for the
phonology. Instead, the point we wish to make here is that the conse-
quences of such choices on the prosodic phonology are relatively minor,
and the various possibilities would most likely require relatively small
adaptations with respect to the model proposed here. We will therefore
not take a position regarding the nature of morphological representations
and word formation rules.
The only aspects of morphology that are relevant to our model of
prosodic phonology are those notions that are referred to by the mapping
rules that relate morphological structure to phonological structure. In
particular, the mapping rules must have access to certain aspects of mor-
phological structure and must be able to distinguish a number of different
morphological units. First of all, they need to be able to make reference
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
18 Prosodic Phonology
to what we will call the morphological word, that is, a unit that corre-
sponds to the terminal node of a syntactic tree. In addition, it is necessary
to distinguish simple (underived) words from complex (derived and com-
pound) words. In this regard, furthermore, the rules that build phonolog-
ical structure must have access to the stem of a word - that is, the un-
derived, uninfected form of a word - and to any inflectional or deriva-
tional affixes (prefixes, suffixes, and infixes). As will be seen, in particular
in the chapter on the phonological word (Chapter 4), different languages
make use of the various morphological notions in different ways. What
is central in all cases, however, is the fact that the construction of certain
phonological constituents depends on specific aspects of morphological
structure, though the resulting phonological structures are not necessari-
ly isomorphic to the constituents of morphology.
It should be noted that once the mapping rules have used the morpho-
logical information needed to create the appropriate phonological con-
stituents, this information is no longer available to phonological rules.
In other words, any phonological rule that applies in a domain created
on the basis of morphological structure may refer only to the phonolog-
ical domain, not to the morphological elements in the corresponding
morpho-syntactic tree.
There are, of course, also phonological processes that must make di-
rect reference to morphological structure and/or specific morphological
elements in the formulation of their environments. Such rules must clearly
be ordered before the rules that apply in a strictly phonological domain,
since, as we have mentioned, at this point the morphological structure is
no longer available. Since such morpho-phonological rules are different
from the purely phonological rules that are the subject of the present
work, we will not discuss further how this type of interaction between
morphology and phonology must be handled. We will assume here that
morpho-phonological processes are accounted for by a different type of
mechanism, such as the one proposed recently within the framework of
lexical phonology (see, among others, Kiparsky, 1982; Mohanan, 1981;
Rubach, 1984; Booij, to appear). It should be noted, though, that if we
accept a model of lexical phonology which assumes that internal morpho-
logical structure is erased at the end of each cycle, certain problems
arise with respect to the ordering of different types of phonological rules.
While at first glance, it seems possible to order all the rules of lexical
phonology before all the rules of prosodic phonology (assuming that the
rules of postlexical phonology correspond to the prosodic rules of the
present proposal), a closer examination reveals a complication with such a
simple model. That is, it is not possible for the output of the rules of
lexical phonology to constitute the input to the rules of prosodic phonol-
ogy, because the output of lexical phonology no longer contains informa-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Preliminaries 19
tion about the internal morphological structure of the items in question.
As will be seen below, in order to create certain prosodic constituents,
in particular the phonological word, the mapping rules must indeed have
access to certain aspects of morphological structure (see Chapter 4).
One possible solution would be to allow the mapping rules to apply
before, or at least independently from, the rules of lexical phonology.
In this way, the lexical phonology rules could apply before the prosodic
rules, although their output would not be the only input to the subsystem
of prosodic phonology. In any case, it seems that the accomodations
necessary in order to obtain the correct type of interaction between the
lexical and prosodic subsystems of the phonology will not require major
modifications in either theory. We will leave working out the details of
these modifications for future research.
Syntax
The theory of syntax that we will assume in the present study is organ-
ized as in Figure 1.
Figure 1. Schematic model of syntax
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
20 Prosodic Phonology
Within this theory, two subsystems must be distinguished: the first con-
tains the principles and operations that hold universally, and the second
contains a set of parameters according to which languages may differ from
each other.
In the model of syntax represented in Figure 1, the categorial com-
ponent is a context-free grammar that generates abstract phrase markers.
The context-free rules of this component are assumed to be formulated
according to the X-bar (X) theory, in the version of Chomsky (1970).
The X theory is not assumed to be universal; there are languages, the so-
called free word order languages (see Hale, 1981), that appear not to fit
the configurational structure determined by the X theory. Such languages
are usually referred to as W* languages, as opposed to X languages (those
that do fit the X theory), a distinction that turns out to be relevant for the
prosodic subsystem of phonology (see Chapter 6).
A fundamental claim of X theory is that there is a parallelism in the
internal structure of the phrases of a language. Thus, the lexical categories
Ν, V, A (extended to include Ρ by Jackendoff 1974, and van Riemsdijk,
1978) need not be mentioned in the phrase structure rules, since they re-
present the values that the variable X may assume.
The basic format of a phrase structure rule is: Xn
...X""1
...,
where the maximal value that η may have is an empirical question. In
principle, it is also possible that this value varies from language to language
or from category to category within a language, along some parameter.
For the purposes of this book, however, we will assume that the maximal
value_of η is 2. Each phrase will thus have three distinct levels: Χ, X,
and Χ. X is the head; the sister nodes of X in X are referred to as the
complements of X, and the sister nodes of X in X are referred to as the
specifiers of X. _
The maximal value of X, in our case X, is called the maximal projection
of X. The linear ordering of specifiers and complements with respect
to the head varies according to two parameters of universal grammar
to allow for the different basic orders found in X languages. One para-
meter defines the recursive side with respect to the head in a given lan-
guage, that is, the unmarked side for embedding, and the other parameter
specifies whether a language also uses the nonrecursive side, that is,
whether specifiers and complements are on the same side or on opposite
sides with respect to the head (see Graffi, 1980). The majority of the
languages investigated in this book are SVO languages, and thus the un-
marked position of the complements within a phrase is to the right of the
head. In an SOV language, on the other hand, the unmarked order will
typically be one in which the complements precede the head. As far as
the position of specifiers goes, SVO languages tend to use both sides of
a phrase and thus have the specifiers to the left of the head. It is a tenden-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Preliminaries 21
cy of SOV languages, on the other hand, to use only the recursive side of
phrases and thus to have both specifiers and complements to the left of
the head.
Another assumption we will make is that X is analyzable as a bundle
of two syntactic category features: [±N] and [±V], as represented in the
matrix below (from Chomsky, 1970).
+V
- V
Figure 2. Syntactic category feature matrix
The sentences of a language are assumed to be divided into root sentences,
those that are not dominated by a node other than S, or S and nonroot
sentences (see Emonds, 1976). Thus, for instance, coordinated sentences
are typically root sentences, while subordinated sentences are not.
Lexical insertion rules insert the words that have been generated
by the lexical component into the abstract phrase markers that have been
generated by the categorial component. When no lexical item is inserted
in an NP position, the phonologically empty category [ e ] ^ is inserted
instead. The output of these operations represents the deep structure
level (d-structure).
The transformational rules, indicated by move-α in Figure 1, map
d-structures onto s-structures. When the element moved by a transforma-
tion is an NP, a trace is left behind, coindexed with the moved NP. The
presence of different types of empty elements at the s-structure level
makes this level of representation a rather abstract object. While empty
elements are relevant for both syntax and logical form, they will be shown
not to play any role for prosodic phonology.
Semantics
The s-structure generated by the syntax represents the input to the
semantic component, in particular to the logical form component, the
interpretive part of the grammar that deals with meaning and has as
its output logical form. The logical form component does not include
an exhaustive semantic theory but is exclusively a theory of those aspects
of meaning that may be determined a) within a sentence, and b) without
making reference to the extralinguistic knowledge of speakers or their
systems of beliefs.
Since the internal organization of the logical form component (LF),
+N - N
A V
Ν Ρ
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
22 Prosodic Phonology
and of semantics in general, plays a somewhat peripheral role in the dis-
cussion to be developed in this book, we will briefly discuss here the more
relevant issue of semantics with respect to the rest of the grammar, and
in particular, the relation between specific semantic notions and phonolog-
ical rules. LF is usually assumed to have a position parallel to that of the
phonological component with respect to s-structure. That is, it is general-
ly accepted that both components have s-structure as input and are auto-
nomous subsystems with respect to each other. Within this view, the
organization of the grammar is graphically represented in the T-model
(see Chomsky and Lasnik, 1977). In this model, the phonological com-
ponent is on the left side of the grammar and the logical form component
is on the right side, as schematically represented below.
s-structure
phonology logical form
Figure 3. T-model of grammar
An alternative to the T-model has been proposed by van Riemsdijk and
Williams (1981), who argue in favor of a linear organization of the diffe-
rent modules of the grammar where, in particular, the phonological com-
ponent is ordered after the logical form component.
For the theory of prosodic domains developed in this book, it is not
really relevant whether the linear model or the T-model is assumed, since
both models are incapable of accounting for a set of phonological phenom-
ena. Specifically, there is empirical evidence, discussed in Chapter 8, that
indicates a) that there are phonological rules that apply across sentences,
and b) that certain semantic relations that are not subsumed under the
logical form component are interpreted phonologically. Since the T-model
and the linear model both represent types of sentence grammars, it follows
that phenomena of the first type fall beyond the field they cover. Further-
more, neither model provides a mechanism by which semantic information
other than that included in logical form may be interpreted phonological-
iy·
What is needed instead is a model of grammar in which the prosodic
phonological component has access both to strings larger than a sentence
and to specific structural relations that hold between these strings. Thus,
a discourse component must be incorporated in the grammar alongisde
a sentence component. (See, among others, Woitsetschlaeger, 1976;
Williams, 1977; and Platzack, 1979, for proposals for different subsystems
of a discourse component.)
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Preliminaries 23
1.3. Data
While this book is primarily a theoretical work it rests on a large corpus of
empirical data collected over a number of years by the authors. The bulk
of the data that form the empirical basis of the book comes from lan-
guages spoken by the authors. The largest corpus of data includes many
hours of tape recordings of more than 40 middle-class native speakers of
standard Italian gathered by the authors in Italy in the period between
1978 and 1982. The speakers were recorded reading and/or imitating,
in as natural a way possible, a series of test sentences representative
of an unmarked colloquial style of Italian. In addition, twenty speakers
were consulted for grammaticality judgments of sentences containing
the phenomena under investigation. Large amounts of data were also col-
lected for American and British (RP) varieties of English and for Modern
Greek (henceforth, simply Greek). For each of the phenomena studied
in these languages, at least five native speakers were recorded reading a
series of sentences and then asked to give grammaticality judgments on
similar types of constructions. In addition, data found in the literature
and, where possible, also judgments of native speakers, constitute the
basis of our analyses and observations of phonological phenomena found
in a number of other languages, including Spanish, Dutch, French,
Quechua, Turkish, Yidiji, Japanese, Hungarian, Sanskrit, and Latin.
Beyond the data that constitute the basis of our proposal regarding
the organization of the prosodic subsystem of phonology, we have also
used other types of data to independently evaluate certain aspects of
the theory. In particular, the results of a perception test we conducted
with 48 speakers of standard northern Italian have been used to evaluate
the role of prosodic constituents in the interpretation of ambiguous
sentences (see Chapter 9). In addition, 4720 lines of Dante's Divina
Commedia were scanned in order to test the role of prosodic domains
in determining the distribution of metrical stress in Italian hendeca-
syllabic verse (see Chapter 10).
Type of speech
The phonological phenomena analyzed in this book are limited to
those occurring at a normal rate of speech, that is, neither artificially
slow nor artificially fast. In this way, we have eliminated from investiga-
tion forms that occur exclusively in slow speech, such as those used in
dictation, where, for example, the intervocalic t of water, which is normal-
ly flapped in American English, is often aspirated instead. By the same
token, we have excluded phenomena found only in fast speech, which
often lead to sequences not otherwise permitted in the language, such as
certain cases of Vowel Deletion in American English, as in the pronun-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
24 Prosodic Phonology
ciation [ph
th
8J
r3] for the word potato, and the well known mangiarsi
le parole 'word-eating' in Italian. We have, furthermore, limited our inves-
tigation to a colloquial style of speech and, unless explicitly mentioned,
to unemphatic and noncontrastive pronunciations.
Phenomena
Within the type of speech we are considering, we have restricted our
attention further to those phenomena that can be considered strictly
phonological in nature in that they involve changes in sound patterns in
contexts that can be specified wholly in terms of phonological notions.
We have thus excluded from consideration many phenomena that were
central to early generative phonological theory, that is, phenomena that
must make reference to specific morphological or syntactic characteristics
of the elements involved. On these grounds, we do not consider a rule
such as the z-Devoicing rule in English (cf. abu[z]e vs. abu[s]ive) to be a
strictly phonological phenomenon since it must specify a particular
morpheme in its formulation: ζ -»• [-voice] / +ive (see Chomsky and
Halle, 1968: 232). Similarly, a rule such as the Main Stress Rule of English
must be excluded from consideration since it crucially refers to syntactic
labels in order to correctly assign primary stress to words such as the
noun pervert and the verb pervert. In contrast to such rules that make
explicit reference to morphological and syntactic notions in their for-
mulation, we will be concerned in this book only with prosodic rules, that
is, rules whose domain of application may be defined exclusively on the
basis of the units of the phonological hierarchy mentioned above.
While the phenomena treated in traditional generative phonology were
usually those operating at and below the word level, the majority of the
rules examined in the present study apply between words in larger
domains. They thus fall into the category of rules often referred to as
external sandhi rules. We prefer to use the more general term 'sandhi
rules', for two reasons. First, most of the rules that apply across words
also apply in analogous segmental contexts within words, as in the case of
the Gorgia Toscana, the rule of Tuscan Italian that 'aspirates' voiceless
stops intervocalically between words (e.g. molti /k/ammelU -»· molti
[h]ammelli 'many camels') as well as within words (e.g. fo/k/a fo[h]a
'seal'). Second, in the linguistic tradition external sandhi rules are opposed
to internal sandhi rules - rules that apply across morphemes within a word
- whereas in the view of prosodic phonology presented in this book,
where there is an entire hierarchy of constituents, the word is not the
reference point but just one of the prosodic categories.
While sandhi rules represent the major object of study here, some at-
tention will also be given to phenomena such as pauses and intonation
contours, given that these aspects of the sound pattern are also sensitive
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Preliminaries 25
to the constituent structure defined by the units of the phonological
hierarchy. Since the present study is phonological rather than phonetic
in nature, however, we are not concerned with measurements of the pauses
and intonation contours themselves. Furthermore, we are interested in
'perceived pauses' rather than 'actual pauses', since what is perceived as
a pause can actually correspond phonetically to a variety of phenomena,
including changes in pitch and duration, only sometimes corresponding
to a complete cessation of phonation (see Downing, 1970:10). Finally,
we do not analyze the actual intonation patterns themselves, but rather
discuss only the domains throughout which intonation contours may
extend.
NOTES
1. For a pregenerative discussion of this problem, see, for example, Pike (1947).
2. A restriction with the same effect as Principles 1 and 2 is formulated by Selkirk
(1984b) under the name of the 'Strict Layer Hypothesis'. The same name will be
used here.
3. Although 2 is, in fact, one of the possible values of n, we follow the general
practice in phonology according to which η is always taken to have the maximum
possible value.
4. See also Leben (1982), Rischel (1982), van der Hulst (1984), and Hayes (to ap-
pear), all of whom reject binary branching structures in favor of n-ary branching
structures.
5. Van der Hulst (1984) proposes to solve this particular problem by having syl-
lables dominate morae rather than onsets and rhymes. We do not include morae
in our prosodic hierarchy, since we are not aware of evidence that they serve as the
domain of application of phonological rules.
6. See Vogel (1984a) for a detailed discussion of this problem and a proposal for
further restricting the set of well-formed prosodic rules.
7. Various theoretical positions within the generative framework are discussed in
Scalise (1984).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Chapter 2
Motivation for Prosodic Constituents
2.0. Introduction
Among the processes that involve a modification of the sound pattern
of a language, there is a qualitative difference between those processes
that must be formulated with rules that make direct reference to spe-
cific morphological or syntactic properties of the elements involved
and those that can be formulated without making direct reference to
such information. It is the latter type of processes, those in which there
is no systematic correspondence between the domains that must be re-
ferred to in the formulation of the process and the constituents of the
morpho-syntactic hierarchy, that constitute the strictly phonological rules
of a language, henceforth referred to as purely phonological or simply
phonological rules, a subset of which consists of the prosodic rules that
are the focus of this book.
In the first part of this chapter, we will briefly discuss the types of rules
that are not subsumed under our definition of purely phonological rules.
In the second and third sections, a number of arguments will be presented
that demonstrate why morphological and syntactic constituents cannot
constitute the domains of application of certain phonological rules. This
failure of morpho-syntactic constituents is taken as evidence of the need
for some other type of constituents, which we propose are the constitu-
ents of the prosodic hierarchy, discussed in Chapters 3 through 8. The
specific types of criteria used in order to motivate the postulation of a
prosodic constituent will be discussed in the last section of this chapter.
2.1. Phonological processes in nonphonological contexts
Since we are concerned here with purely phonological rules, that is,
those rules that make reference only to phonological elements in their
formulation, we must be able to distinguish these rules from other pro-
cesses in which phonological information alone is not adequate. In order
to make clearer the type of phenomena we will consider in this book, we
will briefly examine below the properties of the types of rules we do not
intend to discuss further. Strictly phonological rules, and in particular
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
28 Prosodic Phonology
prosodic rules, will be discussed in subsequent chapters in relation to the
prosodic constituents that serve as their domains of application.
2.1.1. Morphological contexts
There are many phonological processes that apply only under specific
morphological conditions. These may be divided into two general groups
on the basis of the type of morphological information required. That is,
there are some rules that only need to 'see' morphological structure, and
others that also need to 'see' specific morphemes or types of morphemes.
The rules that need to have access to morphological structure are those
that have typically been accounted for by different types of boundaries in
their formulations within the SPE framework. For example, the fact that
Nasal Assimilation in English applies to the prefix in- but not to the pre-
fix un- was captured in the SPE framework by allowing the rule to apply
across '+' boundaries but not across ' # boundaries. The rule, therefore,
applies in the case of illegal and irresponsible, but not in the case of
unlawful and unreliable, because of the different boundaries in their un-
derlying representations:
(1) a. in + legal illegal
in + responsible -*• irresponsible
b. u n # lawful *ullawful
u n # reliable -»· *urreliable
In more recent proposals, such as the Level Ordering Hypothesis (see
Siegel, 1974, 1977; Allen, 1978) and Lexical Phonology (see Kiparsky,
1982; Mohanan, 1981), the boundaries have been replaced by other
mechanisms that also take morphological structure into account, and
thus allow assimilation to apply in cases like those in (la), but not those
in (lb).1
Regardless of the mechanism chosen to represent the facts of
Nasal Assimilation, it is clear that whether or not the rule applies is not a
purely phonological issue. The words below in (2) show that assimilation
does not apply in the absence of a morphological juncture, and, as the
examples in (lb) above and the additional examples in (3) show, it does
not apply at all morphological junctures either.
(2) only -*• *olly
Stanley *Stalley
Henry -> *Herry
(3) sudden- ly -*· *suddelly
man - like -> *mallike
sun - less -*• *sulless
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Motivation for Prosodic Constituents 29
Thus, the formulation of the rule of Nasal Assimilation must take into
account information about the morphological structure of the words in
question. This type of rule is, therefore, different in nature from the
strictly phonological rules we will consider in subsequent chapters of this
book.
Another example of a rule that must take morphological structure into
account is the Vowel Deletion rule of Italian that deletes an unstressed
vowel before another vowel only when the vowels are separated by a
morpheme juncture. Thus, the rule applies in the words in (4a), but not in
those in (4b).2
fama - oso famoso 'famous'
giallo - astro -ν giallastro 'yellowish'
fiore - aio fioraio 'florist'
castoro - i castori 'beaver + pi.'
paura *pura 'fear'
caotico *cotico 'chaotic'
meandri *mandri 'meanders'
In both the English and Italian examples, in order for the relevant pho-
nological processes to apply, the formulation of the rule must contain
not only phonological information, but also information about the mor-
phological structure of the items involved. It is not necessary, however,
to provide any morphological information other than that relating to the
structure. Structural information is not adequate, however, for all
morpho-phonological rules. For example, there are rules that apply only to
specific lexical categories or in the presence of specific morphemes. The
first type can be illustrated on the basis of the Main Stress Rule in English
(see SPE). This rule applies differentially to different lexical categories,
such that primary stress is assigned to the first syllable of the noun and to
the last syllable of the verb in the following set of minimal pairs:
(5) a. [record vs. [record ]y
b. [pervert]^ vs. [pervert]y
c. [siibject]^ vs. [subjectjy
d. [extract]^ vs. [extractjy
The second type of rule can be exemplified by the rule of ζ-Devoicing
in English. As was mentioned in Chapter 1, this rule applies only in the
presence of a particular morpheme, -ive (see SPE), as illustrated by its
application in (6a), but its lack of application in (6b).
(6) a. abu[z]e + ive abu[s]ive
b. abu[z]e + ing->· abu[z]ing (*abu[s]ing)
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
30 Prosodic Phonology
Another rule that applies only in the environment of a specific morpheme
is the rule of Affrication in Italian (see Scalise, 1983). This rule changes
[t(:)] to [t(:)s] before the suffix -ione (after the application of Vowel
Deletion), as illustrated in (7).
(7) corre[t:]o - ione -+ corre[t:s]ione 'correction'
distin[t]o - ione distin[ts]ione 'distinction'
danna[t]o - ione danna[ts]ione3
'damnation'
Affrication does not apply in the same segmental context (i.e. before
[j]V...) present in other suffixes, as seen in (8a), nor does it apply in
the same segmental context where no morpheme juncture intervenes,
as seen in (8b).
carre[t:]o - iere *carre[t:s]iere 'wagoner'
(cf. carre[t:]iere)
den[t]e - iera -» *den[ts]iera 'denture'
(cf. den[t]iera)
insala[t]a - iera *insala[ts]iera 'salad bowl'
(cf. insala[t]iera)
ottiene *o[t:s]iene '(he) obtains'
(cf. o[t:]iene)
sen[t]iero *sen[ts]iero 'path'
(cf. sen[t]iero)
e[t]iopico -> *e[ts]iopico 'Ethiopian'
(cf. e[t]iopico)
What all the rules discussed in this section have in common is the fact
that they carry out phonological modifications in a context that must
contain morphological information as well as phonological information.
They cannot, therefore, be considered purely phonological rules, and their
domains of application cannot be expressed in terms of prosodic pho-
nological constituents. This is not to say that all rules that apply at or
below the word level are necessarily morpho-phonological rules. It will
be seen in Chapters 3 and 4, in fact, that there are also purely phonolog-
ical rules that apply at and below the word level, their domains of applica-
tion being formulated in terms of prosodic phonological constituents.
We will assume that the former type of rule is to be handled by a
mechanism such as lexical phonology, while the latter will be handled by
the prosodic subsystem of phonology. Consequently, only the latter type
of rules will be discussed further in this book.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Motivation for Prosodic Constituents 31
2.1.2. Syntactic contexts
Given that there are (at least) two types of rules that change the sound
pattern of a language at or below the word level - those that belong to
the prosodic subsystem of phonology and those that belong to another
subsystem - an empirical question arises as to whether a parallelism exists
between the phonology at and below the word level, on the one hand, and
that above the word level, on the other hand. That is, one can ask whether
above the word level, too, there are two types of phonological rules,
those that make reference to syntax and those that belong to the prosodic
subsystem of phonology. In the discussion of phonological rules operating
above the word level, it will be shown in Chapters 5 through 8 that a
number of rules that were thought to have a syntactic domain of applica-
tion belong, instead, to prosodic phonology, in that direct reference to
syntactic structures does not yield a proper definition of their domains
while reference to prosodic constituents can handle such cases. The ques-
tion we will now address is whether there is also a group of phonological
rules above the word level that belongs to another, not purely phonolog-
ical, subsystem of the grammar, as is the case for word-internal rules.
In early generative grammar, no attempt was made to specify the
domains of application of sandhi rules applying across words. The pioneer-
ing work in the field is that of Selkirk (1972), who proposed that by
translating the syntactic constituent analysis in such a way that infor-
mation about the bracketings is made accessible to phonological rules,
it is possible to account for the domain of application of phonological
rules applying across words, for example Liaison in French. The specific
way in which this translation is carried out is by inserting word boundaries
into the phrase marker, following the conventions proposed in SPE and
Selkirk (1972). While phonological rules could not look into the syntactic
structure of a sentence, they could see such boundaries. For example,
as was mentioned in Chapter 1, it was claimed that Liaison could apply
across one boundary, but was blocked if more boundaries intervened
between two words. That syntactic constituents could not be exactly
identified with the domains of application of phonological rules, however,
was already clear in Selkirk's work itself, where special conventions were
needed both to delete a word boundary in certain syntactic structures,
thus allowing Liaison in contexts in which it would otherwise be blocked,
and to insert a word boundary when the opposite effect was needed
(see also Rotenberg, 1975, 1978).
Once it became clear that syntactic constituents were not the answer
to the problem of defining the domain of application of at least some
phonological rules, several linguists attempted to define the domains of
a number of rules in terms of other types of syntactic notions. A syntactic
distance analysis was proposed by Rotenberg (1975, 1978) to account for
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
32 Prosodic Phonology
the domain of application of French Liaison; the relevance of left branches
in a syntactic tree was proposed by Napoli and Nespor (1979) in the
form of the Left Branch Condition, to account for the domains in which
the Italian rule of Raddoppiamento Sintattico applies. Similarly, Clements
(1978) proposed that certain tonal rules of Ewe are sensitive to the distinc-
tion between left and right branching structures. Most of these rules have
been subsequently reanalyzed in terms of phonological, or prosodic,
constituents (see Selkirk, 1978b, for Liaison; Nespor and Vogel, 1982,
for Raddoppiamento Sintattico and Liaison; Hayes, to appear, for the
tonal rules of Ewe; and Chapters 5 through 8 below for a variety of
other rules). Since the specification of the domain of application of a rule
in terms of a constituent is theoretically simpler - that is, more restric-
tive - than a specification of such a domain that refers to subsets of specific
types of constituents, such a solution is to be preferred to one that refers
to syntactic structures.
There are, however, rules that apply across words that need to refer
to information expressed by the (syntactic) labeled bracketings. That is,
certain rules apply across two words only if they are contained within a
specific syntactic constituent; other rules apply only if the word that
undergoes the modification has a specific syntactic label.
The first type of rule is exemplified by two vowel deletion rules of
Greek discussed in Kaisse (1977). The first rule, Unrounded First Vowel
Deletion, deletes the final vowel of wordt in a sequence word} word2
if the vowel is unrounded and word2 also begins with a vowel, but only
under the condition that the two words are within an NP. The second rule,
Less-Sonorant Vowel Deletion, deletes one of the two vowels in a sequence
word j word2, where wordt ends with a vowel and word2 starts with a
vowel. The specification of which vowel is deleted is complicated and not
relevant to the present discussion. The relevant point here is that the two
words must belong to the same VP.
The second type of rule, that which must see the syntactic label of the
word which undergoes the rule, can be exemplified by a vowel deletion
rule of Italian (see van Hoorn, 1983; Vogel et al., 1983). Thus rule, Verb
Final Vowel Deletion, optionally deletes the final vowel of a word if a) the
vowel is immediately preceded by a + c o r o n a
^
[_+sonorant_
in turn, by a vowel, b) another word follows with
and c) the word where the deletion takes place is a verb. Thus, while in
(9a) the final vowel of the verb may be deleted, deletion of the final vowel
of a noun in a similar segmental context yields the ungrammatical sentence
given in (9b).4
consonant, preceded,
lin a specific domain,
(9) a. So che vuol[0] nuotare. (<vuole)
Ί know he wants to swim.'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Motivation for Prosodic Constituents 33
b. *Ho le suol[0] nuove. (< suole)
Ί have new soles.'
It should be noted that the different syntactic relation between the
words directly involved in the rule is not the crucial factor. Consider
the items in (10), where in both cases the word that presents the seg-
mental environment for deletion is the head of a phrase and the following
word is its complement. Deletion, nevertheless, applies to the verbal
but not to the nominal head (with the exception of a small group of
nouns ending in -re (see van Hoorn, 1983; Vogel et al., 1983)).
(10) a. parlan[0] bene (<parlano)
'they speak well'
b. *un gabbian[0] bianchissimo (<gabbiano)
'a very white seagull'
Similarly, syntactic categories play a crucial role in the Down Step rule of
Igbo where, in the sequence ...V # VCV (where " ' indicates high tone),
a rule applies to lower the initial tone of the second word in certain
domains, if this word is a noun (see Weimers and Weimers, 1969; Wei-
mers, 1973; Kenstowicz and Kisseberth, 1977). The application of this
rule is illustrated below, where the initial tone of άηύ, a noun, is lowered
in example (11a), whereas the initial tone of ocd, an adjective, is not
modified in example (1 lb).
(11) a. wetää'nü (V' = vowel with a down-stepped tone)
'bring meat'
b. üwe oca
'a white garment'
From these and similar examples described in various works (Kenstowicz
and Kisseberth, 1977; Kaisse, 1977; among others), the conclusion must
be drawn that a separate subsystem of rules exists in which reference is
made to the information borne by labeled bracketings. Thus, the answer
to the question raised at the beginning of this section is that a parallelism
does exist between the types of rules operating at and below the word
level and the types of rules operating above the word level. That is, in both
areas, a distinction must be drawn between those phonological processes
that are to be handled by purely phonological rules and those that are to
be handled by rules that also take other than phonological information
into account.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
34 Prosodic Phonology
2.2. Failure of morphologically specified contexts of prosodic phenomena
As has been seen in the preceding sections, there are certain phonological
rules that apply in contexts that are specified directly in terms of morpho-
syntactic constituents. This is not the case, however, for all phonological
rules. It will be shown in this section that there are rules whose domain of
application cannot be formulated in terms of morpho-syntactic constitu-
ents. The first language we will consider here as an illustration of this
point isYidiji, a language spoken in Northern Queensland Both the data and
analyses reported here are based on Dixon (1977a, b). In Yidip, there is
a phonological rule that lengthens the penultimate vowel of any underived
word with an odd number of syllables, as can be seen below, where the
examples in (12a) are words with an odd number of syllables, and thus
show Penultimate Lengthening (PL), while the examples in (12b) are
words with an even number of syllables, and therefore do not undergo the
rule.
(12) a. guda:ga 'dog'
mad^ndar) 'walk up'
b. müd,am 'mother'
gumbiraqa 'pick up'
In derived words, whether or not the sequence root + suffix forms a
domain of application of Penultimate Lengthening depends on the num-
ber of syllables contained in the suffix. If the suffix is monosyllabic
and is affixed to a root with an even number of syllables, thus yielding
the desired environment for Penultimate Lengthening - that is, a derived
word with an odd number of syllables - then the rule applies, as shown in
(13).
(13) a. gali:-na
go (purp.)
b. qunar)gara:-nda
whale (dat.)
If, however, a bisyllabic suffix is affixed to a root with an odd number of
syllables, thus forming a derived word with an odd number of syllables,
PL does not apply, as seen in (14), although the word contains the desired
environment consisting of an odd number of syllables. Instead, the penul-
timate syllable of the stem is lengthened.
(14) mad|,i:nda-galig
walk up (pres.)
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Motivation for Prosodic Constituents 35
It should be noted that the two types of suffixes, monosyllabic and bi-
syllabic, cannot be assigned to different morphological categories. That
is, there are no morphological regularities, such as linear ordering with
respect to each other, that might suggest the existence of two morpholog-
ical classes of suffixes. They behave in different ways phonologically
because of different phonological characteristics (i.e. number of syllables)
that cannot be captured, in a non ad hoc way, in morphological structure.
Further evidence that morphological constituency cannot define the
context of application of Penultimate Lengthening is offered by derived
words that contain the sequence root + bisyllabic suffix + monosyllabic
suffix. The sequence formed by the two suffixes behaves like an underived
word as far as PL is concerned, as shown in (15).
(15) gumari-daga-jiu -> gumä:ridagä:jiu 'to have become red'
red (inch.)(past)
While the lengthening in the root can easily be expressed in terms of
morphological boundaries, there is no way to formulate the lengthen-
ing in -daga:-flu in terms of morphological boundaries, since there is no
constituent of morphological structure that exhaustively includes the two
suffixes. Another rule deletes the final -u in the surface form.
Additional support for the claim that the domains of application
of phonological rules are not necessarily isomorphic to morphological
constituents can be found in another phonological rule of Yidiji, Stress
Assignment, which assigns stress to alternating syllables. In the morpholog-
ical word in (15), the stressed syllables are the second and the fifth ones.
That is, there are two adjacent unstressed syllables, the third and the
fourth ones. Since this is a forbidden sequence in Yidiji, we are led to the
conclusion that the domain of Stress Assignment is not the morphological
word, and that, more generally, the morphological word is not a constitu-
ent as far as phonological rules are concerned.
Further evidence that constituents of the morpho-syntactic hierarchy
cannot be considered the domains of application of at least some word-
level phonological rules comes from two assimilation rules of Greek (see
Householder, 1964: Nespor, 1986). One rule, Nasal Assimilation, as-
similates a nasal consonant in point of articulation to a following non-
continuant consonant; the other rule, Stop Voicing, voices a stop when
it is preceded by a voiced consonant. The application of the two rules
is exemplified in (16), where it is shown that the rules apply across mor-
phemes within a word.
(16) συν+πλέκω '(I) knit'
sin+pleko si[mb]leko
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
36 Prosodic Phonology
Nasal Assimilation and Stop Voicing, however, are not strictly word in-
ternal but may apply in certain cases across word boundaries as well.
For example, they may apply across two words when wordj is an article
and word2 a noun, or when wordj is the negative element bev and word2
a verb, as shown in (17). They may not apply, however, when wordj
is an auxiliary and word2 a verb, as shown in (18).
(17) a. τον#πατέρα 'the father (acc.)'
ton#patera [tombatera]
b. δβν#πβφάξί '(it) doesn't matter'
öen#piräzi [öembiräzi]
(18) έχουν#πλέξει '(they) have knitted'
exun#pleksi -*• *[exumbleksi]
Since in each of these examples the two words in question are separated
by a single word boundary, but the phonological rules apply in the first
two cases but not in the third, a theory of phonology that makes use of
boundaries to define the domains of application of phonological rules is
inadequate. In order to account for the facts just illustrated within such
a theory, it would be necessary to posit a morpheme boundary rather
than a word boundary between articles and nouns and between negative
elements and verbs, so that the rules would be word internal. This so-
lution, however, aside from being ad hoc, is untenable for syntactic
reasons. That is, since boundaries reflect morpho-syntactic structure,
positing a morpheme boundary between articles and nouns and between
negative elements and verbs would amount to claiming that these strings
are dominated by a single terminal node in syntactic structure. Such a
claim is false, however, since other words may intervene to separate the
two elements of the string.
To summarize, what the examples from Yidiji and Greek show is that
a phonological theory in which the domains of application of phonolog-
ical rules must be expressed by making reference to morphological
boundaries and word boundaries is inadequate, given that the constituents
of morphological structure are not necessarily isomorphic to the domains
of application of a set of phonological rules. An account of these and
other phenomena in a variety of languages, whose domains of application
must be expressed in terms of another type of constituent, the phonolog-
ical word, forms the foundation of Chapter 4.
2.3. Failure of syntactically specified contexts of prosodic phenomena
In considering phonological rules operating across words, a problem arises
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Motivation forProsodic Constituents 37
that is analogous to the one seen in relation to rules that apply within
the word. That is, it is necessary to define the domains of application of
such rules. While in traditional generative theory it was supposed that
these domains directly correspond to syntactic constituents (see Chomsky
and Halle, 1968; Selkirk, 1972), it has been demonstrated in more recent
work that such a claim cannot be maintained. In this light, several alter-
native proposals have been made in which different syntactic notions have
been used to characterize the domains of phonological rules operating
between words (Bierwisch, 1966; Rotenberg, 1978; Clements, 1978;
Napoli and Nespor, 1979). While all of these proposals have contributed
to our understanding of the phenomena in question, they nevertheless
have certain shortcomings in that they fail to correctly predict all cases
of application of a given rule, or are not sufficiently general to be appli-
cable to a large number of other phenomena.
In the following sections, we will examine in some detail several of the
problems associated with the claim that syntactic constituents are the do-
mains of application of phonological rules. Specifically, we will show that
syntactic structures fail in three respects. First of all, it will be demonstrat-
ed that direct reference to syntactic constituents either results in the loss
of generalizations or leads to incorrect predictions about the application
of a number of phonological rules, evidence that these constituents cannot
be the appropriate domains for the rules in question (section 2.3.1).
Secondly, while it follows from a strictly syntactic approach in which
phonology directly refers to s-structures that empty elements are visible
to phonological rules, we will demonstrate that such a position is unten-
able (section 2.3.2). Finally, we will examine in some depth the inade-
quacy of syntactic constituents as the domains of intonation contours, a
point that has already been touched on in the traditional generative
literature (section 2.3.3).
2.3.1. Noncorrespondence between syntactic constituents and domains of
phonological rules
The inappropriateness of syntactic constituents as the domains of appli-
cation of phonological rules will be demonstrated on the basis of three
different types of problems. First of all, it will be shown that direct
reference to syntactic constituents does not make the correct predictions
about the domains of phonological rules. Secondly, whereas syntactic
constituency is determined uniquely in terms of structural factors, it will
be shown that a nonstructural factor, the length of a given string, is rel-
evant to the phonology in that constituents of the same syntactic nature
but different lengths exhibit different behaviors as far as the application
of phonological rules is concerned. Finally, in contrast with the implicit
prediction made by a syntactic constituent approach to phonology that
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
38 Prosodic Phonology
the largest possible domain of application of a phonological rule is the
sentence, it will be demonstrated that there exist phonological rules that
apply in larger domains.
Bracketings
If we try to express the domains of certain phonological rules in terms
of syntactic constituents, we find that the bracketings of these constit-
uents do not delimit units that account for the application of the rules,
as can be illustrated by Raddoppiamento Sintattico in Italian.
Raddoppiamento Sintattico (RS) is a rule of central and southern
varieties of Italian that lengthens the initial consonant of word2 in a se-
quence word j word2- RS does not apply, however, in just any sequence of
two words, but requires that two phonological conditions be met. These
conditions vary a great deal according to the regional variety of Italian.
We will consider here only the variety spoken in the Tuscan region, the
one most commonly described in traditional works on Italian (Fiorelli,
1958; Camilli, 1965; Pratelli, 1970; Lepschy and Lepschy, 1977). The
phonological condition on word( is that it must end in a stressed vowel.
Thus, RS applies in (19a), but not in (19b).5
(19) a. La scimmia aveva appena mangiato metä [b: ]anana.
'The monkey had just eaten half a banana.'
b. II gorilla aveva appena mangiato quättro [b]anane.
'The gorilla had just eaten four bananas.'
The phonological condition on word2 requires that the onset of the first
syllable be either a single consonant or a cluster other than s followed by
another consonant. RS applies, therefore, in (20a) and (20b), but not in
(20c).
(20) a. II ragno aveva mangiato metä [f:]arfalla.
'The spider had eaten half a butterfly.'
b. II ragno aveva mangiato metä [g:]rillo.
'The spider had eaten half a cricket.'
c. II ragno aveva mangiato metä [s]corpione.
'The spider had eaten half a scorpion.'
These conditions on the two individual words in a given sequence, how-
ever, are not sufficient to determine the occurrence of RS. Thus, although
the phonological conditions on word} and word2 are met in (21), RS does
not apply.
(21) a. La volpe ne aveva mangiato metä [p]rima di addormentarsi.
'The fox had eaten half of it before falling asleep.'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Motivation for Prosodic Constituents 39
b. II gatto aveva catturato un colibri [m]olto pregiato.
'The cat had caught a highly valued hummingbird.'
The examples in (21) illustrate that in order for RS to apply, wordj and
word2, in addition to fulfilling the phonological requirements just men-
tioned, must be in a particular relation to each other. It is the specifi-
cation of this relation that is problematic if it is to be expressed in terms
of syntactic constituents. The cases that are most problematic are those
in which the same types of syntactic constituents are treated different-
ly by a given phonological rule, a situation that a purely syntactic analysis,
by definition, cannot handle.
Consider first the following examples which illustrate that different
sister nodes behave differently with respect to RS.
W W W
1 2 3
(22) a. Ha appena comprato un colibri [b:]lü [k]on le ali sottilissime.
'He just bought a blue hummingbird with very thin wings.'
w w w
1 2 3
b. Caccerä [k:]aribu [k]ol fucile e cervi con l'arco e le frecce.
'He will hunt caribous with a rifle and deer with a bow and ar-
row.
Wj w2 w3
c. Un levriero costerä [s:]uppergiü [m]ezzo milione.
Ά greyhound will cost about half a million (lire).'
w w w w
1 2 3 4
d. Disegno [b:]alene blu [k]on inchiostro di lapislazzuli.
'He draw blue whales with lapislazuli ink.'
Although the syntactic structures of (22a-c) differ somewhat, in each
sentence the three words relevant to the present discussion are in the same
abstract relation to each other, as represented schematically in (23a),
where "H" stands for the head of the phrase and "C" for a complement.
The abstract relation among the four crucial words in (22d), on the other
hand, is represented in (23b).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
40 Prosodic Phonology
While in each of these four sentences the segmental environment for RS
is met in two positions, that is, between Wj and w2 and between w2 and
w3 in (22a-c), and between Wj and w2 and between w3 and w4 in (22d),
the rule applies only in the first position. There is no way, however, in
(22a-c) for the head of the phrase to be grouped into a syntactic con-
stituent together with its first complement (w2), but not with the second
complement, whose initial word is w3- Similarly, in (22d), syntactic con-
stituency does not allow us to group the head of the phrase (wt ) with
its first complement (w2 and w3 ) to the exclusion of its second comple-
ment, whose initial word is w4. Since the head and complements are sister
nodes, there is no way to form a unit that consists only of the head and
its first complement. Thus, the domain of application of RS cannot be
identified with any of the syntactic constituents available in this case.
That syntactic constituents cannot account for the domain of applica-
tion of RS can be further illustrated with the following example, where
a series of right branching elements does not uniformly exhibit RS even
though the proper phonological conditions are present.
(24) a. Hovistotre [k:]olibri [b:]rutti.
Ί saw three ugly hummingbirds.'
b. Hovistotre [k:]olibri [k]osi [b:]rutti.
Ί saw three such ugly hummingbirds.'
In (24a), RS applies in both of the environments in which the phonolog-
ical conditions on the individual words are satisfied, that is, between tre
'three' and colibri 'hummingbirds' and between colibri and brutti 'ugly'.
In (24b), however, there are three environments in which the phonological
conditions for RS are met, that is, between tre and colibri, between colibri
and cosi 'such' and between cosi and brutti, but the rule applies only in
the first and third cases. Since all of the words in question are grouped
in a parallel way in syntactic structure, as can be seen in (25), there is no
reason to expect RS not to apply between w2 and w3 in (25b), since it
applies in all the other positions.
(25) w, w2 w3
a. ...[tre [colibri [brutti]]]
Wj w>2 w3 w4
b. ...[tre [colibri [cosi [brutti]]]]
While in (25a) the repeated application of RS seems to indicate that the
rule applies throughout an entire constituent, it can be seen that this is not
the case in (25b), where the rule does not apply throughout a similar
type of constituent. That is, if it is claimed that the domain of application
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Motivation for Prosodic Constituents 41
of RS is a syntactic constituent, it would be necessary to claim, further-
more, that in the example in (25b), and w2 form an exhaustive consti-
tuent. There is, however, no syntactic constituent that groups these two
words together to the exclusion of w3 and w4-
Another rule that shows the inappropriateness of syntactic constituents
as the domains of phonological rules in still another respect is the much
discussed phenomenon of Liaison, as illustrated in (26). While Liaison
applies in all styles of French, we are concerned here only with its applica-
tion in informal speech.
(26) a. Les giraffes et les elephants sont ses meilleurs^amis.
'Giraffes and elephants are his best friends.'
b. Claude a des perrochets / intolerables.
'Claude has some intolerable parrots.'
In syntactic terms, meilleurs 'best' is the complement of amis 'friends',
just as intolerables 'intolerable' is the complement of perrochets 'parrots'.
That is, meilleurs and amis in (26a), just as perrochets and intolerables
in (26b), are sister nodes directly dominated by the same type of node.
It is, therefore, impossible to predict in terms of syntactic constituents
that Liaison applies in the first case but not in the second.
The three problems just discussed show that we cannot identify
the domains of application of phonological rules with syntactic constit-
uents, since it was shown that neither of the two rules under consideration
applies uniformly throughout a constituent of a given type. That is, there
is no way to capture in terms of syntactic constituent structure the fact
that similar constituents behave differently with respect to the same
phonological rule.
Length of constituents
Another problem that arises if syntactic constituents are posited as the
domains of application of phonological rules is related to the length of the
constituents involved. Since constituents in syntax are defined in terms of
certain structural relations among the words of a given string, the number
of words involved is irrelevant. That is, as far as the syntax is concerned,
a constituent of a certain type composed of one word is structurally
equivalent to another constituent of the same type composed of five,
ten, or any number of words. If syntactic constituents are taken as the
domains of application of phonological rules operating above the word
level, this means that, under the appropriate segmental conditions, a given
phonological rule should operate uniformly within all syntactic constit-
uents of a certain type. That is, a constituent composed of two words,
the minimum necessary for the application of a phonological rule operat-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
42 Prosodic Phonology
ing above the word level, should exhibit the same phonological behavior
as the same type of constituent of any other length. It will be demonstrat-
ed here that certain phonological rules, in fact, do not apply through-
out all consituents of a given type, but rather are sensitive to the length
of the constituents.
Let us consider the rule of Gorgia Toscana (GT) in Italian. This rule
is traditionally described as a phonological phenomenon of Tuscan Italian
that results in varying degrees of so-called aspiration of the voiceless stops
[p], [t], [k] in intervocalic position, or more precisely, between two
[-consonantal] segments (see, among others, Lepschy and Lepschy, 1977;
Giannelli and Savoia, 1979). Since GT varies somewhat in different areas
of Tuscany, we will limit our discussion to the variety spoken in the
province of Florence. The most common form of GT changes [p], [t],
and [k] into [φ], [0], and [h], respectively, both within and across words,
as the examples in (27) and (28) illustrate.
(27) a. lu[0]o (< lu[p]o) 'wolf
b. crice[0]o (< crice[t]o) 'hamster'
c. fo[h]a (<fo[k]a) 'seal'
W
1 W
2
(28) a. Lo zoo ha appena comprato una nuova [0]antera.
(< [p]antera)
'The zoo has just bought a new panther.'
Wj w2
Ci sono tantissimi [Θ ]arli nella mia scrivania.
« M a r l i )
'There are lots of wood-worms in my desk.'
w j w2
Sta arrivando uno stormo di [h]orvi neri.
(< [k]orvi)
Ά flock of black crows is arriving.'
Gorgia Toscana, however, does not apply across just any two words.
In the examples in (29), cases are seen in which the rule operates within
a VP, while in the examples in (30), cases are seen in which the rule does
not normally apply between an NP and a VP, even though the appropriate
phonological conditions are present (i.e., the consonant in question is
in intervocalic position).
(29) a. aveva [hjonosciuto Arcibaldo (<[k]onosciuto)
'(he) had met Arcibaldo'
b. viaggia [h]ol cammello (<[k]ol)
'(he) travels by camel'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Motivation for Prosodic Constituents
c. si lamenta [hjostantemente
'(he) complains constantly'
43
(< [kjostantemente)
(30) a. Le zanne dell'elefante bianco dell'Africa Orientale [k]ostano
sempre di ρίύ in Europa.
(?*[h]ostano)
'The tusks of the white elephant of eastern Africa cost more and
more in Europe.'
b. Quella banda segreta di ragazzi temuta da tutti [kjacciaorsi
ferocissimi solo per divertirsi.
(?*[h]accia)
'That secret band of boys feared by all hunts very ferocious
bears just for fun.'
c. Certi tipi di uccelli trovati solo in Australia [k]ostruiscono nidi
complicatissimi a due piani.
(?*[h]ostruiscono)
'Certain types of birds found only in Australia construct very
complicated two-story nests.'
If the domain of application of GT is to be expressed in terms of syntactic
constituents, for example the verb phrase, the prediction is made that the
rule will not only apply in the VPs listed in (29), but in all VPs, including
those in (31) below. By the same token, just as GT does not apply be-
tween the NPs and VPs in (30), it is expected that the rule will not apply
between the NPs and VPs of the sentences in (32). As it turns out, how-
ever, contrary to the predictions, GT does not always apply in all the
positions in which its segmental context is present within a VP, as indic-
ated in (31). It normally does apply, however, across the NPs and VPs
in (32). "_" and in (31) indicate those segments to which GT normal-
ly does and does not apply across words, respectively.
(31) a. Osservano il rarissimo colibri peruviano con le penne azzure
con un cannocchiale particolarmente adatto alia situazione.
'(They) observe the very rare Peruvian hummingbird with blue
feathers with binoculars that are particularly suitable for the
situation.'
b. Hanno comprato un sacco di caramelle liquerizia e lattine di
coca cola con i soldi che hanno guadagnato vendendo giornalini.
'(They) bought a lot of candies, licorice, and cans of coca cola
with the money they earned selling comic books.'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
44 Prosodic Phonology
(32) a. Gli struzzi [hjorrono velocemente. (< [kjorrono)
Ostriches run quickly.'
b. Un levriero [h]osta moltissimo. (< [k]osta)
Ά greyhound is very expensive.'
It is obvious from these examples that the length of a given string is
crucial in determining whether or not a phonological rule, in this case GT,
applies. Thus, while it seemed from the examples in (29) that the domain
of application might be, at least in part, identified with a phrasal node,
specifically VP, the items in (31) show that when a VP is particularly
long, GT tends not to apply in all positions. Similarly, while the sentences
in (30) might lead one to the conclusion that GT is blocked across the
boundary of two phrasal nodes, specifically NP and VP, those in (32)
demonstrate that when the NP and VP in question are relatively short,
GT in fact normally does apply.
This type of situation is by no means limited to the application of GT,
or to Italian, for that matter. An analogous problem arises, for example, in
specifying the domain of application of Nasal Assimilation (NA) in
Spanish.
It has frequently been observed that in Spanish nasals are homorganic
to a following consonant both within a word and across words (see among
others, Navarro Tomas, 1957; Harris, 1969; Hooper, 1976). Examples of
homorganic nasal and following consonant within and across words are
given below:
(33) a. ga[m]ba
b. co[m] piedad
c. elefa[n]te
d. si[n] tardar
e. laßjgosta
f. come[η] carne
'shrimp'
'with pity'
'elephant'
'without delaying'
'lobster'
'(they) eat meat'
NA does not, however, apply between just any two words. As was seen
above in relation to GT, an examination of the domains in which NA
does and does not apply reveals that they do not necessarily coincide
with any syntactic constituent. While NA applies in the VPs in (34), it
tends not to apply in those in (35).
(34) a. tiene[rj] cuatro gatos (< tiene[n])
'(they) have four cats'
b. canta[m] bien (< canta[n])
'(they) sing well'
c. no se vea aquella especia de escorpiofn] (< escorpiofn])
tan frecuentemente en Brasil
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Motivation for Prosodic Constituents 45
'(one) doesn't see that species of scorpion very frequently in
Brazil.'
(35) a. Colecciona en todo el mundo plumas de tucä[n] para su som-
brero preferido.
(?*tuca[m])
'(She) collects all over the world toucan feathers for her
favorite hat.'
b. Estudia el sistema comunicativo de algunos tipos de delfifn]
con aparatos muy sofisticados.
(?*delfi[rj])
'(She) studies the communicative system of several types of
dolphin with very sophisticated apparatus.'
Furthermore, while ΝA appears to be blocked between NPs and VPs
on the basis of sentences such as those in (36), the sentences in (37)
show that it is not blocked between all instances of NP and VP.
(36) a. El nuevo canario de mi amiga Carmefn] canta solo cuando estä
solo.
(?*Carme[r)])
'My friend Carmen's new canary sings only when it is alone.'
b. Su nuevo sombrero con tres plumas de tucä[n] cuesta sin duda
mas del sombrero de su hermano.
(?*tuca[r)])
'Her new hat with three toucan feathers undoubtedly costs
more than her brother's hat.'
(37) a. Mi faisä[rj] corre siempre. (<faisa[n])
'My pheasant always runs.'
b. Eso tucäfm] parece enfermo. (< tucafn])
'That toucan seems sick.'
There are still other phonological rules, for example, Intervocalic Spi-
rantization in Italian and s-Assimilation in Greek, that exhibit the same
general pattern just illustrated with GT and NA, in that they apply in a
given type of constituent if it is short, but not if it is long, or are blocked
across a particular type of boundary if the constituents on either side are
relatively long, but not if they are short. We will not illustrate these rules
here, but refer the reader to a more detailed discussion of this problem
in Chapter 7. The relevant point here is that such rules provide further
evidence that the domains of application of phonological rules operating
across words cannot be coextensive with the constituents provided by
syntax. That is, while it has just been demonstrated that the application
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
46 Prosodic Phonology
of certain phonological rules is sensitive to the length of the strings in-
volved, the principles that define syntactic constituents do not take into
account nonstructural factors such as length. There is, thus, a fundamental
difference between the nature of the domains relevant for phonological
rules and the constituents of syntax.
Beyond the sentence
We have just seen cases in which the domains of application of various
phonological rules could not be expressed in terms of syntactic consti-
tuency either because the syntax provides inappropriate bracketings of
the elements of a given string or because the phonology may be sensitive
to length, a factor the syntax does not take into account. In both cases,
the problem was essentially that the phonological rules in question did
not apply uniformly throughout the constituents provided by the syntax.
The last problem we will consider in this section is somewhat different
from the first two in that it does not so much represent a mismatch be-
tween syntactic constituents and domains of application of phonological
rules, but rather demonstrates that syntactic constituents, by definition,
cannot delimit domains large enough to account for the application
of certain phonological rules.
Let us first consider the well-known rule of Flapping in American
English. The examples in (38) show that this rule applies both within
words and across two words in a sentence.
(38) a. water wa[r]er
b. capital capi[r]al
c. Wait a minute. Wai[.f]a . . .
d. The white rabbit escaped from its cage. -*• .. .rabbi[r]escaped...
Flapping, however, is not restricted to applying within a sentence; it
may also apply across two words in different sentences, as the examples
in (39) illustrate.
(39) a. Please wait. I'll be right back. ...wai[>]Fll...
b. It's hot. Open the window. -> ...hofrJOpen...
c. Don't shout. It's rude. -*• ...shou[>]It's...
It is not the case, however, that Flapping can apply across just any pair
of sentences. The examples in (40) show that in some cases (i.e. where
the two sentences are unrelated) the rule is blocked in exactly the same
segmental contexts in which it was seen to apply in (39).
(40) a. They didn't wait. I'll be right back. ->-*.. .wai|>]I'll...
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Motivation for Prosodic Constituents 47
b. Where's Scott? Open the window. -»· *.. .Sco[.r JOpen...
c. Don't shout. Is Ed here? *.. .shou[.r]Is...
Since the largest constituent in syntax is the sentence, there is no way
in which the domain of application of Flapping can be identified with a
syntactic constituent. That is, beyond the sentence there is no unit that
allows us to group together, for example, the pairs of sentences in (39),
and thus characterize the domain of Flapping in terms of this unit. The
fact that Flapping does not apply across just any two sentences compli-
cates the problem even further, since it automatically rules out the pos-
sibility of defining the rule's environment as being any place within the
largest syntactic constituent, or across two such constituents.
A similar problem arises with two other phenomena in another variety
of English as well, Linking-r and Intrusive-r in Received Pronunciation.
Both rules account for the pronunciation, in certain contexts, of an
r that is not pronounced when the word in question is uttered in
isolation. In the first case, the r is present orthographically, and in the
second case, it is not present (see among others, Gimson, 1970). These
rules apply, as does Flapping, within words, across words within a sen-
tence, and across words in different sentences, as illustrated in (41), where
"t" indicates an orthographic r that is not pronounced when the word is
uttered in isolation.
(41) a. clea^ + est clea[r]est
b. gnaw + ing gnaw[r]ing
c. That type of spidej1
is dangerous. ...spide[r]is...
d. The giant panda eats pounds of bamboo a day.
...panda[r]eats...
e. There's my brothe^. I have to go. -> ...brothe[r]I..t
f. Try that sofa. It's softer. ... sofa[r]It's...
As was the case with Flapping, not all combinations of sentences per-
mit the application of Linking-r and Intrusive-/·. For example, the two
rules in question would most probably be blocked in the pairs of sentences
in (42), even though it was just seen that they apply in identical segmental
contexts in (41e,f).
(42) a. There's my brothe^. I have a cold. ->·*.. .brothe[r]I...
b. Try that sofa. It's after midnight. -»· *...sofa[r]It's...
Once again, we are faced with the problem of how to represent the do-
main of application of phonological rules that can apply across two
sentences, since the largest constituent provided by the syntax is the sen-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
48 Prosodic Phonology
tence. Furthermore, the fact that the rules apply across some sentences
but not others provides additional evidence that we are dealing with rules
that operate in specific contexts larger than the sentence, not simply in
any sequence of sentences.
Finally, the Voicing Assimilation rule of Mexican Spanish discussed
by Harris (1969) appears to be another example of a phonological rule
that operates beyond the sentence. This rule, that voices s before a voiced
consonant, may, under certain circumstances, apply across two sentences,
as illustrated by the pair of sentences below (from Harris, p.60).
(43) Los dos. Dämelos. ,.,do[sz
]Dämelos.
'Both of them. Give them to me.'
Harris points out further that the rule does not always apply across sen-
tences; rather, it is blocked by an interruption in 'phonational activity'.
Thus, although Harris does not provide any other examples, it seems
quite likely that Voicing Assimilation represents, in fact, the same type
of phenomenon we have just examined in American and RP varieties of
English.
What all of these rules demonstrate is that syntactic constituency
cannot provide the appropriate domains for the application of a specific
type of phonological rule, that is, any rule that can apply across certain
sentences but not others. Since the largest syntactic constituent is the
sentence, there is by definition no way in which the domain of applica-
tion of such rules can be identified with a constituent of syntactic struc-
ture. It seems, instead, that a more appropriate way to account for the ap-
plication of the phonological rules in question would be in terms of a dif-
ferent type of unit, one that is not limited by the constituent structure
of the syntactic component.
The combination of the problems examined above in which it was seen
that a number of phonological rules do not apply uniformly throughout
the strings delimited by syntactic constituents, and the problem of phono-
logical rules operating beyond the sentence that has just been addressed
here, quite clearly reveals the inadequacy of syntactic constituents as the
domains of application of (at least some) phonological rules. That is, there
is no simple one-to-one relation between the constituents of syntax and
the strings within which phonological rules operate. Instead, it seems that
units other than those provided by the syntactic component are necessary
in order to account for the application of phonological rules operating
above the word level.
2.3.2. Phonetically null syntactic constituents and phonological rules
It has been proposed by a number of linguists that phonological rules
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Motivation for Prosodic Constituents 49
that apply between two words are sensitive to the presence of syntactic
elements that do not have a phonetic matrix, such as traces and PRO
(see, among others, Selkirk, 1972; Chomsky and Lasnik, 1977; Rizzi, 1979;
Vanelli, 1979; Jaeggli, 1980). This position follows directly from the
theoretical claim that the labeled bracketings of s-structure are carried
directly into the phonological representation in the form of boundaries.
That is, since s-structure consists of bracketed constituents that may
contain phonetically null elements, it is claimed that such elements will
affect the application of phonological rules applying across words. It is
argued, specifically, that the effect of an empty element will show up
where adjacency is a necessary condition for the application of a pho-
nological rule. If a syntactic constituent is present between two words,
these words obviously can not be considered adjacent and thus are not
subject to the application of the phonological rule in question. There is no
unanimous agreement, however, on which phonetically empty syntactic
constituents are relevant for the definition of adjacency in phonology.
Research in this area has taken essentially two directions, which we will
examine below as the strong hypothesis and the weak hypothesis. Accord-
ing to the strong hypothesis, all empty elements have the same status that
lexical items have in determining adjacency. That is, the occurrence of any
such element between two words will prevent the application of a pho-
nological rule whose environment is otherwise present (see, among others,
Rizzi, 1979; Vanelli, 1979). According to the weak hypothesis, only cer-
tain types of empty elements, that is, those marked for case, are capable
of blocking the application of phonological rules that apply across words
(see Jaeggli, 1980; Chomsky, 1981). We will demonstrate below that syn-
tactic constituents not represented phonetically are not capable, under
any circumstances, of blocking the application of phonological rules and
thus that both of the hypotheses are untenable.
The empty elements to which recent proposals attributed the power
of blocking phonological rules are: traces of clitics, PROs, and traces of
wh. Of these, the last type is clearly marked for case, the second type is
clearly not marked for case, and the first type is somewhat controversial,
in that it is considered by some linguists to be marked for case (Longobar-
di, 1980) and by others not to be so marked (Jaeggli, 1980; Chomsky,
1981). We will consider each of these categories separately.
Traces of clitics
If traces of clitics have an influence on the application of phonological
rules, as has been proposed, for example, by Rizzi (1979), we would
expect both a) that in a given language these traces would block the
application of all phonological rules whose environment is defined on
adjacent words, and b) that either all or none of the traces of the same
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
50 Prosodic Phonology
type would block the application of a particular rule. Consider, however,
the sentences in (44) and (45), which include the segmental environment
for the phonological rule of Italian, Raddoppiamento Sintattico (see sec-
tion 2.3.1 above). In the examples in (44) the rule is blocked, while in
the examples in (45) the rule applies, despite the presence of traces of
clitics in both sentences.
(44) a. Ne voglio comprare rnetd ?CL [s]ubito.
Ί want to buy half of it immediately.'
b. Ne incontrero tre fC L [vjenerdi.
Ί will meet three of them Friday.'
(45) a. Ne comprero iC L [s:]ubito.
'I'll buy some immediately.'
b. Lo incontrero tCL [v:]enerdi.
'I'll meet him Friday.'
The inconsistent behavior of RS6
with respect to traces of clitics in these
examples indicates that the traces cannot be the factor that determines
in which contexts the rule is blocked, at least if a unified analysis of the
phenomenon is to be given.
A possible solution in which traces of clitics are present at the moment
of application of some phonological rules, for example the vowel deletion
rule mentioned by Rizzi, and absent at the moment of application of
others, for example RS, must be excluded since this would require the
introduction of a new type of rule within the phonological component
which would substantially deviate from the nature of the other rules of
the component. That is, it would be necessary to introduce a type of
rule that has as its only effect the deletion of syntactic material in order to
create adjacency between two words that were at some other point consi-
dered structurally nonadjacent. It should be noted that the ungrammatical
sentences given by Rizzi to show that Specifier Vowel Deletion (SVD)
is blocked by phonetically null syntactic constituents can be excluded
for independent reasons, as shown in Nespor and Scorretti (1985).
Pro
We will now consider the blocking effect of PRO, which was proposed
by Rizzi (1979) and Vanelli (1979) to account for the context of applica-
tion of the same rule used by Rizzi to argue in favor of the blocking effect
of traces of clitics: Specifier Vowel Deletion. An argument similar to the one
just given for traces of clitics can also be made for PRO on the basis of
two other phonological rules of Italian: Gorgia Toscana (GT) and Inter-
vocalic Spirantization (IS).
(no change)
(no change)
(< [sjubito)
(< [v]enerdi)
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Motivation for Prosodic Constituents 51
GT, as shown in section 2.3.1 above, applies both within words and at the
juncture between two adjacent words. The rule applies, however, in the sen-
tences in (46), in which, according to the analysis proposed by Rizzi
(1979) and Vanelli (1979), w1 and w2 are not structurally adjacent since
the empty element PRO intervenes between them.
w
i
(46) a. Tu dai da mangiare al puma australiano e io a quello PRO
W
2
[</>]eruviano.
(< [pjeruviano)
'You feed the Australian puma and I the Peruvian one.'
w, w2
b. Ci sono due leoni obesi e quattro PRO [0]utti magri.
(< [tjutti)
'There are two obese lions and four very thin ones.'
Wj w2
c. Ho visto un passero pennuto e uno PRO [h]alvo.
(< [kjalvo)
Ί saw a feathered sparrow and a bald one.'
Similarly, in the sentences in (47), GT applies between wl and w2 in
additional types of constructions in which it is commonly accepted
that PRO separates the two words in question, although Rizzi and Vanelli
do not explicitly mention these cases.
(47) a. II mio cavallo e stato tutto un mese senza PRO [</>]ascolare.
(< [pjascolare)
'My horse has gone a whole month without grazing.'
Wj w2
b. II pappagallo ha trovato come PRO [0]orturarci con le nostre
parole.
(< [t]orturarci)
'The parrot has learned how to torture us with our own words.'
w2
c. II mio barbagianni crede di PRO [hjantare meglio di un
usignolo.
(< [k]antare)
'My barn owl thinks he sings better than a nightingale.'
Another segmental rule of Tuscan Italian is Intervocalic Spirantization,
the rule that changes the affricates [t/] and [d3] into the corresponding
fricatives [/] and [3] between two vowels (see Lepschy and Lepschy,
1977). As is the case with GT, IS applies both within words and across
words:
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
52 Prosodic Phonology
(48) a. cri[/]eto (< cri[t/]eto) 'hamster'
b. fa[3]ano (<fa[d3]ano) 'pheasant'
(49) a. Questo dev'essere un uovo di [/]efalo.
(< [t/]efalo)
'This must be a mullet egg.'
b. Le [giraffe si abbeverano al tramonto.
(<[d3 ]iraffe)
'Giraffes drink at sunset.'
The sentences in (50) illustrate that IS applies in the same environments
as GT across intervening PROs in the type of analysis proposed by Rizzi
and Vanelli.
(50) a. Hanno trascurato l'armadillo zoppo per concentrarsi tutti su
W
1 W
2
quello PRO [/]eco.
(< [t/]eco)
'(They) neglected the limping armadillo so all could concentrate
on the blind one.'
b. Parlava di un pinguino nano e di uno PRO [3]igante.
(< [d3]igante)
'(He) was talking about a dwarf penguin and a giant one.'
IS, like GT, applies across other instances of PRO as well, as seen in (51).
Wj w2
(51) a. Non hanno ancora capito come PRO [/]ercare l'upupa.
(< [t/]ercare)
'They haven't yet figured out how to locate the hoopoe.'
w
i
b. La mia foca non puo resistere un solo giorno senza PRO
w2
[3]ocare a palla con Pierino.
(< [d3]ocare)
'My seal can't go even one day without playing ball with
Pierino.'
These sentences lend further support to the point made above in relation
to traces of clitics, that is, that a phonetically empty element does not
have any effect on the application of phonological processes. That is,
GT and IS apply between two words that contain the relevant phonolog-
ical characteristics, the adjacency of the two words being totally unaf-
fected by the presence or absence of PRO. We must conclude, then, that
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Motivation for Prosodic Constituents 53
PRO does not have the same status as phonologically non-null consti-
tuents, in that it does not count in determining whether two words are
adjacent for the purposes of phonology.
At this point we must reject the strong hypothesis according to which
all phonetically empty elements, including those not marked for case,
may intervene between two words in the way a lexical item may, to
interrupt the adjacency of the words.
Traces of wh
We will now examine data relevant to the weak hypothesis, that is,
sentences in which it is case-marked empty elements, specifically traces
of wh, that intervene between two words that otherwise satisfy the re-
quirements for the application of phonological rules. Raddoppiamento
Sintattico and Gorgia Toscana are both examples of rules that apply freely
across case-marked traces, as shown in (52) and (53), respectively.
(52) Raddoppiamento Sintattico
a. Cosa filmerä iw h [d:]omani?
(< [djomani)
'What will he film tomorrow?'
b. Filippo e il cavallo che montero t ^ [d:]omani.
(< [djomani)
'Filippo is the horse that I will ride tomorrow.'
(53) Gorgia Toscana
a. Chi hai fotografato [hjol pappagallo sulla spalla?
«[k]ol)
'Who did you take a picture of with the parrot on his shoulder?'
b. Questi sono i picchi che abbiamo comprato f ^ [hjol sussidio
statale.
«[k]ol)
'These are the woodpeckers that we bought with the national grant.'
Phonological rules that apply across intervening case-marked traces are
found not only in Italian, but in all the languages we have investigated.
Consider, for instance, Nasal Assimilation in Spanish. While the sentences
in (54) show that NA applies between two words that are structurally
adjacent, the sentences in (55) show that the rule also applies freely across
traces of wh.
(54) a. El faisafm] peruano tiene la cola mas larga.
(< pavo[nj)
'The Peruvian pheasant has the largest tail.'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
54 Prosodic Phonology
b. Quisiera ver un airo[n] tambien.
(< airofn])
Ί would like to see a heron too.'
c. Ha escrito un articulo sobre el sistema comunicativo del
delfi[r)] canadiense.
(< delfifn])
'He has written an article about the communicative system
of Canadian dolphins.'
(55) a. Que comefm] ^ para navidad las tortugas?
(< come[n])
'What do turtles eat for Christmas?'
b. Este es el coyote que fotografia[m] f ^ para la rivista.
(< fotografia[n])
'This is the coyote that they are taking a picture of for the
magazine.'
The last phonological rule we will discuss to illustrate the irrelevance of
the feature "case" for phonological rules is Linking-r in Received Pro-
nunciation. While a word-final r is usually deleted, it is retained in con-
nected speech if the following word begins with a vowel, as illustrated in
(56). (See Chapter 8 for a detailed analysis of this rule.)
(56) a. I'd prefer a monkey.
b. A caterpillar is a wormlike larva of a butterfly or moth.
Linking-/· applies, as do the other rules seen in this section, also when there
is an intervening case-marked trace, as is shown in (57).
(57) a. What would you order t ^ instead?
b. I can't think of what I could wear t . otherwise.
- wn
These facts, along with those of Italian and Spanish, lead us to the conclu-
sion that phonological rules are not affected by the presence of phoneti-
cally empty syntactic constituents marked for case.
Let us now consider a stress rule in Italian and one in English. The
Italian rule exhibits a mixed type of behavior in that it is never blocked
when the trace of wh intervening between the two words involved in the
rule is left either by relative clause formation or by indirect questions,
while it may be blocked when the trace is left by the movement involved
in the formation of direct questions. The English stress rule, however,
shows a more consistent pattern, in that it typically applies across all
traces of wh, regardless of their origin.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Motivation for Prosodic Constituents 55
Consider first the rule of Stress Retraction (SR) found in standard
northern Italian. In a sequence of wordx word2, where wl has primary
stress on the last syllable and w2 is stressed on the first syllable, SR
retracts the primary stress of (see Nespor and Vogel, 1979). This rule
applies freely across f ^ in (58a) and (58b), examples of relative clauses
and indirect questions, respectively, but it does not apply in (58c), a direct
question.
(58) a. Ho gia capito quello che färo iwh dopo.
(< faro)7
'I've already understood what I will do afterwards.'
b. Ci si domanda cosa fära iw h dopo.
(< fara)
One wonders what he'll do afterwards.'
c. Cosa dirä ?wh dopo?
(?*dira)
'What will he say afterwards?'
Iambic Reversal (IR), a stress retraction rule of American English (see
Liberman and Prince, 1977), however, does not usually exhibit the mixed
behavior just seen in Italian with respect to traces of wh. That is, IR ap-
plies in (59a), (59b), and (59c), examples of relative clauses, indirect
questions, and direct questions, respectively.
(59) a. The picture that I'm going to reproduce t ^ later is the one
Emily took.
(< reprodüce)
b. They asked me which company Martha represents f ^ now.
(< represents)
c. What are they going to export t ^ next?
(< export)
As Nespor and Scorretti (1985) observe, attributing the blocking of SR
in Italian in (58c) to the presence of a trace would pose serious problems
to the commonly accepted unified derivation of the three phenomena
under consideration: relative clause formation, indirect questions, and
direct questions. It also seems to be in conflict with the uniform behavior
of IR in the same three types of constructions in English. Following Nes-
por and Scorretti (1985), we believe that the low acceptability of the
direct questions in Italian in which SR has applied cannot be attributed to
the presence of a trace but rather must be attributed to the intonation pat-
tern of these questions. Specifically, the unacceptability of SR in (58c)
is due to the fact that the word in question, dirä, contains the peak of an
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
56 Prosodic Phonology
intonation contour, and in general material in this position is resistant to
any type of reduction. This analysis is further confirmed by the facts of
English. In direct questions, such as the one in (59c), the peak of the in-
tonation contour is not typically on the word which is subject to IR, and
thus the primary stress may be retracted. Under certain circumstances,
however, it is possible for the word in question to be the peak of the con-
tour, and in such cases IR is in fact blocked, as SR is in Italian. This hap-
pens, for example, when there is contrastive stress or emphasis on the
word that would otherwise undergo Iambic Reversal, as illustrated by the
following sentences:
(60) a. Who are they going to introduce f ^ next?
(< introdiice)
b. I said, who are they going to introdiice ?wh next, not who
are they going to invite next.
(*introduce)
We can thus conclude that it is not the syntactic properties of the con-
structions under consideration, but rather their phonological properties
that are responsible for the application or nonapplication of Stress Re-
traction and Iambic Reversal.
Given that traces of wh are invisible to phonological rules that depend
on the adjacency of two words, as are the other types of phonetically
empty elements seen above, we can conclude that the weak hypothesis
about the influence of empty nodes on phonology must be rejected also,
at least if it is formulated in the general fashion found in Chomsky (1981).
While the hypotheses discussed above clearly have no general validity,
it could still be claimed that they are valid for a subset of the rules of the
phonological component. That is, it might be possible that a subcom-
ponent of the phonology is sensitive to the presence of empty elements,
while another subcomponent, presumably ordered after the first, is blind
to nonphonetic material. To show that this is not the case, it would be
necessary to demonstrate that all the rules that have been claimed to be
sensitive to empty elements are in fact only sensitive to phonological
material. These rules include to-Contraction and Auxiliary Reduction in
American English (see King, 1970; Lakoff, 1970; Zwicky, 1970; Selkirk,
1972; Kaisse, 1983, among others) and Specifier Vowel Deletion in
Italian (see Rizzi, 1979; Vanelli, 1979). We will not provide a reanalysis
of these rules here, since it would involve a syntactic discussion that would
lead us too far from the topic of the present chapter. An analysis of these
rules that does not rely on the presence of traces, however, can be found
in Nespor and Scorretti (1985), where it is shown that these rules, like all
phonological rules, are not sensitive to nonphonological material. We may
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Motivation for Prosodic Constituents 57
thus conclude that the hypotheses made about the influence of empty
categories on phonological rules must be rejected.
2.3.3. Noncorrespondence between syntactic constituents and domains
of intonation contours
The noncorrespondence between the limits of intonation contours
and major syntactic breaks is a phenomenon often mentioned in the lin-
guistic literature. The type of sentence most often cited as an illustration
of this phenomenon is one containing a restrictive relative clause. It
has been noted that complex sentences containing restrictive relative
clauses present a problem for intonation in that 'the intonation breaks are
ordinarily inserted in the wrong place' (Chomsky, 1965:13). Underlying
Chomsky's statement is the assumption that if intonation breaks were
in the 'correct' place, they would directly reflect the surface syntactic
structure of the sentence, in particular, the direction of embedding.
Compare the bracketings of the sentences in (61) and (62), where those
in (61) illustrate the syntactic constituent analysis and those in (62)
reflect the intonational structure.
(61) This is [the cat that caught [the rat that stole [the cheese]]]
(62) [This is the cat] [that caught the rat] [that stole the cheese]
According to Chomsky and Halle (1968:372), this discrepancy between
how things are and how things should be is 'obviously a matter of per-
formance rather than of grammatical structure'. In this regard the notion
of 'phonological phrase' is introduced, and rules that insert the boundaries
of such phrases 'will have to take account of syntactic structure, but
they will also involve certain parameters that relate to performance,
e.g. speed of utterance'.
While it seems clear that the presence and position of intonation
breaks are to some extent connected to such factors as the rate of speech
and the length of an utterance, this does not necessarily mean that the
occurrence of intonation breaks is not rule governed like other per-
formance phenomena such as hesitations. Instead, the specification of the
positions in which intonation breaks may occur follows from the consti-
tuent structure of prosodic trees, and is thus a matter of competence, as
will be shown in Chapter 7.8
The flexibility of the domains over which intonation contours are
spread is another area in which it can be seen that intonation domains
cannot be directly determined by syntactic constituent structure. In
section 2.3.1, we have illustrated the flexible nature of the domains of
application of sandhi rules and have argued, on the basis of the inflex-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
58 Prosodic Phonology
ibility of syntactic structure, that syntactic constituents cannot form the
domains of application of phonological rules applying across words. The
same flexibility can also be seen in relation to the domains over which
intonation contours extend, and thus provides further evidence that syn-
tactic constituents are not the appropriate structures for defining the
domains of intonation contours. For example, while it is possible to read
the sentence below with three separate intonation contours, as indicated
by the bracketings in (63a), a pronunciation with the intonation contours
indicated by the bracketings in (63b) is also possible. Even a pronunciation
without internal intonation breaks, that is, with one single intonation
contour as in (63c), is possible.
(63) a. [The frog] [ate a fly] [for lunch]
b. [The frog] [ate a fly for lunch]
c. [The frog ate a fly for lunch]
While it would be possible to describe the data in (63) in terms of syntac-
tic constituents by saying that an intonation break may optionally occur
after each syntactic phrase, i.e. at the end of the maximal projection of
any category X, this is not the correct generalization. For example, it
can be seen that such a principle would yield the unacceptable division
into intonation domains in (64), where each break indicated corresponds
to the end of a syntactic phrase.
(64) *[Bruce] [never] [understood], [I believe], [why Paul]
[can't see the Southern Cross] [from his home in Brittany]
In conclusion, we have provided some evidence that the analysis into
constituents offered by the syntax does not correspond to the division
into possible domains of intonation contours. This issue will be taken up
again in Chapter 7.
2.4. On motivating a phonological constituent
Up to this point, we have shown that morpho-syntactic constituents
cannot account for the domain of application of all types of phonolog-
ical rules. We will now motivate the postulation of phonological consti-
tuents that do account for such domains. The specific criteria that will
be used to motivate phonological constituents throughout this book
derive, in part, directly from the notion of constituent in general; they
are the same criteria that are used to motivate a constituent analysis
in syntax. There are other criteria, however, that are specific to phono-
logy. The first two criteria mentioned below are the more general ones
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Motivation for Prosodic Constituents 59
related to the notion of constituent. The last two, however, are specific
to phonology since they are related to the fact that phonological consti-
tuents represent an analysis of strings of sounds.
In generative grammar, the formal configuration adopted to represent
the internal structure of a sentence is the constituent structure tree.
In both phonology and syntax this tree is a representation of the hierar-
chical grouping of the elements of a string into constituents and the left-
to-right order of these constituents. A string is considered a constituent
in phonology, as in syntax, if a) there are rules of the grammar that
need to refer to it in their formulation, or b) there are rules that have
precisely that string as their domain of application. In phonological the-
ory, however, these are not the only motivations for positing a consti-
tuent (see also Nespor, 1983). It is also possible for a string to be a consti-
tuent even if the first two criteria are not met, if the string is the domain
of phonotactic restrictions. Thus, a constituent X would be motivated,
for example, in a language in which a sequence of a nasal consonant
immediately followed by a liquid is ill formed within a given domain X,
but is allowed when the two segments are in different Xs.
Finally, even in the absence of phonological phenomena that need
to refer to the domain X for one of the reasons mentioned above, X
may be posited as a constituent of the phonological hierarchy for still
another reason. That is, a phonological constituent, unlike a syntactic
constituent, can also be motivated on the basis of a fourth criterion, the
relative prominence relations among the elements of a string. Consider
the case in which, for example, a constituent X" cannot be motivated
in a given language on the basis of any of the first three criteria. It might
nevertheless be the case that in this language, stress peaks within the con-
stituent Xn + 1
are neither distributed in a regularly alternating pattern
nor located in positions that are specifiable in terms of syntactic con-
stituents. The lack of periodicity in the recurrence of these stress peaks,
together with the lack of connection between the location of the peaks
and a given position within syntactic constituents, indicates that there
must be some principle responsible for the distribution of stress other than
an abstract alternation rule or a rule that makes direct reference to syn-
tactic structure. In such a case, another type of constituent that accounts
for the stress pattern would be motivated. We propose that it is precise-
ly in such situations that a phonological constituent X" can be posited
on the basis of the fourth criterion mentioned above: relative prominence
relations within a given string. It should be noted that such a constituent
has the function of delimiting the domains of stress patterns, independent-
ly of the mechanism chosen to represent the actual prominence relations
and the rules that modify them.
While prosodic and morpho-syntactic constituents are in principle
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
60 Prosodic Phonology
nonisomorphic, it should be noted that an occasional case of isomorphism
between the two does not constitute grounds for rejecting a specific pro-
sodic constituent in a given language. Replacement of a prosodic consti-
tuent by a syntactic constituent in the case of isomorphism would, in fact,
have undesirable results. First of all, since prosodic rules may refer to more
than one constituent, in the case that one of these constituents is morpho-
syntactic, two different hierarchies would be referred to by a single phono-
logical rule. Secondly, even in the case of prosodic rules that need to
mention only one category, allowing the rules of a given level to refer to
a morpho-syntactic constituent would create a heterogeneous situation.
That is, the majority of the prosodic rules would refer to one hierarchy
while the rules of a single level would refer to the other hierarchy.
To summarize, we have claimed that there are four possible types of
motivation for positing a constituent in the phonological hierarchy. It
is on the basis of such motivations that each of the constituents of the
prosodic hierarchy will be established in Chapters 3 through 8.
NOTES
1. It should be noted that Siegel actually proposes that in- and un- are both Class I
affixes. She thus fails to account for the difference in assimilation patterns, a diffi-
culty that is resolved within the same theoretical framework by Allen, however, who
assigns in- to Level I and un- to Level II.
2. See Scalise (1983) for a more detailed discussion of this rule.
3. A subsequent rule that lengthens /ts/ in intervocalic position will give the pro-
nunciation danna[t:s\ione.
4. It should be noted that we are concerned here only with a colloquial style of
speech, not with poetic language, in which deletion phenomena are more widespread.
5. Here and elsewhere in the book, primary stress is indicated with an acute accent,
even when this is in conflict with the orthographic conventions of Italian.
6. The same argument can be made on the basis of other phonological rules of
Italian, such as Gorgia Toscana, Stress Retraction, and Intervocalic Spirantization.
7. The acute accent mark on a nonfinal syllable of a word that undergoes Stress
Retraction should not be interpreted as being equivalent to a primary stress.
Thus, for example, faro (< faro) in (58a) is not necessarily phonetically identical
to the word faro 'lighthouse'. Stress Retraction changes the prominence relations
within a word by destressing the last syllable and stressing a previously unstressed
syllable. The fact that it does not necessarily create a stress as strong as word primary
stress on the newly stressed syllable is not relevant here.
8. It has also been suggested by Langendoen (1975), though for different reasons,
that the position of intonation breaks is dependent on competence rather than
performance.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Chapter 3
The Syllable and the Foot
3.0. Introduction
As was mentioned in Chapter 1, we take the syllable to be the smallest
constituent of the prosodic hierarchy. The foot is the next constituent
in the hierarchy, and consists of one or more syllables. The fact that
the syllable and the foot have been grouped here into a single chapter
is not an indication that there is less to say about these two constituents
than about the others, each of which has been afforded an entire chapter.
To the contrary, an exhaustive treatment of both the syllable and the foot
would require more than a chapter each, given the explosion of research
dealing with these units that the field of phonology has witnessed in recent
years. We have therefore had to make a selection of the issues to discuss
here, and have decided to restrict our attention to only those aspects of
the syllable and foot that are most relevant to the rest of this book. Thus,
this chapter does not contain an overview of the various positions taken
in relation to the two units in question in the recent phonological litera-
ture, nor does it attempt to analyze the various controversies surrounding
these units. Rather, it is an investigation of the roles the syllable and foot
play in a theory of prosodic phonology. Specifically, it concentrates on
the syllable and the foot as domains of phonological rules, as well as
certain other related issues. The reader will be referred to representative
works dealing with important issues related to the syllable and foot that
are not treated here.
3.1. The syllable
While the syllable is not a new notion in phonology, it has only recently
been incorporated into generative theory. In the early and mid 1970s,
the main discussion surrounding the syllable was whether or not it be-
longed in a theory of generative phonology. Major advances were made in the
direction of accepting the syllable by Hooper (1976) within the frame-
work of natural generative phonology (see also Hooper, 1972; Venne-
mann, 1971,1974) and by Kahn (1976) within the autosegmental frame-
work.1
Once the syllable was accepted, there was a rapid increase in the
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
62 Prosodic Phonology
amount of research dealing with various aspects of its nature and role
in phonology, and our understanding of the syllable has deepened greatly
in a number of areas due to work on issues such as the internal structure
of the syllable and syllable templates,2
relations among the segments with-
in a syllable,3
syllabification and ^syllabification,4
the autosegmental
representation of syllables,5
and studies of the syllable in specific lan-
guages.6
The existence of such a large body of research on the syllable allows
us to dispense with a discussion of a number of issues here, such as how
to determine the division of a string of segments into syllables and what
constitutes a well-formed syllable. This is not to say that all the problems
in these areas have been resolved, but rather that it is possible to assume a
certain familiarity with these problems by now (see notes 2-6 for biblio-
graphical indications). We will therefore take the syllable as the starting
point in our investigation of the various syllable- related phenomena treat-
ed in this chapter. That is, we will assume that the universal and language-
specific principles that determine the organization of segments into syl-
lables are known, and in the case of syllable-level phonological rules, that
the division of a string into syllables has already been established at the
point at which our analysis of the rules begins.
3.1.1. The domain of the syllable
Although we will not be concerned here with the principles of syllabi-
fication per se, it is nevertheless necessary to consider the question of the
domain within which syllabification applies, since it is in the definition
of this domain that we find the interaction between the phonological
and morpho-syntactic components of the grammar. That is, the principles
of syllabification group segments into well-formed syllables throughout
a string whose boundaries must be defined on the basis of nonphonolog-
ical elements, as will be seen here in relation to English and Dutch.
Let us consider, for example, the following sequence of consonants
and vowels:
(1) c0 V c V cG
In English, and probably universally, the basic principles of syllabifica-
tion would divide a string such as the one in (1) as in (2).
(2) [C0 Υ]σ [C V C0]ff
Of course, this type of division does not only apply to the bisyllabic string
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 63
given here, but represents the general principle that places an intervocalic
consonant at the beginning of the syllable to its right, rather than at the
end of the syllable to its left, part of the Maximal Onset Principle. This,
in fact, is the correct division for the example in (3a), but not for those
in (3b-d), where the brackets indicate syllable constituents;8
the sym-
bols within the brackets are orthographic.
(3) a. pecan -»> [pe]a [can]ff
b. brookite -»• *[broo]a [kitejg.
c. pack ice (N) *[pa]a [ckice]a
d. pack ice (VP) -*• '"[pa](J [ckice]
An indication that the syllabification in (3a) is correct and that those
in (3b-d) are not is the fact that the velar stop [k] at the beginning of the
second syllable is aspirated in pecan but not in the other examples. That is,
if the correct syllabification of all of the items in (3) were as predicted by
(2), with [k] at the beginning of the second syllable, we would expect
[k] to be aspirated in all four cases, since the second syllable in each case
begins a new foot.9
Instead, the correct divisions of (3b-d) are such that
[k] belongs to the first syllable, as in (4), and is thus in a position in which
it is not aspirated.
(4) a. brookite -»· [brook](7 [ite]0
b. pack ice (N) -*• [pack]a [ice]CT
c. pack ice (VP) [packjp [ice]a
The difference between pecan and the other items is that pecan is mono-
morphemic while the others are cases of a derived word with a neutral
or Class II affix (in the terminology of SPE and Siegel (1974), respective-
ly), a compound word, and a syntactic phrase.10
In addition to account-
ing for syllabification of monomorphemic words, (2) also accounts for
the division of segments into syllables in words derived with nonneutral or
Class I affixes, as seen in (5).
(5) a. ethnicity [eth]ff [ni]ff [ci]ff [ty]a
b. racketeer [ra] [cke]ff [teerjp
It should be noted that the [t] in (5b) is aspirated, since it is not only
syllable initial but also foot initial (see section 3.2.2).
What the examples in (3) and (5) show is that syllabification does not
apply in the same way to all strings of segments, but rather is sensitive
to certain aspects of the morphological structure of the items in question.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
64 Prosodic Phonology
In particular, the domain throughout which syllabification occurs in Eng-
lish is a stem plus any adjacent nonneutral affixes, as was seen in (3a)
and (5). Syllabification does not apply across the boundaries between a
stem and a neutral affix, as was seen in (3b), or between one neutral
affix and another, as can be seen in (6).
(6) sleeplessness [sleep]a [less]a [ness]a
(*[slee]a [ple]a [ssness]^
While (6) does not contain .. .VCV... sequences like the other examples,
it nevertheless illustrates the more general point about the domain of syl-
labification. That is, syllabification does not create the clusters [pi] and
[sn] in the morphological contexts illustrated above, though these clusters
are perfectly acceptable at the beginning of a syllable in English (cf.
plea, snooze).
Finally, syllabification does not apply across the members of a com-
pound, nor does it apply across words in a phrase, as was seen in (3c)
and (3d), respectively. It should be recalled that we are interested in
'normal' colloquial speech in this book. Thus, while we do not wish to
exclude the possibility that ^syllabification may be found across words
in English in other types of speech, in particular in fast or sloppy speech,
we believe that such phenomena are fundamentally different from the
ones under investigation here and, consequently, we do not consider them
further. We also do not wish to exclude the possibility of low-level phonet-
ic rules of (partial) resyllabification similar to Kahn's (1976) ambisyl-
labicity rules, which account for the difficulty speakers of English have
in dividing certain strings of segments into syllables. Rules of the latter
type, however, appear to reflect the fact that an utterance consists of a
continuous flow of speech sounds, without sharp boundaries between
one sound and another, and thus is quite different from the type of syl-
labification under examination here (see also note 17).
Contrary to our observation that ^syllabification does not apply across
words in English is Kiparsky's (1979) claim to the effect that it does.
Kiparsky's position is based on his analysis of Flapping across words,
which he accounts for by first laxing a consonant, t in this case, when it
follows a [-consonantal] segment within a foot. Cyclic ^syllabification
subsequently places the lax t at the beginning of a following vowel-initial
word, where it is voiced by a post-cyclic rule, yielding a segment that is
phonetically interpreted as a flap. While this set of operations does gen-
erate flaps where they are observed, it rests on an assumption we do
not share: that ^syllabification normally applies across words.
In favor of his position, Kiparsky mentions that an aim may have
the same pronunciation as a name. This does not seem to be a repre-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 65
sentative case, however, but seems instead to depend on the special (weak)
phonological status of the article an. An η does not appear to be resyl-
labified in other types of constructions, so for example, Anne ate does not
have the same junctural properties as innate. This point becomes even
clearer if we consider a segment that has a noticeable difference in its
pronunciation in syllable-final vs. syllable-initial position. In English, /
is such a segment, since it is 'dark' finally and 'clear' initially (cf. pa[l·]
vs. [l]ap). If resyllabification takes place across words, we would expect
a clear I in call Andy, the / having been moved into syllable-initial position.
This is not what we find, however. Instead, the I of call Andy is dark,
and thus is quite distinct from the unquestionably syllable-initial I in
Yolanda. While it might be possible to resolve the problem by saying that
the final dark I of call is moved as is to the onset of the following syllable,
there is no evidence for such a claim. Furthermore, there appears to be a
general constraint in English against dark Is in syllable-initial position.
In fact, when resyllabification of a syllable-final I to syllable-initial posi-
tion does take place, this results in a change from a dark to a clear articu-
lation (cf. vigi[ !·] vs. vigi[l]ant, vigi[l]ante). Note that where resyllabifica-
tion is blocked before a Class II suffix, the dark / remains (cf. vigi[l-]ish).
Returning now to the problem of Flapping, the fact remains that this
rule does apply across words, as in caught Andy. There is no more motiva-
tion for saying that the t in caught Andy is syllable initial than there is
for saying that the I in call Andy is syllable initial. Flapping must therefore
be explained in some other way. (See Chapter 8 for an alternative proposal
in which Flapping is analyzed as a U domain rule, and see sections 3.1.2
and 3.2.2 for a discussion of the related phenomena of Glottalization
and Aspiration.)
Another language in which an interaction between phonology and mor-
phology at the syllable level can be seen is Dutch, where the facts are quite
similar to those of English seen above (see, among others, Booij, 1977;
van der Hulst, 1984). By way of illustration, let us consider a medial se-
quence of nasal + obstruent which would normally be divided in Dutch,
and perhaps universally, such that the nasal closes the preceding syllable
and the obstruent begins the following syllable, giving the structure
in (7), where Ν and Ο stand for 'nasal' and 'obstruent', respectively.
(8) a. kompas -> [kom]a [pas^
b. pompoen [pom](J [poen]'σ
'compass'
'pumpkin'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
66 Prosodic Phonology
The same syllable structure is also found when the nasal and obstruent
cluster is at the end of a stem when the stem is followed by an inflec-
tional suffix or by a derivational suffix belonging to a particular class
(which might be likened to the Class I or nonneutral affixes in English
in some, though not all, respects (see Booij, 1977)). Examples of an in-
flected word and of a word derived with the relevant type of affix, which
we will call type X, are given in (9a) and (9b), respectively, where " - "
indicates the position of the juncture between the stem and its affix.
(9) a. stem + inflectional affix
lamp-en -»· [lam^ [ρβη]σ 'lamps'
stamp-en -> [stam^ [pen]ff 'stamp (inf.)'
b. stem + type X affix
damp-ig [dam]a [pig]CT 'vaporous'
stamp-er -»· [stam]g [per]a 'stamper'
When a suffix belonging to the other class, which we will call type Y, is
present, however, syllabification cannot divide the Ν + Ο cluster into two
syllables, as seen in (10a). The same pattern is observed with a prefix
and a stem, and with adjacent members of a compound, as seen in (10b)
and (10c), respectively.
(10)
a. stem + type Y affix
lamp-achtig [lamp]a [ach^ [tig]a (*[1αιη]σ [pach]0 [tig]a)
'lamplike'
klomp-achtig [klomp]a [ach]a [tig]ff (*[klom]a [pach]a [tig]a)
'wooden shoe-like'
b. prefix + stem
ont-erven [οηί]σ [er]ff [ven]ff (*[on]ff [ter]a [ven]a)
'disinherit'
ont-eigenen [ont]a [ei]ff [ge]a [nen]0 (*[οη]σ [tei]a ...)
'dispossess'
c. compound
lamp arm [lamp]a [armjp (*[lam]a [parm]^ 'part of a lamp'
lamp olie -»• [lamp]a [olie]a (*[lam]CT [ρο1ίβ]σ) 'kerosene'
As the examples in (11) show, it is also impossible for syllables to group
together segments that belong to separate words in a phrase.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 67
(11) separate words
(doe de) lamp aan ...[lamp^ [aan]a ("...[lam]^ [paan]^
'(put the) lamp on'
(een) ramp aanbrengen -*• ... [ramp]a [aan]a [breng](J [en]a
(*... [ram]CT [paan]a... %
'cause (a) disaster'
What both the English and the Dutch examples show is that the definition
of the domain of the syllable depends crucially on certain types of
nonphonological information. It will be seen, in fact, in Chapter 4 that the
domain for syllabification, or the domain within which syllables must be
well formed, is the phonological word, and that syllabification may be
used as a test for determining the definition of the phonological word
(see also Booij, 1983; van der Hulst, 1984).
Thus far, we have only mentioned the possibility of syllabification
within words and have shown that English and Dutch do not permit
syllabification across words in a phrase. It is well known, however, that
certain languages such as Italian and Spanish typically do permit syl-
labification across words. Let us consider again the case of an intervocalic
consonant and its syllabification seen above in (1) and (2), respectively,
repeated below as (12).
(12) CQ V C V C 0 - [ C 0 V]a [C V C0]ff
As was said above, this rule, and syllabification in general, are limited
to applying within the phonological word. Thus, syllabification of the
same string of consonants and vowels gives different results depending on
whether the segments are all part of the same word or not, as illustrated
by the English examples in (13) and the Dutch examples in (14), where
the symbols within the brackets this time are phonetic.
(13) a. pecan -»- [pi]ff [kaen]CT
b. pique Anne -»· [pik]a [aen]CT (*[pi]ff [kaen]a)
(14) a. alarm -*• [a]ff [larm]ff
'alarm'
b. alarm -> [α]φ [arm]0 (*[α]φ [larm]^)
'already poor'
Unlike these examples, the Italian and Spanish examples in (15) and (16),
respectively, show that a particular string of segments is syllabified in the
same way within a word and across words.11
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
68 Prosodic Phonology
(15) a. adocchio -»· [a]ff[ [dok]p [kjo]ff
'(I) sight'
b. ad occhio (nudo) -*• [a]a [dok]Q. [kjo]a ... (*[ad]c [ok]ff...)
'with (the bare) eye'
(16) a. alelado ^ [a]CT [1β]σ [la]a [δο]σ
'stupified'
b. al helado - [a]a [le]a [la]a [δο]σ ( * Μ σ [β]σ ...)
'to the ice cream'
In fact, the application of syllabification across words gives a result that is
indistinguishable from the syllabification of the same sequence of
segments which is already divided with the consonant in question at
the beginning of a syllable. Compare the results of syllabification of the
pairs of expressions in Italian and Spanish given in (17) and (18), re-
spectively.
(17) a. nonho -»· [ηο]σ [ηο]σ (*[ηοη]σ [ο]σ)
'(I) don't have'
b. no no [ηο]σ [ηο]σ
'no no'
(18) a. las aves - [1α]σ [sa]a [0es]a (*[las]a [a]a [ßes]a)
'the birds'
b. la sabes [la]a [sa]a [-ßes]
'(you) know it'
The Italian and Spanish examples seem to lead to the conclusion that
the domain of syllabification in these languages, and other languages
that allow syllabification across words, is a unit larger than the phonolog-
ical word, the domain of syllabification seen in English and Dutch. Such
a conclusion, however, would be partially incorrect. Instead, it is neces-
sary to distinguish between two types of syllabification, one applying
within the domain of the phonological word and the other applying
within larger domains. The first type, which we will refer to here as
'syllabification' tout court, is universal in that all languages must have
rules that ensure the existence of well-formed syllables at some level,
which we take to be the phonological word (see also Selkirk, 1978b),
though clearly the definition of a well-formed syllable varies from language
to language. The second type, which we will refer to as '^syllabification',
is language specific in the sense that it is found in some languages but
not in others, and applies in a domain that must be further specified.12
In addition, the details of the ^syllabification rule, that is, which segments
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 69
are resyllabified and under what conditions, varies from language to
language.
It can be demonstrated, furthermore, that in languages that allow
syllabification across words, both syllabification at the word level and
^syllabification at a higher level are needed. That is, it is not sufficient
to have only one rule in such languages that applies post-lexically, once
and for all throughout an utterance, or some smaller domain within the
utterance, after the individual words have been inserted into their syntac-
tic structures. Specifically, it can be shown that there are certain phono-
logical rules that must apply in relation to the (phonological) word-
level syllable structure, before resyllabification takes place. The applica-
tion of these rules to the syllable structure provided by a single post-
lexical syllabification would yield the wrong results. This can be seen in
both Spanish and French.
In Spanish, the combination nasal + glide (N + G) constitutes a well-
formed syllable-initial sequence, as seen in the examples in (19a,b), which
begin with [nw], and those in (19c,d), which begin with [nj].
(19) a. nuevo
b. nuez
c. nieve
d. nieto
'new'
'walnut'
'snow'
'grandson'
Thus, in accordance with the Maximal Onset Principle, a word-internal
sequence of Ν + G is syllabified with the vowel that follows it rather than
with the vowel that precedes it, as seen in (20). The first two examples
contain the phonetic sequence [nw] and the last two contain the sequence
[nj]·
(20) a. manual [ma]ff [nual]a 'manual'
b. anual -> [a]a [nual]a 'annual'
c. poniendo [po^ [nien]a [do]Q 'placing'
d. quinientos -»· [qui^ [nien]ff [tos]CT 'five hundred'
On the basis of such examples, one might expect Ν + G sequences in ad-
jacent words to be syllabified in the same way, too, given that Spanish
is a language that permits syllabification across words. In fact, this is what
would happen if there were only one rule of syllabification that applies
post-lexically to a string of words. It does not happen, however, as is
shown in (21), where the first example contains the phonetic sequence
[nw] and the second one contains [nj].
(21) a. unhuevo ->· [un]a [hue]a [vo]ff (*[u]a [nhue]a [vo]ff)
'an egg'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
70 Prosodic Phonology
b. unhielo -»• [υη]σ [hie]a [1ο]σ (*[u]a [nhie ]Q [lo]ff)
'an ice'
An indication that the correct syllabification of these examples is with the
nasal and the glide in separate syllables is the fact that, as part of a more
general phenomenon of nasal assimilation, a nasal assimilates in point of
articulation to a following glide, but only if the two segments are not
tautosyllabic (see Hooper, 1972,1976). We thus find a velar nasal in (21a)
and an alveopalatal nasal in (21b), as indicated in the transcriptions in
(22a) and (22b), respectively, where [ή] indicates the alveopalatal nasal
(see Harris, 1969).
(22) a. un huevo -*• [urjweßo]
b. unhielo -> [unjelo]
No such assimilation takes place, however, when the nasal and glide
are in the same syllable:
(23) a. nuevo -*• [nwe/3o] (*[qwe|3o])
b. nieto -»· [njeto ] (*[njeto])
If the only syllable structure assignment is by post-lexical rules applying
to an entire sentence, there is no way to account for the difference in
nasal assimilation patterns before glides within a single word and before
glides in a separate word. In both cases, the nasal and glide would be syl-
labified at the beginning of the syllable with the following vowel, the
position in which it was seen that assimilation does not occur. It is neces-
sary, therefore, to allow syllabification rules to apply to individual (phono-
logical) words, and thus to assign, at this point, the nasal and glide in cases
such as (21) to separate syllables. The fact that Spanish allows syllabifica-
tion across words, as seen earlier in (16b) and (18b), is accounted for by
the subsequent application of ^syllabification rules.13
Liaison in French is another rule that applies across words. Together
with Enchainement, it accounts for the pronunciation of a word-final
consonant and its resyllabification to the beginning of the following word,
at least in informal styles of speech:14
(24) a. tout ouvert -»· [tou]CT [tou]ff [vert] 'completely open'
b. les lies -> [1β]σ [silesjp 'the islands'
c. mes oncles -»• [me]ff [sondes] 'my uncles'
These divisions of segments into syllables follow the same patterns found
word internally:
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 71
(25) a. coutumiere -»• [cou]ff [tu]^ [mierejp 'customary (fem.)'
b. asile -*• [a]a [sile]^ 'asylum'
c. maison [mai]ff [son]a 'house'
It might at first seem possible to have a single set of syllabification rules
and assign syllable structure only after the individual words have been
combined into a sentence. This is not possible, however, since there is
another rule that must make reference to the syllable structure of the
word, and making reference to the structure that arises from syllabifica-
tion across words throughout a larger domain would yield the wrong re-
sults. In French, neither [e] nor [3] may occur in a closed stressed syllable.
In this environment, both vowels become [ε] (see, among others, Schane,
1968; Basb011, 1978; Lowenstamm, 1979,1981). Thus, we find seche
[se/] 'dry (fem.)' but sicher [se/e] 'to dry' and premiere [pramjsr]15
'first (fem.)' but premier [pramje] 'first (masc.)'. In a system in which syl-
labification rules apply only after words have been inserted into syn-
tactic structures, these rules will assign syllable structure to the phrases
in (26) as indicated; the transcription within the brackets is roughly
a phonemic one.
(26) a. la premiere annee *...[ρΓ3]σ [mje]ff [ra^ [ne]ff
'the first year'
b. sa premiere idee -*· *...[ρΓ3]σ [mje^ [π]σ [de]a
'his first idea'
In these examples, the /e/ in premiere is in an open syllable. Since the
rule that changes an underlying /e/ to [ε] applies only in closed syllables,
it does not apply to the items in (26). This is not the correct result, how-
ever, since premiere is pronounced with [ε], even in phrases such as those
above. It is necessary, therefore, that syllable structure be assigned first
at the (phonological) word level. This places the vowels in question in
closed syllables, as shown in (27).
(27) a. la premiere annee -»• ...[ρΓ3]σ [mjer]CT [a]ff [ηβ]σ
b. sa premiere idee -»· ...[ρΓ3]σ [mjer^ [i]ff [de]a
The rule that changes /e/ to [ε] can now apply. Only subsequently does
a rule of resyllabification move the syllable-final consonant to the begin-
ning of the following syllable. This gives the correct results, as seen in
(28).16
(28) a. ...[pra]a [mje]a [ra]ff [ne]ff
b
· . . . Μ σ Ν ε ] σ [π]σ [de]a
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
72 Prosodic Phonology
The Spanish and French examples show that even in languages that allow
syllabification across words, the syllabification procedure that accounts
for this phenomenon cannot be the only one in the language. It is neces-
sary to distinguish between the syllabification across words that applies
throughout larger domains relatively late in the derivation of a sentence,
what we have been calling ^syllabification', and the more basic syllabi-
fication that applies earlier in the derivation and has as its domain the
phonological word. While, as we have said, all languages have word-domain
syllabification, which has the effect of ensuring the well-formedness of
syllables within strings delimited by the boundaries of phonological words,
not all languages have resyllabification. Whether or not ^syllabification
is allowed is a parameter of the phonology that must be fixed for each
language. It may turn out, further, that this parameter is related to other
aspects of a language: it is probably not a coincidence that resyllabifica-
tion tends to be present in Romance languages but absent in Germanic
languages.17
What still remains to be determined is the larger domain within which
resyllabification takes place in those languages in which the phenomenon
occurs. Above the word level, there are four prosodic constituents, each
of which is potentially a domain for resyllabification. In French, it seems
that the domain of obligatory Liaison is the phonological phrase (see
Chapter 5 below, and Selkirk, 1978b), while in Spanish the domain ap-
pears to be larger - the intonational phrase, or perhaps even the phono-
logical utterance. In Italian, on the other hand, it is more difficult to
determine the domain of resyllabification, since there are so few conso-
nant-final words, and most of these are not members of any of the major
lexical categories (e.g. non 'not', con 'with', il 'the (masc. sg.)\per 'for').
Combinations of such words and a following vowel-initial word, needed
for resyllabification, always form a phonological phrase (see Chapter 5),
making it appear that this is the domain for resyllabification, as it is in
French. Additional data and other types of phenomena are necessary in
order to evaluate more accurately the domain of resyllabification in
Italian. One such phenomenon, Raddoppiamento Sintattico, will be dis-
cussed in Chapter 6, where it will be shown that the domain of resyl-
labification in Italian is, in fact, the phonological phrase. The question of
the domain of resyllabification in general, however, as well as its relation
to other aspects of the phonology of a given language, is one that deserves
more attention in the future.
3.1.2. The syllable as a phonological domain
While the rules of syllabification and resyllabification must refer to
larger domains such as the phonological word and the phonological phrase,
the syllable itself also serves as the domain of application for other rules.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 73
In fact, as we will show, it is the smallest unit in phonology that serves
as the domain of (segmental) phonological rules.
Much work in recent years has been devoted to motivating and charac-
terizing the internal organization of the syllable. Such studies (among
others, Kiparsky, 1979; Harris, 1983) argue for syllables structured as in
(29), along the lines proposed earlier by linguists such as Pike and Pike
(1947) and Fudge (1969).
(29) syllable
nucleus coda
Much of the motivation for this structure comes from the relationship
observed between syllable structure, in particular the rhyme, on the one
hand, and stress placement and tone, on the other (see also Newman,
1972; Hyman, 1977; Hayes, 1981). Another type of motivation comes
from the fact that languages tend to have strong restrictions on how seg-
ments may be combined within syllables. While these two types of motiva-
tion seem quite convincing as far as the role of subsyllabic units in such
areas as stress and tone assignment and phonotactic restrictions is concern-
ed,18
they do not provide motivation for the use of these units as domains
of segmental phonological rules. There have also been attempts to extend
the role of subsyllabic units into this area as well, and Harris (1983), for
example, argues that the rhyme, in particular, is the domain of applica-
tion of a number of segmental rules in Spanish. The problem with this,
however, is that the same rules can also be viewed as motivation for the
syllable as a domain in phonology, as will be seen below.
According to Harris, the best way to describe a Velarization rule
found in certain dialects of Spanish is to say that η becomes [η] when
it is in the rhyme of a syllable (p.46):
(30) n rj
I
R
This accounts for the velarization observed in the following examples
(from Guitart, 1979,1980, cited in Harris):
(31) a. cantan ca[q]ta[r)] '(they) sing'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
74 Prosodic Phonology
b. institute) ->· i[g]stituto 'institute'
c. constante -»• co[r)]sta[r)]te 'constant'
The formulation of Velarization in (30) has the advantage, according
to Harris, of applying to any nasal segment in a rhyme, whether it is
syllable final (as in the case of the two m in (31a)) or not (as in the case
of the hs in the first syllables of (31b,c), which are followed by s in the
same syllable). Any rule that has the form of (30), or in more general
terms, the form of (32) (from Harris, p.40), however, can also be formu-
lated in a straightforward and simple way by referring to the syllable
with no loss of generalization, as seen in (33).
Thus, the velarization rule in (30) can be reformulated as in (34).
(34) Velarization
The same argument can be made for the six other rules Harris formulates
as rhyme-domain rules, as seen in Table 1 (taken from Vogel, 1985).
The question now is whether rules such as those just seen should
be taken as evidence for the rhyme or for the syllable as a domain of pho-
nological rules. Clearly a phonological system that allows a given phenom-
enon to be formulated in two ways is weaker than one that allows only
one formulation. It is necessary, therefore, to find some way of choosing
one of the two types of formulations. There is nothing in the rules seen
thus far that seems to particularly favor either a rhyme formulation or
a syllable formulation. Let us consider, however, the rule of Glide
Strengthening that accounts for the presence of the fricative [2] in the
words in (35c,d), but of the glide [i] in those in (35a,b).
Harris formulates the following syllable-domain rule for Glide Strength-
ening (p.58):
(32) χ - y /
R
(33) χ - y /
n C
o ] a
(35) a. ley le[i]
b. comiendo -> co-m[i]endo
c. leyes -*• le-[2]es
d. creiendo -*• cre-[2]endo
'law'
'eating'
'laws'
'believing'
(36) i - ί / [σ
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 75
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
76 Prosodic Phonology
This rule cannot be reformulated as a rhyme-domain rule of the form in
(32), though Harris considers the glide in question to be part of the
rhyme, since it does not apply to just any glide in a rhyme, but only to
one that is not preceded by another segment in the same syllable. Thus,
there are certain syllable-domain rules that cannot be reformulated in
terms of the rhyme domain, though all rhyme-domain rules can be re-
formulated as syllable-domain rules. We propose to resolve the problem
mentioned above of how to determine whether a given phenomenon
should be expressed as a rhyme- or as a syllable-domain rule by excluding
completely the possibility of rhyme-domain rules; the smallest domain
for segmental phonological rules is the syllable. That is, while the rhyme
may play a role in stress and tone assignment and in the formulation of
phonotactic constraints, it does not serve as a domain for segmental
phonological rules. The result is a more constrained, and thus more highly
valued, system since it contains one less domain for the application of
segmental rules and since it eliminates the situation in which there is no
way to choose between two formulations of a rule, and perhaps also
prevents a duplication of functions, which arises when both the rhyme and
the syllable are potentially the domain of a single phenomenon.
As we have just seen, there are (at least) eight rules in different varieties
of Spanish that make reference to the syllable in their formulation.19
While all of these rules have been formulated as domain limit rules, that
is, rules that apply in relation to either the right side or the left side of
a syllable, it should be noted that one of the rules, Aspiration, can also be
formulated as a span rule. That is, it is not necessary to explicitly represent
the fact that the s that is aspirated is at the right end of a syllable. That
the s in question will always be in this position is accounted for by general
constraints on syllable structure in Spanish. In other words, the s in ques-
tion cannot be in any other position if it is preceded by a [+sonorant]
segment, as specified in the context of the rule. Thus, instead of the for-
mulation of the rule given in Table 1, we could formulate Aspiration
as a syllable span rule:
(37) s - h / [...[+son] ]a
Since nothing may, in fact, appear in the position indicated by the right-
most the domain span formulation yields the same results as the
domain limit formulation. We will not choose between the two possibili-
ties at this point, since it is not clear whether one type of rule is more
highly valued than the other, and both rules are formulated in a very
simple way. It should be pointed out in relation to the span interpretation,
however, that it makes use of information about Spanish syllable structure
that must in any case be expressed in the grammar and may, for this
reason, be considered a more desirable formulation.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 77
The phenomena we will examine in the rest of this section show that
the syllable is the domain of application of segmental rules in languages
other than Spanish and that syllable-level rules, in addition to applying
as limit or span rules, may also apply at the juncture between two syl-
lables as domain juncture rules.
Let us first consider a rule of English, Glottalization. As is well known,
Glottalization is one of the three rules that account for the major allo-
phonic variation of t, as well as of the other voiceless stops in American
English. (For a discussion of the other rules, Aspiration and Flapping,
see section 3.2 below and Chapter 8, respectively.) In segmental terms, it
can be said that a t is globalized following a [-consonantal] segment when
the t is a) in absolute final position, b) followed within a (phonological)
word by a consonant other than r, and c) followed by a consonant or a
glide in an adjacent word. As the examples in (38) show, these environ-
ments are precisely those that place t in syllable-final position (see, among
others, Kahn, 1976, 1980).
[wai[t?
]]ff
[re]a fporft ]] 20
[&}σ [an[t ]]σ
21
Μ t % [las]CT
m t % [ness]ff
Μ ί ?
] ] σ [pa]ff...
W t !
] ] 0
[wai[t']]a [wea]a...
It should be noted that when a word-final t is followed by a vowel in an
adjacent phonological word, either in a compound or in a phrase, Glot-
talization does not occur, as illustrated below.
(39) a. night owl *nigh[t?
] owl
b. heart ache -»· *hear[t?
] ache
c. wait a minute *wai[t?
] a minute
d. wait eagerly -»• *wai[t?
] eagerly
(38) a. wait
b. report
c. giant
d. atlas
e. witness
f. wait patiently - >
g· wait reluctantly - >
h. wait wearily - V
In these examples, we find a flap instead of a glottalized t. One way
to exempt such cases from Glottalization is to claim that the word-final
t is resyllabified to the onset of the following syllable, the solution adopt-
ed by Kiparsky (1979). As we have argued above, however, this is not a
viable solution. The solution we adopt here, instead, is to allow the Flap-
ping rule to apply before the Glottalization rule. The ts in environments
like those in (39) will be flapped, and will therefore not be subject to the
later application of Glottalization, since Glottalization applies to voice-
less stops, not to flaps (see also Vogel, 1981).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
78 Prosodic Phonology
On the basis of the above observations, we can formulate Glottalization
as a syllable-domain rule, and in particular, a domain limit rule, as seen
in (40).
(40) Glottalization
t t?
/ [ ...[-cons] ]σ
Another rule that has the syllable as its domain of application is Schwa
Insertion in certain varieties of Dutch (see, among others, Booij, 1981;
Trommelen, 1983; van der Hulst, 1984). According to this rule, a schwa
may be inserted between a liquid and a following noncoronal obstruent,
but only when the liquid and the obstruent are in the same syllable.22
Compare the examples in (41), in which Schwa Insertion applies, and
those in (42), in which it does not apply.
(41)
a. park:
b. helpster:
c. helft:
d. melk:
e. melkachtig:
f. melkauto:
[park]a
[help]ff [ster]
[helft]a
[melk]a
[me\k]a [ach]a [tig]ff
[melk]a [au]a {to]Q
par[a]k 'park'
hel[a]pster 'helper (fem.)'
hel[3]ft 'half
mel[a]k 'milk'
mel[a]kachtig 'milklike'
mel[a]kauto 'milk van'
(42)
a. parkiet: [Pa r
k [kiet]a *par[a]kiet 'parakeet'
b. pulpig: Μ σ [Pfe]a
*pul[a]pig 'pulpy'
c. Margreet: [Mar]ff [greet^ - > *Mar[3]greet proper name
d. wolkig: [wol]ff - > *wol[a]kig 'cloudy'
e. melkerij: [mel]a tk e
la ΜΠσ *mel[9]kerij 'milk farm'
It should be noted that Schwa Insertion applies in (41e,f), even though the
liquid and obstruent sequence Ik is followed by a vowel, an environment
in which we might not expect the two segments to be tautosyllabic. Com-
pare these cases to those in (42d,e), where in a similar segmental environ-
ment the rule does not apply. The difference is that the / and the k are,
in fact, tautosyllabic in (41e,f), but not in (42d,e). It will be recalled that
the domain for syllabification in Dutch is the phonological word, which
often does not include affixes with the stem. Since -achtig is one of the
suffixes that form a phonological word on their own, the k of melk
cannot be syllabified with the vowel-initial syllable of the following suf-
fix. It remains at the end of melk, where it is tautosyllabic with /, thus
creating the appropriate environment for Schwa Insertion. A similar situ-
ation is found in the compound melkauto, since the two members of the
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 79
compound form separate phonological words in Dutch. Thus, the k
must remain at the end of the first syllable, rather than being syllabified
with the following vowel-initial syllable, which belongs to a separate pho-
nological word. By contrast, the suffixes -en and -erij in (41d) and (41e),
respectively, do not form separate phonological words (see Booij, 1977).
The k thus forms the onset of the following syllable in these cases and the
context for Schwa Insertion is not created.
The facts of Schwa Insertion are captured by the following syllable-
domain rule, where 'L' represents a liquid:
(43) Schwa Insertion
0 ^ a / [ ... L [-cor] CD ]a
Formulated as such, Schwa Insertion is a syllable limit rule that applies
in relation to the right end of a syllable, with one or more consonants
optionally appearing after the [-coronal] segment, as indicated by the
presence of CQ in the rule. This case was seen in (41c).
It should be noted that Schwa Insertion, like Aspiration in Spanish,
has an alternative formulation as a span rule. That is, since general restric-
tions on Dutch syllable structure require that the relevant position for the
application of the rule, between a liquid and a following noncoronal
obstruent, be on the right end of a syllable, it is not necessary to express
this information explicitly in the rule.23
As a span rule, Schwa Insertion
can be expressed as in (44).
(44) 0 - a / [...L [-cor]...]a
Another syllable domain rule is Strengthening in Tamazight Berber (see Saib,
1978). This rule changes the nonstrident fricatives [Θ] and [δ] to the cor-
responding stops [t] and [d] when they are preceded by their strident
counterparts [s] and [z], but only if the segments in question are tauto-
syllabic. Consider the examples in (45), given by Saib (p.98). The final
transcription, between unlabeled brackets, is phonetic; the dots under
certain segments indicate phonetic emphasis.
(45) a. /0afus0/: [6a]ff [fus6]a [Öafust] 'little hand'
b. /0azöus6/: [9az]a [öuz9]ff [6azöust] 'little mortar'
c. /Qdkkdsb/: [09k](J [kazö^ [Oakkazd] 'you took off
d. /θ3πιπιίζδ/:[θ9πι]σ [πιϊζδ]σ [9ammizd] 'you stretched'
When the two fricatives are not in the same syllable, Strengthening does
not apply, as can be seen above in the first sequence of /ζδ/ in (45b)
and in the examples below.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
80 Prosodic Phonology
(46) a. /usOu/: [us]a [θυ]σ [us9u]
b. /i+zäay/: [ϊζ]σ [öay^ [izögy]
(*[ustu]) 'yarn'
(*[izday]) 'he linked'
As these examples show, Strengthening applies in relation to the right
end of a syllable. We can thus formulate the rule as follows:24
(47) Strengthening
+cont
+ant
+cor
-strid
[-cont] / [.
+cont
+ant
+cor
+strid
la
All of the syllable-domain rules seen thus far except one are domain
limit rules or domain span rules, and of these, all limit rules except one
apply in relation to the right end of the syllable. The only syllable limit
rule seen above that applies in relation to the left end of the syllable is
Glide Strengthening in Spanish, formulated in (36). Another syllable limit
rule that applies in relation to the left end of the syllable is what can be
called Alveopalatalization, a rule of English that changes the point of
articulation of t from alveolar to alveopalatal before r. The alveopalatal
t is, furthermore, either unaspirated, [c], or aspirated, [ch
], 25
depending
on whether or not it is in the appropriate context for the usual Aspira-
tion rule (see Kahn, 1976). Alveopalatalization is thus found in the ex-
amples in (48) but not in those in (49).
(48) a. treat:
b. street:
c. retrieve:
d. citrus:
e. destroy:
f. nitrate:
[treaty
[street^
[re]a [trieve]a
[α]σ [trus]0
[de]ff [stroy]ff
[ηί]σ [trate]ff
(49) a.
b.
night rate: [night]Q [rate]ff
rat race: [rat^ [race]a
cut rate: [cut]a [rate]a
tightrope: [tight]ff [rope]ff
[ch
]reat
s[c]reet
re[ch
Jrieve
ci[c]rus
des[c]roy
ni[ch
]rate
*nigh[c] rate
*ra[c] race
*cu[c] rate
*tigh[c] rope
The application of Alveopalatalization can be accounted for by the rule
in (50), a left-end syllable limit rule. It should be noted that there may be
another consonant to the left of the t that undergoes the rule. Given the
general phonotactic restrictions on English syllable structure, this conso-
nant may only be s (cf. (48b,e)).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 81
(50) Alveopalatalization
t ~> c / [(C) r... ]σ
Finally, it should be noted that Alveopalatalization is another rule that can
be formulated as a syllable span rule rather than a syllable limit rule on the
basis of more general constraints on syllable structure. That is, since in
English the only place within a syllable in which we find (s)t followed by
r is at the left end, the Alveopalatalization rule could alternatively be
formulated as the span rule in (51) and still yield the correct results.
(51) t - c / [ r. 1
The only syllable-domain rule mentioned above that is not a limit or a
span rule is the rule of /--Strengthening (i) in Spanish. This rule, original-
ly formulated as a rhyme-domain rule by Harris (1983), can be reformulat-
ed, in accordance with our proposal to eliminate the rhyme as a pho-
nological domain, as a syllable-domain rule (see Table 1, above). As can
be seen in (52), r-Strengthening (i) is a domain juncture rule. That is,
it applies at the juncture of two syllables, on some larger domain, D.,
possibly the phonological word.
(52) r-Strengthening (i)
r r / [ . . . [ ... [+cons]]ff [_ • · · L · · · ]D.
An r is thus strengthened when it is preceded by a [+consonantal] segment
in a separate syllable (as in (53)), but not by a [+consonantal] segment
in the same syllable (as in (54)).
(53)
(54)
a.
b.
honra: [hon]a [ra]CT
alredador: [al]a [re]CT...
a. otro: [ο]σ [tro]a
b. agricultor: [a]a [gri]a...
-> hon[r]a
->· al[r]edador
->*ot[r]o
-•*ag[r]icultor
'honor'
'around'
'other'
'farmer'
Another phenomenon that occurs at the juncture between syllables is
Consonant Gradation (CG) in Finnish. CG comprises a fairly complex set
of changes that have the effect of 'weakening' oral stops: geminates
simplify, in homorganic sonorant + stop clusters the stop assimilates
totally to the sonorant, t becomes d, ρ becomes v, and k is deleted (see
Prince, 1984). Examples (from Keyser and Kiparsky, 1984) of several of
these changes are given below.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
82 Prosodic Phonology
(55) a. halute + ten halutten-» haluten26
b. pure + ten -*· purten ->· purren
c. tule + ten -*• tulten -*• tullen
d. saa + ten -*• saaten saaden
As both Prince (1984) and Keyser and Kiparsky (1984) point out, Conso-
nant Gradation applies to a consonant that is not in the first syllable
of a word, and more specifically, to one that is preceded by a [+sonorant]
segment in the adjacent syllable. The syllable in which CG occurs must,
furthermore, be heavy. Since there are no long vowels or diphthongs out-
side the first syllable (at least of stems), and since CG applies to syllables
other than the first one, the only type of syllable to which the rule applies
is one with a short vowel and a final consonant (see Prince, p.241). On the
basis of these observations, it can be seen that CG fits the definition of
a syllable-domain juncture rule. Such a rule can be formulated as in (56),
where 'weak' is a cover term representing the various changes the con-
sonants in question may undergo, and D. represents the larger domain
within which the rule applies, most likely the phonological word as in the
case of /--Strengthening (i).27
(56) Consonant Gradation
+cont
-son
-*• 'weak' I [...[... [+son]]ff [ V C ] a . . . ] D
The last rule we will consider here is Emphasis in Arabic. The velarization
or pharyngealization that characterizes Emphasis is conditioned in most
dialects by the presence in a syllable of an emphatic consonant. All seg-
ments in a syllable with such a consonant receive emphasis (see van der
Hulst and Smith, 1982). Consider the examples in (57), given by van der
Hulst and Smith, where emphasis is indicated in the traditional way with
a dot under an emphatic segment.
(57) a. rab: [rab]a - [rab] 'lord'
b. tiin: [tiin]a -*· [tun] 'mad'
c. raagil: [raa]a [gil]a [raagil] 'man'
d. bukra: [buk]a [ra]a [bukra] 'tomorrow'
e. raaiid: [raa]a [?id]a -*• [raa?id] 'military rank'
Van der Hulst and Smith analyze Emphasis as an autosegmental spread-
ing rule which operates on the syllable domain, and as such it is somewhat
different from the segmental rules seen thus far. In other words, Emphasis
is a rule of autosegmental association that is bound to a specific phonolog-
ical domain, which shows, as van der Hulst and Smith point out, that there
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 83
are at least some rules that require both a theory of autosegmental asso-
ciations and a theory of phonological domains.28
On the basis of the various rules examined above, there does not seem
to be any doubt as to the validity of the syllable as a domain of phono-
logical rules. In fact, examples were seen of the syllable as the domain of
all three types of prosodic rules: domain limit, domain juncture and
domain span rules. In several cases, it was shown that two formulations
are possible for a given rule, a syllable limit formulation and a syllable
span formulation. However, since both formulations are simple and
straightforward, and since we do not at this point have any reason for
favoring one type of rule over another, we have not made a choice
between the two alternative formulations.
We will now examine the next level in the prosodic hierarchy, the foot,
one which is more controversial than the syllable.
3.2. The foot
In the model of prosodic phonology we are proposing in this book, syl-
lables are not grouped directly into words, but rather are first grouped
into intermediate-sized constituents, feet. Most of the arguments in favor
of the foot in generative phonology, and in particular in metrical theory,
have been based on stress assignment. That is, the foot was seen as funda-
mental in determining the positions of stressed vs. stressless syllables with-
in words and larger strings (see, among others, Liberman and Prince, 1977;
Halle and Vergnaud, 1978; Kiparsky, 1979; Selkirk, 1980b; Hayes, 1981).
More recently, however, it has been argued by several of the original
proponents of the foot (see in particular Prince, 1983; Selkirk, 1984b)
that the correct way to account for stress patterns in a language is not in
terms of the foot, but rather in terms of the metrical grid. This position
is taken even further, and it is claimed that the foot does not exist as a
constituent in phonology at all since '[m]ost alleged foot-sensitive rules can
be recast as rules sensitive to the stressed-stressless distinction' (Selkirk,
1984b:31). While metrical grid theory offers interesting advantages over an
arboreal theory with feet as far as stress is concerned, it is not clear that
it can obviate the role of the foot as a domain of other types of pho-
nological rules. Even if it were the case that all foot-sensitive rules can,
in fact, be formulated in relation to grid configurations, this does not
necessarily mean that the foot should be eliminated from phonological
theory. In fact, such an approach to the role of the foot is reminiscent of
some of the early arguments against the syllable as a unit of phonology
(see, among others, Kohler, 1966; Leben, 1973). Furthermore, on analogy
to what was found in relation to the syllable, one might suspect that one
of the risks in eliminating the foot as the domain of certain phonological
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
84 Prosodic Phonology
rules is that the alternative accounts will nevertheless require that the
definition of the foot be built into the formulation of the rule itself. The
result would thus be a loss of generalization. In section 3.2.2, we will
examine several phonological rules that apply in relation to the foot, and
on the basis of these rules argue that the foot is indeed a valid constituent
of phonology. First, however, in section 3.2.1, we will consider several
questions related to the structure of the foot.
3.2.1. The structure of the foot
In general terms, the structure of a foot can be characterized as con-
sisting of a string of one relatively strong and any number of relatively
weak syllables dominated by a single node (see, among others, Liberman
and Prince, 1977; Kiparsky, 1979). As Hayes (1981) has shown on the
basis of an analysis of a large number of languages, however, there are
fairly strong restrictions on the grouping of syllables into feet in a given
language. That is, a language may either have binary feet, consisting of
two syllables each, or unbounded feet, consisting of any number of syl-
lables. In exceptional cases, languages with binary feet may also have
ternary feet, though this option is marked and the positions in which
ternary feet may occur tend to be quite limited. One last type of foot that
may also be found as a marked structure is the 'degenerate' one-syllable
foot.
Hayes (1981) has shown, furthermore, that languages may differ not
only in the number of syllables they allow in a foot, but also in whether
or not syllable structure is relevant in determining foot structure. That
is, in certain languages the weight of a syllable must be taken into account
in constructing feet, yielding so-called quantity sensitive feet; in other
languages, feet are constructed without regard to syllable weight, yielding
so-called quantity insensitive feet. This parameter combines with the
parameter of binary vs. unbounded feet to give the four possible foot
types in (58).29
(58) a. binary, quantity sensitive
b. binary, quantity insensitive
c. unbounded, quantity sensitive
d. unbounded, quantity insensitive
We will assume here that Hayes's characterization of the various foot types
is basically correct. We differ with Hayes (1981), however, as far as the
nature of foot trees is concerned. While Hayes maintains that feet are
binary branching, in accordance with the principles of an arboreal metrical
theory (see also Liberman and Prince, 1977; Kiparsky, 1979; Selkirk,
1980b, among others), in the model we are proposing here, all prosodic
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 85
constituents are n-ary branching (see Chapter 1). This difference in foot
structure shows up only in ternary and unbounded feet; binary feet and
degenerate one-syllable feet are obviously represented in the same way in
both systems. One problem with binary branching feet is that they contain
more structure than is necessary, as was discussed in Chapter 1; further-
more, this structure makes predictions that are not, in fact, borne out.
Let us consider a binary branching foot tree such as the one in (59), which
represents an unbounded foot with its strongest syllable on the left.
(59) Σ
s w w w
σ
ι σ
2 σ
4
0 ) (4) (3) (2)
This type of tree creates internal nodes that define constituents con-
sisting of subparts of the entire foot tree, as indicated by the circles in
(59). That is, the upper circled node establishes a constituent consisting
of syllables σί - σ3 and the lower circled node establishes a constituent
of syllables σι - σ2· This additional constituent structure is superfluous,
however, since there are no rules that make crucial reference to them,
although we would expect such rules to exist given that one motivation
of a particular constituent structure is the existence of rules that make
reference to that structure. In a theory that makes use of binary branching
trees, it is necessary to make a distinction between nodes with a category
label and those without a category label (see Nespor, 1983). In a theory
that makes use of n-ary branching trees, however, no such distinction is
needed since all nodes have a category label.
Another problem with binary branching trees is related to the stress
patterns they give rise to. According to the usual interpretation of the
stress pattern represented by a tree like the one in (59), based on Liber-
man and Prince's (1977) algorithm, the strongest syllable is the leftmost
one, σ , as indicated by the stress value (1) under the syllable; secondary
stress falls on σ4, as indicated by the value (2). Syllables σ3 and σ2 are
increasingly weaker. As Leben (1982:182) points out, 'we do not need
foot-internal structure in order to signal relationships between primary
and secondary stress, since on current assumptions the foot is defined as
containing one and only one stressed syllable.' Thus, the complex stress
relations within the foot predicted by a binary branching structure are also
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
86 Prosodic Phonology
superfluous. Both this problem and the one seen above are avoided by n-
ary branching trees. The flatter structure of such trees does not contain
any intervening nodes between the foot and the syllable, as illustrated in
(60). In this type of structure, therefore, there are no constituents present
other than the foot and the syllables it dominates. As far as stress is con-
cerned, there is only one strong syllable per foot, in this case the leftmost
one. All other syllables are weak, and there are no further predictions
about relative prominence relations among them.
(60)
Leben (1982) shows, furthermore, that the same types of information
used by Hayes to build binary branching trees can also be used to build
n-ary branching trees that capture all of the same necessary structure but
none of the unnecessary structure. Compare the binary and n-ary represen-
tations in (62) that correspond to the statement in (61), a statement
typical of those used by Hayes in his construction of feet. Note that the
s and w labels on the feet indicate their relative prominence within the
word tree; primary stress is thus on the syllable marked [+A].
(61) Assign maximal unbounded right-dominant feet right to left such
that no recessive [i.e. weak] node contains [+A].
(Leben's (10), p. 182)
(62) a. binary branching tree
X X X X X X X X
[+A]
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 87
b. n-ary branching tree
Σ C Σ,w
Λ
w w w w w s w s
X X X X X X X X
[+A]
(slightly modified form of Leben's (11), p.182)
The stress pattern expressed by the above statement and tree structure
is quite similar, in fact, to one mentioned by Hayes, that of West Green-
landic Eskimo. It should be noted, however, that Hayes (1981:58) uses
a statement that refers to the dominant node rather than the recessive
node. That is, Hayes states that syllables with branching rhymes are stress-
ed, as is the final syllable. West Greenlandic Eskimo does not make use of
word trees, however, according to Hayes, so the foot nodes might not be
labeled as in (62).
The type of structure in (62a) is fairly similar, furthermore, to another
type of structure found in Hayes's system, one which leads to another
point of difference between Hayes's proposal and ours. In Khalkha Mon-
goljan, stress is placed on the first long vowel, or on the first vowel in
words without any long vowels (see Hayes, pp.63-64). This type of stress
pattern can be accounted for by a rule such as the one in (63).
(63) On a projection of [+syllabic] segments within the rhyme, assign
at the left edge of a word a maximally unbounded right-dominant
foot such that the dominant node branches; if there are no long
(i.e. branching) vowels, stress the first syllable.
If we indicate a branching node with the feature [+A], we would assign
the foot structure in (64a) to the same sequences of Xs seen above in
(62). According to Hayes, the Xs that are not assigned to the foot created
by (63) are joined directly into the left-dominant word (ω) tree by Stray
Syllable Adjunction, as shown in (64b).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
88 Prosodic Phonology
(64) a. foot tree
w w w w w s w w
x x x x x x x x
[+A]
b. word tree
Examples of this type of structure and of the structure built when a word
contains no long (i.e. branching) vowels are given in (65a) and (65b),
respectively (from Hayes, p.64).
(65) a.
w s
I Λ Λ
g a r a a s a a
b. ω
w w w
x ö t a b a r a
'leadership'
'from one's own hand'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 89
Both of these structures are unacceptable in the system we propose, aside
from the binary branching trees, because they violate the Strict Layer
Hypothesis.30
In (65a), the final syllable is dominated, along with the
foot, by the phonological word node. In (65b), the phonological word
dominates a string composed only of syllables. According to the Strict
Layer Hypothesis, however, all syllables must be grouped into feet before
feet are grouped into phonological words. Within the framework proposed
by Hayes (1981), not only is it possible for a given phonological consti-
tuent of the size of the phonological word or smaller to be present in some
languages and absent in others, it is also possible for a given constituent
to be present in some words and absent in other words of the same lan-
guage.
The way we propose to analyze the examples in (65) is as in (66).
(66) a. ω b.
A I"
w s I
I /I Λ
a r a a s a a
s w w
!· 1
J I
x o t a b a r a
These structures can be built with the same statement used for building
the structures in (64). The only difference is that before the word tree is
constructed, any syllables that are not part of a foot must be joined into a
(separate) foot. In a phonological system that includes the Strict Layer
Hypothesis, this operation does not have to be stated explicitly since it
follows directly from the hypothesis. Thus, while n-ary branching trees
and the additional foot structure no longer allow us to make a statement
to the effect that all of the dominant nodes of a foot must branch in a
given language (see Vergnaud and Halle, 1978; Hayes, 1981), what we have
instead is more uniform tree structure throughout the language, and across
languages, at no additional cost to the grammar.
It should be noted, finally, that the two-foot analysis we are proposing for
a string of Xs such as that in (64) predicts that there are two strong syllables
in the word, while the one-foot-plus-two-additional-syllables analysis in
(64b) predicts that there is only one strong syllable. If languages with
words such as the one to which we would assign two feet, in fact, have one
stress per word and no secondary stresses, we could account for this
with a language-specific phonetic interpretation convention to the effect
that the only strong node that is actually perceived as such is the one that
corresponds to the primary word stress, in this case, the leftmost stress.
Given more recent work on stress patterns (in particular Prince, 1983;
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
90 Prosodic Phonology
Selkirk, 1984b), however, it seems fairly unlikely that a language will in
effect have only one strong syllable in a long polysyllabic word. Clear-
ly, more detailed studies of languages like Khalkha Mongolian are needed.
To summarize briefly, in the model we are proposing, the foot is a
constituent of the prosodic hierarchy. Like all other prosodic constituents,
it is n-ary branching. A general principle of the system will guarantee that
only one syllable per foot is strong, and language-specific rules will deter-
mine which one it is. In the case of long unbounded feet, it is possible
that additional rhythmic alternations may be introduced by general
rhythmic principles of the type discussed in the framework of grid theory.
We will not be concerned further here with the rule for assigning foot
structure. Instead, as in our discussion of the syllable, we will assume that
the necessary rules have operated at the point at which our discussion of
foot-domain phonological rules, in the next section, begins. Finally, while
some languages may allow a process of 'refooting' to apply across words in
a way analogous to resyllabification, we take the basic domain for the
construction of feet to be the phonological word, as it is for syllables (see
also Selkirk, 1978b; Chapter 4 below).
3.2.2. The foot as a phonological domain
While the definition of the foot is intimately related to stress, as was
seen in the preceding section, stress is not the only phonological phenom-
enon that is related to the foot. In fact, as we will show in this section,
there are several different types of phenomena that must make reference
to the foot. In particular, we will examine a number of phonological rules,
a phonotactic constraint, and a definition of poetic rhyme, all of which
depend on the foot for their formulation. It will be shown, furthermore,
that despite the close relation between the foot and stress, the foot cannot
be replaced as a phonological domain by stress patterns. That is, there are
certain rules that cannot be formulated in terms of stress and others whose
formulation in terms of stress requires more complicated rules and results
in the formalization of a relationship between stress and other phenomena
that otherwise seems improbable.
Let us first consider Aspiration in English. While this rule applies to
all three voiceless stops, p, t, and k, we will limit our attention here to
t, since the Aspiration of t interacts with two other rules that affect t
in American English: Glottalization, which was seen above, and Flapping,
which will be discussed in Chapter 8. Examples of the contexts in which
Aspiration applies are given in (67) and examples of contexts in which
it does not apply are given in (68). The foot structure is also given.31
(67) a. time [th
]ime [time]s
b. tuna [th
]una [tuna]v
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 91
c. toucan
d. typhoon
e. terrain
f. detain
g. detention
h. entire
i. curtail
j. satire
k. reptile
1. infantile
m. longitude
n= tree toad
o. sweet tooth
[th
]oucan
[th
]yphoon
[th
]errain
de[th
]ain
de[th
]ention
en[th
]ire
cur[th
]ail
sa[th
]ire
rep[th
]ile
infan[th
]ile
longi[th
Jude
[th
]ree [th
]oad32
sweet [th
]ooth
[tou]s [can]2
[ty]s [phoon]2
[te]s [rrain]2
[de]s [tain]s
[de]^ [tention]^
[en]2 [tire]2
[cur]2 [taU]2
[sa]2 [tire]2
[rep]2 [tile]2
[infan]s [tüe]s
[longi]2 [tude]2
[tree]s [toad]s
[sweety [tooth]^
(68) a. sting *s[th
]ing
b. abstain - > *abs[th
]ain
c. austere *aus[th
]ere
d. after *af[th
]er
e. alter - > *al[th
]er
f. satyr - > *sa[th
]yr
g- shatter *sha[th
]er
h. hospital *hospi[th
]al
i. night owl *nigh[th
] owl
j· flat iron -y *fla[th
] iron
[sting]2
[ab]^ [stain]^
[au]^ [stere]^
[after]^
[alter]^
[satyr]2
[shatter]^
[hospital]^
[night]^ [owl]s
[flat]2 [iron]2
What (67) and (68) show is that a t is aspirated if and only if it is the
first segment of a foot. When it is preceded by another segment, s, or
by one or more syllables, it is not aspirated ((68a-c) and (68d-h), respec-
tively). Since ^syllabification does not apply across phonological words
in English, as was seen above, a t at the end of the first member of a com-
pound cannot be transferred to the onset of the second member. It
remains foot final and is therefore not aspirated (as in (68i,j)). We can
thus formulate the following foot limit rule which expresses the fact
that Aspiration only applies at the left end of a foot (see also Vogel,
1981):
(69) Aspiration
t - [+asp] / [ ]Σ
3 3
It should be noted that the Strict Layer Hypothesis requires that all syl-
lables be grouped into feet, before the feet may be grouped into phonolo-
gical words. This means that even a stressless syllable may form a foot
if it is the only syllable preceding another foot in a word. Thus the first
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
92 Prosodic Phonology
syllable of terrain, (67e), forms a foot by itself, a sister of the foot con-
stituted by the second syllable. The same is true of the first, stressless
syllables of detain, detention, entire and curtail in (Wf-i).34
This analysis
of foot structure yields the correct results since the initial t of terrain is
aspirated, despite the fact that the first syllable is stressless. If te were not
a foot, the Aspiration rule in (69) could not apply to it. As far as (67f-i)
are concerned, we see further that a stressless syllable is not joined right-
ward into a single foot with what follows, since doing so would mean
that the is at the beginning of the second syllable of each of these exam-
ples would not be foot initial and (69) could not apply to them.
Our analysis of Aspiration shows that by referring to the foot, we
can formulate the rule that accounts for this phenomenon in a simple
way. The same cannot be done by making reference only to stress. While
it is clear that stress does have something to do with Aspiration, it is not
the only factor involved. The connection between stress and Aspiration
has to do with the fact that a foot usually begins with a stressed syllable;
thus, a t at the beginning of a stressed syllable is aspirated. We have seen,
however, that there are also cases in which a t is aspirated in another
position, at the beginning of a word, even when it is in an unstressed syl-
lable, the case of terrain. Thus, a stress account of Aspiration would re-
quire two separate statements of the environment - one that does, in fact,
make reference to stress, and one that makes reference to some other
property of the remaining cases, i.e. to the fact that they are word initial.
The combination of these two statements is in effect the definition of the
foot in English, so we do not really gain anything with such a formulation.
It should be noted that in the analysis of English word stress pro-
posed by Selkirk (1984b), the first syllable of words such as terrain
actually receives stress at one point in the process of grid construction.
This is accomplished by the Initial Beat Rule (IBR). Such syllables are
also destressed, however, by a subsequent rule. In order to claim that
Aspiration applies only in relation to stress, it would be necessary to allow
it to apply after IBR but before Destressing. Such a solution is excluded,
however, by a fundamental principle of Selkirk's proposal, namely that
phonological rules (such as Aspiration) apply to the output of the syntax-
phonology mapping, that is, after the grid structure has been established,
not in the middle of the grid construction procedure. Thus, a stress-only
account of Aspiration is not a viable alternative. We conclude, therefore,
that the best account of Aspiration is the foot-domain rule in (69), since
it is simpler than the other possibility that requires two distinct statements
of the environment of the rule. Reference to the foot furthermore allows
us to capture a generalization with respect to the environment of Aspira-
tion that is lost if the environment is characterized in two different ways.
Finally, it was seen that the two statements needed for the stress account
are actually only a restatement of the foot domain in English.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 93
Let us now consider four more rules of English, /-Devoicing, Diph-
thong Shortening, Obligatory «-Velarization, and Mutual k-r Assimilation.
As Kiparsky (1979) shows, the domain of all of these rules is the foot.
We will first examine /-Devoicing (LD). This rule applies to an I that is
preceded by a voiceless consonant, only if the two segments are in the
same foot. It thus applies to (70a) and (70b), but not to (70c) (see Kiparsky,
1979:440).
(70) a. Islip Is[l]ip [Islip]^
b. eye-slip eyes[l]ip [eye]^ [slip]^
c. ice-lip ->*ice [l]ip [ice
]£ [lip]j;
These same examples serve to illustrate the domain of Diphthong Shorten-
ing (DS), which accounts for the short variant of [aw] and [aj] before a
voiceless consonant. We thus find a short diphthong in (70a) and (70c),
where the relevant phonetic sequence [ajs] is found within a single foot. In
(70b), however, the rule does not apply, since the diphthong [aj] and the
following voiceless consonant [s] are in separate feet. It is clear that the
domain of both LD and DS must be larger than the syllable since, as
Kiparsky (p.440) points out, there is no way in which Islip can be syllabi-
fied ('short of the absurd Isl-ip') such that both rules can be accounted for
in relation to syllable structure. That the two rules do not apply in larger
domains than the foot has already been seen. We can thus formulate /-
Devoicing and Diphthong Shortening as in (71) and (72), respectively.
(71) l-Devoicing
1 [-vce] / [ ... [-vce] ... ]Σ
(72) Diphthong Shortening
- [-long] / [ [-vce]...]2
3 5
As these formulations show, LD and DS are both foot span rules, that is,
they apply any time their segmental context appears within the foot do-
main.36
Let us now consider the possibility of accounting for the same phenomena
in terms of stress rather than the foot. On the basis of the examples in (70),
the only correlation that appears to exist is between the absence of applica-
tion of the rules and the fact that the relevant segments are in separate
syllables both of which bear a fairly high degree of stress, corresponding
at least to the third grid level in the sense of Prince (1983) and Selkirk
(1984b). We could therefore state that LD and DS apply to the relevant
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
94 Prosodic Phonology
segments except when they are part of a rhythmic pattern consisting
of two stresses of level three or more. Thus, the rules do apply if a) the
segments are part of the same syllable (cf. LD in eye-slip) or b) the seg-
ments are part of a different rhythmic pattern (cf. LD in Islip, with a
stressless second syllable). It should be noted, however, that the charac-
terization of 'different rhythmic pattern' in (b) is not adequate. It is
necessary to specify further that the pattern must be one of sharply
decreasing stress, since the opposite situation, sharply increasing stress,
also blocks LD, as in mislead, which does not have a devoiced /. We must
thus complicate our stress-only specification of the context in which the
rules in question do not apply, or better yet, specify the contexts in
which the rules do apply. We can say that the rules apply when there is no
stress change (for tautosyllabic segments) or when there is a sharply
decreasing pattern. Such a statement, however, is not much more than a de-
scription of the possible contexts within a single foot in which the rules
may apply. Furthermore, even if it is possible to specify the contexts for
LD and DS in terms of stress, it is not clear that there really exists any
relationship that we would want to capture between the voicing of I and
stress or between the vowel length phenomenon in question and stress
(though there are other vowel length phenomena that are related to stress).
The problems we have just seen also arise with the other two rules,
Obligatory n-Velarization (OV) and Mutual k-r Assimilation (MA). As
Kiparsky (1979:439-40) points out, an η is obligatorily velarized before
a velar stop in words like ink (i[r)}k) and increment (ii[q]crement), but is
only optionally velarized in words like the verb increase and the noun
increase. Furthermore, k and r undergo mutual assimilation to what can
be indicated as [KR] in words like crew ({KR]ew), increase (V, N) (in-
[KR]ease), and increment (in[KR]ement), but not in words like back-rub
and cock-roach. Since words like increment undergo both OV and MA,
it is not possible to account for the rules in terms of the syllable. That is,
it is not possible for η to be obligatorily velarized before a tautosyllabic
velar and for MA to apply to tautosyllabic k and r, because such an ana-
lysis would require that the entire sequence nkr be tautosyllabic, and this
would violate the principles governing English syllable structure. If, how-
ever, we make reference to the foot, both phenomena can be handled very
simply as foot span rules. To see that the foot is indeed the domain of OV
and MA, consider the foot structure of the words in question:
a. ink: [ink]2 Μ OV
b. crew: [crew]2 [KR]ew MA
c. increase (V): [in]^ [crease]^ in[KR]ease MA37
d. increase (N): [in]-£ [crease]^ in[KR]ease MA
e. increment: [increment]^ i[r)KR]ement OV,MA
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 95
If we try to account for the application of OV and MA in terms of stress
rather than the foot, we encounter the same difficulties seen above in
relation to /-Devoicing and Diphthong Shortening. That is, we must state
that the rules apply either a) when there is no change in the stress pattern
to cover the cases of application within a syllable (e.g. ink, crew) or b) when
there is a sharply decreasing stress pattern (as in increment). The rules
do not apply when the segments in question are in a sequence of stressed
syllables (cf. the absence of OV in increase) or when there is a sharply
increasing stress pattern, such as the transition from the stressless second
syllable to the stressed third syllable in compound words like garden club
and cotton candy, where Obligatory «-Velarization does not apply. Once
again, our conclusion is that the foot analysis is to be preferred because it
is simpler and because it expresses a generalization about the contexts in
which OV and MA apply. Moreover, it is not clear that there is any reason
to expect a relationship between stress and the occurrence of either
Obligatory «-Velarization or Mutual k-r Assimilation, although by for-
mulating the rules in terms of stress we are in effect encoding precisely
such relationships.
The foot also plays an important role in Chinese (see Yip, 1980). In
fact, there seems to be an interaction among tone, stress, the foot, and
several segmental phonological rules. According to Yip, the foot is built
on the basis of the tonal structure of syllables. There is a constraint
in Mandarin, as well as in several other dialects examined by Yip, that
allows only one fully toned syllable per foot. In a foot with more than one
syllable, only the first bears tone; the others are toneless (e.g. xlhuan
'like', haode 'good ones'). Under certain circumstances, a foot may consist
of two originally toned syllables, but in these cases a tone-deletion rule
applies to make the second syllable toneless in conformity with the general
constraint on foot structure, as seen in (74), a slightly modified form of
Yips's example (p.97).
tone foot tone
(74) läohü läohü [läoh% > [läohu]v
sandhi formation deletion
'tiger'
Stress is assigned to the foot (and to the word) and thus also interacts
with tone since it is on the basis of tone that feet are constructed in the
first place. Typically, stress is on the first syllable of a foot, that is, on the
1 0 0 0
fully toned syllable (e.g. pdshanglaile 'jumped up', where only the first
syllable bears tone and stress (Yip, p.92). It is therefore likely that if it
were only for stress, we might not need the foot constituent. An abstract
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
96 Prosodic Phonology
rhythmic pattern represented by a metrical grid might be sufficient to
handle stress assignment as well as certain tone sandhi rules that apply to
'terminal s nodes' in Yip's analysis (p.22). However, there are also segmen-
tal rules, in particular Gemination and Stop Voicing in the Chinese
language Amoy, that according to Yip have the foot as the domain.
Fairly similar rules are also found in Mandarin. The question is whether
these rules, too, can be accounted for in terms of stress rather than the
foot.
In Amoy, the stress patterns are very similar to those in Mandarin,
with the exception of an additional marked pattern before one particular
suffix.38
When the suffix a5 3
, which often has a diminutive meaning, is
added to another morpheme, the two form a single foot, with the marked
w-s prominence pattern; the unmarked pattern is with the strong syl-
lable on the left, as in Mandarin. Other tone-bearing morphemes form
separate feet on their own. Compare the structure that results from
the addition of a 5 3
with the structure that results from the usual word
formation process, for example with the addition of the morpheme
a2 1
, illustrated in (75a) and (75b), respectively (from Yip, p.100).
(75) a. tshin21
+ a5 3
: [[tshin2 1
^ [ a 5
\ ] Σ 'small scale'
w s
b. tshin21
+ a2 1
: [[tshin21
]σ ]Σ [ [ a 2 1
y s 'scale box'
The segmental rule of Gemination applies to the final consonant of a syl-
lable when it is followed by a vowel-initial syllable, but only if the two
are within the same foot. This can be seen in relation to the items in (75).
That is, Gemination applies in the first case but not in the second, as il-
lustrated in (76a) and (76b), respectively.
(76) a. tshin21
a5 3
->· tshin55
na5 3
'small box'
b. tshin21
a2 1
^ tshin53
a2 1
(*tshin53
na2 1
)
'scale box'
The rule of Stop Voicing also applies to a syllable-final consonant when
it is followed within the same foot by a vowel-initial syllable. Thus, both
Gemination and Stop Voicing apply in (77a), where khap21
and a53
form a single foot, but they do not apply in (77b), where khap21
and a21
are in separate feet.
(77) a. hang55
khap21
a5 3
hang33
khab5
ba5 3
'clam'
b. hang55
khap21
a2 1
a5 3
hang33
khap5
a 3 3
a5 3
(*hang33
khab5
ba3 3
a5 3
) 'clam box'
Gemination and Stop Voicing also apply within the more usual type
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 97
of foot, in which the strong syllable is on the left. This is illustrated
in (78a) and (78b) with the suffix e 'of and the classifier e13
, respective-
ly.39
Note that / represents a type of flap.
(78) a. tek2 1
e -+teg2 1
ge
b. be5 3
tsit54
e1 3
be5 3
tsil-le
On the basis of the above observations, we can formulate the rules of
Stop Voicing and Gemination as syllable juncture rules operating on the
foot domain, as seen in (79) and (80), respectively, where gemination
is represented by the feature [+long].
(79) Stop Voicing
C - [+vce] I [...[ }a [ν...]σ...]Σ
(80) Gemination
C -> [+long] I [...[ ]σ[ν...]σ...ΐΣ
As Yip (p.103) points out, while the foot allows a straightforward account
of the rules in question, the same is not true if we appeal instead to surface
stress patterns, since the rules apply in words with quite different patterns,
1-0 and 3-1, but not in words with the pattern 2-1. Even if stress were
represented in terms of a grid configuration rather than integer values,
the problem of accounting for the domains of Gemination and Stop
Voicing remains. In fact, we encounter the same difficulties encountered
earlier in English. While we might be able to formulate the stress patterns
that allow the rules to apply in terms of grid levels corresponding to the
syllables involved, the result is nevertheless a set of unrelated possibilities,
in this case, a syllable with a high stress level followed by a stressless
syllable (1-0) and a syllable with a low stress level followed by one with a
high level (3-1). Gemination and Stop Voicing are blocked instead by the
configuration of a fairly high stress level followed by a still higher one
(2-1). Rather than capturing any generalizations about the application of
the rules in question, such a formulation would make their domain seem
quite ad hoc. The foot, on the other hand, permits a unified account of
the application (vs. nonapplication) of the rules, as well as of two other
phenomena we will not discuss here: the fact that melody deletion occurs
with stress patterns 3-1 and 1-0 but not 2-1, and the fact that the suffix
a5 3
exhibits a special rhythmic pattern in verse (see Yip, p.103).
Not only does the foot serve as the domain of application of certain
segmental phonological rules as seen thus far, it has been proposed that the
foot is also the domain of a number of autosegmental association rules.
The rule of Nasalization in Applecross Gaelic, for example, is analyzed by
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
98 Prosodic Phonology
van der Hulst and Smith (1982) as a process of nasal spreading that applies
throughout the domain defined by the foot (unless blocked by certain
segments). The foot in Applecross Gaelic consists of a stressed syllable
followed by all the remaining syllables in a (phonological) word. The
stressed syllable is usually the first syllable of a stem. Prefixes and pro-
clitic elements never receive stress and according to van der Hulst and
Smith, these weak syllables, when they are present, are joined directly
into the word tree with the following foot. The same occurs with the oc-
casional weak syllable to the left of the stressed syllable in monomor-
phemic words. Thus, /kh
ath
nana/ 'Catherine' would have the structure
in (81a). As was mentioned above, however, such a structure violates the
Strict Layer Hypothesis, according to which a phonological word may
only dominate feet, not syllables. We therefore propose that the first
syllable also constitutes a (degenerate) foot on its own, as in (81b), a point
we will return to below.
According to the characterization of the foot structure in (81b), each of
the items in (82) is analyzed as consisting of one foot, while each of the
items in (83) is analyzed as consisting of two feet (from van der Hulst
and Smith, p.318).
(82) a. /kh
any
il/:
b. /ajal·/:
c. /mä.r + ipn/:
(83) a. Aya + ?cky
any
/:
b. /kh
o + vfa.t/:
c. /kh
ath
rian3/:
[kh
3ny
il]s
[ma.rican]^
'meeting'
'angel'
'mothers'
[ecky
any
]2 'seeing him'
[kh
o]-£ [ v f a . t ' h o w much'
[kh
a]2 [th
riana]s 'Catherine'
The application of the Nasalization rule extends in a word from a stressed
nasal vowel forward until the end of the word is reached and backward
to and including the consonantal onset of the stressed syllable (see Ternes,
1973, cited in van der Hulst and Smith). The only elements that can block
Nasalization within this domain, which has been defined by van der Hulst
and Smith as the foot in Applecross Gaelic, are: a) a stop within the
domain, or b) one of the vowels /e/, /o/, or /a/. The examples below il-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 99
lustrate the application of Nasalization and the environments in which it
is blocked. Specifically, (84a) shows an entire foot nasalized, while (84b)
and (84c) show nasalization blocked by the presence of a stop to the left
and to the right, respectively. (84d) shows that the rule is also blocked by
the presence of one of the nonnasalizing vowels (from van der Hulst and
Smith, p.319).
(84) a. Iβ ne.var/ -»• [/εηε. vaf]^ 'grandmother'
b. /strai.T/ [straf, γ]^ 'string'
c. /kh
oispaxk/ [kh
oispaxk]^ 'wasp'
d. /ma.rican/ -»• [ma.rican]^ 'mothers'
The fact that Nasalization does not extend beyond the foot boundary
is seen in (85).
(85) /kh
o + vfa-t/ ^ [kh
o]2 [vla.t]s 'how much'
It should be noted that the same predictions regarding the lack of applica-
tion of Nasalization beyond the foot are made by both of the structures
seen above in (81). Nasalization does not spread into the first syllable
of (81a), because it is not dominated by the foot that dominates the
syllables to its right, or by any foot, for that matter. Nasalization does
not spread into the first syllable in (81b), because it is in a separate foot
from the one with the nasalized vowel that gives rise to the nasal spread-
ing. Even though the domain of Nasalization is the foot, it should be noted
that no incorrect predictions arise from assigning stressless syllables to
the left of the main stress to a separate foot. We will never find Nasaliza-
tion in such a foot, since the phenomenon originates only with a stressed
nasalized vowel. The unstressed syllables to the left of the main stress
cannot, therefore, give rise to Nasalization.
While van der Hulst and Smith account for Nasalization as an auto-
segmental spreading rule that applies throughout the foot domain, as
we have seen, it might nevertheless be possible to account for the do-
main of this rule in terms of stress.40
That is, we could say that the rule
applies within the domain defined by a syllable stress at a particular level
of the grid, for example level 3, plus all the syllables to its right within a
word. The question remains, however, as to whether such a formulation
is desirable, even though it is much simpler than the stress formulations
of the other rules we have examined thus far. It should be noted that the
stress formulation of the domain of Nasalization corresponds exactly
to the definition of the (non-degenerate) foot in Applecross Gaelic. We
are thus confronted once again with a problem similar to the one seen in
relation to the syllable earlier in the history of generative phonology. It
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
100 Prosodic Phonology
is possible to formulate the domain of a phonological rule without making
reference to a particular phonological constituent, in this case the foot not
the syllable, but in order to do so we must incorporate the definition of
the constituent into the rule itself. In the case of the syllable, the consti-
tuent has clearly won over the formulation that includes the definition of
the syllable. We think that in the case of the foot, too, the constituent
should be preferred over the formulation that contains the definition
of the foot. While in the case of Applecross Gaelic Nasalization both the
foot solution and the stress solution are quite simple and straightforward,
the foot solution allows us to make generalizations that the stress solution
does not. That is, since the nature of the foot may vary from language
to language, if we refer only to the (stress) definition of the foot in our
rules, we will be unable to relate rules across languages that define the foot
differently. We would thus lose the ability to make generalizations about
those rules that apply in domains that are larger than the syllable but
smaller than the word. Instead, it would seem that there is no connection,
for example, between a rule that applies in a domain beginning with a
stressed syllable and continuing to the end of a word, such as Applecross
Gaelic Nasalization, and another rule that applies between, but not across,
stresses of a given height in the metrical grid, or a rule that has an even
more complicated formulation in terms of stress such as the rules of Eng-
lish and Chinese seen above. By making reference to the foot, on the other
hand, the differences among languages are only relevant at the stage of foot
construction. That is, different languages may have different rules for
building feet, but once the feet are created we can make reference to this
level of analysis in general, without regard for the rules that create it.
The same line of reasoning makes a foot treatment preferable even
when dealing with a single language. That is, if there is more than one rule
in a language that applies within the same domain, say between stresses
of a given height on the metrical grid, it would be advantageous to be able
to make reference to this particular configuration only once, rather than
specifying it each time it is needed in the formulation of a rule. This can
be done by using the stress information, or whatever other type of infor-
mation is necessary, to define a foot constituent. Once the foot is defined,
it can be referred to directly in any rule that applies in relation to the
domain it delimits.
This is, in fact, essentially the type of argument that led Hayes (1982)
to propose a foot analysis of a number of rules in Yidiji, although in this
case the alternative being considered was a segmental one. As Hayes points
out in relation to the rules in question, since 'rules which delete or modify
segments based on an odd-even syllable count are not especially com-
mon - it would be a colossal coincidence to find eight of them in a single
language if all applied on an independent basis, particularly when the lan-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 101
guage in question has an alternating stress pattern' (p.101). Thus, rather
than stating for each rule the segmental, or rhythmic, configuration that
essentially characterizes an alternating stress pattern, it is simpler and more
insightful to formulate only once the rules for foot construction and there-
after allow the phonological rules to refer directly to this constituent. It
should be noted, furthermore, that while some of the rules of Yidiji
are of the type that often do depend on stress (e.g. length adjustments),
there are other segmental rules that are not so clearly related to stress
(e.g. Rhotic Dropping). While all of the rules can be expressed in relation
to the foot, it is not clear that they all can, or should, be expressed as
stress-dependent rules. To separate the rules into two groups, those that
are accounted for in terms of stress and those that are not, would cause
us to miss the generalization that they all share the property of being
foot-dependent in one way or another.
Before we conclude our discussion of the foot, there are two more
phenomena that are worth mentioning. The first one has to do with pho-
notactic restrictions in hx I'hoasi, a Namibian language.41
In this lan-
guage, one of four tones is possible on a word consisting of a single CV
syllable: high ( '), high mid (' ), low mid ("), and low (~) (see Smith,
in preparation, who bases his analysis on Snyman, 1975). The same four
tones are possible on words consisting of C W or CVN, as are the addi-
tional two combinations of a low mid tone followed by a high mid tone
( 1 1
) and a low tone followed by a low mid tone "). It turns out,
furthermore, that the same six tone patterns, and only these, are also
found in words consisting of a sequence of two syllables: CVCV or CVVCV.
That is, although any single syllable may bear one of four basic tones, in
bisyllabic words we actually find fewer than half of the possible combina-
tions that would result from freely combining the different syllable types
(i.e. 6 out of 16). Smith takes this as evidence that such bisyllabic sequen-
ces constitute a unit, specifically a foot, in 2u I'hoasi. What is particularly
interesting is that the foot, as just defined, is not only the domain of
constraints on possible tone sequences, but is also the domain of another
phonotactic restriction. That is, the intervocalic consonant within the
foot may only be one of the following four (with very few exceptions):
b, m, r, n. This is indeed a very strong restriction since, according to
Snyman's (1975:125) inventory, there are over 50 consonant phonemes
in the language. Examples of words containing the four consonants are
given below.
(86) a. päbü
b. tkrna
c. löarä
d. n4=öanä
'pumpkin'
'kindly'
'complete'
'tell'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
102 Prosodic Phonology
That the restriction on intervocalic consonants only applies to those
consonants that are in intervocalic position within a foot can be seen
in (87), where reduplication creates longer words, with the result that
consonants other than the four mentioned above can be found between
vowels. In all of these cases, however, the consonant in question is at
a juncture of two feet; it is not foot internal. The relevant consonants
are underlined in the examples.
(87) a. [güma]^ [güma]^ 'whisper'
b. [ixana]^ [jxana]^ 'drill'
c. [kx'ü]^ [kx'ün'ilv 'move'
d. l+'aaj^ [Φ'έηιέ]^ 'gather'
Without referring to the foot, it is not possible to account for the ob-
servations about the distribution of tonal and consonantal patterns in
2ul'hoasi. That is, if we consider any two adjacent syllables, it seems as
if any consonant may appear intervocalically, as seen in (87), and that
any sequence of tones is possible (e.g. the sequence in (87a,b)). Since,
however, there are quite strong restrictions on the consonants and tones
that may appear in specific environments, if we are not able to refer to
the constituent defined as the foot, we miss two important generalizations
about the language.
The last phenomenon we will consider is poetic rhyme in Dutch.
Dutch verse makes use of the following three types of rhyme (from van
der Hulst, 1984:58):
a. Masculine rhyme
hoog - droog 'high - dry'
kaal - schraal 'bald - scanty'
b. Feminine rhyme
hoge - droge 'high - dry'
kale - schrale 'bald - scanty'
c. Extended rhyme
hogere - drogere 'higher - drier'
handelen- wandelen 'to trade - to walk'
Without reference to the foot, each of these types of rhyme patterns
must be described separately in terms of the number of syllables involved
and either the rhyme or onset portion of the first syllable. We are thus
unable to express the fact that all three types of rhyme can actually be
defined in the same way. That is, as van der Hulst (1984:58) points out,
they all consist of the final foot of a word minus the onset of the first
syllable. If any of the elements within the unit thus defined are different,
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 103
the rhymes are not well formed, as illustrated by the unacceptable femi-
nine and extended rhymes given in (89a) and (89b), respectively.
We could also account for the poetic rhyme unit in terms of stress, with-
out referring to the foot. That is, we could define the unit as consisting
of everything between the last syllable corresponding to a certain height
in the metrical grid and the end of the word, minus the onset of the first
syllable. This characterization of the rhyme unit, however, is little more
than the definition of the (word-final) foot in Dutch. As we mentioned
in relation to Applecross Gaelic Nasalization, however, there are definite
drawbacks to an account of a phenomenon that requires the definition
of a particular constituent to be present in the formulation of the phe-
nomenon. We therefore take the definition of the poetic rhyme unit
in Dutch as further evidence of the foot as a domain in phonology.
3.3. Conclusions
In this chapter, we have examined the two smallest constituents of the
prosodic hierarchy, the syllable and the foot. Given the amount of re-
search that has been dedicated to these two units in recent years, a chapter
clearly does not provide enough space to even touch on all of the major
issues surrounding them. We have therefore focused our attention on the
domain of the syllable and certain aspects of the structure of the foot,
and even more importantly, on the role of both units as domains of
phonological rules, given that the model of prosodic phonology we are
advocating is a theory of domains.
As far as the domain of the syllable is concerned, we have shown
that syllabification rules must be divided into two categories: a) a set
of rules that apply within the domain of the phonological word, and
b) a set of ^syllabification rules that apply across phonological words.
While all languages have rules of the first type, which account for the fact
that the definition of a well-formed syllable in a given language must be
satisfied within the larger domain of the phonological word, not all lan-
guages have the second type of rules. Instead, we have proposed that the
possibility of resyllabifying across phonological words depends on a para-
meter of phonology that must be set by individual languages. This para-
meter, in fact, allows us to distinguish between the Romance languages,
which typically allow ^syllabification across (phonological) words, and
the Germanic languages, which do not.
The syllable is also the domain of phonological rules. In fact, we have
(89) a. *harten - parken
b. *kinderen - tintelen
'hearts - parks'
'children- to twinkle'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
104 Prosodic Phonology
argued that it is the smallest domain of segmental phonological rules.
Although it has been proposed that the rhyme subcomponent of the syl-
lable is also the domain of certain phonological rules, we have demon-
strated that any rule that can be expressed as a rhyme-domain rule can
also be expressed as a syllable-domain rule. The rhyme as a domain of
phonological rules is thus superfluous. Of the rules that apply in relation
to the syllable examined in this chapter, most were seen to be domain
limit rules. Examples were also given, however, of domain juncture rules
and of a domain span rule.
Although the domain of the foot was not discussed in detail as was the
domain of the syllable, we have proposed that there are certain parallels
between the two smallest phonological constituents in this regard. That
is, we take the domain of basic foot formation to be the phonological
word for all languages, while only certain languages may have the possi-
bility of refooting across phonological words. We examined in more de-
tail the structure of the foot, drawing primarily on the insights found in
the work of Hayes (1981). We accept Hayes's basic distinctions between
binary and unbounded feet and between quantity sensitive and quantity
insensitive feet. Beyond this, however, our analysis of foot structure
diverges from that of Hayes. That is, we have argued that feet group syl-
lables into n-ary branching trees rather than the binary branching trees
found in the metrical tree framework. Not only is the n-ary analysis in
keeping with the rest of our model, in which all the other prosodic levels
are organized into n-ary branching trees, it also offers several more specific
advantages. The structure it creates is simpler than a binary branching
structure, in the sense that it does not contain superfluous foot-internal
constituents that do not have any further role in phonological theory.
In addition, n-ary branching trees do not predict any particular promi-
nence relations among the weak syllables of the foot. Such prominence re-
lations are, however, predicted by binary branching trees, although they
are not in fact motivated. Finally, our proposal differs from that of Hayes
in that in ours the Strict Layer Hypothesis requires that all syllables be
grouped into feet before the feet are grouped into phonological words. Hayes
(1981) does not have a Strict Layer Hypothesis, and thus allows syllables
to be sisters of feet in phonological words; in some cases, too, a phono-
logical word directly dominates a string of syllables without any interven-
ing foot nodes.
Since the definition of the foot is very closely tied to the notion of
stress, the question arises as to whether the foot is actually needed as a
phonological constituent. That is, if all the rules that apply in relation to
the foot can be handled equally well by making reference directly to ab-
stract rhythmic patterns, it might be possible to avoid the introduction of
the foot as a unit of phonological analysis. We have shown, however, that
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 105
the domain defined by the foot allows us to account for the application
of a number of phonological rules in a simpler and more straightforward
way than would be possible if direct reference were made only to stress
patterns. We have argued, furthermore, that even if it is possible to
account for some segmental rules fairly simply in terms of stress, it is not
clear that this is desirable, for several reasons. First of all, the stress ac-
count typically requires that the definition of the foot be incorporated
in the formulation of the rules. As was seen in the past in relation to the
syllable, this is a typical indication that we are dealing with a constituent
and not a chance sequence of segments, or in this case, stressed and un-
stressed syllables. In addition, since the definition of the foot may vary
somewhat from language to language, if phonological rules are formulated
in terms of the definition of the foot, we lose the ability to generalize
about foot-level rules across languages. Finally, in the case that a language
has more than one rule operating in relation to the domain we are calling
the foot, it is more economical to define the foot once and then let the
various rules make direct reference to this constituent, rather than defining
it each time it functions as the domain of a phonological rule. In such
cases, a foot approach also allows us to express a generalization about the
domain of application of a set of rules that is otherwise missed if each rule
formulates the domain separately.
In addition to phonological rules operating in the foot domain, two
other foot-dependent phenomena were examined: phonotactic constraints
and poetic rhyme. In these cases, too, it was shown that direct reference
to the foot allows us to capture generalizations that would otherwise be
missed. Our conclusion is that the foot is indeed a necessary constituent
of phonological analysis, one which plays a role distinct from the role
played by the abstract rhythmic patterns of the language despite the close
relation between the two.
NOTES
1. See Vogel (1982) or an earlier version in English (Vogel, 1977) for a discussion
of the controversy surrounding the syllable and for additional references on the
topic. See Bell and Hooper (1978) for an early collection of articles on the syllable
and its structure.
2. See, among others, Vergnaud and Halle (1978), Kiparsky (1979), Selkirk
(1980b), Harris (1983), van der Hulst (1984). See also Pike and Pike (1947) and
Fudge (1969) for earlier work in this area.
3. See, among others, Hooper (1976), Lowenstamm and Kaye (1981), Steriade
(1982), Selkirk (1984a).
4. See, among others, Kahn (1976), Vogel (1977), Vergnaud and Halle (1978),
McCarthy (1979), Lowenstamm (1981), Lapointe and Feinstein (1982), Noske
(1982). See also Kurylowicz (1948) for an earlier discussion of this issue.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
106 Prosodic Phonology
5. See, among others, Kahn (1976), Clements and Keyser (1983).
6. See, among others, Kahn (1976), Vogel (1977), Harris (1983), Trommelen
(1983), van der Hülst (1984).
7. According to Dixon (1970), the Australian language Olgolo may be a counter-
example, with a preference to divide the sequence as [CQVC]CT[VC]a.
8. We use brackets as a space-saving representation of phonological tree structure.
Where the content of syllables is concerned, the brackets should not be interpreted
as claiming that syllabification necessarily divides strings into discrete, non-overlap-
ping units. In many cases, brackets provide an adequate representation of the syl-
labic structure under examination. In the case of ambisyllabic segments, however,
brackets cannot be used and it is necessary instead to use the tree representation.
9. See section 3.2.2 for a discussion of Aspiration in English.
10. There is not complete consensus in the literature about which are the non-
neutral and neutral affixes, or the corresponding Class I and Class II affixes in Siegel
(1974, 1977), and Allen (1978), or the Root-level and Word-level affixes in the
terminology of Selkirk (1982). We have therefore chosen examples with affixes that
are uncontroversial whenever possible.
11. We are referring to the situation in normal connected speech. Clearly there is
a difference if a pause is introduced between the two words in (15b) and (16b),
but this is not relevant to the point we are making here.
12. The term «syllabification is also used sometimes to refer to cyclic readjustments
of syllable structure that apply within a word in relation to the addition of affixes
to a stem (see, among others Selkirk, 1984b). We will not use the term in this way
here.
13. The fact that nasals assimilate to glides in separate syllables but not in the same
syllable is probably due to the phonetic properties of a syllable-initial glide as
opposed to a glide that is not syllable initial. In fact, syllable-initial /w/ and /j/
are often strengthened to the corresponding obstruents [gw
] and [y] (see Hooper,
1976; Harris, 1983). When this happens, the cases in question can be subsumed under
the more general phenomenon of nasal assimilation before an obstruent. It should be
noted that in this case, too, it is necessary to assign syllable structure first to in-
dividual words and only later allow «syllabification to take place. A single, late syl-
labification procedure would once again place a nasal at the beginning of a syllable
before a glide in an adjacent word. The glide would thus not be syllable initial and
would not undergo strengthening to an obstruent. The context for nasal assimila-
tion before an obstruent would consequently not be present.
14. A distinction must be made between Liaison and Enchainement in formal styles
of speech, where it is possible to find Liaison without Enchainement (see Encreve,
1983). That is, in certain formal styles a word-final consonant may be pronounced
without being resyllabified to the beginning of the following word. Since we are
interested in colloquial speech, however, this distinction is not relevant to the present
work. When we discuss the application of Liaison from now on, it should be under-
stood that this includes the concomitant application of Enchainement.
15. [ε], and other vowels, are long before a final r and in certain other environ-
ments. Since length is not crucial to our discussion, however, it will not be indicated.
16. Several linguists (e.g. Selkirk, 1978; Booij, 1983) have proposed that Closed
Syllable Adjustment is more correctly analyzed as a foot-domain rule rather than a
syllable-domain rule. While this is not an uncontroversial position (see Noske, 1982,
for example,) it should be noted that even if the domain of the rule is the foot, it
is necessary to have two distinct syllabification processes in French. That is, the /r/
in premiere annee must be part of the final syllable — and foot — of the first word at
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Syllable and the Foot 107
the point at which the rule changing /e/ to [ε] applies; it may be resyllabified to the
onset of the second word only after the vowel change has taken place. If this were
not the case, and the only process of syllabification - and foot construction - placed
the /r/ at the onset of annee, then the /e/ of premiere would never be followed in
the same syllable - or foot — by a consonant (/r/ in this case), as required by both
the syllable and foot accounts of the vowel-changing rule in question.
17. It should be noted that there may be low-level phonetic rules of ^syllabifica-
tion in all languages, including Germanic languages (see also Trommelen, 1983).
This is a different type of phenomenon, however, and is most likely controlled by
different mechanisms than those that are relevant to the present discussion.
18. This position is not accepted by all linguists. See, for example, Clements and
Keyser (1983), who argue that the rhyme is not needed in order to account for these
types of phenomena.
19. See also Hooper (1972, 1976) and Garcia-Bellido (1979) for a discussion of
syllable-dependent rules in Spanish.
20. See Kahn (1976) for a discussion of the [—consonantal] properties of r in
English.
21. See Malecot (1960) and Kahn (1976) for a discussion of the [-consonantal]
properties of certain nasals in English.
22. It should be noted that Trommelen (1983) actually proposes that the domain
of Schwa Insertion is the rhyme. Since this rule, like all other rhyme-domain rules,
can be reformulated as a syllable-domain rule, Trommelen's analysis is not in con-
flict with the analysis discussed here. It should be noted, in addition, that according
to Booij (1981), Schwa Insertion also applies, at least in certain varieties of Dutch,
between a liquid and a tautosyllabic coronal obstruent if it is a nasal (i.e. [n]). The
final formulation of the rule of Schwa Insertion in (43) below could easily be modi-
fied to take this possibility into account if necessary, though we will not do so here.
Finally, it should be noted that in some varieties of Dutch, Schwa Insertion may also
apply across two syllables if they are in the same foot (cf. balken -*• häl[z]ken 'beams'
vs. balkon -* *bäl[s]k0n 'balcony'). In these varieties, the domain of Schwa Insertion
is not the syllable, but the foot.
23. We are grateful to Harry van der Hulst for having pointed this out to us.
24. Saib does not actually formulate the rule.
25. Although the symbol [c] is used for a palatal stop in the alphabet of the Inter-
national Phonetic Association, it is used here to represent an alveopalatal stop, since
there is no other IPA symbol for this type of articulation.
26. The e of the stem is deleted by a rule of e-Deletion that precedes Consonant
Gradation (see Keyser and Kiparsky, 1984).
27. It should be noted that Prince (1984) and Keyser and Kiparsky (1984) argue
in favor of an autosegmental treatment of Consonant Gradation. Our view of CG is
not necessarily incompatible with certain aspects of an autosegmental treatment
and it might be that we are dealing here with a phenomenon that depends on the
interaction between the autosegmental and prosodic subsystems of the phonology.
See, however, Anderson (1982) on the use of the autosegmental formalism for seg-
mental phonological rules, which would include most aspects of CG. In any case,
it should be recalled in relation to our formulation of CG, that our use of labeled
brackets to represent syllable structure is only a shorthand notation for hierarchical
structure. It is not meant to exclude the possibility of ambisyllabic segments, which
in fact seem to be needed in the analysis of Finnish.
28. Actually, Anderson (1982) argues that such phenomena, too, can and should be
formulated as segmental rules, ones that apply iteratively to the appropriate string
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
108 Prosodic Phonology
of segments. A thorough evaluation of this claim is beyond the scope of this book
since it would require an evaluation of autosegmental theory in general. It should be
noted, however, that on the analysis proposed by Anderson, while we would no
longer need the theory of autosegmental associations, the theory of domains remains
essential in order to specify precisely which segments are to be affected by the rule.
29. A further division of quantity sensitive feet can be made into quantity sensitive
and what van der Hulst calls quantity determined feet (see also Halle and Vergnaud,
1978; Hayes, 1981). In this case, the combinations with the parameter of binary
vs. unbounded gives six possibilities.
30. Note that even though foot formation needs to see rhyme structure, what is
actually joined into larger constituents are syllables, not just parts of syllables.
31. Our foot divisions are consistent with Selkirk's (1980b) characterization of the
foot in English.
32. Note that the aspirated t of tree will become [c ] by the rule of Alveopalatali-
zation discussed in section 3.1.2.
33. This rule applies before Flapping (see Chapter 8).
34. See also Kiparsky (1979:436), according to whom nitrate, agree, and Montana
each consist of two feet.
35. This rule is most likely part of a more general rule that accounts for the pre-
sence of a long vowel before a voiced consonant or finally and a short one before a
voiceless consonant (cf. bead/bee vs. beat). We will therefore not provide a more
formal statement of Diphthong Shortening than is given in (72).
36. An alternative account would be to allow s in Islip to be ambisyllabic, and thus
tautosyllabic both with s in the first syllable and with I in the second syllable. LD
and DS could then be formulated as syllable domain rules. We do not adopt this
alternative here, however, precisely because it depends on the notion of ambisyllab-
icity. That is, since it is possible to account for all the rules under consideration here
with reference to independently motivated phonological constituents, it is super-
fluous to introduce the additional notion of ambisyllabicity at this point. The same
argument holds for Obligatory «-Velarization and Mutual k-r Assimilation discussed
below. It should be noted, though, that we do not exclude the possibility of ambi-
syllabicity in English in general (cf. Section 3.1.1 above); we exclude it only as part
of the account of the phonological rules under consideration here.
37. The cases of optional n-velarization will be handled by a more general rule of
optional nasal assimilation that also accounts for the possible assimilation of nasals
across words (e.g. brown cow brow[η ] cow).
38. The numbers on the morphemes in the following discussion of Amoy indicate
tone. The tone changes seen in the examples below do not concern us here.
39. It seems that the rules are only optional before e1 3
.
40. Note that according to Anderson (1982) a rule such as Nasalization should not
be treated as an autosegmental rule at all, but rather as an iterative segmental rule.
See also notes 27 and 28.
41. The symbol [ Γ ] in the name of the language stands for a type of dental implo-
sive. Other uncommon symbols encountered in the examples below are: [ I ], another
type of dental implosive; [Ix], a dental infricate (fricative produced with inwardly
sucked air); [kx*], a velar affricate; [Φ| and [Φ'], two types of alveopalatal implosive
(see Snyman, p. 125).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Chapter 4
The Phonological Word
4.0. Introduction
The phonological word is the lowest constituent of the prosodic hierarchy
which is constructed on the basis of mapping rules that make substantial
use of nonphonological notions. In particular, the phonological word (ω)
represents the interaction between the phonological and the morphological
components of the grammar.
The phonological word is the category that immediately dominates
the foot. More specifically, as required by the Strict Layer Hypothesis
(see section 1.2.1 above), all the feet of a given string must be grouped
into phonological words, and no other category may be so grouped. Each
foot is thus exhaustively included in a ω; that is, it is never the case that
the syllables of a single foot belong to different phonological words.
Whether the syllable and the foot are already present in the lexicon,
as proposed for example by van der Hulst (1984), and are thus available
at the point at which the domain of ω is defined, or whether they are
constructed within this domain once it has been defined, is not a question
that can be easily resolved. In the first case, a and Σ structure must be
adjusted following the application of word formation processes in order
to establish more optimal syllables and feet. In the second case, a and Σ
structure is created at the ω level, a procedure that automatically yields
optimal syllables and feet; readjustment is therefore not necessary. The
interaction between the phonological and morphological components
of the grammar will in either case take the form of a definition of ω that
maps morphological structure onto phonological structure. Within the ω
domain we can then proceed either to readjust the syllables and feet when
necessary or to construct them in accordance with universal principles and
possible language-specific constraints.
As we have said above, the mapping rules which define ω represent
the interaction between morphology and phonology. That is, they regroup
the terminal elements of morphological structure in such a way that the
resulting units do not necessarily correspond to any morphological consti-
tuent.
Although the nonisomorphism between the constituents of the pro-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
110 Prosodic Phonology
sodic and the morpho-syntactic hierarchies is the most compelling argu-
ment in favor of the existence of two separate hierarchies in the grammar,
as was shown in Chapter 2, occasional isomorphism is not excluded a
priori, and it will be shown that isomorphism between ω and a morpho-
logical unit is, in fact, the norm in some languages such as Greek and Latin
(see section 4.1 below). The superiority of a theory of prosodic phonology
that does not directly refer to morpho-syntactic boundaries, however, is
not undermined by sporadic cases of isomorphism (see section 2.4).
While it has been claimed by a number of linguists (among others,
Booij, 1983) that there are three basic possibilities for the domain of the
phonological word, that is, that it is larger, smaller, or equal to the terminal
element of a syntactic tree, it is our contention that only the second and
the third options exist, a point that will be demonstrated in this chapter.
4.1. ω domain equal to the terminal element of the syntactic tree
In this section, we will consider the case of languages in which the phono-
logical word has the same domain as the terminal element of a syntactic
tree. That is, it includes the stem, all affixes, and both members of com-
pound words. In such languages there is in principle a left-right symmetry.
That is, if both prefixes and suffixes occur in a given language, these two
categories are treated in the same way by the phonology. This does not
imply that these languages have no morpho-phonological processes that
apply to subparts of words; our claim is that no purely phonological rules
affect strings larger than the foot and smaller than the phonological word
as just defined.
4.1.1. Greek
The first language we will consider in which the phonological word has
the same extension as the terminal element of a syntactic tree is Demotic
Greek. There are two assimilation rules of Greek that have ω as their
domain of application. Though both apply in a larger domain as well (see
Nespor, 1986, and Chapter 5 below), their application is obligatory
only within the phonological word. These two rules are Nasal Assimilation
(NA) and Stop Voicing (SV) (see Householder, 1964). As was mentioned
in Chapter 2, the first rule assimilates a nasal in point of articulation to
a following noncontinuant consonant. This rule is exemplified in (1),
where it is shown that NA applies in underived words (la,b) and in derived
words, both between the prefix and the stem (lc,d,e), and between two
prefixes (lf,g). These examples, together with those in (2), also illustrate
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Word 111
the application of the second rule, SV, which obligatorily voices a stop
when it is preceded by a nasal.
(1) a. τεμπέλης [tembelis]
'lazy'
b. τσαμπουνίζω [tsambunizo]
'(I) shout'
c. συμπονώ [simbono] < [sin+pono]
'(I) have compassion'
d. συμπίνω [simbino] < [sin+pino]
'(I) drink in company'
e. εμπειρία [embiria] < [en+piria]
'experience'
f. συγκαταλέγω [sirjgatal^o] < [sin+katal^o]
'(I) include among'
g. συγκαταβαίνω [sirjgataveno] < [sin+kataveno]
'(I) condescend'
(2) a. καντίΚα [kandila]
'small lamp'
b. συνταξιδεύω [sindaksiöevo] < [sin+taksiöevo]
'(I) travel in company'
c. έντιμος [endimos] < [en+timos]
'honored'
In order to show that the domain of the phonological word is indeed the
terminal element of a syntactic tree, we must still demonstrate that the
two members of a compound belong to the same ω. This cannot be shown
on the basis of NA and SV, since there are no compounds in which the
first member ends with a nasal consonant. It can be shown, however, on the
basis of stress placement - which also has as its domain the phonological
word - that the two members of a compound do, in fact, belong to the
same ω constituent.
It should be observed first of all that there is a well-formedness condi-
tion in Greek that requires primary word stress to fall on one of the last
three syllables of a word. This is exemplified in (3)-(5).
(3) a. άλογος [έΐογοβ] 'horse'
b. κόκκινος [kokinos] 'red'
c. ντρέπομαι [drepome] '(I) am ashamed'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
112 Prosodic Phonology
(4) a. πατέρας [pateras] 'father'
b. γεμάτο ς [yemätos] full'
c. πηγαίνω [piyeno] '(I) go'
(5) a. αχινός [axinös] 'sea urchin'
b. πιθανός [piöanos] 'probable'
c. αγαπώ [^apo] '(I) love'
In certain cases, the location of stress is predictable on the basis of mor-
phological information. For example, in diminutives derived with the
suffix -άκι ([—äki]), primary stress always falls on the penultimate syl-
lable. In other cases, however, there is no way to predict on which syllable
stress falls, as is clear from the existence of minimal pairs such as those in
(6X9).
(6) a. οπός [opös] 'juice'
b. όπως [öpos] 'like'
(7) a. ορός [oros] 'serum'
b. όρος [oros] 'condition'
(8) a. πεινώ [ρίηό] '(I) am hungry'
b. πίνω [ρίηο] '(I) drink'
(9) a. δευτέρι [öefteri] 'account book'
b. δεύτεροι [öefteri] 'second pi. masc.
A first indication that the two members of a compound word form a single
phonological unit is the fact that in compounds, as in other types of
words, there is only one primary stress. The stress of the compound does
not necessarily fall on any of the syllables that bear primary stress before
compound formation; in fact, most of the time it does not. Another
indication that the two members of a compound in fact constitute a
phonological word is the fact that they respect the same well-formedness
condition that applies to stress in simple words. That is, stress must fall
on one of the last three syllables of the compound, as shown in (10)-
(12).
(10) a. κουκλόσπιτο <
[kuklospito] <
'doll's house'
b. ασπρόμαυρος <
[aspromavros] <
'black and white'
κύκλα σπίτι
[kukla] [spiti]
'doll' 'house'
άσπρος μαύρο
[äspros] [mävros]
'white' 'black'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Word 113
c. ξυλόκολλα < ξύλος κόλλα
[ksilokola] < [ksilos] [kola]
'wood glue' 'wood' 'glue'
a. νυχτοπούλι < νύχτα •πουλί
[nixtopüli] < [nixta] [puli]
'night bird' 'night' 'bird'
b. σπφτοκούτι < σπϊρτον κουτί
[spirtoküti] < [spirton] [kuti]
'matchbox' 'match' 'box'
c. ψυχοπαίδι < ψυχή παιδί
[psixopeöi] < [psixi] [peöi]
'adopted child' 'spirit' 'child'
a. νυχτοφυλακή < νύχτα φυλακή
[nixtofilaki] < [nixta] [filaki]
'night guard' 'night' 'guard'
b. φιλοφρονώ < φίλος φρονώ
[filofrono] < [filos] [frono]
'(I) entertain' 'friend' 'think'
c. ξυλοθιμονιά < ξύλο ς θυμονιά
[ksiloöimonyä] < [ksilos] [öimonyä]
'wood stack' 'wood' 'stack'
In compounds, unlike in simple words, the location of primary stress is
largely predictable on the basis of the quality of the last vowel of the
compound. That is, if the last vowel is a back vowel, the word is most
often stressed on the antepenultimate syllable; if it is a front vowel, the
word tends to be stressed on the penultimate syllable. Final stress in
compounds is fairly uncommon, but when it occurs it is often predictable
on the basis of morphological information. Regardless of the specific
rules for assigning stress to compounds, what is relevant here is that
compound words form one phonological word since a) they have only
one primary stress, just as noncompound words do, and b) they must
fulfill the same well-formedness condition on the position of stress that
noncompound words must fulfill.
Having established the domain of the phonological word in Greek, we
may now formulate the two rules seen above, Nasal Assimilation and
Stop Voicing, in the following way:
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
114 Prosodic Phonology
(13) Nasal Assimilation (obligatory)
- cont
α cor . . . ] ω
β ant
(14) Stop Voicing (obligatory)
[-cont] -*· [+vce] / [ . . . [+nas] ] ω
As the formulations of NA and SV show, these are ω span rules. That is,
they apply any time their segmental context is present within the ω
domain.
An additional rule of Demotic Greek that has ω as its domain of ap-
plication is a rule that in certain varieties of the language optionally de-
letes a nasal before a continuant consonant. Sequences of nasal + continu-
ant consonant are almost totally absent from Demotic Greek, although
they are very common in Katharevousa, which was the official language
until 1974 but is now hardly spoken at all. When they do occur in
Demotic Greek, however, the nasal consonant is optionally deleted, as
exemplified in (15).
(15) a. άνθρωπος Janöropos] and [äöropos]
'human being'
b. συμβιβασμός [simvivazmos] and [sivivazmos]
'compromise'
The rule of Nasal Deletion (ND) may now be formulated in the following
way:
(16) Nasal Deletion (optional)
It should be noted that ND is a ω span rule, as are NA and SV, seen above.
To sum up briefly, we have demonstrated on the basis of stress placement,
two assimilation rules, and one deletion rule that the domain of the
phonological word in Greek is equal to the terminal element of a syntactic
tree. That is, it was shown that the rules in question apply within a domain
that consists of one, or in the case of compounds two, stems plus all
adjacent affixes. While the rules of stress assignment are limited to the
[+nas] 0 / [ . . . [+cont
+cons
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Word 115
ω domain, the assimilation and deletion rules are not. It will be shown
in Chapter 5 that the clitic group, the constituent of the prosodic hierar-
chy that immediately dominates the phonological word, must also be
taken into consideration in order to give an exhaustive account of these
phenomena. That is, it will be shown that these rules exhibit different
degrees of application in the two categories. As we have shown above,
Nasal Assimilation and Stop Voicing apply obligatorily in ω, and Nasal
Deletion applies optionally in the same domain. In the clitic group, the
obligatoriness of the rules is reversed.
4.1.2. Latin
The next language that will be discussed here to exemplify the domain
of ω equal to the terminal element of a syntactic tree is Classical Latin.
That the phonological word in Latin has this extension can be seen from
the fact that the Main Stress Rule applies in the same way to simple,
derived, and compound words. In polysyllabic words, this rule assigns
primary stress to the penultimate syllable if it is heavy. Otherwise it as-
signs stress to the antipenultimate syllable. This is illustrated in (17),
(18) and (19), with simple, derived, and compound words, respectively.1
(17) a. strategus 'chief
b. popülum 'people'
(18) a. stomachosus 'irritated'
b. homüncülus 'little man'
(19) a. vivirädix 'offshoot'
b. vivipärus 'viviparous'
While Latin clitics have been claimed to form one phonological word with
their host on the basis of the observation that they influence the stress
of the word to which they cliticize, (see for instance Booij, 1983), we
believe this not to be the case. Notice, in fact, that stress assignment in
the group word + clitic does not follow the stress rule mentioned above.
In the sequence word + clitic, the main stress falls instead on the syllable
that immediately precedes the clitic, regardless of its weight (see Nieder-
mann, 1953; Cupaiolo, 1959; Traina and Bernardi Perini, 1977). This rule,
Clitic Group Stress, is exemplified in (20), where the clitic -que is cliticized
to words whose final syllables have different internal structure and weight
and nevertheless all bear primary stress.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
116 Prosodic Phonology
(20) a. rosäque 'and the rose (nom.)'
b. rosämque 'and the rose (acc.)'
c. rosäque 'and the rose (abl.)'
Only in cases in which the sequence word + clitic no longer has the original
meaning, and can thus be considered a single word rather than a sequence
analyzable as word + clitic, does the Main Stress Rule apply (see Nieder-
mann, 1953; Cupaiolo, 1959), as exemplified in (21).
If this analysis is correct, there should be minimal pairs that differ phono-
logically only with respect to the location of their primary stress, depend-
ing on whether the sequence word + clitic is still analyzed as such or
represents, instead, a new (single) word. This type of minimal pair does
indeed exist, as exemplified in (22).
(22) a. itäque 'and so'
b. itaque 'therefore'
This issue will be treated in more detail in Chapter 5, where it will be
shown that the stress (readjustment) rule exemplified in (20) has as its
domain of application the clitic group, that is, the constituent of the
prosodic hierarchy that immediately dominates the phonological word.
What the examples above have shown is that the Main Stress Rule
applies to sequences consisting of a single stem, or two stems in the case
of compounds, plus any adjacent string of affixes. We take this as evidence
that such strings, which correspond to the terminal element of a syntactic
tree, constitute a phonological unit and in particular the phonological
word.
4.1.3. ω domain (i)
On the basis of the domain of the phonological word in languages
like Greek and Classical Latin, we may now proceed to give the definition
of ω for languages in which ω is coextensive with the constituent domi-
nated by the terminal node of the syntactic stree, which we will call Q.
(23) ω domain (i)
The domain of ω is Q.
(21) a. ündtque
b. dem que
c. pleräque
'everywhere'
'finally'
'most things (fem. nom.)'
As we mentioned above, this is not the only possibility for the phonolog-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Word 117
ical word. We will now turn to an analysis of the domain of co in languages
where this domain is smaller than the one just defined.
4.2. ω domain smaller than the terminal element of the syntactic tree
In this section, we will present an analysis of the phonological word in
languages in which its domain is smaller than the constituent dominated
by the terminal node of a syntactic tree. There is more than one possibili-
ty for the construction of u> in this case; each possibility will be discussed
and exemplified in a separate subsection. Despite their differences, all of
these cases of to construction share the characteristic of regrouping the
morphological units of a word in such a way that the end result is not
isomorphic to any constituent of the morpho-syntactic hierarchy.
4.2.1. ω domain equal to stem plus affixes
The first case of a phonological word whose domain is smaller than the
terminal element of a syntactic tree is found in languages in which both
underived and derived words form a to. That is, for all noncompound
words, there is isomorphism between the morpho-syntactic and the pro-
sodic hierarchies. In the case of compound words, however, the extension
of the word-level constituent in the two hierarchies is different. That is,
in compounds, each stem forms a phonological word together with its
adjacent affixes. In languages that have both prefixes and suffixes, one co
thus includes the prefixes together with the first member of the com-
pound, and a separate co includes the second member of the compound
and its adjacent suffixes. It is clear that in cases in which the affixes
represent derivations of the compound as a whole, the phonological and
the morphological divisions of the constituents do not coincide. In the
case of suffixes the mismatch would be of the kind illustrated in (24).
(24) a. morphological constituency b. phonological constituency
W
In the following two sections, we will exemplify this particular type of
co domain on the basis of Sanskrit and Turkish.
4.2.1.1. Sanskrit
A definition of the type of phonological word just described has been
proposed by Selkirk (1980a) for Sanskrit. The mapping rules proposed
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
118 Prosodic Phonology
by Selkirk on the basis of observations found in Whitney (1889) specify
that each word of a syntactic marker constitutes a co domain, unless it is
composed of a compound stem, in which case the first member constitutes
one co and the second member plus its affixes a separate co. Selkirk shows
that the phonological word so defined is the domain of application of
several phonological rules. Among these are Final Voicing, a rule that
assimilates a [-sonorant] segment in voicing to the following segment
only at a co juncture, as exemplified in (25) with two compound words.
(25) a. sat - aha -»• sad-aha 'good day'
b. tat - namas tad-namas 'that homage'
A co internal combination of morphemes does not trigger Final Voicing,
as shown in (26).
(26) a. väc+ya ->· väcya 'speak (ger.)'
b. marut+i -*• maruti 'wind (loc.)'
A second to juncture rule of Sanskrit, Stop to Nasal, optionally assimilates
a stop in nasality to a following nasal segment, as exemplified in (27).
(27) a. tat namas -*• tad namas -*• tan namas
b. tristup nünam tristub nünam ->• tristum nünam
Two additional rules are given by Selkirk to show that co plays an essential
role in determining where a phonological phenomenon may take place.
These rules are Final Cluster Reduction and Final Deaspiration and De-
voicing. The first rule deletes all but the leftmost postvocalic consonant
in a co final cluster, as shown in (28). The second deaspirates and devoices
aspirated nonsonorant consonants if co final, as shown in (29), as well as
in (28b,c).
- >
bhavan 'being (nom. masc. sg.)'
trigtup 'type of meter (nom. masc. sg.)'
pat 'foot (nom. masc. sg.)'
agnimat 'producing fire by friction'
lap - sye Ί shall sieze'
virut 'plant'
The fact that the four rules we have just considered all have the same
domain of application, one which, furthermore, is not isomorphic to any
constituent of the morpho-syntactic hierarchy, is evidence that a con-
(28) a. bhavant+s
b. trijjubh+s
c. pad+s
(29) a. agnimath
b. labh - sye
c. virudh
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Word 119
stituent with precisely this extension must be posited in the prosodic
hierarchy of Sanskrit. It should be noted that the first two rules are
formally CJ juncture rules on the U domain. That is, they apply when the
segmental context is present at the boundary of two phonological words
throughout a phonological utterance. The last two rules, on the other
hand, are to limit rules and apply at the end of any to, given the correct
segmental conditions.
Before proceeding to give the definition of the type of phonological
word just seen in Sanskrit, that is, one that includes a stem and all ad-
jacent affixes, we will examine another language in which the to constitu-
ent has exactly the same domain.
4.2.1.2. Turkish
The second language we will use to exemplify the lack of one-to-one
correspondence between the domain of the phonological word and the
lowest constituent of the syntactic hierarchy is Turkish. In particular, we
will show that the extension of the to domain is equal to a stem plus its
adjacent affixes in Turkish, as it is in Sanskrit.
With the exception of a limited group of words (see Lewis, 1967:
21), all monomorphemic words in Turkish have primary stress on the
last syllable. Thus, the Main Stress Rule assigns stress to the vast majority
of monomorphemic words as illustrated in (30).
a. yaXniz 'alone'
b. somiin 'loaf
c. dogü 'fast'
d. 50cük 'child'
e. odd 'room'
The Main Stress Rule also applies to derived words; that is, the last syllable
of a derived word bears primary stress, no matter how many suffixes the
word contains, as the derivations of goctik 'child' and odd 'room' show.
(31) a. 50cük
b. 50cuklar
c. 50cuklarimiz
d. focuklarimizin
'child'
'children'
'our children'
'of our children'
(32) a. odä
b. odadä
c. odadaki
d. odadakiler
e. odadakilerden
room
'in the room'
'that which is in the room'
'those who are in the room'
'from those who are in the room'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
120 Prosodic Phonology
While these examples show that the domain of the Main Stress Rule in
Turkish includes an entire derived word, we have not yet shown that
this is the largest domain of stress assignment. That is, if we assume
that the phonological word is equivalent to the domain within which stress
is assigned, we have thus far only shown that CJ must include at least
derived words. To show that the domain of to is, in fact, smaller than
the terminal element of the syntactic tree, we must provide evidence that
the two members of compounds do not behave as a single to. As Lees
(1961) observes, of the two primary stresses that the members of a com-
pound word have in isolation, only the first remains after compounding;
the main stress of the second member is reduced to secondary stress. The
stress pattern of compounds is exemplified in (33).
(33) a. dügun^egi 'butter cup'
of yesterdayflower
b. gay evi 'tea house'
tea house
This pattern, however, besides being different from that found word
internally, is precisely the one found in independent words which are
joined together in a phonological phrase (see Chapter 6). This stress
pattern is thus a first indication that each of the members of a compound
forms part of a separate co in Turkish.
Additional evidence that the two members of a compound do not
form a single phonological word is provided by Vowel Harmony. In
Turkish, there is a rule whose effect is that of harmonizing within a certain
domain all vowels for the feature [back] and high vowels for the feature
[round].2
In Chapter 5, it will be shown that this domain is the clitic
group and that the rule works from left to right. That is, the first vowel
of a word determines the quality of all the following vowels of the se-
quence word + clitics. The application of the rule in affixed words is
exemplified in (34) and (35) below, where the vowels of the suffixes
harmonize with the vowels of the stem. Specifically, the forms of the
genitive and plural morphemes are -in and -ler, respectively, after the front
unrounded vowel in ev, while these same morphemes have the forms
-un and -lar after words such as vapur and burun.
(34) a. ev-in 'of the house'
house (gen.)
b. vapur-un 'of the steamer'
steamer (gen.)
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Word 121
(35) a. ev-ler 'houses'
house (pi.)
b. burun-lar
nose (pi.)
'noses'
The two members of compounds, however, do not form a single domain
for the harmony rule, as may be seen in (36).
What this shows is that there are, in fact, two separate harmony domains
in compound words. Since, as was mentioned above, the clitic group is
the domain of Vowel Harmony in Turkish, we must conclude that there
are two clitic groups in compound words. Furthermore, given the Strict
Layer Hypothesis, it follows that compounds in Turkish must also contain
two separate phonological words. On the basis of the two rules just exem-
plified, the Main Stress Rule and Vowel Harmony, we may now draw
the conclusion that in Turkish, as in Sanskrit, the domain of the phonolog-
ical word is not necessarily isomorphic to any constituent of the morpho-
syntactic hierarchy. In both cases the mismatch is of the type illustrated
in (24) above in which to does not include the entire element that corres-
ponds to the lowest constituent in the syntactic hierarchy, but only a part
of it.
4.2.1.3. u> domain (iia)
In section 4.1.3 above, we have given the definition of the first type
of co, that found in languages in which the domain of to is equal to the
terminal element of the syntactic tree. On the basis of the preceding
analysis of Sanskrit and Turkish, we may now give the definition of a
second type of phonological word.
(37) ω domain (iia)
a. The domain of to consists of a stem and any linearly adjacent
string of affixes.
b. Any unattached element forms a to on its own.
The first part of this definition has the effect of forming one phonolog-
ical word from each noncompound word, whether it is underived or deriv-
ed. It forms two tos in the case of compound words, one with the first
member of the compound plus (in languages in which they exist) any pre-
fixes, and the other with the second member of the compound plus any
suffixes. The second part of the definition, on the other hand, ensures
(36) bugün
this day
'today'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
122 Prosodic Phonology
that other elements that do not qualify as stems, for example conjunctions
and clitics, also form a to as required by the Strict Layer Hypothesis.
4.2.2. ω domain and additonal morphological and phonological factors
The phonological word discussed in section 4.2.1 has a domain that,
though not necessarily isomorphic to any morpho-syntactic constituent,
is symmetrical in the sense that it does not crucially distinguish prefixes
from suffixes, that is, left from right side with respect to the stem. In
addition, it does not need to refer to any phonological information other
than that inherent in the Strict Layer Hypothesis, that is, that a to is form-
ed by grouping together constituents of the level immediately below it,
feet.
The phonological word we will discuss now has a domain that not only
is nonisomorphic to any morpho-syntactic constituent, but is also asym-
metric. That is, the definition of such a to must distinguish prefixes from
suffixes (i.e. left from right side). Furthermore it may take into account
specific phonological criteria in addition to those inherent in the Strict
Layer Hypothesis. The first type of phonological word, the one that must
take into account specific morphological factors, will be exemplified
on the basis of.Hungarian. The second type of to, the one for which
specific phonological information is needed in its definition, will be
exemplified on the basis of Italian and Yidiji.
4.2.2.1. Hungarian
In this section, we will .show that the domain of the phonological word
in Hungarian includes a stem plus any linearly adjacent string of suffixes.
The two members of a compound thus form two different tos: the first
includes only the first stem, the second includes the second stem plus
any suffixes of the compound. In addition, the category of elements
often referred to as preverbs, which we will refer to here simply as pre-
fixes, also form independent cos.
We will begin with an analysis of Vowel Harmony (see among others,
Vago, 1976), and show that its domain of application is the phonological
word as just described. The claim that to is the domain of Vowel Harmony
is not new; it is also found in Booij (1984b), where the domain of ω,
however is not defined in an exhaustive way.
In Hungarian, all vowels other than i, i, and e (where i and e are the
alphabetic symbols for the phonetic [i:] and [e:]) participate in Vowel
Harmony. The harmonizing feature is [back], as exemplified in (38) and
(39), where it can be seen that a stem plus its suffixes form a domain for
harmony, and thus a ω (see Booij, 1984b).
(38) a. [öleles^
b. [öleles-nek]^
'embracement'
'embracement + (dat. sg.)'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Word 123
(39) a. [hajo]^ 'ship'
b. [hajo-nak]^ 'ship + (dat. sg.)'
The examples in (40), on the other hand, indicate that the first and second
members of a compound constitute separate harmony domains and thus
separate cos.
(40) a. [Buda^ [Pest]^ 'Budapest'
b. [könyv]^ [tar]^ 'library'
book collection
In (41), it may be seen that while the first and second stems of a com-
pound are separate harmony domains, the suffix of the compound is
included in the harmony domain of the second stem (see Vago, 1980).
We thus have evidence for the claim that a stem plus any linearly adjacent
string of suffixes form one to.
(41) [lät]^ [kepünk^ 'our view' (lätkep = view; ünk = our)
The final point that remains to be demonstrated in order to establish the
domain of eo defined above is that prefixes do not harmonize with the
stem to which they are affixed. In (42) this point is demonstrated on the
basis of the fact that the vowels of verbal prefixes do not have the same
value for the feature [back] as the vowels of the stem.
(42) a, be - utazni 'to commute in'
in commute
b. fel - ugrani 'to jump up'
up jump
c. oda -menni 'to go there'
there go
Within a theory of phonology that includes the Strict Layer Hypothesis,
the fact that prefixes do not harmonize with the following stem is evi-
dence that they must be considered as forming separate cos in Hungarian.
It should be noted that other types of similarities between prefixes and
words have been observed in Hungarian as well as in other languages (see,
among others, Tompa, 1972; Strauss, 1982; Scalise, 1983; Booij and Ru-
bach, 1984). It is therefore not surprising that these two types of elements
have the same phonological status in some languages.
The phonological word in Hungarian is not only the domain of har-
mony, but also of other phenomena. For example, Palatalization, a rule
that assimilates d, t, I, η to a following j, yielding the corresponding palatal
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
124 Prosodic Phonology
sounds (see Hall, 1944), applies within co as defined above, as shown in
(43). It does not apply between two phonological words, however, as
exemplified in (44), (45), and (46), where the rule is blocked between the
two members of a compound, between a prefix and the following stem,
and between two words, respectively.
(43) [men+jen]^ ->· me[ji]en
go (Pe 3 sg. imp.)
'let him go'
(44) [alül^-Däro]^
under path
(45) [fel]^ [jönni]^
up come
(46) [en]^ [jövök]^
I come
*alü[j]är03
->· *fe[j]önni
-»• *e[ji]övök
'tunnel'
'to come up'
Ί come'
To conclude this section on Hungarian, let us summarize the main charac-
teristics of the type of phonological word found in this language. First
of all, it is not isomorphic to any morpho-syntactic constituent, as can be
seen from the fact that while the two members of a compound form two
different cos, the suffixes of a compound form one co with its second
stem. In this respect, it is the same as the CJ constituent discussed in the
previous section and exemplified with data from Sanskrit and Turkish.
Secondly, the definition of the u> domain in Hungarian must refer to
morphological constituents in an asymmetric way, in that any string of
suffixes is included in one co with the linearly preceding, adjacent stem,
while prefixes form a CJ on their own. In this respect, it is different from
the co domain seen in the previous section.
4.2.2.2. Italian
In this section, an analysis of Italian will be given in which it is shown
that the phonological word is a necessary constituent of phonological
analysis, since there is no one-to-one relation between co and any consti-
tuent of the morpho-syntactic hierarchy, and, furthermore, that the con-
struction of co must make reference to specific phonological information
other than that expressed by the Strict Layer Hypothesis. On the basis of
this analysis, we will propose that additional phonological notions may be
used in the construction of co only under specific circumstances.
Let us begin by examining the domain of application of a rule that
voices an intervocalic s. We will demonstrate that this domain is not
isomorphic to any constituent of the morpho-syntactic hierarchy, and
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Word 125
claim that it is equivalent instead to the phonological word. We will then
show that the to constituent thus defined is needed in the formulation of
several other phonological rules of Italian (see Nespor, 1984).
Intervocalic s-Voicing (ISV) is a rule of standard northern Italian which
applies within words,4
but not across words, as seen in (47) and (48),
respectively.
(47) a. a[z]ola 'button hole'
b. a[z]ilo 'nursery school'
(48) a. la [sjirena *la [zjirena 'the siren'
b. hanno [sjeminato *hanno [z]eminato '(they) have seeded'
ISV does not apply, furthermore, between a word and an enclitic element
(see (49)) or between a proclitic element and a word (see (50)).
(49) telefonati[s]i *telefonati[z]i
'having called each other'
(50) lo [s]apevo *lo [zjapevo
'(I) knew it'
The environment that triggers ISV cannot be identified with the mor-
phological word, however, since even word internally, ISV applies in some
cases but not in others. The items in (51) and (52) exemplify the morpho-
logical contexts in which ISV does and does not apply, respectively.
(51) a. within a morpheme
a[z]ola 'button hole'
b. between a lexical morpheme and its inflection:
ca[z]e (house (pi.)) 'houses'
c. between a lexical morpheme and its derivational suffix:
ca[z]ina (house (dim.)) 'little house'
d. between a derivational prefix and a lexical morpheme:
re[z]istenza 'resistance'
e. between the second member of a compound and the inflection:
ficcana[z]i 'busy bodies'
(52) a. between a derivational prefix and a lexical morpheme:
a[s]ociale 'asocial'
b. between the two members of a compound:
tocca[s]ana 'cure all'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
126 Prosodic Phonology
The domain of application of ISV is thus a constituent that in non-com-
pound words includes a stem, its derivational and inflectional suffixes,
and, in certain cases, also its derivational prefixes. In compound words,
on the other hand, the second member of the compound forms a consti-
tuent with the suffixes, and the first member forms a separate constituent.
We will now show that the necessary constituents cannot be found in
the morphological hierarchy; the context of application of ISV thus can
not be identified with any morphological category. Take, for instance,
the word ri[s]uddivi[z]ione 'resubdivision'. This word contains the prefix
ri-, which can be attached to verbs but not to nouns, and the suffix -ione,
which is used to make nouns from verbs.s
Given the bases required by
these affixes, the only possible morphological structure for risuddivisione
is the one given in (53).
(53) [[PRE[ ]v ]v SUF]n
Instead, the structure that we would need for a morphological constituent
to be the domain of application of ISV is the one in (54), where the stem
forms a constituent with the suffix to the exclusion of the prefix.
(54) [PRE[[ ]v SUF]n ]n
The structure in (53) is not possible for risuddivisione, however, since,
as we have just said, ri- may only be prefixed to verbs, not to nouns.
That the domain of application of ISV cannot be identified with a
morphological constituent can also be seen in compound words with
the morphological structure shown in (55).
(55) [[[ficcajy [naso]^]^ + i]^ ficcana[z]i 'busy bodies'
We have already shown in (51e) and (52b) that ISV applies between the
second member of a compound and its inflection, but not between the
two members of a compound. There is no morphological constituent,
however, that exhaustively includes the second member of a compound
and the inflection, as may be seen in (55), where the plural inflection
refers to the compound ficcanaso and not to its nominal subpart naso
'nose'. That is, flccanasi refers to more than one person sticking a nose
into other people's business, not to one person who sticks more than
one nose (nasi) into other people's business.
The fact that the domain of application of ISV is not isomorphic
to any constituent of the morpho-syntactic hierarchy can be taken as
evidence that the domain must be a phonological one. Given that the
domain is larger than the foot, since ISV applies both within and across
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Word 127
feet (see (56a,b)) but smaller than a string of two words (see (56c,d)),
we can conclude that the domain of ISV is the phonological word.
(56) a. Σ Σ
ΙΛ
a[z]ilo 'nursery school'
b. Σ
Λ . ,
ca[z]o case
c. la [s]alamandra *[z] 'the salamander'
d. gatto [s]iamese *[z] 'Siamese cat'
It is clear from the contexts in which ISV applies, however, that the
definitions of to given above for other languages are not adequate for
Italian. We will therefore examine now the specific criteria on which u)
is based in Italian. It has already been shown that a) in noncompound
words, the stem plus all suffixes, whether derivational or inflectional,
form a single co, and b) in compound words, the first stem forms a C
J
domain6
and the second stem plus the suffixes of the compound form
another to domain. The only point that remains unclear from (51) and
(52) concerns the prefixes, since some appear to form a ω with the fol-
lowing stem and others do not. The question now is what determines
whether or not a prefix is joined into the same co with the following stem.
One characteristic that distinguishes (5Id) from (52a) repeated as (57)
and (58) for convenience, is the fact that the prefix re- in (57) is affixed
to a stem that is not an independent word in contemporary Italian, that is,
one that cannot undergo lexical insertion, while the prefix a- in (58) is
affixed to a word.
(57) re[z]istenza 'resistance'
(58) a[s]ociale 'asocial'
It should be noted, furthermore, that words such as (57) are not analyzed
as derived words by native speakers; that is, while the prefix re- means
'again' (cf. reintegrare 'reintegrate'), the meaning of the word resistenza
does not include the notion of 'again'. The example in (58), on the other
hand, is for any native speaker a word derived with the negative prefix
a-. The meaning of asociale is, in fact, 'not social'. We may thus draw the
conclusion so far that in historically prefixed words that are not analyzed
as such synchronically, the prefix forms a phonological word with the
following stem. That this is the appropriate conclusion may be seen on
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
128 Prosodic Phonology
the basis of the additional examples in (59) and (60), where synchronical-
ly analyzable and non-analyzable words, respectively, are given.
(59) a. bi[s]essuale 'bisexual'
b. ri[s]uonare 'to ring again'
c. ultra[s]ensibile 'supersensitive'
(60) a. bi[z]estile 'leap year'
b. ri[z]acca 'undertow'
c. pre[z]unzione 'arrogance'
The minimal pair in (61) illustrates further the difference between those
prefixes that are synchronically analyzable and those that are not. Spe-
cifically, (61a) has the predicted meaning of 'hear in advance', and thus
includes two distinct cos, across which ISV does not apply. (61b), however,
has an idiosyncratic meaning. That is, it is not analyzed as a prefixed
word by native speakers, and thus forms only one to, within which ISV
predictably applies.
(61) a. pre[s]entire 'to hear in advance'
b. pre[z]entire 'to have a presentiment'
Consider, however, the examples in (62).
(62) a. di[z]armo 'disarmament'
b. di[z]onesto 'dishonest'
c. di[z]intossicare 'disintoxicate'
d. di[z]uguale 'unequal'
e. di[z]innescare 'defuse'
All of the words in (62) are derived with the negative prefix dis- in a very
regular way, as can be seen from the fact that every word has the predicted
negative meaning. ISV applies in all of these examples, indicating that the
behavior of dis- differs from that of the other prefixes examined above.
It should be noted that the behavior of dis- cannot be explained along the
lines proposed for English according to which prefixes are divided into two
classes on the basis of their position in morphological structure (see among
others, SPE; Siegel, 1974; Selkirk, 1982), since dis- can both precede and
follow other prefixes such as pre- which do not trigger ISV, as seen in (63).7
(63) a. predisintossicazione (pre-dis-)
'predisintoxication'
b. dispremunirsi (dis-pre-)
'dis-pre-arm oneself
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Word 129
Since the peculiar behavior of dis- cannot be due to its position in morpho-
logical structure, and given certain distributional characteristics of Italian
phonology in general, we propose, instead, that the behavior of dis-
is due to the fact that it ends in a consonant. With the exception of a
small group of function words such as il 'the (masc. sg.)', in 'in', con
'with', per 'for' and non 'not', consonant-final words are extremely
uncommon in standard Italian, and totally absent in most regional varieties
of Italian, where different phonological rules apply in order to avoid
them.8
Thus, there seems to be a general well-formedness condition that
forbids consonant-final phonological words, or at least represents a strong
tendency to avoid them whenever possible. It is on these grounds that we
propose to include dis- and consonant-final prefixes in general (i.e. bis-,
mis-, in-, con-, per-, etc.) within a to with the adjacent element.9
That is,
while vowel-final prefixes have the form of independent words, consonant-
final prefixes do not. Thus, while the former can constitute independent
phonological words, the latter cannot. It should be noted, in addition, that
in the case in which a consonant-final prefix has a to to its left that consists
of a vowel-final prefix, and one to its right including a stem or another pre-
fix, the direction of attachment is rightward, i.e. in the direction of the
stem, as the application of ISV in the example in (63a) above shows.
To sum up briefly, the domain of the phonological word in Italian is
such that a stem forms a to with all suffixes and with those prefixes
that end in a consonant. Prefixes that end in a vowel form independent
cos, as required by the Strict Layer Hypothesis, according to which the
sisters of a υ must be other cos. Finally, prefixes which do not form in-
dependent cos always attach in the direction of the stem. We can formulate
ISV as a co span rule in a maximally simple way as seen in (64), whereas
the expression of the domain of application of this rule in terms of mor-
phological constituents would not amount to more than a list of disparate
environments.
(64) Intervocalic s-Voicing
->· [+vce] I [i..[-cons] [-cons]...](
To show that to, as defined above, is not an ad hoc solution valid only
for ISV, we will now examine several other phonological rules of Italian
and show that their domains, too, correspond to the UJ defined for ISV.
The first rule we will consider is Vowel Raising (VR). Of the seven vowels
of Italian, two low vowels, [ε] and [o], may occur only in syllables that
+cont
-vce
-i-cor
+ant
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
130 Prosodic Phonology
bear primary stress, or in other words, are the DTE of a word.10
If mor-
phological derivation or inflection has the effect of moving the primary
stress of a word from [ε] or [o] to another position, an ill-formed word is
created. A rule therefore applies to change [ε] and [o] into [e] and [o],
respectively, thus reestablishing a well-formed word, as exemplified in
(65).
(65) a. t[6jlgo vs. t[o]glievo '(I) take out / (I) was taking out'
b. 1[έ ]ggo vs. l[e]ggevo '(I) read / (I) was reading'
c. p[6]co vs. p[o]chino 'little / little (dim.)'
d. t[s]rra vs. t[e]rriccio 'earth/loam'
That suffixes form a single to with the preceding element(s), and that co
is the domain of Vowel Raising, is further illustrated by the minimal pair
in (66b) and (66c), where the derived word is distinguished from the
phrase by the application vs. nonapplication of the rule.
(66) a. s[o]lito 'usual'
b. s[o]litamente 'usually'
c. s[o]lita mente 'usual mind'
The examples in (67) show that the rule fails to apply in the case of com-
pounds, indicating that the primary stress of the first member is not re-
duced as it is in derivation.
(67) a. t[o]stapane -*• t[o]stapdne
toast bread 'bread toaster'
vs. t[0]sta+tore -*• t[o]statore
'toaster'
b. p[e]lle rossa -»· p[^]ller0ssa
skin red 'redskin'
vs. p[^]lli-+cina -»• p[e]llicina
'small piece of skin'
Since a phonological word may contain at most one primary stress, the
data in (65) show that suffixes form one to with the stem, while the data
in (67) show that in compound words there must be two cos.
By making use of the ω domain, we can thus formulate a ω span rule of
Vowel Raising in the following way, where the specification of [-DTE]
accounts for the fact that the rule applies when the vowel in question does
not bear primary stress in the domain indicated, the phonological word.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Word 131
(68) Vowel Raising
+syll
+mid
-hi
[+hi]/ [·
[-DTE]
J
co
Additional evidence in favor of the u> domain as defined above comes
from Vowel Lengthening (VL). This rule lengthens the vowel of the strong
syllable which is the DTE of a word (i.e. the vowel with primary word
stress) if and only if it is in an open syllable which is not word final. The
application of the rule is exemplified in (69), and its nonapplication in
word-final position is exemplified in (70).
(69)
(70)
a. p[a:]pero
b. tap[i:]ro
c. pap[a:]vero
d. tartar [ύ: ]ga
a. carib[ü]
b. colibr[i]
'duck'
'tapir'
'poppy'
'turtle'
'caribou'
'hummingbird'
That the domain of application of VL is best described by making use of
the phonological word can be seen from the facts that a) the rule applies
with any type of suffix (see (71)), b) the rule applies in bisyllabic prefixes
but not in underived words that begin with similar syllables (see (72)
and (73)), and c) the rule applies twice when the appropriate local phono-
logical environment occurs in both members of a compound (contrast
(74a), (75a), and (76a) with (74b), (75b), and (76b), where noncompound
words with a similar syllabic structure undergo the rule only once).
(71) a. gatt[i:]no 'little cat' (<gatto + ino)
b. abbai[a:]va '(it) was barking' (< abbaia + va)
c. utilit[a:]rio 'utilitarian' (< utile + itä + rio)
(72)
(73)
a. p[ä:]ramilit[ä:]re 'paramilitary'
b. p[a]rametr[i:]co 'parametric'
a. s[u:]pervel[o:]ce
b. s[u]perstizi[o:]so
'superfast'
'superstitious'
(74) a. c[ä:]pop[o:]polo 'chief
b. c[a]teg[o:]rico 'categoric'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
132 Prosodic Phonology
(75) a. d[0:]polav[o:]ro
b. d[i]vinat[0:]re
(76) a. div[a:]no letto
b. tav[o]linetto
'afterwork'
'seer'
'sofa bed'
'very small table'
The rule of VL can now be formulated in the following way:
(77) Vowel Lengthening
V - [+long] / [...[.
-1σ X
L
[+DTE]
where Χ Φ 0
The phonological word as defined above is also the domain of a rule of
Total Nasal Assimilation (TNA). Sequences of a nasal consonant immedi-
ately followed by a sonorant consonant are ill formed when word-internal
in Italian,11
but are allowed across words, as exemplified in (78) and (79),
respectively.
(78) a. *inregolare
b. *inmaturo
c. *conlaterale
(79) a. in rime
b. con molti
c. con loro
'irregular'
'immature'
'collateral'
'in rhyme'
'with many'
'with them'
(cf. irregolare)
(cf. immaturo)
(cf. collaterale)
To avoid the unacceptable nasal + sonorant sequences, TNA applies to
the items in (78), but not to those in (79). It can be shown that the re-
striction and the consequent application of TNA, which totally assimilates
the nasal to the following sonorant consonant, have as their domain the
phonological word. In particular, the rule applies when the ill-formed se-
quences are created through prefixation, that is, when a prefix ending
in a nasal consonant is adjacent to a word beginning with a sonorant
consonant, as can be seen in (80).
(80) a. in+raggiungibile
b. in+legale
c. in+morale
d. con+rispondere
e. con+legare
irraggiungibile
illegale
immorale
corrispondere
collegare
'unreachable'
'illegal'
'immoral'
'to correspond'
'to put together'
The rule applies, in addition, within a phonological word consisting of a
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Word 133
consonant-final prefix followed by a vowel-final prefix, as shown in (81a),
and does not apply across the two members of a compound, since they
form two different cos, as shown in (81b).
(81) a. [ίη+Γϊ]ω + [producibile]^-» i[r: ]iproducibile
'irreproducible'
b. [πηη]ω [rovescio]CJ *ma[r: Jovescio
'slap'
The appropriate formulation of Total Nasal Assimilation as a ω span
rule is given in (82).
(82) Total Nasal Assimilation
[+nas]
anas
J3ant
7Cor
61at
+son
anas
j3ant
7Cor
61at
...1ω
A final confirmation of the definition of ω given above, and in particular,
of the claim that vowel-final and consonant-final prefixes behave different-
ly with respect to ω formation, is the fact that the former, unlike the
latter, may be factored out. If we assume, following a proposal by Booij
(1984a), that the condition necessary in order for an element to be fac-
tored out (see Siegel, 1974) is that this element must be a ω (see section
4.2.3.1 below), the following data are easily accounted for.
(83) a. i pro e gli antifascist! < i profascisti e gli antifascist!
'the pro- and the antifascists'
b. *in 1 e amorale < immorale e amorale
*im I
'immoral and amoral'
c. *dis e superintegrato < disintegrate e superintegrato
'unintegrated and superintegrated'
In (83a), it can be seen that the vowel-final prefix pro- may be factored
out, while in (83b) and (83c), it can be seen that it is not possible to factor
out a consonant-final prefix. The example in (83b) shows, furthermore,
that factoring out is equally impossible before and after the application
of the assimilation rule in (82) (see also Scalise, 1983).
On the basis of the various phenomena of Italian analyzed in this sec-
tion, all of which operate in the domain defined as ω, we can conclude
that the ω proposed above is indeed a necessary constituent of the
prosodic hierarchy of Italian.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
134 Prosodic Phonology
As has been demonstrated above, the ω construction rules needed for
Italian regroup the terminal elements of the morphological tree in such
a way that the end result is a constituent that is not necessarily isomorphic
to any morpho-syntactic constituent. Furthermore, these rules make a
crucial distinction between prefixes and suffixes. It has been shown,
moreover, that in the case of prefixes, specific phonological factors must
be taken into account. In particular, a prefix is joined into a ω with the
following item only if it is of a form (in this case, consonant-final) that
in principle may not stand alone as a separate word. We would like to
propose this as a more general condition on the use of phonological fac-
tors in the ω construction rules. That is, it is our proposal that the phono-
logical word is constructed, in general, with rules that use morpho-syn-
tactic notions, but in those cases in which such rules produce constituents
that from a phonological point of view are not well formed in a given
language, specific phonological notions may be taken into consideration
as well.
In the next section, we will discuss Yidiji, another language in which
phonological notions must be taken into account in the definition of the
ω domain. It will be seen that the general condition we have just proposed
in relation to Italian holds for Yidiji as well.
4.2.2.3. Yidiji
A very interesting description of Yidiji, an Australian language spoken
in Northern Queensland, is found in Dixon (1977b). Yidiji has contrastive
vowel length, and the central feature of its phonology is the interaction
of vowel length and syllable count (see Dixon, 1977a). There is a rule, for
example, which lengthens the penultimate vowel of a word if and only if
the word has an odd number of syllables, as was seen in Chapter 2. Con-
sider the following examples:
(84) a. guda:ga 'dog (abs.)'
b. miid,am 'mother (abs.)'
c. mad,i:ndai] 'walk up (pres.)'
d. galirj 'go (pres.)'
The nouns in (84a) and (84b) are coextensive with the nominal stem, since
the absolutive inflection is 0; the forms in (84c) and (84d) contain a verbal
stem plus the present inflection η (see Dixon, 1977b). In both cases, the
number of syllables of the surface form is equal to the number of syllables
of the stem, and it may be seen that the rule of Penultimate Lengthening
applies in (84a) and (84c), which contain an odd number of syllables, but
not in (84b) and (84d), which contain an even number of syllables.
The rule appears to apply also after morphological operations that have
altered the number of syllables, as may be seen in (85).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Word 135
(85) a. gudaga-gu -»• gudagagu 'dog (purp.)'
b. mud,am - gu -* mud,a:mgu 'mother (purp.)'
The first example shows a stem with an odd number of syllables and a
surface form with an even number of syllables. The second example, to
the contrary, shows a stem with an even number of syllables and a surface
form with an odd number of syllables. Penultimate Lengthening (PL)
applies to the second form but not to the first, showing that the phono-
logical word must include the suffixes in order for the syllable count to
be correct. It does not, however, include all suffixes (see Dixon, 1977b),
as shown in (86).
(86) gumari - daga - jiu -> gumäiri daga:jiu
red (inch.) (past)
'to have become red'
Assuming that ω is the domain of application of Penultimate Lengthening,
(86) shows that in the morphological word gumä:ridagä:ßu there are two
cos, one containing the simple stem and one containing the two suffixes.
A broader investigation of the data reveals a) that a suffix forms a ω
with the stem if it is monosyllabic, but forms a separate ω if it is bisyl-
labic (Dixon, 1977b), and b) that it is not possible to divide the suffixes
into morphological classes according to their relative order of occurrence
in derived words, since bisyllabic suffixes can both precede and follow
monosyllabic suffixes. The distinction is exclusively phonological and
must therefore be accounted for in the phonological component. In par-
ticular, we propose that it is incorporated in the definition of the ω
domain. This definition must thus specify that a ω consists of either a
stem or a bisyllabic suffix together with any adjacent string of monosyl-
labic suffixes to their right; there are no prefixes in Yidiji.
Since a word in Yidiji must contain at least two syllables (see Dixon,
1977a, 1977b), the definition of ω may be reformulated by saying that a
ω is formed by either a stem or a suffix that can be a well-formed inde-
pendent word, together with any adjecent string of monosyllabic suffixes
to the right.
The situation is strikingly similar to that of Italian prefixes: they also
form separate cos when they can stand as independent words. Our con-
tention - that a definition of the ω domain may mention phonological
notions only if more general rules defining ω exclusively on the basis of
morpho-syntactic notions yield ill-formed elements - is thus valid for
Yidiji as well.12
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
136 Prosodic Phonology
4.2.2.4. ω domain (iib)
In sections 4.1.3 and 4.2.1.3 above, definitions have been given for
ω in languages in which its domain is equal to Q and for languages in
which its domain is equal to the stem plus all adjacent affixes, respectively.
The ω domain in languages such as those just analyzed in sections 4.2.2.1-
4.2.2.3 is defined in (87) below, where Q is the terminal element of a
syntactic tree.
(87) ω domain (iib)
I. The domain of ω consists of
a. a stem;
b. any element identified by specific phonological and/or
morphological criteria.
II. Any unattached elements within Q form part of the adjacent
ω closest to the stem; if no such ω exists, they form a ω on
their own.
This rule defines ω for all three languages analyzed in the preceding
sections. As was the case for the ω definition in (37), this definition
too must provide a way for nonstems (such as clitics, conjunctions, and
complementizers) to be dominated by a ω, as required by the Strict
Layer Hypothesis. Such a provision is expressed by the last part of (8711)
above. The only variable point of (87) is that (871b) allows for two pos-
sibilities: i) that only morphological criteria are present, and //) that both
morphological and phonological criteria are present. Hungarian is an ex-
ample of the first type of language, in that the only additional information
that must be taken into account is whether an affix is a prefix or a suffix,
which is a morphological notion. Italian and Yidiji, on the other hand,
are examples of the second type of language. In Italian, as in Hungarian,
the morphological notion needed is the distinction between prefix and
suffix; the additional phonological notion that is needed in Italian is
the well-formedness condition on the structure of a possible word. Similar-
ly, in Yidiji the additional phonological notion needed is that of the well-
formedness of the word, while the only additional morphological notion
that must be referred to is that of affix.
4.2.3. ω domain and diacritic features
This section will be devoted to the phonological word whose construc-
tion rules must take into account specific diacritic features. That is, the
general types of morphological and phonological notions required for the
construction of ω in the previous sections are not sufficient in certain
languages to distinguish the elements that form independent us from
those that are grouped into a ω with specific adjacent elements. The lan-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Word 137
guage we will analyze to exemplify this type of phonological word is
Dutch.
4.2.3.1. Dutch
On the basis of the observation that the phonological word in Dutch is
the domain of syllabification (see Booij, 1983), it has been proposed that
each member of a compound word forms a separate ω domain (see also
Chapter 3 for a discussion of syllabification in Dutch). The minimal pair
in (88), suggested to us by Geert Booij, illustrates this point since the
sequence of consonants dsp is syllabified in different ways in the two
examples. That is, we find the division d-sp in the first example, but the
division ds - ρ in the second example. The latter division shows that
^syllabification does not occur across the two members of a compound,
since if it did we would expect the division d — sp in this case too, in
accordance with the Maximal Onset Principle (see, among others, Pulgram,
1970; Vennemann, 1972; Kahn, 1976; Vogel, 1977).
(88) a. [Ποοά]σ]ω [ [ s p e t ] ^ 'drop of lead'
b. [[1οοά8]σ]ω [ [ p e t y w 'sea captain's cap'
The fact that no ^syllabification takes place in (88b) shows that the two
stems of a compound are separate domains of syllabification, thus two
separate cos.
Another ω-dependent phenomenon that Booij (1985) analyzes is
Coordination Reduction in Dutch, a rule that deletes the second part of
a complex word under identity with the second part of the following
complex word in a coordinate structure, as exemplified in (89) and (90).
(89) a. landbouw en tuinbouw
b. land en tuinbouw
'agri(culture) and horticulture'
(90) a. een elfjarige, twaalfjarige jongen
b. een elf, twaalfjarige jongen
'an eleven-, twelve-year-old boy'
Phonetic identity is not, however, a sufficient condition for deletion.
This may be seen from the ungrammatically of the examples below,
where (91) illustrates the impossibility of deleting part of an underived
word, and (92) and (93) the impossibility of deleting certain derivational
morphemes.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
138 Prosodic Phonology
(91) a. vogels and vlegels
b. *vo and vlegels
'birds and impertinent persons'
(92) a. blauwig en rodig
b. *blauw en rodig
'bluish and reddish'
(93) a. absurditeit en banaliteit
b. *absurd en banaliteit
'absurdity and banality'
As Booij points out, an additional condition on the application of the rule
is required, namely that the deletable element must be a constituent of
prosodic structure: a phonological word. That is, -gels, -ig, and -iteit are
not independent cos and cannot be deleted; -bouw and -jarige, on the other
hand, do constitute independent cos and thus can be deleted.
It should be observed, furthermore, that the elements that may be de-
leted by Coordination Reduction in Dutch cannot be expressed as a con-
stituent of the morpho-syntactic hierarchy, since there is no one-to-one
relation between ω as defined above and any morpho-syntactic consti-
tuent. This is exemplified in (94).
(94) a. Ik heb twee en drietenigen in de dierentuin gezien.
( < tweetenigen en drietenigen)
Ί have seen both two- and three-toed (ones) in the zoo.'
b. [[[drie]A [teen]N ig]A e]N n]N p l
'three-toed (ones)'
While phonologically tenigen is a constituent, specifically a ω, morpho-
logically it is not a constituent, since [ten+ig] does not exist as an adjective
in Dutch, and since neither [tenig+e] nor its hypothetical plural [tenige+n]
exists as a noun. Thus, while Coordination Reduction can be formulated
in a simple way by making reference to the prosodic hierarchy, a defini-
tion of its domain in terms of morphological constituents would require
an ad hoc and complicated specification of morphemes and boundaries.
Further evidence for the phonological word as a constituent in Dutch
is the phenomenon of r-Coloring (RC) (see van der Hulst, in preparation).
RC accounts for the modification in quality of the long vowels ee ([e:]),
oo ([o:]), and eu ([0:]) when they are followed by r - only, however,
if the vowel and r are in the same co, as seen in the examples in (95),
given by Sassen (1979). The vowels that undergo RC are underlined.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Word 139
(95) a. smeris
b. vore
c. pleuris
'copper'
'furrow'
'pleurisy'
As van der Hulst points out, the fact that words like those in (95) consist
of a single foot is not relevant for the application of RC since the rule also
applies across feet, as seen in the examples (96), where the syllablesTO,ra,
ri are foot initial.
RC also provides further evidence for treating the two members of a com-
pound as separate cos since it does not operate when the vowel is at the
end of the first member of the compound and the r is at the beginning of
the second member, as illustrated below.
Thus far, we have seen that each stem in a compound belongs to a separate
ω, but a question remains as to the status of affixes. Here too, syllabifica-
tion can be used to show that prefixes form independent phonological
words (see van der Hulst, 1984). Consider the items in (98).
(98) a. [ont]Q. [erven] *[οη]σ [terven] 'to disinherit'
b. [ver]ff [edelen] *[ve]f f [redelen] 'to ennoble'
[her]a [eiken] *[he]a [reiken] 'to adjust'
The first column contains the appropriate syllabification of the three de-
rived words, while the second column contains the incorrect syllable
division we would obtain if the words in question were a single ω. The
example in (99) shows, in addition, that each prefix forms an independent
ω by itself.
(99) [ver]CT [οηί]σ [schuldigen] *[νε]σ [ront]ff [schuldigen] 'to excuse'
That is, the syllable structure of the two prefixes is not what we would
expect if they formed a single ω . Instead, the division between the two
morphemes is maintained, despite the fact that it violates the Maximal
Onset Principle.
(96) a. erosie
b. doräde
c. pleuritis
'erosion'
'dorado'
'pleurisy'
(97) a. meereis (*meereis) 'travel together'
b. poring (*poring) 'ring of a "po" '
c. keuring (*keuring) 'ring of a "keu"
ί ί 5
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
140 Prosodic Phonology
As far as suffixes are concerned, the situation is more complicated,
in that some suffixes behave as if they were independent phonological
words, while others do not. This, too, can be seen on the basis of syllabi-
fication, as illustrated below (see Booij, 1983).
(100) a. [rood]ff [ach]a [tig]a ( < rood+achtig) 'red-like'
b. [Γθο]σ [dig](J (<rood+ig) 'reddish'
That the syllabifications in (100) are correct may be seen from the fact
that the final d of rood in the first example is devoiced, as are all syl-
lable-final oral obstruents in Dutch. The final d of rood in the second
example remains voiced, however, since it is the onset rather than the coda
of a syllable. These examples indicate that while the suffix -achtig is a
separate ω, the suffix -ig is not. Since there is no morphological or pho-
nological criterion on the basis of which the -achtig type of suffix can be
distinguished from the -ig type of suffix,13
it has been proposed by van der
Hulst (1984:66ff) that the phonologically independent suffixes be marked
with a diacritic feature which he calls [+W]. This feature indicates that the
elements bearing it form the kernel of a phonological word in the same
way that prefixes or stems do. The suffixes that are not so marked, on the
other hand, form part of the preceding phonological word.
A reasonable question to ask at this point is why in some languages
the status of certain elements as independent cos is derivable from specific
characteristics of the language, while in others it must be marked diacriti-
cally. One possibility is that the cases in which diacritic features must be
used reflect changes that have taken place in the historical development
of the language. That is, diacritics must be used since the synchronic
situation in fact contains certain forms that reflect patterns found in
earlier stages of the language.
4.2.3.2. ω domain (iic)
On the basis of the domain of ω in Dutch just discussed, we may now
proceed to define the last type of phonological word (see van der Hulst,
1984, for a similar proposal).
(101) ω domain (iicj
I. The domain of ω consists of
a. a stem;
b. any element identified by specific phonological and/or
morphological criteria;
c. any element marked with the diacritic [+W].
II. Any unattached elements within Q form part of the adjacent
ω closest to the stem; if no such ω exists, they form a ω on
their own.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Word 141
It should be noted that the only difference between this ω domain and
that in (87) is the addition of Ic\ everything else is unchanged. Although
we have not found examples of a language in which the definition of ω
requires both phonological criteria of the type mentioned in lb and dia-
critic features, we have not excluded this option from (101) since there is
no a priori reason that such languages should not exist. This is, of course,
an empirical question, one which hopefully will be resolved in future re-
search.
4.3. General ω construction and conclusions
In this chapter, we have discussed the domain of the phonological word in
various languages, and have proposed that several options are available for
the definition of ω. As we mentioned above, the phonological word is
the level of the prosodic hierarchy that represents the mapping between
the morphological and the phonological components of the grammar. The
morphological notions that are used to define ω, however, are not the
same in all languages. There are languages, such as Greek and Classical
Latin, that refer to the maximal projection of the morphological tree, that
is, the terminal element of the syntactic tree (which we call Q). Other
languages, such as Sanskrit and Hungarian, must refer to the stem and to
either prefixes or suffixes or both. Still other languages, such as Dutch,
must also make reference to diacritic features. In addition, we have shown
that in some languages, such as Italian and Yidiji, certain phonological
notions based on well-formedness conditions of the specific languages
must also be taken into account.
All of the possibilities we have seen are expressed in the general defini-
tion of the ω domain given in (102).
(102) ω domain
A. The domain of ω is Q.
or
Β. I The domain of ω consists of
a. a stem;
b. any element identified by specific phonological and/or
morphological criteria;
c. any element marked with the diacritic [+W],
II. Any unattached elements within Q form part of the adja-
cent ω closest to the stem; if no such ω exists, they form a
ω on their own.
Despite the number of options allowed by (102), it should be noted that
there are certain types of potential ω domains that are excluded. That is,
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
142 Prosodic Phonology
(102) predicts that no language exists in which ω is larger than the ter-
minal element of a syntactic tree. We are thus left with two possibilities,
that is, that ω is either equal to or smaller than the terminal element of a
syntactic tree. The definition in (102) predicts, furthermore, that there
will never be more than one ω in a single stem. In addition the prediction
is made that in a language in which ω includes both members of a com-
pound, there will be no affixes or sequences of affixes that form inde-
pendent cos. The first part of (102BII) predicts that any unattached
element between two already formed cos, only one of which contains a
stem, will always be grouped with the to that includes the stem.
We have also demonstrated that the definition of ω regroups morpho-
logical elements in such a way that the end result is not necessarily coex-
tensive with any morpho-syntactic constituent, thus confirming the non-
isomorphic character of the prosodic and the morpho-syntactic hierar-
chies.
Once we have the basic definition of the phonological word that maps
morphological structure onto phonological structure, it is possible to
proceed to the actual construction of the phonological word constituent.
Given the general principles that govern the prosodic hierarchy, co must
be n-ary branching and it must exhaustively dominate one or more consti-
tuents of the level immediately below it, the foot, and no other type of
constituent. While co is the constituent that varies most from language to
language, the language-specific differences are encoded in the mapping
rules that define co, not in the co construction rule itself, which may be
formulated in a maximally simple and general way, as in (103).
(103) ω construction
Join into an n-ary branching ω all Σ included within a string
delimited by the definition of the domain of co.
Which foot within a phonological word is labeled strong depends on a
parameter that must be set for each language. Given recent work on stress
systems, however (among others, Hyman, 1977; Vergnaud and Halle 1978;
Hayes, 1981), this parameter will allow only a very restricted number of
possibilities. That is, in the unmarked case the strong foot will consistently
be either the leftmost one or the rightmost one in the phonological word
tree of a given language.
Finally, it should be recalled that the syllable and the foot have the
same domain as the phonological word. Since our rule of co construction
groups together Σ, it is clear that the phonological structure below the
co level must be present at the point at which cos are created, whether
the α and Σ are already present in the lexicon or are constructed for
the first time within the strings delimited by the definition of ω. That is,
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Word 143
the syllables of a phonological word must, in any case, have been joined
into n-ary branching feet by the general rule of Prosodic Constituent
Construction.
NOTES
1. There are some morphologically predictable counterexamples to this generaliza-
tion. For example, compound verbs whose second member is facio maintain the
stress on the penultimate syllable even in cases in which this is in conflict with the
stress rule (see Cupaiuolo, 1959).
2. Vowel Harmony in Turkish is not without exceptions (see, among others, Lees,
1961; Lewis, 1967; Clements and Sezer, 1982).
3. Phonetically, the sequence [1] + [j] is realized as [j] (see, among others, Vago,
1980).
4. It should be noted that in other varieties of Italian, there are some underived
words in which [s] contrasts with [z] and thus two separate underlying segments are
required. In the varieties of northern Italian under examination here, however, such
a contrast does not exist and the occurrence of [z] is predictable. There are several
apparent exceptions, such as preside 'chairman' and presidente 'president'. These
words are pronounced, at least in some varieties of northern Italian, with an inter-
vocalic [s], although they are no longer analyzable as pre+side and pre-Hidente.
The fact that many similar words, such as residente 'resident', are pronounced with
intervocalic [z] in the same position, however, shows that the small group of words
mentioned above is more a historical than a regular phenomenon to be handled by
a synchronic rule.
5. The fact that the stem suddivis- (from suddivid-) is itself derived is not relevant
to the present discussion and thus not discussed in the text.
6. Although the first stem of a compound in Italian is usually not suffixed, in those
cases in which there is a suffix, it forms a ω with the preceding stem (e.g. [nav+i]
[traghett+o] 'ferry boats').
7. Although such complex words are not usually found in Italian dictionaries, it
is not difficult to imagine situations in which they might be used.
8. Most consonant-final words used in the Italian language today are of foreign
origin. The type of readjustment that these words undergo to avoid the word-final
consonant varies depending on the region, on the type of consonant and on the
structure of the last syllable (see Lepschy and Lepschy, 1977). For instance, in Tus-
can varieties, a final / is usually deleted, as in (i).
(i) a. alcool [alko]
b. würstel -»• [vuste]
If a word ends in m, however, an e is added to avoid a closed final syllable as in (ii).
(ii) reclam [rekläme]
Sometimes the final consonant before the e is lengthened, as in (iii).
(iii) tram [tram:e]
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
144 Prosodic Phonology
We will not go into the details of these phenomena, since they would bring us too far
from the topic of the present section.
9. There are a few consonant-final monosyllabic prefixes that behave differently,
such as sub and ex, when they are found in relatively new words. They do not
typically conform to the phonological rules of Italian and will have to be marked
with a special feature.
10. The term DTF (Designated Terminal Element) is used in this book, following
Liberman and Prince (1977), to refer to the terminal element of a prosodic tree that
is dominated uniquely by strong nodes.
11. The sequences nr and nl are found in several proper names, for example, Enrico
and Manlio. We do not believe these examples to be sufficient counterevidence to
our well-formedness condition. Instead, these names will have to be indicated as
being idiosyncratically not subject to TN A.
12. A formal account of Penultimate Lengthening and other rules of Yidiji phonol-
ogy has been proposed by Hayes (1982) within the framework of metrical theory.
We will not discuss Hayes's very interesting analysis, since we are concerned here with
the domain within which Penultimate Lengthening applies, a question that is not
addressed by Hayes. Instead, Hayes only reports that the 'word', which is not better
specified, is the domain of foot construction. It is interesting to observe here, how-
ever, that the substitution for Hayes's 'word' of the ω constituent just defined yields
the correct results.
13. A list of the two types of Dutch suffixes may be found in Booij (1977:72-73).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Chapter 5
The Clitic Group
5.0. Introduction
It has long been recognized that the problematic behavior of clitics is due
to their hybrid nature: 'Enclisis is neither true suffixation nor juxta-
position of independent elements. It has the external characteristics of
the former, . . . the inner feeling of the latter' (Sapir, 1930:71). Said
in other words, a clitic is 'a form which resembles a word, but which can-
not stand on its own as a normal utterance . . . ' (Crystal, 1980:64). The
latter definition corresponds to the original meaning of the term 'clitic',
from the Greek κλίνω 'to lean'. Though there are both syntactic and
phonological ways in which clitics 'lean', we will concentrate here on their
phonological dependence.
The most common approach in phonology is to consider clitics either
as belonging to the phonological word, in which case they are considered
similar to affixes, or as belonging to the phonological phrase, in which case
they are considered similar to independent words (see, among others,
Booij, 1983; Zwicky, 1984). In section 5.1 it will be shown that clitics
cannot always be forced into either one of these categories, because their
phonological behavior is often different from that of both affixes and
independent words. That is, there are phonological phenomena that are
characteristic only of the group consisting of a word plus clitic(s). On the
basis of these observations, we conclude that there must be a constituent
of prosodic structure that has exactly this extension. Section 5.2 contains
a proposal as to the domain of this constituent, the clitic group (C), first
proposed as a constituent of the prosodic hierarchy by Hayes (to appear).
In addition, a specific case is examined which demonstrates the noniso-
morphism between this particular level of prosodic structure and any
constituent of the morpho-syntactic hierarchy. In section 5.3 we will
offer further evidence for the clitic group as the domain of application of a
number of phonological rules in different languages.
5.1. The mixed behavior of sequences of word plus clitics
It has been observed by Zwicky (1977) that some combinations of a
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
146 Prosodic Phonology
word plus a clitic show ' # ' behavior, that is, they behave as if they were
two independent words; others show '+' behavior, that is, they behave as
if they were just one word. Still others show the first type of behavior
with regard to some phonological rules and the second type of behavior
with regard to other phonological rules. In other words, some clitics be-
have like independent words, some like affixes, and some either like words
or affixes depending on the specific rule.
As an example of the first type of clitic, Zwicky mentions clitic pro-
nouns in Spanish. Evidence of their word external status is the fact that
they do not affect in any way the location of stress on their host. Thus
dando 'giving' maintains its initial stress also when it is followed by two
clitics, as in ddndonoslos 'giving them to us', despite the fact that the new
string has main stress on the fourth-to-last syllable, a result that does not
represent a possible word stress pattern in Spanish.
A second example of a language in which clitics are word external
is Turkish. As Zwicky points out, Turkish words have primary stress on
the last syllable. When a clitic is present at the end of the word, however,
the position of stress on the host word remains unchanged (e.g. aliyorldrsa
'if they had caught it', where sa is a clitic personal ending). In both
Spanish and Turkish, the fact that clitics do not have any influence on the
word stress of their host is, according to Zwicky, sufficient reason to
consider clitics as word-external elements.
Classical Latin, on the other hand, is adduced as an example of a language
in which clitics are considered to be word internal. Evidence for this
claim, according to Zwicky, is a stress rule triggered by cliticization
(Clitic Group Stress). That is, when an enclitic is attached to a word, the
primary stress is shifted from its original position in the word to the syl-
lable that immediately precedes the clitic. Consider the following examples:
(1) a. virum 'the man (acc.)'
b. viriimque 'and the man (acc.)'
(2) a. vides 'you see'
b. videsne? 'do you see?'
(3) a. cum vobis 'with you (pi.)'
b. vobiscum 'with you (pi.)'
A similar type of reasoning has been used by other linguists to evaluate
the status of clitics in a variety of languages (see, among others, Booij,
1983; Nespor, 1984, 1986). For example, another language in which
clitics show word-internal behavior in the sense defined by Zwicky is
Demotic Greek, where a new stress pattern is produced by Stress Re-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Clitic Group 147
adjustment when an enclitic is attached to a word with primary stress on
the antepenultimate syllable (see Warburton, 1970; Nespor, 1986). This
pattern is exemplified in (4).1
(4) a. ο άνθρωπος [ο änöropos]
'the person'
b. ο άνθρωπος μας [ο änöropos mas]
'our person'
More recently, Zwicky (1984) has argued that the term clitic be used in a
more precise and restricted way, and to this end, he proposed a series of
tests, both syntactic and phonological, in order to distinguish clitics from
independent words. As far as the phonological tests are concerned, the
assumption is made that the difference between combinations of a clitic
and a word and combinations of two words essentially represents the
difference between a phonological word and a phonological phrase. Thus,
an element is a clitic if, together with a word, it is affected by internal
sandhi rules; it is an independent word if, together with a word, it is
affected by external sandhi rules. By the same token, if an element is
counted as part of a phonological word for the purposes of stress assign-
ment, it must be considered a clitic and not a word.
Zwicky (1984) thus attempts to restrict the use of the term clitic,
something not done in Zwicky (1977). Nevertheless, the spirit of Zwicky's
two articles is essentially the same as far as the phonological component is
concerned. That is, either an element is word internal, i.e. a clitic, or word
external, i.e. an independent word. It is precisely this approach that will
be questioned throughout the present chapter.
Let us first consider Italian 'clitic' pronouns, true clitics as far as any
syntactic test is concerned. According to any phonological test proposed
by Zwicky, however, these elements would be qualified as independent
words. They not only behave differently from the way clitics usually
behave phonologically, but they also show, at least in one case, behavior
typical of independent words.
First, the segmental rule of Intervocalic ^-Voicing, which has the phono-
logical word as its domain of application (see Chapter 4), does not apply
across the juncture between a clitic and a word, as exemplified in (5)
below.
(5) a. lo [sjaluto (*[z])
'(I) greet him'
b. essendo[s]i salutati (*[z])
'having greeted each other'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
148 Prosodic Phonology
The rule does not apply between two clitics either, as shown in (6),
where the clitics are underlined.
(6) a. ci [s]i va insieme (*[z])
'we'll go there together'
b. andandoci[s]i insieme (*[z])
'(our) going there together'
These facts show, according to Zwicky's test, that each clitic is an indepen-
dent word.
A second rule, Raddoppiamento Sintattico, whose domain of appli-
cation is larger than the word (see Chapter 6), also applies to a clitic. This
rule, described above in section 2.3, is exemplified in (7), where the initial
consonant of the enclitic pronoun is lengthened in both examples.
(7) a. da[m:]i ( < da mi)
'give me'
b. amo[l:]o (<amolo)
'(he/she) loved him' (archaic)
These facts are a positive indication, according to the clitichood test under
examination, that Italian clitic pronouns are independent phonological
words. The same conclusion may be reached on the basis of the behavior
of the clitics with respect to stress. That is, they do not exhibit word in-
ternal behavior, as can be seen from the fact that sequences of word +
clitic(s) violate the well-formedness condition of Italian that requires
primary stress to fall on one of the last three syllables of a word.2
This
may be seen in (8), where the stress falls on the fifth- and even on the
sixth-to-last syllable (see also Lepschy and Lepschy, 1977).
(8) σ a a aa
a. indicaglielo 'indicate it to him'
σ α ο ο ο
b. d isegn amelo 'draw it for me'
σ σ σ σ σ
c. portatecelo 'bring it to us'
α α ο σ σ σ
d. caricamecelo 'put it on it for me'
It should be noted, however, that considering these clitics independent
elements, the same as any other words in the language, is not without
problems, since clitics exhibit a well-known type of phonological depen-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Clitic Group 149
dency that other elements do not share. Specifically, they may never occur
alone; that is, they may not be the only element of an utterance. Further-
more, they may not receive contrastive stress.
Thus, the hybrid nature of clitics is observed in Italian, too. While the
elements in question are clearly clitics from a syntactic point of view,
phonologically they behave neither as part of a word, nor as totally
independent words. What we propose in relation to this problem is:
a) whether or not an element is a clitic should be decided on the basis of
nonphonological criteria, and b) a specific place must be created in phono-
logical theory for clitics.
As far as the first part of the proposal is concerned, it is in agreement
with the general conception of phonology as an interpretative component
of the grammar, and in particular, with the theory of prosodic phonology
proposed in the present study, since prosodic constituents are constructed
by rules that map a nonphonological structure onto a phonological one.
Despite the fact that it has often been observed that clitics share a number
of nonphonological characteristics that are not typical of any other
element, there is as yet no unambiguous way of defining clitics. For the time
being, we will therefore just assume that a language may have some ele-
ments that are marked [+CL] in the lexicon (see Klavans, 1982).
As far as the second part of the proposal is concerned, that is, that
phonological theory should have a specific place for clitics, it is our con-
tention that this place is the prosodic constituent clitic group, which we
will define and motivate in the next section.
5.2. The construction of the clitic group
The fact that specific combinations of a word and clitic(s) form the
domain of application of certain phonological rules that do not apply
in any other context in a given language provides motivation for a con-
stituent of the prosodic hierarchy that groups exactly these elements.
Hayes (to appear) proposes such a constituent, the clitic group (C), and
motivates it on the basis of two segmental rules of English and certain
constraints on the metrical patterns of several poems. According to Hayes
(to appear), the clitic group directly dominates one or more phonological
words and is dominated by the next category in the prosodic hierarchy,
the phonological phrase (see Chapter 6). The hybrid nature of clitics, that
is, their intermediate position between affixes and words, is thus reflected
in the phonological component of the grammar, where a distinct constitu-
ent is posited between the phonological word - which groups affixes
with stems - and the phonological phrase - which groups words with
other words.
According to Hayes, the clitic group is the domain of application of
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
150 Prosodic Phonology
v-Deletion and s, ζ-Palatalization in English. The first rule is a rule that
has the effect of deleting a word-final [v] before a [-syllabic] segment
in certain lexical items. The rule applies, however, only if the two words
involved belong to the same clitic group. The application and nonapplica-
tion of the rule are exemplified in (9) and (10), respectively (from Hayes,
to appear).
(9) [Please[leave me]^ [alone]^
4·
0
(10) [Please[leave[Maureen]^ [alone
I
*0
It should be noted, however, that v-Deletion is not the same type of rule
as the others we are examining in this book, since it only applies in fast
speech, according to Hayes. The second rule, which has the effect of pal-
atalizing [s,z] before [3,2], on the other hand, does conform to the nature
of the other rules examined here. Hayes argues that the domain of s, z-
Palatalization is the clitic group on the grounds that it applies in normal
colloquial speech only between a clitic and its host, as can be seen by its
application in (11) but not in (12a). Hayes points out further that the rule
may also apply in 'fast or sloppy speech' in other contexts, as seen in
(12b). We are not concerned, however, with the latter phenomenon.
(11) [is Sheila[coming?
4-
[2]
(12) a. [Laura's]^ [shadow]^ (normal rate of speech)
I
*[Z]
b. [Laura's]^ [shadow]^ (fast or sloppy speech)
Φ
[2]
On the basis of the domain of application of these phenomena, Hayes gives
rules to construct the C constituent. Basically, these rules say that a clitic
group joins a clitic together with the lexical category which is its host.
Whether a clitic chooses as host the word on its left or the word on its
right is determined by syntactic structure. That is, a clitic is grouped with
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Clitic Group 151
the constituent in which it shares more category memberships with the
host. In the remainder of this section, we will take a somewhat different
position with regard to the choice of the host. We will argue that in clitic
group formation, as in the formation of other prosodic constituents, the
division into constituents provided by the syntax is not always adequate.
Specifically, with relation to the clitic group, syntactic constituency can-
not always predict the direction in which the clitic finds its phonological
host. This is thus an additional argument in favor of the nonisomorphism
of the syntactic and prosodic hierarchies.
Let us consider again Stress Readjustment in Greek. As was mentioned in
section 5.1 above, this rule applies to sequences of word + clitic, that is,
within a clitic group in Hayes's terminology. Only enclitics are relevant
to this discussion, since stress in Greek is not sensitive to the number of
syllables to its left. Enclitics in Greek include personal pronouns (both
direct and indirect objects) and possessives. These three types of enclitics
are exemplified in (13) below.
(13) a. γράψε το fyräpse to]
The sequence word + enclitic must respect a well-formedness condition
(WFC) on the location of stress. That is, there may not be more than two
unstressed syllables to the right of the primary stress of a word. When the
WFC is violated, as in (14) and (15) below, a rule applies to add a stress
on the second syllable to the right of the originally stressed one (see note
'write it'
b. γράψε μου frräpse mu]
'write to me'
c. το σπίτι μου [tospitimu]
'my house'
1).
(14) a. διάβασε
'read'
b. διάβασε το
'read it'
c. διάβασε μου το
'read it to me'
[öyävase]
[öyävaseto]
[öyävasemuto]
(15) a. γράψε
'write'
b. γράψε το
'write it'
c. γράψε μου το
'write it to me'
fyrapse]
[/yräpseto]
[/yräpsemüto]
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
152 Prosodic Phonology
Furthermore, as was said in Chapter 4, Greek words must also respect a
WFC that requires primary stress to fall on one of the last three syllables.
The fact that this condition is the same as the one just seen for word +
clitic sequences has been used to argue that clitics are word internal in
Greek (see, among others, Nespor, 1986). It should be noted, con-
trary to this position, that the stress readjustment rules that apply word
internally are different from those just illustrated in (14) and (15). To see
this, let us consider again the stress pattern of compound words.
It was argued in Chapter 4 that a compound word forms just one
phonological word in Greek. As in any other phonological word, the
primary stress in compounds is on one of the last three syllables. We
have seen, moreover, that the stress in a compound does not necessarily
fall on any of the syllables that bear primary stress before compounding.
Two examples are repated for convenience in (16) and (17).
(16) [kuklospito] < [kükla] [spiti]
'doll's house' < doll house
(17) [nixtopüli] < [nixta] [puli]
'night owl' < night bird
There are substantial differences between the stress readjustment that
takes place in a clitic group and that which takes place in compounds.
First of all, in the clitic group the original word stress never shifts to
any other syllable, as it does in the case of compounds. Secondly, in the
clitic group a new stress is added in a regular way only in those cases where
there is a violation of the WFC. This is not the case with compounds.
In (16), for example, the creation of a new stress pattern is not caused by
a violation of the WFC. On the basis of these facts we can conclude
that the sequence word + clitic is the domain of application of Stress
Readjustment, a rule typical only of this sequence. Thus, the constituent
clitic group is also motivated on the basis of Greek.
We can now proceed to examine the exact constituency of Cin Greek.
Of the enclitic elements exemplified in (13) above, the third type, the
possessive, is the only one that is internal to a noun phrase. In particular,
it follows the head noun if there are no nominal complements, but it may
also precede the noun if there is an adjectival complement. Since adjec-
tives precede the head noun in Greek, when an adjective is present, the
possessive may be located between the adjective and the noun, as shown
in (18).
(18) a. το ωραίο μου σπίτι [to oreo mu spiti]
'my nice house'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Clitic Group 153
b. ο δειλός σου φίλο ς [ο Silos su filos]
'your shy friend'
According to Hayes's clitic group formation rule, the clitics in (18) should
be incorporated rightward into a clitic group together with the head noun,
since it is with this noun that the possessives share the larger number of
category memberships. The clitics, however, are incorporated leftward, as
may be seen from the fact that they cause Stress Readjustment when more
than two unstressed syllables, including the clitics, occur to the right of
the main stress of the adjective. Examples of this context for readjustment
are given in (19).
(19) a. [το πρόσφατο μου]^ [άρθρο]^
[to prösfatö mu]^ [äröro]^
'my recent article'
b. [ταυποσυνβίδητά ßov]Q [αισθήματα]^
[ta iposiniöitä mu]^ [esöimata]^
'my unconscious feelings'
c. [o 7T<0]Q [φιλόδοξος μου]ς [φίλος]^
[ο pio]^ [filoöoksös mu]^ [filos]^
'my most ambitious friend'
If the possessives formed a clitic group with the following noun, Stress
Readjustment would not take place (see also Malikouti-Drachman and
Drachman, 1981). This is illustrated on the basis of the following minimal
pair:
(20) a. [ο δάσκαλος μου]^ [το είπε]^
[ο öäskalös mu]^ [to ipe]^
'My teacher said it.'
b. [ο δάσκαλος]^ [μου το είπε]^
[ο öäskalös]^ [mu to ipe]^
'The teacher said it to me.'
In (20a), the application of Stress Readjustment signals that μου is an
enclitic with δάσκαλος as a host. The absence of readjustment in (20b),
on the other hand, shows that μου is a proclitic with είπε as a host.
Together these facts show that the constituency of the clitic group cannot
be decided on purely syntactic grounds. There are some clitic elements
that may only be enclitic, such as the Greek possessive. Others may only
be proclitic, such as the articles in both Classical and Modern Greek.
For these clitics the direction of phonological attachment is a property of
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
154 Prosodic Phonology
the clitic itself. It is exactly in these cases that the clitic group formation
rule does not necessarily respect syntactic constituency, but builds a new,
nonisomorphic structure. This analysis is in agreement with the observa-
tion made by Klavans (1982, 1985) that a clitic can attach syntactically
in one direction and phonologically in the opposite direction. The C
construction rules proposed by Hayes are then appropriate only in the case
of elements that can be both proclitic and enclitic, such as the personal
pronouns in Greek exemplified in (21) below, or the similar personal
pronouns in Romance languages.
(21) a. ο Αλέξανδρος μου το έδωσε
[ο aleksanöros mu to eöose]
'Alexandras gave it to me.'
b. Δώσε μού το αμέσως
[öose mü to amesos]
'Give it to me immediately.'
The first example in (21) shows that the two clitics μου and το are pro-
clitics attached to the verb έδωσε. If they were enclitics, they would
trigger Stress Readjustment on the preceding noun, but this does not
occur. The application of Stress Readjustment in (21b), on the other hand,
provides evidence that μου and το in this case are enclitics. Since the two
personal pronoun clitics form a syntactic constituent with the verb, the
clitic group formation rule proposed by Hayes correctly accounts for
phonological cliticization in this case.
To sum up, we have demonstrated that phonological dependency on
an element to the left or right must be an inherent property of certain
clitics. We will call such clitics directional clitics (DCL), as opposed to
clitics tout court (CL), which may, in principle, find their host either to
the right or to the left. The definition of the domain that we propose is
thus the one given in (221); the second part of (22) contains the rule that
establishes the internal structure of the Ctree. This rule entails a maximal-
ly simple operation in accordance with the general principles that govern
the prosodic hierarchy.
(22) Qitic Group Formation
I. C domain
The domain of C consists of a ω containing an independent
(i.e. nonclitic) word plus any adjacent cos containing
a. a DCL, or
b. a CL such that there is no possible host with which it shares
more category memberships.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Clitic Group 155
II. C construction
Join into an n-ary branching C all cos included in a string
delimited by the definition of the domain of C.
It should be noted that the b part of the C domain definition, essentially
Hayes's proposal to join a CL leftward or rightward with the adjacent
element with which it shares more category memberships, produces
constituents whose domain does not have a counterpart in syntactic struc-
ture. The first part of the rule, however, regroups the terminal elements
of the syntactic tree in such a way that the resulting constituent need not
be isomorphic to any constituent of syntactic structure, as has been shown
to be the case for Greek possessives.
As far as the relative prominence of the clitic group is concerned, there
are two options. The first option is, as far as we know, the one chosen
by most languages of the world, that is, that the strong node is the phono-
logical word that contains the nonclitic element. Whether a daughter of C
is strong or weak thus depends on its intrinsic nature rather than on its
position within C. This type of relative prominence within C is exemplified
on the basis of Italian and Greek in (23) and (24) below, respectively.
C C
(23) a. me lo da b. da mme lo
'(he) gives it to me' 'give it to me'
(24) a.
ω ω ω
w w s
μου το έδωσε
[mu to eöose]
'(he) gave it to me'
ω ω ω
w
TO
w
b. δώσε μου
[öose mu to]
'give it to me'
It should be noted in the example in (24b) that the Stress Readjustment
rule of Greek described above does not alter the location of the primary
stress, which remains on the nonclitic element of C.
The first option for the assignment of relative prominence to the clitic
group is also exemplified by Latin, where, despite the application of
Clitic Group Stress described in section 5.1 above, the strong member of
C is the nonclitic element. It should be noted that although this rule may
have the effect of changing the position of word-internal stress, it is in-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
156 Prosodic Phonology
dependent of the Main Stress Rule. That is, as was shown in section 4.1.2,
Clitic Group Stress, unlike the Main Stress Rule, is not sensitive to syllable
weight.
The second option is that the strong element of C is determined posi-
tionally, that is, that the ω which is labeled strong is defined on the basis
of its position within C. This is the case in French, for example, where it
is the rightmost ω of C which is labeled s, regardless of the particular
item contained in this ω, as exemplified in (25).
(25)
le donne
'...gives it to me'
C
b. allez vous en
'go away'
C
c. prend le
'take it'
In (25a), the s node is the nonclitic element of C since it occupies the
rightmost ω. In (25b) and (25c), however, the strong node is a clitic since
in both cases the rightmost ω node dominates a clitic element.
Other examples of clitic groups in which the strong element is deter-
mined positionally can be found in several Italian dialects. We will give
examples from only two such dialects here. First, in the dialect of Viozene,
in the northern region of Piedmont, the strong element of Cis assigned to
the rightmost phonological word by Clitic Group Stress, as it is in French.
The relative prominence of this C is illustrated in (26) (see Rohlfs, 1949),
where the underlined portion of the form is a clitic.
(26) a. vindiru 'sell it'
b. servirsi 'to help oneself
c. portamaru 'let's take it'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Clitic Group 157
In several dialects spoken in the southern region of Calabria, on the other
hand, the strong element of a clitic group is always the penultimate
syllable, independently of whether this syllable is a clitic or is the last
syllable of the nonclitic member of C. That is, there is a Stress Readjust-
ment rule that places primary stress on the penultimate syllable of C and
consequently has the effect of removing the primary stress from its
original position in the host word. Examples are given in (27), where the
clitic element(s) are again underlined (from Rohlfs, 1949).
(27) a. accidatills '(you, pi.) kill him'
b. mangiälu '(you, sg.) eat it'
c. mangiarisindi '(to) eat some of it for oneself
'eat + for oneself of it'
In (27a) and (27b), the strong element of the clitic group is the phonolog-
ical word that contains the verb, while in (27c), it is the first clitic element
after the verb. What all of these examples have in common is that the
penultimate syllable of Cis strong.
Having established the domain and the prominence relation of the
clitic group on the basis of a number of phonological phenomena in dif-
ferent languages, we will proceed in the next section to offer further
evidence in confirmation of this level of the prosodic hierarchy.
5.3. Additional evidence for the clitic group
In this section, we will show that the clitic group is the domain of applica-
tion of several rules other than the rules of English for which it was
originally proposed and the Stress Readjustment rule of Greek discussed in
the previous section. It will be shown now that Cis also the domain of ap-
plication of four other rules of Greek. As was the case for Palatalization
in English, the Greek rules not only apply within C, but also within an-
other prosodic domain, the phonological word. In the two domains, how-
ever, the rules exhibit different degrees of application.
The first rule is Nasal Deletion (ND), a rule that optionally applies
within the phonological word (see (16), Chapter 4). ND is not limited to
the ω domain, but also applies across two cos that belong to the same clitic
group. In the latter domain, however, its application is obligatory.3
Examples of the application of ND across cos in C are given in (28a-c),
while the examples in (28d-e) show that the nasal is indeed present when
the segmental conditions on the second word are not met.
(28) a. το θέλω [to 0elo]c ( < [ton])
'(I) want him'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
158 Prosodic Phonology
b. τη θέα [tiöea]c ( < [tin])
'the view (acc.)'
c. τη βλέπω [ti vlepo]^ ( < [tin])
'(I) see her'
d. τον αγαπώ [ton a7apo]^ ( * [to])
'(I) love him'
e. την αλήθεια [tin aliöiaj^ ( * [ti])
'the truth (acc.)'
That this rule has the clitic group as its domain of application, and not
a larger domain, can be seen from the fact that it never applies between
two cos that belong to two different clitic groups, as illustrated in (29)
below.
(29) a. πριν φάω [prin]^ [fäo]^ (* [pri fäo])
'before (I) eat'
b. έχουν Sei [exun]^ [öi]^ (* [exu öi])
'(they) have seen'
c. ότανφνγω [otan]^ [ίίγο]^ (* [ota ίίγο])
'when (I) leave'
Given these facts, we may now formalize the obligatory Nasal Deletion
rules as a ω juncture rule on the C domain as in (30).
(30) Nasal Deletion (obligatory)
[ + n a s ] - 0 / [ . . . [ ] ω [
Two other rules of Greek phonology that have C as their domain of ap-
plication are the two assimilation rules already discussed in Chapter 4:
Nasal Assimilation (NA) and Stop Voicing (SV). Their degree of applica-
tion in the two categories is the reverse of what we have seen in the case
of ND; that is, NA and SV are obligatory word internally and optional
across words within a clitic group. Their application within C is exem-
plified in (31), while the examples in (32) show that the two rules do not
apply across cos that belong to different clitic groups. Since NA and SV
apply in the same context, each form exemplifies both phenomena.
(31) a. δεν πειράξει [öembiräzi] ( < [öen][piräzi])
'(it) doesn't matter'
b. τον πλέκω [tombleko] ( < [ton][pleko])
'(I) knit it'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Clitic Group 159
(32) a. όταν πάς [otan pas]
'when (you) go'
b. έχουν iräet [exun pai]
'(they) have gone'
c. -ηρίν πλύνω [prin plino]
'before (I) wash'
(* [otam bas])
(* [exum bai])
(* [prim blino])
On the basis of these facts, we may now formalize optional NA and
optional SV in the following way as ω juncture rules on the C domain.
(33) Nasal Assimilation (optional)
[+nas]
Iacor 1 /
|3ant J u
-cont
acor
|3ant
(34) Stop Voicing (optional)
[-cont] [+vce] / [...[...f+nas]^ [ ] ω · · · ] θ
The fourth rule of Greek that applies within C is a rule that deletes non-
high vowels, described by Kaisse (1977) under the name of Mirror Image
Deletion. This is a ω juncture rule in C that applies whenever there are two
adjacent phonological words within a clitic group, the first of which ends
in a vowel and the second of which begins with a vowel. One of the two
adjacent vowels is deleted. Specifically, the weaker of the two vowels is
deleted according to a sonority scale where, of the nonhigh vowels, i.e.
those that may be deleted, e is the weakest, a is intermediate, and ο is
the strongest. The rule is exemplified in (35).
(35) a. ταέχω [taexo] [tä xo]
'(I) have them'
b. μβ οδιγβί [me oöiyi] -»· [m ööiyi]
'(he) leads me'
These examples show that it is not the position of the vowel that is rele-
vant for the deletion rule, but its quality, which makes this particular
C-internal rule different from the other vowel deletion rules of Greek
(see Kaisse, 1977).
In addition, it can be seen in (35a) that although the vowel that is de-
leted was originally stressed, the stress itself is not deleted. Rather, it is
moved to the vowel of the clitic, which was originally unstressed. Mirror
Image Deletion is thus most likely another example of an interaction be-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
160 Prosodic Phonology
tween the prosodic and the grid subsystems of the phonology, since
it must refer to prosodic theory for the specification of its domain of ap-
plication, while the specification of the stress readjustment itself seems
to be most appropriately handled within grid theory.
Another language in which it can be shown that the clitic group is the
domain of application of a phonological rule is Classical Latin. Enclitic
elements in Classical Latin include -que 'and', -ne (interrogative marker),
-cum 'with'. When one of these enclitics is added to the end of a word,
Stress Readjustment takes place. As was shown in section 4.1.2 above, the
stress rule operating in the clitic group is different from the stress rule
operating in the word (see also Wanner, 1980). That is, within polysyllabic
words, the Main Stress Rule assigns primary stress either to the
penultimate or to the antepenultimate syllable. The penultimate syllable
is stressed either if the word is bisyllabic (as in (36)) or, in the case of
words with more than two syllables, if the penultimate syllable is heavy,
that is, if it contains either a long vowel or a final consonant (as in (37)).
Primary stress falls on the antepenultimate syllable otherwise (as in (38)).
(36) a. rosa 'rose'
b. ürbe 'city'
(37) a. amicus 'friend'
b. molestus 'molest'
(38) a. facilis 'easy'
b. popülus 'people'
In contrast with the Main Stress Rule, Clitic Group Stress is not sensitive
to syllable quantity. Instead, it blindly assigns primary stress to the
syllable that immediately precedes the clitic, as exemplified in (39) and
(40).
(39) a. rosa
b. rosaque
c. *rosaque
'the rose (nom.)'
'and the rose (nom.)'
(40) a. femina
b. feminäque
c. *feminaque
'the woman (nom.)'
'and the woman (nom.)'
That we are dealing with two different stress rules may be illustrated even
more clearly on the basis of the existence of minimal pairs, as seen in sec-
tion 4.1.2 above. Consider the forms in (41) and (42). The first example
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Clitic Group 161
in each pair consists of a word + clitic combination, and is thus stressed
on the penultimate syllable. The second example, on the other hand,
contains the same sequences that have become lexicalized as a single word,
with a different, nonanalyzable meaning and thus follows the Main Word
Stress rule. In these cases, in fact, stress falls on the antepenultimate syl-
lable, since the penultimate is light (see, among others, Niedermann, 1953;
Cupaiuolo, 1959).
(41) a. itaque 'and so'
b. itäque 'therefore'
(42) a. undTque 'and from there'
b. ündYque 'everywhere'
The conclusion that must be drawn from these examples is that the com-
bination word + clitic is a constituent which is the domain of application
of a stress rule typical of this constituent only. We may thus describe
this rule by saying that in a clitic group which branches, that is, one that
contains at least two phonological words, the main stress falls on the last
syllable of the first constituent.
It should be observed that the clitic group in Latin, too, is not neces-
sarily isomorphic with any syntactic constituent. The interrogative enclitic
-ne, for example, may be used to question a single word, as in (43), as well
as a phrase containing more than one word, as in (44) (see Zanoni, 1948).
(43) Solusne venisti? Non solus.
'Did you come alone? Not alone.'
(44) Abiitne solus pater? Solus.
'Did father leave alone? Alone.'
While in (43) the question is focused on solus 'alone', in (44) the answer
to the question, solus, indicates that it is the whole phrase abiit solus
that is questioned and not the verb abiit alone. In this last case, there is
no syntactic constituent including only the verb and the enclitic -ne, while
this is exactly the domain of the prosodic constituent C.
Another language we will consider in which the clitic group is the
domain of application of a phonological rule is Turkish, where Vowel
Harmony spreads over a word plus its clitics (see, among others, Lewis,
1967). As was mentioned in Chapter 4, the harmonizing features in
Turkish are [back] for all vowels and [round] for high vowels, and the
rule works from left to right. That is, the first vowel of a word determines
the value for [back] and [round] of all the following vowels. The examples
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
162 Prosodic Phonology
in (45) and (46) which contain the interrogative clitic mu show that C
is the domain of harmony.
(45) a. dogru
b. dogru mu
'true'
'true?'
(46) a. bügün
b. bügün mü
'today'
'today?'
An additional rule that is best formulated in terms of the clitic group is
f-Deletion in Catalan, a rule which deletes the [t] of the cluster [nt]
in word-final position, but is blocked if a clitic follows. This phenomenon
is exemplified in (45) (from Zwicky, 1977), where the first example shows
that the [t] is deleted C-finally and the second example shows that [t]
must be retained when followed by another ω within C.
(47) a. [fen]c |>s0]c ( < [fent]) 'doing this'
b. [[purtänt^ (* [purtän u]) 'bringing it'
These facts are easily accounted for by describing the domain of applica-
tion of [t] deletion as that it, as a clitic group limit rule.
5.4. Conclusions
It has been shown in this chapter that what has often been observed to be
a peculiar phonological behavior of a group of host-plus-clitic(s) is best
accounted for within prosodic theory by establishing a constituent with
exactly this extension. In this way we avoid the problems that arise in
attempting to force clitics either into a single phonological word with their
host or into a separate independent entity. That is, the mixed phonolog-
ical behavior of clitics, a fact which distinguishes them from both affixes
and words, is accounted for in terms of rules that have the clitic group as
their domain of application.
Within the general view of prosodic theory developed in this book, each
prosodic category incorporates specific information from the different
components of the grammar. The clitic group is the first level of the pro-
sodic hierarchy that represents the mapping between the syntactic and the
phonological components, in that certain clitics, which may in principle
either encliticize or procliticize, choose their direction of attachment
according to the syntactic constituent structure.
This is not to say that C is always isomorphic to a constituent of syn-
tactic structure. On the basis of data from Demotic Greek, in fact, it was
shown that the phonological constituent clitic group is not necessarily
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Clitic Group 163
isomorphic to any of the constituents of the morpho-syntactic hierar-
chy. The noncorrespondence between the domain of the clitic group and
a constituent of the syntax is not peculiar to Greek. For example, Cs that
are not isomorphic to syntactic constituents also arise in any language
that has sentential or phrasal clitics, that is, elements that may cliticize
to a nonterminal node of the syntactic tree. Such a case was seen in re-
lation to the interrogative enclitic -ne in Latin, which is joined into a pro-
sodic constituent with one single word as its host, not the entire sentence
or phrase with which it is associated. The result is thus a prosodic consti-
tuent that consists of one word plus the enclitic -ne, which in many
cases does not have a corresponding constituent in syntactic structure.
NOTES
1. In marking the stress of these groups, we follow Setatos (1974:55), who says that
in the unmarked pronunciation the primary stress remains in the original position;
the new stress is a secondary stress. He also observes that in emphatic pronunciations
the reverse pattern may be found. We do not consider such cases here, however,
since emphatic speech is beyond the scope of the present study.
2. There is a restricted group of verbs with antepenultimate stress in the first person
singular form of the present indicative. The third person plural of the present indica-
tive and subjunctive forms of these verbs are exceptions to the generalization that
primary stress must be on one of the last three syllables of a word, since they are
stressed on the fourth-to-last syllable (cf. telefono '(I) call'; telefonano '(they) call';
telefonino '(that they) call'). The existence of these verbal forms does not invalidate
the well-formedness condition on stress, since they represent a small and predictable
set of cases.
3. Although we will not go into a discussion here of the recently proposed grid
treatment of sandhi rules, according to which the 'degree of connectedness' between
adjacent elements determines the relative probability of a rule's application (see
Selkirk, 1984b), it should be noted that Nasal Deletion poses a problem for such an
analysis. Since the 'degree of connectedness' between a host and an adjacent clitic
is lower than that between the segments within a single word, we would expect a
rule that applies in both of these environments to apply more frequently within a
word than between a word and a clitic. What we find in the case of ND, however,
is the opposite: the rule applies obligatorily in the larger domain ( O and only op-
tionally in the smaller domain (ω).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Chapter 6
The Phonological Phrase
6.0. Introduction
The constituent in the phonological hierarchy above the clitic group is
the phonological phrase. That is, the phonological phrase (φ) is the consti-
tuent that groups together one or more clitic groups. As was mentioned
in section 2.4, a phonological unit is motivated on the grounds that it
is necessary in the formulation of phonological rules. In this chapter, we
will motivate the constituent φ on the basis of the role it plays in defining
the domain of application of Raddoppiamento Sintattico (RS), a phono-
logical rule found in central and southern varieties of Italian.
While the original hypothesis about the domain of φ is made on the
basis of one phonological rule of Italian (discussed in sections 6.1 and
6.2), the validity of the phonological phrase will be demonstrated on the
basis of other phonological phenomena of Italian which apply in the same
domain as RS (section 6.3). The syntactic notions that we propose to be
relevant for the construction of φ are general enough that they can ac-
count for φ construction in all languages whose base rules are of the type
defined by X theory. It will be shown in section 6.4 that the phonological
phrase correctly defines the domain of application of phonological rules
in a number of other languages. Section 6.5 contains some concluding
remarks.
6.1. The domain of application of Raddoppiamento Sintattico and the
phonological phrase
Since the domain of application of RS is not constant throughout all
varieties of Italian, we have restricted our analysis here to the type of
Italian spoken by educated speakers from Florence for two reasons. First
of all, this is the variety that is most commonly described in grammars
of Italian. The second, and more important, reason is that we have collect-
ed a large corpus of data for this particular variety.1
In Chapter 2, it was shown that RS is a rule that applies across words
and that its domain of application cannot be identified with any syntactic
constituent since syntactic constituents of the same type may behave
differently with respect to the rule.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
166 Prosodic Phonology
RS applies in a sequence of two cos (ωχ and ω 2 ) to lengthen the initial
consonant of ω 2 if a) the consonant to be lengthened is followed by a
sonorant, specifically a vowel or other nonnasal sonorant, and b) if ωι
ends in a vowel which is the DTE (i.e. main stressed syllable) of ω. It
should be noted that such vowels are short. This contrasts with the situa-
tion in nonfinal syllables, where a short stressed vowel in an open syllable
would be ill formed in Italian. It was shown in Chapter 4, in fact, that a
ω-internal rule applies to lengthen such vowels, thus yielding well-formed
words. It can be seen that the same constraint on the occurrence of short
vowels actually holds in some cases in sequences longer than a word as
well. That is, a short stressed vowel in a ω-final open syllable is not con-
sidered well formed in certain positions within a sentence. It is in these
cases that RS applies, and the rule may thus be seen as a resyllabification
rule that has the effect of producing a well-formed structure by lengthen-
ing the initial consonant of the following word. The geminate consonant
formed by RS cannot occupy only the initial position of ω 2 , but must be
divided over two syllables. It thus serves both as the coda of the final syl-
lable of ω , , creating in this way a closed syllable, and the onset of the
initial syllable of ω2 · A closed syllable at the end of ω 1 yields a well-
formed structure, since the stressed vowel is now in a position in which it is
supposed to be short (see Vogel, 1977, for an analysis along these lines).
What remains to be specified for a complete analysis of RS is the larger
domain in which it applies. That is, while RS only applies in the local
segmental environment just described, it does not apply between just
any two words that meet the required specifications. This may be seen in
(1) and (2), where in both sentences there is a sequence of identical words,
i.e. perche Carlo, and yet RS applies in the first but not in the second ex-
ample.
(1) Perche Carlo non e venuto? -> Perche [k:]arlo ...
'Why didn't Carlo come?'
(2) Che c'e un perche Carlo lo sa. -»•... perche [k]arlo ...
'Carlo knows that there is a reason.'
While RS is a much studied phenomenon in Italian phonology (see, among
others, Camilli, 1941,1965; Fiorelli, 1958; Leone, 1962; Pratelli, 1970),
none of the traditional analyses has been able to predict exactly where
RS applies. Napoli and Nespor (1979) have proposed to account for the
domain of application of RS in syntactic terms within the generative
framework. In this account, a proposal was made only for the definition
of the contexts in which RS is allowed; no explicit predictions were made
about when RS would actually apply. In the present chapter, we will
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
The Phonological Phrase 167
address the latter issue, that is, the contexts in which RS actually applies
(see also Nespor and Vogel, 1982). Examples of the contexts in which RS
applies (marked with '55') and of the contexts in which RS does not apply
(marked with '//') are given in (3) and (4), respectively.
(3) a. Avrä_trovato il pescecane.
'He must have found the shark.'
b. La gabbia e_gia_caduta.
'The cage has already fallen.'
c. Ε appena passato con tre_cani.
'He has just passed by with three dogs.'
d. Era venuto con tre_piccoli cobra.
'He came with three small cobras.'
e. Iltuo pappagallo e_piu_loquace del mio.
'Your parrot is more talkative than mine.'
(4) a. Devi comprare delle mappe di citta//molto vecchie.
'You must buy some very old city maps.'
b. La gabbia era dipinta di gia//completamente.
'The cage was already completely painted.'
c. Ne aveva soltanto tre//di bassotti.
'He had only three dachshunds.'
d. L'entrata alio zoo costa di piü//per i turisti che per i locali.
'The entrance to the zoo is more expensive for tourists than for
locals.'
e. Guardo//piu attentamente e vide che era un pitone.
'He looked more carefully and saw it was a python.'
It can be seen in (3a) that RS applies between an auxiliary and a verb, and
in (3b) that it applies between an auxiliary and a preverbal adverb, and
between a preverbal adverb and a verb. In (3c) and (3d), examples of RS
are given between a quantifier and a noun, and between a quantifier and
a prenominal adjective, respectively. Finally, (3e) shows that RS applies
both between a copula and the comparative particle ριύ, and between
piύ and an adjective. The examples in (4), on the other hand, show con-
texts in which RS is blocked, that is, between an NP and an AP (in (4a)),
between two adverbs (in (4b)), between a quantifier and a PP (in (4c)),
between an adverb and a PP (in (4d)), and between a verb and a compara-
tive adverb (in (4e)).
From such data it can be seen that RS applies to the left of the head
of a phrase, within its maximal projection, but not to its right. This con-
text is similar to that proposed by Selkirk (1978b) for English, on the
basis of which she proposes a phonological phrase that joins all the
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
168 Prosodic Phonology
specifiers of a head together with the head. The data in (3), however, show
that the notion which is relevant for the context of application of RS is
not that of specifier. It appears, instead, that RS applies to the left of a
phrasal head, no matter what is found there. Often it is a specifier, but it
can also be a phrasal complement, as in (3a), where RS takes place be-
tween an adjectival complement and its nominal head. The mapping rules
that define the domain of φ (see (5) below) are based, as we mentioned
above, on the assumption that the domain of φ is equal to the domain of
RS. We propose, furthermore, that the fact that the environment for RS is
the left rather than the right side of the head is not a language specific
property of Italian, but instead is due to the fact that the left side of the
head is the nonrecursive side of a phrase in Italian. We can generalize this
observation and predict that in languages whose recursive side is to the
left of the head, the phonological phrase will extend to its right. That is,
if there are phonological rules at this prosodic level, they will apply
between the head of a phrase and what follows.
The principles we propose for the definition of φ are given in (5),
where the actual construction of the tree (511) follows from the general
principles of prosodic theory.
(5) Phonological Phrase Formation
I. φ domain
The domain of φ consists of a C which contains a lexical
head (X) and all Cs on its nonrecursive side up to the C that
contains another head outside of the maximal projection
of X.2
II. φ construction
Join into an n-ary branching φ all Cs included in a string
delimited by the definition of the domain of φ.
III. φ relative prominence
In languages whose syntactic trees are right branching, the
rightmost node of φ is labeled s; in languages whose syntactic
trees are left branching, the leftmost node of φ is labeled s.
All sister nodes of s are labeled w.
The intended interpretation of (51) is that in which only V, N, and A are
considered lexical heads, although several linguists have given syntactic
reasons for considering Ρ a lexical head as well, as was mentioned in
Chapter 1. We do not take any position here as to whether or not Ρ should
be considered a major category in the syntactic component. Since Ρ does
not behave as a head for the purposes of phonology, however, if one
considers Ρ a lexical head for syntactic reasons, (51) would have to be
restated as in (51'):
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
The Phonological Phrase 169
(5Γ) The domain of φ consists of a C which contains a lexical head (X)
with at least one positive specification according to the categorial
feature system, and all Cs on its nonrecursive side up to the C
that contains another head outside of the maximal projection of X.
Since Ρ is specified as [-N,-V], the definition of φ will not treat it in the
same way as Ν, V, and A, whose specifications are [+N,-V], [-N,+V],
and [+N,+V], respectively.
Apart from such syntactic considerations, the point we want to stress
here is that Ρ differs from Ν, V, and A as far as the phonological com-
ponent is concerned. It should be noted that this claim is not new. In SPE,
for example, only Ν, V, and A are considered lexical categories for the
purposes of stress assignment in English. A parallel situation is found in
the morphological component: Ρ normally does not serve as the head of
a compound (see Scalise, 1984), nor does it normally undergo inflectional
and derivational processes as Ν, V, and A do. Finally, there is evidence
from an analysis of agrammatism in aphasics that Ν, V, and A form a
distinct class. That is, they are the only categories which are typically
retained in the speech of patients suffering from Broca's aphasia (see,
among others, Kean, 1980).
A further point that should be mentioned in relation to (51) is that it
does not mention the elements that are joined into a φ with the head of
a phrase. That is, as we mentioned above, it is the position and not the
category of an element that is relevant. Thus, whatever is on the non-
recursive side of X within its maximal projection, even another major
category, is joined into the same φ. There are languages that have an un-
marked position for complements - the recursive side with respect to the
head of a phrase - but that also allow a complement to appear, in marked
cases, on the nonrecursive side. In such languages the same category will
be treated by the phonology as a major category in the first case and as
a minor category in the second case. For example, in Romance languages,
adjectives that are complements of nouns occur to the right of the noun
in the unmarked case; they may also occur in certain cases, however, to
its left. What (51) claims is that in the second case, but not in the first
case, adjectives will be joined into a phonological phrase together with the
head N. In other words, major syntactic categories count as heads for the
purposes of prosody only when they are in the unmarked position.
Evidence that the same is true for the syntactic component as well is given
by Emonds (1980). To explain the possibility of some extraction trans-
formations in English and the impossibility of others, Emonds gives the
'Generalized Left Branch Condition', according to which 'no syntactic
phrase C to the left of the lexical head Ν, A, V of a larger phrase is analyz-
able as C' (p. 34). He also states explicitly that this principle is not lan-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
170 Prosodic Phonology
guage specific and thus 'on the nonrecursive side' should replace 'to the
left'.
Returning now to the phonological phrase in Italian, we must con-
clude that since Italian is syntactically right branching, that is, the re-
cursive side with respect to the head is the right side, the strong node of φ
is the rightmost C. In (6), examples are given of how a sentence is or-
ganized into 0s.
(6) a. [[Aveva]c [gia]c [visto]c ]φ [[molti]c [canguri]c L
W W s ψ
w s ψ
'He had already seen many kangaroos.'
b. [[Ho]r [sognato]c L· [[che]c [una]c [civetta]c L
w s ψ
w w s Ύ
[[era]c [caduta]c L
w s Ύ
Ί dreamed that an owl had fallen.'
c. [[Gli avevo]c [detto]c L [[che]c [Corinna]c L
w s ™ w s ™
[[doveva]^ [riceverlo]^ ].
w S ^
Ί had told him that Corinna was supposed to receive it.'
The fact that the category φ is the domain of application of Raddop-
piamento Sintattico can be seen in (7) and (8). These are the sentences
seen above in (3) and (4), respectively, but here they also contain indica-
tions of the φ structure.
(7) a. [Avrdjxovato]^ [il pescecane]^
b. [La gabbia]^ [e^ia^caduta]^
c. [E appena passato]^[con tre^pani]^
d. [Era venuto]^ [con tre^piccoli cobra
e. [II tuo pappagallo]^ [e^piüjoquace]^ [del mio]^
(8) a. [Devi comprare]^ [delle mappe]^ [di citta]^ // [molto vecchie]^
b. [La gabbia]0 [era dipinta]^[di gia]^ // [completamente]^
c. [Ne aveva soltanto tre]^ //[di bassotti]^
d. [L'entrata]^ [alio zoo]^ [costa di ρίύ]^ // [per i turisti]^
[che per i locali]^
e. [Guardo]^ // [ρίύ attentamente]^ [e vide]^ [che era un pitone]^
We can now proceed to formulate the rule of RS as in (9).
(9) Raddoppiamento Sintattico
C - [+long] I [...[... V ] ω [ \ +
J 2 ] . . . } ω . . . ) φ
[+DTE] L
J
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
The Phonological Phrase 171
This formulation shows that RS is a ω juncture rule that applies on
the φ domain.
It was argued in section 2.3 above that the domain of application of RS
cannot be identified with any syntactic constituent, since within the
same type of constituent we find examples of both application and non-
application of RS. The rules that construct phonological phrases as pro-
posed above divide a string into constituents that are crucially not iso-
morphic to the constituents of the syntactic hierarchy, as exemplified in
(10).
V
Φ Φ Φ
Ί saw three very dark hummingbirds.'
While the sentence is divided into three phonological phrases, RS applies
only in the first two, those which contain the proper segmental environ-
ment, that is, in ho[v:]isto and tre[k:]olibri. Syntactically, neither of these
two strings forms a constituent. In fact, the only node that dominates
both ho and visto is V, the node that also dominates the entire sentence;
the first node that dominates both tre and colibri also dominates molto
scuri. According to the syntactic division into constituents, there is no way
of predicting that RS is blocked between colibri and molto, a sequence
of words that fulfills the local phonological environment for RS. That is,
while colibri and molto are, in fact, part of the same syntactic constituent,
N, they are not part of the same phonological phrase. If RS depended on
syntactic structure, we would expect the rule to apply between colibri
and molto, as it does in the first part of the same N, that is, between tre
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
172 Prosodic Phonology
and colibri. There is a crucial difference between these two cases, how-
ever, and that is that tre and colibri form a single φ, while colibri and
molto are in separate 0s.3
This generalization would be missed by a
specification of the domain of application of RS that makes direct refe-
rence to syntactic notions, since such a specification would not amount to
more than a list of environments. The superiority of prosodic constituents
over syntactic constituents is thus demonstrated for RS. We will see below
that this is the case for other rules as well.
As was mentioned above, RS can be seen in part as a rule of ^syllabi-
fication, according to which the final syllable of wordj is closed by part
of the geminate consonant that is created at the beginning of word2.
The fact that RS applies within the φ domain can thus be taken as evi-
dence that the domain of ^syllabification in Italian is the phonological
phrase, as it is in French (see section 3.1.1 above).
While the φ formation rule given in (5) defines constituents within
which RS applies obligatorily, all other requirements being satisfied, RS
may optionally apply in other domains as well. The next section is dedicat-
ed to the definition of these additional domains.
6.2. Restructuring of the phonological phrase
Given that the phonological phrase is the domain within which RS applies
obligatorily, and given that RS applies optionally outside of φ as well,
we propose in this section that the optionality is not in the application
of RS but rather in the restructuring of the phonological constituent.
The application of RS between two words that do not belong to the
same phonological phrase is illustrated in (11), where the contexts of
optional application of RS are marked with ' '.
(11) a. [I caribiij^^fnani]^ [sono estinti]^
'Dwarf caribous are extinct.'
b. [Se prenderäj^fqualcosa]^ [prenderaj^^ftordi]^
'If he catches something, he will catch thrushes.'
c. [Ho visto]^ [qualche fagiano]^ [blu]^ [chiaro]^
'I've seen a few light-blue pheasants.'
As may be seen in these examples, word2 exhaustively forms a φ in all the
additional contexts of application of RS. It should be noted, furthermore,
that this nonbranching φ always contains the first complement of the ad-
jacent head. The sentences in (12), on the other hand, show that RS does
not apply if the first complement contains a branching φ (see Marotta,
to appear, for duration measurements that show that the distinction
between a branching and a nonbranching first complement of a head is
crucial in determining the application of RS).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
The Phonological Phrase 173
(12) a. [Portera]^ // [due tigri]^ [fuori dalla gabbia]^
'He will take two tigers out of the cage.'
b. [Vaccinero]^ 11 [tutte le scimmie]^ [entro due giorni]^
Ί will vaccinate all the monkeys within two days.'
c. [Venderä]. // [questo leopardo]^ [in dicembre]^
'He will sell this leopard in December.'
d. [ H a n n o [ d e i caribii]^ // [molto piccoli]^
'They have some very small caribous.'
We thus propose an optional rule for restructuring φ that has the effect of
eliminating nonbranching 0s. Specifically, this rule provides the possibili-
ty of restructuring a φ that is composed of a single C when certain syn-
tactic conditions are met. These conditions are given in (13) below.
(13) φ restructuring (optional)
A nonbranching φ which is the first complement of X on its re-
cursive side is joined into the φ that contains X.
The effect of φ restructuring on the prosodic bracketing is illustrated in
(14), where it can be seen that the w/s labels are also reassigned after
restructuring.
0 4 ) [ . . . C
w C
s V R » - [ . . . C
w C
w C
s V
If restructuring does take place, the examples given in (11) above will
have the structures shown in (15) and RS will apply in the new contexts,
as indicated by
(15) a. [ Γ caribu_nani]0 [sono estintiL
b. [Se prendera_qualcosa]^ [prendera_tordi]^
c. [Ho visto]^ [qualche fagiano]^ [blu_chiaro]^
Since φ is the domain of application of RS, when the rule applies between
a head and its following nonbranching complement, this is an indication
that restructuring has occurred (i.e. between caribii and nani in (15a),
between prenderd and qualcosa and between prenderd and tordi in (15b)
and between blu and chiaro in (15c)). If, on the other hand, RS does not
occur in these environments, this is an indication that the nonbranching
complement retains its status as a separate φ. Although we have said that
φ restructuring is optional, it should be noted that its application is not
merely a matter of chance. There are additional nonsyntactic factors that
play a role in determining whether or not restructuring applies. For exam-
ple, restructuring might turn out to be more frequent in fast speech than in
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
174 Prosodic Phonology
slow speech. This would thus reflect the intuition of traditional grammari-
ans, who claimed that in order for RS to apply between two words, they
must belong to the same stress group (see Pratelli, 1970). Finally, it should
be noted that since the rule of φ restructuring makes reference to the non-
branching nature of the complement of a given head, and thereby implicit-
ly to its length, this directly reflects the observation that length plays a
crucial role in determining the application of RS, as well as other phono-
logical rules (see Napoli and Nespor, 1979).
The nonisomorphism between syntactic and prosodic constituents
is even clearer in the case of phonological phrases created by restructuring
than it was for the phonological phrases constructed with the mapping
rules in (5). That is, (13) crucially distinguishes between two groups of
phrasal complements on the basis of their prosodic structure, a type of
distinction that is impossible to make in the syntactic component since
there are no rewriting rules that make reference to the branchingness
versus nonbranchingness of a constituent.
6.3. Other φ-level phenomena in Italian
In this section we will demonstrate that the constituent φ allows us to
account for two more phenomena of Italian: Stress Retraction and Final
Lengthening.
Stress Retraction (SR) is a rule of standard northern Italian that has
the effect of eliminating sequences of adjacent stressed syllables in certain
environments (see Nespor and Vogel, 1979). Though the avoidance of
clashes of primary stresses is a fairly general feature of Italian phonology,
the particular phenomenon we will describe here is typical of northern
varieties. SR applies in a sequence of two phonological words, ω 1 and
ω2 , if ω j ends in a primary stressed vowel and co2 has its primary stress
on the first syllable. In such cases the final stress of ω1 is moved leftward
to avoid the clash of primary stresses, as seen in (16).
(16) a. metä torta -> meta torta
'half a cake'
b. onoro Budda -> onoro Biidda
'he honored Buddha'
c. si presenterä bene si presentera bene
'it will be well presented'
d. delucidero tiitto -»· delucidero tiitto
'(I) will clarify everything'
It should be noted that there is a certain amount of overlap in the environ-
ment of SR and RS. In particular, when the final stressed vowel of ω
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
The Phonological Phrase 175
is followed by a stressed syllable at the beginning of ω 2 , the conditions
are met for both rules (though RS also applies in the absence of primary
stress on the first syllable of ω2 ). The two rules are not usually in
conflict in the overlapping environment, however, since they typically
apply in different varieties of Italian: SR in northern varieties and RS in
central and southern varieties (see Nespor and Vogel, 1979).4
Since we as-
sume that stress is a matter of relative prominence and not absolute values,
it is not the case that the 'new' primary stress is necessarily as strong as
the original stress of ω j in isolation; it must only be stronger than the
stress of the final (destressed) syllable of ω 1 in the sequence ω 1 ω 2
in connected speech. The syllable to which stress is 'retracted' is the first
syllable in the case of bisyllabic words (e.g. (16a)), and the first syllable
with secondary stress to the left of the primary stress in the case of words
with more than two syllables (e.g. (16b-d)).5
SR, like RS, does not apply between just any two words that meet
the local phonological conditions just mentioned. Instead, it applies
only if ω ι and ω 2 belong to the same phonological phrase. Examples
of the application and nonapplication of RS are given in (17) and (18),
respectively.
(17) a. [Sara stäta ammazzata]^ la vipera (<sarästäta)
'The adder has probably been killed.'
b. Ha giä contato [ventitre rägni]^ ( < ventitre rägni)
'He has already counted twenty-three spiders.'
c. [Le citta nordiche]^ non mi piacciono ( < cittä nordiche)
Ί don't like Nordic cities.'
d. [Peschera granchij^almeno, se non aragoste. ( < peschera gränchi)
'He will fish crabs at least, if not lobsters.'
(18) a. [Le cittä] J [molto nordiche]^ non mi piacciono. (*citta)
Ί don't like very Nordic cities.'
b. [PescheräL [quälche granchio]^ almeno, se non aragoste.
(*peschera)
'He will fish some crab at least, if not lobsters.'
c. [La verita]^ [sälta fuori]^ quasi sempre. (*verita)
'The truth almost always comes out.'
The examples in (17a,b) show that SR applies within a φ constructed
on the basis of the mapping rules given in (5) above. Those in (17c,d)
exemplify the application of SR within a restructured φ. The examples
in (18), on the other hand, illustrate cases in which the words containing
the adjacent primary stresses do not belong to the same φ\ SR does not
apply here, despite the presence of the two stresses. We may thus conclude
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
176 Prosodic Phonology
that adjacent stresses do not always constitute a clash, but do so only
within a certain domain. This behavior is not unique to Italian, and fol-
lowing our discussion of the second phenomenon of Italian, Final Length-
ening (FL), we will show in section 6.4 that φ is the domain of rhythmic
adjustments in other languages as well.
Although it is often claimed that lengthening takes place at the end
of syntactic constituents, it is our contention that it is prosodic phrasing
that makes the correct predictions as to where lengthening takes place, as
we will demonstrate on the basis of Italian. Syntactic phrasing plays a role
in lengthening only in the sense that the phonological phrase is built on
the basis of syntactic notions. The reason such a distinction was not made
earlier is most likely due to the fact that the two phrasings often do co-
incide. The example in (19) shows a sentence in which the prosodic and
the syntactic phrasings coincide, while the example in (20) shows a sen-
tence in which the φ phrasing and the syntactic phrasing differ in a crucial
way.
(19) a. Ho mangiato [dei pasticcini ripieni]^
b. Ho mangiato j^pfdei pasticcini ripieni]^
Ί ate some filled donuts.'
(20) a. Ho mangiato [dei pasticcini]^[ripieni]^[di cioccolata].
b. Ho mangiato j^pfdei pasticcini ^pfripieni di cioccolafaj^pj^p
Ί ate some donuts filled with chocolate.'
While the word pasticcini 'donuts' in (19) is neither φ final nor NP final,
the same word in (20) is φ final, though it is not NP final, nor is it the end
of any other syntactic phrase. It is thus in (20) that prosody and syntax
make different predictions. If it is the prosodic constituents that are
relevant for FL, then the word pasticcini should be longer in (20), where it
is φ final, than in (19), where it is in the middle of a φ. If, on the other
hand, the syntactic phrasing is relevant for FL, the word pasticcini should
be of similar length in the two sentences. Since the word pasticcini is in-
deed longer in (20) than it is in (19), we have evidence that it is the pro-
sodic division and not the syntactic division of a string into constituents
that determines the position of FL. This is thus one more argument in
favor of the phonological phrase as a distinct constituent level of the
prosodic hierarchy. In Chapter 9 it will be shown, in addition, that Italian
listeners can distinguish sentences that differ only in their φ phrasing,
thus demonstrating the relevance of the notion of the phonological phrase
for perception as well.
Finally, it should be noted that in cases in which two adjacent primary
word stresses are found in separate 0s and thus are not in the domain
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
The Phonological Phrase 177
for SR, as seen in (18) above, the lengthening at the end of φ caused by
the application of FL has the effect of introducing enough distance
between the two primary word stresses to create well-formed rhythmical
alternations of prominence. We will return to this point in Chapter 10 with
reference to poetic meter.
6.4. The phonological phrase in languages other than Italian
The definition of the φ domain proposed in (5) above makes reference to
very general syntactic notions, such as those of phrasal head and recursive
side of a phrase with respect to the head. They thus make predictions
about the φ domain not only for Italian but for all configurational lan-
guages, that is, languages whose syntactic structure can be represented
within the X system. In this section, we will show that the phonological
phrase proposed above is indeed the domain of application of a number
of phonological rules in a variety of languages. As far as the φ restructuring
rule is concerned, it will be shown that in addition to languages such as
Italian where it is optional, there are languages in which restructuring
is obligatory (see Hayes, to appear) and still other languages in which it
is not an option at all (see also Nespor and Vogel, 1982).
6.4.1. Other right recursive languages
The first language we will consider is English. We will show that the
phonological phrase is the domain of application of two phonological
rules: Iambic Reversal (see Liberman and Prince, 1977) and the Mono-
syllable Rule (see Selkirk, 1972). This proposal is not new; in fact, φ was
proposed as the domain of application of these rules by Selkirk (1978b).
Since the domain of Selkirk's φ is somewhat different from ours, however,
we will show that it is, in fact, our definition of φ that provides the ap-
propriate description of the environments in which the two rules apply.
In particular, we will demonstrate that the phonological phrase in English
has the same domain as it has in Italian, as is to be expected given that
both languages are right recursive. It will be shown, further, that restruc-
turing of φ is optional in English, as in Italian, and that the rules given
above are thus the correct rules for defining φ.
Iambic Reversal (IR) is a rule that has essentially the same effect as
Stress Retraction in Italian, as is shown in (21). (See Liberman and Prince,
1977, for details of this phenomenon.)
(21) a. thirteen men thirteen men
b. Tennesse air -»• Tennessee air
Like SR, this rule does not apply in just any sequence of two words that
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
178 Prosodic Phonology
contains a stress clash. Liberman and Prince claim that the rule is optional
and that 'the acceptability of a stress clash depends, in part, on the extent
to which the interstress interval is prone to be lengthened, independently,
by prepausal lengthening' (p.320). According to the analysis presented
here, IR is not optional as to its environment, but rather is a φ internal
rule, as is shown in (22)-(24).
(22) a. More than fifteen carpenters are working in the house.
( < fifteen)
b. The kangaroo's life is full of surprises. ( < kangaroo)
(23) a. John perseveres glädly. ( < perseveres)
b. Given the chance, rabbits reproduce quickly. ( < reprodiice)
(24) a. John perseveres glädly and diligently. (* perseveres)
b. Given the chance, rabbits reprodiice very quickly. ( * reproduce)
The sentences in (22) exemplify the application of IR within φ as predict-
ed by the definition of φ in (5); those in (23) show that IR applies within
ψ restructured according to the rule in (13); and those in (24) show
that IR does not apply outside the φ domain. The examples in (23) and
(24), moreover, offer additional evidence for the observation that the
nonbranchingness of the first complement to the right of the head is the
appropriate criterion for φ restructuring. This is also the crucial difference
between the phonological phrase proposed by Selkirk (1978b) and that
proposed here, since in Selkirk's proposal the phonological phrase may
not extend to include any constituent to the right of the head of a phrase.
Since there are, in fact, cases in which this is necessary, the present
analysis must be preferred on empirical grounds.
It should be observed that in English, as in Italian, φ is also the domain
of Final Lengthening. Liberman and Prince's observation that IR does not
apply if the interval between the two stresses is lengthened is thus easily
accounted for: since lengthening takes place at the end of φ, and since
both words involved in IR must belong to the same φ, it is clear that the
one phenomenon excludes the other.
Another rule of English that offers evidence for the φ level of prosodic
structure is the rule that reduces monosyllabic words that do not belong
to any of the lexical categories Ν, V, or A. As is demonstrated by Selkirk
(1978b), this Monosyllable Rule applies only if the monosyllable is labeled
weak with respect to another syllable in the same φ that is labeled strong.
The fact that the rule applies in (25a) but not in (25b), which represent
Selkirk's (1978b) examples with our division into constituents, is thus
accounted for.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
The Phonological Phrase 179
(25) a. [The sluggers], [boxed]^ [in the crowd(reduced in)
b. [The cops]^ [boxed in]^ [the crowdJ^ (unreduced in)
In the first example, the preposition in is the leftmost node of a 0 and is
thus weak with respect to the strong node dominating crowd. Hence, in
may undergo reduction. In the second example, on the other hand, in
may not be reduced, since it is the rightmost node of the φ containing
boxed in, and is thus labeled strong with respect to its sister, which is
weak.
The second language we will discuss here in relation to the phonological
phrase is French, a language in which the restructuring of φ is not an
available option. That is, φ may only include a head X and whatever is
on its nonrecursive side until another head outside of the maximal projec-
tion of X is reached. The rule we will consider is Liaison, a rule that ap-
plies in all styles of speech, but whose contexts of application become
larger as the degree of formality increases (see Selkirk, 1972). We will
restrict our attention to the colloquial style of speech, since it is only in
this style that Liaison applies in a purely phonological environment. As
has been shown in Morin and Kaye (1982), the contexts of application
of Liaison in elevated styles of speech are partly morphologically deter-
mined. In colloquial French, however, the purely phonological Liaison
rule applies within the domain of the phonological phrase, as exemplified
in (26).
(26) a. Cette famille a [trois beaux_enfants]^
'This family has three beautiful children.'
b. Les enfants [sont^alles]^ äl'ecole.
'The children went to school.'
The examples in (27) show that Liaison does not apply between words
that belong to two different 0s, and those in (28) show that it does not
apply between the head of a phrase and the first nonbranching comple-
ment on the recursive side. The latter set of examples thus demonstrates
that the restructuring of φ is not a property of French.
(27) a. Jean a [des livres]^ // [assez nouveaux]^
'Jean has some rather new books.'
b. Nos invites [sont arrives]^ // [en retard](
Our guests arrived late.'
(28) a. [Les maisons]^//[italiennesL· coütent beaucoup.
'Italian houses are expensive,
b. Le gar9on [les aidait]^ // [activement]^
'The boy helped them actively.'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
180 Prosodic Phonology
It is interesting to observe that in most styles of speech, when Liaison
applies, the final consonant of wordj leaves the coda of this syllable and
moves to the onset of the initial syllable of word2. Liaison is thus a rule
that triggers a process of ^syllabification, as is Raddoppiamento Sintat-
tico in Italian, although the details of the resyllabification differ in the two
languages.
The φ constituency just proposed, without the possibility of restruc-
turing, is not unique to French; it is also the domain of application, for
example, of several rules that determine the occurrence of an extra-high
tone in Ewe, a Bantu language spoken in Ghana (see Clements, 1978).
We will not discuss these rules here, since they represent the same case
exemplified by French. We will proceed instead to another type of situa-
tion, the case of a right recursive language where the inclusion of the first
complement into the same φ with the head is obligatory. This situation
is found in Chimwi:ni, a Bantu language spoken in the city of Brava in
Somalia. This language has been analyzed by Kisseberth and Abasheikh
(1974), the source of all the following examples, and its relevance for
prosodic theory is discussed by Hayes (to appear). In Chimwi:ni, vowel
length is generally contrastive, although there are specific environments
in which it is predictable: a) word finally, where a vowel is predictably
short if the end of the word coincides with the end of a phonological
phrase, and long if it does not, b) before a heavy syllable within the same
phonological phrase, where a vowel is short, and c) before a sequence of
at least three syllables within the same φ, where a vowel is also predictably
short. These facts can be accounted for by three shortening rules, Final
Shortening, Pre-Length Shortening, and Pre-Antepenult Shortening, which
may be formalized in the following way.
(29) Final Shortening
V: - V / [ ]φ
(30) Pre-Length Shortening
V: - V I [ ...[C0
(31) Pre-Antepenult Shortening
V: V / [ σσσ]φ
Examples of the application of the three rules are given in (32), (33),
and (34), respectively.
VC
V: ]σ··'^φ
(32) Final Shortening
a. [xsoma: chuwo]^ 'to read a book'
b. [xsomaL 'to read'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
The Phonological Phrase 181
(33) Pre-Length Shortening
a. [xka4a:r)a]0 'to fry'
b. [xka4-aggo:wa]0 'to be fried'
(34) Pre-Antepenult Shortening
a. [ku-reb-ei-an-a]^ 'to stop for one another'
( < ku-re:-b-a 'to stop')
b. [munt^u uyu], 'this person'
( < mu:nt hi 'person')
c. [xfugguia xalbi]^ 'to open one's heart'
( < xfu:r|guia 'to open')
It can be seen in (32a) that the final vowel of xsoma is long, since it is
internal to φ. The same vowel is short in (32b), however, where it co-
incides with the end of a φ. In (33), it is shown that while the verbal form
xkaia:ija has a long vowel in the second syllable, this vowel becomes short
if followed by a heavy syllable, as in (33b). The examples in (34) show the
application of Pre-Antepenult Shortening, where it can be seen that the
rule must count the syllables of a phonological phrase, independently of
its division into lower-level constituents.
Thus far, it has been seen only that the phonological phrase is the
domain of application of the first and third rules. As far as the second
rule is concerned, it should be noted that on the basis of the examples
in (33) this rule could be accounted for equally well in terms of the
domain of the word. That the domain of Pre-Length Shortening is φ and
not the word can be seen in (35), where the rules of Final Shortening and
Pre-Length Shortening have both applied.
(35) [pauzize cho:mbo]^ [mwaimba]^ 'he ran the vessel onto the rock'
he ran vessel rock
Notice that both words that are in phrase-final position have a final short
vowel, as predicted by rule (29). The first word, pauzize, on the other
hand, should have a long final vowel, since it is phrase internal. This is not
what we find, however, a fact which can be accounted for if the domain of
rule (30) is φ. That is, the final vowel of pauzize will be shortened by (30)
because it is followed by a heavy syllable within the same phonological
phrase. As is pointed out by Hayes (to appear), these examples show that
the phonological phrase in Chimwi:ni has undergone restructuring, with
the result that the first complement of a head is included in a single
φ with the head. The example in (35) also shows that the second com-
plement of a head forms a separate φ, as can be seen from the presence of
the long vowel in cho:mbo. If, instead, the three words were grouped into
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
182 Prosodic Phonology
a single φ, this vowel would be shortened by the application of rule (31).
While we have seen above that restructuring is optional in Italian
and English and forbidden in French, in Chimwi:ni, according to Hayes,
it is obligatory. Hayes observes also that the restructuring of φ in
Chimwi:ni is different from that of Italian and English for yet another
reason; that is, the nonbranchingness of the first complement is not
a requirement for restructuring in Chimwi:ni. An example of the fact
that it is also possible for a branching complement to be joined into
the same φ as the head is given in (36), where Pre-Antepenult Shortening
applies before the branching complement chuwo ichi 'this book'.
(36) [somani chuwo ichi]^ 'read this book' ( < soma:ni)
read book this
Hayes points out, furthermore, that the type of φ constituency we have
just seen in Chimwi:ni is not peculiar to that language. Also in Kimatuum-
bi, another Bantu language (see Odden, 1980), the phonological phrase
obligatorily includes the first complement on the recursive side, whether
branching or not. The conclusion may thus be drawn that while φ obli-
gatorily groups together a head and all material on the nonrecursive side,
languages vary as to whether their φ may be restructured to include
a complement on the recursive side as well, and as to whether this com-
plement must be nonbranching (see Hayes, to appear).
6.4.2. Left recursive languages
All the rules we have discussed thus far in order to demonstrate the
validity of the φ construction principles given in (5) above are found in
languages in which the possibility of recursively embedding new material
is to the right of the head. In order for (5) to be fully confirmed, however,
evidence must be given from left recursive languages as well. The predic-
tion made by (5) is that in such languages 0-level phonological rules apply
to the right of the head in a domain that is the mirror image of the domain
seen in the right recursive languages we have considered in the preceding
sections.
Miyara (1981) analyzes a number of phonological rules that apply
within the phonological phrase in Japanese, a left recursive language. The
domain of the phonological phrase is defined by Miyara as follows:
(37) Phonological Phrase: Japanese
X (Particle) (Quantifier) (Particle)
where X is any string that does not contain a particle
On the basis of this definition and the examples found in Miyara, it ap-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
The Phonological Phrase 183
pears that the domain of φ is equivalent to that predicted by our rule in
(5).6
That is, (37) may be translated into our terms in the following way:
X is a head and forms a φ with whatever follows until another head outside
of the maximal projection of X is reached.
The phonological phrase in Japanese is, as Miyara shows, the domain
of Tone Assignment, several tone-shifting rules, and several segmental
rules. Let us consider first the rule of Tone Assignment. In the Tokyo
dialect, the surface tone melody of a 0 constituent is predictable from
whether the head is accented or not. That is, the particle has a low tone
after an accented word and a high tone after an unaccented word. This is
exemplified in (38), where a star above a vowel represents a lexical accent
(from Miyara, 1981).
(38) a. [~f| noti kara]^ 'from the life'
life from
b. [ sa I kana karaj^ 'from the fish'
fish from
Another 0-internal tonal rule, the Star Shift Rule, is found in the Matsue
dialect of Japanese. This rule, formalized as in (39), has the effect of
shifting the accent of a high vowel to 0-final position (from Miyara, 1981).
(39)
*
V
+hi
Ρ
C
o V
- CQV / [...
Finally, the rather complex phenomenon of Reduction that occurs in
casual speech also takes place exclusively within a phonological phrase, as
illustrated in (40) (from Miyara, 1981).
(40) a. [kore-wa]^ koryaa 'this top'
b. [ik-re ba]^ ik-e-ba -»• ikyaa 'go-if
c. [ker-re-ba -»• ker-e-ba kryaa 'kick-if
Since, according to our labeling convention, the strong node of φ in a
left-branching language is the leftmost node, the reduction just seen can
be taken as an indication of a more widespread pattern, the tendency for
reduction phenomena to apply only to the weak nodes of a given tree.
The second left-branching language we will consider is Quechua. While
Quechua uses almost exclusively the recursive side of a phrase with respect
to the head, several elements (i.e. auxiliaries, copulas, existentials), can
be found to the right of the head. It is these elements, and only these,
that undergo Word Initial Voicing Assimilation when the last segment of
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
184 Prosodic Phonology
the preceding word is voiced. Examples of the application of this rule,
taken from Muysken (1977), are given below, where it can be seen that ka,
a form of the verb 'to be', undergoes assimilation in (41a) where it is pre-
ceded by a voiced segment, but not in (41b) where it is preceded by a
voiceless segment.
(41) a. [Pedro-mi ga-ni]^ 'lam Pedro'
b. [gana-k faz-rka-ni Ί used to earn'
The rule does not apply, however, between a verb and a complement
even when the segmental context is present, as illustrated in (42) and (43).
This is an indication that Quechua does not allow φ to be restructured to
include elements on the recursive side.
(42) a. [papa-da]0 [kara-ni]^ Ί serve potatoes'
b. * [papa-da]^, \gara-ηΐ]φ
potatoes serve
(43) a. [sumuk]^ \gushta-ni]^ Ί enjoy myself very well'
b. *[sumuk]^ [kushta-ni]^
nice enjoy
Another rule mentioned by Muysken that appears to be φ internal is
the Reduction Rule exemplified in (44). It should be noted that this
reduction, too, only affects weak elements since in Quecha, as in other
left-branching languages, the strong node of φ is the leftmost one.
(44) a. [Xwana-mi a-ni]^ -> [Xwana-m-a-ni]
Ί am Juana' 'I'm Juana'
b. [Pedro-chu a-ngi]^ -* [Pedro-ch-a-ngi]
'Are you Pedro? 'Are you Pedro?'
These examples provide further confirmation that the constituent φ,
as defined in (5) above, expresses the domain of application of phonolog-
ical rules in left recursive languages as it does in right recursive languages,
though the construction of φ in the two types of languages results in
structures that are essentially the mirror images of each other.
6.5. Conclusions
In this chapter it has been demonstrated that the phonological phrase
makes use of more general syntactic notions in its construction than does
the clitic group, seen in Chapter 5. Specifically, while it was seen that
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
The Phonological Phrase 185
only a very limited type of syntactic information is needed for C construc-
tion (i.e. whether a given clitic shares more category memberships in the
syntactic tree with the element to its left or to its right), the rule for φ
formation makes reference to such general notions as those of syntactic
phrase and phrasal head, as well as to the parameter that establishes
the direction in which sentences are embedded in a given Xtype language.
In languages that embed sentences rightward, the domain of φ includes
a phrasal head and whatever precedes it within the same phrase; in lan-
guages that embed sentences leftward, the domain of φ includes the
phrasal head and whatever follows it within a phrase. That is, no reference
is made to specific constituents that may precede or follow the head of a
phrase, but only to general structural relations. The resulting phonological
phrase thus provides another example of the nonisomorphism between the
syntactic and prosodic hierarchies. That is, since φ construction treats
phrasal complements differently according to their location with respect
to the head, the constituent φ is often quite different from any syntactic
constituent. Specifically, it was shown that complements are incorporated
into a φ with the head if they are found on one side of the head, and that
they form independent 0s if they are found on the opposite side.
In addition to the φ formation rule just mentioned, a restructuring rule
was also proposed for certain languages that has the effect of eliminating
a nonbranching φ node if it contains the first phrasal complement on the
recursive side of the phrase. If this condition is satisfied, restructuring
may take place to incorporate a 0 of the type just described into the same
0 with the phrasal head. The restructured φ constituents are thus another
case in favor of two separate hierarchies, in that a crucial distinction
is made between the first complement and all other complements in
phonology, while no such distinction can be made in syntax. Specifically,
it was shown that elements that are sisters, and thus in some sense equal in
a syntactic tree, are not treated in a uniform way by the mapping rules
that form the prosodic constituent 0.
Finally, it should be noted that the restructured φ is the first consti-
tuent of prosodic structure that reflects the idea that length plays a role in
the determination of prosodic categories. That is, since nonbranching com-
plements are generally shorter than branching ones, the relative length of
nonbranching vs. branching complements appears to be a crucial factor in
determining the possibility of restructuring in certain languages. That
is, there may be a general tendency to avoid forming particularly short
(i.e. nonbranching) phonological phrases. As we will see in the following
chapters, length plays an even greater role in larger prosodic categories.
While the phonological phrase was motivated in this chapter on the
basis of the fact that it is the domain of application of a variety of rules
in several languages, it will be shown in Chapters 9 and 10 that it is also
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
186 Prosodic Phonology
a relevant constituent for other types of phenomena. Specifically, it will
be demonstrated that φ is crucial for the first level of processing in speech
perception and for the treatment of certain regularities in poetic meter.
NOTES
1. The data consist of tape recording and oscilloscopic measurements of over 100
sentences containing the various contexts for RS, spoken by six Florentine speakers
of Italian.
2. There are languages in which a node expands to the left of the head of a phrase
in some cases and to its right in other cases. Dutch is such a language, as may be seen
from the following examples, where the expanded nodes are underlined.
i. Het nog te lezen boek ligt op tafel.
'The book that is still to be read is on the table.'
ii. Ik denk dat ik een boek zal lezen.
Ί think I will read a book.'
In (i) an expanded complement stands to the left of the phrasal head boek 'book',
while in (ii) it stands to the right of the phrasal head denfc'think'. The rule in (5) does
not make specific predictions for the domain of the phonological phrase in languages
such as Dutch. In such cases, φ will have to be defined in a somewhat more complex
way.
3. A syntactic proposal to account for the domain of application of RS that is not
based on constituents, but rather on the more abstract notion of c-command, has
been put forth by Kaisse (1985). The starting point of Kaisse's analysis is Napoli
and Nespor's (1979) Left Branch Condition. According to Kaisse's proposal, RS
applies between wordj and word2 when word ^ c-commands word^ and wordj
is on a left branch. It should be noted, however, that while this principle correctly
predicts the two applications of RS in (10), it fails to predict that RS is blocked
between colibri and molto. Unfortunately, we cannot go into a more detailed dis-
cussion of Kaisse's interesting proposal here, since Kaisse (1985) was not available
to us at the time of the writing of the present book.
4. It has been suggested to us by Pier Marco Bertinetto (see also Savoia, 1974-75;
Gianelli, 1976) that there may be some varieties of Italian in which both SR and RS
occur (see, however, Marotta, to appear). In this case, since the presence of final
stress is necessary for the application of RS, SR will have to be ordered after RS
has applied.
5. For a discussion of the location of secondary stress in Italian, see Vogel and
Scalise (1982).
6. We are assuming here that Japanese is a configurational language (see, among
others, Hoji, 1982; Whitman, 1982; Saito and Hoji, 1983). If, on the other hand,
Japanese is considered nonconfigurational, as proposed, among others, by Hale
(1980) and Farmer (1980), its φ domain must be defined in some other way.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 3:56 AM
Chapter 7
The Intonational Phrase
7.0. Introduction
Now that the phonological phrase has been constructed, we can construct
the next unit in the prosodic hierarchy, the intonational phrase (I). /
groups together one or more φ& on the basis of syntactic information,
but as will be seen below, the nature of this information is more general
than that needed for the definition of the φ domain. This shows clearly
how the higher a constituent is in the prosodic hierarchy, the more general
the nature of its definition becomes. In addition to the basic syntactic
factors that play a role in the formation of intonational phrases, there
are also semantic factors related to prominence and performance factors
such as rate of speech and style that may affect the number of intonation
contours contained in an utterance. Thus, any definition of the / domain
must allow for this variability. While the relatively large degree of variabili-
ty in the organization of a string into Is distinguishes I from the other
prosodic constituents, it will be shown in this chapter that there are
nevertheless syntactic and semantic constraints on what may constitute
an intonational phrase. It will be shown, furthermore, that the strings
delimited by the constituent I not only account for 'the domain over
which an intonational contour is "spread" ' (Selkirk, 1978b: 130), but they
also represent the domain of application of a number of segmental pho-
nological rules. Finally, it should be noted that while intonation contours
are essential in the discussion of the / constituent of the phonological
hierarchy, we will limit our discussion of these contours to their domains.
We will not, therefore, discuss the actual phonetic patterns of the con-
tours.1
7.1. Definition of the intonational phrase domain
In this section, we will discuss the basic rule for / formation. As will be
seen, this rule uniquely partitions a sequence of 0s into Is, and as it stands,
does not allow for any variability in I structure. The variability that is
characteristic of the intonational phrase level in the prosodic hierarchy
will be treated in the next section, where it will be proposed that it is the
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
188 Prosodic Phonology
result of a separate type of rule, that is, a restructuring rule.
The formulation of the basic / formation rule is based on the notions
that the intonational phrase is the domain of an intonation contour and
that the ends of intonational phrases coincide with the positions in which
pauses may be introduced in a sentence.2
It will be demonstrated below,
however, that the domains established on the basis of intonation contours
and the potential for pauses are the same as those needed to account for
the application of a number of segmental rules in several languages.
One of the first things that is usually observed in relation to intonation
contours is that there are certain types of constructions that seem to form
intonation domains on their own. These constructions include parenthet-
ical expressions, nonrestrictive relative clauses, tag questions, vocatives,
expletives, and certain moved elements (see, among others, Bing, 1979;
Downing, 1970; Ladd, 1980; Selkirk, 1978b, 1984b).3
Examples of each
of these structures are given in (1). Although the examples in (1) are all
in English, it is our proposal that the same types of constructions will
obligatorily form Is in all languages that make use of them.
(1) a. Lions [jas you know]j are dangerous.
b. My brother [jwho absolutely loves animalsjj just bought him-
self an exotic tropical bird.
c. That's Theodore's cat [jisn't it? ]j
d. [jClarencejj I'd like you to meet Mr. Smith.
e. [jGood heavens]j there's a bear in the back yard.
f. They are so cute j [those Australian koalas] j.
While the different types of constructions that obligatorily form Is in some
sense appear to constitute a rather disparate set of items, in another sense
they all share a common property. That is, they all represent strings that
are in some way external to the root sentence they are associated with.
Following Safir's (1985) recent proposal in relation to nonrestrictive rel-
ative clauses, it seems that we might be able to account for the set of
obligatory /-forming constructions on the grounds that they are all ele-
ments that, at the level of s-structure, are linearly represented but not
structurally attached to the sentence tree.
It should be noted, in addition, that those types of constructions that
obligatorily form an / do so regardless of where they occur in a sentence,
as illustrated in (2).
(2) a. [jAs you know]j Isabelle is an artist.
b. Isabelle [jas you know]j is an artist.
c. Isabelle is [jas you know]j an artist.
d. Isabelle is an artist [jas you know]j.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Intonational Phrase 189
Aside from the specific types of constructions that obligatorily form Is,
the other syntactic notion that is relevant for / formation is the root
sentence, as defined by Emonds (1976). Specifically, the boundaries of
a root sentence delimit an I, while those sentences that are not root
sentences do not. This is clearly illustrated by the following pair of senten-
ces given by Downing (1970):
(3) a. [jBilly thought his father was a merchant]j [jand his father
was a secret agent ]j
b. [jBilly thought his father was a merchant and his mother was a
secret agent ]j
It should be noted that there are also cases in which a root sentence
does not form a single I, and that is when it is interrupted by one of the
types of constructions seen above that must obligatorily form an I on its
own. Such cases have, in fact, already been seen in (lb), (2b), and (2c).
Let us consider the case of the root sentence Isabelle is an artist, which
in (2b) and (2c) is interrupted by the parenthetical element as you know.
Since the parenthetical must form an I by itself, it is no longer possible
for Isabelle is an artist to form a single I. In such cases, any string that is
adjacent to the obligatory I, and which would not form an / for indepen-
dent reasons, automatically forms another I on its own.4
Thus, the parts
of the sentence Isabelle is an artist that precede and follow as you know
form separate Is, as seen below, although they are neither the types of
constructions that obligatorily form Is nor are they root sentences.
(4) a. [jlsabelle]j [jas you know]j [jis an artist]j
b. [jlsabelle is]j [jas you know]j [jan artist]j
On the basis of the different criteria seen above for delimiting Is, it is
possible to formulate the basic definition o f / a s follows:
(5) Intonational Phrase Formation
I. I domain
An I domain may consist of
a. all the <ps in a string that is not structurally attached to the
sentence tree at the level of s-structure, or
b. any remaining sequence of adjacent 0s in a root sentence.
II. I construction
Join into an n-ary branching / all <ps included in a string de-
limited by the definition of the domain of I.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
190 Prosodic Phonology
It should be noted that while the / domain often corresponds to a syn-
tactic constituent, this is not always the case. As expressed in (5), / is
isomorphic with any of the constituent types that obligatorily form in-
tonational phrases and with a root sentence if it is not interrupted by an
obligatory I. When a root sentence does have an intervening obligatory
I, however, it is often the case that the strings on one or both sides of this
/ are not isomorphic to any constituent in syntax. This was seen in the
example in (4b), where Isabelle is does not form a syntactic constituent,5
and it is further illustrated in the examples in (6).
(6) a. [jThey have]j [jas you know]j [jbeen living together for
years]j
b. [jHe will never]j [jas I said]j [jaccept your proposal]j
c. [jCharles wouldn'tjj [jl imagine]j [jhave done such a thing]j
d. [jThat's the tortoise that]j [jas you know]j [jinhabits the
Galapagos Islands]j
In all of these examples, the parenthetical expression forms an obligatory
/ internal to the root sentence within which it is placed, and the strings
on either side of this / must thus also form Is. The result is that the periph-
eral Is delimit strings that are not necessarily isomorphic to any constitu-
ent in syntactic structure. While in right recursive languages such as
English, it seems that Is that are not isomorphic to a syntactic constituent
may appear only to the left of the obligatory /, it may be that in other
types of languages other possibilities also exist. Thus, as in the case of the
other prosodic constituents seen so far,/makes use of (morpho-)syntactic
notions in its definition, though the resulting structures are not necessari-
ly in a one-to-one relation to any constituent found elsewhere in the
grammar.
As far as the relative prominence of the 0s within an / is concerned,
the position of the strong node cannot be determined for the category
as a whole, as it is in the case of the other prosodic constituents. That is,
while for any of the constituents below / it was possible to specify the
position in which the strong sister node was located, at the / level we
must allow the strong position to vary. Rather than being determined
structurally, the strong node under / is determined on the basis of seman-
tic factors such as focus and given vs. new information. The information
needed for determining which is the strong element may be present in
the sentence itself, such as the use of an indefinite article (indicating new
information) as opposed to a definite article (indicating old information),
as illustrated in (7).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Intonational Phrase 191
(7) a. [j[Leonard [found]^
[j[Leonard]^ [found]^
[on the doorstep]^ ]j
[a packageL· [on the doorstep]. ]j
™
s w
[the package].
In many cases, however, the assignment of stress within an intonational
phrase depends on material found in previous utterances or on shared
knowledge of a given situation that is not necessarily present in the lin-
guistic context of the utterance in question. On the basis of these obser-
vations, a maximally general rule for the relative prominence relations
within / can be formulated as follows:
(8) Intonational Phrase Relative Prominence
Within I, a node is labeled s on the basis of its semantic pro-
minence; all other nodes are labeled w.
This rule allows for a certain degree of flexibility in stress placement
within / which is absent at the other levels of the prosodic hierarchy.
For example, any of the 0s in the sentence My sister sells fresh fruit at the
market on Monday could potentially be labeled s, as shown in (9),
depending on which element is the most prominent semantically or
represents the focused element of the sentence.
(9) a.
b.
c.
d.
j[My sister], [ s e l l s [ f r e s h fruit]. [at the market],
w ^w Mv
on Monday]. ]j
Mv
j[My sister], [sells], [fresh fruit], [at the market].
on MondayL· ]j
Mv
j[My sister], [sells], [fresh fruit]. [at the market],
^w Mv s w
on MondayL· ]j
Mv
j[My sister], [sellsL· [fresh fruit], [at the market],
Mv "w My ™
s
on Monday], ]j
Mv
j[My sister], [sells] - [fresh fruit L· [at the marketL·
M
V ^W Mv w
on Monday], ]j
While (8) is formulated in a maximally general way, and all of the pro-
nunciations in (9) are possible, the assignment of relative prominence
within / is not totally free; there are certain possibilities that are definitely
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
192 Prosodic Phonology
marked with respect to others. For example, of the patterns seen in (9),
the first two represent contrastive patterns and thus seem to be marked
with respect to the last one, which is the least marked pattern. A more
refined version of the /-level Relative Prominence rule will undoubtedly
also have to account for such differences in markedness.
It should be noted in relation to the flexibility in the position of the
strong element within /, furthermore, that the n-ary branching prosodic
trees proposed in this book offer several advantages over the binary
branching trees proposed in earlier work on prosodic phonology (Selkirk,
1978b, 1980a; Nespor and Vogel, 1982). In phonological theories with
binary branching trees, the assignment of relative prominence is generally
coupled with the geometry of the tree itself. That is, the position of the
stressed element in a binary branching tree is determined by the direction
of branching of the tree and by a set of principles that specify a) whether
in a pair of sister nodes N N , Ν or N2 is strong, and b) whether or not
this choice depends on the branchingness of the nodes. Such principles
greatly reduce the number of possible positions for the strong element in
a given string; however, in the case of I, this is not a desirable result,
since there are instances in which the s falls on a node that could not be
so labeled by any of the generally accepted relative prominence labeling
conventions. Consider the abstract sequences of five 0s grouped into left
and right branching Is in (10a) and (10b), respectively.
(10) a I b. I
Φ1 Φ2 Κ Φ 5 Φΐ Φΐ Φ
3 Φ* Φ5
In a left branching tree, the usual labeling conventions can either place
s on φχ (i.e., given NJN2 , NT is s) or on φ2 (i.e., given NJN2 ,
Ν is s iff it branches). In a right branching tree, the labeling conventions
will place s either on φ5 (i.e., given N N , N2 is s) or on φ4 (i.e., given
N t N 2 , N2 is s iff it branches). There is no way, however, to label φ3
strong. Thus, the labeling conventions would not be able to handle the
type of pronunciation in (9c) of the sentence My sister sells fresh fruit at
the market on Monday. More generally, it would be impossible to assign
stress to any node other than the two leftmost or the two rightmost ones.
Such a restriction is not built into the relative prominence conventions
for n-ary branching trees, and in the case of / in particular, this is a desir-
able outcome since there are clearly cases in which the strong node can
occupy a position other than one of the four predictable on the basis of
binary tree structures. A further advantage of n-ary branching trees also
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Intonational Phrase 193
derives from the fact that there is no theoretical connection between the
tree geometry and the s/w assignment rules. It should be noted that the
absence of such a connection does not mean that there is no way to
restrict the assignment of stress in such trees; in fact, for all of the prosod-
ic constituents below I, it was shown that stress always falls on a specific
position within a given type of constituent and is thus restricted structural-
ly. In the case of I, the restrictions are more semantic in nature, but they
nevertheless exist, since it is clearly not the case that the position of stress
is random. In a system in which the position of stress may follow only
from the structure of the tree, however, any placement of stress on a
position other than the predicted one would constitute a violation of the
principles of the system. In such a system, the fact that the strong node
within an / can be in any position and can vary with different pronuncia-
tions of the / in question would thus mean that in a large number of cases
the relative prominence patterns are in conflict with the basic stress assign-
ment principles. In an n-ary branching system, where the assignment of
stress is not necessarily determined strictly on the basis of the tree struc-
ture, no such problem arises. Still another advantage of n-ary branching
trees will be seen in the next section in relation to the restructuring of I.
7.2. Restructuring of the intonational phrase
While constituents of a particular type are always assigned the same
structure in syntax regardless of their length or any other linguistic or
extra-linguistic factors, the same is not true in phonology. We have already
seen in relation to the phonological phrase that, at least in some languages,
the length of certain phonological constituents plays a role in determining
the ultimate division of a string into 0s. In particular, we saw that in lan-
guages such as Italian a short (i.e. nonbranching) φ may, under certain
circumstances, be restructured to form a single, larger phonological phrase
with an adjacent φ. It will be shown in this section that the intonational
phrase, too, may undergo a process of restructuring.6
In the case of I,
however, length is only one of several factors that may play a role in deter-
mining restructuring. Three other factors we will also examine here are
rate of speech, style, and contrastive prominence. Since / restructuring
depends in large part on rather global aspects of the speech situation, it is
not possible to predict exactly when it will occur. The following discussion
is aimed, therefore, at examining the roles the various factors play in in-
creasing or decreasing the probability of restructuring.
Since the basic definition of I specifies that all the 0s of a root sentence
form a single /, if the material dominated by a root sentence is long,
the resulting / is automatically long as well. In such cases, / restructuring
often occurs to yield somewhat shorter constituents, perhaps for physio-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
194 Prosodic Phonology
logical reasons having to do with breath capacity and for reasons related
to the optimal chunks for linguistic processing. Thus, in a situation in
which no special considerations relating to rate, style, or emphasis must be
made, it is possible that a long / such as that in (11a) will be broken down
into shorter Is as in (1 lb) or (1 lc).
(11) a. [jMy friend's baby hamster always looks for food in the corners
of its cage]j
b. [jMy friend's baby hamster]j [jalways looks for food in the
corners of its cage]j
c. [jMy friend's baby hamster]j [jalways looks for foodjj [jin
the corners of its cage]j
While it may be structurally possible to break down a given / into smaller
Is, it is clear that the longer the original I, the more likely it is to be
divided into smaller Is. This can be seen by comparing the divisions in
(11) with those in (12), where the original / is already fairly short.
(12) a. [jThe hamster eats seeds all day]j
b. [jThe hamster]j [jeats seeds all day]j
c. [jThe hamsterjj [eats seeds]j [jail day]j
While (12b) and (12c) may represent possible divisions of the sentence
into Is, they seem much less acceptable than the analogous structures in
(lib)and (11c).
The length factor also plays a role in determining how many smaller
Is are made from a longer one. While it has been suggested that an/may
in principle be broken down into as many shorter Is as there are 0s in the
string (see Selkirk, 1978b), this does not, in fact, seem to be the case.
Aside from the syntactic restrictions on / restructuring discussed below,
there seems to be a tendency to avoid series of very short Is and sequences
of Is of very different lengths. In other words, there is a tendency to es-
tablish Is of a more or less uniform, 'average' length, although at this point
we are not able to characterize this ideal length more precisely. The
importance of length can nevertheless be seen in the examples in (13).
While the / in (13a) could, in principle, be divided into smaller Is as in
(13b) and (13c), the divisions in (13d) and (13e) are more acceptable.
( 1 3 ) ° Γ f T o n n i f o r l Mio^ntrArorl 1 [ t h a t llAr Qt+ir»1 . TViaH h p p n i n v p H .
[j[jenniierj^jj L^uiscovereuj^jj LlLuuu nci aiui; u j j ψ υ
been i n v a d e d [ j [ l a s t winter]^ [j[by a f a m i l y ] ^ [j[of
squirrels]^
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Intonational Phrase 195
c. [j[Jennifer]^]j [j[discovered [that her a t t i c [ h a d been in-
vaded]^ [last w i n t e r [ b y a family]ψ [of squirrels
d. [j[Jennifer^ [discovered]^ [j[that her at'' 1
" j
·
invaded]. [last w i n t e r [ j [ b y a family L
e. ^[Jennifer [discovered]^ [that her atticj^Jj lj|ftaa been in-
vaded]^ [last w i n t e r [ b y a family [of squirrels]^
Fairly closely associated with the factor of length in determining the
restructuring of a given / into smaller Is is the factor of the rate of speech.
The more quickly a string is uttered, the less likely it is to be broken down
into several intonational phrases. Thus, the faster the rate of speech, the
longer the Is of a given utterance tend to be; conversely, the slower the
rate of speech, the shorter the Is tend to be. In this way, some more
abstract notion of length in terms of timing or rhythm may be respected.
That is, in terms of timing, it may be that a quickly uttered long I is in
some sense equivalent to a more slowly uttered short/. Thus, for example,
if the sentence in (11) above is uttered at a fairly rapid tempo, it will
typically contain a single long I, as in (11a). If it is uttered more slowly,
however, it is more likely that the same sentence will contain two or
three shorter Is, as in (1 lb) and (1 lc), respectively.
In addition to length and the rate of speech, the style of speech also
plays a role in determining the restructuring of an / into several shorter
Is. It is usually the case that the more formal or pedantic the style, the
more likely it is for a long / to be divided into a series of shorter Is. This
is clearly related to the factor of rate of speech, since more formal styles
tend to correspond to a slower rate of utterance. Thus, if the sentence in
(14) is uttered in an informal colloquial way, it will most likely consist
of a single intonation contour, as in (14a). If, on the other hand, it is ut-
tered as part of a formal presentation, it may consist of two or three con-
tours, as indicated in (14b) and (14c), respectively.
(14) a. [jThe adult orangutan constructs a nest every evening out of
leaves and twigs]j
b. [jThe adult orangutan]j ^constructs a nest every evening out
of leaves and twigs]j
c. [jThe adult orangutan]j [jconstructs a nest every eveningjj
[jout of leaves and twigs]j
Finally, semantic considerations related to the contrastive prominence of a
particular part of an utterance may lead an I to be broken down into
smaller ones. In this regard, Bing (1979) distinguishes between contrastive
stress, which does not alter the I structure, and contrastive prominence,
which leads to the addition of an intonation contour within a string.
[of squirrels], ]j
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
196 Prosodic Phonology
For example, (15) can be read with contrastive stress on the word collect,
as indicated by the italics in the example, but this does not lead to the
division of the single / into two shorter ones.
(15) [jOur neighbors collect antique furniture]j
If, on the other hand, prominence is attributed to a phrase that normally
cannot have it, a new intonation contour is created. For example, while
pronouns are usually unstressed, under certain circumstances they become
semantically prominent and must receive stress. In such cases, the division
of / constituents must be modified (see Bing, 1979). It should be noted
that we are not referring here to contrastive stress, which may appear
on pronouns, as on any other type of word, as in Tell her to wait. This
is the same type of situation as was seen in (15), where contrastive stress
does not require a modification of / structure, but instead only determines
the position of the strong element within /. Contrastive prominence refers
to a different type of phenomenon. Consider, for example, the sentence
in (16a), which is assigned one / since it is dominated by a single root sen-
tence. The sentence in (16b) has the same syntactic structure, and thus is
also assigned one I by the basic / formation rule. The presence of the
pronouns, however, requires the listener to interpret this sentence in a
specific way, which cannot be the same as the interpretation of (16a).
The interpretation of (16b) must be expressed phonologically by placing
prominence on the pronouns and this, in turn, causes the single / to be
restructured as three smaller Is, as in (16c).
(16) a. [jPaul called Paula before Carla called Carl]j
b. [jPaul called Paula before she called him]j
c. [jPaul called Paula]j [jbefore she]^ [jcalled him]\
The different possibilities just seen for restructuring intonational phrases
all contribute to the flexibility that has been frequently observed in rela-
tion to the domains of intonation contours (see, among others, Selkirk,
1978b, 1984b; Bing, 1979). It is clear that as soon as this type of flexibil-
ity is required in delimiting a constituent, the constituent cannot be
isomorphic with any syntactic constituent since syntax does not allow for
the same type of regrouping of the components of a particular string.
In this respect, therefore, the phonological hierarchy differs significantly
from the syntactic hierarchy.
The flexibility seen in relation to the construction and restructuring of
I is not, however, completely free. Since the Strict Layer Hypothesis
requires that I exhaustively dominate one or more φ%, it follows that
whenever I restructuring occurs, it must occur at the juncture between two
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The International Phrase 197
0s. There are, furthermore, certain syntactic constraints on where an /
may be broken in order to form smaller Is. The most important factor
seems to be a general tendency to avoid restructuring an I in any position
other than at the end of a noun phrase. Thus, while the sentence in (17)
contains five 0s, there are only three likely ways of restructuring the
original single I formed by the basic I construction rule, as seen in (18a-c).
(17) [j[The giant panda]^ [eats]^ [only one t y p e [ o f bamboo
[in its natural habitat
(18) a. [j[The giant p a n d a [ j [ e a t s L · [only one type^
[of bamboo]^]j [j[in its natural habitat ] J j
b. [j[The giant p a n d a [ e a t s ] ^ [only one type of bamboo
Γ
_
Γ
ί
η i+e tnofurol lioKifotl Ί
_
I restructuring is not likely to occur after the verb eat, or after the noun
type, since it is not the end of a noun phrase (i.e. [only one type of
bamboo]^ p).
Further support for the proposal that / restructuring occurs at the end
of an NP, but not after a noun within an NP, comes from embedded pos-
sessive constructions such as that in (19a), and its Italian equivalent in
(19) a. [j[My friend's]^ [neighbor's]^ [aunt's]^ [mother[knows]^
[a famous writer
b. [j[La madre]^ [della zia]^ [del vicino]^ [della mia arnica
[conosce]^ [una famosa scrittriceJ^Jj
The only place in which the long Is in these two sentences may be di-
vided is after mother in (19a) and after arnica in (19b). Restructuring
after any of the other nouns would interrupt the noun phrase which is
the subject of the sentence, and is therefore avoided.
It should be noted that the principle that restructures Is after an NP
is another source of nonisomorphism between phonological and syntactic
constituents in certain cases. That is, restructuring in accordance with
the NP restriction may create prosodic structures that are not isomorphic
to syntactic structures. Consider the sentence in (20a) and its restructuring
in (20b).
(20) a. [jl would never have believed the children of John and Mary to
be able to become so ill-mannered ]j
(19b).7
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
198 Prosodic Phonology
b. [jl would never have believed the children of John and Mary]j
[jto be able to become so ill-mannered]j
Since the first I in (20b) does not represent a syntactic constituent, it is
clear that in this case, and in cases like it, the prosodic structure must be
different from the syntactic structure.
It should be noted, furthermore, that restructuring is not equally
likely to apply after all NPs. Rather, there is a further restriction on
dividing an / into smaller Is at the end of an NP that reflects the argument
structure of the predicate in question. That is, there seems to be a general
tendency to avoid separating an obligatory argument from its verb even if
such a division would respect the NP constraint. Optional arguments,
on the other hand, seem not to be affected by the same restriction. Thus,
the division of the / before the optional argument of the verb buys in
(21b) is more acceptable than the division before the obligatory argument
of gives in (22b), despite the fact that the syntactic structure of the two
sentences is identical.
(21) a. [jThat kind old lady always buys fresh meat for the stray cats
that live in the park]j
b. [jThat kind old lady always buys fresh meat]j [jfor the stray
cats that live in the park]j
(22) a. [jThat kind old lady always gives fresh meat to the stray cats
that live in the park]j
b.?*[jThat kind old lady always gives fresh meatjj [jto the stray
cats that live in the park]j
Thus, it can be concluded that while there is a general preference for
breaking an / after an NP, this preference may be restricted by the argu-
ment structure involved.
In addition to the context following an NP, restructuring of / may
take place in the context of a new S. That is, a long / may be divided
just before the beginning of an S, but only in cases in which this division
does not interrupt an NP. Thus, (23a) may be restructured as (23b),
but (24a) may not be restructured as (24b) since doing so would inter-
rupt an NP.
(23) a. [jl thought you already knew that Gertrude was moving to
southern ItalyJj
b. [jl thought you already knew]j fjthat Gertrude was moving to
southern Italy ]j
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Intonational Phrase 199
(24) a. [jl thought you knew the family that was moving to southern
Italy]j
b. *[jl thought you knew the family]j [jthat was moving to
southern Italyjj
These examples show that when the two syntactic factors that affect
I restructuring - the end of NP and the beginning of S - are in conflict,
it is the NP that 'wins'.
There are also cases in which the beginning of S may be in conflict
with the restriction against separating an obligatory argument from its
verb. As the examples in (25) and (26) show, in such cases it is the be-
ginning of S that 'wins'. That is, if necessary, it is possible to override the
constraint on restructuring an obligatory argument of a verb, but only if
the argument is a sentence. Thus, the division in (2.5b) is more acceptable
than that in (26b).
(25) a. [jOur next door neighbor truly believes that black cats bring
bad luck]j
b. [jOur next door neighbor truly believes]^ [jthat black cats
bring bad luckjj
(26) a. [jOur next door neighbor truly believes the myth about black
cats and bad luck]j
b.?*[jOur next door neighbor truly believes]j [jthe myth about
black cats and bad luck]j
A comparison of the three factors that constrain / restructuring reveals a
type of hierarchy among these factors. The strongest factor is the NP,
which may not be broken by restructuring. The second factor in terms
of strength seems to be S, which allows the creation of a new I, except in
cases in which this would break an NP. The formation of a new / at the
beginning of S may, however, counteract the effect of the third factor,
the restriction against separating an internal argument from its verb.
The fact that / restructuring tends to take place only in relation to two
syntactic contexts shows that in prosodic phonology the constituents NP
and S play particularly strong roles in determining the final division of a
string into Is. That NP and S behave in a somewhat special way in relation
to prosody is not surprising, however, since these are precisely the two
cyclic nodes, at least in languages such as English. Assuming that cyclicity
is, in fact, a relevant factor in determining the occurrence of/restructuring
in languages in which other categories are cyclic, the prediction can be
made that it will be this set of constituents that is relevant in constraining
/ restructuring (see Nespor and Vogel, 1982). There are, moreover, addition-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
200 Prosodic Phonology
al independent reasons in both syntax and semantics for considering NP and
S somewhat special domains (see, among others, Akmajian, 1975; Bach,
1977; Bing, 1979). The fact that the noun phrase seems to have the
stronger effect on I restructuring is, furthermore, consistent with obser-
vations made by Bing (1979), Gunter (1974), and Ladd (1980), among
others, to the effect that nouns are in some sense the most prominent or
'accentable' part of speech.8
As far as the role of obligatory arguments in
/ restructuring is concerned, the fact that they tend to inhibit division of
a string is a direct reflection of the interaction between argument structure
and phonology at the / level of the prosodic hierarchy. The fact that the
constraint against separating an obligatory argument from its verb is the
weakest of the three factors examined here seems to indicate, however,
that the effect of syntax on phonology is stronger than the effect of
argument structure.
While the vast majority of the cases of I restructuring seem to follow
the patterns and constraints discussed above, there are some special cases
that cannot be accounted for in the same way. It has often been observed
that lists and complexly embedded constructions have particular intona-
tion patterns. In fact, the / divisions in these cases often violate the general
principles proposed above. Consider first the sentences containing lists
in (27a-31a) and their possible restructurings in (27b-31b).
(27) a. [jThe big fat ugly beast scared away the children]j
b. [jThe big]j [jfat]j [jugly]j [jnasty beast ]j
[jscared away the children]j
(28) a. [jThat mountain road is long narrow windy and bumpy]j
b. [jThat mountain road is long]j [jnarrow]j [jwindy]j
[jand bumpyjj
(29) a. [jEveryone at the party ate talked sang and danced]j
b. [jEveryone at the party ate]j [jtalked]j [jsang]j
[jand danced]j
(30) a. [jDucks geese swans and coots inhabit this lake]j
b. [jDucks]j [jgeese]j [jswans]j [jand coots]j
[jinhabit this lake]j
(31) a. [jThey own two cats three dogs four parakeets and a turtle]j
b. [jThey own two cats]j [jthree dogs]j [jfour parakeets]j
[jand a turtle ]j
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Intonational Phrase 201
The optional restructuring shown in (27b) violates the NP constraint
since it divides the original / following APs and not NPs, and in such
a way that an NP is broken apart.9
The restructurings in (28b) and (29b)
also violate the NP constraint since they create new Is following APs
and VPs, respectively. While the restructurings of the lists in (30b) and
(31b) do not violate the NP constraint in the sense that they place the /
divisions after NPs, they do represent violations of the constraint in the
sense that they cause a single (complex) NP to be broken down. Since all
of the types of lists follow the same prosodic pattern, it is clear that what
is relevant is the fact that they are lists, regardless of the type of constitu-
ents involved. A special rule for optional restructuring of lists into separate
Is seems to be needed in addition to the general principles proposed above.
Such a rule can be formulated as follows:
(32) List Restructuring (optional)
In a sequence of more than two constituents of the same type, i.e.
χ , x2 - . .xn, an intonation break may be inserted before each
repetition of the node X, i.e. before χ , χ3 · . .χη·
It should be noted that the word 'repetition' in this rule does not re-
fer to the first X in the sequence but to those subsequent nodes that
are the same as X.
A less common type of list pattern arises when the list is separated to
a greater extent from the matrix sentence, as typically indicated by a
colon in orthography. This pattern is found in sentences like those exem-
plified in (33) and (34).
(33) a. Let's invite: Arnold, Arthur, Archibald, and Zachary.
b. [jLet's invite]j [jArnoldJj [jArthur]j [jArchibald]j
[jand ZacharyJj
(34) a. We were told to buy the following: milk, eggs, bread, and
cheese
b. [jWe were told to buy the following]j [jmilk]j [jeggs]j
[jbread]j [jand cheese]j
To handle these cases, it is only necessary to extend the notion of repe-
tition to cover the first X as well as subsequent Xs. In this way, a new /
is also formed at the beginning of the first instance of X.
Let us now consider embedded structures, the other area in which
I restructuring may apply in ways that violate the general constraints.
Each of the possible restructurings in (35b-37b) of the respective sentences
in (35a-37a) violates the general NP constraint on restructuring.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
202 Prosodic Phonology
(35) a. [jThe book in the bag in the box on the table in the study
belongs to Albertjj
b. [jThe book in the bag]j [jin the box]j [jon the table]j
[jin the study]j [jbelongs to Albert ]j
(36) a. [jThis is the cat that ate the rat that ate the cheese]j
b. [jThis is the cat]j [jthat ate the rat]j [jthat ate the cheese]j
(37) a. [jThe woman that represents the company that owns the stores
that sell the machines that brew coffee automatically is a friend
of mine]j
b. [jThe woman]j [jthat represents the company]j [that owns the
stores]j [jthat sell the machines]j [jthat brew coffee automati-
cally]j [jis a friend of mine]j
In each of the restructurings in (35b-37b), an NP is broken into more
than one I, contrary to the claim made above that / restructuring tends
to avoid interrupting an NP. It is clear, however, that in embedded struc-
tures such as those just given, the only way to divide the original long /
into shorter Is requires that an NP be broken into shorter strings.
Although the embedded structures are syntactically quite different
from the lists in (27)-(31), there is also a way in which the two types of
constructions are related to each other. Just as the lists contain sequences
of the same constituent X, the embedded structures can also be said to
contain sequences of a given node X. In (35), the repeated node is PP
and in (36) and (37), the repeated node is S, although these cases differ
from the lists in that the repetitions of X begin here before the preceding
X ends. It should be noted that in each of the cases in question there is
not only a particular node label that recurs several times in the string,
but there is also a periodic repetition of the same elements within X.
In some embedded structures, more than one type of node appears in
a repeating pattern, and in such cases it is necessary to have a way to
decide which of the nodes is to be considered the repeating X for the
purposes of / restructuring. In the case of (36), in addition to saying that
the repeating node is S, as in (38), it would also be possible to say that
the repeating node is NP, as in (39).
(38) This is the cat [g that ate the rat [§ that ate the cheese...
(39) This is [N p the cat that ate [Npthe rat that ate [Npthe cheese-
As far as the prosodic structure of such sentences is concerned, however,
there is not a choice. The division into Is can only be that seen in (36),
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The International Phrase 203
the one that corresponds to the repetition pattern in (38). Once again, the
noun seems to play a fundamental role in prosody, since in the cases in
which more than one type of X may be taken as the repeating node, the
division into shorter Is is always such that the /s end in a noun.
Before concluding our examination of restructuring of embedded con-
structions, it must be pointed out that not all cases can be handled as
repetitions. For example, the sentence in (40) has a complex embedded
structure, although the pattern of repeating nodes is not as regular as it is
in the embedded structures seen above.
(40) [j I know the artist that painted the picture of the woman that
wrote the book that won the acclaim of many]j
While there are three instances of S in this sentence, we cannot count them
as a list, as was done in the other embedded structures, since in (40) there
is not always a periodic repetition of the same elements in each case.
In fact, in such cases, it is much more difficult to decide where the single
long / corresponding to the root sentence may be broken down into
shorter Is. The results of a division on the basis of the three Ss is quite
unacceptable, as can be seen in (41).
(41) *[j I know the artist]j [j that painted the picture of the woman]j
[j that wrote the book]j [jthat won the acclaim of many]j
What lists and embedded structures show is that besides the basic prin-
ciples that govern I restructuring there are a few specific cases in which
additional principles are needed. These additional principles are not,
however, totally unrelated to those that account for the rest of the lan-
guage. That is, in the cases of lists and embedded structures that behave
like lists, we have seen that the notion of repetition is crucial. The prosod-
ic effect of this repetition is a series of Is that are of approximately the
same length. A similar principle was seen earlier in relation to the division
of more typical long Is into several shorter ones, where it was observed
that there is a general tendency to restructure Is such that the result is a
series of Is of more or less the same length. These principles, along with
the interacting factor of speech rate, seem to reflect a general abstract
rhythmic organization of speech into chunks of a more or less fixed
temporal length. In addition, in the case of embedded constructions,
in regular repetitions as well as others, it was observed that the noun plays
a central role in determining where intonation breaks may occur. While
in embedded constructions we cannot follow the principle used in other
cases of restructuring - that is, the introduction of an intonation break
at the end of an NP - the category Ν still seems to be relevant in restruc-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
204 Prosodic Phonology
turing, additional evidence of the special role the noun plays in prosody.
Finally, it should be noted that I restructuring provides additional
motivation for the n-ary branching trees proposed here, as opposed to
the binary branching trees proposed in earlier work on prosodic phonology
(see also section 1.2.1 above). In a binary branching structure, intermedi-
ate nodes are often formed between a given node of level Xn
, in the case I,
and the nodes of level X"'1
, in this case φ, as seen in (42).
(42) I
The additional nodes, indicated by the circles in (42), represent additional
constituent structure as well. That is, node a dominates a constituent
consisting of 02 - 04 , and node b dominates a constituent consisting of
φ3 - 04 · The presence of such constituents internal to / would seem to
indicate, further, that this structure should be respected during / restruc-
turing. This was in fact proposed in Nespor and Vogel (1982), where it
was suggested that / restructuring was possible only when the new Is
that split off from the larger one represented a constituent in the original
tree. Only in special cases of emphasis was some other division allowed.
The predictions made in relation to (42) by such a claim are that the /
consisting of φι - 04 could be broken down only as shown in (43).
(43) a. I I b. I I
Φι Φ2 Φ3
A new I could not be created from φ2 and 03 . There are, however, cases
in which precisely this combination represents the correct restructuring,
as seen in (44).
(44) a. [j[European wild cats]^ [often make]^ [their winter dens]^
[in dead tree trunks]^ ]j
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The International Phrase 205
b. [^[European wild cats]^ ]j [jfoften make]^
[their winter dens]^ ]j [j[in dead tree t r u n k s ^ J j
A similar problem also arises with (18a) above, where restructuring of five
0s creates a new / from 02 - 04 , a string which would not form a constitu-
ent in a binary branching tree. These examples, and many others like
them, cannot be accounted for on the grounds that they represent cases of
special emphasis, as was originally proposed, since in fact they represent
quite neutral pronunciations. It would, of course, be possible to ignore the
internal constituent structure in I restructuring, but doing so would de-
stroy one of the functions of precisely this structure.
The use of n-ary branching trees avoids the problems just seen in
relation to binary branching trees. That is, since there is no additional
constituent structure between / and 0, restructuring may group any se-
quence of 0s into smaller Is, as long as the division respects the syntactic
and argument structure conditions as well as the general timing conditions
discussed above. The proposed restructurings in (44) and (18a) respect
these conditions.
Thus far, we have only examined the intonational phrase from the
point of view of intonation contours, potential pause positions, and
relative prominence patterns. While these phenomena would be adequate
in themselves as motivation for the I constituent in phonology, there are
still other phenomena that operate within /. Specifically, in the following
sections, it will be demonstrated that there are also segmental phonological
rules that have / as their domain of application.
7.3. Segmental rules in the intonational phrase
For every prosodic constituent we have examined thus far, we have
found what we are calling prosodic rules in a variety of languages. The
constituent / is no exception, as will be demonstrated below on the basis
of several rules in Italian, Spanish, and Greek. Since I is a fairly flexible
entity, it follows that the domains of application of /-level rules must
also be flexible. That this is in fact the case will also be shown in relation
to each of the rules discussed below.
7.3.1. Italian
The first sandhi rule we will examine here is Gorgia Toscana (GT),
a rule that is found in the Tuscan variety of Italian. As was mentioned ear-
lier (section 2.3.1), this rule essentially changes the voiceless stops /p, t, k/
into the corresponding fricatives [0, Θ, h] between two [-consonantal]
segments within and across words.10
On the basis of our recordings of over
900 sentences read by five speakers of Tuscan Italian from Florence
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
206 Prosodic Phonology
and the immediately surrounding areas, we have found that GT applies
throughout the domain corresponding to the intonational phrase as
defined by the I construction and restructuring rules discussed above,
while it does not apply across the boundaries of intonational phrases. This
is illustrated by the examples in (45), where indicates that GT applies
and indicates that it does not apply. We will limit our attention to the
application of GT to /k/, the most common form of the rule.
(45) a. [jHanno catturato sette canguri appena nati]j
"They have captured seven newly born kangaroos.'
b. [jl canarini congolesi costano molto cari in America]j
'Congolese canaries are very expensive in America.'
c. [jCerte tartarughe]j [j come si sa]j [j vivono fino a duecento
anni]j
'Certain turtles, as you know, live up to two hundred years.'
d. [jAlmericojj [j cjuando dorme solo]j [j cade spesso
dall'amaca]j
'Almerico, when he sleeps alone, often falls out of the
hammock.'
In each of these sentences, the / structure is that determined by the basic
/ formation rule given above in (5). It was shown in section 7.2, however,
that there are also certain conditions under which the original division of
a string into /s may be modified by restructuring rules. When this happens,
it is the final, restructured / structure that determines the domains within
which GT applies. Thus, while the sentence in (46) is assigned a single I
by the basic / formation rule, as indicated in (46a), it may also be restruc-
tured as two shorter Is with a break after an NP, as indicated in (46b).
(46) a. [jll pericolosissimo struzzo nigeriano corre piü velocemente di
quello siriano]j
'The extremely dangerous Nigerian ostrich runs faster than the
Syrian one.'
b. [jll pericolosissimo struzzo nigeriano]j [j corre piü
velocemente di quello siriano]j
In the first case, the reading with one intonation contour, GT applies to
corre 'runs' since the initial /k/ of this word is preceded and followed by
[-consonantal] segments within the same I. In the second case, however,
the presence of two intonation contours indicates that restructuring has
broken down the longer / into two smaller ones such that the [-conso-
nantal] segment preceding /k/ is no longer in the same I as the /k/. Since
GT only applies when the entire segmental context of the rule is within
I, it does not apply to corre in (46b).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The In tonational Phrase 207
The same pattern can be observed in other types of sentences that
undergo restructuring for different reasons as well. For example, if the
list in (47) is uttered as a single I, GT applies as indicated in (47a); how-
ever, if it is restructured and uttered as four Is, GT is blocked in certain
positions, as indicated in (47b).
(47) a. [jQuel giardino ha una gabbia piena di corvi canarini colibri
e pellicani]j
'That garden has a cage full of crows, canaries, hummingbirds,
and pelicans.'
b. [jQuel giardino ha una gabbia piena di corvi]j [j canarini]j
[j colibri ]j [je pellicani]
Similarly, if embedded constructions are divided into a series of Is, GT is
blocked when the I division falls within the context of the rule. This can
be seen by comparing the indicated applications of GT in the sentence in
(48a) with those in the restructured form of the same sentence in (48b).
(48) a. [jQuesto e il gatto che ha mangiato il topo che ha mangiato il
formaggiojj
'This is the cat that ate the mouse that ate the cheese.'
b. [jQuesto e il gatto ]j [j che ha mangiato il topo]j [j che ha
mangiato il formaggio]j+ +
The fact that GT applies throughout the constituent I but not across Is
means that it is a span rule with the intonational phrase as its domain of
application.11
This can be expressed by means of the following rule, which
accounts for the most common changes of /p, t, k/ to [φ, θ, h].
(49) Gorgia Toscana
[+cont] / [j . . . [-cons] [-cons] ...]j
-cont
-voice
- del rel
The flexibility of the intonational phrase seen above in relation to the
positions of intonation breaks and the domains of intonation contours is
thus reflected in the /-level segmental rule GT as well. That is, we have
seen that the various restructuring possibilities for / may result in dif-
ferences in the application of a rule such as GT. It is clear that a purely
syntactic specification of the domain of application of GT is not feasible,
since there is no way to take into account the different possibilities for
the application or lack of application depending on such factors as
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
208 Prosodic Phonology
the length of the original sentence and special situations such as lists. Thus,
the problem raised in Chapter 2 (section 2.3) by the fact that a rule
such as GT does not apply consistently in relation to a given type of syn-
tactic structure is resolved by the phonological constituent I. That is,
it was pointed out that GT often applies between NP and VP, but not
always, as seen in (50a) and (50b), respectively.
(50) a. [jGli uccelli costruiscono i nidi]j
'Birds construct nests.'
b. [jCerti tipi di uccelli trovati solo in Australia]j [j costruiscono
dei nidi complicatissimi a due piani]j
'Certain types of birds found only in Australia construct very
complicated two-story nests.'
It should be noted that although the syntactic complexity of (50b) is
greater than that of (50a), this is not the crucial factor in determining
the different prosodic constituency in the two cases. That it is indeed
length that is the relevant factor can be seen in (51a) and (51b), where the
former is syntactically more complex than the latter: the subject NP in
(51a) has both a specifier and a complement containing coordination,
while the subject NP in (51b) contains only a head. Since (51a) is shorter
than (51b), however, the general tendency is for the first sentence, but
not the second sentence, to form a single /, as indicated by the applica-
tion vs. nonapplication of GT.
(51) a. [jLa gru rossa e bianca cade semprejj
'The red and white crane always falls.'
b. [jGiovanbattista Leonardo Confalonierijj [j colleziona
fenicotteri]j f
'Giovanbattista Leonardo Confalonieri collects flamingos.'
It was also pointed out that GT often applies within a VP, but not always,
as is illustrated in (51a) and (51b), respectively.
(52) a. [jOsservano i cardellini col cannocchialejj
'(They) observe the goldfinches with the binoculars.'
b. [jOsservano il rarissimo colibri peruviano con le penne azzure]j
[j con un cannocchiale particolarmente adatto alia situazione]j
'(fhey) observe the very rare Peruvian hummingbird with blue
feathers with binoculars particularly suitable for the situation.'
By formulating GT in terms of the prosodic constituent I, the application
vs. nonapplication of the rule (50)-(52) is automatically accounted for.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Intonational Phrase 209
That is, in short sentences (such as (50a) and (51a)) and short VPs (such
as (52a)), there is usually a single / and GT thus applies throughout these
strings. In longer sentences (e.g. (50b) and (51b)) and longer VPs (e.g.
(52b)), however, there is the possibility of restructuring a long / into
shorter ones, and in such cases, the context of GT may be interrupted
and the rule is consequently blocked.
Another rule of Tuscan Italian exhibits the same behavior as GT. This
rule, Intervocalic Spirantization (IS), changes the affricates /t// and Ιά^Ι
into the corresponding fricatives [/] and [3], respectively, between [-con-
sonantal] segments within and across words. As the examples in (53)
show, this rule applies within /, but it does not apply across Is. ('_' indi-
cates that the rule applies to the segment in question and ' ' indicates that
it does not apply.)
(53) a. [jll mio criceto cerca il suo cibo negli angoli della gabbia]j
'My hamster looks for its food in the corners of the cage.'
b. [jTemevano che la nuova giraffa ci avrebbe disturbato durante
la cena]j
'(They) were afraid the new giraffe would have disturbed us
during dinner.'
c. [jEleonora]j [j giudice da anni]j [j gioca spesso a carte]j
'Eleonora, a jud£e for years, often pläys cards.'
d. [jSanto cielo]j [j c'e un verme in questa ciliegia]j
'Good heavens, there's a worm in this cherry.'
The / constituents indicated in these sentences are those assigned by the
basic / formation rule. Where I restructuring may apply, we find the same
variable application of IS as was seen in relation to GT. That is, if a given
string is uttered as a single I, IS applies throughout the entire string. If,
however, a long I is broken down into shorter Is, IS applies only within the
shorter Is, but not across their boundaries. This can be seen by comparing
the application vs. nonapplication of IS in the long Is in (54a-57a).
(54) a. [jll vecchio orso che vive in quella tana gira spesso intorno alle
case di nottejj
'The old bear that lives in that den often wanders around the
houses at night.'
b. [jll vecchio orso che vive in quella tana]j [j gira spesso intorno
alle case di notte]j /
(55) a. [jHanno scoperto un rarissimo tipo di tartaruga circa tre anni
dopo che era stata dichiarata la sua estinzione]j
'They discovered an extremely rare type of turtle about three
years after it had been declared extinct.'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
210 Prosodic Phonology
b. [jHanno scoperto un rarissimo tipo di tartaruga]j [j circa tre
anni dopo che era stata dichiarata la sua estinzionejj'
a. [jHanno citato cinque recensioni cinquanta libri cento articoli
e duecento lavori inediti] j
'They cited five reviews, fifty books, one hundred articles, and
two hundred unpublished works.'
b. [jHanno citato cinque recensioni]j [j cinquanta libri]j [j cento
articoli]j [je duecento lavori inediti]j7
" ^
a. [jGli ho detto ciö che pensavo dell'affare circa il quale
Cinzia mi ha parlato ieri]j
Ί told him what I thought about the affair about which Cinzia
spoke to me yesterday.'
b. [jGli ho detto ciö che pensavo dell'affare]^ [j circa il quale
Cinzia mi ha parlato ieri]j t
In the first two examples, (54) and (55), restructuring can take place
according to the general principles having to do with such factors as
the length of the string and the rate of speech. In both cases, the original
/ is divided such that the intonation break falls at the end of an NP. In
the list and embedded construction in (56) and (57), respectively, the
division into shorter Is takes place in accordance with the special restruc-
turing rule and the tendency for an I to end in a noun. That is, the divi-
sions are placed at the beginning of a repeated node in (56b), and such
that the new / division follows a noun in (57b), although it should be
noted that there may be some difficulty in dividing the last sentence since
the embedded constituents do not represent a series of repetitions of the
same structure.
On the basis of the domains within which IS has been found to apply,
it is possible to formulate the following rule that accounts for this
phenomenon:
(58) Intervocalic Spirantization
+del. rel.l ->· [+cont] / [j . . . [-cons] [-cons] . ·. ]j
-ant J
As this rule shows, IS is a span rule that applies any place in which its
segmental context occurs within an intonational phrase.
As we have seen in this section, the data on GT and IS further con-
firm the proposed definition of / as well as the flexible nature of this
constituent. In this way, the rules in question provide motivation for a
(56)
(57)
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The In tonational Phrase 211
separate phonological constituent that is not isomorphic with any syn-
tactic constituent since there are no constituents in the syntactic hierar-
chy that a) provide the necessary domains of application of GT and IS,
or b) allow for the type of flexibility observed in the application of these
rules.
7.3.2. Spanish
As was mentioned in section 2.3.1 above, the rule of Nasal Assimilation
(NA) in Spanish exhibits a certain degree of flexibility in its application,
similar to the application of the two Italian rules just seen. Since / is the
phonological constituent that offers the greatest flexibility as a result of
its restructuring possibilities, it would appear that this constituent is the
most likely candidate for expressing the domain of application of NA.
In fact, the sentences below illustrate that the intonational phrase re-
presents the appropriate domain of application for the rule that assimi-
lates a nasal in point of articulation to a following obstruent within and
across words in Spanish.12
The nasals that assimilate to the following con-
sonant are marked with and those that do not assimilate are marked
with «
(59) a.
b.
c.
d.
[jTenian diez canguros en un parque muy cerca de acqui]j
'(They) used to have ten kangaroos in a park very near here.'
[jLas plumas de faisän cuestan tantisimo hoy dia]j
'Pheasant feathers are very expensive nowadays.'
[jUn gran balcon]j [jcomo sabenjj [jpuede ofrecer mucho
placer]j t
*
Ά large balcony, as they know, can offer much pleasure.'
[jCarmen]j [jcäntanos una nueva cancion]j [jpor favor]j
'Carmen, sing us a new song, please.'
In these examples, there are cases of NA within words - for example,
canguros 'kangaroos', cdntanos 'sing us' - and across words within an I
- for example, tienen diez '(they) have ten', un parque 'a park\ faisän
cuestan 'pheasant cost'. It can also be seen that NA does not apply across
words that are in two different Is - for example, balcon como 'balcony
as', saben puede '(they) know can', cancion por favor 'song please'.
That NA does not always apply in the same way to a given type of
constituent but instead may depend on such factors such as the length of
the string in question, can be seen, furthermore, in the examples in (60)
and (61) below. That is, it is illustrated that NA applies regularly within
a VP and between the subject and predicate of a sentence in (60a) and
(60b), respectively. The examples in (61a) and (61b), on the other hand,
show that the rule does not apply in longer VPs and sentences, respective-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
212 Prosodic Phonology
ly, where restructuring has taken place such that the context for NA is
interrupted.
(60) a. [jDicen que el delfin es muy inteligente]j
'(They) say that the dolphin is very intelligent.'
b. [jMi faisän come tres veces por dia]j
'My pheasant eats three times a day.'
(61) a. [jUsa su sombrero carisimo con seis plumas de tucanjj
[j cuando desea crear la impresion que es una persona muy
importantejj
'(She) wears her very expensive hat within six toucan feathers
when she wants to create the impression that she is a very im-
portant person.'
b. [jMuchos estudios sobre el comportamiento del delfin]j [jcon-
cluyen que algunos tipos de delfines son mäs inteligentes que
otros]j
'Many studies about the behavior of dolphins conclude that
some types of dolphins are more intelligent than others.'
It should be noted that the divisions of the strings in (61) do not repre-
sent the only possibilities. If the same sentences are uttered more quickly
and perhaps in a more colloquial style, such restructurings may not take
place. In this case, the / structure would be that assigned by the basic I
construction rule. The two sentences in question would thus consist of
one / each, and NA would apply as indicated in (62).
(62) a. [jUsa su sombrero carisimo con seis plumas de tucän cuando
desea crear la impresion que es una persona muy importante]j
b. [jMuchos estudios sobre el comportamiento del delfin con-
cluyen que algunos tipos de delfines son mäs inteligentes que
otros]j
In addition to the general principles for / restructuring which account for
the divisions seen above in (61), it is necessary in Spanish, too, to include
the same special principles for breaking down lists and embedded struc-
tures into shorter Is. This can be seen by comparing the application of NA
in the unrestructured /s in (63a) and (64a) with the lack of application
in the restructured forms of these sentences in (63b) and (64b), respective-
ly-
(63) a. [jQueria invitar a Juan Carmen Carlos y Beatriz]j
Ί would like to invite Juan, Carmen, Carlos and Beatriz.'
b. [jQueria invitar a Juan]j [jCarmen]j [jCarlos]j [jy Beatriz]j
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The International Phrase 213
(64) a. [jEso es el escorpion que espanto al tucan que espanto al faisan
que se paseaba en el jardinjj
'That is the scorpion that frightened the toucan that frightened
the pheasant that was taking a walk in the garden.'
b. [jEso es el escorpionjj [jque espanto al tucan]j [jque espanto al
faisan]j [jque se paseaba en el jardinjj ^
The data considered in this section demonstrate that syntactic constituents
cannot be taken as the domain of application of NA in Spanish for the
same reasons they cannot be taken as the domain of application of GT and
IS in Italian. That is, it was seen that the application of Nasal Assimila-
tion is sensitive to such factors as the length of a given string, and as a
result, it can apply differently to the same types of constituents of differ-
ing lengths. In addition, the possibility of dividing a given string into I
constituents in more than one way by applying the restructuring rules as
well as the basic / formation rule allows for a certain degree of variability
in the application of NA. That is, depending on such factors as rate and
style of speech, as well as the length of a particular string, NA may apply
in a given position when the sentence is uttered in one way but not when
it is uttered in another way. In syntax, constituents are uniquely defined
on the basis of their structural properties, and all constituents of a given
type are assigned the same structure regardless of their length and other
nonstructural considerations such as speed and style of speech. On these
grounds, we propose that the form of the Nasal Assimilation rule in
Spanish is as follows:
(65) Nasal Assimilation13
[+nasal]
[aantl
j3cor] / [i...
" -son
α ant
β COT
7.3.3. Greek
The last language we will consider here is Greek. The rule of s-Voicing
(SV) in Greek applies both within words and across words, as do the other
rules we have examined in this chapter. Specifically, according to SV /s/
is voiced when it is followed by a voiced [+consonantal] segment (see
Setatos, 1974), as illustrated in (66), where '_' in the phonetic transcrip-
tion (i.e. the second line of each example) indicates an /s/ that assimilates
to the voicing of the following segment and ' ' indicates an /s/ that does
not assimilate.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
214 Prosodic Phonology
(66) a. κόσμος
[kosmos]
'people'
b. άσβεστος
[äsvestos]
'inextinguishable'
c. Θέλεις να πάς;
[0elis na pas]
'Do you want to go?'
d. Ο πατέρας μας είχε πολλές δουλειές
[ο pateras mas ixe poles öulies]
'Our father had many jobs to do.'
SV does not apply across just any two words when its segmental context
is present, however, but only across words that are in the same /, as
illustrated by the sentences in (67), where the square brackets in the
second line of each example indicate the / structure.
(67) a. Ο δάσκαλος μας λέει ότι πρέπει να διαβάσεις δύο βιβλία για τις
εξετάσεις.
[j ο öäskalos mas lei oti prepi na öyaväsis 8 ίο vivlia yä tis
eksetäsis]j
'The teacher tells us that you must read two books for the
exams.'
b. Ο Πέτρος δεν είναι μαθημένος να τρώει αχινούς με ψωμί.
[j ο petros öen ine ma0imenos na tröi aximis me psomi]j
'Petros is not used to eating sea urchins with bread.'
c. Ο άνδρας αυτός, μου φαίνεται, είναι πολύ έξυπνος.
[j ο änöras aftos]j [jmu fenete]j [jine poli'eksipnos]j
"This man, it seems to me, is very bright.'
d. Εκείνος ο άνδρας, μάρτυςμου ο θεός, δεν θα μπείποτέ στο
σπίτι μου.
[jekinos ο änöras]j [jmärtis mu ο 0eos]j [jöen 0a bi pote sto
spiti mu]j ' ^
'This man, God be my witness, will never enter my house.'
It should be noted that the I structure indicated in these examples is that
assigned by the basic / formation rule proposed earlier. What this shows
is that the divisions that are relevant for intonation breaks and contours
in English and certain segmental rules in Italian and Spanish are the same
divisions that delimit the domains of application of SV in Greek. We can
thus formulate the following rule for SV, which shows that it is an / span
rule, that is, a rule that applies whenever its segmental context is present
within an intonational phrase.14
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The International Phrase 215
(68) s-Voicing
+vce
+strid
+cont
[+vce] / [j [+consl
+vce J ••'•'I
As was seen in relation to the other phonological rules examined in the
preceding sections of this chapter, rules that apply at the / level typically
exhibit a certain degree of variability in their application. This is a direct
result of the flexible nature of the / constituent itself. As the examples
in (69) and (70) show, SV is no exception to this pattern. That is, it may
apply in a long I if the I is uttered fairly quickly, but it is blocked when
the / is restructured in slower speech in such a way that the division inter-
rupts the segmental context of the rule.
(69) a. To σπίτι τιςμητέραςτης Μαρία ς μου αρέσει πολύ.
[jto spiti tis miteras tis Marias mu aresi poli']j
'The house of the mother of Mary pleases me a lot.'
b. [jto spiti tis miteras tis Marias]j [jiriu aresi poli]j
(70) a. Στην Ελλάδα ο κόσμος δεν είναι μαθημένος να πίνει καφέ
μετά το φαγητό.
[jstin eläöa ο kosmos Sen ine maöimenos na pini kafe metä to
fajitojj
'In Greece people are not used to drinking coffee after meals.'
b. [jstin elaöa ο kosmos Sen ine maöimenosjj [jna pini kafe metä
to fajitojj *
These two examples illustrate the general / restructuring principles. In
(69b), the original / has been divided following an NP, and in (70b),
the original / has been divided before the beginning of a new S that is not
part of an NP, and thus does not result in the interruption of an NP.
As might be expected on the basis of the similarity between the hehavior
of SV and that of the other rules seen above, the application of SV is
also affected by the special cases of / restructuring observed in lists and
embedded structures. Thus, SV applies in the unrestructured strings in
(71a) and (72a), but not in the restructured ones in (71b) and (72b).
(71) a. Θα μου άρεζε να αγοράσω αχινούς μπακαλιάρους μπαρμπούνια
και χταπόδια.
[j0a mu äreze na a7oräso axinus bakaljärus barbunja ke
xtapööjajj
Ί would like to buy sea urchins, cod, mullets, and octopus.'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
216 Prosodic Phonology
b. [j0a mu areze na a7oräso axinus]j [jbakaljärus]j [jbarbunyaJj
[jke xtapööjajj ^ ^
(72) a. Εχω Sei τους αστακούς μισοπαγωμένους από τους -ποντικούς,
δυναστευμένους από τους γάτους διαλυμένους από τους
σκύλους λιγδιασμένους από το λίπος.
[jexo öi tus astaküs misofayomenus apo tus pontiküs
öinastevmenus apo tus yätus öjalimenus apo tus sküus
li7Öjasmenus apo to lipos]j
Ί have seen the lobsters half eaten by the mice destroyed by the
cats dispersed by the dogs soiled with grease.'
b. [jexo δί tus astakiis]j [jmisofa7omenus apo tus pontikiis]j
[jöinastevmenus apo tus yätusjj [jöjalimenus apo tus skilus]j
[jliYÖjasmenus apo to liposjj^ f
The application of SV in certain contexts and its lack of application in
others provides further motivation for the definition of the intonational
phrase proposed earlier in this chapter. That is, it was shown in this sec-
tion that SV applies within a root sentence, within the types of construc-
tions that form obligatory Is, and within the strings that are sisters of such
Is, but it does not apply across the juncture between two Is. It was demon-
strated, furthermore, that SV, like the other /-level phenomena examined
in this chapter, is sensitive to such nonsyntactic factors as the length
of a string and its rate of utterance to the extent that they may have an
effect on the restructuring of a given string into shorter Is. The special
intonational properties of lists and embedded constructions were also
observed in relation to the application of SV. Finally, the fact that the
division of a string into Is by the basic / formation rule and the restruc-
turing rules often results in constituents that are not isomorphic to any
constituents found elsewhere in the grammar, as well as the fact that syn-
tactic constituents cannot offer the flexibility needed in order to account
for the domain of application of SV, provides additional evidence for the
intonational phrase as a constituent in the phonological hierarchy.
7.4. Conclusions
In this chapter, another prosodic constituent, the intonational phrase,
was motivated and rules for its construction and possible restructuring
were proposed. The original definition of the domain of /was based on the
domains over which intonation contours extend and the positions of
potential rule-governed pauses in English. It was shown, however, that in
addition to accounting for such nonsegmental phenomena, I also cor-
rectly delimits the domain of application of segmental rules in several
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Intonational Phrase 217
languages: Italian, Spanish, and Greek. As was the case for φ, syntactic
information must also be referred to in the construction of I. The nature
of the syntactic information needed to define the I domain is so general,
however, that it was proposed that the / formation rule is, in fact, uni-
versal. Furthermore, the two essential syntactic notions, that of structural
attachment to the tree and that of root sentence, lend support to the
general principle of prosodic constituent formation according to which
the higher the constituent is in the hierarchy, the more general the prin-
ciples are for its definition. It should be recalled that the definition of the
domain of φ, the constituent immediately under I in the hierarchy,
required somewhat more specific syntactic notions, such as the head of a
phrase and its recursive side.
It was shown, further, that the intonational phrase may under certain
circumstances undergo restructuring, a process seen in relation to the
phonological phrase, and one that will be seen again in the next chapter
in relation to the phonological utterance. While restructuring in φ is quite
rigidly determined, restructuring in I is much more flexible. It was shown,
in particular, that / restructuring often depends on such nonsyntactic
factors as the length of a given I, the rate and style of speech, and special
semantic prominence considerations. Syntax is relevant to/restructuring,
as is argument structure, only in the sense that the positions in which
intonation breaks may occur are restricted by the structure of the string
involved. That is, while restructuring may be warranted on the grounds
of the length of a particular I, for example, where the breaks may be
introduced depends on such factors as whether an NP ends or a new S
begins at a given point, or whether a given constituent is an obligatory
or an optional argument of a given verb. In other words, the relevant
notions are that of cyclic node and argument structure. Furthermore,
since the end of an NP represents a stronger restriction on restructuring
that the beginning of an S, the other cyclic node, and since the presence
of an obligatory argument represents a stronger restriction than the
presence of an optional argument, the combination of the two relatively
stronger factors yields the strongest type of restriction.
In addition to the general / restructuring phenomena, two special struc-
tures, lists and embedded constructions, were examined since they raise
problems with respect to the division of a string into intonational phrases.
It was proposed to handle these cases with a separate restructuring rule
that makes crucial use of the notion of repetition, perhaps as a reflection
of a more abstract notion of timing and rhythm. In the special restruc-
turing cases, the noun was shown to play a central role as well. This is not
surprising, nor is the fact that the constituents NP and S play a central role
in the general restructuring rule, since, as was pointed out, the noun has
been claimed to be the most 'accentable' part of speech and thus one that
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
218 Prosodic Phonology
is of particular importance to prosodic phenomena. It is also the case that
the two syntactic constituents referred to in restructuring (NP and S) are
somewhat special in other ways in syntax and semantics as well.
The division between a basic constituent construction rule and addition-
al restructuring rules seen in this chapter is similar to the division seen in
the chapter on φ and to the division that will be seen in the next
chapter, on U. What such a division shows is that phonological constituent
formation consists of two qualitatively different rule types. In each case,
there is a basic rule that applies obligatorily and in all languages; this
gives the fundamental prosodic structure. In addition, there are other
rules that may or may not apply, depending on a variety of syntactic and
nonsyntactic factors; when they apply, these yield a derived prosodic
structure.
Whether basic or derived, all Is exhibit internal patterns of relative
prominence, as do all the other prosodic constituents. The position of the
stressed element within / is quite variable, however, a fact that distinguish-
es I from the other constituents. This variability was shown to be the re-
sult of the type of criteria that determine the position of stress within
I. That is, since stress is essentially assigned on the basis of semantic
prominence principles such as focus or given vs. new information, it fol-
lows that a particular string may be uttered with different stress patterns
depending on the situation, both linguistic and nonlinguistic. This fact,
along with certain facts about restructuring, was shown to provide support
for the n-ary branching trees proposed in this book, as opposed to the
binary trees proposed in earlier work on prosodic phonology.
Finally, it was shown on several grounds that the phonological con-
stituent / is able to account for both the segmental and nonsegmental
phenomena examined in this chapter, where syntactic constituents fail
to do so. In particular, it was shown that in certain situations the strings
that make up an intonational phrase, and thus constitute the domain of
application of phonological rules, are not isomorphic to any constituent
found in syntax. It was also shown that the flexible nature of / is, by
definition, incompatible with syntactic constituent structure according
to which a given string is assigned a unique analysis on the basis of struc-
tural relations among the words in the string. Such factors as the length
of the string and the rate of speech, which are essential in determining the
ultimate division of a string into Is, are beyond the scope of syntax.
NOTES
1. For an analysis of the actual intonation contours, see a number of articles printed
in Bolinger (1965) and such works as Crystal (1969), Ladd (1980), Bing (1979),
and Pierrehumbert (1980).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Intonational Phrase 219
2. We are referring here only to grammar-related pauses, as opposed to those that
depend solely on performance factors and cannot, therefore, be said to be rule-
governed (see Bierwisch, 1966; Downing, 1970; Bing, 1979).
3. Although Selkirk (1984b) accounts for obligatory Is in terms of semantic rather
than syntactic criteria, her set of constructions is essentially the same as the set
identified syntactically.
4. Very similar results are obtained by Bing's (1979) analysis in terms of R con-
stituents.
5. On the analogy of a somewhat similar example in Emonds (1976), it might be
possible, although questionable, to consider the sequence Isabelle is to be a consti-
tuent, i.e. S. It should be noted, however, that even in Emonds's (1976:45) formula-
tion of the parenthetical rule there is no requirement that the string to the left of
the parenthetical element be a constituent, as indicated by the variable X in the rule:
[ ς Χ "
NP
AP
S
VP
PP
Is "
s
PP
1 — 0 — 3 — 2
6. While both the notion of length and the process of restructuring are relevant in
syntax as well as in phonology, their effects on the final syntactic and phonological
structures, respectively, are quite different. In syntax, length plays a role, for ex-
ample, in Heavy NP Shift, where 'heavy' means 'long'. The role of restructuring in
syntax is typically that of joining more than one element into a single longer element,
as in the case of verb restructuring in Italian, discussed by Rizzi (1976). In phonolo-
gy, however, restructuring can also break apart a given element, as will be seen in
this section.
7. It should be noted that the genitives to the left of mother will first be grouped
with the head noun into a single φ by the φ construction rule seen in Chapter 6
since they are on the nonrecursive side of the head. It seems, however, that in strings
of such pre-head modifiers some type of restructuring takes place so that these
modifiers may form 0s on their own, as indicated in (19a).
8. 'Accentable' refers to an inherent property of nouns, and not to the special
situation in which heavy stress may be applied for contrastive or emphatic purposes.
In such cases, clearly any type of word may bear a strong stress, as in: Don't invite
that unbearable egotist or Put the magazine under the book.
9. Note that this type of sentence also gives rise to a problem in relation to φ since
the adjectives to the left of the head of the NP, beast, will be joined into a single
φ with beast by the basic φ construction rule. This is similar to the problem seen
above in relation to the pre-head genitives in (19a) (see also footnote 7). Restructuring
will have to take place to assign φ status to the adjectives in sentences such as that in
(27), as it does to the pre-head genitives.
10. There is actually some variability in the resulting segment. For example, /k/
may be realized as [x], [kx], or even null, as well as [h]. This phonetic variation is
not relevant, however, to the present discussion.
11. It should be noted that GT is quite variable in its application and, furthermore,
is somewhat stigmatized in Italian (though not in the Florentine dialect). On the
basis of additional informal observations, it seems that at least some speakers may
allow GT across /s as well. In such cases, GT would be a t/-domain rule rather than an
/-domain rule and would thus belong with the phenomena discussed in the next chap-
ter. Given the wide variation in the application of GT, in order to do justice to the
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
220 Prosodic Phonology
rule one would have to control for a number of factors that lie beyond the scope
of this book, such as the age, sex, and social status of the speaker and the rate and
style of speech. Our discussion of GT is based uniquely on the data described in the
text.
12. While Nasal Assimilation is a widespread phenomenon in all varieties of Spanish,
the observations here are made specifically in relation to Porteno, the variety of
Spanish spoken in Buenos Aires, since this is the variety spoken by the native speak-
ers we interviewed.
13. The exact specification of the features may need to be modified slightly in
order to account for fine distinctions in point of articulation such as the difference
between dental and alveolar articulations (see Harris, 1969). The ultimate choice of
features does not affect the point we are making here and we will therefore not
discuss it further.
14. For the distinctive features of Greek, see Malikouti (1970) and Kontou (1973).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Chapter 8
The Phonological Utterance
8.0. Introduction
The last phonological constituent we will consider is the phonological
utterance (U), the largest constituent in the prosodic hierarchy. A U
consists of one or more intonational phrases, the category just below
it in the hierarchy, and usually extends the length of the string dominated
by the highest node of a syntactic tree, which we will refer to as Xn
.
This is not to say, however, that U is simply the phonological counterpart
of Xn
, a phonological constituent introduced only to avoid making direct
reference to syntax in the formulation of phonological rules. In fact,
Xn
and U are not always the same, as will be demonstrated on the basis of
several phonological rules that operate within the U domain, but not
within the confines of X". It is precisely this type of discrepancy that
provides the strongest motivation for the U constituent in phonology
since, once again, we are faced with phonological phenomena whose
domains of application cannot be formulated strictly in terms of the con-
stituent structure provided by syntax. It will be shown in this chapter that
the phonological utterance, like the other prosodic constituents, makes
use of syntactic information in its definition, though the end result is not
necessarily isomorphic to any syntactic constituent. U will also be shown
to undergo a process of restructuring under certain circumstances, in
much the same way that the prosodic categories below it in the hierarchy
do. What is particularly interesting about fZ-level restructuring, however,
is that it depends not only on phonological and syntactic factors, but also
on factors of a logico-semantic nature. Thus, at the highest level of pho-
nological analysis, we find an interaction among several components of
the grammar, an interaction which has implications not only for the or-
ganization of phonology, but also for the organization of the grammar in
general.
8.1. Definition of the phonological utterance domain
In this section we will be concerned with the definition of the basic U
constituent. Let us assume for the present discussion that the phonological
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
222 Prosodic Phonology
utterance is delimited by the beginning and end of the syntactic constitu-
ent Xn
. In other words, let us assume that U consists of those Is that are
dominated by the same node X" in the syntactic tree. That such a unit is
relevant in phonology will be demonstrated in the following sections,
where several sandhi rules will be examined and shown to operate in a
domain so defined. Cases of nonisomorphism between Xn
and U will be
discussed in section 8.2.
The only syntactic information referred to in the definition of the basic
U are the right and left boundaries of the Xn
node in question. This is
not as trivial a point as it may seem, since a string of Is may or may not
be dominated by a single X" node, or phonological unit. For example,
we must be able to group the series of Is in (1) into two separate Us, and
this must be done in the way indicated by the brackets in (2a), and not in
any other way, such as in (2b) and (2c).
(1) [My cousin]j [collects snakes]j [Gertrude]j [prefers butterflies]j
(2) a. [[My cousinjj [collects snakes]j]y [[Gertrude]j
[prefers butterflies]^
b. *[[My cousin]j [collects snakes]j [Gertrude]j]y
[[prefers butterflies]j]y
c. *[[My cousin]j]jj [[collects snakes]j [GertrudeJj
[prefers butterflies]j]y
We can thus formulate the following basic definition of U:
(3) Phonological Utterance Formation
I. U domain
The domain of U consists of all the Is corresponding to Xn
in the syntactic tree.
II. U construction
Join into an n-ary branching U all Is included in a string
delimited by the definition of the domain of U.
As far as the assignment of stress is concerned, if relative prominence is
taken to mean what it does in smaller units such as the phonological word,
where it corresponds to the traditional notion of 'more stress', at the level
of the phonological utterance such distinctions seem to make little sense.
Except in sentences with special emphasis patterns, such as that in (4),
where the italics indicate extra stress, it is generally not possible to say
that one lis 'more prominent' than another.1
(4) [jj[Clarence]j [stop complaining]j ]y
w s
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Utterance 223
Aside from cases of special emphasis, there are nevertheless reasons for
assigning values of w(eak) and s(trong) to the various intonational phrases
of a U. As Bing (1979:145) suggests, while there is no sentence stress per
se, there is instead a 'sentence-final intonation which occurs on the final
intonation phrase to indicate that the utterance is finished'. This observa-
tion, as well as the observation that elements (vowels, syllables, etc.)
at the end of a syntactic constituent and in particular at the end of a
sentence, tend to be lengthened (see, among others, Klatt, 1975, 1976;
Cooper and Paccia-Cooper, 1980), seems to indicate that it is the last / of a
U that is the strong one. The relevant U constituency rule is, therefore,
as follows:
(5) Phonological Utterance: Relative Prominence
The rightmost node dominated by U is strong; all other nodes are
weak.
The basic U formation and relative prominence rules are illustrated for
English and Italian in the sentences in (6) and (7), respectively. It should
be noted, however, that the proposal made here is for all languages, since
the effects of end intonation contours and final lengthening seem to be
universal.
(6) [jjtOur next door neighbor]j [Mr. Jones]j [bought an ocelot last
week]j ] υ w w
s
(7) [ytDue biologici]j [finora sconosciutijj [hanno fatto una
w w
scoperta importantissima]j
s
'Two biologists, unknown up until now, have made an extremely
important discovery.'
Thus far, we have only assumed, but not demonstrated, that a unit cor-
responding to the syntactic constituent Xn
is relevant in phonology.
We will now examine several phonological rules that operate in the U
domain as defined above, and thus demonstrate the validity of such a
constituent.
8.1.1. Flapping in American English
One phonological rule that applies in the domain of the phonological
utterance is Flapping in American English (see Vogel, 1981). Before
examining the prosodic domain of this rule, however, we will briefly
outline the segmental facts relevant to Flapping.
Essentially, the Flapping rule applies to both /t/ and /d/ in the same
way, changing them to [r] under certain circumstances.2
Although the
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
224 Prosodic Phonology
issue of rule ordering is not discussed in detail in this book, we assume
that the application of the Aspiration rule, or more accurately, the tensing
rule, which operates in foot-initial position in English, occurs before the
Flapping rule (see section 3.2.2 above). The is and ds in (8a), therefore,
are [+tense], while those in (8b) are [-tense],
(8) a. [+tense]
atone adore a tissue I describe
b. [-tense]
atom adder at issue I'd ascribe
We can now state, somewhat informally, the segmental part of the Flap-
ping rule as in (9); the prosodic domain will be discussed below.
(9) t, d -> r / [-consonantal] V
[-tense]
This rule accounts for the presence of a flap in the items in (8b), and for
no flap in (8a), as shown in (10).
(10) a. no flap
a[t]one a[d]ore a [t]issue I [d]escribe
b. flap
a[.r]om a[r]er a[r] issue I'[/·] ascribe
It should be noted that the [-consonantal] segment in the rule in (9)
allows for Flapping not only in the most obvious environment, between
vowels, but also when the segment preceding t or d is a glide (e.g. loiter)
or a liquid or nasal with a nonconsonantal articulation (e.g. hardy, win-
ter)} Since not all varieties of American English exhibit Flapping in these
last two contexts, there may be some minor differences in the formulation
of the segmental part of the Flapping rule to account for the various
regional pronunciations. We will not be concerned with such regional
differences here; instead, we will use exclusively the formulation of the
environment for Flapping given in (9).
As far as the domain of application of Flapping is concerned, the ex-
amples in (11) show that the rule applies in morphologically simple as well
as complex words.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Utterance 225
(11) a. water
b. rider
c. whitish
d. headache
wa[r]er
ri[r]er
whi[/-]ish
hea[/']ache
Flapping also applies between words in a sentence, or more precisely,
a string dominated by X", and as the examples in (12) show, it may apply
across any type of constituent, syntactic or phonological, regardless of
the length of the constituents.4
(12) a. a hundred eggs -»• a hundrefr] eggs
b. should ask shoulfr] ask
c. the white owl the whi[r] owl
d. invite Olivia invi[r] Olivia
e. at eleven a|>] eleven
f. My brother bought a parrot last week. -*•
...bought] . . .
g. A very dangerous wild cat escaped from the zoo.
...ca[/·] escaped...
h. Some children recently discovered a rare type of newt under-
neath some rocks in their yard.
.. .new[r] underneath...
i. Just the other night a raccoon was spotted in our
neighborhood.
...nigh[r]a...
j. Ichabod, our pet crane, usually hides when guests come. -»·
Ichabo[>] our...
k. Although that was not the first camel he rode, it was most
certainly the last one. ->
Flapping can apply in all of the positions indicated in these examples.
It is blocked only when a pause or other interruption is introduced within
the segmental context of the rule. For example, if the last four examples
in (12) are read with particular emphasis or in a particularly deliberate
style of speech, it is possible that pauses will be introduced after newt,
night, Ichabod, and rode, respectively, leading to the pronunciation of
t or d instead of a flap. Such a pronunciation, however, is by no means
necessary, and when the sentences are produced at a normal rate without
pauses, it is the form with the flap that is heard. Since we have explicitly
limited our attention in this book to phonological phenomena found in
speech produced in a colloquial style and at a normal tempo, neither
extremely fast nor extremely slow speech, we will not consider further the
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
226 Prosodic Phonology
stylistic and tempo variations that lead to the articulation of stops rather
than [/>] in cases such as those in the last examples in (12).
The various examples of Flapping in (12) show that this rule can apply,
as long as its segmental environment is present, any place within the cor-
responding Xn
constituent, that is, within and across various syntactic
constituents and all levels of the prosodic hierarchy. We can conclude,
therefore, that the prosodic domain of Flapping is the phonological ut-
terance, since the basic definition given above states that U is coextensive
with the maximal projection of X". The Flapping rule in (10) can thus be
reformulated as in (13) to take the domain into account.
(13) Flapping
t, d r / [...[-consonantal] V . . . ] y
[-tense]
As this formulation shows, Flapping is a domain span rule that operates
throughout the U constituent. As such, it provides motivation for a
phonological unit (at least) the length of X" in syntax.5
8.1.2. Twor phenomena in British English
Further motivation for the phonological utterance as a unit of pho-
nology comes from two phenomena in nonrhotic varieties of British Eng-
lish, that is, those varieties in which post-vocalic r is not pronounced
(see Wells, 1982). These phenomena, traditionally called the 'Linking-r'
(LR) and the 'Intrusive-r (IR), both determine the pronunciation of an
r sound in connected speech in positions where it does not occur when the
words involved are produced in isolation, as was mentioned in section
2.3.1 above. In the first case, LR, the r in question is actually present in
the orthography (e.g. faf but fa[r] away), while in the second case, IR,
there is no r present in the orthography (e.g. Anna but Anna[r] arrived).
Before examining the prosodic domain of these phenomena, however,
we will examine their segmental contexts, and demonstrate that they can
both be handled with a single phonological rule.6
The variety of English
discussed here is RP (Received Pronunciation), as described by Jones
(1966).
The Intrusive-r is found when a word ending in [ο], [a], or [a] is follow-
ed by a suffix or another word beginning with a vowel, as seen respectively
in (14a-c).
(14) a. [o]: gnaw vs. gnaw[r]ing
b. [a]: spa vs. the spa[r] is...
c. [a]: Canada vs. Canada[r] is ...
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Utterance 227
The Linking-r is found when a word ending in an orthographic r is follow-
ed by a suffix or another word beginning with a vowel, as illustrated
in (15), where stands for an orthographic r that is not pronounced.
(15) a. bea/ vs. bea[r]ish
b. otte/ vs. the otte[r] is...
It should be noted that there is no difference, as far as the present
phenomenon is concerned, between those words that actually have as their
last letter an r and those that have a 'silent e' after the r (cf. hair/hare,
bear/bare, soar/sore, hear/here, etc.). We will therefore refer to both types
as having a final orthographic r.
In order to determine more precisely the segmental context for the
Linking-/·, it is useful to consider first which vowels may be followed
by an orthographic r in final position. As can be seen in (16), a final
r may appear after six vowels and five diphthongs.7
(16) a. [i]: deer b. [ei]: layer
[ε]: bear [ai]: fire
[u]: lure [oi]: foyer
[ο]: boar [au]: sour
[a]: spar [ou] : mower
[a]: fir
What happens phonetically in the different vocalic environments when
words such as those in (16) are produced in isolation is the following:
a) after [ο], [a], and [a], nothing is heard in the position of the ortho-
graphic r\ b) after [;], [ε], and [u], including the [i] and [u] closing the
diphthongs, a schwa appears in the position of the orthographic r.8
Thus,
the endings of deer and idea are the same (i.e. [ia]), and the endings of
mower and boa are the same (i.e. [oua]). The fact that [a] appears after
[i, e,u] means that the only vowels found in word-final position in words
ending with an orthographic r are [ο, a,.a], as summarized in (17).
(17) a. [ο], [a], [a] (unchanged)
b. [i] [ia] [ei] -*• [eia]
[ε] -»• [εβ] [ai] [aia]
[u] -> [ua] [oi] -> [oia]
[au] [aua]
[ou] -*• [oua]
The segmental environment for LR can thus be stated quite simply:
a Linking-^ appears in the position between [ο, a, a] and another vowel.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
228 Prosodic Phonology
It is clear now that the segmental environments for both LR and IR are
the same. In fact, the two phenomena can be expressed as a single rule
of r-Insertion (RI), formulated as in (18).
ο
V
(18) 0 /
This formulation of r-Insertion, however, only provides the segmental
context of the rule. We will now examine the question of the domain of
application of this rule.
It has already been mentioned above that we find an r inserted in the
proper segmental context when the 'V' in the formulation is the onset of
a suffix or another word; the environment does not arise in monomor-
phemic words. We thus find RI in complex words, both derived and com-
pound, as illustrated in (19).
(19) a. wate?1
vs. wate[r]y
b. bea/ vs. bea[r]ish
c. law vs. law[r] abiding
d. eaf vs. ea[r] ache
In addition, like Flapping, RI applies between words in a string dominated
by X" regardless of the syntactic relations between the words and the
length of the constituents involved, as illustrated in (20).
(20) a. fou/1
ostrich feathers -»· fou[r] ostrich feathers
b. nevef again -»· neve[r] again
c. some raw oysters -> some raw[r] oysters
d. saw Ellen -*· saw[r] Ellen
e. fo/ eight ->· fo[r] eight
f. I'd love to hea/ a nightingale sing. -»•
...hea[r] a...
g. A rare type of grasshopper invaded our yard last year.
...grasshoppe[r] invaded...
h. We're trying to teach our new Siamese cat not to claw at the
furniture. ->
...claw[r] at...
i. Just last yeaf, over a hundred dinosaur tracks were discovered
in the Arizona desert.
...yea[r] over...
j. The giant panda, as you know, is an endangered species. ->
...pandafr] as...
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Utterance 229
k. Even though they're protected by law, a lot of migratory birds
are killed by hunters every year.
...law[r] a...
The same observations made above in relation to Flapping hold for RI
as far as the introduction of pauses is concerned. That is, r-Insertion
applies in all the examples in (20), and in any string under Xn
, as long as
its segmental context is present, when a normal colloquial style of speech
is used, and assuming the string can be, and is, uttered in a single breath.
Applying the basic definition of the phonological utterance given above,
we can conclude that the formulation of the rule is as follows:
(21) r-Insertion
This formulation of RI shows that it is a U span rule, like Flapping,
and that it therefore applies any place within a phonological utterance
where the proper segmental environment occurs.
8.1.3. U-level phenomena in other languages
Since most work in phonology has dealt with relatively small units,
such as segments and syllables, and has rarely considered phenomena
operating above the word level, there is little mention in the phonological
literature of rules applying within a domain as large as that defined by
X", or the phonological utterance, in prosodic terms. Two notable excep-
tions are a set of rules in Sanskrit discussed by Selkirk (1980a) and a set
of rules in Spanish discussed by Harris (1969).
In her analysis of Sanskrit, Selkirk (1980a) mentions a number of
rules that operate within the U domain. In particular, Selkirk cites the
following five phenomena as U span rules: Glide Formation, Vowel
Contraction, Assimilation of m, Anusvara of m, and Obstruent Cluster
Voicing Assimilation. Consider, for example, the last rule, which can
be formulated as follows:
(22) Obstruent Cluster Voicing Assimilation (Selkirk's rule (12))
This rule accounts for the fact that in a sequence of two obstruents,
the voicing of the first obstruent is determined by the voicing of the
second one. The examples Selkirk (p.114) provides are repeated in (23).
ο
0 r / [...· α ν . . . ] υ
[-son] [avoice] / [...
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
230 Prosodic Phonology
(23) ad + si -*• atsi
-»• atthas
-> ab - j a h
->· dig - gadah
'you throw'
'you eat'
ad + thas
ap - jah
dik - gadah
'water born'
'constellation in certain
direction'
'long-lived'
jyok jiva jyogjiva
parivrat gacchati -> parivrad gacchati 'he goes wandering around'
Since Obstruent Cluster Voicing Assimilation, as well as the other rules
mentioned above, are explicitly given by Selkirk as U span rules, we inter-
pret this to mean that they behave in the same way that Flapping and r-
Insertion behave in English. That is, we assume that the Sanskrit rules
operate throughout a string dominated by Xn
, or U, whenever their
segmental context is present, and are blocked only when the context is
interrupted by a pause introduced for stylistic or other reasons.
As further motivation for U as a unit of phonology, we find a number
of Sanskrit rules that operate at the juncture of two phonological words,
as long as they fall within the U domain (see section 4.2.1 above). Selkirk
(p.125) lists the following as ω juncture rules on the U domain, although
she does not actually formulate and illustrate all of them: Final Voicing,
Stop to Nasal, as > o, s > 0, r-Deletion, and α-Deletion. As an example
of this type of rule, consider Final Voicing, formulated by Selkirk (p.l 15)
as follows:
The examples Selkirk (p.l 15) gives of Final Voicing are listed in (25).
Finally, Selkirk mentions Visarga at Pause as a U limit rule, that is, one
that applies only at the end of the U domain, as seen in the formulation
in (26).
(26) Visarga at Pause (Selkirk's rule (35))
(24) Final Voicing (Selkirk's rule (23))
[-son] -> [+voice]/ [...[ ] ω [ t + v o i c e ] . . . ^ . . . ^
(25) sat-aha -»· sad-aha 'good day'
samyak uktam -»• samyag uktam 'spoken correctly'
tat namas tad namas 'that homage'
h / [ ]u
The examples Selkirk gives of this rule are seen in (27).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Utterance 231
(27) devas -»· devah 'god'
punar -> punah 'again'
The various examples of Sanskrit we have just seen illustrate three differ-
ent types of rules that make reference to the domain U in their formula-
tion: U span, ω juncture on U domain, and U limit rules.9
These rules all
provide further evidence that a domain that extends the length of a string
dominated by Xn
is needed in order to account for the application of cer-
tain phonological rules.
While the Sanskrit examples were provided by Selkirk with the explicit
intention of motivating U as a domain for phonological rules, we find
further, though less direct, evidence of phonological rules operating in the U
domain in Harris's (1969) analysis of Mexican Spanish phonology.
Although Harris does not discuss the problem of the domain of applica-
tion of phonological rules in detail, he does make some observations that
are relevant to this issue. Keeping in mind that Harris was working in the
theoretical framework of SPE, which used various boundary symbols
and admitted no phonological units larger than the word, let us examine
Harris's suggestion that at a given point in the application of a series of
phonological rules, all word boundaries or 'termini' are erased and any
subsequent rules apply to the entire string. Specifically, Harris (1969:
59) claims that 'after the removal of termini [and presumably all other
boundary symbols as well], all subsequent rules apply 'across the board':
an entire utterance is scanned and each rule R. is applied wherever applic-
able...'. While Harris is cautious in pointing out that the point at which
boundaries are erased depends on the style of speech, he assumes without
further investigation that whenever a rule applies between words it may
automatically apply between any two words in an 'utterance', regardless
of the relationship between the words involved. As we have seen in
previous chapters, there are different types of phonological rules that
operate across words, and a crucial difference among these rules is precise-
ly the fact that they do not all apply within the same domain. While some
do apply throughout a sentence, as do the i/-level rules we are examining
in this chapter, others are restricted to smaller domains, such as the
phonological phrase and the intonational phrase.
Of all the rules Harris gives as applying throughout an 'utterance',
there is only one, Voicing Assimilation, for which there is additional
evidence that the domain of application must be the phonological utter-
ance (see section 8.2.1). This is not to say that the others are not also U-
domain rules, but since there is not the necessary information to deter-
mine their precise domains of application, we will only list the rules here,
leaving the empirical verification to future research. Specifically, Harris
formulates rules for the following processes with an optional word bound-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
232 Prosodic Phonology
ary in their environment, an indication that they not only apply within
words, but also across words: Nasal Assimilation (Harris's rule (69f)
in the summary of rules), Lateral Assimilation (Harris's rule (69g)), Spi-
rantization (Harris's rule (69h)), Glide/r Strengthening, a rule that changes
glides into obstruents and the flapped [r] into the trilled [R] (Harris's
rule (69j)), Voicing, a rule that voices [p, t, k] under certain circumstances
(Harris's rule (691)), and Voicing Assimilation, a rule that assimilates the
voicing of certain segments (i.e. those with the feature [-heightened
subglottal pressure]) to that of the following segment (Harris's rule
(69m)).10
The first three rules apply across words in Allegretto speech,
the style described by Harris that seems to correspond best to the style
we have taken as the basis for this book, but not in the somewhat more
careful Andante style, while the last three rules apply across words in both
Andante and Allegretto speech.
As an example of a Spanish rule that operates across words, let us con-
sider Voicing Assimilation (VA), the one rule for which there is additional
evidence (to be discussed in section 8.2.1) that the 'utterance' Harris refers
to as the domain of application does, in fact, correspond to our notion
of phonological utterance. Harris (1969:57) formulates Voicing Assimila-
tion as follows (where h.s. press = heightened subglottal pressure):11
(28)
+obstr
-h.s. press
] [avoice] / (#)
[-voice]/ II
+cons
avoice
The first part of this rule voices [p, t, k, s] when they are followed by
certain voiced consonants, and devoices [j3, δ, 7] when they are followed
by certain voiceless consonants. The second part devoices [β, δ, γ] in ab-
solute final position. The two parts of the rule will be discussed separately.
As the first part of the rule states, VA applies either within a word,
that is, in the absence of the optional word boundary, or across (any)
two words when the boundary is present. These two cases are illustrated in
(29a) and (29b), respectively (from Harris, 1969:38, 40, 44, 60).
(29) a.
b.
atmosfera - > a[t^]mosfera 'atmosphere'
isla i[sz
lla 'island'
absurdo a b s u r d o 'absurd'
Agfa A[TX
]fa 'Agfa'
los dos lo[sz
] dos 'both of them'
Beatriz babea Beatri[sz
] babea 'Beatriz slobbers'
The first part of the rule in (28) can now be reformulated as in (30),
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Utterance 233
so that it includes the information that its domain of application is the
phonological utterance.
(30) Voicing Assimilation
+obstr
-h.s. press
[ctvoice] / [...
+cons
avoice
It should be noted that this rule no longer makes use of the optional
word boundary symbol found in Harris's fromulation. The rule simply
applies any place its segmental context is encountered throughout U.
In fact, the rule in (30) has the same form as the other U span rules
seen in American and British English and in Sanskrit.
The second part of the Voicing Assimilation rule in (28) represents
another type of rule, a domain limit rule in prosodic terms, which is
why we are treating it separately here, despite Harris's attempt to collapse
it with the first part of VA. Harris uses the symbol 'II' in his formulation
to show that the rule applies only when followed by 'silence - that is,
total lack of phonation' (p.59). Thus, we can say that the second part of
the VA rule, which might more appropriately be called Final Devoicing,
applies only at the right limit of a phonological utterance, as does another
rule (i.e. the second part of the Glide/r Strengthening rule, Harris's rule
(69j)). A reformulation of Final Devoicing (FD) in prosodic terms is given
in (31).
(31) Final Devoicing
[-voice]/ [ ly
+obstr
-h.s. press
Harris does not provide examples of entire sentences at the end of which
FD can be observed, but only individual words which would exhibit
devoicing when followed by silence. It is not difficult, however, to imagine
sentences in which these words appear in the last position. Several such
examples are given below (from Harris, 1969:40):
(32) club -» clu[/$] 'club'
sed -> se[50
] 'thirst'
zigzag ->• zigza[7X
] 'zigzag'
What we can conclude on the basis of our examination of the Spanish
data is that they too provide support for U as a unit of phonology. That is,
despite the fact that Harris's analysis represents a different theoretical
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
234 Prosodic Phonology
framework (and therefore makes use of some different mechanisms, such
as boundaries), it is nevertheless possible to interpret his observations in
terms that are consistent with the prosodic model described here. That is,
we have seen that there are two types of phonological rules in Spanish
that make use of the phonological utterance as their domain of applica-
tion: U span rules and U limit rules. It is worth noting, furthermore, that
the reformulation in prosodic terms of the rules we have examined here
actually offers several advantages over Harris's SPE-type formulations.
First of all, we have separated the Voicing Assimilation rule into
two separate prosodic rules. While this might be considered undesirable
in the SPE framework, it reveals more clearly that there are actually
two processes involved: one which assimilates the feature [voice] to a
following segment throughout the expanse of an utterance, and one which
devoices a segment only at the end of an utterance. Claiming that the
latter is also a process of assimilation (to silence) does not really increase
the generality of the rule, since devoicing before a [-voice] segment ap-
plies, as we have seen, any place within an utterance, and devoicing before
silence only applies, by definition, in one place, utterance finally. This
distinction is clearly captured by the two different types of prosodic rules,
since one is a domain span rule and the other a domain limit rule.
Secondly, by reformulating the first part of Harris's VA rules as a U
span rule, we are able to simplify the rule somewhat by eliminating the
optional boundary symbol '(#)'. This simplification not only represents
a savings of symbols, it also resolves a problem raised by Harris precisely
in relation to his use of the optional boundary. That is, Harris points out
that '(#)' in a rule means that the presence of the boundary is irrelevant,
but at the same time, the presence of the symbol does not correctly
reflect this situation. '[I]f we write rules with parenthesized boundaries,
we do not recognize the fact that the boundaries are irrelevant (since we
must mention them in the rules), and their irrelevance does not give us
simpler rules' (p.58). Thus, the fact that the optional boundary is not
present in the prosodic formulation of VA more accurately represents
the fact that the word limits are, indeed, irrelevant to this rule. In the case
of Spanish, this advantage must be multiplied by the number of rules
given by Harris in which '(#)' appears, since they can all be reformulated
as domain span rules, though we will not do so here.
8.2. Nonisomorphism between the maximal domains in the syntactic
and phonological hierarchies
On the basis of the phenomena we have examined so far in this chapter,
it could be argued that there is really no need for a distinct phonological
unit U, since our definition equates U with the string dominated by X"
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Utterance 235
in the syntactic tree and all the rules we have considered seem to apply
precisely within the confines, or at the end, of such a unit. In other words,
it could be argued that, as a unit of linguistic analysis, U is superfluous,
since the grammar already contains a constituent of exactly the same
dimensions. One could thus posit a single constituent, Xn
in syntax,
as the domain for the relevant phenomena of both the syntax and the
phonology. Not only would such a solution be inelegant, it is also im-
possible, as will be seen below, since there are cases in which the domain
of certain phonological rules does not coincide with that of X".
It should be noted that the U domain defined by X" usually corres-
ponds to what is generally recognized as a 'sentence'. In colloquial speech,
however, we often find utterances of the type: At five and Near by. As
the examples in (33) show, when the proper segmental environment is
present, the various {/-level rules described above apply in these shorter
structures as well.
(33) a. At eight A[/>] eight
b. Nea/Athens Nea[r] Athens
c. Law and order ->• Law[r] and order
d. Los dos Lo[sz
] dos 'Both of them'
While these structures are not generally recognized as sentences, and ac-
cording to some analyses (see Shopen, 1972) cannot even be derived by
deletion rules from sentences, they nevertheless can be handled by the
basic definition of U as the string dominated by Xn
in the syntactic tree.
If we do assume that these structures are derived from an underlying
sentence, then X" represents the highest S node. If we assume, instead,
that they are generated as they are, then Xn
represents the highest node in
the structure in question: Ρ in (33a) and (33b), Ν in (33c) and (33d), etc.
The cases in which the basic definition of U given above is not adequate
are those in which a given phonological rule applies across sentences, or
more precisely, across strings delimited by different X" nodes. These cases
are, in fact, the ones that provide the crucial evidence that a separate pho-
nological unit, U, is needed in the grammar, as will be seen in the next
section.
8.2.1. Phonological rules operating across sentences
Although the string dominated by Xn
is usually a root sentence (as de-
fined by Emonds, 1976), it may sometimes include more than one root
sentence and sometimes less, assuming that the highest node of a syntactic
tree may be some category other than S, as suggested above. In this sec-
tion, we will generally limit ourselves to cases in which Xn
is a single (root)
sentence, since these are the X" structures that are most likely to allow the
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
236 Prosodic Phonology
application of phonological rules across their limits. We will therefore
refer simply to 'sentences' here, and explicitly point out any cases in
which a different structure is used.
While it is difficult to find information in the literature about phono-
logical rules operating between words throughout sentences, it is almost
impossible to find reference to rules applying across sentences. In this
regard, an observation made by Kahn (1980) about American English and
one made by Harris (1969) about Mexican Spanish are particularly in-
teresting.
Kahn (1980:102), in his discussion of Flapping in American English,
mentions that the rule may apply between sentences on certain occasions.
He cites the following example:
(34) Have a seat. I'll be right back. ...sea[,r] I'll.
According to Kahn, this shows that rules like Flapping are not sensitive
to any type of syntactic information. That is, when they apply in dis-
course, as in the example just seen, they apply in contexts 'in which the
strongest imaginable syntactic boundary intervenes' (p.102).
Harris (1969:60) goes into somewhat more detail in his discussion of
the application of Voicing Assimilation in Mexican Spanish. He compares
the two possible pronunciations of the two-sentence sequence Los dos.
Dämelos. 'Both of them. Give them to me.' seen in (35), where ' II' rep-
resents silence at the end of an utterance, and Ί ' the phonetic properties
of falling intonation.
(35) a. Los dos. Dämelos. -»· [losz
öosz
4- dämelos! ]
b. Los dos. II Dämelos.-*- [losz
öos I dämelosl]
Both (35a) and (35b) have the same intonation patterns, a falling contour
at the end of each of the two sentences. The presence of ΊΙ' is not oblig-
atory with a terminal intonation contour, and we see, in fact, that the
Voicing Assimilation rule applies across sentences when no pause occurs
between them, the case in (35a). The rule is blocked only by the total
absence of phonation, the case in (35b).12
As Harris (1969:60) points out,
such examples show 'that the domain of phonological processes such as
Voicing Assimilation is not limited to the boundaries of "phonological
phrases" or "Phrasierungseinheiten", as has generally been believed'.
Neither Kahn nor Harris addresses the issue of whether such phono-
logical rules may apply across all sentences, nor do they give more than
one example of each rule. What is interesting, nevertheless, about their
observations is that they show that the domain defined by X" is not the
largest domain of certain phonological rules.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Utterance 237
The examples cited by Kahn and Harris are not isolated cases; on
further investigation, they turn out to be representative of a systema-
tic phenomenon. Consider, for example, the pairs of sentences in (36a-c),
across which we find Flapping, the Linking-/·, and the Intrusive-/·, respec-
tively.
(36) a. It's late. I'm leaving. -» ...la[r] I'm...
b. Where's Esthe/? I need her. -»· ...Esthe[r] I...
c. Call Anna. It's late. -»· ...Annafr] It's...
It should be noted that rule application across sentences is not limited
to a sequence of only two sentences. In (37), in fact, the Linking-/· appears
between the first and the second sentences, as well as between the second
and the third sentences.
(37) I heaf. I hea/. I hea^. I hea[r] I hea[r] I hea/.
The fact that the same rules found to operate within the U defined in
terms of the constituent Xn
also apply across such constituents means that
the definition of U given above is not adequate. Since Xn
is by definition
the largest constituent in X syntax, it is clear that the phonological unit U
cannot be isomorphic with any syntactic constituent.
Banfield (1973) actually proposed that there is a non-recursive node Ε
('expression') which would include sentences as well as other material
which cannot be embedded in S. While the idea is appealing, it does not
resolve the problem at hand, since the types of structures dominated by
a single Ε do not include sequences of Ss such as those seen in (36) and
(37). Instead, Ε is intended mostly to handle such elements as interjec-
tions and other material that is in some sense external to a given sentence.
Many of these elements have already been handled in the previous chapter,
in fact, as constructions that obligatorily form intonational phrases. The
problem of joining two separate Ss still remains to be solved.
Finally, since the phonological rules that apply across sentences do not
apply across just any two sentences, as will be seen below, it is not possible
simply to account for their application in terms of an unspecified series
of strings dominated by X" nodes. Instead, we must define, for the pho-
nology, a distinct unit which represents the domain of application of the
type of rules under consideration here.
8.2.2. U restructuring
In order to account for the application of phonological rules across
sentences, we need some way to group those sentences in which the rules
apply into a single unit. The fact that Flapping normally applies between
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
238 Prosodic Phonology
the two sentences in (38a), but not between those in (38b), shows that
it is not possible to group just any sequence of two sentences into a pho-
nological unit.
(38) a. Turn up the heat. I'm freezing. -> .. .hea[r ] I'm...
b. Turn up the heat. I'm Frances. -*• *.. .hea[r ] I'm...1 3
Since the two examples contain the same segmental environments for
Flapping and have the same number of syllables and similar syntactic
structures, there must be some other explanation for why Flapping applies
in one case but not in the other. What is needed is a principled way to de-
termine in which cases a phonological rule applies across sentences and in
which cases it does not.
One possibility is that the application of a rule across sentences depends
on the grammatical nature of the sentences themselves. As we have seen
in (38), there are at least some cases, however, in which the nature of the
sentences involved seems not to be the crucial factor. That is, while in
one sequence of an imperative followed by a declarative sentence Flap-
ping is blocked, in another sequence of the same sentence types Flapping
is not blocked. A more systematic examination of the various possible
combinations of sentences shows that the type of sentences involved is
not the relevant criterion. That is, Flapping can apply across all types of
sentences, as can r-Insertion, as illustrated in items (i) and (ii), respectively,
of the examples in (39), where DEC = declarative, INT = interrogative,
IMP = imperative and EXC = exclamatory.
(39) a. DEC-DEC i. It's late. I'm tired.
. . . l a M l ' m . . .
ii. It's the/e. I saw it. -»·
...the[r]I...
b. DEC-IMP i. It's Dad. Open the door. ->
...Da[r] Open...
ii. It's Anna. Open the door. -»·
...Anna[r] Open...
c. DEC-INT i. That's a nice cat. Is it yours?
...ca[r] Is...
ii. That's a nice caf. Is it yours?
...ca[r] Is...
d. IMP-DEC i. Wait a minute. I'm coming.
...minu[^] I'm ...
ii. Don't sta/e. It's rude.
...sta[r] It's...
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Utterance 239
e. IMP-IMP i. Stop that. Ask nicely.
...tha[r] Ask...
ii. Don't staj'e. Ask him in.
...sta[r] Ask...
f. IMP-INT i. Leave it shut. Are you crazy? ->•
...shu[/·] Are...
ii. Have anothe/. Aren't they good?->
...anothe[r] Aren't...
g. INT-DEC i. Where's Annette? I'm leaving. ->
. . . A n n e ^ I ' m . . .
ii. Where's the saw? I need it. -»
...saw[r] I...
h. INT-IMP i. Why did you wait? Open it. ->
...wai[r] Open...
ii. What are you waiting fo/? Open it.
...fo[r] Open...
i. INT-INT i. Where's Ed? Is he gone? -*
...E[r] Is...
ii. Where's Paula? Is she late again?
...Paula[r] Is...
j. EXC-DEC i. What a sight! I'm shocked. ->
...sigh[r] I'm...
ii. What a booj1
! I'm shocked. ->
...boo[r] I'm...
k. EXC-IMP i. How odd! Ask someone else. ->
...o[>] Ask...
ii. What a lia^! Ask someone else. -*
...lia[r] Ask...
1. EXC-INT14
i. How odd! Are you sure? -»
...o[r]Are...
ii. What a nice sofa! Is it new?
...sofafr] Is...
Rather than the nature of the individual sentences involved, what seems to
be crucial in determining whether two (or more) sentences may form a
single phonological unit is the nature of the relationship between the
sentences. Before considering the relationship between the sentences that
may form a single phonological unit, however, it is first necessary to
establish several pragmatic and phonological conditions without which U
restructuring may not occur, regardless of the relationships between the
sentences.
In order for U restructuring to be possible, the following two con-
ditions of a pragmatic nature must be met:
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
240 Prosodic Phonology
(40) Pragmatic Conditions
a. The two sentences must be uttered by the same speaker.
b. The two sentences must be addressed to the same interlocu-
tors).
It should be noted that these conditions are relevant only for phonolog-
ical rules, and more specifically, only for purely phonological rules. There
are other types of rules, such as ellipsis and anaphora, that apply just as well
across speakers and when directed to different interlocutors (see Williams,
1977). In addition, certain phonological rules that are not, however, pure-
ly phonological may violate the conditions in (40). In fact, Liaison in
French, in part a morphophonological rule, may apply across speakers
when, for example, one speaker hesitates and another speaker resumes
his sentence, as illustrated in (41) (Y.-C. Morin, personal communication).
(41) Speaker 1: Je cherchais dejL.
Ί was looking for some...'
Speaker 2: ... [z]allumettes.
'...matches.'
In addition to the pragmatic conditions, the following two phonological
conditions must be met for U restructuring to be possible:
(42) Phonological Conditions
a. The two sentences must be relatively short.
b. There must not be a pause between the two sentences.
(42a) is rather vague since it is not possible at this time to give more
precise indications about the length of the sentence involved. What is
clear, however, is that when the sentence are long, phonological restruc-
turing does not occur. As in the case of /restructuring seen in the previous
chapter, rate of speech appears to play a role here, too, in a type of trade-
off relation with length. For both / and U restructuring, what seems to
be crucial is some average length in terms of timing, most probably due
ultimately to physiological considerations. The fact that U restructuring,
and [/-level rules operating across sentences, are blocked by the presence
of a pause is not surprising, since it has often been observed that the
introduction of a pause within the context of phonological rules in ge-
neral tends to destroy the context and thus inhibit the application of the
rule. It should be noted, however, that this observation, too, seems to hold
only for purely phonological rules, though perhaps not for all such rules.
Thus, Liaison may apply across a pause, for example after a hesitation,
as illustrated in (43) (Y.-C. Morin, personal communication).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Utterance 241
(43) Le...[z]enfants
'The children'
It might actually be possible to capture the two pragmatic and the two
phonological conditions with a single condition, essentially the second
phonological condition, (42b). That is, it may be the case that all of the
conditions mentioned above ultimately have the same effect, that of al-
lowing restructuring to apply only when the sentences involved are in
some sense temporally adjacent to each other. Any separation due to a
change of speakers or interlocutors, pausing for a breath between long
sentences, or any other type of pause, is sufficient to impede the restruc-
turing of two sentences into a single phonological utterance, and thus
block the application of a t/-level phonological rule at the point at which
the sentences meet.
In addition to the basic conditions on U restructuring just seen, the
sentences in question must be related to each other in specific ways. On
the basis of a series of pairs of sentences submitted to native speakers of
American and British (RP) English, we have found that Flapping and r-
Insertion may apply across sentences only when specific syntactic and/or
semantic relations exist between them.15
The type of syntactic relationship that must hold between sentences
that form a single phonological unit is one in which the interpretation of
material in one sentence depends on material in the preceding sentence.
In particular, this situation arises in cases of ellipsis and anaphora, illustrat-
ed in (44) and (45), respectively, for both Flapping and r-Insertion.
(44) Ellipsis
a. Martha didn't invite Todd. I did. ...To[r] I...
b. I can't help he/. Arnold can. .. .he[r] Arnold...
(45) Anaphora
a. Where's Pat? I need him. -> ...Pa[r] I...
b. What a nice sofa! Is it new? ...sofa[r] Is...
In addition to the two syntactic relations, there are three semantic rela-
tions that allow a [/-level rule to apply across sentences. That is, one of the
following three logico-semantic connectors must implicitly relate the
sentences involved: and, therefore, because, as illustrated in (46)-(48),
respectively.
(46) And
a. You invite Charlotte. I'll invite Joan. -»
...Chariot] I'll...
b. Isabelle's a lawye/. I'm a doctor. ->
...lawyefr] I'm...
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
242 Prosodic Phonology
(47) Therefore
a. It's late. I'm leaving. -»·
...h[r] I'm...
b. I'm shortej1
. I'll go in the back. -»
...shorte[r] I'll...
(48) Because
a. Take your coat. It's cold out. -»·
...coa[r] It's...
b. Hide the vodka. Alvin's coming. -*•
...vodka[r] Alvin's...
It is enough if either a syntactic relation or a semantic relation holds
between two sentences that form a single phonological unit. It does
happen, though, that the sentences involved sometimes exhibit both types
of relations, as illustrated below:
(49) a. Anaphora-And
You ask Ed. I'll ask his sister. -»·
...E[r] I'll...
b. Anaphora-Therefore
This coffee's too bittej1
. It needs some sugar.
...bitte[r] It...
c. Ellipsis-Because
Don't call Anna. I want to.
...Anna[r] I...
It should be noted that the connectors or and but behave differently
from and, therefore, and because with respect to U restructuring. That is,
or and but typically do not permit the application of (/-level rules across
sentences. Furthermore, it is extremely difficult to find cases in which
or and but relations are implied between sentences, and when such cases
do arise, they are accompanied by complicated intonation patterns. The
or and but relations are therefore illustrated in (50) and (51) with the
addition of the words otherwise and though, respectively, at the end of the
second sentence to explicitly signal the relevant relations.
(50) Or
a. Stop that. I'll leave otherwise.
*...tha[r] I'll...
b. Finish your pasta. I'll eat it otherwise.
*...pasta[r] I'll...
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Utterance 243
(51) But
a. It's late. I'm not leaving though. ->·
* . . . h [ r ] I'm...
b. I didn't invite Pete/. I should have though. ->·
*...Pete[r]I...
What these examples show is that if two sentences are related by the
notions of or or but, even if there are relations of anaphora or ellipsis
between them, U restructuring tends to be blocked, as seen by the lack
of application of Flapping and r-Insertion across the sentences.
Why only the three connectors and, therefore, and because allow
U restructuring is not completely clear. What seems to be the case, how-
ever, is that these three connectors can be distinguished from or and but
on the grounds that they can, in some sense, be considered to have a
'positive' value, while or and but have a 'negative' value. In this regard, an
observation made by Cooper and Paccia-Cooper (1980) seems to offer
some explanation for the difference in behavior between the two groups
of connectors. They report that '[t]here does exist at least one semantic
factor - negation - which seems to influence speech timing...'(p.163).
Although Cooper and Paccia-Cooper are referring to conjoined adjectives,
and not series of sentences, the patterns seem to be quite similar. That is,
when adjectives are conjoined by a negative conjunction, yet or but,
it is more likely that a pause will be introduced before the conjunction
than when the adjectives are conjoined by a positive conjunction, and,
as illustrated below with Cooper and Paccia-Cooper's (1980:163) example
(la,b).
(52) a. The tall yet frail student flunked chemistry.
b. The tall and frail student flunked chemistry.
Since it is precisely the presence of a pause between two sentences that
inhibits U restructuring, it seems possible that the lack of U restructuring
with or and but may, in fact, be due to different timing patterns associated
with these negative relations, even if they are not explicitly present in the
sentences in question.
On the basis of the various observations made above about when IJ-
level phonological rules may apply across sentences and when they may
not, we can now modify our definition of the phonological utterance
such that it includes, when necessary, more than one sentence. In order
to account for these cases, all that is required is that the original U, as
defined earlier in terms of the string dominated by X" in the syntactic
tree, be allowed to undergo a process of restructuring under certain cir-
cumstances. The circumstances under which restructuring occurs are
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
244 Prosodic Phonology
determined by the syntactic and semantic relations just seen. We can thus
formulate the following rule for the restructuring of U:
(53) U restructuring
Adjacent Us may be joined into a single U when the basic prag-
matic and phonological conditions are met and when there exists
a syntactic relation (ellipsis, anaphora) and/or a positive semantic
relation (and, therefore, because) between the Us in question.
It was pointed out above that the pragmatic and phonological conditions
may be reducible to a single condition that allows restructuring only when
there is no intervening pause. It was also mentioned that the reason that
a negative semantic relation between two sentences blocks restructuring
may have to do with a tendency to insert a pause in such cases. It might,
therefore, be possible to simplify the U restructuring rule and generalize
the role of the pause. We will not do so here, however, since the idea is
still somewhat speculative and needs more systematic investigation. It
should be noted, in any case, that the rule in (53) does not say that Us
will necessarily be restructured under the circumstances mentioned, but
only that they may be restructured. Ultimately, whether U restructuring
takes place or not will most likely depend on additional factors as well,
such as style and rate of speech. In this respect, the U restructuring phe-
nomenon is quite similar to the / restructuring phenomenon seen in Chap-
ter 7, where it was shown that a number of nonsyntactic considerations
are responsible for the final division of a string into intonational phrases.
8.3. Conclusions
We have shown in this chapter that there are certain phonological rules
that apply not only throughout the largest constituent in syntax, the
string dominated by Xn
, but also across such constituents. Such rules (e.g.
Flapping in American English, /"-Insertion in RP British English, Voicing
Assimilation in Mexican Spanish) provide crucial evidence for the exist-
ence of the largest phonological constituent, the phonological utterance.
That is, the fact that the domain of application of these rules cannot be
identified with any syntactic constituent makes it necessary to establish
a distinct prosodic unit, U, as their domain of application. U, like the
other prosodic constituents below it in the hierarchy, makes use of syntac-
tic notions in the definition of its domain, though the final result is not
necessarily isomorphic with any syntactic constituent.
In the construction and restructuring of U, an interaction was observed
between phonology and two other components of the grammar: syntax
and semantics. That is, the rules of U formation group phonological con-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Utterance 245
stituents, Is, into a single n-ary branching tree as long as these Is corres-
pond to material dominated by a single node X" in the syntactic tree.
In the case of restructuring, other syntactic information is relevant,
specifically, whether the sentences corresponding to the Us in question
are related by anaphora or ellipsis, such that the interpretation of a given
U depends on material present in the preceding U. The semantic relation
between Us is also relevant in the case of restructuring, since restructuring
may occur only when certain positive relations (and, therefore, because)
implicitly exist between the Us in question. It was seen, furthermore,
that for restructuring to be possible, some basic phonological and prag-
matic conditions must be met.
What is particularly interesting about the interaction between pho-
nology and the other components of the grammar at the U level is the fact
that the type of information referred to is of a very general nature. That is,
in dealing with the construction of the highest unit in the phonological
hierarchy, we only make use of the syntactic notion X", and not, for ex-
ample, whether 'X' stands for S, Ν, V, etc. We must know whether a cer-
tain semantic relation holds between the constituents involved in restruc-
turing, but not, for example, what the meanings or semantic features as-
sociated with the individual words are. We must know whether a pause
or special intonation pattern is associated with the constituents involved,
but we do not need to know the nature of the segments or syllables
making up the constituents. The phonological utterance thus provides
further evidence that as we go higher in the prosodic hierarchy, we need
less specific information in order to define the prosodic constituents, to
the point at which only such abstract information as the 'highest node in
the syntactic tree' and the nature of the semantic relation between two
sentences becomes a relevant factor.
Finally, the fact that semantic information must be taken into con-
sideration in accounting for the domain of application of certain segmental
rules raises serious problems for the model of grammar usually assumed in
generative theory. What the phonological utterance shows is that the
phonological component must have access not only to syntactic informa-
tion, but also to certain types of semantic information. While some
proposals have been made to allow the phonology to 'see' logical form,
some of the types of semantic information needed for U restructuring
are not usually included in the logical form component. It is not a feasible
solution to relegate the phonological rules that operate across sentences
to a discourse component, or a discourse phonology subcomponent, of
the grammar since the same rules that apply across sentences also apply
within sentences and even within words. To say that a rule like Flapping
is a rule of discourse phonology would obscure the nature of this rule and
its very widespread application throughout all levels of the phonology
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
246 Prosodic Phonology
of American English. It would also have the undesirable consequence of
requiring a discourse rule to apply before a syllable-domain rule, Glottaliz-
ation, since, as was pointed out in section 3.1.2 above, Flapping must be
ordered before Glottalization. What is needed, instead, is a somewhat
more complex model of grammar that includes more types of interactions
among the various components than have typically been allowed, a point
we will return to in the last chapter.
NOTES
1. We will not be concerned further with special cases of emphasis or contrast-
ive intonation, however, although, as was mentioned, these are probably the cases
in which it may, in fact, be possible to say that one I constituent is more stressed
than another.
2. There are some minor differences between t and d with respect to Flapping (see
Kahn, 1976), but they are not relevant to the present discussion.
3. See Malecot (1960) and Kahn (1976) for a discussion of nonconsonantal articula-
tions of nasals and liquids in American English.
4. We are referring to constituents of 'normal' length. Obviously, a sentence that is
too long to be uttered in one breath must have a pause in it, and if the pause falls
within the environment for Flapping (or most other phonological rules, for the mat-
ter), this will block the application of the rule. This type of phenomenon is beyond
the scope of the present work, and will not be considered further here.
5. In Nespor and Vogel (1982), we erroneously proposed that the domain of Flap-
ping was I. This error was the result of the fact that a number of the test senten-
ces we used tended to be uttered with pauses within the context for Flapping, either
because they were quite long or because they lent themselves to emphatic or other
special types of pronunciations. It is now clear that Flapping applies thoughout U,
across I boundaries, on the condition that an unmarked type of pronunciation is
used.
6. The following discussion is based on the analysis in Vogel (1986). See also
Wells (1982).
7. We do not indicate vowel length here, as Jones (1966) does, to distinguish tense
from lax vowels and stressed from unstressed vowels since, in fact, it is not the vowel
length that is contrastive. For example, the contrast between feet and fit, represent-
ed by Jones as [fi:t] vs. [fit], is represented here is [fit] vs. [fit], and the difference
between the final vowels in offer and fir, represented by Jones as a contrast between
[g] and [a:], is represented here in terms of a difference in stress. Furthermore, we
do not treat separately the cases in which high vowels are shortened to types of
glides, [i, ü], a distinction made by Jones for certain pronunciations of happier
[hapig] vs. hear [hia],
8. In some pronunciations, [g] may also appear after [o], giving [soa] for sore. This
sequence is not included here since it is much less common than the pronunciation
without schwa, which gives [so] for sore (see Jones, 1966), and since, in any case,
the presence or absence of schwa after [o] does not affect the point under discussion.
9. It should be noted that while {/-domain rules are not often found in the
phonological literature, one does occasionly come across reference to the last type of
rule mentioned, the U limit rule. In fact, a Ulimit rule is mentioned by Lees (1961)
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
The Phonological Utterance 247
in his description of Turkish phonology, where we find a rule of Final Liquid De-
voicing that devoices /r/ and palatal /l/ in absolute final position.
10. Harris does not name all of his rules; we have supplied descriptive names, where
necessary, for the rules under consideration here.
11. It should be noted that Harris (1969) uses the single word boundary as a cover
symbol for more complex representations, and does not distinguish between one or
more boundaries as is done in SPE and other works in that tradition. Instead, Harris
prefers to maintain, for the rules under examination, '...the simplifying fiction that
all orthographic word boundaries are correctly represented as #' (p.17).
12. Harris considers the sequence in question to be composed of two sentences,
thoughJn fact the first element may be a case of Xn
representing a node other than
S (i.e. N), depending on the analysis chosen, or, alternatively, a case of Left Disloca-
tion. Given the falling intonation pattern indicated, however, we assume that Harris
means to exclude the last possibility, and consider the two parts of the examples
as deriving from separate sentences. In any case, it should be noted that Voicing
Assimilation applies quite generally across sentences, as illustrated by the following
less controversial examples:
(i) Quiero los dos. Damelos. -* _.do[s ] Damelos
Ί want both of them. Give them to me.'
(ii) Oigo su voz. Donde estä? -»· vo[sz
] Donde...
Ί hear his voice. Where is he?'
13. Such a sequence of sentences is possible, for example, in the case of a rapid
change of topic or if the speaker is directing the sentences to different addressees.
14. Exclamatory sentences usually begin with how or what, and therefore do not
provide the correct segmental context for Flapping and /--Insertion when they are
the second sentence in a sequence.
15. In previous work (Vogel, 1981, 1986), a third type of relation was mentioned,
a pragmatic one. This no longer seems necessary since the relevant cases can,
in fact, be subsumed under the category of semantic relations if we allow shared
knowledge of a given situation to play a slightly greater role in interpreting the re-
lation between sentences.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Chapter 9
Prosodic Constituents and Disambiguation
9.0. Introduction
Thus far, our discussion of the various constituents of the prosodic hierar-
chy has been concerned with strictly phonological phenomena. That
is, each phonological constituent was motivated on the basis of the ap-
plication of specific phonological rules. In this way it was seen that pro-
sodic phonology is a theory of domains in phonology. The definitions
of the phonological constituents were shown to incorporate morphologic-
al, syntactic, and even semantic notions, and thus it was seen that prosodic
phonology is also a theory of interactions between the various components
of the grammar and phonology. In this chapter, it will be shown that the
constituents of the prosodic hierarchy also provide the relevant structures
for the first level of processing in the perception of speech and thus that
prosodic theory contributes to a theory of perception of language as well.
That is, it will be shown that prosodic constituents represent more than
the domains within which various phonological rules and more subtle
phrasing phenomena apply. In addition to delimiting the units of speech
production, they also play a role in speech perception, since it is the result
of the application of the various phonological and phonetic phenomena
that allows a listener to identify the internal structure in the string of
speech sounds he hears. The first stage in the processing of the incoming
speech signal, the initial parsing of a given string into the various constitu-
ents of the prosodic hierarchy, provides the basis for the listener's recon-
struction of the syntactic structure of the string and ultimately for his
understanding of the message conveyed by the string.
While there does not seem to be any controversy regarding the claim
that sequences of speech sounds are not perceived merely as unstructured
linear sequences of sounds, or even words, there is some question as to
which larger units are relevant in the perception and organization of
speech on the part of the listener. There has been much research on
speech perception devoted to demonstrating that the relevant units are the
constituents of the syntactic hierarchy. This was the scope, in fact, of
many early 'click' experiments (e.g. Fodor and Bever, 1965; Garrett,
Bever and Fodor, 1966; Fodor, Fodor, Garrett and Lackner, 1975), as
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
250 Prosodic Phonology
well as of more recent work, such as that by Lehiste (1973) and by Cooper
and Paccia-Cooper (1980). Other studies were aimed at showing more spe-
cifically that certain prosodic phenomena apply in domains determined by
syntactic structure and can thus provide the necessary cues for the lis-
tener's analysis of a string into its appropriate syntactic structure (e.g.
Lehiste, 1972; Lehiste, Olive and Streeter, 1976; Klatt, 1975).
It was suggested by Selkirk (1978b), and argued further by Nespor and
Vogel (1983a, 1983b) on the basis of perception data, that it is not
syntactic constituents but rather prosodic constituents that provide
the relevant information in the first stage of processing of a given string
of speech. This is not to say that syntactic structure is irrelevant, but
rather that it is relevant only indirectly, since syntactic information is
referred to in the construction of the various prosodic constituents above
the word level, as seen in the previous chapters.
It follows from the claim that prosodic, rather than syntactic, con-
stituents provide the relevant units for the initial level of processing that
any syntactic distinctions that are not reflected in prosodic structure
cannot be perceived at this stage of perception. In order to test this claim,
we carried out a study of the ability of Italian listeners to disambiguate
a set of 78 sentences in which the syntactic differences are reflected in
different ways, or not at all, in prosodic structure. In general terms, the
prediction was that listeners would be able to distinguish the meanings of
only those sentences that have a difference in prosodic structure. In this
light, a study of ambiguous sentences in English carried out by Lehiste
(1973) will also be discussed. Since Lehiste makes the claim that it is the
syntactic constituent structure that is responsible for disambiguation,
we will also compare our predictions and results with Lehiste's, and show
that prosodic structure makes better predictions about which sentences
are disambiguable than does syntactic structure.
Before discussing the predictions and the disambiguation test in detail,
however, we will first examine the concept of ambiguity and identify a
number of different types of ambiguity. From among this number, those
types will be selected which are relevant to the issue under investigation
here, that is, the role of prosodic vs. syntactic constituents at the first
level of processing, the first level at which a listener begins to assign struc-
ture to the string of speech he hears, and thus the first stage in which am-
biguous sentences may be disambiguated.
9.1. Ambiguity
The study of the phenomenon of ambiguity has a long history, beginning
in explicit terms with Aristotle.2
The term 'ambiguity' has been used to
refer to a broad range of phenomena, and is often used generically with
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Constituents and Disambiguation 251
the meaning of 'misunderstanding'. A more accurate definition, however,
would be that ambiguity, at least in spoken language, is the plurality
of meanings for a single sequence of sound segments.
In the most 'classic' case, often called 'homophony' or 'polisemy'
(see Ullmann, 1962), ambiguity is the result of the fact that a given word
may have more than one meaning, as is illustrated in the Italian example
in(l)·3
(1) Geltrude l'ha attaccato.
a. 'Geltrude has attacked it.'
b. 'Geltrude has attached it.'
The sentence in (1) can be interpreted in two ways because the verb at-
taccare can be interpreted in two ways, that is, in the sense of 'attack' and
in the sense of 'attach'. What is important in spoken language, however, is
not so much the fact that we have a single word with two meanings,
but rather the fact that the sequences of sounds are identical in the two
cases.
That ambiguity has to do with sequences of segments, and not other
units such as words, can be seen in the comparison of the pronunciations
of the two sequences in (2).
(2) a. del lago 'of the lake'
b. dell'ago 'of the needle'
Despite the fact that the words in (2a) and (2b) are different, the phonetic
realization of both expressions is the same. That is, the listener, on hearing
only the phonetic form [della:go] does not know if the meaning is the
one corresponding to the orthographic form in (2a) or to the one in (2b).
The problem here is that of the impossibility of assigning a single inter-
pretation to a given string of sound segments.
9.1.1. Types of ambiguity
As has often been observed, there are different types of ambiguity (see
Kooij, 1971). Among these, it is possible to distinguish the three types
illustrated in (3), on the basis of their structure.
(3) a. Non lo conosco.
Ί don't know him.'
b. La sua influenza e preoccupante.
(i) 'His flu is worrisome.'
(ii) 'His influence is worrisome.'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
252 Prosodic Phonology
c. La vecchia legge la regola.
(i) 'The old lady is reading the regulation.'
(ii) 'The old law regulates it.'
It can be said that a sentence like (3a) is ambiguous when it is not clear
to whom the pronoun lo 'him' refers. For example, in this case the inter-
pretation may be Non conosco Michele Ί don't know Michele' or Non
conosco Arturo Ί don't know Arturo', etc. We are dealing here with what
may be called ambiguity at the pragmatic level. In (3b), however, the
ambiguity results from the fact that the word influenza has two meanings,
and therefore the sentence may be interpreted either as referring to a
sickness or to a notion of power. This case, like the one seen above in (1),
represents ambiguity at the lexical level. Finally, in the third sentence,
the situation is somewhat more complex, since the syntactic structures
corresponding to the two interpretations are different. In one interpreta-
tion of (3c), vecchia is a noun ('old lady'), legge is a verb ('is reading'),
la is an article ('the'), and regola is a noun ('regulation'). In the other
interpretation, however, vecchia is an adjective ('old'), legge is a noun
('law'), la is a clitic ('it'), and regola is a verb ('regulates'). In such cases,
we can speak of ambiguity at the syntactic level. It should be noted,
furthermore, that this last type of ambiguity always implies ambiguity
at the lexical level as well. For example, if in the one case legge is a noun
and in the other a verb, it follows that the meaning of legge must be dif-
ferent in the two cases.
The division of types of ambiguity into the three categories just given
is certainly not the only way of classifying the different types of ambigu-
ity. A slightly different classification is proposed by Ullmann (1962),
and distinguishes among phonetic, lexical, and grammatical ambiguity.
In this classification, the term phonetic ambiguity is used to refer to cases
in which the same sound sequence can be divided into words in more than
one way, giving rise to more than one meaning, as was seen in (2) above,
or as can be seen with the sequence [lakjü:za], which can mean either
'lock' (la chiusa) or '(he) has closed it' (I'ha chiusa).4
It should be noted,
however, that most examples of this type would fall into the category
of ambiguity at the syntactic level in the classification presented above,
since different divisions of phonetic material often result in different
syntactic structures. For example, in the case of [lakjύ:za], we would
have the following two structures: [ [ L A ] ^ R T [kjuizaJ^J^p and [ [ 1 ] P R Q
[a]A L J X [kjii:za]y]yp.5
The two other categories cited by Ullmann in
most cases correspond, respectively, to the categories of ambiguity at the
syntactic and lexical levels discussed above.
Another, quite different approach to ambiguity is that of Empson
(1930). Here we find not three, but seven, categories of ambiguity. It
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Constituents and Disambiguation 253
should be noted, however, that this classification is not based on different
structures, but rather on different logico-semantic relations that can
exist between the different meanings of an ambiguous expression.
In the present work, we will restrict our attention to structural types
of ambiguity, and in particular to the types exemplified in (3b) and (3c).
That is, we will only consider cases of lexical and syntactic ambiguity,
or in other words, those types that can be considered cases of 'linguistic
ambiguity' in the strictest sense, as opposed to both pragmatic ambiguity
(type (3a)) and the types of ambiguity discussed by Empson that do not
depend on structural factors but on various other relations expressed in
the sentences in question.
9.1.2. Disambiguation
Under normal communicative circumstances, ambiguity poses problems
when a listener, on hearing a string of sounds, could possibly interpret the
string in more than one way. Usually, there is some linguistic or nonlin-
guistic element in the context that helps the listener identify the intended
meaning of a potentially ambiguous sentence. For example, the sentence
in (4) is understood in one way if the topic of conversation is, explicitly
or implicitly, 'drinks', and in another way if the topic has to do with
'ships'.
(4) Mi piace quel porto.
Ί like that port.'
When the contextual information is inadequate, or totally lacking, dis-
ambiguation is sometimes possible nonetheless, though in such cases it
must depend on some other type of information. Specifically, it depends
on a type of phonological information that goes beyond the individual
segments that compose a given expression. Consider, for example, the
ambiguous sentence in (5).
(5) Federico andava solo quando pioveva.
a. 'Federico went alone when it was raining.'
b. 'Federico went only when it was raining.'
While the string of segments is identical in the two interpretations cor-
responding to (5), the prosodic structure is different in the two cases.
When the intended meaning is that in (5a), this is usually signalled by
a peak in the intonation contour on the word solo, while this does not
happen with the meaning in (5b).6
This type of prosodic information
helps the listener interpret the sentence in the way the speaker intends it.
Not all ambiguous sentences can be disambiguated prosodically, how-
ever, as can be seen in (6).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
254 Prosodic Phonology
(6) Carlotta preferisce le penne rosse.
a. 'Carlotta prefers the red feathers.'
b. 'Carlotta prefers the red pens.'
In this case, in the absence of contextual information, there is no way in
which a speaker can distinguish prosodically between the meaning of
'feathers' and that of 'pens'. In other words, the prosodic patterns corres-
ponding to both interpretations are the same, and such sentences remain
ambiguous to the listener.
In much the same way that we distinguished above between pragmatic
ambiguity on the one hand, and linguistic ambiguity in the strict sense, on
the other hand, we can distinguish here between pragmatic or contextual
disambiguation and linguistic or prosodic disambiguation. Furthermore,
just as we restricted our area of investigation to the strictly linguistic
types of ambiguity, excluding pragmatic or logico-semantic types, we will
concentrate here only on the strictly linguistic means of disambiguation.
9.1.3. Syntactic structure vs. prosodic structure
It was mentioned above that certain sentences can be disambiguated
prosodically while others cannot. The question that arises at this point is
what the criteria are that determine whether or not an ambiguous sentence
is disambiguable.
According to one proposal, which can be called the 'syntactic proposal',
the prosodic structure of a sentence is directly determined by its syntactic
structure (see, among others, Lehiste, 1973; Lieberman, 1977; Cooper
and Paccia-Cooper, 1980). In other words, different prosodic patterns
correspond to different syntactic structures. As far as ambiguous sentences
are concerned, this proposal predicts that we will be able to disambiguate
those sentences for which the different meanings correspond to different
syntactic structures. When, however, the syntactic structures correspond-
ing to the two meanings are the same, the prosodic patterns will also be
the same, and such sentences will not be disambiguable for the listener
(see Lehiste, 1973).
According to the proposal we are advancing here, the 'prosodic propos-
al', however, the prosodic structure of a sentence is only indirectly deter-
mined by its syntactic structure, as has been seen in the preceding chapters
of this book. That is, while the prosodic categories above the word level
are constructed in relation to certain syntactic factors, the resulting
prosodic structures do not necessarily correspond to the constituent
structures of syntax. As far as ambiguity is concerned, the prosodic pro-
posal predicts that the sentences that can be disambiguated are those in
which the different meanings correspond to different prosodic structures.
By contrast, sentences in which the different meanings have the same pro-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Constituents and Disambiguation 255
sodic structure are not disambiguable, regardless of their syntactic struc-
ture (see Nespor and Vogel, 1983a, 1983b).
9.2. Two proposals for disambiguation
As was seen above, in the absence of adequate contextual information,
either linguistic or nonlinguistic, the only indication a listener has as
to the meaning of an ambiguous utterance is its prosodic pattern. This
prosodic pattern obviously depends on the way in which the string in ques-
tion is uttered by the speaker. In this section, we will examine the way in
which the prosodic pattern of a sentence is determined by the speaker
according to the two proposals in question, that is, whether it happens
on the basis of syntactic structure or on the basis of phonological (pro-
sodic) structure. In section 9.3 we will discuss the test we carried out in
order to empirically evaluate the validity of the two proposals.
9.2.1. The syntactic proposal
According to the syntactic proposal, there is a one-to-one relation
between the syntactic structure of a sentence and its prosody. It is suggest-
ed, specifically, that the ends of syntactic constituents are the sites of a
number of prosodic phenomena, such as the lengthening of the final unit
(segment, syllable, word), and somewhat less commonly, the presence of
a pause and/or laryngealization of the final unit (see Lehiste, 1973; Cooper
and Paccia-Cooper, 1980). In other words, it is the position of the syntac-
tic constituent boundaries that determines to a large extent the prosodic
pattern of a sentence. It is proposed, furthermore, that the larger the
number of boundaries found together in a given position, the more pro-
sodically marked this position will be. Consider the word fermata 'stop'
in the following two (unambiguous) sentences:
(7) a. [La prossima [fermataJj^Jj^p e davanti alia stazione.
'The next stop is in front of the station.'
b. [La [fermata]^ principalejj^p e davanti alia stazione.
'The main stop is in front of the station.'
According to the syntactic proposal, the word fermata in (7a) should be
lengthened more, and in general contain more constituent-final prosodic
information, than its counterpart in (7b). Such a difference would reflect
the fact that the end of fermata represents the end of two constituents,
Ν and NP, in (7a), but only of Ν in (7b).
It follows directly from the syntactic proposal that when the two in-
terpretations of an ambiguous sentence have the same constituent struc-
ture, it is not possible for a listener to distinguish between the two
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
256 Prosodic Phonology
meanings, regardless of the syntactic labels of the constituents (Lehiste,
1973:112). On the other hand, it should be possible to distinguish
between the two meanings in cases in which the syntactic constituents
corresponding to the two meanings are different.
On the basis of a test in which 30 subjects were asked to interpret a
number of repetitions of 15 ambiguous English sentences, choosing be-
tween the paraphrases offered for each sentence, Lehiste claims to have
found confirmation for what we are calling the syntactic proposal: 'The
set of successfully disambiguated sentences consists of those for which
[a] difference in meaning is correlated with a difference in surface con-
stituent structure. The sentences that were generally not disambiguated
have only one bracketing, although the constituents may bear different
labels' (p. 112).
An examination of the data presented in Lehiste's article reveals several
inconsistencies which cast some doubt on the conclusions that were drawn
on the basis of the test. For example, Lehiste points out that of the 15
test sentences, 10 give results above the chance level (p < .025) and are
thus disambiguable. Among the 15 sentences, however, there are only 8
which have different syntactic bracketings for the two interpretations.
This means that there should be only 8 disambiguable sentences, if it is
true that it is the syntactic structure that directly determines the prosodic
pattern of a sentence, which in turn provides the information necessary
for the disambiguation of sentences presented orally. It should be noted,
furthermore, that of the 10 disambiguated sentences, 7 were among those
with only one bracketing. Thus, it is not even the case that all of those
(eight) sentences with two bracketings were disambiguated.
In addition, it should be noted that among the test items there are
several sentences that behave differently despite the fact that they have
the same bracketings. Consider the sentences in (8), which can be bracket-
ed in only one way for the two meanings; the expressions following each
sentence are the paraphrases given in the test.
(8) a. The [[shooting] [[of] [the hunters]]] was terrible.
(Lehiste's (8))
i. The hunters shot badly.
ii. The hunters were shot.
b. The [[feeding] [[of] [the tigers]]] was expensive.
(Lehiste's (12))
i. The tigers were fed.
ii. The tigers did the feeding.
c. The [[screaming] [[of] [the victims]]] was terrible.
(Lehiste's (Lehiste's (13))
i. The victims screamed.
ii. ?? Somebody screamed 'the victims'.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Constituents and Disambiguation 257
According to the results of the test, only the first sentence, (8a), is truly
ambiguous; the answers to the other two sentences were significantly
above the chance level. As Lehiste points out, the highly significant
scores for the sentences in (8b) and (8c) are most likely an experimental
artifact, a result of the choice of sentences used in the study. That is,
while the calculations of ambiguity were based on the assumption that
the two meanings of each ambiguous sentence were equally possible, both
meanings were not, in fact, always plausible, a consequence of Lehiste's
choice to use sentences that had already been discussed and analyzed in
the contemporary linguistic literature, rather than sentences constructed
in order to test her claims. Specifically, in the cases of (8b) and (8c),
the first paraphrase given was the more plausible one, and it is indeed the
one that was chosen most frequently. What the results show is not a sig-
nificant ability on the part of the subjects to disambiguate the sentences
in question, but rather a significant preference for one of the two mean-
ings. In this sense, the sentences are not truly ambiguous, although their
interpretation reflects semantic considerations rather than syntactic
or prosodic structure.
In light of these observations, it no longer seems possible to conclude,
as Lehiste did, that the possibility of disambiguating ambiguous sentences
depends on their syntactic structure. Instead, the question of whether the
ambiguous sentences that can be disambiguated prosodically are those that
have different syntactic structures corresponding to their different mean-
ings remains open at this point, and must be further investigated on the
basis of more reliable data.
9.2.2. The prosodic proposal
Even without controlled experiments, it was observed relatively early
in the generative literature that syntax and prosody cannot exist in a one-
to-one relation, as is claimed by the syntactic proposal. In fact, as we
mentioned above, it was already noted by Chomsky and Halle (1968)
that the prosodic pattern in certain sentences, in particular the distribution
of pauses, does not always correspond to the constituent structure of the
sentences. While the generally accepted syntactic bracketing of the (non-
ambiguous) sentence in (9) is that indicated in (9a), this sentence is
divided prosodically as in (9b), where the configuration '] [' indicates the
position of intonational breaks.
(9) a. This is [the cat that caught [the rat that stole [the cheese]]]
fa. [This is the cat] [that caught the rat] [that stole the cheese]
Minimizing the importance of this type of discrepancy between syntax
and prosody, Chomsky and Halle (1968) attribute the problem to a
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
258 Prosodic Phonology
question of performance. Langendoen (1975), however, gives more impor-
tance to the problem, and proposes that there is a distinct component that
is responsible for assigning the appropriate prosodic pattern in cases like
(9), where the prosodic and syntactic structures are not identical.
In the theoretical framework of prosodic phonology, such a discrepan-
cy between syntactic and prosodic structure, instead of constituting a
problem, is one of the fundamental motivations for the internal organiza-
tion of the phonological component. According to the prosodic proposal
of disambiguation, it is the phonological structures or prosodic constitu-
ents (in particular those above the word level), and not the syntactic
constituents, that determine the prosodic pattern of a sentence. In con-
trast to the syntactic proposal, according to which different prosodic
patterns correspond to different syntactic structures, the prosodic pro-
posal admits the possibility that different syntactic structures can give
rise to the same prosodic pattern. Furthermore, since the prosodic pro-
posal bases the determination of the prosodic pattern of a sentence on its
phonological structure, it follows that there may exist ambiguous sen-
tences with different syntactic structures which are nevertheless not disam-
biguable because they have the same prosodic structure.
The prosodic approach predicts, therefore, that the only ambiguous
sentences that can be disambiguated linguistically (i.e. prosodically) are
those in which there are different prosodic structures corresponding to
the different meanings. In the next section, we will discuss the experiment
we conducted to evaluate the various predictions made by this proposal
and by the syntactic proposal in relation to a series of ambiguous
sentences in Italian.
9.3. A disambiguation experiment
In order to evaluate the predictions made by the two disambiguation pro-
posals, we devised a perception test to see which ambiguous sentences
listeners were actually able to disambiguate on the basis of their prosody
alone.7
We will first examine the specific predictions made by the two pro-
posals (section 9.3.1), and then discuss the test itself and its results (sec-
tion 9.3.2).
9.3.1. Hypotheses
Before formulating the specific hypotheses on the basis of which we
will compare the two disambiguation proposals, it is necessary to analyze
more systematically the different types of ambiguous sentences.
As far as their syntactic structure is concerned, ambiguous sentences
can vary independently on two dimensions: syntactic constituency and
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Constituents and Disambiguation 259
syntactic labels (see Lehiste, 1973). In other words, for any ambiguous
sentence with two meanings, the syntactic constituent structures that
correspond to the two interpretations may be either the same or different.
Similarly, the syntactic labels may also be either the same or different.
By varying the values on the two dimensions, we arrive at four logically
possible combinations, as seen in Figure 1.
Syntactic Constituents
same different
Syntactic
same a b
Labels
different c d
Figure 1. Syntactic labels and constituents in ambiguous sentences
As far as their prosodic structure is concerned, too, ambiguous sentences
may vary independently on (at least) two dimensions: the phonological
phrase (φ) and the intonational phrase (/).8
Figure 2 represents the four
logically possible combinations of the two prosodic dimensions under
consideration.
Phonological Phrases
same different
Intonational
same a b
Phrases
different c d
Figure 2. Phonological phrases and intonational phrases in ambiguous sentences
The syntactic and prosodic dimensions, however, are not independent
of each other, given that the construction of the prosodic constituents
depends indirectly on the syntactic structure of a sentence. When the
two interpretations of an ambiguous sentence have the same syntactic
structure, their prosodic structure must also be the same. In all other
cases, however, the φ and / structures may vary with respect to the two
syntactic factors. The result is that there are ten possible relations between
the syntactic and prosodic structures corresponding to the two meanings
of an ambiguous sentence, as seen in Figure 3 (from Nespor and Vogel,
1983b: 134).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
260 Prosodic Phonology
SYNTAX
Constituents
Same
Constituents
Different
Labels
Same
Labels
Different
Labels
Same
Labels
Different
Ρ
R
0
s
0
D
Y
φ Same
I Same 1 2 3 4
Ρ
R
0
s
0
D
Y
φ Same
I Different 5 6
Ρ
R
0
s
0
D
Y
φ Different
I Same 7 8
Ρ
R
0
s
0
D
Y
φ Different
I Different 9 10
Figure 3. Relations between the syntactic and prosodic structures of ambiguous
sentences
Finally, there is another area in which the two meanings of an ambiguous
sentence may differ, and that is at the level of logical form, specifically,
where different thematic relations are involved. For example, in the sen-
tence Volevo farlo suonare Ί wanted to make him play (an instrument)'
and Ί wanted to have it played', lo can either serve as the subject of the
verb suonare 'to play' or as its object. Although it was mentioned earlier
that we intended to restrict our attention to different structural types of
ambiguity, as opposed to those depending on logico-semantic factors,
we did include an additional category in our test, 1', where the only
difference between the two meanings was at the level of thematic rela-
tions. This was done as a check on the fairly common assumption that
such relations do not manifest themselves prosodically. It should be noted
that the new category 11
is structurally the same as category 1, since in
both cases the syntactic constituents and the syntactic labels, as well
as the φ and / structures, are the same for both meanings of the ambiguous
sentences in question.
The different types of ambiguous sentences used in the test are
exemplified in Table 1, where the numbers correspond to those in Figure 3.
It should be noted that category 2 is missing from the list; no plausible
examples of this type were found in Italian.9
Instead, category 1' has been
included in the list. For each sentence, the labeled prosodic bracketings
that correspond to the two meanings are given, and below each meaning
the paraphrase used in the test is provided. The English translations are
given in Table 2.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Constituents and Disambiguation
Table 1. Examples of different types of ambiguous sentences
261
Type of
sentence
b.
a.
b.
a.
b.
b.
a.
b.
a.
b.
Example
[[Non ho mai visto]^ [tanti ricciJ^Jj]^
Ricci di mare'
[[Non ho mai visto]^ [tanti ricci^JjJy
Capelli ricci'
[[E stato trovato]^ [da Antonio
Era a casa di Antonio'
[[E stato trovato]^ [da Antonio]0]j]u
Antonio l'ha trovato'
[ [ M a r c o [ [ h a guardato]^ [la ragazza]^
col canocchiale]^]j]y
La ragazza ha in mano il canocchiale'
[[Marco [[ha guardato [la ragazza]^
col c a n o c c h i a l e 1 0
Vlarco ha in mano il canocchiale'
[[Luca]^]j [[fa]0 [la f o t o ] ^ [[e Carlo]^
[la stampa]^]I]u
Carlo fa la stampa'
[[Luca]^ [[fa]0 [la f o t o ] ^ [[e Carlo]^
[la stampa]0]I]u
Carlo stampa la foto'
[[Quando Giorgio[[chiama]^ [suo fratello]^]j
[e sempre nervoso
Giorgio e nervoso'
[[Quando Giorgio[[chiama]^]j [[suo fratello^Jj
[e sempre nervoso
Suo fratello nervoso'
[[Quando G i o r g i o [ [ v a ] ^ [al ristoranteJ^j [[con Luisa]^
e M a n u e l a [ [ e sempre felice]^]^^
Giorgio e felice'
[[Quando Giorgio]^ [[va]^ [al ristorante^Jj [[con Luisa]^]j
[Emanuela]^]j [[e sempre felice
Emanuela e felice'11
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
262 Prosodic Phonology
7 a. [[[Ho visto]^ [in svendita]^]j [[degli sgabelli]^
[per pianoforti]^ [antichi]^^
'Gli sgabelli sono antichi'
b. [[[Ho visto]^ [in svendita]^ [[degli sgabelli]^
[per pianoforti antichiJ^JjJy12
Ί pianoforti sono antichi'
8 a. [[[Ho visto Marco [dal monaco]^]j]|j
Έ a casa del monaco che l'ho visto'
b. [[[Ho visto]ψ [Marco Dal MonacoI^IJJJJ
Ί1 cognome di Marco e Dal Monaco'
9 a. [[[Ha parlato naturalmentej^]^
Έ owio che ha parlato'
b. [[[Ha parlato naturalmente]^ ]j]y
'Ha parlato in modo naturale'
10 a. [[[Ul^j [[[suonano insieme]^ Jjljj
'Laggiü stanno suonando'
b. [[[Li suonano insieme]0]j]y
'Suonano gli strumenti'
Table 2. Translation of disambiguation test examples
Type of
Sentence Example
1 a. I have never seen so many sea urchins.
'Sea urchins'
b. I have never seen so many curls.
'Curly hair'
1' a. It was found at Antonio's.
'It was at Antonio's house'
b. It was found by Antonio.
'Antonio found it'
3 a. Marco looked at the girl with the binoculars.
'The girl is holding the binoculars'
b. Marco looked at the girl with the binoculars.
'Marco is holding the binoculars'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Constituents and Disambiguation 263
4 a. Luca makes the picture and Carlo the print.
'Carlo makes the print'
b. Luca takes the picture and Carlo prints it.
'Carlo prints the picture'
5 a. When Giorgio calls his brother he is always nervous.
'Giorgio is nervous'
b. When Giorgio calls his brother is always nervous.
'His brother is nervous'
6 a. When Giorgio goes to the restaurant with Luisa and Manuela
he is always happy.
'Giorgio is happy'
b. When Giorgio goes to the restaurant with Luisa Emanuela is
always happy.
'Emanuela is happy'
7 a. I saw on sale some antique piano stools.
'The stools are antique'
b. I saw on sale some stools for antique pianos.
'The pianos are antique'
8 a. I saw Marco at the monk's.
'It was at the monk's place'
b. I saw Marco Dal Monaco.
'Marco's last name is Dal Monaco'
9 a. He spoke naturally.
'It's obvious that he spoke'
b. He spoke naturally.
'He spoke in a natural way'
10 a. There they are playing together.
Over there they are playing'
b. They are playing them together.
'They are playing the instruments'
Let us now return to the specific predictions made by the two disambigu-
ation proposals. The syntactic proposal predicts disambiguation in those
cases in which the syntactic structures corresponding to the different
meanings are different, thus in types 3-10. The prosodic proposal, on the
other hand, predicts disambiguation in those cases in which the prosodic
structures are different, thus in types 5-10. The predictions are therefore
different in two cases, in types 3 and 4, where the syntactic structures of
the two meanings are different but where the prosodic structures are the
same.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
264 Prosodic Phonology
Another difference between the two disambiguation proposals is that the
syntactic proposal allows for only two possible types of results, while the
prosodic proposal allows for more. That is, according to the syntactic propo-
sal, the two possibilities are: (/) different syntactic structures and therefore
disambiguation, and (κ) the same syntactic structures and therefore no dis-
ambiguation. The prosodic proposal, on the other hand, allows for the fol-
lowing possibilities: (i) different prosodic structures at both the φ and /
levels and therefore complete disambiguation, (ii) the same prosodic
structures at both the φ and I levels and therefore no disambiguation,
(iii) different prosodic structures at one of the levels (φ or /) and therefore
partial disambiguation. In relation to possibility (iii), although there is no
a priori reason for distinguishing between those cases in which the dif-
ference is at the φ level and those in which it is at the / level, the hypothe-
sis can be made that a difference at the / level is more 'audible', since the
end of an / automatically represents a difference at the φ level as well,
while the boundary of a 0 does not necessarily coincide with an / bound-
ary. In other words, we can expect there to be more prosodic boundary
markers at the end of an / (and φ) than at the end of only a φ, thus
making disambiguation more likely when there is a difference at the /
level. Thus, possibility (iii) can actually be divided into two separate
cases: (iii') different prosodic structures only at the φ level and therefore
some disambiguation, and (iv) different prosodic structures only at the
/level and therefore somewhat more disambiguation.
Taking as a starting point the proposal that makes more specific pre-
dictions, the prosodic proposal, we formulated the following hypotheses,
which were then tested on the basis of the perception test described in the
next section (see Nespor and Vogel, 1983b: 135):
(16) Disambiguation Hypotheses
a. Sentences in which both the φ and / structures are the same for
both interpretations are not disambiguable even when the syntac-
tic structures are different.
b. Disambiguation is most likely when both the φ and / structures
are different for the two interpretations.
c. Disambiguation is more likely when the / structures are different
for the two interpretations (and φ structures are the same) than
when the φ structures are different (and I structures are the same).
d. Sentences in which the two interpretations differ only in thematic
relations are not disambiguable.
It is Hypothesis a that distinguishes most clearly between the two dis-
ambiguation proposals. Hypotheses b and c also distinguish between the
two proposals, though somewhat less directly. In other words, since it is
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Constituents and Disambiguation 265
only the prosodic proposal that makes the type of prediction found in b
and c, a difference in listener responses along these lines would provide
support for the prosodic proposal. Finally, although Hypothesis d does not
distinguish between the two disambiguation proposals, it was included as
verification of the assumption that thematic roles do not affect the pro-
sody of a sentence.
9.3.2. Disambiguation test
Subjects
The disambiguation test was presented to 36 adults, all of whom were
from northern Italy. The subjects were all speakers of standard Italian and
were either university graduates or students at the time of testing.
Material
The test consisted of a series of 78 ambiguous sentences, representing
the 10 types described above. They were recorded by M. Nespor, a speaker
of a standard northern variety of Italian, and presented to the subjects on
a Uher 2000 tape recorder. Two versions of the test were prepared (Test
I and Test II), and of the 36 subjects, half heard one version and half the
other version.
In the preparation of the two versions of the test, each sentence was
read with the intention of presenting one of the two possible meanings of
a sentence in one version, and the other meaning in the other version.
Thus, only the combination of the two tests gave all of the 156 possible
meanings of the 78 sentences. To ensure the correct reading of the test
sentences in the preparation of the tapes, each ambiguous sentence was
preceded by a nonambiguous sentence with the same construction as that
of the desired meaning of the ambiguous sentence. The nonambiguous
sentence was not recorded; it was only used to 'program' the pronuncia-
tion of the ambiguous sentence. The number of syllables and position of
stresses in the primer sentence were kept as close as possible to those in
the target sentence, as is illustrated in (17).
(17) a.
b.
Test I
primer:
target:
Test II
primer'.
target:
Marco ha guardato la ragazza col neo grande.
'Marco looked at the girl with the large mole.'
Marco ha guardato la ragazza col canocchiale.
'Marco looked at the girl with the binoculars.'
Marco ha guardato la ragazza con interesse.
'Marco looked at the girl with interest.'
Marco ha guardato la ragazza col canocchiale.
'Marco looked at the girl with the binoculars.'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
266 Prosodic Phonology
The subjects indicated their responses on answer sheets that contained
lists of the two possible paraphrases for each sentence. Two versions of
the answer sheet were used as well. The pair of paraphrases for each sen-
tence were given in one order in one version, and in the opposite order in the
other version. Thus, for each test (I and II), half of the subjects received
one order of presentation of the paraphrases and the other half received
the other order. This was done to avoid potential effects due to a tendency
on the part of the subjects to consistently choose either the first or the
second answer, or to follow any other nonlinguistic strategy in selecting
their answers. For example, the paraphrases provided on the answer
sheet for the example in (17) are those in (18); as was just mentioned,
half of the subjects received an answer sheet with the expressions in the
order given in (18), and half received an answer sheet in which the expres-
sions were given in the opposite order.
(18) a. La ragazza ha in mano il canocchiale.
'The girl is holding the binoculars.'
b. Marco ha in mano il canocchiale.
'Marco is holding the binoculars.'
Procedure
Each subject heard only one version of the test, and thus only one form
of each of the 78 sentences. Each sentence was played twice. The first
time, the subject was supposed to listen to the sentence and think of
what it meant, and only afterwards read the two paraphrases given on the
answer sheet. At this point, the sentence was presented again and the sub-
ject had to indicate which of the two paraphrases best corresponded to what
was recorded on the tape. The subjects were encouraged to respond
'spontaneously', without thinking too much about the sentences. If they
were totally unable to choose one of the two possible meanings, the sub-
jects were instructed to write Ά', for ambiguous, next to the item in ques-
tion.
Results
Before we discuss the actual results of our experiment, it should be
noted that our analysis, like Lehiste's, rests on the assumption that the
two interpretations of each ambiguous sentence were equally plausible.
Since we did not verify this assumption on the basis of an independent
evaluation of our test sentences, our study is potentially open to the same
criticism we made earlier of Lehiste's study. There is, however, an impor-
tant difference between Lehiste's experiment and ours: the number of
stimuli used. Since Lehiste tested only 15 sentences, the effect of several
examples with a large discrepancy between the plausibility of the two
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Constituents and Disambiguation 267
meanings is relatively large. In our experiment, on the other hand, in
which 78 sentences were tested, the presence of a small number of unre-
presentative examples does not have a significant effect on the overall
results.
In the analysis of the results, the answers corresponding to the meaning
intended by the speaker on the tape were marked '+' and those corres-
ponding to the other meaning were marked '-'. The cases in which a sub-
ject indicated that both answers were equally possible by writing Ά'
were divided between the two values '+' and '-'. There were, in fact, very
few such cases.
Table 3 presents the percentages of the '+' answers for each of the types
of sentences investigated. In addition, the predictions made by the two dis-
ambiguation proposals are indicated for each type of sentence ('+' = dis-
ambiguation predicted,'-' = disambiguation not predicted).
Table 3. Per cent responses corresponding to intended meaning of ambigu-
ous sentences
Type of % Choice of In- Predicted Disambiguation
Sentence tended Meaning Syntactic Proposal Prosodic Proposal
1 50.0 _ _
1' 51.4 — -
3 59.1 + -
4 52.6 + -
5 86.1 + +
6 94.9 + +
7 67.8 + +
8 75.8 + +
9 90.2 + +
10 90.2 + +
Ideally, a nondisambiguable sentence should result in the choice of the
intended meaning 50% of the time, while a totally disambiguable sentence
should result in the choice of the intended meaning 100% of the time.
With these patterns in mind, let us now examine the actual results ob-
tained in the test, and their implications with respect to the hypotheses
formulated above in (16).
It should be noted, first of all, that for the two categories 1 and 1',
for which both disambiguation proposals predict nondisambiguation, the
results are, in fact, very close to the ideal of 50% choice of the intended
meaning.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
268 Prosodic Phonology
As far as the first hypothesis is concerned, the one which most directly
distinguishes between the two proposals, we see that the sentence ca-
tegories 3 and 4, in which the prosodic structures are the same for the
two meanings despite different syntactic structures, behave fairly simi-
larly to the first two (nondisambiguable) categories. That is, while the
percentages for categories 3 and 4 are somewhat higher than those for ca-
tegories 1 and 1', they are nevertheless very far from the ideal of 100%
that would indicate disambiguability.
We can conclude, therefore, that Hypothesis a (see (16)) is confirmed,
and thus that ambiguous sentences with the same prosodic structures
for the two interpretations are essentially not disambiguable, even when
their syntactic structures are different.
Hypothesis b, however, is only partially confirmed. It is true that the
highest percentages of disambiguation, ±90%, are observed in those
categories 9 and 10, where both the φ and / structures are different for the
two meanings. It is also true, however, that very similar results are ob-
served for the cases in which only the / structures are different, cate-
gories 5 and 6. What this means is that Hypothesis b is confirmed in so
far as there is no category of sentences that is more disambiguable than
those in which both φ and / are different, but it is not confirmed to the
extent that there are other categories which appear equally disambiguable.
The comparison of the scores for categories 5 and 6 on the one hand,
and 7 and 8 on the other, provides confirmation of Hypothesis c. That is,
the percentage of disambiguation in the first two categories, in which only
the / sturctures are different, is considerably higher than that in the other
two categories, where only the φ structures are different.
Finally, Hypothesis d was also confirmed. Specifically, the fact that
category 1' is not disambiguable, as can be seen from the score of 51.4%
selection of the intended meaning, shows that a difference only at the
level of thematic relations does not contribute to the prosodic patterns
of sentences such that the intended meaning can be identified by the
listener.
9.4. Conclusions
On the basis of the results of the perception test just described, we can
conclude that the possibility of disambiguating ambiguous sentences de-
pends on the prosodic structures rather than on the syntactic structures
corresponding to the different interpretations of a given sentence. It is
the prosodic proposal, therefore, that accounts more accurately for the
results.
Specifically, the prosodic proposal accounts for the observed patterns
better than the syntactic proposal in two areas. First of all, we saw that
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Constituents and Disambiguation 269
the first hypothesis was confirmed, showing that it is the presence or ab-
sence of a difference at the prosodic level of analysis that predicts whether
or not an ambiguous sentence can be disambiguated. A difference at the
syntactic level cannot determine the disambiguation of a sentence if the
prosodic structures are the same. Secondly, the fact that the prosodic,
but not the syntactic, proposal allows for the distinction among various
degrees of disambiguation is another point in favor of the prosodic pro-
posal, since the test results provided evidence for three degrees of dis-
ambiguation. That is, it was found that the cases in which the prosodic
structures were different at the I level were the most disambiguable, with
an average of close to 90% choice of the intended meaning. Cases in which
only the φ structures were different were systematically less disambigu-
able, while those cases in which the prosodic structures were the same at
the φ and / levels were not disambiguable, regardless of their syntactic
structure. The syntactic proposal allows for only two possiblities: dis-
ambiguable or not disambiguable.
Finally, the confirmation of the last hypothesis shows that sentences
with only a difference at the level of thematic relations are not disambigu-
able. Thus, the only relevant differences in determining the possibility of
disambiguation are phonological differences, and in particular, differences
in the prosodic structures corresponding to the different interpretations
of an ambiguous sentence.
In addition to providing an answer to the specific question raised
in this chapter as to whether it is syntactic or prosodic constituent struc-
ture that accounts for the ability of listeners to disambiguate ambiguous
sentences, the results of the disambiguation test have implications for the
theory of perception in general. That is, the results show that listeners
rely on phonological units that are not necessarily isomorphic to syn-
tactic constituents in the first stage in their processing of a string of speech
sounds. These phonological units, the prosodic constituents that have been
argued for on independent grounds in the previous chapters of this book,
in particular the phonological phrase and the intonational phrase, can thus
be seen as a bridge between the sounds of a language and the interpre-
tation of the meaning of a string of such sounds. That is, they provide the
listener with the link needed to proceed from the perception of a sequence
of segments to the final syntactic analysis of the sequence in question. This
follows, in fact, from the nature of the prosodic constituents themselves.
That is, since the domains of these constituents are constructed on the
basis of syntactic notions, once a listener has identified the prosodic struc-
ture of a given sentence, this structure can be associated with the appropri-
ate syntactic structure by a procedure that works in the opposite direction
of the mapping procedure that is originally responsible for the creation
of the prosodic constituents. Thus, only those syntactic structures that are
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
270 Prosodic Phonology
directly reflected in prosodic structure are perceived by a listener and, as
a consequence, only those ambiguous sentences that have different pro-
sodic structures corresponding to their different meanings can be disam-
biguated. Syntactic differences corresponding to the different meanings
that are not reflected in prosodic structure cannot contribute to the dis-
ambiguation of ambiguous sentences. Our conclusion is, therefore, that it
is prosodic structure, not syntactic structure, that provides the clues
to the first stage in the analysis of incoming speech. This is not to say that
syntax is not relevant at the first stage of processing in speech perception,
but rather it is only indirectly relevant, mediated through the prosodic
structure of a given utterance.
NOTES
1. The perception test discussed here represents the product of earlier work described
in Nespor and Vogel (1983b), and the data comprise the results of tests carried
out expressly for this book as well as those carried out somewhat earlier, as will
be made clear below. Sections 9.1. and 9.2, furthermore, have previously been
published in Italian in Vogel (1984b).
2. See Kooij (1971) for a historical summary of the study of ambiguity.
3. Since the disambiguation test we carried out was in Italian, we will use Italian
examples throughout the present discussion of the types of ambiguity as well.
4. We are dealing with a northern variety of Italian here, where intervocalic s is
pronounced [z], and where Raddoppiamento Sintattico does not apply after the
auxiliary ha 'has'.
5. In the present study, we have not explicitly taken into account the subcategory
of phonetic ambiguity mentioned by Ullmann within our category of syntactic am-
biguity. It would undoubtedly be interesting to investigate such 'juncture' phenom-
ena, which have received much attention in the past, in particular from American
structuralists (e.g. Bloomfield, 1933; Moulton, 1947; Trager and Smith, 1951),
within the framework of prosodic phonology as well.
6. There are also other prosodic differences between the pronunciations corres-
ponding to the two meanings of the sentence, but the difference mentioned here
seems to be the most noticeable one.
7. The test discussed here is an extention of the one reported in Nespor and Vogel
(1983b). The same sentences have been used, but the number of subjects tested has
been increased from 20 to 36. A comparison of the results in Nespor and Vogel
(1983b) with those presented here shows that we are, in fact, dealing with a general
phenomenon, since the patterns observed in both cases are very similar.
8. There are clearly also other syntactic dimensions (e.g. depth of embedding) as
well as other prosodic dimensions (e.g. clitic group) along which one can say that
(ambiguous) sentences may vary. We will restrict our attention here to the two
syntactic and prosodic dimensions mentioned, since they are the ones that bear most
directly on the issues at hand.
9. This type of sentence is fairly common in English, however, as illustrated by
sentences like The French teachers met in the morning.
10. The fact that the prosodic structures are the same for the two meanings of this
sentence is a result of the application of the restructuring rule discussed in Chapter 7
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Constituents and Disambiguation 271
that affects short Is. Before the restructuring, in fact, the prosodic structure of the
meaning in b is different: [ [ [ M a r c o [ [ h a guardato]^ [la ragazza]^]j [[col canoc-
chiale]^]j]jj. It should be noted, however, that the normal pronunciation of this
sentence is with the restructuring.
11. It should be noted that occasionally there are orthographic differences between
the two versions of the test sentences. The segmental sequences are nevertheless
the same, and this is what is relevant to our test.
12. The fact that the two prosodic structures for this sentence are different de-
pends on the fact that in type 7b the restructuring rule discussed in Chapter 6 has
applied to create a new φ. It should be noted, in addition, that a similar situation
arises in sentences of type 9, where φ restructuring applies for the meaning of 9b,
but not 9a.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Chapter 10
Prosodic Domains and the Meter of
the Commedia
10.0 Introduction
The language of poetry differs from ordinary spoken language in that in
addition to the linguistic level there is an abstract pattern with its own
rhythmic alternations. Meter can be viewed as an entity in between these
two levels or, put in other words, as the 'encoding of a simple abstract
pattern into a sequence of words' (Halle and Keyser, 1971:14ο).1
Such
an intermediate entity is accounted for by a set of correspondence rules
operating between the linguistic level on the one hand and the abstract
pattern on the other.2
The abstract pattern is observed more or less rigorously by different
poets and in different poetic traditions. There are poems in which the
abstract pattern is rigidly respected and the linguistic level must thus be
constrained in various ways. Certain words are excluded a priori because
they cannot match the abstract pattern; for example, a dactylic pattern
cannot be matched with a word such as räramente 'seldom', whose rhythm
is trochaic. Most other words, though not excluded, can occur only
in certain positions; for example, a word such as cittd 'city' can only be
matched with a dactylic pattern in such a way that the first syllable cor-
responds to the last position of a dactylic foot and the second syllable
to the first position of the next foot. In more complex poetic composi-
tions, such as the Commedia (also known as Divina Commedia), however,
it is not always the language that gives in under the strength of the abstract
pattern, but it is sometimes the pattern itself that undergoes certain
modifications that are imposed on it by the natural rhythm of language.
The types of correspondence rules that may apply to match the two
levels so as to ultimately yield a metrical line of verse are constrained
in various ways. One of the tasks of a theory of meter is to specify these
constraints.
The abstract pattern of verse is best represented in a hierarchical
fashion (see Kiparsky, 1977; Piera, 1982). Let us call the terminal nodes
of such a hierarchy metrical positions. In poetry, where the number
of syllables contained in a line of verse is a crucial aspect of meter, the
metrical positions of a verse are put in correspondence with units on the
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
274 Prosodic Phonology
linguistic level: syllables. The matching between the two levels is not
always straightforward, however, in that metrical positions and syllables
do not always stand in a one-to-one relation. A theory of meter must
specify how this type of disparity is resolved. Proceeding to higher levels,
the question arises as to which linguistic structure can be most fruitfully
used to account for the way in which conflicts between language and ab-
stract metrical patterns are resolved.
It has often been proposed that syntactic structure must be taken into
consideration in order to account for certain metrical regularities (see,
among others, Elwert, 1968; Kiparsky, 1975, 1977; Di Girolamo, 1976;
Beltrami, 1981). For example, Elwert (1968) observes that Italian verse
must be read in a way that takes into account the syntactic value of the
words in a given context. Kiparsky (1975, 1977), on the other hand,
proposes more specifically that the division into constituents of the sur-
face syntactic structure must be taken into account in order to specify
the context of certain metrical phenomena. While syntax certainly plays
a role in the organization of meter, we believe that the only syntactic
notions that may be relevant in determining metrical regularities are those
incorporated in prosodic structure. Direct reference to syntactic structure
as suggested by Kiparsky is excluded. In fact, it is a prediction of the or-
ganization of the grammar proposed in the present book that rules that
account for phenomena as phonological in nature as meter cannot see
anything deeper than the phonological deep structure, that is, the division
into prosodic constituents.
In this chapter, we will show that it is indeed the prosodic structure
and not the syntactic structure that accounts for several regularities found
in the most common type of verse in the Italian poetic tradition, that is,
the hendecasyliable. Our results are in agreement with Hayes (to appear),
who first recognized the relevance of prosodic structure for meter. While
Hayes's analysis of English verse makes crucial use of all categories above
the word level, we will concentrate here on the phonological phrase.
The data which form the empirical basis of the following discussion
are taken from the Inferno, the first of the three canticles of Dante
Alighieri's Commedia. Occasionally, however, lines taken from one of the
other two canticles, Purgatorio and Paradiso, are also used in the examples.
10.1. The metrical hierarchy of the hendecasyllable
The abstract pattern of poetic meter is organized in an architectonic
fashion, independently of the linguistic level with which it is associated.
In music, tones are grouped into motives, motives into phrases, phrases
into periods (see Cooper and Meyer, 1960:2); similarly, in the abstract
metrical pattern, metrical feet are grouped into cola, cola into lines, lines
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Domains and the Meter of the COMMEDIA 275
into tercets, etc. (see among others, Piera, 1982). Let us call this hierarchy
the metrical hierarchy.
In the particular case of the hendecasyllable, each line contains ten
metrically relevant positions. The tenth position is always stressed, and it
is optionally followed by one or two extrametrical syllables. The metrical
positions constitute the terminal nodes of the metrical hierarchy. The
reason for considering the syllables to the right of the tenth as extra-
metrical is that they do not in fact count for the purposes of the basic
rhythm of a line of verse. Their presence or absence depends solely on the
location of the main stress of the last word of the line. That is, if the last
word has final stress, the line contains no extrametrical syllables. If, in-
stead, the last word is stressed on the penultimate or antepenultimate
syllable, then the line contains one or two extrametrical syllables, respec-
tively. Thus, the three lines ending in the ways illustrated in (1) are me-
trically equivalent (see Piera, 1982), although the extrametrical syllables
do have a certain influence on the actual rhythm of a line of verse.
a. il car syllables
9 10 positions
b. il cäro syllables
9 10 positions
c. il cärico syllables
9 10 positions
A verse has a basic pattern which characterizes its underlying rhythm
(see Kiparsky, 1975). In the case of the hendecasyllable, we assume that
the ten metrically relevant positions are grouped into metrical feet (see
Fussel, 1965; Keyser, 1969) with iambic rhythm, that is, feet that domin-
ate two nodes, of which the left is labeled weak and the right is labeled
strong.3
The advantage of assuming such an underlying pattern is that
several characteristics of the hendecasyllable are accounted for if we make
this assumption. First of all, a large proportion of hendecasyllabic lines
is uniformly iambic. Secondly, by assuming an underlying iambic pat-
tern, the tendency for metrical stresses to fall on even positions observed
in the rest of the lines is automatically accounted for. Thirdly, the fact
that the syllables following the last stressed one are extrametrical also
finds an explanation in the iambic pattern. That is, if the abstract pattern
is iambic, there are no metrical positions after the last stressed position.
The level above the foot in the metrical hierarchy is the colon. Piera
(1982) has proposed that a colon may contain either two or three metrical
feet, and that in the hendecasyllable the rightmost position of each colon
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
276 Prosodic Phonology
contains the designated terminal element, that is, it has metrical stress.
While Piera has uniformly binary branching cola, as shown in the abstract
patterns for the hendecasyllable in (2), we do not know of any motivation
for the extra (circled) constituents between the metrical foot (MF) and
the colon. That is, the positions 3 through 6 in the first case and 7 through
10 in the second case do not form a metrically relevant unit. We therefore
choose to represent the two basic patterns for the hendecasyllable as in
(3) (see also Hayes, to appear). The geometry of the metrical trees is
thus the same as the geometry of the prosodic trees.
(2) binary branching hendecasyllables
a. line
MFw MF
A A
w s w s
1 2 3 4
MF MF
A " A "
W S W S
7 8 9 10
MF,,, MF„
w
MF MF MF
W » W
Λ Λ Λ Λ Λ
W S W S W S W S W S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
(3) n-ary branching hendecasyllables
a. line
colon
MFw MFw MF MFw MF
Λ Λ Λ A A
W S W S W S W S W S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Domains and the Meter of the COMMEDIA 277
b. line
colon,, colon
A A\
F F W M F S M F W M F W M F ,
Λ Λ Λ Λ Λ
W SW SW SW SW S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
One of the fundamental - and to our knowledge still unexplained -
characteristics of the hendecasyllable has been shown by Piera to follow
from the postulation of the colon constituent: the existence in the majori-
ty of hendecasyllables of a major stress either on the sixth or on the
fourth position - the two possible rightmost (i.e. strong) nodes of the
first colon - and a major stress on the tenth position, which always oc-
cupies the rightmost node of the second colon.
As may be seen in (3), the uppermost constituent in the hendecasyl-
lable is the line, which groups together the two cola. Of these, the right one
is labeled strong and the left one is labeled weak, which accounts for the
fact that the tenth position is perceived as more heavily stressed than any
of the preceding ones.
10.2 The basic correspondence rules of the hendecasyllable and pro-
sodic categories
Before we begin our discussion of the location of stress prominence
in the hendecasyllable of the Commedia, a few comments are in order
with regard to the nature of the data. It should be noted, first of all, that
one can never be sure when discussing the rythmic patterns of the Com-
media that the work referred to is actually that created by Dante. The
Commedia is a poem consisting of three canticles and a total of 14,233
lines, written at the beginning of the fourteenth century. The original
manuscript does not exist, and as scribes copied the work over the years,
the original may have undergone modifications in a number of areas in-
cluding rhythm. As Bertinetto (1973:56) observes, it might very well be
that the influence of the well-established examples of Petrarch has had a
'normalizing' effect on the rhythmic patterns of the Commedia. In the
present analysis, we make use of Petrocchi's 1966/67 critical edition of the
Commedia.
As far as the hendecasyllable itself is concerned, it should be noted that
it is characterized by a specific rhythmic pattern. In this pattern there
are more prominent positions, that is, positions that receive a metrical
stress, and less prominent, or unstressed, positions. A metrical stress in a
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
278 Prosodic Phonology
line is referred to as an ictus. It is well known that in the recitation of the
Commedia, as in that of most poems, there is a certain freedom as to
how many and which ictuses are actually pronounced (see also Bertinetto,
1973; Di Girolamo, 1976). Various factors play a role in determining the
actual recitation of a line of verse, including the rate of speech. We will
not enter into a discussion of these performance factors here, however,
since we are interested in poetic competence. It should be noted, though,
that the extent to which two recitations of the same line may vary is very
large. At one extreme, there is what Kiparsky (1975:585) calls 'the school-
boy manner of imposing a mechanical alternating rhythm on the verse, i.e.
reciting according to the underlying metrical pattern'. At the other ex-
treme, there is a style of recitation that respects almost completely the
rhythmic alternations of ordinary language, that is, a style of recitation
more similar to that of prose. In this chapter, we will not account for the
different performances of the Commedia, but rather for its metrical
organization (see, among others, Jakobson, 1960; Bierwisch, 1966; Halle
and Keyser, 1966; Kiparsky, 1975). As Halle and Keyser (1966:372)
clearly put it, '[t]he meter of a poem determines to a great extent the
manner in which a poem is performed. It never determines the per-
formance completely, however, any more than a score of a sonata com-
pletely determines the way in which the sonata should be performed.' Just
as the goal of linguistic theory is the characterization of linguistic com-
petence, the goal of a theory of poetic meter is the characterization of
poetic competence. With this in mind, we will now proceed to see how the
basic pattern of the hendecasyllable described in section 10.1 above is
coupled with the linguistic level.
As we said above, the hendecasyllable has ten metrically relevant posi-
tions, the tenth of which always has metrical stress. This positiom is matched
with a syllable that bears primary word stress.4
Since the vast majority
of words in Italian have penultimate stress, the vast majority of the lines
of the Commedia have one extrametrical syllable, as exemplified in (4),
where the numbers under the lines indicate the positions. If the last
word of the line has antepenultimate stress, there are two extrametrical
syllables, and if the last word has final stress, there are no extrametrical
syllables, as shown in (5) and (6), respectively.5
/
(4) a. Stawi Minos orribilmente eringhia: Inferno, V, 4
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
'There stands Minos, horrible and snarling:'
b. essamina le colpe ne l'intra'ta; Inferno, V, 5
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
'upon the entrance he examines their offenses;'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Domains and the Meter of the COMMEDIA 279
c. giudica e manda secondo ch'awinghia. Inferno, V, 6
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
'judges and dispatches (them) according as he entwines.'
(5) Seguendo Ί cielo sempre fu durabile Paradiso, XXVI, 129
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
'durable forever... following the heavens'
(6) fuor vivi e pero son fessi cosi Inferno, XXVIII, 36
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
'...in their lifetime...and therefore are thus cleft'
In these examples,6
it can also be seen that the metrical positions pre-
ceding the tenth are not always in a one-to-one correspondence with syl-
lables. In (6), for example, the third position is matched with two syl-
lables: vi and e. A necessary condition for the occurrence of this phenom-
enon, traditionally called synaloepha, is that the first syllable must end in
a vowel and the second must begin with a vowel. The adjacency of vowels
is not, however, a sufficient condition for synaloepha in Italian, as may be
seen in the eighth and ninth positions of the line in (7), where the op-
posite phenomenon, traditionally called dialoepha, occurs instead.
(7) come bevesti di Lete ancoi; Purgatorio, XXXIII, 96
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
'how you have drunk of Lethe this very day'
It is important to observe that when synaloepha occurs, there is no pho-
netic modification of the two syllables involved: they count as one metri-
cal position, but they remain fully pronounced. We will not enter into a
detailed discussion of synaloepha and related phenomena here, since doing
so would bring us too far from our main concern. (See, however, among
others, Elwert, 1968; Beccaria, 1970; Di Girolamo, 1976, for a discussion
of these phenomena in Italian verse.)
What we have seen thus far is how the lowest constituent of the metri-
cal hierarchy, the metrical position, is matched with the lowest constitu-
ent of the prosodic hierarchy, the syllable. We proceed now to the second
level of the metrical hierarchy: the metrical foot. We propose that the
metrical foot (MF) is matched with the second level of the prosodic hier-
archy: the prosodic foot. The optimal matching between the two is one in
which the strong node of the MF corresponds to the strong syllable of a
Σ. (It should be recalled that at the Σ level no distinction is made between
primary and secondary word stresses; this can only be seen in relation to
the word itself.) Let us call the foot level of stress in the line of verse
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
280 Prosodic Phonology
secondary ictus. The optimal matching of the two hierarchies at the foot
level produces a uniformly iambic rhythm, as in the following lines.
The accent marks in examples (8)-(16) indicate primary and secondary
stress. All foot level ictuses are marked with an χ above the metrical posi-
tion that bears it. Metrical prominence at higher levels is not marked.
(8) x x x x x
a. Nel mezzo del cammin di nostra vita Inferno, I, 1
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
'Midway in the journey of our life'
X X X X X
b. mi ritrovai per una selvaoscüra Inferno, 1,2
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Ί found myself in a dark wood'
X X X X X
c. Lo giorno se n'andäva e l'äere briino Inferno, II, 1
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
'Day was departing and the dark air'
x x x χ χ
d. toglieva gli animäi che sono in terra Inferno, II, 2
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
'was taking the creatures on earth'
These examples also show another characteristic of the hendecasyllable
of the Commedia, that is, that monosyllabic words may be either stressed
or unstressed, depending on their location in the abstract metrical pattern.
Thus the preposition (plus article) del 'of the' in (8a) bears a secondary
ictus, while the preposition per 'for' in (8b) does not. This is a characteris-
tic of all monosyllables, even clitics, as may be seen in (8c), where the
clitic se bears a secondary ictus.
The different behavior of monosyllabic and polysyllabic words with
respect to the location of ictuses is not a peculiarity of Italian verse.
Jakobson (1960) observes that one of the invariant characteristics of
Russian verse is that a word stress can coincide with a weak position in
the abstract pattern only if it belongs to a monosyllable. Kiparsky (1975,
1977) has shown that in English iambic pentameter a weak position in the
basic pattern may correspond to any stress at the linguistic level only if
it is in a monosyllabic word.
The rhythmic alternation of the basic pattern given so far does not
fully account for the rhythm of the hendecasyllable, since the five ictuses
are not all equally prominent; that is, some are stronger than others. In
the metrical hierarchy, the strong node of the constituent that dominates
the MF, the colon, has a higher degree of stress than its weak sister nodes.
The problem now is to determine how this strong metrical position is
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Domains and the Meter of the COMMEDIA 281
matched with a syllable at the linguistic level. Specifically, we must
determine which linguistic constituent is relevant for this matching. We
propose that the DTE of a colon is matched with the DTE of a phono-
logical phrase to yield a primary ictus. Examples of this optimal matching,
or basic pattern, are given in (9) and (10), where a primary ictus is marked
with an χ above the secondary ictus level.
X X
x x x x x
(9) [che tu vedräiL [legenti doloroseL
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8910
V V V V V
MF MF MF MF MF
\ /
colon colon
'you will see the wretched people'
χ χ
X X X X
(10) [che si corresse viaL [per l'aere snellaL
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
V V V V V
MF MF MF MF MF
X /
colon colon
'that coursed so swiftly through the air'
The line in (9) is an example of what is traditionally called the α minore
hendecasyllable and that in (10) of the α minore hendecasyllable. Within
the framework presented here, a justification is given to this traditional divi-
sion as well as to the fact that these two types of hendecasyllable are the
most frequent, since they correspond to the two basic patterns. Within an
account of the hendecasyllable that does not make use of the metrical
hierarchy, the distinction between α minore hendecasyllables and a maiore
hendecasyllables is not an interesting one since, as Elwert (1968) observes,
it is not based on anything essential but is only a way to classify the most
frequent types of lines (see also Leonetti, 1934-38). It should be noted
that while in (9) and (10) the cola are perfectly matched with phono-
logical phrases, this is not a condition on the well-formedness of the hen-
decasyllable. The matching is between the DTEs of the constituents of
the two hierarchies, not between the constituents themselves. Thus, the
line in (11) is an example of the basic pattern, even though the second
colon contains a position that corresponds to the last syllable of the
phonological phrase whose DTE is matched with the DTE of the first
colon.
Inferno, III, 17
Inferno, VIII, 14
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
282 Prosodic Phonology
(11) [CO®{
^ό,,οη nuiwi 1 Μ'λπ«» 1 ΙηίβΠΙΟ, IX, 1 16
MF MF MF MF MF
colon colon
colon
'so they did here on every side'
The rhythmic pattern created by the primary ictuses is such that in each
case there is never less than one, or more than two, weak positions be-
tween two strong positions, or between one strong position and the end
of the line. This is in agreement with a very general principle of rhythmic
alternation (see, among others, Sesini, 1938,1939;Chatman, 1965,1972;
Savoia, 1974-75; Selkirk, 1984b) that accounts for the fact that there is
a tendency to establish binary patterns, that is, a tendency to establish a
regular alternation of strong and weak elements. Ternary patterns are a
variant of binary patterns (see, among others, Liberman, 1975; Kiparsky,
1975; Hayes, 1980). Quaternary patterns, instead, are perceived as two
adjacent binary patterns. Similarly, patterns with more than four elements
are perceived as a succession of binary and ternary patterns. Given the
basic pattern of the a maiore hendecasyllable, repeated in (12a) below, and
the principle of rhythmic alternation, an even more rhythmic result is
obtained by adding a primary ictus on the second position, as in (12b).7
Consequently, such a line of verse has three cola instead of two, which
accounts for the observation that a hendecasyllabic line does not neces-
sarily have one metrical break, but might in certain cases have two (see,
among others, Sesini, 1939; Elwert, 1968).
(12) a. χ χ b. χ χ χ
A number of the a maiore hendecasyllables in the Commedia are, in fact,
instances of this pattern, as illustrated in (13).8
χ χ χ χ x χ χ χ χ χ
(13) a. X X
[Nel m e z z o [ d e l camming [di nostra vita](
Inferno, 1,1
'Midway in the journey of our life'
X X
b. [Temp'era]^ [dal principio]^ [del mattino]
'It was the beginning of the morning'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Domains and the Meter of the COMMEDIA 283
c. [e'l sol]^ [montäva'n su]^ [con quelle stelle]^
Inferno, I, 39
'and the sun was mounting with the stars'
It should be noted that the primary ictus on the second position, too,
is matched with the strong node of a phonological phrase. In such cases,
a line contains three phonological phrases instead of two.
To sum up thus far, we have proposed that in the basic pattern of the
hendecasyllable, the secondary ictuses correspond to the DTE of the
prosodic category foot and the primary ictuses correspond to the DTE
of the phonological phrase. No distinction is made between primary and
secondary word stresses, which amounts to saying that the word plays no
role in the basic assignment of ictuses.
The secondary stresses we have seen so far were all located to the left
of primary stresses. Whether secondary stresses also exist to the right of
primary stresses within a word is an issue on which there is no agreement
(see, among others, Camilli, 1965; Di Girolamo, 1976; Bertinetto, 1979;
Vogel and Scalise, 1982). For metrical purposes, we will assume only
that, when occurring to the right of the primary word stress, alternating
syllables - starting from the rightmost one - may be matched with strong
nodes of a metrical foot. That is, they may receive a secondary ictus in
the line, as exemplified in (14), where the word vergine Virgin', has prim-
ary stress on the first syllable, but receives a secondary ictus also on the
last syllable.
(14) X
Per cui mod la vergine Camilla Inferno, 1,107
'for which the virgin Camilla ... died'
Alternating syllables to the right of the primary stress (always starting
from the rightmost one) receive a secondary ictus not only within a word,
but also in the larger prosodic category clitic group, as exemplified in (15),
where the clitic li has some degree of stress.
(15) X X X
v /
X X X X X
e vidili legämbe in su tenere Inferno, XXXIV, 90
'and saw him with his legs held upwards'
As far as the primary ictus and the role of the phonological phrase in its
assignment are concerned, we will now show that it is, in fact, the phono-
logical phrase of the prosodic hierarchy, and not a syntactic constituent,
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
284 Prosodic Phonology
that allows us to account for the location of the primary ictuses in what
we have proposed to be the basic pattern of the hendecasyllable. It should
be recalled that one of the crucial differences between the domain of the
phonological phrase and syntactic structure is that a φ may undergo cer-
tain restructurings that a syntactic phrase may not undergo. That is, φ
may be restructured in Italian to include the first nonbranching comple-
ment of a head, while it may never include either the first complement if it
is branching or any other complement. These distinctions between different
types of complements cannot be captured in terms of syntactic constitu-
ents. From an analysis of the Inferno, it turns out that in the case of a
head plus a nonbranching first complement, the primary ictus only falls
on the complement, while in the case of a head plus a branching comple-
ment there are two primary ictuses, one on the head and one on the right
branch of the complement. Two lines that exemplify this contrast are
given in (16), where only the relevant φ s and ictuses are marked.
X
X X
Genti [che l'äura nera]^ si gastiga? Inferno, V, 51
'People that are so lashed by the black air?'
X X
X X X X
Dico [che quändo l'änimaj^ [mal näta]^ Inferno, V, 7
Ί mean that when the ill-begotten soul'
In (16a), nera 'black', a nonbranching adjectival complement of the noun
aura 'air', is restructured into one φ with the head noun, as indicated
by the presence of only one primary ictus. In (16b), instead, mal nata
'ill-begotten', a branching complement of the head noun anima 'soul', may
not be restructured, as indicated by the presence of two primary ictuses,
one on anima and one on nata. These facts are easily accounted for in
terms of the prosodic category phonological phrase by assuming that in
the Commedia φ restructuring tends to apply maximally. They are impos-
sible to account for in terms of syntactic constituency, however, since,
as was discussed in Chapter 2, the distinction between branching and non-
branching complements cannot be captured in terms of syntactic consti-
tuents.
To sum up, we have made a proposal in this section that accounts for
the basic patterns of the Commedia. These patterns are the result of a
matching between the abstract metrical hierarchy on the one hand and
prosodic structure on the other. The basic patterns are established, ac-
cording to our proposal, when the DTEs of two categories of the metrical
hierarchy, the metrical foot and the colon, match the DTEs of two cate-
gories of the prosodic hierarchy, the foot and the phonological phrase.
(16)
a.
b.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Domains and the Meter of the COMMEDIA 285
These are by no means the only patterns found in the Commedia, as will
become clear in the next section, where we will discuss a number of de-
rived patterns, that is, patterns that are generated through the application
of additional correspondence rules.
10.3. Additional correspondence rules
In this section, we will discuss some of the rules that take as input one of
the basic patterns discussed in section 10.2 and give as ouput what we will
call derived patterns (see Kiparsky, 1975). The application of additional
correspondence rules is necessary when there is a mismatch between the
prominence relations of the metrical hierarchy and those of the linguistic
material that is coupled with the metrical hierarchy to form a line of verse.
The degree to which a line of verse deviates from the basic pattern of that
verse gives the degree of complexity of the verse (see Halle and Keyser,
1971; Piera, 1982), also called tension (see Kiparsky, 1975; DiGirolamo,
1976). Thus the lines of verse we will consider in this section are all more
complex than the ones seen so far.
There are two types of correspondence rules that may apply to create
a derived pattern: those that make a modification in the metrical hierarchy
and those that make a modification in the prosodic hierarchy. These rules
will accordingly be called metrical and prosodic rules. We will not attempt
to give a complete account of the derived metrical patterns found in the
Commedia here; that is, we will not give an exhaustive treatment of the
correspondence rules of Dante's hendecasyllable. Instead, we will limit
our discussion to examples of the two types of rules that demonstrate
the crucial role played by the prosodic hierarchy in the delimitation of
the domains in which these rules may apply within a line of verse.
While one is inclined to view the derived patterns as deviations from the
basic patterns, it must be kept in mind that no negative judgment is im-
plied with respect to the quality of their rhythm. To clarify this point,
Jakobson (1960:364) makes a very illustrative comparison between
deviations from basic meter and attempts of coups ά'έίαΐ. If a coup is
successful, the conspirators become the representatives of the law. Similar-
ly, '[i]f the violences against the meter take root, they themselves become
metrical rules'.
10.3.1. Metrical rules
The hendecasyllable is characterized by a set of metrical rules that
modify its basic metrical pattern under the pressure of linguistic structure.
That is, the linguistic level imposes its own rhythmic alternations in a num-
ber of cases. The particular phenomenon we will analyze here is Inversion
(see Fussel, 1965; Kiparsky, 1975; Piera, 1982; Hayes, to appear), the oc-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
286 Prosodic Phonology
currence of a sequence of a stressed and an unstressed syllable in an iambic
metrical foot. This phenomenon may be accounted for by a metrical rule
that inverts the weak and strong nodes in a metrical foot, as illustrated in
(17).
(17) Inversion
MF MF
/ \ A
w s s w
If in a line of verse there is a single case of Inversion, and if it does not
take place in the first MF of the line, this rule has the effect of creating
a clash of ictuses, as shown in (18). This constitutes a violation of the
principle of rhythmic alternation.
(18) . . . , χ , χ . . X X , . . .
It should be recalled from Chapter 6 that primary stresses on adjacent
syllables in ordinary spoken language may be found only across two
phonological phrases in Italian. Within a phonological phrase, several
rules ensure that stress clashes are eliminated. One of these rules is Stress
Retraction. From an analysis of the lines with a single case of Inversion
in the Inferno, it turns out that here, too, the two adjacent strong
elements are always in two separate 0s. In other words, the rule of Inver-
sion takes place only at the beginning of a phonological phrase. This is
not a peculiarity of the Italian hendecasyllable; Hayes (to appear) has
shown that Inversion is φ initial in iambic pentameter in English as well,
in particular in the verse of Shakespeare, Milton, and Shelley. Hayes also
demonstrates that a syntactic definition of the domain of Inversion, as
proposed by Kiparsky (1975), cannot account for all the facts, since Inver-
sion appears to make a crucial distinction between branching and non-
branching complements. As we have pointed out, this distinction is incor-
porated in the definition of the phonological phrase; the same distinction
cannot be made in terms of syntactic constituents. Similarly, in the Inferno,
cases of Inversion are found in the first word of a branching complement
that immediately follows the head, as illustrated in (19), where Inversion
occurs in the word degno, which occupies the first branch of the com-
plement of alcun, that is, degno di nota. No cases of Inversion, however,
are found in similar cases in the only word of a nonbranching complement.
(19) χ χ
X X X X X
Se tu ne vedi alcun degno di nota Inferno, XX, 104
'If you see any that are worthy of note'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Domains and the Meter of the COMMEDIA 287
Inversion in the hendecasyliable in Italian, as well as in iambic pentameter
in English, is thus an example of a metrical rule that needs to make refer-
ence to a category of the prosodic hierarchy.
From what we have said thus far, it might seem that clashes across
0s are tolerated both in ordinary language and in poetry, in violation
of the more general principle of rhythmic alternation. This is not, how-
ever, the case. As far as ordinary language is concerned, the φ limit rule of
Final Lengthening (see Chapter 6) may, in fact, be interpreted as a way of
introducing enough distance between the two stresses to make then-
adjacency tolerable to the ear. In verse, a clash would seem even more
offensive than in ordinary language and, in fact, a phenomenon discovered
by Sesini (1939) applies to reestablish rhythmic alternation at the pho-
netic level. In his analysis of the hendecasyllable of Petrarch, Sesini notes
that a sequence of two strong syllables is always followed by a sequence
of two weak syllables. In fact, this also follows from our metrical hierar-
chy, unless Inversion takes place in the last metrical foot of a hendecasyl-
lable which does not contain any extrametrical syllables. (It should be
recalled that we are only analyzing lines with a single application of the
rule.) The configuration of the environment in which Inversion has ap-
plied is illustrated in (20), where the relevant portion of the line is under-
lined.
Sesini notes that at the phonetic level, rhythmic alternation is reestab-
lished. First of all, a small pause is inserted between the two ictuses. This
pause, which Sesini calls 'silenzio musicale' ('musical silence'), is perceived
as having the same length as one position in the verse. Second, the two
unstressed positions that follow the two stressed ones are somehow con-
tracted to occupy together a single metrical position. A hendecasyllable
like the one in (21) thus has a rhythmic pattern with the temporal values
indicated by the musical notes in (22) (from Sesini, 1939:562).
(21) χ χ
y x x x x χ
e li parenti miei furon lombardi Inferno, I, 68
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
'and my parents were Lombards'
(20) MF MF MF
(22) x x · ·
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11
r r r t r r » r g-τ r r
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
288 Prosodic Phonology
It should be noted that here too we are concerned with poetic rhythmic
competence rather than the performance of a line of verse, as is Sesini,
who analyzes 'quello che awiene nel nostro istinto ritmico' ('that which
happens in our rhythmic instinct').
In the terminology of prosodic phonology, the phenomena just de-
scribed may be accounted for by two rules that make reference to the
phonological phrase. The first rule, Silent Position Insertion, inserts a
silent position in the line of verse between two phonological phrases.9
The
second rule, Reduction, reduces to one position two metrical positions
that correspond to the weak nodes of a phonological phrase. Both rules
operate when needed to reestablish the fundamental iambic pattern.
Sesini (1939) also observes that an argument in favor of his proposal
is that the position inserted between the two otherwise clashing ictuses
does not need to be silent. In many cases, one of the two positions where
the clash occurs corresponds to two syllables at the linguistic level; that is,
there is synaloepha. The additional position is thus, in a way, already
available. An example of this situation is given in (23),10
where the
seventh metrical position corresponds to the two syllables mo and ο
on the linguistic level.
Rispuosemi: 'Non omo,L [omo giä fui Inferno, I, 67
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
' "No, not a living man, though once I was" he answered me'
It has been observed by Pennings (1985) that synaloepha between two
adjacent ictuses is just one of the ways used by Dante to increase the dis-
tance between two ictuses; alternative ways to alleviate the clash are
synaeresis and vowel deletion. Synaeresis has an effect similar to syn-
aloepha, differing only in that it takes place without a word. Vowel dele-
tion, instead, deletes a word-final vowel and thus the syllable node that
dominates it. The consonants that were the onset of this syllable become
part of the coda of the preceding syllable. This syllable, and thus the
metrical position associated with it, therefore contains more segments
than it did before the deletion of the following syllabic node. These three
phenomena, synaloepha, synaeresis, and vowel deletion, have the common
effect of creating extra phonetic material between the two ictuses, thus
making the insertion of an extra metrical position more natural.
In this section, we have given an example of how the application
of metrical rules - that is, rules that modify the basic metrical pattern of
a line of verse - is constrained by the organization of the corresponding
linguistic material into phonological phrases. In the next section, we will
show that in the case of prosodic rules too, the relevant linguistic level
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Domains and the Meter of the COMMEDIA 289
above the foot for the matching between the abstract metrical pattern
and the linguistic structure is the phonological phrase.
10.3.2. Prosodic rules
Prosodic rules become operative in the derivation of a line of verse
when, in cases of tension between meter and language, meter 'wins'.
The language then undergoes certain modifications that are not typical
of ordinary spoken language, but must be seen in relation to the abstract
metrical pattern. In a sense, then, the language of poetry is more elastic
than ordinary language. We will not give a complete account of the pro-
sodic rules of the Commedia, that is, of all the adjustments that the lan-
guage of Dante may undergo to fit the hendecasyllabic metrical pattern.
Rather, we will limit our discussion to the occurrence of stress clashes and
the ways in which they are resolved, thus reestablishing the desired rhyth-
mic alternation. It will be shown that in the determination of which
solution is chosen to eliminate adjacent ictuses in a given line of verse,
the prosodic category phonological phrase plays a crucial role.
We will begin our analysis of clashes with the cases of adjacent ictuses
created by the metrical rule of Inversion, described in section 10.3 above.
Since Inversion is φ initial, it can never create a stress clash within a φ.
Instead, it will always be the case that the clashing ictuses are at the end
of one φ and at the beginning of the next φ. These clashes are not, how-
ever, always equally strong; while the ictus in 0-final position corresponds
in all cases to the DTE of φ, the next ictus may either correspond to the
main stress of a following nonbranching φ or to a weak node of a branch-
ing φ. This node must in any case bear the DTE of a foot. These two
configurations are illustrated in (24a) and (24b), respectively.
In both cases it can be seen that these clashes, created by Inversion, are
followed by two weak positions on the metrical level (see section 10.3).
In order to account for the ways in which these stress clashes are re-
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
290 Prosodic Phonology
solved, we propose the general condition on prosodic rules of the hendeca-
syllable given in (25).
(25) Condition on prosodic rules (hendecasyllable)
A prosodic rule may never affect a primary ictus.
The clash illustrated in (24a), which contains two primary ictuses, may
thus not be resolved at the linguistic level and, in fact, it is the configura-
tion that triggers the two metrical rules given in section 10.3.1: Silent
Position Insertion and Reduction. The clash illustrated in (24b), on the
other hand, is such that only the first ictus may not be affected by a pro-
sodic rule. The second ictus may, in principle, be moved rightward to the
next position. It thus has the possibility of reestablishing the desired iam-
bic pattern, as illustrated in (26). This is in fact what happens. We will
call the rule that accounts for this stress movement Stress Postposing.
(26) Stress Postposing
χ χ
. . . X X . , . . . . . . χ . χ . ...
It should be noted that the configuration to the left of the arrow in (26)
is also one that triggers the two metrical rules mentioned above. We pro-
pose that both the prosodic and the metrical solutions are possible and
that the choice depends on one's interpretation of the verse. As Sesini
(1939:559) notes, the line of Petrarch's sonnet Quand'io son tutto vol-
to... (When I am all turned...)11
, given in (27), may have either of the two
metrical patterns given in (27b) and (27c).
(27) a. Tacito vo
b. Tacito νό
P f f f>
c. Tacito νό
Γ Ρ Ρ Ρ
che le parole morte
che le parole morte
Γ Ρ Γ Ρ Ρ ρ ρ
che le parole morte
Ρ Ρ Ρ Ρ Ρ ρ Ρ
Ί go silent; for my dead words'
The same two rhythmic patterns may also be attributed to similar cases
in the Commedia as shown in (28) and (29).
(28) a.
v /
Χ χ χ χ X
e volser contra lui tutt'i runcigli Inferno, XXI, 71
' > Γ f - f . . .
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Domains and the Meter of the COMMEDIA 291
χ
χ χ χ χ
b. e volser contra lui tutt'i runcigli Inferno, XXI, 71
ρ r ρ e . . .
'and turned all their hooks against him'
(29) a. χ
v
' X X X X X
La bocca mi bascioL [tutto tremante]. Inferno,V, 136
ρ >ψ
r F—r ψ
b. La bocca mi bascio]. [tutto tremante].
Ρ Ρ Ρ Ρ
' . . . kissed my mouth all trembling'
The role played by the prosodic category φ in the determination of the
environment in which the two metrical rules of Insertion and Reduction
may apply has been discussed in the previous section. Here, it must be
noted that the prosodic rule of Stress Postposing applies only to the weak
node of a 0 and moves its stress rightward to the next position in the line,
if the last position of the preceding φ bears a primary ictus. In the termi-
nology of the theory of phonology presented in this book, it is thus a φ
juncture rule. Stress Postposing is therefore the first example of a prosodic
rule that operates to avoid clashes of ictuses in a line of verse and that
makes crucial use of the prosodic category phonological phrase.
Let us now turn our attention to clashes that, unlike the ones just
discussed, are not created by the phenomenon of Inversion. While the
clashes created by Inversion are characterized by being situated across two
phonological phrases, this is not the case for other types of clashes. That
is, we may find other clashes both within 0s and across 0s. The second
characteristic that distinguishes the clashes created by Inversion is that
they are followed by two weak positions in the line. This is not the case
for other clashes, which are, instead, most often preceded by two weak
positions, as schematized in (30).12
It should be noted that within a 0,
clashes by definition may not occur between two primary ictuses. Instead,
these clashes are due to the adjacency of a secondary and a primary
ictus, as illustrated in the configuration in (30).
χ
(30) .. . [ xx · · • ]φ . · ·
In this case, the secondary ictus is suppressed from its original position
(see also Beltrami, 1981) and is retracted to the previous position, as il-
lustrated in (31), thus reestablishing an iambic pattern.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
292 Prosodic Phonology
(31) a. _ Γ χ χ
ch'attende [ciascun uomL che Dio non teme
Inferno, III, 108
'that awaits every man who fears not God'
Γ* * . χ
b. che drizzan [ciascun seme]^ [ad alcun fine]^
Purgatorio, XXX, 110
'which direct every seed to some end'
This rule is reminiscent of the rule of Stress Retraction that takes place
in ordinary spoken language, also to avoid a clash within a phonological
phrase (see section 6.3). While in ordinary language a clash may be retract-
ed only to another syllable within the same word, this restriction does not
apply to verse, as seen in (32), where the clashing ictus is on a monosyl-
labic word but the stress moves to the word to its left within a phonolog-
ical phrase, as shown in (32).
(32) a.
• · a
Pero giri Fortuna]^ [la sua rota]^ Inferno, XV, 95
'therefore let Fortune whirl her wheel'
•Γ^ χ
* Χ X
b. perch'i fu'ribellante]^ [a la sua legge]ψ Inferno, I, 125
'because I was rebellious to His law'
Let us now consider the cases of clashes that take place between two
phonological phrases and that are not created by Inversion. Here too,
the clash may arise either from two primary ictuses or from one primary
ictus and an adjacent secondary ictus. In the first case, no prosodic rule
may apply, since any modification of the ictuses would violate the condi-
tion on prosodic rules given in (25) above. The configuration of the en-
vironment around the clash is also not such as to permit the application
of the two metrical rules seen in section 10.3.1 since, as we already noted,
the clash is not generally followed by two weak positions. We have seen
above that in these cases the clash is most often preceded by two weak
positions. It has been suggested by Pennings (1985) that in these cases a
metrical rule applies which is essentially the mirror image of that discov-
ered by Sesini (1939). That is, the two weak positions preceding the clash
are reduced and a silent position is inserted between the two primary
ictuses. The final effect in this case, too, is the reestablishment of the
iambic rhythm on the phonetic level. The application of these metrical
rules is illustrated in (33).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Domains and the Meter of the COMMEDIA 293
(33) Di subito drizzato grido: 'Come? Inferno, X, 67
r r r> Ρ . . .
'Suddenly straightening up he cried "How?" '
We will now turn to cases of clashes between one primary stress and one
secondary stress across phonological phrases. These clashes may in principle
be resolved by a prosodic rule. The particular rule that applies in these
cases is Destressing, as exemplified in (34).
?
Χ τ X
X X . X
(34) Noi veggiam,]^ [come quei]^ ch'ha mala luce
Inferno, X, 100
'Like one who has had light, we see'
Since, as was mentioned above, these clashes are not followed by two
weak positions in the line, Destressing eliminates the clash but does not
create a lapse of more than two unstressed possitions. The principle of
rhythmic alternation is thus respected in this case too. In the terminology
of prosodic phonology, this is one more example of a prosodic rule that
acts in order to eliminate a clash in a line of verse and that must refer to
the phonological phrase. Specifically, Destressing represents another
case of a φ juncture rule.
We have shown above that the domain of application of a number of
prosodic rules is adequately formulated in terms of the φ constituent of
the prosodic hierarchy. We will now demonstrate, on the basis of several
lines of the Commedia, that a constituent of the syntactic hierarchy
cannot accomplish the same task. The two prosodic rules on the basis of
which we will illustrate this point are Stress Retraction and Stress Post-
posing. Both rules may apply within a domain that includes a phrasal head
and its first nonbranching complement. In the case of a head whose first
complement branches, however, the rule does not apply even if the local
environment is met. This distinction, as we have said above, is incorporat-
ed in the definition of the phonological phrase, while it cannot be made
on the basis of syntactic constituents. The line in (35) indicates that
Stress Retraction cannot apply when the clash is between the last position
of a phrasal head and the first position of a branching complement.
(35) Lascidte ogni speranza, voi ch'intrate Inferno, III, 9
'Abandon every hope, you who enter'
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
294 Prosodic Phonology
The clash, underlined in the example, is between the stress of the verbal
head lasciate and that of the first word of the complement ogni since
there is synaloepha between the last syllable of the verb (te) and the first
syllable of ogni (o). Stress Retraction, however, cannot apply and the clash
must thus be resolved in another way. If we describe the domain of Stress
Retraction in terms of φ, the reason the rule does not apply is clear: the
two clashing ictuses are in different 0s. If we refer to syntactic constitu-
ents, however, we cannot account for this fact, since the same type of syn-
tactic node (in this case V ) dominates a head plus its complement,
whether this is branching or not. If the complement is nonbranching,
however, Stress Retraction may apply, as shown in (36).
(36) a. io non ti verro dietro di gualoppo Inferno, XXII, 114
Ί won't follow you at a gallop'
b. Cagnazzo a cotal motto levo Ί miiso Inferno, XXII, 106
'Cagnazzo at these words raised his muzzle'
A similar asymmetry in the behavior of branching and nonbranching
first complements of a head can be seen in relation to Stress Postposing.
This rule, as we have pointed out above, may move an ictus from a weak
node of φ rightward if necessary to avoid a clash. In (37), a possible en-
vironment for Stress Postposing is exemplified. It should be recalled that
Stress Postposing is only one of the rules available in the hendecasyllable
to eliminate this clash.
(37) di ch'io]^ [rendo ragione]^ in questo caldo.' Inferno, XXII, 54
'for which I render reckoning in this heat.'
The ictus on rendo may be moved rightward according to our proposal
because rendo, a verbal head, and ragione, its nonbranching direct object,
form a phonological phrase. The ictus on rendo is therefore secondary,
that is, it is in correspondence with a weak node of φ. In (38), however,
the clash between andar and suso cannot be eliminated in the same way.
(38) Ii occhi nostri n'andar]^ [siiso]^ [a la cima Inferno, VIII,3
'our eyes went upward to its summit'
According to our proposal, the reason Stress Postposing may not apply
in this case is that the adverbial head suso cannot form a φ with its first
complement, since the complement is branching. Suso therefore forms a
φ on its own and thus bears a primary ictus that may not be affected by
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Domains and the Meter of the COMMEDIA 295
Stress Postposing. Once more, syntactic constituents cannot account for
the difference in behavior illustrated on the basis of the lines in (37) and
(38).
To sum up, we have shown in this section that certain rhythmic phe-
nomena in the hendecasyllable of the Commedia can be accounted for by
means of one condition on prosodic rules and three prosodic rules. All of
these need to refer to both the metrical hierarchy and the prosodic hierar-
chy, specifically the phonological phrase. This indicates that the prosodic
hierarchy, rather than the syntactic hierarchy, is the linguistic level rel-
evant for the description of the prosodic rules of the hendecasyllable
of the Commedia.
10.4. Conclusions
Verse is the result of the matching between an abstract metrical pattern
and language. In this chapter, we have shown that the linguistic level in-
volved in this matching is the phonological deep structure or prosodic
structure. In particular, it has been proposed that the basic patterns of the
hendecasyllable of Dante's Inferno are those in which the prominent nodes
of the metrical hierarchy, specifically the strong nodes of metrical feet
and cola, match the prominent nodes of the prosodic hierarchy, specifical-
ly those of feet and phonological phrases. Since we have proposed that the
hendecasyllable is basically iambic, this amounts to saying that there
is a tendency for secondary stresses - that is, the DTEs of feet - to fall
on even positions in the line, and for the DTEs of phonological phrases
to coincide with the rightmost node of the cola.
No respectable poet, of course, will write a poem in which all lines con-
form to the basic pattern, since the result would be a tedious and im-
personal rhythm. Instead, there is in most lines a certain amount of
tension between the metrical pattern and language. The solution of this
tension may be seen as the attempt to compromise on the part of the two
levels. As in all compromises, every party must give in to a certain extent.
When the meter gives in, the result is a modification of the basic iambic
pattern. The possible deviations from the basic pattern are described in
terms of metrical rules. When, on the other hand, the language gives in, the
result is a modification of the rythmic alternations of ordinary language.
The possible modifications of this rhythm are described by means of
prosodic rules.
We have argued that in these cases too, it is the prosodic structure
that accounts for what are possible and what are impossible applica-
tions of the rules. That is, both the metrical and the prosodic rules we have
analyzed are constrained in their application by the phrasing determined
by the prosodic hierarchy. Just as is the case for phonological rules of
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
296 Prosodic Phonology
ordinary spoken language, so also in poetry we find, for example, that
some rules may modify the metrical pattern only at the beginning of a
prosodic constituent, or only at the juncture of two prosodic constituents.
Similarly, certain prosodic rules of the hendecasyllable are bound to one
particular prosodic domain, or to one of its limits.
As was mentioned above, it has been demonstrated by Hayes (to ap-
pear) that the prosodic hierarchy is the linguistic level that must be re-
ferred to in order to account for a number of correspondence rules in Eng-
lish verse; in particular, the iambic pentameter of Shakespeare, Milton, and
Shelley and the acatalectic trochaic tetrameter of Longfellow's Song of
Hiawatha. Hayes also proposes this to be a more general characteristic
of meter, that is, he hypothesizes that 'syntax has effect in metrics only
insofar as it determines the phrasings of the [p]rosodic [hierarchy', which
amounts to saying that metrics is a purely phonological phenomenon.
Hayes therefore calls this hypothesis the Hypothesis of Phonological
Metrics. The analysis of the hendecasyllable of the Inferno presented
here is further confirmation of this hypothesis.
Since we have shown in this book that prosodic rules of ordinary
spoken language have direct access only to prosodic structure and not
to syntactic structure, it follows from the theory developed here that
another purely phonological phenomenon - meter - should not have
access to any structure deeper than the prosodic one. The confirmation
of the Hypothesis of Phonological Metrics thus offers additional support
for the theory of prosodic phonology in general.
NOTES
1. It should be noted that within grid theory — as proposed, among others, by
Liberman (1975), Liberman and Prince (1977), Prince (1983), and Selkirk (1984b)
— there is an abstract pattern, the grid, which represents the rhythmic alternation of
natural language. The basic difference between this grid and the abstract level we will
posit here for poetry is that while the precise nature of the rhythmic patterns is not
inherent in the grid, it is inherent in the abstract level posited for verse.
2. While a distinction can be made between metrical pattern (the number of posi-
tions in a verse) and rhythmical pattern (the distribution of strong elements in the
metrical pattern), we will not make this distinction here. See Baratta (1981).
3. A similar assumption is made by Piera (1982) for the hendecasyllable in Spanish.
A basic iambic pattern for the Italian hendecasyllable has been assumed, among
others, by Sesini (1939) and Elwert (1968).
4. There are a few exceptions to this generalization (see Di Girolamo, 1976), that is,
cases in which a syllable that occupies the tenth position does not bear primary word
stress but is nonetheless metrically prominent. Since lines of this type are very re-
stricted in number and are clearly perceived as metrically complex, they do not in-
validate the generalization.
5. All the translations of lines of the Commedia are taken from Singleton (1970,
1973, 1975).
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Prosodic Domains and the Meter of the COMMEDIA 297
6. In these and all following examples, only the ictuses relevant to the discussion
are marked.
7. A rule that has a similar effect, Beat Addition, has been proposed by Selkirk
(1984b) to account for certain rhythmic patterns of natural language. See also
Prince's (1983) rule of Perfect Grid Construction.
8. It should be noted that by adding a primary ictus on the second position, this
ictus becomes adjacent on the second level to the last primary ictus of the preceding
line of verse. The slight pause that separates one line of verse from the next, however,
prevents these ictuses from being perceived as clashing.
9. Rules that insert silent positions have also been proposed to account for certain
aspects of the rhythm of natural language (see, among others, Liberman, 1975;
Selkirk, 1984b).
10. In this as well as other lines that will be used in the rest of this chapter, a prim-
ary ictus falls on a position different from that allowed by the basic pattern.
In this case, for example, the metrical pattern has a primary ictus on the eigth posi-
tion, which is moved by Inversion to the seventh position. This is an indication that
a metrical rule has applied to adjust the metrical pattern to fit the linguistic material.
Here too, the linguistic constituent needed to describe the domain of application of
the rule is the phonological phrase.
11. The English translations of Petrarch are taken from Durling's (1976) translation.
12. The fact that in those cases in which two weak positions do not follow a clash
there are two weak positions preceding it has been brought to our attention by
Karijn Helsloot.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Chapter 11
Conclusions
A fundamental characteristic of spoken language is the relation between
the continuous flow of sounds on the one hand, and the existence of
structured patterns within this continuum on the other hand. In this
respect, spoken language is related to many other natural and man-made
phenomena around us, such as the movement of the ocean and musical
compositions, which are characterized not only by their typically flowing
nature but also by the fact that they are structured into distinct units
such as waves and measures.
Prosodic phonology is a theory of the way in which the flow of speech
is organized into a finite set of phonological units. It is also, however, a
theory of interactions between phonology and the other components
of the grammar. The interactions, in the form of mapping rules that build
phonological structure on the basis of morphological, syntactic, and se-
mantic notions, provide the set of phonological units necessary to charac-
terize the domains of application of a large number of phonological rules.
While the division of the speech chain into various phonological units
makes reference to structures found in the other components of the gram-
mar, a fundamental aspect of prosodic theory is that the phonological
constituents themselves are not necessarily isomorphic to any constituents
found elsewhere in the grammar.
Although the specification of the domains within which phonological
rules are bound is the main goal of prosodic phonology, it turns out that
the same units are relevant in other areas of the organization of language
as well. For example, even in the absence of phonological rules, the pro-
sodic units of grammar are relevant at the first level of speech processing
in the disambiguation of ambiguous sentences. In addition, the constitu-
ents provided by prosodic phonology account for a number of rhythmic
patterns and metrical conventions observed in works of poetry.
The organization of phonology into prosodic units encompasses seven
hierarchically structured levels, going from the syllable to the phonological
utterance. While the two smallest units, the syllable and the foot, are es-
sentially constructed on the basis of phonological criteria, the remaining
units represent each in its own way the interface between phonology and
the other components of the grammar. The pattern that emerges from the
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
300 Prosodic Phonology
various types of interactions is one in which the degree of abstractness
and generality of the nonphonological information required correlates
with the height of a prosodic constituent in the hierarchy. In particular,
the mapping rules that construct the phonological word and the clitic
group must make reference to such specific notions as the position in
which affixes and clitics are attached to their host. Phonological phrase
construction makes reference to such general syntactic notions as the head
of a phrase and the direction of embedding. The two highest prosodic
constituents, the intonational phrase and the phonological utterance,
make use of even more general notions, such as the root sentence and the
highest node in the syntactic tree, respectively.
At the three uppermost levels of the prosodic hierarchy, restructuring
rules are needed under certain circumstances to readjust the prosodic
structures built by the mapping rules. While the mapping rules make re-
ference only to morphological and syntactic structure, the restructuring
rules also make reference to semantic notions and to factors such as the
length of the string in question and the rate and style of speech. The re-
structuring rules, like the basic mapping rules, exhibit a correlation
between the height of a constituent in the hierarchy and the generality
and abstractness of the criteria on which restructuring is based. That is,
in the case of the phonological phrase, the crucial notions are that of
phrasal complement and the length of the complement as defined by its
branchingness. As far as the intonational phrase is concerned, however,
the relevant criteria for restructuring include the notion of cyclic node
and a somewhat abstract notion of temporal length, as defined on the
basis of a combination of such factors as the length of a given string and
the rate of speech. Finally, in the case of the phonological utterance,
restructuring depends on the existence of certain syntactic relations and
implicit semantic connections between adjacent sentences. The fact that
most restructurings are optional allows for a certain degree of variability
at the highest levels of the prosodic hierarchy. Given that syntax does not
permit any variability in its constituent structure, it is even clearer in the
case of restructured strings that the prosodic and syntactic hierarchies
represent independent and often nonisomorphic structures.
Since the mapping rules that create the prosodic constituents above
the word level make crucial use of specific syntactic notions and thus
reflect certain aspects of syntactic structure, once the prosodic constitu-
ents are established, the application or lack of application of a particular
phonological rule can be used in the diagnosis of problematic syntactic
constructions. That is, in cases in which more than one analysis of a given
construction is possible on syntactic grounds, whether or not a phonolog-
ical rule applies between two words can be taken as evidence that the
words are members of the same or different phonological constituents.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Conclusions 301
This, in turn, can be taken as evidence that the words must be in one or
another type of syntactic relation to each other.
While the mapping rules represent the phonological interpretation
of those aspects of the other components of the grammar that are relevant
for the sound pattern of a language, the output of the mapping rules
provides the deep structure of the purely phonological component. It is
this phonological deep structure that contains the representation of
the domains of application of the purely phonological rules of a lan-
guage, that is, those rules that make reference only to phonological enti-
ties: the phonological structures that are modified by the rule and the
prosodic domain within which the rule applies. The theory of prosodic
phonology is thus a stronger theory than one in which phonological rules
make direct reference to morphological and syntactic notions in addition
to phonological notions, in that it allows us to impose restrictions on the
domains in which sandhi rules apply. That is, it allows us to capture the
generalization that the vast majority of these rules do not apply in
domains other than those present in phonological deep structure.
Thus, even if the mapping rules that define the prosodic constituents
need to make reference to a number of nonphonological concepts, pro-
sodic theory represents a substantial simplification of phonology in general
in that the mapping rules apply only in order to create the deep structure.
It is not necessary, therefore, for each phonological rule to repeat the set
of nonphonological notions in its formulation; it is sufficient to make
reference only to the appropriate constituent(s) in the specification of the
domain of application of a rule.
Given that there are subsystems of phonology other than prosodic
theory, such as grid theory and autosegmental phonology, the prediction
is made on the basis of the fact that prosodic phonojogy represents a
theory of domains, that the phonological component of the grammar must
be internally organized in a modular fashion. It follows from such a
position that rules whose structural change is best accounted for within
another subsystem of the phonological component will make reference
to prosodic phonology for the specification of their domain of applica-
tion. This is the case, for example, of rhythm rules that represent the inter-
action between grid theory and prosodic phonology and of harmony
rules that represent the interaction between autosegmental and prosodic
phonology.
The interactions among the different subsystems of the phonological
component, along with the interactions between the phonological com-
ponent and the other components of the grammar, require a somewhat
more complex model of grammar than has thus far been assumed within
generative theory. The standard T-model, in particular, turns out to be
both too strong and too weak. It is too strong in the sense that s-structure,
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
302 Prosodic Phonology
the input to the phonological component, contains a type of information
(i.e. phonetically empty syntactic constituents) whose presence makes in-
correct predictions as to the application of phonological rules. The
T-model is too weak, on the other hand, in that s-structure is the only
input to the phonology and thus does not allow for any direct interaction
between the phonological component and the other components of the
grammar. Such interactions, however, have been shown to be necessary.
The different types of interactions that are required by the model of
prosodic phonology advanced in this study on the basis of the phonolog-
ical rules of a number of different languages can be represented schema-
tically as in Figure 1.
Fig. 1. Model of the interactions between prosodic phonology and the other sub-
systems of the grammar
The problems that arise in relation to the T-model are eliminated in the
model in Figure 1. As can be seen, first of all, a part of each of the three
components, syntax, morphology, and semantics, provides direct input
to the mapping rules of the phonological component. In addition, the
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Conclusions 303
problem created by taking s-structure and thus also syntactic constituents
without phonetic content to be the input to the phonology is resolved
by the fact that in Figure 1 the part of the syntactic component that
interacts with the phonology is the surface structure, that is, a structure
with labeled bracketings but without empty constituents.
In conclusion, the relation between the continuous flow of speech
sounds and the structure internal to this flow is the relationship that
exists between the final phonetic production of a given string and the
analysis of this string in terms of the set of interactions among the sub-
systems of the phonology and among the components of the grammar.
A fuller understanding of the sound pattern of human language will not
be attained, however, until a deeper understanding is reached of the
interaction of grammar with other cognitive systems as well as with human
motor capacities and perception.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:29 AM
Bibliography
Akmajian, A. (1975) More evidence for an NP cycle. Linguistic Inquiry 6,
115-129.
Alighieri, Dante, La Commedia. Secondo 1'antica Vulgata. Ed. by G.
Petrocchi (1966-67).
Alighieri, Dante. The Divine Comedy. Translated by C.S. Singleton.
(1970) Inferno·, (1973) Purgatorio·, (1975) Paradiso. Princeton: Prince-
ton University Press.
Allen, M.R. (1978) Morphological Investigations. Ph.D. diss.: University
of Connecticut.
Anderson, S. (1982) Differences in rule type and their structural basis.
In H. van der Hulst and N. Smith (eds.), The Structure of Phonological
Representations. Part II. Dordrecht: Foris. 1-25.
Aronoff, M. (1976) Word Formation in Generative Grammar. Linguistic
Inquiry Monograph 1. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Bach, E. (1977) Montague grammar and classical transformational gram-
mar. Paper presented at the Conference on Montague Grammar, Philos-
ophy and Linguistics. Albany: SUNY.
Banfield, A. (1973) Narrative style and the grammar of direct and indirect
speech. Foundations of Language 10,1-39.
Baratta, G. (1981) Ritmo. Enciclopedia. Torino: Einaudi.
Basb^ll, H. (1978) Boundaries and ranking rules in French phonology.
In B. de Cornulier and F. Dell (eds.), Etudes de Phonologie Frangaise.
Paris: Editions du Centre de la Recherche Scientifique.
Beccaria, G.L. (1970) Dialefe. Encyclopedia Dantesca. Rome: Enciclo-
pedia Italiana Treccani.
Bell, A. and J.B. Hooper (eds.) (1978) Syllables and Segments. Amster-
dam: North-Holland.
Beltrami, P.G. (1981) Metrica, Poetica, Metrica Dantesca. Pisa: Pacini.
Bertinetto, P.M. (1973) Ritmo e Modelli Ritmici. Torino: Rosemberg
and Sellier.
Bertinetto, P.M. (1979) Aspetti Prosodici della Lingua Italiana. Padova:
CLESP.
Bierwisch, Μ. (1965) Poetik und Linguistik. In H. Kreuzer and R. Gunzen-
häuser (eds.), Mathematik und Dichtung. München: Nymphenburger
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
306 Prosodic phonology
Verslagshandlung. 49-65. Also published in English as: Poetics and
linguistics. In D.C. Freeman (ed.) (1970) Linguistics and Literary Style.
New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston. 96-118.
Bierwisch, Μ. (1966) Regeln für die Intonation deutscher Sätze. Studia
Grammatica 7: Untersuchungen über Akzent und Intonation im Deut-
schen. Berlin: Akademie-Verlag. 99-201.
Bing, J. (1979) Aspects of English Prosody. Ph.D. diss.: University of
Massachusetts, Amherst. IULC, 1980.
Bloomfield, L. (1933) Language. New York: Holt.
Bolinger, D. (1965) Forms of English: Accent, Morpheme, Order. Cam-
bridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.
Booij, G. (1977) Dutch Morphology. Dordrecht: Foris.
Booij, G. (1981) Generatieve Fonologie van het Nederlands. Utrecht:
Het Spectrum.
Booij, G. (1983) Principles and parameters in prosodic phonology. Lin-
guistics 21, 249-280.
Booij, G. (1984) Neutral vowels and the autosegmental analysis of Hun-
garian vowel harmony. Linguistics 22, 629-641.
Booij, G. (1985) Coordination reduction in complex words: a case for
prosodic phonology. In H. van der Hulst and N. Smith (eds.), Advances
in Non-Liner Phonology. Dordrecht: Foris.
Booij, G. (to appear) Lexical phonology and the organization of the
morphological component. In E. Gussmann (ed.), Rules and the Lexi-
con. Lublin: Katolicki Uniwersytet.
Booij, G. and J. Rubach (1984) Morphological and prosodic domains in
lexical phonology. Phonology Yearbook 1, 1-27.
Camilli, A. (1941) I rafforzamenti iniziali. Lingua Nostra 3, 170-174.
Camilli, A. (1965)Pronuncia egrafia dell'italiano. Firenze: Sansoni.
Chatman, S. (1965) ,4 Theory of Meter. The Hague: Mouton.
Chatman, S. (1972) Ritmo, metro, esecuzione. In R. Cremante and M.
Pazzaglia (eds.), La Metrica. Bologna: II Mulino.
Chomsky, N. (1965) Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. Cambridge, Mass.:
MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. (1970) Remarks on Nominalization. In R.A. Jacobs and
P.S. Rosenbaum (eds.), Readings in English Transformational Grammar.
Waltham, Mass.: Ginn and Co. 184-221.
Chomsky, N. (1981) Lectures on Government and Binding. Dordrecht:
Foris.
Chomsky, N. and M. Halle (1968) The Sound Pattern of English. New
York: Harper and Row.
Chomsky, N. and H. Lasnik (1977) Filters and control. Linguistic Inquiry
8, 425-504.
Clements, G.N. (1978) Tone and syntax in Ewe. In DJ. Napoli (ed.),
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
Bibliography 307
Elements of Tone, Stress and Intonation. Washington, D.C.: George-
town University Press.
Clements, G.N. and SJ. Keyser (1983) CV Phonology. A Generative
Theory of the Syllable. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Clements, G.N. and E. Sezer (1982) Vowel and consonant disharmony in
Turkish. In H. van der Hulst and N. Smith (eds.), The Structure of
Phonological Representations. Part II. Dordrecht: Foris. 213-255.
Cooper, G. and L. Meyer (1960) The Rhythmic Structure of Music.
Chicago: University Press.
Cooper, W.E. and J. Paccia-Cooper (1980) Syntax and Speech. Cambridge,
Mass.: Harvard University Press.
Crystal, D. (1969) Prosodic Systems and Intonation in English. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
Crystal, D. (1980) A First Dictionary of Linguistics and Phonetics. Lon-
don: Andre Deutsch.
Cupaiolo, F. (1959) Grammatica Latina. Milano: Principato.
Di Girolamo, C. (1976) Teoria e Prassi della Versificazione. Bologna:
II Mulino.
Dixon, R.M.W. (1970) Olgolo syllable structure and what they are doing
about it. Linguistic Inquiry 1, 273-276.
Dixon, R.M.W. (1977a) Some phonological rules of Yidiny
. Linguistic
Inquiry 8, 1-34.
Dixon, R.M.W. (1977b) A Grammar of Yidiny
. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Downing, B. (1970) Syntactic Structure and Phonological Phrasing in
English. Ph.D. diss.: University of Texas, Austin.
Durling, R.M. (trans.) (1976) Petrarch's Lyric Poems. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press.
Elwert, W.T. (1968) Italienische Metrik. München: Max Hueber. Also
published in Italian as: W.T. Elwert (1973) Versificazione italiana,
dalle origini ai giorni nostri. Firenze: Le Monnier.
Emonds, J. (1976) A Transformational Approach to English Syntax.
Root, Structure-Preserving and Local Transformations. New York:
Academic Press.
Emonds, J. (1980) Word order in generative grammar. Journal of Linguis-
tic Research 1,33-54.
Empson, W. (1930) Seven Types of Ambiguity. London: Chatto and
Windus.
Encreve, P. (1983) Liaison sans enchamement. Actes de la Recherche
en Sciences Sociales 43, 39-66.
Farmer, A.K. (1980) On the Interaction of Morphology and Syntax.
Ph.D. diss.: MIT.
Fiorelli, P. (1958) Del raddoppiamento da parola a parola. Lingua Nostra
19, 122-127.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
308 Prosodic phonology
Fodor, J.A. and T. Bever (1965) The psychological reality of linguistic
segments. Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior 4, 414-
420.
Fodor, J.A., J.D. Fodor, M.F. Garrett and J.R. Lackner (1975) Effects
of surface and underlying clausal structure on click location. Quarter-
ly Progress Report of the MIT Research Laboratory of Electronics.
Fudge, E.C. (1969) Syllables. Journal of Linguistics 5, 253-286.
Fussel, P., Jr. (1965) Poetic Meter and Poetic Form. New York: Random
House.
Garcia-Bellido, P. (1979) Trilled vs. flapped /r/: some remarks on the syl-
lable structure of Spanish. Paper presented at NELS 10, Ottawa,
Ontario.
Garrett, M.F., T. Bever and J.A. Fodor (1966) The active use of grammar
in speech perception. Perception and Psychophysics 1, 30-32.
Giannelli, L. (1976) Toscana, Profilo dei Dialetti Italiani. 9. Pisa.
Gianelli, L. and L. Savoia (1979-1980) L'indebolimento consonantico
in Toscana. Rivista Italiana di Dialettologia 2, 23-58; 4, 39-101.
Gimson, A. (1970) An Introduction to the Pronunciation of English.
2nd. ed. London: Edward Arnold.
Graffi, G. (1980) Universali di Greenberg e grammatica generativa. Lingua
e Stile XV. 3, 371-390.
Guitart, J.M. (1979) On the true environment for weakening and deletion
in consonant-weak Spanish dialects. Paper presented at the Conference
on Non-English Language Variation in the Western Hemisphere, Univer-
sity of Louisville, Kentucky.
Guitart, J.M. (1980) Entorno a la silaba como entidad fonemätica en
los dialectos del Caribe hispänico. Paper presented at the V Simposio
de Dialectologia del Caribe Hispänico, Caracas, Venezuela.
Gunter, R. (1974) Sentences in Dialog. Columbia, S.C.: Hornbeam Press.
Hale, K. (1980) Remarks on Japanese phrase structure: Comments on the
papers on Japanese syntax. In Y. Otsu and A. Farmer (eds.), MIT
Working Papers in Linguistics II. 185-203.
Hale, K. (1981) On the position of Walbiri in a typology of the base. IULC.
Hall, R. (1944) Hungarian Grammar. Language Monographs 21. Balti-
more: LSA.
Halle, M. (1973) Prolegomena to a theory of word formation. Linguistic
Inquiry 4, 3-16.
Halle, M. and S.J. Keyser (1966) Chaucer and the study of prosody. In
D C. Freeman (ed.), Linguistics and Literary Style. New York: Holt,
Rinehart and Winston. 366-426.
Halle, M. and S.J. Keyser (1971) English Stress: Its Form, Its Growth,
and Its Role in Verse. New York: Harper and Row.
Harris, J. (1969) Spanish Phonology. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
Bibliography 309
Harris, J. (1983) Syllable Structure and Stress in Spanish. Cambridge,
Mass.: MIT Press.
Hayes, B. (1981) A Metrical Theory of Stress Rules. Ph.D. diss.: MIT.
IULC, 1980.
Hayes, B. (1982) Metrical structure as the organizing principle of Yidiny
phonology. In H. van der Hulst and N. Smith (eds.), The Structure of
Phonological Representations. Part I. Dordrecht: Foris. 97-110.
Hayes, B. (to appear) The prosodic hierarchy in meter. In P. Kiparsky
and G. Youmans (eds.), Proceedings of the 1984 Stanford Conference
on Meter. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Hoji, H. (1982) X-schema in Japanese and the * parameter. Ms. University
of Washington.
Hooper, J.B. (1972) The syllable in phonological theory. Language 48,
525-540.
Hooper, J.B. (1976) An Introduction to Natural Generative Phonology.
New York: Academic Press.
Hoorn, H. van (1983) Cancellazione della vocale finale prima di consonan-
te. Ms. University of Amsterdam.
Householder, F. (1964) Three dreams of Modern Greek phonology. Word
20.3. Special Publication 5, 17-27.
Hulst, H. van der (1984) Syllable Structure and Stress in Dutch. Dor-
drecht: Foris.
Hulst, H. van der (in preparation) Verkleuring van lange vocalen voor r:
een woorddomein regel.
Hulst, H. van der and N. Smith (1982) Prosodic domains and opaque
segments in autosegmental phonology. In H. van der Hulst and N.
Smith (eds.), The Structure of Phonological Representations. Part II.
Dordrecht: Foris. 311-336.
Hyman, L. (1977) On the nature of linguistic stress. In L. Hyman (ed.),
Studies in Stress and Accent. SCOPIL 4. Los Angeles: USC Linguistics
Department. 37-82.
Jackendoff, R. (1974) Introduction to the X Convention. IULC.
Jaeggli, 0. (1980) Remarks on to contraction. Linguistic Inquiry 11,
239-245.
Jakobson, R. (1960) Linguistics and poetics. In T. Sebeok (ed.), Style in
Language. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. 350-385.
Jones, D. (1986) The Pronunciation of English. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Kahn, D. (1976) Syllable-based Generalizations in English Phonology.
Ph.D. diss.: MIT. IULC.
Kahn, D. (1980) Syllable-structure specifications in phonological rules.
In M. Aronoff and M.-L. Kean (eds.), Juncture. Saratoga, Calif.: Anma
Libri.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
310 Prosodic phonology
Kaisse, E.M. (1977) On the syntactic environment of a phonological
rule. In W.A. Beach, S.E. Fox and S. Philosoph (eds.), CLS 13. 173-
185.
Kaisse, E.M. (1983) The syntax of Auxiliary Reduction in English. Lan-
guage 59, 93-122.
Kaisse, E.M. (1985) Connected Speech. The Interaction of Syntax and
Phonology. New York: Academic Press.
Kean, M.-L. (1980) Grammatical representations and the description of
language processing. In D. Caplan (ed.), Biological Studies of Mental
Processing, Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. 239-268.
Kenstowicz, M. and C. Kisseberth (1977). Topics in Phonological Theory.
New York: Academic Press.
Keyser, S.J. (1969) The linguistic basis of English prosody. In D.A. Reibel
and S.A. Schane (eds.), Modern Studies in English Grammar. Engle-
wood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall. 379-394.
Keyser, S.J. and P. Kiparsky (1984) Syllable structure in Finnish phonol-
ogy. In M. Aronoff and R.T. Oehrle (eds.), Language Sound Structure.
Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. 7-31.
King, H.V. (1970) On blocking the rules for contraction in English.
Linguistic Inquiry 1, 134-136.
Kiparsky, P. (1975) Stress, syntax and meter. Language 51, 576-616.
Kiparsky, P. (1977) The rythmic structure of English verse. Linguistic
Inquiry 8, 189-247.
Kiparsky, P. (1979) Metrical structure assignment is cyclic. Linguistic
Inquiry 10, 421-442.
Kiparsky, P. (1982) From cyclic phonology to lexical phonology. In
H. van der Hulst and N. Smith (eds.), The Structure of Phonological
Representations. Part I. Dordrecht: Foris. 131-175.
Kisseberth, C. and M. Abasheikh (1974) Vowel length in Chimwi:ni. A
case study of the role of grammar in phonology. In A. Bruck, R. Fox
and M. LaGaly (eds.), Papers from the Parasession on Natural Phonol-
ogy. Chicago: CLS. 193-209.
Klatt, D. (1975) Vowel lengthening is syntactically determined in a
connected discourse. Journal of Phonetics 3,129-140.
Klatt, D. (1976) Linguistic uses of segmental duration in English: acoustic
and perceptual evidence. Journal of the Acoustic Society of America
59, 1208-1221.
Klavans, J. (1982) Some Problems in a Theory of Clitics. Ph.D. diss.:
University College London, 1980. IULC.
Klavans, J. (1985) The independence of syntax and phonology in cliticiza-
tion. Language 61,95-120.
Kohler, K.J. (1966) Is the syllable a phonologocal universal? Journal
of Linguistics 2, 207-208.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
Bibliography 311
Kontou, D.T. (1973) Fast speech rules and some phonological processes
of Modern Greek: a preliminary investigation. Athens: University
of Athens, School of Philosophy Publications.
Kooij, J. (1971) Ambiguity in Natural Language. Amsterdam: North-
Holland.
Kuryiowicz, J. (1948) Contribution a la theorie de la syllabe. Biuletyn
Polskiego Towarzystwa Jezykoznawaczego 8, 80-114.
Ladd, D.R. (1980) The Structure of Intonational Meaning. Bloomington:
Indiana University Press.
Lakoff, G. (1970) Global rules. Language 46, 627-639.
Langendoen, D.T. (1975) Finite-state parsing of phrase-structure languages
and the status of readjustment rules in the grammar. Linguistic Inquiry
6,533-554.
Lapointe, S.G. and M.H. Feinstein (1982) The role of vowel deletion
and epenthesis in the assignment of syllable structure. In H. van der
Hulst and N. Smith (eds.), The Structure of Phonological Representa-
tions. Part II. Dordrecht: Foris. 69-120.
Leben, W. (1973) Suprasegmental Phonology. Ph.D. diss.: MIT.
Leben, W. (1982) Metrical or Autosegmental. In H. van der Hulst and
N. Smith (eds.), The Structure of Phonological Representations. Part II.
177-190.
Lees, R.B. (1961) The Phonology of Modern Standard Turkish. The
Hague: Mouton.
Lehiste, I. (1972) Timing of utterance and linguistic boundaries. Journal
of the Acoustical Society of America 51,2018-2024.
Lehiste, I. (1973) Phonetic disambiguation of syntactic ambiguity. Glossa
7, 107-122.
Lehiste, I., J.P. Olive and L.A. Streeter (1976) Role of duration in disam-
biguating syntactically ambiguous sentences. Journal of the Acoustical
Society of America 60,1199-1202.
Leone, A. (1962) A proposito del raddoppiamento sintattico. Bolletti-
no del Centro di Studi Filologici e Linguistici Siciliani 7,163-170.
Leonetti, P. (1934-1938) Storia della Tecnica del Verso Italiano. Napoli:
Morano.
Lepschy, A.L. and G. Lepschy (1977) The Italian Language Today. Lon-
don: Hutchinson.
Lewis, G.L. (1967) Turkish Grammar. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Liberman, M. (1975) The Intonational System of English. Ph.D. diss.:
MIT. IULC.
Liberman, M. and A. Prince (1977) On stress and linguistic rhythm.
Linguistic Inquiry 8, 249-336.
Lieberman, P. (1967) Intonation, Perception, and Language. Cambridge,
Mass.: MIT Press.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
312 Prosodic phonology
Longobardi, G. (1980) Remarks on infinitives: a case for a filter. Journal
of Italian Linguistics 5,101-156.
Lowenstamm, J. (1979) Topics in Syllabic Phonology. Ph.D. diss.: Uni-
versity of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Lowenstamm, J. (1981) On the maximal cluster approach to syllable
structure. Linguistic Inquiry 12, 575-604.
Malecot, A. (1960) Vowel nasality as a distinctive feature in American
English. Language 36, 222-229.
Malikouti, A. (1970) Μετασχηματιστή ή μορφολογία του νβοβλληνικού
ονόματος. Ph.D. diss.: University of Athens.
Malikouti-Drachman, A. and G. Drachman (1981) Slogan chanting and
speech rhythm in Greek. In W. Dressier (ed.), Phonologica 1980. Inns-
bruck: IBS. 283-292.
Marotta, G. (to appear) Rhythmical Constraints on 'Syntactic Doubling'.
Journal of Italian Linguistics.
McCarthy, J. (1979) On stress and syllabification. Linguistic Inquiry
10, 443-466.
Miyara, S. (1981) Phonological Phrase and Phonological Reduction.
University of Massachusetts Occasional Papers in Linguistics 7. 154-
183.
Mohanan, K.P. (1981) Lexical Phonology. Ph.D. diss.: MIT. IULC, 1982.
Morin, Y.-C. and J. Kaye (1982). The syntactic bases for French liaison.
Journal of Linguistics 18, 291-330.
Moulton, W. (1947) Juncture in Modern Standard German. Languague 23,
212-226.
Muysken, P.C. (1977) Syntactic Developments in the Verb Phrase of
Ecuadorian Quechua. Dordrecht: Foris.
Napoli, DJ. and M. Nespor (1979) The syntax of word initial consonant
gemination in Italian. Language 55, 812-841.
Navarro Tomas, Τ. (1957) Manual de Pronunciaciön Espanola. New
York: Hafner.
Nespor, M. (1977) Some Syntactic Structures of Italian and Their Rela-
tionship to the Phenomenon of Raddoppiamento Sintattico. Ph.d.
diss.: University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
Nespor, M. (1983) Formele eigenschappen in fonologie en syntaxis.
TTT 3.3/4, 260-276. Also published in English as: M. Nespor (1983)
Formal properties in phonology and syntax. Lingua e Stile 18, 343-
360.
Nespor, M. (1984) The phonological word in Italian. In H. van der Hulst
and N. Smith (eds.), Advances in Non-Linear Phonology. Dordrecht:
Foris.
Nespor, M. (1986) The phonological word in Greek and Italian. In H. An-
dersen and J. Gvozdanovic (eds.), Proceedings of the Working Group
on Sandhi Phenomena in the Languages of Europe.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
Bibliography 313
Nespor, Μ. and Μ. Scoreretti (1985) Empty elements and phonological
form. In J. Gueron and J.-Y. Pollock (eds.), Grammatical Representa-
tion. Dordrecht: Foris.
Nespor, M. and I. Vogel (1979) Clash avoidance in Italian. Linguistic
Inquiry 10, 467-482.
Nespor, M. and I. Vogel (1982) Prosodic domains of external sandhi
rules. In H. van der Hulst and N. Smith (eds.), The Structure of Pho-
nological Representations. Part I. Dordrecht: Foris. 225-255.
Nespor M. and I. Vogel (1983a) Prosodic hierarchy and speech percep-
tion. In La Percezione del Linguaggio, Atti del Seminario, 1980.
Firenze: Accademia della Crusca. 339-362.
Nespor, M. and I. Vogel (1983b) Prosodic structure above the word.
In A. Cutler and D.R. Ladd (eds.), Prosody: Models and Measure-
ments. Berlin: Springer, 123-140.
Newman, P. (1972) Syllable weight as a phonological variable: the nature
and function of the contrast between 'heavy' and 'light' syllables.
Studies in African Linguistics 3,301-323.
Niedermann, Μ. (1953) Precise de Phonetique Historique du Latin. Paris:
Librairie C. Klinckieck.
Noske, R. (1982) Syllabification and syllable changing rules in French.
In H. van der Hulst and N. Smith (eds.), The Structure of Phonological
Representations. Dordrecht: Foris. 257-310.
Odden, D. (1980) The phrasal phonology of Kimatuumbi. Ms. Yale
University.
Pennings, L. (1985) Scontro di due ictus nel verso di Dante. Ms. Univer-
sity of Amsterdam.
Petrarca, F. Canzoniere. Ed. by G. Contini. Torino: Einaudi. (1968)
Petrarch, F. Petrarch's Lyric Poems. Translated by R.M. Durling (1976).
Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.
Petrocchi, G. (ed.) (1966-67) La Commedia. Secondo l'antica Vulgata.
By Dante Alighieri.
Piera, C. (1982). The hendecasyllable in Spanish. Ms. Cornell University.
Pierrehumbert, J. (1980) The Phonology and Phonetics of English Intona-
tion. Ph.D. diss.: MIT.
Pike, K. (1947) Grammatical prerequisites to phonemic analysis. Word 3,
155-172.
Pike, K. and E. Pike (1947) Immediate constituents of Mazateco syllables.
International Journal of American Linguistics 13, 78-91.
Platzak, C. (1979) The Semantic Interpretation of Aspect and Aktions-
arten. Dordrecht: Foris.
Pratelli, R. (1970) Le renforcement syntactique des consonnes en italien.
La Linguistique 6, 39-50.
Prince, A. (1983). Relating to the grid. Linguistic Inquiry 14, 19-100.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
314 Prosodic phonology
Prince, A. (1984) Phonology with tiers. In M. Aronoff and R. Oehrle
(eds.), Language Sound Structure. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. 234-
244.
Pulgram, E. (1970) Syllable, Word, Nexus, Cursus. The Hague: Mouton.
Riemsdijk, H. van (1978) A Case Study in Syntactic Markedness. Dor-
drecht: Foris.
Riemsdijk, H. van and E. Williams (1981) NP-structure. The Linguistic
Review 1, 171-218.
Rizzi, L. (1976) Ristrutturazione. Rivista di Grammatica Generativa 1,
1-54.
Rizzi, L. (1979) La teoria della traccia e processi fonosintattici. Rivista
di Grammatica Generativa 4,165-181.
Rischel, J. (1982) On unit accentuation in Danish and the distinction
between deep and surface phonology. ARIPUC 16, 191-239. Also
published in Folia Linguistica XVII (1983).
Rohlfs, G. (1949) Historische Grammatik der Italienischen Sprache und
ihrer Mundarten. Bern: A. Francke A.G.
Rotenberg, J. (1975) French Liaison, phrase structure, and semicycli-
cal rules. Ms. MIT.
Rotenberg, J. (1978) The Syntax of Phonology. Ph.D. diss.: MIT.
Rubach, J. (1984) Cyclic and Lexical Phonology: The Structure of Polish.
Dordrecht: Foris.
Safir, K. (1985) Binding in relatives and LF. Glow Newsletter 14, 77-79.
Saib, J. (1978) Segment organization and the syllable in Tamazight Berber.
In A. Bell and J.B. Hooper (eds.), Syllables and Segments. Amsterdam:
North-Holland, 93-104.
Saito, M. and H. Hoji (1983) Weak crossover and move a in Japanese.
Natural Language & Linguistic Theory 1, 245-259.
Sapir, E. (1930) Southern Paiute, a Shoshonean language. Proceedings
of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences 65.1.
Sassen, A. (1979) Morfeem- en syllabegrens. TABU, 25-28.
Savoia, L.M. (1974-1975) Condizioni fonetiche nel fiorentino comune e
alcune proposte per una teoria fonologica concreta. Studi di Grammati-
ca Italiana 4, 209-330.
Scalise, S. (1983)Morfologia Lessicale. Padova: Clesp.
Scalise, S. (1984) Generative Morphology. Dordrecht: Foris.
Schane, S.A. (1968) French Phonology and Morphology. Cambridge,
Mass.: MIT Press.
Selkirk, E.O. (1972) The Phrase Phonology of English and French. Ph.D.
diss.: MIT. IULC, 1982.
Selkirk, E.O. (1978a) The French foot: on the status of French 'mute'
e. Studies in French Linguistics 1, 141-150.
Selkirk, E.O. (1978b) On prosodic structure and its relation to syntactic
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
Bibliography 315
structure. Paper presented at the Conference on Mental Representa-
tion in Phonology. IULC, 1980. Published in T. Fretheim (ed.) (1981)
Nordic Prosody II. Trondheim: TAPIR. 111-140.
Selkirk, E.O. (1980a) Prosodic domains in phonology: Sanskrit revisited.
In M. Aronoff and M.-L. Kean (eds.), Juncture. Saratoga, Calif.: Anma
Libri. 107-129.
Selkirk, E.O. (1980b) The role of prosodic categories in English word
stress. Linguistic Inquiry 11, 563-605.
Selkirk, E.O. (1982) The Syntax of Words. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Selkirk, E.O. (1984a) On the major class features and syllable theory.
In M. Aronoff and R.T. Oehrle (eds.), Language Sound Structure.
Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. 107-136.
Selkirk, E.O. (1984b) Phonology and Syntax: The Relation between
Sound and Structure. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Sesini, U. (1938) II verso neolatino nella ritmica musicale. Convivium 5,
481-502.
Sesini, U. (1939) L'endecasillabo: struttura e peculiarita. Convivium 11,
545-570.
Setatos, M. (1974) Φωνολογώςτης Κοινής Νεοελληνικής. Αϋt)va: Πα-
παξήσης.
Shopen, Τ. (1972) A Generative Theory of Ellipsis. Ph.D. diss.: UCLA.
Siegel, D. (1974) Topics in English Morphology. Ph.D. diss.: MIT.
Siegel, D. (1977) The adjacency condition and the theory of morpho-
logy. NELS 8, 189-197.
Singleton, C.S. (trans.) (1970, 1973, 1975) The Divine Comedy. By Dante
Alighieri. (1970)Inferno·, (1973)Purgatorio] (1975)Paradiso.
Smith, N. (in preparation) Evidence for the foot as a hierarchical unit in
Zul'höasi.
Snyman, J.W. (1975) Zu l'höasi: Fonologie en Woordenboek. Kaapstad:
A.A. Balkema.
Steriade, D. (1982) Greek Prosodies and the Nature of Syllabification.
Ph.D. diss.: MIT.
Stowell, T. (1981) Origins of Phrase Structure. Ph.D. diss.: MIT.
Strauss, S. (1982) Lexicalist Phonology of English and German. Dor-
drecht: Foris.
Ternes, E. (1973) The Phonemic Analysis of Scottish Gaelic. Hamburg:
Helmut Buske Verlag.
Tompa, J. (1972) Kleine ungarische Grammatik. Budapest: Akademiai
Kiado.
Trager, G. and H. Smith (1951) An outline of English structure. Studies
in Linguistics, Occasional Papers 3. Norman, Oklahoma: Battenberg
Press.
Traina A. and G. Bernardi Perini (1977) Propedeutica al Latino Univer-
sitario. Bologna: Patron.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
316 Prosodic phonology
Trommelen, Μ. (1983) The Syllable in Dutch. Dordrecht: Foris.
Ullman, S. (1962). Semantics: An Introduction to the Science of Mean-
ing. Oxford: Basil Blackwell and Mott.
Vago, R. (1976) Theoretical implications of Hungarian vowel harmony.
Linguistic Inquiry 7, 243-264.
Vago, R. (1980) The Sound Pattern of Hungarian. Washington, D.C.:
Georgetown University Press.
Vanelli, L. (1979) Una forma supplettiva dell'articolo e la sua fonosintas-
si. Rivista di Grammatica Generativa 4, 183-206.
Vennemann, Τ. (1971) The phonology of Gothic vowels. Language 47,
90-132.
Vennemann, Τ. (1972) On the theory of syllabic phonology. Linguistische
Berichte 18,1-18.
Vennemann, Τ. (1974) Words and syllables in natural generative grammar.
In A. Bruck, R.A. Fox and M.W. LaGaly (eds.), Papers from the Para-
session on Natural Phonology. Chicago: CLS. 346-374.
Vergnaud, J.-R. and M. Halle (1978) Metrical structure in phonology.
Ms. MIT.
Vogel, I. (1977) The Syllable in Phonological Theory; with Special Refe-
rence to Italian. Ph.D. diss.: Stanford University.
Vogel, I. (1981) Structure prosodiche dell'Inglese. Rivista di Grammatica
Generativa 6, 181-205.
Vogel, I, (1982) La Sillaba come Unitd Fonologica. Bologna: Zanichelli.
Vogel, I. (1984a) On constraining phonological rules. In H. van der Hulst
and N. Smith (eds.), Advances in Non-Linear Phonology. Dordrecht:
Foris.
Vogel, I. (1984b) Sintassi, prosodia e disambiguazione. Quaderni Patavini
di Linguistica 4, 21-50.
Vogel, I. (1985) Review of J. Harris, Syllable Structure and Stress in
Spanish. Journal of Linguistics 21,195-208.
Vogel, I. (1986) External sandhi rules operating across sentences. In
H. Andersen and J. Gvozdanovic (eds.), Proceedings of the Working
Group on Sandhi Phenomena in the Languages of Europe.
Vogel, I., M. Drigo, A. Moser and I. Zannier (1983) La cancellazione
di vocale in Italiano. Studi di Grammatica Italiana, 191-230.
Vogel, I. and S. Scalise (1982) Secondary stress in Italian. Lingua 58,
213-242.
Wanner, D. (1980) Romance and the rhythmical nature of stress. In
F.H. Nuessel Jr. (ed.), Contemporary Studies in Romance Languages.
IULC.
Warburton, I.P. (1970) Rules of accentuation in classical and modern
Greek. Glotta 48, 107-121.
Wells, J.C. (1982) Accents of English. Vol. 1: Introduction. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
Bibliography 317
Weimers, W.E. (1973) Igbo tonology. Studies in African Linguistics 1,
255-278.
Weimers, W.E. and B.F. Weimers (1969) Noun modifiers in Igbo. Inter-
national Journal of American Linguistics 35, 315-322.
Wheeler, D.W. (1981) Aspects of a Categorial Theory of Phonology.
Ph.D. diss.: University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Whitman, J. (1982) Configurationality parameter. Ms. Harvard University.
Whitney, W.D. (1889) Sanskrit Grammar. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard
University Press.
Williams, E. (1977) Discourse and logical form. Linguistic Inquiry 8,
101-139.
Woitsetschlaeger, E.F. (1976) A Semantic Theory of the English Auxili-
ary System. IULC.
Yip, M. (1980) The Tonal Phonology of Chinese. Ph.D. diss.: MIT. IULC.
Zanoni, L. (1948) Grammatica Latina. Morfologia e Sintassi. Milano:
Mondadori.
Zwicky, A. (1970) Auxiliary reduction in English. Linguistic Inquiry
1,323-336.
Zwicky, A. (1977) On clitics. Paper presented at the 3rd International
Phonologie-Tagung, University of Vienna, 1976. IULC.
Zwicky, A. (1984) Clitics and particles. In A. Zwicky and R. Wallace
(eds.), Ohio State Working Papers in Linguistics 29, 148-173.
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
Subject Index
affix: 18, 60, 63, 64, 66, 78, 106, 110, 114,
116-119, 121, 126, 136, 139, 142, 145,
146, 149, 162, 300
(see also infix, prefix, suffix)
ambiguity (ambiguous): 3, 23, 250-261,
265-270
anaphora: 240-245
argument: 198-200, 205, 217
assimilation: see Language and Rule Index
branching
binary/n-ary: 7-10, 12, 13, 25, 84-87, 89,
90, 104, 142, 143,155,168, 189, 192,193,
204, 205, 218, 222, 245, 276
left/right: 32, 40, 170, 182-185, 284
c-command: 186
clash: 174, 176, 178, 286-294, 297
clitic group: 3, 11, 16, 115, 116, 120, 121,
Chapter 5, 165, 168, 173, 184, 185, 270,
283, 300
colon: 201, 274-277, 280-282, 284, 295
Commedia: 3, 23, Chapter 10
complement (branching/nonbranching;
first/others): 20, 21, 33, 39, 40, 41, 152,
168, 169, 172-174, 178-182, 184-186,
208, 284, 286, 293, 294, 300
compound: 18, 63, 64, 66, 77, 78, 91, 95,
110-118, 120-127, 130, 131, 133, 137,
139, 142, 143, 152, 228
cyclic nodes: 199, 217, 300
deletion: see Language and Rule Index
designated terminal element (DTE):
130-132, 144, 166, 170, 276, 281, 283,
284, 289, 295
disambiguation: Chapter 9, 299
Divina Commedia: see Commedia
ellipsis: 240-245
embedding (embedded) : 20, 57, 182, 185,
197, 200-203, 207, 210, 212, 215, 216,
237, 270, 300
empty category/constituent: 21, 37, 48-57,
302, 303
empty element: see empty category
fast speech: 23, 64, 150, 173, 225
flexibility (flexible): 57, 58, 191, 192, 196,
205, 207, 210, 211, 215-218
foot: 3, 11, 16, Chapter 3, 109, 110, 122,
126, 127, 139, 142-144, 224, 273, 279,
280, 283, 285, 289, 295, 299
hendecasyllable: 274-278, 280-287, 290,
294-296
hierarchy
metrical: 273-275, 279-281, 284, 285,
287, 295
prosodic/phonological: 2, 3, 5, 7, 8,
10-14, 24, 25, 27, 59-61, 83, 90, 103,
109, 110, 115-118, 133, 138, 141, 142,
145, 149, 151, 154, 157, 162, 165, 176,
185, 187, 191, 196, 200, 216, 217, 221,
226, 234, 244, 245, 249, 279, 280, 281,
283-285, 287, 293, 295, 296, 300
syntactic: 2, 5, 27, 35, 110, 117-119, 121,
124, 126, 138, 142, 145, 151, 163, 171,
185, 196, 211, 234, 249, 293, 295, 300
infix: 18
interaction: 1-6, 11, 14, 17-19, 62, 65, 95,
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
320 Subject Index
107, 109, 134, 159, 200, 221, 244-246,
249, 299-303
interface: see interaction
international phrase : 3, 11, 16, 72,
Chapter 7, 221-223, 231, 237, 240,
244-246, 259-262, 264, 268, 269, 300
intonation contour/pattern: 24, 25, 37,
55-58, 187, 188, 195, 196, 200,
205-208, 214, 216, 218, 219, 223, 236,
242, 245, 247, 253
isomorphism/nonisomorphism (isomorphic/
nonisomorphic): 2, 5, 18, 35, 36, 60, 110,
117, 118, 121, 122, 124, 126, 134, 142,
145, 151, 154, 155, 161-163, 171, 174,
185, 190, 196, 197, 211, 216, 218, 221,
222, 234, 237, 244, 269, 299, 300
labeled bracketing: 32, 33, 49, 303
length
of consonants: 38, 143, 148, 166
of constituents/strings: 37, 41, 42, 44, 46,
57, 174, 185, 193-195, 203, 208, 210,
211, 213, 216-219, 221, 225, 226, 228,
231, 240, 246, 287, 300
of vowels: 34, 94, 106, 131, 134, 166, 180,
246
logical form: see semantics
mapping (rules): 5, 7, 11, 14, 17-19, 92,
109, 117, 141, 142, 149, 162, 168, 174,
175, 185, 269, 299-302
marked/unmarked: 20, 23, 84, 96, 142, 163,
169, 192, 246, 255
Maximal Onset Principle: 63, 69, 137, 139
meter: 177, 186, Chapter 10
metrical foot (of poetry): 274-277, 279-284,
286, 287, 295
morpheme boundary: 3, 36
morphological constituent: 27, 35, 110, 117,
124, 126, 129, 138
morphological structure: 17-19, 28, 29, 35,
36, 63, 109, 110, 126, 128, .129, 142,
300
morphology/morphological component: 2,
4, 17-19, 65, 109, 141, 169, 302
onset: 12, 13, 25, 38, 65, 77, 79, 91, 98, 102,
103, 107, 140, 165, 180, 228, 288
parameter: 20, 57, 72, 84, 103, 108, 142, 185
pause: 24, 25, 106, 188, 205, 216, 219, 225,
229, 230, 236, 240, 241, 243, 244-246,
255, 257, 287, 297
perception: 3, 23, 176, 186, 249, 250, 258,
264, 268-270, 303
phonetically null category/constituent: see
empty category
phonological phrase: 3, 11, 16, 57, 72,
145, 147, 149, Chapter 6, 187,189-194,
196, 197, 204, 205, 217, 218, 231,
259-262, 264, 268, 269, 271, 274,
281-284, 286-289, 291-295, 297, 300
phonological utterance: 3, 11, 16, 72, 119,
217, 218, Chapter 8, 261, 262, 299, 300
phonological word: 3, 11, 16, 18, 19, 36,
67-72, 77-79, 81, 82, 89-91, 98, 103,
104, 106, Chapter 4, 145, 147-149, 152,
154-157, 159, 161, 162, 166, 170, 171,
174, 175, 222, 230
phonology
autosegmental: 1, 6, 14, 61, 62, 82, 83,
97, 99, 107, 108, 193, 288, 301, 302
lexical: 1, 6, 14, 18, 19, 30, 302
linear: 1, 7
metrical (grid): 1, 6, 10, 11, 14, 83, 84,
90, 92, 93, 96, 97, 99, 100, 103, 144,
160, 163, 296, 301, 302
phonotactic constraint/restriction: 13, 59,
73, 76, 80, 90, 101, 105
poetic rhyme: 90, 102, 103, 105
prefix: 18, 28, 66, 98, 110, 111, 117,
121-129, 131-136, 139-141, 144
processing: 3, 186, 194, 249, 250, 269, 270,
299
PRO: see ampty category
prominence (relative): 6, 7, 10, 11, 14, 59,
60, 86, 96, 104, 155-157, 168, 175, 177
190-193, 195, 196, 205, 218, 222, 277,
2885
recursivity (recursive/nonrecursive): 2, 20,
21, 168-170, 173, 177, 179, 180,
182-185, 190, 217, 237
restructuring: 9, 10, 172-174, 177-182, 185,
187, 193-207, 209-213, 215-221,
239-245, 270, 271, 284, 300
resyllabification: 62, 64, 65, 68-72, 90, 91,
103, 106, 107, 137, 165, 172, 180
rhyme: 12, 13, 25, 73-76, 81, 87, 102-104,
107, 108
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
Subject Index 321
rhythm: 6, 195, 217, 273, 275, 277, 278, 280,
285, 295, 297, 301
rhythmic alternation: 90, 177, 273, 278, 280,
282, 285-287, 289, 293, 285, 296
root sentence: 21, 188-190, 193, 196, 203,
216, 217, 235, 300
rules (see Language and Rule Index)
correspondence: 273, 277, 285, 296
juncture: 15-17, 76, 81-83, 97, 104, 118,
119, 158, 159, 171, 230, 231, 291, 293,
296
limit: 15, 16, 76, 78-81, 83, 91, 104, 119,
162, 230, 231, 233, 234, 246, 287
metrical (of poetry): 285-292, 295, 297
prosodic (of poetry ): 285, 288-293, 295
span: 15, 16, 76, 79-81, 83, 93, 94, 104,
114, 129, 130, 133, 207, 210, 214, 226,
229-234
sandhi rules/processes: 4, 24, 31, 57, 95, 96,
147, 163, 205, 222, 301
semantics/semantic component: 2, 3, 5, 6,
17, 21, 22, 200, 218, 244, 245, 260, 302
s-structure: 19, 21, 22, 37, 49, 188, 189,
301-303
stress: 10, 13, 23, 24, 29, 35, 54-56, 59, 60,
73, 83, 85-87, 89, 90, 92-101, 103-105,
111-116, 119, 120, 130, 131, 142, 143,
146-149, 151-153, 155, 157, 159-161,
163, 174-178, 186, 191-193, 195, 196,
218-220, 222, 223, 246, 265, 275-280,
283, 286, 287, 289, 290-296
stress assignment: 10, 73, 76, 83, 96, 114,
115, 120, 147, 169, 191, 193, 222, 283
(see also Language and Rule Index)
Strict Layer Hypothesis: 13, 25, 89, 91, 98,
104, 109, 121-124, 129, 136, 196
suffix: 18, 30, 34, 35, 65, 66, 78, 79, 96, 97,
110, 112, 117, 119-127, 129-131,
134-136, 140, 141, 143, 144, 226-228
syllabification: 62-64, 66-72, 78, 103, 106,
107, 137, 139, 140
syllable: 3, 11-14, 16, 25, 29, 34, 35, 38, 55,
60, Chapter 3, 109, 111-113, 115, 119,
129, 131, 134, 135, 139, 140, 142, 143,
146-148, 151-153, 156, 157, 160, 161,
163, 165, 172, 174, 175, 178, 180, 181,
223, 229, 238, 245, 246, 255, 265,
273-275, 278-281, 283, 286-288, 292,
294, 296, 299
(see also onset, rhyme)
syntactic constituent: 1, 4, 5, 15, 27, 31, 32,
34, 37-41, 43, 44, 46-50, 54, 57-60,
122, 124, 134, 138, 142, 154, 161, 163,
165, 171, 172, 174, 176, 185, 190,
196-198, 211, 213, 216-219, 221, 223,
225, 226, 237, 244, 250, 255, 256,
258-260, 269, 274, 283, 284, 286,
293-295, 302, 303
syntactic structure: 1-5, 31, 32, 36, 37,
39-41, 48, 57-59, 69, 71, 150, 155, 162,
163, 171, 177, 190, 196-198, 205, 208,
218, 219, 238, 249, 250, 252, 254-259,
263, 264, 268-270, 274, 296, 300
syntax/syntactic component: 1-4, 6, 17,
19-21, 31, 41, 45-48, 58, 59, 62, 92,
151, 162, 163, 168, 169, 174, 176, 185,
190, 193, 196, 200, 213, 217-219, 221,
226, 235, 237, 244, 254, 257, 260, 270,
274, 296, 300, 302, 303
trace: see empty category
universal: 5, 6, 11, 12, 20, 62, 68, 109, 217
verse: 3, 6, 23, 97, 102, 273-275, 278-280,
282, 285-293, 295-297
well formdness condition: 111-113, 129,
136, 141, 144, 148, 151, 152, 163, 281
W * (nonconfigurational) language: 20, 186
X-bar
language: 20, 185
theory: 7, 17, 20, 165, 177, 237
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
Language and Rule
Index
Arabic
Emphasis: 82
Berber (Tamazight)
Strengthening: 79, 80
Catalan
/-Delection: 162
Chimwi:ni: 182
Final Shortening: 180, 181
Pre- 2 Antepenult Shortening: 180-182
Pre-Length Shortening: 180 ,181
Chinese: 95, 100
Amoy: 108
Gemination: 96, 97
Stop Voicing: 96, 97
Mandarin
Tone Deletion: 95
Tone Sandhi: 95, 96
Dutch: 23, 62, 65, 67, 68, 78, 102, 103, 137,
140, 141, 186
Coordination Reduction: 137, 138
/•-Coloring: 138, 139
Schwa Insertion: 78, 79, 107
English: 23, 48, 54, 62, 64, 66-68, 97, 100,
107, 108, 128, 149, 157, 167, 177, 182,
188, 190, 199, 214, 216, 223, 233, 236,
250, 256, 270, 274, 280, 286, 287, 296
Alveopalatalization: 80, 81, 108
Aspiration: 65, 76, 77, 80, 90-92, 106,
224
Auxiliary Reduction: 56
Defooting: 15
Destressing: 92
Diphthong Shortening: 93-95, 108
Final Lengthening: 178
Flapping: 23, 46, 47, 64, 65, 77, 90, 108,
223-226, 228-230, 236-238, 241,
243-247
g-Deletion: 3
Glottalization: 65, 77, 78, 90, 246
Iambic Reversal: 55, 56, 177, 178
Initial Beat Rule: 92
Intrusive-r: 226, 228, 237
/-Devoicing: 93-95, 108
Linking-r: 4, 47, 54, 226-228, 237
Main Stress Rule: 24, 29
Monosyllable Rule: 177, 178
Mutual k-r Assimilation: 93-95, 108
Nasal Assimilation: 28, 29, 70, 108
Obligatory «-Velarization: 93-95, 108
r-Insertion: 228-230, 238, 241, 243, 244,
247
s, z-Palatalization: 150, 157
io-Contraction: 56
v-Deletion: 150
Vowel Deletion: 23
z-Devoicing: 24 , 29
Eskimo (West Greenlandic): 87
Ewe: 32, 180
Finnish
Consonant Gradation: 81, 82, 107
e-Deletion: 107
French: 23, 69, 71, 72, 156, 172, 179, 180,
182
Closed Syllable Adjustment: 106
Enchainement: 70 , 106
Liaison: 4, 31, 32, 41, 70, 72, 106, 179,
180, 240
Gaelic (Applecross)
Nasalization: 97-100, 103
Greek
Classical: 153
Modern: 23, 36, 110, 116, 141, 146, 152,
153, 155, 159, 162, 163, 205, 213, 217,
220
Less-Sonorant Vowel Deletion: 32
Mirror Image Delection: 159
Nasal Assimilation: 35, 36, 110, 111,
113-115, 158
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
Language and Rule Index 323
Nasal Deletion: 114, 115, 157, 158, 163
i-Assimilation: 45
Stop Voicing: 35, 36, 110, 111,
113-115, 158
Stress Readjustment: 146 , 151-155,
157
i-Voicing: 213-216
Unrounded First Vowel Deletion: 32
Hungarian: 23, 122, 136, 141
Palatalization: 123
Vowel Harmony: 122
Igbo
Down-Step: 33
Italian: 23, 38, 54, 60, 67, 68, 72, 122, 124,
127, 133, 134, 136, 141, 143, 144,
147-149, 155, 165, 168, 172, 174,
176-178, 182, 193, 197, 205, 214, 217,
219, 223, 250, 258, 260, 265, 270, 274,
279, 280, 286
Affrication: 30
Final Lengthening: 174, 176, 177, 287
Gorgia Toscana: 24, 42-45, 50-53, 60,
205-211, 213, 219, 220
Intervocalic Spirantization: 45, 50-52, 60,
209-211, 213
Intervocalic s-Voicing: 125-129, 147
Raddoppiamento Sintattico: 32, 38-41,
50, 53, 72, 148, 165-168, 170-175, 180,
186, 270
Specifier Vowel Deletion: 50, 56
Stress Retraction: 55, 56, 60, 174, 175,
177, 186, 286, 292-294
Total Nasal Assimilation: 132, 133, 144
Verb Final Vowel Deletion: 32
Vowel Deletion: 29, 30
Vowel Lengthening: 131, 132
Vowel Raising: 129-131
Italian Dialects
Calabrian
Stress Readjustment: 157
Viozene
Clitic Group Stress: 156
Italian Poetry
Destressing: 293
Inversion: 286, 287, 289, 291, 292, 297
Reduction: 288, 290, 291
Silent Position Insertion: 288, 290, 291
Stress Postposing: 290, 291, 293-295
Japanese: 23, 182, 186.
Reduction: 183.
Star Shift Rule: 183
Tone Assignment: 183
Kimatuumbi: 182
Latin: 23, 110, 115, 116, 141, 146, 160, 161,
163
Clitic Group Stress: 115, 146, 155, 156,
160
Main (Word) Stress Rule: 115, 116, 156,
160, 161
Stress Readjustment: 160
Mongolian (Khalkha): 87, 90
Olgolo: 106
Quechua: 23, 183, 184
Reduction Rule: 184
Word Initial Voicing Assimilation: 183
Sanskrit: 11, 23, 117, 119, 121, 124, 141,
229, 231, 233
a-Deletion: 230
Anusvara of m: 229
Assimilation of m: 229
Final Cluster Reduction: 118
Final Deaspiration: 118
Final Devoicing: 118
Final Voicing: 118, 230
Glide Formation: 229
Obstruent Cluster Voicing Assimilation:
229, 230
r-Deletion: 230
Stop to Nasal: 118, 230
Visarga at Pause: 230
Vowel Contraction: 229
Spanish: 13, 23, 54, 67-70, 72, 73, 76, 107,
146, 205, 212, 214, 217, 220, 229, 231,
234, 236
Aspiration: 75, 76, 79
Final Devoicing: 233
Glide/r Strengthening: 232, 233
Glide Strengthening: 74, 80
Lateral Assimilation: 232
Lateral Depalatalization: 75
Liquid Gliding: 75
Nasal Assimilation: 44, 45, 53, 70, 106,
211-213, 220, 232
Nasal Depalatalization: 75
r- Strengthening (i): 75, 81, 82
r- Strengthening (iii): 75
Spirantization: 232
Velarization: 73-75
Voicing: 232
Voicing Assimilation: 48, 231-234, 236,
244, 247
Turkish: 23, 117, 121, 124, 146
Final Liquid Devoicing: 247
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
324 Language and Rule Index
Main Stress Rule: 119-121
Vowel Harmony: 120, 121, 143, 161
Yidiji: 23, 35, 36, 100, 101, 122, 134-136, 141,
144
Rhotic Dropping: 101
Penultimate Lengthening: 34, 35, 134,
135, 144
Stress Assignment: 35
Zu|'höasi: 101, 102
Brought to you by | provisional account
Unauthenticated | 80.111.119.125
Download Date | 7/31/14 4:30 AM
