Regularity in semantic change
such as agent, experiencer, instrument, location), belief types (modalities), and
communicative situations (speech acts). The types are not rigid categories but
prototypes – family resemblance structures, members of which are more or less
representative of the category (Rosch 1975, Coleman and Kay 1981, Wierzbicka
1985a, Taylor, 1997 [1989]). Being prototype in character in that they are relatively
discrete but not categorically so, distinctions between Ms are gradient rather than
fully determined. This means that what is at the core of a prototype can also change
over time and differ across languages (see Blank 1997, Geeraerts 1997). Such pos-
sible differences in frame structure or prototype must be considered in any analysis
of diachronic or cross-linguistic data in regard to semantics or semantic change.
Linguistic elements of conceptual structure (Ms and rules of combination) are, by
hypothesis, universally available, and are linked to morphosyntactic and phonolog-
ical structure in ways approximately as modeled in Jackendoff (1997). However, Cs
may not be used in all cultures or communities within the same culture with equal
saliency: at a detailed level the frame structures and the links between conceptual
structure, morphosyntactic structure, and phonological structure may differ across
languages and across time. For example, Pederson et al. (1998) show that cross-
linguistically there may be different frames of spatial reference: not exclusively the
relative space based on projections from the human body that are common in En-
glish ( front–back, left–right), but also absolute reference based on ﬁxed bearings
such as north and south.
An individual lexeme L is a language-speciﬁc combination of elements from each
component: a meaningful element M, a morphosyntactic one (S), and a phonological
one (P):
(6) L M
S
P
The M and S elements are thought of not as collections of individual properties
(such as a feature analysis might suggest), but rather as members of frames (see
e.g. Fillmore 1985, Levin 1993, Levin and Rappaport Hovav 1995, and papers in
Lehrer and Kittay 1992). For example, run conceptually involves (pre-theoretically)
an Agent (the mover) and a Path (the trajectory along which the mover moves). Such
conceptual frames can have signiﬁcant syntactic consequences. In the instance of
run, the syntactic consequences include intransitivity and the possibility of overt
expressions of temporal and locational relations (ran yesterday to the store). They
also have more ﬁne-grained consequences in terms of local constructions. On an
abstract level, run and jog are equivalent, but at a more ﬁne-grained one, they are
different; thus running can be competitive whereas jogging is usually not: Mary
8
The framework
ran against Jane, but ?Mary jogged against Jane, or Mary ran a race, but *Mary
jogged a race (Taylor 1996). As a working hypothesis we assume that differences
in syntactic frame reﬂect differences in constructional meaning.
Differences in conceptual frame are of course also found between corresponding
words in different languages, and there may be differences in the frame structure of
a C or M as realized by corresponding families of lexemes in two languages. For
example, run and its Japanese (Jp.) counterpart hasiru are essentially intransitive,
but they can appear with direct objects that express the traversal of a path. While
this pattern in English (Eng.) appears restricted to the completion of a ﬁnite path
or distance, e.g. run a race, run a mile, in Jp. it may be used for partial as well
as complete traversal: miti o hasiru “run (down/along) the street.” Such use is
characteristic of other motion verbs in Jp. as well, e.g. tobu “ﬂy” (sora o tobu,
literally “ﬂy (through/in) the sky”).9
This class of “quasi-transitive” motion verbs
(see Martin 1975: 186–188) provides evidence that the C of MOTION is realized
with a somewhat different frame structure in Eng. and in Jp. (see also Fong 1997 on
differences between Eng. and Finnish). As another working hypothesis, we assume
that differences in syntax reﬂect differences in conceptual frame.
Despite evident similarities to research in frameworks consistent with Construc-
tion Grammar and Cognitive Linguistics, our approach is considerably different in
focus. Some differences are directly related to the fact that our topic is language
change from a discourse perspective. Speciﬁcally, our data are necessarily written
texts, not constructed data (except occasionally to highlight a point). Therefore our
data are instances of language in use, not of linguistic competence abstracted from
context. As we have indicated, our theory thus pertains not only to cognition (men-
tal representations) but also to SP/W and AD/R as dynamic participants. Central
to our view of the dynamic nature of language change are the processes SP/Ws
and AD/Rs bring “on-line” to the act of language use. Though speakers and hearers
draw from paradigmatically organized sets of constructions, lexical items, and other
resources, on-line production and processing make use of essentially syntagmatic
relations and associations. Therefore, invited inferences and metonymic relation-
ships predominate. We will argue that metaphorical, analogical relationships often
provide the background contexts for and often appear as the resulting products of
change, but that they are less important in the process of change than are associa-
tive, metonymic ones. Furthermore, image-schemata such as are central to Cognitive
Linguistic thinking are shown to be only one (relatively small) component of the
conceptual structures on which language-users draw.
9 This class of “quasi-transitive” motion verbs differs from other transitive verbs in Jp. For example,
unlike true transitives, these motion verbs in their transitive uses do not appear in the passive
(*sora ga tobareru “the sky is ﬂown” is not possible).
9
Regularity in semantic change
Although we do not espouse many of the particular theoretical claims and as-
sumptions of Relevance Theory, most particularly not the emphasis on monosemy
and on decoding by addressees, we nevertheless share several of their assumptions.
One is that conceptual meanings (Ms in our sense) have to do with entities, ac-
tivities, attitudes, etc. and, when combined into propositions, may be subject to
truth-conditional interpretation; they are, however, not to be identiﬁed with truth-
conditional meaning (Wilson and Sperber 1993, Sperber and Wilson 1995 [1986]).
For example, in (7):
(7) On the record, I’m happily married; off the record, I’m about to divorce.
(Wilson and Sperber 1993: 19)
on the record and off the record, as “illocutionary” or “stance” adverbials, do not
contribute to the truth-conditions of the sentence, but they do contribute concep-
tual meaning. Otherwise, as Wilson and Sperber point out, the sentence would be
contradictory.
Like Relevance Theorists, we also assume that there is a division of labor among
Ms: some are primarily contentful, others primarily procedural (Blakemore 1987).10
Meanings expressed by nouns, verbs, adjectives, prepositions, and adverbs in some
of their uses are usually of the contentful type. By contrast, procedural meanings
are primarily indexical of SP/W’s attitudes to the discourse and the participants in
it; they index metatextual relations between propositions or between propositions
and the non-linguistic context. They include discourse markers (well, in fact, so in
some of their meanings), various connectives (and, but), and express SP/W’s view
of the way these propositions should be understood to be connected. For example,
so in:
(8) a. So, what’s for lunch?
b. So, our speaker tonight is Bella Johnson.
cannot be analyzed in terms of its contribution to the propositions X is for lunch,
Our speaker tonight is Bella Johnson, but rather encodes the SP/W’s evocation
of some connectivity (in the ﬁrst case to prior expectations that the interlocutor
will have planned a menu, in the second to prior expectations that the speaker
will be introduced). Further, some forms have both contentful and procedural
meaning (Nicolle 1998). They are what Silverstein called “duplex signs” that are
10 Blakemore and, following her, other Relevance Theorists use the term “conceptual” rather than
“contentful”; however, we use the latter term (see Sweetser 1990) because both procedural and
non-procedural language-speciﬁc meanings are representations of more abstract Conceptual
Structures (Cs).
10
The framework
“referential–indexical” (Silverstein 1976a: 24–25), and include most notably deic-
tics such as here, I, come. They also include epistemic modals. Thus may in:
(9) Bella may speak tonight. (= It is possible that Bella will speak tonight.)
contributes to the contentful structure of the utterance (possibility on a scale between
high probability (must) and low probability (might)), but it also indexes subjective
attitude (I think it is possible that Bella will speak tonight). While modals and con-
nectives have long been accepted as elements of grammar, some procedurals like
discourse markers have only recently been included, partly because they have been
perceived to have primarily pragmatic meaning connecting discourses rather than
sentences, and partly because, in some languages like English, they are syntactically
highly variable in position. However, they can link clauses and even phrases, and
clearly not only have syntactic status but are also constrained in terms of sequence.
They are therefore elements of “grammar” in the sense of “linguistic system”
(Fraser 1988: 32). In terms of language use they are at the interface between syntax
and discourse.
Although the line between “semantic representation” and “encyclopedic knowl-
edge of the world” is a very ﬁne one, as a general principle we focus our attention
on meaning changes that are primarily linguistic and that have implications for con-
straints on lexical insertion or grammatical function. Without some independent
evidence such as changes in morphosyntactic distribution, we have no principled
way to demonstrate that a linguistic change has taken place. Changes that are pri-
marily extensional, e.g. depend on material changes in the referent (e.g. Latin carrus
“four-wheeled wagon” > car), will for the most part be ignored.
1.2.2 Polysemy, homonymy, monosemy
Our theory of meaning embraces the hypothesis that families of related
meanings, or polysemies, can, and indeed must, be identiﬁed (see Fillmore 1997
[1971], Brugman 1988, Pustejovsky 1995, to mention only a few). Semantic change
cannot be studied without drawing on a theory of polysemy because of the nature
of change. Every change, at any level in a grammar, involves not “A > B,” i.e.
the simple replacement of one item by another, but rather “A > A ∼ B” and then
sometimes “>B” alone. Older meanings may become restricted in register, and
therefore recessive, and may disappear completely, as did ought in the sense of
“have/owe.” In ME ought (to) was the past tense form of both “have/owe” and of the
obligation modal. Both the “have/owe” and the modal senses were derived (by sound
and meaning change) from Late Old English (LOE) ahte “have,” but the original
meaning of possession was lost. However, despite what is often thought, the loss of
an earlier meaning is relatively rare. What is typical is the accretion of more and
11
Regularity in semantic change
more meanings over time, hence the parenthetical status of the lone survivor B in
the schema:
 
(10)
A
A > (> B)
B
The coexistence of variants has been termed “layering” by Hopper (1991); it is a
psychologicalrealityforindividualSP/Ws,whoacquirevariants,whetherphonolog-
ical, morphological, syntactic, or semantic, and for communities as change spreads.
Older meanings coexist with newer meanings of the same item, as for example, older
and newer meanings of since (the temporal is older, the causal more recent) and
they may inﬂuence each other. As we will see, some polysemies continue to coexist
over several hundreds of years, although their relationship to each other in terms of
saliency may change.
Positing polysemy is often considered problematic. On the one hand there is the
synchronic type of analysis that privileges the notion that one-form:one-meaning
would be ideal. One-form:one-meaning would appear to give optimal results in an
information-based theory of meaning, particularly one in which the work that AD/R
brings to the communicative act is concerned, since it would minimize ambiguity.
However, there is no evidence that SP/Ws actually strive for this ideal in their every-
day use of language (except in the context of various discourses associated with
standardization, such as pedagogy, editorial practices, or the claims of pundits about
language). While the demands of an increasingly technological society favor the
development of rigidly speciﬁed lexical distinctions, for example, among diseases,
legal rulings, or linguistic terminologies, very few, if any, words in ordinary lan-
guage have only one interpretation. Even in academic disciplines there are often
systemic ambiguities. Thus “semantics,” “syntax,” “phonology,” “grammaticaliza-
tion,” “semantic change” refer both to the phenomenon itself as it pertains to a
particular language, and to the putative theory of the phenomenon in the abstract.
Although the adage “Languages avoid unnecessary variation” is often repeated,
some variation seems to be very necessary, most particularly that associated with
multiple meanings.
One approach to coexistent meanings associated with the same form has been to
postulate homonymy. On this view, L is a combination of a single semantic reading
with a single underlying syntactic function and a single phonological shape. Such
an approach was proposed by Katz and Fodor (1963) when they suggested that
bachelor could be treated as at least four homonyms that are conceptually unrelated
despite sameness of form. While most people would agree that the meanings “a man
who has never married,” “a person holding the lowest academic degree,” “young
knight serving under the standard of another knight,” “a young fur seal without
12
The framework
a mate during breeding time,” are synchronically distinct in meaning, they might
have more difﬁculty agreeing with McCawley (1968: 126) that sad is likewise
homonymous in its readings “experiencing sadness, said of a living being,” and
“evoking sadness, said of an aesthetic object.” For one there is a regular relationship
between experiencing and evoking that is also found in the various meanings of
happy, glad, and other adjectives of mental state.
Recently Fraser (1996) has taken the position that the manner adverb and sentence
adverb meanings of lexemes such as candidly should be treated as homonyms (cf.
You should reply candidly (manner adverb) vs. Candidly, you should reply (sentence
adverb with the illocutionary function to speak candidly)). However, an assump-
tion of homonymy obscures patterned meaning relationships that pertain to sets of
adverbs, such as frankly, truthfully, which, among other things, express a way in
which something is done and an assessment of the proposition that follows. Like-
wise in fact, actually express both unexpectedness/adversativity and also elabora-
tion/speciﬁcation/additivity. Furthermore, similar patterns of meaning relationships
between adversativity and some kind of elaboration are found cross-linguistically,
e.g. shi “in fact” (lit. qi “its” + shi “fruit/fact”) in Chinese (Ch.), zitu wa “in fact, as
for the fact(s)” in Japanese (Jp.); see also the discussion of en fait/de fait “in fact”
in French (Fr) (Roulet 1987), infatti/difatto in Italian (Rossari 1994), and especially
si in Spanish (Sp.) (Schwenter 1999).
Where there is a synchronic sense relationship there is usually a historical re-
lationship. Typically it is a relationship of an older meaning and a newer one that
developed out of it in speciﬁc contexts, as in the case of the examples in the pre-
ceding paragraph, and of epistemic meanings arising out of obligation meanings.
However, synchronic convergence of what appear to be historically unrelated mean-
ings can not be ruled out. For example, dictionaries treat lap in the sense of “to
place or lay something so as to overlap another” and lap “take in a liquid with the
tongue” as homonyms. The ﬁrst is from OE lapa “part of outer garment that hangs
down” (OED lap v2
), the second from OE lapian “take in a liquid with the tongue”
(OED lap v1
). Nevertheless, some speakers might well construe them as related.
This is because in the nineteenth century lap “take in a liquid with the tongue” was
extended to mean “wash against with a slapping sound”:
(11) Flinty steps, against which the tide lapped ﬁtfully with small successive
waves.
(1823 Scott xxxvi [OED lap v1
. 4])
Since lapping waves not only involve water and slapping sounds, but also visual
overlap (of wave over wave, or of water over steps in the case of (11)), an area of
related meaning has developed, and for some SP/Ws lap can be considered poly-
semous in English. It is, however, unlikely that such a convergence of homonyms
13
Regularity in semantic change
would occur cross-linguistically; unlike the development of polysemies discussed
here, such convergence of homonyms is highly idiosyncratic and irregular. Another,
even more idiosyncratic, reason for apparent synchronic convergence of historically
unrelated meanings is “folk etymology”: the association of a form the meaning of
which has become obscure with an extant one. For example, hangnail originates
in OE angnægl “painful corn (on foot).” When ang as an independent form was
lost (it was reborrowed, however, as an inseparable one in words like anguish), the
form was reinterpreted as hang- and the meaning associated with a pain typically
in a different part of the body (hand rather than foot), one associated with a piece
of detached skin “hanging” from its normal place.
If plausible meaning-relationships can be shown to hold, most especially if they
pattern across members of similar lexical representations, then they can also be
considered to operate across syntactic classes (Brugman 1984). For example, the
root-epistemic polysemy of insist persists across the verb insist (that X do/that X is)
and the noun insistence. Furthermore, it can operate across phonological splits; an
example is provided by OE an “one” which split into a(n) in its function as article and
one in its function as numeral and pronoun, as in Would you like an apple? No, I don’t
want one. On this view, a lexeme L may have two or more polysemies (M1, M2, . . .
Mn), and, beyond the outputs of regular lexical processes, two or more idiosyncratic
morphosyntactic properties (S1, S2) and (more rarely) phonological forms (P1, P2):
(12) L M1, M2
S1, (S2)
P1, (P2)
It is important for our view of meaning change and of polysemy in particular, that a
meaning M is understood as schematic, and partially underdetermined. It is a stabi-
lized, institutionalized, and prototypical “magnetic center” that can be contextually
interpreted in constrained ways (see Victorri 1997), not a fully determined discrete
entity. Our view of polysemy is therefore consistent with the “weak polymorphic
model” proposed by Pustejovsky (1995) for the lexicon, in which polysemy is part
lexically, part pragmatically determined. We do not, however, embrace his strongly
synchronic formalism here.
In our view homonymy should be postulated only when there is no clear semantic
relation between the meanings of a phonological string, that is, only when there is
whatPustejovsky(1995),followingWeinreich(1964),calls“contrastiveambiguity.”
A methodological problem for the historical linguist is to assess when two polyse-
mous meanings have lost their relationship so as to be associated with two homony-
mous lexemes. This change presumably occurs at different times for different
individuals, but equally presumably it eventually spreads like other changes to a
14
The framework
whole community of speakers. For example well meaning “in a good/proper man-
ner” and well functioning as a discourse marker indicating hesitation, or an attempt
to take a turn, are probably regarded as homonyms by most speakers in contempo-
rary Eng., although they were once historically connected.
In the case of phonology, we know that erstwhile allophones have split when they
no longer become predictable in terms of environments, e.g./f/ and /v/ came to con-
trast word-initially in ME, though they were predictable variants in OE ([v] occurred
in voiced environments). However, there are few things comparable in lexicology
and the surest way to assess homonymy with reasonable accuracy is by tapping
speaker intuitions. For example, still “without motion, quietly” is no longer asso-
ciated with still in its temporal sense of “without interruption,” or in its concessive
sense of “however”; and apprehension “understanding, dread” is no longer asso-
ciated with apprehension in its meaning of seizure (as in border apprehensions).
Absent speakers of a dead stage of a language, there is no sure way to tap such
intuitions. Nevertheless, evidence is not totally unavailable. Sometimes comments
can be found in dictionaries and grammars. There is also negative evidence when a
meaning ceases to be used after some period of time, and (less reliably) restriction
of at least one (often the older) meaning to a very particular register. For example,
humor “that which excites amusement” is no longer associated with humor “body
ﬂuid.” Although the two meanings are still used, they appear in totally different
registers, the second (and older) in a discussion of ancient views of physiology.11
While some contemporary linguists opt for homonymy rather than polysemy even
where regular patterns of meaning relationships exist, others opt for monosemy or
unitary meaning. For example, Kratzer (1977) seeks the “invariable” or “common
kernel” of meaning behind must and can, since the number of meanings of these Ls
is too large to capture (perhaps nonﬁnite). Likewise Groefsema (1995) argues that
a theory of polysemy is too coarse-grained to account for all the synchronic uses of
modals like may, can, must, and should in Present Day English (PDE). Assuming
that polysemy requires discreteness, she also argues that it does not provide a prin-
cipled way to account synchronically for indeterminacy, merger etc. Her view of the
semantic change from obligation to conclusion is partly that they have undergone
“a development from more speciﬁc meanings through implication to more general
meanings” (Groefsema 1995: 59). However, absent a principled account of rela-
tionships between “speciﬁc” and “general” meanings that can constrain the paths
of change in actual use, a monosemous approach of this type underdifferentiates
the recurring patterns that a polysemous approach can highlight.
11 A term that has been suggested for historically related forms that are not or are not necessarily
construed as related by speakers synchronically is “heterosemy” (Lichtenberk 1991). For the
historical linguist this usefully distinguishes between historically related meanings such as those
of still, and homonyms that have never been related, e.g. pear and pair.
15
Regularity in semantic change
On the widely accepted assumption that a theory accounting for both synchrony
and diachrony is optimal (see e.g. Kiparsky 1982 [1968]), if polysemy is needed for
diachrony then it should be for synchrony as well. There is no way to account for
change except by appealing to structures and processes that exist synchronically.
Our view is that polysemy is therefore central to a theory of semantics and semantic
change. It arises out of processes of invited inferencing. How pragmatic inferences
are employed in any situation is a matter of language use, which is discussed in the
next section.
1.2.3 Meaning and use
In thinking about meaning change, and especially about invited infer-
ences arising out of and being exploited in the ﬂow of speech, it is useful to build on
Levinson (1995)12
and distinguish three levels of meaning relevant to a lexeme:13
(i) CODED MEANINGS (SEMANTICS). This is a convention of a language at a given time.
For example, in PDE, in its function as a conjunction introducing ﬁnite clauses,
after is used to mean “at a time later than,” but since has both the meanings “from
the time that” and “because”; in other words since is semantically polysemous,
whereas after is not. Eng. as long as has polysemies “of same length as,” “during
the time that,” “provided that”; by contrast, Fr. tandis que < Lat. tam diu quam “as
long (temporally) as” has polysemies “during the time that,” “although” (see 1.3.2
below); in Late Middle Japanese (LMJ) hodo ni had the meanings “to the (temporal
or quantitative) extent that” and also “because.”
(ii) UTTERANCE-TYPE MEANINGS. These are generalized invited inferences (GIINs).
GIINs are preferred meanings, and conventions of use in language-speciﬁc com-
munities, but may be canceled.14
They are crystallized invited inferences associated
with certain lexemes or constructions that are speciﬁc to a linguistic community,
and can be exploited to imply/insinuate certain meanings, e.g. in their function as
prepositions after and since can give rise to and be used to implicate causality. Thus
After the trip to Minnesota she felt very tired +> “because of the trip she felt very
tired,” Before TV two world wars; after TV zero.15
However, causality is not a coded
meaning of after or since as prepositions, and is easily canceled: After the trip to
12 The proposals in Levinson (1995) are developed in far greater detail in Levinson (2000). We
are grateful to Stephen Levinson for sharing parts of earlier drafts of Levinson (2000) with us;
unfortunately the book came out too late to be discussed here.
13 In doing so, we recognize that the distinction between the three types of meaning outlined below
is not always crystal clear (see e.g. Carston 1995).
14 GIINs are akin to generalized conversational implicatures or GCIs in Levinson’s (1995)
terminology.
15 Billboard seen near San Francisco, August 1998, clearly exploiting the causal implicature, but
staying safely within bounds of commonsense (and legalities of truth in advertising).
16
The framework
Minnesota she felt very tired. It turned out she had been sick for quite some time.
Such utterance-type meanings may be pragmatically ambiguous (see Horn 1985,
Sweetser 1990), but are not semantically ambiguous.
(iii) UTTERANCE-TOKEN MEANINGS. These are invited inferences (IINs) that have not
been crystallized into commonly used implicatures.16
They arise in context “on the
ﬂy.” They may be based in encyclopedic knowledge, or (in a nonce-situation) on the
situation at hand, in which case they are knowledge- or situation-speciﬁc. But they
may also be based in linguistic knowledge, possibly on a universal basis (subject to
particular cultural experiences). Thus it is possible that “at a time later than” may
always invite inferences of causality in any language as an IIN, without taking on
saliency or being generally exploitable as a GIIN. Note this does not mean that all
languages necessarily encode “at a time later than” (though it is probable that they
do so), only that if they do so, then causality may arise as an IIN. This allows us
to recognize that not all linguistic systems may involve the same conceptual struc-
tures, but still to maintain the assumption that if the structures are the same, then the
same invited inferences can arise. Each conceptual frame may presumably be used
to invite inferences of speciﬁc kinds, but this frame will not always be invoked. We
have little solid evidence that IINs differ in different communities, although it is
often surmised that literacy may affect ways of interpreting utterances (and in differ-
ent ways in different communities) (see e.g. Olson 1994). Evidence for differences
would come from cross-linguistic study of contemporary languages, from metalin-
guistic comments by authors from different periods, or from a substantial number of
replicated changes that no currently known pragmatic principles could account for.
Language users internalize a system or grammar. Drawing on various strategies
of production and perception they engage in language use – “activities in which
people do things with language” (Clark 1996: 3). Such activities are in most par-
ticular instances personal and individual, but they are produced and reproduced
within the larger social settings of norms, e.g. of trading transactions, breakfast
conversations, religious or institutional activities such as sermons or court orders,
trials, proclamations, and through letters, dramas, or novels.
Essential in these activities are (at least) a speaker/writer (SP/W) and an ad-
dressee/reader (AD/R) (see 1.2.1). In line with recent work on discourse analysis
(e.g. Duranti and Goodwin 1992, Chafe 1994) we conceptualize the reader as an
active participant who not only reads passively but also actively makes inferences
and may begin to exploit these inferences in a way similar to those of the writer.
Recipients of the written word may interact in overt ways, perhaps by responding
verbally to a version of a sermon read aloud (or perhaps emotionally to a romance).
They always interact covertly, by engaging in processing and interpretation. In any
16 IINs are akin to ad hoc conversational implicatures or CIs in Levinson’s (1995) terminology.
17
Regularity in semantic change
event, their main task in response to SP/W is to determine what is meant, in other
words, to ﬁnd the relevance of what has been said to the situation, including the task
at hand, and perhaps some larger task such as improvement of knowledge structure.
AD/R also exerts inﬂuence on the formulation of the linguistic communication by
SP/W: SP/W can be assumed to take into consideration expectations about AD/R’s
knowledge and linguistic competence, other conventions, and also factors such as
AD/R’s probable degree of attentiveness to the discourse at hand in selecting par-
ticular linguistic forms that will likely achieve the desired communicative effect.
In other words, although writing is sometimes thought to be context-free, non-
interactive, and monologic (see Ong 1982 for discussion of such views), this under-
estimates the communicative task of writing. Writers write for audiences. This is
particularly true of times prior to printing, when few people were literate and many
texts were written down to be read out loud, whether homilies, romances, dramas,
or biblical translations. It is clear that Murasaki Shikibu expected the readers of her
Tale of Genji (c. 1001–10 AC) to be intimately familiar with Heian Japan court life
and its many conventions. It is true, however, that, except in the case of some private
letters, court records, commissioned plays, etc., at least some, if not most, AD/Rs
of a written text are often, even typically, unknown and not co-present with SP/W.
Other participants include audiences of the type for whom the text was not intended.
Although the scribes who wrote down the trials of Throckmorton, More, and others
in the sixteenth century recorded spoken language, like present-day court scribes
they presumably edited what was said, and not only for the judges but for posterity.
We assume that the interactive choreography of writing, like that of speech, is
governed by what Levinson calls a set of principles, heuristics, or “a generative
theory of idiomaticity . . . guiding the choice of the right expression to suggest a
speciﬁc interpretation, and as a corollary, a theory for accounting for preferred
interpretations” (Levinson 1995: 94; italics original). These principles, modiﬁed
here for the context of writing, are related to Grice’s “maxims” (Grice 1989 [1975]),
and Horn’s “principles” (Horn 1984):17
(i) THE Q(UANTITY)-HEURISTIC: “Make your contribution as informative as required, and
imply no more thereby,” “Say/write as much as is needed for the occasion.” This is
approximately Grice’s Quantity1 Maxim, and pairs with “What is not said/written
is not the case.” This strategy is highly relative. What is needed on one occasion
(such as on ﬁrst meeting someone, an introductory class, a text book) may be
totally unnecessary or even inappropriate on another (such as with long-time friends,
an advanced graduate course, a monograph, a letter from an insurance company
regarding a claim).
17 For various approaches to these principles, see Atlas and Levinson (1981), Levinson (1983,
1995), Horn (1984), Blakemore (1987, 1990), Traugott (1989), Traugott and König (1991).
18
The framework
(ii) THE R(ELEVANCE)-HEURISTIC: “Say/write no more than you must, and mean more
thereby.” This is inspired by Grice’s Quantity2 Maxim, combined with his maxim
of Relevance. It has also been called the Principle of Informativeness (Levinson
1983: 146). It leads to rich interpretations. All writing as well as speech is subject
to the R-heuristic. Meaning cannot be constructed without it. For example, readers
have to enrich the relationship between the two sentences preceding this one to
infer the relevance of writing and speech to meaning, and of being subject to Y to
constructing Z. This is not to deny that at certain periods (or in certain communities)
exploitation of the R-heuristic may be more highly valued than at others, nor that
writers of certain kinds of scientiﬁc texts may aim at minimizing the effect of the
R-heuristic, while others, such as poets, may seek to maximize it. The point is that
it is ubiquitous and unavoidable.
(iii) THE M(ANNER)-HEURISTIC: “Avoid prolixity,” or, specially marked, complex ex-
pressions warn “marked situation.” This approximates Grice’s Manner Maxim. In
Levinson’s and Horn’s view, the M-heuristic is relevant only when there are pairs
of lexical items, e.g. house:residence, unnatural:non-natural. Here we extend the
heuristic to pairs that are marked in any kind of special way, whether by register (as
in the case of residence, non-natural ), status as a recognizable borrowed term (bou-
tique, Weltanschauung, sashimi), or constructional periphrasis (e.g. eat up, cross
over). In the case of eat up and cross over these complex predicates are unmarked
with respect to devour, traverse where register is concerned, since the single lexical
items are the more formal (and borrowed), but with respect to eat and cross, eat
up and cross over are aspectually marked. Factors such as this point to the need to
interpret “marked expressions” along a variety of dimensions. What will turn out
to be a marked expression will be very speciﬁc to a language or a community, but
we assume that the effect of markedness, however it is expressed, will be consistent
across these languages and communities.
As will be discussed in more detail in 2.3.5, the Q-heuristic retards change since
it inhibits inferences beyond what is said (it is, however, relevant to change, if
mainly in a negative way, since it is associated with standardization, which tends to
privilege literal meaning, lack of ambiguity, and conservative linguistic practices).
By contrast, the R-heuristic leads to change because it evokes utterance meanings
beyond what is said; in other words, it involves “pragmatic strengthening.” New uses
of old form–meaning pairs often exploit the M-heuristic because they are redundant
in the context, and so signal “marked situation.”
1.2.4 Subjectivity, intersubjectivity, objectivity
Among types of utterance meanings that have come to be of major
importance in recent years are those associated with subjectivity. Subjectivity was
already mentioned in Bréal’s work (1964 [1900]: chapter 25). Elaborated on in
19
Regularity in semantic change
Bühler (1990 [1934]), it was understood to underlie deixis. Subjectivity played a
prominent part in the gengo katei-setu “theory of language as process” of Tokieda
(1941) and subsequent work within the kokugogaku (roughly “traditional Japanese
linguistics”) approach in Japan (see Maynard 1993: chapter 1 for a discussion
in English). However, subjectivity did not become a signiﬁcant topic of research
within the international community of linguists until Benveniste raised the ques-
tion whether “language could still function and be called language” unless it was
deeply “marked . . . by the expression of subjectivity” (1971 [1958]a: 225). Like
Bühler and Jakobson, Benveniste saw the SP/W–AD/R dyad as the condition or
ground for linguistic communication, and characterized this relationship as one of
“intersubjectivity” – in communication each participant is a speaking subject who
is aware of the other participant as speaking subject. Discourse “is language in so
far as it is taken over by the man who is speaking and within the condition of in-
tersubjectivity, which alone makes linguistic communication possible” (Benveniste
1971 [1958]a: 230). SP/Ws constitute themselves as “subject” in saying “I” and
in contrasting themselves with “you.” Linguistic codes allow SP/W to appropriate
form–meaning pairs, not only in the domain of personal pronouns, but throughout
the linguistic system; most particularly this appropriation accounts for the difference
between the “syntactic subject”/“sujet d’énoncé” and the “speaking subject”/“sujet
d’énonciation” (see also Lyons 1982, 1994,18
Langacker 1985, 1990).
Inlanguageusesubjectivity“involvestheexpressionofselfandtherepresentation
of a speaker’s. . . perspective or point of view in discourse – what has been called a
speaker’s imprint” (Finegan 1995: 1). As Stubbs (1986: 1) has said:
whenever speakers (or writers) say anything, they encode their point of view
towards it: whether they think it is a reasonable thing to say, or might be found
to be obvious, irrelevant, impolite, or whatever. The expression of such
attitudes is pervasive in all uses of language. All sentences encode such a
point of view . . . and the description of such markers of point of view and
their meanings should therefore be a central topic for linguistics.
Synchronically, SP/W selects not only the content, but also the expression of that
content – which entity is chosen as syntactic subject, whether topicalization is used,
present or past tense, etc. In the dynamic production of speech or writing, linguistic
material may be used in novel ways to express that subjectivity. Selection from
the grammatical repertoire may be conscious or unconscious. Creative writers and
rhetoricians tend to be highly conscious of their selections, others less so. Choices
are correlated with register (e.g. scientiﬁc writing in this century has been expected
until recently to be maximally “objective”), and with degree of attention to an
18 Thanks to Susan Fitzmaurice for drawing our attention to Lyons (1994).
20
The framework
audience, whether individual or multiple AD/Rs (here the issue is one of “inter-
subjectivity”). In all cases choices are particularly highly correlated with strategic
intent and explicit coding of that intent.
Ifthespeaker’spointofviewispervasive,cantherebespeaker-neutralorobjective
language? “Objective” language has often been associated with active, declarative
assertions in which the speaker’s viewpoint is not explicitly coded. Stereotypically
in rhetorical traditions it has been associated with the passive (where the agent of
scientiﬁc experiment or authorship is demoted into a by-phrase or even effaced, i.e.
is zero). Scientiﬁc writing has come since the seventeenth century to be associated
with nominalizations, passives, and other syntactic devices that “objectivize” the
task of running experiments and interpreting them. An eighteenth century idea was
that “classic” prose is clear, exact, truth-oriented, with an “invisible writer” (Thomas
and Turner 1994). In the logical, philosophical, and computational traditions that
have not only inﬂuenced rhetoric but also underlie much of linguistic work on
semantics, objectivity has been linked to truth and information structure. Choices
along the objective–subjective continuum are also often correlatable with social
role, e.g. positions of authority (Macaulay 1995). In Euro-American traditions,
those who wish to exert or draw attention to their authority tend to do so by use
of “objective” language, whereas those who either are not empowered or who do
not wish to draw attention to their power, tend to use more “subjective” language.
But this is not true in all societies. Rather, representation of the nature and status of
the source of one’s information (hearsay, personal experience, traditional lore), or
epistemological stance may be expected of all speakers. This is especially true when
a language has grammaticalized “evidentials,” or markers of information source,
as in the case of Quechua and many other languages (see e.g. Chafe and Nichols
1986, Mushin 1998).
In his important work on subjectivity, Langacker (e.g. 1985, 1995) has adhered
closely to Benveniste’s original distinction between overt subject of sentence and
covert subject of utterance. Langacker has identiﬁed subjectivity largely with zero
subject or at least “off-stage,” implicit expression of the Speaker–Hearer dyad or
their point of view, and objectivity with explicit, “on-stage” expression of this dyad
(typically as arguments). In this he in part follows not only Benveniste but also
the tradition associated with scientiﬁc writing and classic prose. We will discuss
Langacker’s position in somedetail in 2.3.4.Inthisbook we take a differentapproach
to subjectivity and objectivity (see Traugott 1989, 1995a, 1999a), although we agree
with Langacker that subjectivity and objectivity are matters of linguistic perspective,
on the assumption that experience is largely determined by language (though visual,
aural, and other perceptions play a role too (see e.g. Jackendoff 1997)).
Since our concern in this book is with ways in which language use leads to new
coding of meaning, our prime concern is with subjectivity that explicitly encodes
21
Regularity in semantic change
SP/W’s point of view, for example in deixis, modality, and marking of discourse
strategies. Likewise, for us, intersubjectivity is most usefully thought of in parallel
with subjectivity: as the explicit, coded expression of SP/W’s attention to the image
or “self” of AD/R in a social or an epistemic sense, for example, in honoriﬁcation.
This focus on encoding makes it possible to pose research questions such as the
following (paraphrasing Lyons 1994: 16): do natural languages differ typologically
and over time in their encoding of locutionary subjectivity and intersubjectivity, and
in the kinds of subjectivity and intersubjectivity encoded?
In thinking about subjectivity and intersubjectivity it is important to distinguish
the roles of SP/W and AD/R in the world of the speech event from possible roles
that the same individuals may (and often do) play as referents in the world that
is talked about. Intersubjectivity crucially involves SP/W’s attention to AD/R as
a participant in the speech event, not in the world talked about. Consequently, at
least in English, intersubjectivity is not necessarily a characteristic of all expres-
sions that make reference to the second person. For example, I will take you to
school reveals little if any attention on the part of SP/W toward the image or other
needs of AD/R in that person’s role as an interlocutor in the speech event. Neverthe-
less, the meanings of the ﬁrst and second person pronouns I and you are crucially
grounded in the point of view of the speaker, and so they exhibit subjectivity,
as do all deictics (see Jakobson 1957, Silverstein 1976a, Fillmore 1997 [1971]).
Moreover, in languages with contrasting formal and intimate second person pro-
nouns, e.g. Fr. tu and vous, the image needs of AD/R must be explicitly addressed
in the expression of such propositions, and therefore explicit attention is paid to
intersubjectivity. As is discussed in 4.3.3, in the expression Actually, I will take
you to school the word actually likewise addresses SP/W’s attitude toward AD/R
and has an intersubjective meaning. Subjectivity is a prerequisite to intersubjectiv-
ity, inasmuch as SP/W’s attitude toward AD/R is a function of the perspective of
SP/W.
We consider those expressions most objective that require the fewest inferences
depending on SP/W–AD/R. This means that other things being equal (which they
are often not), the most objective expressions have the following characteristics:19
(i) they are declarative, i.e. minimally marked with regard to modality,
(ii) all participants in an event structure are expressed in surface structure,
(iii) lexical items are minimally concerned with the interlocutors’ perspec-
tive (i.e. minimally deictic),
19 As Brady Clark has pointed out, the exact conditions under which these characteristics apply
may vary according to register. Recipes in English tend to be imperative, in French they tend
to be expressed by inﬁnitives; in both cases the agentive subject is unexpressed, even though,
being indeﬁnite, it is not referentially inferable (it is of course contextually inferable).
22
The framework
(iv) the Q-heuristic predominates, i.e. contexts for meanings are provided
so that interpretation is strongly determined, and what is not said is
implied not to be the case.
On the other hand, the most subjective expressions will have the following char-
acteristics:
(i) overt spatial, and temporal deixis,
(ii) explicit markers of SP/W attitude to what is said, including epistemic
attitude to the proposition,
(iii) explicit markers of SP/W attitude to the relationship between what
precedes and what follows, i.e. to the discourse structure; many aspects
of discourse deixis are included here,
(iv) The R-heuristic predominates.
Intersubjective meanings, by contrast, are “interpersonal” (Halliday and Hasan
1976) and arise directly from the interaction of SP/W with AD/R. In our view
intersubjective meanings crucially involve social deixis (attitude toward status that
speakers impose on ﬁrst person – second person deixis).20
They impact directly on
the self-image or “face” needs of SP/W or AD/R (see Brown and Levinson 1987
[1978], Matsumoto 1988, Ervin-Tripp, Nakamura, and Guo 1995). Therefore the
most intersubjective expressions have the following characteristics:
(i) overt social deixis,
(ii) explicit markers of SP/W attention to AD/R, e.g. hedges, politeness
markers, and honoriﬁc titles,
(iii) the R-heuristic predominates, i.e. what is said implies more is meant.
On this view, certain types of expressions may be explicitly subjective, most
especially explicit illocutionary expressions such as I promise to X, etc. Others may
mask subjectivity by drawing on lexemes associated with “objective” truth, e.g.
sentence adverbs like in fact, though how tenuous this apparent objectivity is will
be discussed in chapter 4. As Halliday (1994 [1985]: 362–363) points out, there is
a fundamental paradox in the expression of certainty: “we only say we are certain
when we are not”; in the “‘games people play’ in the daily round of interpersonal
20 Other uses of the term “intersubjective” usually assume audience interpretation and under-
standing. For example, Schiffrin argues that subjectivity and intersubjectivity “emerge from
an interaction between what an actor does – including actions intended to be perceived and
designed as such and actions not so intended – and an audience’s interpretation of all available
information” (1990a: 142). Nuyts (1998) uses “intersubjectivity” in referring to evidence known
to or accessible to a larger group of people who share the same conclusion as the speaker.
23
Regularity in semantic change
Minimally coded attention
to SP/W–AD/R dyad
Maximally coded attention
to SP/W–AD/R dyad
Objectivity
Q-heuristic R- and M-heuristics
(Inter)subjectivity
Figure 1.1. Correlations between degree of subjectivity and heuristics.
skirmishing,” subjective opinions which in fact are best expressed by e.g. I think,
are concealed behind objective-seeming expressions like surely.21
From the perspective of an information-based, truth-conditional approach to se-
mantics, or an approach assuming one-form:one-meaning, one might ask how it
is possible for one lexeme with multiple polysemies to be explicit. The puzzle di-
minishes, however, when attention is paid to the fact that explicitness is a matter of
context, for an individual polysemy does not occur in a vacuum. Polysemies often
have different distributional properties, and an explicit use will take advantage of
them. One of the striking phenomena that we will come back to again and again in
this book is the extent to which language use is redundant. Explicitness is achieved
through the choice of Ls in speciﬁc syntactic strings, and in speciﬁc linguistic (and
nonlinguistic) contexts.
In sum, in our view, (relative) objectivity vs. (inter)subjectivity is not only a
matter of cognitive stance but a property of language that arises directly out of
the SP/W–AD/R dyad and the rhetorical uses to which they put language in com-
munication. SP/W rhetorical purposes motivate uses of the heuristics discussed
in 1.2.3. Objectivity is associated with the Q-heuristic, (inter)subjectivity with
the R- and M-heuristics. This can be modeled as in ﬁgure 1.1. Like the heuris-
tics, objectivity and (inter)subjectivity are both context-dependent and context-
creating.
This is a synchronic model. We will see that, from a historical perspective, sub-
jectiﬁcation precedes intersubjectiﬁcation.
1.3 Semantic change
In the following chapters we will develop the widely recognized hy-
pothesis that the chief driving force in processes of regular semantic change is prag-
matic: the context-dependency of abstract structural meaning allows for change in
the situations of use, most particularly the speaker’s role in strategizing this dy-
namic use. As pointed out by Bartsch: “semantic change is possible because the
speciﬁc linguistic norms, including semantic norms, are hypothetical norms, subor-
dinated to the highest norms of communication (the pragmatic aspect of change)”
21 Halliday terms this “metaphorical representation” of modality.
24
The framework
(1984:393).Weconsidertheimplicatures/inferencesinquestiontobebothcognitive
(information-related) and communicative/rhetorical (arising out of purposeful ne-
gotiation between speaker and addressee). Although we do not use the cybernetic
feedback model developed by Lewandowska-Tomaszczyk (1985), we agree whole-
heartedly with her claim that meanings have “a starting point in the conventional
given, but in the course of ongoing interaction meaning is negotiated, i.e. jointly
and collaboratively constructed . . . This is the setting of semantic variability and
change” (Lewandowska-Tomaszczyk 1985: 300).
Semantic change is typically thought of in terms of three research questions (see
Geeraerts 1997):
(i) Given the form–meaning pair L (lexeme) what changes did meaning
M of L undergo?
(ii) Given a conceptual structure C, or meaning M, what lexemes can it be
expressed by?
(iii) Given C, what paths of semantic change can be found to or from other
Cs?
Work on Question (i) is known as semasiology. In the semasiological approach,
form (morphosyntactic and morphophonological properties) is typically kept con-
stant (though it can be subject to phonological changes). The focus is on the de-
velopment of polysemies (or, where relevant, splits into homonymies), e.g. as long
as “equal in length” > “equal in time” > “provided that”; even “evenly” > “un-
expected member of set of alternatives” (the focus particle use as in Even Saman-
tha has left); or sanction “approve, authorize” > “impose penalty”). This can be
schematically represented as in (13), where “Form” is a cover term for syntax and
phonology:
(13) L L
Form
M1
Form
M1 + M2
>
Semasiology is the approach that will be the prime focus of the present book, but
always within the context of the other two questions.
Work on Question (ii) is known as onomasiology. The focus is on the devel-
opment or restructuring of coded representations of a particular domain such as
COLOR, INTELLECT, or CONDITIONAL. For example, in OE CONDITIONAL
was expressed by Ls such as gif “if”; butan “unless,” nym e “unless.” In PDE
it is represented by if, when, as long as, suppose, provided that, unless, etc. Changes
in representation of C between time 1 (t1) and time 2 (t2) can be schematically rep-
resented as:
25
Regularity in semantic change
(14) C C
 
(L1, L2) t1 > (L1, L2, L3) t2
The schema in (14) highlights recruitment of new lexemes to represent C; there are
therefore more Ls at t2 than at t1. Of course, L1 or L2 may eventually be lost, in
which case there may be fewer or the same number of Ls at tn. A major example
of the onomasiological approach to semantic change is provided by Buck’s (1949)
dictionary of Indo-European synonyms, which organizes the material according
to such conceptual categories as “mankind: sex, age, family relationship, parts of
the body, food and drink, clothing, motion, possession, quantity and number, time,
sense perception, emotion, mind, thought, religion.”
Answers to Questions (i) and (ii) inform work on Question (iii), which concerns
detectable regularities of change across abstract conceptual structures, as evidenced
by particular semasiological changes. Here the focus is on the growing evidence for
unidirectional relationships in semantic structure such as TEMPORAL > CONDI-
TIONAL (but not vice versa), TEMPORAL > CONCESSIVE (but not vice versa),
DEONTIC > EPISTEMIC (but not vice versa), and at a more global level from con-
tent meanings based in event-structure to procedural meanings based in discourse.
The resulting synchronic implicational relationship is of the type “if a term is con-
cessive it may have derived from a temporal” (e.g. while, however [note the ever
here]), or, in a stronger version, “if L has temporal and concessive polysemies, then
the concessive is with strong probability derived from the temporal” (see 2.2.3).
This can be represented as in (15):22
(15) C2 ⊃ C1
A word of caution is always necessary when speaking of change in language, or
a component of language such as semantics. Despite terms like “language change”
or locutions like TEMPORAL > CONDITIONAL, or must “be obligated to” >
“I conclude that,” it is important to recall that natural language does not exist
without language-users. The abstract systems that language-users draw on when
they do things with language largely23
differ from speaker to speaker because of
the discontinuity of persons and of acquisition. One abstract subsystem may be
expanded by links to others, and may eventually be replaced – here as always, the
phenomenon of coexistent variation schematized in (10) in 1.2.2 is at work: new
22 Note the implicational ⊃ is meant to be understood only in the non-deterministic, violable sense
“if B then probably A.”
23 “Largely” because there are presumably some aspects of language structure that are universal,
such as the existence of Ns and Vs and of hierarchic syntactic structure. We regard most aspects
of language structure as language-speciﬁc, however.
26
The framework
structures coexist with older ones, and old ones need not disappear. Most especially,
one set of links between form and meaning may be expanded by additional links,
with old links only occasionally disappearing. Aggregates of differences among
systems give us the impression over time of continuous change, but this continuity
is only apparent. Therefore, strictly speaking, we should not say that root modals
“become” epistemic, or that the individual lexeme must “becomes” epistemic must;
rather we should say that over time speakers come to use must to express epistemic as
well as root modal concepts. We will, however, use the usual shorthand expressions
of “become” and “change” as a convenience.
1.3.1 Mechanisms of semantic change: metaphorization,
metonymization
Two major mechanisms of change are usually recognized in mor-
phosyntactic and phonological change: reanalysis and analogy.24
A third mech-
anism, borrowing, will not be discussed. For most of this century, reanalysis
has been considered the major factor in morphosyntactic change (Meillet 1958
[1912], Langacker 1977, Lightfoot 1979, 1991, Harris and Campbell 1995; but see
Tabor 1994a, Haspelmath 1998). Meillet regarded it as the only locus of innova-
tive grammatical change (“grammaticalization”); Lightfoot (1979) conceptualized
it as the only locus of “catastrophic” syntactic change, i.e. change that can have
potentially radical consequences for a linguistic system (his paradigm example
is the development of syntactic auxiliaries in English). Nevertheless, understand-
ing of the extremely local nature of reanalysis has grown, and analogy/extension
have been recognized as holding promise for interesting generalizations. Accord-
ingly, there has been increasing interest in the role of analogy (e.g. Kiparsky 1992,
Vincent 1994) and in the question of whether a fundamental distinction can actually
be made between analogy and reanalysis (e.g. Tabor 1994a).
Likewise in semantic change, two mechanisms are usually recognized, metaphor
and metonymy. For example, Nerlich and Clarke have argued that “[t]he trick of
being innovative and at the same time understandable is to use words in a novel
way the meaning of which is self-evident” (a semasiological claim) and that in
essence “there are only two main ways of going about that: using words for the near
neighbours of the things you mean (metonymy) or using words for the look-alikes
(resemblars) of what you mean (metaphor)” (Nerlich and Clarke 1992: 137). To
avoid confusion between the synchronic, static view of these two terms and the
view of their processual function as mechanisms, we will refer to them in their
dynamic dimension as metaphorization and metonymization. As in the case of
24 Analogy is reconceptualized and redeﬁned as “extension” by Harris and Campbell (1995). Theirs
is a study of syntactic change, and the differences in focus will not concern us here.
27
Regularity in semantic change
analogy and reanalysis, the relative importance of these mechanisms has been dif-
ferently construed over time. For most of the twentieth century metaphor(ization)
was considered the major factor in semantic change. Metaphorization is primarily
an analogical principle, and involves conceptualizing one element of a conceptual
structure Ca in terms of an element of another conceptual structure Cb. Since it op-
erates “between domains” (Sweetser 1990: 19; italics original), processes said to be
motivated by metaphorization are conceptualized primarily in terms of comparison
and of “sources” and “targets” in different (and discontinuous) conceptual domains,
though constrained by paradigmatic relationships of sames and differences. Thus
it is possible to conceptualize the development of temporal while “during the time
that” > concessive while “although,” or grasp “seize” > “understand” in terms of
a projection or leap across domains. One question, however, is what is meant by
“domain” (for an insightful critique, see Croft 1993, Barcelona 2000a, Kövecses
2000). The term is used in a variety of senses. For example, in Sweetser’s book,
as in this one, semantics, syntax, phonology are considered large-scale domains
of linguistic organization and of study; so are large-scale categories like modality,
performativity; likewise so are the domains that “model our understanding of the
social and physical world,” of the “world of reasoning,” and of the act of describing
the world (“speech acting”) (Sweetser 1990: 21). But the term is also often used
for irreducible “primitive representational ﬁeld[s]” (Langacker 1987/91: chapter 4)
like space, time, deontic modality, epistemic modality, concession. If irreducible
primitives of this type are called “domains,” as they often are in work on metaphor,
e.g. Lakoff (1987), Heine, Claudi, and Hünnemeyer (1991), then the question of
how large a leap has to be to count as a metaphor becomes a major issue. We will be
using the term “conceptual structures” for such large-scale domains in an attempt
not to prejudge what is in “different domains” (allowing for metaphorization) or the
“same domain” (allowing for metonymy).
By contrast, metonym(ization) has until recently usually been considered the poor
relation of metaphor(ization). Traditional examples tend to be limited to phenomena
such as contiguity or association of an overtly accessible sort, e.g. part–whole,
cause–effect (Gibbs 1993), often in physical space, e.g. cheek “jaw bone” > “ﬂeshy
part above jaw-bone”; part for whole, e.g. keel for ship (part–whole synecdoche);
and ellipsis, e.g. a Hockney, for a painting by Hockney, Fr. Place de Grève “square
where strikers met” > grève “strike.” On the basis of such examples, Ullmann said
that metonymy is “less interesting than metaphor since it does not discover new
relations but arises between words already related to each other” (Ullmann 1964:
218). Nevertheless, he recognized metonymy as “an important factor in semantic
change” (loc. cit.).
But metonym(ization) should also be understood as a conceptual phenomenon
(see e.g. Hopper and Traugott 1993: 80–81). Given this perspective, the
28
The framework
fundamental importance of metonymy has recently come to be appreciated (see
e.g. Barcelona 2000a), and hypothesized to be “probably even more basic to lan-
guage and cognition” than metaphor (Barcelona 2000b: 4). Stern had already seen
this in the early part of the twentieth century when he wrote of “permutation” and
“adequation” (both kinds of metonymy; see 2.2.2) as involving “the subjective ap-
prehensionofthereferent”(Stern1968[1931]:350).Forexample,hewroteoftheas-
sociation of mental state with its object or cause, e.g. concern (n.) “interest (in some
matter)” > “(the) matter that concerns” (ibid. p. 376). And focusing on the “syntac-
tical” nature of linguistic metonymization, Kurylowicz regarded it as “the funda-
mental and overall phenomenon” (1975: 92). Construed as a conceptual mechanism
by which invited inferences in the associative, continuous stream of speech/writing
come to be semanticized over time, metonymization provides as rich an explanation
as metaphorization for semantic change, and in many cases a richer one (Traugott
1988, Traugott and König 1991). Consider the relationship of part to whole. In se-
mantic change, it has often been noted that a term for a part will become a term for
a whole, but not vice versa, e.g. FINGERNAIL > FINGER > HAND in Australian
aboriginal languages. This can be seen as enabled by the unidirectionality of en-
tailments in part–whole relationships: “‘part’, by deﬁnition, entails some idea of
‘whole’,buta‘whole’entailsnonotionof‘part’”(Wilkins1996:275–282).Notonly
strong entailments, but also weaker, defeasible implicatures can enable change. The
motivation is the R-heuristic “Say no more than you must, and mean more thereby.”
Or consider concessive while; this can be seen to arise out of association of surprise
(special, marked effect) at the explicit marking of two events as taking place at
the same time (the motivation is not only the R-Heuristic but also the M-heuristic:
“complex expression warns ‘marked’ situation”).
Neither conceptual metaphorization nor conceptual metonymization in princi-
ple excludes the other: easily comprehended metaphors are consistent with typical
associations; both exploit pragmatic meaning; both enrich meaning. Indeed, we
agree with the claim that the target and/or the source of a potential metaphor “must
be understood or perspectivized metonymically for the metaphor to be possible”
(Barcelona 2000b: 31; italics original). Since the prime focus of this book in regard
toprocessesofchangeisonIITSCandinvitedinferences,itisalsoonthemechanism
ofconceptualanddiscursivemetonymizationanditsroleinsemanticchange.Invited
inferencing arises out of implicatures that are regularly associated with linguistic
material in syntagmatic space, together with the operation of the R- and M-heuristics
on underspeciﬁed linguistic material that give saliency to speciﬁc aspects of reason-
ing and rhetorical strategizing in particular contexts. Metaphorization is regarded
as not only a constraint on but also often the outcome of metonymic change.
We take the position that the notion of conceptual metonymy needs to be ex-
panded to account for subjectiﬁcation and intersubjectiﬁcation. Both are ultimately
29
Regularity in semantic change
DEMONSTRATIVES IDENTITIVES
"1" "2" "3"
CL HIC
VL ISTE
ISTE
IPSE
IPSE
ILLE
ILLE IS
anaphoric "self" "same"
IDEM
∗MET-IPS-IMUM
Figure 1.2. Shift in demonstratives from Classical to Vulgar Latin (Harris 1978:
69).
dependent on the SP/W – AD/R dyad, and by hypothesis derive from the mechanism
of metonymic inferencing combined with rhetorical strategizing in the context of
the speech event.
As we saw in 1.2.4, subjectivity is ubiquitous in language synchronically. Subjec-
tiﬁcation is the semasiological process whereby SP/Ws come over time to develop
meanings for Ls that encode or externalize their perspectives and attitudes as con-
strained by the communicative world of the speech event, rather than by the so-called
“real-world” characteristics of the event or situation referred to.25
Subjectiﬁcation
is very wide-spread, indeed the most pervasive type of semantic change identiﬁed
to date. Although there is brief mention of it in Bréal (1964 [1900]), subjectiﬁcation
is a relatively new concept in studies of semantic change (see e.g. Traugott 1982,26
1989, 1995a, Langacker 1990, and papers in Stein and Wright 1995).
A striking example of subjectiﬁcation is the shift in demonstrative pronouns that
occurred in Vulgar Latin. In Classical Latin, there was a set of demonstratives: hic
“this near me; close to ﬁrst person,” iste “that near you; close to second person,”
ille “that of some other person; close to third person.” There was also a set of
identitives: ipse “self,” idem “same.” In Vulgar Latin forms in this system shifted in
the direction of the speaker’s deixis; the result was that ﬁrst person demonstrative
was now expressed by iste (formerly the second person demonstrative), the second
person demonstrative by ipse (formerly the identitive “self”), and “self” by *met-
ips-imum, the “self” identity marker ipse reinforced by met (emphasizing identity,
cf. “personally”) and -imum (the superlative). Harris (1978: 69) represents the shift
as in ﬁgure 1.2.
25 Contrast Langacker (1990, 1999), who identiﬁes subjectiﬁcation with attenuation of the subject;
cf. comments on his views on subjectivity in 1.2.4 above.
26 The term “subjectiﬁcation” is not used in Traugott (1982), but the “expressive” tendency of
semantic change identiﬁed there is roughly equivalent to subjectiﬁcation as deﬁned here.
30
The framework
Other examples of subjectiﬁcation include the development of discourse marker
uses of adverbs such as after all, performative uses of locutionary verbs such as
promise, recognize (ultimately derived from spatial and mental terms respectively),
and a variety of other developments of progressively less truth-conditional and less-
referential meanings that have been called cases of “pragmaticalization” (Aijmer
1996) and, in the case of the development of conversational routines, “discursiza-
tion” (Arnovick 1994). Subjectiﬁcation draws on cognitive principles but takes
place in the context of communication and rhetorical strategizing. It falls directly
out of SP/W–AD/R interactions, and the competing motivations of speakers to be
informative and of addressees to construe invited inferences. In particular, it is
the metonymically based process by which SP/Ws recruit meanings that function
to convey information to do the work of communication: to express and to regu-
late beliefs, attitudes, etc. It therefore inevitably involves intersubjectivity to some
degree.
In instances where meanings come explicitly to index and acknowledge SP/W’s
attitude toward AD/R in the here and now of the speech event, intersubjectiﬁca-
tion can be said to take place, for example, when non-honoriﬁcs are recruited to
serve honoriﬁc uses. Intersubjectiﬁcation, therefore, is a change which results in the
development of meanings that explicitly reveal recipient design: the designing of
utterances for an intended audience (Clark and Carlson 1982) at the discourse level.
Note there cannot be intersubjectiﬁcation without some degree of subjectiﬁcation
because it is SP/W who designs the utterance and who recruits the meaning for
social deictic purposes. It is part of the same metonymically based mechanism of
recruiting meanings to express and regulate beliefs, attitudes, etc. as subjectiﬁcation,
and can be regarded as a special subtype of the latter.
There has been a tendency, especially in pedagogical circles, to associate explic-
itness with objectivity. One of the key points in any kind of writing instruction is the
importance of being able to make reference clear (e.g. “You (writer) may have the
reference clear in your head, but the reader may not be able to access it”). Instruc-
tion to be explicit includes providing unique referents, restricting indeterminacies
of lexical meaning, and restricting connotative meaning, especially negative ones
such as tend to be found in “four-letter” words and swear words, slang, etc. Such
instruction is usually accompanied by exhortations to be scientiﬁcally objective. It
is therefore not surprising that the suggestion has been made that subjectiﬁcation
deﬁned as preemption of old meanings to encode and externalize speaker subjec-
tivity is really objectiﬁcation (e.g. Diewald 1993, Keller 1995). However, if, as
suggested in 1.2.3, objectivity has to do primarily with literal and truth-conditional
meaning, and (inter)subjectivity with procedural meanings that make features of
the discourse situation manifest, then subjectiﬁcation and intersubjectiﬁcation are
clearly distinct from objectiﬁcation.
31
Regularity in semantic change
Subjectiﬁcation and intersubjectiﬁcation are typical of “internal” change in the
sensethattheyarenaturalchanges.Bycontrastobjectiﬁcationissporadicandlargely
irregular since it is the highly conscious and deliberately interventive sort of change
that comes about when ordinary words are preempted for speciﬁc purposes; in other
words, it is an “external” kind of change. Therefore, although it is a mechanism
of change, it is considered a minor one from the perspective of this book, much
as borrowing is. An extreme example of “objectiﬁcation” is when lawyers seek
to constrain interpretations of words. Another is the development of “technical
jargon,” which involves the stipulative deﬁnition of terms by professionals, who
seek to construct meanings in ways as immune as possible to personal interpretation.
So, for example, when terms like “competence,” “performance,” “common ground,”
“subjectivity,” or “objectivity” are redeﬁned for purposes of linguistic discourse,
objectiﬁcation occurs. Even though the deﬁnitions are the products of individuals
and therefore reﬂect the beliefs of those who construct the deﬁnition, the purpose of
the deﬁnition is to establish a shared, public meaning that can be replicated and used
in analytic discourse (scientists often avoid the problem by inventing new words
made up of fragments of Latin or Greek), not to make explicit the SP/W’s attitude to
what is being said. Sometimes the practice of redeﬁnition or of coining new terms is
accompanied by a certain amount of linguistic play which may give it the appearance
of being less objective, but nevertheless a deﬁnite technical meaning is the aim, at
least when the term is ﬁrst used, e.g. “virtual reality,” MOOs, MUDDs, etc. All these
are cases of “external,” “non-natural” change, not of “internal,” “natural” change,
which is the central concern of historical linguistics.
Since words are used by people in contexts, redeﬁnitions of the kind mentioned
above are of course subject to change and may readily undergo de-objectiﬁcation
as the words spread to the market-place of non-technical discourse. For example,
current use of paradigm in general contexts to mean “major (epochal) new model or
approach” (e.g. calling the availability of shopping on the internet a paradigm shift
in shopping) reﬂects popularization of a technical use from Kuhn (1996 [1962]); see
also schizophrenia (Nunberg 1979). Although the public may think that the purpose
of a dictionary is or should be to “ﬁx the language” (“objectivize” it), dictionaries
can do no such thing, as has been recognized at least from Dr. Johnson’s time on.
They reﬂect the language of the time (sometimes with its history, see especially the
OED) and the biases of the compilers. They include not only denotations but also
connotations, in other words the subjectiﬁcations that have come to be fairly wide-
spread. Good dictionaries also include extensive material on the contextualization
of language.
As characterized here, subjectiﬁcation (and intersubjectiﬁcation) results in sema-
siological phenomena, i.e. it brings about meaning changes in speciﬁc lexical items
and constructions. The claim that meaning change is subject to a very powerful
32
The framework
and wide-spread tendency on SP/Ws’ parts to employ the metonymically based
mechanism of subjectiﬁcation is a claim about the probable history of particular
lexemes and constructions. It in no way denies or contradicts the fact that certain
large-scale social factors may serve as counterforces. The development of literacy
and especially of grammars and dictionaries without question has an objectifying
effect on language and language practices. The stylistic choices SP/Ws make either
personally or collectively at certain points in history are highly subject to cultural
attitude changes; at one point in history an “objective” style may be more highly
valued, at another a less objective one, e.g. in the seventeenth century scientiﬁc
writing underwent a radical shift to a style that demoted the agent of research (and
hence interpretation) in favor of “objectivity” as associated with nominalization,
passive constructions, and a minimally subjective lexicon (Halliday 1990 (cited in
Olson 1994), Thomas and Turner 1994).27
In a very interesting article Adamson
(1995) has discussed the rise of Free Indirect Style. This is the style that represents a
consciousness ﬁltered through the perspective of the narrator; its prototype involves
third person, past tense, but proximal deictics now and here, as well as idiomatic
speech and exclamations, and modals which report the character’s rather than the
narrator’s conjecture (Banﬁeld 1973, Fludernik 1993), as in:
(16) The sound of wheels while Mrs. Glegg was speaking was an interruption
highly welcome to Mrs. Tuliver, who hastened out to receive sister Pullet –
it must be sister Pullet, because the sound was that of a four-wheel.
(1860 Eliot I, vi [Fludernik 1993: 188])
Here the whole section in italics represents what Mrs. Tuliver, not the reporting
narrator, concluded. Free Indirect Style in English is often associated with the de-
velopment of subjectivity in the late nineteenth century novel, climaxing in Virginia
Woolf’s writing. But Adamson argues that it originated in I-was-now representa-
tions of experiential memory as developed in Puritan literature such as Bunyan’s.
Here interest in the individual self, and in memory of the past “self” as “unre-
generate, and of value solely for its exempliﬁcation of what it is like to be in a
state of sin” became paramount (Adamson 1995: 208). Adamson suggests that the
later shift to third person in Free Indirect Style was a case of objectiﬁcation and a
counterexample to Traugott’s hypothesis of subjectiﬁcation. However, this is in an
area of style and large-scale preferences for certain modes of representation, not of
Ls and their development. Like changes in social practices concerning politeness,
such style shifts are outside the purview of IITSC.
27 Note that objectivity in this sense is not identical with our deﬁnition of it in 1.2.4; in scientiﬁc
writing demotion of the agent (the investigator and author) is favored, whereas in our view of
objectivity maximally objective language gives overt expression to all participant roles in an
event structure.
33
Regularity in semantic change
Likewise, when massive borrowings or word coinages occur, especially borrow-
ings designed to serve the needs of a vernacular language newly validated for use
as the vehicle of law or education, of a new technology, or, in the case of medieval
feudalism, a new sociopolitical organization, such borrowings and coinages are
likely to be used at ﬁrst in their most objective meaning (Marchello-Nizia Forth-
coming). Over time, however, such new coinages are, we predict, likely to undergo
subjectiﬁcation (possibly including intersubjectiﬁcation).
1.3.2 The Invited Inferencing Theory of Semantic Change model
of semantic change
To summarize discussion so far, we assume that at a particular moment
in time t1 the meaning M of a lexeme L is linked to a conceptual structure C.
This relationship can be expressed as (ignoring morphosyntactic and phonological
Form):
(17) L → M

C
At t1 SP/W, whether child or adult, has acquired a grammar (i.e. a linguistic system)
and pragmatic heuristics such as the R-, M-, and Q-heuristics. SP/W and AD/R have
available to them both as individuals and as members of the community metaphors,
metonymies, and (inter)subjectivities; these provide cognitive constraints on the
innovation and therefore actuation of new meanings. They are what Nerlich and
Clarke have called “the micro-dynamics of semantic innovation, that is the syn-
chronic process of the actual speech activity, which give rise to constant variation
. . . strategies and procedures of semantic innovation, related to communicative–
expressive need” (Nerlich and Clarke 1992: 127). In the on-line production of lan-
guage SP/Ws use mechanisms such as metaphorization, metonymization (including
invited inferencing, subjectiﬁcation, intersubjectiﬁcation), and objectiﬁcation in the
context of spoken and written discourses.
SP/W may innovate a metaphoric use of a lexeme in an utterance-token. Creative
writers in particular do this. The new use is an instantaneous development for
SP/W; it may or may not be gradual for that individual across the speech style
and genres he or she uses. Often such uses do not spread to other speakers, but
sometimes they do. In such cases the spread across the community may be gradual,
but for each individual acquiring the new meaning the change is instantaneous.
Most readers will probably recognize their own experiences along these lines with
the (metaphorical and playful) innovation “the millennium-bug,” coined to refer to
the anticipated problem that some computers might not have been able to handle
34
The framework
the date change to the year 2000. Alternatively, SP/W may begin ad hoc to exploit a
conversational implicature (IIN) that already exists and may even use it innovatively
in a new linguistic environment. Such uses may be considered personal features of
style and are unlikely to survive and play any part in a particular change unless
they come to be endowed with symbolic value. If they do acquire social value and
therefore become salient in a community they are likely to spread to other linguistic
contexts and to other SP/Ws, in other words, they become GIINs with strengthened
pragmatic impact. They are considered GIINs so long as the original coded meaning
is dominant or at least equally accessible, but when that original meaning becomes
merely a trace in certain contexts, or disappears, then the GIIN can be considered
to have become semanticized as a new polysemy or coded meaning: a “macro-
dynamic” change (Nerlich and Clarke 1992) has occurred.28
Again, semanticization
of a new polysemy is instantaneous for the individual, but may spread slowly to other
speakers.
Different pragmatic meanings can become salient in different communities. Such
differences may depend on the context in which the new meanings are primarily
exploited. For example, Jurafsky (1996) notes that FEMALE may lead in some cases
to augmentative semantics, sometimes diminutive. He shows that these apparently
contradictorydevelopmentscanbequitenaturallyaccountedforintermsofdifferent
conceptual structures. MOTHER, when associated with origins and contrasted with
CHILD, may lead to “large, important.” But WOMAN, perceived as smaller and
less powerful than MAN, may lead to “small, unimportant.” Note here both the
linguistic context (opposition sets) and the social, evaluative contexts are different
in each case.
The prime objective of IITSC is to account for the conventionalizing of pragmatic
meanings and their reanalysis as semantic meanings. Differently put, historically
there is a path from coded meanings to utterance-token meanings (IINs) to utterance-
type, pragmatically polysemous meanings (GIINs) to new semantically polysemous
(coded) meanings. This is a view of change foreshadowed by some brief and often
hesitant statements made in the early 1970s such as “it is probably a fact that, in the
course of time, inferences do become references” (Bolinger 1971: 522; see also Geis
and Zwicky 1971, Grice 1989 [1975], Levinson 1979; for more details see 2.3.2).
But none of the authors involved did a detailed historical study to provide empirical
evidence for the hypothesis. As has been widely discussed, change does not originate
within language (grammars do not change by themselves), but in language use, i.e.
28 The distinction between individual “micro-dynamic” and communal “macro-dynamic” change
is similar to that between “innovation” (which occurs in the individual and may not spread
to others) and “change,” which involves spread across speakers, communities, and registers
(Weinreich, Labov, and Herzog 1968, Milroy 1993).
35
Regularity in semantic change
in factors external to language structure. It is not possible to predict precisely under
what circumstances and when a change will take place in historical linguistics (Lass
1980, 1997). But nevertheless there are very strong tendencies that are replicated
at the macro-level from language to language and period to period, which suggests
certain commonalities of production and perception. Once actuated or initiated,
they spread through a community, again in replicable ways, that ultimately lead to
cumulative effects and adoption by a community.29
As a concrete example, consider the development of as/so long as in English. In
OE and ME the spatial meaning as in (18) already coexisted with the temporal “for
the same length of time as” in (19) (presumably derived in earlier Germanic from
the spatial meaning).
(18) a het Ælfred cyng timbran lang scipu ongen a
then ordered Alfred king build-INF long ships against those
æscas; a wæron fulneah tu swa lange swa a o ru.
warships they were nearly twice as long as the others
“then King Alfred ordered long ships to be built to battle the warships; they
were almost twice as long as the other ships.”
(850–950 ChronA, p. 90)
(19) wring urh linenne cla on æt eage swa lange swa
wring through linen cloth on that eye as long as
him earf sy.
him need be-SUBJUNCT
“squeeze (the medication) through a linen cloth onto the eye as long as he
needs.”
(850–950 Lacnunga, p. 100)
In (19) temporal coextension of administering the medicine with need for the
medicine invites the inference of conditional “provided that.” This is because the
main clause is imperative, part of a set of procedures to be followed in imagi-
nary situations; in such imaginary situations, the need is construed as contingent
and temporary (signaled by the subjunctive). There is even an IIN of “conditional
perfection” (the “if and only if” relationship, cf. Geis and Zwicky 1971, van der
Auwera 1997), which derives from the projected temporariness of the need together
29 Keller (1994) borrows the “invisible hand” metaphor from the eighteenth century philosopher
of economics, Adam Smith, to account for the cumulative consequences at the macro-level of
individual acts on the micro-level, particularly those performed without human design. A much-
cited example is that of a path that gets cut across grass, the result of people making short-cuts
to save time, not with the intention of making a path. On our view, such cumulative acts at
the micro-level of language use may or may not be intentional. They include the exploitation
by SP/Ws of invited inferences and the interpretation of them as salient by AD/Rs; they also
include SP/Ws’ preemption of meaning to their own perspective (subjectiﬁcation).
36
The framework
with the generic distributive aspect (“on all occasions that”). Texts in OE and ME
exemplify the use of as/so long as primarily with verbs of existence (be), living and
other event structures that are construed as temporary. Here the conditional reading
is available if the temporal clause refers to the future, or is generic, but never seems
particularly salient. All examples allow a reading of the type “for the length of time
that . . . /until X no longer Y,” e.g. for (19) “squeeze the medication on the eye for
the length of time that he needs it/until he no longer needs it.”
In Early Modern English (EMdE), however, examples begin to occur in which
the conditional IIN has been generalized to contexts in which the conditional is
more salient, i.e. the temporal meaning, though present, is not predominant. The
contexts have been extended to event structures involving patterns of reasoning and
cognition that are unlikely to change. However, the context suggests that a change
is not only possible but would be highly valued, as in:
(20) They whose words doe most shew forth their wise vnderstanding, and whose
lips doe vtter the purest knowledge, so as long as they vnderstand and speake
as men, are they not faine sundry waies to excuse themselues?
(1614 Hooker, p. 5)
At this stage we can say the conditional reading has become a GIIN of temporal
as/so long as. But the temporal is still available ((20) could mean “for the length of
time that they understand and speak as men,” i.e. “as long as they live”).
By the mid-nineteenth century we ﬁnd examples where the conditional appears
to be the only possible meaning. The GIIN has been semanticized as a conditional
polysemy of temporal as/so long as:
(21) a. “Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?”
“That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,” said the Cat.
“I don’t much care where – ” said Alice.
“Then it doesn’t matter which way you go,” said the Cat.
“ – so long as I get somewhere,” Alice added as an explanation.
(1865 Carroll, chapter 6, p. 51)
b. Galligan told the jury that it is proper for police to question a juvenile
without a parent present as long as they made a “reasonable effort” to
notify the parent.
(1990 Aug. 9, United Press Intl.)
Particularly interesting is the fact that there appear to be no examples in which
an as/so long as clause in Eng. has been saliently associated with an implicature
that it is:
(i) presupposed true,
(ii) adversative; i.e. concessive (meaning although).
37
Regularity in semantic change
By contrast, Fr. tandis que: “aussi longtemps que” > “pendant que” is attested with
the GIIN of concessivity from about 1623 (“au lieu que” according to Wartburg
1928–66; “opposition dans la simultanéité” according to Robert 1993). In Late
Middle Japanese (LMJ) hodo ni “to the (temporal, spatial, or quantitative) extent
that” comes to be used in the meaning “because” (a meaning that later fell from
use). Thus, from similar semantic beginnings, with similar IINs, different GIINs
developed in different contexts (presumably temporal), hence different polysemies.
The overall concept of IITSC is modeled in ﬁgure 1.3. This is a model of the
mechanism by which innovations may arise in the individual and be affected by
community acceptance of salience, etc. For an innovation in the linguistic system of
an individual to constitute a change “in the language,” the innovation must be spread
or propagated through the community: “a change in the output of a single speaker
might be regarded as the locus of change in the system, whereas of course a change
is not a change until it has been adopted by more than one speaker” (J. Milroy 1992;
79; italics original). If SP/Ws innovate, and AD/Rs replicate this innovation, they
do so in the role of SP/Ws, i.e. as language producers, not as language perceivers.
Utterance-type meaning
Conventionalizing of IINs as GIINs
Stage I > Stage II
Utterance-token meaning
SP/W exploits IINs innovatively
in associative stream of speech
SP/W–AD/R constraints on weighting of IINs
(preferred uses, saliency, relevance, subjectivity, etc.)
L → M1
Ca
↔
L → M1
Ca
↔
M2
Cb
↔
Coded meaning New coded meaning
(semanticization)
+
Figure 1.3. Model of the Invited Inferencing Theory of Semantic Change (IITSC;
Traugott 1999a: 96) (M = Coded meaning; C = Conceptual structure).
38
The framework
Most studies of the role of metaphor in semantic change focus on the bottom
part of the model (the relationships between two stages of a lexeme’s history in
terms of sources and targets, i.e. products, iconicities, and metaphors). Studies of
the role of pragmatic inferencing in semantic change focus on the top part of the
model and on the processes leading to change (e.g. using language indexically and
metonymically). As we have pointed out above, the approaches are not mutually
exclusive, but rather mutually enhancing (see also Heine, Claudi, and Hünnemeyer
1991, Andrews 1995); however, they involve signiﬁcantly different perspectives. It
should also be noted that this model, in keeping with the focus of both approaches
on the development of new meanings and new polysemies, does not account for
loss. Loss is unpredictable and irregular. Development of incremental meaning,
however, is largely regular, and this is what the model attempts to account for.
The model in ﬁgure 1.3 operates recursively, i.e. M1 represents any mean-
ing that gives rise to invited inferencing. It may itself be historically de-
rived, by prior invited inferencing, metaphorization, interventive meaning
change, etc. In the case of the history of as long as, the original M1 rel-
evant to the development of the temporal meaning was spatial (resulting in
M1 (spatial) + M2 (temporal)); once we ﬁnd that the temporal polysemy had arisen,
we can “reset” the model so that M1 is the temporal meaning, which eventually
gives rise to the conditional (i.e. M1 (temporal) + M2 (conditional)). In indexing
the polysemies, it is, however, essential to keep them separate, since older meanings
continue to invite inferences and may themselves undergo change, leading to further
developments.
It might be asked whether M1 is an appropriate designation at Stage II. Given a
theory of totally discrete change it would not be. Under such a theory, the original M
(e.g. temporal) with its various associated meanings would probably be considered
different from a later (but also temporal) polysemy because the semantic space
would be divided up differently after the new polysemy (e.g. conditional) had been
semanticized. This could be captured by a rule such as:
(22) M (temporal + conditional inferences) >
M1 (temporal)
M2 (conditional)
However, this would obscure the fact that IINs and GIINs from the earlier meaning
continue to be available in certain contexts i.e. are stable across time as well as
contexts. This is because Ms are always somewhat underdetermined. For example,
since is sometimes unambiguous in its temporal and causal meanings, sometimes
ambiguous, and sometimes indeterminate; temporal since still allows causality to
be exploited as an invited inference, as in Since coming to the US, she has been very
happy.
39
Regularity in semantic change
truth-conditional non-truth-conditional
>
content content/procedural procedural
> >
s-w-proposition s-o-proposition s-o-discourse
> >
nonsubjective subjective intersubjective
> >
Figure 1.4. Correlated paths of directionality in semantic change (in this and
subsequent ﬁgures, s-w = scope within; s-o = scope over).
The model does not specify the mechanisms by which semantic change comes
about: metaphorization and metonymization (including subjectiﬁcation and inter-
subjectiﬁcation). These are pragmatic processes that lie behind SP/W’s exploitation
of available implicatures in the ﬂow of speech and writing. It follows from the re-
cursive operation of the IITSC model that meanings become increasingly pragmatic
and procedural since the operative constraints are saliency, subjectivity, etc., i.e.,
constraints that ﬂow from the linking of communicative and cognitive functions
that is language. It also follows that there is tendency toward metatextual mean-
ing, or more speciﬁcally a shift from de re to de dicto meaning (see Frajzyngier
1991 for this way of describing shifts from “the world being talked about” to “the
speaker’s organization of that world in the act of speaking” (Traugott 1980: 47)).
Such shifts typically involve increase in scope, from meanings that function at the
propositional level (e.g. manner adverbials in event structures), to meanings with
scope over the proposition (e.g. sentential adverbials), to meanings with scope over
the discourse unit (e.g. adverbials in discourse marker function). These trajectories
may be schematized as in ﬁgure 1.4.
In this ﬁgure we indicate by “contentful/procedural” that if a contentful L acquires
procedural meaning, it will usually do so via a polysemy that is both contentful and
procedural (for example as long as “if” is contentful with respect to hypotheticality,
and procedural with respect to indicating that the clause it introduces is treated by
SP/W as a ground for the matrix clause). Although correlated, the individual hori-
zontal trajectories are not necessarily vertically aligned; so different aspects of any
one semasiological change may be at some different point on the horizontal trajec-
tory of a particular L. It should be recalled that “layering” always occurs between a
ﬁrst and a second stage, sometimes between all stages. This and subsequent ﬁgures
of a similar nature show only the changes, not the retentions in meaning.
It should be noted that although we are focusing on what is usually called
“internal” change, in the sense deﬁned above as “natural” and largely unconscious
change, the mechanisms for change as outlined in this IITSC model of semantic
change are external. This is because the mechanisms involve processes of reasoning,
mental projection, association, focusing on salient issues (whether driven by social
factors or SP/W’s own perspective), etc., none of which are part of the language
system, but rather are processes brought to bear on this system in language use.
40
The framework
1.4 Child vs. adult acquisition in semantic change
There is currently considerable debate about who innovates: children
or adults, so the question might arise, whose acquisition is IITSC a model of. It has
long been claimed that child language acquisition is the locus of change: language
change, in particular change in grammar or coded structure, occurs because children
learn language (imperfectly) (see e.g. Paul 1920 [1880], Meillet 1958 [1905–06]).
This view has been central to generative linguistics and was reﬁned as the hypoth-
esis that children can simplify grammars, but adults can only elaborate (see e.g.
Halle 1964, Lightfoot 1979, 1991, Kiparsky 1982 [1968]). A particularly strong
version of the hypothesis was developed by Bickerton (1984), known as the bio-
program hypothesis, in which it was claimed that evidence from the development
of e.g. Hawaiian Creole and especially Saramaccan showed that in the absence of
generation-to-generationtransmissionoflanguage,childrenwouldinnovatespeciﬁc
semantic and syntactic structures, e.g. highly constrained combinations of Tense–
Aspect–Modality, and distinctions between speciﬁc and non-speciﬁc indeﬁnites.
In the 1970s it was repeatedly suggested that there were matches between child
languageacquisitionofsemantics,developmentofsemanticsincreolization,andthe
order of semantic change in the historical data, for example across conceptual struc-
tures like SPACE > TIME, TEMPORAL > CONDITIONAL (see especially Slobin
1977; also Baron 1977 and references therein, Shepherd 1981). However, more re-
cently this assumption has been called into question from many sources. For one,
the bioprogram hypothesis has been largely exploded because it has been shown
that creoles may be developed by adults, but spread and accelerated by children
(see e.g. Sankoff 1980, papers in Baker and Syea 1996), and that there is minimal
evidence that generation-to-generation transmission of language is absent in cre-
ole situations such as Suriname where Saramaccan Creole developed (McWhorter
1997), or Hawaii where Hawaiian Creole English came into being (Roberts 1998).
Furthermore, as attention has come to be paid to the discourse processes of acqui-
sition and change, it has become increasingly clear that the task of early language
acquisition is considerably different from that of pragmatic extension of the sort
arising because of IINs and GIINs. As Slobin points out in discussing the discourse
origins of the present perfect in Eng.: “children come to discover pragmatic exten-
sions of grammatical forms, but they do not innovate them; rather, these extensions
are innovated diachronically by older speakers, and children acquire them through
a prolonged developmental process of conversational inferencing” (Slobin 1994:
130). We assume that most of the changes we will be discussing are not initiated by
children, because of the complex inferences involved and the discourse functions
in structuring text. As new meanings become available as “currency in the mar-
ketplace of cultural meanings,” the model of acquisition assumed is one that does
not privilege young children, but rather young adults (see e.g. Milroy and Milroy
41
Regularity in semantic change
1985, Eckert 1989) and, especially in earlier times, those carrying the authority of
education, law, or political or ecclesiastical and educational power. However, they
may well be spread by children and younger adults, who pick up on and extend
innovations.
It is frequently pointed out that language-acquirers use various reasoning strate-
gies in the process of learning a language. The most important of these is “common
sense reasoning” or “abduction” (see Andersen 1973, Anttila 1992, both building
on Peirce 1955 [1898]). The basic idea is that “[a]bduction proceeds from an ob-
served result, invokes a law, and infers that something may be the case.” So, for
example, a language-learner observes various kinds of verbal activities, construes
them as the output of a linguistic system (grammar), uses general principles such
as entailment or construal of invited inferences, as well as using heuristics of the
type “Say no more than you must and mean more thereby,” and guesses at what the
system might be. What we assume here in our SP/W-based theory of change is that
SP/Ws proceed from a result (the system they have acquired) and invoke and use
general principles such as entailments and heuristics to imply that something is the
case.
The hypothesis is that innovation and change does not occur primarily in the
process of perception and acquisition, but rather in the process of strategic choice-
makingonthepartofSP/WandinteractionalnegotiationwithAD/R.Supportcomes
from various sources. One is the textual data in which writers appear to explore new
uses in environments that permit the new use to be redundant and therefore easily
understood. A second is subjectiﬁcation. SP/Ws manipulate language for their own
ends. AD/Rs recognize this and process the speech/writing of another as at best
intersubjective, not based in themselves (as addressees) and their own deictic stance.
A third is intersubjectiﬁcation. As we saw in 1.2.4, politeness marking, hedging,
and other intersubjective processes are all ultimately grounded in speakers.
1.5 The hypothesis that ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny
The hypothesis that language change is primarily brought about by
child language acquisition has been closely tied to the hypothesis that ontogeny
recapitulates phylogeny (acquisition by individuals recapitulates language change).
In its generative versions it was a hypothesis designed in part to test “Chomskyan
neo-preformationism, with its claim that our faculties of intelligence are endowed
innately with a formal mechanism of logic (though the content of intelligence –
knowledge – is gradually acquired through ontogeny)” (Gould 1977: 146). This
hypothesis that ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny motivated interest in the idea that
polysemies are ordered synchronically according to the same “core” > “derived”
relationships as they had in their histories (except that some early meanings may
have disappeared). It underlies some work by Traugott (e.g. 1986), who suggests
42
The framework
that semantic internal reconstruction can be done from synchronic polysemies,
given hypotheses about regularities of change. It is also central to much work by G.
Lakoff (e.g. 1987), Sweetser (e.g. 1990), and others working with metaphor theory.
For example, Heine, Claudi, and Hünnemeyer, in accounting for metaphorical (and
grammaticalization) chains such as BODY PART > SPACE relationships, regard
the chains as not only diachronic but also synchronic and indeed panchronic (1991:
chapter 9).30
Their examples are like (23) from Kuliak, a language of Northeastern
Uganda:
(23) nE
kE cúc sú-o ı́m.
be ﬂy back-ABL girl
a. “There is a ﬂy on the girl’s back.”
b. “There is a ﬂy behind the girl.”
(Heine, Claudi, Hünnemeyer 1991: 249)
Even stronger are claims like the one put forward by Jurafsky with regard to diminu-
tives: “any language with a diminutive with a ‘member’ sense will have a ‘child’
sense” (1996: 543). However, attractive as the hypothesis is, there is no principled
reason for it to hold. Meanings may, and often do, become reorganized in ways that
obscure historical relationships. And we cannot be certain that the early stages were
necessarily present even if buried for ever in history.
An example of the failure of synchronic “core” > “derived” relations to match
diachronic derivation is provided by the development of meanings of still from
“quiet.” We may suppose that being motionless and quiet invited the inference of
continuity, hence of temporality. Its ﬁrst temporal uses seem to have arisen in the
context of verbs that are stative or imply a process of long duration, e.g.:
(24) In tokne . . . That sche schall duelle a maiden stille.
(1390 Gower, 337 [OED still, adv. 3a])
As new meanings arose, e.g. the concessive as in (25), the temporal and concessive
senses of still became dissociated from “quiet, motionless”:
(25) Tis true, St. Giles buried two and thirty, but still as there was but one of the
Plague, People began to be easy.
(1722 Defoe, 7 [OED still, adv 6b]; note the redundantly
adversative context of but here reinforcing the concessive IIN)
30 Panchrony is an ontologically very problematic concept (see e.g. Newmeyer 1998: 284–288).
Although it has the advantage of avoiding a sharp distinction between synchrony and diachrony,
and allows for dynamic analyses of language from both atemporal and temporal perspectives,
it obscures the fact that over time relationships among constructions can become completely
reorganized.
43
Regularity in semantic change
They clustered together in what Michaelis analyzes as a set of scalar polysemies in
Modern English (MdE) that are correlated with different syntactic constraints, but
share the property of evoking “various types of scalar models: a time line, an ‘ad-
versity scale’, and graded categorization” (Michaelis 1993: 232). She convincingly
shows that synchronically these cannot reasonably be ordered with the temporal
meaning as the core meaning, as Lakoff’s (1987) radial category model would pre-
dict (or, for that matter, Heine, Claudi, and Hünnemeyer’s (1991) metaphor chains),
because it assumes a polysemy structure that recapitulates the diachronic mean-
ing changes.31
In conclusion, although it is plausible in many cases to organize
synchronic variation in such a way as to replicate diachronic development, the his-
torical validity of the relationship cannot be assumed. It must be tested in each
instance.
1.6 The nature of evidence for semantic change
How do we as historians of a language know when an IIN is beginning
to be exploited? This must always be a matter of interpretation, on the assumption
that IINs are cross-linguistic. Sometimes an IIN may be inferred because the later
history by hypothesis requires an earlier stage in which the IIN has operated, but
we must always exercise utmost care in projecting such IINs on the textual data.
As a working principle, as long as the original coded meaning is accessible, we
should assume that the invited inference is just that, a meaning derivable from
the semantics in combination with the discourse context. In written records, clear
evidence of semanticization of a polysemy typically comes from the appearance of
an item in a “new” context in which the earlier meaning(s) of the item would not
make sense. At a later time the older meaning may or may not disappear; if it does,
this is further conﬁrmation of the earlier coding of the former pragmatically invited
inference.
It is a truism that evidence for historical change is skewed – by the cultural value
system within which records have been made and kept, and by the happenstance of
what has remained despite ﬁre, pillage, and neglect. But nevertheless the evidence
is robust enough in some parts of the world, especially Europe, Meso-America,
Japan, and China, for strong hypotheses to be made and tested.
Sources of data include dialect differences, past and present. Particularly valu-
able is evidence from changes ongoing in contemporary linguistic systems since
31 A similar point is made by Goossens (1992) in connection with the development of OE cunnan
“be (intellectually) able to” into can. Dekeyser (1998) gives additional examples in which
the original core meaning is either obsolescent or lost and therefore cannot be considered the
core meaning synchronically, e.g. harvest, originally “third season,” then “season for reaping”
(metonymic to the salient act in the season), then, again metonymically, “reaping” and “season’s
yield of any natural product,” and sell, originally “give,” then “give for money.”
44
The framework
variation results from change, and change can be detected in progress. This ap-
proach is well known from sociolinguistic phonological work (e.g. Labov 1974),
and lexicography. An example of work on incipient change in the modal domain is
Denison’s study of the development of counterfactual may have in contemporary
Eng. (incipient in the 1980s, now wide-spread), as in:
(26) The whole thing may never have happened if it hadn’t been for a chance
meeting.
(1 Nov. 1983, Guardian [Denison 1992: 231, ex. (6)])
Plausible paths of change can be tested against actual paths of change and participant
observation of them. In this case Denison assumes the change is not so much
internal semantic change but a case of external hypercorrection as might (in all its
uses) becomes more recessive; in other words, the entry-points here are, on his view,
complex interactions involving changes in the available representations of modality,
and social factors such as the association of may with prestige dialects, etc. Such
a study serves as a reminder that the motivations for and processes of change may
be much more complex than appears from the relative paucity and homogeneity of
historical documentation left to us.
Nevertheless, not all absence should be regarded as a result of skewing. If a later
stage of a language consistently uses a lexical item or construction with a meaning
that was not associated with it at earlier times, then we can plausibly hypothesize that
it was not available at the earlier time (Faarlund 1990: 16–18). If it can be inferred
occasionally (and, one ﬁnds, often in a redundant context) one can plausibly assume
that it was beginning to become available, but that it has not yet been generalized, ei-
ther in the work of one writer, or in the community (depending on the data base used).
1.6.1 The validity of written data
Except in contemporary situations, our evidence for change is neces-
sarily from written data. Several caveats must be considered in using written data as
a window to the spoken language of earlier times (see e.g. Herring, van Reenen, and
Schøsler 2000). Written data may reﬂect conventions of use among a literate group
that are not shared by the speech community at large. Reading and writing require
at least a modicum of education, and so written language must be recognized as the
product of only a segment of a total speech community. In many premodern soci-
eties, written communication was conducted primarily among the members of some
social elite, e.g. the clergy. The intended recipients of a written text, however, may
also include nonliterate addressees to whom texts were read aloud (e.g. sermons,
news broadsheets) or performed (e.g. a liturgy or a play).
It follows that due to the relatively lasting nature of respected works of literature,
liturgy, etc., written data may reﬂect a literary standard that differs from the spoken
45
Regularity in semantic change
language of any segment of the speech community of a given time. Nevertheless,
when writing becomes the primary medium for preservation of knowledge and
tradition, written materials can be transmitted for the purposes of validation, a
practice often considered to be “objectivizing.” It may become a major mode for
the production and reproduction of some experiences (for example, the use of Fr. in
ME, use of Eng. by non-native speakers for literary practices). And it may take on a
life of its own, situated in part in the meaning of other texts (for example, the use of
Latin from OE on for legal, religious, and pedagogical practices). Most importantly
for historical linguistics, “text provides a model for speech” (Olson 1994: xviii); in
part we may “introspect our language in terms of the categories laid down by our
script, to paraphrase Benjamin Whorf” (ibid.).
It also follows from the fact that writing has until recently been in the purview
of only a few that written data from different periods of a language may reﬂect
different literate communities or different conventions of use; in other words they
do not necessarily provide straightforward evidence of a change or preservation
shared by the entire speech community. This is particularly so because certain text
types or subject matters may become the locus of innovations in certain semantic
domains. For example, modal changes are best exempliﬁed in religious, legal, and
philosophical texts, discourse markers in rhetorical and academic discourse where
signals of metalinguistic strategy are important, speech act verbs in contexts of
institutional production such as prayer, legal proceedings, and royal proclamations.
Because written texts can be detached from the original context of their forma-
tion and can therefore be planned more consciously and carefully than most speech,
they may focus on precision and explicitness, especially in the use of many of the
linguistic structures discussed in this book: modalities, illocutionary acts (many of
which are practiced in writing rather than speech, e.g. those associated with con-
tracts), epistemic sentence adverbs and discourse connectives. How writers achieve
sufﬁcient clarity and explicitness, however, varies according to many factors. As
Seidensticker (1980: xii) notes in the introduction to his translation of Genji, “It was
certainly not impossible in Heian Japan to come right out and name one’s agents and
objects, but it was considered better form to let elaborately conjugated verbs and
adjectives convey the information obliquely.” How can we, then, tell what the rela-
tionship is between a written text and spoken language? As we trace the histories of
words and constructions in the history of languages, we ﬁnd that they typically have
well-attested reﬂexes in contemporary spoken data, so there is potentially a deﬁnite,
discoverable connection between written and spoken varieties (Biber 1988).
As in all historical work that relies on editions, we must of course remain aware
that editorial practices have led to emendations, and additions of punctuation. Par-
ticularly with respect to discourse and other pragmatic markers, there has been
a tendency to omit them in editions as “extraneous” (see Blake 1992–93, Jucker
46
The framework
1997). Despite these difﬁculties, directions and apparent mechanisms of change
over time can nonetheless be determined, in broad strokes across text types, and in
detail within the conﬁnes of particular text types. In general, texts that are drama,
personal letters, or trials can be expected to be closer to the spoken language than
those that are academic, especially philosophical treatises, or royal proclamations
(Rissanen 1986). Therefore, it is important to attempt to ﬁnd evidence for change
from texts of the former kind.
Since the present study makes considerable use of data from the history of the
Japanese language, it is important to note that the history of early Japanese is a
history of writing practices borrowed from Chinese (Ch.), and that Ch. may have
had considerable effect on the texts that have come down to us. Writing was intro-
duced into Japan from China from about the third through the seventh centuries,
A. C. (Miller 1967). There were several waves of lexical borrowing, one occurring
in conjunction with the introduction of Buddhism in the sixth century, followed by
others in the eighth and fourteenth centuries (Shibatani 1990: 120–121). Written
Ch. continued to be used in Japan until the modern era for many chronicles and
ofﬁcial documents, and was the language of much scholarship and religious writing.
Moreover, throughout the recorded history of Japan, written Ch. played an impor-
tant role as a repository of cultural and literary aesthetics, and as a model behind
many collocations, proverbs, and perhaps larger discourse structures. However, ge-
ographic and political barriers severely limited direct contact with speakers of Ch.,
so contact with the Chinese language in Japan came almost exclusively through the
written language. This contrasts radically with the inﬂuence of Fr. on Eng., which
was not limited to written texts.
In addition to being used for writing in the Chinese language, by the early eighth
century Chinese characters were used in Japan in order to write extended Japanese
language texts. A description of the history of Jp. orthography, including the devel-
opment of the Jp. phonetic syllabaries (kana) from cursive and abbreviated forms
of Ch. characters (kanji), can be found in Miller (1967) and Seeley (1991) among
others. At present, Japanese texts are written in mixed kanji–kana style: kanji are
typically used for content words, e.g. nouns, verb stems, and adjectives, and kana are
used for function words, such as verb endings and particles. While this style devel-
oped over several hundred years, and the history of Jp. orthography reﬂects several
strikingly different models, one consistent characteristic of the orthographic sys-
tem throughout the recorded history of the language is that it provides considerable
ﬂexibility for writers to choose an orthographic expression of an utterance. Writers
might, for example, choose between any of several orthographic possibilities for
a word in order to (i) achieve a pleasing visual balance between kana (especially
cursive style hiragana) and kanji, which are typically more complex symbols and
impart a dense appearance to the written page, (ii) mark off word boundaries (as Jp.
47
Regularity in semantic change
is written without spaces between words), or (iii) elucidate the meaning in context
of a polysemous word or highlight a double entendre. Writers may even write a
word innovatively with the kanji for another word in order to calque the sense of
both items.
Another inﬂuence of Ch. on the history of the Japanese language comes from the
practice of kanbun-kundoku, which refers to the “reading in Japanese of a text in
Chinese.” This practice involved transformations of word order and the addition of
morphosyntactic elements necessary to convert a Chinese-language sentence into a
Japanese-language one. Kanbun has resulted in various turns of phrase now found
in the Japanese spoken language; moreover, as is discussed in chapter 4, a number
of discourse marking elements in Japanese developed from conjunctions used in
kanbun.
The presence of kanji and kanbun in the Japanese orthographic system provides
the potential for layers of meaning unique to the written text (see e.g. Tamba 1986).
Studies of orthographic representations have played a role in exegetic studies of
Japanese literature, but a comprehensive analysis of the effects of orthography on
language change in Jp. is still needed. Orthography has certainly had an effect on
the size and structure of the Jp. lexicon. The presence of kanji probably enables
the number of homonymous lexical items to be greater than would otherwise be
possible. Similarly, many native words have corresponding Ch. loanwords written
with the same kanji. Therefore, it is sometimes unclear whether a polysemy in Ch.
was imported into Jp., or whether it originated after the borrowing into Jp. However,
the overall direction of semantic change as evidenced from the meaning of the kanji
itself to the meaning of the word (written with that kanji) in Jp. is consistent with
the patterns found in data from other languages. Since we are interested in types
of change rather than in the histories of particular languages, it is ultimately not of
great importance whether a change originated in Jp. or Eng. or in a donor language.
1.6.2 The language and data sources for this book
We believe that to ﬁrmly establish types of changes, it is necessary to
work with long-term historical textual records. This necessarily reduces the num-
ber of languages that can be covered, but it allows for a consistent analysis. The
demonstration of regularities across two languages as linguistically and culturally
dissimilar as Eng. and Jp., both with textual records extending over a millennium
should, with supporting evidence from other languages, dispel skepticism about
regularity in semantic change, while at the same time contributing to the theory and
method of historical semantics and discourse analysis.
The computerized Helsinki Corpus of the English Texts, abbreviated as HCET
(see e.g. Rissanen, Kytö, and Palander-Collin 1993), is the major source of data for
Eng., with extensive supplementation from dictionaries and other data bases. Data
48
The framework
from the recorded history of Jp. are readily available through modern, annotated
editions of premodern literature; the present study focuses on prose literary works
that are thought to reﬂect relatively closely the colloquial language of their time.
1.7 Summary and outline of later chapters
In this chapter we have outlined the assumptions and claims of the
Invited Inferencing Theory of Semantic Change (IITSC). The basic idea is that
historically there is a path from coded meanings (Ms) to utterance-token meanings
(IINs) to utterance-type, pragmatically polysemous meanings (GIINs) to new se-
mantically polysemous (coded) meanings. According to this approach, pragmatic
implicatures play a crucial bridging role in semantic change. The system change
known as “semantic change” is on this view the result of SP/Ws and AD/Rs negoti-
ating meaning. While the dyadic relationship between SP/W and AD/R is a given of
discourse, the main tendency in semantic change from a semasiological perspective
is toward greater subjectivity or grounding in SP/W attitude and perspective. This
is because SP/Ws are the prime initiators of change. Over time, increased overt
attention may be also given semasiologically to addressees, but explicit marking of
intersubjectivity presupposes increased explicit marking of subjectivity.
Whilemuchremainstobeunderstoodaboutsemanticchange,workonpragmatics
and discourse analysis gives us reason to believe that semantic change not only can
be regular, but indeed must be so, if synchronic processes of inferencing and of
strategic interaction are replicated from generation to generation.
In chapter 2 we review some earlier and current approaches to semantic change,
with particular attention to hypotheses and ﬁndings that inform the present work. In
the remainder of the book, several empirical studies will be presented of semantic
changes from the perspective of IITSC. In chapter 3 we discuss the domain of modal
verbs, including “core” auxiliaries (e.g. must), quasi-auxiliaries (e.g. ought to), most
especially the development of epistemic modal meaning. The domain investigated
in chapter 4 is that of adverbs like in fact, and Jp. sate “so,” which acquire discourse
marker functions via an intermediate epistemic, adversative stage. Discourse marker
uses are maximally subjective, and therefore the acquisition of discourse marker
function is regarded as a case of subjectiﬁcation. In chapter 5 we turn to the develop-
ment of speech act verbs. The development from verbs with spatial meanings (e.g.
promise < Lat. pro “forward,” miss-past participle of “send”) to locutionary verbs
to verbs which can be used with illocutionary force illustrates a particular type of
subjectiﬁcation: in many cases, preemption by the speaker for institutional purposes
of regulation and power. The last domain to be investigated is that of honoriﬁcation
in Japanese, that is, the development of intersubjective social deixis.
Although the domains that are the central focus of this book might seem rather
disparate, they do in fact share several commonalities. The ﬁrst domain involves
49
Regularity in semantic change
modality in a relatively narrow sense. In natural language modals typically express
obligation or cast some doubt on the proposition: “The essence of ‘modality’ con-
sists in the relativization of the validity of sentence meanings to a set of possible
worlds” (Kiefer 1994: 2515). More broadly stated, modality expresses a perspective
that considers the possibility of things being otherwise than they are. Our view of
modality builds on work by Lyons (1977), Coates (1983), Chung and Timberlake
(1985), Palmer (1986, 1990 [1979]), Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca (1994) where dis-
tinctions between “root” (or “deontic”) and epistemic meanings are central. Modal-
ity can be expressed in different languages in a number of different ways, ranging
from main verbs like Gm. willen, mögen “want” to auxiliary or “light” verbs like
must, ought to, to adverbs like probably, and to routinized parenthetical expressions
such as I think (in other words, it may be more grammaticalized in one language
than another). Jp. lacks a syntactically uniform set of items that correspond to Eng.
modal auxiliary verbs. Instead, modality in Jp. is expressed by various means, in-
cluding verb sufﬁxes (e.g. -(r)eru “potential, the ability to carry out an action”),
constructions built around predicate nouns and similar elements (e.g. hazu “expec-
tation” and beki “obligation”), and periphrastic conditional verb constructions such
as V-nakereba naranai (lit. “If one does not do V
, (the situation) will not become (ac-
ceptable)”). Although not usually considered modal on a narrow interpretation, nev-
ertheless on a broad interpretation, certain adverbials with adversative function like
in fact, truly modify the truth of the proposition in partially epistemic ways. Likewise
verbs which can be used with speech act functions like promise can also be construed
as broadly modal. Indeed, many are expressed indirectly by modals, e.g. promise by
will. The directive function of some speech act verbs imposes obligations on indi-
viduals like deontic modality, while the representative function expresses degree of
commitment to the truth of a proposition somewhat like epistemic modality does.
Like modals, some illocutionary verbs illustrate root (directive) > epistemic (as-
sertive)meanings(e.g.“suggestthatyoudo”>“suggestthatsomethingisthecase”).
There are several links between subtypes of modality and deixis. One is that
epistemic modal verbs have been argued to have a deictic function, most obviously
where they intersect with tense (Lyons 1982, Chung and Timberlake 1985, Frawley
1992, Diewald 1999). Another is that epistemic modal adverbials and discourse
markers are deictic in that they index not only SP/W’s belief-state toward what he or
she is saying/writing, but also SP/W’s perspective in terms of distance and proximity
(Schiffrin 1990b). A third link is that although honoriﬁcation is primarily a special
kind of social deixis, it has links to modality. For example, certain uses of modals
in English such as You must have some cake have been argued by R. Lakoff (1972)
to serve functions reminiscent of honoriﬁcation in Japanese. Together, then, the
domains to be discussed exemplify various aspects of the developments of modality
and deixis broadly construed.
50
2
Prior and current work on semantic
change
2.1 Introduction
In this chapter we outline some of the work and issues to date on
semantic change, with particular attention to research focused on regularity and on
mechanisms of semantic change that will be developed further in later chapters.
No attempt is made to cover research into the history of research into semantic
change comprehensively. For some overviews discussing different approaches, see
Kronasser (1952: chapter 1), Ullmann (1957: chapter 4), Warren (1992: chapter 1),
Blank (1997: chapter 1, 1999), Geeraerts (1997: chapter 3), Fritz (1998: chapter 4).
2.2 Backgrounds to contemporary work
In Europe and America much of the groundwork of semantic theory
was laid by Greek and Roman grammarians, who argued at length about the arbi-
trariness or naturalness of meaning–form pairs, homonymy and polysemy, and by
philosophers and logicians especially from the seventeenth century on, who focused
on the nature of reference. Likewise, the nature of the lexicon was discussed by dic-
tionary makers, especially from the eighteenth century on. In the nineteenth century
the work on language families that led to comparative Indo-European linguistics
focused on sound correspondences and plausible sound change, but crucially re-
quired a notion of cognate meaning and of plausible meaning changes as well, and
triggered the development of more sophisticated views of semantic change. This is
particularly true of the major comparative dictionaries that arose out of this work,
much of it in the Neogrammarian tradition, among them Pokorny (1959/69), The
Oxford English Dictionary (1989; the ﬁrst volume appeared in 1884), Wartburg
(1928–66).
Japanese lacks the extensive sets of obvious cognates with related languages
that facilitated comparative Indo-European studies, but there have been traditions
of dictionary writing in Japan for the purpose of explaining Chinese characters or
appropriate word use in poetry since at least 900 AC (see Komatsu 1980: 460–
464). Scholarship in Japan on the history of the Japanese language arose out of the
kokugaku “national studies” movement of the eighteenth century. At present, the
51
Regularity in semantic change
native tradition of Japanese language studies is represented by the academic disci-
pline kokugogaku “study of the national language” (for a description in English see
Hattori 1967). The kokugogaku ﬁeld was directly inﬂuenced by the Neogrammar-
ian movement of nineteenth century Germany (see Kakehi 1980: 58–59) and has
provided a wealth of descriptive studies of earlier periods of the language. With this
emphasis on the description of Japanese rather than on cross-linguistic theoretical
issues, it is not surprising that many kokugogaku studies still reﬂect early twentieth
century views of semantics and semantic change. At the same time, studies of se-
mantic theory and semantic change within the gengogaku “linguistics” discipline
in Japan provide contributions to theoretical approaches such as those described in
the following sections.
2.2.1 Bréal
An early attempt to codify the criteria for semantic change that were
developed in the context of work on Indo-European was Bréal’s ground-breaking
Essai de Sémantique (1897), translated into English as Semantics: Studies in the
Science of Meaning (1900).1
Our references are to the 1964 edition. His aim in
this and earlier work (Bréal 1991 [1882]) was to develop a science of meaning by
studying “the intellectual causes which have inﬂuenced the transformation of our
languages” (Bréal 1964 [1900]: 5), with focus on language as a “human product”
(ibid., p. 2) and goal-oriented activity regulated by “laws” (in the sense of tendencies
discoverable by empirical investigation).2
He takes a semantic approach to grammar
in general, and therefore his “laws” concern changes in a wide range of linguistic
domains, not only lexical items, but also inventories of inﬂections, and word order.
In addition to general mechanisms like analogy, Bréal outlines several “laws”
that are still cited by most handbooks. We discuss these with examples largely from
sources other than Bréal. Although he does not explicitly do so, we may divide them
according to principles of onomasiology and semasiology. The latter he calls the
proper subject of the “science of signiﬁcations” (p. 99).
The onomasiological changes Bréal mentions are of two types:
(i) Specialization: one element “becomes the pre-eminent exponent of
the grammatical conception of which it bears the stamp” (p. 15), for
example, the selection of que as the sole complementizer in French
(Schlieben-Lange 1992).3
1 Bréal was the ﬁrst to coin the term “semantique” (Wolf 1991: 3).
2 These principles are based on his own empirical work in semantic change. In Bréal (1991 [1882])
he had not yet seen a way to articulate “principles” or “laws” of semantic change, and sought
only to organize them according to empirically observable trends (ibid. p. 154).
3 Hopper (1991) reﬁned this concept and privileged it as a principle of grammaticalization.
52
Prior and current work on semantic change
(ii) Differentiation: two elements which are (near-)synonymous diverge.
Paradigm examples include, in English, (a) the specialization, e.g. of
hound when dog was borrowed from Scandinavian, and (b) loss of a
form when sound change leads to “homonymic clash,” e.g. ME let in
the sense “prohibit” from OE lett- was lost after OE lætan “allow” also
developed into ME let (for examples and discussion of the develop-
ment of homonymy through sound change, see Ullmann 1957, 1964,
Geeraerts 1997: chapter 4, Campbell 1999 [1998]: chapter 10).
Both specialization and differentiation may lead to loss or relegation to marginal
status of one or more members of the set. They have been thought of as tendencies
to avoid dangerous homonymy (Geeraerts 1997: 130 refers to “homonymiphobia”)
on the one hand and absolute synonymy on the other. Both have been construed
as variants of a principle of “one-form:one-meaning” (e.g. Hock and Joseph 1996:
225). One problem with the “one-form:one-meaning” principle is that it focuses on
form–meaning pairs out of context. As can be seen from contemporary English,
speakers can in fact be tolerant of highly divergent meanings when Ls are used in
context (for example, rent an apartment may mean “rent from” or “rent to”). Some-
times words can have polysemies that are highly divergent, even contradictory (a
phenomenon that Lepschy 1981 termed “enantiosemy”): borrowed in the sixteenth
century as a noun meaning “decree,” sanction came to be extended metonymically
ﬁrst to the penalty enacted to enforce the decree:
(1) The sanction and pain of this divine Law being by sin incurred.
(1671 MacWard, 316 [OED])
Later it was extended, also metonymically, to “approval,” an attitude that is an
appropriateness condition for the issuance of a decree, and therefore an invited
inference from such a decree, as in:
(2) [He] told her, this experiment had not only his sanction, but warmest
approbation.
(1798 Lee, Yng. Lady’s T. II, 103 [OED])
This new meaning may also have been supported by the borrowing of the verb
sanction in the eighteenth century, as either “decree” or “approve,” as in:
(3) My own voice never shall sanction the evils to which I may be subjected.
(1797 Radcliffe, viii [OED])
Despite the early development of a negative meaning of the noun in some contexts
(see (1)), the ﬁrst negative use of the verb in the OED is dated 1956:
53
Regularity in semantic change
(4) (heading) Let Church sanction road killers.
(1956 July 27, The Universe [OED])
and is labeled as “of doubtful acceptability.” Both the positive meaning of the verb,
“approve,” and the negative one, “punish,” seem to be widely used at present, though
context often disambiguates them:
(5) a. Bush again outlined the sins of the Iraqi leader as decried by the United
Nations in an unprecedented series of punitive resolutions, including
Thursday’s move to sanction the use of force if Iraq does not comply by
Jan. 15.
(1990 Nov. 30, United Press Intl.; “approve”)
b. Justice Antonin Scalia asked if a state could sanction a cigarette manufacturer
that printed the surgeon general’s warning along with a statement that
cigarettes are “good in other respects.”
(1991 Oct. 8, United Press Intl.; “punish, impose penalty on”)
The notion of homonymiphobia underestimates the multifunctionality of
lexemes, hence the availability of polysemies, of idiomatic as well as compo-
sitional meanings of the same expressions, and also of pragmatic meanings.
Some of these polysemies may be harmonic with each other, but others may
be strongly disharmonic; nevertheless, they can all coexist. For example, in
Modern Japanese (MdJ) the verb kotowaru has meanings that include “refuse,
decline” and “apologize.” Apparently a compound of koto “word, thing” and
waru “split, divide up (something),” kotowaru appears in Old Japanese (OJ)
c. 750 AC as a mental verb with the meaning “discern (the right versus wrong
or beneﬁts versus disadvantages of something).” In Late Old Japanese (LOJ)
c. 1000 the mental verb meaning of kotowaru is extended to include an under-
standing of the inner workings, nature, or reason for something. The word is ﬁrst
found as a verb of speaking meaning “tell a reason, circumstance, or excuse” in
Early Middle Japanese (EMJ) c. 1225 and subsequently comes to be used in a
variety of speech act verb meanings, including “apologize (by giving a reason)”
(from the fourteenth century), “ﬁle a document, bring suit” (from the seventeenth
century), “deny, refuse (the statements of another)” and “ﬁre, lay off a worker”
(both from the late nineteenth century). Although the earlier mental verb meaning
has disappeared from the modern language, most of the speech act verb mean-
ings continue to coexist, despite potential homonymic clash, distinguished by
the context in which the word is used.
The types of semasiological change Bréal mentions are now familiar: pejoration
vs. amelioration, restriction vs. expansion, metaphor vs. metonymy. We discuss
these in turn, largely with examples from sources other than Bréal.
54
Prior and current work on semantic change
(i) Pejoration: the tendency to semanticize the more negative connotations of a
word. Thus OE cnafa “boy” > knave; mistress “head of household” > “woman in
continuing extra-marital relationship with a man”; OE selig “blessed, innocent” >
silly; EMdE bourgeois “resembling the French middle class” > “philistine.” Bréal
attributes pejoration of this type in part to malice and “pleasure in looking for a
vice or a fault behind a quality” (Bréal 1964 [1900]: 101). Hock and Joseph (1996)
further point out that pejoration affects words referring to “young, innocent persons,
young males, and females of all ages” (1996: 244). Bréal also sees it as the result
of euphemism, the tendency to veil disagreeable ideas, and to disguise such ideas
with new terms that themselves later take on the taboo meanings they were meant
to mask (1964 [1900]: 100). For example, in OE stincan meant “to smell” (sweet
or bad):
(6) Ic stince swote.
“I smell sweet.”
(c. 1000 Ælfric, Grammar, 220 [OED])
In ME it came to be associated with bad smells. The verb smell appears in EME
(c. 1300) in the same positive and negative meanings as OE stincan. As it in turn
came to be associated with bad smells, new complex predicates with have and be
came into being involving such borrowings as odor (c. 1300), scent (c. 1375) and
fragrant (c. 1500), fragrance (c. 1670). Consider in this connection the difference
between the movie title Scent of a Woman and hypothetical titles like Smell of a
Woman or even Odor of a Woman (in so far as deodorants “eliminate odors,” odor
is currently becoming pejorative).
Sometimes a pejoration simply involves shift from higher to lower value. A case in
point is the tendency of Japanese honoriﬁcs to lose high honoriﬁc value over time –
originally respectful meanings may become devalued through regular application
(for euphemistic purposes) to less respected referents. For example, omae “you
(second person singular)” is used in MdJ only in reference to a close intimate who
is a social inferior of the speaker (e.g. by parent to child). The word, however,
originates in OJ oFo- “great, august” (> honoriﬁc preﬁx) plus maFe “location in
front of,” and was extended to the meaning “in the presence of a god or a great
person.” Omae came to be used as a euphemistic expression for nobles (second or
third person reference) in LOJ (c. tenth century), and Ohno (1980: 35–37) cites the
word as a respectful second person pronoun from the sixteenth century.
(ii) Melioration (usually called “amelioration”): the tendency to semanticize
more positive connotations: Old French (OF) ber/barun “common men, servants”
> “servants to the king” > “baron, member of lowest rank of nobility in Britain”;
Lat. nescius “ignorant” > OF ni(s)ce “stupid” was borrowed into English in the
French sense, and gradually developed more positive polysemies, speciﬁcally “shy,
55
Regularity in semantic change
bashful,” later “pleasant, appealing” (examples from Hock and Joseph 1996: 241–
244). The meanings of MdJ kawaii “cute” and itoosii “lovable” similarly develop
from earlier meanings “pitiful” and “pathetic,” respectively. The explanation usually
given for the change is that the earlier and later meanings share a sense of emotional
concern by a stronger party toward a weaker party (Iizumi 1963: 82–84, 181).
Sometimes the same root may develop an ameliorative meaning in one language
and a pejorative meaning in another. Bartsch (1984: 387) cites Dutch (Du.) knap
“able, ﬁt, clever, good-looking,” German (Gm.) knapp “narrow, hardly sufﬁcient,”
both derived from an earlier Germanic meaning of “ﬁtting close, tightly.”
(iii) Restriction/Narrowing of meaning: OE deor “animal” > deer, corn “grain”
> “maize” in the USA (and > “oats” in Scotland according to Geeraerts 1997: 96).
Sometimes the narrowing may take place in only one part of speech; e.g. erection,
which was used of buildings and parts of the body from the sixteenth century on,
is not now usually used for a building although the verb erect still is, and children
get erector sets as presents.4
In the eighteenth century, Jp. yakuza “gangster” was a
general term that characterized a person as a “good-for-nothing,” “ne’er-do-well.”
Its range of referents included various types of persons (males) who did not make a
positive contribution to society, including vagrants, wealthy playboys, gamblers, and
various scoundrels. That range has gradually narrowed to participants in organized
crime.
(iv) Expansion/Generalization/Broadening of meaning: Lat. armare “to cover
one’s shoulders” > arm; Lat. arripare “reach the river’s shore” > “reach a destina-
tion”; Gm. Wand “wall” < Indo-European (IE) *wendh- “weave” (walls were woven
from branches). Originally meaning “cloth to wrap clothes in, cloth for the head,”
toilet was extended to various items of clothing, and, in the context of “making”
or “doing” was extended to grooming and dressing (its use to refer to a lavatory is
a case of metonymy and euphemism; see below). Ejaculate was originally (in the
sixteenth century) used for ejecting ﬂuids from the body, and only later came to be
used for locutionary acts, as in:
(7) I could not but with hearty thanks to Almighty God ejaculate my thanks to
him.
(1666 July 23, Pepys, Diary, IV, 22 [OED])
MdJ asita “tomorrow” derives from ake-sita “dawning-time.” Examples in which
asita can be interpreted to have the deictic meaning “the following morning” appear
as early as OJ, and the word undergoes generalization to refer to the entire day
“tomorrow” in Middle Japanese (MJ) (Takemitsu 1998: 26).
4 The examples of erection and ejaculate (below) appear in Bryson (1991: 72, who cites Robert K.
Sebastian, 1989, Red pants, Verbatim, Winter issue).
56
Prior and current work on semantic change
Sometimes the same root may undergo broadening in one language and narrowing
in another. Bartsch (1984: 385) cites the example of Gm. Tier “animal (wild or
tame),” Eng. deer “hoofed ruminant animal.” In German there was broadening of
meaning from a Germanic root apparently restricted to “wild animals” (see OE
deor), while in English there was narrowing from wild animals in general to a
speciﬁc kind.
(v) Metaphor: the mapping of one concept onto another, e.g. space > time as in
before “in front” > “earlier,” or position > time as in pending “hanging” > “until”
(Kortmann 1992). For Bréal metaphor is associated with images, and languages are
full of metaphors. Indeed, he says “[t]he Indo-European languages are condemned to
ﬁgurativespeech”(1964[1900]:3)(presumablyalsootherlanguages).Hisexamples
include the way even “dry grammars” use metaphors like “‘clou’ [‘nail’] takes an
s in the plural” (pp. 4–5). His use of the word “condemned” (itself a metaphor
in the quotation cited above) presumably evokes the pretensions of stylists of his
time that scientiﬁc discourse was objective, literal, and therefore non-ﬁgurative. Jp.
yakuza “good-for-nothing (person)” > “gangster” originally referred to the worst
possible hand in a traditional game of playing cards, i.e. ya “eight” plus ku “nine”
plus za “three.”5
The meaning of the word was ﬁrst transferred from the domain of
card-playing to the domain of human characteristics and then underwent narrowing
(as in (iii) above).
(vi) Contagion (Metonymy): the association of one word with another, e.g. the
association in Middle French of rien “thing” and pas with the negative ne “not,”
resulting in the eventual semanticization of negative in rien and pas, and the loss of
ne. Other metonymies include the association of objects characteristically having
the color in question with the color, e.g. orange, gold, silver (Berlin and Kay 1969);
or the material with products of that material, e.g. Greek (Gk.) papuros “papyrus
plant” > “material for writing on” > paper (Buck 1949: vii); and IE *wendh- “weave”
> Gm. Wand “wall,” mentioned in (iv) above; or the object with the purpose for
which it is used, e.g. Finnish raha “pelt” for “medium of exchange” > “money”
(Campbell 1999 [1998]: 169). Other cases involve part-for-whole synecdoche,6
e.g. Jp. kuruma, literally “wheel,” was used synecdochically to refer to a variety of
wheeled vehicles, including carts and carriages until modern times (see also Eng.
wheels for “car”). Almost all cases of narrowing and broadening, pejoration and
amelioration are cases of metonymic change: shifts in use dependent on context.
5 Closer study may show that yakuza is actually a case of metonymy.
6 We follow Nerlich and Clarke (1999) in distinguishing part-for-whole synecdoche from genus–
species synecdoche. The ﬁrst (e.g. sail for ship) involves a type of metonymy and is a major factor
in semantic change; the second (e.g. TV for color TV) involves taxonomic shifts from lower to
higher or higher to lower in a taxonomy, and appears not to be widely attested in semantic change.
57
Regularity in semantic change
A more complex example of metonymy is provided by Jp. hootyoo. Originating in
a Chinese loanword comprised of the characters hoo “kitchen” plus tyoo “servant,”
hootyoo referred in the LOJ period to servants who worked in the kitchen and was
later metonymically extended to the work they did: the act of preparing meals. The
modern use of hootyoo for “(kitchen) knife” apparently results from a shortening
in MJ of hootyoo-gatana, a compound of hootyoo plus katana “knife, sword.”7
The latter example illustrates how ﬁne-grained an analysis is required to determine
whether a shift is metaphoric or metonymic (see also Goossens 1995a, 1995b). If one
compares the modern meaning “(kitchen) knife” directly with the original loanword
meaning “kitchen servant,” the change may appear to be one of metaphor. Closer
study reveals that the meaning shift involves two stages of metonymy: association
of the relationship between the kitchen servants and their work, and ellipsis of a
term for a speciﬁc part of that work.
Nerlich and Clarke summarize the types of metonymy identiﬁed within the Bréal
tradition as follows:
the part stands for the whole (also called synecdoche), the cause for the effect,
the container for the contained, the form for the function, the material an
object is made of for the object, the place for the people who live there, the
name of a producer for the product, an article of dress for the person who
wears it, the name of an author for his or her work, the object used for the
user, the controller for the controlled, the institution for the people
responsible, the place for the event, and so on.
(Nerlich and Clarke 1992: 134)
We extend these types of metonymy to include pragmatic associations that arise in
the ﬂow of speech (see 2.3.2 below).
Bréal (1964 [1900]) characterizes motivations for such changes as primarily
social and psychological. He identiﬁes ﬁve types of motivation of which the ﬁrst
three centrally involve strategic use of language for communicative purposes.
(i) Avoidance of difﬁculty (p. 60),
(ii) Securing of greater clarity (p. 65),
(iii) Taboo and euphemism (pp. 100–3); these readily lead to generaliza-
tion (expansion of the meaning of the item used as a euphemism), and
concomitant narrowing or even loss of the term referring to a taboo
topic. The case of toilet illustrates both. At ﬁrst the meaning “cloth
for wrapping clothes/the head” was extended to more and more ac-
tivities associated with grooming and dressing. Eventually it became
7 Katana, a term for “long sharp object,” was presumably understood in this compound only in the
specialized sense of “long sharp object used for culinary purposes.”
58
Prior and current work on semantic change
associated via euphemism with the ﬁxture for disposing of bodily ex-
cretions, and the room containing it. But the more the word was used
as a euphemism, the less it was used for grooming. Taboo has led toilet
itself to be replaced by terms such as restroom, or bathroom (even when
no bath is expected or known to be present). Janda (2001) discusses
the euphemistic “clipping” or loss of the noun (e.g. “body”) after the
prepositions behind in English, derrière “behind” in French and After
“behind” in German, resulting in the nominalization of the erstwhile
prepositions to denote “buttocks.” Citing Kluge and Seebold (1995),
he says that in Gm. a new noun After, also from a preposition, came to
be used as a euphemism for “anus,” but the taboo associated with the
latter led to the early loss of this word.
(iv) Fading and discoloration (p. 103), or loss of semantic content (now
also known as “bleaching”), e.g. awfully “in a way inspiring awe” >
“very,” Gm. sehr “cruelly” > “very.”
(v) External factors such as cultural changes (p. 105), e.g. attitudes
to referents of bourgeois. These are, however, of little interest to
Bréal who focuses instead on language-internal factors in semantic
change.
Such lists may seem like sets of irreconcilable principles, and hardly examples
of “laws.” But Bréal does not treat all equally. With respect to “laws” of semantic
change, he suggests that pejoration dominates over melioration, that restriction is
language-internal, expansion external; further, that metaphor may be at work in all
the other types of changes. With respect to motivations, avoidance of difﬁculty and
attention to clarity are presented as the dominant motivations (pp. 60, 65), ultimately
driven by principles of analogy that Bréal considers foundational to the language
capacity. These competing motivations have been redeﬁned since Bréal’s times in
various ways. For example, Langacker (1977) speaks of the competing searches for
signal simplicity and for greater informativeness, and Slobin (1977) of “charges to
language” including “be quick and easy” and “be clear.”
Bréal devotes a whole synchronic chapter to subjectivity, which he sees as arising
from speakers developing scenarios in which “we are at the same time the interested
spectator and the author of events” (p. 229). He sees subjectivity as particularly
associated with moods, but also (p. 230) with what have since come to be known as
“stance adverbs” (Biber and Finegan 1988) like happily as in An accident took place
yesterday . . . but happily caused no loss of life (where happily means “I am happy
to say”). Bréal hypothesizes that “the Subjective Element is the oldest” property of
language (p. 237), based on the observation that speech is primarily speaker–hearer
based, and “was not made for purposes of description, of narration, of disinterested
59
Regularity in semantic change
consideration,” but to “express a desire, to intimate an order . . .” (p. 238). Perhaps
because he considers it foundational to language, he does not discuss it as a factor
in semantic change, although his examples of pejoration and melioration and his
interest in change due to the desire to be expressive directly suggest such a role.
Until very recently most authors have largely followed Bréal’s characterization
of semantic change, but usually without paying any attention to the role that sub-
jectiﬁcation might be regarded as playing, or to context, which, Bréal points out,
can eliminate “obscurity and confusion” (p. 287). Faced with pairs of changes that
seemed to cancel each other out, even if one member of each pair is predominant,
and with examples taken out of context, many linguists have tended to see seman-
tic change as essentially unstructured. This opinion is still reﬂected in Hock and
Joseph, who, despite acknowledging that “given the right circumstances, semantic
change can have very sweeping and systematic effects,” nevertheless say that “in
the majority of cases semantic change is as fuzzy, self-contradictory, and difﬁcult to
predict as lexical semantics itself” (1996: 252). Nevertheless, signiﬁcant advances
have been made, and it is to these we now turn.
2.2.2 The early twentieth century
Two early twentieth century ﬁgures of great importance in the de-
velopment of theories of semantic change were Meillet (see especially 1958
[1905–06]), who emphasized the grounding of meaning change in the structure of
society, and Saussure (1996 [1916]), whose interests in comparing synchronic sys-
tems ultimately led to work on “semantic ﬁelds” (see 2.2.3). It is often forgotten
that much of Saussure’s work concerned language change, and that his career
started with a brilliant reconstruction (1967 [1879]) of Indo-European phonemes
that was later known as laryngeal theory. He is now remembered primarily for
the profound effect of his interests in the sign as an element in a synchronic sys-
tem. According to Saussure, change disrupts the system and is process; synchrony
is product. Change emphasizes the arbitrariness of language because individual
signs are the result of individual changes over time (even though there may be
overall regularities such as the exceptionlessness of sound change). “In spite of
appearances to the contrary, diachronic events are always accidental and particular
in nature” (Saussure 1996 [1916]: 92) and not subject to “laws” in the sense of
generalizations that are “imperative” and “general” (ibid. p. 90). Saussure cites the
semantic change Fr. poutre “mare” > “beam, rafter” as an example, saying that
“The change can be explained by reference to particular circumstances” (ibid.).
Poutre appears to originate in OF poutrel “young horse,” poutre “young mare.”
Mares carry burdens; analogically, beams carry roofs (Wartburg 1928–66 Lat.
pulliter). While Saussure’s insight is correct that individual signs are the result
of individual changes, nevertheless, most are instances of general changes. The
60
Prior and current work on semantic change
“particular” change exempliﬁed by poutre is an example of a general process of
metaphoric transfer.
One post-Saussurean line of thinking led to emphasis on the arbitrariness
of change, particularly as evidenced by change resulting from external factors,
such as changes in material culture. Such approaches focused on referential
and denotational meaning. Ullmann (1964) provides an example which, he shows,
looks quite simple at ﬁrst. The bread-roll called croissant might be thought
to have this name because of its shape (we might think the meaning of crescent
in French was simply extended by metonymy from an early stage of the moon
to an object shaped like it). In fact, however, the connection to shape is more com-
plex: the French word is calqued (translated into the native language) from Gm.
Hörnchen “little horn”; this term was ﬁrst applied to rolls baked in the late seven-
teenth century in Vienna to commemorate a victory over the Turks, whose national
emblem was and is the crescent (Ullmann 1964: 197, citing Bloch and Wartburg
1960). This is still a metonymic explanation, but it involves social factors and only
indirectly visual ones.
Other examples of denotational meaning changes that reﬂect social and tech-
nological change include terms for economic exchange or for living communi-
ties. A contemporary town has little or no referential connection with an OE tun
or enclosure beyond designation of a community where people live together, a
“population center.” In OE times, such a center was no larger, and often smaller,
than what we now think of as a village, it was enclosed, and was not on a scale in
which “city” or “urban center” played any part. In the present century changes in
the nature of aviation or of information technology have changed the denotation
of plane (from a single-engine plane such as the Wright brothers ﬂew to Boeing
747s, the Concorde, and Stealth planes) and computer (from a machine that ﬁlled
whole rooms to a lap-top). Similarly, Jp. kuruma signiﬁed “wheeled vehicle” (by
metonymy from “wheel,” see above), including carts and carriages until modern
times. During the early part of the twentieth century, kuruma most often referred
to rickshaws, but since World War II its default interpretation has come to be
“automobile.” MdJ daidokoro “kitchen” originates in LOJ daibandokoro, a com-
pound of daiban “portable tray-table” and tokoro “place.” The daibandokoro was a
speciﬁc room in the Imperial and other palaces of the ninth century and was used
for placing (already cooked) food onto portable trays for serving to the nobility.
At that time, the room in which the food was cooked was expressed by kuriya, but
dai(ban)dokoro came to be used to refer to this room as well. Daidokoro came to
be used in MJ for “kitchen” in a different type of architecture, namely the room
in samurai houses and large farmhouses in which a large kettle was kept over a
ﬁre. Daidokoro continues to be used for kitchens in present-day Japan, although
Takemitsu (1998: 195) expresses reluctance toward using daidokoro in reference to
61
Regularity in semantic change
a modern Japanese “dining-kitchen” (dainingu kittyin) with various appliances and
eating table.
As Meillet 1958 [1905–06]) pointed out, regardless of the extent to which seman-
tic changes may be driven by changes in the nonlinguistic world, they are driven
in this way within the framework of linguistic meanings: senses, or conceptual
structures. Furthermore, they are subject to the kinds of meaning changes outlined
in 2.2.1 above, e.g. dai(ban)dokoro was generalized ﬁrst from a room specialized
for a particular phase of food preparation in Imperial palaces to Imperial kitchens
as well, then to kitchens in samurai houses, and eventually to kitchens in general;
this kind of generalization also involved a mild kind of pejoration. Takemitsu’s
reluctance to use the term for a dining-kitchen suggests later specialization.
While changes in material culture are most frequently adduced to support the
Saussurean notion of arbitrariness of change in meaning, the most striking examples
of such arbitrariness are closely tied to conscious choice and linguistic interven-
tion, or “language planning by decree” (Bartsch 1984: 369). We give two examples,
one in the technical realm of scientiﬁc research, the other in the realm of social
interaction (for others, especially in the realm of oligarchic control, see Hughes
1992). Gould (1977: 28–32, citing Bowler 1975) discusses how the Lat. etymology
of the scientiﬁc term evolution denotes an unrolling of parts that pre-exist. From
its earliest uses in English it meant both this and a series of connected events
involving growth, even “progress.” As theories of preformationism declined,
the ﬁrst meaning fell into disuse. Deﬁnitions associated with development by
structural differentiation of unstructured material (“epigenesis”), came to be
preferred in the mid nineteenth century. Since evolution was shorter than the
phrase Darwin used in On the Origin of Species, “descent with modiﬁcation,”
biologists began to prefer evolution for organic change leading to greater
complexity.8
In the twentieth century evolution was extended from “general
progress” to “any genetic change in populations,” including “speciﬁc cases of
adaptation” (Gould 1977: 32). Such changes in meaning have been affected
by transmission of biological theories; they have inﬂuenced what is deemed
worthy of research, and therefore worthy of funding, and have also ﬁltered down
into public consciousness, primarily through pedagogical and informational ma-
terials, in ways that are not subject to any kind of regularity of the type we are
discussing in this book.
Efforts to develop social awareness and “reinscribe” cultural mores have in re-
cent years led to redeﬁnition of terms like rape and harassment. Like changes in
evolution, these are changes that are essentially “objectiﬁcation” in so far as they
are attempts to preempt for discussion and eventual regulation behaviors that were
8 Gould (1977: 32) points out that this was, however, not Darwin’s own view of descent.
62
Prior and current work on semantic change
originally conceptualized differently. In recent years harass has come to be more
and more associated with verbal behaviors, as in:
(8) He chose to live with the poor. He chose to argue for the homeless. He chose
to embarrass, harass and challenge our leadership.
(1990 July 6, United Press Intl.; Jesse Jackson, eulogizing Mitch Snyder)
According to the OED, harass was borrowed from French in the seventeenth century.
It is deﬁned as:
(9) 1. To wear out, tire out, or exhaust with fatigue, care, trouble, etc. Obs. or dial.
(the ﬁrst example is dated 1626)
2. To harry, lay waste, devastate, plunder. Obs. (ﬁrst example 1618)
3. To trouble or vex by repeated attacks. (ﬁrst example 1622)
4. To trouble, worry, distress with annoying labour, care, perplexity, importunity,
misfortune, etc. (ﬁrst example 1656)
5. Technical term. To scrape or rub. (ﬁrst example 1875)
None of the examples in the OED are strictly verbal; all, however, have to do with
effect. The American Heritage Dictionary deﬁnes the word similarly. Verbal uses
are alluded to only in the section on synonyms: “Harass and harry imply system-
atic persecution by besieging with repeated annoyances, threats, or demands” (The
American Heritage Dictionary 2000). Harass had, however, come to be extended
to contexts involving verbal events by the beginning of the nineteenth century. A
possible early example is:
(10) but was strangely harassed by a queer, half-witted man, who would [“wanted
to”] make me dance with him, and distressed me by his nonsense.
(1818 Austen, Northanger Abbey, vol. I, 26)
Here would make me dance and distressed me with his nonsense appear to be reports
of verbal acts. In (11), also from Austen, the harassing is clearly verbal, in the sense
of self-questioning:
(11) while harassing herself in secret with the never-ending question, of whether
Captain Wentworth would come or not?
(1818 Austen, Persuasion, vol. II, 227)
The contemporary meaning of harass appears to be deeply connected with US
federal laws including Title VII of the Civil Rights Act (1964) and Title IX of
the Education Amendments Act (1972), forbidding harassment of any type, and
speciﬁcally sexual and racial harassment. Especially inﬂuential is the deﬁnition
of sexual harassment by the 1980 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
(EEOC) Guidelines on Discrimination because of Sex. The by now well-known
deﬁnition is, in part, as follows:
63
Regularity in semantic change
(12) Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or
physical conduct of a sexual nature constitute sexual harassment when (1)
submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term of
condition of an individual’s employment . . .9
Verbal conduct is central to this deﬁnition. Since the Meritor vs. Vinson
case in 1986,10
efforts to deﬁne the hearer’s role as interpreter of meanings have
led to lengthy legal debate concerning the meaning of “unwelcome,” “reasonable
person,” more recently “reasonable woman,” and “hostile environment.” As the
noun harassment and the cognate verb harass have come to be used in more and
more non-legal contexts, older meanings pertaining to effect of conduct are being
replaced by newer meanings pertaining to interpretation, and signiﬁcant uncertain-
ties as to the meaning of the words have arisen, leading to constant revision of
workplace and campus codes of behavior. One thing that is certain, however, is that
language plays a far more prominent role in the meaning of harassment and harass
than it did in earlier times, a change that may be attributed not only to changing
social expectations, but even more speciﬁcally to the 1980 EEOC Guidelines, that
is, to interventive change. Interestingly, the interventive change happens to coincide
with shifts to “speech act” meaning. Examples (10) and (11) from Austen suggest
this change might have been naturally in progress and was merely hastened by
intervention.
While much work on semantic change in the years after the publication of Saus-
sure’s lectures concerned individual arbitrary change, far more important was the
attention paid to the structural oppositions inherent in Bréal’s list and to the mutual
constraints these oppositions imposed on each other (see Ullmann 1957, 1964: 244).
For example, in his chapter on semantic change in Language, Bloomﬁeld built on
the traditional classiﬁcation of semantic change as narrowing–widening, metaphor–
metonymy, synecdoche, hyperbole, litotes, degeneration–elevation, but insisted
that these types of changes could not be regarded as explanatory. In his view
such meaning changes arise out of “a connection between practical things” (1984
[1933]: 428), most especially out of language in use: “Since every practical situation
is in reality unprecedented, the apt response of a good speaker may always border
on semantic innovation” (1984 [1933]: 443). This leads him to insist on the need to
determine contexts of change. Since in many cases the social and political contexts
are no longer accessible, a more abstract set of contexts needs to be found: that
of the oppositions into which the term enters. To Bloomﬁeld the most important
investigation in semantic change is gradual extension from one type of situation to
9 Title VII, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). Guidelines on Discrimination
because of Sex. Federal Register 1980, 45 (219): 74677.
10 Meritor Savings Bank vs. Vinson (477 U.S. 57, 1986).
64
Prior and current work on semantic change
another, with concomitant competition from some other term. For example, of the
shift from meat “food” > “edible ﬂesh of an animal” he says that while we may
“some day ﬁnd out why ﬂesh was disfavored in culinary situations” (1984 [1933]:
441), linguistic analysis leads us to:
see that a normal extension of meaning is the same process as an extension of
grammatical function. When meat, for whatever reason, was being favored,
and ﬂesh, for whatever reason, was on the decline, there must have occurred
proportional extension of the pattern:
leave the bones and bring the ﬂesh : leave the bones and bring the meat
= give us bread and ﬂesh : x,
resulting in a new phrase, give us bread and meat. The forms at the left,
containing the word ﬂesh, must have borne an unfavorable connotation which
was absent from the forms at the right, with the word meat.
(Bloomﬁeld 1984 [1933]: 441; italics original)
Bloomﬁeld, therefore, moved from focus on arbitrariness in semantic change, and
change in reference, to the structural issue of extension and obsolescence as conse-
quences of analogies and patterns that operate on structural forms. Without being
explicit about directionality in semantic change, he presumably subsumed it in his
claim that: “As to change, we have enough data to show that the general processes
of change are the same in all languages and tend in the same direction. Even very
speciﬁc types of change occur in much the same way, but independently, in the most
diverse languages” (Bloomﬁeld 1984 [1933]: 20). His chapter on semantic change
ends with a comment on the way in which “personal innovations are modeled on
current forms” (1984 [1933]: 443), and on the relationship of ordinary to poetic
metaphor, a theme that was to survive long after Bloomﬁeld’s behaviorist, referen-
tial views on language had been replaced by focus on mental, sense constructs, and
which was taken up in the context of work on semantic ﬁelds. It is to the latter that
we now turn.
2.2.3 Semantic ﬁelds
The concept of semantic domains is an intuitive one with a millennium
of history. Structuralist interest in oppositions and taxonomies led to the develop-
ment of the concept of a structured conceptual domain, or “semantic ﬁeld” (also
sometimes called “lexical ﬁeld”). The term “semantic ﬁeld” is attributed by Ull-
mann (1964: 244) to Ipsen (1924). Work on semantic ﬁelds shifted attention to
conceptual categories and the recruitment of lexemes to these categories, i.e. to
onomasiology.
Among the ﬁrst major studies of a semantic ﬁeld was Trier’s (1931) study of the
development of terms for INTELLECT. According to Ullmann:
65
Regularity in semantic change
Trier elaborated his conception of ﬁelds as closely-knit sectors of the
vocabulary, in which a particular sphere is divided up, classiﬁed and
organized in such a way that each element helps to delimit its neighbours and
is delimited by them . . . In each ﬁeld, the raw material of experiences is
analysed and elaborated in a unique way, differing from one language to
another and often from one period to another in the history of the same idiom.
In this way, the structure of semantic ﬁelds embodies a speciﬁc philosophy
and a scale of values.
(Ullmann 1964: 245)
Trier tried to show that in Middle High German c. 1200 the ﬁeld of intellect was
organized around three terms: wˆ
ısheit “courtly, chivalric attainments,” list “non-
courtly attainments,” and kunst “human wisdom in all its aspects, theological and
mundane.” By c. 1300, however, feudalism had fallen apart, and list was acquiring
thepejorativemeaningsthatleadinModernGermanto“cunning,trick,”andtheﬁeld
of the intellect was differently organized as wˆ
ısheit “religious, mystical experience,”
kunst “art,” and a new term wizzen “knowledge.” This is represented by Lehrer
(1985) as in ﬁgure 2.1. As Ullmann points out (1964: 249) there are problems with
such analyses: the neatness of the “mosaic” of meanings, as Trier called it, without
overlap is false – meanings are not discrete. If gaps in a ﬁeld are detected, they are
often a function of theory. Trier also gives no role to marginalized senses such as list,
which persists up to the present day. Matoré (1953) partially solved this problem by
introducing the concepts of mots-témoins “witness-words” around which semantic
ﬁelds are organized and mots-clés “key-words,” words privileged by a society at a
particular point in time (discussed in Ullmann 1964: 252–253; see also Williams
1985 [1976]).
Trier’s work was largely grounded in social and cultural history. By contrast,
Stern (1968 [1931]) took a psychological view of meaning and argued that change
within a semantic ﬁeld could be independent of culture. Particularly interesting is
1200
Kunst List
1300
Kunst Wizzen
WÎsheit
WÎsheit
Figure 2.1. German terms of intellect (Lehrer 1985: 284; based on Trier 1931).
66
Prior and current work on semantic change
his analysis of what he calls “permutation,” which is closely related to the type
of metonymy involving association (as opposed to the type involving synecdoche,
which Stern called “adequation”). His examples involve transfer of “a detail of a
total situation” (ibid. p. 351) to some other situation, for example, from prayer to
an object associated with it; thus, in his now famous example, beads “prayers” was
transferred in ME to the balls of the rosary by which prayers were counted (ibid.
p. 353). Among other permutations cited is the development of Fr. cependant and
Eng. while from a temporal meaning “during the time which” to an adversative
meaning “although.” Stern characterized such changes as involving the changes in
perception: the “subjective apprehension of the referent” (ibid. p. 351).
A special interest of Stern’s was in the type of change evidenced by RAPIDLY
> IMMEDIATELY. He claimed that terms for the conceptual category RAPIDLY
developed a polysemic meaning of IMMEDIATELY in the context of perfective
verbs “denoting the action as a unit” (Stern 1968 [1931]: 185–191). Thus OE swifte
and georne “rapidly” > “immediately” in about 1300. He argued that this change
affected words meaning RAPIDLY before 1300; words from other sources that
came to mean RAPIDLY or were borrowed with that meaning after 1400, e.g.
ﬂeetly (1598) and rapidly itself (1727), did not undergo this change.
The theoretical interest here is several-fold: Stern aimed to provide evidence that
related words (he lists twenty-two) could show parallel semantic changes, and that,
like phonological ones, semantic changes can take place over a certain period, and
then cease to be in effect so that new words with the original meaning do not undergo
the change. He argued that there was an intermediary stage where the two meanings
were in variation (A > A ∼ B > B; see (10) in 1.2.2). He also suggested that the
changes were dependent on the lexical aspect of the verb, rapidly being associated
with process events (he calls them imperfective events), immediately with punctual
(perfective) ones; in other words, the change was associative. Most importantly for
our purposes, he identiﬁed this as a change that was a “permutation,” that is, a
metonymy leading to a new meaning. He also showed that it was implausible for
the reverse change to take place: “it is evident that if a person rides rapidly up to
another, the action is soon completed; but we cannot reverse the argument and say
that if a person soon rides up to another, then the action is also rapidly performed”
(ibid. p. 186). This is an argument for unidirectionality. In our terms it is an example
not only of invited inferencing and unidirectionality, but also of subjectiﬁcation: a
shift from a descriptive manner adverb to a deictic one (of time).
Unfortunately, the example seemed at the time so language-speciﬁc that his con-
clusions about unidirectionality and culture-independence were not persuasive. He
provides no contextualized examples in the book, and does not account for the other
polysemies of the adverbs in question (e.g. OE georne meant “eagerly” as well as
“rapidly”), or for the loss of some of the adverbs such as georne. Although he
67
Regularity in semantic change
considers the change to be an example of a general process, his interest in arguing
that the change was completed by 1400 signiﬁcantly undermined his larger ob-
jective, which was to show that careful empirical studies could show “laws,” i.e.
regularities, in change. In actual fact, his ﬁnding is indeed an example of a change
replicated not only within the semantic ﬁeld in English, but cross-linguistically. In
his chapter on TIME, Buck comments “The majority of words for ‘soon’ are, or
were once, simply ‘quickly’” (1949: 964).
Buck refers only to Indo-European languages. But Jp. suggests a similar se-
mantic relationship. In MJ the adverbs hayaku (a regular derivational form of the
adjective hayai), sassoku, and sumiyaka ni all express both RAPIDLY and IMME-
DIATELY. Although written records do not provide direct evidence of the direction
of the change in Japanese, the distribution of the semantic ﬁelds for RAPIDLY and
IMMEDIATELY suggests that the meaning RAPIDLY is primary relative to IM-
MEDIATELY in this language as well. Most expressions in Japanese that express
RAPIDLY also express IMMEDIATELY. Besides these examples, the adjective tosi
“sharp” (as in a sword blade), “alert” appears in the meanings “rapid” and “imme-
diate” during the LOJ period. Soosoo “hastily” likewise appears in the meanings
“rapidly,” “immediately” from LOJ. However, a few words for RAPIDLY are not
used in the meaning IMMEDIATELY, e.g. subayai (adverb subayaku, a compound
of the preﬁx su- “pure(ly), nothing else but” plus hayai) expresses only the meaning
“rapidly.” Similarly, the loanword zinsoku ni (made up of two Chinese characters for
“speed”) appears to mean only “rapidly.” In contrast, words for IMMEDIATELY
in Japanese tend to be derived and drawn from a number of other concepts as well
as RAPIDLY. These include sugu (ni ) “directly, immediately,” tadati ni “directly,
immediately,” niwaka ni “abruptly, suddenly,” and sokuza ni “immediately, im-
promptu.” Sugu (ni ) and tadati ni both reﬂect spatial to temporal meaning change,
while niwaka ni and sokuza ni appear to reﬂect origins in other manner adverb
sources.
While work on regularity in semantic change in Europe focused on psychology
(e.g. in the decades after Stern, Kronasser’s 1952 study of semasiology), the main
impetus in the USA was from anthropology, most especially Berlin and Kay’s (1969)
cross-linguistic study of color terms. Drawing on the notion of semantic ﬁeld in
linguistics and kinship taxonomies in anthropology, they sought to test the “Sapir–
Whorf hypothesis” concerning the arbitrariness of the linguistic sign and of the
relation of language to thought. Their conclusion was that the “basic” (one-word)
color terms of all languages form a maximal set of eleven perceptual foci, and that
there is a partially ﬁxed order in which these foci are acquired by children and in
semantic development as in ﬁgure 2.2. They concluded that such paths of develop-
ment were universal and motivated by non-linguistic perceptual factors, speciﬁcally
visual perception, and therefore not arbitrary. The details of the hypothesis were
68
Prior and current work on semantic change
FOCI:
STAGES: I
white
black
green yellow
yellow green
blue brown
purple
pink
orange
grey
II IIIa
IIIb
IV V VI VII
red
Figure 2.2. The proposed cross-linguistic development of color terms (Kay 1975:
257).
subsequently called into question and much revised and need not concern us here.
For studies of semantic change the interest was primarily in the proposal that there
were implicational hierarchies of COLOR development such that one could predict
that if a language had a term for BLUE, then it would also have terms for YEL-
LOW and GREEN, and the term for BLUE would have developed later than either
YELLOW or GREEN.
Implicational universals and hierarchies were being established in a number of
areas of grammar in the context of cross-linguistic typological work, much of which
is represented in Greenberg (1966 [1963]) and Greenberg, Ferguson, and Moravcsik
(1978) (for a detailed summary see Croft 1990). Implicational universals were
intended to capture tendencies such as “If a language has property Y, then it will
have property X, but not necessarily vice versa,” e.g. if a language has nasal vowels,
then it will have oral vowels, but not necessarily vice versa. Implicational hierarchies
are of similar form but concern probability rankings, such as “Property A is more
likely to occur/is more accessible to various linguistic processes than property B.”
One of the best-known of these hierarchies is the animacy hierarchy (see Silverstein
1976b, Dixon 1979, and several subsequent versions):
(13) 1st, 2nd person pronouns < 3rd person pronoun < proper names < human
common noun < nonhuman animate common noun < inanimate common
noun
(Croft 1990: 113, based on Dixon 1979: 85; here < indicates that the
preceding term ranks higher in the hierarchy than the following term)
This hierarchy speciﬁes that ﬁrst and second person pronouns outrank third person
pronouns, etc. with respect to certain linguistic phenomena such as morphological
distinctions among person pronouns and demonstratives (e.g. Greenberg 1993),
nominative–accusative vs. ergative–absolutive morphology (e.g. Dixon 1979), and
empathy effects in word order and information packaging (e.g. Kuno and Kaburaki
1977).
69
Regularity in semantic change
Diachronically, implicational hierarchies are to be understood as “If C, then it is
likely to have arisen from B, and if B, then B is likely to have arisen from A, but not
necessarily vice versa,” a weakly unidirectional statement. For example, Greenberg
(1978) showed that:
(14) Deﬁnite demonstrative > deﬁnite article > gender marker
(here > indicates that the following term is likely to have
arisen from the preceding term)
(Here “gender marker” is to be understood as “noun class marker.”) Stated as a
diachronic implicational hierarchy, the hypothesis would be that gender markers
may arise from deﬁnite articles but not vice versa (of course, they may, and often
do, arise from other things as well). More speciﬁcally, the deﬁnite demonstrative
is typically a distal, third person deictic (e.g. Lat. ille/illa, OE æt); it becomes a
deﬁnite article when it is used primarily with anaphoric reference (e.g. Fr. le/la,
Eng. the), and a gender marker when anaphoric reference ceases to be its predom-
inant function, and nouns are typically marked by it. In English only a few nouns
are of this type, mostly names of places or rivers, e.g. The Mississippi, The Hague.
In French, however, the deﬁnite article is typically used in the absence of other
appropriate markers of gender and number, as in j’aime les livres “I love DEF-
ART books” (Harris 1978: 75–76). English, then, shows the seeds of the devel-
opment of an original demonstrative into a gender marker; French shows a rather
advanced stage of this development.
The work of Berlin and Kay focused on a semantic ﬁeld and its referentiality (in-
formants made responses to a ﬁne-grained color chart). The prime issue was how
many terms were available, and in what historical order lexical semantic differences
were encoded. Their study was initially taken to show that external factors such as
the physiology of the eye could motivate change within semantic ﬁelds. Other se-
mantic ﬁeld studies focused on the extent to which changes in social attitudes and
practices drive meaning changes, or vice versa. Dahlgren (1978), for example, ar-
gues that the social construction of kingship over the ages has changed the meaning
of king. In OE the cyning was a “war-lord,” then a “chief lord” and, after the Nor-
man Conquest, king came to mean “absolute monarch”; the stereotypes associated
with “kings in the actual world determined what the meaning was” (1978: 61). An
approach from critical and cultural theory (e.g. Crowley 1996), which interprets
meanings in terms of the production and reproduction of social relations, would
argue that the myths and narratives about kingship were linguistic contexts for
such changes; i.e., the “actual world” is in part linguistic. Dahlgren’s work, in
highlighting stereotype meanings, and in focusing on the language-external inﬂu-
ences on linguistic representations, raised issues that were later of central concern
70
Prior and current work on semantic change
sight
hearing
touch
smell
taste
−contact
+contact
Figure 2.3. Extension of verbs of perception across modalities (Viberg 1983: 147).
to cognitive linguistics, but nevertheless very different from it, in so far as she
addressed social rather than cognitive systems.
Implications of semantic ﬁelds analysis were also considered in cognitive do-
mains such as INTELLECT. A pioneering work was Derrig (1978) in which she
hypothesized with respect to hues that cross-linguistically WHITE was extended
metaphorically to innocence (hence sometimes stupidity), BLACK to evil, igno-
rance, and gloominess, RED to anger and sex, BLUE/GREEN to inexperience and
being uneducated, YELLOW to ripeness. She also found with respect to inten-
sity, that BRIGHT was associated with understanding, LIGHT with intelligence,
DARK with ignorance and opacity, and CLEAR with alertness. Another pioneer-
ing work was Viberg (1983) on PERCEPTION, in which the author hypothesized
that meanings associated with one modality may be cross-linguistically extended
to cover another modality; sight and hearing, in particular, are subject to extension
not only to other sense modalities but also to INTELLECT. Noting that a linear
representation of the hierarchy among perception verbs is inadequate to capture
the complexity of the paths of extension, he proposed the ﬂow-chart in ﬁgure 2.3.
Implications of more recent work by Sweetser (1990) in the general area of PER-
CEPTION and INTELLECT will be discussed in section 2.3.1 on metaphor from a
cognitive linguistic perspective.
The ﬁndings about semantic ﬁelds of INTELLECT and PERCEPTION were di-
rectly connected with work on synaesthesia, the metaphorical extension of terms for
the ﬁve senses onto the domain of other senses and onto social behaviors, language,
and so forth (Williams 1976; see also Kronasser 1952). This phenomenon had al-
ready been noted by Bréal, who gives as examples of metaphor the mapping of sight
onto hearing, e.g. bright note and of taste onto language, e.g. bitter reproach, etc.
(Bréal 1964 [1900]: 130). Williams reﬁned this programmatic kind of observation
with a study of synaesthesia in English, from which he hypothesized that the paths
of extension were as in ﬁgure 2.4. He tested this against IE (as evidenced by Buck’s
1949 dictionary of synonyms in IE), and in Japanese, where he found 91 percent
71
Regularity in semantic change
dry
soft
taste
sweet
smell
brisk
warm
dimension
sound
quiet
clear
color
full
deep
touch
Figure 2.4. Synaesthetic adjectives (Viberg 1983: 159, with examples added to
Williams 1976: 463).
correlation with the schema in ﬁgure 2.4. Derrig (1978) showed that the direction-
ality proposed by Williams was less ﬁrm than he had suggested, but continued to
afﬁrm the hypothesis that cross-linguistic evidence could be found for directionality,
hence predictability in semantic change. Viberg (1983) noted that while the relation
between touch, taste, and smell was the same in both the hierarchy of PERCEPTION
and in synaesthesia, the relation between sight and touch was reversed. Whereas
vision predominates in extensions across perception modalities, and from PER-
CEPTION to INTELLECT, touch is the predominant source in synesthesia, with
sound as its predominant target (1983: 159).
One particularly fruitful semantic ﬁeld, especially in cross-linguistic typological
work, has been that of BODY PART terms (see e.g. Brown and Witkowski 1983,
Wilkins1996).Forexample,usingasampleof118languages,BrownandWitkowski
undertookaninvestigationoftherelationshipbetweenEYEandFACE.Theyshowed
that in “small-scale societies” EYE has a cultural importance (“salience”) far greater
than FACE and that forms for the former often have polysemies for the latter, but not
vice versa. In these languages, EYE is “unmarked” in the sense that it is usually the
simple lexical form, whereas terms for FACE may be derived by compounding or
derivationfromEYE.InsuchsocietiesSEEDandFRUITareinparallelrelationship:
“eye and seed are in a sense the centre or core of face and fruit respectively, while
face and fruit comprise the periphery of eye and seed. Thus formally speaking, eye
and seed are to face and to fruit as centre is to periphery or ‘ﬁgure’ to ‘ground’”
(Brown and Witkowski 1983: 76). Furthermore, EYE is sometimes extended to
SEED and even FRUIT. In other words, not only individual lexical representations
have similar directionalities, but parallel ones may as well, given extra-linguistic
criteria such as cultural importance (see ﬁgure 2.5).
As societies become “large-scale” and urban, cultural importance may shift;
indeed, FACE and FRUIT tend in such societies to be as important as or more im-
portant than EYE and SEED, and Brown and Witkowski predict that the polysemies
illustrated in ﬁgure 2.5 will not be found in such societies. They note that in ancient
Gk., a single term ops was used to designate eye and face; later, complex terms
72
Prior and current work on semantic change
EYE FACE
FRUIT
SEED
Figure 2.5. Direction of polysemy extensions in the ﬁeld of eye/face and seed/fruit
(Brown and Witkowski 1983: 73).
derived from ops came to distinguish the two, and later yet this connection between
eye and face was lost (Brown and Witkowski 1983: 83).
Many studies of semantic ﬁelds, including those by Derrig, Williams, and Brown
and Witkowski discussed above, assume that the basic mechanism of change is
metaphor. Sometimes this mechanism has been shown to be deeply connected with
evaluation, especially pejoration. Lehrer (1985) investigates the way in which zoo-
logical subcategory terms developed denigrating pejorative polysemies in English,
e.g. PRIMATE (ape, baboon, gorilla) > brutishness; BIRD (goose, cuckoo, pigeon,
coot, turkey) > foolishness; SCAVENGER BIRD (buzzard, vulture) > greed. Sim-
ilarly, Kleparski (1990) demonstrates the extent to which terms for humans have
undergone pejoration cross-linguistically, and also how pejorative terms for humans
may be derived from the domain of animals and foods, e.g. Polish burak “beetroot”
> “country lad”; grzyb “mushroom” > “old, unpleasant man” (Kleparski 1990:
130–131).
A semantic ﬁeld that is more directly related to the concerns of this book is that
of verbs of speaking or LOCUTION. In a study of “the linguistic action scene,”
Goossens (1985) compares MdE speak, talk, say, and tell with verbs demonstrating
similar functions in OE. He argues that, among other things, speak and talk focus
on the linguistic action. He identiﬁes three main types of speak with focus on (i)
vocalization (speak loudly); (ii) establishing contact with a receptor (cf. speak to
you); and (iii) establishing contact in public ways (speak at a meeting). Talk is
similar in many respects, but treats AD as an interactive interlocutor (talk to you)
and often speciﬁes the function of speech (talk business) (Goossens 1985: 154–155).
By contrast, say and tell focus on the message. Say can introduce all types of speech
act, and can draw attention to speech properties, e.g. Just say quietly, “I’m going
to leave now,” while tell primarily introduces a narrative. The OE data, however,
suggest that there are only three high frequency verbs in OE, sp(r)ecan, cwe an,
and secgan, of which the ﬁrst focuses on the type of linguistic action, the second
and third on the message. Sp(r)ecan is most like speak, and indeed is etymologically
its origin, but is more like talk than speak with respect to AD, who is treated as
73
Regularity in semantic change
an interactor; furthermore, the public pronouncement aspect of speak is absent.
Cwe an frames direct messages and reports messages indirectly, secgan primarily
introduces indirect ones; in this regard cwe an is most like say, secgan like tell. This
means that there have been some signiﬁcant semantic changes: cwe an has become
obsolete except in archaisms like quoth, and secgan, the etymological source of
say, has become generalized. Goossens concludes that in OE “there are no items
with the same speciﬁcity” as the modern ones (ibid. p. 470); the reorganization of
the lexicon occurred in ME with the introduction of talk (an early Frisian term) and
the focusing of tell on verbal action (in OE tellan meant primarily “count” (cf. bank
teller) or recount11
in sequence, i.e. “narrate”). He suggests that the reorganization is
“at least partially” explained by the absence of speciﬁcities. Rather than formulating
the motivations for change in terms of therapeutic (and hence teleological) “ﬁlling
of gaps,” we might think of the changes in terms of changing practices with respect
to discourse and the metalanguage associated with it.
Of particular interest in the domain of verbs of LOCUTION is the development
ofwhatBenvenistecalls“delocutiveverbs”:verbsthatnameformulaiclanguageacts
of the type “to say . . .” (Benveniste 1971b [1958]: 245). He argues that they derive
cross-linguistically (at least among European languages) from discourse, especially
ritual, formulae, such as Gk. khaı́rein “to greet” < “say khaı̂re! (‘greetings’)”;
Eng. hail “shout ‘Hail!’”; Fr. (re)mercier “thank” < “say merci! (‘thanks’).” He
compares the ability to create such verbs denoting activities of discourse to the
ability to create verbs out of responses, e.g. Lat. negare “to say ‘nec,’ to deny” out
of nec “no,” or autumare “to say ‘autem,’ to argue, assert” out of autem “but.” This
change is therefore presented as an instance of metonymy, in this case an ellipsis,
of a report of a speech act. On ﬁrst thought it might suggest a counterexample
to subjectiﬁcation: to give a name to the reported act “to say X” would seem to
objectify the subjectivity of “X.” However, in the cases discussed here we do not
haveinstancesofsemasiologicaldevelopmentwithinonemorphosyntacticcategory.
Rather, the forms have undergone derivation into another morphosyntactic category.
Such derivation allows names, morphemes and phrases to be turned into nouns and
verbs, cf. to sandwich (derived from association with John Montagu, Fourth Earl of
Sandwich), ism (a derivative word-formation device), whodunit.
Being testable and predictive, many hypotheses about semantic ﬁelds seemed to
promise the potential for ﬁnding “laws” of semantic change comparable to those
in phonology such as Grimm’s Law. Sometimes these were thought of like chain
shifts rather than isolated regularities of the sort Stern discussed. For example,
Anttila cites brieﬂy a shift of form–meaning pairs “one notch” across a semantic
ﬁeld in Latin legal terminology that is “so regular and far-reaching” that it looks
11 Note the lexical association of counting with speaking.
74
Prior and current work on semantic change
like chain shift in the sound system (Anttila 1989 [1972]: 146–147). Unlike most
phonological laws, these semantic “laws” were to be understood as statements of
patterns: implicational and taxonomic hierarchies that are tendencies not absolutes;
furthermore, they were not “exceptionless,” as had been posited of sound changes at
the time. Therefore, although the analogy with phonological change was attractive,
it was also misleading (for a detailed critique, see Hoenigswald 1992). The fact that
semantic change does not apply like phonological change to every potential M may
have contributed to the continuation of the attitude that semantic change is basically
irregular (so, of course, did the late development of semantic theory). Nevertheless,
attempts to classify changes on analogy with phonological change were fruitful
in so far as efforts were made to come to grips with semantic change in terms of
semantic features and types of splits and mergers (see Anttila 1989 [1972]: chapter
7, Kleparksi 1986), or (in generative terms) rule addition and loss (e.g. Voyles
1973). From our perspective, the most important contribution of the kind of work
on semantic ﬁelds discussed in this section is that it not only laid the groundwork
for research on conceptual domains but also suggested ways of organizing lexical
commonalities across time and languages in terms of sense units, the networks they
enter into, and their hierarchies (Lehrer 1974).
2.3 Major contemporary issues
In this section we review some of the contemporary theoretical issues
in work on semantic change that are particularly relevant to this book.
2.3.1 Metaphor
Work began in the late 1970s on an approach to semantic change that
drew on various converging threads emerging from studies of language universals
(e.g. Greenberg, Ferguson, and Moravcsik 1978), historical syntax and grammati-
calization (e.g. Givón 1979), and generative semantics (e.g. McCawley 1968). Most
work at this time concerned ﬁelds similar to those studied earlier by anthropolo-
gists and psychologists, most notably SPACE > TIME (e.g. Traugott 1978), BODY
PART > SPACE (e.g. Kahr 1975). Like earlier work, it tended to assume that the
major mechanism for change was metaphor, construed as the analogical mapping
of a more concrete term from a “source” domain onto a more abstract term in the
“target” domain. Like earlier work it also tended to focus on lexical items out of con-
text, and evidence from dictionaries, grammars, and other secondary sources. There
were, however, several signiﬁcant differences about this line of research. One was a
move away from taxonomies, often with physical, social, or cultural referents (e.g.
EYE and FACE), to the study of conceptual categories and their relations. These
relations were not organized as binary features typical of componential analysis,
but were conceived as occupying an abstract cognitive domain or “mental space”
75
Regularity in semantic change
and could be arranged on a “map” of that mental space (see e.g. Anderson 1982).
Furthermore, the focus shifted from lexical semantic change to semantic changes
correlated with shifts from lexical to grammatical status; thus the interest in body
parts was not so much whether meanings for face derived from meanings for eye
or vice versa, but rather what body part terms developed meanings in grammatical
domains such as case. For example, Kahr showed that in Papago wui “eye” > wul
“toward,” and in Ewe nkúmè “face” > “before” (Kahr 1975: 45) (see section 2.3.3
below for discussion of grammaticalization).
But most important of all was a reconceptualization of the role of metaphor
in language. In traditions that treat metaphor as ﬁgurative and somehow derived,
metaphor is inevitably construed as a deviation from literal meaning. One of the
prime objectives of Cognitive Linguistics has been to show that metaphor is not
derived, superimposed, or deviant. Rather, it is a pervasive mode of thought, a
fundamental aspect of human cognizing and of human language, so fundamental
indeed that language is virtually inconceivable without it. It is grounded in percep-
tion and body movement, and especially in abstract and topological image-schemata
based on them (see e.g., Lakoff and Johnson 1980, Talmy 1985, 1988, Lakoff 1987,
1993, and, from a somewhat different perspective, Langacker 1987/91). Cognitive
Linguistics led to the reﬁning of two kinds of analysis, diachronic prototype
semantics (Geeraerts 1983, 1992, 1997; see also Györi 1996), and diachronic
metaphorical analysis (Sweetser 1990).
With respect to prototype theory, Geeraerts points to several characteristics of
prototypicality that are relevant to semantic change (Geeraerts 1997: 22–23). Most
importantly, since prototype theories focus on the unequal status of polysemies, and
on their tendency to cluster in related groupings (see discussion of Jurafsky’s work
on diminutives in 2.3.3 below), certain changes will be construed as more salient
than others, and carry more weight than others. Thus there may be “peripheral
meanings that do not survive for very long next to more important meanings that
subsist through time” (Geeraerts 1997: 24). Uncertainties regarding the delimitation
of a category may result in “the phenomenon that one and the same reading of a
particular lexical item may come into existence more than once in the history of
a word, each time on an independent basis,” a phenomenon that Geeraerts calls
“semantic polygenesis” (ibid.). As an example, he cites the use of verduisteren
by a Dutch song-writer in 1983 as “eclipse, disappear (Vt),” and suggests that it
is unlikely that this use was a continuation of a similar use in the sixteenth and
seventeenth centuries. He considered it an innovation based on the literal meaning
“become dark” (Geeraerts 1997: 63). As was discussed in 1.3.2, we require that
for a diachronic change, rather than an idiosyncratic innovation, to take place it
must have spread within a community, and therefore we question whether a single
use by a song-writer would count as a diachronic change. Nevertheless, Geeraerts’
76
Prior and current work on semantic change
conclusion from examples like this is an important one, and is consistent with
our view: “In a prototypical conception of meaning, the more salient readings are
among those that are conventionally handed down from generation to generation,
while other readings may at any moment be creatively and independently based on
those transmitted meanings” (Geeraerts 1997: 68).
With respect to metaphor, since it was conceptualized as involving one domain
of experience in terms of another and operating “between domains” (Sweetser
1990: 19; italics original), changes motivated by it were conceptualized as primarily
discontinuous and abrupt. However, since source and target meanings of metaphors
constrain each other experientially, it was hypothesized that aspects of the abstract
image-schemata associated with source and target are “preserved across metaphor-
ical mappings” (ibid. p. 59). In a now classic study of the lexical ﬁeld of intellect,
reconceived as involving a mind-as-body metaphor motivated by experience, e.g.
VISION/HEARING/TACTILE ACTS > INTELLECT, Sweetser showed how verbs
of seeing and grasping can come cross-linguistically to be metaphorized as verbs of
understanding, e.g. Gk. eı̃don “see,” perfect oı̃da “know” (cf. Eng. idea) (Sweetser
1990: 33; for a detailed study of the development of the Russian lexicon of knowing
and believing derived from seeing, see Andrews 1995). She also suggested that in
more abstract domains, such as that of modality, there is metaphorical mapping
across domains both synchronically and diachronically. Thus may can be said to
operate in three domains synchronically, for example:
(15) I sociophysical world (“content”): Kim may go. (“content modal of
permission”)
II mental world (reasoning): Kim may be tired. (“epistemic modal”)
III world of speaking (speech acting): Kim may be a nice guy, but I don’t
trust him. (“speech act modal”)
Here the image-schemata involved are barriers (Sweetser 1990: 61, 70, drawing in
part on Talmy 1988):
(16) I content: X is not barred by some authority from doing Y.
II reasoning: I am not barred by my premises from the conclusion Y.
III speech acting: I do not bar from our conversational world the statement Y.
Sweetsershowedthatmeaningchangeisfromcontenttoreasoningandspeechacting
meanings, not vice versa, a macro-level claim that is of fundamental importance to
the present work.
Historical evidence for the unidirectional change of content modals > epistemic
modals, that is, from Stage I > Stage II (not epistemic modals > content modals)
had been ﬁrmly established (see Shepherd 1981 for an early study). The question
remained whether evidence for a further change from epistemic into speech act
77
Regularity in semantic change
modalities could be found. While evidence in the domain of modal auxiliaries
has remained elusive, perhaps in part because of the nature of the data, there is
abundant support for the hypothesis in other domains to be discussed throughout
this book, especially the rise of metatextual discourse markers and of speech act
uses of locutionary verbs. These will be discussed in detail in chapters 4 and 5.
2.3.2 Metonymy and invited inference
Although Bréal distinguished between metaphor and association
(metonymy), and many others have done so since, e.g. Jakobson and Halle (1971),
the distinction has often been eroded. For example, Hock and Joseph say that
metaphor is “the major vehicle through which words acquire new or broader mean-
ings” (1996: 228), and include within it part-for-whole synecdoche (e.g. use of hand
for laborer), metonymy (association, e.g. use of bar [the physical barrier between
lawyer and jury] for the legal profession),12
hyperbole (exaggeration, e.g. use of
awfully as an intensiﬁer), litotes (understatement, e.g. use of a bit for rather), and
euphemism (e.g. pass on for die). Within Cognitive Linguistics, metaphor took
pride of place in the 1980s, even though Lakoff and Johnson (1980) and Lakoff
(1987) emphasized the importance of certain types of metonymy, for example the
use of a well-known (often salient) aspect of something to stand for the whole, e.g.
Washington “(a place for) government.”
Until recently, metonymy was thought of largely in terms of idiosyncratic
usages with external referents, such as White House for President of the USA,
or elliptic, such as a Picasso for a painting by Picasso, although as was mentioned
in 1.3.1, there has in recent years been a fundamental shift in thinking, most espe-
cially in Cognitive Linguistics (see Barcelona 2000a and papers therein, especially
Barcelona 2000b, Radden 2000). Among factors that led to this shift was synchronic
work on frame semantics; research exempliﬁed by Fillmore (1982) and Lehrer and
Kittay (1992) suggested that there are “frame metonymies,” in which components
of the frame are parts of the whole. For example, in a restaurant frame customers
and food are part of the whole; thus the well-known metonymy The ham sandwich
wants a second glass of coke (Nunberg 1978) involves not just a metonymy from
the person who ordered the sandwich to the sandwich, but to the whole restau-
rant scene and to our mental model of it (Sweetser and Fauconnier 1996). The
same may be said for the well-known example in Japanese linguistics Watasi wa
unagi da, which is structurally “I am (an) eel” but in a restaurant context means
“I’d like (the) eel.” Of metonymy Langacker has said that its “prevalence would be
hard to exaggerate” (Langacker 1995: 28). Indeed, it is fundamental to reference:
12 Note that Hock and Joseph distinguish synecdoche and metonymy, although the former is often
considered a subtype of the latter.
78
Prior and current work on semantic change
“In metonymy, an expression’s usual referent (i.e. its proﬁle) is invoked as a
reference point to establish mental contact with its intended referent (its target)”
(ibid.), for example:
(17) She bought Lakoff and Johnson, used and in paper, for just $1.50.
(Langacker 1995: 28; boldface original)
Here Lakoff and Johnson is a salient reference point, metonymically establishing
mental contact with the book rather than its authors. Similarly, Croft (1993: 354)
writes of metonymy as “the highlighting of an aspect of a concept’s proﬁle” in a
larger domain or frame.
Likewise in historical work, the focus on metonymy in an extended sense came to
be of increasing importance. Attempts were made to establish functional differences
between metaphor and metonymy/association. From this perspective, metaphor in-
volves similarity, mapping of one domain onto another, in what is essentially a con-
ceptual mode of analogy, paradigmatic choice, and iconicity. By contrast, metonymy
involves contiguity, syntagmatic relations, and indexicality, and shifts within the
same domain (Anttila 1989 [1972],13
Traugott 1988). But as mentioned in 1.3.1,
what exactly a “domain” is, or where the locus of change occurs has not always
been so clear. Is intensity of speed within the same semantic domain as aspectual
phase, or in a different one (see Stern’s example of RAPIDLY > IMMEDIATELY
(see section 2.2.2))? It would be possible to think in terms of domain transfer and
metaphor here: a mapping from the sociophysical world of description (in a rapid
manner) to that of temporal deixis, shifting according to the subjective view-point
of the speaker (within a time-period proximate to a point of reference, as subjec-
tively construed by the speaker). However, Stern treated the shift as permutation
(phrasal association, therefore metonymy), invoking as he did changes in the con-
text of process vs. punctual verbs. Metaphor and metonymy involve different axes
but they interact; Goossens has coined the term “metaphtonomy” as a reminder of
this interaction (see e.g. 1995a).
In addition to semantic work, especially in Cognitive Linguistics, other lines of
work in the pragmatics of presuppositions, implicatures, and inferences, combined
with close textual study inspired by discourse analysis, and enabled by the devel-
opment of computerized corpora, suggested a way to reconceptualize metonymy as
a major language-internal force in semantic change.
Some brief and hesitant hypotheses were mentioned in 1.3.2, such as Bolinger’s
(1971) insight that inferences can become references. Proposals in the same vein
included Cole’s, in connection with the development of let’s from let us, that con-
versational meanings “not inherent in the logical structure” of the sentence in which
13 Anttila acknowledges Guiraud (1955).
79
Regularity in semantic change
they occur can come via frequent use to acquire “literal meaning” (1975: 273), and
Grice’s tentative “it may not be impossible for what starts life, so to speak, as a
conversational implicature to become conventionalized” (1989 [1975]: 58). The
diachronic shift from conversational to conventional implicature was followed
through in some detail in Brown and Levinson (1987 [1978]) and Levinson fur-
ther proposed that “it is possible to argue that there is a sequence from particular-
ized through generalized conversational implicatures to conventional implicatures”
(1979: 216). But probably the most inﬂuential work, at least in Traugott’s thinking,
was a brief paper by Geis and Zwicky (1971) on the “invited inferences” involved
in conditional perfection, or the tendency for promises like I’ll give you $5 if you
mow the lawn to be understood as If and only if you mow the lawn will I give you
$5. In the context of their paper they mention the development of causal since out
of temporal since, saying:
it seems to be the case that an invited inference can, historically, become part
of semantic representation in the strict sense; thus, the development of the
English conjunction since from a purely temporal word to a marker of
causation can be interpreted as a change from a principle of invited inference
associated with since (by virtue of its temporal meaning) to a piece of the
semantic content of since.
(Geis and Zwicky 1971: 565–566)
Geis and Zwicky distinguish invited inferences from Gricean conversational impli-
catures, commenting that Grice’s “Relevance” principle does not seem to provide
any obvious account of the inference from temporality to causality. However, Grice’s
Quantity 2 principle (understood as the R-heuristic “Say no more than you must,
and mean more thereby,” see 1.2.3) combined with the view espoused here of strate-
gic, rhetorical language use, motivates this development: in specifying temporality,
SP/W may imply a subjective assessment of connectivity richer than pure tempo-
rality.
Focus of attention on the pragmatic meanings that arise in language use opened
the way for thinking about “conceptual,” language-internal metonymy arising out of
the syntagmatic contexts of language use, association, contiguity, and indexicality.14
Metonymy in its extended conceptual sense came to be seen as a powerful alternative
to metaphor, in fact as the key to conceptualizing semantic change in context.
When we look at changes that have been designated as metaphorical, the
“metaphor” often appears to be primarily a function of the fact that we are looking
at lexical entries in their “before” and “after” stages, and out of context. Consider,
14 However, see Warren (1998) for an attempt to distinguish “inference” and “implication” from
metonymy.
80
Prior and current work on semantic change
for example, the extension of WHITE > INNOCENT, SPACE > TIME, or of ape >
“brutish person.” As soon as we think about change in terms of its syntactic and ul-
timately discourse contexts, associations arising out of the context can be construed
as playing a major role in change (see e.g. Brinton 1988: chapter 5, Traugott 1988).
Already extant metaphors that themselves have arisen out of the patterns of lan-
guage use at earlier times are construed as templates, or mental models constraining
the kinds of invited inferences that become salient, and in many cases the outcome
of changes arising by semanticization of GIINs (see 1.3, 1.4).15
Furthermore, the
ﬁne-grained “paths” of change can begin to be elucidated, without the need to seek
evidence for discrete cross-boundary leaps. The remarkably high incidence of re-
dundancy or at least semantic harmony in the contexts of semantic change can be
seen as the textual locus of experimentation by SP/W with the possibilities of invited
inferencing. And, most importantly, subjectiﬁcation can be understood as a type of
metonymy – association with SP/W in the strategic course of speaking/writing. We
will, however, leave discussion of subjectiﬁcation to the last section, after a brief
survey of issues in the study of grammaticalization and the hypothesis of unidi-
rectionality, since the understanding that subjectiﬁcation is a major mechanism of
change developed largely in the context of work on these issues.
2.3.3 Grammaticalization and unidirectionality
Much of the debate in the 1980s on the role of metaphor and metonymy
in semantic change took place within the context of the study of grammaticaliza-
tion (also known as “grammaticization”). As originally conceptualized by Meillet
(1958 [1912]), grammaticalization is typically the development of lexemes into
grammatical items; Meillet also suggested that change from relatively free to rel-
atively ﬁxed word order is an instance of grammaticalization. In either case, the
change is conceived as unidirectional, from A to B, not vice versa. A more recent
view has been that it is a shift from discourse > syntax > morphology (Givón
1979; see also Lehmann 1995 [1982]). Givón’s formulation was a major catalyst
for work on change taking discourse processes into account, an approach that had
been brieﬂy touched on in Stern’s book with respect to semantic change, but which
had not been pursued. Subsequent work on grammaticalization has suggested that
it is more properly conceived as the change whereby lexical material in highly con-
strained pragmatic and morphosyntactic contexts is assigned functional category
status, and where the lexical meaning of an item is assigned constructional meaning
(van Kemenade 1999: 1006, Traugott, Forthcoming).
15 From a different perspective, Kövecses and Radden (1998) suggest that metaphors like ANGER
IS HEAT may arise experientially out of conceptual metonymies; see also Kövecses (2000),
Radden (2000).
81
Regularity in semantic change
Although most early work focused on structural properties of grammaticalization,
(e.g. Lehmann 1995 [1982], Heine and Reh 1984), attention to lexical or discourse
origins naturally also led to exploration of semantic change, both onomasiologi-
cal (e.g. what terms would give rise to prepositions, complementizers, aspect or
agreement markers), and semasiological (e.g. what semantic path did Lat. cantare
habeo “sing: INF have: 1SG” traverse as it grammaticalized to Fr. chanterai?). The
literature on these questions is substantial and growing rapidly. Representative ex-
amples of work in which semantic change is of considerable importance include
Fleischman (1982), Heine, Claudi, and Hünnemeyer (1991), Hopper and Traugott
(1993), Svorou (1993), Dasher (1995), Sun (1996), Haspelmath (1997), and Ohori
(1998); a lexicon of grammaticalization is provided by Heine et al. (1993). Bybee,
Perkins, and Pagliuca’s (1994) study is a major investigation of grammaticaliza-
tion based on materials from a cross-linguistic sample of seventy-six language
groups. Most speciﬁcally, the authors are concerned with asking whether there are
any regularities or commonalities across languages in the meanings expressed by
closed-class grammatical morphemes such as afﬁxes, stem changes, reduplication,
auxiliaries, particles, or complex constructions like be going to in the target domains
of tense, aspect, and modality (Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca 1994: 2–3). The answer
is a dramatic “yes.” Since most sources are reference grammars, little discourse data
is provided, but text-based studies of particular languages conﬁrm the more general
hypotheses concerning sources for the target “grams” (grammatical morphemes).
In the course of this book we will be discussing some data that involves gram-
maticalization, speciﬁcally the development of the modal must (chapter 3) and the
development of adverbials like pray (chapter 6). We outline two examples of gram-
maticalization here: the development of the future be going to in English, and the
development of the modal particle as in Modern Greek.
The history of be going to is well-known (see Pérez 1990; also Bybee and Pagliuca
1987, Hopper and Traugott 1993: 80–86, Tabor 1994a) but we revisit it here because
it gives direct insights into the question of analysis in terms of metaphor vs. invited
inference. Verbs meaning GO and COME have long been used as a prime example of
SPACE > TIME. From the perspective of large-scale onomasiological changes, it is
a cross-linguistically widely attested prototype example of semantic change. Often
the shift from GO/COME > FUTURE has been treated as an example of metaphor
(e.g. Traugott 1978, Bybee and Pagliuca 1987, Heine, Claudi, and Hünnemeyer
1991). But cross-linguistic study at a more ﬁne-grained level of analysis shows that
bare GO and COME actually never become FUTURE. Bybee, Pagliuca, and Perkins
argue that the change occurs only in highly speciﬁc contexts: “along with movement
as a component of meaning, the source of such futures includes an imperfective (or
progressive) component and an allative component” (1991: 30). This is a constraint
that is readily understandable in terms of inferences arising out of language use:
82
Prior and current work on semantic change
motion toward something takes time (i.e. is imperfective), and one will arrive there
only at some time later than the motion starts. It is not clear how such a constraint
could be placed on a metaphor, and indeed Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca explicitly
question the usefulness of a metaphorical approach to the change and propose an
analysis that draws on pragmatic intentions and inferences:
The temporal meaning that comes to dominate the semantics of the
construction is already present as an inference from the spatial meaning.
When one moves along a path toward a goal in space, one also moves in time.
The major change that takes place is the loss of spatial meaning. Here . . . the
function of expressing intention comes into play. When a speaker announces
that s/he is going somewhere to do something, s/he is also announcing the
intention to do that thing. Thus intention is part of the meaning from the
beginning, and the only change necessary is the generalization to contexts in
which an intention is expressed, but the subject is not moving spatially to
fulﬁll that intention.
(Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca 1994: 268)
Note that while the semantics of space may be lost or at least recede into the
background (a phenomenon commonly known as “bleaching”), this change involves
pragmatic strengthening of the temporal implicature (Traugott 1988). The ultimate
semanticization of temporality involves the development of a new polysemy which
is as rich as the earlier one although more abstract (Sweetser 1988) and also more
subjective (Traugott 1988, Langacker 1990).
As a motion verb, go occurs very frequently in ME texts. The form going is used
almost exclusively as a nominal gerund, with imperfective/durative meaning (Peréz
1990).16
The ﬁrst plausible example of be going to in a temporal rather than motion
sense known to us is the much-cited example in (18):
(18) thys unhappy sowle by the vyctoryse pompys of her enmyes
this unhappy soul by the victorious displaysof her enemies
was goyng to be broughte into helle for the synne and
was going to be brought into hell for the sin and
onleful lustys of her body.
unlawful lusts of her body
“this unhappy soul was going to be brought into hell in the victorious procession
of her enemies because of the unlawful lusts of her body”
(c. 1482 Monk of Evesham, p. 43)
Here the context is not only imperfective. The passive demotes the agentivity of the
subject. A modern interpretation suggests strongly that a temporal, not a motion
reading is called for, since we do not expect souls to have physical properties. On
16 The progressive construction with -ing emerged only late in ME.
83
Regularity in semantic change
this reading, temporality would be a salient GIIN, or possibly even an instance of a
newly semanticized “immanent future.” However, it is quite possible that the motion
verb is to be taken literally, since in this sermon a vision is narrated in which the soul
is represented as a very physical entity, tormented in the stomach with darts. On this
reading, temporality is only an IIN in (18). Unambiguous examples of the temporal
do not occur until the later sixteenth century. An example from the seventeenth
century is:
(19) Witwoud: Gad, I have forgot what I was going to say to you.
(1699 Congreve, Way of the World, I, p. 331)
(18) and (19) suggest that in its early stages the change is primarily abstraction (spa-
tial > temporal). Later, in the nineteenth century, we ﬁnd examples with inanimate
subjects (“raising” constructions), at ﬁrst relatively objective in the sense that any-
body could anticipate rain from accessible evidence (20a), later in more subjective
senses (20b) based in SP/W’s reasoning processes:
(20) a. Do you think it’s going to rain?
(1865 Carroll, chapter 4, p. 146)
b. There is going to be a shooting and somebody is going to get hurt.
(1894 Doyle, 568)
By the beginning of the twentieth century we ﬁnd incontrovertible written evidence
that temporal be going to has been ﬁxed as a unit (“univerbated”), because we begin
to ﬁnd instances of be gonna. The form is used only in texts deliberately signaled
as colloquial (note in (21) the use of me and Jeanne, put the skids under):
(21) Me and Jeanne is gonna have a ﬂat over in Brooklyn as soon as we put the
skids under the Kaiser.
(1918 Whitwer [OED])
Characteristics associated with grammaticalization are:
(i) a speciﬁc construction (in this case imperfective aspect, and direct
collocation between be going and the purpose clause),
(ii) bleaching (of the semantics of motion),
(iii) pragmatic strengthening (of the GIIN from the imperfective motion
construction followed by a purpose clause), subjectiﬁcation, and ulti-
mate semanticization as a polysemy (of the motion construction),
(iv) reanalysis (of open class event structure material as closed class tem-
poral material),
(v) ﬁxing of the construction (including univerbation of going to),
(vi) phonological attrition (of the univerbated part of the construction).
84
Prior and current work on semantic change
Characteristics (i)–(iii) are typical of lexical, independently of grammatical, change.
The case of be going to is an example of grammaticalization because characteristics
(iv)–(vi) are closely associated with (i)–(iii).
We balance this very familiar example with a less familiar but partially similar
one: the development of a highly polysemous modal particle as in Modern Greek.
It serves as a hortative “let’s,” expressing wish (“may it be that”), irrealis, condition-
ality, and concession (Nikiforidou 1996). According to Nikiforidou, as originates
at the time of Koiné in áphes “allow!,” the imperative of the verb aphiemi “send
away, let go of, let, leave, allow,” as in:
(22) adelphè, áphes exbálo tò kárphos.
brother let-IMP-2SG pull-out-SUBJUNCT-1SG the nail
“Brother, let me pull out the nail.”
(before 300 AC, Matthew 27: 46 [Nikiforidou 1996: 602])
By the sixth or seventh centuries AC it begins to appear as as, no longer as a verb
with inﬂections but as a preverbal particle in a paradigm with na “irrealis” and tha
“future”:
(23) elthé oun pròs emas kaı̀ as
come-IMP-2SG therefore to us and “as”
lalesomen tà pròs eirénen.
talk-SUBJUNCT-1PL the towards peace
“Come therefore to us and let’s talk about peace.”
(9th century, Theophanis, Chronographia 387 2 [ibid: p. 605])
Rather than the original meaning of permission we now ﬁnd suggestion, and later
wish:
(24) as génetai parà sou.
“as” be-do-PFV-NONPAST-3SG by you
“May it be done by you.”
(mid 13th century, Sfrandzis Georgios, Small Chron. [ibid. p. 609])
Later meanings include a conditional and a concessive which Nikiforidou interprets
as functioning like Sweetser’s kind of “speech act” modal (see 2.3.1), “whether the
content of the as clause is true or not does not matter. What matters is that for the
purposes of the conversation the speaker will accept it as true while she insists on
asserting the content of the main clause” (1996: 612):
(25) as chionı́si emı́s tha páme
“as” snow-PFV-NP-3SG we FUT go:PFV:NONPAST:1PL
“We will go, even if it snows”
(ibid. p. 611)
85
Regularity in semantic change
We again ﬁnd the same six kinds of characteristics as were outlined for be going to;
together they show that this is a case of grammaticalization.
Semantically the two sets of changes outlined here are instances of generalization:
in both cases the original lexical meaning is extended to other meanings. But it
was not generalization that made grammaticalization a focal point of interest for
researchers in semantic change. What has been a catalyst is the substantial cross-
linguistic evidence from studies of grammaticalization for the regularity of such
shifts as SPACE > TIME, permission to exhortation, described world to speech
world, less to more subjective, not vice versa; crucial too has been the focus of
grammaticalization research on discourse contexts for change.
The examples of grammaticalization given here illustrate a strong overarching
hypothesis associated with much work on grammaticalization: that of unidirection-
ality in all the correlated shifts. As a testable hypothesis unidirectionality has been
questioned, most especially in the domain of morphosyntax (see Janda 1995 and
the references therein, Newmeyer 1998: chapter 5, Lightfoot 1999: 220–225, Lass
2000, among others). One line of argument is that there are ontological difﬁcul-
ties with notions such as grammaticalization “clines,” “paths,” or “trajectories” like
Givón’s discourse > syntax > morphology > morphophonemics > zero (Givón
1979: 209). Are such clines assumed to exist? If so where? Are they explanatory
linguistic principles or outcomes of non-linguistic factors?
In our view such paths are schemas for observed regularities across time. The
categories on the paths (e.g. clitic, afﬁx, or TEMPORAL, CONCESSIVE) do not
shift; individual forms come to be associated over time with these onomasiological
categories in a predictable, unidirectional way. In other words, the path represents
the probable new polysemies of a form if it changes meaning. As models of change
constructed by linguists, paths or clines are part of the metalanguage of change.
They are metaphors and are therefore necessarily expressed in concrete terms, but
that does not mean that they exist as concrete paths or conduits for change. The
structural path that a form or construction undergoing grammaticalization takes
is motivated by speakers’ tendency to seek signal simplicity (hence the tendency
for clitics to be reduced and ﬁxed as afﬁxes), just as the path that the meaning
of that form or construction takes is constrained by speakers’ tendency to recruit
referential meanings to less referential functions of language (hence the tendency
for concrete spatial terms to be recruited to the function of case or of aspect). The
paths are explanatory to the extent that they predict frequently attested directions
of change, whether at the semantic level from TEMPORAL > CONCESSIVE
or at the morphosyntactic one from clitic to afﬁx. Falsiﬁers would be frequently
attested examples of shifts from CONCESSIVE > TEMPORAL or from afﬁx to
clitic. Speakers innovatively use old forms and constructions with new meanings,
subject to semantic and pragmatic constraints. If these innovations spread to other
86
Prior and current work on semantic change
speakers the resources available for the category at that point on the path are renewed
(Meillet 1958 [1915–16] called this “renouvellement”). The recruitment of these
new forms or constructions into extant conceptual categories is motivated by speak-
ers’ tendency to seek maximal communicative effect (informativeness, rhetorical
strategizing, etc.).17
In other words, grammaticalization is motivated by the dyadic
communicative situation.
One argument against unidirectionality in grammaticalization has been that pat-
terns of shifts from more lexical to more grammatical material or from less mor-
phologically bound to more morphologically bound are not without exception. An
example of the strong position on this point is: “I take any example of upgrading
as sufﬁcient to refute unidirectionality” (Newmeyer 1998: 263). One of the exam-
ples of upgrading that Newmeyer cites (quoting Nevis 1986) is the upgrading of
a Finno-Permic abessive case afﬁx *-pta to a clitic postposition taga in Northern
Saame (Lappish). As indicated in chapter 1, we are concerned with tendencies, not
absolutes. Language is a product of human beings. Grammaticalization, like se-
manticization, involves the interaction of linguistic structure and language use. One
would not expect absolute 100 percent regularity from strategic interaction, subject
as it always is to human intervention. Under such a view, a small number of falsiﬁers
of a hypothesis does not discredit the hypothesis, but a large number, say a quarter
of the instances would certainly do so. To date the number of counterexamples to
semantic unidirectionality in grammaticalization remains small.
What is particularly striking for our purposes in this book is that many of the
counterexamples to grammaticalization that have been cited show no semantic shift
(e.g. the cliticization of *-pta), or show regular semantic shift of the sort described
in this book. In other words, even if structural unidirectionality is violated, semantic
unidirectionality is not. For example, one of the ﬁrst papers to discuss a counterex-
ample to the posited structural directionality of grammaticalization, in this case
less to more bonded morphology, Yo Matsumoto (1988) showed that an earlier Jp.
clause-ﬁnal postﬁx -ga “although” came to be a clause-initial conjunction meaning
“however” (afﬁx to clitic). Nevertheless, despite structural upgrading, the semantic
and pragmatic shift is toward greater subjectiﬁcation.
As the study of grammaticalization progressed it rapidly became clear that the se-
mantic changes observable in grammaticalization are a subtype of regular changes
in the lexicon. What is different is that in grammaticalization semantic changes af-
fect only certain Ls (those with relatively general meaning) and correlate with other
changes such as morphosyntactic decategorialization. How true this is can be seen
from the study of cross-linguistic tendencies in the development of the semantics
17 See Langacker (1977) for an early formulation of the competing motivations in grammatical-
ization (he refers to “reanalysis” rather than grammaticalization).
87
Regularity in semantic change
of the diminutive as presented in Jurafsky (1996). Despite saying that “the diminu-
tive function (. . . deﬁned as any morphological device that means at least ‘small’)
is among the grammatical primitives” (ibid. p. 534), Jurafsky does not frame his
discussion in terms of grammaticalization. Rather, he builds on and develops a
diachronic dimension to Lakoff’s (1987) semantic proposal that many metaphors
are organized in complex ways which can be thought of as a radial category with
core members linked to extensions represented by a network of nodes. Jurafsky
argues that at the core of the diminutive is the notion of CHILD. The shift from
CHILD > SMALL, as exempliﬁed by the diminutives vi, -dzai, -pil in Ewe, Can-
tonese, Nahuatl respectively (Jurafsky 1996: 562), is presumably metonymic (and
also a case of grammaticalization). Jurafsky regards many extensions as metaphor-
ical, e.g. from diminutive to female gender speciﬁcation (contrast Gm. Junge “male
youth,” Mäd-chen “female youth,” with a diminutive), or to derogatory, marginal-
ized status (contrast Cantonese nui25 “woman” with mo25nui35, where mo25 is a
derogatory diminutive). An alternative view might be that these are metonymic
to social perspectives, and to the opposition he himself sets up (the female of the
species is smaller, less powerful than the male). Be that as it may, Jurafsky sees in
the radial category of diminutives evidence for the mechanisms of metaphorization,
metonymic inferencing, generalization,18
and a special type of metaphorical gener-
alization which he calls “lambda-abstraction-speciﬁcation”: “[l]ambda-abstracting
takes one predicate in a form and replaces it with a variable. The resulting expres-
sion is now a second-order predicate, since its domain includes a variable which
ranges over predicates” (Jurafsky 1996: 555).
Jurafsky suggests that lambda-abstraction allows for a single generalization over
a number of second order meanings that diminutives develop into, for example
picking out individuated forms in a partitive frame, e.g., Yiddish der samd “sand,”
dos zemdl “grain of sand” (Jurafsky 1996: 555), or serving as a hedge, e.g., Jp.
chotto as in:
(26) Taroo wa chotto iji ga warui.
Taroo TOP DIM character SUBJ bad (nasty)
“Taroo is somewhat/kinda nasty.”
(Yoshiko Matsumoto 1985: 145)
At the same time as allowing a single generalization over a variety of shifts to second
order predicate status, it also captures an essential feature of semantic changes: only
certain aspects of a source lexeme or concept are inherited in the target domain.
Whichaspectsareselectedcanbeaccountedforinpartintermsofprototypetheories
18 It is not clear why this should be regarded as a separate mechanism, rather than as the result of
metaphorical and metonymic processes.
88
Prior and current work on semantic change
affection
pets
sympathy
intimacy
PRAGMATICS
PROPOSITIONS ARE OBJECTS
hedges
SOCIAL GROUPS ARE FAMILIES
CATEGORY CENTRALITY IS SIZE
imitation
related–to
G,M
G
exactness
small type–of
partitive
SEMANTICS
approximation
GENDER IS SIZE
L
L
L, M
contempt
child small female
M
M
M
M
M
I
I
I
I
member
Figure 2.6. Proposed universal structure for the semantics of the diminutive
(Jurafsky 1996: 542).
of salience. If the source terms refer to concrete physical entities, size and location
may be salient, e.g. what is salient about eyes is not that they comes in pairs (in
humans) but rather that they are central to the face and attention-getting (Brown
and Witkowski 1983 [see 2.2.3]); what is salient about legs is again not that they
come in pairs, but they are the basis on which one stands (the foot of the hill is the
base of the hill); what is salient about a mouth is not that teeth and lips are inside
but that it is the entry-point of food or the exit-point of language (the mouth of a
cave is the entry–exit point) (see Heine 1997). Which aspects are selected can also
be accounted for in terms of IINs. These always abstract away from the particulars
of the expression in question. Furthermore, they can be accounted for in terms of
interlocutors’ interaction.
Jurafsky’s model of the radial category of diminutive is reproduced here in
ﬁgure 2.6 as an example of an attempt to combine recent work on semantic change
that brings together theories of semantic ﬁeld, metaphoric change (M), invited infer-
encing (I),19
generalization (G), his lambda-extraction (L), and grammaticalization.
In addition the changes show evidence, Jurafsky argues, for the often-observed shift
from what he calls “real-world reference” (e.g. child ) to meanings based in purely
linguistic categories (e.g. exactness) and speaker-based, discourse meanings (e.g.
hedges). This type of change will be discussed in greater detail in the next section.
2.3.4 Subjectiﬁcation and intersubjectiﬁcation
Subjectiﬁcation as a factor in change came to be of particular interest in
the context of discussion of grammaticalization. However, it is typical of semantic
19 Jurafsky cites only “(context-induced) inferencing,” using the terminology of e.g. Traugott
(1989), Heine, Claudi, and Hünnemeyer (1991).
89
Regularity in semantic change
change in general and is not limited to grammaticalization. This is also true of
intersubjectiﬁcation.
As in the case of most contemporary issues in semantic change, the initial work
in these areas was synchronic (see especially Benveniste 1971 [1958a], Lyons
1977, and discussion in 1.2.4). The relationship between speakers’ experience and
grammatical restrictions in Japanese was early identiﬁed as a site for the study of
encoded subjectivity (Kuroda 1973). Kuroda notes that, in Japanese, speakers make
unequivocal declarative statements involving experiencer verbs or similar forms,
e.g. desiderative adjectives derived from verbs, only in reference to their own expe-
rience or mental state. It is not possible to make such direct statements in reference
to the mental state or experience of a second or third person. Consider (27):
(27) a. Watakusi wa sakana o tabe-tai.
I TOP ﬁsh DO eat-DESID
“I want to eat ﬁsh.”
b. *Sensei wa sakana o tabe-tai.
teacher TOP ﬁsh DO eat-DESID
∗
“The teacher wants to eat ﬁsh.” (or, if spoken by a student to a teacher:
∗
“You want to eat ﬁsh.”)
(27b) is not acceptable, no matter whether sensei is used with second or third
person reference. In order to express such an experiencer concept in reference to a
second or third person, one must use a grammatical form that embeds that proposi-
tion in the speaker’s point of view, e.g. by means of a form expressing probability:
(27) c. Sensei wa sakana o tabe-tai desyoo.
teacher TOP ﬁsh DO eat-DESID PROB
“The teacher/you probably want(s) to eat ﬁsh / The teacher/you must
want to eat ﬁsh.”
As indicated by the second gloss of (27c), desyoo expresses strong epistemic
probability from the point of view of the speaker. Professional translators often
render predicates containing desyoo with phrases such as “I think that . . .”
Such constraints are not unique to Japanese. Consider the following in English:
(28) a. I am thirsty. ??Am I thirsty?20
b. ??You are thirsty. Are you thirsty?
20 (28) is not to be confused with the exclamatory Am I thirsty!, which has a variety of different
syntactic constraints, as well as a different intonation envelope and a different illocutionary force
(see Rosengren 1992, 1994).
90
Prior and current work on semantic change
The oddity of You are thirsty and Am I thirsty? can be considered a function of
constraints on cognitive access to states of mind and epistemological stances. A
speaker does not have access to an addressee’s mind, hence it is odd to afﬁrm
something about that person’s mind unless there is direct evidence such as fainting,
or the interlocutor’s own admission. On the other hand, a speaker does have access
to his or her own mind, so it is odd to question one’s own state of mind, except
perhaps as a mocking response to a locution like You are thirsty, or on awakening
from an unconscious daze. Likewise it is more appropriate to say I think, I guess
than You think, You guess, hence the high frequency of the ﬁrst expression but not
the second (see Thompson and Mulac 1991).
Despite their ﬁrst person pronoun, I think, I guess can be used not only to ex-
press subjective stance, but also to acknowledge possible intersubjective “image-
saving” needs. They may therefore serve in certain contexts as expressions of po-
liteness, hedges, and other mitigators of statements that might be controversial (G.
Lakoff 1972), alongside such expressions as y’know, you see, which highlight the
addressee. Both types of expression are of course fundamentally subjective in the
sense developed in this book, as well as intersubjective, because saving the image
of AD/R is something only SP/W can choose to do. In other words, hedges are
grounded in speakers, however much attention is paid to AD/R.
A well-known example of the operation of intersubjectivity (although not always
under this name) is the selection of personal pronouns for attitudinal and social
deictic purposes. Obvious examples involve the selection of “polite” or “formal”
plural forms for singular second person addressees (vous “second person plural
pronoun” vs. tu “second person singular” in Fr., Sie “third person plural” vs. du
“second person plural” in Gm.), or avoidance of pronouns for ﬁrst person singular
and second person singular in Ch. (see Brown and Gilman 1960, Silverstein 1976a,
Brown and Levinson 1987 [1978], Held 1999). But there are other uses that have
received less attention, such as care-givers’ use of ﬁrst person plural for second
person singular:
(29) Yes, we can take the eye-drops.
(Registered male nurse, in hospital emergency room, April 1996)
This style “positions” (O’Connor 1994) the speaker in apparent empathy with the
patient, as does the waitress’:
(30) What would we like tonight?
At the same time, it implies distance since AD knows that under the circumstances,
it is impossible or inappropriate for SP to participate in the situation – the nurse
cannot put the patient’s eye-drops in his own eyes, the waitress should not decide
what the client will choose to eat, unless invited to do so.
91
Regularity in semantic change
Example (31) provides an interesting case of the way in which speakers can
shift attitudinal positions. The speaker, an agent in an insurance company, projects
herself onto the client being addressed in the role or position of ﬁrst, second, and
third person:
(31) So say I put in 100 a month, you’re going to take out $5 a month of that,
5% of the premium. They’ll also take out $5 a month administrative charge.
And then the mortality cost which will vary depending on how old I am and
how much insurance I’m buying.
(Lewis 1996: 2)
This agent hypothetically positions herself as a client or potential buyer of life
insurance, such as AD (say I put in 100 a month), switches to the company, but
refers to it as you ( you’re going to take out $5 a month of that, implying a generic,
therefore common practice, and perhaps implying that the addressee is directly
engaged in it), then refers to the company in the third person, distancing herself
from it in this instance (they’ll also take out $5 a month), and back to the buyer
(depending on how old I am), all within the space of three consecutive sentences.
First person (I ) for second person ( you), second and third person for ﬁrst person
(you, they for we), and so forth are all projected from the basic SP/W – AD/R
dyad. In this dyad, ﬁrst person, proximal deixis is the norm for SP/W, third person
(often) plural in distal space for others not in the context and above all for anaphors
(Silverstein 1976a: 38; and, with a historical perspective, Greenberg 1985). Second
person can be associated with ﬁrst person in proximal space, or with third person
in distal space.
Positioning is a strategy that SP/Ws use, drawing on the normative deictic mean-
ings of ﬁrst, second, and third person. In many languages pronominal forms may
also have specially coded meanings that index social space, e.g. the use in Gm. of
third person plural Sie for polite address to a single second person. Some of these
coded meanings may historically have arisen through optional positioning.
A fundamental distinction among politeness markers has been made since Comrie
(1976), Levinson (1983: 90), and Brown and Levinson (1987 [1978]). They may be
broadly divided into:
(i) Items that index a participant referred to in the described event, or
addressed in the utterance. These are known as “referent honoriﬁcs.”21
(ii) Items that index a participant in the speech event (SP/W or
AD/R) without representing that participant as directly involved
21 The term “referent” is used without regard to truth-conditional considerations. The term merely
indicates a participant in the described event.
92
Prior and current work on semantic change
in the described event. Brown and Levinson call these “addressee
honoriﬁcs.”22
Brown and Levinson make a further important division between:
(i) Items that convey social attitudes of politeness through usage con-
ventions and conversational implicatures, but which do not encode
politeness directly.
(ii) Items that in at least one of their polysemies are procedural and
function primarily to signal simple deictic systems of social proxim-
ity and distance. In one of the ﬁrst works to explore Grice’s insight
that implicatures may be conventionalized as new meanings, Brown
and Levinson conceptualize such items as frozen conversational im-
plicatures, “grammaticalized outputs of politeness strategies” (1987
[1978]: 23).
Given these distinctions, terms of address and terms for ﬁrst, second, and
third persons who are participants in the described event (type (i)) serve “refer-
ent” functions. Some participants are implicated, and are not coded for politeness.
For example, as a term of address, a speaker may use any of various third person
expressions in Eng., including last name plus title (Ms., Mr., Professor, Dr.) versus
ﬁrst name (Elizabeth, Richard) versus familiar name (Liz, Dick), as well as the
pronoun you. In themselves these forms do not convey politeness, but social
conventions may motivate their use in ways that convey degrees of such polite-
ness, depending on situation, including the social relationships between participants
in the speech event. By contrast, if a T-V system exists in a language (extended
sometimes, as in the case of German, to a third person form: du-ihr-sie), the vous
does not refer to more than one addressee (in this meaning); its function is to de-
ictically signal politeness (social distance). It is conventionalized. Although T-V
second singular person pronouns refer to AD/R, they are used as referent SDs;
such pronouns can index the social status of AD/R only by making reference to him
or her as a participant in the described event. In Modern Standard English there
is no pronominal referent SD, but in earlier stages of English a T/V contrast
between thou versus plural ye (for polite singular reference) was a standard
feature of the language.
In chapter 6 we build on Brown and Levinson’s primarily synchronic work and ex-
emplify how erstwhile “politeness” implicatures can come to be conventionalized as
referent honoriﬁcs, and how referent honoriﬁcs can in turn become conventionalized
22 A third type, bystander honoriﬁcs, that index relationships to bystanders or overhearers as in
Dyirbal “mother-in-law language” (Dixon 1972) will not concern us here.
93
Regularity in semantic change
as addressee honoriﬁcs. We will further argue that these changes crucially involve
subjectiﬁcation and intersubjectiﬁcation.
Like many other aspects of language use, subjectivity and intersubjectivity were
ﬁrst discussed with reference to synchronic attestations. More recently it has become
evident that coded subjective meanings arise out of less subjective meanings, and
that coded intersubjective meanings arise out of subjective ones.
In the 1980s attention was drawn to the fact that in semasiological change there
is a strong tendency toward increase in “expressiveness,” which can be understood
as subjectivity. An early formulation is to be found in Traugott’s hypothesis that
meaning change in early grammaticalization is unidirectional, and may proceed
along the path in (32) but not in the reverse direction:
(32) propositional > (textual >) expressive
(Traugott 1982: 257)
This hypothesis was based on Halliday and Hasan’s (1976) proposal that there
are three functional domains of language, which they call the “ideational,” the
“textual,” and the “interpersonal” components, respectively. The term “propo-
sitional” was chosen to draw attention to expression of “content” rather than
“context of culture” which Halliday and Hasan include within “ideational” (1976:
26). The term “expressive” was chosen partly to leave open the question of
how “inter-personal” Halliday and Hasan intended the component to be, since
they deﬁne it as concerned: “with the social, expressive and conative functions
of language, with expressing the speaker’s ‘angle’: his attitudes and judgments,
his encoding of the role relationships in the situation, and his motive in saying
anything at all” (Halliday and Hasan 1976: 26–27). The choice of the term “ex-
pressive” was also intended to leave open the questions of whether all changes
are “interpersonal” as well as subjective, in so far as they involve AD, and
whether interpersonal meanings were earlier or later than subjectiﬁcation histor-
ically. “Expressive” was roughly equivalent with “affective,” “attitudinal,” and
“emotive” and was regarded as relevant to semantic as well as pragmatic meaning
(see Lyons 1995: 44).
Example (32) proved to be a useful hypothesis since it was strong and testable.
It provided overwhelming evidence for increase in expressiveness/subjectivity and
is the basis of much of what follows in this book. But the ordering appeared to
be too strong (see e.g. Powell 1992a, Brinton, 1996: 225 passim). To address the
problem of ordering, the hypothesis in (32) was revised as a set of tendencies that
may overlap:
(33) Tendency I: Meanings based in the external described situation >
meanings based in the internal (evaluative/perceptual/cognitive)
described situation.
94
Prior and current work on semantic change
Tendency II: Meanings based in the external or internal described situation
> meanings based in the textual and metalinguistic situation.
Tendency III: Meanings tend to become increasingly based in the speaker’s
subjective belief state/attitude toward the proposition.
(Traugott 1989: 34–35)
Tendency I subsumes many changes from concrete > abstract, most especially
from physical to mental, e.g. OE felan “touch” > “experience mentally,” or agan
to “have for” > “obligation,” “ought” (see also the shift from the sociophysical
world to the world of reasoning discussed in Sweetser 1990); Kakouriotos and Kitis
(1997) discuss the development from Homeric Gk. phobomai “be put to ﬂight” >
Modern Gk. “fear,” and point to similarities in Germanic, where “fear” is related to
Old Saxon far “ambush.” In MdJ kowai means both “be (physically) stiff, tough”
as in kowai gohan “hard boiled rice,” and “fearsome, be fearful.” This adjective
developed from OJ koFasi “(physically) stiff”; in LOJ kowai (kohasi) came to be
used with a variety of meanings, all of which involve stiffening of the muscles or
psychological tension; these include “exhausted,” “painful,” “feeling (physically)
sick,” “piteous,” and “embarrassed,” as well as “fearsome, be fearful” (Iizumi 1963:
153, Ohno 1980: 35b). As the meaning “fearsome, be fearful” became semanticized,
the two meanings of kowai came to be distinguished in written texts with different
Chinese characters, but the semantic link between the polysemies remains clear.
Tendency II subsumes changes of the type evidenced by the development of while.
An adverbial phrase in OE, a hwile e “the time that,” in which hwile serves as the
noun meaning “time,” was reduced by grammaticalization to a temporal connective,
and later a concessive polysemy arose. Tendency II was intended to cover not only
the development of connective (text-linking) meanings, but also “metalinguistic”
(or more properly “metatextual”23
) change – shifts to meanings that reﬂect on
language, e.g. the development of performative meanings of locutionary verbs such
as I recognize and of adverbials with discourse marker function, e.g. anyway as
a marker of SP/W’s return to a prior topic. An example in Jp. is OJ sunawati (<
sunaFati), a temporal nominal phrase meaning “(just at) the time (when . . .)” >
EMJ “immediately after, precisely, surely” > LMJ discourse connective “namely.”
In other words, “textual” covered both contentful and procedural connectivity. As
discussed in 1.2.1, so may be contentful and introduce a clause of reason, as in:
23 “Metatextual” is preferable since it refers to the act of using language in negotiating meaning
through explicit mention of the discourse being undertaken. Use of this term (suggested by
Dancygier 1992) allows “metalinguistic” to be reserved for the kinds of corrections that mention
prior text typiﬁed as “‘I object to U,’ where U is crucially a linguistic utterance rather than an
abstract proposition” (Horn 1985: 136), as in: I didn’t manage to trap two monGEESE – I
managed to trap two monGOOSES. (Horn 1985: 132; the form of the plural is being objected
to).
95
Regularity in semantic change
(34) She left so she could get to Bella Johnson’s talk on time.
or it may be primarily pragmatic, and serve to express the speaker’s attitude to the
textual strategy being adopted, as in (35) ((8b) in chapter 1):
(35) So, our speaker tonight is Bella Johnson.
The important point is that semasiologically where L has an M1 that does not serve
a connective function, and an M2 that does, then the M2 can be predicted to have
developed later. Furthermore, as we shall see in considerable detail in chapter 4,
if L has a connective meaning that is primarily contentful (e.g. so “therefore”),
and another that is primarily pragmatic, then the pragmatic one can be predicted
to have developed later, as a function of increased embedding in the discursive
practices of SP/W–AD/R, and most especially as a function of the force of subjec-
tiﬁcation in preempting material to SP/W’s own rhetorical uses in the speech event
itself.24
Tendency III is the dominant tendency. It involves “self-orientation” (Seiler 1983)
and “subjectiﬁcation,” as exempliﬁed by the development of epistemic modality,
scalar particles like even, concessive from temporal meanings, as in the case of while
(and, in contemporary English, meanwhile). Harkins has suggested that perhaps “the
subjectiﬁcation process has its basis in the human ability to think and say things
that are beyond the bounds of the speaker’s knowledge; and to talk about things
like future events as if one knows they will happen” (Harkins 1995: 275). From
this perspective, subjectiﬁcation is indexical to the speaker’s cognitive processes.
But subjectiﬁcation can also be social. As Dasher (1995) notes, the acquisition of
socially deictic meaning by non-honoriﬁc lexemes and constructions in Japanese
likewise represents subjectiﬁcation (as well as intersubjectiﬁcation): the point of
view (social status and distance) of SP/W relative to AD/R and to referents becomes
an intrinsic part of the meaning structure of such items. For example, the verb
agaru is attested since OJ in various meanings (e.g. “ﬂoat up, be lifted up”) that
can be grouped together as “move from a low position to a high position.” In MJ,
agaru is additionally found with meanings that can be characterized as “move
toward a (generally) respected location,” e.g. (in Kyoto) “go/come in the direction
of the Imperial Palace” and (in Osaka) “go/come toward the castle.” From the
nineteenth century agaru became used as a humiliative honoriﬁc for “visit (the place
of) (SP/W’s) superior” (Dasher 1995: 170). In using agaru in this honoriﬁc meaning,
it is SP/W who personally recognizes or awards the status of social superiority to
the human referents associated with the place visited.
24 Positing a fourth tendency along the lines of “Increase in metatextual and illocutive meaning”
as Wegener (1998) suggests seems unnecessary.
96
Prior and current work on semantic change
As indicated in 1.3.2, we consider subjectiﬁcation to be the major type of seman-
tic change. Intersubjectiﬁcation is subordinate to it, since it cannot occur without
subjectiﬁcation. In our view subjectiﬁcation is associative and metonymical to the
SP/W’s act of communication, most especially to SP/W’s attitude. This attitude may
be toward other referents, as in the case of pejorations and ameliorations (see 2.2
above). Linguistically more interesting is expression of attitude toward the factuality
of propositions (marked by e.g. epistemic modality like probably and evidential-
ity like parenthetical I hear), and toward the argumentative rhetorical stance being
taken (marked by e.g. discourse markers like in fact).
Furthermore, in 1.3.2 we claimed that subjectiﬁcation typically involves making
SP/W attitude explicit. While recognizing the importance of subjectiﬁcation in se-
mantic change, Langacker (1985, 1990, 1999) developed an alternative theory of
subjectivity more directly related to Benveniste’s distinction between the “syntac-
tic subject”/“sujet d’énoncé” and the “speaking subject”/“sujet d’énonciation.” In
contrast to our perspective, objectivity, according to Langacker, is associated with
placing participants in an event “on-stage” as foci of attention, that is, explicitly,
whereas subjectivity is associated with elements of the “ground” (the speech event
itself, and its participants) that are unproﬁled, unexpressed, “off-stage”:
(36) a. Vanessa jumped across the table.
b. Vanessa is sitting across the table from Veronica.
c. Vanessa is sitting across the table from me.
d. Vanessa is sitting across the table.
(Langacker 1990: 17–20)
(36a) is maximally objective according to Langacker because across proﬁles move-
ment without regard to speaker–hearer position, (36b, c) more subjective because
the conceptualizer (speaker) traces a mental path to locate the trajector with respect
to a reference point, and (36d) most subjective because the (off-stage, i.e. zero)
reference point is the speaker. Similarly, Langacker regards (37) as subjective be-
cause the earthquake is not directly controlling the event, but rather the (off-stage)
speaker is foretelling the event’s occurrence (1990: 23).
(37) An earthquake is going to destroy that town.
Langacker’s is an approach from Cognitive Linguistics, with attention to
situation types, speciﬁcally event structures and associated argument structures,
i.e. the interface between conceptual and syntactic subject (and object). Most of
the examples are constructed out of context. Central to his theory is a “conceptual
structure” which involves a subject and an object of conception. The subject is
an “implicit locus of consciousness” or “perspective point.” “It is construed with
97
Regularity in semantic change
maximal subjectivity when it remains offstage and implicit, inhering in the very
process of conception without being its target” (Langacker 1999: 149; italics orig-
inal). Not only is the maximally subjective conceptualizer implicit, it is also un-
aware of self: “maximal subjectivity characterizes an implicit conceptualizer whose
attention is directed elsewhere and who thus loses all self-awareness” (Langacker
1993: 451). As a result, event structures, and most particularly choice of syntac-
tic subject, as in the raising construction, are fundamental to Langacker’s view
of subjectiﬁcation.
By contrast, our approach is from discourse and from an array of linguistic
choices, including modals, deictics, and adverbials, not those restricted to event
structure. In our view, subjectivity will have different manifestations in different
parts of the linguistic system and may be shown to function differently in strategic
discourse than in decontextualized conceptual structure. What seems objective out
of context, e.g. active declarative, may be so only by virtue of the value attached
to it in discursive modes including academic writing and linguists’ constructed
examples. Most frequently an expression is neither subjective nor objective in itself;
rather the whole utterance and its context determine the degree of subjectivity. This
means that from our perspective a sentence such as (36d) is structurally neutral, not
maximally subjective as Langacker (1990: 20) argues. He regards the construing
subject as the speaker, who is “off-stage,” i.e. unexpressed. However, in the context
of, say, a phone conversation in which someone is describing a seating arrangement
at dinner:
(38) Max is sitting next to Bill, and Bill is sitting next to Martha. Vanessa is sitting
across the table.
the inference is not necessarily to the speaker; it could be to Martha. If we imagine
the same locution in the context of stage-directions the audience, not the speaker,
is the point of reference.
It is true that in relevant linguistic constructions the “objectively proﬁled sub-
ject” may well be attenuated in the process of subjectiﬁcation. For us this is a
matter of construction change (raising) that is consistent with the directionality of
semantic change discussed here (less > more subjective); however, it does not per-
tain to semasiology or onomasiology. In our view, if subjectiﬁcation occurs, some
lexeme L is semiologically enriched, resulting in explicit expression of the newly
semanticized subjectivity. Thus in (37) the subjectivity lies in our view not in the
absence of overt reference to the speaking subject, but in the explicitness (marked
by is going to) of the strength of SP/W’s commitment to the likelihood of At some
future time, an earthquake destroy the city. Langacker’s theory of subjectiﬁcation
can provide no principled way of accounting for the fact that intersubjectiﬁcation
arises out of subjectiﬁcation. As mentioned in 1.3.2, in our view there can be no
98
Prior and current work on semantic change
intersubjectiﬁcation without some degree of subjectiﬁcation. This is because SP/Ws
display points of view in the ongoing interactional negotiation of discourse produc-
tion; when these encoded points of view come to signal particular attention to
AD/R, intersubjectiﬁcation occurs. Therefore, although Langacker’s and our views
on the ubiquity of subjectivity coincide, we are using the term “subjectiﬁcation” to
refer to substantially different phenomena, and from different perspectives on theory
and methodology. Therefore the issue is not “purely terminological” as Langacker
(1999: 150) has suggested.
2.3.5 Historical pragmatics
Although most work on metaphor, metonymy, and subjectiﬁcation
within Cognitive Linguistics has been grounded in semantics, pragmatics has never
been out of sight. Sweetser’s (1990) book, which is foundational for thinking on
the role of metaphor in semantic change, nevertheless is entitled From Etymology
to Pragmatics; in other words, discussion of metaphor is contextualized within dis-
cussion of pragmatics, especially of the validity of pragmatic as well as semantic
ambiguity (see from a different perspective also Horn 1985).
Other, related strands of work have been conceptualized primarily in terms of
a historical pragmatics that focuses on the interface between linguistic structure
and its discourse meanings, for example Traugott’s three Tendencies (1989; given
in (33) above), and her perspective on subjectiﬁcation (1995a). So has work to
be discussed in more detail in chapter 4 that draws heavily on narrative theory,
conversational analysis, and especially discourse analysis as developed by Schiffrin
(1987). Here the focus has been on foregrounding and backgrounding of material
in the narrative story-line (e.g. Hopper 1979, Fleischman 1990), and on markers
that signal narrative structure (e.g. Brinton 1996).
To what extent there is a substantive difference between historical pragmatics
and historical discourse analysis remains unclear at the time of writing. Both are
concerned centrally with investigation of language use over time. We have cho-
sen the term historical pragmatics to describe our work primarily because IITSC
is grounded in neo-Gricean pragmatics. Overviews of historical pragmatics from
various perspectives are presented in Jacobs and Jucker (1995) and Foolen (1996),
and of historical discourse analysis in Brinton (2001).
Jacobs and Jucker (1995) distinguish two main types of historical pragmatics:
“pragmaphilology” and “diachronic pragmatics.” These distinctions are based on
the type of discourse phenomena investigated. Pragmaphilology is the study of text
types seen in terms of religious, legal, pedagogical, and other norms of text pro-
duction and reproduction. Research along these lines poses anthropological and
cross-cultural or intercultural questions. Diachronic pragmatics, by contrast, fo-
cuses on the interface of linguistic structure and use, for example, the development
99
Regularity in semantic change
of discourse markers (see chapter 4), performativity (see chapter 5), or of polite-
ness markers (see chapter 6), and is primarily linguistic in orientation. Jacobs and
Jucker distinguish two approaches within diachronic pragmatics, the one involving
“form-to-function mapping” (primarily semasiological), the other “function–form
mapping”; the latter is primarily onomasiological, with speech act function as the
focus of attention. The present book is a study of diachronic pragmatics in Jacobs
and Jucker’s sense, with particular attention to form-to-function mapping.
Much historical pragmatics builds on Gricean work. Essential to the debate
around what is known as Neogricean pragmatics is discussion of whether there
should be a division of labor between the Maxim that he called Quantity1: “Make
your contribution as informative as is required (for the current purposes of the ex-
change)” and Quantity2 (“Do not make your contribution more informative than is
required”) (Grice 1989 [1975]: 26). Relevance theorists argue that no such division
of labor is necessary (e.g. Sperber and Wilson (1995 [1986]). By contrast, the di-
vision of labor was upheld, though somewhat differently conceptualized, by Atlas
and Levinson (1981) and Horn (1984), among others. Here we outline some of the
issues Horn (1984) raises, especially in his work on the logical system of contraries
and contradictions, since he explicitly relates it to semantic change.
Invoking Zipf’s (1965 [1949]) recognition that much of language use can be
accounted for in terms of the competing forces of speaker economy vs. hearer
economy, Horn reduces Grice’s Maxims of Quantity, Relation, and Manner, and
their subparts, to two principles, Q(uantity) and R(elation). These are:
(39) a. The Q Principle (Hearer-based):
MAKE YOUR CONTRIBUTION SUFFICIENT (cf. Quantity1).
SAY AS MUCH AS YOU CAN (given R).
Lower-bounding principle, inducing upper-bounding implicata.
b. The R Principle (Speaker-based):
MAKE YOUR CONTRIBUTION NECESSARY (cf. Relation, Quantity2,
Manner).
SAY NO MORE THAN YOU MUST (given Q).
Upper-bounding principle, inducing lower-bounded implicata.
(Horn 1984: 13)
(39a) is to be understood as “a speaker, in saying ‘. . . p . . .,’ implicates that (for
all she knows) ‘. . . at most p . . .’ ” (Horn 1984:13); for example, in saying Some
of my friends are linguists, I imply that not all my friends are linguists. This is a
lower-bounding principle, since, under a principle of Quality, or truthfulness, in
saying this sentence I am committing myself to the claim that I have at least some
friends who are linguists. It has upper-bounding implicata (“at most p”) which are
100
Prior and current work on semantic change
pragmatic and defeasible, since they can be canceled by such explicit phrases as if
not all, as in Some, if not/in fact all, of my friends are linguists. By contrast, (39b)
is to be understood as “(a) speaker who says ‘. . . p . . .’ may license the R-inference
that he meant ‘. . . more than p . . .’ ” (ibid. p. 14); for example, in saying Can you
pass the salt?, I imply that I want more than a yes/no answer. In saying I broke a
leg, I imply it was my leg that broke. Geis and Zwicky’s (1971) prototype invited
inference, conditional perfection: – “if p then q” + > “if not-p then not-q” – is
another example of an R-inference.
Horn goes on to suggest that historically there are two types of lexical narrow-
ing that reﬂect the operation of the Q- and R-Principles, though these may be
“synchronically indistinguishable” (1984: 34). An example he gives of Q-based
narrowing is rectangle on the assumption that “rectangle” primarily refers to any
four-sided ﬁgures with right angles, including squares. Horn considers the use
which excludes squares to be a case of Q-based narrowing, and suggests that such
Q-based narrowing is the result of ﬁlling a gap in a subpart of a lexical ﬁeld by
a more speciﬁc use of the general term (ibid. p. 33, referring to Kempson 1980).
An R-based narrowing, however, Horn suggests, is a shift from a set denotation
to a subset of the general category; examples given include undertaker “one who
undertakes” > “mortician” (p. 32); by contrast, broadening is always R-based, e.g.
Xerox, Kleenex (p. 35); here the salient exemplar, e.g. xerox, of a wider class,
e.g. copy-machines, is generalized to denote the wider class. Attractive as these
suggestions are, the historical data do not strongly support the Q-based narrow-
ing hypothesis. Absent any contextual data or time-depth, we cannot be sure in
what context or when the narrowing is supposed to have occurred. For example,
the ﬁrst example of rectangle cited in the OED is (40), which suggests that the
meaning was narrow to start with (i.e. excluded squares), at least in the history of
English:
(40) If one side containing the right Angle, be longer than the other containing
side, then is that ﬁgure called a Rectangle.
(1571 Digges, 1 [OED])
As mentioned in 1.2.3, we suggest a different approach to the difference between
Q-based and R-based heuristics: Q-based change retards change and is related to
standardization. When a narrowing is externally imposed, e.g. by institutional ﬁat
in the case of harass, then this kind of narrowing appears to be Q-based. In either
case the change is not “natural” since it is acquired through relatively conscious
means of transmission.
Horn (1989) makes a particularly interesting hypothesis regarding the operation
of the Q- and R-heuristics in an attempt to account for the (near) universal lack
of lexical items that denote the negation of the weaker member of a scaled pair.
101
Regularity in semantic change
A: all E: no(ne)
I: some O: *nall (= some are not)
Figure 2.7. The logical square of quantiﬁers (based on Horn 1989: 254).
He points out that, like English, most languages do not lexicalize O in the logical
square of oppositions. This is modeled in ﬁgure 2.7 using the square of quantiﬁers
as an example.25
Likewise, there is no *nalways, or *noth of them. Likewise, too,
in evaluative lexical ﬁelds we typically ﬁnd true–untrue–false, but not *unfalse,
friendly–unfriendly–hostile, but not *unhostile. Horn proposes that the reason for
such structural gaps is that negative O would be uninformative and therefore would
violate the R-Principle (make your contribution necessary). For example, some are
implicates that some are not; these two representations are informationally (though
not communicatively) interchangeable; hence the presence of some blocks *nall
(Horn 1989: 245), because it would be redundant and uninformative.
Horn and, building on his work, Van der Auwera (Forthcoming) have shown that
while quantiﬁers and connectives cross-linguistically tend not to have lexical forms
of O, modals are somewhat different. In the lexical ﬁeld of modality, distinctions
between E and O may be distinguished syntactically by word order, as in the French
example of possibility in (41):
(41) a. Tu ne peux pas manger de la viande.
You not can not eat of the meat
“You can’t eat the meat.” (E: not possible that you can)
b. Tu peux ne pas manger de la viande.
You can not not eat of the meat.
“You can not eat meat.” (O: possible that you can not)
(Van der Auwera Forthcoming: 1)
Alternatively, E and O may be distinguished lexically, e.g. in English:
(42) a. John must not eat his soup today. (E: It is necessary that not)
b. John need not eat his soup today. (O: It is not necessary that)
(ibid. p. 2)
25 A = universal, I = particular, E = universal negative, O = particular negative (Horn 1989: 11),
as in A: Every woman is happy, I: Some woman is happy, E: No woman is happy, O: Not every
woman is happy.
102
Prior and current work on semantic change
A: must E: mustn't (necessary that not)
I: may O: needn't (not necessary that)
Figure 2.8. The logical square of must of obligation (based on Horn 1989:
259–260).
This can be shown in the logical square of modality represented in ﬁgure 2.8 which
models the square of obligation modals.
Historically, in the conceptual structure of obligation /necessity, even though O
may be expressed, the representation of E is often derived from that of O. For
example, in fourteenth century French
(43) Il ne faut pas que tu meures.
it not must not that you die
(Horn 1989: 262; Van der Auwera Forthcoming: 8)
could mean either:
(44) a. It is necessary that you not die. (E)
b. It is not necessary that you die. (O)
According to Horn (1989: 261–262, citing Tobler 1921 [1882]), in the fourteenth
century, although the word order remained the same, the main reading available
came to be that of (42a). Basing his study on twenty-nine languages of Europe
and India, Van der Auwera (Forthcoming) found that the lower right-hand corner is
systematically asymmetric for both necessity and possibility. The distinction may
have become vague, as in the case of Fr. ne pas falloir illustrated in (43), or a
form may have been recruited from a different lexical set, as in English (needn’t).
The important observation for us here is that the hypothesis is that “not necessary
that” “may drift towards” “necessary that not” meanings; this is a unidirectional
claim; furthermore, it is based on the assumption that the R-heuristic predominates,
i.e. there is an enriching implicature from “not necessary that” + > “necessary
that not” “which process either renders them vague or gives them a new mean-
ing, with the implicature ousting the original” (Van der Auwera Forthcoming:12).
In the following chapters we will show that the R-heuristic predominates in semantic
change.
103
Regularity in semantic change
2.4 Conclusion
We have outlined several approaches to semantic change, starting with
Bréal’s taxonomies of competing changes, and moving on to theoretical approaches
that have all contributed to current thinking on semantic change. These include the
developmentofsemanticﬁeldtheory,andadvancesinworkonmetaphor,metonymy,
grammaticalization, subjectiﬁcation, and historical pragmatics. We consider the
present book to be a contribution especially to the interface between historical
pragmatics and historical semantics, building on the various approaches we have
sketched in this chapter, especially Neogricean pragmatics.
We now turn to our ﬁrst detailed case study: semantic change in the domain of
modal auxiliaries and particles.
104
3
The development of modal verbs
3.1 Introduction
Focal points for many of the case studies in this book are modality
and deixis. We start in this chapter with selected examples of the development of
epistemic from deontic meaning within the domain of modality relatively narrowly
construed. Themes are developed that will be shown in later chapters to be relevant
to modality more broadly construed.
There is little agreement on exactly how to deﬁne modality, beyond the observa-
tion quoted in 1.7: “The essence of ‘modality’ consists in the relativization of the
validity of sentence meanings to a set of possible worlds” (Kiefer 1994: 2515). In
work on logic, the fundamental types of modality are necessity and possibility in so
far as they relate to the truth or falsity of the proposition. In work on linguistics, two
related types, deontic (obligation) and epistemic (conclusion), have received most
attention, but at least one other is also recognized: ability/capacity (see e.g. Leech
1971, Lyons 1977, Palmer 1990 [1979], 1986, Coates 1983, Sweetser 1990, Bybee,
Perkins, and Pagliuca 1994, Kiefer 1994, 1997, Van der Auwera and Plungian 1998).
Some brief working characterizations of the three types of modality1
follow; more
detailed discussion of deontic and epistemic modality is provided in 3.2:
(i) Deontic modality (from the Gk. deon “what is binding”); also widely known
as “root” modality (e.g. Coates 1983, Sweetser 1990). This centrally involves
1 Other taxonomies have been proposed because the set of terms “deontic, epistemic” and even
“ability” may not be universally generalizable across languages, at least in their traditional logical
sense(seePalmer1986:20),andbecauseitdoesnotfullyaccountforallaspectsofmodality.Coates
(1983), for example, uses the term “root” for both deontic and ability modalities. Bybee (1985
and subsequent work) has used the super-set “agent-oriented” modality to encompass “all modal
meanings that predicate conditions on an agent with regard to completion of an action referred
to by the main predicate, e.g. obligation, desire, ability, permission, and root possibility” (Bybee
and Fleischman 1995: 6). The category “agent-oriented” has been a major catalyst for cross-
linguistic work on modality (e.g. Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca 1994, Heine 1995). Nevertheless
we do not use this categorization here, because we are not focusing on the main reason for it: the
morphological ﬁndings associated with grammaticalization.
105
Regularity in semantic change
obligation or compulsion. In his ground-breaking study of modality in language
Lyons identiﬁed several characteristics of deontic modality. It is “concerned with
the necessity or possibility of acts performed by morally responsible agents . . . What
it describes is a state-of-affairs that will obtain if the act in question is performed”
(Lyons 1977: 823). Also, it “typically proceeds, or derives, from some source or
cause” (ibid. p. 824), such as moral or social norms, a person in authority, or some
“inner compulsion.” Deontics typically involve “language as action” (Palmer 1986:
121):
(1) Jane must go. (“I require Jane to go.”)
or, more weakly, permission, e.g.:
(2) Jane may go. (“I permit Jane to go.”)
Although the paraphrases suggest that the meanings in (1) and (2) are performa-
tive (see Boyd and Thorne 1969, Sweetser 1990), as will be discussed in chapter
5, in our view modals are only indirectly performative. Note that the clauses in (1)
and (2) may be reportative as in (3):
(3) a. Jane must go, the boss requires it.
b. Jane may go, the boss said so.
Another kind of weak deontic is advisability. It includes the sense that the action
sought of the subject is not only normatively wished for but is also beneﬁcial to the
subject, e.g.:
(4) Jane ought to swim if she wants to keep ﬁt. (“It would be advisable for/I
advise Jane to swim if she wants to keep ﬁt.”)
Although not often mentioned in discussions of deontic modality, advisability plays
an important role in the development of some modals in English and is typical of
some Japanese constructions that have been considered functionally equivalent to
English modals (see 3.5 below).
(ii) Epistemic modality (from Gk. episteme “knowledge”). This is largely con-
cerned with knowledge and belief (as opposed to fact). Epistemic expressions qual-
ify the truth of the proposition. Most speciﬁcally they are used to express the
speaker’s degree of commitment (short of complete) to the truth of the proposition,
e.g.:
(5) Jane must be tired. (“The evidence suggests to me Jane is tired/I conclude that
Jane is tired.”)
or, more weakly:
(6) Jane may be tired. (“I think it is possible that Jane is tired.”)
106
Development of modal verbs
Epistemic modality shares certain characteristics with deixis, particularly with
respect to interactions with tense (Lyons 1977: 819). If the proposition is thought of
as an expressed world (the “described event”) which is related to an actual referenced
world, then epistemic modality can be said to index the degree of distance from the
actual world (Frawley 1992: 387–389, drawing on Chung and Timberlake 1985;
see also Diewald 1999). Must expresses conﬁdence in the close proximity of Jane is
tired to the actual referenced world, but only the declarative Jane is tired expresses
SP/W’s belief that the proposition coincides with the actual world and is truly “prox-
imal” to it. May indicates less conﬁdence than must in a direct match between the
proposition Jane is tired and the actual world, and might even less conﬁdence, in
other words, it expresses greater distance from the actual world than may.
(iii) Ability/capacity2
This is usually construed in terms of absence of barriers
to or constraints on events and states of affairs, e.g.:
(7) Jane can swim. (“Jane is able to swim/Nothing prevents Jane from
swimming.”)
Languages vary considerably with respect to the morphosyntactic categories that
regularly express modality, and how many modal expressions, if any, serve both
deontic and epistemic functions. With respect to category, in English modality is
usually thought to be expressed primarily by auxiliary verbs (the “core” set can,
could, may, might, shall, should, will, would, must, which has been the basis of
most historical work on modality), quasi-auxiliaries (be to, got to, have to, had to,
ought to, need to, dare to, be supposed to, (had) better), and adverbs and adverbials
(probably, possibly, necessarily, supposedly, in fact, indeed, actually, truly). If we
extendbeyondarestricteddeﬁnitionofmodality,therearealsomainverbs,including
illocutionary directive and assertive verbs (to will, require, suggest, insist that, etc.),
and parentheticals (I think, I guess) (Perkins 1983, Halliday 1994 [1985]). There
are also modal clauses, such as conditional (if ), conditional concessive (even if )
and concessive (although) clauses which themselves may be expressed in a variety
of ways. Even in closely related languages, not only the grammatical categories but
also the precise polysemies available within any one cognate category may differ;
an example is provided by may in English and its cognate mag in Dutch. In English
may can be used in both (8a) and (8b):
(8) a. You may leave now. (permission)
b. To get to the station you may take bus 66. (“It is possible to take bus 66 to get
to the station.”)
2 Ability/capacity are also known as “dynamic” (Palmer 1990 [1979], Plank 1984) or “facultative”
(Goossens 1987a) modality.
107
Regularity in semantic change
However, in Dutch only the ﬁrst meaning is possible:
(9) a. Je mag weggan nu.
you may leave now
b. *Om naar het station te gaan, mag je bus 66 nemen.
in order to the station to go may you bus 66 take
(Van der Auwera 1999: 57)
It is hardly surprising then that languages that share little or no history may vary even
more. Nevertheless, at the macro-level distinct similarities can often be detected.
Speciﬁcally, if epistemic modality is polysemous with the other types of modality
it appears to have developed later in the history of the language (e.g. Shepherd
1981, 1982, Traugott 1989, Kytö 1991, Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca 1994, Van
der Auwera and Plungian 1998). Also, if a language or language variety allows a
sequence of modal expressions, such as “double modals” (e.g. might could, might
ought to), the epistemic modal meaning will be further away from the main verb, the
deontic one closer (e.g. Shepherd 1981, Bybee 1985, Montgomery and Nagle 1993).
As Palmer (1986: 123) points out, “there is no immediately obvious reason why
the same forms should be used for expressing the speaker’s degree of commitment to
truthandforgettingotherpeopletodothings.”Theprimepurposeofthischapteristo
account, from the perspective of IITSC, for how the same forms can come to be used
for epistemic as well as deontic modality, with focus on English must, and very brief
discussion of ought to. We will also pay particular attention to changes in the scopal
properties of the modals (the range over which the modals operate), to the degree
of subjectivity adopted by the speaker over time, and to the question why past tense
forms of the verbs in question might have come to be generalized to present tense.
3.2 Some more detailed distinctions relevant to deontic and
epistemic modality
In this section we elaborate further on distinctions between deontic and
epistemic modality that we will be drawing on in our discussion of the development
of modal meanings. We start by commenting on some of Lyons’ criteria cited in 3.1
above. Speciﬁcally we consider the claim that deontics involve agents and explore
the nature of the source of compulsion (in its varying degrees). We then discuss
claims about differences between deontics and epistemics in terms of generalized
necessity and possibility, scope, (inter)subjectivity, and temporality. We end with
some comments on similarities in degree or “scale” of strength within each domain.
3.2.1 Subjects of modals
The characterization of deontic modality as involving acts performed
by morally responsible agents (“obligees”) serves as a prototype deﬁnition:
108
Development of modal verbs
normally, a speaker asked to give an example of an obligation expression would
choose one in which (in English) the semantic subject is an animate, typically
human, agent capable of controlling the activity to be performed, as in:
(10) “You must play this ten times over,” Miss Jarrova would say, pointing with
relentless ﬁngers to a jumble of crotchets and quavers.
(Coates 1983: 34)
However, less prototypical uses do occur. For example, in (11) the subject is human
but not an agent, and no act is obliged/allowed to be performed; instead, the subject
is semantically an anticipated possessor (of respect), and the verb (have) is stative:
(11) You must have respect for other people’s property.
(Coates 1983: 34)
Subjects of deontics are sometimes not even human, as in:
(12) Clay pots must have some protection from severe weather.
(Coates 1983: 35)
In MdE deontic and epistemic modals, unlike main verbs, impose no selectional
restrictions on their subjects or the verbs that follow them. Subjects may be animate
or inanimate, and syntax may be active or passive; these modals are neutral to there-
constructions, and other characteristics associated with main verbs.3
3.2.2 Conceptual sources
The conceptual source of obligation/permission in prototypical deon-
tics is human: “[t]here is some force that is characterized by an ‘element of will’”
(Jespersen 1924: 320–321), i.e., that has “an interest in an event either occurring
or not occurring” (Heine 1995: 29). (10) is a prototype example; Miss Jarrova is
the source of the obligation; she is trying to impose her will directly when she says
“You must play this ten times over,” as well as expressing her interest in perfecting
her pupil’s skills. But in a less prototypical example such as (13):
(13) Parents must obtain a social security number for their children.
although parents are the “agents” who are obliged to bring about the event of
obtaining a number, the “force” is presumably government regulation. Any “element
of will” associated with this “force” is only indirect; government regulation results
from the will of persons, and is exercised through the will of persons, but it in itself
3 However, some modals of intention, e.g. dare, will, do appear to impose some subject-selection;
see Warner (1993: 16–17) for a summary of the issues.
109
Regularity in semantic change
does not have will. In the case of (12), not only is the subject (clay pots) not an
agent, but the source of obligation (norms of prudent behavior) is also covert and
has no discernible element of will.
Sources of deontic modality may be external or internal to the obligated subject;
in (10)–(13) the source is clearly external – someone other than you in (10) and (11)
and other than clay pots in (12). Some modal verbs strongly favor internal sources,
such as can (in the sense of internal ability/capacity), and need (internal necessity),
see (14a); others favor external ones, such as may in the permission sense, and ought
to, see (14b):
(14) a. Boris needs to sleep ten hours every night for him to function properly.
(Van der Auwera and Plungian 1998: 80)
b. Boris ought to sleep ten hours a day to regain his strength.
By contrast, the source of epistemic modality is usually the speaker, who concludes
from evidence whether the proposition is true or not, as in (5) and (6).
One inﬂuential view of the relationship between deontic and epistemic modality
and their conceptual sources has appealed to a “force-dynamics” metaphor. Talmy
(1988: 53) suggested that fundamental to deontic modality is the concept of source
as a sentient “force” controlling as an Agonist or “focal force entity.” The Ago-
nist is typically the Agent in a “psycho-social” interaction (ibid. p. 79); sentences
with inanimate subjects such as (12) are said to have an unexpressed (demoted
and backgrounded) Agonist, such as people. Building on Talmy’s theory of force-
dynamics, Sweetser suggested that modality crucially involves intentional forces
(authority) affecting choices (Sweetser 1990: 52). In the case of obligation modals,
choices are restricted by the imposition of barriers; or, in the case of ability and
permission modals, choices are expanded by the lifting of barriers. With respect to
must, in examples like (12) and (13), the modal indicates that SP/W represents the
subject’s alternatives (whether or not to obtain a social security number, whether
or not to cover clay pots in bad weather) as highly restricted. By contrast, in the
case of She can go, the modal indicates that SP/W either asserts that there are no
barriers, physical or legal, to her going (the ability reading), or lifts such barriers as
there are (the permission reading); as a result she can exercise alternatives to go or
not.
Sweetser further proposed that the epistemic domain should be understood in
terms of a metaphorical mapping from the sociophysical world of obligation (the
“root”/deontic domain) to the world of reasoning (the epistemic domain). In the case
of must, evidence compels the subject to the conclusion expressed in the proposition.
For example, in the following pair, the relationship in the sociophysical deontic
world of (15a) is mapped onto the mental epistemic world in (15b):
110
Development of modal verbs
(15) a. You must come home by ten. (Mom said so.)
“The direct force (of Mom’s authority) compels you to come home by ten.”
(Sweetser 1990: 61)
b. You must have been home last night.
“The available (direct) evidence compels me to the conclusion that you were
home.”
(ibid.)
The subject’s reluctance to act implied by deontic must is not present in the epistemic
must. Sweetser attributes this to the nature of reasoning and the value we attach
to it.
Despite the attractiveness of such analyses, there are reasons to doubt that the
forces and barriers metaphor is a key to the semantic development of either deontics
or epistemics. For one, the lexical sources of the modals show little evidence of the
semantics of forces and barriers (see 3.3). For another, while extant metaphors
resulting from prior developments of epistemic out of deontic meaning may play
a role in enabling shifts from deontic to epistemic, nevertheless metaphorization
does not appear to be crucial to an understanding of the processes behind semantic
change as revealed by the textual evidence (3.4).
3.2.3 Generalized deontic and epistemic necessity and possibility
Among non-prototypical deontic sentences with must are general ob-
jective expressions like (16) meaning “it is necessary for X to do/be Y”:
(16) The simple truth is that if you’re going to boil eggs communally they must be
hard. “it is necessary for the cook to boil eggs hard”
(Warner 1993: 14)
Similarly, there are generalized must-expressions that are epistemic, like (17) mean-
ing “the only possible conclusion is that/it can’t not be that”:
(17) All scientiﬁc results must depend on a rather specialized form of history.
“scientiﬁc results can’t not depend”
(Palmer 1990 [1979]: 32)
In the realm of modal possibility examples such as (18) have been shown to have
both deontic and epistemic readings:
(18) or the pollen may be taken from the stamens of one rose and transferred to the
stigma of another.
a. “it’s possible for the pollen to be taken” (root)
b. “it’s possible that the pollen will be taken” (epistemic)
(Coates 1995: 62)
111
Regularity in semantic change
In these kinds of general modal statements, the source of authority is usually un-
speciﬁed (Warner 1993: 15); it is always external. We call these general root/deontic
necessity (16) and possibility (18a) and general epistemic necessity (17) and possi-
bility (18b).4
Root/deontic necessity comes close to the kind of necessity logicians
have in mind when they speak of deontics as being “alethic” (involving “necessary
truths” about some possible world); however, the conditions for the necessity and
possibility need not be universally quantiﬁed as in alethic modality.
Coates has pointed out that the polysemy between root and epistemic possibility
such as is illustrated by (18) is often “problematic” (i.e. undecidable), especially in
writing, and has suggested that there is a “merger” of the two in many instances:
“instead of having to choose one meaning and discard the other (as with ambiguous
examples), the hearer is able to process both meanings” (Coates 1995: 61; italics
original). By contrast, she suggests that the polysemy between root and epistemic
necessity is “unproblematic” (Coates 1995: 56). However, in earlier work she cites
(19), which appears to be as undecidable as (18):
(19) and anyway I think mental health is a very relative thing – I mean, mental
health must be related to the sort of general mentality or whatever other word
you use of the community you’re living in.
(Coates 1983: 47; she paraphrases these as “it’s essential that mental
health is related to . . .” (root) or “it’s inevitably the case that mental
health is related to . . .” (epistemic)5
)
General root/deontic possibility and necessity appear to have been pivotal in the
development of modal meanings in English (see Bybee 1988, Nordlinger and Trau-
gott 1997, Goossens 2000). In each case the earlier modal was underspeciﬁed with
respect to distinctions between possibility and necessity or deontic and epistemic
readings.
3.2.4 Scope
An issue of some debate in modality is “scope,” or range over which the
modal applies. A distinction between narrow and wide semantic scope goes back
to the Stoics. Narrow scope applies only to a subpart of the proposition, while wide
scope applies to the whole proposition. In recent years scope has been discussed
4 Not all authors require such constructions to be general, although they require some evidence
that general conditions apply, e.g. Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca deﬁne “root possibility” as modal
expressions which report “on general enabling conditions” (1994: 178), but cite a very particu-
larized example with could: I actually couldn’t ﬁnish reading it because the chap whose shoulder
I was reading the book over got out at Leicester Square (from Coates 1983: 114).
5 Intonational diacritics have been removed. Coates uses “or.” However, “+>” would be more
consistent with our view.
112
Development of modal verbs
primarily in connection with adverbs (e.g. Jackendoff 1972), negation, quantiﬁers,
and modals (e.g. Horn 1972, 1984, 1989). An example in the domain of negation
is the ambiguity in:
(20) All the girl scouts didn’t attend.
This can be understood as:
(21) a. Some of the girl scouts attended, but not all. [girl scouts, attended (NOT all)]
(narrow scope)
b. None of the girl scouts attended. [NOT (all girl scouts, attended)] (wide scope)
A similar scope distinction can be seen in:
(22) a. She ran happily. (narrow scope; happily modiﬁes the verb ran, and is
subject-oriented: “She was happy.”)
b. Happily, she ran. (wide scope; happily modiﬁes the proposition she ran, and
is speaker-oriented: “I am happy to say she ran.”)
A correlation has sometimes been made between deontics and narrow scope on
the one hand and epistemics and wide scope on the other (e.g. Bybee 1988). How-
ever, general root/deontic necessity and general root/deontic possibility expressions
involve wide scope (Nordlinger and Traugott 1997). Thus deontic must in (10) has
narrow scope over the agent you, whereas deontic necessity must in (16) has wide
scope. They are repeated here with a scope analysis:
(23) a. “You must play this ten times over,” Miss Jarrova would say. [(MUST you)
play this] (narrow scope “it is required of you you play this”)
b. The simple truth is that if you’re going to boil eggs communally they must be
hard. [MUST(eggs be hard)] (wide scope “it is required, eggs boil till hard”)
In 3.4.1 we will show that the development of wide scope root/deontic necessity
meanings is one factor that enabled the development of epistemic meanings, in
other words, wide scope deontic uses developed before epistemic meanings became
semanticized.
3.2.5 (Inter)subjectivity
Sometimes narrow vs. wide scope appears to be conﬂated with low
vs. high subjectivity (see e.g. Palmer 1986, Gamon 1994). Subjectivity is, however,
not the same as scope (Nordlinger and Traugott 1997). Modals, whether deontic or
epistemic, can express more or less subjective viewpoints depending on the extent
to which they represent the attitudes, opinions, or conclusions of the speaker (Lyons
1977: 797ff.).
113
Regularity in semantic change
Although logicians have long been concerned with objective necessity and pos-
sibility, in natural languages modality is strongly bound up with subjectivity. For
example, building on Lyons (1977: 452), Palmer proposed that: “Modality in lan-
guage is . . . concerned with subjective characteristics of an utterance, and it could
evenbefurtherarguedthatsubjectivityisanessentialcriterionformodality”(Palmer
1986: 16). But as his use in this quotation of the modal could implies, Palmer cau-
tions that not all modal utterances are subjective. You must leave at once could be
a subjective insistence by the speaker or a general (relatively objective) comment
on an inescapable state of affairs over which neither speaker nor addressee has any
control (ibid. p. 17). Some linguistic deontics do express universal truths (at least
as construed by speakers), e.g. All men must die, and, as we have seen, deontic ne-
cessity and possibility can concern general conditions. Furthermore, the modality
of ability is not subjective (Hoye 1997: 43), and there is a considerable conceptual
distance between weakly subjective modals that appeal to norms and regularities
and strongly subjective epistemic modals that are based solely on the speaker’s opin-
ions and beliefs. Finally, even epistemics that are based in speaker judgment rather
than general truths can range from less to more subjective. Sanders and Spooren
(1996), for example, suggest a complex cline for epistemic subjectivity in Dutch
based on two kinds of evidence: knowledge-based and observation-based. Later in
this chapter we will see how meanings have become increasingly subjective over
the history of both deontic and epistemic must and ought to.
With respect to deontics, there is a cline of subjectivity from objective (the source
of obligation is universal) to subjective (the source of obligation is the speaker).
According to Myhill there is in addition what in our terms is an intersubjective use of
many deontic modals that deserves attention. Basing his studies (1995, 1996, 1997)
on dialog in late nineteenth and twentieth century American plays, he suggests that
there is a set of “group-oriented” uses of modals which can be used “as a rhetorical
device to try to convince the listener that there really is general agreement from
other people, so that the listener ought to agree” (Myhill 1997: 9). He argues that
this intersubjective meaning is often associated with ought to in the plays, whereas
should is associated with individual, subjective opinions. For example, although the
uses of ought to and should might on ﬁrst thought appear to be interchangeable in
(24), they actually reﬂect acknowledgment of the interlocutor and agreement that
the Far East is “where everything’s happening” in the ﬁrst case and a subjective
opinion on a different matter, in the second:
(24) Norman: Are you doing anything relevant?
Dick: You can’t get more relevant than Far Eastern studies. Ask me
anything about the Far East and I’ll tell you the answer. That’s where
everything’s happening. China, Vietnam, Japan, Korea. You name it.
114
Development of modal verbs
Norman: I guess I ought to know more about those things. I don’t know, I
keep thinking there’s a lot of things I should know about.
(1970, Weller p. 131 [Myhill 1997: 3])
Myhill suggests that during the twentieth century, at least as evidenced by plays,
there has been a shift away from “group-oriented” (intersubjective) uses of the
modals like must, ought to, and intentional will, to more individualized uses of
modals like got to, should, and gonna. The tendency Myhill observes in American
English is borne out by statistics on use of have got to/gotta in spoken contemporary
British English. Krug (2000) found that these forms were one and a half times more
frequent than must in the British National Corpus despite prescriptive warnings
against them. To what extent these shifts are a function of particular ideologies
expressed in plays, or of social changes as a whole remains to be determined. In
any event they are shifts in norms of use rather than semasiological shifts in the
meanings of individual modals and are subject to different motivations from those
that are the focus of this book.
A particular kind of (inter)subjectivity may be associated with epistemics, espe-
cially may and can. For example,
(25) She may jog.
can mean not only that she is permitted to jog (deontic: something a doctor might
say at some point after surgery) or that it is possible that she will run (epistemic:
something a coach might say about a team member who is on the list of potential
runners), but also:
(26) I acknowledge that she jogs.
The type paraphrased in (26) seem to be restricted to complex clause constructions,
such as:
(27) She may jog, but she sure looks unhealthy to me.
Here the ﬁrst clause is concessive and presupposes that the interlocutor or some-
one has said that she runs (“although she may jog, as you say . . .”). The speaker
grudgingly accepts this, and then goes on to draw some conclusion that does not
directly follow from the modalized proposition. Pointing out that it may be used
metatextually to relativize the form of the communicative act itself, Sweetser (1990)
calls the type of modal use in (27) the “speech act” use (see 2.3.1). To what extent
speech act uses of modals are cross-linguistic is not clear at this point. Nor does
the textual evidence give precise insight into what historical path individual modals
have undergone to reach this stage. However, by hypothesis, since the metatextual
meanings are the most (inter)subjective, they are probably the latest to develop
115
Regularity in semantic change
semasiologically. Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca (1994: 240) treat concessive mean-
ings in general as later stages of modality. This is echoed by Van de Auwera and
Plungian, who cite Dutch mag “may” in a speech act/concessive sense, pointing out
that in Dutch mogen “does not have any epistemic meaning (any more)” (1998: 93).
Furthermore, as we shall see in the chapter on discourse markers, sentence adverbs
that have adversative epistemic meanings give rise to metatextual discourse marker
meaning, not vice versa.
3.2.6 Temporality
Prototypical agentive deontics involve an event that is projected or
obligated to occur later than reference time. Therefore the reference time of You
must/may leave is future of the time of utterance. By contrast, prototypical epis-
temics have present time reference.
(28) They must be reconciled.
is future-oriented in its deontic meaning (obligation), but present (utterance-time)-
oriented in the epistemic meaning. However, the correlations are far from uni-
form. In English, general root/deontic necessity as in (18) has generic present as
its reference time. And epistemicity can be future-oriented as in the case of proba-
bility:
(29) The storm should be clear by tomorrow.
(Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca 1994: 180)
It has often been noted that historically, deontics often give rise to futures (e.g.
Fleischman 1982, Bybee, Pagliuca, and Perkins 1991). They are most likely to
do so if they have agent-oriented meaning, such as “desire” or “obligation.” A
prototype example in work on grammaticalization is the development of Late Lat.
cantare habeo “sing-INF have-1stSg” > Fr. chanterai “I will sing.” Here hab- “have”
acquires an obligation meaning and subsequently comes to serve as the future
sufﬁx (for various approaches see Benveniste 1968, Fleischman 1982, Pinkster
1987).
Past reference time is available for epistemics. In English it is usually expressed
by have + past participle following the modal as in:
(30) They must have been reconciled.
Here the speaker’s subjective viewpoint is from the present, but the reference time is
prior to the time of utterance. (30) cannot be deontic. There is, however, a lexically
differentiated deontic of obligation must with past reference:
116
Development of modal verbs
Deontic Epistemic Stronger
must must
Weaker
have (got) to
ought to
have (got) to
ought to
Figure 3.1. Relative modal strengths of must, have (got) to, ought to (based on
Coates 1983: 19, 26, 31).
(31) They had to be reconciled.6
The had to modal is less subjective in the sense that the source of obligation is much
less likely to be SP/W than in the case of deontic must. Since the speaker cannot be
the source of the compulsion in a past tense deontic, the less subjective equivalent
is used to express past reference.
3.2.7 Scales of modal strength
The last property of modals to be discussed here is the degree of in-
tensity or “strength” of the requirement or likelihood expressed by a modal. Where
ambiguity between deontic and epistemic exists, there appears to be a regular re-
lationship between the degree of obligation and the degree of likelihood that the
expressed world/described event is related to an actual referenced world. Thus Horn
(1972) points to synchronic matches between deontic and epistemic must, should,
and may, and Coates (1983) to matches between deontic and epistemic must, have
(got) to, and ought to, on a scale of greater to lesser closeness to the actual refer-
enced world. The latter situation is schematized in ﬁgure 3.1. Similar matches have
been shown to occur cross-linguistically (Steele 1975, Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca
1994, especially p. 195).
Such matches are further borne out by modally harmonic collocations with ad-
verbs (Lyons 1977: 807, citing Halliday 1970: 331). For example, must (but not
ought to) collocates with absolutely, while ought to (but not must) collocates with
perhaps (Hoye 1997).7
Other harmonic collocations involve verbs to which a modal
clause is subordinated; for example, grant and request collocate (in formal contexts)
with may, but not must:
(32) I request that she may/*must leave.
We will see how harmonic relationships of this kind develop over time, not always
in tandem, although the outcome, from the general perspective of MdE, is parallel.
6 In some contexts, e.g. embedded in a past tense report on a cognitive state, such as I thought that
. . ., this could be construed as epistemic, but only with pluperfect (“past in past”) meaning.
7 See especially Hoye’s index of modal expressions. Sanders and Spooren (1996) discuss harmonic
collocations with Dutch epistemic modals according to degree of subjectivity.
117
Regularity in semantic change
MEANING Languages
i. NEED Basque (−tu bear)
WANT
METE (MEASURE)
ii. BE
BE, SIT, STAND
FALL, BEFALL
iii. POSSESS
BE, HAVE
GET, OBTAIN, CATCH
OWE
iv. BE FITTING
GOOD
Danish (mätte, cog. English must)
Tucano (ro + a)
Abkhaz (r ), Chepang (sa), English (be to),
Slave (woleani)
Buli (bo−)
Baluchi ( g kap)
English (have to, ought to),
Chepang (sa, ha )
Lahu ( a), Temne (ba k )
Cantonese (ying goi), Danish (skulle,
English shall )
Lahu ( ), Mwera (wandicila)
English (‘d better), Palaung (la)
C
Figure 3.2. Some possible sources of modals of obligation (based on Bybee,
Perkins, and Pagliuca 1994: 182–183).
3.3 Semantic sources of deontic and epistemic modals
Before presenting our case studies, we will brieﬂy outline some of
the major cross-linguistic sources of modals. Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca (1994:
chapter 6) provide a detailed study of the larger class of deontic/agent-oriented
modality, with particular attention to both the semantic source (they call it the
“lexical source”) and the target morphology (free or bound element), as evi-
dence for the semantics and morphosyntax of grammaticalization. Here we will
highlight only a few points concerning the semantic sources of deontic and
epistemic modals, and concerning some typological claims about their paths of
development.
Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca’s data base, much of it synchronic, reveals a num-
ber of relationships between source “gram” (grammatical morphemes) and “target”
modals of obligation.8
In ﬁgure 3.2 we have selected from their ﬁndings and supple-
mented them with material from English. We have also organized them according
to the main source semantic ﬁelds involved:
(i) future-oriented need and desire,
(ii) being or coming into being,
8 See 2.3.3 for brief mention of their data base and overall aims.
118
Development of modal verbs
MEANING Languages
i. FINISH, ARRIVE
ii. BE
iii. GET, OBTAIN
iv. KNOW (HOW TO)
Morowa (golleh), Guaymí (reb)
Lahu (gà)
Lao (bpe:n), Lahu (ph )
Lahu ( a), Mandarin (de)
Motu (diba), Danish (kunne), Mwera
(manya), Nung (shang), Tok Pisin
(k n, s vi), Baluchi ( ga zan)
Figure 3.3. Some possible sources of modals of ability, root possibility, and
permission (based on Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca 1994: 188).
(iii) possession, including owing,
(iv) positive evaluation.
Types (ii) and (iii) are closely interconnected, since there is a cross-linguistic rela-
tionship between possessive (have), existential (be) (and locative (be at)); cf. Lyons
(1968), Clark (1978).
It is striking that in the sources of obligation modals that Bybee, Perkins, and
Pagliuca cite there are no examples in which a barrier appears to be entailed, such as
one might expect if Talmy (1988) is correct that forces and barriers are fundamental
conceptual structures for modals (see 3.2.2). Furthermore, the examples in ﬁgure
3.2 do not entail an active energetic willful force, despite the fact that prototypical
deontics have agents as subjects (see 3.2.1).9
Ability, root possibility, and permission have partially similar sources according
to Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca (1994). Verbs of knowing (how to) are especially
predominant (note that in English can derives from cunnan “to have the mental
ability” (cf. know, cognize), may from magan “have the physical ability” [cf. might
“strength”]). In ﬁgure 3.3. we organize the source grams into four main semantic
ﬁelds:
(i) completion,
(ii) being,
(iii) possession,
(iv) knowing,
and add Mandarin de, since we will be discussing its development in 3.4.3.
Not all epistemic modals derive from deontics or modals of ability. For example,
Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca (1994: 205–210) suggest that in some cases verbs of
9 Occasionally an agent-related source is attested, e.g. Italian and- “go,” which has deontic readings
in the present tense, future, and conditional. It is noteworthy, however, that the deontic reading of
and- emerged only in contexts with inanimate subjects (Giacalone Ramat 2000: 134–135).
119
Regularity in semantic change
befalling, becoming, etc. may become epistemic directly, without an intervening
obligation or ability stage. However, in many European languages the sources of
the meanings of epistemic modals are typically deontic and ability modals. Bybee,
Perkins,andPagliuca(1994:195–196,203–205)notethatAbkhaz,Baluchi,Basque,
Guaymı́, and Lao are among other languages in which epistemics (not always strictly
modals, but also moods and conditional markers) have forms cognate with deontic
modals (often in a different tense, and greatly reduced by grammaticalization).
Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca (1994) develop schemata for development from
such pre-core modal meanings as are illustrated in ﬁgures 3.2 and 3.3, to core modal
meanings (deontic and epistemic), and to post-core modality-related meanings, such
as are found in a variety of subordinate clauses, for example “concessive speech act”
uses such as (27) above. These schemata are testable hypotheses outlining possible
paths of development of polysemies. They form the basis of several more elaborated
schemata or “lexical maps” in Van der Auwera and Plungian (1998); in the view of
these authors, the dimension of internal or external source is key to modality (see
3.2.2above),anditﬁguresprominentlyintheirmodelsunderthenames“participant-
internal”and“participant-external”modality.Noting“vagueness”oratleastoverlap
between what we call general deontic possibility and necessity, they suggest that
these two are historically bidirectional (however, everything else in their model is
unidirectional).
Figure 3.4 draws on their integrated maps of epistemic and deontic developments,
with particular attention to the dimensions relevant to this chapter. The prediction
from this ﬁgure is that elements will develop unidirectionally in the direction of
the arrow-head. This will be illustrated by the case studies below. A signiﬁcant
change to Van der Auwera and Plungian’s modal map is the arrow from possibil-
ity to necessity. We hypothesize that this is unidirectional, since to date we have
found no examples of weakening from deontic necessity to permission or ability,
although the reverse, strengthening of permission to deontic necessity, is well at-
tested, and illustrated below. Another signiﬁcant difference from their map is that
we treat participant-internal vs. participant-external meanings as overlapping on the
margins of prototypical possibility and necessity, rather than as separate meaning
types, because the historical record is not always clear that the one type deﬁnitively
preceded the other. For purposes of this map, subjectiﬁcation is ignored since it is a
mechanism rather than a change in modal meaning. How subjectiﬁcation correlates
with the developments in ﬁgure 3.4 will be discussed below.
3.4 The development of epistemic meaning
3.4.1 English must
In MdE must is a core modal in the syntactic sense of being an auxiliary
and in the semantic sense of having both deontic and epistemic meanings; these
120
Development of modal verbs
Premodal Modal Postmodal
"know"
"be,
become,
befall"
"be
fitting,
mete"
"owe,
belong,
possess,
have"
"want"
participant-
internal nec
participant-
external poss
deontic poss
participant-
external nec
deontic nec
epistemic
nec
concessive
imperative
condition
epistemic
poss
future
participant-
internal poss
Figure 3.4. Schema for the development of modal polysemies (based on Van der
Auwera and Plungian 1998: 98, 111) (in this and subsequent ﬁgures, poss =
possibility; nec = necessity).
meanings are high on the scale of obligation/certainty. According to Coates, deontic
and epistemic meanings were found with approximately equal frequency in her
PDE data base: 53% : 47% (1983: 24) respectively. The situation in OE was very
different. Syntactically it was originally a main verb. Semantically it expressed
ability and permission in earlier OE, obligation only in later OE (c. 1000 AC).
The epistemic meaning is very rare in OE texts and does not develop fully till
c. 1300. Therefore epistemic meanings of must are considerably less frequent in
earlier periods than at present. The broad outlines of the development of must are
well known (see e.g. Visser 1969, Denison 1993, Warner 1993, from a primarily
syntactic perspective, and OED, MED, Goossens 1987a, 1987b, 1999, 2000 from a
primarily semantic one) and will only be sketched here. The focus will be on three
questions:
121
Regularity in semantic change
(i) What were the contexts for the development of the deontic out of the
ability meaning?
(ii) What were the contexts for the development of epistemic meanings?
(iii) What were the contexts for the generalization of the past tense form
must?
The OE precursor of must was OE mot-10
meaning “be able, be permitted”
(“may”). Like other pre-core-modals in English, except will- “will,” it was orig-
inally a preterite-present verb, that is, it expressed completed action resulting in
present state (“have come to be able”). Its origins are in IE ∗
med- “take appropriate
measure, be ﬁtting/mete” (cf. medical, modal, modify, commodity, etc.), and the OE
meanings were inherited from Gothic and Early Germanic mot- “ability, measure,
have room for.” It therefore appears originally to have had a primarily participant-
internal (ability) semantics. By the time of Early Germanic a participant-external
meaning of permission had arisen, presumably out of the invited inference that
what is internally unrestricted may have been made so by some external force or
regulation, whether divine or social. The result was a generalization of meaning.
Stage I: must1: ability, permission
Examples of the premodal “ability” meaning of mot- in OE are rare.
One that reﬂects the putatively original Germanic participant-internal ability mean-
ing is (33):
(33) Wilt u, gif u most,11
wesan usser her aldordema,
will you if you able:are be-INF our army leader
leodum lareow?
people-DAT teacher
“Are you willing, if you are able, to be the leader of the army, the teacher of
the people?”
(8th century, Genesis, 2482)
More common are examples like (34) with participant-external ability:
(34) Ic hit e onne gehate æt u on Heorote most12
I it you then promise that you in Heorot will:be:able
sorhleas swefan.
anxiety-free sleep
“I promise you that you will be able to sleep free from anxiety in Heorot.”
(8th century, Beowulf, 1671 [Visser: 1969:
1791])
In (34) Beowulf promises to be the enabler of sleep. One could think of him as
10 The inﬁnitive form of mot- is not attested.
11 Most here is second person singular present tense.
12 Ditto.
122
Development of modal verbs
promising to be the external remover of barriers to sleep. In this sense he is also
“permitting” sleep. We have here at least an IIN of permission; on the other hand,
we may also have indeterminacy between the older and the newer reading.
Unambiguous permission and prohibition uses are far more frequent than ability
uses (Goossens 1987a). Aelfric uses mot- to translate Lat. licere in his Latin Gram-
mar, e.g. licet mihi bibere – mot ic drincan “I am allowed to drink” (Warner 1993:
146). Examples of the OE permission use of mot- in textual data are:
(35) a. onne ride ælc hys weges mid an feo & hyt
then rides each his way with that money and it
motan habban eall.
be:permitted have-INF all
“Then each rides his own way with the money and can keep it all.”
(c. 880 Orosius, p. 21.4 [Traugott 1989: 37])
b. he ne mot na beon eft gefullod.
he not may not-at:all be again baptized
“It is not permitted for him to be baptized again.”
(c. 1000 ÆLS I, 270.142 [Denison 1993: 425])
(35a) comes from an account of the burial customs of the Estonians; the source of
authority is custom. (35b) comes from a sermon by Aelfric; the source of authority
is Christian belief. Both examples refer to general situations. But mot- is also used in
more particularized contexts, most notably in questions where the speaker is asking
permission of the addressee (i.e. the subject of mot- is participant-external) as in:
(36) Mot ic nu cunnian hwon inre fæstrædnesse, æt ic
may I now test a-little thy fortitude that I
onan ongietan mæge hwonan ic in tilian scyle & hu.
thence judge may whence I thee provide ought and how
“May I now inquire a little about your fortitude, so that I can judge from what
source and how I should provide for you?”
(c. 880 Boethius 5, 12.12 [Traugott 1989: 38])
The permission meaning of mot- survived through the ME period, but became
increasingly restricted, especially in later ME, when it appears primarily in formulae
for prayers, blessings, curses, and oaths, e.g. so mot I then “so may I thrive,” cristes
curs mot thou haven “may you have Christ’s curse” (MED moten 9–12). During the
later OE and ME periods, the permission meanings of mot- were slowly replaced
by may < magan “have the physical ability.”
Stage II: must2: obligation/deontic
In later OE and especially EME a new obligation meaning of mot-
arose alongside the ability and permission meanings. Some examples are:
123
Regularity in semantic change
(37) a. Hit is halig restendæg; ne most u styrigan ine
it is holy rest-day NEG may/can/must thou move thy
beddinge.
bed
“This is a holy rest-day; you may/must not move your bed.”
(c. 1000 ÆCHom II, 42 [Goossens 1987b: 33])
b. we moton eow secgan eowre sawle earfe, licige
we must you-DAT tell your soul-GEN need please
eow ne licige eow.
you:DAT not please you:DAT
“we must tell you about your soul’s need, whether it please you or not.”
(c. 1000 ÆCHom I, 17 (App) 182.240 [Goossens 1987b: 32])
c. Ac anne hit is in wille at ic e loc ofrin mote.
but then it is thy will that I thee sacriﬁce offer must
“But then it is Thy will that I must offer Thee a sacriﬁce.”
(c. 1200 Vices and Virtues 85.5 [Warner 1993: 175])
d. Ær ic moste in eossum atolan æ ele ebidan.
before I had in this black territory stay-INF
“Before/earlier I had to stay in this dark place.”
(c. 1000 Fallen Angels 108 [OED must v1
I., 2])
(37a),beingnegative,collapsesdistinctionsbetween“notpermittedto”and“obliged
to not.”13
(37b) explicitly excludes any possibility that the addressee has options
(i.e. excludes a permission reading). In (37c), mot- is embedded in the NP “God’s
will” and expresses a high degree of obligation. In (37d) a past obligation is rep-
resented. There are no options available to the subject in any of the examples in
(37).
How might this scalar strengthening from relatively weak permission to deontic
obligation have come about? One factor that has been suggested is that in the con-
text of denied (negative) permission (you may not) as in (35b) and (37a) there was
an inference (in our terms an invited inference) of “obligation-not-to” (Goossens
1987b: 34). Another is that in the contexts of authorizations such as granting per-
mission for something that is not desired or is regarded as unwelcome an invited
inference of obligation arose (ibid.) as in (37b). However, what is unwelcome to one
participant may be welcome to another, as in the case of (38), where the permittees
(the advisors) presumably welcomed the permission, but Equitius, the individual
on who they were permitted to act, presumably did not.
13 This is in keeping with Van der Auwera’s (Forthcoming) claim mentioned at the end of 2.3.5 that
there is a regular unidirectional shift among modals from e.g. “not necessary that” > “necessary
that not”; this change is itself an example of increase in the scope of the modal.
124
Development of modal verbs
(38) swa a lærendum am preostum se papa ge afode
so then advising-DAT those-DAT priests-DAT the pope granted
æt Equitius moste [MS vr. sceolde] beon gelæded to Romebyrig.
that Equitius should be brought to Rome
“so then the pope granted to those priestly advisors that Equitius should be
brought to Rome.”
(c. 1000 GD 35.19 [Warner 1993: 161])
This suggests that the constraint that the permission granted is unwanted is too
restrictive. With reference to PDE, Leech says that examples of event predications
in past tense such as He allowed me to borrow his car “seem[] to compel the
inference ‘and moreover I did borrow it’” (1970: 206). It is likely that in OE reports
of permission to act invited the inference that the instruction was performed, or
that the action granted was fulﬁlled, thereby reducing the options available both
to the permittee and to the subject of the subordinate clause, especially where the
authority is all powerful (God in (37c)), or almost so (the pope in (38)). Note
that in (38) the request is granted that Equitius be brought to Rome. The textual
variant sceolde suggests that the intention here is not only that Equitius might be
brought to Rome but that he indeed would be; i.e. he is left no options. Because the
clause is subordinate to “grant,” this is not the kind of strong deontic of necessity
or compulsion that could be translated as “so that Equitius had to be brought.” It
is therefore not a case of obligation but of possibility, cf. “made it possible for
Equitius to be brought to Rome.” Nevertheless it is by inference higher on the scale
of obligation than permission.
Given the number of early participant-external examples of deontic mot- and the
proposals above concerning the origins of the deontic meaning, we hypothesize that
the new deontic meaning of mot- developed in the context of participant-external
uses such as (38). Few clear examples of participant-internal deontics occur until
later ME:
(39) I moste han of the perys that I se, Or I moot dye.
“I must have some of the pears that I see, or I will die.”
(1395 Chaucer, CT, Merchant, p. 167, l. 2331 [MED moten 3])
Note that moste in (39) is not only participant-internal but also ﬁrst person. This
is a more subjective use than most earlier examples, in so far as no social, religious,
or other normative force is speciﬁed or implied. But not all subjective uses of must
require a ﬁrst person subject, or even a participant-internal subject. If it is SP/W who
is obligating the non-ﬁrst person subject, then the source is external to the subject,
as in You must go, I demand it, but the deontic is subjective because it has been
preempted to the subjective self of SP/W. Given the largely homiletic and historical
texts of the crucial period of the development of deontic polysemy at the end of OE
125
Regularity in semantic change
and beginning of the ME period, it is difﬁcult to tell to what extent subjectiﬁcation
operated on deontic must in the early part of the period; however, the examples in the
Helsinki Corpus suggest that more subjective uses increased over time during the
later ME period. Goossens underscores the unidirectionality of the shift to subjective
must by showing that whereas in the Helsinki Corpus some 70 percent of examples
of participant-external must are non-subjective in ME, the reverse is true of the
Brown Corpus (a corpus of written American English). Equilibrium was reached
in the period 1500–70 (Goossens 2000: 165).
Often subjectivity is masked as more objective obligation. (40) is a particularly
interesting example of this masking. Although by inference we understand that the
speaker, the Lord Chief Justice, is the human agent who could open the gap, he
distances himself from the possibility of acting in this way by using an agentless
passive, an indeﬁnite subject (introduced by there), and embedding reference to
himself within a modalized conditional (if we should grant this).
(40) Ld. Ch. Just.: There must not such a Gap be opened for the Destruction of the
King, as would be if we should grant this. You plead hard for
your self, but the Laws plead as hard for the King.
(c. 1603 Raleigh, p. 1213)
In earlier ME examples of obligation mot- involve an obligee that is human or at
least a body-part (e.g. heart, hand, metonymically used for some aspect of human
cognition or behavior), but in the later ME period the deontic mot- is extended to
contexts in which the obligee is inanimate:14
(41) nota æt euery centre mot ben also smal as a nedle &
note that every center must be as small as a needle and
in euery equant mot be a silk thred.
in every equant must be a silk thread
“Note that every center must be as small as a needle and there must be a silk
thread in every equant.”
(c. 1392 Equatorie of the Planets, p. 26)
In sum, the deontic polysemy arose in OE, and was widely used by the earliest
ME period. The development of strong obligation must out of weaker permission
was a complex process probably involving:
(i) invited inferences of obligation arising out of the granting or willing
into being of projected enabling conditions (38),
(ii) development of participant-external uses (37a, b), (38).
14 Syntactically this is a case of raising.
126
Development of modal verbs
Once the deontic polysemy was ﬁrmly established, further developments in-
volved:
(iii) extension of participant-external necessity to participant-internal ne-
cessity (39),
(iv) extensionofparticipant-externalnecessitytononanimatesubjects(41),
(v) further subjectiﬁcation.
Stage III: must3: epistemic
A few possible examples of epistemic must appear in OE. One context
in which epistemic readings are possible or even likely is impersonal constructions
(Denison 1990, Warner 1990) and especially impersonals in conditional clauses
(which are themselves epistemic), e.g.:
(42) & ra e æfter am, gif hit mot gewiderian, mederan settan.
and quickly after that if it may be:ﬁne madder plant
“and quickly after that, if the weather may be ﬁne, [one can] plant madder.”
(950–1050 LawGer 12, 454 [Denison 1993: 300])
Such impersonal examples are rare. If epistemic, they are relatively objective.
Othercontextsaregeneralstatements,whichcouldbeexamplesofgeneraldeontic
necessity (with a wide scope reading), but can also be understood as epistemic.
Out of context, the following early example might be construed as deontic (“it is
necessary for all of us to die”):
(43) Ealle we moton sweltan.
all we must die
“We must all die.”
(?8th century Exodus, 12.33 [Warner 1993: 162])
However, Warner (1993: 162) shows that the context is contingent to a particular
situation, so epistemic conclusion about an inevitable future is also possible (this
could be paraphrased as “it is necessary/it can’t not be that we all will die”). Warner
describes the situation as follows: “The Egyptians force the Jews to leave Egypt,
saying: If you Jews do not leave Egypt, we Egyptians will all necessarily die.” If an
epistemic reading is correct here, it is presumably one of epistemic futurity, arising
out of invited inferences of futurity from deontic obligation.
Examples like (43) in which the subject involves a generalized quantiﬁer are
similar to some that in PDE Coates (1983, 1995) has suggested undergo “merger”
(see 3.2.3), that is, they are cases in which both root and epistemic readings are
equally possible, and perhaps both intended. They invoke general sources, both
social and cognitive, and hence wide scope readings. With respect to the history of
127
Regularity in semantic change
English, the term “merger” is clearly inappropriate since in ME the distinction was
still emerging.
Constructions which are indeterminate between deontic and epistemic mean-
ing can be considered key to the emergence of semanticized epistemic meaning.
Goossens (2000: 161) cites the shift “from participant-external” to “general objec-
tive use” as the “ﬁrst stepping stone” to epistemic readings of must, and cites (44a)
as an example; another example is provided in (44b):
(44) a. why burieth a man his goodes by his grete avarice,
why buries a man his goods by (“because of”) his great avarice
and knoweth wel that nedes moste hy dye? For deeth
and knows well that necessarily must he die for death
is the ende of every man.
is the end of every man
“why does a man bury possessions because of his great avarice, when he
knows well that he must necessarily die? For death is the end of all men.”
(1386–90 Chaucer, CT, Melibee, p. 234, l.12 [Goossens 2000: 161])
b. ho-so hath with him godes grace: is dede mot nede
who-so-ever has with him god’s grace his deed must necessarily
beo guod.
be good
“he who has god’s grace necessarily is required to be/we can conclude is
good.”
(c. 1450 Life of St Edmund, p. 440)
As Goossens (2000) notes, (44a) is not only potentially epistemic; it also has a form
oftheadverbnedes“necessarily”;15
thesameistrueof(44b).Thecollocationofmot-
with a form of nedes is rare in OE, but frequent in ME and EMdE. The MED even de-
votes several subsections of moten to this collocation. It is reasonable to believe that
nedes played a key role in the semanticization of epistemic must (see also Goossens
1999). If SP/W explicitly states that some event is necessarily obliged or compelled
to occur in the future, especially if the source is God’s authority, law, spiritual aware-
ness, or logic, the inference is readily invited that the state of affairs represented in
the proposition not only will be true in the future but is virtually present.
(45) Ah heo mot nede beien, e mon e ibunden bi .
but he must necessarily submit the man that bound is
“But he who is bound ought necessarily to submit/necessarily submits.”
(c. 1225 (?1200) Lay Brut, 1051 [MED moten 2c])
From the perspective of MdE, at least, not only mot- but nede in (45) are indeter-
minate between a deontic (it is necessary for a man to submit if he is fettered) and
15 The most frequent forms are nedes and nede.
128
Development of modal verbs
an epistemic (it is logically necessary/one would necessarily conclude that a man
submits if he is fettered), particularly in a generic context such as this one.
Some unambiguous examples of epistemic must appear by the middle ME period,
as illustrated in (46).16
In (46b) epistemic conclusion is explicitly mentioned (I have
concluded ), in (46b, c) nedes is used, and in (46c) the subject is generic:
(46) a. He moste kunne muchel of art,
he must know much of art (cunning)
at u woldest eve erof part.
that you would yield thereof part
“He must know much of art since you are willing to give part of it.”
(c 1300 (?1250) Floris (Cmb), 521 [MED moten 4])
b. I have wel concluded that blisfulnesse and God ben the sovereyn good; for
whiche it mote nedes be that sovereyne blisfulnesse is sovereyn devynite.
“I have properly deduced that blissfulness and God are the supreme good;
therefore it must necessarily be that supreme blissfulness is supreme divinity.”
(c. 1389 Chaucer, Boece p. 432, l. 124)
c. For yf that schrewednesse makith wrecches, than mot he nedes ben moost
wrecchide that lengest is a schrewe.
“For if depravity makes men wretched, then he must necessarily be most
wretched that is wicked longest.”
(c. 1380 Chaucer, Boece, p. 447, l. 47)
Examples in (46) illustrate epistemic necessity. They are also relatively objective.
Over the later EMdE period we ﬁnd examples of increasing subjectivity. These do
not invoke general opinion as (46a) does, nor are they contextualized in logical
reasoning (as for example in philosophical argumentation such as (46b, c), in a trial,
or a report of scientiﬁc experiment), but simply express the speaker’s conﬁdence in
the inference being made at the moment. Early examples of genuinely subjective
uses of epistemic must appear to be:
(47) a. There ys another matter and I must trowble you withall . . . hit ys my lord
North. . . . surely his expences cannott be lytle, albeyt his grefe must be more
to have no countenance at all but his own estate.
“There is another matter that I must trouble you about . . . It is my Lord North
. . . surely his expenses can’t be small, although it must be an even greater
grief to him that he has no standing other than his own estate.”
(1586 Apr. 30, Dudley)
b. Lady Touchwood: Don’t ask me my reasons, my lord, for they are not ﬁt to
be told you.
16 Goossens (1999, 2000) calls examples of this kind “inferential” rather than fully epistemic.
129
Regularity in semantic change
Lord Touchwood: (Aside) I’m amazed; here must be something more than
ordinary in this. (Aloud ) Not ﬁt to be told me, madam?
(1693 Congreve, Double Dealer, III, p. 154)
In sum, like the deontic meanings, the epistemic ones appear to have arisen in
several contexts. These include:
(i) impersonal constructions in which there is no controlling subject, and
use in conditional clauses (42),
(ii) the invited inference from obligation to act at some generic time that
is future of reference time to present probability (45).
The chief one, however, as far as our textual evidence suggests, is
(iii) wide scope generalized deontic necessity (43).
Here the generalized source of authority as well as the tendency to use generalized
subjects invited the inference that what is necessarily obliged to happen in the future
is also obliged to happen in the present.
Also noting multiple sources for the development of epistemic must, Goossens
(2000) suggests that the development illustrates “partial schematicity” or “partial
sanction” (Langacker 1987/91: vol. I, p. 69). In our terms, the partial sanctions
follow from the IITSC – certain implicatures become salient, but not all, in any
kind of semantic change.
The development of must discussed here conforms to the predictions in ﬁgure 3.4.
The particular semantic development of must is modeled in ﬁgure 3.5. Were we to
have clearer data about the pre-Germanic development of must1, we would presum-
ably be able to show the development from premodal “take appropriate measure,
be ﬁtting/mete” to participant-internal ability (“ability” must1) directly. Since this
had already occurred by OE, we here mark this phase of development indirectly by
a broken arrow.
Apparently basing their hypotheses on PDE, Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca claim
that “[the] contexts in which must has an obligation reading and the contexts in
which it has an epistemic reading are mutually exclusive” (1994: 200), speciﬁcally,
must has an obligation sense only in future contexts, and an inferred certainty sense
in the present with a stative verb or Progressive and Past. Furthermore, they say,
“the obligation does not imply the inferred certainty sense,” and they conclude that
because “must arises in contexts with aspectual interpretations distinct from the
obligation uses,” therefore “the conventionalization of implicature cannot be the
source for the epistemic sense” (1994: 201). Instead, they propose a metaphorical
source, a shift “from the domain of social obligations and physical necessities
applied to an agent, to the epistemic domain that speaks of the necessary conditions
130
Development of modal verbs
"be fitting,
mete"
participant-
internal nec
participant-
internal poss
"ability"
(must1)
epistemic
nec (must3)
participant-
external poss
deontic poss
"permission" (must1)
participant-
external nec
deontic nec
"obligation" (must2)
Premodal Modal
→
Figure 3.5. Schema for the development of must1 to must3 ( = reconstructed
development).
under which a proposition can be true” (ibid.). An example they give to argue their
point is PDE:
(48) He must understand what we want. (or we’ll never get it; deontic)
(we’ve told him so many times; epistemic)
(Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca 1994: 201)
In (48) the deontic reading requires that “he” understand in the future (implying
that “he” does not understand now), whereas the epistemic reading is stative and
present (implying that he does understand now).
Projection from present-day examples of ambiguity to potential loci for change
in the past is a useful ﬁrst-pass methodology, but it cannot lead to deﬁnitive recon-
struction of mechanisms, particularly in historical semantics, since the outcomes of
change via invited inferences can so easily appear to be metaphorical synchronically
(see 2.3.2). This is particularly true when the synchronic analysis itself is subject to
131
Regularity in semantic change
must1 V of ability/permission
must2 Narrow scope deontic
Wide scope deontic
More subjective deontic
must3 Epistemic (wide scope)
More subjective epistemic
Meaning OE LOE ME EMdE MdE
Figure 3.6. Time-line for the development of must (in this and subsequent ﬁgures,
— = attested as semanticized, and continues to period speciﬁed; --- = in sporadic
use, probably not fully semanticized; = increase in strength of change).
question. While not rejecting a metaphoric analysis for some synchronic examples,
Goossens has argued that there may nevertheless be “a metonymic underpinning
(stated differently: in certain contexts the epistemic meaning may be an implicature
of the root meaning)” (Goossens 1996: 38, 2000). As an example he cites (19)
from Coates, given in 3.2.3 above. On this account, even in PDE there is no ne-
cessity for a metaphorical analysis in all cases. As we have seen, several examples
in ME suggest that there are areas of indeterminacy or at least overlap between
deontic and epistemic must. The textual data for the development of the epistemic
out of the deontic must do not require a metaphorical account of the mechanism
of change involved. Indeed, the indeterminacies strongly disfavor such an account
although, as is so often the case, general conceptual metaphorical mappings no
doubt constrained and enabled the invited inferences to become GIINs and then be
semanticized.
Figure 3.6 summarizes the main changes discussed so far across time. It adds
to Figure 3.5 the dimensions of scope and subjectiﬁcation (a broken line indicates
highly restricted and probably not yet fully semanticized use; a line with arrows
indicates increase in strength over time).
So far we have not addressed the problem of tense. How could it be that the past
tense form was generalized, and in fact became the nonpast form in most uses? The
past is now periphrastic: had to is the usual form of the past tense deontic, and must
have for the epistemic.
As was mentioned at the beginning of this section, mot- was historically a
preterite-present form like most premodal verbs in OE. In other words, like ag-
“possess,” durr- “dare,” scul- “owe, be destined/obliged to,” mag- “be able” (and
some non-premodals like wit- “know”), mot- was a verb that in its origins belonged
to a class of verbs that refer to states that come into being as a result of an event,
with emphasis “on the state attained and not on the action of which it was the result”
132
Development of modal verbs
(Prokosch 1938: 188).17
This class was, according to Prokosch (ibid.) preserved to a
far greater extent in Germanic than in other Indo-European languages, and was prob-
ably increased in Germanic times (he cites the form of the premodal cunn- “can,”
related to Lat. gno- “know”). These verbs, including mot-, had etymological past
forms in the “present” (i.e. nonpast) tense, and for most, the past tense was innova-
tively formed in Germanic with a weak (-t- ) stem.
In OE mot- was used for nonpast, most- for past time reference. In (37d) past
tense agrees with ær “earlier, before now.” In PDE it would have to be expressed
by had to. In (38) moste is past tense because it is embedded in a report of a past
event (granting that Equitius be brought to Rome). This situation continued in ME,
but increasingly the past tense form came to be used for nonpast reference, as in
(46a) from the thirteenth century, and (49) from about 1400. Lear laments that his
daughter told him the truth, but he refused to believe her, and let her go away:
(49) now wote y neuer what forto fone, se my ij
now know I not what to do since my two
doughtres have me us desceyuede, at y so michel louede;
daughters have me thus deceived that I so much loved
now moste me nedes seche here that is in o ere land.
now must 1sg-DAT necessarily seek her who is in another land
“Now I do not know what to do, since my two daughters whom I loved so
much have deceived me in this way; now I am forced to/I have to seek her
who is in another country.”
(c. 1400 Brut, 1333)
Striking here is the present tense context marked by now, and the present tense forms
of wote, is, and the present perfect have desceyuede (all italicized in (49) for ease of
reference). Lear is commenting on the situation/resultant state he ﬁnds himself in,
given his past actions. Moste seems to be being used at least as an inchoative and
perhaps once again like a preterite-present – a past form used to express a present
obligation contingent on past actions.
Bybee (1995) has analyzed the generalization of would, should, might, and could
as markers of present or future hypotheticality as in:
(50) If you had that job lined up, would Fulbright then pay up?
(Bybee 1995: 503, citing Coates 1983: 211)
She argues that the past forms of the OE modals scul- “be destined, obliged to” and
will- “intend,” when used to express future in the past, for example, in subordinate
clauses, “offer two areas of vagueness: (i) whether or not the predicate event was
17 Warner (1993: 145) provides a useful list of recorded nonﬁnite forms of the major preterite-
present verbs in OE.
133
Regularity in semantic change
completed; and (ii) whether or not the modality remains in effect” (Bybee 1995:
506). One example is:
(51) Næs æt forma si æt hit ellen-weorc æfnan sceolde.
NEG-was that ﬁrst time that it valor-deed perform had:to
“That was not the ﬁrst time that it (a sword) had to perform a deed of valor.”
(8th century, Beowulf 1464 [Bybee 1995: 505])
At this point in the epic, it has not been stated whether or how the sword was to
be used (though addressees probably knew the story already, and we have been
told that the sword “never betrayed anyone who used it”). Bybee suggests that in
various contexts, most especially in conditional constructions, the continuation of
the modality into the present could be implied, as in:
(52) Quat! hit clatered in e clyff, as hit cleue schulde.
what! it clatteredin the cliff as:if it cleave would
“Lo! There was a clattering in the high rocks as if they would break in two.”
(after 1345, Gawain, 2201 [Bybee 1995: 510])
Unlike in the case of the modals Bybee discusses, the past form must came to
be the only one available, so that we have no pair such as must–moot in Standard
English on analogy with should–shall. The same thing came to be true in the case
of ought to, as we will see below. It is of course interesting to note that shall is
coming to be almost entirely recessive, leaving only should. The only obligation
modal that still retains a fully productive past–nonpast pairing is have to, and it has
not developed a “hypothetical present” with past form.18
Asfarasmustisconcerned,itisclearthatwhenitmeantpermission,theembedded
past tense uses were of the type Bybee adduces – they left open the question whether
what was enabled did indeed occur (see (38)). However, in the context of God’s will
and other sources of strong obligation, any implicature that what was required might
not have been fulﬁlled is only very weak, and easily cancelable by an adverb like
nede(s).
Two factors suggest that the generalization of past form most- for nonpast obli-
gation meaning was not parallel to that of would, should, etc. as proposed by Bybee
(1995):19
18 On the other hand, of the pair might–may, the hypothetical might of possibility and low probability
is coming to be replaced by may (see Denison 1992). Again, however, a single form predominates.
19 Other hypotheses are also problematic, e.g., Visser’s suggestion that the extension of the past
tense form was “fostered” by the fact that the second person singular of the present tense was most
(Visser 1969: 1805); see (33), (34), (37a). For this to have been a major factor in the development
would require that second person singular context predominated in the use of mot-. Skeat’s
suggestion (cited in Visser 1969: 1805) that Scandinavian may have had some effect because
Swedish maste is used for present and past only pushes the question of origins onto another
language. Neither hypothesis provides any insight into similar developments of past-in-present
use for most of the modals (cf. could, might, should, would, ought to).
134
Development of modal verbs
(i) the frequent collocation with nedes makes a GIIN of the kind “it is
unknown whether the required action occurred” unlikely,
(ii) in the earliest examples, the obligation expressed by most- is the result
of a new condition.
Factor (ii) is especially clear in (49) – Lear’s earlier assessment of his daughters has
brought him unexpectedly to the situation where he has to seek out the daughter he
had rejected. The context for (46a) He moste kunne muchel of art suggests that the
speaker concludes “he must know a lot about art” on the basis of newly acquired
evidence “you are willing to give part of it.” We propose that in the case of must, the
particular history of the development of strong obligation out of permission led to
the salience of coming to be obliged (i.e. present state resulting from some action
or condition such as God’s or a king’s command or will). The scalar strength of the
obligation that is expressed by nede(s) reinforced the nonpast orientation of the verb.
Evidence that nedes is one of the relevant contexts not only for the development
of epistemic must, but also for the crystallization of the past form is provided by the
Helsinki Corpus. All examples of this modal with nedes after 1420 have the past
tense form must, although in other data there continue to be some examples of mot-
without nedes until the early sixteenth century.20
A late fourteenth century example
in which mot- and most- both appear with nedes is (with superscript letters to aid
discussion that follows):
(53) But here ese blynde heretykes, at ben vnable to conceyue sutilte
but here these blind heretics that are unable to conceive subtlety
of holy writ, schulden furst lerne er owne wordis. So hit is at
of Holy Writ should ﬁrst learn their own words true it is that
alle ingus motea
nede come as God ha ordeyned, and so
all things must necessarily come as God has ordained and so
eche dede of Crist mutb
nede be doon as he dide hyt. And
each deed of Christ had:to necessarily be done as he did it and
us, if men schulde not sewe Crist her, fore he mustec
thus if men should not follow Christ here because they would
neede suffre, noo cristene man schulde sewe Crist in noo
necessarily suffer no Christian person would follow Christ in any
ing at he dyde, for alle e ingus at Crist did mustend
thing that he did because all the things that Christ did had:to
nedly comen as ei cam. And so suche heretykes mustene
necessarily come as they came and so such heretics must
20 Elly van Gelderen (p.c.) has drawn our attention to instances of mote needes and needs mot in the
later sixteenth century in the writings of Spenser (e.g. 1596 Fairie Queene Bk. V, vi, 36.9 That if
two met, the one mote needes fall ouer the lidge (“ledge”)); however, Spenser is well known for
using archaisms in this text, and these are possibly to be understood as such.
135
Regularity in semantic change
nede sewen anticrist and be dampned wi hym for
necessarily follow Antichrist and be damned with him because-of
defawte of here byleue.
fault of their belief
“But here these blind heretics, that are unable to conceive the subtlety of Holy
Writ, should ﬁrst learn their own words. The truth is that all things must
necessarily come to be as God has ordained. So each of Christ’s deeds had to
be done as he did it. And thus, if men choose not to follow Christ here,
because they think, if they did so, they would necessarily suffer, no Christian
person would follow Christ in anything that he did, because all the things that
Christ did had to occur as they occurred. And so such heretics must
necessarily follow Antichrist and be damned with him because of their belief.”
(c. 1400 English Wyclifﬁte Sermons, 416)
Motea
and mutb
are in a present context (“true it is that”); they pertain to univer-
sal truths and are indeterminate between deontic and epistemic necessity: what is
necessarily expected to occur can be concluded to be true of the present as well as
the future. It can also be true (epistemically in the present) of actions deontically
required in the past, and mutb
appears to be interpretable as having wide scope
(“each deed Christ did, necessarily he had to do it”). If so, here is a present form
with implied past reference. Mustec
is embedded in a conditional and is harmonic
with schulde. Mustend
might be regarded to follow on in conditional mode, or
could be seen to be in variation (excluding agreement markers) with mutb
, since
it is a past form that this time appears to refer to deontically required past ac-
tion, while inviting the inference of present epistemic certitude. Finally mustene
is a past form with a clearly present reference. Note that, as in many discus-
sions of predestination, deontic requirement and epistemic truth are inextricably
related.
Although this passage is heavily quantiﬁed with all, nevertheless it is not only
about universal truths but also about the necessity of coming into being. With respect
to motea
, mustend
: all things, including Christ’s deeds, must necessarily come into
being/happen as God has ordained (note the use of com- “come”); mustec
: people
are conceived of as avoiding Christianity in case they should come to suffer for
their faith; and mustene
: they are predicted to come to be followers of Antichrist as
a consequence.
The number of examples of past form for nonpast meaning is small in the early
part of the fourteenth century but increases from the earlier to the later four-
teenth century, especially in sermons and texts on religious subjects. This is true
of both deontic and epistemic must. It is favored, but, as (53) shows, not oblig-
atory in the Wyclifﬁte sermons, which must have had a signiﬁcant inﬂuence on
English.
136
Development of modal verbs
By the ﬁfteenth century examples of must begin to appear in Modal–have–V-
Past Participle constructions. Have–Past Participle is the marker of past tense after
a modal (as in MdE She must have left), and therefore examples of this construction
unambiguously demonstrate that most- was no longer understood as marked for past
tense. Most examples of must have in ME are in counterfactual conditionals, as in
(54a); in EMdE they begin to be found in other contexts, especially when must is
epistemic, as in (54b) (its modern use):
(54) a. yf the kynge wolde have take any execucyon a-pon hyt
if the king would have taken any action against it
he moste have take hyt a-pone alle the hoole schyre.
he must have taken it against all the whole shire
“If the king had taken any action against it, he would have had to take it
against the whole shire.”
(1475 Gregory, p. 195)
b. Loveless: Sure this addition of quality, must have so improv’d his Coxcomb,
he can’t but be very good Company for a quarter of an Hour.
“Surely this new honor (a title), must have improved his coxcomb
so much that he will have to be very good company for quarter of
an hour.”
(1697 Vanbrugh, II.i.145)
In sum, uses of the past tense form must appear to have evolved in situations
that replicated the old preterite-present inchoative contexts. In the case of must the
particular history of the development of strong obligation out of permission appears
to have led to association of this type of obligation with coming to be obliged (i.e.
present state resulting from some action or condition such as God’s or a king’s
command or will). The “necessity” involved in deontics is the necessity of coming
into being, as in (49), or in the case of epistemics of coming to a conclusion, as
in (46a). Must became the default form for both deontic and epistemic mot- by the
early part of the ﬁfteenth century (at least in the Helsinki Corpus data) primarily
in the context of an adverb harmonic with its high rank on the scales of obligation
and possibility (nedes).
3.4.2 English ought to
We turn very brieﬂy to ought to to demonstrate how similar its semantic
history is to that of must, despite its somewhat different syntax21
(for a fuller study,
see Nordlinger and Traugott 1997). In PDE must is usually considered to be a core
21 Much of section 3.4.2 is based on Nordlinger and Traugott (1997), which provides a fuller account
of the history of ought to.
137
Regularity in semantic change
modal, while ought to is quasi-modal since syntactically it does not have all the
properties associated with core modals, e.g.
(i) to is present in most dialects (in speech it is usually bonded with ought,
expressed as oughtta),
(ii) in some dialects it triggers do-support, e.g. Did she ought to go?,
(iii) in some dialects it disallows negative reduction; these dialects require
She ought not to do that (however, others allow She oughtn’t to do that).
Also, as Coates (1983: 70) points out, “[c]ompared with the other modal auxiliaries,
OUGHT occurs relatively infrequently, particularly in written language.” In Coates’
PDE corpus, epistemic uses are outnumbered by 8 to 1 by deontic uses compared
with almost even numbers for must (1983: 32, 77) (see 3.4.1).
In PDE ought to typically expresses a moral or social obligation on the subject to
bring about the state of affairs described by the predicate, and is deontic. Epistemic
uses indicate a probabilistic conclusion to be drawn about the likelihood of an event,
often on the basis of widely held beliefs. One of the characteristics of ought to that
has been noted is that the epistemic and nonepistemic uses are often indeterminate.
As Coates (1983: 78) suggests, speakers may exploit this possibility in their use
of ought to, intentionally conveying both an epistemic inferential meaning and a
deontic moral meaning in one utterance. An example is:
(55) There may be evidence that day-care or short-stay surgery is just as effective,
but of lower cost, than traditional surgery. . . Therefore providers ought to be
able to agree to contracts for these services at a lower price.
(after 1978, British National Corpus B2A 1199 [Manfred Krug p.c.])
Meanings of moral obligation in which the subject is animate are at the stronger
end of the deontic continuum, but there are a number of weaker uses of nonepis-
temic ought to in PDE that are weaker since they involve meanings such as “it is
proper/ﬁtting that,” or “it is advisable that.” The latter is illustrated in (56):
(56) “I’ll make it clear to President Gorbachev that he ought to view this outcome
of the summit very positively,” Bush said.
(1990 July 12, United Press Intl.)
Stage I: ought1: possession
Ought to originates in OE agan. The form in ME is ouen (OE “long
a” became “long o” in early ME, and velar /χ/ (spelled g/h) became /w/ in the
environment of back vowels). This is usually translated as “have, own, possess”
(premodal). Its most frequent use is as a transitive verb; the complement may be
138
Development of modal verbs
property, wealth, glory, power, etc. Typical examples include:22
(57) se cing let geridan ealle a land e his modor ahte
that king caused bring-INF all those lands that his mother had
him to handa & nam of hire eall æt heo ahte on golde. . .
him:self in control and took from her all that she had in gold
“the king caused all the lands that his mother owned to be brought under his
control and took from her everything she had in gold . . .”
(1042 Chron A [DOE agan; Nordlinger and Traugott 1997: 305])
Agan also occurs with nonﬁnite complements; semantically they are close to
“owe” and involve implied possession and obligation:
(58) tuoege scyldgo woeron sume ricemenn an ahte to
two debtors were certain:DAT rich-man-DAT one had to
geldanne penningas ﬁf hundra o er ﬁfteih.
pay pennies ﬁve hundred other ﬁfty
“there were two debtors to a rich man; one had 500 pennies to pay/had to pay
500 pennies, the other 50.”
(late 10th century Lindisfarne Gospels, p. 81 [DOE; Nordlinger and
Traugott 1997: 306])
In order to pay off the debt the debtor will have to possess (temporarily) the pennies
due, but at the time at which the debt is outstanding possession is only an implied
obligation. Cases like this are semantically intermediate between the type have my
house to let (possessive; the object “house” is referential) and the type have a letter
to write (obligation; the object “letter” does not yet exist, and is therefore non-
referential).23
In cases like (58) the debt is referential, but the pennies to pay it off
are not (yet). Where the object may not yet exist (like the pennies) and especially
where it does not yet exist (like the non-written letter) the semantics of possession is
bleached, and the pragmatic inference of obligation strengthened. Semanticization
of the obligation has clearly occurred when the object is no longer physical, only
cognitive or experiential, as in (61) below.
Stage II: ought2: deontic
By the end of the tenth century or the early eleventh century some
instances occur which, according to DOE (agan), “shade into auxiliary uses.” From
a semantic point of view, they are shading into deonticity. In one construction the
22 Many of the OE examples cited here are to be found classiﬁed and discussed in the Dictionary
of Old English (DOE) ed. by Healey et al. (1994) agan (entry compiled by Shigeru Ono).
23 On constructions of the type have a letter to write vs. have to write a letter and hypotheses about
their semantic development see e.g. Benveniste (1968), Fleischman (1982).
139
Regularity in semantic change
subject is deﬁned in the DOE as “the person to whom the obligation is due.” i.e.,
the subject is in the semantic recipient role as in:
(59) e eorl . . . benam him al æt he ahte to hauen.
the earl . . . deprived him all that he ought to have
“the earl . . . deprived him of all that he ought to have had.”
(1140 ChronE [DOE agan A.2.b; Nordlinger and Traugott 1997: 306])
In constructions of this type the obligations are secular rights accompanying
kingship or other high status. Agan to habenne appears to have been an idiom in
late OE that might be the equivalent of PDE “have/get the right to.” The rights of
kings are to obtain taxes, own lands, etc. on a regular basis into the future, and to
keep them. In so far as there is a modal implicature in this type of construction, the
inference is invited that there is a potential controller of a situation that may not yet
have taken place but under normal circumstances has a probability of doing so at a
later time. In other words, the construction is weakly deontic, at least by implication.
Another type of construction that “shade[s] into auxiliary use” according to the
DOE, involves a subject which is “the person bound by the obligation” (the obligee).
This obligation may be social or moral:
(60) ic eow wylle eac eallswa cy an, æt man ah
I you-DAT wish also similarly say-INF that one ought
seoce men to geneosianne and deade bebyrian.
sick men to visit-INF and dead bury-INF
“I also want to say to you that one ought to visit sick people and bury the
dead.”
(early 11th century HomU, 46 [DOE agan II A.2.a; Nordlinger and Traugott
1997: 307])
Here the subject is human, and therefore a willful controller, and generic. The
source is general social obligation. Since possession is virtually ruled out, (60)
appears to be an example of participant-external general root/deontic necessity,
newly polysemous with ought1.
By the beginning of the thirteenth century we begin to ﬁnd examples of the type
in (61) with participant-internal subjects, e.g.:
(61) Sire ich wes of swuch ealde æ ic ahte wel to habben
sir I was of such age that I ought wellto have
wisluker iwite me.
wisely-COMPAR guarded me
“Sir, I was of such an age that I certainly ought to have conducted myself
more wisely.”
(c. 1230 Ancrene Wisse, p. 163 [Nordlinger and Traugott 1997: 307])
140
Development of modal verbs
The deontic meaning of agan/ouen, attributing moral or legal obligation to its
animate subject, remained its primary modal function in ME. Most uses are only
weakly subjective in that the speaker is merely reporting an obligation which is
imposed by a conventionalized, accepted set of rules and expectations (such as the
Church or the Law).
Around 1300 a new construction is found, one in which the subject can be inan-
imate as in:
(62) Goddys seruyse owy to be doun.
“God’s service ought to be done.”
(1303 Robert of Brunne, Handling Synne 1024 [Visser 1969: 1815;
Nordlinger and Traugott 1997: 309])
The wide scope associated with general participant-external root/deontic necessity
shows its effect on the construction, motivating increased use with inanimate sub-
jects. These uses focus only on the necessity that the situation represented in the
proposition will come to be true, given the moral or legal frame which the speaker
assumes to be generally valid. The conceptual properties typically associated with
ought to in ME (and beyond into MdE) are as follows: the force is social and moral,
the obligee is plural, generic or nonspeciﬁc, and the event probable. From its be-
ginnings it evokes “universal/societal principles” and is “group-oriented” (Myhill
1997). Possible inferences that individual internal deonticity might be intended can
easily be defeased, as in this interchange (where may expresses ability, and will
intention):
(63) 1st Citizen: Once if [“If indeed”]24
he do require our voices, we ought not
to deny him.
2nd Citizen: We may, sir, if we will.
3rd Citizen: We have the power in ourselves to do it, but it is a power that
we have no power [“no moral right”] to do.
(1607–8 Shakespeare, Coriolanus II. iii. 1–5 [Nordlinger and
Traugott 1997: 311])
Note must would be inappropriate here since its strength cannot be defeased.
In our earlier texts ought to is used in only weakly subjective ways; appeal to
external values predominates. By the beginning of the sixteenth century we begin
to ﬁnd examples that suggest the speaker is identifying with these values, and is
presenting him- or herself rather than society as the force behind the obligation:
(64) they vse to haue a chylde, to go in the forowe before the horses or oxen . . .
and he taketh his hande full of corne, and by lyttel and lytel casteth it in the
24 This and the gloss below are provided in The Riverside Shakespeare.
141
Regularity in semantic change
sayde forowe. Me semeth, that chylde oughte to haue moche dyscretion.
“they customarily have a youth walk in the furrow in front of the horses or
oxen, . . . and he takes a handful of corn and slowly casts it in the said furrow.
It seems to me that that youth ought/needs to have much discretion.”
(1534 Fitzherbert, p. 40 [Nordlinger and Traugott 1997: 311])
In other words, later examples of ought to can involve greater subjectivity than
earlier ones.
Stage III: ought to3: epistemic
In later ME there are one or two examples with inanimate or pleonastic
subjects that might be interpreted as having an epistemic reading. But it is not until
late in the EMdE period that we ﬁnd the ﬁrst clear epistemic constructions, and even
then they are infrequent. Among the earliest unambiguous examples of epistemic
uses of ought to in the Helsinki Corpus is:
(65) For the Attrition having caus’d an intestine commotion in the parts of the
Concrete, the heat or warmth that is thereby excited ought not to cease, as
soon as ever the rubbing is over, but to continue capable of emitting Efﬂuvia
for some time afterwards.
(1675–76 Boyle, Electricity, pp. 12–13 [Nordlinger and Traugott 1997: 312])
Being scientiﬁc, the context suggests that here we have ought to in the epistemic
sense of “can logically be expected to.” The EMdE and most MdE examples are
at best weakly subjective, and most tend to be at least potentially ambiguous with
deontic meanings when the subject is animate, as in (66):
(66) these merciless Tyrants murder’d them by wholesale . . . This was a Practice
so inconsistent with Humanity, that all the People of the World ought to have
resented it; as having much more reason to declare the Spaniards to be
Enemies to Mankind, than ever the Roman Senat had to declare Nero to be
such.
(1699 Pola, l.83 [Lampeter])
In (66) the preferred reading is epistemic: “one could conclude that . . .”; however,
moral directive cannot be ruled out. When the subject is inanimate, however, ought
to can be clearly epistemic:
(67) If General Motors has a worse credit rating than Toyota, its borrowing costs
ought to be higher. They are, so there is no surprise there.
(British National Corpus ABJ 3828, written data [Manfred Krug p.c.])
More strongly subjective examples grounded in the speaker’s personal expectations
rather than those of a wider group are rare. A probable example is (68):
142
Development of modal verbs
(68) Q: And what do they pay you?
A: Well, they pay, they pay, they are paying me a little bit, I think it ought to
go up in price a bit.
(British National Corpus KBX 95, spoken data [Manfred Krug p.c.])
The prediction is that epistemic ought to will increase in frequency and in subjec-
tivity over time.
The development of the meaning “owe” into deontic and epistemic “ought” is
in broad strokes similar to that of Lat. debere “owe” into Fr. devoir “ought.” In
one respect, however, it is signiﬁcantly different: Fr. devoir participates in the full
tense–aspect system, but Eng. ought to is a frozen form used with past and nonpast
meaning. Warner notes that ouen/ought came to be associated with to by the six-
teenth century despite the fact that it had in ME been used with the bare inﬁnitive.
It therefore did not become a member of the core modal group. He suggests this is
“because it retained the possibility of past time reference and its preterite was inter-
preted as formed according to the full verb schema of bought, brought, fought . . .”
(1993: 204). While it is certainly the case that present tense forms occur throughout
ME and in the earliest part of the sixteenth century, nevertheless there are several
instances even in EME of ouen with past tense form but present or future meaning,
such as (69):25
(69) Hvte we nu ankin and herien ure hlauerde.
ought we now thank and praise our lord
“We ought now to thank and praise the Lord.”
(c. 1200 Vices and Virtues (1) 151/15 [MED ouen 5.c])
We hypothesize that, like must, ought to had the potential in the ME period to
become the default form for nonpast, as in the case of the modals Bybee (1995)
discusses in contexts where present results of past actions or conditions are at issue.
In (61), for example, if the past tense refers to obligations at the time (ich wes of
swuchealde),italsoinvitestheinferencethattheobligationpersistedintothepresent
of tu. As would be expected for a modal expressing advisability rather than strong
obligation, it did not collocate with nedes and the present tense forms continued to
be quite robust in LME. Given its association with norms it also does not appear
to have been strongly associated with preterite-present contexts, which tend to be
individualized instances of coming into being. As owe came to be specialized to
largely ﬁnancial obligation (“be obliged to (re)pay”) it came to replace the older
meaning of scul- “owe,” leaving shall–should and ought to with primarily modal
meanings. What role, if any, must may have played in this reorganization of the
semantics and form of ought to remains to be investigated.
25 See also MED ouen 4a(c), 4b(b), 4c(b), 5c–j.
143
Regularity in semantic change
We turn now to a modal development in a non-European language, Chinese, to
show the generalizability of aspects of modal development discussed above.
3.4.3 Chinese de
In Modern Mandarin (MdMand)26
there is a lexical verb “obtain” as
in:
(70) De le jiangxuejin.
get PERF scholarship
“X got a scholarship.”
(Chao 1968: 741)
and an auxiliary de meaning “be able, be possible, be permitted,”27
as in:
(71) a. Nan de qu kan dianyinger.
difﬁcult get:to go see movie
“X hardly gets to see a movie/rarely goes to a movie.”
(Chao 1968: 742)
b. De weituo daibiao chuxi.
may entrust proxy attend
“X may delegate a proxy to attend the meeting.”
(Ibid. p. x)
c. Wo de xie xiu de liao ma.
I POSS shoe ﬁx possible well Q
“Is it possible for my shoe to be ﬁxed well?”
(Yang 1989: 129)
(71c) is an example of de used as an “inﬁx” (Chao 1968, Sun 1996), where it
is usually translated as “be possible”; however, most examples, including (71c),
are of the ability/root possibility type, not, as such a translation might suggest, of
the subjective epistemic type. The latter is expressed in MdMand by keneng,28
for
example:
(72) Ta keneng lai le.
3Sg possible come PERF
“S/he probably has come.”
∗
“S/he is permitted/allowed/able to come.”
De can be found as a lexical verb meaning “obtain” in Pre-Archaic Chinese, as
represented by oracle bones (c. 1300–1050 BC), bronze inscriptions, the Books of
Odes, and the Book of Documents. In these works Chinese “de has not yet acquired
the modal usage,” according to Chou (1953: 226). The concrete, physical nature
26 We are grateful to Nina Lin for her extremely helpful research for and comments on 3.4.3.
27 The permission meaning is found primarily in legal language (Nina Lin p.c.).
28 Also by other forms not discussed here, e.g. yinggai (see Cantonese ying goi in ﬁgure 3.2).
144
Development of modal verbs
of the original verb is reﬂected in the written representation: “The shape of the
character de in oracle bones depicts a hand holding a shell. The cowry shell is an
ancient means of exchange, and it represents things of value. So [de] means to
obtain or to acquire. There is also the extended meaning of coveting” (Li 1992:
59). Li’s description suggests this verb may have had a modal coloring, at least as a
GIIN from early on. De was borrowed into Jp. with this extended meaning of desire
(Nelson 1962).
According to some scholars, de “obtain” developed modal meanings in the Late
Archaic Chinese period: “De is used as a modal to express ability or permission
and is often seen in texts and documents of the Spring and Autumn period and later
texts” (Chou 1953: 226). For example, in Mengzi de is used in the original meaning
“obtain, get”:
(73) er de tianxia.
and obtain world
“and have the kingdom.”
(300 BC Mengzi, Gongxun Chou [Sun 1996: 112])
and also with a second verb in the participant-external meaning of “allow”:
(74) qi de bao bi min zai.
how allow oppress DEM people EXCL
“How (could he) be allowed to oppress the people?!”
(300 BC Mengzi, Wanzhang [Sun 1996: 113])
According to Sun (1996), “obtain” appears to have been grammaticalized to a modal
in this two-verb construction. This would seem consistent with developments in
other languages, including English in which get to has the modal meaning “can” (see
for example, Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca 1994: 188, referencing Matisoff 1973,
whocite“obtain”asasourcefor“ability,rootpossibilityandpermission”).However,
other scholars have questioned the etymological connection with de “obtain.”29
(75)
below is an example that allows both the permission and the epistemic reading:
(75) wu de you qi yi yi man qi er.
how allowed/possible30
possess this one with despise these two
“How is it allowed/can it be/is it possible that the person who possesses one of
these (properties) despises the one who possesses the other two
(properties)?”31
(300 BC Mengzi, Gongxun Chou [Sun 1996: 113])
29 Alain Peyraube, p.c.
30 Sun translates de as “all right.”
31 The translation given is “How can the possession of one of these (be presumed on) to despise the
one (who possesses) the other two?” (from Legge 1984: 214). However, Chaofen Sun and Nina
Lin (p. c.) agree that the one given here may be more accurate, given the context.
145
Regularity in semantic change
Such ambiguous examples are either interrogative like (75) or negative, i.e. they
occur in contexts that are modalized. In Mengzi the only examples of de that appear
to be primarily epistemic occur in the context of an already modal verb ke “be able/be
possible.” Since in Archaic Chinese the syntactic subject is often unexpressed,
the distinction between ability and possibility is very difﬁcult to determine, and
translations often differ. For example, (76) is translated by Lau (1970: 102) with an
ability reading as: “Only then were the people of the Central Kingdoms able to ﬁnd
food for themselves” and by Legge (1984: 251) with a possibility reading as: “It
became possible for the people of the Middle kingdom to cultivate the ground and
get food for themselves.”
(76) ranhou zhong guo ke de er
and:only:after:that middle kingdom able/possible able/possible then
shi ye.
eat/feed PTC
“Only then were people of the Middle kingdom able to have food/Only then
was it possible for people of the Middle kingdom to have food.”
(300 BC Mengzi, Gaozi)
In fact, the ambiguity of de still survives, and the epistemic reading appears still
to be a GIIN that occurs only in already-modalized contexts, such as negatives and
questions.
Although a more detailed study of the historical record is needed, if it is correct
that de “obtain, get” > de “can, be possible,” it appears that the history of de can be
summarized as in ﬁgure 3.7.
One example of de in Mengzi that strongly favors an epistemic reading is:
(77) guo yu zhi ke de hu?
kingdom desire govern able able Q
“One may wish for the kingdom to be well governed, [yet] is it possible?”
(300 BC Mengzi, Gaozi)
Here the epistemic reading is favored because (77) refers to the possibility of the
situation desired happening rather than to the king’s own ability to make it happen.
ThecompoundkedeisnotusedinMdMandtodenoteeither“ability”or“possibility.”
It was, however, superseded by another compound keneng from about the Early
Mandarin (EMand) period on. In almost all of its occurrences keneng is interpreted
unambiguously as an epistemic modal of “possibility/probability”; see (72) above
for a modern example, and (78) below for an early one:
(78) ke neng tong shang yueyang lou.
able able together ascend Yueyang tower
146
Development of modal verbs
participant
internal poss
"ability" (de)
participant-
external poss
deontic poss
"permission"
participant-
external nec
epistemic
poss (as GIIN)
"obtain"
Premodal Modal
Figure 3.7. Schema for the development of Chinese de.
“Is it possible [for us] to ascend the Yueyang Tower together?”
(1200 AC Zhuzi Yulei Scrolls)
Epistemic kede derives from ke “be able, be permitted/required” + de, and epis-
temic keneng from ke + neng “be able, permitted, willing” (< N neng “talent”; see
Peyraube 1998). Note that both compounds involve the development of epistemic
meanings from verbs that at an earlier time were independently not epistemic; one
may hypothesize that the compounds were used to rhetorically reinforce the GIINs
that were already in operation, and to make explicit SP/W’s subjective doubt with
respect to particular situations.
3.5 Conclusion
Not all languages have modals in the strict sense of grammaticalized
(auxiliated or otherwise morphosyntactically specialized) verbs. Of those that do,
not all have deontic–epistemic polysemies. But for those that do, we have conﬁrmed
earlier ﬁndings that:
(i) deontic > epistemic, not vice versa,
(ii) narrow > wide scope, not vice versa,
(iii) root possibility/necessity > epistemic, not vice versa,
(iv) subjectiﬁcation increases within each domain.
147
Regularity in semantic change
premodal > deontic > epistemic
content > content/procedural
s-w-proposition > s-o-proposition
D-nonsubjective > D-subjective
E-nonsubjective > E-subjective
Figure 3.8. Correlated paths of directionality in the development of epistemic
modals (D = uses in the deontic domain; E = uses in the epistemic domain).
These correlations are summarized in ﬁgure 3.8. We have also shown that there
is strengthening from possibility to necessity (but not weakening from necessity
to possibility), and that the kinds of contexts in which epistemic meanings can
arise strongly point to a process that originates with invited inferencing rather than
metaphorization (although metaphoric relationships may frame and constrain the
favoring of the IINs, then GIINs, in question and may appear to be the result of the
semanticization of the GIINs).
The historical development of modals conforms to the regular tendency for
semantic change to follow a path to increasingly nonreferential and increasingly
speaker-oriented meanings, not vice versa. Like other changes to be discussed later
in this book, the acquisition of modal meaning involves the acquisition of proce-
dural in addition to content meaning.32
These changes are consistent with (but not
necessarily projectable onto) what Cinque (1998), drawing on Bybee (1985) and
others, has proposed as a universal hierarchy of functional heads for modality/mood
from which the linear order can be predicted (in (80) the hierarchic “>” has been
replaced by linear “ – ”; for head-ﬁnal languages the order is in reverse):
(79) Modepistemic – Modnecessity – Modpossibility – Modvolition – Modobligation –
Modability/permission
(based on Cinque 1998: 81)
Our view of Universal Grammar is too parsimonious to endorse Cinque’s position
that the modal hierarchy justiﬁes positing an innate functional make-up rich enough
to include (79). Nevertheless, (79) serves useful descriptive purposes. Synchron-
ically, the whole of the sequence is not found overtly in languages, but varieties
of English that allow multiple modals, and many other languages evidence many
of the positions. For example, in the following example from Hawick Scots, will
expresses future (epistemic), might possibility, and could ability:
32 As mentioned in Chapter 1, see Groefsema (1995) for discussion of modals in terms of procedural
meaning (1.2.2), and Nicolle (1998) for the importance of recognizing that forms can have both
contentful and procedural meaning (1.2.1).
148
Development of modal verbs
(80) He’ll might could do it for you.
(Brown 1992: 75 [Cinque 1998: 79])
Historically, the development is grosso modo from right to left. Typologically, the
semantic–pragmatic motivation for the cross-linguistic onomasiological picture
is the tendency to recruit meanings into increasingly subjective semantics (non-
modal > deontic > epistemic), wider semantic scope (narrow > wide), and more
abstract syntactic structures (control verb > raising verb).
Among the many developments that deserve further study is the role of “preterite-
present” semantics in the history of modal verbs in English. We have suggested that
it may have been a signiﬁcant factor in the crystallizing of the forms of must by
the ﬁfteenth century. Preterite-present is by no means limited to must, for it found
explicit expression in the modal have got to (have expresses present perfect, and
signals “present relevance of past action/state of affairs”). Derived from have got of
possession (note the origin in possession again), it came in the nineteenth century
to compete with deontic have to (which had developed in later ME and especially
EMdE), especially in representations of informal speech:
(81) “Never did sir!” ejaculated the beadle. “No, nor nobody never did; but now
she’s dead, we’ve got to bury her.”
(1837/38 Dickens, Oliver Twist [Krug 2000: 62])
In the twentieth century have got to acquired an epistemic meaning:
(82) This has got to be some kind of local phenomenon.
(1961 Brown Corpus, Science Fiction MO4: 165 [Denison 1998: 173])
Despite its later development than have to as a modal of obligation, (have) got to
in its current spoken form gotta has more auxiliary properties than have to (Coates
1983: 52) and therefore is a more prototypical model for emerging modals with to
such as be going to, want to, need to, ought to (Krug 2000: 236); also, unlike have
to, (have) got to often expresses subjectivity (Coates 1983: 53). More importantly
for the present discussion, it has come, especially in informal spoken English, to
be used in the form got to/gotta (past form for nonpast meaning), presumably as a
result of elision and subsequent loss of have, obliterating a past–nonpast distinction:
(83) “I don’t know,” said Dickie, “but we got to do it som’ow.”
(1909 Nesbit, 105 [Denison 1998: 173])
However, not all verbs that develop deontic meanings necessarily do so in the
past tense, let alone generalize the past form to nonpast meaning. For example,
Giacalone Ramat (2000) points out that in Italian although the verb andar “go”
has deontic meanings in some tenses, it does not have such meanings in the simple
past and in compound tenses. The constraints imposed on modal developments by
149
Regularity in semantic change
certain tenses and persons for speciﬁc verbs in speciﬁc languages need to be far
better understood.
Another question to be explored is the extent to which languages cross- linguisti-
cally express the extremes of deontic scales illustrated in ﬁgure 3.1, and hence how
universal the strengthening of modalities of obligation to extreme height on the
scale may be. As mentioned above, not all languages have (partially) grammatical-
ized epistemic modal verbs such as have been discussed here that are derived from
nonepistemic ones. Indeed, not all languages have grammaticalized modal verbs.
Japanese is one such language. However, as Akatsuka (1992) has shown, there are
other resources in the language for expressing non-epistemic and epistemic modal-
ity. She argues that concessive conditional constructions of the type “S1 temo, S2”
are analogs of permission auxiliaries in English. For example, requests for granting
of permission are expressed as follows:
(84) A: Tabe-temo ii desu ka?
eat-even:if good is Q
“Is it all right even if I eat?/May I eat?”
B: Aa, tabe-temo ii yo.
Yeah, eat-even:if good PTC
“Yeah, it is all right even if you eat/Yes, you may eat.”
(Akatsuka 1992: 6)
Obligation is expressed in a more complex fashion: by a double negative in a
conditional construction expressed by either “S1 tewa, S2” (85a) or, in more formal
styles, by “S1 ba, S2” (85b):
(85) a. Tabenaku-tewa ikenai.
eat:NEG-if no:good
“You must eat.”
b. Tabenakere-ba ikenai.
eat:NEG-if no:good
“You must eat.”
(Akatsuka 1992: 7)
Akatsuka argues that rather than being deﬁned in terms of necessity and possi-
bility, these (concessive) conditional constructions should be deﬁned in terms of
desirability, i.e. of subjective affect rather than of truth and falsehood. She has also
argued that the conditional marker -tewa itself underwent a semantic change from
perfective auxiliary (ﬁfth–eighth centuries) > conjunctive particle (early eleventh
century) > negative conditional (twentieth century), a shift from clause-internal to
connective to “discourse interactive” meaning (Akatsuka 1997: 331). This is a shift
consistent with the larger set of changes that are the topic of this book.
150
Development of modal verbs
It appears unlikely that strong deontic meanings such as English speakers asso-
ciate with must or even ought to, are attested cross-linguistically. Rather, a weaker
conceptual category such as DESIRE would appear to be universal. Akatsuka’s
(1992) analysis of conditional constructions as equivalent to English modals of de-
sirability suggests links to work on putative semantic primes in terms of Natural
Semantic Metalanguage (e.g. Goddard and Wierzbicka 1994). Most particularly it
suggests links to Harkins’ (1995) cross-cultural study of DESIRE. Harkins (1995)
notes that in the Australian language Kayardild, the inﬂectional sufﬁx -da, which
is readily translated into English “should,” is a desiderative33
(DESID) or perhaps
conditional, as in:
(86) Dathin-a dangka-a dali-d.
that-NOM man-NOM come-DESID
a. “I want that man to come.”
b. “That man should come.”
c. “It would be good if that man comes.”
(Harkins 1995: 141)
Atthesametime,thechangesdiscussedhereunderscorethefactthat“primitiveness”
of some of the primes posited in Natural Semantic Metalanguage must be under-
stood at the general experiential and cognitive level, not at the linguistic level since
lexical representations in individual languages are typically derived. The proposed
primes include WANT, MAYBE/CAN, the latter in the sense of ability/possibility
(Wierzbicka 1994, 1995). Some sources for ABILITY/POSSIBILITY are given in
ﬁgure 3.3, sources for obligation in ﬁgure 3.2. For WANT Wierzbicka (1994) notes
that there are also polysemies/homonymies with body parts in Arrente (ahentye
“want, throat”) and Mangap-Mbula (lele- “want, insides”).
We turn now to another set of changes related to modality broadly construed: the
development of discourse markers out of manner adverbs via an epistemic, typically
adversative, meaning to a conﬁrming/additive discourse marker.
33 Harkins attributes the term to Evans (1994).
151
4
The development of adverbials with
discourse marker function
4.1 Introduction
In this chapter we move to the development of pragmatic meanings of
adverbials (ADVs). The main function of the subclass of ADVs in question, e.g. in
fact, after all, so, then, well, Jp. sate “well,” sunawati “namely, in other words,” in
someoftheiruses,istosignalanaspectofthespeaker’srhetoricalstancetowardwhat
he or she is saying, or toward the addressee’s role in the discourse situation. They
have little conceptual semantics, and do not contribute signiﬁcantly to the truth-
conditional meaning of propositions, hence some researchers have considered them
a subset of “pragmatic markers” or “metatextual particles.” However, they mark
the speaker’s view of the sequential relationship between units of discourse, that is,
they serve as connectives between utterances. They are widely known as “discourse
markers” (Fraser 1988) or “discourse connectives” (Blakemore 1987).1
The ones
of primary interest to us here have modal properties, in that they reﬂect aspects of
the speaker’s epistemic (information and belief-state) stance toward the sequencing
of the discourse; they also have deictic properties in that they index the speaker’s
viewpoint on the proximity or distance within the world created in the text, and do
both anaphoric and cataphoric work (Schiffrin 1990b).
There are several other types of pragmatic markers, including those that signal
narrative structure. Works on earlier English that are particularly relevant to the
present chapter include Hopper (1979) on word order, a “then,” and aspect as
narrative structuring devices in OE Chronicles; Enkvist and Wårvik (1987) on the
role of a in the hierarchical structuring of story, episode, and subepisode also in
OE narratives; Brinton (1996: chapters 5 and 6) on gelamp “happened, befell, came
to pass” in OE, and on bifel that replaced them in ME – both gelamp and bifel signal
change in a shift in scene, often temporal, but also spatial; and Manoliu (2000) on
the development of discourse markers from proximal temporal adverbials.
1 A survey of the very varying terminology used in connection with DMs is provided in Pons
Borderia (1998).
152
Development of adverbials with DM function
Yet other kinds of pragmatic markers include epistemic parentheticals like
I know, I guess, y’know, I think (see Thompson and Mulac 1991 for a synchronic
account; Brinton 1996: chapters 7 and 8, Aijmer 1996 for a diachronic account);
I promise you (see chapter 5); and evidentials that indicate the source of the speaker’s
information, e.g. I hear (see Chafe and Nichols 1986). Yet other pragmatic markers
are “politeness” markers, which express not attitude to the discourse content but to
the participants in it, e.g. Sir, boy, love, please (see chapter 6). There are also “focus
particles” like only, merely, even (see König 1991, Kay 1997) which foreground and
background constituents within clauses, but do not mark sequential relationships
unless the constituent is clausal (e.g. even if ).
Taxonomies of different types of MdE pragmatic markers are given in Fraser
(1988, 1990, 1996); Brinton (1996: Appendix A, B) provides extensive biblio-
graphic information on prior work on the speciﬁc pragmatic markers she investi-
gates, as well as on typologies of pragmatic markers in MdE. Synchronic accounts
of various types of discourse markers in French can be found in Hansen (1998),
for German in Abraham (1991), for Latin in Kroon (1995), for Spanish in Schwen-
ter (1999) and for Japanese in Maynard (1993), to cite just a few examples. The
major historical study of various pragmatic markers in English is Brinton (1996);
Blake (1992–93) discusses a range of pragmatic markers in Shakespeare’s work.
In Japanese, much of the historical work on discourse particles has concerned the
development of topic and subject markers (e.g. Hinds, Maynard, and Iwasaki 1987,
Fujii 1991, Shibatani 1990, 1991), but there has also been work on the development
of pragmatic markers with a more modal function, such as concessive ga, from sub-
ordinate clause marker to main clause marker (Yo Matsumoto 1988), and concessive
conditional demo (Onodera 1995); Suzuki (1999) focuses on the development of
quotative -tte, and wake “you see.” Diachronic studies on other languages include
Lehti-Eklund (1990) on Swedish; and Abraham (1991), König (1991) on “modal
particles” in Gm.
A common thread in the diachronic studies of pragmatic markers is that they
are either demonstrably or by highly plausible hypothesis derived from terms that
served primarily contentful rather than procedural functions. Not all languages use
adverbs; fewer yet use them polysemously in the way we discuss below (see Ramat
and Ricca 1998, Swan 1997), but if they do, there is an overwhelming tendency for
them to develop from clause-internal or “predicate adverbs” to sentential adverbs,
and ultimately to discourse markers or “connecting adverbs” (see Traugott 1995b,
Ramat and Ricca 1998: 248 on the languages of Europe). For example, in the context
of discussion of grammaticalization, Abraham suggested the following speciﬁc
path of development for German “modal particles” such as denn “after all” <
“then”:
153
Regularity in semantic change
(1) (LOCALISTIC) > (TEMPORAL) > LOGICAL > ILLOCUTIVE/
DISCOURSE FUNCTIONAL
(Abraham 1991: 373; parentheses added to show that the stage is optional)
4.2 Discourse markers
In a ground-breaking work building on Östman (1981), and Schourup
(1985), among others, Schiffrin analyzed certain functions of and, because, but,
I mean, now, Oh!, or, so, then, well, y’know and showed that they can serve as
“discourse markers” (DMs) or “sequentially dependent elements which bracket
elementsoftalk”(Schiffrin1987:31).Suchbracketsmayfunction“locally”between
contiguous utterances, without imposing a discourse hierarchy on those utterances,
or “globally,” in which case they mark episodes, and impose a hierarchical structure
(Schiffrin 1992, Solomon 1995). Schiffrin showed that such markers are not, as
used to be claimed, “meaningless.” Their meanings may be hard to grasp (Longacre
1976 called them “mystery” particles), but they are essential to the rhetorical shape
of any argument or narrative. While some of these pragmatic markers (e.g. y’know)
are restricted to talk or highly colloquial representations of it, many are used in a
variety of discourse types, including highly literate expository prose (e.g. in fact,
then). In Schiffrin (1990b) she showed how certain DMs, for example, then as in
(2), which is an excerpt from a conversational sequence on academic careers, can
serve to express the speaker’s attitude to the sequential relationship between the
preceding discourse and what is to come:
(2) The money part of it isn’t eh: anything, is it.
[conﬁrmation and elaboration by addressee]
Oh I see. And then say you wanna get married. Cause it makes it hard.
(Schiffrin 1987: 253)
Here then looks back anaphorically to prior discourse and forward cataphorically to
upcoming discourse (in this case that of the addressee, as well as her own), marking
it as a subtopic within the larger topic of academic careers. In other words, it is
“discourse deictic” (Schiffrin 1990b). It also “creates a bridge” (Schiffrin 1987:
253) from prior discourse time to immediately upcoming discourse time, while
primarily serving not a temporal function but a discourse function of bracketing off
subtopics as members of a list.
It is the subset of pragmatic markers that create a bridge pointing both backwards
and forwards, whether at a local level (as in (2)) or at a global episodic level that
has now come to be deﬁned as discourse markers (DMs). For example, referring to
spoken discourse, Fraser characterized them as follows: “[DM’s] signal a comment
specifying the type of sequential discourse relationship that holds between the
154
Development of adverbials with DM function
current utterance – the utterance of which the discourse marker is a part – and
the prior discourse” (Fraser 1988: 21–22); “They are expressions which signal a
relationship across rather than within utterances, and contribute to the coherence
of the discourse” (Fraser and Malamud-Makowski 1996: 864). Because DMs are
pragmatic markers signaling local connectivity that connect individual utterances
in ways that are anaphoric and cataphoric at the utterance level (Blakemore 1987),
they are to be distinguished from what have been called “speech act adverbials”
(Swan 1988) or “stance adverbs” (Biber and Finegan 1988), such as frankly in:
(3) Frankly, I didn’t enjoy that movie at all.
Like many DMs, stance adverbs make explicit the attitude with which SP/W claims
to utter or write what follows. However, unlike DMs, they do not link back directly
to a prior utterance. Contrast:
(4) In fact, I did not enjoy that movie at all.
where the DM in fact evokes a prior comment.
Even though utterances marked by local DMs need not be adjacent, there must
be some immediate relationship of the content of an utterance p to a subsequent
utterance q in terms of condition, cause, justiﬁcation, elaboration (e.g. additiv-
ity), contrast (adversativity), topic shift (for some typologies of clause types, see
Lehmann 1988, Matthiessen and Thompson 1988). By contrast, DMs signaling
global connectivity connect larger chunks of discourse, and impose hierarchy on
the sequence, typically a narrative one.
DMs are clearly subjective and procedural in that they indicate SP/W’s rhetorical,
metatextual, stance towards the cohesiveness of the discourse being developed –
elaboration of or counter-argument to what preceded, continuation of or change in
topic, background, or foreground in narrative. In addition they also often convey
conviction, uncertainty, or unwillingness to take responsibility for the truth of what
is said, etc. (Brinton 1996), and are in that broad sense modal. Some are oriented
almost completely to the speaker and the rhetorical strategy being engaged in, e.g.
indeed, in fact. Others are more intersubjective in that they have the double function
of signaling the type of rhetorical strategy being used (so may signal “Listen up: I
am going to start the expected discourse”), and at the same time expressing concern
for the addressee’s “face” – these are usually called “hedges,” or “mitigators” and
are exempliﬁed by some uses of well, actually, y’know, and in earlier Eng., hwæt.
Brinton (1996) discusses how hwæt in verse2
is typically followed by information
about the poet or quoted interlocutor’s sources; it signals that what follows is to be
2 Its occurrence in prose is less frequent than in the poetry but, according to Brinton, its function
is similar.
155
Regularity in semantic change
regarded as part of the shared knowledge, or common ground, of poet and audience,
and it makes explanatory material salient. Alternatively, when hwæt is addressed to
a second person, it may serve as a reminder of what has been said, or of something
that is evident or generally true (Brinton 1996: chapter 7). An example is:
(5) Hwæt! Ic ysne sang si geomor fand
what I this song travel-weary found
on seocum sefan, samnodewide.
with sick mind gathered widely
“What!, I, weary of travel, discovered this song, with a sick mind gathered (it)
widely.”
(c.1000 Fates of the Apostles, 1–2 [Brinton 1996: 182])
This hwæt appears to have originated from the interrogative pronoun of the same
form, perhaps in a process that we can recapture from the rise in MdE of Know
what?, which also serves an attention-getting, intersubjective function.
Many discourse markers occur in syntactically marginal positions in the clause;
whether it is the right or the left margin depends in part on the word order of the
language in question. In Eng. they tend to occur on the left margin (though they can
occur in other places as well); in Jp. they may be on the right or the left. In other
languages such as Gk. they occur in what is often referred to as “Wackernagel’s
position,” as the second element of the clause.
DMs are highly language-speciﬁc in their distribution and function. But never-
theless there seem to be quite similar paths of development at the macro-level. When
their histories are accessible to us, they typically arise out of conceptual meanings
and uses constrained to the argument structure of the clause. Over time, they not only
acquire pragmatic meanings (which typically coexist for some time with earlier, less
pragmatic, meanings) but also come to have scope over propositions. If they link
discourses on a hierarchically similar level, i.e. if they function at the local level,
they can be called “connectives.” They may also come to have global functions,
marking larger structures, for example episode units in narrative (e.g. then), or, in
conversation, conversational turns (e.g. so). Some may not require any prior dis-
course, or at least no obviously connected one. For example, so may be used to start
a meeting, to introduce a speaker, etc. In this use it serves as an attention-getter and a
signal that the speaker has something to say of import to the discourse expectations.
We will illustrate the development of DM indeed in English, and follow that by
a brief discussion of two similar, but, we will show, rather different DMs: actually
and in fact.3
We then go on to summarize work on the history of well (Jucker
1997), which illustrates the development of a primarily intersubjective DM. Finally
3 Thanks to Lisbeth Lipari, who ﬁrst made the history of in fact exciting territory for Elizabeth
Traugott.
156
Development of adverbials with DM function
we turn to the history of Japanese sate “thus,” which acquired episode marker
functions similar to well (then), so.
4.3 The development of discourse markers signaling
local connectivity
The DM uses of indeed, actually, and in fact, are to various degrees
polysemous with other, earlier uses of the same lexeme/construction.4
For example,
in fact, the most recent of these adverbs, has three distinct uses in PDE. Consider:
(6) Humanity, comfortably engaged elsewhere in the business of living, is absent
in fact but everywhere present in feeling.
(1997 May, UA Hem. Mag. [Schwenter and Traugott 2000:11])
Here the adverb is in a lexical set with in feeling, in law, etc. and functions as a
clause-internal adverb of “respect (to something).” By contrast, in:
(7) Humanity is in fact absent.
in fact is a sentential adverb which may occur in various positions in the clause,
and overlaps with epistemic ADVs like probably, and concessive ones like however.
Despite having epistemic modal meaning, it does not contribute much if anything to
truth conditions since the truth of the proposition is expressed by the declarative. It
is a procedural, expressing SP/W’s strong commitment to the proposition Humanity
is absent, and at the same time introduces a polyphonic perspective: the perspective
of an opposing point of view such as Humanity is not absent/Humanity is present
(see Anscombre and Ducrot 1989, Nølke 1992). The opposition is to something
previously either said by another speaker, or by the same speaker. The latter is
particularlycommoninargumentativediscourseinwhichonepositionisputforward
as a “straw argument” and then knocked down. Occasionally, out of context, as here,
it simply evokes opposition. Such opposition is usually termed counterexpectation
or adversativity. “Counterexpectation” is a term that is often used for propositions
that present counters to normative view-points characterizable as “People say/think
that X” (Heine, Claudi, and Hünnemeyer 1991: 192–204). It is also sometimes used
to refer to the “novelty factor” that is so fundamental to most discourse. For example,
in speaking of narrative, Chafe says: “Topics are verbalized when they are judged
interesting,whichusuallymeansthatthespeakerjudgesthemtoconﬂictinsomeway
with normal expectations” (Chafe 1994: 135). “Adversativity” is, however, more
often used for speciﬁc markers that SP/Ws use to signal that they are expressing
beliefs or points of view contrary to their own or the interlocutors’ expectations
regarding the states of affairs under discussion, and we use the term in this sense
4 Section 4.3 is based on parts of Traugott (1995b, 1999b).
157
Regularity in semantic change
(see König 1991, Schwenter and Traugott 1995, Schwenter 1999). In the case of
adversative in fact, it is one of a large class of pragmatic markers including actually,
indeed, certainly, really, in truth, truly (and, in Biblical context, verily).5
It can be
said of all of them that they are only called for when “expression is a remarkable
and thus highly unlikely value for a propositional schema” (König 1991: 138).
The third use of in fact is as a discourse marker the primary function of which
is to indicate that SP/W considers that the upcoming proposition is a more precise
formulation than the one he or she has used immediately before; in other words, it
is monologic. It is conceptually additive rather than adversative. Consider the rather
artiﬁcial:
(8) Humanity is not often present. In fact, it/humanity is usually absent.
Out of context, the written form In fact, humanity is usually absent is ambiguous:
it could evoke either adversativity to or an elaboration of something that preceded.
In speech, in fact in both meanings may have a typical disjunct intonation with a
sharp rise and fall; however, impressionistically, the elaborative use (in fact3) can be
relatively unstressed, whereas the adversative use (in fact2) cannot. The distinctions
between the various polysemies will become clearer as the historical development
of this and the other discourse markers is outlined below.
As has long been noted, the position of an adverb is correlated with difference
of meaning (e.g. Greenbaum 1969, Jackendoff 1972, McConnell-Ginet 1982, Ernst
1984, Quirk et al. 1985, Cinque 1998, to mention only a few). Allerton and Crut-
tendon (1974), Aijmer (1986), and Ferrara (1997) further discuss correlations with
intonation, a factor that must have been important in the history of the DMs,6
but
which we do not have ready access to in our written texts and therefore cannot
discuss here. In (6) in fact appears at the right margin of the clause. In this position
it serves as a verb-phrase-internal adverb within the semantic scope of the adjective
(absent) and ultimately the subject (humanity). In fact in (7) occurs adjacent to the
tensed verb, but it can also appear at the left margin of the clause, following com-
plementizers like that, if. As we have seen, in this position it serves as a sentence
adverb, with a modal epistemic function: absent any further context, we know that
the truth of the proposition Humanity is absent is somehow in doubt and counter to
SP/W’s expectation. In (8) in fact is outside the clause (though it can follow and,
so, and other discourse connectives). It occupies a syntactic position that has been
identiﬁed in several languages as available for expressive markers of various types
5 Fraser and Malamud-Makowski (1996) use the term “contrastive markers” for this subclass of
DMs.
6 See also Ormelius-Sandblom (1997) on German. The synchronic intonation patterns of most of
the adverbials discussed in this chapter deserve special attention.
158
Development of adverbials with DM function
or for focused constructions (see e.g. Aissen 1992).7
Since our prime concern is
semantics, not syntax, we will not explore this issue further here, except to note
that even though most material in this position on the left margin of the clause is
pragmatic and procedural, it unquestionably belongs to syntax and grammar.8
4.3.1 English indeed
Indeed has its origins in oblique uses of a full lexical noun in OE. Dede
is ultimately derived from the verb to do; speciﬁcally, it is derived from a deverbal
form of IE *dhe- “set, put.”
Dede is ﬁrst encountered as a full lexical noun in OE, as in:
(9) nis hare nan e ne . . . gulte ilome o er i
NEG-is they-GEN NEG-one that not . . . sins often either in
fol semblant oder in vuel dede.
foolish display or in evil deed
“there is none of them that does not . . . sin greatly either in foolish display or
evil action.”
(c. 1225 Sawles Warde, p. 167)
As a lexical noun it can be modiﬁed, as here, by adjectives, or by demonstratives
and quantiﬁers.
Stage I: indeed1: adverbial of “respect in which”
The earliest example of the bare prepositional phrase (PP) in action/
practice(indeed1)intheHelsinkiCorpusis(10)fromc.1300.Itanswersthequestion
“With respect to what?” and will here be called a respect adverbial (RA).
(10) “Vuolf,” quod e vox him o, “Al at ou hauest her
Wolf said the fox 3sg-DAT then All that you have here
bifore I-do, In ohut, in speche, and in dede, In euche
before done in thought in speech and in action in each
o eres kunnes quede, Ich e for eue.”
other-GEN kind-GEN evil I thee forgive
“‘Wolf,’ said Fox to him then, ‘All that you have done before this, in thought,
in speech, and in action, in evil of every other kind, I forgive you for it.’”
(c. 1300, Fox and Wolf, p. 34)
7 Following Banﬁeld (1973), she calls this the E[xpression]-node (Aissen 1992: 47).
8 This point has frequently been made by Fraser, who argues that DMs “are members of a separate
syntactic category” (1990: 386). We leave open the question whether there is a syntactic category
of DMs, or whether they belong to a larger set of discourse connectives that occur in the syntactic
position in question.
159
Regularity in semantic change
In ME this bare PP is often used in a contrast set with other PPs (typically referring
to words and thoughts), but now this usage is rare except in phrases like in deed as
well as name; however, it lasted well into the nineteenth century.
In a formula like that in (10) in dede “in action” could invite the inference that the
event was observable. The fallacy “seeing is believing,” which draws on the view
that what is physically/empirically accessible is true, allowed in dede to be endowed
with evidential (epistemic) modal meanings (“in action/practice” > “in actuality,
certainly”). In this context it was often used contrastively as in:
(11) ofte in storial mateer scripture rehersith the comune
often in historical matters scripture repeats the common
opynyoun of men, and afﬁrmeth not, that it was so in dede.
opinion of men and afﬁrms not that it was so in actuality
“often where matters of history are concerned, scripture repeats men’s
common opinion, but does not afﬁrm that it was so in actuality [rather than
opinion].”
(c. 1388 Purvey, Wycliffe, 56)
Note the adverb in this kind of utterance could be intended and understood as
having either narrow or wide scope. In the latter case, the potential contrast would
be not with an adverb like in opinion but with a modal adverb such as certainly, for
sure, truly. The next example shows well how invited inferences can arise and be
exploited.
(12) For as moche as rumour . . . is amonges some men of the Citee that vitaillers
foreins, bringyngge ﬁssh to the Citee of london to selle, shulde be restrained
. . . of hire comyngge to the citee . . . to selle it freliche, which thyng nas neuer
the Maires wille ne the aldermens ne hire entente, as semeth openlich in dede,
but that alle swiche vitaillers foreins, that bryngeth ﬁssh . . . to the same Citee
to selle, mowe come and selle hire forseid ﬁssh . . . Wherfore the Mair and
aldermen comandeth . . . that no man . . . ne destourbe, lette ne greue in dede
ne in word ne in non other manere no maner straunge vitailler bryngynge
ﬁssh.
“Whereas there is rumor . . . among some men of the city that foreign food
merchants, bringing ﬁsh to the City of London to sell, should be restrained . . .
from coming to the city . . . to sell it freely, and whereas such restraint was
never the will or intent of the Mayor or aldermen, as is openly evident in deed,
but the intent was that such foreign food merchants that bring ﬁsh . . . to the
same city to sell it, may come and sell their foresaid ﬁsh . . . Therefore the
Mayor and aldermen command . . . that no man may disturb, prevent, or
harass in action or in word or in any other manner any foreign food merchant
bringing ﬁsh.”
(1383–84 Appeal London, p. 32)
160
Development of adverbials with DM function
The ﬁrst in dede contrasts covert will and intent with overt action. The second
contrasts action with speech. The ﬁrst in dede occurs in the context of a parenthetical
clause concerning evidence (semeth). SP/W could mean simply “in action,” or could
also invite enrichment of the inference that actions of the Mayor and aldermen reveal
the strength of their intent and the veridicality of the proposition which thing was
neuer oure wille ne intente, despite rumors.
A similar indeterminacy is detectable in:
(13) “Purs is the ercedekenes helle,” seyde he,
But wel I woot he lyed right in dede.
“‘The purse is the archdeacon’s hell,’ he said, but I know well that he lied
right in the act (of speaking)/in truth, wholly certainly.”
(1387–95 Chaucer, CT, Prolog, p. 34, l. 659)
Interestingly, both MED and Benson’s Riverside Chaucer gloss in dede in this
example as “in truth,” but it could conceivably still be “lied in the act” (of saying
Purse is the ercedekenes helle). At a very minimum, the epistemic meaning is a
GIIN in (13), strongly invited by the context of lying, and in (12) by the context of
will and intent.
Stage II: indeed2: epistemic
Unambiguously abstract uses of in dede meaning “in truth” (indeed2)
appear by the mid fourteenth century. At ﬁrst it appeared in clause-ﬁnal or medial
position; by the sixteenth century it also began to appear clause-initially, where it
clearly had sentential scope (see (18) and (19) below). Indeed2 is an epistemic modal
adverbial (EA) expressing SP/W’s commitment to the truth of the proposition:
(14) a. and sworn vpon a bok to sey the playn trouth and
and sworn on a book to say the plain truth and
nou t to mene it with eny ontrouth for hate or
not to mingle it with any untruth for hate or
euel will nei er for loue ner fauour but plainly
evil will neitherfor love nor favor but plainly
report as it was in dede nou t sparing for no persone.
report as it was in fact not sparing for no person
“and was sworn on a book to say the plain truth and not mix it with any
untruth because of hate, evil will, love, or favor, but plainly report it as
was in actuality, not sparing anyone.”
(1437 Documents Chancery, p. 168)
b. The men of e town had suspecion to hem, at her tydyngis were lyes (as it
was in dede), risen.
“The men of the town, being suspicious that their reports were lies (as was
certainly true), rose.”
(1452 Chronicle Capgrave, p. 216)
161
Regularity in semantic change
(14b) is unambiguous because the singular it shows that the writer is assessing
the whole proposition, not the preceding subject, which is plural (tydyngis). Since
the invited inference from indeed1 was one of strong veridicality, this newly coded
meaning indeed2 is automatically high on the epistemic scale (preserving the former
GIIN).
Like all epistemic markers high on the scale of certitude, indeed2 in its earliest
uses invites the inference that the proposition over which it has scope (q) is to some
degree in contrast with a prior proposition (p), explicit or evoked. This arises from
the M-heuristic: “marked expression warns pragmatically special situation” (see
1.2.3): marking declarative signals some doubt about the truth of that declarative.
Thus as it was in dede is presented as being in contrast with mene with ontrouth in
(14a), and with had suspecion in (14b). However, as these examples illustrate, it is
a characteristic of indeed2 that it always signals some element of agreement (with
trouth in (14a) and with the whole proposition p in (14b)). In later developments
the adversativity is lost in some contexts.
Adversativity alongside of conﬁrmation is most clearly maintained in non-initial
position, as illustrated by the PDE example in (15). In this example Defense Secre-
tary Cheney acknowledges the possible negative aspects of the budget proposal. He
then goes on to introduce the positive ones (with the dismissive having said that),
and intensiﬁes the afﬁrmative aspects of the proposal with does. He further moves
to conﬁrmation of the government’s commitment to retaining a nuclear capability.
His own expressed commitment and its intensity despite problems are signaled by
indeed, and later certainly, thus invoking the M-heuristic several times over. The
latter and other intensiﬁers are italicized:
(15) “It is not perfect by any means,” Cheney said of the rescission bill, “It will
create some difﬁculties in terms of what we do in the department . . .”
“Having said that,” he added, “I think on balance it does achieve the level
of savings that we were looking for when we sent the rescission package up. It
does resolve a number of issues that have been outstanding for some period of
time.”
“We do indeed want to retain the capacity to produce nuclear submarines,”
the defense secretary said, “the money that Congress approved in the
rescission package will certainly be put to that use.”
(1992 May 22, United Press Intl.)
There is, however, one extension of indeed2 in non-initial position that has lost
its adversativity: the use of indeed as an “emphatic” degree adverb. This appears
in clause-ﬁnal position modifying adjectives (16) and adverbs (17). In respect of
this meaning development, indeed is like very < verily “in truth,” truly, really, all
of which became intensiﬁers; however, it is the only one of these that was conven-
tionalized to a post-adverbial and post-adjectival position. An early example is:
162
Development of adverbials with DM function
(16) This sleep is sound indeed.
(1600 Shakespeare, 2Henry IV
, IV.v.35)
In this scene Prince Hal is contemplating the burden of kingship as his ailing father
lies sleeping, dead, Hal thinks – the sleep is not just truly sound but too sound, so the
Manner-heuristic is at work, calling the proposition The sleep is sound into question.
In (17) Deloney presumably chose to use indeed to highlight the exaggeration of
the “prattling” woman’s false assurances:
(17) Now assure you quoth shee (lisping in her speech) her tongue waxing
somwhat too big for her mouth, I loue your mistresse well indeed, as if she
were my owne daughter.
(1619 Deloney, p. 79)
Today this use as an emphatic is found almost exclusively in formulae like very
much indeed.
When indeed2 ﬁrst appeared in clause-initial position it was favored after adver-
satives like but, or though, suggesting that early uses were intended as discursively
adversative. In (18) Elyot is discussing educational practices, particularly practices
designed to enhance the self-esteem of “noble” children who might not have been
as intellectually smart as some of their less highly born peers:
(18) [teachers] somtyme purposely suffring [“allowing”] the more noble children
to vainquysshe, and, as it were, gyuying to them place and soueraintie,
thoughe in dede the inferiour chyldren haue more lernyng.
(1531 Elyot, p. 21)
Even when but or though are not present, initial indeed still retains some element of
contrast during the sixteenth century. In (19a) Gaunt hints that his interlocutor, his
nephew the young King Richard, has violated expected norms of address (compare
how the Queen addresses Gaunt in the ﬁrst line). In (19b) the interlocutor’s doubt
or need to ask a question is being gently countered.
(19) a. Queen: How fares our noble uncle Lancaster?
K. Rich.: What comfort, man? How is’t with aged Gaunt?
Gaunt: O how that name beﬁts my composition!
Old Gaunt indeed, and gaunt in being old.
(1597 Shakespeare, Richard II, II.i.71)
b. Dan.: Is it any trouble of conscience for sinne? If it be,
that may turne to good.
Sam.: O, no, no. I know no cause why.
Dan.: Why, what is it then, if I may be so bold, I pray you tell me. I
thinke you take me for your friend.
Sam.: In deede I haue alwaies found you my very good friend, and
I am sure you will giue me the best counseil you can.
(1593 Witches, p. A4V)
163
Regularity in semantic change
Nevertheless, some examples of initial position indeed2 with a primarily conﬁr-
matory meaning roughly equivalent to Yes begin to appear in conversation before
the end of the sixteenth century, as in (20). Although it is not adversative it may be
considered a subtype of indeed2 at least in its beginnings because it is epistemic,
equivalent to “that’s true”:
(20) a. Shal.: I dare say my cousin William is become a good scholar. He is
at Oxford still, is he not?
Sil.: Indeed, sir, to my cost.
(1598 Shakespeare, 2Henry IV, III.ii.9)
b. Euans: Why, this is lunaticks: this is mad as a mad dog.
Shal.: Indeed, Master Ford, this is not well, indeed.
Ford: So say I too Sir, come hither Mistris.
(?1597 Shakespeare, Merry Wives of Windsor IV.ii.124)
Stage III: indeed3: DM
By the end of the sixteenth century indeed2 had been recruited to
clause-initial DM function (indeed3). Here epistemic meaning is only marginal. Its
prime function is to signal additivity, somewhat like what’s more. Indeed3 signals
that SP/W views what follows (q) as adding to rhetorical argument, being a more
appropriate statement for the circumstances at hand than something that preceded
(p). It arises out of the IIN (later GIIN) from the epistemic indeed2 that if SP/W in-
dicates commitment to the veridicality of q, then he or she is committed to the belief
that the expression (verbal form) of q is better, more appropriate, etc. than the form
of p.
(21) is a transitional example. The epistemic meaning “certainly” may be primary
(note most true saying); but being in initial position, indeed also invites the inference
that a discourse move is taking place, one in which the writer is summing up his
rhetorical argument (“and furthermore”):
(21) a certaine repyning enuious man, being full gorged with a malicious rayling
spirit . . . reported that the aforesaid plaister (De Ranis) was dangerous vnto
the patient . . . and picked phrases, like as young Children vse to doe, when
(in mockery) they counterfeite a strange kinde of language . . . In deed it is a
most true saying: That ﬁsh which is bred in the durt will alwaies taste of the
Mud.
(1602 Clowes, p. 16)
Examples of the semanticized indeed3 are in (22). The adverb signals that what
follows is not only in agreement with what precedes, but is additional evidence
being brought to bear on the argument:
164
Development of adverbials with DM function
Meaning
indeed1 "in the act" (RA)
+> "in truth"
indeed2 "in truth" (EA)
+> "in addition"
indeed3 "what's more" (DM)
1300 1450 1600 1850 2000
Figure 4.1. Time-line for the development of indeed (RA = respect adverbial;
EA = epistemic adverbial; DM = discourse marker).
(22) a. any a one that is not well, comes farre and neere in hope to be made well:
indeed I did heare that it had done much good, and that it hath a rare operation
to expell or kill diuers maladies.
(1630 Taylor, Penniless Pilgrimage, p. 131.C1)
b. For he that has been used to have his will in every thing as long as he has been
in coats, why should we thinke it strange that he should desire and contend for
it still when he is in breetches. Indeed as he grows more towards a man, it shows
his faults the more, soe that there be few parents then soe blinde as not to see
them, soe insensible as not to feele the ill effects of their owne indulgence.
(1693 Locke, p. 51)
This use is currently widely attested in newspapers and academic prose:
(23) a. The idea of the Constitution as a living document, written so it can adapt to
changing social and political times, is a major theme in U.S. judicial history.
Indeed, it is the Constitution itself that allows those dissatisﬁed with Supreme
Court rulings to turn to the amendment process.
(1990 June 16, United Press Intl.)
b. Besides the problems noted by Sadock for nondetachability as a diagnostic
for (content-based) implicata, it would appear that any means of linguistically
canceling or suspending an implicatum . . . . is ipso facto a means of
detaching that implicatum. Indeed, how could it be otherwise?
(1991 Horn, p. 316)
The chief stages of development of indeed are summarized in ﬁgure 4.1
4.3.2 English in fact 9
We turn now to a rather briefer outline of the history of in fact.9
Like
dede, fact is ultimately derived from IE *dhe- “set, put.” Fact was borrowed in the
9 Parts of section 4.3.2 draw on Traugott (1999a) and Schwenter and Traugott (2000); the latter
emphasizes the scalar properties of in fact2 and in fact3.
165
Regularity in semantic change
sixteenth century from Latin, and is a lexeme formed from the past participle of
fac- “do.” In the earliest texts we ﬁnd fact meaning “deed, action”:
(24) For the whiche noble facte, the kynge created hym afterwarde duke of
Norfolke.
(1543 Grafton, 603 [OED])
Stage I: in fact1: adverbial of “respect in which”
Fact begins to appear in the Helsinki Corpus as an RA by the late
seventeenth century in a bare PP as the object of in, where, like in dede before it, it
is favored in coordinate constructions such as (25a) or lexically contrasting contexts
like (25b). It seems to be favored in relatively high style texts, perhaps because it is
a borrowing that competes with an already extant indeed (and actually; see below):
(25) a. But it is evident in fact and experience that there is no such universal Judge,
appointed by God over the whole World, to decide all Cases of temporal Right.
(1671 Tillotson, p. 445 [Traugott 1999a: 185])
b. This company, therefore, have always enjoyed an exclusive trade in fact,
though they may have no right to it in law.
(1776 Smith, Bk V.i.e, p. 744 [Traugott 1999a:185])
In these kinds of constructions, in fact came to be endowed with evidential mean-
ings (“in practice/reality/actuality”) that assess something as physically accessible,
empirically attested, real, true, and ranked high on the epistemic scale. (25a) cites
fact (action, performance) and experience (as opposed to speculation) as sources of
evidence, (25b) cites it as the pragmatic and experiential locus of daily transactions,
as opposed to abstract legal right.
While this kind of coordinate construction is still used in PDE, more loosely
structured contrast sets are also evidenced (in the following in fact is contrasted
with (in) sensationalism):
(26) “Many of my friends have urged me to issue a point-by-point denial of the
book’s many outrages. To do so would, I feel, provide legitimacy to a book that
has no basis in fact and serves no decent purpose,” the former president said.
“I have an abiding faith that the American people will judge this book for
what it really is: sensationalism whose sole purpose is enriching its author
and its publisher,” said Reagan.
(1991 April 8, United Press Intl.)
Stage II: in fact2: epistemic adversative
Uses such as those in (25a, b), analogous to the extant EA meanings
of indeed and actually, as well as independent developments in the philosophical
and scientiﬁc construals of “fact,” are likely to have contributed to the recruitment
166
Development of adverbials with DM function
of in fact to the class of ADVs that are potentially epistemic modals, speciﬁcally
those that are redundant with epistemic certainty. Consider this example from the
philosopher Berkeley, which uses fact in two ways:
(27) You were pleased before to make some reﬂexions on this custom, and laugh at
the irresolution of our free-thinkers: but I can aver for matter of fact, that they
have often recommended it by their example as well as arguments . . . In
whatever light you may consider it, this is in fact a solid beneﬁt. But the best
effect of our principles is that light and truth so visibly spread abroad in the
world.
(1732 Berkeley, ii. sect.24, p. 105 [Schwenter and Traugott 2000: 16])
First the imaginary addressee’s point of view regarding free-thinkers is acknowl-
edged (you were pleased to . . .). Then Berkeley expresses a contrasting opinion,
emphasizing his position with a speech act verb commenting on his rhetorical strat-
egy, even while hedging it with can (I can aver for a matter of fact); the addressee’s
opinion is again invoked, but concessively (in whatever light you may consider it),
and then Berkeley’s own view of the truth is given (this is in fact a solid beneﬁt).
As a ﬁxed ADV phrase in the post-ﬁnite verb position exempliﬁed by (27) in fact
appears to have had pragmatically ambiguous wide (sentential) as well as narrow
(clause-internal) scope. Thus the narrow scope reading This is a solid beneﬁt in fact
(rather than imagination) is possible, though at least from our modern perspective
the wide scope reading seems more likely: in reality, this is a beneﬁt.
The wide scope reading enabled in fact to be used unambiguously as an EA in
clause-initial post-complement position almost from its ﬁrst introduction, and ex-
tensively by the mid-eighteenth century. Often it occurs in the already contrastive
environment of but. Almost invariably it occurs in contexts that are highly con-
trastive, as exempliﬁed by (28). From an informational perspective, this kind of
development might appear to be redundant. However, from a discourse perspective,
cooccurrence with an already contrastive term or use in a highly dialectic context
serves to emphasize the contrast.
(28) That the Turkey Merchants do Ship out much Cloth, I deny not; but as true it
is, that they have Shipt out more Yearly since the great encrease of the
East-India Trade, and since themselves have made this Complaint, than they
did in former Years. So that in Fact it doth not follow that the encrease of the
East-India Trade, and particularly of their Importation of Silk, doth hinder or
diminish the Exportation of Cloth to Turkey, but rather the contrary.
(1681 ecb l. 33 [Lampeter])
The extent to which in fact, indeed and other terms discussed here continue to
be used in semantically and pragmatically similar environments over time is quite
striking, and suggests that despite the appeal to objective-seeming “facts,” the type
167
Regularity in semantic change
of discourse in which they are preferred is typically rhetorically highly charged:
(29) there is no agreement on what constitutes the class of contrastive discourse
markers, if in fact there is a class at all.
(1996 Fraser and Malamud-Makowski, p. 865)
In the eighteenth century, unambiguous clause-internal wide scope uses often
involve collocation of in fact with actually:
(30) When we look about us towards external objects, and consider the operation
of causes, we are never able, in a single instance, to discover any power or
necessary connexion . . . We only ﬁnd, that the one does actually, in fact,
follow the other.
(1748 Hume, Pt 7, p. 63 [Schwenter and Traugott 2000: 16])
In (30) note the contrastive force of only. Actually and in fact are used to contrast
possible expectations readers might have with regard to the subject-matter. In one
sense the collocation with actually might appear to be redundant. However, on
closer inspection, we can see that it provides a scalar intensifying function of the
contrast. Furthermore, since it has epistemic wide scope meaning, actually ensures
that in fact is also understood as having wide scope. Just as in the case of the modals
discussed in the preceding chapter, it appears that extant patterns were drawn upon
to motivate and provide redundant contexts to disambiguate new uses, in this case
epistemic adversative wide scope with scalar properties.
Stage III: in fact3; DM
The ﬁrst example in our data base of the DM use of in fact occurs
in a novel by Jane Austen, in dialogue. Here the function is quite different. The
earlier epistemic use pertains to the truth despite contrary expectations regarding
the proposition. In the new DM use, in fact functions at the discourse level to express
the speaker’s attitude to the appropriateness of the discourse itself. In (31) in fact
introduces justiﬁcation of what has just been said, in other words, self-corrective
elaboration which is contrastive not in terms of truth but of appropriateness of
expression:
(31) a. I should not have used the expression. In fact, it does not concern you – it
concerns only myself.
(1816 Austen, Emma, vol. III, chapter 10, p. 393 [Traugott 1999a: 186])
b. Thus in various ways ethical questions lead inevitably to psychological
discussions; in fact, we may say that all important ethical notions are also
psychological.
(1886 Sidgwick, chapter 1, p. 5 [loc. cit.])
168
Development of adverbials with DM function
Note that in both instances, the context explicitly refers to language use (expression,
discussion). In both the SP/W’s rhetorical stance toward his prior expression is
strengthened.
In more contemporary examples, in fact3 is no longer restricted to locutionary
contexts, though a negative is often preferred in p:
(32) Not a bad ride on South 880. In fact it looks pretty good.
(Radio trafﬁc report, April 10th 1996)
4.3.3 English actually
Yet another adverbial, actually, has a partially similar history, although
its structure, not being a PP, is somewhat different.
Stage I: actually1: actively, effectively
The adjective actual was borrowed in the early fourteenth century from
French in the senses “active” and “real.” Actually was coined in English as an adverb
of manner (MA) in the ﬁfteenth century.
(33) To cure it actuale whilez it is introduct but ys not confermed.
“To cure it effectively while it is in initial stages but is not yet conﬁrmed.”
(?1425 Chauliac (1), IIIb [MED; Powell 1992a: 85])
There is an IIN from “active” > “real”: what is done is implied to be evident,
veriﬁable, and therefore real (cf. in fact, indeed, in the act).
(34) For-whi e feruour of e affeccioun, whe ir it
therefore the fervor of the emotions whether it
be sett actuely in God or in man is oftsi es
be set actively in God or in man is often
my tier, moore egre and moore maistirful, an is e
mightier, more eager and more tyrranous than is the
wisdom of discrecioun of e soule.
wisdom of discretion of the soul
“Therefore the fervor of the emotions, whether set actively (+> in reality) in
God or in man, is often mightier and more tyrannical that the wisdom of the
soul’s discretion.”
(c. 1450 Hilton, p. 25)
Some seventeenth century examples suggest inﬂuence of the French temporal mean-
ing of actuel “of the moment.” Here too there is an invited inference of reality:
(35) I know the King is my Sovereign, and I know my Duty to him, and if I would
have ventured my Life for any thing, it should have been to serve him, I know
169
Regularity in semantic change
it is his due, and I owed all I had in the World to him: But tho’ I could not
ﬁght for him my self, my Son did; he was actually in Arms on the King’s side
in this Business; I instructed him always in Loyalty, and sent him thither; it
was I that bred him up to ﬁght for the King.
(1685 Lisle, 123C1)
Actually here can be interpreted as meaning “actively,” and also “at that time,”
as well as “really” (see “to vouch for (a) statement(s) which seem(s) surprising,
incredible, or exaggerated” [OED actually 5]).
Stage II: actually2: epistemic adversative
By the mid-eighteenth century the invited inference of epistemic cer-
tainty despite expectations otherwise has become semanticized. An early example
has already been given in (30), where actually is collocated with in fact. A nineteenth
century one is:
(36) Mr. Perry had been to Mrs. Goddard’s to attend a sick child, and . . . found to
his great surprise that Mr. Elton was actually on his road to London, and not
meaning to return till the morrow.
(1816 Austen, Emma, vol. I, chapter 8, p. 68)
Stage III: actually3: DM
In the early nineteenth century we ﬁnd DM uses which are additive
rather than adversative and epistemic. In (37a) actually conﬁrms fully intended and
introduces speciﬁc evidence of that intention (was looking around ):
(37) a. It was now his object to marry. He was rich, and being turned on shore, fully
intended to settle as soon as he could be properly tempted; actually looking
around, ready to fall in love with all the speed which a clear head and quick
taste could allow.
(1818 Austen, Persuasion, vol. I, chapter 7, p. 61)
b. In the middle of the complaint I started to worry that maybe I shouldn’t be
saying anything. And actually I said to myself, “boy, I sound like a
complainer.” You know, when a person complains a lot, that bothers me.
When ’m down I tend to complain more. But I said, “I’m really tired of
working with these people.” Actually I even embellished the complaint.
(1993 Boxer, p. 123; transcript)
4.3.4 Comparison of the three adverbials
From a macro-perspective, the three ADVs underwent similar changes.
Each functioned as a clause-internal adverbial at Stage I, as an epistemic sentential
adverbial at Stage II, and as a DM at Stage III. Each had its origins in a clause-
internal adverbial (RA or MA). Each developed an EA polysemy with wide scope
170
Development of adverbials with DM function
Adv Type indeed actually in fact
RA 1300 1425 1670
EA 1450 1750 1680
DM 1600 1815 1815
Figure 4.2. Approximate dates of development of indeed, actually, in fact.
serving a polyphonic adversative function; and each further developed a DM func-
tion indicating that q is argumentatively related to p as an elaboration or clariﬁcation.
The approximate dates of development are shown in ﬁgure 4.2. But at the same time,
each construction has its own history at the micro-level, and the coexistence of the
forms with each other (and other ADVs like really, in truth, etc.) ensures that some
differences persist, on an assumption that no two Ls mean exactly the same thing
(Haiman 1980: 516).
The two PPs are most obviously similar in their histories, having the same syntax.
The chief differences between them are that:
(i) The original lexical deed is now largely restricted to such phrases as
deeds of valor, whereas no such restriction applies to fact. Strengthened
versions such as as a point of deed are therefore not available, though
they are for in fact, as in I don’t think that in point of fact there is a
distinction.
(ii) The original bare PP in deed is now restricted to formulae like in deed
and word (or in word and deed ), whereas in fact1 is not.
(iii) Indeed can signal agreement (despite counterexpectation) to a prior
utterance or implicature, which in fact cannot.
(iv) In fact cannot be used in the sense of Yes, whereas indeed can, as
exempliﬁed in (19).
(v) Being conﬁrmatory, indeed2 invites the inference that though the infor-
mation may be new to AD/R, nevertheless SP/W had it in mind before.
By contrast, in fact2 presents material in q as new information: What
in fact is going on/What is in fact going on? is a good question, but not
*What indeed is going on/What is indeed going on?
This distinction is made particularly clear by (38), which is the beginning of a
newspaper article titled “Murder Suspect Competent for Trial”:
(38) A Superior Court judge has ruled that a man accused in the 1996 murder of a
prostitute is indeed mentally competent to stand trial.
In a 10-minute hearing Wednesday at the Hall of Justice, Judge Lenard
Louie ruled that Chung Chiu, 41, understands the charges against him and can
rationally assist his defense attorneys . . .
171
Regularity in semantic change
The ruling stems from a competency hearing last December in which two
of the three court-appointed psychiatrists testiﬁed that Chiu suffered some
mental illnesses, but was not legally incompetent.
(1999 Jan. 21, San Francisco Chronicle)
In this example indeed2 invokes the question “Is Chiu mentally competent to stand
trial?,” and answers in the afﬁrmative. That a question of this type had been posed
earlier and had been answered afﬁrmatively is shown by the later paragraph that
summarizes the prior ruling (this later paragraph interestingly requires indeed to be
reinterpretednotonlyasafﬁrmationbutalsoasconﬁrmation).Hadinfact2 beenused
here, a different prior discourse would have been invoked, for example, “This man
is not mentally competent to stand trial,” and in fact would have contradicted that
proposition(asaresulttheparagraphontherulingwouldthenhavebeenincoherent).
Consider another example, this time one in which both ADVs are used. Here
President Clinton for the ﬁrst time acknowledged publically a liaison that he had
formerly denied:
(39) As you know, in a deposition in January, I was asked questions about my
relationship with M. L. While my answers were legally accurate, I did not
volunteer information.
Indeed, I did have a relationship with M. L. that was not appropriate.
In fact, it was wrong.
(1998 Aug. 18, TV speech)
Indeed here is indeed2, referring back to I was asked questions about my relation-
ship, and conﬁrming the validity of the questioners’ assumptions that there was a
relationship. In fact is in fact3, strengthening (and conﬁrming) it was not appropri-
ate, and signaling that this is new information.
But if the two adverbs are switched as in (40) the effect is rhetorically quite
different:
(40) As you know, in a deposition in January, I was asked questions about my
relationship with M. L. While my answers were legally accurate, I did not
volunteer information.
In fact, I did have a relationship with M. L. that was not appropriate. Indeed
it was wrong.
In fact would be possible here, but rather than inviting inferences of agreement with
the questioners, it suggests opposition to I did not volunteer information. Indeed
it was wrong would not signal new information, but rather some agreement with
unspeciﬁed critics. Therefore this sentence is only a weak addition to what preceded,
not a “confession.” In other words, indeed and in fact are on a scale of strength,
with in fact the stronger member of the pair.
172
Development of adverbials with DM function
Actually is similar to in fact. Like in fact:
(i) Actually cannot be used in the sense of Yes.
(ii) Actually2 invites the inference that the information in q is new: What
actually is going on/What is actually going on? is a good question.
Substituting actually for indeed in (38) is incoherent in the context
of the larger discourse, just as it would be in He is in fact mentally
competent. But it seems less incoherent than in fact. This is presumably
in part because actually is weaker on the epistemic scale, as evidenced
by the order actually, in fact, not *in fact, actually, and by substituting
actually for in fact in (40).
Another way in which in fact and actually are similar is that both may be used
in spoken language to serve as hedges or softeners, though as one might expect
from the fact that actually is the weaker of the two, it is more likely to be used this
way. Basing her data on the London–Lund and Lancaster–Oslo–Bergen corpora,
Aijmer (1986) studied PDE uses of actually. She says that a characteristic use in
spoken language is to “create contact with the listener” or “rapport,” e.g. “I am
telling you this in conﬁdence” (Aijmer 1986: 128); in this meaning it often occurs
clause-ﬁnally. Examples include:
(41) a. No, I don’t think I was. No, I was determined to get married actually.
(Aijmer 1986: 126)
b. Trump himself seemed exhilarated by the marathon negotiations that
preceded the bridge loan agreement.
“I enjoyed it, actually,” said Trump, author of “The Art of the Deal.”
(1990 June 27, United Press Intl.)
D. Robert Ladd (p.c.) provided a striking example of the hedged use of actually for
politeness in Scottish English. On one occasion in a post ofﬁce he had put a package
on the scale to be weighed oriented in a direction which made the mailing address
hard for the clerk to see. The clerk said: “Where’s it actually going?” If actually
here were actually2, it would be the sender of the packet who might be questioning
(somewhat rudely) the ability of the post ofﬁce to deliver mail correctly. Spoken by
the post ofﬁce clerk, however, Ladd interpreted it as “clearly an apology” for not
being able to see the packaging label.
In her article on actually, Aijmer in passing also points out that in fact can be
used in this way too in spoken discourse, also usually in clause-ﬁnal position:
(42) Funny. We really quite enjoyed it in fact.
(Aijmer 1986: 128)
173
Regularity in semantic change
4.4 Subjectiﬁcation and intersubjectiﬁcation
The development of the EA meanings of indeed, in fact, and actually
is in each case an example of subjectiﬁcation. SP/W uses the adverbials to make
explicit his or her commitment to the truth of the utterance. The further development
of the DM meanings is a case of increased subjectiﬁcation since SP/W is now
making the rhetorical strategy explicit. This new DM meaning has nothing to do
with literal deeds or acts, and cannot be directly derived from the RA or MA
uses.
This is borne out by examples in Japanese. For example, in her discussion of the
development in Japanese of wake, a post-VP “extended predicate” marker meaning
“it is (the reason/case/situation) that,” Suzuki (1998) claims that at the latest stage
“the speaker seems to invite the hearer (or impose on the hearer) to accept that
there is a logical relationship between the wake clause and its preceding discourse”
(Suzuki 1998: 80) and suggests the translation “you see” (ibid. p. 68). In its earliest
uses, wake derived from the verb waku meaning “divide.” This verb gave rise to
two nouns which were represented by different Chinese characters, one “division,”
“left over food,” etc., the other epistemic and concerned with “distinguishing and
understanding differences,” “logical consequence” (Suzuki 1998: 80, fn. 3, referring
to NKD). In the 1830s the noun wake meant “reason”; in the late nineteenth century
it developed a polysemy as a pragmatic particle with DM function, linking p and
q, and signaling that SP/W regards q is related to p as an alternative (or better)
formulation, roughly equivalent to “in other words, that means . . .” (ibid. p. 74).
This meaning can be seen in instances in which a logical relationship between the
wake clause and preceding discourse (or other aspects of the speech act situation)
is not evident, but in which SP/W wants AD/R to assume or construe that one
exists. The intersubjective meaning is not only more recent than the epistemic one,
but could presumably not have developed had the epistemic one not already been
available.
As we have seen, actually and in fact in some of their uses are intersubjective in the
sense that they mark not only connectivity between p and q (a subjective rhetorical
device with the intersubjective purpose of conveying to the addressee what sort
of textual connectivity is implied) but also function as a “DM hedge” to soften
or mitigate what is said with the purpose of acknowledging the addressee’s actual
or possible objections (see 1.2.4). The question is whether these hedged meanings
derive from the textual DM actually3, in fact3, or from actually2, in fact2. It would
appear that the immediate source is the adversative, actually2 and in fact2, since
the hedge implies a kind of concessive, e.g. “I am conﬁding in you, even though
you might not believe what I just said/even though you might not approve.” The
typical position for concessives like anyway is clause-internal, or even-ﬁnal, as in
Aijmer’s examples (41a) and (42). Furthermore, hedged meanings, which include I
174
Development of adverbials with DM function
think, I guess, you know, you see, are often associated with expressions of epistemic
attitude.
4.4.1 English well
An example of a lexeme that has clearly developed intersubjective
meanings is well. This adverb appears in OE as a manner adverb meaning “in a
good manner.” OED relates well to the IE verb wel- “to will, wish,” and states that
the adverb derives from “in accordance with a good or high standard of conduct or
morality.”
In the earliest OE texts we ﬁnd a compound intersubjective construction wella
“well + la” which appears to function as an attention-getter “listen up.” In his study
of the history of well, Jucker (1997) points out that in this function it is rather
like OE hwæt; however, it does not seem to have the same function as hwæt of
introducing the material as known, or of signaling the narrator’s move to an account
of his sources (see 4.2 above). Being a compound, wella presumably has a different
history from well, though it is a closely related one.
Well is attested in OE in clause-initial position with an epistemic function, ap-
proximately “certainly, deﬁnitely,” a subjectiﬁcation of the manner adverb:
(43) Cwæ he: Wel æt swa mæ , for on hi englice ansyne
Said he well that so may, because they angelic faces
habba .
have
“He said: ‘Well that may be so, since they have the faces of angels.’”
(?900 Bede, ii.i. (Schipper) 110 [Jucker 1997: 100])
Note that in (43) well is in a quoted speech, and follows the “inquit” “said he.”
In ME as represented by the Helsinki Corpus and Chaucer’s works, Jucker
ﬁnds well used clause-initially only in highly restricted contexts: in direct reported
speech at the beginning of turns in conversation, followed by “inquits” (Jucker
1997: 98–100). Jucker regards this use as a “frame-marker” and “text-sequencing
device” (ibid. p. 99). However, as he acknowledges, “in many cases it may also
indicate an acceptance of a situation that has been expressed or indicated” (ibid.),
and may be substituted by “if this is so/OK then” (ibid. p. 100) as in (44):
(44) “Ye sey welle,” sayde the kynge, “Aske what ye woll and ye shall have hit and
hit lye in my power to gyff hit.” “Well,” seyde thy lady, “than I aske the hede
of thys knyght that hath wonne the swerde.”
“‘You say well,’ said the king. ‘Ask what you will and you shall have it if it
lies within my power to give it.’ ‘Well,’ said the lady, ‘then I ask the head of
the knight who has won the sword.’”
(before 1471 Malory, Morte Arthur, 48 [Jucker 1997: 99])
175
Regularity in semantic change
(Note in this example the manner adverb use in Ye sey welle.) Occurring as they do
in direct speech quotations, these clause-initial DM uses of well are ascriptions by
the narrator to the quoted speaker, i.e. ascriptions to the subjectivity of the persona,
but not to the narrator (SP/W).
In the EMdE period well comes to be used in monolog, where it clearly may
be anchored in SP/W. The monologs occur in texts normally regarded as close
approximations of speech (sermons, plays, transcripts of legal depositions):
(45) Moyses was a wonderful felowe, and dyd his dutie being a maried man. We
lacke such as Moyses was. Well, I woulde al men would loke to their dutie, as
God hath called them, and we then shoulde haue a ﬂourisyng christian weal.
(1549 Latimer, 29 [Jucker 1997: 100])
Here the preacher uses the proposition p “We lack such as Moses was, people who
do their duty as married men,” to develop an argument q that the situation in p
should be changed; however, the shift to q is a moderated one, granting that q may
not be achievable or even agreed upon by AD/R (contrast (But) in dede/(But) in fact
here). In dialogs well appears to have primarily this hedging function since it tends
to be used in situations of conﬂict:
(46) Tom: Yes, you must keep a Maid, but it is not ﬁt she should know of her
Masters privacies. I say you must do these things your self.
Ione: Well if it must be so, it must.
(1684 Tom the Taylor, 268 [Jucker 1997: 102])
As in the case of other Ls we have discussed in this chapter, when well appears
with DM meanings, the contexts in which it occurs are quite limited; it is then
generalized to more contexts. At ﬁrst it is anchored in the speech of others
than the narrator; then it comes to be preempted to the narrator/speaker/writer’s
perspective, and ﬁnally it develops meanings with strong orientation to AD/R’s
face.
4.4.2 English let’s
The developments of hedging well, actually, and Jp. wake, in which the
intersubjective meanings are not present at the earliest stages, do not appear to be
fundamentally different in kind from those in which some degree of intersubjectivity
is present from the beginning, at least in the historical record of the language in
question. For example, in English, there is an imperative construction let us X
“permit us to X” that is intersubjective from the beginning by virtue of the argument
structure: the utterance has illocutionary force; SP and AD are participants in the
projected event since the construction is imperative (addressed to a second person)
and refers to AD’s projected action with respect to SP. This kind of construction is
attested from OE to the present day.
176
Development of adverbials with DM function
In the imperative construction the second person is proﬁled as separate from
the speaker and companions, who are construed as syntactic objects of permission
as well as subjects of go. Out of this construction, which can be expanded to Let
us go, will you!, arose a speaker-oriented polysemy let us (> let’s), known as the
“hortatory” let’s. Here ﬁrst and second person together are syntactic subjects of both
let and go, as in Let us go, shall we?, which is attested from Chaucerian ME on. This
is more subjective in that the speaker includes him or herself in the exhortation. It
is also more intersubjective in that the addressee is now conceptualized as acting
with the speaker. Furthermore, an exhortation is a mildly mitigated form of an
imperative.
The original verb let “allow” in the imperative (with a full NP object) and hortative
let us cooccur in the following few lines from Chaucer, together with the subjunctive
expression go, of the type that let’s in part replaced:
(47) Com doun to-day, and lat youre bagges stonde . . .
What, lat us heere a messe, and go we dyne.
“Come down today and let your bags stand (leave your bags) . . . Let us hear a
mass and let us go dine.”
(c. 1387 Chaucer, CT, Shipman, p. 205, l. 220 [Traugott 1995a: 37])
More recent uses of let’s show a further increase in intersubjectivity, presumably
via positioning of ﬁrst person pronoun for second person (see 2.3.4). Examples
include locutions such as one ﬁnds addressed to patients or to children, like (48) in
which SP is presumably not going to participate in the pill taking:
(48) Let’s take our pills now, Johnny.
The kind of positioning in (48) strongly mitigates the intention, which is impera-
tive (Take your pills now, Johnny!), and therefore explicitly marks intersubjective
attention to AD’s image needs.
The development of let’s illustrates not only increases in intersubjectivity but
also once again a shift from content meanings based in argument structure at the
clausal level to pragmatic procedural meanings at the discourse level. Imperative
Let’s go can be analyzed syntactically as biclausal (allow us to go), hortatory let’s
go as a modalized single clause (may we go!), and the kind of construction in (48)
(let’s take our pills) as a single clause with a pragmatic marker let’s functioning
somewhat like well (though well does not allow the pronominal positioning in this
meaning: *Well, take our pills now). The semantic compositionality of let us in the
imperative is clear, that of the hortatory let’s less so, but in the case of (48) it is
obscured.
177
Regularity in semantic change
We turn now to the development in Japanese of a pragmatic marker that
shows many of the characteristics exempliﬁed by the English examples that have
preceded.
4.5 The development of a discourse marker signaling global
connectivity: Japanese sate
In MdJ sate is a global discourse particle that typically signals a topic
shift. In this its function is similar to some of the functions of English so: sate
appears at the beginning of the ﬁrst sentence of the new topic of discussion. In
the modern colloquial language, sate may also carry expressive value as a mild
hedge, and is translatable as well. A characteristic common to both functions is that
speakers use sate in speech event contexts in which (they think) their conversational
turn is required, as illustrated by:
(49)
A: Sensee, doo nasai-masu-ka?
teacher how do (RESP)-POL-Q
B: Sate! . . .(doo si-masyo-o)
well . . .how do-POL-PROB
“A: What will you [respected teacher] do?
B: Well ! . . . (What shall I/we do . . .).”
In (49), B’s response of just sate can stand alone as an utterance, but in other
contexts it often introduces B’s response (or conﬁrms that there is difﬁculty in
responding) to A’s question. Both as a hedge and as a global DM introducing a new
topic, sate is a procedural with no truth-conditional or contentful meaning. Unlike
English so and well, sate in MdJ only rarely occurs in clause-internal position, and
it appears to have lost its original meaning, which is that of a deictic manner adverb
“thus, in that (sort of) way.”
Stage I: sate1: “thus”
The earliest recorded uses of sate are as a deictic adverb; examples go
back to OJ (see e.g. NKD v. 9, p. 88). The word apparently originates in a preliterary
Japanese second person distal demonstrative element sa “that (manner)” plus te,
which is usually classiﬁed as the ADV or adverbializing form (ren’yookei) of a
predicate sufﬁx tu that expresses perfect aspect. The demonstrative element sa is
the base for a number of adverbs found in OJ and subsequent periods of the language.
In addition to sate, derivatives that survive in the modern language include saraba
“if so” and sayoo “(in) that way,” which is a more formal equivalent of sono yoo
“(in) that way.” An OJ example of sate is:
178
Development of adverbials with DM function
(50) Yuki sabu-mi /10
saki- ni Fa11
saka- nu /
snow cold-REASON bloom- COP TOP bloom- NEG
ume no Fana / yosi12
kono-koro Fa /
plum- ASSOC ﬂower as-is (ADV) for-a-while TOP
sate mo aru ga-ne
thus INCL-FOC be- CAUS
“O plum ﬂower that does not bloom because of the coldness of the snow, for a
while it is all right (=as is) that you may be thus.”
(before 759 AC, Man’yooshuu X, 2329 [Takagi et al. 1957–60, v. 3: 147])13
In (50), sate enriches the conceptualized described event by expressing the manner
of the verb aru “be.” It does so by referring back to the condition of the plum tree
ﬂowers,i.e.notyetopeninbloom(thephrasesaki-ni-Fasakanuisanemphaticcollo-
cation for saka-nu “not bloom”). By linking the described event anaphorically with
the absence of blossoms, sate additionally provides structure and cohesion to the on-
going discourse from the point of view of SP/W in the conceptualized speech event.
Stage II: sate2: connection between p (as a whole) and q
Although (50) is an example in clause-internal position, sate is found
most frequently in clause-initial position already by LOJ. Already in LOJ sate no
longer refers to the particular manner of an action in p. For example, in the “Waka-
murasaki” (“Lavender”) chapter of Genji Monogatari (approximately 880 lines of
text), sate appears ten times,14
of which nine examples are in clause-initial position.
In only three of the examples can sate be interpreted as retaining its original manner
adverb meaning. In other examples in this and other LOJ texts, sate appears to signal
10 Slashes (/) indicate divisions between metrical units (lines) of the poem, whose form is 5-7-5-7-7
syllables.
11 For the phonetic value of F, see Conventions (iii). The particle Fa developed into the MdJ topic
particle wa; for convenience it is glossed throughout this section as TOP(IC), although its range
of meanings included “contrast” and “emphasis.” Fujii (1991) provides a detailed diachronic
study of this item.
12 The word yosi “(you may be) as is” is an adverbial used in OJ to indicate permission or recogni-
tion of the action or judgment of another party, or SP’s own intention.
13 Takagi, Gomi, and Ohno (1957–60) provide the reading sika-ni “in that way” for the two Chinese
characters in the original text that correspond above to sate. NKD however, cites this poem in
their entry for sate with the reading sate for those characters. The metrics of the poem seem to
prefer the reading sate (two syllables, not three), but there are some apparent metric liberties in OJ
that may reﬂect contracted pronunciations. (Perhaps, for example, sika-ni mo was pronounced
sikan-mo.) Takagi, Gomi, and Ono are themselves inconsistent. In their note on Poem 2244
(Takagi, Gomi and Ohno 1957–1960: 131), they quote the poem in (50) (no. 2329) with sate.
14 These instances include three instances of sate-mo (a form which indicates inclusive focus) and
one instance of sate-ha (which indicates exclusive or contrastive focus). Other common forms
built on sate in LOJ include sate-koso (which indicates strongly exclusive or contrastive focus).
179
Regularity in semantic change
that the whole proposition p, not just a constituent of it, is to be taken as a condition,
reason, or even simply the basis for further argument.
An early example in which sate introduces q as having a cause–effect relationship
to p can be seen in (51):
(51) Kono koyasu-gahi ha asi- ku
this safe-birth-shell (amulet) TOP bad/poor- ADV
tabakari-te tor-ase-tamahu-nari.
fashion (devise)-GER take-CAUS-RESP-COP
Sate ha e-tor-ase-tamaha-zi.
for-that-reason TOP POTEN-take-CAUS-RESP-NEG
“It is that [you] have had [the men] use clumsy methods to take the amulet.
For that reason, [you] are unable to have [them] get it.”15
(early 10th century, Taketori Monogatari [Matsuo 1961: 146.1])
Although it is possible to interpret sate in (51) as having its earlier deictic adverb
meaning “thus, in that way,” the so-called extended predicate construction (verb-
plus-copula tor-ase-tamahu-nari) in the preceding sentence supports the interpreta-
tion that sate expresses a cause–effect relationship between the entire proposition p
and following q. The extended predicate construction in Japanese overtly expresses
that there is an argumentative reason for stating the proposition p in the particular
context of the speech event (see e.g. Kuroda 1973). Here the extended copula predi-
cate indicates that the poor methods used to take the amulet (p) are being presented
as the reason for q; sate overtly introduces q (failure of obtaining beneﬁt from the
amulet) as the consequence of p. Thus, in this use, sate takes the entire proposition
p as the anaphoric ground for q.
In example (52), sate likewise introduces an event in q as being linked to the
occurrence of the event previously described in p. Here, however, it refers back to
an event the occurrence of which is offered merely as a hypothetical possibility; sate
signals that the eventuality of q depends on the eventuality of the condition in p:
(52) Nasake-naki hito nari-te yuka-ba, sate
heartless person be(come)-GER go-CONDIT in:that:situation
kokoro yasuku-te si-mo, e-okitara-zi
heart/spirit be:gentle-GER although POTEN-put:aside-NEG
wo-ya nado ihu mo ari.
EMPH-Q etc. ones:who:say INCL-FOC be
15 While the verb form ase-tamahu is interpreted as CAUS-RESPECT in (51) (see Matsuo 1961:
146, ft. 2), it is alternatively possible to interpret this construction as an intensiﬁed honoriﬁc that
indexes the highest degree of respect toward the imperial family (without causative meaning).
In this interpretation, the sentence would be translated as, “It is that [Your Highness] is using
clumsy methods to take the amulet. For that reason, [your Highness] is unable to get it.” In this
example the NP marked with TOP ha is best understood as grammatical object.
180
Development of adverbials with DM function
“There were also those who said: ‘If a heartless person takes over as the next
governor], then [the current governor] could hardly put aside [his duties],
gentle though he is,’ and so forth.”16
(c. 1006, Genji Monogatari [Abe et al. 1970: 278.14–15])
In this use, sate fulﬁlls a function similar to that of English then in an if–then con-
struction, that is, it marks q as more likely to be true, given the condition in p, than de-
fault hypotheticality would imply. Sate is not necessary to the expression of the logi-
calrelationshipbetweenpandq(whichisindicatedbytheconditionalformyuka-ba)
but it strengthens the nuance of q as the inevitable outcome of what has just been
said. As an expression of SP/W’s attitude toward the instantiation of q, the meaning
of sate here is more subjective than the original deictic adverb meaning of the word.
A weaker linking function of sate in LOJ is to express an additive relationship
between p and q:
(53) Kiyoge-naru otona hutari bakari,
elegant-looking-COP adult two:people just/only
sate ha warahabe zo ide-iri-asobu.
and (in addition)TOP children- EMPH go:out-go:in-play
“[There were] just two elegant-looking adults, also children were playing
running in and out [of the room].”
(c. 1006, Genji Monogatari [Abe et al. 1970: 280.6])
Here, as in (51) and (52), sate links back to the previously described situation as a
whole. There is no action or event internal to p that would serve as an anaphoric
referent to which sate in (53) could refer as a manner adverb. Instead, sate here
indicates that the new information introduced in the following clause is to be added
to the totality of the described event in p. Note that (53) should be considered to
contain an ellipsis of a “be” verb (e.g. ari) immediately after bakari “just/only”; such
ellipsis of “be” verbs is not unusual in Japanese. The particle ha (which developed
into the well-known topic particle wa) here probably has a contrastive meaning that
reinforces the nuance that the description of the children playing is the only addition
to the situation p.
A common characteristic of these new uses of LOJ sate is that they point back
not to an internal characteristic of p, but rather to p as a whole, inviting the inference
that p serves as condition or ground for q. This ground may be temporal, logical
(51), (52), or situational (53).
16 Depending on the identity of the implicit subject of the ﬁrst clause, this sentence can also be
interpreted as “If (his daughter) goes on and becomes heartless (=countriﬁed), (the current
governor) could hardly put aside [his worries], gentle though he is.”
181
Regularity in semantic change
Stage III: sate3: scene-shifter
Already in LOJ, sate exhibits patterns of occurrence that indicate not
only local connectivity, but also a more global association with discourse structure.
One of the ﬁve occurrences of sate in Taketori Monogatari begins a major new topic
of discussion, which is set off in modern annotated editions as a new chapter:
(54) Sate Kaguya-hime katati no yo ni
at that time [Kaguya]-princess form ASSOC world DAT
ni-zu medetaki koto wo mikado kikosimesi-te. . .
resemble-NEG(ADV) magniﬁcent thing ACC emperor hear(RESP)-GER.
“At that time, hearing that Princess Kaguya’s beauty was more magniﬁcent
than the world had seen, the emperor . . .”
(early 10th century, Taketori Monogatari [Matsuo 1961: 159.1])
Except for a general temporal connection, the content of the section that begins
with (54) bears little connection to the event described in the preceding text, which
is an account of Princess Kaguya’s sadness at the death of the Lady Chunagon.
Similarly, in the Kageroo Nikki (Diary “The Gossamer Years,” mid-tenth century)
sate appears frequently at the beginning of narrative sections with the meaning “at
that time” and serves to mark an episode boundary not unlike OE gelamp “it came
to pass” (see 4.1).
Sometimes the interpretation of a particular instance of sate depends on how
a passage is edited. For example, in “Waka-murasaki,” a retainer of Prince Genji
describes the lifestyle of the governor of Harima Province. After mentioning near
the beginning of his narrative that the governor lives alone with his daughter, the
retainer describes the history of the governor, his reasons for leaving the capital,
and the magniﬁcence of his residence. Genji responds with a question:
(55) . . .to moose-ba . . .
QUOT say (HUMIL)-when
sate sono musume ha to tohi-tamahu.
well/so that/his daughter TOP QUOT ask-RESP
“When [the retainer] said . . . Genji asked ‘So [what about] the daughter?’”
(c. 1005 Genji Monogatari [Abe et al. 1970: 277.12–13])
If sate is interpreted as being included within the quotation, then its function here
seems to be similar to MdJ usage – to deﬂect the conversation to a new discourse
topic.17
However, it is also possible to interpret sate in this example as standing
outside of the quotation to modify the verb tohu “ask”; in that case sate probably
has the meaning “at that time” and signals that the narrator is returning to the earlier
topic of the narrative.
17 This is apparently the interpretation taken by Seidensticker (1980: 86), who translates Genji’s
question as “‘And the daughter?’ asked Genji.”
182
Development of adverbials with DM function
An examination of sate in the EMJ text Tsurezure-gusa (1330, Essays in Idleness)
reveals a pattern of distribution in which sate plays a pronounced role as an opener
for new sections of discourse. Of a total of sixteen occurrences of sate,18
nine
introduceanewdiscoursesection(anewdiscoursetopicorareturntoanearliertopic
following a digression). In an additional four instances, it introduces elaborations
that may be considered minor changes in topic. In some instances, e.g. (56), there
is little or no evidence that sate provides a deictic link to what precedes. Rather, its
primary function is to indicate that the following section of text represents a new
discourse unit.
(56) Sate huyu-gare no kesiki koso,
so winter-decay ASSOC scenery EXCL-FOC
aki ni ha wosa-wosa otoru-mazi-kere.
autumn DAT TOP scarcely be:inferior-NEG:PROB-PAST19
“So, the scenery of winter decay is hardly inferior to that of autumn.”
(c. 1330, Tsurezure-gusa [Tokieda 1967: 24.11])
In Tokieda’s annotated text, the preceding paragraph starts out with a description
of the deepening of autumn, beginning with the Tanabata summer festival and
progressing through a description of harvest activities. The author/narrator then
digresses, pointing out that it is unnecessary to write of such things, because they
have already been written about in famous works such as the Genji Monogatari.
He goes on to justify his “selﬁsh” desire to put brush to paper, saying that “it
is not something for people to read.” Then, with (56), the narrator returns to his
description of the seasons, but with new content about the winter season (which is
ﬁrst mentioned here). Sate announces the return to the main ﬂow of the discourse
from that digression, but it is difﬁcult to ﬁnd a deictic link to an event in p: the event
in q does not occur at the same time as the one in p.20
Similarly, there are no grounds
for positing a cause–effect relationship with p. Cohesion with the previous topic of
discussion is accomplished through the comparison of the seasons, and through the
use of sate, which apparently functions primarily to signal a change in scene.
By the period of LMJ the discourse functions of sate are clearly established,
as is evidenced by Rodriguez’ (1604–8) treatment in his grammar. He includes a
few sentence-internal occurrences in which sate appears to be interpretable in its
old deictic adverb meaning sate1 “in that way” (e.g. Doi 1955: 94, 470). He also
18 These examples in Tsurezure-gusa include two examples of sate-ha, one example of sate-mo,
and one example of sate-mo-ya-ha, which contains the question/dubitative particle ya.
19 Here, kere (citation form keri) may function as an exclamation rather than as a past tense marker.
20 Since the expected ﬂow of seasons is maintained, the passing of time itself may constitute the
ground of an anaphoric reference. Nevertheless, this ground is not speciﬁc to a point in the
preceding CDE.
183
Regularity in semantic change
cites sate in lists of conjunctions meaning “for that reason” (ibid. pp. 425, 476–
477), “and (so),” and “furthermore” (sate2) (ibid. p. 489). In addition, a number of
example sentences scattered throughout the book begin with sate; in these, the word
is probably to be understood as a colloquial-sounding sentence-opener and scene
shifter (sate3) since there is no preceding discourse context, as in (57):
(57) Sate sono ﬁtoua vooxuuno giuuninca?21
Sate sono hito wa (w)oosyuu no zyuunin ka
so that person TOP [place name] ASSOC resident Q
“So, is that person a resident of the Northern Provinces?”
(1604–8, Rodriguez [Doi, tr. 1955: 339])
It should be noted that some (but not all) of Rodriguez’ examples are taken from
Japanese literary works, and so they may have been removed from a context in
which there was a deictic anaphoric relationship to a previous proposition.
Stage IV: sate4: exclamation (and hedge)
Also in LMJ, sate comes to be attested as an exclamatory lexeme.
Rodriguez includes sate and the derivatives sate-sate, sate-mo, satemo-satemo, and
sate-wa (which reﬂect morphological patterns for expressing emphasis or focus) in
his lists of LMJ exclamation words (Doi 1955: 298, 458, 465–466). NKD cites the
use of sate in this function from the time of Noh plays (latter half of the fourteenth
century). The acquisition of affective meaning by sate was probably enabled by
contexts in which the word was not an essential part of the expression of the rela-
tionship between p and q; i.e. by some of its uses as a connector (sate2) as well as
its scene-shifter meaning (sate3). Examples such as (58) appear to represent pivotal
uses between sate3 and the exclamatory meaning (sate4):
(58) Ge-niomosiro-ku mo nobe-rare-tari,
truly enjoyable-ADV INCL:FOC tell-RESP-PERF
satesate nani no yoo yaran?
(and)so what ASSOC matter PROB-Q
“Truly you have told it well; so what is your business here?”
(14th century, Shizen koji [Yokomichi and Omote 1960: 100.11])
In such uses, sate (here the emphatic derivation satesate)22
may call special attention
to q and to the emotional state of the speaker at the time of utterance, regardless
21 The ﬁrst line in (57) uses the orthographic representation in Rodriguez’ grammar; however, long
vowels are here shown with double vowels, not with a macron as in the original. The second line
is the transcription of the Jp. forms according to the conventions of this book.
22 The possible role of emphatic derivations such as satesate in promoting the acquisition of
affective meaning by sate itself awaits further study.
184
Development of adverbials with DM function
of whether or not there is a deictic reference back to a p in the text. (58) may
additionally function as a mild hedge in the ongoing dialog in which SP seeks to
preserve AD’s face as SP begins to pose a direct question. Expressive meaning may
also be posited in occurrences of sate at the beginnings of conversational turns or
major discourse episodes, such as (59). In the context preceding (59), which occurs
near the beginning of the Noh play Eguchi, an itinerant monk (the waki central
character of the play) has just asked a villager (an ai minor character) about a pile
of stones; the villager explains that they are a memorial to the lord of Eguchi. The
dialog between waki and ai is in polite speech style (which makes use of the verb-
ending sooroo) and takes place near rear stage-left. Then the waki returns to center
stage, faces the audience, and states:
(59) Sate ha inisihe no Eguti no kimi
so TOP past-time ASSOC Eguchi ASSOC lord
no ato nari-keri.
ASSOC memorial COP-PAST (=EXCLAM)
“So, this is a memorial to the lord of Eguchi from olden times.”
(14th century, Eguchi [Yokomichi and Omote 1960: 51.1])
In (59), the phrase following sate-ha contains a repetition of the explanation by the
villager, but in plain (not polite) speech style. Sate thus begins a brief (ﬁve line)
monolog in which the monk expresses to himself and to the audience his feelings
of gratitude at being able to visit this spot. In such uses, one can treat the word as
having a global pragmatic marker function plus additional expressive value.
In EMdJ, sate gravitates toward the two overlapping functions found in the present
day language: pragmatic particle marking global “discourse chunking” functions,
and exclamation. An examination of sate and its derivative words in two plays of
Chikamatsu (1703–4, Mori, Torigoe, and Nagatomo 1972: 57–113, about 830 lines
of text) yielded a total of seventeen occurrences, of which six indicate primarily
global pragmatic particle marker function and four are exclamations. Not surpris-
ingly, some of the examples are ambiguous between global pragmatic particle and
exclamation functions. In three occurrences, the lexeme links q deictically to a p
with a meaning such as “for that reason,” “at that time” (sate2). In the remaining four
examples, sate appears in presentations of items in series. In this usage, sate occurs
in a long list, e.g. feudal lords in a procession, in a pattern such as A, B, C, sate D,
E, which can be translated as “A, B, C, and in addition D, E.” This use thus appears
similar to the LOJ use discussed in (53) above. No examples were found of sate1.
Stage V: sate5: epistolary formula
From evidence in Rodriguez’ early seventeenth century grammar, it
appears that sate has not yet acquired a formulaic use, found in MdJ, to mark the
185
Regularity in semantic change
sate1 "thus"
sate2 "then (conn)"
OJ LOJ EMJ LMJ EMdJ MdJ
Meaning
sate3 "scene-shifter"
sate4 "exclamation"
sate5 "epistolary formula"
Figure 4.3. Time-line for the development of Japanese sate (conn = connective).
beginning of the body of a written letter (whether business or personal). Rodriguez
includes an entire chapter on how to write a letter in Japanese (Doi 1955: 678–711).
In it, he notes that sate-mata (sate plus mata “again”) is the (colloquial) equivalent
of somosomo “now, in the ﬁrst place, to begin with,” which is listed as one of three
formal (literary) words used to signal the beginning of the body of a letter following
the initial formal greeting (ibid. p. 697). Otherwise, sate is absent from this chapter.
Nowadays, however, sate is one of the standard formulaic expressions used to mark
the beginning of the body of a letter immediately after a sentence of formal greet-
ings (typically containing a stylized reference to the season), which is written as a
separate, one-sentence paragraph. The function of sate as marking topic-shift is es-
pecially clear in this use. It also has an intersubjective function since, by using it, the
writer is following communicative norms of the genre that affect the reader’s “face.”
In summary, the semantic history of sate can be divided into ﬁve stages (see
ﬁgure 4.3):
Stage I: Deictic manner adverb. Here sate signals that an event in q is linked
to a (manner) characteristic of a previously described event in p (e.g.,
(50)). It is usually clause-internal.
Stage II: Discourse marker connective. It introduces q as being deictically linked
to the instantiation, time, or logical consequences of p (e.g., (52)). It is
usually clause-initial, and functions at a local discourse level.
Stage III: Pragmatic particle signaling the beginning of a new topic, even when
there is no deictic referent in the preceding discourse (e.g., (54)). It
functions at a global discourse level.
Stage IV: Exclamatory lexeme. It expresses special emotional involvement by
SP/W in regard to q or (as a hedge) toward AD/R in addition to fulﬁlling
global pragmatic marker function (e.g., (60)).
Stage V: Epistolary formula.
Sate illustrates increase in discourse pragmatic function over time, including
increased scope; originating in a clause-internal adverbial function it comes to have
186
Development of adverbials with DM function
ADVmanner > ADVadversative > ADVelaboration > ADVhedge
content > content/procedural > procedural
s-w-proposition > s-o-proposition > s-o-discourse
nonsubjective > subjective > intersubjective
Figure 4.4. Correlated paths of directionality in the development of DMs.
the whole clause in its scope, and then discourse chunks. Each stage of development
is a case of subjectiﬁcation. Its acquisition of functions as a hedging device and
epistolary formula further represents an increase in intersubjective meaning, after
the epistemic functions have arisen.
4.6 Conclusion
In this chapter we have shown that, as in the case of modals, epistemic
adverbs and particles arise out of nonepistemic ones. In particular, we have shown
that they develop metatextual meanings that make explicit SP/AD’s rhetorical pur-
poses and attitude to what is being said. Some of these polysemies may develop
intersubjective meanings; depending on the saliency of markers of intersubjectivity
in a speech style or in the community as a whole, intersubjective meanings may de-
velop more or less rapidly. The correlated paths of directionality are schematically
presented in ﬁgure 4.4.
At the end of chapter 3 we mentioned Cinque’s (1998) cross-linguistic hierarchy
of verbal modals. This hierarchy is supplemented by a cross-linguistic hierarchy
of modal ADVs (Cinque 1998: 106). A schematic hypothesis for a cross-linguistic
hierarchy of ADVs with modal properties, based on Cinque’s ADV hierarchy that
would include the DM types discussed here, is presented in (60).23
His hierarchy
has been expanded to include a position for hedges that is further left (for head-
initial languages) than the left-most ADV position he proposes, since it precedes
the “speech act” type like frankly (speaking).
(60) ModDMhedge – ModDM – Modspeech act – Modevaluative – Modevidential
– Modepistemic – Tpast – Tfuture – Modirrealis – Modnecessity – Modpossibility
– Modvolitional, etc.
23 Cinque’s hierarchy starts with speech act adverbials like “frankly.” He calls speech act, evaluative,
evidential, irrealis adverbials “mood” adverbials, despite the fact that they are often expressed
by independent elements, not bound morphology. We have used the term Modal here. Cinque
also presents a far richer hierarchy than the one in (60), since he includes a large number of
aspectual adverbials such as “usually,” “completely,” “again,” “often,” all of which occur to the
right of the adverbials given here.
187
Regularity in semantic change
Truth/modal ADV 292 816 987 1336
Evaluative ADV 44 91 103 303
Epithetical ADV 230 170 164 85
Speech Act ADV 4 39
Total 566 1077 1258 1763
OE ME MdE PDE
Figure 4.5. Number of English initial sentence adverbials by class over time (based
on Swan 1991: 412) (MdE here = 16th–19th centuries; PDE = 20th Century).
Examples of each ADV category are: “well” ModDMhedge, “then” ModDM,
“frankly” Modspeech act, “fortunately” Modevaluative, “alleged” Modevidential, “prob-
ably” Modepistemic, “once” Tpast, “then” Tfuture, “perhaps” Modirrealis, “necessarily”
Modnecessity, “possibly” Modpossibility, “intentionally” Modvolitional. Not all languages
will allow all positions to be occupied sequentially.
As in the case of our discussion in 3.5 of Cinque’s hierarchy of verbal modals, in
adapting his ADV schema we do not thereby espouse the hypothesis that all positions
are present in Universal Grammar. (60) is a useful description of the cross-linguistic
facts as they are known, and provides an empirically testable grid for the study of
modal ADVs in languages through time and space. The semantic–pragmatic mo-
tivation for the cross–linguistic onomasiological picture is the tendency to recruit
meanings into increasingly subjective semantics (non-modal > deontic > epis-
temic), and into increasingly larger structures (control verb > raising verb) and
wider semantic scope (narrow > wide). In our view this semantic–pragmatic mo-
tivation appears to be sufﬁcient to account for the hierarchy in (60) (and the modal
hierarchy in 3.5). Therefore no innate and “particularly rich functional make-up of
the sentence” (Cinque 1999: 140) need be postulated to account for it.24
Likewise,differentlanguagesmayfavordifferentkindsofADVsatdifferenttimes
in their histories, but the direction of change involved in the recruitment of members
of one adverb type into another is unidirectional. For example, in a discussion of the
proportion of initial sentence ADVs by class in the history of English, Swan (1991)
shows that the subtypes of sentence adverbial used have changed. According to her
data, in MdE there are modal adverbs like possibly, evaluatives like surprisingly,
epitheticals like wisely, and speech act ADVs like frankly. In OE, however. there
were only truth intensiﬁers like witodlice “truly,” epitheticals like wislice “wisely,”
andevaluativeslikewundorlice“surprisingly.”SpeechactADVslikebrieﬂy,happily
(speaking) do not appear until the seventeenth century, and not in large numbers till
the present day; see ﬁgure 4.5. The direction of change is, however, entirely regular,
24 Thanks to Nigel Vincent for pointing out this conclusion.
188
Development of adverbials with DM function
speciﬁcally from verb-modiﬁer to sentence-modiﬁer, from relatively concrete to
relatively abstract and nonreferential, from contentful to procedural. We expect that
comparable differences in frequency of use and of innovation will be found cross-
linguistically among classes of ADVs and DMs, dependent on the text types and
discursive practices of speakers at the time.
Weturnnowtothedevelopmentofperformativemeaningsofverbs.Heremarking
of the discourse act being engaged in is of paramount importance.
189
5
The development of performative
verbs and constructions
5.1 Speech act and performative verbs
Among the areas of interface between semantics and pragmatics that
have attracted particular attention are “speech act verbs” and “performativity.” Nev-
ertheless, there is not yet a great deal of convergence about how to approach them,
nor is there extensive understanding of cross-cultural differences with respect to
speech acting (but see Blum-Kulka, House, and Kasper 1989). This naturally raises
signiﬁcant methodological questions for historical semantics (Papi 2000). In order
to allow for comparison across time and across languages and cultures we have
chosen to take a restricted view of the problem, and to focus on the semasiologi-
cal questions of how certain expressions acquire “speech act” and “performative”
meaning over time. Here we outline our assumptions about the domain under investi-
gation.
There is a large number of verbs of speaking in English and Japanese. Some
of these refer to ways of speaking, e.g. whine, simper, drawl, Jp. donaru “yell
(angrily),” sasayaku “whisper”; these are verbs of “locution.” Some refer to acts
of speaking (claim, say, command, threaten, Jp. syutyoo suru “insist,” happyoo suru
“announce (in public)”); these are “speech act verbs” (SAVs). A subset of SAVs
are “performative” (“illocutionary”) verbs: verbs which, under speciﬁc conditions
can be used not only to report on sayings but to have the force of a doing (Austin
1962). For example, of the set claim, say, command, threaten, in PDE only claim
and command are typically used performatively; in Jp. happyoo suru “announce” is
used performatively, but syutyoo suru “insist” is descriptive of a manner of speaking
only.
Linguistic conditions for explicit performative use are (typically) ﬁrst person
present tense, indicative, active. However, some institutional speech acts, for ex-
ample acts of Parliament, Supreme Court rulings, etc., may be plural, even third
person, and passive. Performative use also involves nonlinguistic conditions such
as the right of SP/W to do the act named, institutionalized social norms, etc., all of
which serve to warrant the appropriateness of the action. A standard example of a
verb used in performative and nonperformative functions is (see Searle 1965):
190
Development of performative verbs and constructions
(1) a. I promise to go.
b. I promised to go.
(1a) “counts as” or “has the illocutionary force of” a promise given certain contex-
tual assumptions; whoever says (1a) puts him- or herself under some obligation to
go in the context of an interlocutor’s utterance such as I want you to go. A speaker
may be sincere or not in making a promise, and may speak appropriately or not
(one cannot appropriately promise to go somewhere if one is jailed, for example),
but that (1a) is a promise is hardly true or false: a promise takes place in the saying
of (1a). This performative use of SAVs is clearly procedural as well as contentful.
By contrast (1b) is a report, and may be true or false: promised is contentful, not
procedural, with respect to its SAV function.
Explicit performative verbs have discourse deictic properties in that they are self-
reﬂexive and point to the act being performed (Verschueren 1995, 1999). In other
words, they are self-deictic. Note that the word “deixis” is coined from the IE root
deik- “show, say” and is cognate with Lat. dic- “say,” Eng. teach. Meillet (1958
[1905–6] and later Benveniste (1973: 387) argue that the primary meaning of IE
deik was showing not merely by pointing but by issuing legal proclamations (i.e. a
speech act activity): in Gk. dike meant “accusation, judgment”; in Roman times the
judge would dicere ius “say/show/pronounce the law solemnly,” thereby creating
and recreating the law. An illocutionary act is an act IN saying. Performative verbs
are deeply embedded in the social deixis of the SP/W–AD/R pair (a speaker typi-
cally promises an addressee to do something), and their overt form usually reﬂects
this. For example, in actual use, performative expressions in Jp. typically have not
only ﬁrst person subject referents but are also marked with humiliative forms, e.g.
(kaikai o) sengen itasimasu “I humbly declare (do a humble declaration) (that the
meeting is open),” o-iwai moosiagemasu “I/we humbly say (polite) congratulations”
(=“I/we send our congratulations”). Even according to Japanese standards, such
forms are especially richly marked for social deixis and provide special highlighting
of the SP/W–AD/R relationship. Both in Japanese and in English, some verbs in
institutional performative acts take ﬁrst person plural or third person forms (We, the
people of the United States/The people of the State of California do enact . . .).
Explicit performative verbs also have properties similar to modals, a point that
has been particularly clearly brought out by Searle in his discussion of the “direction
of ﬁt” between performative and world (Searle 1976, 1979). Searle distinguishes
performative verbs that match world to word from those that match word to world.1
1 ThesubclassiﬁcationsalludedtoherearebasedonSearle(1976);allclassiﬁcationsareproblematic
(see e.g. Mey 1993); our purpose here is only to make broad distinctions that provide semantic
underpinnings to patterns of historical change.
191
Regularity in semantic change
(i) Among those that match word to world are “assertives” of various kinds,
including representatives: illocutionary acts that undertake to represent a state of
affairs, e.g. state, claim, hypothesize, insist/suggest/swear that X is the case, and ver-
dictives: illocutionary acts that deliver a ﬁnding as to value or fact, e.g. assess, rank,
estimate. Both representatives and verdictives have semantic properties somewhat
similar to epistemic modals. They are acts designed to express SP/W’s knowledge
or belief or create similar knowledge or belief in AD/R.
(ii) Performative verbs that match world to word are “directives.” Searle distin-
guishes between those directives that get others to do things (he limits the term
“directive” to these), e.g. request, command, insist/suggest that someone do X,
and those that commit oneself to do things (these he calls “commissives”), e.g.
promise, vow. Both kinds of directives have semantic properties somewhat similar
to root/deontic modals since they impose various degrees of obligation.
(iii) There is a third kind in which the direction of ﬁt is bidirectional in that the
act named comes into being with the naming (the ﬁt is from word to world and
from world to word). These are called “declaratives”: illocutionary acts that bring
about the state of affairs they refer to, e.g. baptize, bet, arrest, marry. Declaratives
are the prototype examples of ways in which language brings about “the linguistic
construction of social facts” (Mey 1993: 146), and of the self-deictic properties of
speech acts.
Similarities between performative verbs and modality emerge not only in direc-
tion of ﬁt, but also in the fact that modals may be used to convey performatives
(Boyd and Thorne 1969). Thus an alternative to (1a) is:
(2) I will go.
Similarly, in the directive/deontic domain we ﬁnd:
(3) a. I order you to go.
b. You will go! (in a context such as You will go, I insist on it! )
c. You must go! (in a context such as You must go, I require it!)
These modals are less direct than full performative verbs, partly because, being
auxiliaries rather than main verbs, i.e. being more grammatical, they are syntacti-
cally more constrained and pragmatically more subject to contextual interpretation.
Note, for example, that they cannot cooccur with hereby (I hereby command you to
leave is acceptable, but *You must hereby go is not).
Another way to express directives is mood, as in:
(4) Go! (compare Go, will you! )
Here the imperative serves as a short-hand for the full explicit performative verb
construction in (3a).
192
Development of performative verbs and constructions
Some speech acts are typically not explicitly marked at all, but nevertheless can
have performative force. In English, these include acts of saying with its attendant
conditions of right to speak, appropriateness of the speech content, etc. Thus ut-
terances like The sun is shining have performative force as representatives, but no
overt marker of performativity. (I say unto you that . . . is regarded as appropriate
primarily in Biblical contexts. Note that here it is typically not purely represen-
tative: Christ commits himself to the truth of his parables, prophecies, and other
discourses, while also investing authority in himself.2
)
As noted in chapter 3, Jp. lacks a grammatical category that corresponds to the
English modal verbs, although modality is expressed through various constructions
in the language. Many performative acts that in English would be expressed by a
performative verb or a modal are expressed in everyday conversational Jp. without
an explicit verb or modal, e.g. equivalents of I ( promise, demand, urge, ﬁnd,
request, etc.) that . . . Instead, the form of the verb and context of utterance indicate
the speech act function intended. For example, as a one-word utterance yameru
“(unspeciﬁed subject) will quit (it)” will typically be understood as an indirect
performative (promise or similar commitment by SP) to cease some action, usually
one known from context. With question intonation, Yameru? will similarly often be
understood as a request from SP to AD of the sort “Will you (please) quit (it)?”
Although grammatically well formed, the explicit commissive with complement
Yameru yakusoku o suru “(I) promise that (I) will quit” may sound anomalous
if used as a performative, at least in certain speech situations.3
In contrast, the
nonperformative use of yakusoku suru “make a promise” in reporting a past action
(Yameru yakusoku o sita “I made a promise to quit”) is easily acceptable.
The relative infrequency in ordinary conversation of complement-plus-
performative verb constructions in Jp. most likely reﬂects a cultural preference
for indirect speech acts that is in keeping with universal strategies of politeness (see
Brown and Levinson 1987 [1978]; also Blum-Kulka, House, and Kasper 1989). At
the same time, this phenomenon demonstrates that, although languages may have
similar materials to express a function, e.g. a directive, verdictive, or declarative
2 When Wierzbicka uses “I say” in her metalinguistic analysis of speech act verbs, she is apparently
not using it performatively, but rather as an indeﬁnable semantic “primitive” without pragmatic,
procedural force (e.g. Wierzbicka 1985b, 1985c). In doing so she seeks to capture the fact that
speech act verbs, as names for speciﬁc speech events, have the potential to have performative
value in ﬁrst person present tense contexts, and are usually used to attribute “certain ﬁrst person
attitudes” to those who have spoken them (1997: 16). But I say is only one of many other potential
factors.
3 The following conversational exchange does, however, sound quite plausible:
A: Yameru. “(I’ll) quit.”
B: Yakusoku suru? “(Do you) promise?”
A: Yakusoku suru. “(I) promise.”
193
Regularity in semantic change
speech act, one must keep in mind that different speech communities may have
different attitudes toward which mode of expression is appropriate in a particular
speech situation. These different attitudes may or may not have an effect on which
generalized invited inferences (GIINs) are available to take part in semantic change.
Nevertheless, in expressing directive and commissive concepts, speakers of Jp.
make extensive use of socially deictic verbs of giving and receiving, which they
sufﬁx to verbs to express the proposition as constituting a favor given or received
by SP/W (Martin 1975: chapter 10), e.g.:
(5) Yame-te kudasa-i.
quit-GER give:RESP-IMP
lit. “(You = socially higher) give (me = lower) the favor of quitting.”
“Please quit.”
(6) Yame-sase-te itadaki-masu.
quit-CAUS-GER receive:HUMIL-POL
lit. “(I = socially lower) will receive the favor (from AD = higher)
of being allowed to quit.”
“I will quit.”4
Besides being marked deictically for much greater politeness between SP and AD
than is Yameru alone, (6) brings into focus the SP–AD relationship by means of the
causative form and the sufﬁxed donatory verb itadaku “(subject = socially lower)
receive(s) (from indirect object referent or AD = higher).” Jp. honoriﬁcs are dis-
cussed in detail in chapter 6.
Other explicit performative verbs and constructions in Jp. are for the most part
found in formal registers, which in Jp. include public speeches and most missives.
It is highly characteristic of such genres to contain declarative performative expres-
sions to identify the speech act function of the discourse both at its beginning and
its end. For example, most public occasions include a speech of formal greetings
by a distinguished speaker; these are usually at least several minutes in length. At
or very near the beginning of such a speech, the speaker will typically say a phrase
such as the following:
(7) Hitokoto go-aisatu moosiage-masu.
one-word HONP-greetings HUMIL:say
“I (SP = lower than AD) will express brieﬂy (polite) greetings.”
The speaker will typically end the speech with an expression such as:
4 There is no morphological future tense marking in Jp.; however, the utterance is understood to
refer to future time and to function as an indirect performative.
194
Development of performative verbs and constructions
(8) Izyoo, kantan de-wa gozaimasu ga,
above simple COP-FOC VPOL but
go-aisatu to itasi-masu.
HONP-greetings GOAL HUMIL:do-POL
“The above is simple, but I will make it into [i.e. hereby conclude] my
greetings.”
Similar discourse bracketing is performed by other declarative performative phrases
in personal letters. Such explicit expression of the performative thus plays a global
discourse marking function in Jp., as well as naming the function of the text, but
Jp. does not always require declaratives to bracket the text in that way. As is shown
in (7) and (8), many Jp. performatives consist of an action noun that names the type
or content of the speech act plus a verb for “say” or a pro-verb “do.” Other common
items found in such patterns include iwai “congratulations,” mimai “inquiry (into
one’s health),” and rei “thanks, gratitude.”
The focus of the present chapter is on the semasiological development of verbs
into performative verbs; we will also investigate a verb + noun construction in Jp.
The overall claim is that verbs with speech act meanings are typically derived from
verbs with non-speech act meanings. Once this meaning shift has occurred, a SAV
that reports some event or state of affairs, often an event of speaking or cognizing,
can be used to perform that same act or a related one, given the appropriate con-
ditions for performativity, including use in the appropriate linguistic construction.
We will also discuss brieﬂy some aspects of the “post-performative” history of per-
formative verbs, and also of the development of modals into indirect expressions
of performativity. But ﬁrst we need to consider some problems that historians of
performativity must keep in mind as they do their research, such as the extent to
which performativity is a function of cultural norms, including register, and how to
interpret textual evidence in this domain.
5.2 Some issues for studies of the development of performative verbs
One of the major problems we ﬁnd in doing historical work on lexical
performative expressions is that little research has been done from a (post-)Searlean
perspective on the types of speech acting available at any one period in the past.
Hence the role of particular expressions and the subset that appear to have been
available for performative use is not well understood. However, a number of studies
of earlier speech events or activity types such as cursing have begun (see e.g. Jucker
and Taavitsainen 2000, Culpeper and Semino 2000). There are also some studies
of particular types of verbal expressions, among them Schlieben-Lange (1983) on
verbs of chronicling and passing judgment in Medieval French; Goossens (1985)
which summarizes a variety of studies investigating the OE SAVs cwe an, sec-
gan, and sp(r)ecan, and their rough equivalents in PDE, say, tell, and speak (see
195
Regularity in semantic change
2.2.3); Justus (1993) on prayer petitions in IE; and Arnovick (1994) on promises
in English. Work on Jp. speech acts has, however, not enjoyed such attention. This
is partly because OJ and MJ literary texts present various philological problems
in interpreting point of view represented by quoted conversation, especially in re-
gard to speech of the Emperor and the highest ranking nobility at court, who may
have “spoken” through heralds. Moreover, linguistic studies of the history of the
Japanese language to date have tended to focus on premodern literary texts, both
in Japan and elsewhere, due to the historical roots of the discipline itself. Japan
has a rich history of other types of komonzyo “old documents” that record the spo-
ken language, including religious documents such as written vows (kisyoomon and
rakusyo-kisyoo5
) and formal records of dreams, as well as court proceedings (sen-
myoogaki) (Amino 1991), but these are typically not available in modern annotated
editions with standardized orthography.
A crucial problem in this work is how to interpret the acts being performed.
They often emerged from and legitimized rather different cultural conditions
from those of modern times. It has frequently been pointed out that the speciﬁcs
of performativity are far from universal. Rosaldo (1982) discusses the speech
act practices of the Ilongots of Northern Luzon, Philippines, and shows that in
their culture personhood is shaped in ways very different from those in English-
speaking cultures; speciﬁcally, the Ilongots do not have uniquely identiﬁable
expressions for personal commitment such as I promise (Rosaldo 1982: 207), al-
though they have many for directives and declaratives. Wierzbicka (1985b) dis-
cusses the untranslatability of speech acts cross-culturally. Therefore, we cannot
assume that earlier verbs that appear to have speech act functions necessarily
had performative functions, or the same performative functions that we recognize
today.
It appears, for example, that IE speakers conceptualized what we think of today
as promises (commissives) or prayers (polite directives), as reciprocally negotiated
interactions between man and god, rather than as centered in the ﬁrst person subject
(Benveniste 1973). This is in part because the ﬁrst person form was often not used
in the prayers and petitions that have come down to us in Hittite, Homeric Gk. and
earlier Lat. (Justus 1993); second person imperative is typical instead. An example
in Hittite is:
(9) {ANA DUMU.SAL.GAL = ma = kan anda assuli namma neshut
to daughter-great = PTC = PTC to please again turn-2SG-IMP
5 The latter term typically refers to a vow to a god that one has been truthful in one’s testimony
about a crime to which no suspect would confess. After all the rakusyo were posted in public
places, the criminal was picked out by secret ballot. The rakusyo were regarded as reﬂecting the
will of the gods (Amino 1991: 20–21).
196
Development of performative verbs and constructions
n = an kez GIG-za TI-nut nu = ssi eni
PTC = her this-ABL sickness-ABL save-2SG-IMP PTC = her this
GIG awan arha namma tittanut }
sickness ADV away again set-2SG-IMP
“Please turn again toward the Great Princess, save her from this sickness, again
take this sickness completely from her”
(Mursili II’s prayer, CTH 380 Obv. 16’-17 [Justus 1993: 134])
By later Lat. ﬁrst person indicatives (“I pray”) with subordinate subjunctives begin
to appear, as in (10).
(10) Mars pater, te precor quaesoque uti sies
Mars father, you-ACC pray-1SG beseech-1SG-and that be-2SG-SUBJUNCT
uolens propitius mihi domo familiaeque nostrae
wishing propitious I-DAT house-DAT family-DAT-and our-DAT
“Father Mars, I pray and beseech you that you be favorable and well disposed
to me, our house, and family”
(1st century BC, Cato, 1412 [Justus 1993: 138])
Of this kind of use of ﬁrst person Justus says: “The indicative Latin speech act
verbs, ‘pray, ask,’ contrast with the Homeric second person imperative of ‘give,
grant.’ The Homeric construction is of the type ‘Give/grant, Apollo, (that) they
pay,’ . . . while Cato’s [subordinate ECT/RD] subjunctive illustrates the ‘I pray that
you, Mars, be propitious’ type” (Justus 1993: 138). Here we ﬁnd a shift from focus
on the addressee as participant in some future event being negotiated to focus on
the speaker as actor in the speech event itself, directly indexing the “here” and
“now” of the act of speaking. Once this discourse strategy had been established, and
norms had developed for the speaker to self-identify (by using ﬁrst person) at the
same time as act-identify (by using an SAV performatively to index the discursive
act), the particular Ls chosen could come to undergo further semasiological change
such as intersubjectiﬁcation and use as epistemic parentheticals (see 5.4.l) and
politeness markers (see 6.3.2). One question for the historical linguist must be to
what extent such observed differences between Hittite and later Latin should be
interpreted, as here, in terms of modern views of speech acting, with the conclusion
that in the early texts there was no fully explicit performativity in terms of an
explicit I X you Y expression, or whether we should conclude that the nature of
performativity was different. We take the position that as linguistic form is related to
linguistic meaning, it is reasonable to investigate whether and how certain structural
features of performativity such as person and tense came to be expressed over time.
While acknowledging that the reasons for the changes over time are social and not
linguistic, we argue that the mechanisms whereby the changes were enabled are,
however, largely cognitive–communicative and therefore linguistic.
197
Regularity in semantic change
Although our focus here is not on cultural reasons for changes in speech acting,
we cannot ignore the fact that one of the major cultural changes that has affected the
meaning and lexical resources for speech acting is unquestionably writing. In her
study of the development of historiography in ﬁfteenth century French, Schlieben-
Lange (1983) has shown that new concepts of the purposes of writing led to changes
in the inventory of speech acts verbs pertaining to narration. For example, whereas
in the thirteenth century, the typical term used was conter “to tell,” by the ﬁfteenth
century terms that evoked collecting of material already available and organizing it
were prevalent, many of them borrowed from Latin, e.g. compiler “compile, gather
up,” composer “put in order” (Schlieben-Lange 1983: chapter 6). When, in the
ME period, English began to gain ground as a language of institution, there was
a tremendous inﬂux of borrowed performative verbs, many of them themselves
relatively new in French. This was presumably due to the need to ﬁnd a vocabulary
for the production and reproduction of feudal society, including its laws and literary
genres. It was a period of political and social upheaval in which new SAVs were
needed, whether for claims on French territory in the Hundred Years War, for claims
against feuding warlords in the Wars of the Roses, or for translating French literary
works, such as the Romaunt of the Rose (translated by Chaucer). It was a period
of rapid increase in commerce, hence the need for language related to contracts
and the new bureaucracies, and of the rise of universities, and hence the need for
language related to academic exercise.
The tendency for explicit speech act expressions to occur in institutional texts
is likewise true of Japanese, except that here there is the additional complexity
that many ofﬁcial documents were written in kanbun (Ch. or quasi-Ch., see 1.6.1)
throughout much of the recorded history of Japan. Although the speech act expres-
sionsinsuchtextsaremostlyperformativesthatappeartohavebeeninstitutionalized
in writing, the fact that they are in kanbun obscures their path of development in
Jp. Moreover, some speech act expressions may have been translated from written
Chinese institutional text genres through kanbun (kanbun supplied linguistic mate-
rials to other domains also, e.g. DMs). Most of the SAVs in use in MdJ rose during
the LMJ period (fourteenth and ﬁfteenth centuries). Although this was a period of
great turnovers in the vocabulary of many semantic ﬁelds, it may be no accident that
this vocabulary appeared during a time that also saw the rise of a monetary economy
and the emergence of a major social class engaged in commerce (see Amino 1991
for a discussion of such language-external factors).
A second signiﬁcant problem is the fact that the written documents that have
come down to us may not be of the type that favor ﬁrst person present tense in-
dicative forms. In other words, they fail to allow the formulae typically identiﬁed
with performativity. In OE times, for example, Latin was by and large the language
of education and of institutional documentation, although some Anglo-Saxon wills
198
Development of performative verbs and constructions
have come down to us; therefore we have few relevant OE documents for investigat-
ing performative expressions. At this time the king, as formal head of the political
community, referred to himself in the third as well as ﬁrst person. A well-known ex-
ample occurs in the letter by King Alfred that accompanied a copy of the translation
of the Cura Pastoralis that he had authorized:
(11) Ælfred kyning hate gretan Wærfer biscep his wordum
Alfred king bid-3SG greet-INF Werferth bishophis words:DAT
luﬂice & freondlice & e cy an hate æt
lovingly and in friendly fashion and you know-INF bid-1SG that
me com swi e oft on gemynd . . .
me came very often to mind
“King Alfred greets Bishop Werferth lovingly and in friendly fashion; and I ask
you to know that it often came to my mind that . . .”
(c. 880 Alfred, Preface to Cura Pastoralis, p. 3)
In (11) hate is third person, hate ﬁrst; both are present and indicative. Is the
third person clause to be understood performatively? Probably, considering that the
prototypicalﬁrstpersonactofAustin,Searle,andotherresearchersinperformativity
is in fact often third person in institutional settings. Some ﬁrst person representation
occurs in speeches in poems like Beowulf, and in translations of dialogues such as
Boethius’ Consolation of Philosophy, but for the most part ﬁrst person forms are
relatively infrequent in the OE prose corpus, except in wills.6
In ME times, French
acquired institutional prestige, in addition to Latin. An effort was made to establish
English as the language of law and education in the mid-fourteenth century, but
English was not widely used for either till the sixteenth century (Tiersma 1999).
Absent many documents with ﬁrst person present tense performative verbs, we often
have to rely on third person past tense reports of what appear to be performative
acts.
A related problem is that, as has been alluded to in 5.1, many explicit speech act
expressions are formal in register. They may be part of academic style, e.g. In this
paper I claim/hypothesize that; of religious ceremony, e.g. prayers and blessings (see
Justus 1993); of legal affairs such as contracts, guarantees, and court rulings (see
Kurzon 1986, Tiersma 1986); and of institutions of power generally (see Bourdieu
1991). Poetry has its own speech act conventions; when Virgil starts the Aeneid
with Arma virumque cano “Arms and the man I sing,” or Whitman writes I sing the
body electric, they performatively bring into being the conventions of sacral poetic
6 Danet and Bogoch (1994: 112) point out that although OE wills were intended as a record of an
oral ceremony and could well have been written in third person, nevertheless many were rendered
close to verbatim, in the ﬁrst person.
199
Regularity in semantic change
acts. Given their association with registers that tend to be formal, institutional, and
ritualized,itishardlysurprisingthatdespitethegenericterm“speechactverbs,”they
are very largely, at least these days, acts that are speciﬁed in writing. In many cases,
relatively indirect modal or even nonexplicit forms of performativity are preferred
in ordinary language. It is also hardly surprising that explicit performative verb
functionsmaybeassociatedwithborrowedvocabulary.Whenrhetoricalstyles,laws,
institutions, or cultural practices are borrowed or imposed by conquest, the language
associated with older practices may be deemed inappropriate or illiterate, and whole-
sale replacement may occur. In Eng., Lat. roots, often borrowed via Fr., and Gk. roots
tend to predominate. Similarly, in Jp., many performatives are formed around Sino-
Japanese nouns (plus a verb for “say” or a pro-verb meaning “do”), e.g. sengen suru
“declare,” nintei suru “determine, ﬁnd,” handan suru “judge.” Many such forms,
regardless of whether they are built around Sino-Japanese loanwords, originate
from scholarly or religious registers, e.g. o-iwai suru “congratulate” (<“perform a
religious ritual to ask for blessing”), aisatu suru “give a (formal) greeting” (<a Zen
Buddhist term for mutual question-and-answer that leads toward Enlightenment).
As historians of performativity we must be aware of these register differences, and
of their “learnedness.”
A glimpse into the different social and rhetorical functions of borrowed and native
SAVs and explicit performativity is provided in Bergner’s (1998) study of speech
styles in the ME mystery plays. He points out that certain characters, typically God,
Jesus, Mary, Abraham, use primarily “vertical style” – they have predetermined
socioreligious roles; their speech is monologic rather than dialogic; “it supplies im-
portant information, foretells, preaches, interprets, and harmonizes the atmosphere
of the discussion” (Bergner 1998: 77). In the York Cycle, Jesus speaks only twice in
the Cruciﬁxion scene; his words, which are typical of the “vertical style,” in-
clude not only native directive SAVs like bid, beseech, but also the borrowed
commissive obblisshe “commit, contract (oneself),” all within the space of six
lines:
(12) ou badde at I shulde buxsom be
you asked that I should willing be
For Adam plyght for to be pyned.
for Adam’s plight for to be cruciﬁed
Here to dede I obblisshe me
here to death I commit myself
Fro at synne for to saue mankynde,
from that sin for to save mankind
And soueraynely beseke I e
and devoutly beseech I thee
That ai for me may fauoure fynde.
that they for me may mercy ﬁnd
200
Development of performative verbs and constructions
“You asked me to be willing to be punished for Adam’s sin; here I commit
myself to death to save mankind from that sin, and I fervently beg you that
you will grant them mercy on my behalf.”
(c. 1373 York Plays, l.51 [Bergner 1998: 78])
By contrast, shepherds, soldiers, and others who are characterized as of low birth
and ignorant engage in a “horizontal style,” largely characterized by “approval and
agreement” and “empty verbal gestures” (Bergner 1998: 81). Many of these “empty
verbal gestures” are exclamations, parentheticals, conventional greetings, and other
markers of intersubjectivity:
(13) 2 Pastor: How, Gyb, goode morne! Wheder goys thou?
Thou goys ouer the corne! Gyb, I say, how!
1 Pastor: Who is that? – John Horne, I make God avowe!
I say not in skorne, Ihon, how farys thou?
“How now, Gyb, good morning! Where are you going? You are
walking across the corn! Gyb, I say, hey!”
“Who is that? – John Horn, I swear. I say without jest, John, how
are you?”
(c. 1450 Wakeﬁeld Plays, 82 [Bergner 1998: 81])
However, when the shepherds see the Christ child they shift to a style closer to the
vertical.
We turn now to the lexical resources from which new institutional meanings were
created in English and Japanese (or their donor languages).
5.3 Precursors of performative verbs7
Fraser (1975) lists some 275 “speech act verbs” in PDE (some, like
ﬁgure, are only rarely used performatively; some, like aver, are rarely used at all).
The large majority is borrowed from Fr. or Lat. Sources of performative verbs in
Eng., especially those that were borrowed, frequently involve presence or motion
in space; so do several in Jp. In other words, they reveal many of the characteristics
Reddy (1993 [1979]) has associated with what he calls the “conduit metaphor”: the
metaphor of language as an object that can be manipulated, transferred along paths
or through a container of some sort.8
Among such terms we may note:
(i) Position in space: insist < Lat. in “in, on” + past participle of sta-
“stand,”
7 Section 5.3 is drawn in part from Traugott and Dasher (1987) and Traugott (1991).
8 ForacritiqueofReddy’spessimismregardingtheconduitmetaphor,andfordiscussionofthebroad
variety of terms used in contemporary English to express metatextual, including performative,
meaning, see Vanparys (1995); Pauwels and Simon-Vandenbergen (1995) discuss in particular
the extension of body-part terminology to Ls for linguistic action.
201
Regularity in semantic change
(ii) Motion through space: concur < Lat. con “with” + curr- “run”; con-
cede < Lat. con “with” + ced- “go away, withdraw,”
(iii) Transfer along a path: suggest < Lat. sub “under” + past participle
of ger- “carry”; suppose < Lat. sub + past participle of pon- “put”;
assent < Lat. ad “to” + sent- “go, head for”; admit < Lat. ad + mitt-
“send” (see also many other derivatives of this root, some of them
past participial, such as promise, dismiss, permit, submit); Jp. ukeireru
“assent, grant (a request)” < ukeru “receive” + ireru “send in, insert”;
tataeru “praise, extol”9
< OJ tataFu “ﬁll to overﬂowing.”10
It has been suggested that the metaphoric extension of spatial terms into
metalinguistic ones naming speech events is a function of literacy (e.g. Ong 1982),
since it is only with literacy that language is objectiﬁed in visual space. However, the
conceptualization of speech acts in terms of concrete objects manipulable in space
seems to be possible in preliterate societies as well. For example, in discussing
lexical ﬁelds for metalinguistic terms in Eipo, a language of West New Guinea,
Heeschen says: “The semantic ﬁelds that seem to be most effective in creating
metalinguistic terms are those of carving and cutting, and of laying bare the edible
part of a fruit. Longer bits of information, conversation, and tales are conceived as
acts of enumerating names, or tying together or accumulating words” (Heeschen
1983: 172 [Traugott 1991: 403]). This having been said, it is nevertheless probably
true that literacy favors the widespread use of spatial terms for markers of discourse
moves, e.g. signaling topic shift, outlining what is to be said/written, etc. Fleischman
(1991), for example, citing Perret (1982), suggests that the shift from use of
French as an oral medium in the twelfth century to a written one by the end of the
thirteenth century is correlated with a shift from the use of temporal markers for
discourse ﬂow to spatial ones. Speciﬁcally, there was a shift in discursive practice
from or “now” as “the predominant trafﬁc-signal for marking the current position
in the discourse” (Fleischman 1991: 304) to cy “here.”11
Hardly surprisingly, in
the thirteenth century both often cooccur not only in the same text but even in the
same sentence, as is typical in periods of transition:
(14) Or se taist cy l’ystoire des deux chevaliers.
now REFL breaks here the-story of:the two knights
9 Tataeru is used performatively in Jp. Christian hymns and similar text types.
10 Similarly, in MdMand: ti “suggest” < Archaic Chinese “lift a hand”; ju “recommend” < “elevate
with hands” (Shiao-Wei Tham, p.c.).
11 It should be noted, however, that the OE Chronicle uses her “here” to mean “in this year/at this
point in the calendar,” even in texts supposed to be oral in origin, e.g. the entry for 775 (in the
Chronicle entry her might of course be a frame provided by the chronicler, not part of the original
narrative).
202
Development of performative verbs and constructions
“Now the story of the two knights breaks off here.”
(13th century [Fleischman 1991: 304])
In addition to performatives derived from spatial terms that may be favored by
literate communities (though not limited to them), there are others, for example
those which are derived from terms for:
(iv) Visual perception e.g. advise < Lat. ad + vis- “watch, observe” <
vid- “see”; argue < IE arg- “shine, white” (see argent “silver”); Jp.
mitomeru“recognize”<MdJmiru“see”+tomeru“stop(something)”;
kokuhaku suru “confess” < koku “(give a) report” + haku “white.”
Space and sight are by no means the only sources for performative verbs. Even
among verbs borrowed into Eng. from Lat. or Fr. Other sources include terms
for:
(v) Vocalization, including speaking, calling, and shouting, e.g. advocate
< Lat. ad + voc- “toward call”; deplore/implore < Lat. de “from”, in
“in” + plor- “wail”; OE swer- “swear,” andswer- “answer” < IE and-
“against” + swer- “speak,”
(vi) Mental state including: cognitive states like acknowledge, recognize <
IE gno- “know”; OE acy∂an “announce, conﬁrm” (< OE cu “known”
< IE gno- “know”); emotive states like volunteer < Lat. vell- “want,”
(vii) Manipulation of a concrete object: OE bidd- “ask, order” (< IE bedh-
“bend”); read- “advise, explain” (<IE ar- “ﬁt together”); Jp. kotowaru
“refuse, make conditions on (the validity of) a statement” < koto “word,
thing” + waru “split (something).”
The sources of SAVs that are used for performative purposes provide fur-
ther evidence for the shifts that are the theme of this book: from non-speech
oriented to speech oriented meaning, from nonsubjective to subjective mean-
ing. Even if the self is institutional, there is a preemption of meanings to that
self, and to the discursive event. They also illustrate in a domain other than
that of DM a semantic shift from an expression with content semantics to
one that has a dual content–procedural function, speciﬁcally a discourse deictic
function.
(15) event verb > speech act verb > performative (discourse deictic) verb
We would not expect use of recognize in an expression like I recognize that I was
wrong to do that to appear before the mental state verb recognize, or for a verb like
argue to come to mean “shine.”
203
Regularity in semantic change
5.4 The development of performative function
Our case studies involve examples of the development of directives,
and declaratives; in particular we discuss the development of commissives meaning
PROMISE, a Chinese expression for GUARANTEE, and a Japanese expression for
GREET.
5.4.1 Some directives: PROMISE in English
In this section we look at the commissive PROMISE, and aspects of
how it came into being as a SAV and how it developed beyond its SAV meaning.12
“Commissive” acts are those illocutionary acts whose point is to commit SP/W,
and sometimes also AD/R, in varying degrees to some future course of action.
Of commissives, Searle has said that “[t]he direction of ﬁt is world-to-word and
the sincerity condition is Intention. The propositional content is always that the
speaker S does some future action A” (Searle 1979: 14). Commissive verbs in MdE
include promise, vow, pledge, guarantee, swear. In OE they include gehat- and
behat- “pledge (oneself ).”
Commitment “in varying degrees” is a caution that in different cultural traditions,
and at different times, commissives may be more or less self-reﬂexive. This seems
to be especially true of the English-speciﬁc representation of PROMISE that Searle
(1979) treated as the prototype performative: PDE promise. In PDE a promise is
above all an individual act, for which no reciprocal act is anticipated (barring some
stated condition, as in “If you do X, I promise to do Y”). In some cultures the notion
of promise is hardly known (as in the case of the Ilongots cited in 5.2 above). Or
it may be a very serious act, closer to a “vow” than what we tend rather loosely to
call a “promise” these days (Arnovick 1994). Benveniste (1973) suggests that in
Indo-European times vowing and swearing were not so much acts by an individual
swearing or vowing that he or she would do such and such but rather interactive
negotiations between man and gods. The gods were expected to respond favorably,
and therefore to vow was to consecrate oneself in anticipation of support from the
gods. We will see that the verbs which promise replaced had more of the reciprocal
qualities that Benveniste identiﬁes than promise.
Discussing promise, the seventeenth century philosopher Hobbes, in an early
precursor of speech act theory, saw it as primarily the expression of “purpose or
intention”:
Another use of speech is the expression of appetite, intention, and will; as the
appetite of knowledge by interrogation; appetite to have a thing done by
another, as request, prayer, petition; expressions of our purpose or intention,
12 Parts of section 5.4.1 draw on Traugott (1996).
204
Development of performative verbs and constructions
as PROMISE, which is the afﬁrmation or negation of some action to be done
in the future; THREATENING, which is the promise of evil.
(1650 Hobbes, Elements of Law, Pt. 1, chapter 13, p. 67; caps original)
Like many others since his time, Hobbes paired promise with threaten. For ex-
ample, of commissives, Palmer has said that “the only difference between” threats
and promises “seems to be in what the hearer wants” (Palmer 1986: 115). How-
ever, promise can be used performatively, while threaten cannot, as noted by Searle
(1979: 7), and before him, Hobbes: “Even amongst men, though the promise of
good, bind the promiser; yet threats, that is to say, promises of evil, bind them not”
(1651 Hobbes, Leviathan, Pt. 3 chapter 38, p. 456).
Furthermore, promises are institutional, and must be communicated, but threats
and warnings “to the extent they are speech acts at all” need not be (Sperber and
Wilson 1995 [1986]: 145). In other words, threaten is not a performative verb,
though it can be an SAV; it pairs with promise only in the latter’s nonperformative
uses. This casts doubt on the appropriateness of trying to predict historical changes
for THREATEN based on an assumed parallel with PROMISE, as do Traugott
(1996) for Eng., and Verhagen (2000) for the equivalents in Du.: beloven “promise”
and dreigen “threaten.”
The noun promise was borrowed into late ME shortly after 1400 (i.e. after
Chaucer’s time) from Fr. A deverbal noun in Lat., it was ultimately derived from
the past participle of the spatial verb pro-mittere “to send forward,” i.e. a promise
was something “sent forward.” In Lat. promittere was used not only as a verb of
transmission but also as an SAV “vow” and, usually with inanimate subjects, in
the epistemic meaning “portend.” It was specialized in Late Lat. exclusively in the
nonspatial senses, as reﬂected by a split in the root forms: -mitt- was restricted
to PROMISE, -mett- to SEND. Nevertheless, in early Fr. -mitt- was analogized to
-mett- “send,” so the form promettre was found in Fr. from very early times. This
PROMISE verb was largely restricted to religious contexts. It appears that in the
history of Fr., the speech act meaning preceded the “portend” meaning (Robert 1992
cites the locutionary meaning c. 980 and the portend meaning c. 1160, and com-
ments that the latter was replaced by prédire). Since both meanings were already
available in Lat. and therefore both might have been expected to appear at the same
time in OFr., this suggests that the “portend” meaning was derived anew in Fr. If
so, this development again involves the deontic > epistemic shift. As we will see,
the same sequence of development was replicated in English (in two different sets
of lexical representations of PROMISE).
A few instances are cited in the MED of the French verbal form promit in ME,
but the most frequent form promise seems to have been coined in English from the
noun. As a verb, promise is found in the Helsinki Corpus at ﬁrst with a sentential
205
Regularity in semantic change
complement (either a that-clause or a to-clause) primarily to report what we must
assume were illocutionary acts. Typically we ﬁnd third person past or even passive
examples:
(16) a. vn-to e day whech he had promysed to come a-geyn.
unto the day which he had promised to come back
“to the day on which he had promised to return.”
(after 1438, Kempe, 57 [Traugott 1996: 186])
b. that the seid Pilgrymage was avowed and promysed for
that the said pilgrimage was sworn and promised for
the greet periles and combrous occupacions that be
the great dangers and onerous occupations that by
liklynesse at diuerse tymes myght haue falle.
likelihood at various times might have happened
“that the said pilgrimage was sworn to and promised in anticipation of the
great dangers and difﬁcult tasks that might have been expected to happen.”
(1441 Documents Chancery, p. 167)
First person present examples that appear to be performative ﬁrst occur in the later
part of the ﬁfteenth century in drama. In (17) Herod has just ordered Watkyn to
engage in the activity now known as the Slaughter of the Innocents, and Watkyn
responds:
(17) We wylle let for no man . . .
we will stop for no man
For your knyghtes and I wille kylle them alle, if we can! . . .
for your knights and I will kill them all, if we can
An this I promyse you, that I shalle neuer slepe,
and this I promise you, that I shall never sleep
But euermore wayte to fynde the children alone.
but always wait to ﬁnd the children alone.
“We won’t stop for anyone . . . your knights and I will kill them all if we can
. . . and I promise you this, that I will not sleep but wait till I ﬁnd the children
alone.”
(c. 1500 Digby Plays, p. 102)
A different type of expression arises in LME: a formulaic epistemic parenthetical
construction I promise you. Like other epistemic parentheticals it is speech-time, not
future oriented (see Thompson and Mulac 1991, Aijmer 1996). It indexes SP/W’s
degree of certitude about the utterance, whatever the tense of the described event.
In this sense it is subjective and modal in character. At the same time there is some
intersubjectivity, because its use suggests SP/W recognizes there may be some
doubt in AD/R’s mind about the veracity of what is being said. The parenthetical
206
Development of performative verbs and constructions
function is clearest after the main clause. Here it is noncommissive and seems to
serve primarily as an assurance or a hedge.
(18) He losyth sore hys tyme her, I promyse yow.
He wastes badly his time here I promise you
“He is wasting his time badly here, actually.”
(1469 Paston I, 542 [MED])
It can also precede the main clause without a complementizer. Here it appears to
serve as a comment on the utterance that follows, somewhat like epistemic speech
act adverbials truly (speaking), for sure. As in clause-ﬁnal position, it presumably
serves interpersonal functions:
(19) Pinchwife: I tell you then, one of the lewdest fellows in town, who
saw you there, told me he was in love with you . . .
Mrs. Pinchwife: Was it any Hampshire gallant, any of our neighbours? I
promise you, I am beholding [“grateful”] to him.
Pinchwife: I promise you, you lie; for he would but ruin you, as he has
done hundreds.
(1674/75 Wycherley, II.i.109)
Did this derive directly from the performative or from some other source? As
Brinton (1996: chapter 8) points out, a class of epistemic parentheticals, especially
those with ﬁrst person and a verb of cognition, e.g. I woot wel “I know well,” I
wene “I think,” I undertake, I guess, came to be widely used in ME, especially in
the works of Chaucer, perhaps to suggest oral style. While these may have served
as partial models, they are different in many respects. They do not have speech
let alone performative meaning in any of their uses; the second person pronoun is
not part of the formula. Another characteristic that is not shared by I promise you
parentheticals is that, according to Brinton, their precursors include constructions
of the type I Verb so, e.g. I wene so, with anaphoric so referring to a prior
clause. The closest parallel to the latter kind of construction attested with promise
appears in examples in which the SAV is nonperformative and has a direct object,
as in:
(20) and there asked hym a gyffte that he promysed her whan she gaff hym the
swerde. “That ys sothe,” seyde Arthure, “a gyffte I promysed you, but I have
forgotyn the name of my swerde.”
(before 1471 Malory, Morte Darthur, p. 48)
But I promised you so does not appear in the data. Because of this and the other
two differences alluded to it appears that I promise you parentheticals probably had
a different origin from those with a verb of cognition.
207
Regularity in semantic change
The most likely source of the epistemic parenthetical I promise thee/yow is in the
illocutionary use of promise. If derived from illocutionary uses, then the speech-
time oriented meaning is presumably conventionalized from the speech-time com-
mitment that is a condition for the future orientation of the performative. As we will
see below, earlier verbs in English representing PROMISE also became epistemic
parentheticals; here too there does not appear to be a viable analogy with the verbs
of cognition. We therefore hypothesize that the performative formula was the origin
in this case of verbs of promising.
The transitive promise illustrated in (20) appears to have given rise in the late
sixteenth century to yet a different kind of epistemic use. It is not an SAV in meaning,
norisitparenthetical;ratheritmeans“canbeexpectedtoprovide/portend.”Thisnew
epistemic use is future-oriented. It appears to involve an extension from the basic use
of promise (as a lexical representation of speaking/language that raises expectations)
to use as a lexical representation of states of affairs (rather than agentive persons)
that raise expectations:
(21) a. Yf any man all this can gett, shall he haue the greatest felicitie, shall he fynde
her in these that we haue shewed you, promise more than they giue?
“If anyone can acquire all this, will he have the greatest happiness, will he
ﬁnd it in these things [honor, glory, and pleasure] that, as we have shown
you, promise more than they give?”
(1593 Queen Elizabeth, p. 57 [Traugott 1996: 187])
b. As the morning promised a fair day we set out, but the storm coming up again
we were obliged to come to.
(1784 Muhl [Traugott 1996: 187])13
The epistemic transitive type in (21) seems to be a precursor for the devel-
opment in the eighteenth century of nonperformative raising uses with nonﬁnite
complements. Here the meaning is “portend,” a meaning that, as we have seen,
had developed in Fr. for promettre, but apparently came into being independently
in English. The SP/W views the proposition as likely to occur in the future, based
on experience (“I expect X”), and evaluates it positively (hence collocations with
terms of approval, such as extraordinary, handsome, as in (22) below). Early exam-
ples suggest that the complements are limited to inchoative events with the verb be
(understood as “turn out to be”):
(22) a. Mirabell: I have seen him. He promises to be an extraordinary person; I
think you have the honour to be related to him.
(1700 Congreve, Way of the World, Act I, p. 329)
13 Examples (21b) and (22b) are from A Representative Corpus of Historical English Registers
1650-1990 (ARCHER), provided by courtesy of Douglas Biber and Edward Finegan.
208
Development of performative verbs and constructions
b. The Capitol promised to be a large and handsome building, judging from the
part about two thirds already above ground.
(1795 Twin [Traugott 1996: 188])
By the end of the nineteenth century we ﬁnd the construction extended to a variety
of other stative verbs, as well as to weather-constructions such as (23). Here it
signals primarily future. In these cases, the thematic role of the subject is demoted
or nonexistent, and the raising is more canonical:
(23) The weather was hardening into what promised to be half a gale.
(1891 Eng. Illustr. Mag. Oct., 65 [Higgins 1990])14
It is in examples like this that Langacker’s and Traugott’s views of subjectiﬁcation
come closest, though different conclusions are reached regarding explicitness.
This sketch of promise suggests that it has undergone subjectiﬁcation on two
different paths, depending on the linguistic as well as the socially interactive context.
In the ﬁrst person present tense, when introducing a sentential complement, it could
presumably be used as a performative verb; as a performative, it expresses speaker’s
appropriation of authority as an actor attempting to match world to word. A probable
further outgrowth of the performative use was the epistemic parenthetical, which
is an instance of intersubjectiﬁcation since it explicitly pays attention to AD/R’s
image needs in the here and now of the speech event. Like the development of in
fact, it evidences a shift to increasingly pragmatic, discourse-based meanings, as
well as to more subjective meanings. Recruiting a verb designating a certain kind of
locution (itself ultimately derived from an originally spatial lexeme) to performative
use involves recruiting it from the domain of content semantics to function also as
a procedural indexing the kind of discourse being engaged in. Recruiting this verb
(in construction with the SP/AD pronouns) to the class of epistemic parentheticals
involves recruiting it to a primarily procedural class, the chief function of which is
not so much to express epistemic modality, but to comment on the statement being
engaged in, and to acknowledge at the discourse level that AD/R might have doubts
about SP/W’s message.
The second path of development discussed here occurred primarily in third per-
son contexts: development to an epistemic raising verb via generalization of the
transitive verb with NP object to nonﬁnite complements with be(come) verbs. The
development of epistemic meaning here too is a case of subjectiﬁcation because the
verb is recruited to express SP/W’s belief-state about the future explicitly. In this
case, however, there is no increase in procedural meaning.
14 Higgins (1990: 10) points out that the kinds of developments discussed here (which are analyzed
in his paper as a shift from control to raising verb status) “are not shared by other verbs in the
same semantic ﬁeld, that of commissives . . . or undertakings . . . such as pledge, swear, vow.”
209
Regularity in semantic change
promise "spatial" SAV
commissive epistemic parenthetical
epistemic "portend" raising V
Figure 5.1. The development of promise.
These two paths of development are summarized in ﬁgure 5.1.
At this point we may compare a study of the development of Dutch beloven
“promise” by Verhagen (2000). Beloven has since the nineteenth century had a
polysemybetweenthespeechact(“XsaysthatXwill”)andepistemic(“belikelyto”)
meanings such as are attested in English in (17) and (19) respectively. Examples are:
(24) a. Hij beloofde de grondwet te verdedigen.
he promised the base-law to defend
“He promised to defend the constitution.”
b. Het debat beloofde spannend te worden.
the debate promised exciting to become
“The debate promised to be exciting.”
(Verhagen 2000: 201)
In a variant of Langacker’s theory of subjectivity, Verhagen distinguishes “character-
subjectivity” (descriptive properties associated with the reported subject) from
“speaker–hearer subjectivity.” Thus when someone reports (24a) character-
subjectivity is attributed to the third person (he performed a positively oriented
subjective act of promising); there is also speaker–hearer subjectivity, because the
speaker aligns him- or herself positively to the act (and “echoes” it by using beloven
rather than a negatively oriented word like dreigen “threaten”). Verhagen goes on
to argue that the development of epistemic meaning in (24b) from (24a) is not an
increase in subjectivity, but rather loss of descriptive aspects of meaning, includ-
ing character-subjectivity, while speaker–hearer subjectivity is maintained. Loss of
descriptive aspects of meaning is a way of describing a shift from “control” to
“raising” construction status (assuming that control is a gradient phenomenon, as
suggested by Dowty 1985 and Higgins 1990 on a continuum from full control to
noncontrol). Whatever the case in Du., the Eng. data suggest that a different path
of development occurred. For one, epistemic uses of promise did not arise directly
out of control constructions (see (21)). If the only change at issue in Eng. was the
loss of character subjectivity, it would be difﬁcult to account for the development of
those epistemic polysemies that are not necessarily positively oriented (see (23)),
or of epistemic parentheticals, which involve speech-time rather than future orien-
tation (see 18)). It appears that for English at least increased subjectiﬁcation, given
different constructions, is what occurred.
210
Development of performative verbs and constructions
Since promise was borrowed, a natural question is whether it replaced an older
term and if so why. In OE times there is no question that there were commissives
roughly equivalent to promise. The verb root most often used was hat- (originally
a locutionary verb of bidding and naming), and especially its derivatives gehat-,
behat-. Somewhat more like oaths and vows than MdE promising, they were used
primarily in contexts of considerable social signiﬁcance and evoked social and spir-
itual contract. During the ME period they began to be used in more general contexts,
as epistemic parentheticals, and, at the end of the period, with inanimate subjects,
i.e. with a very similar historical trajectory to promise several centuries later.
InBeowulf,theeponymousheroswearsseveralthingstoHro gar,whosekingdom
has been ravaged by the monster Grendel, among them that Hro gar will be able to
sleep in his hall, Heorot, without fear (example (34) in chapter 3, repeated here as
(25)):
(25) Ic hit e onne gehate, æt u on Heorote most
I it you then promise that you in Heorot may
sorh-leas swefan.
anxiety-less sleep
“I promise you this, that you will be able to sleep free from anxiety in Heorot.”
(8th century Beowulf, l. 1671)
In a charter bequeathing land to the bishop, earl, and others in Norfolk and
Suffolk, King Edward says:
(26) Eadward cyningc gret Ægelmer biscop . . . freondlice.
Edward king greets Aylmer Bishop. . . friendly-ADV
ic cyæ eou æt hic gehate be fullan hæse æt Sancte
I announce 2PL-DAT that I promise by full behest that Saint
Eadmundes inland sy scotfreo fram heregelde.
Edmund’s inland15
be-SUBJUNCT exempt from war-tax
“King Edward greets Bishop Aylmer . . . cordially. I declare to you that I pledge
that that part of St. Edmund’s land that belongs to me shall be exempt from
taxes.”
(1075 Charter (Harm.), 15)
Here ic gehate seems closer to “pledge” than to “promise” in the modern sense. It
is a solemn vow.
Charters (or “wills”) are an especially rich source of information about OE com-
missives, and give us insight into developing legal practices. In addition, they show
how speech acts that were originally spoken came to acquire new meanings in the
context of writing (see Danet 1997 on the shift from oral to written styles in a variety
15 An “inland” was a part of a domain retained by a lord, as opposed to “outland” over which he did
not have direct control.
211
Regularity in semantic change
of ritualized discourses, including legal discourse). In OE a will was a written repre-
sentation of an oral act of committing and contracting: “individuals contracted with
the Church to look after their souls after death, in exchange for transfer of property”
(Danet and Bogoch 1994: 106). Since the oral act, even when written down, was
not held to be binding, many OE wills end with a curse on whoever might try to go
against the wishes of the testator, or a blessing for those who carried them out. By
the seventeenth century wills became unilateral acts, binding declarations in their
written form with respect to bequeathing property, etc., but also, according to Bach
(1995), for stating religious beliefs at a time of religious uncertainties (and wars).
What is important for us here is the observation that, despite their deep embedding
in the context of social practices, individual SAVs nevertheless underwent similar
historical changes.
In the case of gehatan/behatan, as the nature of commitments changed over time,
especially in the context of feudal England, the old Germanic term came to be
strongly associated with vowing and swearing to do something, as evidenced by
such reports as (27) in which the verb collocates with vow or swear:
(27) a. is light ey han hoten and a-vowed to kepen.
this light they have promised and vowed to maintain
“they have promised and vowed to maintain this light.”
(1389 Nrf. Gild. Ret, 14 [MED])
b. ough ye han sworn and bihight to perfourne youre emprise.
though you have sworn and promised to perform your enterprise
“though you have sworn and promised to perform your task.”
(1386-90 Chaucer, CT, Melibee, p. 220, l.1065)
One could of course swear falsely. In Margery Kempe’s autobiographical story,
she warns a priest that a certain visitor is not to be trusted; the priest learns that her
intuition is right when the visitor prevaricates about a book that he says he has for
the priest, and promises to bring it within the week:
(28) “Sere, I hope to be her a-geyn e next woke & bryng it wyth
sir, I expect to be here again the next week and bring it with
me &, ser, I be-hote ow e schal haue it before any o er
me and sir I promise you you shall have it before any other
man . . .” . . . but e man wold neuyr comyn at e preste aftyr.
man but the man would never come to the priest after
“ ‘Sir,’ I hope to be back again next week and to bring it [the book] with me,
and, sir, I promise you will have it sooner than anyone else . . .’ . . . but the man
was never to come back to the priest again.”
(after 1348 Kempe, 58)
212
Development of performative verbs and constructions
The hat- “promise” verbs are all attested in later ME as epistemic parentheticals,
just as promise was later. Examples are:
(29) a. Min herte takth, and is thorghsoght
my heart pays:heed and is resolved
To thenken evere upon that swete
to think always on that sweet:one
Withoute Slowthe, I you behete.
without Sloth I you promise
“My heart takes notice and is resolved always to think about that sweet one,
without indolence, I promise you.”
(after 1393 Gower, 318)
b. To Engelond been they come the righte way,
to England are they come the right way
Wher as they lyve in joye and in quiete.
where as they live in joy and in quiet
But litel while it lasteth, I yow heete,
only small time it lasts I you assure
Joy of this world, for tyme wol nat abyde.
joy of this world for time will not wait
“They came to England right away, where they live in joy and peace; as for joy
of this world, it lasts only a small time, I assure you, for time will not wait.”
(c. 1390 Chaucer, CT, Man of Law, p. 103, l.1130)
One other use worth mentioning here, though not attested in the Helsinki Corpus
or in Chaucer, is with subjects that are inanimate.16
The meaning is “portend,” and
the verb seems well on the way to having raising syntax:
(30) It byhote deth or comynge a en of e trauaille.
it portends death or coming again of the adversity
“It portends death or the return of adversity.”
(c. 1420 Chauliac (2), 44a [MED bihoten 4.c.])
MED points out that in this use byhote in (30) glosses Lat. promittit. What is
interesting is that despite raising analogs in Latin, neither the hat- verbs, nor later
promise, came to be used until relatively late in their histories with inanimate sub-
jects. This suggests that the epistemic meaning developed independently in English.
In sum, the hat- verbs underwent almost the same history as promise did
later. As is often the case when a borrowed word comes to be used in the his-
torical texts that remain to us, promise appears early on paired with the older
native lexeme:
16 MED bihoten 4.c cites an example from Chaucer with Fortune as the subject; this is, however,
clearly a personiﬁcation.
213
Regularity in semantic change
(31) he wolde perfourme and do as he hadde hight and promised.
(c. 1418 Appeal London, p. 95)
This kind of doubling appears to have been deliberate, in effect a redundancy to
ensure that the new word will be understood. In this sense it is much like the
recruitment of old words in new meanings in redundant contexts that was pointed
out in chapter 4 in connection with discourse markers.
5.4.2 A declarative: Chinese bao
Here we look brieﬂy at the development in Ch. of the declarative use of
bao.17
Although few explicit performatives seem to have developed in Ch.,18
nev-
ertheless Ch. data concerning the verb bao reveal a very clear historical trajectory.
In Late Archaic Ch. (LAC) the verb bao is used for physical defense:
(32) shan gong zhe dong yu jiu tian zhi shang gu neng zi
good attack one move at nine sky ASSOC above thus can self
bao er quan sheng ye.
defend and full victory EMPH
“The one who is adept at attack strikes as if from the heavens, and thus is able
to achieve self-defense/protection and total victory.”
(5th century BC Sunzi, Xing pian)
By Early Middle Chinese (EMC) it appears to have a speech act meaning, i.e. to
refer to defense by linguistic means:
(33) xian sheng he suo tan? zhi mie neng bu you.
virtuous holy what OBJ seek reach extinguish can not worry
shui sheng bao ci shi chu chou ling wu huan?
who can guarantee this matter remove worry cause no fear
“What do the virtuous and holy seek? To have no worries up to the end. Who
can guarantee this – to remove all worries and fears?”
(281–316 AC Shengjing, Western Jin)19
Later in the period it appears in performative use with explicit ﬁrst person subject
( chen “I, your subject”). In the excerpt in (34), the Minister Xichao seeks to allay
the fears of the emperor who has been disturbed by an omen.
(34) Chao yue da sima fang jiang wai gu feng
Chao say senior war-minister just take out strengthen seal
jiang nei zhen sheji. bi wu ruo ci zhi lü.
border in settle society sure no like this POSS worry
17 Many thanks to Shiao-Wei Tham for the data in 5.4.2.
18 Chaofen Sun and Nina Lin, p. c.
19 A Buddhist text translated by Fahu; also dated as early ﬁfth century AC.
214
Development of performative verbs and constructions
chen wei bixia yi bai kou bao zhi.
I-subject for your-highness use hundred mouth guarantee this
“Chao said, ‘The senior war minister has just strengthened our borders exter-
nally and internally has settled the society. Surely there will be no such dangers.
I guarantee this to your highness with the lives of a hundred [people] [i.e. with
my family].’”
(5th century AC, Shishuoxinyu, Yanyu)
As is typical of developments we have discussed throughout this book, the original
physical meaning “defend” continued to coexist with the speech act meaning, in-
cluding its declarative performative use, eventually becoming distinguished from
the speech act meaning by compounding: baowei “defend (physically),” baozheng
“defend (verbally), guarantee.”
5.4.3 Another declarative: Japanese aisatu
Our third case study is the development of a formal greeting. According
to Searle’s classiﬁcation of illocutionary acts, a greeting is an expressive. Its sin-
cerity condition is to express the speaker’s psychological state, and has no direction
of ﬁt:
in performing an expressive, the speaker is neither trying to get the world to
match the words, nor the words to match the world, rather the truth of the
expressed proposition is presupposed. Thus, for example, when I apologize
for having stepped on your toe, it is not my purpose either to claim that your
toe was stepped on or to get it stepped on.
(Searle 1976: 12)
However, such an approach depends heavily on the English syntax of expressives
(they do not take that- complements). As Verschueren (1999: 132) points out, it
severely threatens Searle’s own classiﬁcation of illocutionary verbs (see 5.1), since
it could encompass all kinds of expression of belief and liking. Furthermore, it
ignores the fact that, like a declarative, a greeting, if successful, ratiﬁes or brings
into being a social relationship between SP/W and AD/R. We therefore broadly
construe GREET as a declarative, in other words a performative act that neither
directs nor represents, but brings a state of affairs into being: in this case, one of
social relationships within the speech situation.
Aisatu “greetings” is used frequently as part of a declarative performative in PDJ.
As a greeting, it appears as a predicate noun in constructions with the pro-verb suru
“do,” iu “say,” or one of the corresponding honoriﬁc verbs for these meanings, e.g.
go-aisatu moosiagemasu “say (HUMIL) polite greetings” or go-aisatu itasimasu
“do (HUMIL) polite greetings.” As these examples show, it is typically marked
with the honoriﬁc nominal preﬁx go-, which in this construction functions as an
215
Regularity in semantic change
addressee honoriﬁc (see 2.3.4). Such constructions make explicit the function in
the speech event of what is said, i.e. that the discourse is a welcoming, benediction,
or expression of general goodwill toward AD/R. As noted in 5.1, a performative
construction containing aisatu often appears both at the beginning and end of such a
speech event, so that the performative expression additionally functions as a global
discourse bracketing device. Spoken aisatu discourses are usually pronounced by
a distinguished or otherwise honored person and typically involve the use of dis-
tinctly higher degrees of formality and honoriﬁcation than are found in ordinary
(polite) conversation. Examples of spoken aisatu discourses include quite lengthy
opening or closing remarks by an emeritus professor at an academic conference,
a convocation by a district superintendent at a school graduation, a speech by a
relative of the groom or bride at a wedding reception, etc. In addition, there are
written aisatu discourses, such as an opening salutation in a book by someone other
than the authors (e.g. a distinguished scholar in the ﬁeld) or personal letters that are
not directive or commissive.
In Jp. the noun aisatu can be used descriptively as the name for such discourses
themselves. It also describes a visit that is made merely to express politeness or
keep in touch, rather than to conduct speciﬁc business; for example, it is common
to visit major business clients to express aisatu on the ﬁrst business day of the year.
In the earlier period of MdJ, aisatu appears as a descriptive speech act predicate
noun meaning “greeting, respects, salutations” in phrases such as aisatu o kawasu
“exchange greetings” and aisatu ni iku “go to pay one’s respects.” MdJ aisatu could
even refer to nonlinguistic greetings, as in te o hutte aisatu o suru “greet (someone)
with a wave of the hand, wave in greeting.”
The lexeme aisatu entered the Japanese language as a loanword from Ch. Its
source meaning appears to have been some type of physical action that involves
space and boundary, but analysts differ in regard to the details: Ohno (Ohno, Satake,
and Maeda 1990 [1974]: 2) holds that the two Ch. characters that spell aisatu mean
“push against each other” when used in this combination. Nakamura (1981: 14)
says that the meaning of aisatu combines “touch lightly” (ai) with “touch hard,
hit” (satu). In his etymological Ch. character dictionary, Ueda (1977 [1918]: 944,
949) holds that ai means “push open” or “push aside and move forward,” and satu
means “draw near.” Ueda further notes (ibid.) that aisatu is found in SAV meanings
primarily after its importation into Japan.
While the exact etymology may be a matter of dispute, it is agreed that the
original term referred to physical action. Ohno, Ueda, and others, e.g. Yamaguchi
(1998: 8), also agree that the word ﬁrst entered the Japanese language as a religious
technical term in Zen Buddhism, which came into Japan in the thirteenth century.
Aisatu does not appear even once in the massive Enkyobon manuscript of the Heike
Monogatari (1309–10), and so at this point the word may not yet have spread into
216
Development of performative verbs and constructions
the community much beyond Zen circles. As a Zen technical term, aisatu referred
to a locutionary dialectic practice in which a teacher asked a challenging question to
a disciple (monk in training), who had to answer back. The goal of the activity was
to test the disciple’s progress toward enlightenment and possibly help him along the
way. This practice was also referred to at that time by the phrase iti-ai issatu “one
ai, one satu” (Yamaguchi 1998, Nakamura 1981). Nakamura (ibid.), a dictionary
of Buddhist terminology, under aisatu ﬁrst cites the meaning “a teacher exchanges
questions-and-answers and tests a student’s enlightenment” and then states that the
meaning of the word “changes to mean ‘answer, give a return gift,’” as in:
(35) [Aite ga]20
kitune naru koto wo sire-domo
interlocutor SUBJ fox COP thing DO know-although
yoku aisatu si-te kaesu.
well answer do-GER return (something)
“Although [he] knew that his interlocutor was a fox, he answered [its magical
questions/challenges] well in return.”
(LMJ, Kobisyoo [Ohno, Satake, and Maeda 1990 [1974]: 2])
Here aisatu appears to be used only as a description of a speech act, and not
performatively. The change from “question-and-answer” to “answer” (a meaning
still sometimes found in MdJ) is reminiscent of the kinds of changes like those
undergone by let’s discussed in 4.4 in which SP/W has commandeered a word that
earlier referred to a dialog between two interlocutors in order to refer to SP/W’s part
in that dialog; similarly in ME answer again “answer back” (a reciprocal two-person
exchange) came to be understood as “answer in repeated action” (a single person’s
act).
From “answer,” aisatu came to be used to refer to various speaking events, from
introducing one person to another to acts expressing congratulations, gratitude, or
honor to one’s interlocutor in keeping with a particular occasion. In linked verse
poetry parties (in which each participant was expected to add a line of verse), which
became very popular from the MJ period into the EMdJ period, aisatu expressed
the adding of a line of verse that was congratulatory or showed honor to one’s host
(Ohno, Satake, and Maeda 1990 [1974]). In the Nippo Jisho (Japanese–Portuguese
dictionary of 1603), aisatu is cited with the meaning “receive and entertain guests
with language”; the entry also cites the idiom aisatu no yoi hito (original transcrip-
tion aisatno yoiﬁto) (lit.) “a person good at aisatu” with the meaning “a person who
entertains well and uses language that makes guests feel good” (Doi, Morita, and
Chonan 1980: 18).
It appears that aisatu was still not used performatively at the beginning of the
seventeenth century. The word is conspicuously absent from Rodriguez’ Arte da
20 The square brackets indicate an abbreviation provided in Ohno’s dictionary.
217
Regularity in semantic change
lingoa de Japam (1604–8). In addition to a thorough description of the grammar of
Japanese at that time, Rodriguez’ grammar contains major chapters on letter-writing
and on other instructions about protocol for the missionaries in communicating with
the Imperial Court and other nobles. Despite lengthy lists of types of letters and
other communications, there is not even a passing reference to aisatu.
By the middle of the seventeenth century, however, aisatu comes to be used (with
verbs for “say” or “do”) to describe the act of greeting, as in (36):
(36) aisatu wo ihu-tetoor-azu ha naru-mai.
greetings-DO say-GER pass:through-NEG FOC become-NEG:PROB
“Surely [the guard] will let [you] through the gate [lit. probably won’t not let
you pass] when you say a greeting.”
(c. 1640 Tora-akira ms., kyogen play [NKD vol. I, 21])
As in PDJ, the word is used to refer to a formal segment of discourse, in the case
in (37), the speech act of providing a compliment to the host at the beginning of a
linked verse party:
(37) Mukasi wa kanarazu kyaku yori aisatu dai-iti ni
past-times TOP without:fail guest from greetings ﬁrst LOC
hakku o nasu.
make:a:verse DO make:happen
“[Since] times past, a guest would give a verse of greetings ﬁrst of all.”
(1704 Sansatuko [NKD vol. I, 22])
In EMdJ it also comes to be used to describe the giving or answering of a personal
letter. NKD cites examples from the records of the Uesugi family and similar doc-
uments, all of which are in kanbun. These examples, however, still appear to be
descriptive rather than performative. In the NKD entry for aisatu, the performative
meaning of the word is listed, but without any source examples. This is usually an
indication that the meaning is relatively recent.
The meaning of aisatu “greeting” as in (36) and (37) rather than “answer” focuses
more on the image needs and feelings of AD/R in the ongoing speech event than
do earlier meanings. The developments that began in EMdJ thus reﬂect increased
intersubjectiﬁcation: SP/W establishes a mutual link between the world talked about
(the content of the discourse) and the world of the speech event by explicitly naming
the communicative and social purpose of the particular act of speaking. In MdJ this
intersubjectivity is also supported by descriptive constructions such as go-aisatu
dake “just greetings,” a phrase that is commonly used in requesting a meeting with
a busy person. The intent of this phrase is to indicate that the meeting will not require
preparation on the part of the person visited and will not be a major disruption.
218
Development of performative verbs and constructions
In summary, aisatu originated in a non-speech act lexeme, in this case one that is
an example of manipulation of an object (meaning source type (vii) in 5.3). It entered
Japanese as a Zen term for a particular type of religious training that involved speech
events. It ﬁrst underwent subjectiﬁcation as its meaning shifted from “question-
and-answer” to “answer.” The word then came to be used descriptively for the act
of providing linguistic communications in keeping with the social expectations
associated with a particular type of occasion. It subsequently became associated
with the speech act of “greeting,” apparently ﬁrst as an indirect way of describing
this act and more recently as a declarative performative to name a particular speech
act as one of greetings. This last development reﬂects increasing intersubjecti-
ﬁcation.
5.5 On the recruitment of modals for performative uses
The last topic to be addressed in this chapter is the relationship between
explicit lexical performative constructions on the one hand and modal expressions
on the other in a language like Eng. (and other languages in which modals are
members of a distinct grammatical category).
It is reasonable to conclude that when a pre-modal acquires root/deontic modal
meaning it can be used (given the right person and tense, and the right conditions)
with something akin to illocutionary force. Second person singular present tense
permission and obligation of the type You may X, You must X would appear to have
potential directive performative uses approximately equivalent to I allow you to X
and I order you to X. This force is, however, indirect since, as a modal, the verb does
not occur in an I X you S construction. Given evidence from the development of
full lexical verbs like promise, we might suspect that performative uses of modals
are relatively late. We show below that this is indeed the case; the recruitment of
modals to use with indirect performative meanings is a direct correlate of the degree
of subjectiﬁcation undergone: the more subjective the modal, the more likely that
it will be conventionalized as equivalent to a performative expression.
Consider ﬁrst must. As we saw in chapter 3, mot- was originally a verb of per-
mission in OE, often used in clauses subordinate to commands and wishes. Many
early examples of obligation mot- are also embedded in clauses subordinate to
explicit locutionary verbs (whether used performatively or not), and indeed we
suggested that the conventionalizing of the past tense form may have been en-
abled precisely by this tendency to be used in such subordinate clauses. Over time,
increasingly subjective uses of mot-/most- are found. From the perspective of per-
formativity, participant-external deontics must be construed as statements about
requirements imposed by others (God, institution, etc.). Thus in the context of reg-
ulations for nuns, when we ﬁnd in Hali Meidhad a large number of “thou must X”
219
Regularity in semantic change
constructions, of which (38) below is one, these appear to be statements about be-
haviors that are necessary conditions for the good life, ordained by God and church,
upheld and implemented by the author(s) of the text, but hardly equivalent to the
subjective form “I command you to X.”
(38) ah u riche beo & nurrice habbe u most as moder
though you rich be and nurse have you must as mother
carien for al et hire limpe to donne.
care for all that her is:proper to do
“Although you are rich and have a nurse you must take responsibility like a
mother for the appropriateness of everything she does.”
(c. 1225 Hali Meidhad, p. 156)
When they can be used with participant-internal meanings (SP/W is the source of
authority for requiring something of AD/R), then they acquire indirect performative
force:
(39) Notwithstanding, by mine advice if ye have this letter . . . when
notwithstanding by my advice, if you have this letter when
ye come ye must be suer of a great excuse.
you come you must be sure of a great excuse
“All the same, I advise that if you have this letter . . . when you come you must
be sure of having a signiﬁcant excuse.”
(1461 Paston, Clement, p. 201)
Our data show few clear examples of indirect performative use until the seven-
teenth century. Among these later examples is the following explicit I say you must,
repeated in a list of very personal terms laid out by Tom to Joan:
(40) I could ﬁnd in my heart to make thee Mistriss of my household, and Lady of
my family, all which you know Ione (“Joan”) is honour in abundance, but ﬁrst
I say you must subscribe and consent to my divers causes and
considerations . . . I say once again (and be sure you remember this last
Article of our agreement) you must destroy, kill, and slay them all [the ﬂeas],
if possible.
(1684–85 Pepys, Penny Merriments, pp. 268–269)
(40) clearly expresses an indirect directive (albeit in a blustering, comic context),
partly because the main verbs are activity verbs (subscribe, destroy). Despite the
modal strength of must, this expression leaves more options open, and is therefore
more indirect, than the explicit performative but ﬁrst I command/order you to sub-
scribe, or the imperative ﬁrst I say subscribe. Note here the use of I say, which,
according to the OED (say 12) is a formula to introduce a joke. Such uses presum-
ably derived from sensitivity to the M-heuristic (“prolix expression warns ‘marked
situation’”) arising from the use of a native word for explicit performative purposes.
220
Development of performative verbs and constructions
As mentioned in 5.1, I say was associated with religious discourse; it was also used
as a declarative in formal speech and writing in the sixteenth century, as in
(41) I knowe, I saye I know it, that all the debt he oweth had bine saved another
way if he had bine here.
(1586, Dudley)
In a less formal context such as (40), declarative I say was regarded as comical;
Nevertheless, it could have performative force, reinforcing insistence, and the sub-
jectivity of that insistence. Must, occurring as it does in the clause subordinate to I
say, is understood as obligation deriving from an authority that is highly personal
(and one can infer, arbitrary).
The modal must has indirect illocutionary force only in the context of activity
verbs. In the context of stative verbs of cognition, such as understand in (42), there
is none (note the explicit performative would be ill-formed since one cannot well
command someone to understand something). Here must expresses a wish on the
part of the speaker, not a command:
(42) There I saw Mount Benawne, with a furr’d mist vpon his snowie head in stead
of a nightcap: (for you must vnderstand, that the oldest man aliue neuer saw
but the snow was on the top of diuers of those hills).
“There I saw Mount Benawn, with a furry mist on his head instead of a
nightcap (you must understand that the oldest man alive never saw anything
but snow on top of any of those hills).”
(1630 Taylor, Penniless Pilgrimage, p. 135)
As is to be expected, the extent to which a modal can be used to indirectly convey
performative force depends not only on the type of verb with which it occurs, but also
on the person of the subject. Originating in permission and acquiring the meaning
of obligation, must is not performative in ﬁrst person (I must). However, it can be
with second person subjects and (given appropriate authority) third person subjects:
(43) You/John must leave tomorrow.
(This is, of course, ambiguous out of context between on the one hand a statement
about obligations imposed by individuals other than SP/W and on the other an
indirect performative use in which SP/W establishes an obligation based on his or
her own authority.)
Another modal that can be used for indirect performative purposes in MdE is will.
When the subject is the ﬁrst person it can be used to express a promise as in Don’t
worry, I’ll go, or more frequently, a prediction (the “future,” a type of epistemic;
see Fleischman 1982). When the subject is the second person, as in You will go, it
can be used as a directive meaning “I require you to go, whether you like it or not”;
in this use it is typically stressed.
221
Regularity in semantic change
Willan originally meant “to desire” and, as a lexical verb followed by a sentential
complement, meant “to will.” In OE its use in a promissory, i.e. directive and
commissive, sense emerges with non-ﬁnite complements (when the subject of the
inﬁnitive is in identity with the subject of will-). It arises naturally out of volition
in ﬁrst person contexts, since promises are self-imposed acts based on one’s own
volition:
(44) Lazarus ure freond slæp ac ic wylle gan &
Lazarus our friend sleeps but I will go-INF and
awreccan hyne of slæpe . . .
a-wake him from sleep
Se Hælend hit cwæ be his dea e. Hi wendon so lice
the Savior it said about his death. They thought truly
æt he hyt sæde be swefnes slæpe.
that he hit said about dream-GEN sleep
a cwæ se Hælend openlice to him, Ladzarus ys dead.
then said thesavior openly to them, Lazarus is dead
“ ‘Our friend Lazarus is sleeping, but I will go and wake him up from his
sleep’. . . The Savior said it about Lazarus’ death. They thought, however, that
he said it about the sleep of dreams. Then the Savior said openly to them:
‘Lazarus is dead.’”
(c. 1000 West Saxon Gospels, p. 104)
In (44) the disciples take what Christ says to be a statement of his ordinary desires
and intentions (“I want to go and wake him”), since they think Lazarus is literally
sleeping. But Christ then tells them Lazarus is dead. In this context Christ’s words
must be reinterpreted as a commitment to act despite improbable circumstances (“I
commit myself to go and wake him”), but certainly less direct than gehat- would be.
When Hro gar thanks Beowulf for rescuing him and his kingdom from the ravages
of Grendel, he is presumably not just expressing his desire to love Beowulf as a son
but also his commitment to doing so (with its attendant responsibilities):
(45) Nu ic, Beowulf, ec,
now I Beowulf you
secg betsta, me for sunu wylle
men:GEN best 1Sg:DAT as son will
freogan on ferh e.
love in heart
“Now, Beowulf, best of men, I will love you in my heart as a son.”
(8th century, Beowulf, 946 [Arnovick 1994: 176])
But again, the force seems considerably weaker than that of (ge)hat-. By MdE
the promissory (and ultimately volitional) force is primarily restricted to negative
refusals as in We won’t go (as in the anti-war slogan; contrast negative statements,
222
Development of performative verbs and constructions
in which will expresses the future), and emphatics such as I wı́ll do it (with stress
on will ). The predominant meaning in ﬁrst person contexts is no longer an indirect
illocutionary commissive but rather epistemic likelihood (futurity), as in the e-mail
message We’ll be seeing you soon.
Assuming that will- in OE is fully performative and the major lexical represen-
tation of promising, Arnovick (1994) has suggested that over time greater circum-
locution has come to be needed in English to express promises. She attributes this
to the grammaticalization of will (and shall ) as tense markers of futurity. However,
since from our perspective will has never been as explicit a performative verb of
promising as (ge)hat- (or later promise), the correlation Arnovick hypothesizes with
grammaticalization appears to be too strong.
The history of will illustrates the fact that when we consider the development
of modals, especially with reference to their development of indirect performa-
tive uses, we must consider a large range of issues. Among them are its relation
to lexical performative speech act verbs like (ge)hat-, and also to other modals
like shall.21
Of special interest in the seventeenth century is the codiﬁcation by a
mathematician, Bishop John Wallis, in Grammatica Linguae Anglicanae (1653) of
a suppletive paradigm involving shall and will, depending on person. Epistemic
prediction/futurity are expressed by I shall, you/she will, deontic promise (also
threats and warnings) by I will, you/she shall (deontic). Boyd and Boyd (1980)
argue that this distinction is by no means arbitrary but well grounded in the his-
tory of the modals in question. Arnovick (1989) further argues that the Wallis
rules actually sought to reinstate their (indirect) illocutionary force. Wallis’ at-
tempted intervention did not, however, prevent the two modals from overlapping
semantically, and, in the case of American English, the almost complete loss of
shall.
The shift from intentional, commissive meanings to epistemic futurity is the kind
of shift that we have seen before from non-epistemic to epistemic. Is the fact that
there is a decrease in indirect performative force a counterexample to the shift
to increasingly discourse-based meanings? While not addressing this issue directly,
Aijmer (1985) argues that the development of futurity without promissory overtones
can be traced to second and third person contexts. In these contexts the invited
inference of futurity from reported intention became a predominant polysemy by
ME and then spread to ﬁrst person. If this is correct, we can think of the development
of ﬁrst person intention to commissive as an example of increasingly discursive use
in ﬁrst person contexts, while the development of the epistemic is an independent
development in second and especially third person contexts. In this case, it would
21 Kytö (1991) traces the quantitative development of will and shall (also other modals) in British
English as represented by the Helsinki Corpus and in early American English.
223
Regularity in semantic change
not be a counterexample. Rather, it would support yet again the high degree of
context-sensitivity of semantic change.
The modals that in English have been recruited into indirect directive use (es-
pecially with second person) are most notably must, shall22
(obligation), may
(permission), and will (obligation with second person, promise with ﬁrst person).
One that has been changing its status during the twentieth century is can (permis-
sion). Leech (1971: 67, 70) points out that can has been limited to permission of
only a general sort in formal British English, cf. the contrast between:
(46) a. You may smoke in this room. (= You are permitted (by me) to smoke)
b. You can smoke in this room. (= You are allowed to smoke)
However, in informal styles can is coming to be widely used in a more subjective
way (the authority for the permission is preempted by the speaker).23
One of the
characteristics of ought to, in contrast to must, is that it is only marginally subjective.
It expresses general social obligation; only rarely and only recently is the authority
for the obligation an individual, speciﬁcally the speaker. This accounts for why
ought to typically does not have indirect performative force. The same is also true
of have to, which, like ought to, tends to be used when obligation is of a general
sort. However, given the tendency for modals to be used in increasingly subjective
ways, by hypothesis we can expect increased subjectiﬁcation of these modals as
well.
The conclusion that we can draw from these examples is that modals can be used
for indirect performative purposes only after the modal in question has undergone
sufﬁcient subjectiﬁcation to allow the invited inference that the speaker has authority
for the obligation, permission, promise, etc. As in the case of lexically full verbs,
when a modal auxiliary comes to be used with performative force, this force is
unstable. This instability is hardly surprising considering the highly contextualized
conditions under which performative force comes into being. In the case of the
modals, this instability is particularly prominent because the modals have primarily
grammatical and therefore multiple functions.
5.6 Conclusion
In conclusion, we have seen that the development of performative uses
of lexical verbs or of modals follows the regularities we have seen in earlier chapters.
22 Largely obsolescent.
23 Leech also discusses ironic uses such as You can jump in the lake suggesting that “the speaker
sarcastically offers someone the choice of doing something that cannot be avoided, or something
no one would choose to do anyway” (Leech 1971: 70). The role of irony in the changes discussed
here deserves special attention.
224
Development of performative verbs and constructions
Pre-SAV > SAV > Performative > Parenthetical
content > content/procedural > procedural
s-w-proposition > s-o-proposition > s-o-discourse
nonsubjective > subjective > intersubjective
Figure 5.2. Correlated paths in the development of performative uses of
nonperformative verbs.
The developments illustrate non-epistemic > epistemic, subjectiﬁcation, and pre-
emption to discursive, metatextual purposes. They are highly dependent on person,
tense, and SP/W–AD/R social statuses and interactions (and no doubt the negotia-
tionsofthesethroughintonation,thoughthiscannotbeaddressedhere).Aschematic
representation of the correlated paths in the development of performative uses of
nonperformative lexical verbs discussed in this chapter is presented in ﬁgure 5.2.
Note that in the case of the Jp. aisatu construction, intersubjectiﬁcation arises along
with the speech act meaning of greeting, in other words somewhat earlier than
ﬁgure 5.2 suggests; this is in part because of the particular speech act meaning
in question, and because of the highly intersubjective nature of Jp. language use.
However, the overall order of changes is not different for aisatu and promise. In
claiming that the development of performative speech act verbs involves subjectiﬁ-
cation and intersubjectiﬁcation, we intend to highlight the way in which meanings
are preempted from the world of description to that of discourse, and attention to
the SP/W–AD/R dyad in that discourse. This is a semasiological claim regarding
the histories of particular Ls.
Cultural norms differ considerably with respect to the extent to which types of
speech acts will be expressed and distinguished lexically. They also differ with
respect to the extent to which speech act expressions will be used performatively,
or will be expressed indirectly. But by hypothesis, the direction of change will be as
outlined in ﬁgure 5.2. In Latin and subsequently in much of the history of the later
European languages, there has at times been a marked shift toward explicit coding
of subjectivity (which can then be subject to intersubjectiﬁcation).
We have seen that performative verb constructions such as I promise can develop
highly intersubjective functions. In the next and ﬁnal set of case studies we turn to
the development of markers of politeness, most speciﬁcally honoriﬁcs. These are
linguistic markers the prime function of which is to make intersubjectivity explicit.
Among other examples, we will see how the performative expression I pray you
came to be used as a marker of politeness ( pray).
225
6
The development of social deictics
6.1 Introduction
Previous chapters have alluded to the indexical properties of epistemic
modals, discourse markers, and performative verbs. In these domains the indexi-
cality is the encoded link between the world of the conceptualized described event
(CDE) and the world of the conceptualized speech event (CSE). We now turn to
another class of linguistic items that provide such a link: social deictics (SDs). We
deﬁne SDs as directly encoding within their semantic structures the conceptualized
relative social standing (superiority/inferiority, (non)intimacy, in-group versus out-
group status, etc.) of a participant either in the CDE or in the CSE by “pointing” to
that social standing from the deictic ground (perspective) of SP/W relative to AD/R
and other elements of the CSE.1
SDs include contrasting second person singular tu/vous (T-V) pronouns in Eu-
ropean languages like French and German; parentheticals such as I pray (you),
sentence adverbials such as please; and, in a few languages such as Japanese and
Korean, large systems of lexical items, derivational formulae, and afﬁxes that are
often termed “referent” and “addressee” honoriﬁcs. Referent SDs index the social
status of one or more participants in the CDE (here termed “referents”) relative
to a deictic ground in the CSE. Addressee SDs, by contrast, index the relative so-
cial status of the speech event participants conceptualized independently of their
possible roles in the CDE. Although most SDs are politeness markers, SDs also
include a much smaller subset of linguistic items that directly encode an attitude
of denigration.2
Examples of denigratory SDs in MdJ include the noun sufﬁx -me
(compare ano hito “that person” with ano hito-me “that person I belittle”) and the
1 SDs thus include the class described by Brown and Levinson (1987 [1978]: 23) as “grammatical-
ized” politeness markers; however, we prefer the term “encoded” over “grammaticalized,” because
many SDs are lexemes with independent status and not afﬁxes.
2 In Japanese linguistics, the term taiguu hyoogen “expressions of rank” is used in reference both to
honoriﬁcs and denigratives, but the analyses do not explicitly distinguish linguistic items whose
semantic structures directly encode social deixis from nondeictic euphemisms or other items that
convey politeness or denigration via convention.
226
Development of social deictics
verb sufﬁx V-yagaru “(subject person I belittle) does V.” These will not be consi-
dered in this chapter.
6.2 Some more detailed distinctions relevant to honoriﬁcs
In this section we discuss some distinctions that we will be drawing on
in our case studies: ﬁrst the distinction between referent and addressee honoriﬁcs,
and second the relationship between politeness and honoriﬁc SDs. We also develop
diagrammatic models of spatial and social deixis.
6.2.1 Referent and addressee honoriﬁcs
As mentioned above, social deictics are usually divided into two main
classes:
(i) SDs that point to the social position (relative status or intimacy) of a
participant in the CDE, relative to a deictic ground in the CSE,
(ii) SDs that point to social relationships or relative social positions among
participants in the CSE, independently of their roles in the CDE.
Followingwell-knownterminology,weusetheterm“referentSD”forclass(i).“Ref-
erent” should be understood as a participant in the CDE: it is a cognitive construct
without the truth-conditional implications associated with the term in traditional
semantics. Despite what might appear to be the case on ﬁrst thought, second person
pronouns that express T-V distinctions are referent rather than addressee SDs. This
is because they can only index the social status of AD/R by including AD/R as a
participant (i.e. a “referent”) in the CDE (Comrie 1976, Brown and Levinson 1987
[1978]). Class (ii) of SDs includes “addressee SDs,” which are discussed in more
detail in 6.3.3
Like most if not all deictic systems, SDs even in a language such as Japanese
comprise a relatively simple system in which only a few canonical types of relative
social status and (non)intimacy are distinguished. In use, however, SDs are exploited
in order to achieve many nuances of expression, including sarcasm through overuse,
and insult. A strikingly self-conscious violation of SD norms for purposes of in-
sult (metaphorically indexing the attorney’s assessment of the defendant’s moral as
opposed to social standing) is illustrated in (1). This is from the trial of Sir Walter
Raleigh at the beginning of the seventeenth century, a time when you was the V
term in English, and thou the T term:
3 Yet other SDs (not discussed in this book) express additional axes of social indexing that are
distinct from the CDE, such as speaker-setting and possibly speaker–bystander status (see Comrie
1976).
227
Regularity in semantic change
(1) Ral.: I do not hear yet, that you have spoken one word against me; here is no
Treason of mine done: If my Lord Cabham be a Traitor, what is that to
me?
Att.: All that he did was by thy Instigation, thou Viper, for I thou thee, thou
Traitor.
(1603 Raleigh)4
Inthesectionsthatfollowwedistinguishreferentandaddresseehonoriﬁcsinmore
detail, and we introduce some of the most important canonical types of relative
social status and (non)intimacy. For this discussion, and for several of the case
studies in this chapter, we focus on the SD system of Japanese honoriﬁcs. Studies
ofJapanesehonoriﬁcscompriseaverylargebodyofworksintheJapaneselanguage;
books by Tsujimura (1967) and Ooishi (1983) have been particularly inﬂuential in
traditional approaches, and Kikuchi (1996) is a recent major work. Analyses of the
Japanese honoriﬁc system that have appeared in English have been given by, e.g.,
Martin (1964, 1975) and Harada (1976). More recent works in English have focused
on particular problems in honoriﬁc meaning (e.g. Yoshiko Matsumoto 1997) and
pragmatic analyses of patterns of use (e.g. Mizutani and Mizutani 1987, Okamoto
1999).
6.2.2 Politeness and honoriﬁc social deictics
Since most SDs express politeness, a discussion of the nature of soci-
olinguistic politeness is an important prerequisite to an understanding of the cate-
gory “SD.” There have been a variety of approaches to politeness. One focuses on
conversational maxims (Leech 1983). Another that has been particularly inﬂuential
is Brown and Levinson’s (1987 [1978]) analysis of politeness in terms of universal
strategies that diffuse “face threatening acts” (FTAs). Their view of politeness is
based on Goffman (1967), and assumes that every individual seeks to claim a self-
image for him- or herself that is two-sided: (i) negative face, which is the basic claim
to territories and to freedom from imposition, and (ii) positive face, which is the
desire that the self-image be appreciated by the interactants (Brown and Levinson
1987 [1978]: 61). However, this view of “face” has been shown to be grounded in a
view of the individual that is hardly consistent with the politeness expectations of
speakers of Japanese and many other Asian languages (Yoshiko Matsumoto 1988,
Okamoto 1999). For speakers of these languages, at least, the role of the individual
and defense of individual territory is less important than that of the group: “A per-
son’s self-image in Japan is not as an independent individual but as a group member
4 This example was cited by Irma Taavitsainen and Andreas H. Jucker in a workshop presentation
on “Pragmatic space in historical linguistics: speech acts and speech act verbs in the history of
English,” ICHL XIV, Vancouver, 1999.
228
Development of social deictics
having certain relations to others” (Yoshiko Matsumoto 1988: 423).5
In particular,
“preservation of face in Japanese culture is intimately bound up with showing recog-
nition of one’s relative position in the communicative context and with maintenance
of the social ranking order” (ibid. p. 415). Furthermore, “[t]he Japanese concept
of deference must include not merely the speaker’s humbling him/herself, but the
raising of the addressee’s level” (ibid. p. 413). Speakers express politeness in the
MdJ speech community primarily through distancing strategies. A speaker of MdJ
who attempts to create an in-group relationship with AD/R via linguistic means
associated with “positive face” (equivalent to Come here, mate/honey/buddy cited
in Brown and Levinson 1987 [1978]: 108) is likely instead to be evaluated as rude
or crass. Because of the differences in the social construction of politeness, we have
avoided the term “face” in favor of a concept of politeness that represents SP/W’s
explicit addressing, in a constructive manner, of the “image” needs of AD/R. Simi-
larly, Held focuses on “image needs” rather than face and on “polite behaviour as a
continual sounding out of the reciprocal image needs of ego and alter” (Held 1999:
22). Politeness is thus not only intrinsically subjective, as Brown and Levinson’s
approach might suggest, but also intrinsically intersubjective.
The conceptualization of image needs and the concomitant modes of express-
ing politeness are closely intertwined with the ideologies of power in the social
system in which a language is used, and are clearly subject to change. Brown
and Gilman (1960) discuss the shift in use of the T-V pronoun systems of vari-
ous European languages from expressing power relationships (superior–inferior)
to expressing solidarity (intimate vs. nonintimate). For example, T or V forms
now tend to be used reciprocally by both interlocutors in a conversation, whereas
in the past they were used nonreciprocally. A similar shift in the usage and so-
cial value of honoriﬁcs has been noted in comparing pre- and post-World War
II speech communities in Japan (Mizutani and Mizutani 1987). Held summarizes
shifts in power relations as a social process of redistribution in terms of transfer
from, for example, social rank to social value (through the “bourgeoisisation” of
society), and from vertical to horizontal distance, in which social hierarchy is re-
placed by “psychological, affective components of proximity, familiarity” (Held
1999: 24). Such transfers reﬂect societal transformations. They are represented
and indeed constituted in shifts in linguistic practice, but are independent of the
types of regularity in semantic change discussed here. Our focus will not be on
5 In this connection it is interesting to note that the expression “lose face” in English and also
perdre la face in French seem to have been calqued from Chinese diu lian in the nineteenth
century (the ﬁrst entry in the OED is from 1876), largely as a technical term in psychology
and sociology; however, it has been interpreted in academic circles from the “Indo-European”
perspective of individual rights and territory, rather than from an Asian perspective of the group
and maintenance of the hierarchic position of that group (Ervin-Tripp, Nakamura, and Guo 1995).
229
Regularity in semantic change
the societal shifts, nor on ways in which individuals may switch from polite to
nonpolite to express attitudes such as contempt or displeasure, but rather on (i)
the ways in which terms are recruited from content meanings to deictic procedu-
rals that make explicit SP/W’s social attitude to participants in the communicative
event, and on (ii) the evidence they provide for subjectiﬁcation and intersubjectiﬁ-
cation.
SDs constitute only one type out of many linguistic resources that SP/Ws can use
strategically to express politeness (Brown and Levinson 1987 [1978]). As seman-
tically coded meanings, they need to be distinguished from conventionally implied
meanings (GIINs). For example, T-V pronouns semantically encode social deictic
contrasts and so are to be classed as SDs. In contrast, the use in PDE of third person
expressions (e.g. the professor or the doctor) and even ﬁrst person plural expressions
(as in Have we eaten yet?) as ways of referring to the second person (see 2.3.4)
represents politeness strategies that are used in recognized and systematic ways, but
are not semantically encoded in the meanings of those lexical items.
In accordance with the IITSC, some GIINs become semanticized as SDs. MdJ
anata, a second person pronoun, originates in LOJ anata, a spatial deictic noun that
signaled a location similar to Eng. “over there.” Anata came to be used as a third
person (pro)noun for “person over there” from EMJ (Yamaguchi 1998: 34). This new
meaning represented the semanticization of a GIIN that is common throughout the
history of Japanese: the use of an L referring to location in order to metonymically
implicate reference to a person in that location. Anata subsequently shifted from
third person pronoun meaning to second person pronoun meaning in EMdJ around
1750 (ibid.). Compare the shift from third to second person pronominal function
noted in Harris (1978) with respect to changes from Classical to Vulgar Latin
discussed in 1.3.1. In addition, anata came to be used to implicate politeness in a
way that is common in Japanese: deictic distance is exploited to express politeness.
When the GIIN of politeness became semanticized anata became an SD, speciﬁcally
a member of the class of referent honoriﬁcs.
As implied by the fact that honoriﬁc SDs are a subset of politeness mark-
ers, a further distinction is to be made between SDs and nondeictic sociolin-
guistically marked Ls (here called “euphemisms”) that are used in order to ex-
press a social attitude. Thus, while Brown and Levinson (1987 [1978]: 181–182)
describe Ls such as dine for eat, gentleman for man, or volume for book as
“referent honoriﬁcs,” we do not include such items in the SD category. The dis-
tinction between an SD and a nondeictic euphemism is illustrated by contrasting
yasumu and motomeru in MdJ. The MdJ verb yasumu “rest” is a well-established
euphemism for “sleep.” Its euphemistic meaning represents the output of an “off-
record” strategy in which SP/W invites AD/R to infer a meaning indirectly from
a closely associated one (Brown and Levinson 1987 [1978]: 211). Although the
230
Development of social deictics
selection of yasumu over neru “(go to) sleep” or nemuru “(physically) sleep” ex-
presses an attitude of sociolinguistic politeness, yasumu is nondeictic because it
does not point to the social status of any participant in the CDE or the CSE
relative to SP/W’s point of view regarding social positioning in the particular
speech event. Yasumu may be selected to express the concept “sleep,” regard-
less of the intimacy versus nonintimacy of the social relationship between SP/W
and AD/R or their relationships to the subject referent of the expression. In con-
trast, MdJ motomeru “demand” (used euphemistically for “buy”) speciﬁes in its
euphemistic meaning that the subject referent (the buyer) is socially superior to
SP/W. In this meaning, the word is typically used only with second and third
person subject referents. The euphemistic meaning of motomeru incorporates the
point of view of SP/W in the CSE as a deictic ground, and so in this meaning
the word falls into a class of referent honoriﬁc SDs, speciﬁcally respectful hon-
oriﬁcs.
In sum, we have deﬁned honoriﬁcs as semanticized social deictic expressions
(SDs), and we have distinguished between SDs and nonsemanticized, implied ex-
pressions of politeness, and between SDs and nondeictic euphemisms. It has long
been noted with respect to the history of Japanese that new honoriﬁcs arise only
in the referent honoriﬁc category, and all addressee honoriﬁcs develop from pre-
viously existing referent honoriﬁcs (Tsujimura 1968, Lewin 1969). Dasher (1995)
analyzed these regular patterns of change among Jp. predicate honoriﬁcs as repre-
senting a grammaticalization cline of functional shift from (i) indexing participants
in the CDE toward (ii) indexing participants and discourse elements of the CSE.
The present study builds on that work and examines case studies from the history
of Japanese predicate honoriﬁcs and also the history of English. The data demon-
strate regularities in semantic change that parallel those in the domains previously
studied in this book: shifts from conceptual to procedural meaning, subjectiﬁcation,
and intersubjectiﬁcation.
6.2.3 A model of deixis
Prior to discussion of the meaning structures of Japanese honoriﬁcs,
it will be useful to examine the deictic spatial pronoun here to illustrate deictic
semantic structure as we conceptualize it for purposes of this chapter. A model of
the relationship between the meaning and use of PDE here is given in ﬁgure 6.1.
The relationship between the utterance use of here by SP/W in the actual speech
event (the “physical action realm”) and its semantically encoded meaning M in
the “shared cognitive realm” is shown in ﬁgure 6.1 by a simple line to a box in-
cluding M. (Structural syntactic and phonological components of the L here are
omitted from this and subsequent ﬁgures, as are the IINs and GIINs that arise in the
ﬂow of speech.) Like most deictics, here has both deictic and nondeictic elements
231
Regularity in semantic change
SP/W AD/R
SP/W AD/R
Referent
location
Deictic
link
Shared
Cognitive
Realm (A) Deictic
"conceptualized
referent is
proximal to SP/W"
(B) Nondeictic
"conceptualized
referent is a
location"
M:
Physical Action Realm
(Actual speech event)
SP/W AD/R
Utterance of
here
Conceptualized
Speech Event (CSE)
Conceptualized
Described Event (CDE)
Figure 6.1. Schematic model of the meaning-in-use of PDE here (in this and
subsequent ﬁgures, → = linguistic utterance; = “informing,” i.e. enriching
shared cognitive realm).
of meaning (Fillmore 1997 [1971]). The nondeictic M-element of here signiﬁes a
“location,” while its deictic M-element individuates a particular location as “prox-
imal to SP/W.”
When a lexeme is selected in the speech stream, its meaning interacts with and
adds to the shared cognitive realm (knowledge of cognitive constructs) that in-
terlocutors share, at least in part, as speakers of the language who are building
common ground in a communicative situation (see H. Clark 1996). We use the
word “inform” for this interaction and enrichment, and we illustrate this informing
with arrows from the M box to relevant cognitive constructs. The dynamic nature
of the negotiation of meaning in communication is meant to be evoked by the
shaded edges of the boxes that represent key cognitive constructs, which include
the interlocutors’ conceptualization of:
(i) aworldthatisspokenabout(theconceptualizeddescribedevent,CDE),
(ii) the world of their speech event (CSE).
232
Development of social deictics
The turn-taking effects themselves are, however, not modeled in this or subsequent
ﬁgures.
Individual Ls need not include a representation of both of these conceptualized
worlds. Many Ls inform only the conceptualization of the described event, e.g. table,
woman. Some inform only the conceptualization of the speech event, e.g. in fact
in its DM meaning. Deictic M-elements, however, typically inform conceptualized
links between these two worlds, e.g. deictic or anaphoric references. These links are
represented by an arrow from CSE to CDE, because the conceptualized arrangement
of participants (and other elements) in the CSE forms the deictic “grounding” in
terms of which SP/W points to the arrangement of elements in the CDE (see also
discussion below). In ﬁgure 6.1, the deictic M-element of here informs the link
between CSE and CDE by individuating a particular CDE location as “proximal to
SP/W,” while the nondeictic M-element informs only CDE by signifying that the
word stands for a “location.”
Although most individual Ls are not deictic, most utterances are. The per-
vasiveness with which CDEs are “anchored” or “grounded,” i.e. oriented rela-
tive to the CSE through the use of deictic links, is well known (see e.g. Jakob-
son 1957, Fillmore 1997 [1971], Silverstein 1976a, Lyons 1977, 1982, Levinson
1983, Hanks 1992). In English, for example, main clauses are tensed, that is, they
are located with reference to SP/W’s conceptualization of speech-time. What is
important for our purposes here is that the conceptualized relationship between
SP/W and AD/R in the CSE is “copied” into the representation of the CDE,
and serves as its deictic “grounding.” For example, in Kim came here, neither
SP/W nor AD/R are participants in the CDE; however, the here cannot be under-
stood unless SP/W and AD/R are projected (“copied”) onto the abstract schema
Kim moved to a place. This copying is represented in ﬁgure 6.1 by the dotted
line boxes. Although the box that represents “here space” is drawn as exclud-
ing AD/R (its characteristic use), this L can refer to space that includes AD/R
as well as SP/W. For example, in Kim asked Bella to come here today, the spa-
tial goal of the motion may include both SP/W and also AD/R (a defeasible
GIIN). The thickness of the box around referent location space in the CDE rep-
resents the high salience awarded to the ﬁgure of the deictic expression (Hanks
1992).
In languages that encode social relationships of the T-V kind, when one of
the participants in the CDE is a second person, the social deixis involved can
be modeled in similar ways. Figure 6.2 represents the relationship between a
SP/W who positions him- or herself at a distance from AD/R, as in Fr. Je vous
souhaite bonnes vacances “I wish you (second person singular, polite) a good
vacation.” Note that the meaning of vous has two meaning elements: one (A)
deictic, the other (B) nondeictic (“human being,” or other being appropriate as
233
Regularity in semantic change
SP/W AD/R SP/W
C-Ref P
AD/R
CSE CDE
(a) SD
"C-Ref is
socially distal
(nonintimate)"
relative to SP/W
(b) NonSD
(person deixis)
"C-Ref is
second person
singular (= AD/R)"
(A) Deictic (B) Nondeictic
"C-Ref
is human"
Shared
Cognitive
Realm
M:
Physical
Action
Realm
(Actual
speech event)
SP/W AD/R
Deictic
links
Utterance of
vous
Figure 6.2. Schematic model of the “second person singular pronoun” meaning of
French vous (C-Ref = conceptualized referent; C-Ref P = conceptualized referent
person).
AD). Deictic (A) in turn has separate subcomponents: (i) the SD meaning element
“socially distal (nonintimate) relative to SP/W,” and (ii) nonSD deictic meaning
“second person singular.” Both of the deictic meaning elements inform the de-
ictic link between CSE and CDE. The person deixis indicates that the referent
person is AD/R, as is shown by the congruence between the referent box and the
copy of the AD/R box in the CDE. The choice of the SD pronoun that is used
for the linguistic expression of the CDE sets the tone for the subsequent inter-
action between SP/W and AD/R (including shifts to indicate displeasure, insult,
etc.).
We turn now to a discussion of canonical M-structures and paths of functional
change among honoriﬁc SDs for predicate items in Japanese (verbs, adjectives,
and the copula). These comprise a rich system that distinguishes between referent
and addressee honoriﬁc categories. Like T-V items in other languages, honoriﬁc
pronouns in Japanese are all referent SDs.
234
Development of social deictics
M
NonSD
CDE
SD
M
NonSD
SD
M
NonSD SD
M
NonSD
AD/R
SP/W
CSE CDE
Stage II Referent Honorific
Stage I Nonhonorific
Stage IV AffADHON
Stage III LexADHON
SP/W
AD/R
SP/W
AD/R
CSE
CDE
CSE
> >
>
C-Ref P
Figure 6.3. Schematic for the CDE > CSE development of Japanese predicate
honoriﬁcs (C-Ref P = conceptualized referent person).
6.3 Classes of honoriﬁcs and patterns of semantic change
in Japanese
Japanese predicate honoriﬁc SDs can be organized according to four
unidirectional stages of development, from informing CDE to informing CSE.6
These are diagrammed schematically in ﬁgure 6.3. The “stages” in the ﬁgure il-
lustrate only key categorial features for classes of honoriﬁcs. Individual honoriﬁc
forms have more complex structures, as was seen in ﬁgure 6.2.
The top-left (Stage I) diagram of ﬁgure 6.3 represents the meaning structures of
nonhonoriﬁc Ls whose meanings inform only the CDE. Into this category fall Ls
suchastableandwoman,andLswithmorecomplexsemanticframes,e.g.command,
achieve,deliver.Theframesofthelatter,althoughrelational,areinternaltotheCDE,
not situated according to a deictic grounding in the CSE. As is discussed in more
detail in section 6.4, a subset of such nonhonoriﬁcs constitutes a source of referent
honoriﬁcs in Japanese, which are modeled in the top-right diagram (Stage II) of
ﬁgure 6.3. Sources of referent honoriﬁcs in Japanese also include Ls with spatial
deictic meanings; their Ms are structured similarly to Stage II, although their deictic
M-element is spatial rather than social (see also ﬁgure 6.1).
6 Section 6.3 is based on Dasher (1995: chapter 2), where further details can be found.
235
Regularity in semantic change
Referent honoriﬁcs for predicate items in Japanese include a sizeable inventory
of verbs (e.g. motomeru “RESP:buy” (i.e. a respected person buys)), productive
formulae for marking referent honoriﬁcation on nonhonoriﬁc verbs, and copula
forms.7
As shown in ﬁgure 6.3, the SD meaning element of referent SDs informs a
deictic link (the bold arrow) between CSE and CDE. This link points to the social
position of a CDE participant (“referent person”) or relationships among referent
persons who are conceptualized as part of the semantic frame of the L in question.
Two classes of referent honoriﬁc indexing in Japanese are discussed in more detail
below. The deictic pointing is made from a grounding in the CSE, namely SP/W’s
conceptualization of his or her status vis-à-vis AD/R. The CSE thus enters into the
M-structure of this class, but the primary function of referent honoriﬁcs is to inform
CDE. Referent honoriﬁc SDs address AD/R’s image needs positively but indirectly
by indexing referents.
Referent honoriﬁcs in Japanese can be divided into two classes, “respectful”
and “humiliative,” depending on the conceptualized social standing of the subject
referent. These are illustrated in (2) and (3), respectively:
(2) Mikan o mesiagat-ta.
tangerine DO RESP:eat-PAST
“[Respected subject] ate a tangerine.”
(3) Mikan o itadai-ta.
tangerine DO HUMIL:receive/eat/drink-PAST
“[Humble subject] received a tangerine” or “[Humble subject] ate a
tangerine.”
Both of these classes of Japanese referent honoriﬁcs place primary salience on
the CDE participant who (if overtly expressed) is realized as the subject of the
expression (the “subject referent”): that is, they highlight the subject referent as the
ﬁgure of the deictic expression.8
As shown by the square brackets in (2) and (3), subject referents in Japanese need
not be overtly expressed; referents that are considered by SP/W to be identiﬁable
from context and from the selection of linguistic forms elsewhere in the sentence,
7 Referent honoriﬁc formulae, e.g. HonP-verb ni naru “RESP:verb” have nonSD meaning elements
thatareproceduralratherthancontentful,andso–strictlyspeaking–theirM-structureissomewhat
different from that diagrammed in Stage II of ﬁgure 6.3. Nevertheless, such formulae are not found
to develop into addressee honoriﬁc lexemes or addressee honoriﬁc afﬁxes in Japanese.
8 There have been various deﬁnitions and analyses of “subject” in Japanese. For the purpose of this
chapter, “subject” can be considered to be an abstract syntactic function to which an argument of
a predicate is assigned. In MdJ, overtly expressed subject NPs may be marked with the particle ga,
or (for any of several communicative and cognitive motivations that relate to CSE) with the topic
particle wa; for details see e.g. Kuno (1973), Shibatani (1990: 262–280). Fujii (1991) provides a
historical study of “subject” marking in Japanese.
236
Development of social deictics
including any honoriﬁc marking on the predicate, are typically left unexpressed
(see Martin 1975: 183–185). As these examples illustrate, the argument structure
role of the subject referent indexed by the referent honoriﬁc may vary depending
on the semantic frame of the L: Agent in the case of (2), Recipient in the case of
(3). Hence humble subjects can also be Agents, as in mikan o sasiage-ta “(Humble
subject) gave a tangerine.”
The class of honoriﬁcs illustrated in (2) points respectfully to the social stand-
ing of the subject referent, and the class shown in (3) points humiliatively to the
subject referent. Another approach to classifying Japanese honoriﬁcs differenti-
ates subject honoriﬁcs, which are equivalent to respectful honoriﬁcs, from object
(or non-subject) honoriﬁcs (e.g. Martin 1975, Harada 1976, Yoshiko Matsumoto
1997). In such frameworks, the non-subject honoriﬁc category appears to involve
the (implied) presence in the CDE of a respectfully indexed non-subject referent,
but this is questionable for (3) in the meaning “HUMIL:eat.” By contrast, in the
respectful–humiliative framework, (2) and (3) represent alternative ways of index-
ing the subject referent from the deictic ground of the SP/W–AD/R relationship in
the CSE; see ﬁgure 6.4.
As shown by the orientation of the SP/W and AD/R boxes in the CSE, the
canonical use of referent honoriﬁcs in Japanese assumes a deictic ground in
which AD/R is superior to SP/W. Conversely, the use of referent honoriﬁcs
has the expressive effect of elevating AD/R to “higher” social standing in what
may be metaphorically conceived as socially “vertical” space (Yoshiko Matsumoto
1988: 413). In MdJ, as in many T-V languages, referent honoriﬁcs are now often
used reciprocally (see 6.2.2). This reciprocal elevating of AD/R status and lowering
of SP/W status may be a means of expressing SP/W’s own cultural elegance or
reﬁnement in MdJ (Miller 1967, Okamoto 1999). However, in such situations,
some asymmetry in the selection of referent honoriﬁcs or in other strategies for
expressing deference will typically still reveal one interlocutor to have (or be treated
as having) higher social standing. In this respect, while they have much in common
with T-V SDs, MdJ referent honoriﬁcs differ in partially retaining what in Europe
were largely older vertical relationships. They also differ in so far as ﬁrst and third
persons may be honoriﬁcally marked: respected subject referents are mostly second
or third persons, while humble subject referents are typically ﬁrst person references.
Social deixis in modern Japanese is sensitive to group membership. Thus, in
speaking to an outsider, SP/W is likely to use humiliative forms in reference to
third persons who fall into SP/W’s social group, as well as in reference to him- or
herself. In ﬁgure 6.4, this characteristic is shown ﬁrst by the designations SP/W+
and AD/R+ in the copies of those boxes in the CDE; in other words, the deictic
ground of the CDE includes the social groups of SP/W and AD/R as well as the
interlocutors themselves. In addition, sensitivity to group membership is shown by
237
Regularity in semantic change
(A) SD
"SUBJ Ref is RESP"
M:
SP/W SP/W+
AD/R
AD/R+
SUBJ Ref
CSE CDE
Ref
action
(B) NonSD
"eat"
Deictic
link
a)
(A) SD
"SUBJ Ref is HUMIL"
M:
SP/W
AD/R
SP/W+
SUBJ Ref
CSE CDE
AD/R+
Ref
action
(B) NonSD
"receive, eat, drink"
Deictic
link
b)
Figure 6.4. Respectful and humiliative referent honoriﬁc M-structures in Modern
Japanese (Ref action = conceptualized referred-to action; SUBJ Ref =
conceptualized subject referent; SP/W+ = speaker and speaker’s social group;
AD/R+ = addressee and addressee’s social group). a) mesiagaru “RESP:eat” and
b) itadaku “HUMIL:receive, eat, drink.”
the overlap of the subject referent box (the ﬁgure of the deictic reference) with the
AD/R+ box (respectful honoriﬁcs) and the SP/W+ box (humiliative honoriﬁcs).
The salience of group membership in Japanese society is situation-sensitive. The
same two individuals may be conceptualized as part of the same social group on
some occasions (e.g. when speaking to a third person outsider) and as belonging
to different groups on other occasions (e.g. when in confrontation with each other;
see e.g. Ishida 1984).
Respectful referent predicate honoriﬁcs in MdJ have in common a social deictic
meaning structure in which they index their subject referent as being:
238
Development of social deictics
(i) socially superior to SP/W (in MdJ restricted to second and third person
referents)
(ii) typically socially superior to any non-subject argument referents, and
(iii) typically associated with AD/R or AD/R’s social group.
While (i) is a crucial element of the meanings of honoriﬁcs in this class, (ii) and (iii)
are defeasible. For example, (ii) can be ignored when SP/W uses a respectful hon-
oriﬁc to request that AD/R (who is thereby treated as a social superior) perform an
action vis-à-vis an even higher ranking third person; in MdJ one says the equivalent
of Please RESP:tell our teacher hello (not HUMIL:tell, even though the teacher has
higher status than either interlocutor). Similarly, with regard to (iii), a third person
subject referent need not be associated with a member of AD/R’s social group, e.g.
when SP/W talks about her respected teacher. Figure 6.4a illustrates (i) by means
of the difference in relative height of the subject referent box and the dotted-line
SP/W+ box. Property (ii) is not shown, as the semantic frame of mesiagaru includes
no relevant non-subject referent. Property (iii) is shown in that the subject referent
box completely encloses the dotted-line AD/R+ box and additionally includes other
“space,” into which fall respectfully indexed third persons not associated with AD/R
or AD/R’s social group.
Humiliative referent predicate honoriﬁcs in MdJ index that:
(i) the subject referent is inferior in status relative to a non-subject argu-
ment referent or to AD/R,
(ii) the subject referent is associated with SP/W or SP/W’s social group,
and
(iii) the non-subject argument referent participating in this deixis is typi-
cally associated with AD/R or AD/R’s group.
While (i) and (ii) are crucial properties of meaning for humiliative honoriﬁcs in MdJ,
(iii) is defeasible. For example, in (3) SP/W could have received the tangerine from
a respected person not associated with AD/R (e.g. “I HUMIL:received a tangerine
from my teacher”). Figure 6.4.2 illustrates (i) via the difference in relative height
of the subject referent box and the dotted-line AD/R+ box. In (3), the semantic
frame of itadaku in the meaning “HUMIL:eat” does not include a non-subject
referent other than the object consumed; the sole point of reference (grounding) for
the humiliative “lowering” of the subject referent is the SP/W–AD/R relationship.
Property (ii) is shown by the congruence of the bold-line subject referent box with
the dotted-line SP/W+ box. Property (iii) is not shown. However, in the meaning
“HUMIL:receive,” itadaku may include in its semantic frame a non-subject referent
who is the source of the object undergoing transfer. The SD positioning of such a
non-subject source referent would be drawn as a solid-line box to indicate that this
referent is indexed by the deictic expression. In accordance with (i), that box would
239
Regularity in semantic change
be located higher than the subject referent box. In accordance with (iii), the source
referent box would completely enclose the dotted-line AD/R+ box and also include
additional “space” for other third persons not associated with AD/R. Nevertheless,
the line around the non-subject referent box would be less bold than that of the
subject referent, which is the primary ﬁgure of the deictic expression.
From OJ through the EMJ period, the deictic M structures of referent honoriﬁcs
exhibited less sensitivity to group membership than in subsequent periods of the
language. Respectful honoriﬁcs were often used in reference to third persons of
higher social rank than SP/W, regardless of any social afﬁliation of the referent
with SP/W or AD/R. Similarly, there were many instances of humiliative Ls used
in reference to actions of third persons not associated with SP/W, provided that the
subject referent had lower social status than did a non-subject argument referent. The
gradual increase in concern with group membership is likely to reﬂect language-
external social changes and is in keeping with the power-to-solidarity trend found
in European language communities by Brown and Gilman (1960). In the highly
stratiﬁed, monolithic court society of those early periods of Japan, many instances of
honoriﬁc use reﬂected status differences that were generally recognized in society;
subjective grounding in the SP/W–AD/R relationship is sometimes not obvious.
Nevertheless, even in those eras, a given SP/W might select different forms for the
same referent in different situations (Morino 1971: 100–103). For example, the late
tenth century writer Sei Shonagon in Makura no soosi (“The Pillow Book”) wrote
that she disliked it when servants used the RESP form in reference to their masters
when speaking to outsiders; she thought that HUMIL forms should be used instead
(Tsujimura 1971: 15). This early indication of in-group/out-group sensitivity points
out that (at least in some language users’ opinion) HUMIL forms should be used
subjectively according to the point of view of SP/W in the speech event; in other
words, these forms reveal the shifting meanings characteristic of deictics among at
least some speakers from early on.
Returning to ﬁgure 6.3, we see that referent honoriﬁcs (Stage II) may develop
into addressee honoriﬁc lexemes (LexADHONs, Stage III), some of which further
develop into addressee honoriﬁc afﬁxes (AffADHONs, Stage IV). In fact, referent
honoriﬁcs are the only source of addressee honoriﬁcs in Jp. (Tsujimura 1968, Lewin
1969). While referent honoriﬁcs (both respectful and humiliative) point to the social
standing of at least one “referent,” i.e. participant in the CDE, addressee honoriﬁcs
directly encode the social deictic positioning of AD/R relative to SP/W indepen-
dently of their possible roles in the CDE. Example (4) includes both subclasses of
addressee honoriﬁcs in Japanese.
(4) Saikin zuibun atataka-ku nat-te mairi-masi-ta.
recently very warm-ADV become-GER go/come:POL-POL-PAST
“Recently, [the weather] has gradually become very warm.”
240
Development of social deictics
The LexADHON mairu “go/come:POL” functions in (4) as a serialized verb sig-
nifying gradual entry into a state. (By “serialized” verb, we mean a verb that is
adjoined as V2 to another verb. Typically this V2 has undergone a semantic change,
whereas V1 has not.) The AffADHON subclass is represented by the verb sufﬁx
-masu.
Following terminology familiar in Japanese linguistics, we use the term
“polite” (POL) to refer to the type of social standing that these items deictically
award to AD/R. In MdJ, the politeness expressed by an addressee honoriﬁc involves
the indexing of nonintimate social distance between SP/W and AD/R as well as
possible elevation of AD/R. At present, the reciprocal use of addressee honoriﬁcs
by both interlocutors is characteristic of most business and social settings outside
of the family home, regardless of the relative social status of the interlocutors.
Addressee honoriﬁcs are now the primary (but not exclusive) markers of distinct
speech registers or styles often called “speech levels” in discussions of Jp. and
Korean (Martin 1964). In MdJ, the “polite” register (characterized especially by the
addressee honoriﬁc verb sufﬁx masu and the copula form desu) contrasts on the
one hand with a “very polite” (VPOL) speech register, which is characterized by
the VPOL “be” verb gozaimasu (which also appears as an element of the VPOL
copula de-gozaimasu) and by relatively heavy use of referent honoriﬁcs as well as
addressee honoriﬁc Ls. On the other hand the POL register contrasts with a “plain”
speech level, which is characterized by forms that are unmarked for social deixis but
whose use is usually considered to indicate a sociolinguistically signiﬁcant absence
of “polite” marking. The “plain” sentence that corresponds to (4) is (5):
(5) Saikin zuibun atataka-ku nat-te ki-ta.
recently very warm-ADV become-GER come-PAST
“Recently, [the weather] has gradually become very warm.”
Note that the Eng. translations of (4) and (5) are identical. The meaningful distinc-
tions between the two sentences in Jp. appear in the way they inform the conceptu-
alization of SP/W–AD/R relations in the CSE, not of any facet of the CDE.
The distinction between LexADHONs and AffADHONs is based on their nonSD
meaning element(s). As shown in ﬁgure 6.3, the SD M-element of both subclasses
directly informs the AD/R box in the CSE. LexADHONs continue to inform the
CDE through their nonSD meaning element(s), which name, describe, or modify
the action or state of the CDE. The nonSD M-elements may include spatial or
temporal deictic elements as well as nondeictic M-elements; in (4) the directed
motion meaning of mairu describes a characteristic of the CDE, i.e. “gradual entry
into a state.” In contrast, the nonSD M-element of AffADHONs such as -masu
is procedural rather than contentful: it plays a role in the marking of discourse
structure by orienting the utterance in which it appears to the ongoing discourse
241
Regularity in semantic change
(Dasher 1995: chapter 3). In ﬁgure 6.3, Stage IV, the nonSD M-element accordingly
informs the small arrow that represents the linguistic interaction between SP/W and
AD/R in the CSE.
This section has provided an overview of classes of honoriﬁcs in Japanese and
introduced their canonical M-structures and stages of functional development. The
Ms of most nonhonoriﬁc Ls inform only the CDE. Referent honoriﬁcs have Ms
that primarily inform the CDE but secondarily inform the CSE, which serves as
the grounding for their deictic reference to a CDE participant. In contrast, ad-
dressee honoriﬁcs attach salience to the AD/R as the ﬁgure of the deictic expression,
thereby serving primarily to inform the CSE. While the nonSD M-element(s) of
LexADHONs continue to inform the CDE, those of AffADHONs inform only
the CSE. We now consider the development of referent SD function (section
6.4) and the shift from referent to addressee SD function (section 6.5) in greater
detail.
6.4 The development of referent social deictic function
In this section we give a sketch of some case studies from Jp. and
Eng., showing how SD meanings may develop from nonSD meanings.9
Although
most texts provide some evidence for politeness forms, particularly rich sources are
provided by, on the formal level, petitions, and often on a less formal level, letters.
Drama and other representations of conversational interaction provide evidence
for not only politeness but also for its inverse – insult, and rudeness – and for
cooperativeness versus conﬂict in general (see Jucker and Taavitsainen 2000 for a
proposal about how to study the pragmatic space of insults in historical texts). For
the history of English a particularly rich source is the trials recorded from the EMdE
period on (see e.g. Hargrave 1730).
The history of the Japanese language provides a wealth of examples of nonSD Ls
and constructions acquiring SD function. Although referent honoriﬁcs have ﬁgured
prominently in most styles of Jp. since the earliest recorded texts, there has been
an almost complete turnover in the large inventories of Jp. predicate honoriﬁcs and
SD personal pronouns.
Throughout the recorded history of Jp., source predicate Ls and constructions
exhibit one or more of the recurring patterns of semantic change listed below in
their development of referent honoriﬁc from nonhonoriﬁc source meanings.
(i) PREDICATE ITEMS THAT REPRESENT DIRECTED MOTION COME TO ENCODE THE SOCIAL STATUS OF
SUBJECT AND OBJECT REFERENT RELATIVE TO SP/W. Examples include EMJ kudasaru “be sent
9 Section 6.4 is based on Dasher (1995: chapter 5), which includes additional examples and further
details. The case studies that follow, however, represent new investigations.
242
Development of social deictics
down” > “RESP:give” (see 6.4.1), OJ ageru “move something from low to high
position” > LMJ “HUMIL:give (to a superior),” and LMJ sin-zuru “HUMIL:give”
(Ch. character-based action-noun for “put forward, advance something” + suru
“do”).
(ii) PREDICATES OF MOTION ACROSS A SPATIAL BOUNDARY COME TO ENCODE THE SOCIAL STATUS OF A
REFERENT RELATIVE TO SP/W. This pattern includes two different pragmatic associations
in Japanese culture. On the one hand, areas that are considered sacred or otherwise
accessible only by certain persons, e.g. Shinto shrines and the Imperial court, are
conceptualized as bounded areas (Sansom 1952: 55–57). This association is illus-
trated graphically by an ornamental rope tied around a shrine building, a sacred
tree, rock, etc. Entry into such an area is associated with motion directed toward
a respected goal or with the power/authority to enter it. Examples include the OJ
construction mawi-iru (mau “HUMIL:go/come” + iru “enter”) > LOJ ma(w)iru
“HUMIL:go/come (in)to a respected place” ( > MdJ mairu); and the LMJ re-
spectful formula ira-seraru (iru “enter” + -seraru “VRESP”) > EMdJ irassyaru
“RESP:go/come/be.” On the other hand, onstage arenas such as public or ofﬁcial
settings, e.g. the capital city, are conceptualized as unbounded areas that are associ-
ated with culture and prestige; thus, in MdJ one says mati ni deru “go out (emerge)
to (the/a) city.” Motion out to an unbounded area is thus associated with motion
toward a respected goal or with the power/authority to come out to such a location.
Examples include the OJ construction mawi-idu (mau “HUMIL:go/come” + idu “go
out, emerge”) > LOJ maudu “HUMIL:go/come (out) to a respected place,” which
survives in the MdJ idiom hatu moode “ﬁrst visit of the year to a Shinto shrine”
(a New Year’s custom involving large crowds); and also idu in various construc-
tions built from honoriﬁc formulae, e.g. LMJ odyaru (< HonP-ide, the nominalized
form of idu, + aru “be”), EMdJ oide nasaru, and MdJ oide ni naru, all of which
express general existence or motion but mark respectful referent honoriﬁcation on
the subject: “RESP:go/come/be.”
(iii) PREDICATES DENOTING THE SUCCESSFUL ATTAINMENT OF A GOAL OR ACCOMPLISHMENT OF AN
ACTION COME TO ENCODE THE ACTION OF A SOCIAL SUPERIOR. Examples include the EMJ for-
mula nas-aru (nasu “achieve, create, make, cause to become” + -(r)aru “RESP”) >
LMJ pro-verb nasaru “RESP:do”; OJ wataru “transit (across, from one end to an-
other)” > EMJ “RESP:go/come/be”; OJ kosu “go over, overtake” > EMdJ for-
mula okosi nasaru “RESP:go/come”; OJ hakobu “carry” > EMdJ formula ohakobi
nasaru “RESP:go/come”; and OJ hirou “pick up, obtain (unintentionally), walk
with care” > EMdJ formula ohiroi nasaru “RESP:go/come (especially on foot).”10
10 Hakobu and hirou are both found in constructions with the meaning “walk” that pre-date their
honoriﬁc use, e.g. LOJ ayumi wo hakobu lit. “carry [one’s] footsteps” = “walk” (Ohno, Satake,
and Maeda 1990: 1055), LMJ asi wo hirou lit. “pick up [one’s] feet” (ibid. p. 1144).
243
Regularity in semantic change
(iv) PREDICATES FOR STATIVE CONCEPTS AND LACK OF ACTION COME TO ENCODE HUMILIATIVE MEAN-
INGS. Examples include OJ samoraFu “attend a superior, wait for an order” > LOJ
saburahu “HUMIL:be”; OJ stative verb form wi-ari “be sitting, crouching, motion-
less” > LMJ oru “HUMIL:be”; and OJ ukagau “peer, watch/wait (for an opportu-
nity)” > LMJ “HUMIL:ask, inquire” (later “HUMIL:hear, visit”).
(v) PREDICATES FOR MEANINGS THAT IMPLY SOCIAL STATUS COME TO ENCODE BOTH A METONYMI-
CALLY RELATED NONDEICTIC M AND SOCIAL DEIXIS. Examples include OJ oFosu “command
(speech act verb)” > LOJ “RESP:say” (and its related EMJ construction o(h)ose-
raru “RESP:say” > MdJ ossyaru “RESP:say”); OJ makaru “receive permission to
withdraw, leave a superior” > LOJ “HUMIL:go/come (from a respected place)”;
and OJ itasu “cause to reach, deliver, devote (one’s entire strength) to” > LMJ
“HUMIL:do” (i.e. a pro-verb).
(vi) PREDICATE ITEMS THAT REFLECT THE OUTPUT OF SOCIOLINGUISTIC DEPERSONALIZATION
STRATEGIES, E.G. PASSIVE, CAUSATIVE, OR NOMINALIZED CONSTRUCTIONS, COME TO ENCODE SD.
Various referent honoriﬁc formulae reﬂect this pattern, e.g. the LOJ
passive/potential/spontaneous sufﬁx V-(r)aru “V is done, (subject) is able to do
V, V occurs spontaneously” > early EMJ “RESP:V”; and honoriﬁc preﬁx + nomi-
nalized verb + ni naru “it becomes an honorable V-ing” > MdJ “RESP:V”; similarly,
collocations such as o-me ni kakaru (RESP-“eye” + DAT + kakaru “be attached
to”) > LMJ “HUMIL:meet (respected person)”; and Ls such as the OJ passive verb
form kikoyu “be heard, is heard (spontaneously)” > early LOJ “HUMIL:say” >
LOJ pro-verb “HUMIL:do.” Honoriﬁc constructions built of nominalized verbs or
Ch.-character-based action nouns + a pro-verb “do” likewise exhibit this pattern.
Only a subset of the Ls and constructions with meanings in each of the above cat-
egories are ever exploited as honoriﬁcs. Many of these patterns of semantic change
may appear to represent metaphoric shifts across conceptual domains, e.g. spatial
deixis > social deixis. However, on closer examination, it is consistently the case
that new predicate honoriﬁcs in Japanese develop from those Ls and constructions
that index social status marking as a GIIN; other semantically similar items do not
acquire honoriﬁc function. For example, OJ itadaku “elevate, hold up (something)
to the top of one’s head” signiﬁed a gesture that is still used in Japanese culture in
order to show appreciation or reverence for a gift received from a social superior; the
L may derive from ita “summit, (upper) limit” + daku “embrace, hold in one’s arms”
(Ohno, Satake, and Maeda 1990 [1974]: 100). In LMJ itadaku comes to encode the
referent honoriﬁc meaning “HUMIL:receive, eat/drink.” Itadaku thus exempliﬁes
pattern (i) (see the motion of the gesture) and possibly pattern (v) (see the social
signiﬁcance of the gesture). In contrast, semantically similar LMJ motiageru “lift
up” (motu “hold” + ageru “raise”) lacks any such GIIN and fails to develop into
an honoriﬁc; instead, this L develops the meanings “increase one’s possessions or
244
Development of social deictics
status” and “lift up with praise” by EMdJ. Similar evidence of the relevance of
prior pragmatic associations with social status marking will be discussed in the his-
tory of kudasaru (6.4.1). The consideration of which Ls and constructions develop
semantically encoded referent honoriﬁc meanings in the history of Japanese sup-
ports a view that privileges invited inferencing as the mechanism of change.
The development of SD meaning from nonSD meaning intrinsically involves the
development of procedural meaning. It also intrinsically involves subjectiﬁcation:
an SD meaning depends on SP/W’s point of view as the deictic ground for the
individuation of the subject referent. Thus, while prehonoriﬁc OJ oFosu “command
(speech act verb)” was typically used in reference to actions by individuals of high
socialstanding(suchasallowedthemtogivecommands),LOJo(h)osuinitsreferent
honoriﬁc meaning “RESP:say” was additionally applied to other acts of speaking
and to the actions of other persons whom SP/W recognized through the selection of
this L as having superior social status relative to SP/W. In other words, the subject
of LOJ o(h)osu need not be a commander, merely a social superior of SP/W.
Furthermore, the development of SD meaning intrinsically involves intersubjec-
tiﬁcation, because SDs serve to express SP/W’s attention to AD/R’s image needs.
However, in the patterns of semantic development among SDs, as in other domains
examined in this book, subjectiﬁcation dominates in the early stages, and then some
items undergo increasing intersubjectiﬁcation (nonhonoriﬁcs ﬁrst develop referent
honoriﬁc function, and some referent honoriﬁcs subsequently shift to addressee
honoriﬁc function in Japanese). Referent honoriﬁcs do not directly index the social
status of AD/R; instead, they address the image needs of AD/R indirectly via their
indexing of the social status of a referent in the CDE. Therefore, subjectiﬁcation
dominates in the development of referent honoriﬁc function. Increasing intersub-
jectiﬁcation is found in the shift from referent to addressee honoriﬁc function.
6.4.1 Japanese kudasaru “RESP:give to SP/W (group)”
As a RESP referent honoriﬁc, MdJ kudasaru is characteristically used
with second and third person subject referents, and not with ﬁrst person subject
referents. MdJ kudasaru is further restricted to actions directed toward SP/W+, i.e.
SP/W or a member of the SP/W social group, but there is no contrasting RESP
verb for “give out from SP/W+.” The set of contrasting SD verbs for “give” in MdJ
is shown in ﬁgure 6.5. In addition to use as a full verb, kudasaru may appear as
V2 in a serialized verb construction to indicate that V1 is done as a favor. In MdJ,
kudasaru appears with high frequency in the imperative form in this serialized
verb construction (V-te kudasai) in order to express a directive built on V1. The
sociolinguistic function of this construction is similar to that of please in MdE
directives, e.g. kaite kudasai “RESP:give SP/W (the favor of) writing” = “(please)
RESP:write.”
245
Regularity in semantic change
Referent honorific
Humiliative
0
0
sasiageru
"give to SP/W+"
Nonhonorific
Respectful
kudasaru
ageru (yaru)
kureru
"give out from SP/W+"
Figure 6.5. Deictic donatory verbs in Modern Japanese.
Stage I: kudasaru1: “send down”
Kudasaru ﬁrst appears in EMJ as a derivational form of OJ kudasu
“send down” + the verb sufﬁx -(r)aru. The development of referent honoriﬁc mean-
ing by kudasu in EMJ reﬂects pattern (i) above, namely the use of an item that
represents directed motion to encode relative social status. The sufﬁx -(r)aru (older
form -(r)ayu) preexisted its sufﬁxation to kudasu. It is found from OJ on with the
meanings “passive, potential, spontaneous” (i.e. “V is done,” “(subject) can do V,”
“V occurs naturally, spontaneously”). Around the time of the transition between
LOJ and EMJ (early twelfth century), -(r)aru additionally came to be used as a
respectful referent honoriﬁc formula (for details, see Tsujimura 1971, Karashima
1993). Verbs with this sufﬁx attached reﬂect a sociolinguistic depersonalization
strategy; see meaning change type (vi) in section 6.4.
Both kudasu and its intransitive counterpart kudaru have GIINs with socially
marked change of location from OJ on, e.g. uses such as “send from the capital
city to the provinces” (NKD v. 2:499, 506). From LOJ, both verbs are found to
refer to the sending down or promulgation of an order or judgment, a CDE that is
associated with authority or high status of the subject. However, not all verbs that
have such GIINs with socially marked change of location develop semanticized
honoriﬁc status. For example, noboru “climb up” appears frequently in LMJ texts
for the action “go up to the capital city,” but this L does not go on to develop the SD
function of deictically encoding social status. Furthermore, there are a number of
semantically similar verbs in Japanese that do not have such GIINs of social status
and do not develop honoriﬁc meanings, e.g. sageru “lower (one’s head, etc.), hang
(a sign from a pole, etc.)”; orosu “lower (a sail), let down (a ladder), bring/take
down (from a high shelf), drop off (a passenger), etc.”; furu “(rain, snow) falls.”
Stage II: kudasaru2: “RESP:give”
The use of kudasaru as a referent honoriﬁc with the meaning
“RESP:give” (kudasaru2) is marginal in the Enkyobon text of the Heike Mono-
gatari (Tale of the Heike, 1309–10 AC). In this text kudasaru occurs sixty-ﬁve
times as a full verb and an additional sixty-ﬁve times as a serialized verb. Of the full
246
Development of social deictics
verb examples, ﬁfty-ﬁve involve the sending down or handing down of various sorts
of imperial edicts and orders (including twenty-four examples with senzi “imperial
edict” and sixteen with inzen “order by the retired emperor”), e.g. (6):
(6) Tenka ryooan no senzi wo
entire:country mourning ASSOC imperial:edict DO
kudas-aru.
send:down-PASS/RESP:send:down
“An imperial edict of mourning over the entire country was sent down.”
(1309–10, Enkyobon Heike Monogatari [Kitahara and Ogawa 1996:
vol. I, 92.7])
Kudasaru in (6) presumably carries a GIIN of relative social status between the
subject and indirect object referents, but it is not honoriﬁc since there appears to
be no SD grounding in the point of view of SP/W. Example (6) illustrates well
the difﬁculties of determining how to interpret the use of kudasaru. The Chinese
character with which -(r)aru is written in (6), and in many other examples in this text,
stands for passive. However, the fact that senzi “imperial edict” is case-marked with
the direct object particle wo appears to support the analysis of -(r)aru as a respectful
formula without passive meaning, speciﬁcally as a respectful subject marker, at least
as an implicature. Note, however, that the subject itself is unspeciﬁed. In “retired
emperor who has taken the tonsure as a monk” is the subject of the previous sentence,
andfromthestorylineitislikelythatthepromulgationofthisedictistobeassociated
with him. Senzi were written documents with the seal of the emperor, who may either
have promulgated them himself, in which case he would be the implied subject of the
sentence, or through someone else, in which case the subject would be an indeﬁnite
pronoun. Despite the possibility that -(r)aru is being used here to mark the subject
respectfully, the meaning of kudasaru in this example appears to be “send down”
rather than “give” because it involves no change of ownership; (6) is therefore at
best a potential transitional example of the shift to kudasaru2. The remaining ten
examples of full verb kudasaru involve the sending down of imperial servants or
messengers from the capital to perform some task in another location, i.e. kudasaru1.
In forty-ﬁve of the serialized verb examples in this text, kudasaru is adjoined
to the verb o(h)osu. In many of these instances, o(h)osu appears to have its earlier
nonhonoriﬁc meaning “(issue a) command.” In some instances, however, it seems to
have a newer SD referent honoriﬁc meaning “RESP:say/command” (a metonymic
derivative of “send down a (written) edict”). In such contexts, kudasaru can be inter-
preted as having a harmonically honoriﬁc meaning, at least as a GIIN. Consider (7):
(7) Midoo no gosyo he mesi,
(place) ASSOC Imperial:palace GOAL RESP:summon
kenzyoo no koto ha ika-ni to
award:for:service ASSOC thing TOP how QUOT
247
Regularity in semantic change
o(h)ose kudasaru.
RESP:say RESP:give/RESP:send:down
“[The retired emperor] summoned [Chikanori, who was in charge of the award
ceremony] to the Mido Palace and RESP:asked [him] the favor of [telling]
how the matter of the award [of rank for service] [was coming along]”/“. . .
and RESP:sent:down the command that he should [tell] how the matter of the
award [was coming along].”
(1309–10, Enkyobon Heike Monogatari [Kitahara and Ogawa 1996:
vol. I, 46.16])
Although o(h)ose-kudasaru in (7) can be interpreted, as in the ﬁrst gloss, to mean
“RESP:give (me the favor of) saying” (kudasaru2), it can also be interpreted as
“RESP:send:down the commanding” (kudasaru1), as in the second gloss. The com-
munication could have been transmitted in the palace to Chikanori in written form or
indirectly through an intermediary. In an additional eight of the serialized verb ex-
amples, V1 is a verb that expresses the preparation or transfer of written commands
or similar documents, a context that favors a kudasaru1 interpretation.
A further eleven serialized verb examples of kudasaru in the Enkyobon Heike
text involve actions in which the direct object that undergoes transfer is a person,
e.g. mesi-kudasaru “RESP:summon and RESP:send:down from the capital” (seven
examples) and ohi-kudasaru “RESP:chase out and RESP:send:down from the cap-
ital.” In the one remaining serialized verb example, kudasaru appears in a predicate
that seems to involve transfer of ownership:
(8) Tada tabi kudasare-soora(h)e to
just/only RESP:give RESP:send:down-POL:IMP QUOT
moos-are-kere-ba.
HUMIL:say-RESP-PAST-and:so
“[Yoshitsune] said ‘Just give it to me.’”
(1309–10, Enkyobon Heike Monogatari [Kitahara and Ogawa 1996:
vol. II, 476.15])
In (8), kudasaru is adjoined to tabi, a form of the verb tabu, itself a contraction of the
referent honoriﬁc verb tama(h)u “RESP:give” (instantiated since OJ); kudasaru ap-
pears to reinforce the social superior-to-inferior relationship that is indexed by tabu.
This example also includes the addressee honoriﬁc sooroo, whose presence supports
the interpretation of the preceding clause as a direct quotation (see 6.5). The attach-
ment of -(r)aru (here most likely a RESP sufﬁx) to moosu “HUMIL:say” indicates
that the subject (Yoshitsune) is higher in social standing than SP/W (the narrator),
while moosu itself indexes Yoshitsune as lower than his addressee. Moosu thus
reinforces the relative status of the subject and indirect object of kudasaru.
Kudasaru is only rarely instantiated in other texts until the end of the LMJ period.
This is most likely due to the establishment around this time of a classical literary
248
Development of social deictics
model based on the earlier language forms of LOJ literature, in which “RESP:give”
continues to be expressed by tama(h)u and its various derivatives (especially
tamawaru, which is formed with the RESP sufﬁx -(r)aru). An examination of
ﬁve Noh plays attributed to Kan’ami (d. 1384) revealed no examples of kudasaru
but numerous examples of tama(h)u and its derivatives. Sato (1974) notes only
sporadic examples of kudasaru in Otogi Zoosi (a fourteenth century collection
of didactic stories) and Buddhist literature through the ﬁfteenth century. In a
word frequency study, Hisatake (1974) likewise ﬁnds only infrequent examples of
kudasaru until the so-called “Christian materials” (late sixteenth century roman-
letter translations into Japanese of Aesop’s fables, a modernized vernacular version
of the Heike Monogatari, etc.). In these texts, kudasaru is one of the most frequent
lexical items.
By the end of LMJ (late sixteenth to early seventeenth century), kudasaru has
become the dominant verb for “RESP:give” in colloquial passages, while tamau
and its derivatives, such as tamawaru, continue to be found in styles that follow the
classical literary model. Thus, kudasaru is the most frequent verb for “RESP:give”
in comic Kyogen plays (recorded in the seventeenth century based on orally
transmitted dialog from LMJ). In Daikoku Renga (“Daikoku’s Linked Verse,”
Kitagawa and Yasuda 1972: 81–86), however, two worshippers use tamawaru in
regard to the action of the god Daikoku in a poem that serves as an act of worship
to praise the god. When Daikoku subsequently appears in person in response to
their poem, they use kudasaru2 in a directive that requests the god to come closer
or continue the dialog with them:
(9) Haa, arigato-o gozaru. Madu kooko-o
Haa auspicious-ADV be:POL ﬁrst/by:all:means here-ADV
go-rairin nasare-te kudasare-i.
RESP-attendance RESP:do-GER RESP:give-IMPER
(Both worshippers in unison): “Oh, how auspicious! By all means, give (us the
favor of) your attendance.”
(before 17th century, Kyogen, Daikoku Renga [Kitagawa and Yasuda 1972:
84.11])
In a subsequent passage cited as a special recitative, Daikoku uses tamau and
other archaic RESP forms with self-reference in recounting his origin to the
worshippers.11
Near the end of the play, the worshippers likewise use another
11 Examples of RESP honoriﬁcs for self-reference are also found in the recorded speech of the
emperor and the highest rank of nobility from OJ through LMJ. Various explanations have been
proposed (see Dasher 1995: 149–150 for details). In this particular text, it is also possible that the
actor playing the god has been assigned the point of view of a more neutral narrator in recounting
the god’s origin and exploits.
249
Regularity in semantic change
archaic form, tabi-tama-e “RESP:give-RESP-IMPER” in a directive seeking bless-
ings from Daikoku, who is still on-stage. The use of kudasaru (as opposed to
tamau) in reference to the god’s action in (9) may express the speakers’ sur-
prise at the sudden entrance and self-introduction by the god, but the details of
stylistic nuance await further sociolinguistic analysis of similar texts and LMJ in
general.
The association of tamau and its derivatives with accepted classical liter-
ary models may explain the puzzling absence of kudasaru from the lists of
RESP honoriﬁcs in the 1604–8 grammar by Rodriguez (Doi, tr. 1955), although
Rodriguez uses kudasaru as a respectful form in quite a few example sentences
throughout that massive work. The contemporary 1603 Nippo Jisho (Japanese–
Portuguese Dictionary) cites the meaning “give from a superior to an inferior” for
kudasaru (Doi, Morita, and Chonan 1980: 162). However, in addition to this mean-
ing, which assigns RESP to the subject, Nippo Jisho additionally cites the meaning
“HUMIL:eat/drink” for kudasaru. This secondary meaning, which assigns HUMIL
to the subject, derives from the ambiguity in the meaning of the -(r)aru sufﬁx dur-
ing MJ discussed with reference to (6) above. If the sufﬁx has passive meaning, the
construction kudas-aru means “be sent down by, or receive from a superior,” and
the meaning is “receive,” not “give.” The semantic ﬁeld of HUMIL verbs for “re-
ceive” throughout the history of Japanese includes the actions “eat/drink,” probably
through a metonymic extension with “receive food/drink.” During MJ, tamawaru
(tamau “RESP:give” + -(r)aru) exhibits the same polysemy: “RESP:give” and also
“HUMIL:receive/eat/drink.” In EMdJ, the conjugational pattern of kudasaru di-
verged from that of -(r)aru, so that the composition of the L became opaque,
and association with the passive was lost. Accordingly, kudasaru ceased to be
found in the HUMIL meaning that had been based on the passive meaning of the
sufﬁx.
The development of SD function by kudasaru involves the development of a
procedural meaning: the honoring of the subject as respectful (or the humbling of
the subject in the secondary meaning discussed above). It also involves subjectiﬁ-
cation. While a nonhonoriﬁc meaning does not necessarily involve SP/W’s point
of view, SD meaning by deﬁnition incorporates the SP/W point-of-view as the
ground for the SD reference. As shown by the examples in the Enkyobon Heike,
the pre-honoriﬁc M of kudasaru (“send down”) is associated with a GIIN of gener-
ally recognized social superior–inferior relationships; any dependence on SP/W’s
subjective assessment of the participants in the CDE is minimal. By the time of
the Kyogen plays, the deictic ground of kudasaru2 has become established as being
deﬁned from SP/W’s point of view: LMJ speakers use kudasaru to award social
superiority not only to obviously high ranking members of society, but also to sec-
ond and third person subject referents to whom they think a deferential attitude
250
Development of social deictics
may be appropriate in a particular situation. Example (10) illustrates reciprocal
use:
(10) Taro: Nanitozo sono suehirogari akinoo-te kudasare-i
by:all:means that suehirogari sell-GER RESP:give-IMPER
Huckster: Ika-nimoima dai-te o-maso-o.
certainly now bring:out-GER HONP12
-HUMIL:give-INTENT
“Taro: By all means, please sell me that ‘suehirogari.’
Huckster: I shall certainly bring it out right now.”
(before 17th century, Kyogen, Suehirogari [Kitagawa and Yasuda 1972:
71.16–72.1])
In this dialog, the main character Taro, a servant sent by his master to the capital
city to buy a suehirogari “auspiciously shaped fan,” has encountered a huckster in
the guise of a merchant. The huckster takes advantage of Taro’s ignorance of the
word suehirogari by selling him an old umbrella instead. In Japanese society of the
time, merchants held relatively low social rank, even when they had considerable
economic power. The relative social status of the servant Taro and the huckster
is somewhat ambiguous: honoriﬁc use between Taro and the huckster is largely
reciprocal, although Taro appears to use somewhat more deferential language than
doesthehucksterthroughouttheplay.Accordingly,in(10)TarousesRESPkudasaru
in reference to the action of the huckster; in reply the huckster uses mildly HUMIL
omasu (< EMJ mairasu “HUMIL:give”) in reference to that same act from the
huckster’s ﬁrst person point of view. The selection of honoriﬁcs is subjective and
determined by each SP/W’s assessment of the participants’ social standings and
other aspects of the situation.
The meaning of kudasaru2 underwent further subjectiﬁcation when its meaning
was narrowed to its modern meaning “RESP:give:to:SP/W+” (see ﬁgure 6.5). This
development appears to have occurred after kudasaru became a referent honoriﬁc,
most likely in EMdJ. The paucity of examples until late LMJ, however, may have
obscuredtheearlystagesofthisnarrowing,andtherangeofusesofkudasaru2 during
EMdJ awaits future study. Nevertheless, the contrasting nonhonoriﬁc verb kureru
may provide indirect evidence that the meaning of kudasaru2 was not restricted to
actions directed toward SP/W or SP/W’s group until EMdJ. Like kudasaru2, kureru
is used in standard MdJ only for “give:to:SP/W (SP/W group).” This restriction
did not apply to kureru in earlier stages of the language (Ohno, Satake, and Maeda
1990 [1974]: 436). Examples cited by Ohno, Satake, and Maeda (1990 [1974]) and
by NKD (vol. VII, 10) suggest that the restriction of the meaning of kureru to “give
12 The generalized honoriﬁc preﬁx (HONP) o- originated in the narrower RESP meaning. In this
example it has addressee honoriﬁc meaning. In other contemporary examples, RESP meaning
can still be found.
251
Regularity in semantic change
LOJ EMJ LMJ EMdJ MdJ
kudasaru1 (kudasu + −(r)aru "send:down-PASS")
nonhonorific
(kudasu + −(r)aru "send:down-RESP")
kudasaru2
RESP Referent honorific
"RESP:give" conj change
1300 AC 1600 1800
"RESP:give:to:SP/W+"
(narrowing of M)
Figure 6.6. Time-line for the development of the Japanese RESP referent honoriﬁc
kudasaru (conj. change = change in conjugational class, which obscured the
relationship to the sufﬁx -(r)aru “PASS, RESP”).
to SP/W+” did not occur until late in EMdJ, or possibly around the beginning of
MdJ (latter half of the nineteenth century). Like other marked items in contrasting
marked–unmarked pairs, the meaning of an honoriﬁc typically neutralizes semantic
distinctions found in the meaning of its nonhonoriﬁc counterpart. Consequently, it
is unlikely that the meaning of kudasaru2 as a donatory verb was ever more narrowly
restricted than that of kureru.
A summary of the development of kudasaru is in ﬁgure 6.6.
This case study illustrates that subjectiﬁcation rather than intersubjectiﬁcation
predominatesatthestageofthedevelopmentofreferenthonoriﬁcfunction,although
the development of honoriﬁc status intrinsically involves some attention to the
image needs of AD/R. Referent honoriﬁcs show politeness only indirectly to AD/R
through their SD marking of referents (participants in the CDE). The range of
subjects of kudasaru2 in MdJ includes respected third persons (e.g. teachers) not
connected with AD/R, as well as those who fall into the AD/R social group. As we
will eventually see, intersubjectiﬁcation is a major process in the development of
addressee honoriﬁc meaning by referent honoriﬁcs. But ﬁrst we look at a couple of
expressions that developed referent honoriﬁc meaning in English.
6.4.2 English pray (ADV)
In this section we outline the development of pray as a pragmatic
marker with SD function from a parenthetical expression, and ultimately from a
main clause performative expression.
As was pointed out in 5.2, ﬁrst person directive performative uses of the verb
prec- “ask” came to be used in addition to, and often in preference to, second
252
Development of social deictics
person petitions in prayer formulae in Latin of the ﬁrst century BC. The verb
preie- “pray” was borrowed from French into English in the thirteenth century, and
it eventually replaced OE bidd- “pray” (which had both performative and epistetmic
uses like those that preie- developed). The main use of preie- was as a lexical
verb introducing a subordinate clause. Performative uses typically involved the
construction: ﬁrst person subject + Verb-present + second person indirect object (T
or V form) followed by a subordinate clause (a complement that-clause as in (11a),
an imperative as in (11b), or an interrogative):
(11) a. I preie you at ye wende with me.
I ask you that you go with me
“I ask that you go with me.”
(c. 1300 Havelok 1440 [MED preien 1.b.(b)])
b. I pray yow telle me what was wreton vnder the mares fote.
“I pray you tell me what was written under the mare’s foot.”
(1481 Caxton, p. 59)
The Helsinki Corpus does not provide any examples of performative uses of preie- in
the early period (1250–1350), nor of the parenthetical to be discussed immediately
below, but according to the MED both were attested before 1350.
Whereas the performative main clause construction is sentence-initial, the paren-
thetical (which may be of the form I pray you, or I pray thee, or just I pray), occurs
in a variety of positions. Its parenthetical status is unambiguous when it occurs
clause-internally or clause-ﬁnally:
(12) Myldeliche myne, y preie, al at ou se.
Compassionately think-about I pray all that you see
“Think about all you see compassionately, I pray.”
(c. 1325 Iesu swete is 40 [MED preien 5])
However,ininstanceswheretheIprayyouconstructionisclause-initialandprecedes
an imperative, it is ambiguous with the main clause construction. Thus (11b) might
be parenthetical. In other words, it might be used not primarily with the force of
an explicit performative, but rather as a formula introducing an imperative, more
saliently expressing deference to AD/R, i.e. intersubjective attitude.
With respect to the development of parenthetical I pray thee to prithee and I
pray you to pray, it is important to note that several of the examples that can be
construed as clause-initial parentheticals introduce a directive, either an imperative,
as in (11b) and (13):
(13) Comly kyng of mankyn, I pray the here my stevyn.
“Noble king of mankind, I pray you hear my voice.”
(after 1460 Wakeﬁeld Plays, p. 16)
253
Regularity in semantic change
or an interrogative, as in (14).
(14) I pray you, are they then no diphthongs?
(1596 Coote, 14 [Fries 1998: 94])
In such contexts they can be understood to invite the inference that SP/W is paying
attention to the image-needs of AD/R and is being deferential. This seems especially
likely when the addressee is God and is named, and in particular when something
of direct beneﬁt to SP/W is being asked for, as in (13).
By the sixteenth century two new forms without the subject pronoun appear:
prithee and, without any pronoun, pray.13
These forms are adverbial in function
and their development has been discussed by Akimoto (2000) in terms of gram-
maticalization. Their role as pragmatic particles in EMdE court trials is discussed
in Kryk-Kastovsky (1998) and in EMdE instructional texts by Fries (1998). In the
case of prithee the SD function of the T form of the pronoun is maintained, as can
be seen in the denigratory switch in (15) from you to prithee (rather than using
pray):
(15) Lord Chief Justice: But just now, you swore he staid out all Night?
Mrs. Duddle: No, my Lord.
Lord Chief Justice: Yes, but you did though; prithee mind what thou art about.
(1685 Lisle, p. 74)
In the case of pray, absent the referent social deictic you, it came to function as
an SD. It contrasts with absence of any politeness formula, and deictically with
prithee, being the more polite of the two forms. Examples of SD pray are restricted
to imperative or interrogative environments ((16a) and (16b, c) respectively). Thus
AD/R is always at least implied as a participant in the directive speech event (I ask
you do X/I ask you answer Y ). Frequently a direct address form is present, as in
(16b):
(16) a. Pray let my love be remembered to Mrs. Parr.
(1613 Cornwallis)
b. Att. Gen.: . . . we ﬁrst call Sir Thomas Whitegrave, who is a Justice of the Peace,
and a worthy Gentleman; a Member of the Church of England in
that County. . .
Sol. Gen.: Pray, Sir Thomas, will you be pleas’d to give the Court an account,
whether you saw Mr. Ireland in Staffordshire 1678, and what time
it was?
(1685 Oates, p. 85)
13 This dating is on the evidence of the OED ( pray 8.d.). The ﬁrst examples in the Helsinki Corpus
appear in the period 1640 on.
254
Development of social deictics
c. Since both shall, and will do certainly shew the Verb they precede to be future:
Pray when must I use shall, and when will?
(1700 Brown, 20 [Fries 1998: 94])
At ﬁrst pray is largely used with more deference than prithee, frequently with
honoriﬁc titles, such as Sir X, Your honour, as in (16b), i.e. to signal greater social
distance than prithee, presumably because of its origin in the form I pray you.
However, with the loss of the T-V distinction in English during the eighteenth and
nineteenth centuries, and with the consequent loss of prithee, it came to index
simple social distance from AD/R, who is implicit as a referent in the CDE of the
imperative clause.
6.4.3 English please (ADV)
Pray continued to be used as a politeness marker in the nineteenth cen-
tury, but was recessive to please, another form originally borrowed from French. As
in the case of pray, the history of this form has been studied primarily in the context
of changes in its grammatical structure (e.g. Allen 1995). From a lexicosyntactic
perspective the main interest in please is that it occurs in the two14
constructions
illustrated in PDE by (17):
(17) a. The plan pleased the children.
b. Women have the constitutional right to attend whichever public school they
please.
(1991 Apr. 11, United Press Intl.)
In the type illustrated by (17a) there are typically two arguments: one an Experi-
encer expressed as an oblique (dative) in postverbal position, the other a Cause or
Causer expressed as a preverbal subject (nominative). This type was borrowed from
French in the fourteenth century, and is known as the “impersonal type” because
the Experiencer is in the dative. A ME example is:
(18) and they may nat plese hym.
and they may not please him
“and they cannot please him.”
(?late 1390s Chaucer, CT, Parson, p. 293, l. 224 [Allen 1995: 278])
By contrast, the second type which is illustrated by (17b), and is presumably the
source of the politeness marker, has only one overt argument, the Experiencer,
which is expressed in the nominative, and is in subject position. It is very rarely
14 Other constructions occurred, with an Experiencer and an overt proposition, such as It pleases
me to be able to respond, and I am pleased to be able to respond. They do not appear to be directly
related to the SD development of please, though they did, no doubt, have some inﬂuence on it.
255
Regularity in semantic change
attested unambiguously in texts until the sixteenth century (Allen 1995: 280–281),
and appears to be an innovation in English. The earliest example Allen claims to
have found is:
(19) Ye may excuse yow by me, if ye please, tyl the next terme.
you may excuse yourself by me if you wish until the next term
“You may excuse yourself on my account, if you wish, until the next term.”
(1462 Paston Letters, 662.15 [Allen 1995: 281])
Allen’s prime interest in the construction is the use of subject or oblique case (this
is unambiguous if a pronoun is used – I/thou/ he/she/we/ye/they are subject forms,
me/thee/him/her/us/you/them are oblique forms until the sixteenth century when the
ye/you distinction was lost – or if the Experiencer is postverbal), especially in if-
clauses.ShepointsoutthatamongthefactorscontrollingthechoiceinShakespeare’s
plays there are four of special importance.
(i) One is that Experiencer is typically subject if it is coreferential with the main
clause, as in (19),
(ii) The second is that the more agentive and in control the Experiencer is rep-
resented to be, the more likely it is to be in subject position with nominative mor-
phology. In particular, in if-clauses the original postverbal oblique form is used to
refer to a hypothetical situation which will occur when the speaker positions Ex-
periencer as thinking that the situation is “suitable or acceptable,” as in (20a), even
if it is not desirable, whereas the newer subject/nominative form is used when the
speaker invokes the “polite ﬁction” that the Experiencer thinks he or she “wishes it
to happen” (20b) (Allen 1995: 288):
(20) a. And (“if ”) please your majesty, let his neck answer for it.
(1599 Shakespeare, Henry V, IV.viii.43 [Allen 1995: 290])
b. This young maid might do her a shrewd turn, if she pleas’d.
(1602–3 Shakespeare, All’s Well, III.v.67 [Allen 1995: 291])
(iii) The third factor is that if the if-clause introduces new information rather
than setting up a logical conditional, the Experiencer is always oblique (Allen 1995:
288); she relates this to criterion (ii), since the Experiencer addressee has no con-
trol over the information. We may note that in the period under consideration, the
“information-please” with postverbal Experiencer, had become a formula often
used in letters, with or without if, as in (21), which is addressed to King James I:
(21) Please your Majesty,
I am glad to have heard of your Majesties recovery, before I understood of
your distemper by the heat of the weather.
(1608 Henry Prince of Wales)
256
Development of social deictics
(iv) A fourth criterion that Allen notes in connection with Shakespeare’s choice
of please constructions is politeness, which interacts with (ii) and (iii) above.
Support for Allen’s hypothesis that word order was used primarily to project social
distance is provided by the fact that during the nineteenth century the postverbal
oblique construction was largely recessive. This may be correlatable with the loss
of the T-V distinction. The subject/nominative construction if you please became
the default polite formula, as in:
(22) We will, if you please, say no more on this subject.
(1871–72 Eliot, p. 317 [Allen 1995: 299])
Meanwhile, please without overt expression of either the if or the Experiencer
came to be used as a pragmatic marker of politeness. According to the OED this
use of please “may have been unknown to Shakespeare” ( please II.6.c.). By the
beginning of the twentieth century it had almost completely taken over from pray.
Playful attempts to differentiate between Experiencer’s perceived reluctance versus
willingness led in the mid-twentieth century to such highly elaborate (and often
humorous) devices as the wheedling formula captured in:
(23) She was saying, Please. Pretty please.
(1959 Sinclair, Breaking of Bumbo, v. 74 [OED pretty D])
The history of please is on one level very different from that of pray; for example,
it did not originate in an explicit performative, and it is not limited to directive speech
acts. Please with its second person pronoun (if you please) focuses on AD/R, ﬁrst
as expressed, then as implied subject. By contrast, pray with its ﬁrst person pronoun
(I pray you/thee) focuses on SP/W, ﬁrst as expressed, then as implied subject. Indeed,
the replacement of pray by please has been seen as a shift to paying attention
to “negative face” (Busse 1998).15
Busse suggests that the replacement may be
connected with a shift in pragmatic strategies noted by Kopytko (1993) from positive
to negative politeness more generally in Modern British. If so, this is a change in
social values, independent of the semasiological development of the constructions
themselves, as are other shifts in usage such as the one Myhill notes among the
modals from group-oriented uses of the modals like must, ought to, and intentional
will, to more individualized uses of modals like got to, should, and gonna (see 3.2.5).
Despite these differences between please and pray, there are signiﬁcant sim-
ilarities. Beyond the obvious routinization of a construction with meaning at the
propositional level to a pragmatic marker with functions at the sociodiscourse level,
both I pray you/prithee and if it please you/if you please illustrate the development
of referent honoriﬁc meaning. Note AD/R is always a participant, either explicitly
15 Thanks to Jonathan Culpeper for this reference.
257
Regularity in semantic change
or implicitly, in the CDE (including CDEs that are wished-for outcomes of direc-
tives). Neither prithee/pray nor please serves addressee honoriﬁc functions, since
they cannot be used independently of their possible roles in the CDE, thus (You)
Give her the book, please/pray but not *I gave her the book please/pray. Both also
show subjectiﬁcation: preemption by SP/W to the negotiation of discourse. Finally,
with the loss of the pronouns, pray and please underwent intersubjectiﬁcation: con-
ceptualized image-needs of AD/R that were formerly expressed by T or V came to
be encoded in the bare adverb; both acquired referent SD politeness function.
6.5 The development of predicate addressee honoriﬁcs in Japanese
As discussed in 6.2.1, referent honoriﬁcs show politeness to AD/R
indirectly by SD indexing of a CDE participant (a “referent”). The referent may be
the same person as one of the interlocutors, but is not necessarily so. Thus, speakers
of Jp. employ the same class of referent predicate honoriﬁcs (RESP honoriﬁcs) with
respected third person subjects as with respected second person subjects; conversely,
they use HUMIL honoriﬁcs with third person subjects associated with SP/W as well
as with ﬁrst person subjects. In contrast, addressee honoriﬁcs directly mark SP/W’s
conceptualization of AD/R’s social standing relative to SP/W, independently of their
possible roles in the CDE. Consequently, in Jp. addressee honoriﬁcs for verbs and
other predicate forms can be used with any subject allowed by their semantic frame:
ﬁrst, second, or third person, animate or inanimate, generic or speciﬁc, deﬁnite or
indeﬁnite.
Noting that languages with addressee honoriﬁcs are rare in comparison to lan-
guages with referent honoriﬁcs, and citing some instances of overlap between refer-
entandaddresseehonoriﬁccategories,BrownandLevinson(1987[1978]:276–280)
suggest that referent honoriﬁcs are basic and that addressee honoriﬁcs are derived,
at least in part, from referent honoriﬁcs. In Japanese addressee honoriﬁcs have been
claimed to develop exclusively from referent honoriﬁcs (Tsujimura 1968, Lewin
1969). Figure 6.7 provides a relatively comprehensive list of the predicate items
that develop regular use as addressee honoriﬁcs during the history of Japanese as it
is available to us from texts. As shown in the ﬁgure, in the recorded history of Jp.,
only a small number of referent honoriﬁc verbs have developed regularly recurring
uses as addressee honoriﬁcs. It is noteworthy that certain semantic categories that are
regularly populated with referent honoriﬁc lexemes are not found to yield addressee
honoriﬁcs in Jp., e.g. mental/sensory activities and states (“think,” “know,” “hear,”
“see,” etc.) and certain inherently relational activities (“meet,” “visit”). Those lex-
emes that do become addressee honoriﬁcs probably comprise less than ten percent
of the total number of referent honoriﬁc verbs at any one period, not counting many
derivatives and compound forms. All addressee honoriﬁcs in Jp. arise from items
whose nondeictic meanings participate in relatively high frequency constructions,
258
haberi
HUMIL:be
OJ–MJ
LOJ
(early
11th
C)–EMdJ
Restricted
to
classical
literary
registers
from
LMJ
saburahu
>
sooroo
HUMIL:be
LOJ–MJ
end
LOJ
(c.
12th
C)–EMJ
>
sooroo
,
EMJ–EMdJ
oru
HUMIL:be
LMJ–MdJ
EMdJ
(c.
18th
C)–MdJ
mairu
HUMIL:go/come
OJ–MdJ
LMJ
(c.
15th
C)–MdJ
mairasu(ru)
>
-
masu
HUMIL:give
EMJ–LMJ
LMJ
(from
c.
15th
C)
>-
masu
,
end
LMJ–MdJ
[
ageru
]
HUMIL:give
LMJ
(14th
C)–MdJ
EMdJ
(c.
17th
C)–MdJ
tamau
(u-e
conj)
HUMIL:receive/eat/drink
OJ–EMJ
LOJ
(c.
11th
C)–EMJ
tabu
(u-e
conj)
HUMIL:receive/eat/drink
OJ–EMdJ
LOJ
(c.
11th
C)–MdJ
[
itadaku
]
HUMIL:receive/eat/drink
LMJ
(14th
C)–MdJ
EMdJ
(late
19th
C)–MdJ
moosu
HUMIL:say
OJ–MdJ
LOJ
(c.
11th
C)–MdJ
[
itasu
]
HUMIL:do
LMJ–MdJ
end
LMJ
(c.
16th
C)–MdJ
goza-aru
>
gozaru
RESP:be/go/come
LMJ–EMdJ
end
LMJ
(c.
16th
C)–MdJ
o(n)
iri
aru
>
oryaru
RESP:be/go/come
LMJ–EMdJ
end
LMJ
(c.
16th
C)–EMdJ
o(n)
ide
aru
>
odyaru
RESP:be/go/come
LMJ–EMdJ
end
LMJ
(c.
16th
C)–EMdJ
desu
contraction
of
existing
ADR
honorific
COPULA
EMdJ
(19th
C)–MdJ
Earlier
(Referent
Hon.)
Meaning
Referent
Honorific
Dates
Dates
as
Addressee
Honorific
Figure
6.7.
Japanese
predicated
items
that
developed
addressee
honoriﬁc
meaning
(expanded
from
Dasher
1995:
chapter
5.4)
(items
enclosed
in
[
]
are
not
accepted
as
addressee
honoriﬁcs
by
all
speakers).
Regularity in semantic change
typically as V2 in a serialized verb construction. For example, in Jp. “be” verbs ap-
pear as V2 in a serialized verb construction that signiﬁes stative (or iterative) aspect
and as an identiﬁable element of many copula and adjectival predicate forms; verbs
for “go/come” likewise occurring as V2 in serialized verb constructions signify
gradual change of state; verbs for “give” and “receive” appearing as V2 indicate
deictically that the action beneﬁts someone. Since the items in the ﬁgure appear to
develop addressee honoriﬁc meaning in their full verb uses as early as they do in
their serialized verb uses, it is not clear what if any role the serialized verb con-
structions had in the development of addressee honoriﬁc meaning. However, they
had a signiﬁcant impact on frequency of use.
In ﬁgure 6.7 we cite predicate addressee honoriﬁc function from the approxi-
mate date when that function appears to have become semanticized. In other words,
from that date on there are regularly occurring instances in which the item in ques-
tion directly indexes SP/W’s polite attitude toward AD/R independently of SP/W’s
and AD/R’s possible roles as participants in the CDE. As shown in the ﬁgure, the
earlier referent honoriﬁc meaning typically persists alongside the newer meaning,
sometimes until much later. Some MdJ items in ﬁgure 6.7 with well-established
addressee honoriﬁc uses are still treated by many sources as referent honoriﬁcs. For
example, in popular-press books for native speakers of Japanese, Atooda (1980)
and Yoshizawa (1985) classify mairu, moosu, and oru as HUMIL referent hon-
oriﬁcs and describe their addressee honoriﬁc uses as mistakes, despite the long
history of addressee honoriﬁc uses of these items (since the eleventh century in
the case of moosu), and their occurrence in PDJ as addressee honoriﬁcs in reg-
isters such as railway station announcements and TV news broadcasts. In MdJ,
ageru, itadaku, and itasu are likewise used as addressee honoriﬁcs by some speak-
ers. However, their use as addressee honoriﬁcs appears not yet to have become as
widely accepted as has that of mairu, moosu, and oru (for details, see Dasher 1995:
47–49).
Figure 6.7 is arranged according to the referent honoriﬁc source meanings of
the linguistic items. As shown, most addressee honoriﬁcs for predicate items in Jp.
develop from HUMIL referent honoriﬁcs. Only one set of addressee honoriﬁcs de-
velops from RESP referent honoriﬁcs. This set contains three items, all of which are
built on the RESP referent honoriﬁc formula “RESP:preﬁx-nominalized verb + aru
‘be’” and have the earlier referent honoriﬁc meaning “RESP:be/go/come.” (Goza
of goza-aru appears to have been an LMJ innovative repronunciation of the Chinese
characters used to spell an earlier verb for “RESP:be/go/come,” namely owasu.) All
three items develop addressee honoriﬁc function at about the same time (near the end
of the LMJ period); Rodriguez (1604–8) includes them in his list of RESP verbs but
cites their addressee honoriﬁc function in a special note (Doi 1955: 591–593). Thus,
except for this exceptional set of three items, the dominant path of change in Jp. is
260
Development of social deictics
HUMIL > POL (addressee honoriﬁc). Instances of this change are found at various
historical periods and among items with several different nondeictic meanings.
As noted in 6.4, the development of referent honoriﬁc meaning by a nonhonoriﬁc
predicate item in Jp. typically involves a change in its nondeictic meaning in ad-
dition to its development of an SD component of meaning. In contrast, the initial
development of addressee honoriﬁc meaning by a referent honoriﬁc in Jp. does
not involve a change in non SD meaning. For example, moosu (“HUMIL:say” >
“say:POL”) has a similar range of uses in its addressee honoriﬁc function as in its
earlier humiliative referent honoriﬁc function: it continues to serve as the matrix
predicate for indirect or direct quotations of speech, including name-giving and
other speech acts, and for the recounting of the participants, time, manner or other
characteristics of a CDE. The development of addressee honoriﬁc function in Jp.
thus primarily involves a change in the SD meaning component of the item, which
comes to have no connection to the CDE (and instead directly marks the SP/W–
AD/R relationship). The non SD meaning component of a new addressee predicate
honoriﬁc in Jp. continues to inform the conceptualization of the described event by
naming or describing the referent action or state.
Three of the addressee honoriﬁc lexemes in ﬁgure 6.7, however, subsequently go
on to develop a more highly grammaticalized function in which their non SD mean-
ing component likewise ceases to inform the conceptualization of the described
event. These items are haberi, saburahu (>sooroo), and mairasu (>-masu) (for
details see Dasher 1995: chapter 6). Another highly grammaticalized addressee
honoriﬁc in MdJ is desu. The precise etymology of desu is disputed by Japanese
scholars (see Martin 1975: 1032 for details), but desu almost certainly developed
from a contraction of an earlier copula form that incorporated an addressee hon-
oriﬁc such as sooroo or -masu. Tsujimura (1968) differentiates addressee honoriﬁc
lexemes (bikago “beautifying words” in his terminology) from these highly gram-
maticalized forms (taisya keigo “interpersonal honoriﬁcs”) as different categories
of (addressee) honoriﬁcs. In their newer function, the highly grammaticalized
items serve primarily to mark a “polite” speech register or style; they secondarily
contribute to the demarcation of units of discourse (Maynard 1993, Dasher 1995:
chapter 3). Analyses of pragmatic factors in the patterns of use of MdJ -masu and
desu continue to be reﬁned (e.g. Cooke 1998 and Okamoto 1999). Since the present
study focuses on the development of addressee honoriﬁc function, rather than
on their subsequent grammaticalization, we will not discuss these developments
further.
In their cross-linguistic discussion of honoriﬁcs, Brown and Levinson propose
to account for the development from referent to addressee honoriﬁc status as fol-
lows. Referent honoriﬁcs, which are often used in order to show SP/W’s deference
indirectly to AD/R (via the SD marking of a referent associated with AD/R), may
261
Regularity in semantic change
“stabilize . . . so that they may only be used in reference to the addressee’s associates
or belongings” (1987 [1978]: 282). Brown and Levinson posit that “via the recurrent
use of referent honoriﬁcs in situations where the referent–addressee relation is a
close one . . . they may evolve into direct addressee honoriﬁcs” (ibid.). However, as
they note elsewhere (ibid. p. 185), honoriﬁcs with the closest association to AD/R,
namely T-V second person pronouns, are to be classiﬁed as referent honoriﬁcs.
Although such pronouns always refer to AD/R, they can do so only by including
AD/R as a participant in the CDE. Consequently, stabilization of reference to AD/R
is insufﬁcient to account for the development of addressee honoriﬁc function. In
our framework, this development involves (i) loss of the referent honoriﬁc’s SD
link to the CDE, and (ii) shift from the mere grounding of deictic point of view in
the SP/W–AD/R dyad to the salient indexing of AD/R in the CSE as the ﬁgure of
the deictic expression. This shift to direct indexing of AD/R and the concomitant
increase in the salience of AD/R as the ﬁgure of the deictic expression exempliﬁes
intersubjectiﬁcation.
As shown in ﬁgure 6.7, the earliest addressee honoriﬁcs appear in LOJ. Scholars
of Japanese agree that the addressee honoriﬁc category itself was lacking in OJ.
Therefore, the initial appearances of addressee honoriﬁcs in LOJ represent a major
systemic development in the history of the Jp. honoriﬁcs. This and also the develop-
ment of a distinction between two distinct levels of RESP honoriﬁcation (VRESP in
reference to the emperor and highest ranking nobility, RESP for most other partici-
pants of court society) may be related to language-external changes (Lewin 1969).
From the time of the establishment of the permanent capital in Kyoto (794 AC), the
historical event that is usually taken to mark the transition from OJ to LOJ, Jp. court
society became larger and noticeably more complex. While the development of the
category of addressee honoriﬁcs appears to be directly correlated with this societal
change, the development of addressee honoriﬁc meaning by individual linguistic
items appears not to have any identiﬁable correlation with language-external events;
nor does the subsequent development of the highly grammaticalized subcategory
of addressee honoriﬁcs. Although major turnovers in honoriﬁc vocabulary have
occurred since LOJ, the honoriﬁc system itself has remained relatively stable.
The one area in which the honoriﬁc system has changed since LOJ is in the range
of the deictic meaning structure. As noted in 6.3, MdJ HUMIL honoriﬁcs crucially
index (i) that their subject referent is lower in status than a non-subject referent or
AD/R, and (ii) that this subject referent is associated with SP/W or SP/W’s social
group. In earlier stages of the language, the restriction of subject referent to SP/W
or SP/W’s social group appears not to have applied. Thus, in LOJ, one ﬁnds frequent
examples of predicates marked with a HUMIL form that indexes the subject referent
as lower in standing than a non-subject referent, and additionally a RESP form that
indexes the subject referent as higher in standing than SP/W. The gradual rise
262
Development of social deictics
in salience of the association between subject referent and SP/W social group may
reﬂect an external societal change similar to that which is reﬂected in the trend from
indexing power relationships to indexing solidarity relationships as noted by Brown
and Gilman (1960). As Japanese society underwent a shift from a unitary social
hierarchy centered on the Heian imperial court (LOJ) to more complex systems of
competing social groups in the feudal era and subsequent periods of modernization
and democratization, the nature of the social relationships that were indexed by
referent honoriﬁcs underwent change. Similarly, nonreciprocal uses of addressee
honoriﬁcs in Jp. appear to be found more frequently in premodern periods than at the
present time, in which reciprocal use appears to predominate in many situations.
Accordingly, the meaning structure of the category itself may have shifted from
indexing AD/R as socially superior to indexing AD/R as nonintimate.
We now turn to a case study of the development of addressee honoriﬁc function
in Japanese.
6.5.1 Japanese saburahu “HUMIL:be” > “be:POL”
In this section, we examine the historical development of the Jp. verb
saburahu. Among the semantic polysemies it involves is the well-known triad
LOCATIVE–POSSESSIVE–EXISTENTIAL (see Lyons 1968, E. Clark 1978). In
keeping with the topic of the present chapter, we focus not on this triad, but on
saburahu’s development of referent honoriﬁc meaning (“HUMIL:be”) early in
LOJ (tenth century) and its subsequent development into an addressee honoriﬁc
(“be:POL(ite)”) near the end of LOJ (twelfth century). By early EMJ, saburahu
was being used as a verb sufﬁx with primarily procedural meaning as marker of
POLITE register; in its subsequent history it became highly grammaticalized as a
style marker. In this it had similarities to -masu in MdJ. However, unlike -masu,
it was used both as a full verb and as an addressee honoriﬁc element in construc-
tions that are characteristic of “be” verbs in Jp., i.e. copula, adjective predicates,
and stative/iterative aspect verb forms. During MJ, the pronunciation of saburahu
came to be sooroo.16
Near the end of LMJ, sooroo was replaced in colloquial reg-
isters by newer addressee honoriﬁcs: by -masu in its highly grammaticalized verb
sufﬁx function and by gozaru, odyaru, and oryaru in its “be” verb uses. Sooroo
16 The overall path of phonetic change is clear, but it is frequently not possible to determine the
precise pronunciation of saburahu in a given text, because orthographic conventions diverged
from the spoken language from LOJ into MJ, and because from LOJ on the verb stem was typically
written with a Chinese character used as an ideogram, not as a phonetic symbol. Consequently,
we have generalized the representation of the word to three forms that are relatively clearly
attested: samoraFu for OJ (see also saFuraFi in (25b)), saburahu for LOJ, and sooroo for EMJ
and subsequent stages of the language; NKD (vol. XII, 330) provides more details about likely
intermediate pronunciations.
263
Regularity in semantic change
nonetheless persisted in some text types throughout EMdJ, e.g. serving as the char-
acteristic style marker of personal letters into the ﬁrst half of the twentieth century
(Martin 1975: 1039). Although obsolete in standard PDJ, sooroo is familiar to edu-
cated native speakers through their study of classical literature, historical television
dramas, and occasionally songs and poems; forms related to sooroo may still be
found in some outlying island dialects (ibid.). These post-thirteenth century devel-
opments will not concern us further here.
Stage I: saburahu1: “wait on”
It is generally agreed among Japanese linguists that LOJ saburahu
developed from the OJ verb form samoraFu, which had the nonhonoriﬁc meaning
“wait on/for.”
In some OJ uses, e.g. when it expresses the waiting for an opportunity, occasion,
condition, or event, samoraFu has no apparent pragmatic association with social
status:
(24) Kase samoraFu to iFu ni kakotuke-te,
wind wait:for/on QUOT say DAT make:excuse-PERF/GER
Fisasi-ku totomarukoto tuki wo kazoFe-nu.
long:time-ADV stop/stay thing month DO count-PERF
“Having made the excuse, saying that (he/they) will wait for/on the wind,
months pass (lit., one counts the months) as (the ship) remain(s) (there) for a
long time . . .”
(720 Nihon Shoki, “7th Year of Yuuryaku” [NKD vol. IX, 141])
In other OJ examples, samoraFu expresses waiting for an order or summons
in a speciﬁc location. (The noun samurai originates from a nominalized form
of saburahu in this meaning.) This use of saburahu likewise involves no shift-
ing deictic orientation relative to the CSE, and so there is no honoriﬁc mean-
ing. However, there is a GIIN that the subject referent has a subservient rela-
tionship. In (25a) this subservient relationship is to the anticipated giver of the
order, in (25b) to the emperor (implicated by the word mi-kaki “[Imperial] parti-
tion”):
(25) a. Fimukasi no tagi no mi-kado ni
east ASSOC waterfall ASSOC RESP-gate LOC
samoraFe-do kinoFu mo keFu mo
wait-although yesterday FOC today FOC
mesu koto mo nasi.
RESP:summon thing FOC not:be
“Although [I] wait at the [Imperial] Gate of the Eastern Waterfall
[= a location in the Imperial Palace], there is no summons yesterday or today.”
(before 760 Man’yooshuu 2:184, [Takagi, Gomi, and Ohno 1957: vol I, 101])
264
Development of social deictics
b. Mi-kaki no moto ni saFuraFi,
RESP-partition ASSOC base LOC be:in:attendance
omoFi no Foka ni sonaFu
thought ASSOC other:than MANNER make:preparations
“Being in attendance in the immediate vicinity of the [imperial] partition [i.e.
within the imperial chambers], [1/3rd person] made extraordinary
preparations.”
(720 Nihon Shoki, “51st Year of Keiko” [NKD vol. IX, 122])
The meaning “be in attendance in order to serve” (or possibly “serve in a lo-
cation”) continues to be found in many instances of saburahu throughout LOJ. A
well-known example is in the opening line of the Tale of Genji (26):
(26) Idure no o(ho)n-toki ni ka,
which ASSOC RESP-time/era LOC Q
nyoogo kooi amata saburahi-tamahi-ker-u naka ni . . .
consort court:lady many serve-RESP-PAST-one(s) among LOC
“In the time of some emperor, among the many consorts and ladies who served
[were in attendance] [at court] . . .”
(c. 1006 Genji Monogatari [Abe, Akiyama, and Imai 1970: 93.1])
In (26), the productive RESP referent honoriﬁc sufﬁx -tamahu deictically marks
the subjects (consorts and ladies at court) as having superior social status relative
to SP/W (the narrator). In contrast, saburahu “serve (at court), be in attendance (to
serve at court)” does not index a social deictic relationship between the court ladies
and SP/W/narrator; rather, it shows a ﬁxed (nondeictic) status relationship between
the ladies and the emperor.
Stage II: saburahu2: referent honoriﬁc
In examples (25) and (26) there is a GIIN arising out of the conceptual
frame associated with the relationship between the subject and another participant
in the described event of “wait on,” namely that the subject is socially inferior to
the other participant. By early in the tenth century there are sporadic examples in
which saburahu appears to be used in the meaning “be in the vicinity of a high
ranking person,” not “waiting for service.” Consider (27):
(27) . . . nige-te iru sode wo torahe-tamahe-ba
ﬂee-PERF enter sleeve DO seize-RESP-and:then
omote wo hutagi-te saburahe-do,
face DO hide-PERF HUMIL:be-although
hazime yo-ku goranzi-ture-ba, . . .
ﬁrst:time good-ADV VRESP:see-PERF-and:then
265
Regularity in semantic change
“[The emperor] seized the sleeve [of Princess Kaguya as she] ﬂed into [an
adjoining room], and then, although she was [waiting] there with her face
concealed, he saw her well for the ﬁrst time, and then . . .”
(early 10th century Taketori Monogatari [Matsuo 1961: 172.10])
Although it is possible that saburahu in (27) may be construed to imply that the
emperor thought that Princess Kaguya was waiting to serve him, from the narrator’s
perspective all that is involved appears to be presence in the location. In the next
lines of the story, Princess Kaguya reveals herself not to be from earth and vanishes
when the emperor tries to take her with him. Since the conceptual frame here does
not intrinsically involve a servant–master relationship, the choice of saburahu over
another verb for “be” (or “wait”) appears to reﬂect the indexing of the relative
social status between the subject, Princess Kaguya, and the Emperor from the point
of view of SP/W/narrator. On this interpretation, saburahu in (27) involves HUMIL
referent honoriﬁc function (saburahu2).
Saburahu became established as a “HUMIL:be” verb during the tenth century
only very gradually, as can be seen by comparison with haberi, which had earlier
developed “HUMIL:be” meaning and at the time was already in transition from ref-
erent honoriﬁc to addressee honoriﬁc (“be:POL”) function. In Taketori Monogatari,
at the beginning of the century, there are four examples of saburahu, including (27),
versus twenty-eight of haberi. Moreover, in two of the other three examples, sabu-
rahu clearly has the nonhonoriﬁc meanings “wait for an opportunity” and “serve
[be in attendance] at court.” Later in the tenth century, saburahu is still not often
found as V2 in serialized verb or other predicate constructions that are character-
istic of “be” verbs throughout the recorded history of Jp. In Kageroo Nikki (before
974), saburahu appears twenty-three times, all as a morphosyntactically full verb.
In contrast, haberi appears over forty times as a full verb and an additional forty-ﬁve
times as a serialized verb or other predicate construction element.17
Given the layering of older and newer meanings, it is not surprising that many
examples of saburahu in Kageroo Nikki and subsequent LOJ texts are ambigu-
ous between nonhonoriﬁc “be in attendance (to serve)” and referent honoriﬁc
“HUMIL:be.” However, Kageroo Nikki, from the later tenth century, contains ex-
amples, all in represented conversation, in which the meaning “HUMIL:be” is
unambiguous, e.g. (28):
(28) Mune-hasiru-made oboe-haberu wo
heart-run-extent feel-(be:)HUMIL/POL but
kono mi-su no uti ni dani
this RESP-screen ASSOC inside LOC even: FOC
17 Recall that V2 in serialized constructions differs from the polysemous full verb form in both
nondeictic and in SD meaning (see 6.3).
266
Development of social deictics
saburahu to omohi-tamahe-te,18
maka-de-n.
HUMIL:be QUOT think-HUMIL-PERF HUMIL:take:leave-go:out-INTENT
“(I) am feeling as though my heart is pounding, but I intend to be inside this
screen (to talk directly with you), and then I will leave (go out).”
(before 974 Kageroo Nikki [Saeki and Imuta 1981: 228.11])
In (28), the meaning “HUMIL:be in the vicinity of a RESP person” is evidenced by
the use of mi- “RESP” + su “screen.” This example is from a represented conver-
sation in which SP is a nobleman who desires the hand in marriage of the diarist’s
adopted daughter. AD is the diarist herself. Frustrated by the diarist’s refusals to
consider his suit for some time, the nobleman has come calling to her home in the
evening. Among Japanese nobility at this period, women remained separated from
men callers on most occasions by a screen or blind, except in intimate situations.
SP’s agitated emotional state and also the purpose of the linguistic interaction, may
explain his extensive use of HUMIL forms, including saburahu, even though his
social status is not obviously lower than that of the diarist (the nobleman is proba-
bly the younger brother of the diarist’s husband).19
The shifting nature of the social
deictic reference expressed by saburahu is thus clear. The lexeme haberi also occurs
in (28). While saburahu appears to be closely associated with locative “HUMIL:be
in a RESP location,” haberi lacks any locative meaning and instead functions as an
adjoined “be” verb denoting stative/iterative aspect with addressee honoriﬁc mean-
ing. In this example, haberi may have HUMIL referent honoriﬁc or POL addressee
honoriﬁc meaning.
Examination of saburahu in the ﬁrst two volumes of The Tale of Genji (c. 1006) in
theeditionbyAbe,Akiyama,andImai(1970)likewiserevealedmanyexamples,e.g.
(26)above,inwhichsaburahucontinuedtobeusedinitsoldernonhonoriﬁcmeaning
saburahu1 “serve, be in attendance (to serve)” and a number of examples, mostly
in represented conversation, in which the word functions as a HUMIL referent
honoriﬁc for “be” (saburahu2).20
Uses in The Tale of Genji reveal several apparent
innovations over uses in the Kageroo Nikki: saburahu is found to mean existential
as well as locative “be,” and it appears in the full range of predicate constructions
that are characteristic of “be” verbs in Jp., including copula, predicate adjective, and
serialized verb constructions. In (29), saburahu means “HUMIL:be” and functions
as a serialized verb signifying stative aspect:
18 In (29), the sufﬁx -tamahe is a HUMIL form conjugated according to the “u-e” (simonidan)
class, not RESP -tamahu (which is conjugated according to the yodan “four vowels” class).
19 See Seidensticker (1964:147–148 and n. 108) for details.
20 In 126 examples, the ratio of HUMIL to nonhonoriﬁc instances appears to be about 1:4, although
a precise quantitative analysis is impossible due to many ambiguous instances. Frequent collo-
cations such as saburahu hitobito “the serving people in attendance” (nineteen examples) also
increase the relative number of nonhonoriﬁc examples.
267
Regularity in semantic change
(29) Kaku-nomi komori-saburahi-tamah-u mo
this:way-EXCL:FOC be:shut:up-HUMIL:be-RESP-thing also
ohotono no o(ho)n-kokoro itohosi-kere-ba
father:in:law ASSOC RESP-feelings unpleasant-PAST-and:so
maka-de-tamah-eri.
HUMIL:take:leave-go:out-RESP-PERF
“[Genji] being shut up all the time [in the Imperial palace] would likewise be
upsetting to [Genji’s] father-in-law, and so [Genji] set out [from the palace for
his father-in-law’s mansion].”
(c. 1006 Genji Monogatari [Abe, Akiyama, and Imai 1970: 167.6])
The RESP sufﬁx -tamahu marks Genji as higher in status than the narrator. The
HUMIL marking saburahu is relative to some non-subject entity that is higher in
status than Genji. At this stage of the novel, Genji is a captain of the Imperial Palace
guards, and so HUMIL saburahu may mark Genji’s inferior status relative to the
palace (and, by association, the emperor), or it may mark his status relative to his
father-in-law. Since the location involved is the palace, Genji’s “being” there may
be equivalent to “serving” or “being in attendance to serve,” an interpretation that
would favor the older, nonhonoriﬁc meaning of saburahu. However, it is unlikely
that the father-in-law would be upset at Genji fulﬁlling his duty of service. Instead,
it is more likely that Genji’s father-in-law would be upset at Genji’s presence in the
palace (and therefore away from his wife) at a time when service to the emperor
is not necessary. Thus, the meaning “HUMIL:be” is more likely than the meaning
“serve.” Nevertheless, it is not clear in this example whether saburahu should be
interpreted as signifying locative “be” (in the palace) or whether it can be interpreted
as a general “be” verb that here expresses stative aspect.
By the time of the Konjaku Monogatari-shuu (1130–40), saburahu had become
well established as a HUMIL referent honoriﬁc:
(30) Yaharaakumi-yori-te kokuoo ni moosi-te
slowly on:knees-approach-GER king DAT HUMIL:say-GER
ihaku, onore koso sono tama ha nusumi-te
saying, myself FOC that jewel EMPH steal-GER
moti-te saburahe.
hold-GER HUMIL:be
“Slowly approaching on his knees, [a state minister] said to the king, ‘it is I
who have stolen the jewel, and I have it.’”
(1130–40 Konjaku Monogatari-shuu [Yamada et al. 1959: vol. I, 347.11])
In (30), saburahu occurs in a construction that consists of motu “hold” plus a
(serialized) “be” verb, a collocation that expresses “have, possess” throughout the
history of Jp. The selection of saburahu indexes the ﬁrst person subject referent as
lower in social status than the king, who is the AD of the direct quotation and also
268
Development of social deictics
the rightful owner of the jewel under discussion. In this example, saburahu indexes
the subject referent (a participant in the CDE), and therefore it functions as HUMIL
saburahu2. However, the context and careful description of the setting immediately
before the represented speech suggest that use of saburahu focuses on the king as
AD, rather than on his implicit role in the CDE as the owner/source of the object
stolen. As we will see in greater detail below, such use represents a step on the way
to addressee honoriﬁc function.
Stage III: saburahu3 “addressee honoriﬁc”
As was found with kudasaru (6.4.1), the development of saburahu2
involves the acquisition of a (deictic) procedural meaning element alongside a
change in its contentful meaning “be in existence.” In addition, this development
involves subjectiﬁcation: deictic meaning indexes social status from the point of
view of SP/W. As a referent honoriﬁc, saburahu2 serves as a means for SP/W to
address the image needs of AD/R, both through socially appropriate indexing of
participants in the CDE and through contributing to an elegant tone of language
use. Consequently, the development of referent honoriﬁc function by deﬁnition
involves intersubjectiﬁcation as well, but AD/R’s status is only part of the deictic
ground, not its ﬁgure. The subsequent development of saburahu into an addressee
honoriﬁc, saburahu3, however, reﬂects increasing intersubjectiﬁcation beyond that
of its referent honoriﬁc use. As an addressee honoriﬁc, the item highlights AD/R
status or the SP/W–AD/R social relationship as the ﬁgure of deictic reference,
thereby making it salient (Hanks 1992).
Although some possible tenth century examples of the development of saburahu
into an addressee honoriﬁc have been cited, it does not occur with any frequency
until after the mid-eleventh century (Morino 1971: 158–159).21
A major indication
that a referent honoriﬁc has developed addressee honoriﬁc function is the dropping
of selectional restrictions on its range of subject referents. As noted in 6.3, the
restrictions on the subjects of referent honoriﬁcs in earlier stages of Japanese soci-
ety coincided more with the power relationships of contemporary feudal and court
societies than with the solidarity relationships of modern-day Japan (Dasher 1995:
chapter 4). Consequently, HUMIL honoriﬁcs from OJ through EMJ are often used
with third person subjects who are not aligned with the SP/W social group, but
who are lower in status than a non-subject referent (from the point of view of
SP/W). Therefore evidence of the development of addressee honoriﬁc function by
a HUMIL referent honoriﬁc can be found during those periods in the broadening
21 NKD (vol. IX, 122) cites two examples of the addressee honoriﬁc use of saburahu in the early
and mid-tenth century. The context of the earliest example, from Taketori Monogatari [Matsuo
1961: 76.1–2], before 909) strongly suggests a referent not an addressee honoriﬁc function.
269
Regularity in semantic change
of honoriﬁc’s range of subject referents to include inanimate subjects not associ-
ated with any CDE participant, generic reference statements, and second person
subjects.
Morino (1971: 158–161) ﬁnds scattered examples of saburahu with inanimate
subjects in tenth and early eleventh century texts. Our examination of two volumes
of Genji Monogatari found out of over 125 instances of saburahu only one likely
addressee honoriﬁc example with an inanimate subject that is not associated with
the social group of any human referred to or implicitly alluded to in the CDE : koto
“(intangible) thing” in (31):
(31) Kore yori medurasiki koto ha
this more:than unusual thing TOP
saburahi-nan ya to te wori.
be:POL-EMPH Q QUOT say be:seated
“[Shikibu] said, ‘Is there a more unusual thing [than the story I just told]?’ and
sat down.”
(c. 1006 Genji Monogatari [Abe, Akiyama, and Imai 1970: 164.12])
In (31) saburahu appears not to index any participant in the CDE. The quoted
speech in (31) is a response to a challenge by Genji and another listener that a story
Shikibu just told could not be true. Since use of saburahu2 was relatively innovative
at the time, saburahu may have been felt to be more expressive than haberi, the
productive addressee honoriﬁc for “be” in the early eleventh century, and therefore
more suitable than haberi for Shikibu’s emotionally charged retort.
A similar distinction in expressiveness between saburahu and haberi is found in
Konjaku Monogatari-shuu, in which saburahu exhibits characteristics of transition
toward addressee honoriﬁc function. In the Fifth Book (scroll), a myth from India,
which is set in a state that exiled seniors at seventy years of age, a wise minister
(who has hidden his mother away rather than exile her) consistently uses haberi in
his speech to the king until the end of the story. At that point the minister reveals
the secret behind his wise guidance and argues for a change in the country’s laws.
In this ﬁnal page of the story, the minister uses saburahu extensively; an excerpt is
in (32):
(32) Sore-ni tosi ohi-taru mono ha kiki
however year grow:old-PERF HUMIL:person TOP knowledge
hiro-ku saburahe-ba, mosi
broad-ADV HUMIL:be(possess)-and:so perhaps
kiki-oki-taru koto ya saburahu
ask-for:future:use-PERF thing INDEF:SUBJ HUMIL:be
to-mo, makari-ide-tu, tohi-saburahi-te sono
if-FOC HUMIL-go:out-PERF inquire-be:HUMIL-GER those
270
Development of social deictics
koto wo motite mina moosi-saburahi-si nari.
words DO by:means:of everything HUMIL:say-HUMIL:be-PAST COP
“However, an old person has broad knowledge, and when[ever] there was some-
thing[I]shouldﬁndout,[I]left[theroyalcourt]and ,havingasked[mymother],
with her words I have told you everything [and that is why I appear to be a wise
minister].”
(1130–40, Konjaku Monogatari-shuu [Yamada et al. 1959:
vol. I, 402.8–9])
In (32) saburahu appears twice as a full verb for existential “be” and twice as a se-
rialized verb or auxiliary. The ﬁrst clause has generic reference, suggesting that the
ﬁrst example could be interpreted as saburahu3; however, the appearance of HUMIL
mono “person” as the subject also supports the interpretation of it as saburahu2,
i.e. as a HUMIL referent honoriﬁc, under some sort of pragmatic agreement phe-
nomenon, and this is how we have glossed it. The next instance of saburahu in this
example is with the inanimate subject koto “(intangible) thing,” which here refers
to “occasions” or “times.” However, koto is modiﬁed by the verb kiku “ask,” which
here has a ﬁrst person subject; in context kiki-okitaru-koto means “occasions when
I have something to ask.” The referent “time/occasion” of koto is thus associated
with the ﬁrst person, a CDE role that supports an interpretation of saburahu in this
instance as a HUMIL referent honoriﬁc. The following two instances of saburahu
in (32) are as a serialized form. Both instances have ﬁrst person subjects and signify
aspectual Ms that derive from the full verb M “be.”
The four instances of saburahu in (32) thus all appear to mark the social status of
the subject referent, but at least the ﬁrst three instances also mark that status relative
to AD, who has no role as a participant in the CDE. Only the ﬁnal clause includes
the king in the semantic frame of the CDE (as the recipient of the action “say”).
Since they mark the social status of a CDE participant, these examples are to be
classiﬁed as HUMIL referent honoriﬁcs. Nevertheless, because the SD indexing is
also relative to AD/R independently of the CDE these examples are transitional. A
fully semanticized instance of addressee honoriﬁcation would require that SP/W’s
attitude to AD/R is independent of the status of any CDE participant, which is not the
case here. In the ﬁrst two (full verb) instances, the association between the subject
and the SP + group is only indirect or is otherwise tenuous. Moreover, speech event
considerations appear to be a prominent motivation behind the choice of more def-
erential saburahu over haberi: the example occurs inside the minister’s confession
that he has been violating the law and his petition that the law be changed. Attention
to AD appears to have been more salient than the SD marking of the subject.
Examination of saburahu in the ﬁrst ﬁve scrolls of the early–mid-twelfth century
Konjaku Monogatari-shuu (Mabuchi and Ariga 1982, Yamada et al. 1959: vol. I)
revealed several instances of transitional uses, such as those in (32), but no instances
271
Regularity in semantic change
with a second person subject were found. In a detailed comparison of saburahu and
haberi in the entire Konjaku Monogatari-shuu, Sakurai (1966) classiﬁes a number of
instances of saburahu as an addressee honoriﬁc, but his classiﬁcation appears to rest
onthepresenceversusabsenceofaRESPnon-subjectreferentinthesemanticframe.
Even by this deﬁnition, Sakurai notes that addressee honoriﬁc uses of saburahu are
found only in represented speech, not in narrative passages. By comparing the
relative status of the interlocutors involved in each instance of use, he holds that
saburahu as an addressee honoriﬁc expresses a higher degree of deference than does
haberi in this work, and that haberi shows signs of a weakening of its honoriﬁc force.
In considering the use of saburahu with second person subjects, it is important
to note an asymmetry in honoriﬁc use during LOJ and EMJ. Very high ranking
persons sometimes used HUMIL forms for second person reference in speaking to
lower ranking individuals. Such uses did not positively address the image needs of
AD, but rather reinforced the lower status of the second person referent relative to
the higher ranking SP. Such examples are thus not addressee honoriﬁcs. Thus, in
the later twelfth century Imakagami, saburahu appears in several quoted directives,
most of which do not appear to express politeness to AD. Nevertheless, this text
includes examples such as (33), in which saburahu is used in reference to the action
of a third person who is marked by a RESP form as being socially superior to SP/W:
(33) ika yoo ni ka go-sata saburahu-ramu
how manner ADV Q RESP-procedure be:POL-PROB
nado omohikake-zu . . . to moosi-kere-ba
et:cetera think:of-NEG QUOT HUMIL:say-PAST-and:then
“[The workman] said, ‘[The priest] didn’t even think about, “how will the
procedure be [done]?” ’ ”
(1174–75 Imakagami [Sakakibara et al. 1984: 262.1])
In (33), a messenger from a priest is reporting back to the priest about the status
of a project that the latter had ordered to be carried out. It is difﬁcult to ascertain
whether the messenger is providing a word-for-word direct quotation of the work-
man’s speech, or has imposed his own point of view on the report. In either case,
saburahu appears in this example with a subject (sata “procedure”) that is marked
with the honoriﬁc preﬁx go-, which has RESP meaning.22
Context, along with the
22 The honoriﬁc preﬁx go- is an allomorph of o(n)-. Go- is used with words that originated from
(written) Chinese or words invented in Japan according to Chinese word-building patterns, and
o(n)- is used with words that appear to native speakers to be of native Jp. origin. The preﬁx o(n)-
has generalized in meaning, so that in some instances in MdJ the preﬁx indicates RESP referent
honoriﬁc function and in others it has addressee honoriﬁc function. However, the allomorph go-
appears to have remained more associated with RESP marking, as can be illustrated by a few
items that can take either preﬁx. In MdJ, go-benkyoo can only mean “(your) RESP study,” while
obenkyoo can mean “(anyone’s) study (POLITE to AD/R).”
272
Development of social deictics
RESP marking on sata, indicates that the subject referent “procedure” is associated
with the highest ranking participant in the ongoing series of CDEs, namely the
priest. Therefore, one cannot interpret saburahu as indexing the priest as having
lower social status than some other CDE participant. This example thus reveals a
clear dissociation of the deictic M of saburahu from the CDE. The selection of
saburahu over other possible “be” verbs in this example instead deictically indexes
AD as being socially superior to SP. Example (33) thus reﬂects addressee honoriﬁc
function (saburahu3).
In general, our examination of the range of uses of saburahu in the Konjaku
Monogatari-shuu and the Imakagami supports the view that SP/Ws were sometimes
using the lexeme with addressee honoriﬁc function in the mid-twelfth century but
that this new function was not yet well established. Haberi still appeared to be more
productive as an addressee honoriﬁc for “be.” Many examples of saburahu were
ambiguous between HUMIL and addressee honoriﬁc function. The use of saburahu
with respected subjects, which, as in (33), is a clear indicator of dissociation from the
earlier HUMIL meaning, still appeared to be rare. Therefore, we conclude that the
transition of saburahu from referent honoriﬁc to addressee honoriﬁc function was
probably completed sometime near the end of the twelfth or early thirteenth century.
About one hundred years later, the Enkyobon text of the Heike Monogatari
(1309–10) reveals saburahu to be quite productive as an addressee honoriﬁc in
the colloquial language. The pronunciation of the lexeme in men’s speech by this
time had probably become soorau (NKD vol. XII, 330). However, it continued to
be pronounced as sabura(h)u in women’s speech throughout MJ. In represented
speech, soorau/sabura(h)u occurs as a full verb for existential and locative “be,” as
a serialized verb with aspectual meaning, and as an element of predicate adjective
and copula constructions. It appears with a variety of inanimate, intangible, and
nonspeciﬁc subject referents, e.g. (34):
(34) Soo hitori . . . hoo-oo no on-mae ni
monk one:person cloistered:emperor ASSOC RESP-presence LOC
mairi-te, makoto nite-soorau-yaran . . .
HUMIL:come/go-GER truth COP-POL-HEARSAY
“A monk . . . came into the presence of the cloistered emperor [and said], ‘They
say that this is the truth . . .’ ”
(1309–10 Enkyobon Heike Monogatari [Kitahara and Ogawa 1996: 20.1])
In (34) soorau appears in a phrase that functions as the discourse opener for a
relatively long statement of a petition by a monk who is unknown to the very high
ranking AD23
and other nobles present. Soorau does not index the social status of any
23 The “cloistered emperor” had abdicated the throne and taken the tonsure as a monk, but he still
exercised great power.
273
Regularity in semantic change
participant in the CDE; instead, it marks the attitude of SP toward AD, i.e. it is clearly
saburahu3. The copula construction refers to the truth of what is about to be said;
the HEARSAY sufﬁx (ya “Question” + (a) r (u) “be” + amu “future, probability”)
depersonalizes the source of the information. In the Enkyobon Heike Monogatari,
soorau occurs in directives with socially superior second person subjects, as in (35):
(35) Naisi si-go-nin ai-tomonaw-ase-owasimasi-te
female:attendant four-ﬁve-person together-accompany-CAUS-VRESP:be-GER
kyoo e on-nobori-soora-e.
capital:city GOAL RESP-go:up-POL-IMPER
“Taking four or ﬁve women shrine attendants along [with you], go up to the
capital.”
(1309–10 Enkyobon Heike Monogatari [Kitahara and Ogawa 1996: 67.1])
The VRESP (very respectful) marking of the preceding predicate, and the honoriﬁc
preﬁx attached to the nominalized form of noboru “go up,” make it clear that the
subject has socially superior status. The selection of soorau rather than a sufﬁxed
donatory verb (the most common pattern for expressing a directive in Jp.) probably
indicates that SP conceptualizes the directive as a recommendation that will lead
to success for the person going up to the capital, not as a personal favor to SP.
A RESP referent honoriﬁc verb for “be” would have been possible in place of
soorau in this example; there were several in the EMJ vocabulary in addition to
owasimasu. The appearance of soorau in the ﬁnal predicate position of the sentence
however, maintains a POLITE register that is found throughout this instance of
represented speech. Example (35) is from a represented speech that extends for
thirteen sentences, nine of which end with a form of soorau.
A few instances of soorau in represented speech in the Enkyobon Heike
Monogatari may be analyzed as preserving the older HUMIL meaning, but ad-
dressee honoriﬁc function is the dominant use of soorau/saburau in this text. The
use of soorau in narrative passages of the Enkyobon Heike Monogatari is more
conservative than in passages of represented speech. In narrative passages, the
M “locative be” predominates, and examples that appear to indicate the old non-
honoriﬁc meaning “be in attendance to serve” can still be found. Nevertheless,
soorau/saburau appears much more frequently in represented speech: over sixty
instances in the ﬁrst hundred pages of the edition by Kitahara and Ogawa (1996),
compared with nine instances in narrative passages. The association of soorau with
represented speech reﬂects an emerging MJ stylistic distinction, in which sooroo
was more characteristic of colloquial registers, while haberi was more characteristic
of written registers. As noted at the beginning of this case study, sooroo in MJ sub-
sequently developed highly grammaticalized function as a sufﬁx whose nondeictic
meaning was primarily procedural (and relevant to the bracketing of discourse).
274
Development of social deictics
"wait" (for an order, summons)
+> "SUBJ Ref is subservient to some described event participant"
"be in attendance to serve"
+> "SUBJ Ref has lower social status than somedescribed
event participant"
saburahu2
referent honorific
"HUMIL:be in vicinity of RESP entity"
"HUMIL:be" (existential or locative)
transitional "HUMIL:be" (expanding
range of SUBJ Refs, or elevating
AD/R independent of CDE)
"be:POL"
saburahu3
addressee honorific
>
nonhonorific
saburahu1
700 AC
"wait" (for an occasion)
1200
1100
1000
900
800 1300
Figure 6.8. Time-line for the development of Japanese saburahu (−→ =
continued to be attested beyond the end of time-line).
The present study, however, has focused on the development of saburahu as far as
the point at which it became an addressee honoriﬁc lexeme.
The stages in the development of saburahu are shown on a time line in ﬁgure 6.8.
As shown, the nonhonoriﬁc (although pragmatically marked) meaning “be in at-
tendance to serve, serve at a place” (saburahu1) persists until the early fourteenth
century (although examples of this meaning are infrequent in comparison to other
275
Regularity in semantic change
Pre-honorific > Referent honorific > LexADHON > AffADHON
informs CDE > CDE/CSE > CSE/CDE > CSE
content > content/procedural > procedural
nonsubjective > coded subjectivity > coded intersubjectivity
Figure 6.9. Correlated paths in the development of Japanese honoriﬁcs.
uses of the lexeme by then). Moreover, there is a relatively short time between the
development of HUMIL honoriﬁc function (saburahu2) and the development of ad-
dressee honoriﬁc function (saburahu3). Nevertheless, the relative timing between
the development of the two functions is clear.
The development of saburahu3 involves several stages. First, the highly restricted
meaning “HUMIL:be in the vicinity of a RESP entity” (saburahu2) is generalized
to include existential as well as locative “be” (including grammatical constructions
characteristic of existential “be” verbs; see (29), (30), (31)). In this latter function,
the RESP non-subject entity in the frame of the event becomes less salient. Then,
as the range of subject referents increases to include inanimates, intangibles, and
generic references (see (31)), the “space” of possible indexed subject referents
expands beyond the SP/W+ space. Then, the item is found in examples in which
the HUMIL social status is indexed relative to AD (see (32)), and concern about
AD’s image needs in the CSE appears to be more prominent than is the marking
of the subject referent. This represents a major shift of salient indexing from the
CDE to the CSE. This shift amounts to intersubjectiﬁcation. Finally, the range of
subject referents further expands to include RESP subjects as well as subjects that
are lower ranking relative to some entity in the CDE or AD (see (33)). This stage
indicates that there is no longer an indexing of the subject referent and that its SD
meaning has become completely dissociated from the CDE.
6.6 Conclusion
In this chapter we have outlined the development of two kinds of po-
liteness markers. First we discussed referent honoriﬁcs that signal the social status
of a participant in the CDE from the point of view of SP/W’s conceptualized rela-
tionship to AD/R in the CSE (ﬁgure 6.3, Stage II). Secondly, we discussed some
examples of addressee honoriﬁcs; in Japanese these arise out of referent honoriﬁcs,
and signal SP/W’s conceptualized relationship to AD/R, independent of SP/W’s
and AD/R’s possible roles in the CDE (ﬁgure 6.3, Stage III). In this function, ad-
dressee honoriﬁcs become generalized style markers, and can even come to serve
DM-bracketing functions (ﬁgure 6.3, Stage IV).
The patterns in the history of Jp. predicate honoriﬁcs discussed in this chapter
illustrate correlated paths of development that are represented in ﬁgure 6.9. The
276
Development of social deictics
shift from nonhonoriﬁc to honoriﬁc status involves the general domain shift that
has been a theme throughout this book: the shift from informing the CDE to in-
forming the CSE (a shift akin to that from “socio-physical” to “speech act” meaning
identiﬁed in Sweetser 1990; in the present case, however, the intermediary domain
is one of social deixis rather than of reasoning and epistemic deixis). While non-
honoriﬁcs inform the CDE, referent honoriﬁcs not only perform this function but
also incorporate the CSE (as the deictic ground) in their SD meaning. In ﬁgure 6.9,
this function of referent honoriﬁcs is indicated by CDE/CSE (conceptualized de-
scribed event and secondarily conceptualized speech event). In contrast, addressee
honoriﬁcs primarily inform the CSE but retain some non-SD meaning. This rever-
sal of salience is indicated by CSE/CDE. AffADHONs have ceased to inform the
CDE, and inform only the CSE. With respect to changes in semantic function, non-
honoriﬁcs that develop SD status as referent honoriﬁcs come to include a procedural
meaning element (i.e. their SD meaning) alongside a contentful meaning. Although
LexADHONs likewise incorporate both contentful and procedural meaning ele-
ments, those that develop into AffADHONs lose their contentful meaning. Referent
honoriﬁcs encode subjectivity in that they point to one or more “referent” entities
in the CDE from the standpoint of SP/W in the speech event. Referent honoriﬁcs
additionally implicate intersubjectivity as a GIIN; their use typically represents a
strategy to address positively the image needs of AD/R. In contrast, addressee hon-
oriﬁcs directly encode intersubjectivity; they point to the social status of AD/R
independently of the content of what is said.
One question that naturally arises from this sort of study is what the later his-
tory of a particular item under discussion may be. Most turnovers of honoriﬁc
vocabulary (both referent and addressee classes) involve the ultimate replace-
ment of an earlier honoriﬁc by a newer (and while new, more expressive) hon-
oriﬁc for a similar M (e.g. pray by please, haberi by sooroo (< saburahu), sooroo
by -masu). Once a newer honoriﬁc has appeared, its older counterpart in many
instances eventually falls completely from use, although it may survive in par-
ticular registers or settings. Relatively recent Jp. translations of the Bible and
Christian hymns employ a number of old honoriﬁc forms no longer heard out-
side religious contexts, e.g. masimasu “VRESP:be” (used in reference to God).
Although the referent honoriﬁc tamahu “RESP:give” was supplanted in most reg-
isters by kudasaru during LMJ, its imperative form (tamae) survives in MdJ in
speech styles associated with rough businessmen or gangsters, typically with den-
igratory nuances. Because older and newer meanings of Ls coexist at any one
period of time, when the honoriﬁc meaning is replaced, the original meaning
may still be attested (often in a rather different construction or morphosyntac-
tic use). Thus we still use the main verb pray, but not its honoriﬁc parenthet-
ical (I pray you) or its adverbial form ( pray). Although the persistence of an
277
Regularity in semantic change
earlier nonhonoriﬁc meaning appears to be the norm, sometimes we ﬁnd grad-
ual loss of honoriﬁc value, i.e. extension of the honoriﬁc meaning, instead. For
example, Jp. ageru developed the referent honoriﬁc M “HUMIL:give” in LMJ
from the nonhonoriﬁc M “move something from a low to a high position” (at-
tested through MdJ). In the last ﬁfty years, however, ageru has undergone con-
siderable weakening of its honoriﬁc force, so that it has all but supplanted its
nonhonoriﬁc counterpart yaru (the latter survives in uses in which SP/W wishes
to highlight the inferior status of the recipient relative to the subject). Given its
meaning, the nonhonoriﬁc PDJ use of ageru for “give” appears to be derived
from its honoriﬁc use, and not to be a case of persistence of the earlier spatial
meaning.
As is hardly surprising, honoriﬁc meanings have been shown to arise in conver-
sation. Several times it has been pointed out that changes ﬁrst appear in quoted
conversations (e.g. discussion of the development of saburahu in this chapter; see
also discussion of well in chapter 4). This suggests that they were regarded as con-
versational, i.e. colloquial, when they were ﬁrst introduced. However, this is a topic
that deserves further study.
278
7
Conclusion
7.1 Introduction
In this conclusion we brieﬂy summarize the major hypotheses that we
have presented, and in doing so essentially reprise the main points of chapter 1. We
end with a few suggestions for future research.
7.2 Summary of major ﬁndings
Our primary goal has been to show that there are general tendencies
in semantic change that are widely attested across a range of semantic ﬁelds and
languages, and that they result from the interaction of language use with linguis-
tic structure. We have hypothesized that semantic change starts with SP/Ws in-
stantiating a code that they have acquired. Drawing on and exploiting, sometimes
consciously, sometimes unconsciously, pragmatic meanings, most especially those
kinds of implicatures that we have called “invited inferences,” SP/Ws may innovate
new uses of extant lexemes. If these new uses spread to AD/Rs and are repli-
cated by them in their role as SP/Ws, then semanticization will take place. We
have argued that the main mechanism of semantic change is subjectiﬁcation (in-
cluding intersubjectiﬁcation). This follows from the hypothesis that the seeds of
semantic change are to be found in SP/Ws, drawing on and exploiting pragmatic
meanings that arise in negotiated interaction. SP/Ws do so for their own ends –
to inform, to express beliefs and emotions, and to make explicit what they are
(or claim to be) doing with language. Some aspects of what SP/Ws do, most es-
pecially projecting innovative metaphorical relations, are primarily self-directed,
manifestations of analogical conceptualizing, solving problems of expression, and
language play. However, most of what they do with language is metonymic to
the SP/W–AD/R dyad (in the sense of associative conceptual metonymy devel-
oped in this book). This dyad, though interactive, is not symmetric. SP/Ws exploit
their own competence and trust that AD/Rs will understand them; those who do
and who adopt the innovations of their interlocutor do so as SP/Ws. One of the
outcomes of subjectiﬁcation is preemption of meaning to the act of speaking it-
self, hence ultimately to discourse meanings. These are largely procedural in the
279
Regularity in semantic change
sense that they point to beliefs, attitudes to the act of speaking that is being enga-
ged in.
Since the interlocutor dyad is the locus of change, and is constrained by the R-,
and M-heuristics, innovations are:
(i) constrained by context-dependent pragmatic enrichment
(ii) only minimally different from earlier meanings.
In their early stages they are pragmatic polysemies, extensions on the semasiolog-
ical dimension. If over time speakers come to use the new pragmatic meanings as
part of the linguistic code (i.e. as meanings that function at least in part independent
of context), then semantic polysemies will arise. In no case have we found evidence
of an older meaning disappearing exactly at the point in time that a new one is
semanticized: old and new meanings typically coexist in the same text, e.g. deontic
and epistemic meanings of must coexist. Only occasionally do old meanings dis-
appear altogether, e.g. the original permission meaning of must; more frequently,
older meanings survive in highly restricted contexts, e.g. the volitional meaning of
will remains primarily in negative contexts serving the function of refusal. Semantic
change is therefore characterizable as:
(1) M1 > M1 ∼ M2 (>M2)
This is a variant of the more general claim about language change made in 1.2.2
that:
(2) A > A ∼ B (>B)
Given the tendency for language-users to categorize, new polysemies tend to be
attracted to already extant conceptual structures, i.e. they are additions to a given
meaningful category on the onomasiological level. However, original meanings tend
to persist so that no pure synonyms develop; hence although indeed, in fact, actually
all underwent similar developments from clause-internal manner or “in respect to
which” adverbials to epistemic adversative (sentential) adverbials to DMs, each
behaves in a slightly different, unique way.
Innovation of onomasiological categories is rare, but can occur, as we have seen
in chapter 6 in connection with the development of addressee honoriﬁcs. While
deference is probably a universal behavioral strategy, it is only rarely found as a
structured linguistic category. We have shown that the development of members
of this category in Japanese follows the criteria outlined above: it is constrained
by context-dependent pragmatic enrichment, and is only minimally different from
earlier meanings.
The process by which new meanings arise has been represented by the IITSC
model of semantic change given in 1.3.2 and the typical semantic–pragmatic
280
Conclusion
Pragmatic--semantic tendencies
a. non-subjective > subjective > intersubjective
b. content > content/procedural > procedural
c. s-w-proposition > s-o-proposition > s-o-discourse
d. truth-conditional > non-truth-conditional
Shift from one semantic domain to another
A. CDE > CDE/CSE > CSE/CDE > CSE
B. premodal > deontic > epistemic
C. ADVmanner > ADVadversative > ADVelaboration > ADVhedge
D. pre-SAV > SAV > performative > parenthetical
E. pre-honorific > referent honorific > LexADHON > AffADHON
Figure 7.1. Summary of the cross-linguistic regularities in semantic change
discussed in this book.
tendencies in semasiological change with respect to function have been summa-
rized in ﬁgure 1.4. Instantiations and correlations of semasiological changes in
particular domains have been summarized in ﬁgure 3.8 for epistemic modals, 4.4
for DMs, 5.2 for performative verbs, and 6.9 for honoriﬁcs. The various regular
tendencies and their instantiations in semantic domains that we have discussed are
summarized in ﬁgure 7.1.
It is important to note several things in connection with ﬁgure 7.1:
(i) No lexeme is required to undergo the type of change schematized here; each
line represents a possible type of change. The hypothesis is that if a lexeme with the
appropriate semantics undergoes change, it is probable that the change will be of the
type speciﬁed. Most importantly, a reverse order of development is hypothesized to
be ruled out except under special circumstances such as language engineering or
new word formation (e.g. compounding, calquing).
(ii) In actual fact, the trajectories are far more complex than those given here.
Because of the principle M1 > M1 ∼ M2 (>M2) in (1) above, there are polysemous
layers at each innovated stage, and in many cases multiple polysemies can coexist
over many centuries.
(iii) Figure 7.1 is a summary of the regularities in change we have identiﬁed. No
lexemehastoundergothechanges,andonceachangehasstartednolexemewillnec-
essarily undergo all possible changes identiﬁed. Not every change will necessarily
show evidence of the operation of any tendency to the extreme right of the trajectory.
The crucial point is that if SP/Ws begin to exploit a lexeme in new ways, and the
new meanings are adopted by others, the reverse order of change is not expected.
281
Regularity in semantic change
(iv) It is especially important to note that ﬁgure 7.1. is not a hypothesis about
correlations among the various regularities. It should not be read vertically, only
horizontally(forexample,ADVadversative isoftenepistemic,neverdeontic,althougha
vertical reading of lines A and B might suggest a correlation with deontics; likewise
AffADHONs are not obviously epistemic).
With respect to the standard taxonomies of historical semantics that date back to
Bréal (see 2.2.1), our hypothesis is that they are the outcomes of some very general
mechanisms of change. (Conceptual) metonymy is in our view intimately bound up
with the mechanism of invited inferencing, and changes identiﬁed in the literature
as involving metonymic change are typically the outcomes of invited inferencing;
changes not identiﬁed in the literature as involving metaphorical change are either
the direct outcomes of metaphorization or the indirect outcomes of conceptual
metonymy. Amelioration and pejoration are the direct outcomes of subjectiﬁcation
at the content level. Generalization and narrowing of meaning are the outcomes of
the emergence of differential saliencies in language use.
Bréal considered metaphor, pejoration, and narrowing as the dominant mecha-
nisms of semantic change (Bréal 1964 [1900]). Our position in this book has been
that if metaphor appears to predominate, that is an artifact of several practices. It
may be a function of the type of lexical domains under investigation; diminutives,
when related to eye or seed are more likely to be derived by metaphorization than
DMs, SAVs, or markers of honoriﬁcation. Or it may be a function of focusing on
comparison of synchronic stages, and therefore on sources and targets (beginnings
and endings) rather than on ﬁne-grained intermediate stages of development. It may
also be in part a function of whether we think primarily in terms of decontextualized
lexemes and dictionary entries, rather than in terms of actual textual use. Above
all, it is a function of thinking of metonymy in a very simplistic, nonconceptual
way. If, as we believe, it is true that metonymy in general is “probably even more
basic to language and cognition” (Barcelona 2000b: 4), and if conceptual metonymy
is intimately bound up with invited inferencing, it should be no surprise that invited
inferencing rather than metaphorizing is the principal mechanism that drives se-
mantic change. If pejoration appears to predominate, this is because of social power
and prejudice, as Hock and Joseph (1996), among others, have pointed out. As
far as narrowing is concerned, it is doubtful that this does predominate; whether
narrowing or generalization predominates is largely a function of the domain inves-
tigated. For example, wherever semantic change intersects with grammaticalization,
generalization tends to predominate.
The regularities we have investigated are major tendencies that are hypothesized
to be available for any kind of change that involves semantic development of at
least those lexemes that are recruited to the target domains we have discussed here:
282
Conclusion
modality, DMs, SAVs, and SDs. This means that they can and must be expected to
intersect with changes of the types known as grammaticalization and lexicalization.
However, they are not coextensive with either. Grammaticalization is in essence a
morphosyntactic phenomenon, most crucially the development of functional cate-
gories(auxiliary,case,preposition,subordinator,etc.)outofconstructionsincluding
lexical categories (main verb, nominal in adposition, etc.); it also involves intra-
constructional fusion. Even though it is primarily a morphosyntactic phenomenon,
by hypothesis grammaticalization is actuated by semantic changes (Fleischman
1982, Hopper and Traugott 1993, Bybee, Perkins, and Pagliuca 1994). It typically
involves a subset of the kinds of meaning-change discussed here, most especially
invited inferencing in syntagmatic context, subjectiﬁcation, and, in some cases, in-
tersubjectiﬁcation. Equally broadly speaking, lexicalization is in essence either (i) a
change in the syntactic category status of a lexeme given certain argument structure
constraints, e.g. use of the nouns calendar or window as verbs, or the preemption
of a grammatical item under conditions of quotation or “mention” to lexical status,
e.g. of thou as a verb (see 6.2), or (ii) the formation of a new member of a major
category by the combination of more than one meaningful element, e.g. by deriva-
tional morphology or compounding. In either case, the process of lexicalization may
disrupt the semasiological processes outlined here. By hypothesis any new sema-
siological change arising after lexicalization has taken place is constrained by both
the syntactic or lexical frame realignment involved and by the principle that there
are no true synonyms. Many semantic changes involve neither grammaticalization
nor lexicalization (e.g. use of ﬁnd or recognize as a speech act verb). Whether or
not the form (syntactic, derivational, or phonological) of a lexeme changes, the
semasiological semantic changes undergone, if any, are predicted to be of the types
characterized in ﬁgure 7.1.
7.3 Directions for future work
The hypotheses pursued here have necessarily been tested within a
limited range of semantic domains. Further research is needed to develop a fuller
understanding of several issues, both language-external and language-internal.
With respect to language-external issues, at different periods different onoma-
siological or conceptual structures may be more active “targets” of change than
others; such differences will be very closely tied to the kinds of styles and texts
favored at the time, but the individual paths of innovation are hypothesized to be
similar, however few or many members are recruited to the semantic class in ques-
tion. To have a full understanding of the changes discussed here and their impact on
language-users, it will be important to know, among other things, in which text-types
particular changes are favored, and among which groups of people. For example, it
has been suggested (Macaulay 1995) that English speakers in authoritative position,
283
Regularity in semantic change
or those who position themselves as having authority, may favor stronger epistemic
adverbials (e.g. in fact, surely) than others in less authoritative positions. Likewise,
as the development of speech act verbs and of honoriﬁcation shows, speakers of
different languages may well ﬁnd different types of expression salient, and may
therefore recruit fewer or more lexemes into particular conceptual categories –
whereas explicit encoding of subjectivity may be highly valued in one society or
group, explicit encoding of intersubjectivity may be more highly valued in another.
Or at one period of time objectivity may be favored over subjectivity. Study of
the social and political aspects of the changes highlighted here will give added
insight into the relationship between language and culture. We believe that the pro-
cesses leading to semasiological change will be the same, whether or not these
changes spread, and however restricted or rich their onomasiological consequences
may be.
With respect to language-internal issues, one important question is the extent to
which the separate tendencies identiﬁed in ﬁgure 7.1 as (b)–(d) are independent of
(inter)subjectiﬁcation and of each other, and under precisely what circumstances
they may be correlated. Procedural meanings of the type we have discussed here,
such as subjective epistemics, DMs, performatives, and addressee honoriﬁcs clearly
have scope over the proposition with which they are associated; it is less clear, how-
ever, that subjective procedurals such as focus particles (e.g. mere < “pure,” and
even < “smooth, ﬂat”) have such wide scope; therefore we have considered them
separate tendencies. Another issue is whether the kind of reversal of saliency that
we identiﬁed in (A) with respect to shifts from conceptualized described event to
conceptualized speech event will always be identiﬁable in semasiological changes,
although by hypothesis sufﬁciently ﬁne-grained analyses based on sufﬁciently ex-
tensive textual data are likely to reveal such shifts at intermediary points of devel-
opment. A third issue is what happens to those polysemies that have developed on
the far right hand side of the trajectory of change, in other words, to those lexemes
that have developed non-truth-conditional, procedural, scope-over-discourse, and
intersubjective meanings. Our hypothesis is that most Ls with such meanings are
replaced by newly recruited polysemies from other Ls, i.e. do not continue fur-
ther semasiologically, but are replaced onomasiologically; their failure to continue
along a semasiological trajectory would follow from their being least referential
and therefore least tied to non-linguistic categories. However, some Ls that we have
not discussed, such as topic markers, are well known to become subject mark-
ers, i.e. to be grammaticalized as obligatory markers (e.g. Givón 1979, Shibatani
1991); under what conditions such changes occur and how they are semantically
and pragmatically constrained needs to be studied. Further research will also show
to what extent the same or other regularities may be found in other semantic areas,
e.g. terms for emotion, degree adverbials, markers of indirect speech. This study
284
Conclusion
has been designed to build the foundations for further work along lines such as
these.
As work continues, a fuller integration with the formalisms of semantics and
pragmatics will continue to give insights into the exact nature of the changes in-
volved, and into the nature of semantic and pragmatic learnability. At the same
time, research on evidence for change should allow for a richer understanding of
variation in meaning than is often apparent in current formal approaches.
285
PRIMARY REFERENCES
References in this section are to works cited in examples, where known (not all sources,
including the OED, provide full or even any references for data). Citations in square
brackets ([ ]) in examples give the source of the example citation, which can be found in the
Secondary references. Works that have been used as both primary data and secondary
references (e.g. dictionaries like OED, NKD) are cited in Secondary references as well as
here.
References from dictionaries and secondary sources are given in the form cited in those
sources. Where data has been cited from the OED and another source, e.g. John Gower,
Confessio Amantis, the more recent source (typically the Helsinki Corpus) only is given.
Wherever examples are derived from electronic data bases these data bases are referenced at
the end of the entry.
ÆCHom I, 17(App). Second Sunday after Easter. Ælfric’s “Catholic Homilies” First Series,
ed. P. A. M. Clemoes. Cambridge University dissertation, 614–627, 1955–56. (DOE)
ÆCHom II, 42. Martyrs. Ælfric’s “Catholic Homilies” Second Series, Text, ed. M. Godden.
Early English Text Society S.S. 5, 310–317. London: Oxford University Press, 1979
[1922]. (DOE)
Ælfric, Grammar. c. 1000. Aelfrics Grammatik und Glossar; Text und Varianten, ed. Julius
Zupitza. Berlin: Max Niehans, 1966 [1880].
ÆLS I: Ælfric’s Lives of the Saints, vol. I., ed. W. W. Skeat. Early English Text Society 76,
1966 [1881–1900]. (DOE)
Alfred, Boethius. King Alfred’s Version of Boethius’ De Consolatione Philosophiae, ed. W. J.
Sedgeﬁeld. Darmstadt 1968 [1899]. (DOE)
Alfred, Preface to Cura Pastoralis. King Alfred’s West-Saxon Version Of Gregory’s Pastoral
Care, Part I, ed. H. Sweet. Early English Text Society O. S. 45. London: Oxford
University Press, 1958 [1871]. (HCET)
Ancrene Wisse, ed. J. R. R. Tolkien. Early English Text Society 249. London: Oxford
University Press, 1962. (HCET)
Appeal London: A Book Of London English 1384–1425, ed. R. W. Chambers and M. Daunt.
Oxford: Clarendon, 1967 [1931]. (HCET)
Austen, Jane. 1816. Emma, ed. R. W. Chapman, The Novels of Jane Austen. Oxford:
Clarendon, 5 vols., 1926.
286
Primary references
Austen, Jane. 1818. Northanger Abbey, ed. R. W. Chapman, The Novels of Jane Austen.
Oxford: Clarendon, 5 vols., 1926.
Austen, Jane. 1818. Persuasion, ed. R. W. Chapman, The Novels of Jane Austen. Oxford:
Clarendon, 5 vols., 1926.
Bede. ?900. Ecclesiastical History. Schipper (OED) p. 276 (Jucker 1997)
Beowulf. eighth century. Beowulf with the Finnesburgh Fragment, ed. C. L. Wrenn
and W. F. Bolton. Exeter; University of Exeter Press, 1988 [1953].
Berkeley, George. 1732. Alciphron, ed. A. A. Luce and T. E. Jessop, The Works of George
Berkeley, Bishop of Gloyne. London: Nelson, 1948; repr. Nendeln: Kraus, 1979.
Boxer, Diana. 1993. Complaining and Commiserating: a Speech Act View of Solidarity in
Spoken American English. New York: Peter Lang.
Boyle, Electricity: Robert Boyle. 1675–76. Electricity and Magnetism. Old Ashmolean
Reprints 7. Series ed., R. W. T. Gunther. Oxford: University of Oxford, 1927. (HCET)
Brinton, Laurel J. 2001. Historical discourse analysis. In Deborah Schiffrin, Deborah
Tannen, and Heidi Hamilton, eds., The Handbook of Discourse Analysis, 138–60.
Oxford: Blackwell.
Brown, Richard. The English School Reformed, 1969 (see Fries, 1998, in Secondary
references).
Brown Corpus. 1961. W. N. Francis and H. Kucera. A Standard Corpus of Present-Day
Edited American English. Providence, RI: Brown University. (Included in ICAME.)
Brut. The Brut or The Chronicles of England, Part I, ed. F. W. D. Brie. Early English Text
Society, O.S. 131. London: Oxford University Press, 1960 [1906].
Buchan, John. 1924. The Three Hostages.
Carroll, Lewis. 1865. Alice in Wonderland: Authoritative Texts of Alice’s Adventures in
Wonderland, Through the Looking-Glass, The Hunting of the Snark: Backgrounds;
Essays in criticism, ed. Donald J. Gray. New York: Norton, 1971.
Cato. Marcius Porcius Cato, On Agriculture; Marcus Terentius Varro, On Agriculture, trans.
William Davis Hooper, rev. Harrison Boyd Ash, Loeb Classical Library. Cambridge,
MA: Harvard University Press.
Caxton, William. The History of Reynard the Fox, trans. from the Original by William
Caxton, ed. N. Blake. Early English Text Society 263. London: Oxford University
Press, 1970.
CEEC. The Corpus of Early English Correspondence, compiled by Terttu Nevalainen,
Helena Raumolin-Brunberg, et al. University of Helsinki, 1998. (ICAME)
Charter (Harm). Writ of King Edward, Bury St. Edmunds. P. H. Sawyer, Anglo-Saxon
Charters: An Annotated List and Bibliography. London, 1968. (DOE)
Chaucer, Geoffrey. The Riverside Chaucer, ed. Larry D. Benson. Boston: Houghton Mifﬂin,
1987, 3rd ed.
Chauliac (1). ?1425. Anonymous Translation of Guy de Chauliac’s Grande Chirurgie:
Microﬁlm print of New York Academy of Medicine ms.
Chauliac (2). c. 1420. Microﬁlm print of Paris Angl. 25 ms.
Chikamatsu. Early 18th century. Chikamatsu Monzaemon-shuu [Collected Plays of
Chikamatsu Monzaemon], vol. I, ed. Shuu Mori, Bunzoo Torigoe, and Ciyoji
287
Primary references
Nagatomo. Nihon Koten Bungaku Zenshuu (NKBZ) series 43, Tokyo:
Shogakukan, 1972.
ChronA. Two of the Saxon Chronicles Parallel, 2 vols., ed. C. Plummer. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 1952 [1892–99].
ChronE. Two of the Saxon Chronicles Parallel, 2 vols., ed. C. Plummer. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 1952 [1892–99]. (DOE)
Chronicle Capgrave. 1452. John Capgrave’s Abbreuiacioun of Cronicles, ed. P. J. Lucas.
Early English Text Society, O.S. 285. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1983. (HCET)
Clowes, William. 1602. Treatise for the Artiﬁcial Cure of Struma, 1602. The English
Experience 238. Amsterdam: Theatrvm Orbis Terrarvm and New York: Da Capo
Press, 1970. (HCET)
Congreve: William Congreve. The Comedies of William Congreve, ed. Eric S. Rump, New
York: Viking Penguin, 1985.
Coote: Edmund Coote. 1596. The English Schoole-Master, 1968 (see Fries, 1998, in
Secondary references).
Cornwallis, Jane. 1613. Letter to Elnathan Parr. (CEEC)
Daikoku Renga [“Linked Verse for Daikoku”]. Before 17th century. Kyoogenshuu
[Collected Kyogen plays], eds. Tadahiko Kitagawa and Akira Yasuda. Nihon Koten
Bungaku Zenshuu (NKBZ) series 35, 81–86. Tokyo: Shogakukan.
Defoe, Daniel. 1722. A Journal of the Plague Year 1722, 1754.
Deloney, Thomas. 1619. Jack of Newbury (1619). The Novels of Thomas Deloney, ed.,
M. E. Lawlis. Bloomington: Indiana University Press. (HCET)
Dickens, Charles. 1837/38. Oliver Twist, ed. P. Fairclough. London: Penguin, 1985.
Digby Plays. c. 1500. The Late Medieval Religious Plays of Bodleian MSS Digby 133 and E
Museo 160, ed. D. C. Baker, J. L. Murphy, and L. B. Hall, Jr. Early English Text
Society 283. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1982. (HCET)
Digges. 1571. Digges, Leonard and Thomas Digges. A Geometrical Practice Named
Pantometria, 1591.
Documents Chancery. 15th century. An Anthology of Chancery English, ed. J. H. Fischer, M.
Richardson, and J. L. Fisher. Knoxville: University of Tennessee Press, 1984. (HCET)
Documents Harmer. 9th–10th century. Select English Historical Documents of the Ninth
and Tenth Centuries, ed. F. E. Harmer. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1914.
(HCET)
DOE: Dictionary of Old English Corpus in Electronic Form. Compiled by Angus Cameron,
Ashley Crandell Amos, Sharon Butler, Antonette diPaolo Healey. University of
Toronto: Dictionary of Old English Project. <http://www.doe.utoronto.ca/webcorpus.
html>
Doyle, Arthur Conan. 1894. The Annotated Sherlock Holmes, vol. I, ed. William S.
Baring-Gould. New York: Clarkson N. Potter, 1967.
Dudley: Robert Dudley. 1586. Letter XCI. The Earl of Leycester to Mr. Secretary
Walsyngham. (CEEC)
Dunhuang Bianwen Ji. ?900. Renmin Wenxue Chubanshe, eds. Yiliang Zhou, Gong Qi,
Yigong Zeng, Zhongmin Wang, Qinshu Wang, and Da Xiang. Beijing, 1984.
288
Primary references
Eguchi. 14th century. Noh play by Kan’ami (1333–84). Yookyoku-shuu [Selected Noh
Plays], eds. and annot. Mario Yokomichi and Akira Omote. Nihon Koten Bungaku
Taikei (NKBT) series 40. Tokyo: Iwanami Shoten, 1960.
Eliot, George. 1860. Mill on the Floss. London: Cavendish, 1986.
Eliot, George. 1871–72. Middlemarch. Penguin Classics. Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1986.
Elyot, Thomas. 1531. The Boke Named the Governour (1531), ed. E. Rhys, intro. by F.
Watson. Everyman’s Library. London and New York: J. M. Dent. (HCET)
English Wyclifﬁte Sermons. c. 1400. English Wyclifﬁte Sermons, vol. I, ed. A. Hudson.
Oxford: Clarendon. (HCET)
Enkyobon Heike Monogatari [Enkyobon Text, Tale of the Heike]. 1309–10, eds. Yasuo
Kitahara and Eiichi Ogawa. Tokyo: Benseisha, 1996, 4 vols.
Equatorie of the Planets. c. 1392. The Equatorie of the Planets, ed. D. J. Price. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press. (HCET)
Exodus. ?eighth century. The Old English Version of The Heptateuch, ed. S. J. Crawford.
Early English Text Society 160. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1969.
Farquhar, George. 1707. The Beaux’ Stratagem, ed. Charles N. Fifer. Lincoln: University of
Nebraska Press, 1977.
Fates of the Apostles. c. 1000. The Exeter Book. The Anglo-Saxon Poetic Records vol. III,
ed. George Philip Krapp and Elliott van Kirk Dobbie. New York: Columbia University
Press, 1932. (HCET)
Fitzherbert. 1534. The Book of Husbandry (1534), ed. W. W. Skeat. English Dialect Society
37. Vaduz: Kraus Reprint Ltd., 1965 [1882]. (HCET)
Floris. c. 1300 (?1250). King Horn, Floriz and Blauncheﬂur, the Assumption of our Lady,
1st ed. J. R. Lumby, 1866; re-ed., G. H. McKnight, Early English Text Society, 14,
London: Oxford University Press, 1901.
Fox and Wolf. c. 1300. The Fox and the Wolf in the Well: Middle English Humorous Tales in
Verse, ed. G. H. McKnight. NY: Gordian, 1971 [1913]. (HCET)
Fraser, B and M. Malamud-Makowski. 1996. English and Spanish contrastive discourse
markers. Language Sciences 18: 863–881.
Gawain. after 1345. Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, ed. J. R. R. Tolkien and E. V.
Gordon. Oxford: Clarendon, 1930.
Genesis. 8th century. The Junius Manuscript: The Anglo-Saxon Poetic Records, vol. I,
ed. G. P. Krapp. London: Routledge and NY: Columbia University Press, 1931.
(HCET)
Genji Monogatari [Tale of Genji]. c. 1006. Monash University, Australia: The Monash
Nihongo FTP Archive. <ftp://ftp.cc.monash.edu.au/pub/nihongo/genji.euc.gz>
electronic ﬁle of complete text, with page number references to hard-copy published
editions.
Genji Monogatari [Tale of Genji]. c. 1006. Genji Monogatari, vols. I, II, eds. Akio Abe, Ken
Akiyama, and Gen’e Imai. Tokyo: Shogakukan. Nihon Koten Bungaku Zensoo
(NKBZ) series 12, 13, 1970.
GD. c.1000. Bischof Wærferths von Worcester Übersetzung der Dialoge Gregors des
Grossen, 2 vols., ed. H. Hecht. Leipzig: Wigand.
289
Primary references
Gower, John. after 1393. Confessio Amantis: The English Works of John Gower, vol. I, ed.
G. C. Macaulay. London, 1957 [1900]. (HCET)
Grafton, Rochard. 1543. A Continuation of the Chronicles of England, Begynning where J.
Hardyng Left (1470–1543), 1812.
Gregory, William. 1475. Gregory’s Chronicle. The Historical Collections of a Citizen of
London in the Fifteenth Century, ed., J. Camden. Camden Society, N.S. XVII.
Westminster, 1876. (HCET)
Hali Meidhad. c. 1225. The Katherine Group. Edited from MS. Bodley 34, ed. S. T. R. O.
d’Ardenne. Bibliothèque de la Faculté de Philosophie et Lettres de l’Université de
Liège, CCXV. Paris: Société d’Édition “Les Belles Lettres,” 1977. (HCET)
Hargrave, F. ed. 1730. A Complete Collection of State-trials and Proceedings for High-
treason, and other Crimes and Misdemeanours, from the Reign of King Richard II to
the End of the Reign of King George I. London: J. Walthoe.
Havelok. c. 1300. Havelok, ed. G. V. Smithers. Oxford: Clarendon, 1987. (HCET)
Havelok. c. 1300. The Lay of Havelok the Dane, ed. W. W. Skeat. Early English Text Society
E.S. 4. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1868. (MED)
HCET. Helsinki Corpus of English Texts, Diachronic Part. See Rissanen, Kytö, and
Palander-Collin, eds., 1993 and Kytö 1993 [1991]. (Included in ICAME.)
Helsinki Corpus: see HCET.
Henry Prince of Wales. 1608. Letter 254 to King James I. (CEEC).
Hilton, Walter. c. 1450. Walter Hilton’s Eight Chapters on Perfection, ed. F. Kuriyagawa.
Tokyo: Keio Institute of Cultural and Linguistic Studies, 1967. (HCET)
HomU. Homilies for Unspeciﬁed Occasions. Wulfstan, Sammlung englischer Denkmäler 4.
Berlin, 1883, repr. by K. Ostheeren, 1967.
Hooker, Richard. 1614. Two Sermons upon Part of S. Jude’s Epistle, 1514. The English
Experience 195. Amsterdam: Theatrvm Orbis Terrarvm and NY: Da Capo, 1969.
(HCET)
Horn, Laurence R. 1991. Given as new: when redundant afﬁrmation isn’t. Journal of
Pragmatics 15: 313–336.
Hume, David. 1748. Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, ed. Eugene F. Miller,
Essays, Moral, Political, and Literary: David Hume. Indianapolis: Liberty Classics,
1987.
Hume, David. 1779. Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion, ed. Eugene F. Miller, Essays,
Moral, Political, and Literary: David Hume. Indianapolis: Liberty Classics,
1987.
ICAME. International Computer Archives of Modern English. Bergen: Norwegian
Computing Centre for the Humanities. CD-ROM.
Imakagami [“The New Mirror”]. 1174–75. Imakagami honbun oyobi soosakuin [Text and
comprehensive index to the Imakagami], ed. Kunihiko Sakakibara, Kazuyoshi
Fujikake, and Kiyoshi Tsukahara. Tokyo: Kasama Shoin, 1984.
Kageroo Nikki [“The Gossamer Diary”]. Early 10th century. Kageroo nikki soo-sakuin
[Comprehensive index of the Kageroo Nikki with annotated text], ed. Umetomo Saeki
and Tsunehisa Imuta. Tokyo: Kazama Shobo, 1981.
290
Primary references
Kempe, Margery. after 1438. The Book of Margery Kempe, vol. I, ed. S. B. Meech and H. E.
Allen. Early English Text Society, London: Oxford University Press, 1940.
(HCET)
Konjaku Monogatari-shuu [“Tales of Times Now Past”]. 1130–40. Eds. Yoshio Yamada,
Tadao Yamada, Hideo Yamada, and Toshio Yamada. Nihon Koten Bungaku Taikei
(NKBT) series 22–23. Tokyo: Iwanami Shoten, 1959.
Kyoogen [short comic plays]. Before 17th century. Kyoogen-shuu [“Anthology of kyogen
plays”], eds. Tadahiko Kitagawa and Akira Yasuda. Nihon koten bungaku zenshuu
(NKBZ) series 35. Tokyo: Shogakukan, 1972.
Lacnunga. Anglo-Saxon Magic and Medicine, Illustrated Specially from the Semi-Pagan
Text “Lacnunga,” ed. J. H. G. Grattan and C. Singer. Publications of the Wellcome
Historical Medical Museum, N.S. 3., 1972 [1952]. (HCET)
Lampeter Corpus of Early Modern English Tracts, compiled by Josef Schmied and Eva
Hertel, 1991–. (Included in ICAME)
Langacker, Ronald W. 1995. Raising and transparency. Language 71: 1–62.
Latimer: Hugh Latimer, Sermon on the Ploughers, 18 January 1549; Seven Sermons Before
Edward VI, on Each Friday in Lent, 1549, ed. E. Arber. English Reprints. London:
Alex Murray, 1968. (HCET)
LawGer. Gerefa, in Liebermann, vol. I: 453–455, 1903–16.
Lay Brut: c. 1225 (?1200). La amon’s Brut, or Chronicle of Britain, ed. F. Madden.
London: Society of Antiquaries of London, 1847.
Lee, Sophia and Harriet. 1798. Canterbury Tales, 1797–1801.
Lewis, Eleanor. 1996. “We’re going to look at your life insurance today”: an analysis of
pronouns in life insurance sales. Senior honors thesis, Department of Linguistics,
Stanford University.
Life of St. Edmund. c. 1450. The Life of St. Edmund, ed. N. F. Blake. Middle English
Religious Prose. York Medieval Texts. London: Arnold, 1972. (HCET)
Lindisfarne Gospels. The Four Gospels in Anglo-Saxon, Northumbrian, and Old Mercian
Versions, ed. W. W. Skeat. Darmstadt 1970 [1871–87]. (DOE)
Lisle, Lady Alice. 1685. The Trial of Lady Alice Lisle. Hargrave, 1730, vol. IV. (HCET)
Locke, John. 1693. Directions Concerning Education, ed. F. G. Kenyon. Oxford: Roxburghe
Club, 1933. (HCET)
MacWard, Robert. 1671. The True Non-Conformist (anon.).
Malory, Thomas. c. 1470. The Works of Sir Thomas Malory, ed. E. Vinaver. London: Oxford
University Press, 1954.
Man’yooshuu. [Man’yoshu, The Ten-Thousand Leaves]. Before 760. Eds. and annot.
Ichinosuke Tagaki, Tomohide Gomi, and Susumu Ohno. Nihon Koten Bungaku Taikei
(NKBT) series 4–7. Tokyo: Iwanami Shoten, 1957–60.
MED: The Middle English Dictionary. 1956–. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press.
(See also <http://www.hti.umich.edu/dict/med/>)
Mengzi. 300BC. Mengzi yinde [A Concordance to Meng Tzu], Harvard-Yenching Institute
Sinological Index Series, Supplement No. 16. Peiping: Yenching University Press,
1940.
291
Primary references
Monk of Evesham. 1482. The Revelation to the Monk of Evesham, ed. E. Aber. London,
1869.
Mulford, Clarence Edward. 1913. The Coming of Cassidy – and Others.
Mursili II’s prayer. Das hethitische Gebet der Gassulijawija, ed. Johann Tischler.
Innsbrucker Beiträge zur Sprachwissenschaft 37. Innsbruck: Institut für
Sprachwissenschaft der Universität.
Nesbit, E. 1909. Harding’s Luck. London: T. Fisher Unwin, 1923.
Nihon Shoki [Chronicles of Japan]. 720. Eds. Taroo Sakamoto, Saburoo Ienaga, Mitsusada
Inoue, Susumu Ohno. Nihon Koten Bungaku Taikei (NKBT) series 67–68. Tokyo:
Iwanami Shoten, 1967.
Nippo Jisho [Vocabulario da Lingoa de Iapam; Japanese–Portuguese Dictionary]. 1603.
Hooyaku Nippo Jisho [Japanese translation of Nippo Jisho], eds. Tadao Doi, Takeshi
Morita, and Minoru Choonan. Tokyo: Iwanami Shoten, 1980.
NKD: Nihon Kokugo Daijiten [Unabridged Dictionary of the Japanese Language].
1972–76. Tokyo: Shogakukan, 20 vols.
Nrf. Gild. Ret. Norfolk Gild Returns: English Gilds, ed. T. Smith and L. T. Smith, Early
English Text Society 40. London: Oxford University Press, 1870, rev. 1892.
Oates, Titus. 1685. The Trial of Titus Oates. Hargrave 1730, vol. IV. (HCET)
OED: The Oxford English Dictionary. 1989. Oxford: Clarendon, 2nd ed. (also OED2/e
CD-ROM V 2.0, 1999); Oxford English Dictionary Online. 2000. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 3rd. ed. <http://dictionary.oed.com/>
Orosius. c. 880. King Alfred’s Orosius, ed. H. Sweet. Early English Text Society, O.S. 79.
London: Oxford University Press, 1959 [1883].
Paston, Clement. Paston Letters and Papers of the Fifteenth Century, Part I, ed. N. Davis.
Oxford: Clarendon. (HCET)
Paston. The Paston Letters, A.D. 1422–1509, ed. J. Gairdner, 1904.
Paston Letters: Paston Letters and Papers of the Fifteenth Century, ed. N. Davis. Oxford:
Clarendon, 1971. (HCET)
Pepys, Diary. 1666. Samuel Pepys. Memoirs, Comprising his Diary from 1659 to 1669, and
a Selection from his Private Correspondence 16. . .
Pepys, Penny Merriments. 1684–85. Samuel Pepys’ Penny Merriments, ed. R. Thompson.
London: Constable, 1976. (HCET)
Purvey, Wycliffe. The Prologue to the Bible, the Holy Bible, Containing the Old and New
Testaments, with the Apocryphal Books, in the Earliest English Versions Made from the
Latin Vulgate by John Wycliffe and his Followers, vol. I, ed. J. Forshall and F. Madden.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1850. (HCET)
Queen Elizabeth. 1593. Queen Elizabeth’s Englishings of Boethius, De Consolatione
Philosophiae, A. D. 1593, Plutarch De Curiositate, Horace, De Arte Poetica, A. D.
1598, ed. C. Pemberton. Early English Text Society, O.S. 113. London: Oxford
University Press, 1899. (HCET)
Radcliffe, Ann, Mrs. 1797. The Italian, or the Confession of the Black Penitents, a Romance.
Raleigh, Walter. c. 1603. The Trial of Sir Walter Raleigh. Hargrave 1730, vol. I.
(HCET)
292
Primary references
Rodriguez, P. João. 1604–8. Arte da lingoa de Japam. Nihon daibunten [Japanese translation
of Arte da lingoa de Japam], ed. and trans. Tadao Doi. Tokyo: Sanseido, 1967.
Sansatsuko [Haikai comic verse] by Hattori Doboo. 1704. Koohon Bashoo Zenshuu
[Comparative Texts of the Collected Works of Bashoo].
Sawles Warde. The Katherine Group. Edited from MS Bodley 34, ed. S. T. R. O. d’Ardenne.
Bibliothèque de la Faculté de Philosophie et Lettres de l’Université de Liège, CCXV
,
Paris: Société d’Édition “Les Belles Lettres,” 1977. (HCET)
Scott, Walter. 1822. Peveril of the Peak.
Shakespeare, William. The Riverside Shakespeare, ed. G. Blakemore Evans. Boston:
Houghton Mifﬂin, 1974.
Shengjing. 228–316. Academica Sinica, Online Corpus of Chinese.
Shiji. 104–91 BC. Zhonghua Shuju. Beijing, 1992.
Shishuoxinyu. 5th century. Liu, Yiqing. Academica Sinica, Online Corpus of Chinese.
Shizen koji. 14th century. Noh play by Kan’ami (1333–84), probably revised by Zeami
(1363–1443). Yookyoku-shuu [Selected Noh Plays], eds. and annot. Mario Yokomichi
and Akira Omote. Nihon Koten Bungaku Taikei (NBKT) series 40. Tokyo: Iwanami
Shoten, 1960.
Sidgwick, Henry. 1886. Outlines of the History of Ethics for English Readers. Boston:
Beacon, 1960.
Smith, Adam. 1776. An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations, vol. II,
ed. R. H. Campbell and A. S. Skinner. Indianapolis: Liberty Fund, 1981.
Suehirogari [“The Auspicious Fan”]. Before 17th century. Kyoogenshuu [Collected Kyogen
Plays], eds. Tadahiko Kitagawa and Akira Yasuda. Nihon Koten Bungaku Zenshuu
(NKBZ) series 35, pp. 66–86. Tokyo: Shogakugakan.
Sunzi. 5th century BC. Sun, Wu. Academica Sinica, Online Corpus of Chinese.
Taketori Monogatari [Bamboo Cutter’s Tale]. early 10th century. Taketori monogatari
zenshaku. [Complete annotated edition of the Taketori Monogatari], ed. Hajime
Matsuo. Tokyo: Musashino Shoin, 1961.
Taylor, John. 1630. All The Workes of John Taylor the Water Poet, 1630. With An
Introductory Note By V
. E. Neuburg. London: Scolar, 1977.
Tillotson, John. 1671. Sermons on “The Folly of Scofﬁng at Religion” and “Of the Tryall of
the Spirits.
” Three Restoration Divines: Barrow, South, Tillotson: Selected Sermons,
vol. II.ii, ed. S. T. R. O. d’Ardenne. Bibliothèque de la Faculté de Philosophie et Lettres
de l’Université de Liège, CCXV. Paris: Société d’Édition “Les Belles Lettres,” 1976.
(HCET)
Tora-akira ms., Kyoogen. c. 1640. Kohon Noh-kyoogenshuu [Old ms. of Noh and Kyoogen
Plays], ed. Ken Sasano. Tokyo: Iwanami Shoten, 1943–44.
Tsurezure-gusa. [Essays in Idleness]. c. 1330. Tsurezure-gusa soosakuin [Comprehensive
Index of the Tsurezure-gusa, with annotated text], ed. Motoki Tokieda. Tokyo:
Shibundo, 1967.
UA Hem. Mag. United Airlines Hemisphere Magazine.
United Press Intl.: United Press International. Top stories syndicated by UPI for the years
1991 and 1992.
293
Primary references
Vanbrugh. John. 1697. The Relapse, ed. Bernard Harris. New York: Norton, 1986.
Vices and Virtues. c. 1200. The Book of Vices and Virtues, ed. E. Holthausen. Early English
Text Society, O.S. 89. London: Oxford University Press, 1888. (HCET)
Wakeﬁeld Plays. The Wakeﬁeld Pageants in the Towneley Cycle, ed. A. C. Cawley. Old and
Middle English Texts. Manchester: Manchester University Press, 1958. (HCET)
Weller, M. 1970. Moonchildren. In T. Hoffman, ed., Famous American Plays of the 1970’s.
New York: Dell, 1981.
West Saxon Gospels. The Holy Gospels in Anglo-Saxon, Northumbrian, and Old Mercian
Versions, ed. W. W. Skeat. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1871–1887.
Witches. George Gifford. A Handbook on Witches and Witchcraftes, 1593. Shakespeare
Association Facsimiles 1, with an introduction by B. White. London: Humphrey
Milford and Oxford University Press, 1931.
Wycherley, William. 1674/75. The Country Wife, ed. John Dixon Hunt. New York: Norton,
1988.
York Plays: The York Plays, ed. Richard Beadle. York Medieval Texts. London: Arnold,
1982. (HCET)
Zhuzi Yulei Scrolls. 1200. Academica Sinica, Online Corpus of Chinese.
294
SECONDARY REFERENCES
Abe, Akio, Ken Akiyama, and Gen’e Imai, eds. and annot. 1970. Genji Monogatari [The
Tale of Genji], vols. I & II. Nihon Koten Bungaku Zenshuu series, 12 vols. Tokyo:
Shogakukan.
Abraham, Werner. 1991. The grammaticalization of the German modal particles. In
Traugott and Heine, vol. II, 331–380.
Adamson, Sylvia. 1995. From empathetic deixis to empathetic narrative: stylisation and
(de-)subjectivisation as processes of language change. In Stein and Wright, 195–224.
Ahlqvist, Anders, ed. 1982. Papers from the 5th International Conference on Historical
Linguistics. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Aijmer, Karin. 1985. The semantic development of will. In Fisiak, 11–21.
1986. Why is actually so popular in spoken English? In Gunnel Tottie and Ingegard
Bäcklund, eds., English in Speech and Writing: a Symposium, 119–129. Uppsala:
Almqvist and Wiksell.
1996. I think – an English modal particle. In Swan and Westvik, 1–47.
Aissen, Judith. 1992. Topic and focus in Mayan. Language 68: 43–80.
Akatsuka, Noriko. 1992. Japanese modals are conditionals. In Diane Brentari, Gary N.
Larson, and Lynn A. MacLeod, eds., The Joy of Grammar, 1–10. Amsterdam:
Benjamins.
1997. Negative conditionality, subjectiﬁcation, and conditional reasoning. In
Athenasiadou and Dirven, 323–354.
Akatsuka, Noriko and Sung-Ock S. Sohn. 1994. Negative conditionality: the case of
Japanese -tewa and Korean -taka. In Noriko Akatsuka, ed., Japanese/Korean
Linguistics 4: 203–219. Stanford University: Center for the Study of Language and
Information.
Akimoto, Minoji. 2000. The grammaticalization of the verb “pray.” In Olga Fischer,
Annette Rosenbach, and Dieter Stein, eds., Pathways of Change: Grammaticalization
in English, 67–84, Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Allen, Cynthia, L. 1995. On doing as you please. In Jucker, 275–308.
Allerton D. and A. Cruttenden. 1974. English sentence adverbials: their syntax and their
intonation in British English. Lingua 34: 1–30.
American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, The. 2000. Boston: Houghton
Mifﬂin. 4th ed.
295
Secondary references
Amino, Yoshihiko. 1991. Nihon no rekisi o yomi-naosu [Rereading the History of Japan].
Tokyo: Tsukuma Shobo.
Andersen, Henning. 1973. Abductive and deductive change. Language 49: 765–793.
Anderson, Lloyd B. 1982. Universals of aspect and parts of speech: parallels between
signed and spoken languages. In Paul J. Hopper, ed., Tense–Aspect: between Semantics
and Pragmatics, 91–114. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Andrews, Edna. 1995. Seeing is believing: visual categories in the Russian lexicon. In Ellen
Contini-Morava and Barbara Sussman Goldberg, with Robert S. Kirsner, eds.,
Meaning as Explanation: Advances in Linguistic Sign Theory, 363–377. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Anscombre, Jean-Claude and Oswald Ducrot. 1989. Argumentativity and informativity. In
Michael Meyer, ed., From Metaphysics to Rhetoric, 71–87. Dordrecht: Kluwer.
Anttila, Raimo. 1989 [1972]. Historical and Comparative Linguistics. Amsterdam:
Benjamins, 2nd ed.
1992. Historical explanation and historical linguistics. In Garry W. Davis and Gregory
K. Iverson, eds., Explanation in Historical Linguistics, 17–39. Amsterdam:
Benjamins.
Archangeli, Diana. 1997. Optimality Theory: an introduction to linguistics in the 1990s. In
Diana Archangeli and D. Terence Langendoen, eds., Optimality Theory: an Overview,
1–32. Oxford: Blackwell.
Ariel, M. 1994. Pragmatic operators. In Asher and Simpson, vol. VI: 3250–3253.
Arnovick, Leslie Katherine. 1989. The Wallis rules as speech act prescription: an
illocutionary re-evaluation. General Linguistics 29: 150–158.
1994. The expanding discourse of promises in Present-Day English: a case study in
historical pragmatics. Folia Linguistica Historica 15: 175–191.
Asher, R. E. and J. M. Y. Simpson, eds. 1994. The Encyclopedia of Language and
Linguistics. Oxford: Pergamon, 6 vols.
Athanasiadou, Angeliki and René Dirven, eds. 1997. On Conditionals Again. Amsterdam:
Benjamins.
Atlas, Jay D. and Stephen C. Levinson. 1981. It-clefts, informativeness, and logical form. In
Peter Cole, 1–61.
Atooda, Toshiko. 1980. Nihongo Zyoosiki Tesuto [Tests of Common Sense about Japanese
(Usage)]. Tokyo: Ikeda Shoten.
Austin, J. L. 1962. How to Do Things with Words. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Axmaker, Shelley, Annie Jaisser, and Helen Singmaster, eds. 1988. Proceedings of the
Fourteenth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society. Berkeley: Berkeley
Linguistics Society.
Bach, Ulrich. 1995. Wills and will making in 16th and 17th century England: some
pragmatic aspects. In Jucker, 125–144.
Baker, Philip and Anand Syea, eds. 1996. Changing Meanings, Changing Functions.
Westminster Creolistics Series. London: University of Westminster Press.
Banﬁeld, Ann. 1973. Narrative style and the grammar of direct and indirect speech.
Foundations of Language 10: 1–39.
296
Secondary references
1982. Unspeakable Sentences: Narration and Representation in the Language of Fiction.
Boston: Routledge and Kegan Paul.
Barcelona, Antonio, ed. 2000a. Metaphor and Metonymy at the Crossroads: a Cognitive
Perspective. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
2000b. Introduction: the cognitive theory of metaphor and metonymy. In Barcelona
2000a: 1–28.
Baron, Naomi. 1977. Language Acquisition and Historical Change. Amsterdam:
North-Holland.
Bartsch, Renate. 1984. Norms, tolerance, lexical change, and context-dependent meaning.
Journal of Pragmatics 8: 367–393.
Benveniste, Emile. 1968. Mutations of linguistic categories. In Lehmann and Malkiel,
85–94.
1971a [1958]. Subjectivity in language. In Problems in General Linguistics, 223–230.
Trans. by Mary Elizabeth Meek. Coral Gables, FL: University of Miami Press. (Publ.
as De la subjectivité dans le langage, Problèmes de Linguistique Générale, 258–266.
Paris: Gallimard, 1966); Orig. publ. in Journal de psychologie 55: 267f. 1958).)
1971b [1958]. Delocutive verbs. In Problems in General Linguistics, 239–246. Trans. by
Mary Elizabeth Meek. Coral Gables, FL: University of Miami Press. (Publ. as Les
verbes délocutifs, Problèmes de Linguistique Générale, 277–285. Paris: Gallimard,
1966 [1958]; Orig. publ. in A. G. Hatcher and K. L. Selig, eds., Studia Philologica et
Litteraria in Honorem L. Spitzer, 57–63, Bern, 1958.)
1973. Indo-European Language and Society. Trans. by E. Palmer. Coral Gables, FL:
University of Miami Press.
Bergner, Heinz. 1998. Dialogue in the Medieval drama. In Borgmeier, Grabes, and Jucker,
75–83.
Berlin, Brent and Paul Kay. 1969. Basic Color Terms: their Universality and Evolution.
Berkeley: University of California Press.
Biber, Douglas. 1988. Variation across Speech and Writing. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Biber, Douglas and Edward Finegan. 1988. Adverbial stance types in English. Discourse
Processes 11: 1–34.
1989. Styles of stance in English: lexical and grammatical marking of evidentiality and
affect. Text 9: 93–124.
Bickerton, Derek. 1984. The language bioprogram hypothesis. Behavioral and Brain
Sciences 7: 173–221.
Bjork, Robert E. and Anita Obermeier. 1997. Date, provenance, author, audiences. In
Robert E. Bjork and John D. Niles, eds., A Beowulf Handbook, 13–34. Lincoln:
University of Nebraska Press.
Blake, Norman F. 1992–93. Shakespeare and discourse. Stylistica 2/3: 81–90.
Blakemore, Diane. 1987. Semantic Constraints on Relevance. Oxford: Blackwell.
1988. So as a constraint on relevance. In Ruth Kempson, ed., Mental Representation: the
Interface between Language and Reality, 183–195. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
297
Secondary references
1990. Constraints on interpretation. In Kira Hall, Jean-Pierre Koenig, Michael Meacham,
Sondra Reinman, and Laurel A. Sutton, eds., Proceedings of the Sixteenth Annual
Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, 363–370. Berkeley: Berkeley Linguistics
Society.
1996. Are apposition markers discourse markers? Journal of Linguistics 32: 325–348.
Blank, Andreas. 1997. Prinzipien des lexikalischen Bedeutungswandels am Beispiel der
romanischen Sprachen. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
1999. Why do new meanings occur? A cognitive typology of the motivations for lexical
semantic change. In Blank and Koch, 61–89.
Blank, Andreas and Peter Koch, eds. 1999. Historical Semantics and Cognition. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Blass, Regina. 1996. Relevance Relations in Discourse. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Bloch, Oscar and Walter von Wartburg. 1960. Dictionnaire étymologique de la langue
française. Paris: Presses Universitaires de France, 3rd ed.
Bloomﬁeld, Leonard. 1984 [1933]. Language. New York: Holt, Rinehart, and Winston.
Blum-Kulka, Shoshana, Juliane House, Gabriele Kasper, eds. 1989. Cross-cultural
Pragmatics: Requests and Apologies. Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Bolinger, Dwight. 1971. Semantic overloading: a restudy of the verb remind. Language
47: 522–547.
1979. To catch a metaphor: you as norm. American Speech 54: 194–209.
Borgmeier, Raimund, Herbert Grabes, and Andreas H. Jucker, eds. 1998. Historical
Pragmatics: Anglistentag 1997 Giessen Proceedings. Giessen: WVT
Wissenschaftlicher Verlag.
Bourdieu, Pierre. 1991. Language and Symbolic Power. Ed. and introduced by John B.
Thompson; trans. by Gino Raymond and Matthew Adamson. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press.
Bowler, P. J. 1975. The changing meaning of “evolution.” Journal of the History of Ideas
36: 95–114.
Boyd, Julian and Zelda Boyd. 1980. “Shall” and “will.” In Leonard Michaels and
Christopher Ricks, eds., The State of the Language, 43–53. Berkeley: University of
California Press.
Boyd, Julian and J. P. Thorne. 1969. The semantics of modal verbs. Journal of Linguistics
5: 57–74.
Bréal, Michel. 1964 [1900]. Semantics: Studies in the Science of Meaning. Trans. by Mrs.
Henry Cust. New York: Dover.
1991 [1882]. The Beginnings of Semantics: Essays, Lectures and Reviews. Ed. and trans.
by George Wolf. Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Brinton, Laurel J. 1988. The Development of English Aspectual Systems. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
1996. Pragmatic Markers in English: Grammaticalization and Discourse Function.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
298
Secondary references
Brown, Cecil H. and Stanley R. Witkowski. 1983. Polysemy, lexical change and cultural
importance. Man (N.S.) 18(7): 2–89.
Brown, Keith. 1992. Double modals in Hawick Scots. In Peter Trudgill and J. K. Chambers,
eds., Dialects of English: Studies in Grammatical Variation, 74–103. London:
Longman.
Brown, Penelope and Stephen C. Levinson. 1987 [1978]. Politeness: some Universals in
Language Usage. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Brown, Roger and Albert Gilman. 1960. The pronouns of power and solidarity. In Thomas
A. Sebeok, ed., Style in Language, 253–276. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Brugman, Claudia. 1984. The very idea: a case study in polysemy and cross-lexical
generalization. Papers from the Twentieth Meeting of The Chicago Linguistic Society,
Parasession on lexical semantics, 21–38. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic
Society.
1988. The Story of Over: Polysemy, Semantics, and the Structure of the Lexicon.
New York: Garland.
Bryson, Bill. 1991. Mother Tongue: the English Language. London: Penguin.
Buck, Carl Darling. 1949. A Dictionary of Selected Synonyms in the Principal
Indo-European Languages. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Bühler, Karl. 1990 [1934]. Theory of Language: the Representational Function of
Language. Trans. by Donald Fraser Goodwin. Amsterdam: Benjamins. (Orig. publ. as
Sprachtheorie, Jena: Fischer, 1934.)
Busse, Ulrich. 1998. Prithee now, say you will, and go about it: prithee vs. pray you as
discourse markers in the Shakespeare corpus. In Fritz-Wilhelm Neumann and Sabine
Schilling, eds., Anglistentag 1998, Erfurt: Proceedings. Trier: Wissenschaftlicher
Verlag.
Bybee, Joan L. 1985. Morphology: a Study of the Relation between Meaning and Form.
Amsterdam: Benjamins.
1988. Semantic substance vs. contrast in the development of grammatical meaning. In
Axmaker, Jaisser, and Singmaster, 247–264.
1995. The semantic development of past tense modals in English. In Bybee and
Fleischman, 503–517.
Bybee, Joan and Suzanne Fleischman, eds. 1995. Modality in Grammar and Discourse.
Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Bybee, Joan L. and William Pagliuca. 1985. Cross-linguistic comparison and the
development of grammatical meaning. In Fisiak, 59–83.
1987. The evolution of future meaning. In Giacalone Ramat, Carruba, and Bernini,
108–122.
Bybee, Joan L., William Pagliuca, and Revere D. Perkins. 1991. Back to the future. In
Traugott and Heine, vol. II: 17–58.
Bybee, Joan L., Revere Perkins, and William Pagliuca. 1994. The Evolution of Grammar:
Tense, Aspect, and Modality in the Languages of the World. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
299
Secondary references
Cameron, Angus, Ashley Crandell Amos, Sharon Butler, and Antonette diPaolo Healey.
1980. The Dictionary of Old English Corpus in Electronic Form. University of
Toronto: Dictionary of Old English Project.
Campbell, Lyle. 1999 [1998]. Historical Linguistics: an Introduction. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Carston, Robyn. 1995. Quantity maxims and generalized implicature. Lingua 96: 213–244.
Casad, Eugene H., ed. 1996. Cognitive Linguistics in the Redwoods: the Expansion of a New
Paradigm in Linguistics. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Chafe, Wallace. 1994. Discourse, Consciousness, and Time: the Flow and Displacement of
Conscious Experience in Speaking and Writing. Chicago: Univerisity of Chicago Press.
Chafe, Wallace and Johanna Nichols, eds. 1986. Evidentiality: the Linguistic Coding of
Epistemology. Norwood: Ablex.
Chao, Yuenren. 1968. A Grammar of Spoken Chinese. Berkeley: University of California
Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1986. Knowledge of Language: its Nature, Origin, and Use. New York:
Praeger.
Chou, Fa-kao. 1953. Notes on Chinese Grammar. Bulletin of the Institute of History and
Philology 24: 224–247.
Chung, Sandra and Alan Timberlake. 1985. Tense, aspect, and mood. In Shopen, vol. III:
202–258.
Cinque, Guglielmo. 1999. Adverbs and Functional Heads: a Cross-linguistic Perspective.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Clark, Eve V. 1978. Locationals: existential, locative, and possessive constructions. In
Greenberg, Ferguson, and Moravcsik, vol. IV: 85–126.
Clark, Eve V. and Herbert H. Clark. 1979. When nouns surface as verbs. Language 55:
767–811.
Clark, Herbert H. 1992. Arenas of Language Use. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
1996. Using Language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Clark, Herbert H. and Thomas B. Carlson. 1982. Hearers and speech acts. Language 58:
332–373.
Coates, Jennifer. 1983. The Semantics of the Modal Auxiliaries. London: Croom Helm.
1995. The expression of root and epistemic possibility in English. In Bybee and
Fleischman, 55–66.
Cole, Peter. 1975. The synchronic and diachronic status of conversational implicature. In
Cole and Morgan, 257–288.
1981. Radical Pragmatics. New York: Academic Press.
Cole, Peter and Jerry Morgan, eds. 1975. Syntax and Semantics, vol. III: Speech Acts.
New York: Academic Press.
Coleman, Linda and Paul Kay. 1981. Prototype semantics: the English word lie. Language
57: 26–44.
Comrie, Bernard. 1976. Linguistic politeness axes: speaker-addressee, speaker-referent,
speaker-bystander. Pragmatics Microﬁche 1(7): A3. Cambridge University:
Department of Linguistics.
300
Secondary references
Cook, Haruko Minegishi. 1998. Situational meanings of Japanese social deixis: the
mixed use of the masu and plain forms. Journal of Linguistic Anthropology 8(1):
87–110.
Croft, William. 1990. Typology and Universals. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1993. The role of domains in the interpretation of metaphors and metonymies. Cognitive
Linguistics 4: 335–370.
1995. Autonomy and functionalist linguistics. Language 71: 490–532.
Crowley, Tony. 1996. Language in History: Theories and Texts. London: Routledge.
Cruse, D. Alan. 1986. Lexical Semantics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
2000. Meaning in Language: an Introduction to Semantics and Pragmatics. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Culpeper, Jonathan and Elena Semino. 2000. Constructing witches and spells: speech acts
and activity types in Early Modern England. Journal of Historical Pragmatics
1: 97–116.
Dahlgren, Kathleen. 1978. The nature of linguistic stereotypes. In D. Farkas, W. M.
Jacobsen, and K. W. Todrys, eds., 58–70.
1985. Social terms and social reality. In Suzanne Romaine and Elizabeth Closs Traugott,
eds., Folia Linguistica Historica 6: 107–125.
Dancygier, Barbara. 1992. Two metatextual operators: negation and conditionality in
English and Polish. In Laura A. Buszard-Welcher, Lionel Wee, and William Weigel,
eds., Proceedings of the Eighteenth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics
Society, 61–75. Berkeley: Berkeley Linguistics Society.
Danet, Brenda. 1997. Speech, writing and performativity: an evolutionary view of the
history of constitutive ritual. In Britt-Louise Gunnarsson, Per Linell, and Bengt
Nordberg, eds., The Construction of Professional Discourse, 1–41. London: Longman.
Danet, Brenda and Bryna Bogoch. 1994. Orality, literacy, and performativity in Anglo-
Saxon wills. In John Gibbon, ed., Language and the Law, 100–135. Harlow: Longman.
Dasher, Richard B. 1983. The semantic development of honoriﬁc expressions in Japanese.
Papers in Linguistics 2: 217–228.
1995. Grammaticalization in the System of Japanese Predicate Honoriﬁcs. PhD
dissertation, Stanford University.
Dekeyser, Xavier. 1998. Loss of prototypical meanings in the history of English semantics
or semantic redeployment. In Hogg and van Bergen, 63–71.
Denison, David. 1990. Auxiliary + impersonal in Old English. Folia Linguistica Historica
9: 139–166.
1992. Counterfactual may have. In Gerritsen and Stein, 229–256.
1993. English Historical Syntax. London: Longman.
1998. Syntax. In Suzanne Romaine, ed., The Cambridge History of the English
Language, vol. IV: 1776–1997, 92–328. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Derrig, Sandra. 1978. Metaphor in the color lexicon. In Farkas, Jacobsen, and Todrys,
85–96.
Diewald, Gabriele. 1993. Zur Grammatikalisierung der Modalverben im Deutschen.
Zeitschrift für Sprachwissenschaft 12: 218–234.
301
Secondary references
1999. Die Modalverben im Deutschen: Grammatikalisierung und Polyfunktionalität.
Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Dixon, R. M. W. 1972. The Dyirbal Language of North Queensland. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
1979. Ergativity. Language 55: 59–138.
DOE: Dictionary of Old English Corpus in Electronic Form. Compiled by Angus Cameron,
Ashley Crandell Amos, Sharon Butler, and Antonette diPaolo Healey. University of
Toronto: Dictionary of Old English Project. (http://www.doe.utoronto.ca/
webcorpus.html)
Doi, Tadao, tr. 1955. Nihon daibunten [Translation of Arte da lingoa de Japam, by P. João
Rodriguez (1604–8)]. Tokyo: Sanseido.
Doi, Tadao, Takesi Morita, and Minoru Chonan, eds. 1980. Nippo Jisho [Modern Japanese
translation of the Vocabulario da Lingoa de Iapam (Japanese–Portuguese dictionary,
1603)]. Tokyo: Iwanami Shoten.
Dowty, David R. 1985. On recent analyses of the semantics of control. Linguistics and
Philosophy 8: 291–331.
Du Bois, John W. 1985. Competing motivations. In Haiman, 343–365.
Ducrot, Oswald. 1983. Operateurs argumentatifs et visée argumentative. Cahiers de
Linguistique Française 5: 7–36.
Duranti, Alessandro and Charles Goodwin, eds. 1992. Rethinking Context: Language as an
Interactive Phenomenon. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Eckert, Penelope. 1989. Jocks and Burnouts. New York: Teachers College, Columbia
University.
Enkvist, Nils E. and Brita Wårvik. 1987. Old English a, temporal chains, and narrative
structure. In Giacalone Ramat, Carruba, and Bernini, 221–237.
Erman, Britt and Ulla-Britt Kotsinas. 1993. Pragmaticalization: the case of ba
and you
know. Studier i modern språkvetenskap 10: 76–93. Stockholm: Almqvist Wiksell.
Ernst, Thomas Byden. 1984. Towards an Integrated Theory of Adverb Position in English.
Indiana University Linguistics Club.
Ervin-Tripp, Susan, Kei Nakamura, and Jiansheng Guo. 1995. Shifting face from Asia to
Europe. In Shibatani and Thompson, 43–71.
Evans, Nicholas. 1994. Kayardild. In Goddard and Wierzbicka, 203–228.
Faarlund, Jan Terje. 1990. Syntactic Change. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Faingold, Eduardo D. 1991. Evidence of seventeenth century uses of shall and will
compatible with markedness-reversal. Papiere zur Linguistik 44–45/1–2: 57–63.
Faltz, Leonard M. 1989. A role for inference in meaning change. Studies in Language 13:
317–331.
Farkas, Donka, Wesley M. Jacobsen, and Karol W. Todrys, eds. 1978. Papers from the
Parasession on the Lexicon. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society.
Fauconnier, Gilles. 1975. Polarity and the scale principle. In Robin E. Grossman,
L. James San, and Timothy Vance, eds., Papers from the Eleventh Regional
Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society, 188–199. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic
Society.
302
Secondary references
Ferrara, Kathleen. 1997. Form and function of the discourse marker anyway: implications
for discourse analysis. Linguistics 35: 343–378.
Fillmore, Charles J. 1978. On the organization of semantic information in the lexicon. In
Farkas, Jacobsen, and Todrys, 148–173.
1982. Frame semantics. Linguistics in the Morning Calm, 111–137. Seoul: Hanshin.
1985. Frames and the semantics of understanding. Quadierni di Semantica 6:
222–255.
1997 [1971]. Lectures on Deixis. Stanford, CA: CSLI.
Fillmore, Charles J., Paul Kay, and Mary Catherine O’Connor. 1988. Regularity and
idiomaticity in grammatical constructions: the case of let alone. Language 64:
501–538.
Finegan, Edward. 1995. Subjectivity and subjectivisation: an introduction. In Stein and
Wright, 1–15.
Fischer, Olga. 1994. The development of quasi-auxiliaries in English and changes in word
order. Neophilologus 78: 137–164.
Fisiak, Jacek, ed. 1985. Historical Semantics: Historical Word-formation. Berlin: Mouton
de Gruyter.
Fleischman, Suzanne. 1982. The Future in Thought and Language. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
1983. From pragmatics to grammar: diachronic reﬂections on complex pasts and futures
in Romance. Lingua 60: 183–214.
1989. Temporal distance: a basic linguistic metaphor. Studies in Language. 13: 1–50.
1990. Tense and Narrativity: from Medieval Performance to Modern Fiction. Austin:
University of Texas Press.
1991. Discourse as space/discourse as time: reﬂections on the metalanguage of spoken
and written discourse. Journal of Pragmatics 16: 291–306.
1992. Discourse and diachrony: the rise and fall of Old French SI. In Gerritsen and Stein,
433–473.
Fleischman, Suzanne and Marina Yaguello. Forthcoming. Discourse markers across
languages? Evidence from English and French. In C. L. Moder and A. Martinovic-Zic,
eds., Discourse across Languages and Cultures. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Fludernik, Monika. 1993. The Fictions of Language and the Languages of Fiction. London:
Routledge.
Fong, Vivienne. 1997. The Order of Things: what Directional Locatives Denote. PhD
dissertation, Stanford University.
Foolen, Ad. 1996. Pragmatic particles. In Jef Verschueren, Jan-Ola Östman, Jan Blommaert,
and Chris Bulcaen, eds., Handbook of Pragmatics 1996, 1–24. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Frajzyngier, Zygmunt. 1991. The de dicto domain in language. In Traugott and Heine,
vol. I: 218–251.
Fraser, Bruce. 1975. Hedged performatives. In Cole and Morgan, 187–210.
1988. Types of English discourse markers. Acta Linguistica Hungarica 38: 19–33.
1990. An approach to discourse markers. Journal of Pragmatics 14: 383–395.
1996. Pragmatic markers. Pragmatics 6: 167–190.
303
Secondary references
Fraser, B. and M. Malamud-Makowski. 1996. English and Spanish contrastive discourse
markers. Language Sciences 18: 863–881.
Frawley, William. 1992. Linguistic Semantics. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Fries, Udo. 1998. Dialogue in instructional texts. In Borgmeier, Grabes, and Jucker,
85–96.
Fritz, Gerd. 1998. Historische Semantik. Stuttgart: Metzler.
Fujii, Noriko. 1991. Historical Discourse Analysis: Grammatical Subject in Japanese.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Gamon, David. 1994. On the development of epistemicity in the German modal verbs
mögen and müssen. Folia Linguistica Historica 14: 125–176.
Geeraerts, Dirk. 1983. Reclassifying semantic change. Quadierni di Semantica 4: 217–240.
1992. Prototypicality effects in diachronic semantics: a round-up. In Kellermann and
Morrissey, 183–203.
1995. Specialization and reinterpretation in idioms. In Martin Everaert, Erik-Jan van der
Linden, André Schenk, and Rob Schreuder, eds., Idioms: Structural and Psychological
Perspectives, 57–73. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
1997. Diachronic Prototype Semantics: a Contribution to Historical Lexicology. Oxford:
Clarendon.
Geis, Michael L. and Arnold M. Zwicky. 1971. On invited inferences. Linguistic Inquiry 2:
561–566.
Geluykens, Ronald. 1992. From Discourse Process to Grammatical Construction: on
Left-dislocation in English. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Gerritsen, Marinell and Dieter Stein, eds. 1992. Internal and External Factors in Syntactic
Change. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Giacalone Ramat, Anna. 2000. On some grammaticalization patterns for auxiliaries. In
Smith and Bentley, 125–154.
Giacalone Ramat, Anna, Onofrio Carruba, and Giuliano Bernini, eds. 1987. Papers from the
7th International Conference on Historical Linguistics. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Gibbs, Raymond W. 1993. Process and products in making sense of tropes. In 1993 edition
of Ortony 1993 [1979] 252–276.
Givón, Talmy. 1979. On Understanding Grammar. New York: Academic Press.
Goddard, Cliff and Anna Wierzbicka, eds. 1994. Semantic and Lexical Universals: Theory
and Empirical Findings. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Goffman, Erving. 1967. Interaction Ritual: Essays on Face to Face Behavior. Garden City,
NY: Anchor.
Goldberg, Adele E. 1995. Constructions: a Construction Grammar Approach to Argument
Structure. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Goossens, Louis. 1982. The development of the modals and of the epistemic function in
English. In Ahlqvist, 74–84.
1985. Framing the linguistic action scene in Old and Present-Day English: OE cwe an,
secgan, sp(r)ecan and present-day English speak, talk, say, and tell compared. In Jacek
Fisiak, ed., Papers from the 6th International Conference on Historical Linguistics,
149–170. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
304
Secondary references
1987a. Modal tracks: the case of magan and motan. In A. M. Simon-Vandenbergen, ed.,
Studies in Honor of René Derolez, 216–236. Genl. Seminarie voor Engelse en
Oud-Germaanse Taalkunds.
1987b. Modal shifts and predication types. In Johan van der Auwera and Louis Goossens,
eds., Ins and Outs of the Predication, 21–37. Dordrecht: Foris.
1992. Cunnan, conne(n), can: the development of a radial category. In Kellermann and
Morrissey, 377–394.
1995a. Metaphtonymy: the interaction of metaphor and metonymy in ﬁgurative
expressions for linguistic action. In Goossens et al., 159–174.
1995b. From three respectable horses’ mouths: metonymy and conventionalization in a
diachronically differentiated data base. In Goossens et al., 175–204.
1996. English Modals and Functional Models: a Confrontation. Antwerp Papers in
Linguistics 86. University of Antwerp.
1999. Metonymic bridges as modal shifts. In Klaus-Uwe Panther and Günter Radden, ed.,
Metonymy on Language and thought, 193–210. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
2000. Patterns of meaning extension, “parallel chaining”, subjectiﬁcation, and modal
shifts. In Barcelona 2000a, 149–169.
Goossens, Louis, Paul Pauwels, Brygida Rudzka-Ostyn, Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen,
and Johan Vanparys, eds. 1995. By Word of Mouth: Metaphor, Metonymy and
Linguistic Action in a Cognitive Perspective. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Gould, Stephen Jay. 1977. Ontogeny and Phylogeny. Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press of
Harvard University.
Greenbaum, Sidney. 1969. Studies in English Adverbial Usage. London: Longman.
Greenberg, Joseph H. 1966 [1963]. Some universals of language with particular reference to
word order of meaningful elements. In Joseph H. Greenberg, ed., Language Universals,
with Special Reference to Feature Hierarchies, 178–194. The Hague: Mouton, 2nd ed.
1978. How does a language acquire gender markers? In Joseph H. Greenberg, Charles A.
Ferguson, and Edith Moravcsik, eds., Universals of Human Language, vol. III:
249–295. Stanford: Stanford University Press.
1985. Some iconic relationships among place, time, and discourse deixis. In Haiman,
271–287.
1993. The second person is rightly so called. In Mushira Eid and Gregory Iverson, eds.,
Principles and Predictions: the Analysis of Natural Languages: Papers in Honor of
Gerald Sanders, 9–14. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Greenberg, Joseph H., Charles A. Ferguson, Edith Moravcsik, eds. 1978. Universals of
Human Language. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 4 vols.
Grice, Paul. 1989 [1975]. Logic and conversation. In his Studies in the Way of Words,
22–40. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. (Orig. publ. in Cole and Morgan
1975, 41–58.)
Groefsema, Marjolein. 1995. Can, may, must and should: a Relevance theoretic account.
Journal of Linguistics 31: 53–79.
Guiraud, Pierre. 1955. La sémantique. Que sais-je? 655. Paris: Presses Universitaires de
France.
305
Secondary references
Gussenhoven, Carlos. 1984. On the Grammar and Semantics of Sentence Accents.
Dordrecht: Foris.
Györi, Gábor. 1996. Historical aspects of categorization. In Casad, 175–206.
Haiman, John. 1980. The iconicity of grammar. Language 56: 515–540.
ed. 1985. Iconicity in Syntax. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Haiman, John and Sandra A. Thompson, eds. 1988. Clause Combining in Grammar and
Discourse. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Halle, Morris. 1964. Phonology in generative grammar. In Jerry A. Fodor and Jerrold J.
Katz, eds., The Structure of Language: Readings in the Philosophy of Language,
334–352. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.
Halliday, M. A. K. 1970. Functional diversity in language as seen from a consideration of
modality and mood in English. Foundations of Language 6: 322–365.
1977. Functional Linguistics. London: Arnold.
1990. Linguistic perspectives on literacy: a systemic–functional approach. In F. Christie
and E. Jenkins, eds., Literacy in Social Processes. Sidney: Literacy Technologies.
1994 [1985]. An Introduction to Functional Grammar. London: Edward Arnold, 2nd ed.
Halliday, M. A. K. and Ruqaia Hasan. 1976. Cohesion in English. London: Longman.
Hanks, William F. 1992. The indexical ground of deictic reference. In Alessandro Duranti
and Charles Goodwin, eds., Rethinking Context: Language as an Interactive
Phenomenon, 46–76. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Hansen, Maj-Britt Mosegaard. 1998. The Function of Discourse Particles. Amsterdam:
Benjamins.
Hanson, Kristin. 1987. On subjectivity and the history of epistemic expressions in English.
Papers from the Twenty-third Regional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society,
133–147. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society.
Harada, Shin-ichi. 1976. Honoriﬁcs. In Masayoshi Shibatani, ed., Syntax and Semantics,
vol. V: Japanese Generative Grammar, 499–561. New York: Academic Press.
Harkins, Jean. 1994. Bridging Two Worlds: Aboriginal English and Crosscultural
Understanding. St. Lucia: University of Queensland Press.
1995. Desire in Language and Thought: a Study in Crosscultural Semantics. PhD
dissertation, Australian National University.
Harris, Alice C. and Lyle Campbell. 1995. Historical Syntax in Cross-Linguistic
Perspective. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Harris, Martin. 1978. The Evolution of French Syntax: a Comparative Approach. New York:
Longman.
Haspelmath, Martin. 1997. From Space to Time: Temporal Adverbials in the World’s
Languages. LINCOM Studies in Theoretical Linguistics 3. Munich: LINCOM
EUROPA.
1998. Does grammaticalization need reanalysis? Studies in Language 22: 315–351.
Hattori, Shiro. 1967. Descriptive linguistics in Japan. In Thomas A. Sebeok, ed., Current
Trends in Linguistics, vol. II: 530–584. The Hague: Mouton.
Hayashi, Shiroo, and Fujio Minami, eds. 1973–74. Keigo Kooza [Monographs Series on
Honoriﬁcs]. Tokyo: Meiji Shoin, 10 vols.
306
Secondary references
Healey, Antonette di Paolo, et al. 1994. Dictionary of Old English, fascicle A. Microﬁche,
Dictionary of Old English Project, Center for Medieval Studies, University of
Toronto.
Heeschen, Volker. 1983. The metalinguistic vocabulary of a speech community in the
Highlands of Irian Jaya (West New Guinea). Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, Publ.
15: Man, Culture, and Environment in the Highlands of Irian Jaya.
Heine, Bernd. 1993. Auxiliaries: Cognitive Forces and Grammaticalization. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
1995. Agent-oriented vs. epistemic modality: some observations on German modals. In
Bybee and Fleischman, 17–53.
1997. Cognitive Foundations of Grammar. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Heine, Bernd, Ulrike Claudi, and Friederike Hünnemeyer. 1991. Grammaticalization: a
Conceptual Framework. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Heine, Bernd, Tom Güldemann, Christa Kilian-Katz, Donald A. Lessau, Heinz Roberg,
Mathias Schladt, and Thomas Stolz. 1993. Conceptual Shift: a Lexicon of
Grammaticalization Processes in African Languages. Afrikanistische Arbeitspapiere
34/35. University of Cologne.
Heine, Bernd and Mechthild Reh. 1984. Grammaticalization and Reanalysis in African
Languages. Hamburg: Buske.
Held, Gudrun. 1999. Submission strategies as an expression of the ideology of
politeness: reﬂections on the verbalisation of social power relations. Pragmatics 9:
21–36.
Herring, Susan C., Pieter van Reenen, and Lise Schøsler, eds. 2000. Textual Parameters in
Older Languages. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Higgins, Roger. 1990. By mishap and out of control: on the meaningful descent of raising in
English. Ms., University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Hinds, John. 1976. Aspects of Japanese Discourse Structure. Tokyo: Kaitakusha.
Hinds, John, Senko Maynard, and Shoichi Iwasaki, eds. 1987. Perspectives on
Topicalization: the Case of Japanese wa. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Hisatake, Akiko. 1974. Syoomotu, kirisitan siryoo no keigo [Honoriﬁcs in the Syoomotu
(collections of LMJ lecture notes and commentaries about literary or religious works)
and Christian materials]. In Hayashi and Minami 1973–74, vol. III: 223–258.
Hobbes, Thomas. 1969 [1650]. The Elements of Law, Natural and Politic. Ed. Ferdinand
Tönnies. New York: Barnes and Noble, 2nd ed.
Hock, Hans Henrich. 1991 [1986]. Principles of Historical Linguistics. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter, 2nd ed.
Hock, Hans Henrich and Brian D. Joseph. 1996. Language History, Language Change, and
Language Relationship: an Introduction to Historical and Comparative Linguistics.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Hoenigswald, Henry H. 1992. Semantic change and “regularity”: a legacy of the past. In
Kellermann and Morrissey, 85–105.
Hogg, Richard M. and Linda van Bergen, eds. 1998. Historical Linguistics 1995, vol. II:
Germanic Linguistics. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
307
Secondary references
Hopper, Paul J. 1979. Aspect and foregrounding in discourse. In Talmy Givón, ed., Syntax
and Semantics, vol. XII: Discourse and Syntax, 213–241. New York: Academic
Press.
1991. On some principles of grammaticization. In Traugott and Heine, vol. I: 17–35.
Hopper, Paul J. and Sandra Annear Thompson. 1980. Transitivity in grammar and
discourse. Language 56: 251–299.
Hopper, Paul J. and Elizabeth Closs Traugott. 1993. Grammaticalization. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Horn, Laurence R. 1972. On the Semantic Properties of Logical Operators in English. PhD
dissertation, University of California, Los Angeles.
1984. Toward a new taxonomy for pragmatic inference: Q-based and R-based
implicature. In Deborah Schiffrin, ed., Meaning, Form, and Use in Context: Linguistic
Applications; Georgetown University Round Table ’84, 11–42. Washington DC:
Georgetown University Press.
1985. Metalinguistic negation and pragmatic ambiguity. Language 61: 121–174.
1989. A Natural History of Negation. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
1991. Given as new: when redundant afﬁrmation isn’t. Journal of Pragmatics 15:
313–336.
1998. Conditionals ‘R’ us: from IF to IFF via R-based implicature. Paper presented at
Stanford University, May.
Hoye, Leo. 1997. Adverbs and Modality in English. London: Longman.
Hughes, Geoffrey. 1992. Social factors in the formulation of a typology of semantic change.
In Kellermann and Morrissey, 107–124.
Iizumi, Rokuroo. 1963. Kido-airaku-go Ziten [Dictionary of Words for Emotions]. Tokyo:
Tokyodo Shuppan.
Ipsen, G. 1924. Der alte Orient und die Indogermanen. In J. Friedrich et al., eds., Stand und
Aufgaben der Sprachwissenschaft. Festschrift für Streitberg, 200–237. Heidelberg:
Winter.
Ishida, Takeshi. 1984. Conﬂict and its accommodation: omote-ura and uchi-soto relations.
In Ellis Krauss, Thomas Rohlen, and Patricia Steinhoff, eds., Conﬂict in Japan, 16–38.
Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press.
Iwasaki, Shoichi. 1993. Subjectivity in Grammar and Discourse: Theoretical Considerations
and a Case Study of Japanese Spoken Discourse. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Jackendoff, Ray S. 1972. Semantic Interpretation in Generative Grammar. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
1983. Semantics and Cognition. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
1990. Semantic Structures. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
1997. The Architecture of the Language Faculty. Linguistic Inquiry Monograph 28.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Jacobs, Andreas and Andreas H. Jucker. 1995. The historical perspective in pragmatics. In
Jucker, 3–33.
Jakobson, Roman. 1957. Shifters, Verbal Categories, and the Russian Verb. Cambridge,
MA: Harvard University Russian Language Project.
308
Secondary references
Jakobson, Roman and Morris Halle. 1971. Fundamentals of Language. The Hague: Mouton.
Janda, Richard D. 1995. From agreement afﬁx to subject “clitic” – and bound root: -mos >
-nos vs. (-)nos(-) and nos-otros in New Mexican and other regional Spanish dialects.
In Audra Dainora, Rachel Hemphill, Barbara Luka, Barbara Need, and Sheri Pargman,
eds., Papers from the Thirty-ﬁrst Regional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society,
vol. II: The Parasession on Clitics, 118–139. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society.
2001. Beyond “pathways” and “unidirectionality”: on the discontinuity of language
transmission and the counterability of grammaticalization. Language Sciences 23:
265–340.
Jespersen, Otto. 1924. The Philosophy of Grammar. London: Allen and Unwin.
Jucker, Andreas H., ed. 1995. Historical Pragmatics. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
1997. The discourse marker well in the history of English. English Language and
Linguistics 1: 91–110.
Jucker, Andreas H. and Irma Taavitsainen. 2000. Diachronic speech act analysis: insults
from ﬂyting to ﬂaming. Journal of Historical Pragmatics 1: 67–95.
Jucker, Andreas H. and Yael Ziv, eds., 1998. Discourse Markers: Descriptions and Theory.
Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Jurafsky, Daniel. 1996. Universal tendencies in the semantics of the diminutive. Language
72: 533–578.
Justus, Carol F. 1993. Mood correspondences in older Indo-European prayer petitions.
General Linguistics 33: 129–161.
Kahr, Joan Casper. 1975. Adposition and locationals: typology and diachronic development.
Working Papers on Language Universals 19: 21–54. Department of Linguistics,
Stanford University.
Kakehi, Iori. 1980. Ueda Kazutosi [Biography of K. Ueda]. Kokugogaku Daijiten, 58–59.
Kakouriotis, Athanasios and Eliza Kitis. 1997. The case of “vob/lai” and other
psychological verbs. In Amalia Mozer, ed., Proceedings of the 3rd International
Conference on Greek Linguistics, 131–140. Athens: Ellinika Grammata.
Karashima, Mie. 1993. Ru, raru no sonkei-yoohoo no hassei to tenkai: komonzyota no
yoorei kara [Derivation and development of the honoriﬁc uses of -ru and -raru: based
on examples taken from Komonjo [ofﬁcial documents] and other ancient texts].
Kokugogaku 172: 1–14.
Katz, Jerrold J. and Jerry A. Fodor. 1963. The structure of a semantic theory. Language 39:
170–210.
Kay, Paul. 1975. Synchronic variability and diachronic change in basic color terms.
Language in Society 4: 257–270.
1990. Even. Linguistics and Philosophy 13: 59–111. (Repr. in Kay, 1997: 49–98.)
1997. Words and the Grammar of Context. Stanford University: CSLI.
Keenan, Edward L. and Bernard Comrie. 1977. Noun phrase accessibility and universal
grammar. Linguistic Inquiry 8: 63–99.
Keller, Rudi. 1994. On Language Change: the Invisible Hand in Language. Trans. by
Brigitte Nerlich. (Orig. publ. as Sprachwandel: Von der unsichtbaren Hand in der
Sprache, Tübingen: Francke, 1990.)
309
Secondary references
1995. The epistemic weil. In Stein and Wright, 16–30.
Kellermann, Günter and Michael D. Morrissey, eds. 1992. Diachrony within Synchrony:
Language History and Cognition. Papers from the International Symposium at the
University of Duisburg, 26–28 March 1990. Frankfurt-am-Main: Peter Lang.
Kemenade, Ans van. 1999. Functional categories, morphosyntactic change,
grammaticalization. Linguistics 37: 997–1010.
Kemmer, Suzanne. 1993. The Middle Voice. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Kempson, Ruth. 1980. Ambiguity and word meaning. In Sidney Greenbaum, Geoffrey
Leech, and Jan Svartvik, eds., Studies in English linguistics, 7–16. London: Longman.
Kiefer, Ferenc. 1994. Modality. In Asher and Simpson, vol. V: 2515–2520.
Kiefer, Ferenc. 1997. Modality and pragmatics. Folia Linguistica. Acta Societatis
Linguisticae Europeae 31: 241–253.
Kikuchi, Yasuto. 1996. Keigo Sainyuumon [Re-introduction to (Japanese) Honoriﬁcs].
Tokyo: Maruzen.
Kiparsky, Paul. 1982 [1968]. Linguistic universals and linguistic change. Explanation in
Phonology, 13–43. Dordrecht: Foris. (Orig. publ. in Emmon Bach and Robert T.
Harms, eds., Universals in Linguistic Theory, 171–202. Holt, Rinehart and Winston,
1968.)
1992. Analogy. In William Bright, ed., International Encyclopedia of Linguistics, vol. I:
56–60. New York: Oxford University Press.
1995. Indo-European origins of Germanic syntax. In Adrian Battye and Ian Roberts, eds.,
Clause Structure and Language Change, 140–169. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Kleparski, Grzegorz. 1986. Semantic Change and Componential Analysis: an Inquiry into
Pejorative Developments in English. Regensburg: Pustet.
1990. Semantic Change in English: a Study of Evaluative Developments in the Domain of
Humans. Lublin: Redakcja Wydawnictw Kul.
Kluge, F. and E. Seebold. 1995. Etymologisches Wörterbuch der deutschen Sprache. Berlin:
de Gruyter, 3rd ed.
Kokugogaku Daijiten. [Dictionary of Japanese Linguistics]. 1980. Tokyo: Tokyodo Shuppan.
Komatsu, Hideo. 1980. Zisyo [Dictionaries]. Kokugogaku Daijiten, 460–464.
König, Ekkehard. 1986. Conditionals, concessive conditionals and concessives: areas of
contrast, overlap and neutralization. In Elizabeth Closs Traugott, Alice ter Meulen,
Judy Snitzer Reilly, and Charles A. Ferguson, eds., On Conditionals, 229–246.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1991. The Meaning of Focus Particles: a Comparative Perspective. London: Routledge.
König, Ekkehard and Peter Siemund. 1999. Intensiﬁers as targets and sources of semantic
change. In Blank and Koch, 237–257.
König, Ekkehard and Elizabeth Closs Traugott. 1982. Divergence and apparent convergence
in the development of “yet” and “still.” In Monica Macaulay, Orin Gensler, Claudia
Brugman, Inese Civkulis, Amy Dahlstrom, Katherine Krile, and Rob Sturm, eds.,
Proceedings of the Eighth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society,
170–179. Berkeley: Berkeley Linguistics Society.
310
Secondary references
Kopytko, Roman. 1993. Polite Discourse in Shakespeare’s English. Poznan: Adam
Miskiewicz University Press.
1995. Linguistic politeness strategies in Shakespeare’s plays. In Jucker,
515–540.
Kortmann, Bernd. 1992. Reanalysis completed and in progress: participles as sources of
prepositions and conjunctions. In Kellermann and Morrissey, 429–453.
1997. Adverbial Subordination: a Typology and History of Adverbial Subordinators
Based on European Languages. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Kövecses, Zoltán. 2000. The scope of metaphor. In Barcelona 2000a, 79–92.
Kövecses, Zoltán and Günter Radden. 1998. Metonymy: developing a cognitive linguistic
view. Cognitive Linguistics 9: 37–77.
Koyama, Hiroshi, ed. and annot. 1960. Kyoogen-syuu [Anthology of Kyogen Plays]. Nihon
Koten Bungaku Taikei (NKBT) series 42. Tokyo: Iwanami Shoten.
Kratzer, Angelika. 1977. What “must” and “can” must and can mean. Linguistics and
Philosophy 1: 337–355.
Kroch, Anthony S. 1989. Reﬂexes of grammar in patterns of language change. Language
Variation and Change 1: 199–244.
Kronasser, Heinz. 1952. Handbuch der Semasiologie: Kurze Einführung in die Geschichte,
Problematik und Terminologie der Bedeutungslehre. Heidelberg: Winter.
Kroon, Caroline H. C. 1995. Discourse Particles in Latin: a Study of Nam, Enim, Autem,
Vero and At. Amsterdam Studies in Classical Philology 4. Amsterdam: J. C. Gieben.
Krug, Manfred G. 1998. Gotta – the tenth central modal in English? Social, stylistic and
regional variation in the British National Corpus as evidence of ongoing
grammaticalization. In Hans Lindquist, Staffen Klintborg, Magnus Levin, and Maria
Estling, eds., The Major Varieties of English: Papers from MAVEN 97, 177–191.
Växjö: Acta Wexioninsia.
Krug, Manfred G. 2000. Emerging English Modals: a Corpus-Based Study of
Grammaticalization. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Kryk-Kastovsky, Barbara. 1998. Pragmatic markers in Early Modern English court trials. In
Borgmeier, Grabes, and Jucker, 47–56.
Kuhn, Thomas S. 1996 [1962]. The Structure of Scientiﬁc Revolutions. Chicago: University
of Chicago Press, 3rd ed.
Kuno, Susumo. 1973. The Structure of the Japanese Language. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Kuno, Susumo and Etsuko Kaburaki. 1977. Empathy and syntax. Linguistic Inquiry 8:
627–672.
Kuroda. S.-Y. 1973. Where epistemology, style, and grammar meet: a case study from
Japanese. In Stephen R. Anderson and Paul Kiparsky, eds., A Festschrift for Morris
Halle, 377–391. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.
Kury
lowicz, Jerzy. 1975. Metaphor and metonymy. Esquisses Linguistiques, vol. II: 88–92.
Munich: Wilhelm Fink.
Kurzon, Dennis. 1986. It is Hereby Performed: Legal Speech Acts. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Kytö, Merja. 1991. Variation and Diachrony, with Early American English in Focus.
Frankfurt-am-Main: Peter Lang.
311
Secondary references
1993 [1991]. Manual to the Diachronic Part of the Helsinki Corpus of English Texts.
Helsinki: Helsinki University Press.
Labov, William. 1974. On the use of the present to explain the past. In Luigi Heilman, ed.,
Proceedings of the 11th International Congress of Linguists, 825–852. Bologna:
Mulino.
1994. Principles of Linguistic Change: Internal Factors. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Lakoff, George. 1972. Hedges: a study in meaning criteria and the logic of fuzzy concepts.
In Paul M. Peranteau, Judith N. Levi, and Gloria G. Phares, eds., Papers from the
Eighth Regional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society, 183–225. Chicago:
Chicago Linguistic Society.
1987. Women, Fire, and Dangerous Things: what Categories Reveal about the Mind.
Chicago: Chicago University Press.
1993. The contemporary theory of metaphor. In 1993 edition of Ortony 1993 [1974],
202–251.
Lakoff, George, and Mark Johnson. 1980. Metaphors we Live by. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
Lakoff, Robin. 1972. Language in context. Language 48: 907–927.
Lambrecht, Knud. 1994. Information Structure and Sentence Form: Topic, Focus and the
Mental Representations of Discourse Referents. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Langacker, Ronald W. 1977. Syntactic reanalysis. In Charles Li, ed., Mechanisms of
Syntactic Change, 57–139. Austin: University of Texas Press.
1985. Observations and speculations on subjectivity. In Haiman, 109–150.
1987/91. Foundations of Cognitive Linguistics. Stanford: Stanford University Press,
2 vols.
1990. Subjectiﬁcation. Cognitive Linguistics 1: 5–38.
1993. Universals of construal. In Joshua S. Guenter, Barbara A. Kaiser, and Cheryl C.
Zoll, eds., Proceedings of the Nineteenth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics
Society, 447–463. Berkeley: Berkeley Linguistics Society.
1995. Raising and transparency. Language 71: 1–62.
1999. Losing control: grammaticalization, subjectiﬁcation, and transparency. In Blank
and Koch, 147–175.
Lass, Roger. 1980. On Explaining Language Change. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
1997. Historical Linguistics and Language Change. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
2000. Remarks on (Uni)directionality. In Olga Fischer, Anette Rosenbach, and Dieter
Stein, eds., Pathways of Change: Grammaticalization in English, 207–227.
Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Lau, D. C. 1970. Mencius. London: Penguin.
Leech, Geoffrey N. 1970. Towards a Semantic Description of English. Bloomington:
Indiana University Press.
312
Secondary references
1971. Meaning and the English Verb. London: Longman.
1983. Principles of Pragmatics. London: Longman.
Legge, James. 1984. The Chinese Classics II: The Works of Mencius. Oxford: Oxford
Press.
Lehmann, Christian. 1985. Grammaticalization: synchronic variation and diachronic
change. Lingua e Stile 20: 303–318.
1988. Towards a typology of clause linkage. In Haiman and Thompson, 181–225.
1995 [1982]. Thoughts on Grammaticalization. Munich: LINCOM EUROPA. (Orig.
publ. as Thoughts on Grammaticalization: a Programmatic Sketch, vol. I. Arbeiten Des
Kölner Universalien-Projekts 48. Cologne: University of Cologne, Institut für
Sprachwissenschaft, 1982.)
Lehmann, Winfred P. and Yakov Malkiel, eds. 1968. Directions for Historical Linguistics: a
Symposium. Austin: University of Texas Press.
Lehrer, Adrienne. 1974. Semantic Fields And Lexical Structure. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
1985. The inﬂuence of semantic ﬁelds on semantic change. In Fisiak, 283–295.
Lehrer, Adrienne and Eva Feder Kittay, eds. 1992. Frames, Fields, and Contrasts: New
Essays in Semantic and Lexical Organization. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Lehti-Eklund, Hanna. 1990. Från Adverb till Markör i Text. Studier i Semantisk-syntaktisk
Utveckling i Äldre Svenska. Helsingfors: Humanistika Avhandlingar.
Lepschy, Giulio. 1981. Enantiosemy and irony in Italian lexis. The Italianist 1: 82–88.
Levin, Beth. 1993. English verb classes and alternations: a preliminary investigation.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Levin, Beth and Malka Rappaport Hovav. 1995. Unaccusativity: at the Syntax–Lexical
Semantics Interface. Linguistic Inquiry Monograph 25. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Levinson, Stephen C. 1979. Pragmatics and social deixis: reclaiming the notion of
conventional implicature. In John Kingston, Eve E. Sweetser, James Collins, Huruko
Kawasaki, John Manley-Baser, Dorothy W. Marschak, Catherine O’Connor, David
Shaul, Marta Tobey, Henry Thompson, and Katherine Turner, eds., Proceedings of the
Fifth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, 206–223. Berkeley: Berkeley
Linguistics Society.
1983. Pragmatics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1995. Three levels of meaning. In F. R. Palmer, ed., Grammar and Meaning: Essays in
Honor of Sir John Lyons, 90–115. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
2000. Presumptive Meanings: the Theory of Generalized Conversational Implicature.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, Bradford.
Lewandowska-Tomaszczyk, Barbara. 1985. On semantic change in a dynamic model of
language. In Fisiak, 297–323.
Lewin, Bruno, ed. 1969. Beiträge zum Interpersonalen Bezug im Japanischen. Wiesbaden:
Otto Harrassowitz.
Li, Dong-yi. 1992. Hanzi Yanbian Wubaili [The Evolution of Five Hundred Chinese
Characters]. Beijing: Beijing Language Institute Press, 3rd ed., revised.
Lichtenberk, Frantisek. 1991. Semantic change and heterosemy in grammaticalization.
Language 67: 474–509.
313
Secondary references
Lightfoot, David. 1979. Principles of Diachronic Syntax. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
1991. How to Set Parameters: Arguments from Language Change. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
1999. The Development of Language: Acquisition, Change, and Evolution. Malden, MA:
Blackwell.
Lipka, Leonhard. 1990. An Outline of English Lexicology: Lexical Structure, Word
Semantics, and Word-Formation. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Longacre, Robert E. 1976. Mystery particles and afﬁxes. In Salikoko Mufwene, Carol A.
Walker, and Sanford B. Steever, eds., Papers from the Twelfth Regional Meeting
of the Chicago Linguistic Society, 468–475. Chicago: Chicago Linguistic
Society.
Lord, Carol. 1993. Historical Change in Serial Verb Constructions. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Lyons, John. 1968. Introduction to Theoretical Linguistics. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
1977. Semantics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2 vols.
1982. Deixis and subjectivity: Loquor, ergo sum? In Robert J. Jarvella and Wolfgang
Klein, eds., Speech, Place, and Action: Studies in Deixis and Related Topics, 101–124.
New York: Wiley.
1994. Subjecthood and subjectivity. In Marina Yaguello, ed., Subjecthood and
Subjectivity: the Status of the Subject in Linguistic Theory, 9–17. Paris: Ophrys;
London: Institut Français du Royaume-Uni.
1995. Linguistic Semantics: an Introduction. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Mabuchi, Kazuo and Kazuko Ariga. 1982. Konzyaku Monogatari-syuu Ziritu-go Sakuin
[Index of Independent Words in the Konjaku Monogatari-shuu (1130–40 “Tales of
Times Now Past”)]. Tokyo: Kasama Shoin.
Macaulay, Ronald K. S. 1995. The adverbs of authority. English World-Wide 16:
37–60.
McCawley, James D. 1968. Lexical insertion in a transformational grammar without deep
structure. In Bill J. Darden, Charles-James N. Bailey, and Alice Davidson, eds., Papers
from the Fourth Regional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society, 71–80. Chicago:
Chicago Linguistic Society.
1988. The Syntactic Phenomena of English, vol. II. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
McConnell-Ginet, Sally. 1982. Adverbs and logical form: a linguistically realistic theory.
Language 58: 144–187.
McWhorter, John. 1997. Towards a New Model of Creole Genesis. New York: Peter Lang.
Manoliu, Maria M. 2000. From deixis ad oculos to discourse markers via deixis ad
phantasma. In Smith and Bentley, 243–260.
Marchello-Nizia, Christiane. Forthcoming. Language Evolution and Semantic
Representations: from “Subjective” to “Objective” in French.
Martin, Samuel. 1964. Speech levels in Japan and Korea. In Dell Hymes, ed., Language in
Culture and Society, 407–415. New York: Harper and Row.
1975. A Reference Grammar of Japanese. New Haven: Yale University Press.
314
Secondary references
Masuda, Koh, ed. 1974. Kenkyusha’s New Japanese–English Dictionary. Tokyo:
Kenkyusha, 4th ed.
Matisoff, James A. 1973. The Grammar of Lahu. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Matoré, Georges. 1953. La méthode en lexicologie: Domaine français. Paris: Didier.
Matsumoto, Yo. 1988. From bound grammatical markers to free discourse markers: history
of some Japanese connectives. In Axmaker, Jaisser, and Singmaster, 340–351.
Matsumoto, Yoshiko. 1985. A sort of speech act qualiﬁcation in Japanese: Chotto. Journal
of Asian Culture 11: 143–159.
1988. Reexamination of the universality of face: politeness phenomena in Japanese.
Journal of Pragmatics 12: 403–426.
1997. The rise and fall of Japanese nonsubject honoriﬁcs: the case of “o-Verb-suru.”
Journal of Pragmatics 28: 719–740.
Matsuo, Hajime, ed. and annot. 1961. Taketori Monogatari zenshaku [Complete annotated
edition of the Bamboo Cutter’s Tale]. Tokyo: Musashino Shoin.
Matthiessen, Christian and Sandra A. Thompson. 1988. The structure of discourse and
“subordination”. In Haiman and Thompson, 275–329.
Maynard, Senko K. 1993. Discourse Modality: Subjectivity, Emotion, and Voice in the
Japanese Language. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
MED: The Middle English Dictionary. 1956–2001. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan
Press. (see also http://www.hti.umich.edu/dict/med/)
Meillet, Antoine. 1958 [1905–6]. Comment les mots changent de sens. In his Linguistique
historique et linguistique générale, 230–280. Paris: Champion (Repr. from Année
sociologique 1905–06.)
1958 [1912]. L
’évolution des formes grammaticales. In his Linguistique historique et
linguistique générale, 130–148. Paris: Champion. (Repr. from Scientia (Rivista di
scienza) XII, 1912.)
1958 [1915–16]. Le renouvellement des conjonctions. In his Linguistique historique et
linguistique générale, 159–174. Paris: Champion. (Repr. from Annuaire de l’École
Pratique des Hautes Études, 1915–16.)
Mey, Jacob L. 1993. Pragmatics: an Introduction. Oxford: Blackwell.
Michaelis, Laura A. 1993. “Continuity” within three scalar models: the polysemy of
adverbial still. Journal of Semantics 10: 193–237.
Miller, Roy Andrew. 1967. The Japanese Language. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Milroy, James. 1992. Linguistic Variation and Change: on the Historical Sociolinguistics of
English. Oxford: Blackwell.
1993. On the social origins of language change. In Charles Jones, ed., Historical
Linguistics: Problems and Perspectives, 215–236. London: Longman.
Milroy, James and Lesley Milroy. 1985. Linguistic change, social network and speaker
innovation. Journal of Linguistics 21: 339–384.
Milroy, Lesley. 1980. Language and Social Networks. Baltimore: University Park Press.
Mitchell, Bruce. 1986. A Guide to Old English. Oxford: Blackwell, 2 vols.
Mizutani, Osamu and Nobuko Mizutani. 1987. How to Be Polite in Japanese. Tokyo: Japan
Times.
315
Secondary references
Montgomery, Michael B. and Stephen J. Nagle. 1993. Double modals in Scotland and the
southern United States: trans-atlantic inheritance or independent development? Folia
Linguistica Historica 14: 91–107.
Morgan, Jerry L. 1993 [1979]. Observations on the pragmatics of metaphor. In Ortony,
124–134.
Mori, Shu, Bunzo Torigoe, and Chiyoji Nagatomo, eds. 1972. Tikamatu Monzaemon Syuu
[Collected works of Chikamatsu Monzaemon ], vol. I. Nihon Koten Bungaku Zenshuu
series 43. Tokyo: Shogakukan.
Morino, Muneaki. 1971. Kodai no keigo II [Honoriﬁcs of Late Old Japanese]. In Tsujimura,
97–182.
Mossé, Fernand. 1952. A Handbook of Middle English. Trans. by James A. Walker.
Baltimore: Johns Hopkins.
Mushin, Ilana. 1998. Evidentiality and epistemological stance in Macedonian, English and
Japanese narrative. PhD dissertation, SUNY, Buffalo.
Myhill, John. 1995. Change and continuity in the functions of the American English
modals. Linguistics 33: 157–211.
1996. The development of the strong obligation system in American English. American
Speech 71: 339–388.
1997. Should and ought: the rise of individually oriented modality in American English.
Journal of English Linguistics 1: 3–23.
Myhill, John and Laura A. Smith. 1995. The discourse and interactive functions of
obligation expressions. In Bybee and Fleischman, 239–292.
Nakamura, Hajime. 1981. Bukkyoogo Daijiten [Dictionary of Buddhist terms]. Tokyo:
Tokyo Shoseki Kabushiki Gaisha.
Nakamura, Michio, ed. and annot. 1957. Ukiyo-buro [Public Bath of the Floating World
(1808)]. Nihon Koten Bungaku Taikei series 63. Tokyo: Iwanami Shoten.
Nakata, Iwao and Yutaka Tsukijima. 1980. Kokugo-si [History of the Japanese language].
Kokugogaku Daijiten, 399–404.
Nelson, Andrew N. 1962. The Modern Reader’s Japanese–English Character Dictionary.
Tokyo: Tuttle.
Nerlich, Brigitte and David D. Clarke. 1992. Outline of a model for semantic change. In
Kellermann and Morrissey, 125–141.
1999. Synecdoche as a cognitive and communicative strategy. In Blank and Koch,
197–213.
Nevalainen, Terttu and Helena Raumolin-Brunberg. 1995. Constraints on politeness:
the pragmatics of address formulae in Early English correspondence. In Jucker,
541–601.
Nevis, Joal A. 1986. Decliticization and deafﬁxation in Saame: abessive taga. Ohio State
University Working Papers in Linguistics 34: 1–19.
Newmeyer, Frederick J., ed. 1988. Linguistics: the Cambridge Survey. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 4 vols.
1998. Language Form and Language Function. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, Bradford.
316
Secondary references
Nicolle, Steve. 1997. A relevance-theoretic account of be going to. Journal of Linguistics
33: 355–377.
1998. A relevance theory perspective on grammaticalization. Cognitive Linguistics 9:
1–35.
Nikiforidou, Kiki. 1996. Modern Greek as: a case study in grammaticalization and
grammatical polysemy. Studies in Language 20: 599–632.
Nippo Jisho. See Doi, Morita, and Chonan, 1980.
NKD: Nihon Kokugo Daijiten [Unabridged Dictionary of the Japanese Language].
1972–76. Tokyo: Shogakukan, 20 vols.
Nølke, Henning. 1992. Semantic constraints on argumentation: from polyphonic
micro-structure to argumentative macro-structure. In Frans H. van Eemeren, ed.,
Argumentation Illuminated, 189–200. Amsterdam: SICSAT.
Nordlinger, Rachel and Elizabeth Closs Traugott. 1997. Scope and the development of
epistemic modality: evidence from ought to. English Language and Linguistics 1:
295–317.
Nunberg, Geoffrey. 1978. The Pragmatics of Reference. Bloomington, IN: Indiana
University Linguistics Club.
1979. The non-uniqueness of semantic solutions: polysemy. Linguistics and Philosophy
3: 143–184.
Nuyts, Jan. 1998. Subjectivity as an evidential dimension in epistemic modal expressions.
Paper presented at the 6th International Conference on Pragmatics, Reims, July.
O’Connor, Patricia. 1994. “You could feel it through the skin”: agency and positioning in
the prisoners’ stabbing stories. Text 14: 45–75.
OED: The Oxford English Dictionary. 1989. New York: Oxford University Press, 2nd ed.
(also OED2/e CD-ROM V 2.0, 1999); Oxford English Dictionary Online. 2000.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 3rd. ed. (http://dictionary.oed.com/)
Ohno (also Ono, Oono), Susumu. 1980. Imi henka [Meaning change]. Kokugogaku
Daijiten, 35–37.
Ohno, Susumu, and Toshiko Karashima, eds. 1972. Ise Monogatari Soosakuin
[Comprehensive Index to the Ise Monogatari (Tales of Ise)]. Tokyo: Meiji Shoin.
Ohno, Susumu, Akihiro Satake, and Kingoro Maeda, eds. 1990 [1974]. Iwanami Kogo Jiten
[The Iwanami Dictionary of Old Japanese Words]. Tokyo: Iwanami Shoten, revised ed.
Ohori, T., ed. 1998. Studies in Japanese Grammaticalization: Cognitive and Discourse
Perspectives. Tokyo: Kurosio.
Okamoto, Shigeko. 1999. Situated politeness: manipulating honoriﬁc and non-honoriﬁc
expressions in Japanese conversations. Pragmatics 9(1): 51–74.
Olson, David R. 1994. The World on Paper: the Conceptual and Cognitive Implications of
Writing and Reading. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Ong, Walter J. 1982. Orality and Literacy: the Technologizing of the Word. London:
Methuen.
Onodera, Noriko Okada. 1993. Pragmatic change in Japanese: conjunctions and
interjections as discourse markers. PhD dissertation, Georgetown University.
1995. Diachronic analysis of Japanese discourse markers. In Jucker, 393–437.
317
Secondary references
Ooishi, Hatsutaroo. 1983. Gendai Keigo Kenkyuu [Research into Honoriﬁcs of Modern
Japanese]. Tokyo: Chikuma Shoboo.
Ormelius-Sandblom, Elisabet. 1997. Die Modalpartikel ja, doch und schon. Stockholm:
Almqvist and Wiksell.
Ortony, Anthony, ed. 1993 [1979]. Metaphor and Thought. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 2nd ed.
Östman, Jan-Ola. 1981. You Know: a Discourse-functional Approach. Amsterdam:
Benjamins.
Pagliuca, William, ed. 1994. Perspectives on Grammaticalization. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Palmer, F. R. 1986. Mood and Modality. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1990 [1979]. Modality and the English Modals. New York: Longman, 2nd ed.
Papi, Marcella Bertuccelli. 2000. Is a diachronic speech act theory possible? Journal of
Historical Pragmatics 1: 57–66.
Paul, Hermann. 1920 [1880]. Prinzipien der Sprachgeschichte. Tübingen: Niemeyer, 5th ed.
Pauwels, Paul, and Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen. 1995. Body parts in linguistic action:
underlying schemas and value judgments. In Goossens et al., 35–69.
Pederson, Eric, Eve Danciger, David Wilkins, Stephen Levinson, Sotara Kita, and Gunter
Senft. 1998. Semantic typology and spatial conceptualization. Language 74: 557–589.
Peirce, Charles Sanders. 1955 [1898]. Philosophical Writings of Peirce. Ed. by Justus
Bucher. New York: Dover.
Pérez, Aveline. 1990. Time in motion: grammaticalisation of the be going to construction in
English. La Trobe University Working Papers in Linguistics 3: 49–64.
Perkins, Michael R. 1983. Modal Expressions in English. Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Perret, Michèle. 1982. De l’espace romanesque à la matérialité du livre. L
’espace énonciatif
des premiers romans en prose. Poétique 50: 173–182.
Peyraube, Alain. 1999. On the modal auxiliaries of possibility in Classical Chinese. In H.S.
Wang, F. Tsao and C. Lien, eds., Selected Papers from the 5th International
Conference on Chinese Linguistics, 27–52. Taipei: Crane.
Pinkster, Harm. 1987. The strategy and chronology of the development of future and perfect
tense auxiliaries in Latin. In Martin B. Harris and Paolo Ramat, eds., The Historical
Development of Auxiliaries, 193–223. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Plank, Frans. 1984. The modals story retold. Studies in Language 8: 305–364.
Pokorny, Julius. 1959/69. Indogermanisches Etymologisches Wörterbuch. Bern: Francke,
2 vols.
Pons Borderı́a, Salvador. 1998. Conexión y Conectores: Estudio de su Relación en el
Registro Informal de la Lengua. Cuadernos de Filologı́a 27. University of Valencia:
Departamento de Filologı́a Española.
Powell, Mava Jo. 1992a. The systematic development of correlated interpersonal and
metalinguistic uses in stance adverbs. Cognitive Linguistics 3: 75–110.
1992b. Folk theories of meaning and principles of conventionality: encoding literal
attitude via stance adverb. In Lehrer and Kittay 1992, 333–353.
Prince, Ellen. 1988. Discourse analysis: a part of the study of linguistic competence. In
Newmeyer, vol. II: 164–182.
318
Secondary references
Prokosch, E. 1938. A Comparative Germanic Grammar. Baltimore: Linguistic Society of
America.
Pustejovsky, James. 1995. The Generative Lexicon. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Quirk, Randolph, Sidney Greenbaum, Geoffrey Leech, and Jan Svartvik. 1985. A
Comprehensive Grammar of the English Language. New York: Longman.
Radden, Günter. 2000. How metonymic are metaphors? In Barcelona 2000a, 93–108.
Ramat, Paolo and Davide Ricca. 1998. Sentence adverbs in the languages of Europe. In Van
der Auwera with Baoill, 187–275.
Reddy, Michael J. 1993 [1979]. The conduit metaphor: a case of frame conﬂict in our
language about language. In Ortony, 164–201.
Rescher, N. 1968. Topics in Philosophical Logic. Dordrecht: Reidel.
Rissanen, Matti. 1986. Variation and the study of English historical syntax. In David
Sankoff, ed., Diversity and Diachrony, 97–109. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Rissanen, Matti, Merja Kytö, and Minna Palander-Collin, eds. 1993. Early English in the
Computer Age: Explorations through the Helsinki Corpus. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Robert. 1992. Dictionnaire historique de la langue française. Paris: Dictionnaires Le
Robert.
Roberts, Ian G. 1993. A formal account of grammaticalisation in the history of Romance
futures. Folia Linguistica Historica 13: 219–258.
Roberts, Sarah Julianne. 1998. The role of diffusion in the genesis of Hawaiian Creole.
Language 74: 1–39.
Rodriguez, João. See Doi 1955.
Romaine, Suzanne. 1982. Socio-historical Linguistics: its Status and Methodology.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Rosaldo, Michelle Z. 1982. The things we do with words: Ilongot speech acts and speech
act theory in philosophy. Language in Society 11: 203–237.
Rosch, Eleanor. 1975. Cognitive representations of semantic categories. Journal of
Experimental Psychology 104: 192–233.
1994. Expressive sentence types – a contradiction in terms: the case of exclamation.
Sprache und Pragmatik 33: 38–68. Lund.
Rosengren, Inger. 1992. Zur Grammatik und Pragmatik der Exklamation. In Inger
Rosengren, ed., Satz und Illokution, vol. I: 263–306. Linguistische Arbeiten 278.
Tübingen: Germanistisches Institut der Universität Lund.
Rossari, C. 1994. Les opérations de reformulation: Analyse du processus et des marques
dans une perspective contrastive français-italien. Bern: Peter Lang.
Rouchota, Villy. 1996. Discourse connectives: what do they link? In J. Harris and
R. Backley, eds., 1996 University College London Working Papers in Linguistics,
199–212.
Roulet, E. 1987. Complétude interactive et connecteurs reformulatifs. Cahiers de
Linguistique Française 8: 111–140.
Rudolph, Elisabeth. 1988. Connective relations – connective expressions – connective
structures. In János S. Petöﬁ, ed., Text and Discourse Constitution: Empirical Aspects,
Theoretical Approaches, 97–133. Berlin: de Gruyter.
319
Secondary references
1996. Contrast: Adversative and Concessive Relations and their Expressions in English,
German, Spanish, Portuguese on Sentence and Text Level. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
Rudzka-Ostyn, Brygida. 1995. Metaphor, schema, invariance: the case of verbs of
answering. In Goossens et al., 205–243.
Saeki, Umetomo and Tsunehisa Imuta, eds. 1981. Kageroo Nikki Soosakuin
[Comprehensive Index and Text of the Kageroo Nikki (“Gossamer Years Diary,”
mid-10th century)]. Tokyo: Kazama Shobo.
Sakurai, Mitsuaki. 1966. Konzyaku Monogatari-syuu no Gohoo no Kenkyuu. [Studies of
word use in the Konjaku Monogatari-shuu (“Tales of Times Now Past,” mid-12th
century)]. Tokyo: Meiji Shoin.
Sanders, José and Wilbert Spooren. 1996. Subjectivity and certainty in epistemic modality:
a study of Dutch epistemic modiﬁers. Cognitive Linguistics 7: 241–264.
Sankoff, Gilian. 1980. The Social Life of Language. Philadelphia: University of
Pennsylvania Press.
Sansom, George B. 1952. Japan: a Short Cultural History. Stanford: Stanford University
Press.
Sato, Shigeru. 1974. Otogi-Zoosi, Bukkyoo bungaku no keigo [Honoriﬁcs in Otogi-Zooshi
(LMJ collections of short stories) and Buddhist literature]. In Hayashi and Minami
1973–74, vol. III: 177–222.
Saussure, Ferdinand de. 1967 [1879]. Mémoire sur le système primitif des voyelles dans les
languages indo-européennes, Paris: Vieweg. (Trans. by Winfred P. Lehmann as “On the
primitive system of vowels in the Indo-European languages,” in Winfred P. Lehmann,
ed., A Reader in Nineteenth Century Historical Indo-European Linguistics, 217–224.
Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1967.)
1996 [1916]. Course in General Linguistics. Trans. by Roy Harris. Chicago: Open Court.
Schiffrin, Deborah. 1987. Discourse Markers. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1988. Conversation analysis. In Newmeyer, vol. IV: 251–276.
1990a. The principle of intersubjectivity in communication and conversation. Semiotica
80: 121–151.
1990b. Between text and context: deixis, anaphora, and the meaning of then. Text 10:
245–270.
1992. Anaphoric then: aspectual, textual, and epistemic meaning. Linguistics 30:
753–792.
1994. Approaches to Discourse. Oxford: Blackwell.
Schlieben-Lange, Brigitte. 1983. Traditionen des Sprechens: Elemente einer pragmatischen
Sprachgeschichtsschreibung. Stuttgart: Kohlhammer.
1992. The history of subordinating conjunctions in some Romance languages. In
Gerritsen and Stein, 341–354.
Schourop, Lawrence C. 1985. Common Discourse Particles in English Conversation: Like,
Well, Y’Know. New York: Garland.
Schwenter, Scott A. 1999. Pragmatics of Conditional Marking: Implicature, Scalarity and
Exclusivity. New York: Garland.
320
Secondary references
Schwenter, Scott A. and Elizabeth Closs Traugott. 1995. The semantic and pragmatic
development of substitutive complex prepositions in English. In Jucker, 243–273.
2000. Invoking scalarity: the development of in fact. Journal of Historical Pragmatics
1: 7–25.
Searle, John R. 1965. What is a speech act? In Max Black, ed., Philosophy in America,
221–239. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
1969. Speech Acts: an Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
1976. A classiﬁcation of illocutionary acts. Language in Society 5: 1–23.
1979. Expression and Meaning: Studies in the Theory of Speech Acts. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Seeley, Christopher. 1991. A History of Writing in Japanese. Leiden: Brill.
Seidensticker, Edward G., trans. 1964. The Gossamer Years (Kageroo Nikki): a Diary by a
Noblewoman of Heian Japan. Tokyo and Rutland, VT: Charles E. Tuttle.
trans. 1980. The Tale of Genji. New York: Knopf.
Seiler, Hansjakob. 1983. Possession as an Operational Dimension of Language. Tübingen:
Narr.
Shepherd, Susan C. 1981. Modals in Antiguan Creole, language acquisition, and history.
PhD dissertation, Stanford University.
1982. From deontic to epistemic: an analysis of modals in the history of English, creoles,
and language acquisition. In Ahlqvist, 316–323.
Shibatani, Masayoshi. 1990. The Languages of Japan. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
1991. Grammaticalization of topic into subject. In Traugott and Heine, vol. II: 93–133.
Shibatani, Masayoshi and Sandra Thompson, eds. 1995. Essays in Semantics and
Pragmatics in Honor of Charles J. Fillmore. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Shopen, Timothy, ed. 1985. Language Typology and Syntactic Description. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 3 vols.
Silverstein, Michael. 1976a. Shifters, linguistic categories, and cultural description. In Keith
H. Basso and Henry A. Selby, eds., Meaning in Anthropology, 11–55. Albuquerque:
University of New Mexico Press.
1976b. Hierarchy of features and ergativity. In R. M. W. Dixon, ed., Grammatical
Categories in Australian Languages, 112–171. Canberra: Australian Institute of
Aboriginal Languages.
Slobin, Dan I. 1977. Language change in childhood and in history. In John MacNamara, ed.,
Language Learning and Thought, 185–214. New York: Academic Press.
1994. Talking perfectly: discourse origins of the present perfect. In Pagliuca, 119–133.
Smith, John Charles and Delia Bentley, eds. 2000. Historical Linguistics 1995, vol. I:
General Issues and Non-Germanic Languages. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Solomon, Julie. 1995. Local and global functions of a borrowed/native pair of discourse
markers in a Yucatec Maya narrative. In Jocelyn Ahlers, Leela Bilmes, Joshua S.
Guenter, Barbara A. Kaiser, and Ju Namkung, eds., Papers from the Twenty-ﬁrst
321
Secondary references
Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, 287–298. Berkeley: Berkeley Linguistics
Society.
Sperber, Dan and Deirdre Wilson. 1995 [1986]. Relevance: Communication and Cognition.
Oxford: Blackwell, 2nd ed.
Steele, Susan. 1975. Is it possible? Stanford Working Papers in Language Universals 18:
35–58.
Stein, Dieter and Susan Wright, eds. 1995. Subjectivity and Subjectivisation in Language.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Stenström, Anna-Brita. 1998. From sentence to discourse: Cos (because) in teenage talk. In
Jucker and Ziv, 127–165.
Stern, Gustaf. 1968 [1931]. Meaning and Change of Meaning. Bloomington: Indiana
University Press. (Orig. publ. Göteborg, Elanders boktryckeri aktiebolag, 1931.)
Stubbs, Michael. 1986. “A matter of prolonged ﬁeld work”: notes toward a modal grammar
of English. Applied Linguistics 7: 1–25.
Sun, Chaofen. 1996. Word Order Changes and Grammaticalization in the History of
Chinese. Stanford: Stanford University Press.
1998. Aspectual categories that overlap: a historical and dialectal perspective of the
Chinese ZHE. Journal of East Asian Linguistics 7: 153–174.
Suzuki, Ryoko. 1998. From a lexical noun to an utterance-ﬁnal pragmatic particle: wake.
In Toshio Ohori, ed., Studies in Japanese Grammaticalization, 67–92. Tokyo:
Kurosio.
1999. Grammaticization in Japanese: a study of pragmatic particle-ization. PhD
dissertation, University of California, Santa Barbara.
Svorou, Soteria. 1993. The Grammar of Space. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Swan, Toril. 1988. Sentence Adverbials in English: a Synchronic and Diachronic
Investigation. Oslo: Novus.
1991. Adverbial shifts: evidence from Norwegian and English. In Dieter Kastovsky, ed.,
Historical English Syntax, 409–438. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
1997. From manner to subject modiﬁcation: adverbialization in English. Nordic Journal
of Linguistics 20: 179–195.
Swan, Toril and Olaf Jansen Westvik, eds. 1996. Modality in Germanic Languages. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Sweetser, Eve E. 1988. Grammaticalization and semantic bleaching. In Axmaker, Jaisser,
and Singmaster, 389–405.
1990. From Etymology to Pragmatics: Metaphorical and Cultural Aspects of Semantic
Structure. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Sweetser, Eve E. and Gilles Fauconnier. 1996. Cognitive links and domains: basic aspects of
mental space theory. In Gilles Fauconnier and Eve E. Sweetser, eds., Spaces, World,
and Grammars, 1–28. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Taavitsainen, Irma and Andreas H. Jucker. 1999. Pragmatic space in historical linguistics:
speech acts and speech act verbs in the history of English. Paper presented at the
Workshop on Historical Pragmatics, 14th International Conference on Historical
Linguistics. Vancouver, August 1999.
322
Secondary references
Tabor, Whitney. 1994a. Syntactic innovation: a connectionist model. PhD dissertation,
Stanford University.
1994b. The gradual development of degree modiﬁer sort of and kind of: a corpus
proximity model. In Katharine Beals, Gina Cooke, David Kathman, Sotaro Kita,
Karl-Erik McCullough, and David Testen, eds., Papers from the Twenty-ninth Regional
Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society, 451–465. Chicago: Chicago Linguistics
Society.
Takagi, Ichinosuke, Tomohide Gomi, and Susumu Ohno, eds. and annot. 1957–60. Man’
yooshuu [The Ten Thousand Leaves]. Tokyo: Iwanami Shoten. Nihon Koten Bungaku
Taikei (NKBT) series: 4–7.
Takemitsu, Makoto. 1998. Nitizyoogo no Yurai Ziten [Etymological Dictionary of Everyday
Words in Japanese]. Tokyo: Tokyodo Shuppan.
Talmy, Leonard. 1985. Lexicalization patterns: semantic structure in lexical forms. In
Shopen, vol. III: 57–149.
1988. Force dynamics in language and cognition. Cognitive Science 2: 49–100.
Tamba, Irene. 1986. Approche du “signe” et du “sens” linguistiques à travers les systèmes
d’écriture japonais. In Jean-Claude Chevalier, Michel Launay, and Maurice Molho,
eds., Langages: Le signiﬁant 82: 83–100.
Taylor, John R. 1996. On running and jogging. Cognitive Linguistics 7: 21–34.
1997 [1989]. Linguistic Categorization: Prototypes in Linguistic Theory. Oxford:
Clarendon, 2nd ed.
Thomas, Francis-Noél and Mark Turner. 1994. Clear and Simple as the Truth: Writing
Classic Prose. Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Thompson, Sandra A. and Anthony Mulac. 1991. A quantitative perspective on the
grammaticization of epistemic parentheticals in English. In Traugott and Heine, vol. II:
313–329.
Tiersma, Peter. 1986. The language of offer and acceptance: speech acts and the question of
intent. California Law Review 74: 189–232.
1999. Legal Language. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Tobler, Adolf 1921 [1882]. Il ne faut pas que tu meures “du darfst nicht sterben”. Repr. in
Vermischte Beiträge zur französischen Grammatik, vol. I: 201–205. Leipzig: Hirzel,
3rd ed.
Tokieda, Motoki. 1941. Kokugogaku-si Genron [Fundamental Principles of Japanese
Linguistics]. Tokyo: Iwanami Shoten.
Traugott, Elizabeth Closs. 1978. On the expression of spatio-temporal relations in language.
In Joseph H. Greenberg, Charles A. Ferguson, and Edith A. Moravcsik, eds.,
Universals of Human Language, vol. III, 369–400. Stanford: Stanford University
Press.
1980. Meaning-change in the development of grammatical markers. Language Sciences
2: 44–61.
1982. From propositional to textual and expressive meanings; some semantic–pragmatic
aspects of grammaticalization. In Winfred P. Lehmann and Yakov Malkiel, eds.,
Perspectives on Historical Linguistics, 245–271. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
323
Secondary references
1985a. On conditionals. In Haiman 1985, 289–307.
1985b. On regularity in semantic change. Journal of Literary Semantics 14: 155–173.
1986. Is internal semantic–pragmatic reconstruction possible? In Caroline Duncan-Rose
and Theo Vennemann, eds., On Language: Rhetorica, Phonologica, Syntactica: a
Festschrift for Robert P. Stockwell from his Friends and Colleagues, 128–144. London:
Routledge.
1987. Literacy and language change: the special case of speech act verbs. In Judith
Langer, ed., Language, Literacy, and Culture: Issues of Society and Schooling, 11–27.
Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
1988. Pragmatic strengthening and grammaticalization. In Axmaker, Jaisser, and
Singmaster, 406–416.
1989. On the rise of epistemic meanings in English: an example of subjectiﬁcation in
semantic change. Language 57: 33–65.
1994. Grammaticalization and lexicalization. In Asher and Simpson, vol. III: 1481–1486.
1991. English speech act verbs: a historical perspective. In Linda R. Waugh and Stephen
Rudy, eds., New Vistas in Grammar: Invariance and Variation, 387–406. Amsterdam:
Benjamins.
1995a. Subjectiﬁcation in grammaticalization. In Stein and Wright 1995, 31–54.
1995b. The role of discourse markers in a theory of grammaticalization. Paper presented
at the 12th International Conference on Historical Linguistics, Manchester, August
1995. (http://www.stanford.edu/∼traugott/traugott.html)
1996. Subjectiﬁcation and the development of epistemic meaning: the case of promise
and threaten. In Swan and Westvik, 185–210.
1996/97. Semantic change: an overview. Glot International 2 (9/10): 3–6.
1999a. The role of pragmatics in semantic change. In Jef Verschueren, ed., Pragmatics in
1998: Selected Papers from the 6th International Pragmatics Conference, vol. II,
93–102. Antwerp: International Pragmatics Association.
1999b. The rhetoric of counter-expectation in semantic change: a study in
subjectiﬁcation. In Blank and Koch 1999, 177–196.
Forthcoming. Constructions in grammaticalization. In Richard Janda and Brian Joseph,
eds., A Handbook of Historical Linguistics. Oxford: Blackwell.
Traugott, Elizabeth Closs and Richard Dasher. 1987. On the historical relation between
mental and speech act verbs in English and Japanese. In Giacalone Ramat, Carruba,
and Bernini, 561–573.
Traugott, Elizabeth Closs and Bernd Heine, eds. 1991. Approaches to Grammaticalization.
Amsterdam: Benjamins, 2 vols.
Traugott, Elizabeth Closs and Ekkehard König. 1991. The semantics–pragmatics of
grammaticalization revisited. In Traugott and Heine, vol. I: 189–218.
Trier, Jost. 1931. Der deutsche Wortschatz im Sinnbezirk des Verstandes. Heidelberg: Winter.
Tsujimura, Toshiki. 1967. Gendai no Keigo [Honoriﬁc Language of Modern Japanese].
Tokyo: Kyoobunsha.
1968. Keigo no Si-Teki Kenkyuu [Historical Studies of Japanese Honoriﬁcs]. Tokyo:
Tokyodo.
324
Secondary references
ed. 1971. Keigo-Si [The History of Japanese Honoriﬁcs]. Kooza Kokugosi, 5 [Monograph
Series on the History of the Japanese Language 5]. Tokyo: Taishuukan Shoten.
Ueda, Kazutoshi (“Bannen”), et al. 1977 [1918]. Daiziten [Chinese-Character Dictionary].
Tokyo: Kodansha.
Ullmann, Stephen. 1957. The Principles of Semantics. Oxford: Blackwell, 2nd ed.
1964. Semantics: an Introduction to the Science of Meaning. Oxford: Basil
Blackwell.
Vallduvı́, Enric. 1992. The Informational Component. New York: Garland.
Van der Auwera, Johan. 1997. Conditional perfection. In Athanasiadou and Dirven,
169–190.
1999. On the semantic and pragmatic polyfunctionality of modal verbs. In Ken Turner,
ed., The Semantics–Pragmatics Interface from Different Points of View, 49–64.
Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Forthcoming. On the typology of negative modals. In Jack Hoeksema, ed., Perspectives
on Negation and Polarity Items. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Van der Auwera, Johan with Dónall P. Ó Baoill, eds. 1998. Adverbial Constructions in the
Languages of Europe. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Van der Auwera, Johan and Vladimir A. Plungian. 1998. Modality’s semantic map.
Linguistic Typology 2: 79–124.
Vanparys, Johan. 1995. A survey of metalinguistic metaphors. In Goossens et al., 1–34.
Verhagen, Arie. 1995. Subjectiﬁcation, syntax, and communication. In Stein and Wright,
103–128.
1996. Sequential conceptualization and linear order. In Casad, 793–817.
2000. “The girl that promised to become something”: an exploration into diachronic
subjectiﬁcation in Dutch. In Thomas F. Shannon and Johan P. Snapper, eds., The
Berkeley Conference on Dutch Linguistics 1997: the Dutch Language at the
Millennium, 197–208. Lanham, MD: University Press of America.
Verschueren, Jef. 1995. The conceptual basis of performativity. In Masayoshi Shibatani and
Sandra Thompson, eds., Essays in Semantics and Pragmatics in Honor of Charles J.
Fillmore, 299–321. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
1999. Understanding Pragmatics. London: Arnold.
Viberg, A
❛
ke. 1983. The verbs of perception: a typological study. Linguistics 21: 123–162.
Victorri, Bernard. 1997. La polysémie: un artefact de la linguistique? Revue de Sémantique
et Pragmatique 2: 41–62.
Vincent, Nigel. 1982. The development of the auxiliaries HABERE and ESSE in Romance.
In Nigel Vincent and Martin Harris, eds., Studies in the Romance Verb, 71–96.
London: Croom Helm.
1994. Lectures on historical syntax. Australian Linguistics Institute, La Trobe, July.
Visser, F. Th. 1969. An Historical Syntax of the English Language, vol. III, part 1. Leiden:
Brill.
Voyles, Joseph B. 1973. Accounting for semantic change. Lingua 31: 95–124.
Warner, Anthony R. 1990. Reworking the history of the English auxiliaries. In Sylvia
Adamson, Vivien Law, Nigel Vincent, and Susan Wright, eds., Papers from the 5th
325
Secondary references
International Conference on English Historical Linguistics, 537–558. Amsterdam:
Benjamins.
1993. English Auxiliaries: Structure and History. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Warren, Beatrice. 1992. Sense-developments: a Contrastive Study of the Development of
Slang Sense and Novel Standard Senses in English. Stockholm: Almqvist and Wiksell.
1998. What is metonymy? In Hogg and van Bergen, 301–310.
Wartburg, Walther von. 1928–66. Französisches etymologisches Wörterbuch. Basel:
Zbinden.
Watkins, Calvert. 1985. The American Heritage Dictionary of Indo-European Roots.
Boston: Houghton Mifﬂin.
Watts, Richard J. 1995. Justifying grammars: a socio-pragmatic foray into the discourse
community of Early English grammarians. In Jucker, 145–185.
Wegener, Heide. 1998. Zur Grammatikalisierung von Modalpartikeln. In Irmhild Barz and
Günther Öhlschläger, eds., Zwischen Grammatik und Lexicon, 37–55. Tübingen:
Niemeyer.
Weinreich, Uriel. 1964. Webster’s Third: a critique of its semantics. International Journal of
American Linguistics 30: 405–409.
Weinreich, Uriel, William Labov, and Marvin I. Herzog. 1968. Empirical foundations for a
theory of language change. In Lehmann and Malkiel, 97–195.
Wierzbicka, Anna. 1985a. Lexicography and Conceptual Analysis. Ann Arbor: Karoma.
1985b. A semantic metalanguage for a crosscultural comparison of speech acts and
speech genres. Language in Society 14: 491–514.
1985c. English Speech Act Verbs: a Semantic Dictionary. Orlando: FL: Academic Press.
1992. Semantics, Primes, and Universals. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
1994. Semantic primitives across languages: a critical review. In Goddard and
Wierzbicka, 445–500.
1995. Cross-Cultural Pragmatics. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
1997. Understanding Cultures through their Key Words. New York: Oxford University
Press.
Wilkins, David. 1996. Natural tendencies in semantic change and the search for cognates. In
Mark Durie and Malcolm Ross, eds., The Comparative Method Reviewed: Regularity
and Irregularity in Language Change, 264–304. New York: Oxford University Press.
Williams, Joseph M. 1976. Synaesthetic adjectives: a possible law of semantic change.
Language 52: 461–478.
Williams, Raymond. 1985 [1976]. Keywords: a Vocabulary of Culture and Society. New
York: Oxford University Press, 2nd ed.
Wilson, Deirdre and Dan Sperber. 1993. Linguistic form and relevance. Lingua 90:
1–25.
Wolf, George. 1991. Translator’s introduction: the emergence of the concept of semantics.
In Michel Bréal, The Beginnings of Semantics: Essays, Lectures and Reviews (ed. and
trans by George Wolf ), 3–17. Stanford: Stanford University Press.
326
Secondary references
Yamada, Tadao, ed. 1958. Taketori Monogatari Soosakuin [Comprehensive Index of the
Taketori Monogatari (“Bamboo Cutter’s Tale,” early 10th century)]. Tokyo: Musashino
Shoin.
Yamada, Yoshio, Tadao Yamada, Hideo Yamada, and Toshio Yamada, eds. 1959. Konjaku
Monogatari-shuu [1130–40 “Tales of Times Now Past”]. Nihon Koten Bungaku Taikei
series 22–23. Tokyo: Iwanami Shoten.
Yamaguchi, Yoshinori. 1998. Kurashi no Kotoba: Gogen Jiten [Etymological Dictionary of
Everyday Words]. Tokyo: Kodansha.
Yang, Ping. 1989. The development and structure of V de O. Zhongguo Yuwen [Chinese
Grammar] 2: 126–136.
Yoshizawa, Norio. 1985. Doko-ka Okasii Keigo [Honoriﬁc (Usage in Japanese) that is
Somehow Odd]. Tokyo: Goma Shobo.
Zipf, George Kingsley. 1965 [1949]. Human Behavior and the Principle of Least Effort.
New York: Hafner.
327
INDEX OF LANGUAGES
Abkhaz, 118, 120
Aboriginal languages, 29, 151
Arrente, 151
Baluchi, 118, 120
Basque, 118, 119
Buli, 118
Chepang, 118
Chinese (Ch.), xiii, 47–48, 144–147, 214–215,
229n
Archaic Chinese, xiii, 144, 202n, 214
Cantonese, 88, 118, 144
Middle Chinese, xiii, 214
Modern Mandarin (MdMand), xiii, 199,
144, 146, 202n
Pre-Archaic Chinese (PAC), xiii, 144
Danish, 118, 119
Dutch (Du.), 56, 76, 107–108, 116, 210,
Dyirbal, 93n
English (Eng.), xiii, xiv
American English, 114–115, 126, 223, 257
British English, 115, 224
Early Modern English (EMdE), xiv, 37, 55,
137, 140–143, 163–167, 170, 176,
207–208, 220–221, 223, 254, 256
Middle English (ME), xiv, 11, 15, 36–37,
67, 83, 125–128, 133–137, 159–161, 169,
177, 198, 200–201, 206, 212–214, 220,
253–256
Modern English (MdE), xiv, 44, 149, 168,
170, 257
Old English (OE), xiii, 11, 13–15, 25,
36–37, 67, 121–130, 132, 139–140, 156,
175, 196–199, 211, 222–223, 253
Present-Day English (PDE), xiv, et passim
Scottish English, 148
Ewe, 76, 88
Finnish, 57
French (Fr.), 13, 16, 28, 38, 55, 70, 102–103,
116, 118, 143, 201, 229n
Middle French, 195, 198, 202, 208
Old French, 55, 205
Frisian, 74
German (Gm.), 56–57, 66, 158n
Middle High German, 66
Germanic, 36, 122
Greek (Gk.), 57, 85, 95
Ancient Greek, 85, 195–197
Gothic, 122
Guaymi, 119, 120
Hawaiian Creole, 41
Hittite, 196–197
Ilongot, 196
Indo-European (IE), 36, 133, 195
Italian, 13, 119n
Japanese (Jp.), xiv, xv
Early Modern Japanese (EMdJ), 185
Middle Japanese (MJ), xiv, 16, 38, 54, 56,
68, 183–184, 246–249, 273–274
Modern Japanese (MdJ), xv, 54–56, 186
Old Japanese (OJ), xiv, 54–56, 58, 68,
178–179, 181, 262–268, 270–271
Present-Day Japanese (PDJ), xv, et passim
Kayardild, 151
Koine, 85
Kuliak, 43
328
Index of languages
Lahu, 118, 119, 196
Lao, 119, 120
Latin (Lat.), 16, 30, 49, 55, 56, 116, 197–198,
201
Mangap-Mbula, 151
Morowa, 119
Motu, 119
Mwera, 119
Nahuatl, 88
Nung, 119
Old Saxon, 95
Palaung, 118
Papago, 76
Quechua, 21
Russian, 77
Saramaccan Creole, 41
Slave, 118
Spanish, 13
Swedish, 134n, 153
Temme, 118
Tok Pisin, 119
Tucano, 118
Yiddish, 88
329
INDEX OF NAMES
Names in this index are authors of secondary references
Abe, Akio, 267
Abraham, Werner, 153
Adamson, Sylvia, 33
Aijmer, Karin, 31, 153, 158, 173–174, 206,
223
Aissen, Judith, 159
Akatsuka, Noriko, 151–152
Akimoto, Minoji, 254
Akiyama, Ken, 267
Allen, Cynthia, 255–257
Allerton D., 158
Amino, Yoshihiko, 196, 198
Andersen, Henning, 42
Anderson, Lloyd B., 76
Andrews, Edna, 39, 77
Anscombre, Jean-Claude, 157
Anttila, Raimo, 42, 75, 79
Archangeli, Diana, 3n
Ariga, Kazuko, 271
Arnovick, Leslie Katherine, 31, 196, 204, 223
Atlas, Jay D., 18n, 100
Atooda, Toshiko, 260
Austin, J. L., 190
Bach, Ulrich, 212
Baker, Philip, 41
Banﬁeld, Ann, 33, 159n
Barcelona, Antonio, 28–29, 78, 282
Baron, Naomi, 41
Bartsch, Renate, 24, 57, 42
Benveniste, Emile, 20, 74, 90, 116, 139n, 191,
196, 204
Bergner, Heinz, 200, 201
Berlin, Brent, 5, 57, 68, 70
Biber, Douglas, 46, 59, 155
Bickerton, Derek, 41
Bjork, Robert E., xiv
Blake, Norman F., 46, 153
Blakemore, Diane, 10, 18n, 152, 155
Blank, Andreas, 8, 51
Bloch, Oscar, 61
Bloomﬁeld, Leonard, 64–65
Blum-Kulka, Shoshana, 190, 193
Bogoch, Bryna, 199n, 212
Bolinger, Dwight, 35, 79
Bourdieu, Pierre, 199
Bowler, P. J., 62
Boyd, Julian, 106, 192, 223
Boyd, Zelda, 223
Bréal, Michel, 4, 19, 30, 52–60, 71, 282
Brinton, Laurel J., 81, 94, 99, 152–153,
155–157, 207
Brown, Cecil H., 72, 73, 89
Brown, Keith, 149
Brown, Penelope, 23, 80, 91–93, 193, 226n,
227–230, 258, 260–262
Brown, Roger, 91, 229, 240, 263
Brugman, Claudia, 11, 14
Bryson, Bill, 56n
Buck, Carl Darling, 26, 57, 68, 71
Bühler, Karl, 20
Busse, Ulrich, 257
Bybee, Joan L., 50, 82–83, 105, 108, 112n,
113–120, 130, 133, 145, 148, 283
Campbell, Lyle, 27, 53, 57–58
Carlson, Thomas B., 31
Carston, Robyn, 16n
Chafe, Wallace, 17, 21, 153, 157
Chao, Yuenren, 144
Chonan, Minoru, 217, 250
Chou, Fa–kao, 144–145
330
Index of names
Chung, Sandra, 50, 107
Cinque, Guglielmo, 148–149, 158, 187–188
Clark, Eve V., 263
Clark, Herbert H., 7n, 17, 31, 119, 232
Clarke, David D., 27, 34–35, 57n, 58
Claudi, Ulrike, 5, 28, 39, 43, 82, 89n, 157
Coates, Jennifer, 50, 105, 112, 117, 127, 132,
138, 149
Cole, Peter, 8, 79–80
Coleman, Linda, 8
Comrie, Bernard, 92, 227
Cooke, Haruko Minegishi, 261
Croft, William, xi, 28, 69, 79
Crowley, Tony, 70
Cruttendon, A., 158
Culpeper, Jonathan, 195
Dahlgren, Kathleen, 70
Dancygier, Barbara, 95n
Danet, Brenda, 190n, 211–212
Dasher, Richard B., 82, 96, 201, 231, 235n,
242, 249n, 259–261, 269
Dekeyser, Xavier, 44n
Denison, David, 45, 121, 127, 131
Derrig, Sandra, 71–72
Diewald, Gabriele, 31, 50, 107
Dixon, R. M. W., 69, 93n
Doi, Tadao, 183–184, 186, 217, 250, 260
Dowty, David R., 210
Ducrot, Oswald, 157
Duranti, Alessandro, 7, 17
Eckert, Penelope, 42
Enkvist, Nils E., 152
Ernst, Thomas Byden, 158
Ervin-Tripp, Susan, 23, 229n
Evans, Nicholas, 151n
Faarlund, Jan Terje, 45
Faltz, Leonard. M., 5
Fauconnier, Gilles, 78
Ferguson, Charles A., 69, 75
Ferrara, Kathleen, 158
Fillmore, Charles, 6, 8, 11, 22, 78, 232–233
Finegan, Edward, 20, 59, 155
Fleischman, Suzanne, 5, 82, 99, 105n, 116,
139n, 202–1, 283
Fludernik, Monika, 33
Fodor, Jerry A., 12
Fong, Vivienne, 9
Foolen, Ad, 99
Frajzyngier, Zygmunt, 40
Fraser, Bruce, 11, 13, 152–153, 155, 158–159,
201
Frawley, William, 50, 106
Fries, Udo, 254
Fritz, Gerd, 51
Fujii, Noriko, 153, 179n, 236n
Gamon, David, 113
Geeraerts, Dirk, 5, 8, 25, 51, 53, 56, 76–77
Geis, Michael L., 5, 35–36, 80, 101
Giacalone Ramat, Anna, 119n, 149n
Gibbs, Raymond W., 28
Gilman, Albert, 91, 240, 263
Givón, Talmy, 75, 81, 86, 284
Goddard, Cliff, 151
Goffman, Erving, 228
Goldberg, Adele E., 6
Gomi, Tomohide, 179
Goodwin, Charles, 7, 17
Goossens, Louis, 44n, 58, 73–74, 79, 107, 112,
121, 123–124, 126, 128–129, 132, 195
Gould, Stephen Jay, 42, 62
Greenbaum, Sidney, 158
Greenberg, Joseph H., 69–70, 75, 92
Grice, H. Paul, 18–19, 35, 80, 100
Groefsema, Marjolein, 15, 148
Guiraud, Pierre, 79
Guo, Jiansheng, 23, 229n
Györi, Gábor, 7, 76
Haiman, John, 171
Halle, Morris, 41, 78
Halliday, M. A. K., 23, 24n, 33, 94, 107, 117
Hanks, William F., 233, 269
Hansen, Maj-Britt Mosegaard, 153
Harada, Shin-ichi, 228, 237
Harkins, Jean, 96, 151
Harris, Alice C., 27
Harris, Martin, 30, 230
Hasan, Ruqaia, 23, 94
Haspelmath, Martin, 27, 92
Hattori, Shiro, 52
Healey, Antonette diPaolo, 139n
Heeschen, Volker, 202
Heine, Bernd, 5, 28, 39, 43–44, 82, 89, 105n,
109
Held, Gudrun, 91, 229
Herring, S. C., 45
Herzog, Marvin I., 35n
Higgins, Roger, 209n, 210
331
Index of names
Hinds, John, 153
Hisatake, Akiko, 249
Hobbes, Thomas, 204–205
Hock, Hans Henrich, 53, 55–56, 60, 78, 282
Hoenigswald, Henry H., 75
Hopper, Paul J., 12, 28, 52n, 82, 99, 152, 283
Horn, Laurence R., 17–18, 95n, 99, 100–103,
113, 117
House, Juliane, 190, 193
Hoye, Leo, 114, 117
Hughes, Geoffrey, 62
Hünnemeyer, Friederike, 5, 28, 39, 43–44, 82,
89n
Iizumi, Rokuroo, 36, 95
Imai, Gen’e, 267
Ipsen, G., 65
Ishida, Takeshi, 238
Iwasaki, Shoichi, 153
Jackendoff, Ray S., 6, 8, 21, 113, 158
Jacobs, Andreas, 99–100
Jakobson, Roman, 22, 78, 233
Janda, Richard D., 59, 86
Jespersen, Otto, 109
Johnson, Mark, 76, 78
Joseph, Brian D., 53, 55–56, 60, 78, 282
Jucker, Andreas H., 5, 46, 99–100, 156, 175,
195, 218n, 242n
Jurafsky, Daniel, 35, 43, 76, 88–89
Justus, Carol F., 196–197, 199
Kaburaki, Etseko, 69
Kahr, Joan Casper, 75–76
Kakehi, Iori, 52
Kakouriotis, Athanasios, 95
Karashima, Mie, 246
Kasper, Gabriele, 190, 193
Katz, Jerrold J., 12
Kay, Paul, 5–6, 8, 57, 68–70, 153
Keller, Rudi, 31, 36n
Kemenade, Ans van, 81
Kempson, Ruth, 101
Kiefer, Ferenc, 50, 105
Kikuchi, Yasuto, 105n, 228
Kiparsky, Paul, 16, 27, 41
Kitis, Eliza, 95
Kleparski, Grzegorz, 73, 75
Komatsu, Hideo, 51
König, Ekkehard, 18n, 153, 158
Kopytko, Roman, 257
Kortmann, Bernd, 57
Kövecses, Zoltán, 28, 81n
Koyama, Hiroshi, xv
Kratzer, Angelika, 15
Kronasser, Heinz, 51, 68, 71
Kroon, Caroline H. C., 153
Krug, Manfred, 115, 149
Kryk-Kastovsky, Barbara, 254
Kuhn, Thomas S., 32
Kuno, Susumo, 69, 236n
Kuroda. S.-Y., 90, 180
Kurylowicz, Jerzy, 29
Kurzon, Dennis, 199
Kytö, Merja, xiv, 48, 108, 223n
Labov, William, 3, 35n, 45
Lakoff, George, 6, 28, 43–44, 76, 78, 88
Lakoff, Robin, 50
Lambrecht, Knud, 6
Langacker, Ronald W., 5–6, 20–21, 27–28, 30,
59, 76, 78–79, 87n, 89, 97–99, 209
Lass, Roger, 36, 86
Lau, D. C., 146
Leech, Geoffrey N., 105, 125, 224, 228
Legge, James, 145n, 146
Lehmann, Christian, 3, 81–82, 155
Lehrer, Adrienne, 8, 66, 73, 75, 78
Lehti-Eklund, Hanna, 153
Lepschy, Giulio, 53
Levin, Beth, 8
Levinson, Stephen C., 5, 16–19, 35, 80, 91–93,
100, 193, 226n, 227–230, 233, 258,
261–262
Lewandowska-Tomaszczyk, Barbara, 25
Lewin, Bruno, 231, 240, 258, 262
Li, Dong-yi, 145
Lichtenberk, Frantisek, 15n
Lightfoot, David, 27, 41, 86
Longacre, Robert E., 154
Lyons, John, 20, 22, 50, 90, 94, 105–107, 113,
117, 233
Mabuchi, Kazuo, 271
Macaulay, Ronald K. S., 21, 223
McCawley, James D., 13, 75
McConnell-Ginet, Sally, 158
McWhorter, John, 44
Maeda, Kingoro, 216–217, 243n, 244, 251
Malamud-Makowski, M., 155, 158
Manoliu, Maria M., 152
Marchello-Nizia, Christiane, 34
332
Index of names
Martin, Samuel, 9, 194, 228, 237, 241, 261
Masuda, Koh, xiv, 264
Matisoff, James A., 145
Matoré, Georges, 66
Matsumoto, Yo, 23, 87, 153
Matsumoto, Yoshiko, 228–229, 237
Matsuo, Hajime, 180n
Matthiessen, Christian, 155
Maynard, Senko K., 20, 153, 261
Meillet, Antoine, 27, 41, 60, 62, 81, 87, 191
Mey, Jacob L., 191n, 192
Michaelis, Laura A., 44
Miller, Roy Andrew, 47, 237
Milroy, James, 38, 41
Milroy, Lesley, 35n, 41
Mizutani, Nobuko, 228–229
Mizutani, Osamu, 228–229
Montgomery, Michael B., 108
Moravcsik, Edith, 69, 75
Mori, S., 185
Morino, Muneaki, 240, 269–270
Morita, Takesi, 217, 250
Mulac, Anthony, 91, 152, 206
Mushin, Ilana, 21
Myhill, John, 114–115, 144, 257
Nagatomo, T., 185
Nagle, Stephen J., 108
Nakamura, Hajime, 216–217
Nakamura, Kei, 23, 229n
Nerlich, Brigitte, 34–35, 57–58
Nevis, Joal A., 87
Newmeyer, Frederick J., 3n, 43n, 86–87
Nichols, Johanna, 21, 153
Nicolle, Steve, 10, 148n
Nikiforidou, Kiki, 85
Nølke, Henning, 157
Nordlinger, Rachel, 112–113, 137
Nunberg, Geoffrey, 32, 78
Nuyts, Jan, 23n
Obermeier, Anita, xiv
O’Connor, Mary Catherine, 6
O’Connor, Patricia, 91
Ohno, Susumu, 55, 95, 216–217, 243n, 244,
251
Ohori, T., 82
Okamoto, Shigeko, 228, 237, 261
Olson, David R., 17, 33, 46
Ong, Walter J., 18, 202
Onodera, Noriko Okada, 153
Ooishi, Hatsutaroo, 228
Ormelius-Sandblom, Elisabet, 158n
Östman, Jan-Ola, 154
Pagliuca, William, 50, 82–83, 105, 108, 112n,
116–120, 130, 145, 283
Palander-Collin, Minna, xiv, 48
Palmer, F. R., 50, 105–108, 113–114, 205
Papi, Marcella Bertuccelli, 190
Paul, Hermann, 41
Pauwels, Paul, 201n
Pederson, Eric, 8
Peirce, Charles Sanders, 42
Pérez, Aveline, 82
Perkins, Michael R., 107
Perkins, Revere D., 50, 82–83, 105, 108, 112n,
116–120, 145, 283
Perret, Michèle, 202
Peyraube, Alain, 2, 147
Pinkster, Harm, 116
Plank, Frans, 107n
Plungian, Vladimir A., 105, 108, 116, 120–121
Pokorny, Julius, 51
Pons Borderı́a, Salvador, 152n
Powell, Mava Jo, 94
Prokosch, E., 132–133
Pustejovsky, James, 11, 14
Quirk, Randolph, 158
Radden, Günter, 78, 81n
Ramat, Paolo, 153
Rappaport Hovav, Malka, 8
Reddy, Michael J., 201
Reh, Mechthild, 82
Ricca, Davide, 153
Rissanen, Matti, xiv, 47–48
Roberts, Sarah Julianne, 41
Rodriguez, João, 183–184, 200, 217–218, 250
Rosaldo, Michelle Z., 196
Rosch, Eleanor, 8
Rosengren, Inger, 90n
Rossari, C., 12
Roulet, E., 13
Sakurai, Mitsuaki, 272
Sanders, José, 114, 117n
Sankoff, Gilian, 41
Sansom, George B., 243
Satake, Akihiro, 216–217, 243n, 244, 251
Sato, Shigeru, 249
333
Index of names
Saussure, Ferdinand de, 60
Schiffrin, Deborah, 7, 23n, 50, 99, 152, 154
Schlieben-Lange, Brigitte, 195, 198
Schøsler, L., 43
Schourop, Lawrence C., 154
Schwenter, Scott A., 13, 153, 158, 165n
Searle, John R., 190–191, 204–205, 215
Seebold, E., 59
Seeley, Christopher, 47
Seidensticker, Edward G., 46, 182n, 267n
Seiler, Hansjakob, 96
Semino, Elena, 195
Shepherd, Susan C., 2, 41, 77, 108
Shibatani, Masayoshi, 47, 153, 236, 284
Silverstein, Michael, 7, 10–11, 22, 69, 91–92,
233
Simon-Vandenbergen, Anne-Marie, 201n
Slobin, Dan I., 41, 99
Solomon, Julie, 154
Sperber, Dan, 10, 100, 205
Spooren, Wilbert, 114, 117n
Steele, Susan, 117
Stein, Dieter, 30
Stern, Gustaf, 4–5, 29, 66–67, 79, 81
Stubbs, Michael, 20
Sun, Chaofen, 2, 144–145
Suzuki, Ryoko, 153, 174
Svorou, Soteria, 82
Swan, Toril, 153, 155, 188
Sweetser, Eve E., 5, 10n, 17, 28, 43, 71,
76–77, 83, 95, 99, 105, 110, 115, 277
Syea, Anand, 41
Taavitsainen, Irma, 195, 228, 242
Tabor, Whitney, 27, 82
Takagi, Ichonisuke, 179
Takemitsu, Makoto, 56, 61
Talmy, Leonard, 5–6, 76, 110
Tamba, Irene, 48
Taylor, John R., 8–9
Thomas, Francis-Noél, 21
Thompson, Sandra A., 91, 153, 155, 206
Thorne, J. P., 106, 192
Tiersma, Peter, 199
Timberlake, Alan, 50
Tobler, A., 103
Tokieda, Motoki, 183
Torigoe, B., 185
Traugott, Elizabeth Closs, 1n, 2, 5, 18n, 21,
29–30, 38, 42, 75, 80–83, 94–95, 99, 108,
112–113, 137, 153, 158, 165n, 201n,
204n, 205, 209, 283
Trier, Jost, 65, 66
Tsujimura, Toshiki, 208, 231, 239–240, 246,
258, 261
Turner, Mark, 21
Ueda, Bannen, 216
Ullmann, Stephen, 4, 28, 51, 53, 61, 64–66
Vallduvı́, Enric, 6
Van der Auwera, Johan, 36, 102–103, 105,
108, 120–121, 124n
Vanparys, Johan, 201n
Van Reenen, P., 46
Verhagen, Arie, 205, 210
Verschueren, Jef, 7n, 191, 215
Viberg, A
❛
ke, 71–72
Victorri, Bernard, 14
Vincent, Nigel, 27, 188
Visser, F. Th., 134
Voyles, Joseph B., 75
Warner, Anthony R., 108n, 112, 121, 123, 127,
133n
Warren, Beatrice, 51, 80n
Wartburg, Walther von, 51, 60–61
Wårvik, Brita, 152
Wegener, Heide, 96n
Weinreich, Uriel, 14, 35n
Wierzbicka, Anna, 8, 151, 193n, 196
Wilkins, David, 29, 72
Williams, Joseph M., 5, 71–72
Williams, Raymond, 66
Wilson, Deirdre, 10, 100, 205
Witkowski, Stanley R., 72
Wolf, George, 52n
Wright, Susan, 30
Yamada, Hideo, 271
Yamada, Tadao, 271
Yamada, Toshio, 271
Yamada, Yoshio, 271
Yamaguchi, Yoshinori, 216–217, 230
Yoshizawa, Norio, 260
Zipf, George Kingsley, 100
Zwicky, Arnold M., 5, 33, 36, 80, 101
334
GENERAL INDEX
This index includes lexemes that are discussed in some detail. They are typically cited in their
historically most recent spellings; verbs appear in their stem form; languages other than Modern
English are speciﬁed.
In the case of topics that are discussed throughout the book, e.g. “regularity,” entries are typically
limited to the ﬁrst two chapters, where they are introduced.
ability; see modal, semantic category of
acquisition of language, 41–42
actually, 169–170, 173
additivity, 158, 161
See also discourse marker, additive
addressee, role of in language change, 5
addressee honoriﬁc (ADHON); see honoriﬁc
adverbial (ADV), 152
adversative, 50, 157, 162
connecting, 179–181
deictic, 67, 231–232
discourse marker, 31, 40, 164–165
epistemic, 46, 161–164, 166–168, 170
manner (MA), 169–170, 178
modal, 127
respect, 159–161, 165–166
sentential, 40, 23, 161–164, 167–168, 226
stance, 10, 59, 155
adversativity, 157
See also adverbial, adversative
advisability; see modal, semantic category of
after, 16
ag- (OE); see ought to
Agent role, 110, 237
agentivity, 106, 108, 256
aisatu, 215–219
ambiguity, 1, 17, 39, 99, 131
pragmatic, 99
semantic, 99
amelioration, 55–56
analogy, 24, 52, 59, 79
anaphora, 154, 183, 233
anata (Jp.), 230
animacy hierarchy, 69
aphes (Gk.); see as
arbitrariness, 51, 60–62
article, 69
as (Gk.), 85
as long as, 16, 36–37
asita (Jp.), 56
aspect, 3, 19, 37, 41, 67, 82, 84, 86, 130, 178,
260, 263
association, 9, 28–29, 57–58, 67, 78–79
See also metonymy
auxiliary; see verb, syntactic category of
bao (Ch.), 214–215
be going to, 82–84, 86, 115, 257
behat- (OE); see hat-
belov- (Du.), 210
bid, 201, 203, 253
bikago (Jp.), 261
bleaching, 59
body part, 72–73, 89
broadening, 56–57, 269
can, 44n, 107, 110, 115, 119, 151, 224
case, 3, 7, 87, 256
cataphora, 154
causative (CAUS), 194, 244
cause–effect, 28, 58, 180, 183
Cause role, 255
certainty; see modal, semantic category of
change, 32, 40, 45, 59, 61, 79–80
335
General index
change (cont.)
culture, 59, 62, 66, 70, 196–198, 229–230,
240, 260–263
mechanisms of, 1, 4, 27–34, 38, 40, 42, 47,
52, 73, 75, 88
motivations for, 5, 29, 31, 58–59, 74
See also unidirectionality
characters, Chinese; see kanji
coded meaning; see meaning
Cognitive Linguistics, 6, 9, 76, 78–79, 97,
99
colloquial; see language varieties
color, 68–69, 71
commissive; see performative
competence, 9, 18
complementizer, 52, 82
conceptual structure (C), 1–10
conceptualized described event (CDE); see
event
conceptualized speech event (CSE); see event
concessive, 15, 26, 37–38, 43, 85, 95, 108,
115, 151–153, 174
See also conditional
conditional (CONDIT), 25–26, 36–37, 39, 41,
50, 80, 85–86, 101, 108, 120, 127, 130,
134, 137, 150–151, 181, 256–257
connective, 10–11, 46, 95, 102, 152, 156,
179–181
Construction Grammar, 6, 9
construction, 45, 83–84, 86, 98
contagion; see metonymy
content meaning; see meaning
context, 2, 5, 7, 9, 14, 16, 24, 31
context-induced inference; see inference
contiguity; see metonymy
convergence, 13
conversation, role in semantic change, 31, 80,
175, 185, 196, 278
conversational implicature; see implicature
copula (COP); see verb, semantic category of
correlated semantic changes, 40, 148, 187,
225, 276, 281
could, 107–108, 114, 133, 148–149, 157
counterexpectation, 157
cunn- (OE); see can
cwe - (OE), 195
daidokoro (Jp.), 61–62
de (Ch.), 144–147
declarative; see mood
deed; see indeed
degeneration; see pejoration
deictics; see deixis
deixis, 20, 22, 50, 92, 152
adverbial, 178, 186
discourse, 191, 203
modal, 107
model of, 231–234
person, 24, 234
social (SD), 23, 49, 226–228
spatial, 3, 23, 231–235
temporal, 3, 23, 79, 233
delocutive verb; see verb, semantic category of
demonstrative, 30, 70
denigration, 226, 254, 277
deontic; see modal, semantic category of
described event; see event
desiderative; see modal, semantic category of
desu (Jp.), 90, 241, 261
diachrony, 16, 99–100
dialogic discourse, 200
differentiation, 53
diminutive, 35, 43, 87–89
directionality; see unidirectionality
directive; see performative verb
discourse analysis, 5, 17, 48–49, 79, 99
discourse marker (DM), 6, 10, 15, 31, 40, 46,
49, 95, 97, 152–189
additive, 158, 164–165, 168–169, 170
global, 154, 178, 185
local, 154, 157, 186
vs. pragmatic marker, 152–153
discursization, 31
elaboration, 154–155, 158, 168, 171, 183
empathy, 69, 91
episode, 152, 154, 156, 182, 185
epistemic; see modal, semantic category of
epistolary formula, 185–186
euphemism, 56–59, 230–231
evaluation, 73, 92, 119, 229
event
conceptualized described (CDE), 6, 92–93,
107, 117, 179, 186, 226, 232, 235–242
conceptualized speech (CSE), 22, 31,
92–93, 97, 179, 196, 202, 226, 232,
235–242
exclamation, 90n, 184–185
existential; see verb, semantic category of
Experiencer role, 90, 255–257
expressiveness, 34, 94–96, 178, 185, 270
extension, 27, 41, 127, 202, 250, 278, 280
336
General index
face, 23, 228–229
ﬁeld, semantic, 65–75, 250
ﬁgure, 72, 236, 238, 242, 262
See also ground
ﬁt, direction of; see performativity
folk etymology, 14
frame, 8, 17, 74, 78–79, 88, 237, 239
frame semantics, 78
Free Indirect Style, 33
future; see tense
gehat- (OE); see hat-
gender marker, 70
generalization, 88–89, 122, 132, 134, 176,
209, 276, 278
generalized invited inference (GIIN); see
inference
gesture, 244
got to, 115, 257
gram, 118
grammar, 6–7
grammaticalization, 3, 43, 81–89, 116, 118,
120, 145, 147, 150, 153, 226n, 231, 254,
267, 274, 283
Grimm’s Law, 74
ground, 72, 97, 226–227, 233, 237, 250
See also ﬁgure
haberi (Jp.), 261, 266–267, 270–274
harass, 62–64
harmonic collocation, 117, 247
See also adverbial, harmonic
hat- (OE) (also behat-, gehat-; ME forms
-hot-, -hight), 211–214
have got to, 115
have to, 134, 224, 149
hayai (Jp.), 68
hedge, 23, 88, 91, 178, 207
heuristics, 18–19, 24
manner (M-heuristic), 18
quantity (Q-heuristic), 18, 23
relevance (R-heuristic), 19, 23
See also maxims
hierarchy, implicational, 69–72
homonymiphobia, 53–54
homonymy, 12, 53
honoriﬁc, 6, 22–23, 31, 55, 92, 96, 215,
226–278
addressee (ADHON), 93, 226–228,
240–242, 258–263, 269–276
humiliative, 96, 191, 236, 239–240,
260–261, 263–276
polite, 241, 261, 263, 266, 274
predicate, 235–245
referent, 92, 226–228, 236–240, 265–269
respectful, 236–239, 245–251
honoriﬁcation, 228–242
hootyoo (Jp.), 58
hortative; see modal, semantic category of
hyperbole, 64
hypotheticality, 40, 92, 133
iconicity, 5, 79
ideational domain, 94
illocutionary act; see performativity
illocutive verb; see verb, semantic category of
image needs, 22, 91, 228–229, 245
image schema, 76–77
imperative (IMP), 36, 85, 192, 196, 245,
253–254, 277
imperfective; see aspect
impersonal construction, 127–130, 255
implicature
conversational, 35, 80
generalized, 35
See also inference
indeed, 159–169, 171–172
in fact, 10, 13, 23, 50, 97, 165–169, 172–173
indexicality, 5, 79, 80, 226
indirect performative; see performativity
inference
context-induced, 5
generalized invited (GIIN), 16, 35–39
invited (IIN), 3, 17, 35–39, 49, 78–81
utterance-token, 17
utterance-type, 16
See also implicature; metonymy, conceptual
informal speech; see language varieties,
informal
informativeness, 59, 87
principle of, 19
innovation, 35, 38, 42, 46, 64–65
vs. change, 38, 76
insult, 227
interpersonal domain, 94
intersubjectiﬁcation, 31, 89–99, 174–178, 187,
230–231, 245, 252, 258, 262, 269, 276
intersubjectivity, 22–23, 113–116, 174, 177,
187, 201, 206, 229, 253, 277
intimacy, 22, 226, 241
invited inference (IIN); see inference
337
General index
Invited Inferencing Theory of Semantic
Change (IITSC), 34–35
itadaku (Jp.), 236, 238, 244, 260
kana, 47
kanbun, 48, 198
kanji, 47, 174, 247, 260
kawaii (Jp.), 56
kokugogaku, 52
komonzyo, 196
kotowaru (Jp.), 54
kowai (Jp.), 95
kudasaru (Jp.), 245–252
læt- (OE); see let
language varieties
formal, 19, 22, 91, 117, 178, 186, 199–200,
242
informal (colloquial), 84, 154, 178, 184,
186, 249, 274, 278
written, 2, 5, 9, 18, 45–47, 112, 211–212,
248
lap, 13
let (OE læt-), 176
lexeme (L), 4
lexicalization, 283
literacy, 33, 202
litotes, 64
locative (LOC); see verb, semantic category of
locutionary, see verb, semantic category of
mag- (OE); see may
mairu (Jp.), 240–241, 243, 260
-masu (Jp.), 241, 261
maxims, Gricean, 18–19
See also heuristics
may (OE mag-), 11, 45, 77, 115–117, 224
meaning, 7–11
coded, 16, 21–22, 25, 35, 44, 49, 70, 94, 99
content, 10, 15, 40, 59, 77, 80, 85, 94–95,
148, 153, 201, 209, 230, 277
expressive, 94–96, 158, 178, 185, 270
metalinguistic, 46, 95, 202
metatextual, 10, 40, 95, 96n
procedural, 10, 40, 93, 95, 148, 153, 155,
191, 209, 230, 241, 250, 277
truth-conditional, 10, 24, 31, 157, 178, 227,
284
utterance, 16, 17
meaning–form pair, 25
mechanisms, 1, 4, 27–34
mental; see verb, semantic category of
merger; see modal, semantic category of
metaphor, 4–5, 9, 27–29, 39, 43–44, 59, 65,
71, 73, 75–78, 83, 86, 88–89, 279
barrier, 77, 110–111
conduit, 201–202
force-dynamic, 109–110
metaphorization, 27–28, 34, 40, 57
metaphtonomy, 79
metonymization, 27–28, 34, 40
metonymy, 27–31, 39, 57–58, 61, 67, 78–81,
279, 282
See also inference, invited
might; see may
mitomeru (Jp.)
modal, semantic category of, 33, 45, 50, 77,
85, 102, 105–151
ability, 107–108, 114, 119–120, 122,
144–146
advisability, 106, 143, 150
agent-oriented, 105n, 116, 118
capacity, 107–108
deontic, 2, 105–106, 108–118
desiderative, 151
dynamic, 107n
epistemic, 2, 11, 97, 106–107, 108–147, 152
hortative, 85, 177
merger of categories, 112, 127–128
necessity (NEC), 105, 110–112, 120, 127,
129–130, 140, 147
negative, 124, 138, 146, 150
obligation, 11, 105, 108–109, 116–117, 121,
130, 135, 138
participant-external, 120, 122–123, 125,
128, 130, 140, 145–147
participant-internal, 120, 122, 125, 130
permission, 106, 110, 119–120, 131, 147
possibility (POSS), 105, 110, 120, 147
probability (PROB), 116, 146
root, 105n, 112, 132, 147
scale, 117
volition, 222
used as indirect performative, 192,
219–223
See also modality, square, logical
modal, syntactic category of, 107
adverbial, 187–188
auxiliary, 150
clause, 150
double, 108
premodal, 120
338
General index
quasi-, 107, 138
verb, 105–151
modality, 3, 8, 15, 22, 28, 41, 46, 50, 82
monologic discourse, 18, 200
monosemy, 10, 15
mood, 59, 120, 148, 192
morphosyntax, 86, 118
most- (OE); see must
mot- (OE); see must
motion, 201–237, 241–243
motivations for change, 38–60
must(OE mot, most-; ME moot-, most-) 1–2,
26, 102–103, 120–137, 219–221, 224, 257
narrative, 152, 155, 274
narrowing, 56, 58, 251
Q-based, 101
R-based, 101
Natural Semantic Metalanguage, 151
necessity (NEC); see modal, semantic
category of
nede(s) (ME), 128–129, 135–137
negation, 113
See also modal, semantic category of,
square, logical
Neogrammarians, xi, 1, 51–52
objectiﬁcation, 31–32, 34, 46, 62, 74
objectivity, 31–34, 57, 97–98, 203
obligation; see modal, semantic category of
o(h)osu (LOJ), 244–245, 247
onomasiology, 25–26, 52–54
ontogeny, 42–43
orthography, xiii–xiv, 47, 95, 247
ossyaru (Jp.), 2–3, 244
ought to (OE ag-, aht-; ME ou-, oht-), 11, 110,
114, 137–144, 224, 257
parenthetical, 50, 153, 226, 253
epistemic, 206–208, 153
particle, 25, 47, 85, 96, 150, 153, 178, 186
passive, 21, 33, 83, 126, 190, 206, 244, 247
past; see tense
pejoration
performative verb, 190–225
assertive, 192
commissive, 192
declarative, 192, 214–219
directive, 192, 204–214
representative, 192
See also verb, speech act
performativity
direction of ﬁt, 191–192
indirect, 192–194
permutation, 67
person, 20, 22, 30, 33, 55, 64, 69, 90–93, 125,
155, 177, 190, 196–197, 199, 206–209,
221, 223, 230, 242, 258
positioning in use of, 92, 177, 233
phylogeny, 42–43
please, 255–258
politeness, 6, 91–94, 228–230
See also honoriﬁcation
polygenesis, semantic, 76
polysemy, 11–14, 16, 24, 35, 39, 44, 48,
83–84, 280
positioning, 231, 240
See also person
possession, 11, 119, 138–139, 149
possessive verb; see verb, semantic category of
possibility (POSS); see modal, semantic
category of
pragmaphilology, 99
pragmatic marker
vs. discourse marker, 152–153
pragmatics, 5
Gricean, 100
historical, 5
Neogricean, 100
pray, 252–255
present; see tense
preterite present; see tense
primitive, semantic, 151, 193n
principles; see heuristics
prithee, 254–255
probability (PROB); see modal, semantic
category of
procedural; see meaning, procedural
process; see event
progressive; see aspect
promise, 2, 31, 49–50, 204–214
pronoun
demonstrative, 30, 70
person; see person
T-V use of, 93, 226–229, 233–234
prototype theory, 76–77, 88
prototypicality, 8
quantiﬁer, 102, 113
generalized, 127
quantity; see heuristics; maxims
quasi-modal; see modal, syntactic category of
339
General index
raising construction, 84, 98, 126n, 149, 188,
208–213
-raru (Jp.), 244, 246–247, 249–250
reanalysis, 27, 35, 84
Recipient role, 6, 140, 237–239
reconstruction, 43
rectangle, 101
referent, 227
subject, 2, 231, 236–240, 242, 250, 254,
256, 258, 262, 278
See also deixis, social
register, 11, 15, 19–20, 19
regularity, xiv, 1, 3, 13–15, 24, 26, 29, 39, 49,
60, 67–68, 82, 86–87, 281–283
Relevance Theory, 10, 100
replacement, lexical, 11–12, 200, 257, 277
reported speech, 175
root; see modal, semantic category of
saburahu (Jp.), 263–265
sanction, 53–54
Sapir–Whorf hypothesis, 68
sassoku (Jp.), 68
sate (Jp.), 178–187
say (OE secg-), 73, 195, 220–221, 261
scope, 112–113, 156, 160–162, 167–168, 170,
187
secg- (OE) see say
semanticization, 44, 57, 84, 87
semantics, 8, 12, 16, 24, 26, 28, 35, 41, 44, 83,
87, 104
frame, 78
generative, 75
historical, 51–52, 76, 83
See also meaning; pragmatics
semasiology, 25, 30, 32, 40, 54–60
shall (OE scul-), 107, 224, 134, 143, 223n
should (OE sceold-), 114–115, 134, 143, 257
sign, 10, 60, 68
simplicity, 59, 86
simpliﬁcation, 41
since, 10, 16, 39, 80
so, 10, 95–96, 152, 155–156, 178
social deixis; see deixis
space, 8, 28, 41, 43, 57, 75, 81–82, 86, 92,
201–203, 231–232
See also deixis, spatial
speak, 73, 195
speaker, role of in semantic change, 5, 6, 22
speaker–addressee dyad (SP-AD), 7
specialization, 52, 62, 205
speech act; see performative verb;
performativity
square, logical, of opposition, 102–103
stance, 21, 24, 91, 97, 152, 154, 184
stance adverb; see adverbial
stative; see verb, semantic category of
status, social, 6, 7, 23, 93, 96, 226–229
still, 15, 43
subject, 6, 20–21, 106, 108–109, 209–210,
236n
marker, 263n
role in subjectivity, 20
See also referent
subjectiﬁcation, 31, 89–99, 126–127, 132,
149, 174–178, 210, 245, 250, 279
subjectivity, 19–22, 113–116, 210, 251
character, 210
speaker-hearer, 210
subjunctive (SUBJUNCT); see mood
sufﬁx, 246, 263
swa lange swa (OE); see as long as
synaesthesia, 71–72
synchrony, 16, 60
synecdoche, 57–58
synonym, 26, 53, 63
taboo, 55, 58–59
See also amelioration; pejoration
taisya keigo (Jp.), 261
tell, 73, 195
temo (Jp.), 150
temporality, 116–117
See also aspect; deixis; tense; time
tense, 41, 82, 116–117, 132–137, 233
preterite present, 122, 132–133, 137,
149
use of past form for present meaning,
132–137, 143
textual domain, 94
tewa (Jp.), 150
time, as conceptual structure, 16, 26, 28,
36–37, 41, 57, 67–68, 75, 81–84, 86,
116–117, 133
See also deixis, temporal
topic (TOP), 181, 236n
truth-conditional semantics; see meaning
typology, 69–73, 118–120, 149, 153, 155
unidirectionality, 1, 5, 26, 29, 67, 77, 81–89,
103, 121, 188, 225, 231, 235, 276,
279–283
340
General index
universals, 8, 17, 69, 118–120, 148, 187–188,
193, 196, 228
implicational, 69–70, 75
use, grammar and, xi, 6–11
verb, semantic category of
copula, 180, 241, 260–261, 263–276
delocutive, 74
existential, 119, 263, 276
experiencer, 90
illocutionary; see performative verb
locative, 119, 263, 265–278
locutionary, 72–75, 160, 190
mental, 54, 77, 95, 119, 203, 221
modal; see modal, semantic category of
possessive, 119, 263–268
speech act, 190
See also performative verb
stative, 43, 109, 130, 209, 221, 244
volition; see modal, semantic category of
well, 10, 15, 175–176
while, 28–29
will (OE will), 3, 50, 107, 109n, 115, 122, 133,
141, 148, 222–224
will, legal, 212
would (OE wold-), 107, 133–134
writing; see language varieties, written;
orthography
yakuza (Jp.), 56–57
zero, development into, 86
zitu wa, 13
341
